 Case Number:  21STCV44410    Hearing Date:   February 22, 2024    Dept:  27  
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF
THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF
LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



MARCO CHAVIRA,
                        Plaintiff(s),
            vs.
 
CALIFORNIA LANDMARK GROUP, et al., 
 
                        Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


   
  CASE NO.: 21STCV44410 
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE:
 
MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE A
  CROSS-COMPLAINT
 
Dept. 27
1:30 p.m.
February 22, 2024 



 
MOVING
PARTIES:          Defendants CLG Management, LLC and R2 Lofts,
LP
RESPONDING PARTIES: Plaintiff Marco Chavira
 Defendant Robles Glass & Supplies, Inc.
 
I.         BACKGROUND
On
December 6, 2021, Plaintiff Marco Chavira (“Plaintiff”) filed this action
against Defendants California Landmark Group (“California Landmark”), CLG
Management, LLC (“CLG”), and Does 1 to 5, asserting causes of action for (1) breach
of implied warranty of habitability, (2) premises liability, (3) negligence,
(4) nuisance, (5) breach of contract, (6) breach of covenant of good faith and
fair dealing, (7) breach of covenant of quiet enjoyment, and (8) violation of
Business and Professions Code section 17200, et seq. (unfair competition). 
The
Complaint alleges the following, among other things. At all relevant times to the Complaint, Plaintiff was a
tenant at
4133 Redwood Avenue, #1011, Los Angeles, CA 90066 (the “Property”). (Compl., ¶¶ 6, 7.) On the evening of October 30, 2020, he was
attempting to close the heavy metal blinds that were affixed above the 12-foot
floor-to-ceiling windows of the Property when the blinds and their metal
covering detached from the wall fell on his head and injured him. (Compl., ¶
8.) The
defendants owned, managed, maintained, supervised, controlled, and/or operated
the Property. (Compl., ¶ 6.)
On December 7, 2021, Plaintiff amended
the Complaint to substitute R2 Lofts, LP, for the defendant sued fictitiously
as Doe 1. 
On June 24, 2022, Plaintiff amended the
Complaint to substitute Robles Glass & Supplies Inc. (“Robles Glass”) for
the defendant sued fictitiously as “Doe 1.”[1]
On
January 25, 2024, Defendants CLG and R2 Lofts, LP (collectively, “Defendants”)
filed the instant motion for leave to file a cross-complaint against Robles
Glass. 
On
February 7, 2024, Plaintiff and Robles Glass filed separate oppositions to the
motion. 
On
February 14, 2024, Defendants filed their reply. 
A
non-jury trial is set for May 6, 2024. However, there is a pending Motion to
Continue Trial filed by Robles Glass set for hearing on February 29, 2024. The
Court has continued the trial only once thus far. (See Minute Order
dated February 8, 2023.)
II.        LEGAL STANDARD
“A party against whom a cause of action
has been asserted in a complaint or cross-complaint may file a cross-complaint
setting forth …: ¶ (b) Any cause of action he has against a person alleged to
be liable thereon, whether or not such person is already a party to the action,
if the cause of action asserted in his cross-complaint (1) arises out of the
same transaction, occurrence, or series of transactions or occurrences as the
cause brought against him or (2) asserts a claim, right, or interest in the
property or controversy which is the subject of the cause brought against him.”
(Code Civ. Proc. § 428.10.)
Cross-complaints fall into two
categories—permissive and compulsory.  
Compulsory cross-complaints consist of
those causes of action existing at the time of service of the answer that the
defendant must bring against the plaintiff, or else forfeit the right to
bring them in any other action. (See Code Civ. Proc. § 426.30, subd. (a)
(emphasis added) [“Except as otherwise provided by statute, if a party
against whom a complaint has been filed and served fails to allege in a
cross-complaint any related cause of action which (at the time of serving
his answer to the complaint) he has against the plaintiff, such party
may not thereafter in any other action assert against the plaintiff the related
cause of action not pleaded” (emphasis added)].) 
Subdivision (a) of Section 428.50 of
the Code of Civil Procedure (“Section 428.50”) states: “A party shall file a
cross-complaint against any of the parties who filed the complaint or
cross-complaint against him or her before or at the same time as the answer to
the complaint or cross-complaint.” 
Subdivision (b) of Section 428.50
states: “Any other cross-complaint may be filed at any time before the court
has set a date for trial.” 
“[P]ermissive cross-complaint[s] … [are]
governed by Code of Civil Procedure section 428.50 [subdivision (c)] which
states: ‘A party shall obtain leave of court to file any cross-complaint except
one filed within the time specified in subdivision (a) or (b) [see above]. Leave
[to file a permissive cross-complaint] may be granted in the interest of
justice at any time during the course of the action.’” (Crocker Nat.
Bank v. Emerald (1990) 221 Cal.App.3d 852, 864 [emphasis added] (“Crocker”).)

“Permission to file a permissive
cross-complaint is solely within the trial court’s discretion.” (Crocker,
supra, 221 Cal.App.3d at p. 864.) 
III.      DISCUSSION
Defendants’
motion is a motion for leave to file a permissive cross-complaint under subdivision
(c) of Section 428.50 since (1) the proposed cross-complaint is directed
against a party that did not file any pleading against the Defendants (and,
therefore, subdivision (a) of the statute does not apply), and (2) the Court
has already set a date for trial (and, therefore, subdivision (b) also does not
apply). 
Defense
counsel attests to the following facts in support of the motion. As discovery
ensued, Plaintiff and Defendants traced the source of the blinds that allegedly
fell on Plaintiff to Robles Glass, which had sold and installed the blinds
about six weeks before Plaintiff moved into the Property. (Motion, Declaration
of Ronald Minassian (“Minassian Decl.”), ¶
8.) Plaintiff was the first tenant to use the blinds. (Minassian Decl., ¶ 9.) On June 24, 2022, Plaintiff amended the Complaint to
add Robles Glass as one of the Doe defendants. (Minassian Decl., ¶ 9.) On January 26, 2023, Robles Glass filed its Answer and
a cross-complaint against Roes 1 through 10. (Minassian Decl., ¶ 10.) Subsequently, on June 20, 2023, Plaintiff deposed the
PMK for Robles Glass, Mr. Joel Robles, who testified that Robles Glass
installed the blinds at issue. (Minassian Decl., ¶ 11.) On April 24, 2023, California Landmark Group, CLG,
and R2 Lofts, LP (collectively, the “CLG Defendants,” as referred to in the
instant motion) tendered the defense and indemnification of the lawsuit to
Robles Glass and its carrier, Nationwide. (Minassian Decl., ¶¶ 12, 13; Motion, p. 3:15-18.) On June 16, 2023, Nationwide
declined the tender because, among other reasons, Robles Glass had not named
the CLG Defendants as additional insureds under its policy. (Minassian Decl., ¶ 13.) On July 13, 2023, the CLG Defendants sent a tender
letter to Robles Glass and warned that if the latter declined the tender, the
defendants would file a cross-complaint against it. (Minassian Decl., ¶ 14.) On August 4, 2023, Robles Glass refused the tender. (Minassian Decl., ¶ 15.) “Upon further investigation, Defendants prepared to
file a Cross-Complaint against Robles [Glass] as they had indicated in their
tender letter.” (Minassian
Decl., ¶ 16.) On October 18, 2023, during a telephone
conversation with Robles Glass’s counsel, defense counsel informed the former
that a cross-complaint would be filed. (Minassian Decl., ¶¶ 17, 21.)
 In his opposition, Plaintiff argues the
following: Defendants have always known that Robles Glass installed the blinds
but did not tender defense to Robles Glass immediately after being sued.
(Plaintiff’s Opposition, p. 1:25-26.) Instead, Defendants filed a motion to
continue trial (which the Court granted) and then waited until April 24, 2023,
nearly 15 months after being sued, to tender their defense. (Plaintiff’s
Opposition, pp. 1:28-2:2.) Given their unexplained delay in bringing the
motion, the motion is nothing more than a bad faith attempt to continue trial
for a second time because the moving defendants know that if their motion is
granted, Robles Glass will use it as a basis for continuing trial. (Plaintiff’s
Opposition, p. 2:4-6.) The delay will severely prejudice Plaintiff, who needs
the recovery to pay for treatment related to his treatment at the Center for
Neuro Skills (“CNS”), which is a rehabilitation facility for persons suffering
from traumatic brain injuries. (Plaintiff’s Opposition, Declaration of Hani
Ganji (“Ganji Decl.”), ¶ 5.) CNS does not take Plaintiff’s
insurance and, therefore, Plaintiff has to pay out of pocket. (Ganji Decl., ¶ 5.)
In contrast, Defendants will not be prejudiced because they can sue Robles
Glass after this case is completed. (Plaintiff’s Opposition, p. 3:8-9.)
In
its opposition, Robles Glass also argues that Defendants unduly delayed in
bringing the instant motion because (1) Plaintiff named the defendant in the Complaint
in June 2022, (2) the documents giving rise to Defendants’ proposed
cross-complaint have been in their possession for years, and (3) the Defendants
have threatened to file a cross-complaint for nearly one year. (Robles Glass
Opposition, pp. 3:14-5:4.) Robles Glass also argues it will be prejudiced if
the Court grants the motion because the defendant will only have one month to
complete discovery related to the cross-complaint, giving Defendants a
significant advantage since Defendants have already completed their discovery
related to the cross-complaint. (Robles Glass Opposition, p. 5:5-13.)
In
their reply, Defendants argue the following, among other things. 
Robles
Glass’s assertion that the Defendants unduly delayed in bringing the motion is
without merit since it ignores Defendants’ efforts in seeking indemnification
and cooperation from Robles Glass and the latter’s refusal to take
responsibility for the defense of this matter. (Reply, pp. 1:28-4.) In
addition, since Robles Glass has had ample time to conduct discovery and
prepare for trial while knowing that Defendants will seek indemnification,
contribution, and damages from them, it cannot be surprised or prejudiced by
the filing of the cross-complaint. (Reply, pp. 1:28-4.) 
As
for Plaintiff’s bad faith claim, Defendants have been communicating with
Plaintiff regarding their looming cross-complaint and have made it clear that
they are not seeking a trial continuance based on their motion. (Reply, p.
2:14-16.) Indeed, it is Robles Glass that has filed a motion to continue the trial
so that its motion for summary judgment could be heard. (Reply, p. 2:16-17.) As
for Plaintiff’s claims that he has to seek recovery for his damages, he must
first prove those damages before he can obtain discovery. (Reply, pp. 7:28-3.) Moreover,
subpoenaed records from CNS show that Plaintiff has already been receiving many
treatment sessions from CNS since on or about September through November 2022.
(Reply, p. 7:3-5.) If Plaintiff received those treatments before, he could
likely continue receiving them until the matter is resolved. (Reply, p. 7:6-8.)
“The
reason for allowing cross-complaints is to have a complete determination of a
controversy among the parties in one action, thus avoiding circuity of action
and duplication of time and effort.” (City of Hanford v. Superior Court
(1989) 208 Cal.App.3d 580, 587; Bracey v. Gray (1944) 65 Cal.App.2d 282,
285–286.) 
Accordingly,
it would not be an efficient use of judicial resources to deny the motion, as
Plaintiff advocates, and require Defendants to proceed with a separate
action.  
In
addition, as stated above, leave to file
a permissive cross-complaint may be granted in the interest of justice at
any time during the course of the action. (See
Code Civ. Proc. § 428.50, subd. (c).)
Indeed, courts have granted leave to file the cross-complaint even close to the
time set for trial. (Cf. Orient Handel v.
United States Fid. & Guar. Co. (1987) 192
Cal.App.3d 684, 701 [“As to the appellants’ further contention that leave to
file the cross-complaint was improperly granted because it was too close to the
time set for trial on the complaint, we note that the issue is ordinarily a
matter within the sound discretion of the trial court. Having reviewed the
record, we find no clear abuse of the trial court’s discretion here”].)
Accordingly, the fact that Defendants are moving for
leave to file their cross-complaint a few months before trial is not grounds
for denying their motion. 
The Court finds the prejudice arguments unpersuasive
since the papers show that all parties have been long aware of the Defendants’
intention to file the cross-complaint. 
For those reasons, the Court finds it proper to
grant the motion. 
IV.      CONCLUSION
The Motion for Leave to File a
Cross-Complaint is GRANTED.  
Defendants are ordered to file their
cross-complaint within 10 calendar days of this ruling. Cross-defendants are
ordered to file their responsive pleading within 30 calendar days of service of
the cross-complaint. 
Moving parties to give notice. 
            Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit
on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided on the court’s
website at www.lacourt.org.  Please be
advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to appear at the
hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue
the matter.  Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue.  If
the Court does not receive emails from the parties indicating submission on
this tentative ruling and there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court
may, at its discretion, adopt the tentative as the final order or place the
motion off calendar.
     
Dated this 22nd day of February 2024
 
 




 


 




 


Hon. Lee S.
  Arian
Judge of the
  Superior Court




 


