 Case Number:  22STCV30167    Hearing Date:   February 22, 2024    Dept:  27  
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF
THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF
LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



CLIFFORD TRAN,
                        Plaintiff(s),
            vs.
 
ROSE MEHR, et al., 
 
                        Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


   
  CASE NO.: 22STCV30167
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE:
 
AMENDED DEMURRER TO CROSS-COMPLAINT
 
Dept. 27
1:30 p.m.
February 22, 2024 



 
MOVING
PARTY:            Cross-Defendant Chloe
Rogers-Brown
RESPONDING PARTY:    Cross-Complainant
Rose Mehr
 
I.         BACKGROUND
On
September 15, 2022, Plaintiff Clifford Tran (“Plaintiff”) filed this action. 
On
August 28, 2023, Plaintiff filed the operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”)
against Defendants Rose Mehr (“Mehr”) and Does 1 to 50, asserting one cause of
action for motor vehicle negligence. 
The
Attachments to the Complaint do not give much information other than to state
that the motor vehicle accident giving rise to this action took place on
October 5, 2021, at or near the intersection of Missouri Ave. and S. Bentley
Ave., Los Angeles, CA 90025. 
On
October 26, 2023, Mehr filed her Cross-Complaint against Cross-Defendants Chloe
Rogers-Brown (“Cross-Defendant”) and Roes 1 to 50, inclusive, asserting causes
of action for (1) equitable indemnity, (2) partial indemnity, (3) contribution,
and (4) declaratory relief. 
The
Cross-Complaint alleges the following, among other things: While Mehr denies
the allegations in the FAC, if Plaintiff prevails on the FAC against Mehr, Plaintiff’s
recovery will be because each of the cross-defendants “engaged in such activities,
and/or negligently and carelessly conducted themselves in such a manner as to
precipitate the alleged injuries to the Plaintiff. Therefore, the liability
and/or negligence, if any, of Cross-Defendants is primary and direct, and that
the liability and/or negligence, if any, of Cross-Complainant, is secondary,
imputed, and derivative only.” (Cross-Complaint, pp. 2:23-3:1.)
On
January 16, 2024, Cross-Defendant filed a demurrer to Mehr’s Cross-Complaint. 
On
January 18, 2024. Cross-Defendant filed an amended demurrer (the “Demurrer”). 
On
February 5, 2024, Mehr filed her opposition to the Demurrer. 
As
of February 21, 2024, no optional reply had been filed. 
II.        LEGAL STANDARD
A party may demurer a pleading on
several statutory grounds, including, as Cross-Defendant argues here, “[t]here
is a defect or misjoinder of parties” and “[t]he pleading does not state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subds.
(d) and (e).)
“A demurrer tests the pleading alone,
and not the evidence or facts alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc. v. Accountants, Inc.
Servs. (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) 
“‘We treat the demurrer as
admitting all material facts properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions
or conclusions of fact or law. [Citation.] We also consider matters which may
be judicially noticed.’ [Citation.] Further, we give the complaint a reasonable
interpretation, reading it as a whole and its parts in their context.” (Blank
v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) 
III.      DISCUSSION
As
an initial matter, the Court grants the Cross-Defendant’s request for judicial
notice of the complaint Plaintiff filed in another case titled Tran v
Rogers-Brown, Los Angeles Superior Court Case Number 22STCV30495 (the “Second
Action”). (Amended Request for Judicial Notice, filed January 18, 2024, pp.
1:22-2:2; Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (d) [stating that a court
may take judicial notice of court records].)
The
Court also finds that Cross-Defendant has satisfied the meet and confer
requirement. (Demurrer, Declaration of Christina K. Cloud, ¶¶ 2-3; Code Civ Proc, § 430.41,
subd. (a) [requiring the demurring party to meet and confer with the party that
filed the pleading before filing the demurrer].)

Cross-Defendant
demurs to all causes of action in Mehr’s Cross-Complaint, arguing that it has a
defect of parties and fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action since (1) this action and the Second Action involve two different
accidents, (2) specifically, the accident underlying this action happened
between Plaintiff and Mehr, while the accident underlying the Second Action
happened on a different day and between Plaintiff and Cross-Defendant, and (3)
therefore, Mehr’s pleading is not a proper cross-complaint because (a)
Cross-Defendant has not filed any pleading against Mehr and (b) the Cross-Complaint
does not arise out of the same transaction, occurrence, or series of
transactions of occurrences as the cause brought against Mehr in this action.
(See Code Civ. Proc. § 428.10 [“A party
against whom a cause of action has been asserted in a complaint or
cross-complaint may file a cross-complaint setting forth either or both of the
following: ¶ (a) Any cause of action he has against any of the parties who
filed the complaint or cross-complaint against him. … ¶ (b) Any cause of action
he has against a person alleged to be liable thereon, whether or not such
person is already a party to the action, if the cause of action asserted in his
cross-complaint (1) arises out of the same transaction, occurrence, or series
of transactions or occurrences as the cause brought against him or (2) asserts
a claim, right, or interest in the property or controversy which is the subject
of the cause brought against him”].)
In opposition, Mehr argues, among other
things, that apportionment of liability is a major issue in both cases since
Plaintiff allegedly sustained indivisible injuries to his neck and back in both
accidents. 
The Court finds it proper to overrule
the Demurrer for the following reasons. 
First, as stated above, a demurrer
tests the pleading alone, and not the facts alleged. Indeed,
“‘“[a] demurrer is simply not the appropriate procedure for determining the
truth of disputed facts.”’ [Citation.]” (Panterra GP, Inc. v. Superior Court
of Kern County (2022) 74 Cal.App.5th 697, 709.) Here, the Demurrer
challenges the facts and merits (not the sufficiency) of the Cross-Complaint. Accordingly,
the Court finds the Demurrer improper. 
Second,
there is some merit to Mehr’s implied argument that a party can file a
cross-complaint against a co-tortfeasor asserting indemnity claims arising from
indivisible injuries. 
“Under
the law, a tortfeasor generally is liable for all damages proximately caused by
his tortious conduct. (See Civ. Code, § 1714.) Where multiple tortfeasors
are responsible for an indivisible injury suffered by the plaintiff, each
tortfeasor is jointly and severally liable to the plaintiff for those damages
and thus may be held individually liable to the injured plaintiff for the
entirety of such damages.” (Expressions at Rancho Niguel Ass’n v. Ahmanson
Developments, Inc. (2001) 86 Cal.App.4th 1135, 1139 [emphasis added] (“Expressions”).)
“Thus, the joint and several liability doctrine ensures that the injured party
receives adequate compensation for its injuries, even if one or more of the responsible
parties do not have the financial resources to pay for their share of the
liability.” (Ibid.)
“The
right to indemnity flows from payment of a joint legal obligation on another’s
behalf. (Civ. Code, § 1432; [citation].) The elements of a cause of action for
indemnity are (1) a showing of fault on the part of the indemnitor and (2)
resulting damages to the indemnitee for which the indemnitor is contractually
or equitably responsible.” (Expressions, supra, 86 Cal.App.4th at
p. 1139 [italics removed].)
“Equitable indemnity principles govern the
allocation of loss or damages among multiple tortfeasors whose liability for
the underlying injury is joint and several.” (Expressions, supra,
86 Cal.App.4th at p. 1139.)
“Such principles are designed, generally, to
do equity among defendants who are legally responsible for an indivisible
injury by providing a basis on which liability for damage will be borne by
each joint tortfeasor ‘“in direct proportion to [its] respective fault.”’
[Citations.]” (Expressions, supra, 86 Cal.App.4th at p. 1140
[emphasis added].) “Under
comparative indemnity principles, a full range of allocations is possible, from
no indemnity to complete indemnity for the amounts paid by the indemnitee.” (Ibid.)
For those reasons,
the Court overrules the Demurrer. 
IV.     CONCLUSION
The Amended
Demurrer to Cross-Complaint is OVERRULED.  
Moving
party to give notice. 
          Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit
on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided on the court’s website at
www.lacourt.org.  Please be advised that
if you submit on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the
opposing party may nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the
matter.  Unless you receive a submission
from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others might
appear at the hearing to argue.  If the
Court does not receive emails from the parties indicating submission on this
tentative ruling and there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at
its discretion, adopt the tentative as the final order or place the motion off
calendar.
     
Dated this 22nd day of February 2024
 
 




 


 




 


Hon. Lee S.
  Arian
Judge of the
  Superior Court




 