 Case Number:  22STCV33023    Hearing Date:   February 22, 2024    Dept:  27  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL
DISTRICT
 



WENDY SERRANO, et al.,  
                   Plaintiffs,
          vs.
 
INGLEWOOD
  PARK CEMETERY, et al.,
 
                   Defendants.
 


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 22STCV33023
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE A CROSS-COMPLAINT AGAINST GARCIA’S
  LOWERING DEVICE SERVICE, LLC
 
Dept.
  27
1:30
  p.m.
February
  22, 2024



 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant Inglewood Park Cemetery
(“Defendant”)      
RESPONDING PARTY: Unopposed 
 
 
 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
This
is an action arising from the use of a defective casket lowering device, which
caused Plaintiffs’ mother’s casket to tip over as it was being lowered into a
grave. On October 7, 2022, Plaintiffs Wendy Serrano, Marlene Serrano, Manuel
Serrano, and Andrew Serrano, by and through his guardian ad litem, Wendy
Serrano (collectively “Plaintiffs”) filed a complaint against Defendants
Inglewood Park Cemetery (“Defendant”) and DOES 1 to 10, alleging causes of
action for: (1) general negligence and (2) premises liability. 
On
January 4, 2023, Defendant filed an answer to the complaint. 
On
November 7, 2023, Defendant filed and served the instant amended motion for
leave to file a cross-complaint against Garcia’s Lowering Device Service, LLC
(“GLDS”) (the “Motion”). The proposed cross-complaint is attached as Exhibit 1
to the declaration of Sherri Matta (“Matta”) in support of the Motion. 
 
II.      LEGAL STANDARD
          Code
Civ. Proc., § 428.50, subd. (a) provides that “[a] party shall file a
cross-complaint against any of the parties who filed the complaint or
cross-complaint against him or her before or at the same time as the answer to
the complaint or cross-complaint.” “Any other cross-complaint may be filed at
any time before the court has set a date for trial.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
428.50, subd. (b).) “A party shall obtain leave of court to file any
cross-complaint except one filed within the time specified in subdivision (a)
or (b). Leave may be granted in the interest of justice at any time during the
course of the action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 428.50, subd. (c).) 
Under Code Civ. Proc. § 428.10(a) “[a] party against whom a cause of
action has been asserted in a complaint or cross-complaint may file a cross
complaint setting forth . . . [a]ny cause of action he has against any of the
parties who filed the complaint or cross-complaint against him.” (K.R.L.
Partnership v. Superior Court (2004) 120 Cal.App.4th 490, 498.) Code Civ.
Proc. § 428.10(b) allows a party to file a cross-complaint alleging “[a]ny
cause of action he has against a person alleged to be liable thereon, whether
or not such person is already a party to the action, if the cause of action
asserted in his cross-complaint (1) arises out of the same transaction,
occurrence, or series of transactions or occurrences as the cause brought
against him.” “[A] related cause of action is a cause of action which arises
out of the same transaction, occurrence, or series of transactions or
occurrences as the cause of action which the plaintiff alleges in his
complaint.” (K.R.L. Partnership v. Superior Court, supra, 120
Cal.App.4th 490, 498.) “Cross-complaints for comparative equitable indemnity
would appear virtually always transactionally related to the main action.” (Time for Living, Inc. v. Guy Hatfield Homes/All
American Development Co. (1991) 230 Cal.App.3d 30, 38.)   
 
III.    DISCUSSION 
          In support of
the Motion, Matta declares that Plaintiff’s counsel agreed to file a
stipulation allowing Defendant to file a cross-complaint against GLDS but has
not yet returned a signed copy of the stipulation. (Matta Decl., ¶ 5; Exhibit
2.) The interests of justice would be served by permitting the filing of the
proposed cross-complaint according to counsel. (Matta Decl., ¶ 6.) Counsel
states that the allegations of the cross-complaint involve the same facts in
Plaintiffs’ allegations against GLDS and Defendant alleges that GLDS was in
some manner and at fault for the purported injuries and damages to Plaintiffs.
(Matta Decl., ¶ 6.) Defendant contends that it hired GLDS to service its casket
lowering devices and one of those devices malfunctioned which caused the
incident. (Matta Decl., ¶ 6.) Defendant argues that the Motion should be
granted as the interest of justice would be served by permitting Defendant to
file a cross-complaint against GLDS. (Matta Decl., ¶ 6.) 
          Based on the
declaration of Matta in support of the Motion, Defendant contends that GLDS is
responsible for all or some of the damages incurred by Plaintiffs. Also, the
proposed cross-complaint seeks indemnity against GLDS. (Matta Decl., ¶ 4;
Exhibit 1.) Thus, the cross-complaint is related to the complaint and arises
out of the same occurrence as the causes of action asserted in the complaint.
Accordingly, the Court finds it appropriate to allow Defendant to file its
proposed cross-complaint against GLDS. Also, the Motion is unopposed which
“creates an inference that the motion is meritorious.” (Sexton v. Superior
Court (1997) 58 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1410.) 
 
 
          
IV.     CONCLUSION
The Court therefore GRANTS Defendant’s
motion for leave to file a cross-complaint against GLDS. The Court orders
Defendant to file and serve the proposed cross-complaint within 5 court days so
that it becomes an operative pleading in this action. 
 
Moving party is ordered to give notice
of this ruling. 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. 
Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to
appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the
hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you
receive a submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume
that others might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive emails from the
parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
      Dated this 22nd day of February 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon.
  Lee S. Arian 
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 