 Case Number:  22STCV15937    Hearing Date:   February 22, 2024    Dept:  27  
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF
THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF
LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



MIREYA B. DE LA ROSA GALLEGOS, individually, and as
  successor in interest to decedent, JOSE HUMBERTO DE LA ROSA MORENO,
                        Plaintiff(s),
            vs.
 
TRUKMAN ENTERPRISES, INC., et al., 
 
                        Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


   
  CASE NO.: 22STCV15937 
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE:
 
MOTION TO STRIKE PORTIONS OF PLAINTIFF’S
  COMPLAINT
 
Dept. 27
1:30 p.m.
February 22, 2024 



 
MOVING
PARTY:            Defendants Trukman Enterprises,
Inc., Ultimate Express Moving, Jose Antonio Cabrera, and Joshua B. Quijano
RESPONDING PARTY:    Plaintiff Mireya
B. De La Rosa Gallegos, individually, 
and as successor in interest to
decedent, Jose Humberto De La Rosa Moreno
 
I.         BACKGROUND
On
May 13, 2022, Plaintiff Mireya B. De La Rosa Gallegos (“Plaintiff”),
individually and as successor in interest to decedent Jose Humberto De La Rosa
Moreno (“Decedent”) filed this action against Defendants Trukman Enterprises,
Inc. (“Trukman”), Ultimate Express Moving (“Ultimate”), Jose Antonio Cabrera
(“Cabrera”), Joshua B. Quijano (“Quijano”), and Does 1 to 100, inclusive, asserting
causes of action for (1) negligence and (2) survival action.  
The
operative Complaint alleges the following. On May 22, 2020, Defendant Cabrera
was driving a 2011 Freightliner Truck License No. XP18101 (the “Freightliner”)
in a parking lot at the corner of Osborne Street and Remick Avenue in Los
Angeles. (Compl., ¶ 9.) On information and belief, the Decedent
was at the parking lot corner when Cabrera, who was traveling too fast,
swerved to avoid a speedbump, struck the Decedent, and pushed him approximately
70 feet. (Compl., ¶ 11.) Cabrera then continued
southbound towards the exit on Osborne Street, dragging Decedent to his resting
position. (Compl.,
¶ 11.) Cabrera then ran over Decedent and
fled the scene. (Compl.,
¶ 11.) As a result of the accident,
Decedent suffered several lacerations to the head, internal bleeding in the
stomach area, broken ribs, fracture to the lower spine/tailbone, broken jaw,
severed right ear, dislocated right shoulder, and abrasions to the left ankle. (Compl., ¶ 12.) Decedent was pronounced dead at the scene; he was 54
years old at the time of his death. (Compl., ¶¶ 1, 12.) Plaintiff is the daughter and surviving heir of
Decedent. (Compl.,
¶ 1.) Defendants Trukman, Ultimate, and
Quijiano are the owners of the Freightliner Cabrera was driving.
(Compl., ¶ 10.) At the time of the accident,
Cabrera was “acting within the course and scope of his employment and/or agency
with Defendants TRUKMAN ENTERPRISES, INC. dba ULTIMATE EXPRESS MOVING, and DOES
1 through 100, inclusive ….” (Compl., ¶ 28.)
On
January 26, 2024, Defendants Trukman Enterprises, Inc., Ultimate Express Moving,
Cabrera, and Joshua B. Quijano (collectively, “Defendants”) filed the instant
motion to strike the punitive damages and attorney fees allegations in the
Complaint. 
On
February 7, 2024, Plaintiff filed her opposition to the motion.
On
February 14, 2024, Defendants filed their reply. 
II.        LEGAL STANDARD
“The court may, upon a motion … or at
any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper:
(a)  Strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter
inserted in any pleading.
(b)  Strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or
filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of
the court.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 436.) The grounds for a motion to strike
shall appear on the face of the challenged pleading or from any matter of which
the court is required to take judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437, subd. (a).)

“Civil Code section 3294, subdivision
(a) provides: ‘In an action for the breach of an obligation not arising from
contract, where it is proven by clear and convincing evidence that the
defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice, the plaintiff, in
addition to the actual damages, may recover damages for the sake of example and
by way of punishing the defendant.’” (Smith v. Superior Court (1992) 10
Cal.App.4th 1033, 1041.)
As used in Civil Code section 3924: “‘Malice’
means conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the
plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a
willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.” (Civ. Code,
§ 3294, subd. (c)(1).) “‘Oppression’ means despicable conduct that subjects a
person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person’s
rights.” (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(2).) “‘Fraud’ means an intentional
misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the
defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving
a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.” (Civ. Code,
§ 3294, subd. (c)(3).)
“In order to survive a motion to strike an
allegation of punitive damages, the ultimate facts showing an entitlement to
such relief must be pled by a plaintiff. 
[Citations.]  In passing on the
correctness of a ruling on a motion to strike, judges read allegations of a
pleading subject to a motion to strike as a whole, all parts in their context,
and assume their truth.  [Citations.]  In ruling on a motion to strike, courts do
not read allegations in isolation. 
[Citation.]”  (Clauson v.
Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255.)  
“The mere allegation [that] an
intentional tort was committed is not sufficient to warrant an award of
punitive damages.  [Citation.] Not only
must there be circumstances of oppression, fraud or malice, but facts must be
alleged in the pleading to support such a claim. [Citation.]” (Grieves v.
Superior Court (1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 159, 166 [footnote omitted].)
“For corporate punitive damages
liability, [Civil Code] section 3294, subdivision (b), requires that the
wrongful act giving rise to the exemplary damages be committed by an ‘officer,
director, or managing agent.’” (White v. Ultramar, Inc. (1999) 21
Cal.4th 563, 572.) “The managing agent must be someone who exercises
substantial discretionary authority over decisions that ultimately determine
corporate policy. Thus, by selecting the term ‘managing agent,’ and placing it
in the same category as ‘officer’ and ‘director,’ the Legislature intended to
limit the class of employees whose exercise of discretion could result in a
corporate employer’s liability for punitive damages.” (Id. at p. 573.)
III.      MEET AND CONFER
“Before filing a motion to strike …,
the moving party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party
who filed the pleading that is subject to the motion to strike for the purpose
of determining if an agreement can be reached that resolves the objections to
be raised in the motion to strike.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5, subd. (a).)
Here, defense counsel testifies that on
November 22, 2023, she “requested … Plaintiff to provide the basis for her
claim for punitive damages and attorney’s fees. To date, Plaintiff has not
responded.” (Motion to Strike, Declaration of Marie Maurice, ¶ 7.)
Plaintiff does not dispute that the
parties met and conferred. 
Accordingly, the Court finds the meet
and confer requirement satisfied. 
IV.      DISCUSSION
Defendants
move to strike the following:
A.
Claim for Punitive Damages
1.   Paragraph 26, p.
6, lines 17 – “punitive or exemplary damages”
2.   Paragraph 30, p.
7, lines 26 – “An award of punitive damages is therefore appropriate.”
3.   Paragraph 31, p.
8, lines 1-2 – “As a result of all the foregoing, Plaintiff seeks the recovery
of punitive damages according to proof at trial.”
4.   Paragraph 31, p.
8, lines 11-12 – “together with punitive damages”
5.   Prayer, item no.
7, page 8 line 23 – “Punitive and exemplary damages.”
B.
Claim for Attorney’s Fees
1.   Prayer, item no.
6, page 8, line 22 – “Attorneys’ fees, expenses, and costs allowed by law;”
(Notice of
Motion, p. 2:10-19.)
          Defendants do not argue much in
support of their request to strike the punitive allegations in the Complaint
other than to cite relevant law and state that the Complaint has not alleged
facts sufficient to constitute oppression, fraud, or malice on the part of any
defendant. (Demurrer, pp. 6:17-18; 7:15.)
          With regard to the corporate
defendants, as stated above and as Defendants state in their motion, Civil Code section 3294, subdivision (b), requires that the
wrongful act giving rise to punitive damages be committed or ratified by an
officer, director, or managing agent. Plaintiff argues that Paragraphs 28, 29,
and 30 in the Complaint make that allegation. (Opposition, p. 9:8-10.) The Court
disagrees. Neither those nor other paragraphs in the Complaint allege facts
showing that the wrongful acts were committed by or ratified officers,
directors, or managing agents of the corporate defendants.
Accordingly, the Court grants the
request to strike the punitive damages allegations with regard to the corporate
defendants, Trukman
and Ultimate. 
          With regard
to Quijano, the Court also finds that the Complaint fails to allege facts
showing that the defendant acted in a way that warrants punitive damages. The
Complaint alleges that the defendant instructed and directed Cabrera to leave
the parking lot and that as Cabrera attempted to leave the parking lot, he hit
and struck the Decedent. (Compl., ¶ 28(a).) However, merely instructing a
person to leave a parking lot is insufficient to warrant punitive damages. Although
“[a] conscious disregard of the safety of others may constitute malice within
the meaning of section 3294 of the Civil Code,” “[i]n order to justify an award
of punitive damages on [that] basis, the plaintiff must establish that the
defendant was aware of the probable dangerous consequences of his conduct, and
that he willfully and deliberately failed to avoid those consequences.”  (Taylor v. Superior Court (1979) 24
Cal.3d 890, 895-896.) Here, there are no allegations showing malice,
specifically, that Quijano was aware Cabrera would strike the Decedent if he
left the parking lot and still told Cabrera to leave the parking lot. There are
also no facts showing oppression and fraud by Quijano. 
          Accordingly,
the Court grants the request to strike the punitive damages allegations with
regard to Defendant Quijano. 
          With regard
to Cabrera, the Complaint alleges that Cabrera was driving too fast and struck the
Decedent while attempting to avoid a speed bump and that after striking the Decedent,
he caused the Freightliner to drag and run over the Decedent before fleeing the
scene of the accident. (Compl., ¶ 11.)
          Although
those facts are detailed, it is not clear whether Cabrera saw the Decedent
or other pedestrians before and/or after striking the Decedent such that one
can infer Cabrera was acting in conscious disregard of the Decedent’s safety at
the time of the incident (i.e., he was aware of the probable dangerous
consequences of his conduct towards Decedent and willfully and deliberately
failed to avoid those consequences).  
          Accordingly, the Court grants the
request to strike the punitive damages allegations with regard to Defendant Cabrera.

          With regard
to the prayer for attorney’s fees, Defendants argue Plaintiff has not alleged a
statutory or contractual basis for attorney’s fees. (Motion, p. 7:25-27.)
Indeed, as the Court of Appeal stated
in Hom v. Petrou (2021) 67 Cal.App.5th 459, 464: “‘A party may not
recover attorney fees unless expressly authorized by statute or contract.
[Citations.] In the absence of a statute authorizing the recovery of attorney
fees, the parties may agree on whether and how to allocate attorney fees.
[Citations.] …. The parties may agree to award attorney fees on claims sounding
in both contract and tort.’ [Citation.]”
          Here,
Plaintiff admits that currently there is no contractual or statutory basis for
her request for attorney’s fees. She only argues (without citing any authority
in support of her argument that) it would be premature for the Court to strike her
request for attorney’s fees because (1) it is possible (not certain) that
Defendants might deny a request for admission, (2) which, if Plaintiff proves
its truth during trial, the Court may order Defendants to pay fees and costs
Plaintiff incurred in making that proof. (Opposition, p. 9:13-21.) The Court finds
Plaintiff’s argument unpersuasive. 
          Accordingly, the
Court grants the request to strike the prayer for attorney’s fees, expenses,
and costs.  
“‘Where the defect raised by a motion to
strike or by demurrer is reasonably capable of cure, “leave to amend is
routinely and liberally granted to give the plaintiff a chance to cure the
defect in question.” [Citations.]” (Velez v. Smith (2006) 142
Cal.App.4th 1154, 1174.)
          Here, the
defects in the Complaint could potentially be cured. 
Therefore, the Court grants leave to
amend. 
V.        CONCLUSION
The Motion to Strike is GRANTED with
leave to amend within 30 days of this ruling. If Plaintiff does amend, Defendants
are ordered to file and serve their responsive pleading within 30 days of
service of that amended complaint. 
Defendant Trukman Enterprises to give
notice. 
            Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit
on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided on the court’s
website at www.lacourt.org.  Please be
advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to appear at the
hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue
the matter.  Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others might
appear at the hearing to argue.  If the
Court does not receive emails from the parties indicating submission on this
tentative ruling and there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at
its discretion, adopt the tentative as the final order or place the motion off
calendar.
     
Dated this 22nd day of February 2024
 
 




 


 




 


Hon. Lee S.
  Arian
Judge of the
  Superior Court




 