 Case Number:  22STCV26893    Hearing Date:   February 22, 2024    Dept:  27  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL
DISTRICT
 



ROBERT FOSTER, 
                   Plaintiff,
          vs.
 
JOSE
  GUADALUPE ESCOBEDO, et al.,
 
                   Defendants.
 


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 22STCV26893
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION TO CONSOLIDATE RELATED ACTIONS


 
Dept.
  27
1:30
  p.m.
February
  22, 2024



 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff Robert Foster (“Plaintiff”)    
RESPONDING PARTY: Unopposed  
 
 
 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
This
action arises from a motor vehicle collision that occurred on June 28, 2021. On
August 18, 2022, Plaintiff Robert Foster (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint
against Defendants Jose Guadalupe Escobedo (“Escobedo”), Escobedo Trucking LLC
(“Escobedo Trucking”), R&B Fresh Express, Inc. (“R&B”) (collectively
“Defendants”) and DOES 1 through 100, inclusive, alleging a single cause of
action for negligence. 
On
September 21, 2022, Defendant R&B filed a cross-complaint against
Defendants Escobedo and Escobedo Trucking, as well as ROES 1 through 25,
inclusive, alleging causes of action for: (1) equitable indemnity, (2)
contribution, and (3) declaratory relief. 
On
September 26, 2022, Defendants Escobedo and Escobedo Trucking filed a
cross-complaint against MOES 1 through 10, inclusive, alleging causes of action
for: (1) indemnity, (2) contribution, and (3) declaratory relief. 
On
June 1, 2023, a Notice of Related Case was filed indicating that the instant
action was related to the case of Thomas Raymond Stahl v. Jose Guadalupe
Escobedo, LASC Case No. 21STCV41754 (the “Stahl Action”). 
On
June 21, 2023, the Court issued an order deeming the instant action and the
Stahl Action as related cases with the Stahl Action being deemed the lead case.
(06/21/23 Minute Order.) 
On
January 25, 2024, Plaintiff filed and served the instant unopposed motion to
consolidate the instant action and the Stahl Action (the “Motion”). Any
opposition to the Motion was required to have been filed and served at least
nine court days prior to the hearing. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1005, subd. (b).) 
 
II.         
LEGAL
STANDARD
Code Civ. Proc. § 1048(a) provides that
“[w]hen actions involve a common question of law or fact are pending before the
court, it may order a joint hearing or trial of any or all the matters in issue
in the actions; it may order all the actions consolidated and it may make such
orders concerning proceedings therein as may tend to avoid unnecessary costs or
delay.” “The purpose of consolidation is merely to promote trial convenience
and economy by avoiding duplication of procedure, particularly in the proof of
issues common to both actions.” (Estate
of Baker (1982) 131 Cal.App.3d 471, 485, citation omitted.) “A
consolidation of actions does not affect the rights of the parties.” (Ibid., citation omitted.) Consolidation
does not require identical causes of action in each case, absolute identity of
the parties, or identical allegations. (Ibid.)
There are two types of consolidation. (Hamilton v. Asbestos Corp., Ltd. (2000)
22 Cal.4th 1127, 1147.) There is “a consolidation for purposes of trial only,
where the two actions remain otherwise separate; and a complete consolidation
or consolidation for all purposes, where the two actions are merged into a
single proceeding under one case number and result in only one verdict or set
of findings and one judgment.” (Ibid., citations omitted.) 
Code Civ. Proc., § 404.1 provides that:

“Coordination of civil actions sharing
a common question of fact or law is appropriate if one judge hearing all of the
actions for all purposes in a selected site or sites will promote the ends of
justice taking into account whether the common question of fact or law is
predominating and significant to the litigation; the convenience of the parties,
witnesses, and counsel; the relative development of the actions and the work
product of counsel; the efficient utilization of judicial facilities and
manpower; the calendar of the courts; the disadvantages of duplicative and
inconsistent rulings, orders, or judgments; and, the likelihood of settlement
of the actions without further litigation should coordination be denied.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 404.1.) 
 
III.    DISCUSSION 
Issue No.1: Appropriateness of Consolidation 
In support of the Motion, Plaintiff’s
counsel, Jason C. Kolbe (“Kolbe”), declares that this case stems from a motor
vehicle accident that occurred on June 28, 2021. (Kolbe Decl., ¶ 2.) Two cases
are pending in the Superior Court of California, County of Los Angeles and both
actions involve the same facts and same questions of law. (Kolbe Decl., ¶ 2.)
Counsel declares that the Stahl Action is related to a series of motor vehicle
accidents that occurred on June 28, 2021 at or on the I-210 East Freeway.
(Kolbe Decl., ¶ 3.) Plaintiff Thomas Raymond Stahl alleges causes of action for
motor vehicle and general negligence. (Kolbe Decl., ¶ 3; Exhibit A.) 
The Court finds that the instant action
and the Stahl Action arise from the same series of motor vehicle accidents that
occurred on June 28, 2021. As such, there are common questions of law and fact
present in both actions. In fact, both actions raise causes of action for
negligence and both actions name Defendant Escobedo as a defendant. The Court
therefore finds that consolidation of the instant action and the Stahl Action
is appropriate to promote judicial economy and to avoid duplication in
procedure. Moreover, given that the Motion is unopposed, there is an inference
it has merit under Sexton v. Superior Court (1997) 58 Cal.App.4th 1403,
1410.
 
IV.     CONCLUSION
Based on the foregoing, the Court GRANTS
Plaintiff’s motion to consolidate the instant action and the Stahl Action. 
 
Moving party is ordered to give notice.

 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. 
Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to
appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the
hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you
receive a submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume
that others might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive emails from the
parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
      Dated this 22nd day of February 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon.
  Lee S. Arian 
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 