  Case Number:  23STLC05830    Hearing Date:   September 25, 2024    Dept:  55 Tentative
Valdez vs. Home Approval Direct, Inc., et al.
23STLC05830
 
Intervenor (Real Party in Interest) Flagstar Bank, NA’s
Motion to Expunge Notice of Pendency of Action
 
Background
Plaintiff Marco Joseph Valdez filed this action against
Defendants Home Approvals Direct Inc. dba Homefirst Mortgage Bankers and
Alexander Kim for cancellation of deed and quiet title with respect to the property
located at 1905 East Rogers Street, Long Beach, CA (“Property”). Plaintiff also
caused a Notice of Pendency of Action (“Lis Pendens”) to be recorded against
the Property. 
Intervenor Flagstar Bank, NA (“Flagstar”) has filed a
motion to expunge the lis pendens. Plaintiff did not file an opposition.
Judicial Notice
Flagstar’s request for judicial notice of eight recorded
documents is granted.
Legal Standard
A lis pendens is an instrument recorded in the office
of the county recorder that gives constructive notice of a pending lawsuit
affecting title to the real property described in the lis pendens. Gale v.
Superior Court (2004) 122 Cal.App.4th 1388, 1395. Where a motion to expunge
a lis pendens has been filed, the proponent of the lis pendens carries the
burden of establishing by a preponderance of the evidence the probable validity
of the real property claims. Code Civ. Proc., §§ 405.30, 405.32. Probable
validity means that it is more likely than not that the claimant will prevail
on the claim. Id., § 405.3.
Analysis
The judicially noticed documents reflect that: (1)
Plaintiff obtained a loan for the Property from Defendant Home Approvals, which
was secured by a Deed of Trust for the Property; (2) the loan and Deed of Trust
was assigned to Flagstar; (3) Flagstar ultimately foreclosed on the Property after
the loan fell into default; and (4) Flagstar is the current owner of the
Property.
Plaintiff’s claims in this case center on his allegation
that he entered into a private agreement with Defendant Kim, the purported CEO of
Defendant Homefirst, that Plaintiff never received the loan and the loan was
not in default. Based on those allegations, Plaintiff alleges that the Deed of
Trust for the Property should be canceled and he should be declared the owner
of the Property because the entire foreclosure process should not have happened.

Plaintiff has the burden of establishing that it is
more likely than not that he will prevail on his claims. But Plaintiff has not
filed an opposition, let alone put forth any evidence for his claims. The
alleged agreement attached to the Complaint does not establish the existence of
any modification of the loan because it is only signed by Plaintiff and he
could not have unilaterally modified the loan or Deed of Trust. Moreover, as Flagstar
notes, the Deed of Trust had been assigned to Flagstar at the time of the purported
agreement, which means that Homefirst had no legal ability to modify the terms
of the loan. Nor has Plaintiff established that he paid the outstanding debt on
the Property, which is required to quiet title. Thus, Plaintiff has not and
cannot establish the probable validity of his claims. 
Conclusion
The motion to expunge the Lis Pendens on the Property
is GRANTED. 