  Case Number:  24TRCV00122    Hearing Date:   September 4, 2024    Dept:  P  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT P
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



TYREE
  GREEN,  
  
         vs.
 
DEBBIE
  MCALPHINE, et al. 


 Case No.: 24TRCV00122
 
 
 
 Hearing
  Date:  September 4, 2024



 
Defendants’ demurrer to the first
amended complaint is sustained as to the second and fourth causes of
action.  It is overruled as to the third
cause of action. 
 
Defendants’ motion to strike is granted
in part.
 
As no opposition was filed, the court
denies leave to amend.
 
          The Court
considered the moving papers and the arguments of counsel.  No opposition was filed.
 
A.  
Demurrer
 
Defendants Debbie McAlphine
(“McAlphine”) and Thomas Eisner (“Eisner” collectively, “Defendants”) demur to
the 2nd  (general negligence),
3rd (misdemeanor hit and run), and 4th (intentional
infliction of emotional distress)  causes
of action in the first amended complaint (“FAC”) filed by Plaintiff Tyree Green
(“Plaintiff”)Defendants demur on the grounds the causes of action fail to state
facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action, the causes of action are
uncertain, and/or the causes of action fail to state facts that Defendants’
actions fall under the categories of oppression, fraud or malice (only with
respect to 3rd and 4thCOAs).  The demurrer is unopposed.  
 
Legal Standard
 
A demurrer is
a pleading used to test the legal sufficiency of other pleadings.  It
raises issues of law, not fact, regarding the form or content of the opposing
party's pleading (complaint, answer or cross-complaint).  (CCP §§ 422.10,
589; see Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968,
994.)  It is not the function of the demurrer to challenge the
truthfulness of the complaint; and for purposes of the ruling on the demurrer,
all facts pleaded in the complaint are assumed to be true.  (Donabedian,
supra,116 Cal.App.4th at 994.) 
 
A demurrer
can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading
under attack; or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially
noticeable.  (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318;
Donabedian, supra, 116 Cal.App.4th at 994.)  No other extrinsic evidence
can be considered.  (Ion Equip. Corp. v. Nelson (1980) 110
Cal.App.3d 868, 881 [error for court to consider facts asserted in memorandum
supporting demurrer]; see also Afuso v. United States Fid. & Guar. Co.
(1985) 169 Cal.App.3d 859, 862 [disapproved on other grounds in Moradi-Shalal
v. Fireman’s Fund Ins. Cos. (1988) 46 Cal.3d 287] [error to consider
contents of release not part of court record].) 
 
A demurrer
can be utilized where the “face of the complaint” itself is incomplete or
discloses some defense that would bar recovery.  (Guardian North Bay,
Inc. v. Superior Court (2001) 94 Cal.App.4th 963, 971-72.)  The “face
of the complaint” includes material contained in attached exhibits that are
incorporated by reference into the complaint; or in a superseded complaint in
the same action.  (Frantz v. Blackwell (1987) 189 Cal.App.3d 91,
94; see also Barnett v. Fireman’s Fund Ins. Co. (2001) 90 Cal.App.4th
500, 505 [“[W]e rely on and accept as true the contents of the exhibits and
treat as surplusage the pleader’s allegations as to the legal effect of the
exhibits.”]). 
 
A demurrer
can only be sustained when it disposes of an entire cause of action.  (Poizner
v. Fremont General Corp. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97,119; Kong v. City of
Hawaiian Gardens Redev. Agency (2003) 108 Cal.App.4th 1028, 1046.) 
 
Background
 
On January 12, 2024, Plaintiff
initiated this lawsuit by filing a complaint on Judicial Council form
PLD-PI-001 alleging causes of action for (1) motor vehicle, (2) general
negligence, (3) misdemeanor hit and run under Vehicle Code 20001(a), and (4)
intentional infliction of emotional distress against Defendants McAlphine,
Thomas Eisner, and DOES 1 to 50, inclusive. Plaintiff alleges that on or about
August 16, 2022, at or near 190th & CA-1, Redondo Beach, CA,
Defendant McAlphine's vehicle collided into Plaintiff’s vehicle. Plaintiff
alleges that Defendant McAlphine immediately fled the scene after the
collision. The complaint is silent as to allegations to Defendant Eisner.
 
On July 2, 2024, Plaintiff filed the
operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) on Judicial Council form PLD-PI-001.
In the FAC, Plaintiff states that upon information and belief, “Defendants
McAlphine, Defendant Eisner, and DOES 1 to 50, inclusive, negligently, carelessly, unskillfully, unlawfully,
tortuously, wrongfully, maliciously, willfully, oppressively, and despicably
entrusted, managed, maintained, operated, controlled and drove said vehicle.”
 
Meet and Confer
 
Before filing a demurrer, the demurring
party is required to meet and confer with the party who filed the pleading
demurred to for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached
that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.  (CCP §
430.41(a).)   
 
The Court finds Defendants met their
obligation in this regard. (Dem. Miller Decl. ¶ 3.) 
 
General Negligence (2nd COA)
 
In order to state a claim for
negligence, Plaintiff must allege the elements of (1) “the existence of a legal
duty of care,” (2) “breach of that duty,” and (3) “proximate cause resulting in
an injury.” (McIntyre v.
Colonies-Pacific, LLC (2014) 228 Cal.App.4th 664, 671.)
 
Defendants argue (1) Plaintiff fails to
allege facts sufficient to state the cause of action for general negligence
against Defendant for punitive damages, and (2) the cause of action is
uncertain. (Code Civ. Proc. § 430.10 (e).) Specifically, Defendants argue that
Plaintiff has failed to meet the elevated pleading standards of alleging
oppression, fraud or malice because the FAC “lacks facts that give rise to the
malice necessary for punitive damages” and “does no more than allege the
different ways Defendants’ vehicle collided with Plaintiff’s vehicle, and after
pulling over to the shoulder, fled the scene. (Demurrer, 8:3-5; Blegen v.
Superior Court (1981) 125 Cal.App.3d 959 at 962.)
 
Civil Code § 3294 authorizes an award of
punitive/exemplary damages where the defendant has acted with oppression,
fraud, or malice.” “Malice” is described as “conduct that is intended by the
defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is
carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the
rights or safety of others.” (Civil Code § 3294, subd. (c)(1).) The “conclusory
characterization of defendant’s conduct as intentional, willful and fraudulent
is a patently insufficient statement of oppression, fraud or malice . . .
within the meaning of section 3294.” (Brousseau v. Jarrett (1977) 73
Cal.App.3d 864, 872 [emphasis added].) The “terms themselves are conclusory.” (Blegen
v. Superior Court (1981) 125 Cal.App.3d 959, 963.) Use of such terms is
only allowed where sufficient facts are pled to support the allegations. (Id.) 
 
In the FAC, Plaintiff makes the
following allegations: (1) Defendant McAlphine operated her vehicle directly
behind Plaintiff’s lane of travel without caution and in such an unsafe manner
that it violently collided into Plaintiff’s vehicle, (2) After the severe
impact, Defendant McAlphine immediately fled the scene after the collision,
intentionally and recklessly disregarding Plaintiff’s safety and with a
reckless disregard of causing severe injuries and damages to Plaintiff. 
 
Here, Plaintiff describes the general
elements of negligence.  In this regard,
it merely restates the allegations in the first cause of action.  Therefore, the demurrer is SUSTAINED.
 
However, thereafter, Plaintiff asserts
that Defendant McAlpine “fled the scene…[which] caused distinct and separate
injuries to Plaintiff.”  As this is the
basis for the punitive damages claim, it must be supported by facts, not a mere
restatement of the law.
 
Based on the foregoing, Defendants’ motion
to strike is GRANTED, as to the 2nd sentence of the first paragraph
only. 
 
Misdemeanor Hit and Run (3rd COA)
 
The duty to stop and render aid “is
imposed upon a driver regardless of fault, and a violation gives rise to civil
liability if it is the proximate cause of further injury or death.”  (Karl
v. C.A. Reed Lumber Co. (1969) 275 Cal.App.2d 358, 361; Brooks v. E.J.
Willig Truck Transp. Co. (1953) 40 Cal.2d 669, 679.)  “Failure to stop
and render aid constitutes negligence as a matter of law, in the absence of a
legally sufficient excuse or justification.” (Karl, supra, 275
Cal.App.2d at 361; Brooks, supra, 40 Cal.2d at 679.)  Thus,
“failure to stop and render aid after an injury-causing accident may constitute
an independent wrong irrespective of any legal responsibility for the original
injury.”  (Karl, supra, 275 Cal.App.2d at 361; Escobedo
v. Travelers Ins. Co. (1964) 227 Cal.App.2d 353, 359; Brooks, 40
Cal.2d at 678.) 
 
The failure to stop and render aid
has a “two-fold significance: (1) It may result in liability for the
aggravation of injuries sustained in the accident or additional injuries
incurred after it; (2) it may constitute evidence of responsibility for the accident.
Failure to stop and render aid is some evidence of a consciousness of
responsibility for the original accident, regardless of post-collision
injuries.” (Karl, supra, 275 Cal.App.2d at 362.) 
 
Plaintiff’s asserts the third cause
of action for misdemeanor hit and run as a violation of Vehicle Code § 20001(a)
based on Defendant's failure to stop and render aid. This cause of action seeks
redress for the injuries Plaintiff sustained by virtue of Defendant’s actions
in fleeing the scene apart from and beyond the injuries Plaintiff sustained
from the motor vehicle accident itself. Plaintiff alleges as follows:
 
1.     On or about
August 16, 2022, Plaintiff was lawfully operating her vehicle at or near 190th
St. and CA-1. Defendant operated her vehicle directly behind Plaintiff’s lane
of travel without caution and in such an unsafe manner that it violently collided
into Plaintiff’s vehicle. Defendant DEBBIE MCALPHINE immediately fled the scene
after the collision.
 
2.     Defendant
DEBBIE MCALPHINE was aware that the outset of the probable consequences of such
conduct and willfully and deliberately failed to avoid those consequences, an
act or omission with conscious disregard for the safety of others. Conscious
disregard of the safety of others constitutes malice. Defendant DEBBIE
MCALPHINE and each of them, were aware of the probable consequences of their
conduct and they willfully and deliberately failed to avoid these consequences.
 
3.     Based on the
foregoing, Plaintiff is entitled, pursuant to Civil Code 3294, et seq., to
punitive damages in the sum to be ascertained at trial against Defendant DEBBIE
MCALPHINE and each of them, in doing the things herein, ratified and
acknowledged the acts of Defendant DEBBIE MCALPHINE.
 
4.     A driver is
liable for injuries caused by driving with an intent to cause injury, or, even
without an intent to injure, with either (a) knowledge that serious injury is a
probable result or (b) a wanton and reckless disregard of the possible
consequences of driving in a particular manner. (Reuther v. Viall (1965)
62 Cal.2d 470, 475.)
 
 
There are no elements to Violation of
Vehicle Code 20001(a) as a distinct and separate cause of action in this civil
case. Rather, as Defendants aver, allegations that Defendant McAlphine fled the
scene after the collision goes to the issue of duty and liability.  However, the pleading asserts that “fleeing
the scene of the violent collision caused distinct and separate injuries to
Plaintiff.”  This is sufficient to state
a cause of action.
 
Therefore, the demurrer to the third
cause of action is OVERRULED.
 
The alleged facts are insufficient to
support the claim for punitive damages. Plaintiff alleges Defendant McAlphine “operated
her vehicle directly behind Plaintiff’s lane of travel without caution and in
such an unsafe manner that it violently collided into Plaintiff’s vehicle,” but
does not plead facts as to how this occurred. Therefore, as pled, the complaint
merely restates an action for negligence. 
Plaintiff’s case authority is inapposite. Reuther v. Viall 62
Cal.2d 470 concerned whether the evidence adduced at trial was sufficient
to support the jury’s finding that Defendant was guilty of willful misconduct. (Id.
at 474.) The court found that the trial properly denied the defendant’s motion
for judgment notwithstanding the verdict and affirmed. 
 
The issue here is whether the
pleading sufficient alleges conduct constituting malice, fraud, or oppression.
Twenty-two years after Reuther was decided, the legislature
amended Civ Code §3294 and included an additional requirement that the conduct
be “despicable,” defined as “base, vile or contemptible.” This indicates a
different standard of conduct applies to warrant imposition of punitive
damages. 
 
“However, the statute's reference to
‘despicable’ conduct seems to represent a new substantive limitation on
punitive damage awards.¿Used in its ordinary sense, the adjective ‘despicable’
is a powerful term that refers to circumstances that are ‘base,’ ‘vile,’ or
‘contemptible.’ (4 Oxford English Dict. (2d ed. 1989) p. 529.)¿As amended to
include this word,¿the statute plainly indicates that absent an intent to
injure the plaintiff, ‘malice’ requires more than a ‘willful and conscious’
disregard of the plaintiffs' interests. The additional component of ‘despicable
conduct’ must be found.” College Hospital Inc. v. Superior Court
(1994) 8 Cal. 4th 704, 725. 
 
The alleged conduct does not meet
this standard of pleading.  
 
Therefore, the motion to strike as to
paragraphs two through four of the third cause of action is GRANTED.
 
          Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress (4thCOA)
 
“The elements of a prima facie case for
the tort of intentional infliction of emotional distress are: (1) extreme and outrageous
conduct by the defendant with the intention of causing, or reckless disregard
of the probability of causing, emotional distress; (2) the plaintiff’s
suffering severe or extreme emotional distress; and (3) actual and proximate
causation of the emotional distress by the defendant’s outrageous conduct.
Conduct to be outrageous must be so extreme as to exceed all bounds of that
usually tolerated in a civilized community.” (Wilson v. Hynek (2012) 207 Cal.App.4th 999, 1009, citation and
ellipses omitted.)
 
Plaintiff’s IIED
cause of action is based on the same underlying factual allegations of
Defendant’s alleged failure to stop and render aid to Plaintiff. 
 
Plaintiff failed to allege sufficient facts to support a cause of
action for IIED. Plaintiff has not alleged facts suggesting the conduct
Defendant engaged in was “outrageous” for the purposes of stating the cause of
action. For conduct to be outrageous it must be so extreme to exceed all bounds
tolerated in a civilized society, and here, Plaintiff alleges the following:
 
1.     On or about
August 16, 2022, Plaintiff was lawfully operating her vehicle at or near 190th
St. and CA-1. Defendant DEBBIE MCALPHINE operated her vehicle directly behind
Plaintiff’s lane of travel without caution and in such an unsafe manner that it
violently collided into Plaintiff’s vehicle. After the severe impact, Defendant
DEBBIE MCALPHINE immediately fled the scene after the collision, intentionally
and recklessly disregarding Plaintiff’s safety and with a reckless disregard of
causing severe injuries and damages to Plaintiff. Defendant DEBBIE MCALPHINE’s
fleeing from the scene of the violent collision caused distinct and separate
injuries to Plaintiff aside from the actual collision itself.
 
2.     Defendant
DEBBIE MCALPHINE failed to stop and provide her current residence address and
the registration number of the vehicle she was driving. In addition, Defendant
DEBBIE MCALPHINE failed to stop and render reasonable assistance, including
transporting, or making arrangements for transporting, Plaintiff to a
physician, surgeon, or hospital for medical or surgical treatment as it was
apparent that treatment was necessary, pursuant to California Civil Code §
3294.
 
3.     Defendant
DEBBIE MCALPHINE was aware that the outset of the probable consequences of such
conduct and willfully and deliberately failed to avoid those consequences.
 
4.     Defendant
DEBBIE MCALPHINE was aware that the outset of the probable consequences of such
conduct and willfully and deliberately failed to avoid those consequences.
 
5.     Defendant
DEBBIE MCALPHINE’s conduct was so outrageous as to exceed all bounds of that
usually tolerated by a civilized community.
 
6.     Defendant
DEBBIE MCALPHINE acted with the intention of causing, or reckless disregard of
the probability of causing, emotional distress when Defendant knowingly
operated her vehicle without caution, and in such a reckless and unsafe manner,
that she negligently and violently collided with Plaintiff’s vehicle. Defendant
DEBBIE MCALPHINE immediately fled the scene after the collision.
 
7.     The act of
Defendant DEBBIE MCALPHINE driving away from the scene caused separate and
additional harm to Plaintiff.
 
8.     Plaintiff
suffered severe emotional distress due to Defendant DEBBIE MCALPHINE’s conduct.
 
9.     Defendant
DEBBIE MCALPHINE’s conduct was substantial in causing Plaintiff’s severe
emotional distress.
 
10. Defendant
DEBBIE MCALPHINE’s outrageous, malicious, oppressive and despicable conduct as
set forth above was intended to cause injury to the Plaintiff and subjected the
Plaintiff’s to cruel and unjust hardship with a willful and conscious disregard
for the Plaintiff’s rights and safety such that Defendant is subject to
punitive damages as set forth in California Civil Code § 3294.
 
 
Plaintiff’s allegations that Defendant
acted intentionally and/or with the requisite reckless disregard are conclusory
and insufficient.
 
Based on the foregoing, Defendants’
demurrer to the 4th cause of action is SUSTAINED.
 
B.    Motion to
Strike
 
Defendants move to strike the prayer for
punitive damages in the complaint, arguing that the allegations do not rise to
the level of malice, fraud, or oppression required to support a claim for
punitive damages.
 
The complaint’s allegations do not rise
to the level of malice, fraud, or oppression, as defined by the CCP §
3294.  There are no factual allegations showing a conscious and deliberate
disregard of the safety of others, or any allegations of fraudulent
misrepresentations. In order to plead punitive damages, Plaintiff must plead
allegations of fraud, malice, or oppression with sufficient
particularity.  (Hilliard v. AH Robbins Co. (1983) 148 Cal.App.3d
374, 392.)  This requires Plaintiff to allege sufficient facts to support
conclusory allegations, which Plaintiff has not done.  (Brousseau,
73 Cal.App.3d at 872 [“the second count's conclusory characterization of
defendant's conduct as intentional, willful and fraudulent is a patently
insufficient statement of ‘oppression, fraud, or malice, express or implied,’
...”].)     
 
The complaint conclusory merely alleges
that Defendant McAlphine immediately fled the scene after the collision, and
that this was conduct done “maliciously, willfully, oppressively.” The
complaint does not allege that Plaintiff suffered any additional damages
because of Mulgado’s conduct.  (Supra, Brooks, 40 Cal.2d at 679.)  The
allegation of the violation of a Vehicle Code section alone is insufficient to
support a prayer for punitive damages.  
 
The motion to strike the prayer for
punitive damages is GRANTED. 
 
C.  
Leave to Amend
 
The burden is on Plaintiff to show in
what manner he can amend the complaint to cure the above defects.  (See Goodman
v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349; Hendy v. Losse (1991) 54
Cal.3d 723, 742.)  Here, Plaintiff did
not oppose Defendants’ motion nor seek leave to amend.  Therefore, leave to amend is DENIED.
 