 Case Number:  24TRCV01348    Hearing Date:   September 4, 2024    Dept:  P 


Superior Court
  of California
County of Los
  Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance Dept. P




 
CALVIN SHEPHERD, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
24TRCV01348




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative] RULING
 




 
KAISER FOUNDATION HEALTH PLAN, INC. and DOES 1 to 50,
  inclusive,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date:  September
4, 2024                  
 
Moving Parties: Defendant Kaiser
Foundation Health Plan, Inc.                  
Responding Party: Plaintiff Calvin Shepherd
Petition to Compel Arbitration and Motion to Stay Action
 
            The
court considered the moving papers, opposition, and reply.
 
RULING
            Defendant
Kaiser Foundation Health Plan, Inc.’s Petition to Compel Arbitration and Motion
to Stay Action is GRANTED. The proceedings in this case are STAYED pending
arbitration.
 
BACKGROUND
            On
April 19, 2024, Plaintiff Calvin Shepherd (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint
against Defendant Kaiser Foundation Health Plan, Inc. (“Defendant” or “Kaiser”)
and DOES 1 to 50, inclusive for: (1) Negligence and (2) Premises Liability. 
 
            On
July 25, 2024, Kaiser filed the instant Petition to Compel Arbitration and Motion
to Stay Action. On August 21, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition. On August
28, 2024, Kaiser filed a reply. 
LEGAL AUTHORITY
Pursuant to Code
of Civil Procedure section 1281.2, “[o]n petition of a party to an arbitration
agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement to arbitrate a
controversy and that a party thereto refuses to arbitrate such controversy, the
court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate the
controversy if it determines that an agreement to arbitrate the controversy
exists, unless it determines that: (a) The right to compel arbitration has been
waived by the petitioner; or (b) Grounds exist for the revocation of the
agreement.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2.)
“If a court of
competent jurisdiction, whether in this State or not, has ordered arbitration
of a controversy which is an issue involved in an action or proceeding pending
before a court of this State, the court in which such action or proceeding is
pending shall, upon motion of a party to such action or proceeding, stay the
action or proceeding until an arbitration is had in accordance with the order
to arbitrate or until such earlier time as the court specifies.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 1281.4.)
 
DISCUSSION
            Kaiser moves for
an order compelling arbitration and stay of this action on the grounds that a
valid, enforceable and irrevocable written arbitration agreement exists between
Kaiser and Plaintiff; Plaintiff refuses to submit this dispute to arbitration;
and stay of this action is appropriate pending completion of arbitration. 
 
Prior Demand for Arbitration
A party seeking to compel arbitration under
Code of Civil Procedure Section 1281.2 must “plead and prove a prior demand for
arbitration under the parties’ arbitration agreement and a refusal to arbitrate
under the agreement.” (Mansouri v. Super. Ct. (2010) 181 Cal.App.4th
633, 640; Civ. Proc. Code, § 1281.2.)
            Here, Kaiser does not
expressly state a demand for arbitration was made to Plaintiff. However, Kaiser
contends Plaintiff refuses to submit his claims to arbitration and to dismiss
or stay this action. (Condon Decl.,¶18.) Thus, one can reasonably infer that a
prior demand for arbitration was made to Plaintiff and was refused.  
 
Existence of a Valid Agreement
“[T]he petitioner bears the burden of proving
the existence of a valid arbitration agreement by the preponderance of the
evidence . . . .”  (Giuliano v. Inland
Empire Personnel, Inc. (2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 1276, 1284 (Giuliano).)
“In determining whether an
arbitration agreement applies to a specific dispute, the court may examine only
the agreement itself and the complaint filed by the party refusing arbitration
[citation].  The court should attempt to
give effect to the parties’ intentions, in light of the usual and ordinary
meaning of the contractual language and the circumstances under which the
agreement was made.”  (Weeks v. Crow
(1980) 113 Cal.App.3d 350, 353.)  “To
determine whether a contractual arbitration clause requires arbitration of a
particular controversy, the controversy is first identified, and the issue is
whether that controversy is within the scope of the contractual arbitration
clause.”  (Titolo v. Cano (2007)
157 Cal.App.4th 310, 316.)  “Doubts as to
whether an arbitration clause applies to a particular dispute are to be
resolved in favor of sending the parties to arbitration.  The court should order them to arbitrate
unless it is clear that the arbitration clause cannot be interpreted to cover
the dispute.”  (California
Correctional Peace Officers Ass’n v. State (2006) 142 Cal.App.4th 198,
205.)
[A] party opposing the petition bears the
burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence any fact necessary to its
defense.  [Citation.]  In these summary proceedings, the trial court
sits as a trier of fact, weighing all the affidavits, declarations, and other
documentary evidence, as well as oral testimony received at the court’s
discretion, to reach a final determination.
(Giuliano, supra, 149 Cal.App.4th at p. 1284.)
Kaiser argues Plaintiff expressly
agreed to arbitrate any claims against arising from or related to an alleged
violation of any duty incident to or arising out of or relating to Evidence
Coverage or a member Party’s relationship to Kaiser including premises
liability except claims within the jurisdiction of Small Claims Court, subject
to a Medicare appeal procedure, or cannot be subject to binding arbitration
under governing law. (Mem. of P&A at pp.3-4.) Specifically, Kaiser asserts
that Plaintiff validly entered into the Senior Advantage Agreement/EOC and
arbitration provision therein by virtue of his enrollment as Health Plan
member, his receipt of the Senior Advantage Agreement/EOC upon enrollment and
availability annually, his acceptance of benefits under the Senior Advantage
Agreement/EOC, and his failure to exercise his right to opt-out of the binding
arbitration provision. (Id. at p. 7.)
 
Section 20 of
the Senior Advantage Agreement/EOC states the following: 
“All members enrolled in a Kaiser Permanente
Senior Advantage Individual Plan with an effective date prior to January 1,
2008; and 
 
All members enrolled in a Kaiser Permanente
Senior Advantage Individual Plan with an effective date of January 1, 2008 or
after who have not expressly opted out of the binding arbitration process
within 60 calendar days of his or her Senior Advantage effective date. 
 
For all claims subject to this “Binding
Arbitration” provision, both Claimants and Respondents give up the right to a
jury or court trial and accept the use of binding arbitration. Insofar as this “Binding
Arbitration” provision applies to claims asserted by Kaiser Permanente Parties,
it shall apply retroactively to
all unresolved claims that accrued before the effective date of this Evidence
of Coverage. Such retroactive application shall be binding only on the Kaiser Permanente
Parties.
 
Scope of arbitration
Any dispute shall be submitted to binding
arbitration if all of the following requirements are met:
·        
The claim arises from or is related to an alleged
violation of any duty incident to or arising out of or relating to this
Evidence of Coverage or a member Party's relationship to Kaiser Foundation
Health Plan, Inc. (Health Plan), including any claim for medical or hospital malpractice
(a claim that medical services or items were unnecessary or unauthorized or
were improperly, negligently, or incompetently rendered), for premises
liability, or relating to the coverage for, or delivery of, services or items,
irrespective of the legal theories upon which the claim is asserted.
·        
The claim is asserted by one or more member Parties
against one or more Kaiser Permanente Parties or by one or more Kaiser
Permanente Parties against one or more member Parties.  
·        
Governing law does not prevent the use of binding
arbitration to resolve the claim.”
 
(Garcia Decl. ¶5, Ex. A – Evidence of Coverage (EOC) [emphasis added].)
 
            Here, Kaiser has met its
initial burden of proving the existence of a valid written agreement to
arbitrate the claims in this instant action between Kaiser and Plaintiff.
Kaiser provided the Senior Advantage Agreement/EOC, which contains the
arbitration provision. Further, Kaiser provided Plaintiff’s Health Plan record
and enrollment form showing that he is enrolled in Senior Advantage
Agreement/EOC. (Covarrubio Decl. ¶4, Exs. B-C.) Kaiser also submits the Notice
to Opt-Out of Arbitrations ent to Plaintiff and attests there is no record of
Plaintiff opting-out. (Condon Decl., ¶10, Ex. D.)
 
In opposition, Plaintiff challenges the
validity of the Senior Advantage Agreement/EOC as an agreement to arbitrate
between him and Kaiser on two bases. First, Plaintiff contends that the Senior
Advantage Agreement/EOC did not comply with the California Health & Safety
Code Section 1363.1’s notice requirements pertaining to binding arbitration
because the Election Form signed by Plaintiff does not prominently display a
disclosure of arbitration. 
 
California Health & Safety Code Section 1363.1 states in pertinent
part, the following:
“Any health care service plan that includes
terms that require binding arbitration to settle disputes and that restrict, or
provide for a waiver of, the right to a jury trial shall include, in clear and
understandable language, a disclosure that meets all of the following
conditions:
(a) The disclosure shall clearly state
whether the plan uses binding arbitration to settle disputes, including
specifically whether the plan uses binding arbitration to settle claims of
medical malpractice.
(b) The disclosure shall appear as a separate
article in the agreement issued to the employer group or individual subscriber
and shall be prominently displayed on the enrollment form signed by each
subscriber or enrollee.
(c) The disclosure shall clearly state
whether the subscriber or enrollee is waiving his or her right to a jury trial
for medical malpractice, other disputes relating to the delivery of service
under the plan, or both, and shall be substantially expressed in the wording
provided in subdivision (a) of Section 1295 of the Code of Civil Procedure.
(d) In any contract or enrollment agreement
for a health care service plan, the disclosure required by this section shall
be displayed immediately before the signature line provided for the
representative of the group contracting with a health care service plan and
immediately before the signature line provided for the individual enrolling in
the health care service plan.”
(Health & Saf. Code, § 1363.1.)
 
Generally, “[t]o comply with section 1363.1,
subdivision (b), the disclosure provision must be contained both in the
agreement and in the enrollment form.” (Rodriguez v. Blue Cross of
California (2008) 162 Cal.App.4th 330, 341.) Plaintiff is correct in that
the Election Form used to enroll him in the Senior Advantage Agreement/EOC does
not contain a disclosure of arbitration above the signature line. However,
Section 1363.1 is preempted by the Medicare Act. (See Clay v. Permanente
Medical Group, Inc. (N.D. Cal. 2007) 540 F.Supp.2d 1101, 1106.) The Senior
Advantage Agreement/EOC is Medicare Plan provided to Plaintiff. (Condon Decl.,
¶¶4-5.) Moreover, Kaiser asserts it uses the Medicare/CMS approved arbitration
“opt-out” procedure, which allows a Medicare member to opt-out of arbitration
while remaining enrolled as a Kaiser member. (Tome Decl., ¶¶2-3, Exs. D-E.)
Even though Plaintiff asserts that he never received the “opt-out” notice and
Kaiser fails to show that the form was ever sent, Kaiser presents their spreadsheet
reflecting that the opt-out notice letter was sent to Plaintiff on November 18,
2008. (McWilliams Decl., ¶5, Ex. I.) As such, Kaiser has shown that a valid,
written agreement to arbitrate exists between Kaiser and Plaintiff. 
The Court now turns to whether the Senior
Advantage Agreement/EOC’s arbitration provision is enforceable. 
 
Enforceability of the Agreement 
Under California Civil Code Section 1670.5,
subdivision (a), [i]f the court as a matter of law finds the contract or any
clause of the contract to have been unconscionable at the time it was made the
court may refuse to enforce the contract, or it may enforce the remainder of
the contract without the unconscionable clause, or it may so limit the
application of any unconscionable clause as to avoid any unconscionable result.
(Civ. Code, § 1670.5, subd. (a).) 
Unconscionability is defined as “an absence
of meaningful choice on the part of one of the parties together with contract
terms which are unreasonably favorable to the other party.” (A¿& M
Produce Co. v. FMC Corp. (1982) 135 Cal.App.3d 473, 486.) Unconscionability
thus has a procedural and a substantive element. (Ibid.) The court
considers the factors of oppression and surprise in determining whether a
contract is procedurally unconscionable. (Ibid.)  Oppression refers to inequality of bargaining
power, which cuts off meaningful negotiation. 
(Ibid.)  Surprise refers to
the concealment of the agreed-upon terms in a lengthy form drafted by the party
seeking to enforce them. (Ibid.) Substantive unconscionability refers to
the extent to which a contractual term reallocates the risks of a transaction
“in an objectively unreasonable or unexpected or unexpected manner.” (Id.
at 487.) Both substantive and procedural unconscionability must be present for
a contract to be unenforceable, and “the greater the unfair surprise or
inequality of bargaining power, the less unreasonable the risk allocation which
will be tolerated.”  (Ibid.)
 
1.     
Procedurally Unconscionable
In opposition, Plaintiff argues the Senior
Advantage Agreement/EOC is a contract of adhesion because Plaintiff could not
negotiate the terms of the Senior Advantage Agreement/EOC including the
arbitration provision, thus procedurally unconscionable. By contrast, Kaiser
argues that the Senior Advantage Agreement/EOC is not a contract of adhesion
because Plaintiff elected coverage under the Senior Advantage Agreement/EOC
using his Medicare benefits when he had a range of health care options to choose
from under the Medicare Act. The Court agrees. Contracts of adhesion are those
in which the party has not choice, whereas in this instant case, Plaintiff
selected the Senior Advantage Agreement/EOC. Additionally, Kaiser has submitted
evidence showcasing that Plaintiff was mailed an “Opt-Out” letter, which
demonstrates that Plaintiff was provided an opportunity to not submit any
future claims to arbitration. 
Therefore, the Senior Advantage Agreement/EOC
is not procedurally unconscionable. 
 
2.     
Substantively Unconscionable 
Under Armendariz v. Foundation Health
Psychcare Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83 (Armendariz), an
arbitration agreement is lawful if it: (1) provides for neutral
arbitrators,  (2) provides for more than
minimal discovery,  (3) requires a
written award,  (4) provides for all of
the types of relief that would otherwise be available in court, and  (5) does not require employees to pay either
unreasonable costs or any arbitrators’ fees or expenses as a condition of
access to the arbitration forum. (Armendariz, supra, 24 Cal.4th at p.
102 (internal quotations omitted) (citing Cole v. Burns Intern. Security
Services (D.C. Cir.1997) 105 F.3d 1465, 1482).)
            Plaintiff also argues
the Senior Advantage Agreement/EOC is substantively unconscionable.
Specifically, Plaintiff contends there is a lack of mutuality because Kaiser
gets to choose the venue of arbitration, which is its own Office of the
Independent Administrator (“OIA”), a non-neutral third party. On the other
hand, Kaiser contends the arbitration provision in the Senior Advantage
Agreement/EOC incorporates the OIA rules, which require mutual selection of the
arbitrator. (Pet. Decl., Ex. J at pp. 6-7, Rules 16-18.) The Court notes that
the OIA Rules also require Kaiser to pay the neutral arbitration fees and
expenses; allows for waiver of the initial filing fee; discovery to be
conducted in the same manner as if the matter were in state court; and use of
witnesses. (Id.)
            Therefore, the Senior
Advantage Agreement/EOC is not substantively unconscionable.
 
            Accordingly, Defendant
Kaiser Foundation Health Plan, Inc.’s Petition to Compel Arbitration and Motion
to Stay Action is GRANTED. The proceedings in this case are STAYED pending
arbitration.
 
            Moving party is ordered
to give notice of ruling.