 Case Number:  24STCV03770    Hearing Date:   September 16, 2024    Dept:  78 


CAROLYNE
  MARIA CHANDLER for herself and as guardian ad litem to minors, ANIBELLA MARIE
  OUTRAM, MARLI RITA OUTRAM, MADISYN ESTELLA OUTRAM, TYLARR ELISHA OUTRAM,
  TYRONE NATHANYL DAVID OUTRAM and NOAHH CHRISDIAN OUTRAM; TYRONE DAVID OUTRAM
  and JOANNE OUTRAM for herself and as guardian ad litem to minor AARON JOEL
  OUTRAM,
 
                    Plaintiffs,
 
          vs.
 
1460 35th St, llc, and DOES 1 through 10, inclusive, 
 
                    Defendants.


Case No.: 24STCV03770


 




Hearing
  Date:


September 16,
  2024




 


 




[TENTATIVE] RULING
  RE: 
 
DEFENDANT 1460 35th st, llc’S motion to strike portions
  of the complaint
 



 
Defendant
1460 35th St, LLC’s Motion to Strike is DENIED.
 
Factual
Background
This is a landlord-tenant
habitability action. The Complaint alleges as follows:
In 2019, Plaintiffs Carolyne
Chandler and Joanne Outram for themselves and their family, entered into a
residential lease agreement with Defendant 1460 35th St, LLC’s
predecessors in interest to rent 1460 W 35th St, Los Angeles, CA
90018 (“Subject Property”) for $2,205 per month. (Compl., ¶¶12, 20.) Soon after
taking possession of the Subject Property, Plaintiffs began to experience
multiple instances of substandard conditions, resulting in habitability issues.
(Compl., ¶¶21-24.) Defendant had actual notice that the Subject Property as a
whole has an extensive history of substandard conditions and habitability
issues. (Compl., ¶15.) Plaintiffs made numerous complaints and Defendant failed
to respond. (Compl., ¶25.)
 
procedural
history
On February 14, 2024, Plaintiff
filed the Complaint asserting five causes of action:
1.
Breach of Warranty of Habitability 
2.
Breach of Warranty of Quiet Enjoyment
3.
Nuisance
4.
Violations of Civil Code Section 1941.1, et seq.
5.
Negligence
On June 13, 2024, Defendant filed
the instant Motion to Strike. On July 11, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition. No
reply has been filed. 
 
DiscussioN
 
I.              
MOTION
TO STRIKE (NOT ANTI-SLAPP)
 
“Any party, within the time allowed
to respond to a pleading may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the
whole or any part thereof, but this time limitation shall not apply to motions
specified in subdivision (e).” (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(1).)  
“The court may, upon a motion made
pursuant to Section 435, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it
deems proper: (a) Strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted
in any pleading.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a).) 
A.   Meet and Confer
Prior to filing a motion to strike,
moving party is required to meet and confer with the party who filed the
pleading that is subject to the motion to strike for the purposes of
determining whether an agreement can be reached through a filing of an amended
pleading that would resolve the objections to be raised in the motion to
strike. (Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5.)¿¿ 
Defendant 1460 35th St,
LLC did not provide a meet and confer declaration. Further, there is no
indication in the motion that meet and confer efforts were made prior to the
filing of the instant motion. The Court will exercise its discretion and review
the motion on the merits as Plaintiff’s opposition substantively responds to
the arguments raised in the moving papers. However, Defendant is admonished to
comply with statutory requirements moving forward. 
B.   Merits of Motion to Strike
Defendants
move for an order striking all claims for punitive damages at paragraphs44, 61,
69, and prayer for relief paragraphs 4 from Plaintiff’s Complaint. This motion
is made on the grounds that the aforementioned portions of Plaintiff’s
Complaint are irrelevant and improper because the claim for punitive damages is
unsupported by the allegations of the Complaint.  
To
state a claim for punitive damages under Civil Code section 3294, a plaintiff
must allege specific facts showing that the¿defendant
has been guilty of malice, oppression or fraud. Smith v. Superior Court
(1992) 10 Cal. App. 4th 1033, 1042. The basis for punitive damages must be pled
with specificity; conclusory allegations devoid of any factual assertions are
insufficient. Id. A motion to strike may lie where the facts alleged, if
proven, would not support a finding that the defendant acted with malice, fraud
or oppression. (Turman v. Turning Point of Central California (2010) 191
Cal. App. 4th 53, 63.¿) However, “Subdivision (b) thus
authorizes the imposition of punitive damages on an employer in three
situations: (1) when an employee was guilty of oppression, fraud or malice, and
the employer with advance knowledge of the unfitness of the employee employed
him or her with a conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others, (2)
when an employee was guilty of oppression, fraud or malice, and the employer
authorized or ratified the wrongful conduct, or (3) when the employer was
itself guilty of the oppression, fraud or malice.” (Weeks v. Baker &
McKenzie (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 1128, 1151.) 
“Malice”
is defined in section 3294(c)(1) as “conduct which is intended by the defendant
to cause injury” or “despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant
with a willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.”
“Oppression” is defined in section 3294(c)(2) as “despicable conduct subjecting
a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person’s
rights.” The term “despicable” has been defined in the case law as actions that
are “base,” “vile,” or “contemptible.” Shade Foods, Inc. v. Innovative
Products Sales & Marketing, Inc. (2000) 78 Cal. App. 4th 847, 891.¿¿“Fraud” is defined in section
3294(c)(3) as “an intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a
material fact known to the defendant with the intention on the part of the
defendant of thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights or otherwise
causing injury.”¿ 
To
prove that a defendant acted with “willful and conscious disregard of the
rights or safety of others,” it is not enough to prove negligence, gross
negligence or even recklessness. Dawes v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal.
App. 3d 82, 87. Rather, a plaintiff must allege facts demonstrating that “the
defendant acted in such an outrageous and reprehensible manner that the jury
could infer that he [or she] knowingly disregarded the substantial certainty of
injury to others.” (Id. at 90). Further, the allegations must be sufficient for
a reasonable jury to conclude that Defendant’s conduct was “despicable” defined
as “base, vile or contemptible.” College Hospital Inc. v. Superior Court
(1994) 8 Cal. 4th 704, 725. 
The
Court finds that Plaintiff’s Complaint states specific facts sufficient to
support Plaintiffs’ claim for punitive damages. Here, the Complaint alleges cockroaches
nested inside of Plaintiffs’ furniture, electrical appliances, clothing,
contaminated their food, deposited excrements throughout the Subject property,
crawled Plaintiffs’ bodies while asleep, caused rashes, skin eruptions, and
other ailments. (Compl., ¶24.) The Complaint further alleges rats would eat up
the electrical cables and wires. (Id.) The Complaint further alleges
Plaintiffs’ made several complaints to Defendant about these conditions and
habitability issues including to Defendant’s agent Ramon Posas. (Compl., ¶¶25,
27.) The Complaint also alleges Defendant failed to respond to these complaints
and Mr. Posas would say the “plaintiffs are the problem” and threatened they
would be evicted and homeless “pretty soon.” (Id.) The Complaint also
alleges the Department of Housing Code Enforcement Division and Department of
Building and Safety issued notices and order for Defendant to get the Subject
Property code complaint but the substandard conditions remain. (Compl.,
¶¶29-34.) Reading the Complaint as a whole and taking the allegations as true,
a reasonable jury could infer from the allegations pled in the Complaint that
Defendant was on notice of the unhabitable conditions of the Subject Property
numerous times, their agent Mr. Posas disregarded these complaints, and
Defendant have disregarded the government notices and orders to fix the habitability
issues. As such, a reasonable jury cold infer Defendant’s conduct done with a
conscious disregard to Plaintiffs’ tenant rights to have a habitability
dwelling. 
Therefore, Defendant 1460 35th
St, LLC’s Motion to Strike is DENIED.
 
Moving Party is ordered to give
notice.
 
DATED:  September 16, 2024  
           ________________________________
Hon.
Michelle C. Kim
Judge
of the Superior Court