 Case Number:  23STCV06481    Hearing Date:   September 16, 2024    Dept:  78 



MELISSA
  OSORIO,
 
                    Plaintiff,
 
          vs.
 
RAMPART INVESTMENT CORP., AMIRUL ISLAM, RESHMA
  FAMILY TRUST, and
  DOES 1 through 50, inclusive, 
 
                    Defendants.


Case No.:
  23STCV6481


 




Hearing
  Date:


September 16,
  2024




 


 




[TENTATIVE] RULING
  RE: 
 
plaintiff melissa osorio’S motion to compel further responses to
  interrogatories (set one)
 



 
Plaintiff
Melissa Osorio’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Interrogatories (Set
One) is GRANTED.
 
Plaintiff’s
request for monetary sanctions is GRANTED in the amount of $2,375.00.
 
Factual
Background
This is a labor employment action.
The Complaint alleges as follows:
In
or about September 2019, Plaintiff Melissa Osorio (“Plaintiff”) began working
for Defendants Rampart Investment Corp. (“Rampart”), Amirul Islam (“Islam”),
and Reshma Family Trust (“Reshma Trust”) (collectively, “Defendants”) as a
property manager for the apartment complex located at 819 W. Imperial Blvd, Los
Angeles, CA 90044 (“Property”). (Compl., ¶¶1-4, 6-7, 13.) During Plaintiff’s
employment, Defendants did not pay Plaintiff and other employees all of their
wages including overtime wages, did not compensate them for all hours worked,
and did not allow meal or rest breaks. (Compl., ¶¶14, 16.)
procedural
history
On March 23, 2023, Plaintiff filed
the Complaint asserting eight causes of action:
1.
Violation of Labor Code Section 1102.5
2.
Failure to Pay Minimum or Contractual Wages
3.
Failure to Pay Overtime 
4.
Failure to Pay Meal & Rest Breaks
5.
Failure to Provide Accurate Wage Statements 
6.
Failure to Pay Wages Due at Time of Separation
7.
Failure to Produce Personnel Records Labor Code Section 1198.5
8.
Violation of Business & Profession Code Section 17200, et seq. 
On July 1, 2024, Plaintiff filed the
instant Motion to Compel Further Responses to Form Interrogatories – General
(Set One) and Form Interrogatories – Employment Law. The motion is unopposed. 
 
DiscussioN
 
 
I.              
MOTION
TO COMPEL FURTHER
 
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
Section 2030.300, subdivision (a), parties may move for a further response to
interrogatories where an answer to the requests are evasive or incomplete or
where an objection is without merit or too general. (Code Civ. Proc., §
2030.300, subd. (a).) 
Further, notice of the motions must
be given within 45 days of service of the verified response, otherwise, the
propounding party waives any right to compel a further response. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (c).) 
Finally, Cal. Rules of Court, Rule
3.1345 requires that all motions or responses involving further discovery
contain a separate statement with the text of each request, the response, and a
statement of factual and legal reasons for compelling further responses. (Cal.
Rules of Court, Rule 3.1345, subd. (a)(3)).¿ 
A.   Meet and Confer
“A motion under subdivision (a)
shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section
2016.040.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (b)(1).) 
The declaration of Christopher
DeClue satisfies the meet and confer requirement. 
B.   Merits of Motion to Compel Further
Responses
Plaintiff moves for an order
compelling Defendant Islam to provide further responses to Form Interrogatories
– General (Set One) Nos. 2.3, 2.4, 2.12, 2.13, 3.7, 14.1, 14.2, 15.1, and Form
Interrogatories – Employment Law (Set One) Nos. 201.1, 201.2, 201.3, 201.4,
201.5, 201.6, 201.7, 211.1, 211.2, 211.3, 214.1, 214.2, and 216.1. The motion
is made on the grounds that Defendant Islan had failed to provide adequate
responses to Plaintiff’s discovery requests. 
 
As a preliminary matter, the Court
notes that the present motion improperly combines two motions to compel further
responses. Multiple motions cannot be combined into a single filing. (See Govt.
Code § 70617, subd. (a)(4) (setting forth the required filing fee for each
motion, application, or any other paper or request requiring a hearing); see
also Weil & Brown, Civil Procedure Before Trial, [8:1140.1] at 8F-60 (The
Rutter Group 2011) (“Motions to compel compliance with separate discovery
requests ordinarily should be filed separately.”) Plaintiff is admonished to
comply with Government Code Section 70617, subdivision (a)(4) moving
forward. 
 
Form Interrogatories – General (Set
One)
 
“Each answer in a response to
interrogatories shall be as complete and straightforward as the information
reasonably available to the responding party permits.” (Code Civ Proc. §
2030.220.) “If the responding party does not have personal knowledge sufficient
to respond fully to an interrogatory, that party shall so state, but shall make
a reasonable and good faith effort to obtain the information by inquiry to
other natural persons or organizations, except where the information is equally
available to the propounding party.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.220, subd. (c).) 
If
the responding party partially objects to the interrogatory, “the remainder of
the interrogatory shall be answered.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.240, subd. (a).) 
“If an objection is made to an
interrogatory or to a part of an interrogatory, the specific ground for the
objection shall be set forth clearly in the response. If an objection is based
on a claim of privilege, the particular privilege invoked shall be clearly
stated.” (Code Civ Proc. § 2030.240, subd. (b).)¿¿ 
 
INTERROGATORY NO. 2.3: At the time of the INCIDENT, did
you have a driver's license? If so state: (a) the state or other issuing
entity; (b) the license number and type; (c) the date of issuance; and (d) all
restrictions
 
INTERROGATORY NO. 2.4: At the time of the INCIDENT, did
you have any other permit or license for the operation of a motor vehicle? If
so, state: (a) the state or other issuing entity; (b) the license number and
type; (c) the date of issuance; and (d) all restrictions.
 
INTERROGATORY NO. 2.12: At the time of the INCIDENT did you
or any other person have any physical, emotional, or mental disability or
condition that may have contributed to the occurrence of the INCIDENT? If so,
for each person state: (a) the name, ADDRESS, and telephone number; (b) the
nature of the disability or condition; and (c) the manner in which the
disability or condition contributed to the occurrence of the INCIDENT.
 
INTERROGATORY NO. 2.13: Within 24 hours before the INCIDENT
did you or any person involved in the INCIDENT use or take any of the following
substances: alcoholic beverage, marijuana, or other drug or medication of any
kind (prescription or not)? If so, for each person state: (a) the name,
ADDRESS, and telephone number; (b)
the nature or description of each substance; (c) the quantity of each substance
used or taken; (d) the date and time of day when each substance was used or
taken; (e) the ADDRESS where each substance was used or taken; (f) the name,
ADDRESS, and telephone number of each person who was present when each
substance was used or taken; and (g) the name, ADDRESS, and telephone number of
any HEALTH CARE PROVIDER who prescribed or furnished the substance and the
condition for which it was prescribed or furnished.
 
INTERROGATORY NO. 3.7: Within the past five years has any
public entity registered or licensed your business? If so, for each license or
registration: (a) identify the license or registration; (b) state the name of
the public entity; and (c) state the dates of issuance and expiration.
 
INTERROGATORY NO. 14.1: Do YOU OR ANYONE ACTING ON YOUR
BEHALF contend that any PERSON involved in the INCIDENT violated any statute,
ordinance, or regulation and that the violation was a legal (proximate) cause
of the INCIDENT? If so, identify the name, ADDRESS, and telephone number of
each PERSON and the statute, ordinance, or regulation that was violated.
 
INTERROGATORY NO. 14.2: Was any PERSON cited or charged
with a violation of any statute, ordinance, or regulation as a result of this
INCIDENT? If so, for each PERSON state: (a) the name, ADDRESS, and telephone
number of the PERSON; (b) the statute, ordinance, or regulation allegedly
violated; (c) whether the PERSON entered a plea in response to the citation or
charge and, if so, the plea entered; and (d) the name and ADDRESS of the court
or administrative agency, names of the parties, and case number.
 
INTERROGATORY NO. 15.1: Identify each denial of a material
allegation and each special or affirmative defense in your pleadings and for
each: (a) state all facts upon which you base the denial or special or
affirmative defense; (b) state the names, ADDRESSES, and telephone numbers of
all PERSONS who have knowledge of those facts; and (c) identify all DOCUMENTS
and other tangible things that support your denial or special or affirmative
defense, and state the name, ADDRESS, and telephone number of the PERSON who
has each DOCUMENT.
 
In response to each of the
interrogatories, Defendant Islam provides the same answer. Specifically,
Defendant Islam responds that the use of “INCIDENT” is vague and ambiguous, the
interrogatories are compound, improper, and not likely to lead to discovery of
admissible evidence. (Plf. Sep. Stmt. at pp. 2-11.) However, Plaintiff contends
the discovery request defined “INCIDENT” as her claims of retaliation, failure
to pay overtime, failure to provide meal or rest breaks, failure to provide
accurate wage statements, and termination. Furthermore, Plaintiff asserts the
information requested are relevant to liability and damages at issue in this
lawsuit as raised in the Complaint. Defendant Islam has not shown the
information to be elicited from these interrogatories are not reasonably
calculated to lead to evidence related to the claimed allegations and defenses.

 
The Court finds that the general
interrogatories seek information directly related to Defendant Islam’s state of
mind during the subject incident, which is reasonably calculated to lead to
evidence regarding the allegations and defenses. Further, the general
interrogatories are limited to the subject incident alleged in the complaint.
Moreover, Plaintiff defined “INCIDENT” in her discovery requests. (DeClue
Decl., ¶2, Ex. A.)
 
Therefore, Defendant Islam’s
objections lack merit and further responses to these interrogatories are
warranted. 
 
 
Form Interrogatories – Employment
Law
 
INTERROGATORY NO. 201.1: Was the EMPLOYEE involved in a
TERMINATION? If so: (a) state all reasons for the EMPLOYEE'S TERMINATION; (b)
state the name, ADDRESS, and telephone number of each PERSON who participated
in the TERMINATION decision; (c) state the name, ADDRESS, and telephone number
of each PERSON who provided any information relied upon in the TERMINATION
decision: and (d) identify all DOCUMENTS relied upon in the TERMINATION
decision.
 
INTERROGATORY NO. 201.2: Are there any facts that would
support the EMPLOYEE'S TERMINATION that were first discovered after the
TERMINATION? If so: (a) state the specific facts; (b) state when and how
EMPLOYER first learned of each specific fact; (c) state the name, ADDRESS, and
telephone number of each PERSON who has knowledge of the specific facts; and
(d) identify all DOCUMENTS that evidence these specific facts.
 
INTERROGATORY NO. 201.3: Were there any other ADVERSE
EMPLOYMENT ACTIONS, including (the asking party should list the ADVERSE
EMPLOYMENT ACTIONS): If so, for each action, provide the following: (a) all
reasons for each ADVERSE EMPLOYMENT ACTION; (b) the name, ADDRESS, and telephone
number of each PERSON who participated in making each ADVERSE EMPLOYMENT ACTION
decision; (c) the name, ADDRESS, and telephone number of each PERSON who
provided any information relied upon in making each ADVERSE EMPLOYMENT ACTION
decision; and (d) the identity of all DOCUMENTS relied upon in making each
ADVERSE EMPLOYMENT ACTION decision.
 
INTERROGATORY NO. 201.4: Was the TERMINATION or any other
ADVERSE EMPLOYMENT ACTIONS referred to in Interrogatories 201.1 through 201.3
based in whole or in part on the EMPLOYEE’S job performance? If so, for each
action: (a) identify the ADVERSE EMPLOYMENT ACTION; (b) identify the EMPLOYEE’S
specific job performance that played a role in that ADVERSE EMPLOYMENT ACTION;
(c) identify any rules, guidelines, policies, or procedures that were used to
evaluate the EMPLOYEE'S specific job performance; (d) state the names,
ADDRESSES, and telephone numbers of all PERSONS who had responsibility for
evaluating the specific job performance of the EMPLOYEE; (e) state the names,
ADDRESSES, and telephone numbers of all PERSONS who have knowledge of the
EMPLOYEE'S specific job performance that played a role in that ADVERSE
EMPLOYMENT ACTION; and (f) describe all warnings given with respect to the EMPLOYEE'S
specific job performance.
 
INTERROGATORY NO. 201.5: Was any PERSON hired to replace the
EMPLOYEE after the EMPLOYEE'S TERMINATION or demotion? If so, state the
PERSON'S name, job title, qualifications, ADDRESS
and telephone number, and the date the PERSON was hired.
 
INTERROGATORY NO. 201.6: Has any PERSON performed any of the
EMPLOYEE'S former job duties after the EMPLOYEE'S TERMINATION or demotion? If
so: (a) state the PERSON'S name, job title, ADDRESS, and telephone number; (b)
identify the duties; and (c) state the date on which the PERSON started to
perform the duties.
 
INTERROGATORY NO. 201.7: If the ADVERSE EMPLOYMENT ACTION
involved the failure or refusal to select the EMPLOYEE (for example, for hire,
promotion, transfer, or training), was any other PERSON selected instead? If
so, for each ADVERSE EMPLOYMENT ACTION, state the name, ADDRESS, and telephone
number of each PERSON selected; the date the PERSON was selected; and the
reason the PERSON was selected instead of the EMPLOYEE.
 
INTERROGATORY NO. 211.1: Identify each type of BENEFIT to
which the EMPLOYEE would have been entitled, from the date of the ADVERSE
EMPLOYMENT ACTION to the present, if the ADVERSE EMPLOYMENT ACTION had not
happened and the EMPLOYEE had remained in the same job position. For each type
of benefit, state the amount the EMPLOYER would have paid to provide the
benefit for the EMPLOYEE during this time period and the value of the BENEFIT
to the EMPLOYEE.
 
INTERROGATORY NO. 211.2: Do you contend that the EMPLOYEE
has not made reasonable efforts to minimize the amount of the EMPLOYEE'S lost
income? If so: (a) describe what more EMPLOYEE should have done; (b) state the
names, ADDRESSES, and telephone numbers of all PERSONS who have knowledge of
the facts that support your contention; and (c) identify all DOCUMENTS that
support your contention and state the name, ADDRESS, and telephone number of
the PERSON who has each DOCUMENT.
 
INTERROGATORY NO. 211.3: Do you contend that any of the lost
income claimed by the EMPLOYEE, as disclosed in discovery thus far in this
case, is unreasonable or was not caused by the ADVERSE EMPLOYMENT ACTION? If
so: (a) state the amount of claimed lost income that you dispute; (b) state all
facts upon which you base your contention; (c) state the names, ADDRESSES, and
telephone numbers of all PERSONS who have knowledge of the facts; and (d)
identify all DOCUMENTS that support your contention and state the name,
ADDRESS, and telephone number of the PERSON who has each DOCUMENT.
 
INTERROGATORY NO. 214.1: At the time of the ADVERSE
EMPLOYMENT ACTION, was there in effect any policy of insurance through which
you were or might be insured in any manner for the damages, claims, or actions
that have arisen out of the ADVERSE EMPLOYMENT ACTION? If so, for each policy
state: (a) the kind of coverage; (b) the name and ADDRESS of the insurance
company; (c) the name, ADDRESS, and telephone number of each named insured; (d)
the policy number; (e) the limits of coverage for each type of coverage
contained in the policy; (f) whether any reservation of rights or controversy
or coverage dispute exists between you and the insurance company; and (g) the
name, ADDRESS, and telephone number of the custodian of the policy.
 
INTERROGATORY NO. 214.2: Are you self-insured under any
statute for the damages, claims, or actions that have arisen out of the ADVERSE
EMPLOYMENT ACTION? If so, specify the statute.
 
INTERROGATORY NO. 216.1: Identify each denial of a material
allegation and each special or affirmative defense in your PLEADINGS and for
each: (a) state all facts upon which you base the denial or special or
affirmative defense; (b) state the names, ADDRESSES, and telephone numbers of
all PERSONS who have knowledge of those facts; and (c) identify all DOCUMENTS
and all other tangible things, that support your denial or special or
affirmative defense, and state the name, ADDRESS, and telephone number of the PERSON
who has each DOCUMENT.
 
In response to each of the
interrogatories, Defendant Islam provides the same answer. Specifically,
Defendant Islam responds that the interrogatories are improper because it
implies there was an employment relationship between the parties, no employment
relationship exists between the parties, and are overbroad in time and scope.
(Plf. Sep. Stmt. at pp. 12-25.) Here, Plaintiff contends in response to Special
Interrogatory No. 18, Defendant Rampart stated she was terminated for
nonperformance, thus the response to these interrogatories is incomplete,
improper, and likely to lead to confusion. Plaintiff also asserts that
Defendant Islam has no excuse for failing to take action to gather all
information currently in its possession, custody, or control necessary to
respond to discovery.
 
The Court finds that Defendant
Islam’s response to the employment law interrogatories is evasive and
incomplete. To the extent Defendant Islam contends he does not or did not have
an employment relationship with Plaintiff, he was required to answer that he
does not have sufficient knowledge to respond to the interrogatories and has a
made reasonably good faith effort to obtain such information. Additionally,
Defendant Islam fails to provide the statute he is self-insured under if any;
any insurance policy coverage he may have for such claims as alleged in the
Complaint; and state whether he believes the amount of lost income requested by
Plaintiff is unreasonable, which have no bearing on if an employment
relationship existed or not.
 
Therefore, Defendant Islam’s
objections lack merit and further responses to these interrogatories are
warranted. 
 
Request for Monetary Sanctions
 
“The court shall impose a monetary
sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party,
person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a
response to interrogatories, unless it finds that the one subject to the
sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make
the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (d).)
 
Here, Plaintiff’s counsel
Christopher DeClue seeks $3,410.00 in sanctions for meeting and conferring,
attending the Informal Discovery Conference (“IDC”), and working on this motion
for a total of 4.0 hours at an hourly rate of $650.00, and 1.0 hour for Joshua
Milon reviewing and finalizing the motion at an hourly rate of $750.00. (DeClue
Decl., ¶9; Milon Decl., ¶2.) Although Mr. DeClue spent time on meet and confer
efforts, such efforts are statutorily required to bring the instant motion. As
such, the Court will not award sanctions for time spent on meet and confer
efforts. However, the Court will award time for attending the IDC and time to
prepare the motion. The Court will award 1.5 hours for the motion and ½ hour
for the IDC. The Court will not award time for the review and finalization of
this simple motion. 
 
Thus, the Court will impose
sanctions in the amount of $1,300.00 for (2 hrs x $650.00).  
 
C.  
Conclusion
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff Melissa
Osorio’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Form Interrogatories (Set One) is
GRANTED. The request for sanctions is also GRANTED.
 
Defendant Amirul Islam is ordered to
provide, verified code-compliant, objection-free further responses to Form
Interrogatories – General (Set One) Nos. and Form Interrogatories – Employment
Law (Set One) Nos. within 30 days of this order.
 
Defendant Amirul Islam and
Defendant’s counsel, jointly and severally, are also ordered to pay $1,300.00
in sanctions within 30 days of this order. 
 
Moving Party is ordered to give
notice.
 
DATED:  September 16, 2024  
           ________________________________
Hon.
Michelle C. Kim
Judge
of the Superior Court