  Case Number:  22STCV39133    Hearing Date:   September 16, 2024    Dept:  78 


LL JOHN DOE MB,
Plaintiff,
         
  vs.
LOS ANGELES
  UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT; COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES; LOS ANGELES COUNTY PROBATION
  DEPARTMENT; DEFENDANT DOES 6 through 100, inclusive,
Defendants.


Case No.:


22STCV39133




Hearing Date:


September 16, 2024




[TENTATIVE] RULING RE: 
lOS ANGELES UNIFIED SCHOOL
  DISTRICT’S motion for summary judgment or in the alternative summary
  adjudication



 
Defendant Los Angeles Unified School
District’s Motion for Summary Judgment/Summary Adjudication is GRANTED as to
the 1st, 4th, 6th and 7th causes of
action and DENIED as to the 2nd, 3rd, and 5th
causes of action.
Please see comments
at the end of the ruling regarding the IDC requested in this matter.
Moving party to provide notice.
I.              
FACTUAL BACKGROUND
On December 16, 2022, Plaintiff
LL John Doe MB (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendants Doe School
District (the “District”), Doe County, Doe Probation Department, Doe City, Doe
Law Enforcement Agency, and Does 6 through 100 for allegations arising from
childhood sexual abuse occurring in or around 1995-1996. The complaint sets forth
seven causes of action for 1) Claim for Childhood Sexual Assault in Violation
of Cal. Code of Civil Procedure 340.1; (2) Negligence; (3) Negligent
Supervision/Failure to Warn; (4) Negligent Retention/Hiring; (5) Negligent
Failure to Warn, Train or Educate; (6) Intentional Infliction of Emotional
Distress; and (7) Sexual Harassment. 
On August 27, 2024, the Court
granted Plaintiff’s application to amend the complaint to substitute
Defendants’ true names and seal the certificate of corroborative facts.
On September 12, 2024, Plaintiff
filed the First Amended Complaint.
The underlying action arises out
of Plaintiff’s attendance of the District’s John C. Fremont High School
(“Fremont”) as a freshman and sophomore from 1994 to 1996. (Plaintiff’s
Additional Material Facts in Support of Opposition (“AMF”) No. 2.) Accordingly,
Plaintiff met Elmo Cormier at Fremont in the fall of 1995, when Plaintiff was
approximately sixteen (16) years old. (AMF No. 6.) Cormier was a probation
officer with Los Angeles County Probation Department (AMF No. 4) and Cormier
was assigned to Fremont from approximately 1993 through 1998 as part of the
School Crime Suppression Program (“SCSP”) which constituted a partnership
between the District and the County whereby probation officers were placed on
school campuses to supervise juvenile probationers who attended various
District campuses. (AMF Nos. 4 and 5.) Deputy probation officers (“DPO”)
participating in the SCSP were jointly supervised by Supervising Deputy
Probation Officers (“SDPO”) and LAUSD Administrators at the school sites where
the DPOs were assigned. (AMF No. 15.) 
Plaintiff represents that the
Fremont administrators were responsible for training Cormier on the District’s
policies and procedures and ensuring his compliance with those policies. (AMF
No. 18-19.) However, Plaintiff asserts that no one at Fremont trained or
supervised Cormier on school policies and procedures or ensured his compliance
with school policies or procedures, despite the school administrators having
the authority and obligation to do so. (AMF Nos. 19 and 31.) Moreover, the head
principal of Fremont from 1994 to 1996, Rosa Morley (“Morely”), was not aware
there was even a DPO on campus. (AMF No. 30.) Thus, Plaintiff concludes that
during his time at Fremont, Morley did not designate any school administrator
or personnel to train or supervise Cormier. 
Plaintiff further asserts that
Cormier was held out as a member of the District’s own staff because Cormier
had an office at Fremont within the school counseling office (AMF No. 7); was
pictured among the faculty and listed as one the members of the “Friendly
Fremont Counseling Office” in the yearbook (AMF No. 32); and his
responsibilities included making his presence known to students by walking the
halls and lunch areas to supervise and engage with students – including those
who were not on probation. (AMF No. 21.) This additional supervision was
of benefit to Fremont. (AMF No. 13.) Cormier’s office was in Counseling Center
B across the hall from the attendance office. (AMF No. 7.) Within the
counseling center, there was a receptionist, an office clerk, and several other
counselors, all of whom were able to see students going in and out of Cormier’s
office. (Id.) 
Plaintiff was not on probation
during his time at Fremont (AMF No. 12). However, Plaintiff first encountered
Cormier after checking in with the school attendance office one morning when he
arrived late to school. (AMF No. 6.) Significantly, Plaintiff recalls that he
saw Cormier, one of the few black men who worked at the school, near the
counseling center and approached him in search of advice on how to handle his
difficult home situation. (Id.) Plaintiff was distraught and crying, and
Cormier, in full view of the receptionist and other counselors in the area,
invited Plaintiff into his office and closed the solid door behind them. (AMF
No. 8.) Cormier used this opportunity to sexually abuse Plaintiff. (Id.)
Cormier’s grooming and sexual abuse of Plaintiff continued for the balance of
the school year and consisted of oral copulation, masturbating Plaintiff, and
coerced sodomy. (AMF No. 10.) 
As early as 1993, the District’s
policy prohibited school staff from interviewing students individually behind
closed doors, giving students rides, or meeting with students off campus. (AMF No. 26.)
Closed door meetings alone with students raised suspicion of misconduct. (Id.)
Steven Rude was the Fremont school psychologist from 1991 to 1997. Critically,
Rude’s office was next to Cormier’s (AMF No. 28). However, Plaintiff avers that
despite Rude’s awareness of the open-door policy, Rude failed to report or address
the closed-door meetings between Plaintiff and Cormier. (AMF No. 29.) 
II.            
PROCEDURAL HISTORY
on December
18, 2024, Plaintiff LL John Doe MB (“Plaintiff”) filed his Complaint against defendants Doe School
District (the “District”), Doe County, Doe Probation Department, Doe City, Doe
Law Enforcement Agency, and Does 6 through 100
On July 3, 2024, Defendant District
filed this motion for summary judgment/summary adjudication, along with a
Separate Statement, a Proposed Order and a separate submission of evidence. 
On August 30, 2024, Plaintiff filed an
Opposition, his own Separate Statement, the Declaration of Plaintiff’s
attorney, Meghan E. McCormick, and Plaintiff’s Objections and Motion to Strike.

On September 11, 2024, Defendant filed
a reply, objections, and Separate Statement.
III.         
LEGAL STANDARD
Motion for Summary Judgment
The
purpose of a motion for summary judgment “is to provide courts with a mechanism
to cut through the parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite
their allegations, trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar
v. Atl. Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) “Code of Civil
Procedure section 437c(c), requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment
if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from
the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that
there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is
entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” (Adler v. Manor Healthcare
Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) 
“On
a motion for summary judgment, the initial burden is always on the moving party
to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues of material
fact.” (Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510,
1519.) A defendant moving for summary judgment “has met his or her burden
of showing that a cause of action has no merit if the party has shown that one
or more elements of the cause of action . . . cannot be established” or that
there is a complete defense. (Code Civ. Proc., section 437c(p)(2).) “Once
the defendant . . . has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff . .
. to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the
cause of action or a defense thereto.” (Ibid.) “If the
plaintiff cannot do so, summary judgment should be granted.” (Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Med. Ctr.
(2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.) 
Where, “a defendant moves for summary adjudication
on a cause of action for which the plaintiff has the burden of proof at trial,
the defendant ‘must present evidence that either “conclusively negate[s] an
element of the plaintiff's cause of action” or “show[s] that the plaintiff does
not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain,” evidence necessary to establish at
least one element of the cause of action. [Citation.] Only after the defendant
carries that initial burden does the burden shift to the plaintiff “to show
that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of
action ....” ’ ” (Doe v. The Roman Catholic Archbishop of Los Angeles (2021) 70 Cal.App.5th 657, 668)
; see Code Civ.
Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2); Aguilar v. Atlantic
Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 853-854..) 
“When
deciding whether to grant summary judgment, the court must consider all of the
evidence set forth in the papers (except evidence to which the court has
sustained an objection), as well as all reasonable inferences that may be drawn
from that evidence, in the light most favorable to the party opposing summary
judgment.” (Avivi, supra, 159 Cal.App.4th at p. 467; see
also Code Civ. Proc., section 437c(c).)
 
IV.         
DISCUSSION
The District moves for summary judgment/summary
adjudication on the grounds that there are no triable issues of material fact
as to one of more essential elements of each of Plaintiff’s causes of action.
1.    
Childhood Sexual Assault in Violation of CCP
§340.1 
The District moves for summary judgment
as to Plaintiff’s first cause of action for childhood sexual assault in
violation of CCP § 340.1, on the grounds that Plaintiff cannot demonstrate this
is a proper cause of action against a public entity. However, the Court notes
that on Opposition, Plaintiff states he is no longer proceeding with this
stand-alone cause of action. (Opp., pg. 1.)
2.    
Negligence 
The District moves for summary judgment
as to Plaintiff’s second cause of action for negligence on the grounds that
Plaintiff cannot establish one or more elements of this cause of action.
3.    
Negligent
Supervision/ Failure to Warn
The District moves for summary judgment
as to Plaintiff’s third cause of action for negligent supervision/ failure to
warn on the grounds that Plaintiff has no evidence or actual or constructive
notice.
4.    
Negligent Retention/ Hiring
The District moves for summary judgment
as to Plaintiff’s fourth cause of action for negligent retention/hiring on the
grounds that the alleged perpetrator was not an employee of the District. On
Opposition, Plaintiff states he is no longer proceeding on this cause of
action. (Opp., pg. 1.)
5.    
Negligent Failure to Warn, Train, or Educate
The District moves for summary judgment
as to Plaintiff’s fifth cause of action for negligent failure to warn, train,
or educate on the grounds that there is no tort duty to provide a student with
a certain amount of training or education. 
6.    
Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress
The District moves for summary judgment
as to Plaintiff’s sixth cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional
distress on the grounds
that Plaintiff cannot demonstrate this is a proper cause of action against a
public entity. Plaintiff states on Opposition that he is no longer proceeding
with this cause of action. (Opp., pg. 1.)
7.    
Sexual Harassment
The District moves for summary judgment
as to Plaintiff’s seventh cause of action for sexual harassment on the grounds
that Plaintiff cannot demonstrate this is a proper cause of action against a
public entity. Plaintiff is no longer proceeding with this cause of action.
(Opp., pg. 1.)
In sum, Plaintiff is only proceeding
with his three negligence claims 2, 3, and 5; and Plaintiff no longer wishes to
proceed with causes of action 1, 4, 6, and 7. 
8.     Separate Statement
A
basic requirement of a Motion for Summary Judgment or Summary Adjudication
pursuant to CCP § 437c is that the separate statement shall contain all
material facts which the moving party contends are undisputed. CCP §
437c(b)(1). Under
California Rules of Court (“CRC”) Rule 3.1350(c)(2), a motion for summary
judgment or summary adjudication must be accompanied by a separate statement of
undisputed material facts (“Separate Statement”) in support of the motion.
Moreover, the Separate Statement “must separately identify: (A) Each
cause of action, claim for damages, issue of duty, or affirmative defense
that is the subject of the motion”. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1350 (d)
(1)(A) [emphasis added].) In addition, “[t]he [separate] statement must state
in numerical sequence the undisputed material facts in the first column
followed by the evidence that establishes those undisputed facts in that same
column. Citation to the evidence in support of each material fact must
include reference to the exhibit, title, page, and line numbers.” (Cal.
Rul. Ctr., Rule 3.1350 (d) (3), emphasis added.) 
In Opposition, Plaintiff argues
that the District’s Separate Statement of Undisputed Material Facts fails to
delineate each cause of action it is challenging and further fails to specify
which asserted facts apply to each specific issue. (Opp., pg. 4.) Moreover, it
only points the Court to general exhibits and fails to properly identify its
evidence by title or identify the page and line numbers to which it refers. (Id.)
Thus, Defendant District’s Separate Statement violates CRC 3.1350(c)(2)(A) and
does not comply with CRC 3.1350(d)(1)-(3). (Opp., pg. 3.) As such, Plaintiff argues
that the Court cannot conclude Defendant has met its burden on its Motion for
Summary Judgment. (Id.) Moreover, Plaintiff argues the instant Separate
Statement is deficient in that it relies on information that lacks foundation.
(See Evid. Code § 403.)
With respect to Motion for
Summary Adjudication, Plaintiff argues the District fails to repeat verbatim in
the Separate Statement the specific causes of action, affirmative defenses,
claims for damages, or issues of duty set forth in its Notice of Motion as
required by CRC Rule 3.1350(b). Accordingly, none of the five issues set for in
the District’s Notice of Motion appear in its Separate Statement. Thus, Plaintiff
argues Defendant’s alternative Motion for Summary Adjudication should similarly
be denied. 
Here, the Court finds that
Defendant has not satisfied the procedural requirements of the CRC,
specifically those set forth in Rules 3.1350(b); 3.1350(c)(2)(A); and
3.1350(d)(1)(A). The Court agrees with Plaintiff that Defendant’s Separate
Statement is deficient. Thus, Defendant’s instant motion must be denied. The
Court is not able to read Defense counsel’s mind and is entitled to have all
the issues clearly set forth in the separate statement. Defendant cannot meet
its initial burden due its failure to comply with the foregoing rules. 
9.   
Duty
As stated above, defendant does
not clearly articulate the elements it believes are missing from Plaintiff’s
case. However, looking at the substance of the Defendant’s separate statement
filed with the moving papers, all of the Undisputed Material Facts appear to address
the issue of duty, as they all concern whether Cormier was an employee and/or
whether Defendant knew or had reason to know that Cormier was engaging in
sexual abuse. Defendant cites C.A. v. William S. Hart Union High School
Dist. (2012) 53 Cal.4th 861, 876 for the proposition that duty
is determined by whether the particular act of the employee was foreseeable.
(Def. Opp. Page 15: 12-14). However, contrary to Defendant’s argument, this
Court does not believe that the Hart court indicated that the legal duty
it recognized was limited to situations where school supervisors know or have
reason to know that a specific school employee has a propensity to harm
students. The Hart case stands for the proposition that there is a
special relationship between school employees and students such that it imposes
on such employees “the duty to use reasonable measures to protect students from
foreseeable injury at the hands of third parties acting negligently or
intentionally.” Hart, supra, 53 Cal.4th at 870. Foreseeability
is not linked with advance specific knowledge in Hart. Advance knowledge
was alleged in Hart, but the Hart Court did not so limit its
holding. Accordingly, Defendant has not met its burden to show that an element
of Plaintiff’s second cause of action (here, duty, as framed by the Defendant’s
separate statement) cannot be established. Similarly, as to the third cause of
action, Defendant argues lack of notice, and the Court rejects the Defendant’s
interpretation of case law arguing that actual or constructive notice as to the
specific propensities of a third party is required. Further, as to the fifth
cause of action, Defendant’s argument that Defendant did not have a duty to
educate Plaintiff about how to avoid a risk of childhood sexual harassment is
not persuasive as all the cases cited by Defendant pertain to inadequate
academic instruction. In sum, Defendant does not meet its burden as the moving
party.
For
the reasons set forth above, the Court DENIES the motion for summary judgment/summary
adjudication as to causes of action 2, 3 and 5.
Summary
adjudication is GRANTED as to causes of action 1, 4, 6, and 7.
Lastly, the Court sees that an IDC has been
requested. Given that trial is quickly approaching, the Court will conduct the
IDC immediately after the hearing on this motion, on September 16, 2024. The
parties should be prepared to discuss the discovery dispute at that time.
 
DATED: September
16, 2024
_________________________
Hon. Michelle Kim
Judge of the Superior Court