 Case Number:  23STCV24572    Hearing Date:   June 3, 2024    Dept:  52 Plaintiff The Lox Club, Inc.’s 6 Motions
to Compel Discovery Responses 
Plaintiff The
Lox Club, Inc. moves to compel defendants Craze, LLC and Scott Rosenbluth each
to respond to form interrogatories, special interrogatories, and requests for
production.  Defendants served responses
on April 19, four days after plaintiff filed these motions.  (Gabriel Decl., ¶ 12.)  The motions are moot as to orders compelling
responses.  
Plaintiff
also moves for monetary sanctions against defendants and their counsel,
Jonathan G. Gabriel.  “The court may
award sanctions under the Discovery Act in favor of a party who files a motion
to compel discovery, even though no opposition to the motion was filed, or
opposition to the motion was withdrawn, or the requested discovery was provided
to the moving party after the motion was filed.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1348(a).)
Defendants oppose plaintiff’s
requests for sanctions on the basis that these motions were premature and
unnecessary.  Defendants argue, “Despite receiving an extension of time to permit any
motions to be filed 45 days after substantive responses were served,
Plaintiff's counsel prepared and filed six (6) Motions to Compel demanding
monetary sanctions two (2) weeks after Mr. Gabriel confirmed the extension of
time and indicated that he was still working with his client to provide the
responses.”  (Opp., p. 2.)
This argument misinterprets the
nature of the extension.  Plaintiff’s
counsel proposed the following extension on March 27: “[C]an we stipulate that
our 45 day deadline to move to compel further responses to either the
objections provided on February 14, 2024, or any additional responses your
client provides, will be due 45 days after service of your clients’ substantive
responses that you are preparing?” 
(Gabriel Decl., Ex. 3.)  On April
1, defendants’ counsel, responded, “[Y]es, the extension is confirmed.”  (Id., Ex. 4.)  Plaintiff’s counsel replied: “But to
reiterate, if we don’t have docs and complete responses by this Friday, we’ll
be filing motion[s] to compel next week and seeking sanctions.”  (Ibid.)  
The extension concerned the 45-day
deadline to move to compel further responses under Code of Civil
Procedure sections 2030.300(c) and 2031.310(c). 
It did not extend the deadline to serve the responses in the first place.  In contrast with compelling further
responses, there is no deadline to file a motion to compel responses.  (CCP §§ 2030.290, 2031.300.)
Plaintiff also gave defendants
another warning before filing these motions. 
On April 8, plaintiff’s counsel wrote, “Having still received nothing
despite your multiple promises and our multiple extensions, we are proceeding
to prepare and file motions to compel and for sanctions against your client and
your firm.”  (Gabriel Decl., Ex. 4.)  Defendants’ counsel did not reply until April
15.  (Id., Ex. 5.)  
            Plaintiff
shows good cause for sanctions.  Failing to respond to an authorized method of
discovery is a misuse of the discovery process subject to monetary
sanctions.  (CCP § 2023.010(d).)  Plaintiff did not prematurely file these
motions.  Plaintiff initially served the
discovery in January 2024.  Plaintiff
gave defendants multiple extensions to respond. 
Defendants did not act with substantial justification in failing to
timely respond.  Sanctions are just under
the circumstances.
            Plaintiff
did not, however, reasonably incur $1,932.50 for each of these six
motions.  Plaintiff seeks sanctions for
the $60 filing fee plus 3.5 hours of attorney fees at $535 hourly.  (Selmont Decls., ¶¶ 4-5.)  That amount includes 1.5 hours for analyzing
the opposition, preparing a reply, and attending the hearing on each
motion.  (Id., ¶ 4.)  But defendants filed a single omnibus
opposition, and plaintiff filed a single omnibus reply.  The court is hearing the six motions on the
same day.  These simple, duplicative
motions did not reasonably require 3.5 hours each.  The court finds that, on each motion,
plaintiff reasonably incurred one hour of attorney fees at $535 hourly, plus
the $60 filing fee, totaling $595 on each motion.
Disposition
            Plaintiff
The Lox Club’s six motions to compel discovery responses are moot as to
orders compelling responses.  
            Plaintiff’s
six motions to compel discovery responses are granted in part as to
sanctions.  For plaintiff’s three motions
to compel responses by Craze, LLC, defendant Craze, LLC and its counsel
Jonathan G. Gabriel are ordered to pay plaintiff a combined total of $1,785
in sanctions within 30 days.  Defendant
Craze, LLC and its counsel are jointly and severally liable for the
sanctions.  For plaintiff’s three motions
to compel responses by Scott Rosenbluth, defendant Scott Rosenbluth and his
counsel Jonathan G. Gabriel are ordered to pay plaintiff a combined
total of $1,785 in sanctions within 30 days. 
Defendant Scott Rosenbluth and his counsel are jointly and severally
liable for the sanctions.  