 Case Number:  24STCV07262    Hearing Date:   June 3, 2024    Dept:  52 Plaintiffs
Cambria Investment Management, L.P. and Cambria GP, LLC’s Motion for
Preliminary Injunction
Plaintiffs Cambria Investment Management,
L.P. and Cambria GP, LLC (Cambria) move for a preliminary injunction against
defendant Lani Pollock.
“In deciding whether to issue a
preliminary injunction, a court must weigh two ‘interrelated’ factors: (1) the
likelihood that the moving party will ultimately prevail on the merits and
(2) the relative interim harm to the parties from issuance or nonissuance of
the injunction.”  (Butt v. State of
California (1992) 4 Cal.4th 668, 677–678 (Butt).)  The second factor concerns “the
comparative consequences of the issuance and nonissuance of the
injunction” before trial.  (Common
Cause v. Board of Supervisors (1989) 49 Cal.3d 432, 442.)  “The trial court’s determination must be
guided by a ‘mix’ of the potential-merit and interim-harm factors; the greater
the plaintiff’s showing on one, the less must be shown on the other to support
an injunction.”  (Butt, supra, 4
Cal.4th at p. 678.)  
Likelihood of Prevailing
            Plaintiffs
demonstrate a substantial probability of prevailing on the merits of their
claims for breach of contract, intentional interference with contract, and intentional
interference with economic relations.  In
2018, defendant became a limited partner of Cambria Investments after her late
husband, Eric Richardson, died.  (Faber
Decl., ¶ 11.)  The partnership is
governed by the “Agreement of Limited Partnership of Cambria Investment
Management, L.P.” (id., Ex. A) and the “First Amended and Restate
Agreement of Limited Partnership” (id., Ex. B).  The initial partnership agreement prohibits partners
and former partners from making statements or taking actions “that in any way
could (i) disparage the Company, or which foreseeably could harm the reputation
or goodwill of the Company, or (ii) cause or encourage or condone the making of
such statement or the taking of such action by anyone else.”  (Ex. A, § 4(j).)
            Plaintiffs
present evidence showing they are likely to succeed in proving defendant
breached the partnership agreement’s non-disparagement provision.  In January 2024, she sent an email to one of
Cambria’s business partners with subject line “Fraud – never ever made deal
with Tim Rotolo for anything in my life.” 
(Faber Decl., Ex. L.)  The body
states, “Tim, Do you have something to do with this fraudulent document?  We never made a deal – you never made an
offer – I haven’t spoken with you in 2 years? 
WTF is this.”  (Ibid.)  Tim Rotolo forwarded the email to Mebane
Faber, Cambria’s CEO (Faber Decl., ¶¶ 2, 25) and asked, “Is this a hack?  No clue what is happening.”  (Id., Ex. L.)  
Plaintiffs further present evidence that,
on January 27, 2024, defendant sent an email from her late husband’s account in
reply to an email from 2017 inviting numerous Cambria employees and business
associates to a conference call.  (Faber
Decl., ¶ 26, Ex. M.)  The email says only
“suck my dick.”  (Ibid.)  
Plaintiffs also present evidence Pollock
made numerous posts on Facebook, making statements such as, “The hyena [F]aber
– edited and switched himself and JIM FROLIC to the roles of signor and Stealor…  THEN THERE IS THE GOVERNMENT PAYOFF BRIBE
DESK ON WALLSTREET – how CAMBRIA is tied to the Government – ONE SEC FOR THAT!”  (Faber Decl., Ex. T.)  In another post, Pollock wrote, “Oh, this
ties back to Meb Faber and the Hyenas serving me today and it says Washington
and 2016 – and that I appeared in court while I was awarded in court – I never
went to court – I never knew about their plot to steal of course – they don’t
write a letter and say hey we are stealing from you!!!  This is Hyena Hyjinx – smoke and mirrors 100
percent lies that all lead back to the Capital Crime of Premeditated Outright
Murder! If Eric Wayne Eric W. Richardson.” 
(Ibid.)  
This evidence, along with numerous other
documents plaintiffs submitted, shows a strong likelihood of proving defendant
made statements that disparage Cambria or could foreseeably harm its reputation
or goodwill.
The same evidence also shows plaintiffs
are likely to prevail on the merits of their claims for intentional
interference with contract and with prospective economic advantage.     
Balance of Interim Harm
            The
balance of interim harm to the parties supports granting a preliminary
injunction.  “[I]n order to obtain injunctive relief the
plaintiff must ordinarily show that the defendant’s wrongful acts threaten to
cause irreparable injuries, ones that cannot be adequately
compensated in damages.”  (Intel Corp.
v. Hamidi (2003) 30 Cal.4th 1342, 1352; accord CCP § 526(a).)  Harming a business’s goodwill can constitute
irreparable harm.  (Donahue Schriber
Realty Group, Inc. v. Nu Creation Outreach (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 1171,
1185.)  When the plaintiff shows a
substantial probability of prevailing on the merits, that irreparable harm can
outweigh “the defendant’s liberty of speech rights.”  (Ibid.)
            Plaintiffs
present evidence defendant has repeatedly made statements that injure Cambria’s
goodwill and business reputation, including after plaintiffs served defendant
with the summons and complaint in this action.  (Faber Decl., Exs. T-V.)  The interim harm to defendant would be restricting
her speech, but only on limited subjects. 
Given plaintiffs’ strong likelihood of prevailing on the merits, the
court finds good cause to issue a preliminary injunction.  
Undertaking
Code of Civil Procedure section 529(a)
provides, “On granting an injunction, the court or judge must require an undertaking
on the part of the applicant to the effect that the applicant will pay to the
party enjoined any damages, not exceeding an amount to be specified, the party
may sustain by reason of the injunction, if the court finally decides that the
applicant was not entitled to the injunction.” 

Parties may, however, waive the
undertaking requirement.  (Smith v.
Adventist Health System/West (2010) 182 Cal.App.4th 729, 740-743.)  Defendant did so via the partnership
agreement.  It provides, “Each Partner
acknowledges and agrees that his, her or its failure to perform any of the
covenants in this section 4.6 would cause irreparable injury to the Company and
its Affiliates and damages that would be difficult or impossible to determine.  Accordingly, without limiting any remedies
that may be available with respect to any breach of this Agreement, each
Partner consents to the entry of an injunction to restrain any breach of this
section 4.6 and waives any obligation the Company would otherwise have to post
a bond or other security in connection with such injunction or other relief.”  (Faber Decl., Ex. A, § 4.6(k).)  The court therefore will not require
plaintiffs to post an undertaking.
Scope of Injunction
            Plaintiffs
move for an order enjoining defendant in three manners.  First, they seek an order prohibiting
defendant “from disparaging [Cambria] or making any public statements which
foreseeably could harm the reputation or goodwill of” Cambria.  (Prop. Order, p. 2.)  This proposed order is likely
unconstitutional.  “[A]any prior
restraint on expression bears a heavy presumption against its constitutional
validity.”  (Wilson v. Superior Court
(1975) 13 Cal.3d 652, 657.)  That
presumption applies to preliminary injunctions. 
(Id., pp. 658-659.) “An order prohibiting a party from making or
publishing false statements is a classic type of an unconstitutional prior
restraint. [Citation.]  ‘While [a party]
may be held responsible for abusing his right to speak freely in a subsequent
tort action, he has the initial right to speak freely without censorship.’
”  (Evans v. Evans (2008) 162
Cal.App.4th 1157, 1167-68).)  Moreover, “[a]n
injunction is unconstitutionally vague if it does not clearly define the
persons protected and the conduct prohibited.” 
(Id. at p. 1167.)   
            The
proposed order is a classic prior restraint. 
It is also impermissibly vague because it does not clearly identify what
Pollock is prohibited from saying.   The court will exercise its discretion to not
issue such a broad prior restraint against defendant.  
Second, plaintiffs seek an order
prohibiting defendant from “disclosing any ‘Proprietary Information’ in her
possession, custody, or control that belongs to [Cambria] as that term is
defined in section 4.6(b) of the Agreement of Limited Partnership of Cambria
Investment Management, L.P.”  (Prop.
Order, p. 2.)  Plaintiffs show good cause
for such an order.  The partnership
agreement adequately defines “proprietary information.”  (Faber Decl., Ex. A, § 4.6(b).)  Plaintiffs present sufficient evidence
defendant has disclosed some such proprietary information and is likely to do
so again.  
Third, plaintiffs seek an order
prohibiting defendant “from using all email and social media accounts bearing
the name ‘Eric Richardson,’ or information derived or obtained from those
accounts, to contact employees, directors, partners, or parties to contracts or
economic relationships with” Cambria. 
(Prop. Order, pp. 2-3.) 
Plaintiffs show good cause for that order.  Plaintiffs present evidence defendant has
used the late Eric Richardson’s email and Facebook accounts to disparage
Cambria and interfere with its contracts and business relationships.  Plaintiffs present evidence defendant is
likely to do so again if the court does not issue this preliminary injunction.
Disposition
Plaintiffs Cambria Investment
Management, L.P. and Cambria GP, LLC’s motion for preliminary injunction is granted
in part.  
The
court hereby issues the following preliminary injunction against defendant Lani
Pollock: 
Defendant
Lani Pollock is prohibited from disclosing any “Proprietary Information” in her
possession, custody, or control that belongs to Plaintiffs Cambria Investment
Management, L.P. or Cambria GP, LLC, as that term is defined in section 4.6(b)
of the Agreement of Limited Partnership of Cambria Investment Management, L.P.  
Defendant
Lani Pollock is prohibited from using all email and social media accounts
bearing the name “Eric Richardson,” or information derived or obtained from those
accounts, to contact employees, directors, partners, or parties to contracts or
economic relationships with Plaintiffs Cambria Investment Management, L.P. and Cambria
GP, LLC.
Plaintiffs
are not required to post an undertaking.