  Case Number:  22STCV16372    Hearing Date:   July 31, 2024    Dept:  B Marshall Krupp V. Kroenke  sports & entertainment, llc, et al.   MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT   Date of Hearing:         July 31, 2024                          Trial  Date:       February 10, 2025 Department:                B                                             Case  No.:        22STCV16372   Moving Party:             Defendants Kroenke Sports & Entertainment,  LLC; Stadco LA,                                          LLC; Pincay Re, LLC; and Chargers  Football, LLC Responding  Party:      Plaintiff  Marshall Krupp     BACKGROUND              Factual and Procedural  Background             This  case stems from a trip and fall suffered by Marshall Krupp (Plaintiff) while  attending a Chargers football game at SoFi Stadium. Plaintiff filed an initial  Complaint on May 17, 2022 against Kroenke Sports & Entertainment, LLC  (Kroenke); Stadco LA, LLC (Stadco); Chargers Football Company, LLC (Chargers);  Chargers Football Company[1]; and  Contemporary Services Corporation (CSC)[2]  (collectively, Defendants). On September 15, 2022, an amendment to the  Complaint was made to substitute Doe 2 for Pincay Re, LLC (Pincay).               On  November 14, 2021, at approximately 12:00 p.m., while visiting SoFi Stadium  located at 1001 Stadium Drive, Inglewood, CA 90301, Plaintiff alleges that he  tripped over a curb. (Complaint, ¶¶1 and 15.) Plaintiff filed suit alleging (1)  premises liability and (2) negligence against all Defendants.               The  motion now before the Court is Defendant Kroenke, Stadco, Pincay, and Chargers’  (Moving Defendants) Motion for Summary Judgment or Adjudication as to Plaintiff  Marshall Krupp (the Motion). Plaintiff opposes the Motion; Moving Defendants  file a reply.              Objections             Concurrently  filed with their opposition papers, Plaintiff files objections to the  Declarations of Mike Forrester (Forrester Decl.). Mike Forrester (Forrester) is  the asset manager for Defendant Stadco. There are two declarations authored by  Forrester submitted with the moving papers, the first executed on August 4,  2023, the second executed on October 24, 2023. All objections as to both  declarations authored by Forrester are overruled.                     Concurrently  filed with their reply papers, Moving Defendants submit their own objections to  the Declarations of Tom G. Antunovich and Philip L. Rosecu. The Court rules as  follows:   Sustained: 1, 2, 8, 9, 10, 11,  12, 13, 14   Overruled: 3, 4, 5, 6, 7,     Tentative Ruling             Defendant Kroenke, Stadco,  Pincay, and Chargers’ Motion for Summary Judgment or Adjudication as to  Plaintiff Marshall Krupp is GRANTED.    DISCUSSION   Legal Standard             The function of a motion for summary  judgment or adjudication is to allow a determination as to whether an opposing  party cannot show evidentiary support for a pleading or claim and to enable an order  of summary dismissal without the need for trial. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) CCP  Section 437c(c) “requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the  evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’  and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no  triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to  judgment as a matter of law.” (Adler v.  Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)                 “The function of the pleadings in a  motion for summary judgment is to delimit the scope of the issues; the function  of the affidavits or declarations is to disclose whether there is any triable  issue of fact within the issues delimited by the pleadings.” (Juge v. County of Sacramento (1993) 12  Cal.App.4th 59, 67, citing FPI  Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal. App. 3d 367, 381-382.)               As to each claim as framed by the  complaint, the defendant moving for summary judgment must satisfy the initial  burden of proof by presenting facts to negate an essential element, or to  establish a defense. (CCP § 437c(p)(2); Scalf  v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.) Courts  “liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary  judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006)  39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)               Once the defendant has met that  burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a triable issue of one  or more material facts exists as to that cause of action or a defense thereto. To  establish a triable issue of material fact, the party opposing the motion must  produce substantial responsive evidence. (Sangster  v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)   Analysis              In their moving papers, Moving Defendants make  two primary arguments: (1) the trivial defect doctrine bars liability against  Moving Defendants and (2) Plaintiff signed a release that relieves Moving  Defendants of liability. Because of this, Moving Defendants contend that there  is no triable issue of material fact, and summary judgment should be granted in  their favor. In opposition, Plaintiff presents two primary counter arguments:  (1) the trivial defect doctrine is not a proper ground for summary judgment and  (2) Moving Defendants fail to carry their burden of producing evidence to  negate an element of either of the two causes of action. As explained below,  the Court disagrees and grants the Motion.    A.    Trivial Defect Doctrine             In moving for summary judgment, the  first contention made by Moving Defendants is that the curb Plaintiff tripped  over was not defective, and any defect or nonconformity was trivial. (Moving  Papers, pgs. 7-8.) In opposition, Plaintiff argues the “Trivial Defect  Doctrine” is not a proper ground in which to base this Motion because it is an  affirmative defense that was never asserted in Moving Defendants’ answer. The  Court disagrees. The trivial defect doctrine is not an affirmative defense, but  “an aspect of duty that a plaintiff must plead and prove.” (Nunez v. City of  Redondo Beach (2022) 81 Cal.App. 5th 749, 757 (Nunez).)                It is well within the court’s  discretion to determine whether the alleged defect is insignificant or trivial.  (Caloroso v. Hathaway, 122 Cal.App.4th 922, 928 […“there is  no need for expert opinion. It is well within the common knowledge of lay  judges and jurors just what type of a defect in a sidewalk is dangerous.”].)  With this in mind, the Court considers the evidence presented by both parties.               The Court notes that there are  relevant facts presented in the parties’ separate statements; for example,  Moving Defendants proffer that Plaintiff testified that the subject curb was  approximately three-quarters of an inch in height. (SS, UMF 7.) Plaintiff  objects to this being proffered as fact, and cites Reeves v. Safeway Stores,  Inc. (2004) 121 Cal.App.4th 95, 106 (Reeves). The Court  agrees with Reeves that parties should exercise caution with what they  contend is fact versus admissible evidence. We also agree with Reeves  that what a deponent says in a deposition is evidence of a material fact. (Id.)  Plaintiff may dispute whether the curb was three-quarters of an inch in height,  however, Plaintiff may not dispute what was stated in a recorded deposition.  (See Moving Defendants’ Evidence, Exh. B, pg. 99, lines 3-5.) The Court  recognizes what deponents perceive is not always fact, however a plaintiff’s  deposition is given significant weight, in conjunction with other evidence  submitted. (Turley v. Familian Corp. (2017) 18.Cal.App.5th  969, 976.) In opposition to Moving Defendants’ evidence, Plaintiff offers the  declaration of Philip L. Rosecu (Rosecu Decl.).                Rosecu notes in his declaration that  the incident area where the curb is located is sloped and then turns flush with  the surrounding walkway. (See Rosecu Decl., ¶7 and Figures 1, 2, 3, and 4.)  Rosecu states that the curb has a vertical face with a height differential of  up to 2 inches. (Rosecu Decl., ¶7.) However, “Statements made in a deposition  govern and prevail over contrary declarations.” (Turley, supra,  at 976.) Plaintiff is clear and consistent in their deposition stating that  their estimation of the curb height was three-quarters to an inch, twice (See  Moving Defendants’ Evidence, Exh. B, pg. 95, lines 3-4 & pg. 99, lines  3-5.) Nothing in Plaintiff’s testimony regarding the curb height is ambiguous.  Moreover, there is no dispute as to the conditions at the time, which were  clear and sunny with no overcast, supporting Plaintiff’s estimation. (See UMF  9.) Here, the Court cannot dismiss Plaintiff’s deposition in favor of a  declaration, Turley advises the contrary. With the three-quarter inch  estimation given by Plaintiff, the Court can rule that the height differential  was trivial as noted in Huckey v. City of Temecula (2019) 37 Cal.App.5th  1092, 1107 [“Sidewalk elevations ranging from three-quarters of an inch to one  and one-half inches have generally been held trivial as a matter of law.”].)    B.     “Aguilar” Burden             The Court rules that Moving  Defendants have met their burden as defined under the summary judgment standard  above. Plaintiff contends that Moving Defendants have an “Aguilar”  burden, and that they failed to carry it. The Court disagrees. The burden  Plaintiff’s so heavily rely on is simply a restatement of the well-known  summary judgment standard: the moving party must present evidence that negates  an element or presents a defense that shifts the burden to the opposing party.  As to the element negated, there must be no triable issue of material fact, the  opposing party must show there is.                “The  elements of a cause of action for premises liability are the same as those for  negligence: duty, breach, causation, and damages.” (Castellon v. U.S. Bancorp (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 994, 998.)  “Premises liability is grounded in the possession of the premises and the  attendant right to control and manage the premises.” (Kesner v. Superior Court (2016) 1 Cal.5th 1132, 1158, quotation  marks omitted.) “While a landowner is not the insurer of a visitor's safety, a  landowner must exercise ordinary care by making reasonable inspections of the  premises to ascertain whether any dangerous conditions exist on the property.”  (Jones v. Awad (2019) 39 Cal.App.4th 1200, 1208.)               Because the causes of action for  both premises liability and negligence rely on the same elements – duty,  breach, causation, & damages – a negation of any one of these elements is  fatal to both causes of action. Here, as the curb height has been deemed  trivial, no breach of duty has occurred. Therefore, the Motion is granted.   C.     Plaintiff Released Moving Defendants From  Liability             Moving Defendants make the second argument  that in addition to the curb height being trivial, Plaintiff released all  Moving Defendants from liability. Provided in their moving papers, Moving  Defendants proffer the relevant portions of section 9 of an agreement, the  section is titled “Assumption of Risk; Indemnification.” In relevant part the  release provides:    “Neither  the Stadium Parties nor their respective officers, owners, directors, employees,  and agents (collectively, the “Indemnitees”) will be liable to Licensee or  responsible for, and Licensee, for itself and each of Licensee’s Guests, hereby  assumes, all risk for any loss, damage, or injury to any person or to any  property of Licensee or Licensee’s Guests in or around the Stadium (including  the parking lots) arising out of, during, or related to their attendance…”  (Moving Paper, 5:17-28.)               In  opposition to the argument Moving Defendants are released from liability,  Plaintiff contends that parties may not in advance release or waive liability  for gross negligence, relying on City of Santa Barbara v. Superior Court  (2007) 41 Cal.4th 747 (City of Santa Barbara). However, in no  way has Plaintiff alleged or argued that Moving Defendants are liable for gross  negligence, merely negligence. The case Plaintiff relies on differentiates  between the two, noting that gross negligence is “an extreme departure from the  ordinary standard of conduct.” (City of Santa Barbara, supra, 754.)  Moving Defendants have proffered clear  evidence that Plaintiff signed the release. (Moving Defendants’ Notice of  Errata Concerning Evidence, Exh. G.) Aside from contending that gross  negligence cannot be waived, Plaintiff’s opposition papers are silent on this  argument. Accordingly, and independent of the reasons above, the Motion is  granted.    D.     Other Arguments               Plaintiff  presents two other arguments in opposition: (1) that the Notice of Motion and  Separate Statement are non-conforming with CRC Rule 3.1350(b), (d), and (h)  precluding Plaintiff from notice and (2) that Moving Defendants fail to negate  negligence based on other theories.                First,  there is no evidence that Plaintiff did not receive notice of the Motion and  accompanying Separate Statement nor does Plaintiff argue they suffered  prejudice. Moreover, California has a strong public policy in favor of deciding  cases on the merits, especially if the opposing party has suffered no  prejudice. (Oliveros¿v. County of  Los Angeles¿(2004) 120 Cal.App.4th 1389, 1398-1399. Also see CCP §  583.130.)               Second, the Complaint makes no  mention of metal fences, gates, or any other barrier being the cause of  Plaintiff’s harm. It is clear both from the Complaint, and the opposition  papers filed with the Court with regard to the instant Motion that the subject  incident concerns the curb and whether it was a dangerous condition.      CONCLUSION             Accordingly, Defendant  Kroenke, Stadco, Pincay, and Chargers’ Motion for Summary Judgment as to  Plaintiff Marshall Krupp is GRANTED.                Moving  Defendants to submit a proposed judgment in accord with this ruling and give  notice.        