 Case Number:  23AHCV01728    Hearing Date:   September 17, 2024    Dept:  P [TENTATIVE]
ORDER DENYING PLAINTIFF’S MOTION FOR SANCTIONSI.               
INTRODUCTION
            On
July 27, 2023, Plaintiff Deeson Pan (“Plaintiff” or “Pan”), in propria persona,
filed an action against Defendant Xuesong Guan (“Defendant” or “Guan”) and Does
1 through 10 for (1) breach of contract, (2) constructive fraud, (3) negligent
misrepresentation of facts, (4) unfair business practice in violation of
Business and Professions Code section 17200, et seq., and (5) unfair
competition law, Business and Professions Code section 17204.  The action arises out of an alleged dispute
related to the property located at 1420 S. Del Mar Ave, Unit #6, San Gabriel,
California 91776.  Plaintiff alleges that
he is the rightful owner of the property. 
Defendant has rented the property and has been collecting and retaining
rent from tenants residing at the property, without Plaintiff’s approval.
On August 24,
2023, Defendant, in propria persona, filed an Answer to the Complaint.  After retaining counsel, on June 4, 2024,
Defendant filed an Amended Answer with the Court’s approval.
On July 15, 2024,
the Court granted Defendant’s Motion to Have Requests for Admission Deemed Admitted
as to Plaintiff, filed on April 29, 2024. 
The Court found that Defendant had served Plaintiff with Requests for Admission
on January 23, 2024, but Plaintiff failed to serve any responses.  Thus, the Court granted the Motion and
Defendant’s request for monetary sanctions in the amount of $1,500.
On August 9, 2024,
Plaintiff filed the instant Motion for Sanctions.  Defendant filed an Opposition on September 6,
2024, and Plaintiff filed a Reply on September 12, 2024.
On the same day,
Plaintiff filed a Motion to Set Aside and Vacate and Enter Another and
Different Judgment in response to the Court’s July 15, 2024, order.  The hearing is set for September 18, 2024.
II.            
LEGAL
STANDARD
Code of Civil Procedure section
128.5 permits a trial court to “order a party, a party’s attorney, or both, to
pay the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by another
party as a result of actions or tactics, made in bad faith, that are frivolous
or solely intended to cause unnecessary delay.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 128.5, subd. (a).)  Actions or tactics include, but are not
limited to, filing or opposing motions, complaints, answers, or other
responsive pleadings.  (Code Civ. Proc.
§ 128.5, subd. (b)(1).)  “‘Frivolous’
means totally and completely without merit or for the sole purpose of harassing
an opposing party.”  (Code Civ. Proc. §
128.5, subd. (b)(2).)  Bad faith is
determined using a subjective standard. 
(In re Marriage of Sahafzadeh-Taeb & Taeb (2019) 39 Cal.App.5th 139, 134-35.)
Expenses pursuant to § 128.5
cannot be imposed unless noticed in a party’s moving or responding papers, or
on the court’s own motion after providing the offending party notice and an
opportunity to be heard.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 128.5, subd. (c).)  An order
imposing expenses must be in writing and must recite in detail the action,
tactic, or circumstances justifying the order.  (Id.)
Sanctions under this section may also be awarded if the
offending party is provided a 21-day safe harbor to withdraw or correct its
offending document or pleading. 
Specifically, “[i]f the alleged action or tactic is the making or opposing
of a written motion or the filing and service of a complaint, cross-complaint,
answer, or other responsive pleading that can be withdrawn or appropriately
corrected, the court on its own motion may enter an order describing the
specific action or tactic, made in bad faith, that is frivolous or solely
intended to cause unnecessary delay, and direct an attorney, law firm, or party
to show cause why it has made an action or tactic as defined in subdivision
(b), unless, within 21 days of service of the order to show cause, the
challenged action or tactic is withdrawn or appropriately
corrected.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 128.5,
subd. (f)(1)(D)(1).)  An award of
sanctions may include an award of attorney’s fees incurred as a direct result
of the offending party’s bath faith action or tactic.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 128.5, subd. (f)(1)(D)(2).)
III.          
ANALYSIS
Plaintiff moves for an order imposing sanctions in the amount of $1,630
against Defendant pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 128.5.  Plaintiff argues that Defendant has “engaged
in bad-faith actions or tactics that are frivolous or solely intended to cause
unnecessary delay” by filing a Motion to Have Requests for Admission Deemed
Admitted despite having received the responses to Requests for Admission
(“RFAs”).  (Mot. pp. 1-2.)
Plaintiff states that on February 20, 2024, he submitted responses to the
RFAs served by Defendant, two days before the deadline.  (Pan Decl. ¶ 2, Ex. A.)  Plaintiff has attached proof of service
indicating that the responses were served by mail and email on Defendant at
4907 Willmonte Ave, Temple City, California 91780, on February 20, 2024.  (Ibid.)  At the time of submission, he was not aware
that verification was required by the Code of Civil Procedure; however, his
lack of knowledge was not intentional, and he would have corrected his error if
he was informed.  (Id. at ¶¶ 3, 5.)  Plaintiff fully intends to comply with the
requirements of the Code of Civil Procedure and does not wish to unnecessarily
prolong the proceedings.  (Id. at
¶ 4.)
Plaintiff argues that before moving to have matters in requests for
admission admitted, the requesting party must provide the responding party with
a reasonable opportunity to correct a deficiency.  (Mot. p. 3.) 
Here, Defendant did not provide such an opportunity and prematurely
filed the Motion to Have Requests for Admission Deemed Admitted.  (Id. at pp. 3-4.)  Thus, “Defendants' conduct exemplifies a
deliberate strategy to hinder and obstruct the resolution of this case” and
harass Plaintiff.  (Id. at p. 5.)  Plaintiff is requesting reasonable expenses
in the amount of $1,630 for “document preparation services” and time for
“researching and looking for files.” 
(Mot. p. 7.)
            In opposition, Defendant presents
the following evidence.  Defendant’s
former counsel served Plaintiff with RFAs on January 23, 2024.  (Andion Decl. ¶ 3.)  Former counsel was substituted out on
February 7, 2024, and new counsel was substituted in on February 27, 2024.  (Ibid.)  After being retained, new counsel, James
Andion, reviewed the case file and observed that Plaintiff had not responded to
the RFAs.  (Ibid.)  Thus, he filed the Motion to Have
Requests for Admission Deemed Admitted.  (Ibid.)  Plaintiff did not respond to the motion and
at the hearing on July 15, 2024, he did not raise the claim that he had served
the responses, thus, the Court granted the Motion.  (Id. at ¶¶ 4-6.)  On August 27, 2024, Defendant discovered that
she had received an email from Plaintiff on February 20, 2024, with PDF files containing
discovery responses.  (Id. ¶
8.)  The email was from an address that
Defendant did not recognize and assumed was “junk mail.”  (Ibid.)  The responses were not verified and only
contained objections, and the proof of service indicated that the responses had
also been mailed to an address that was not Defendant’s address of record.  (Ibid.)  Defendant denies that she received these
responses by mail.  (Ibid.)
            Defendant also requests attorney’s
fees and costs in the amount of $1,500 for preparing the instant Opposition and
traveling to the hearing on the Motion. 
(Andion Decl. ¶ 14.)
            Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s
failure to serve compliant responses was due to his own neglect.  Moreover, Plaintiff did not file an
opposition or raise any arguments at the hearing on July 15, 2024.  If Plaintiff had indeed intended to comply
with his discovery obligations, he would have responded to the motion and
served another copy of his discovery responses. 
Defendant also argues that Plaintiff did not properly serve the instant
Motion for Sanctions, as counsel discovered it upon checking the Court’s
website.  Thus, Plaintiff’s Motion for
Sanctions is unsupported and made in bad faith.
            In his Reply, Plaintiff argues that
objections to discovery do not need to be verified.  Moreover, Defendant was aware of Plaintiff’s
responses prior to retaining new counsel and instead of filing a motion to
provide verified responses, Defendant deceived the Court by stating that she
did not receive any responses. 
Defendant’s admission that she received the responses reflects malice
and shows she intentionally sought to sanction Plaintiff.
The Court makes the following findings. 
Plaintiff presents evidence that on February 20, 2024, he served
responses to Defendant’s RFAs, propounded on January 23, 2024.  The responses only contained objections to RFAs
#1-37 and did not need to be verified pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
section 2033.240, subdivision (a). 
Plaintiff sent the responses directly to Defendant by email and by mail to
4907 Willmonte Ave, Temple City, CA 91780. 
The Court finds that the discovery responses were not properly served on
Defendant.  First, between February 7,
2024, and February 27, 2024, Defendant was self-represented, and the
Substitution of Attorney form indicates that Defendant’s address was 1420 S.
Del Mar, San Gabriel, CA 91776. 
Plaintiff did not serve the discovery responses by mail to this address.  Second, pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 1010.6, a
self-represented party may only be served by electronic transmission after expressly
consenting to receive service by email. 
Plaintiff has not presented any evidence that Defendant had consented to
service by email.
Moreover, the Court notes that a party moving to deem RFAs admitted is
under no obligation to meet and confer regarding missing or defective responses
and Plaintiff has not cited to any authority to show otherwise.
            Thus, the Court finds that
Plaintiff’s argument that Defendant proceeded to file the motion to deem
requests for admission admitted, despite receiving responses, is without
merit.  The Court also notes that
Plaintiff had an opportunity to file an opposition to the motion demonstrating
that it acted with substantial justification in failing to properly serve the
discovery responses, but despite being aware of the Motion and attending the
hearing, Plaintiff did not raise any opposing arguments. 
Given that on July 15, 2024, the Court granted Defendant’s Motion to Have
RFAs Deemed Admitted and Plaintiff has not presented sufficient evidence to
show that Defendant’s Motion was frivolous, filed in bad faith, or with the
intention to cause unnecessary delay, the Court does not find that sanctions
are warranted pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 128.5.
Furthermore, the Court does not find that the instant Motion for
Sanctions was filed in bad faith or with the intention to cause delay and
denies Defendant’s request for additional sanctions against Plaintiff.
 
IV.          
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
Plaintiff Deeson Pan’s Motion for Sanctions is DENIED.
 
Dated:  September 17, 2024                                    
                                                                                                         JARED D. MOSES           JUDGE OF THE SUPERIOR COURT
                                                                       