  Case Number:  21BBCV00628    Hearing Date:   September 17, 2024    Dept:  P [TENTATIVE]
ORDER CONTINUING PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO ENFORCE SETTLEMENT AGREEMENTI.               
INTRODUCTION
            On
July 14, 2021, Plaintiff MIP, LLC (“Plaintiff” or “MIP”) filed an action
against Defendants Monitor Polishing & Plating, Inc. (“MPP”), Miguel
Mercado (“Miguel”), Cristina Mercado (“Cristina”), and Does 1 to 20 for (1) breach
of contract, (2) breach of guaranty, (3) open book account, (4) account stated,
(5) trespass, and (6) nuisance. 
Plaintiff alleges that around September 2005, it entered into a written commercial
lease agreement with Defendant MPP for property located at 8050 San Fernando
Road, Sun Valley, CA 91352, with Defendants Miguel and Cristina Mercado as
guarantors.  Plaintiff alleges that MPP
defaulted on rental payments due on June 08, 2020 and utilized hazardous
substances on the premises in violation of the Lease; and that both Miguel and
Cristina have also refused to pay the sum owed. 
On September 8, 2021, Plaintiff filed a Notice of Errata to Complaint
and supplemented the Complaint with Exhibits 1 through 4.
            Defendants
filed a joint Answer to the Complaint on October 19, 2021.
            On
June 18, 2024, Plaintiff filed a Motion to Enforce Settlement.  Defendants filed an Opposition on July 11,
2024, and Plaintiff filed a Reply on July 15, 2024.
         II.            
LEGAL
STANDARD
Code
of Civil Procedure section 664.6 provides a summary procedure that enables
judges to enforce a settlement agreement by entering a judgment pursuant to the
terms of the parties’ settlement.  In
particular, the statute provides:
(a) If parties to pending
litigation stipulate, in a writing signed by the parties outside of the
presence of the court or orally before the court, for settlement of the case,
or part thereof, the court, upon motion, may enter judgment pursuant to the terms
of the settlement.  If requested by the
parties, the court may retain jurisdiction over the parties to enforce the
settlement until performance in full of the terms of the settlement.
(b) For purposes of this section,
a writing is signed by a party if it is signed by any of the following:
(1) The party.
(2) An attorney who represents
the party.
(3) If the party is an insurer,
an agent who is authorized in writing by the insurer to sign on the insurer's
behalf.
(Code of Civil
Procedure § 664.6, subds. (a)-(b).)
III.          
ANALYSIS
Plaintiff moves for an order enforcing the
settlement agreement signed between Plaintiff MIT and Defendants MPP and Miguel
Mercado.  Plaintiff argues that
Defendants have breached the settlement agreement and failed to cure the breach
after being notified by Plaintiff. 
Plaintiff requests that the Court enter judgment against Defendants in
the amount of $78,204.24, including interest and attorney’s fees and costs.
Plaintiff asserts that in January 2024, the
parties agreed to settle the case; Plaintiff signed the settlement agreement on
January 22, 2024, and Miguel Mercado and MPP signed the agreement in March
2024.  (Meyers Decl. ¶ 1, Ex. A –
Settlement Agreement.)  Miguel signed the
agreement as an individual and on behalf of MPP.  (Ibid.)  Pursuant to the agreement, settling
Defendants had to pay $50,000 to Plaintiff 
as follows: $5,000 payment within 30 days of signing and subsequently,
45 monthly payments of $1,000 due on the fifth day of each month.  (Meyers Decl. ¶ 1, Ex. A at ¶ C.)  In the event that settling Defendants failed
to make a monthly payment, Plaintiff’s counsel would notify them of the default
and Defendants would  have five business
days to make a payment.  (Meyers Decl. ¶
1, Ex. A at ¶ D.)  If they did not
cure the default, Plaintiff would have the right to move ex parte for an order
entering judgment for the full amount of $75,000.  (Ibid.)  Payments had to be made directly to Plaintiff
at the address provided.  (Meyers Decl. ¶
1, Ex. A at ¶ C.)  Moreover, in the event
of breach of the Settlement Agreement, the prevailing party would be entitled
to reasonable attorney’s fees, costs and expenses.  (Meyers Decl. ¶ 1, Ex. A at ¶ E.)
Plaintiff argues that Defendants did not make
any payments and despite numerous notices by Plaintiff, failed to respond to
Plaintiff or make a payment.  (Meyers
Decl. ¶¶ 3-4, Exs. B-C.)
Defendants oppose the Motion on the grounds
that the settlement agreement was not signed by all of the parties.  Specifically, Cristina Mercado and
Plaintiff’s and Defendants’ attorneys did not sign the agreement. 
In its Reply, Plaintiff argues that pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure section 664.6, subdivision (b)(1), attorneys may sign
a settlement agreement as an alternative to the parties’ signatures; however, the
attorneys’ signature is not required if the parties themselves have signed the
agreement.  Plaintiff does note that the
Proposed Judgment should be amended to remove Defendant Cristina Mercado’s name
as she did not sign the agreement.  The Proposed
Judgment should instead state “Defendants Monitor Polishing & Plating, Inc.
a California Corporation, and Miguel Mercado will be jointly and severally
liable for any attorneys fees incurred by Plaintiff in enforcing this
Judgment.”  (Reply p. 2.)
The Court finds that Plaintiff has presented
a valid settlement agreement between Plaintiff and Defendants MPP and Miguel
Mercado.  According to Code of Civil Procedure section 664.6,
subdivision (b), a settlement agreement is properly signed “if it is signed by
any of the following: (1) The party. (2) An attorney who represents the party...”  The language of the statute clearly states
that the agreement may be signed by the party or its attorney, but does not
require both signatures.  Here, the
parties signed the settlement agreement, thus, there was no need for their
counsel to sign it.  Although, Defendants
accurately note that Cristina Mercado did not sign the agreement, Plaintiff has
clarified that it is not seeking judgment against Cristina.
The Court also finds that Plaintiff is
entitled to interest, attorney’s fees, and costs.  However, the Court is unclear on the amounts
requested by Plaintiff.
In the Notice of the Motion, Plaintiff
requests a total judgment amount of $78,204.24 as follows: $75,000 (settlement
amount), $1,253.09 (10% annual interest from April 19 through June 18, 2024),
$60 (motion filing fee), $16.15 (electronic filing fee), and $1,750 (attorney’s
fees), plus $21.38 for each day after Defendants do not pay the amount
due.  Attorney’s fees are calculated as
one hour of attorney time at a billing rate of $300 per hour and 3.5 hours of
attorney time at $450 per hour.  Counsel
Meyers states that she spent one hour to prepare the Motion and 2.5 hours
reviewing the opposition, writing a reply, and attending the hearing, at a
billing rate of $450 per hour.  (Meyers
Decl. ¶ 5.)
            In the Conclusion
section, Plaintiff requests judgment in the amount of $78,204.24 as follows:
$75,000 (settlement amount), $1,875 (attorney’s fees), $61.65 (motion filing
fee), and $1,253.09 (interest).  In the
Proposed Judgment, Plaintiff also requests daily interest in the amount of
$21.38 to be charged every day after June 18, 2024.
            The Court notes that
there are discrepancies in the calculations of the judgment amount throughout
the papers.  Moreover, none of the
calculations yield a total amount of $78,204.24.
            For this reason, the
Court continues the hearing on the Motion and orders Plaintiff to clarify its
calculation of the total amount of judgment sought.  Plaintiff is also ordered to correct the
Proposed Judgment to reflect this calculation and to remove Defendant Cristina
Mercado’s name.
 
IV.          
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
The hearing on
Plaintiff MIP, LLC’s Motion to Enforce Settlement will be CONTINUED to a date
convenient to the Court and parties.  Plaintiff
is ordered to file supplemental papers addressing the deficiencies discussed at
least sixteen court days prior to the next scheduled hearing.  Failure
to do so may result in the Motion being taken off calendar or denied.
 
Dated:  September 17, 2024                           
                                                                                                         JARED D. MOSES JUDGE OF THE SUPERIOR COURT
                                                                                   