 Case Number:  23STCV30515    Hearing Date:   April 30, 2024    Dept:  40 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



MIGHTY ENTERPRISES, INC. DBA MIGHTY U.S.A., INC, a California
  corporation,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
CHUNG-HSIN ELECTRIC & MACHINERY MANUFACTURING CORPORATION, a
  Taiwan limited company; and DOES 1 through 100, inclusive,
                        Defendants.


 Case No.:          23STCV30515
 Hearing Date:   4/30/24
 Trial Date:        N/A
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Defendant
  Chung-Hsin Electric & Machinery Manufacturing Corporation’s Motion to
  Quash Service of Summons.



 
I. Background
Plaintiff Mighty
Enterprises, Inc. (Mighty Enterprises) sues Defendants Chung-Hsin Electric
& Machinery Manufacturing Corporation (Chung-Hsin) and Does 1 through 100
pursuant to a December 14, 2023, Complaint alleging 14 distinct counts.
On January 2, 2024, Mighty
Enterprises filed a proof of service for service on Chung-Hsin. The proof of
service reflects personal service of the summons, Complaint, and other
documents on Chung-Hsin on December 21, 2023, in New Taipei City, Taiwan.
On January 19, 2024,
Chung-Hsin filed a motion to quash service of summons.
On April 15, 2024, Mighty
Enterprises filed an opposition to Chung-Hsin’s motion.
On April 23, 2024,
Chung-Hsin filed a reply to Mighty Enterprises’ opposition.
Chung-Hsin’s motion is
now before the Court.
 
II. Evidentiary Objections
Reply, Objection Nos. 1-3: SUSTAINED
[Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1110(g)].
The Court briefly notes that the
Court does not accept Chung-Hsin’s reply argument that it could not respond to
these objections because the opposition’s points and authorities incorrectly
referred to the objections as involving the declaration of Feng Lu, not Victor
Cheng. However, the Opposition also correctly refers to the Declaration of
Victor Cheng in multiple other places – in the caption and on page 2 of the
Notice. The objections correctly refer to Victor Cheng. There was indeed only
one declaration submitted with the motion – that of Victor Cheng. Chung-Shin
does not challenge the service of the opposition or the objections to the
declaration of Victor Cheng attached to the moving papers, either in the reply
nor in an objection. Instead, Chung-Shin attempts to leverage a typographical
error on the last page of the brief to justify a failure to respond to the
objections raised in the opposition. The Court sustains the objections.
 
III. Motion to Quash Service of
Summons: DENIED.
A.
Legal Standard
A
motion to quash can be brought on the ground that the court lacks personal
jurisdiction over the defendant, e.g., because service was improper. (See Code
Civ. Proc., § 418.10, subd. (a)(1); see, e.g., Tresway Aero, Inc. v.
Superior Court (1971) 5 Cal.3d 431, 433 [defendant filed motion to quash on
ground that service on corporation was defective because it did not comply with
Code Civ. Proc., § 410, now § 412.30]; County of Riverside v. Superior Court
(1997) 54 Cal.App.4th 443, 446 [defendant filed motion to quash on ground that
service was defective because summons did not specify date for answering and
appearing].)
The
defendant should attach evidence to support its motion. (See School Dist. of
Okaloosa Cty. v. Superior Court (1997) 58 Cal.App.4th 1126, 1131 [defendant
must present some admissible evidence in form of affidavits or declarations to
place issue of lack of jurisdiction before court]; see, e.g., Aquila, Inc.
v. Superior Court (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 556, 563 [defendant supported
motion to quash with declarations]; cf. Floveyor Int’l v. Superior Court
(1997) 59 Cal.App.4th 789, 793-794 [“‘A defendant who takes the position that
the service of summons as made upon him did not bring him within the
jurisdiction of the court’[] may serve and file a notice of motion to quash the
service,’” where “‘the effect of such a notice is to place upon the plaintiff
the burden of proving the facts that did give the court jurisdiction … [or] the
facts requisite to a[] [showing of] effective service,’” citations omitted].)
B.
Analysis
1. Relevant Law
“Except
as otherwise provided by statute, a summons shall be served on a person:
(a)
Within this state, as provided in this chapter.
(b)
Outside this state but within the United States, as provided in this chapter or
as prescribed by the law of the place where the person is served.
(c)
Outside the United States, [1] as provided in this chapter or [2] as directed
by the court in which the action is pending, or, [3] if the court before or
after service finds that the service is reasonably calculated to give actual
notice, [a] as prescribed by the law of the place where the person is served or
[b] as directed by the foreign authority in response to a letter rogatory.
These rules are subject to the provisions of the Convention on the “Service
Abroad of Judicial and Extrajudicial Documents” in Civil or Commercial Matters
(Hague Service Convention).”
(Code
Civ. Proc., § 413.10 & subds. (a)-(c), brackets added.)
The
plaintiff must use the Hague Convention’s service methods if judicial documents
must be transmitted to the defendant in a country that has signed the
Convention. (Volkswagenwerk A.G. v. Shlunk (1988) 486 U.S. 694, 698-699
(Volkswagenwerk); Buchanan v. Soto (2015) 241 Cal.App.4th 1353,
1366.) Service by any other method is void as to signatory countries, even if
the method used gives the defendant actual notice of the lawsuit. (Floveyor
Internat. v. Superior Court (1997) 59 Cal.App.4th 789, 794.) The plaintiff
can also choose to use the Convention’s methods even though they are not
required in a particular case. (Volkswagenwerk, supra, at p. 706.)
2. Parties’ Arguments
In its motion, Chung-Shin—a foreign
corporation—argues that service of the summons and Complaint should be quashed
because service was effected by personal service, which the Taiwan Supreme
Court has purportedly held is not recognized in Taiwan. Instead, argues Chung-Hsin,
service in Taiwan by foreign courts, a party, or an attorney must be effected
pursuant to the laws of Taiwan, which require that foreign individuals or
entities request assistance in effecting service in Taiwan and where Taiwan
does not recognize personal service or service by mail. Otherwise, Chung-Shin
argues that a letter rogatory must be employed for service of process. Chung-Shin
also argues that Plaintiff Mighty Enterprises has the burden
of showing service was properly effected on Chung-Shin and that Mighty
Enterprises cannot meet that burden because service of process here did
not follow Taiwanese law.
In support of these arguments,
Chung-Shin attaches a declaration from counsel, Victor Cheng, who is a licensed
attorney in California and in Taiwan. The declaration purports to translate the
relevant pertinent Taiwan Supreme Court decision but does not attach a
translator’s certificate as required by the California Rules of Court. (Mot.,
Cheng Decl., ¶¶ 1-7 [translating the above reference Taiwan Supreme Court decision
at ¶ 7], Ex. C [Taiwanese Supreme Court decision].)
In opposition, Mighty
Enterprises argues that because Taiwan is not part of the Hague
Convention, California law provides that service on Chung-Shin outside of the
United States may be effected pursuant to the methods of service authorized by
the Code, such as personal service. Mighty Enterprises also objects to
the translation of the Taiwan Supreme Court decision on the ground that no
proper translator’s certificate was attached to the moving papers, thus failing
to comply with the California Rules of Court at rule 3.1110(g). The Court has
sustained these objections in Section II above.
In reply, Chung-Shin argues that
the correct analysis under Code of Civil Procedure section 413.10, subdivision
(c), is whether service in a foreign country complied with the laws of that
country and whether such service is reasonably calculated under all
circumstances to impart actual notice. Chung-Shin’s reply also seeks to
distinguish the case law relied on by the opposition and reiterates the
purported Taiwan Supreme Court decision on service of process. Chung-Shin then
raises new arguments for the first time on reply. Specifically, for the first
time, Chung-Shin argues that Mighty Enterprises has failed to
carry its burden to show proper service on Chung-Shin because Mighty
Enterprises has failed to show that an authorized agent for Chung-Shin was
served with the summons and Complaint. Last, Chung-Shin makes arguments related
to the opposition’s objections, which the Court addressed and rejected above in
Section II.
3. Court’s
Determination
The Court finds in favor of Mighty
Enterprises.
First, the Court rejects the reply
arguments relating to whether service was effected on a person authorized to
receive service of process for Chung-Shin, a corporation. This argument could
have been raised in the moving papers but was not. Instead, this argument is
raised for the first time in Chung-Shin’s reply in the context of rebutting
service as described in the Zih-Han declaration attached to Mighty Enterprises’
opposition. However, Mighty Enterprises filed its proof of service in this
action on January 2, 2024, i.e., prior to Chung-Shin filing its motion to quash
on January 19, 2024. It follows that prior to filing its motion to quash,
Chung-Shin had 17 days to review the proof of service, realize that service of
process was effected on a person whom the papers characterize as a security
guard, and raise an argument in its motion to the effect that the security
guard was not authorized to accept service of the summons and Complaint on Chung-Shin.
Courts generally need not accept arguments raised for
the first time on reply without good cause explanation as to why points were
not raised earlier. (Nordstrom Com. Cases (2010) 186 Cal.App.4th 576, 583.) Here,
no such good cause exists. Chung-Shin raised its “proper agent for service”
argument for the first time in reply in response to an opposition declaration
that raised facts that could have been challenged in the first instance in the
moving papers based on the January 2, 2024, proof of service.
Second, Taiwan
is not a party to the Hague Convention. (14: Convention of 15 November 1965
on the Service Abroad of Judicial and Extrajudicial Documents in Civil or
Commercial Matters (2024) Hague Conference on Private International
Law <https://www.hcch.net/en/instruments/conventions/status-table/?cid=17>
[as of Apr. 30, 2024] [no mention of Taiwan].) As a result, Mighty Enterprises
need not have complied with the Hague Convention’s methods of service. (Volkswagenwerk,
supra, 486 U.S. at p. 706; Buchanan, supra, 241
Cal.App.4th at p. 1366.)
Third, because the Hague
Convention’s methods for service are not applicable here, the Code of Civil
Procedure controls at section 413.10 and provides that “a summons shall be
served on a person” “outside the United States, [1] as provided in [Code Civ. Proc.,
§§ 413.10-418] or [2] as directed by the court in which the action is pending,
or, [3] if the court before or after service finds that the service is
reasonably calculated to give actual notice, [a] as prescribed by the law of
the place where the person is served or [b] as directed by the foreign
authority in response to a letter rogatory.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 413.10 &
subd. (c), brackets added.) Notably, the use of “or” between the bracketed
sections of this statutory subdivision provides three avenues for proper
service on a person outside of the United States in instances where the Hague
Convention does not apply: (1) as provided by the Code; (2) as permitted by
this Court; and (3) as prescribed by law where the person is served or as
directed by the foreign authority in a response to a letter rogatory. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 413.10, subd. (c).) This is because the ordinary and popular
meaning of the word ‘or’ is well settled to connote a disjunction, i.e., the
function of the word ‘or’ is to mark an alternative such as ‘either this or
that.’ (In re Jesusa V. (2004) 32 Cal.4th 588, 622-623, quoting Houge
v. Ford (1955) 44 Cal.2d 706, 712.) Based on this interpretation of the
statute, Mighty Enterprises was statutorily entitled to use personal service as
the method of service in this action given that personal service is a type of service
provided in Code of Civil Procedure section 415.10.
Fourth, the laws of Taiwan are not
relevant to the manner of service in this action. Section 413.10 permits
service of process on a person in a foreign country pursuant to the laws of
that country provided that the Court has first determined that the manner of
service provided by that foreign country is reasonably calculated to provide
actual service. (Code Civ. Proc., § 413.10 & subd. (c).) However, service
here was not effected pursuant to the laws of Taiwan but rather, was effected
through personal service. As a result, the Court need not determine whether
Mighty Enterprises complied with the laws of Taiwan in effecting service. Plaintiff
took the first of the four above-described options for service of process on a
person outside of the United States, i.e., personal service. A discussion
relating to the remaining three options for service on a person in a foreign
country—i.e., pursuant to this Court’s direction, the laws of Taiwan, or the
methods prescribed by Taiwan in a response to a letter rogatory—is therefore
not relevant.
Fifth, based on the preceding
paragraph, it follows that even if the Court had overruled Mighty Enterprises’
objections to the Cheng declaration attached to the moving papers and
considered the translation of the purported Taiwan Supreme Court decision
raised by Chung-Shin, a consideration of that decision is not necessary to
dispose of this motion because service here was effected as provided by the
Code, not as provided by Taiwan law.
Sixth, the Court notes that Chung-Shin
has failed to point to a treaty between Taiwan and the United States
specifically providing that service of process must be effected in Taiwan
pursuant to the laws of Taiwan. (See Shoei Kako Co. v. Superior Court
(1973) 33 Cal.App.3d 808, 819 [court cannot exercise jurisdiction in violation
of international treaty].)
Last, the Court distinguishes the
authority relied on by Chung-Shin for the purpose of establishing that the laws
of Taiwan should have been followed here for service of process. The moving
papers do not cite any California authority holding that when a corporation is
being served abroad, service of process must follow the laws of the foreign
country, regardless of whether that foreign country is a member of the Hague
Convention. The moving papers instead cite the Code of Civil Procedure (Mot.,
p. 4), Taiwanese law (Mot., pp. 4-6), and California case law limited to stating
that the burden of proving that service was properly effected is on the party on
whose behalf service is made (Mot., p. 6). 
As for the reply, its reliance on AO
Alfa-Bank v. Yakovlev (2018) 21 Cal.App.5th 189 (Alfa-Bank) is
misplaced. (Reply, pp. 4-5.) Alfa-Bank involved a case where the court
of appeal was asked to determine whether service of process was properly effected
on a person in a foreign country pursuant to the laws of that foreign country,
with the court of appeal necessarily applying section 413.10 as to bracket [3]
above. (See Alfa-Bank, supra, at pp. 204-213 [discussing whether
service was proper under Russian law and whether the Russian court’s service in
that case comported with due process requirements regarding actual notice].) 
In contrast, here the Court is
asked to determine whether service may be effected on a person in a foreign
country pursuant to the California Code of Civil Procedure. These questions are
different where the Hague Convention does not apply. Otherwise stated, the
plain language of section 413.10 permits service of process on a person in a
foreign country provided that the Hague Convention does not apply. (Cf. Dr.
Ing. H.C.F. Porsche A.G. v. Superior Court (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 755, 758
[service on Porsche by registered mail to Germany with no response from
Porsche], 759 [trial court issued order permitting service of process on the
California secretary of state], 760-763 [determining that because Germany was
part of the Hague Convention and because “service by mail and through
diplomatic or consular channels” were “rejected” by Germany, service of process
on Porsche was ineffective].)
Chung-Shin’s motion is thus DENIED. 
IV. Conclusion
Defendant Chung-Hsin Electric & Machinery Manufacturing Corporation’s
Motion to Quash Service of Summons is DENIED.