  Case Number:  22STCV07972    Hearing Date:   April 30, 2024    Dept:  40 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



MICHELLE LEONARD,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
BRIAN E. CLAYPOOL; THE CLAYPOOL LAW FIRM; and DOES 1 to 20,
                        Defendants.


 Case No.:          22STCV07972
  [Lead Case]
[Related
  to LASC No. 22AHCV00796]
 Hearing Date:   4/30/24
 Trial Date:        8/6/24
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Defendants Brian E. Claypool and The
  Claypool Law Firm’s Motion to Reclassify Plaintiff’s Action as a Limited
  Civil Action.



 
I. Background
A. Pleadings
Plaintiff Michelle
Leonard sues Defendants Brian E. Claypool (Brian Claypool), The Claypool Law
Firm (Claypool Law), and Does 1 to 20 pursuant to a May 3, 2023, First Amended
Complaint (FAC) alleging claims of (1) Legal Malpractice and (2) Breach of
Fiduciary Duty.
The claims arise from
allegations that, in the course of their legal representation of Michelle
Leonard in claims surrounding her injuries arising from the Route 91 Harvest
Festival concert shooting in Las Vegas Nevada, Brian Claypool and Claypool Law
(the Claypool Defendants), as well as Does 1 to 20, engaged in conduct
amounting to legal malpractice and breach of fiduciary duty.
B. Relevant
Procedural History
On March 12, 2024, the
Court partially granted a January 11, 2024, motion by the Claypool Defendants
for, inter alia, issue and evidence sanctions against Plaintiff Michelle
Leonard. The Court ordered:
“(1) Except as to
evidence produced by Michelle Leonard by February 25, 2024, Michelle Leonard
and her witnesses are PRECLUDED from testifying or introducing writings or documents
that relate to any payments that Michelle Leonard received in or for the
Underlying Action[.]
(2) It is established
in this action that Michelle Leonard did not have any income for five years
prior to the underlying incident, other than as shown in the evidence produced
by Michelle Leonard as of February 25, 2024.
(3) It is established
in this action that Michelle Leonard received an amount of money for the
Underlying Action, but Michelle Leonard is barred from introducing any amount
that she received, other than the evidence produced by Michelle Leonard as of
February 25, 2024.
(4) It is established
in this action that Michelle Leonard received an amount of money for the
underlying incident, but Michelle Leonard is barred from introducing any amount
that she received, other than the evidence produced by Michelle Leonard as of
February 25, 2024.”
C. Motion Before the
Court
On March 19, 2024, the
Claypool Defendants filed a motion to reclassify this action from an unlimited
jurisdiction civil action to a limited jurisdiction civil action.
The Claypool Defendants
served this motion on Plaintiff Michelle Leonard’s counsel—Kevin Gerry and
Frank Hartman of The Law Offices of Kevin Gerry—via email that same day.
On April 3, 2024, the
Claypool Defendants filed a notice of non-opposition.
On April 15, 2024, the
Claypool Defendants motion came before the Court, at which time the Court
continued the hearing on the motion to April 30, 2024. The Court asked the
Claypool Defendants to clarify two points for the Court in supplemental
briefing to be filed no later than April 18, 2024, with Plaintiff Leonard
allowed to file an opposition no later than April 29, 2024.
On April 18, 2024, the
Claypool Defendants filed their supplemental briefing.
On April 26, 2024,
Plaintiff Leonard filed her opposition. 
The Claypool
Defendants’ motion is now again before the Court.
 
II. Motion to Reclassify: DENIED.
A.
Request for Judicial Notice
Per
the Claypool Defendants’ request, the Court takes judicial notice of the
settlement in the underlying class action and its corresponding Claims Protocol
and Allocation Methodology. (Mot., RJN, Exs. A, B; Evid. Code, §§ 452, subd.
(d), 453, subd. (a)-(b).)
B.
Legal Standard
To
prevail on a motion to reclassify a case as limited, the movant must show that
the case is incorrectly classified as an unlimited civil case—that is, the case
meets all the conditions for classification as a limited civil case. (See,
e.g., Code Civ. Proc., §§ 85, subds. (a)-(c), 422.30, subd. (b), 580, subds.
(b)(1)-(4).)
If
the movant seeks a reclassification because the amount in controversy is below
the statutory maximum for limited civil jurisdiction ($25,000 or less prior to
January 1, 2024, $35,000 or less thereafter), the movant must show a legal
certainty that the damages award will not exceed that maximum. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 85, subd. (a); see Hiona v. Superior Court (2020) 48
Cal.App.5th 866, 872 (Hiona); Ytuarte v. Superior Court (2005)
129 Cal.App.4th 266, 277 (Ytuarte); see also Walker v. Superior Court
(1991) 53 Cal.3d 257, 270-271 (Walker) [courts should be cautious about
changing case from unlimited to limited because it deprives plaintiff of chance
to prove higher damages].)
C.
Analysis
1. Bases for Damages in the Pleadings
The
FAC alleges liability against the Claypool Defendants based on: (1) the
Claypool Defendants’ failure to submit key medical records for Michelle
Leonard’s injuries in relation the Route 91 shooting and class action case in
Nevada; (2) the Claypool Defendants’ failure to file documentation from the
federal government in the underlying action regarding Michelle Leonard’s total
disability as a result of her injuries; (3) the Claypool Defendants providing
erroneous tax information regarding Michelle Leonard’s personal injury claims;
and (4) the Claypool Defendants’ omission of the aforementioned misconduct
through failure and refusal to communicate with Michelle Leonard to keep her
apprised of the significant developments in the class action case or respond to
Michelle Leonard’s documents requests, including giving Michelle Leonard a copy
of her retainer agreement upon execution. (FAC, ¶¶ 9-10(c).)
2. Parties’ Arguments

In their motion, the Claypool
Defendants argue that based on the limited universe of the documents produced
by Michelle Leonard as of February 25, 2024, and based on the Court’s March 12,
2024, ruling further limiting the evidence in that universe, Plaintiff’s
maximum damages in this action can only be $16,446.97, which only supports a
limited jurisdiction civil action. The Claypool Defendants base that calculation
on the settlement in the underlying class action case and the corresponding
Claims Protocol and Allocation Methodology.
In the supplemental briefing
responsive to this Court’s April 15, 2024, tentative ruling, the Claypool
Defendants advance arguments to explain how points (2) and (3) above of Plaintiff’s
alleged damages cannot result in an amount in controversy over the
jurisdictional minimum for this Court, i.e., damages arising from the Claypool
Defendants’ failure to file documentation from the federal government in the
underlying action regarding Michelle Leonard’s total disability and damages arising
from the Claypool Defendants giving Michelle Leonard erroneous tax information.
In relation to their alleged failure
to file the total disability documents from the federal government—point (2)
above, an argument also applicable to point (1)—the Claypool Defendants refer
to the Claims Protocol and Allocation Methodology in the underlying action. The
Claypool Defendants argue that total disability documents could have increased
Plaintiff’s recovery in the underlying action pursuant to the EF-6 Enhancement
Factor point allocation award as opposed to the actually-awarded EF-7 award.
EF-# awards connote exceptional circumstances meriting an additional award
beyond the base settlement amount otherwise applicable. (Mot., RJN, pp. 3-4.) The
Claypool Defendants argue that even if Plaintiff was entitled to an EF-6 award
over an EF-7 award, the difference between such an award would not amount to
more than $16,446.97. As explained in the moving papers: “Plaintiffs base
allocation was 750 based on her categorization in IC-3 under the protocol.
[Citations.] Thus, if she received EF-6, plaintiff would have received 19.33575
points. However, the protocol does not allow for plaintiff to recover both EF-7
and EF-6. [Citations.] Accordingly, if plaintiff had received EF-6, she would
not have received EF-7. Plaintiff received 5.1849 points under EF-7. This means
that even if plaintiff is able to establish that she should have received EF-6
instead of EF-7, she would only be entitled to receive 4.15085 more points. The
‘Point Dollar Value’ under the protocol was $1,162.26. [Citations.]  Accordingly, if she had qualified for EF-6,
plaintiff could only have possibly received $16,446.97 more than she received
in the underlying action.” The corresponding mathematical computations appear
on the face of the motion’s points and authorities at pages five and six and
rely on evidence and court orders pertaining to the two factors applicable to
an EF-6 additional award: after a determination of total disability under the
protocol is made, an EF-6 point allocation is awarded based on (1) age and (2)
income for a specific period of time.
In relation to taxes, the Claypool Defendants
argue that “this action is controlled by 26 U.S.C. §104(a)(l), which provides
that a plaintiff’s gross income does not include ‘amounts received under
workmen’s compensation acts as compensation for personal injuries or sickness.’
… [For this reason,] plaintiff[’]s award in the underlying action [re: One
October Protocol] was not part of her gross income for tax purposes. As a
result, plaintiffs damages could not be affected in any way by any tax advice,
even erroneous tax advice. As a result, tax consequences are not relevant at
all to plaintiff’s recovery in the underlying action and cannot be an actual
loss or damages that plaintiff can recover for [sic]. [¶] In addition, any
alleged tax consequences cannot be a basis as to whether plaintiff would have
opted into the settlement of the underlying action because there were no tax
consequences of the settlement.” (Supp. Brief, p. 2.) The Claypool Defendants
attached a declaration from counsel to their supplemental briefing, which does
not address taxes, instead addressing discovery issues between the parties.
In the April 26, 2024 opposition,
Plaintiff Leonard raises a single point: in relation to the tax allegations,
“Plaintiff was erroneously advised by the Defendants to take zero … tax
deductions on her tax return following the incident and the settlement thereon
so as to artificially inflate her income, and wrongfully causing her to incur
an additional $60,000.00 in outstanding tax liability that she otherwise would
not have incurred.” Plaintiff attaches copy of discovery responses she served
on the Claypool Defendants showing that Plaintiff has raised tax liability
damages in this action. (Opp’n, p. 4, citing Opp’n, Leonard Decl., ¶¶ 1-5, Ex.
A, p. 6, Response to Form Interrogatory No. 9.1 [“Loss of damages recovery and
increased tax liability”].)
3. Court’s
Determination
The Court finds in favor of Michelle
Leonard.
Put simply, the Claypool Defendants
have failed to sufficiently address how the tax liability damages alleged in
the FAC cannot put damages in this action beyond $35,000.
The FAC alleges that
Plaintiff sustained damages because “Defendants provided incorrect and
erroneous tax advice to Plaintiff Michelle Leonard, regarding her personal
injury claims.” (FAC, ¶ 9.C.) Plaintiff’s discovery responses have asserted tax
liability as a source of damages. (Opp’n, Leonard Decl., ¶¶ 1-5, Ex. A,
p. 6, Response to Form Interrogatory No. 9.1 [“Loss of damages recovery and
increased tax liability”].)
In their supplemental
brief, the Claypool Defendants argue that “this action is controlled by
26 U.S.C. §104(a)(l), which provides that plaintiffs gross income does not
include ‘amounts received under workmen’s compensation acts as compensation for
personal injuries or sickness.’” (Supp. Brief, p. 2.) However, it is not clear
to the Court how 26 U.S.C. §104(a)(l) applies here because the Claypool
Defendants do not explain how Plaintiff’s injuries and award arising from the
91 Harvest Festival shooting fall into the applicable “workmen’s compensation
acts.” It is the Claypool Defendants’ burden to meet the burden of showing
legal certainty in damages. (Code Civ. Proc., § 85, subd. (a).) By failing to
more clearly explain their reasoning, the Claypool Defendants fail to meet this
burden.
Because the Claypool
Defendants’ motion does not show with legal certainty that damages in this
action are limited to $35,000 or less, the Claypool Defendants’ motion is
DENIED. (Code Civ. Proc., § 85, subd. (a); Hiona, supra, 48
Cal.App.5th at p. 872; Ytuarte, supra, 129 Cal.App.4th at p. 277;
Walker, supra, 53 Cal.3d at pp. 270-271.) 
III. Conclusion
Defendants Brian E. Claypool and
The Claypool Law Firm’s Motion to Reclassify Plaintiff’s Action as a Limited
Civil Action is DENIED.