 Case Number:  21STCV40954    Hearing Date:   October 21, 2024    Dept:  28 Having  considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers, the Court rules as  follows.  BACKGROUND  On  November 8, 2021, Plaintiff Maria I. Rojas (“Plaintiff”) filed this action  against Defendants Bre Encino Owner LLC (“Bre Owner”), Bre Imagination Pooled  Retail II LLC (“Bre Retail”), The Whiting-Turner Contracting Company  (“Whiting”), and Does 1-50 for general negligence and premises liability.  On  April 6, 2022, Whiting filed an answer and a cross-complaint against  Cross-Defendants Roes 1-100 for implied indemnity, contribution, and  declaratory relief.   On July 29, 2024,  the Court granted Whiting’s motion for a good faith settlement determination.  On  April 27, 2022, Bre Owner and Bre Retail filed an answer.  On  January 26, 2023, Bre Owner and Bre Retail (“Bre Entities”) filed a  cross-complaint against Cross-Defendants Allied Universal Risk Advisory and  Consulting Services, Inc., Andrew International, Inc., and Roes 1-25 for equitable indemnity, equitable apportionment,  contribution, express indemnity, and declaratory relief. On March 8, 2023,  Bre Entities amended the cross-complaint to include Cross-Defendant Universal  Protection Service, LP, as Roe 1.  On  April 14, 2023, Cross-Defendant Universal Protection Service, LP dba Allied  Universal Security Services (erroneously sued as Allied Universal Risk Advisory  and Consulting Services, Inc. and Andrew International, Inc.) (“Allied”) filed  an answer.  On  May 15, 2024, Allied filed a motion for summary judgment or, in the  alternative, summary adjudication.  The  motion was set for hearing on July 29, 2024. On July 15, 2024, the Bre Entities  filed an opposition.  On July 24, 2024,  Allied filed a reply.  On  July 29, 2024, the Court issued a ruling granting Bre Entities’ request for a continuance  under Code of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (h).  The Court continued the hearing on Allied’s  motion for summary judgment or, in the alternative, summary adjudication to  October 21, 2024.  The Court granted the  parties leave to file supplemental briefs before the continued hearing.  No party filed a supplemental brief.  Trial  is set for January 17, 2025.  PARTIES’ REQUESTS  Allied  asks the Court to grant summary judgment or, in the alternative, summary  adjudication of the Bre Entities’ cross-complaint.  The  Bre Entities ask the Court to deny the motion.  ALLIED’S REQUEST FOR  JUDICIAL NOTICE  Granted.  BRE ENTITIES’ EVIDENTIARY  OBJECTIONS  Overruled:  16, 27 Sustained:  24, 26  LEGAL STANDARD  “‘[F]rom  commencement to conclusion, the party moving for summary judgment bears the  burden of persuasion that there is no triable issue of material fact and that  he is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.’”  (LAOSD Asbestos Cases (2023) 87  Cal.App.5th 949, 945, quoting Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001)  25 Cal.4th 826, 850 (Aguilar)) “[T]he party moving for summary judgment  bears an initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing of the  nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact; if he carries his burden of  production, he causes a shift, and the opposing party is then subjected to a  burden of production of his own to make a prima facie showing of the existence  of a triable issue of material fact.”  (Aguilar,  supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 850.)  When  the moving party is a defendant, it must show that the plaintiff cannot  establish at least one element of the cause of action.  (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at  p. 853.) “The defendant has shown that the plaintiff cannot establish at least  one element of the cause of action by showing that the plaintiff does not  possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence.”  (Id. at p. 854.) The defendant must  “present evidence, and not simply point out that the plaintiff does not  possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence.”  (Ibid.) Thus, “the defendant must  ‘support[ ]’ the ‘motion’ with evidence including ‘affidavits, declarations,  admissions, answers to interrogatories, depositions, and matters of which  judicial notice’ must or may ‘be taken.’ [Citation.] The defendant may, but  need not, present evidence that conclusively negates an element of the  plaintiff’s cause of action. The defendant may also present evidence that the  plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence—as  through admissions by the plaintiff following extensive discovery to the effect  that he has discovered nothing.”  (Id.  at p. 855, original emphasis.)  “Supporting  and opposing affidavits or declarations . . . shall set forth admissible  evidence.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (d).) “Matters which would be  excluded under the rules of evidence if proffered by a witness in a trial as  hearsay, conclusions or impermissible opinions, must be disregarded in  supporting affidavits.”  (Hayman v.  Block (1986) 176 Cal.App.3d 629, 639.)  In  addition, a party moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication must  support the motion with “a separate statement setting forth plainly and  concisely all material facts which the moving party contends are undisputed.  Each of the material facts stated shall be followed by a reference to the  supporting evidence.” (Parkview Villas Assn. v. State Farm Fire &  Casualty Co. (2006) 133 Cal.App.4th 1197, 1209 (Parkview Villas),  quoting Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (b)(1).) The party opposing the motion  must file with the opposition papers “a separate statement that responds to  each of the material facts contended by the moving party to be undisputed,  indicating whether the opposing party agrees or disagrees that those facts are  undisputed. The statement also shall set forth plainly and concisely any other  material facts that the opposing party contends are disputed. Each material  fact contended by the opposing party to be disputed shall be followed by a  reference to the supporting evidence.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd.  (b)(3).)  If either party fails to comply  with the applicable separate statement requirement, that failure may in the  court’s discretion constitute a sufficient ground to decide the motion  adversely to the offending party. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subds. (b)(1),  (3).)   In  ruling on the motion, the court must consider all the evidence and all the  inferences reasonably drawn from it and must view such evidence and inferences  in the light most favorable to the opposing party.  (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at  p. 843.)   DISCUSSION  A.   Plaintiff’s complaint  The  complaint alleges the following:  On  December 17, 2019, at 17401 Ventura Boulevard in Encino, California, Defendants  Bre Entities, Whiting, and Does 1-50 negligently directed, instructed, and or  allowed Plaintiff to walk down an escalator which Defendants, by their  negligent acts or omissions, caused and or knew to be stopped. The stopped  escalator constituted a dangerous condition because the steps were not uniform,  were uneven, and did not comply with California law, creating a fall hazard.  The steps posed an unreasonable risk of harm to the elderly Plaintiff.  As a result of Defendants’ conduct, Plaintiff  was injured.  B.   The Bre Entities’ cross-complaint  The  cross-complaint alleges the following:   The  damages, injuries and/or losses, if any, alleged by Plaintiff in her complaint  were the direct and proximate result of, and/or are attributable to the acts or  omissions of Cross-Defendants Allied, Andrew International, Inc., and Roes 1-25  (“Cross-Defendants”), while the Bre Entities are blameless, and any acts or  omissions of the Bre Entities were strictly secondary, passive, or derivative  in nature and did not proximately cause or contribute to Plaintiff’s damages  and/or losses to any degree.  Cross-Defendants  have a duty to contribute and indemnify the Bre Entities for any recovery  against them in an amount proportionate to the parties’ comparative negligence  and responsibility.  The  Bre Entities were not negligent or responsible for the acts, injuries or  damages alleged in Plaintiff’s complaint.   However, if the Bre Entities are held liable for all or part of  Plaintiff’s claims, Cross-Defendants, to the extent of their fault as  determined by the Court, are obligated to reimburse and will be liable to the  Bre Entities for any and all liability so assessed by way of contribution.  On  or about January 14, 2017, the Bre Entities, through their property management  company, ShopCore Properties TRS Management LLC (“ShopCore”), entered into a  written On-Site Services Agreement with Cross-Defendants for security services  at 17401 Ventura Boulevard in Encino, California (“the premises”).  Paragraph 1 of the Agreement provided,  “Contractor shall provide those services to certain real property . . . during  those specified times . . . set forth on Exhibit ‘A’ ” of the On-Site Services  Agreement.  Paragraph 2 of the On-Site  Services Agreement states, “Any services not included in this Agreement shall  be performed by Contractor only when required by Owner in writing.”  On  or around May 21, 2018, the Senior Property Manager for the premises issued a  memorandum to Cross-Defendants which specified “the Encino officer will be  responsible for turning off . . . the single escalator (located in the center  of the courtyard) . . . daily at 2000 hours.”  However,  on the day of the Incident, Cross-Defendants, through their agents and/or  employees, turned off the escalator prematurely, causing the Incident.  The  On-Site Services Agreement also expressly and/or impliedly provided Cross  Defendants were to defend, indemnify, and hold the Bre Entities harmless from  and against all loss, cost, expense, and liability (including the Bre Entities’  cost of defending against the foregoing, with such costs to include reasonable  attorney’s fees and costs) resulting or occurring by reason of  Cross-Defendants’ negligence.  On  or about December 7, 2022, the Bre Entities issued a tender of defense request  to Cross-Defendants asserting the Bre Entities were entitled to be provided  with a defense by Cross-Defendants in Plaintiff’s case.  Cross-Defendants never responded to the Bre  Entities’ request for a defense.  The Bre  Entities performed all conditions, covenants, and promises required by them to  be performed in accordance with the terms and conditions of its On-Site  Services Agreement with Cross-Defendant, except to the extent that the Bre  Entities were excused from or prevented from performing the aforementioned  conditions, covenants, and promises by the acts and/or omissions of  Cross-Defendants.  The  Bre Entities are informed and believe and thereupon allege Cross-Defendants  materially breached the On-Site Services Agreement by refusing and/or failing  to defend, indemnify and hold harmless the Bre Entities in the Plaintiff’s  action, including a refusal and/or failure to defend and indemnify the Bre  Entities from and against any and all claims, debts, damages, judgments,  awards, losses, liabilities, interest, attorney’s fees, costs and expense of  any kind at any time arising out of or in any way connected with the Incident.  C.   Undisputed facts  1.    The January 14, 2017 On-Site Services Agreement  The  On-Site Services Agreement provides in Section 6:  “Indemnification. Contractor shall defend, indemnify  and hold harmless Owner and its respective officers, directors, shareholders,  partners, members, managers, employees, agents, representatives, affiliates,  successors and assigns of Owner (collectively, the ‘Indemnified Parties’) from  and against any and all actions, costs, claims, losses, expenses and/or  damages, including attorneys’ fees, arising out of or resulting from the  performance of the Services including, but not limited to, any damage, injury,  or loss to persons or property or Contractor’s equipment. Contractor shall  further defend, indemnify and hold harmless the Indemnified Parties from and  against any and all actions, costs, claims, losses, expenses and/or damages (i)  for or arising out of any personal injuries to or the death of Contractor and  any of Contractor’s employees or independent contractors working at the  Property or (ii) for personal injuries or death of any other person arising out  of Contractor’s Services or the presence of Contractor’s employees or  independent contractors at the Property while performing the Services; except  to the extent such injury or death is caused directly or indirectly by the  negligent acts or omissions of Client or any of its employees, agents,  representatives and independent contractors.”  Section  7a of the On-Site Services Agreement states:  “Contractor shall be liable for its negligence or  willful misconduct and the negligence or willful misconduct of its employees,  agents, and subcontractors in connection with Contractor’s obligations  hereunder.”  2.    The May 21, 2018 memorandum  Tony  Lucero ("Lucero"), the property manager at Shopcore, issued a  memorandum dated May 21, 2018 instructing Allied’s Encino officer to turn off  the escalator in the open air courtyard daily at 8:00 p.m.  3.    The December 17, 2019 incident  On  December 17, 2019, Plaintiff went to the premises.  At about 5:30 p.m., she went up the escalator  to the second floor, where she had her hair done at a salon.  She left the salon between 7:00 p.m. and 7:15  p.m.  She walked down the escalator,  which had stopped.  As Plaintiff walked  down the stopped escalator, she fell.  Lucero  does not know who shut down the escalator on the day in question and does not  know if somebody from Allied shut off the escalator that day.  Bre Owner has no video or photographs  depicting Cross-Defendant’s employee turning off the escalator on December 17,  2019.  Shahidul  Islam (“Islam”) was Allied’s security professional on the premises from 2:00  p.m. to 10:00 p.m. on December 17, 2019.   Islam had no knowledge of Plaintiff’s accident when it occurred,  possibly because he was on his lunch break in the security room at the back of  the lower parking level.  Lucero had  instructed Islam to turn off the escalator at 8:00 p.m. every day.  D.   The Bre Entities’ equitable claims  1.    Allied has carried its initial summary adjudication  burden on the Bre Entities’ equitable claims  “Where  . . . the parties have expressly contracted with respect to the duty to  indemnify, the extent of that duty must be determined from the contract and not  by reliance on the independent doctrine of equitable indemnity.”  (Rossmoor Sanitation, Inc. v. Pylon, Inc.  (1975) 13 Cal.3d 622, 628 (Rossmoor).)  Citing  Rossmoor, Allied argues that the existence of a written indemnification  agreement in the On-Site Services Agreement prevents the Bre Entities from  asserting claims for equitable indemnity, equitable apportionment,  contribution, and declaratory relief.    (See Crowley Maritime Corp. v. Boston Old Colony Ins. Co. (2008)  158 Cal.App.4th 1061, 1067 [concept of contribution is “equitable in nature”]; Caira  v. Offner (2005) 126 Cal.App.4th 12, 24 [action for declaratory relief is  equitable].)  The  On-Site Services Agreement (Allied’s Exh. 1) states that the agreement is  between Andrews International, Inc., the “Contractor,” and Bre Encino Owner LLC  by Shopcore Properties TRS Management LLC, its agent, the “Owner.”  The Contractor is to provide services at  17401 Ventura Boulevard in Encino, California (“the premises”).  (The agreement’s indemnification provision is  set forth above in the undisputed facts.)  The  Bre Entities argue that Allied has failed to offer any facts to establish that  the On-Site Services Agreement’s indemnity provision was enforceable and  applicable to the factual circumstances of the underlying accident.  The  Court finds that, based on the undisputed evidence, the indemnity provision of  the On-Site Services Agreement potentially applies to this case.  Based on this evidence, Allied has carried  its initial burden on summary adjudication of showing that an express  indemnification agreement between Bre Owner and Andrews International, Inc.  prevents the Bre Entities from prevailing on their claims for equitable  indemnity, equitable apportionment, contribution, and declaratory relief.  The burden shifts to the Bre Entities.  2.    The Bre Entities have not raised a triable issue of  fact concerning their equitable claims  On  July 29, 2024, the Court granted the Bre Entities’ request for a continuance  under Code of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (h), to give the Bre  Entities additional time to depose the person most knowledgeable about the  On-Site Services Agreement.  The Court continued  the hearing from July 29, 2024 to October 21, 2024 and granted the Bre Entities  leave to file a supplemental brief.  The  Bre Entities have not filed a supplemental brief and have not presented  evidence raising a triable issue of fact concerning the application of the  express indemnification agreement contained in the On-Site Services  Agreement.  The Court therefore finds  that the existence of a written  indemnification agreement in the On-Site Services Agreement prevents the Bre  Entities from prevailing on their claims for equitable indemnity, equitable  apportionment, contribution, and declaratory relief.  The Court summarily adjudicates these claims  against the Bre Entities.  E.   The Bre Entities’ express indemnity claim  Under  the On-Site Services Agreement, to prevail on their express indemnity claim, the  Bre Entities must prove that Allied or its employees, agents, or subcontractors  were negligent or engaged in willful misconduct in connection with Allied’s obligations  under the On-Site Services Agreement.  The  Bre Entities’ cross-complaint alleges that Allied acted negligently because its  agent or employee turned off the escalator “prematurely,” that is, before 8:00  p.m., causing the accident.  (Cross-Complaint  ¶ 21.)  In  its motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication, Allied argues that the  Bre Entities cannot present evidence demonstrating that Allied’s agent or  employee prematurely turned off the escalator.   The  Bre Entities concede that they have no direct evidence of who turned off the  escalator (Opposition p. 8) but argue that circumstantial evidence raises a  triable issue of fact concerning whether Islam turned off the escalator early before  taking his break (Opposition pp. 8-9).  The  Court has reviewed the evidence and concludes that Allied has not carried its  initial burden on summary judgment or summary adjudication of showing that the Bre  Entities cannot prevail on their express indemnity claim.  Even assuming that Allied carried its initial burden, shifting the burden to the Bre Entities, the Bre Entities carried their burden of presenting evidence that raises a triable issue of fact concerning whether Islam turned off the escalator before 8:00 p.m.  The Court denies Allied's motion with respect to  the express indemnity claim. CONCLUSION  The  Court GRANTS Cross-Defendant Universal Protection Service, LP dba Allied  Universal Security Services’s motion for summary adjudication of the claims for  equitable indemnity, equitable apportionment, contribution, and declaratory  relief contained in the cross-complaint filed by Defendants and  Cross-Complainants Bre Encino Owner LLC and Bre Imagination Pooled Retail II  LLC.  The  Court DENIES Cross-Defendant Universal Protection Service, LP dba Allied  Universal Security Services’s motion for summary judgment or, in the  alternative, summary adjudication of the claim for express indemnity contained  in the cross-complaint filed by Defendants and Cross-Complainants Bre Encino  Owner LLC and Bre Imagination Pooled Retail II LLC.  Moving  party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.  Moving  party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court  within five days.