  Case Number:  22STCV39648    Hearing Date:   August 8, 2024    Dept:  52 Plaintiff T.S.’s Motion to Compel Further Responses and Documents to
Request for Production of Documents, Set One
            Plaintiff T.S. moves
to compel defendant Watchtower Bible and Tract Society of New York, Inc.
(Watchtower) to further respond to requests for production Nos. 3-6, 10-19,
22-48, and 54.  A party propounding requests for production may move to compel further
responses if “[a] statement of compliance with the demand is incomplete,” “[a]
representation of inability to comply is inadequate, incomplete, or evasive,”
or “[a]n objection in the response is without merit or too general.”  (CCP § 2031.310(a).)
Statements of Compliance
            Watchtower
responded to Nos. 36-40 and 47 by stating it would produce specified
documents.  Watchtower’s opposition
acknowledges it had not produced those documents but asserts it has now
produced the documents, so these requests are moot.  (Walters Decl., ¶ 16.)  Plaintiff’s reply does not address the
issue.  The court therefore finds the
motion is moot as to Nos. 36-40 and 47.
Inadequate Representations of Inability to
Comply
            Watchtower
responded to the remaining requests with inadequate and incomplete
representations of inability to comply. 
“A representation of inability to comply with the particular demand for
inspection, copying, testing, or sampling shall affirm that a diligent search
and a reasonable inquiry has been made in an effort to comply with that
demand.  This statement shall also
specify whether the inability to comply is because the particular item or
category has never existed, has been destroyed, has been lost, misplaced, or
stolen, or has never been, or is no longer, in the possession, custody, or
control of the responding party.  The
statement shall set forth the name and address of any natural person or
organization known or believed by that party to have possession, custody, or
control of that item or category of item.” 
(CCP § 2031.230.)
            Watchtower
responded with numerous objections, followed by representations that it cannot
comply because the category of documents is not within its control, custody or
possession.  For example, to No. 3,
Watchtower responded, “Responding Party has conducted a reasonable and diligent
inquiry and is unable to comply with said request because the particular item
or category is not in this Responding Party’s possession, custody or control.”  Similarly, to Nos. 28-30, Watchtower
responded, “Responding Defendant has no database containing the information
requested, but insofar as documents could be provided that might be considered responsive,
Responding Defendant has conducted a diligent search, and a reasonable inquiry
has been made for documents that name GRAY, documents that name Plaintiff,
and/or documents that name the congregation Plaintiff has sued, in an effort to
locate the documents reasonably calculated to the lead to the discovery of
admissible evidence.  Responding
Defendant found no documents for any of those search terms, and thus believes
is not in possession, custody, or control of responsive documents.”
These representations of inability to comply
are inadequate and incomplete because they omit the final two elements required
under Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.230: (1) “whether the inability to
comply is because” the category of documents “never existed, has been
destroyed, has been lost, misplaced, or stolen, or has never been, or is no
longer, in the possession, custody, or control of the responding party”, and
(2) “the name and address of” anyone “known or believed to have possession,
custody or control of that item or category of item.”  
Failure to Identify Documents Withheld Based
on Objections 
Watchtower also objected to numerous
requests without identifying documents being withheld or the factual basis for
the objections.  When a party objects, it
must “[i]dentify with particularity any document, tangible thing, land, or
electronically stored information falling within any category of item in the
demand to which an objection is being made.” 
(CCP § 2031.240(b)(1).)  If it
objects based on privilege or attorney work product, the response must also
“provide sufficient factual information for other parties to evaluate the
merits of” these objections, “including, if necessary, a privilege log.”  (CCP § 2031.240(c)(1).)
            None
of Watchtower’s responses identify the documents being withheld subject to its objections.  Many responses include both objections and
representations of inability to comply. 
Without identifying any documents withheld, plaintiff cannot accurately
determine whether Watchtower’s responses mean it is unable to produce (a) documents
except those subject to its objections or (b) any documents at all, which would
make the objections superfluous. 
As to objections based on privilege and attorney
work product, Watchtower also must provide factual information to permit
plaintiff to evaluate its objections.  It
did not do so.  Watchtower’s opposition
acknowledges it “is in the process of preparing a privilege log” it has not
completed.  (Walters Decl., ¶ 14.)  
Disposition
Plaintiff T.S.’s motion to compel further
responses to requests for production is granted in part as to requests
Nos. 3-6, 10-19, 22-35, 41-46, 48, and 54. 
Defendant Watchtower Bible and Tract Society of New York, Inc. is ordered
to serve further verified responses with complete representations of inability
to comply to requests for production Nos. 3-6, 10-19, 22-35, 41-46, 48, and 54
within 30 days.  Defendant is ordered
to serve a privilege log identifying documents withheld subject to its
objections to each request for production and including sufficient factual
information for plaintiff to evaluate the objections.