 Case Number:  24STCV12839    Hearing Date:   August 8, 2024    Dept:  52 Defendant “The Ronald Marshall Trust
Cheron Turner Robinson” ’s Demurrer to Complaint
Defendant “The Ronald Marshall Trust
Cheron Turner Robinson” demurs to plaintiff Bruce Talbot’s entire
complaint.  
1st
Cause of Action: Breach of Contract
            Plaintiff does not allege sufficient
facts for this cause of action.  “To
prove breach of contract, plaintiff must show that the parties
had, and defendants breached, an enforceable agreement.”  (Ojjeh v. Brown (2019) 43
Cal.App.5th 1027, 1037.)
            Plaintiff does not allege the
threshold element for breach of contract: a valid contract with defendant.  An enforceable contract requires “sufficient
cause or consideration.”  (Civ. Code, §
1550, subd. 4.)  Consideration means “a bargained-for exchange.”  (Jara v. Suprema Meats, Inc. (2004)
121 Cal.App.4th 1238, 1248.)  Courts do
not “enforce
gratuitous promises, even if reduced to writing in the form of an agreement.”  (Id. at p. 1249.)
            The complaint alleges, “On or about
September 16, 2013, Plaintiff and Ronald Marshall, now deceased and represented
by the Ronald Marshall Trust, entered into a written agreement.”  (Comp., ¶ 5.) 
“Under the Agreement, Plaintiff and Ronald Marshall agreed, if the”
subject real property “were to be sold, one third of the proceeds would go to
the Plaintiff.”  (Ibid.)  It further alleges, “The Agreement
constitutes a binding contract between Plaintiff and Ronald
Marshall, and by extension, The Ronald Marshall Trust.  Plaintiff has performed all conditions,
covenants and promises required on his part in accordance with the Agreement.”  (Id., ¶¶ 9-10.)
            Attached as exhibit 1 to the
complaint is a letter dated September 16, 2013. 
(Comp., Ex. 1.)  It is addressed
to “Bruce Talbert [sic]” and Cheron Robinson and signed by Ronald
Marshall.  (Ibid.)  It identifies the subject real property and
provides, “This property is part of my living trust.  If I should die, my daughter Cheron Robinson
is the beneficiary of my living trust.  If
she decides to sell the property, give Bruce Talbert one third (1/3) of any
remaining equity.”  (Ibid.)
            This purported agreement is not a
contract because it does not obligate plaintiff to do anything.  It is a gratuitous promise to pay plaintiff
in the future.  There is no consideration
by plaintiff.  Plaintiff therefore does
not allege sufficient facts for breach of contract.        
2nd
Cause of Action: Fraudulent Inducement
            Plaintiff does not allege sufficient
facts for this cause of action.  Fraudulent inducement of a contract requires:
(1) the defendant “misrepresented or concealed a material fact . . . , (2)
knowledge of the falsity of the fact or lack of reasonable grounds for
believing it to be true, (3) an intent to induce reliance, (4) justifiable
reliance by the [plaintiff], and (5) resulting damages.”  (Garamendi v. Golden Eagle Ins. Co.
(2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 452, 470.)  
            Plaintiff
does not allege fraudulent inducement of contract with the specificity
required.  “[F]raud must be pled
specifically.”  (Lazar v. Superior
Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.) 
“ ‘This particularity requirement necessitates pleading facts which
show how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the representations were
tendered.’ ”  (Ibid.)
Plaintiff does
not allege facts showing the defendant, “The Ronald Marshall Trust Cheron
Robinson,” misrepresented any material fact. 
The complaint alleges, “Defendant knowing made false
representations to induce Plaintiff into the Agreement, specifically the
promise to pay Plaintiff one-third of the net proceeds from the sale of the
Property.”  (¶ 14.)  But the complaint’s specific factual
allegations assert that Ronald Marshall, not the defendant, made the agreement
that “if the [subject property] were to be sold, one third of the proceeds
would go to the Plaintiff.”  (¶ 5.)  The complaint does not specifically allege the
named defendant to this action made a misrepresentation.
Plaintiff also does not specifically
allege justifiable reliance and resulting damages.  “The fraud plaintiff must … allege his
damages were caused by the actions he took in reliance on the defendant’s
misrepresentations.”  (Beckwith v.
Dahl (2012) 205 Cal.App.4th 1039, 1064.)  When damages result solely from defendant’s
failure to perform contractual obligations, those constitute “breach of
contract damages, not reliance damages” and therefore do not satisfy the
element of damages for fraud.  (Service
by Medallion, Inc. v. Clorox Co. (1996) 44 Cal.App.4th 1807, 1819; accord Alliance
Mortgage Co. v. Rothwell (1995) 10 Cal.4th 1226, 1240.)  
 Plaintiff makes only the
conclusory allegation that he “reasonably relied on these representations to
his detriment.”  (Comp., ¶ 15.)  He does not specifically allege any actions
he took in reliance on the alleged misrepresentation.  Nor does he allege how any such actions caused
harm other than him not receiving what he was promised.  
3rd
Cause of Action: Unjust Enrichment 
            Plaintiff does not allege sufficient
facts for this purported cause of action. 
“California
does not recognize a cause of action for unjust enrichment.”  (Hooked Media Group, Inc. v. Apple Inc.
(2020) 55 Cal.App.5th 323, 336.)  “Unjust
enrichment is ‘ “a general principle, underlying various legal doctrines and
remedies,” ’ rather than a remedy itself.” 
(Melchior v. New Line Productions,
Inc. (2003) 106 Cal.App.4th 779, 793.) 
“It is synonymous with restitution.” 
(Ibid.)  “Ordinarily,
restitution is required only if ‘ “the benefits were conferred by mistake,
fraud, coercion or request.” ’ ”  (Ibid.)
            Assuming unjust enrichment were an
independent cause of action, plaintiff does not allege any basis for
restitution from defendant.  The
complaint does not allege facts showing defendant received any benefit from
plaintiff or that any such benefit was conferred by mistake, fraud, coercion,
or request.
4th
Cause of Action: Declaratory Relief
            Plaintiff does not allege sufficient
facts for declaratory relief.  When a court sustains a demurrer to other
causes of action, “a demurrer is also properly sustained as to a claim for
declaratory relief which is ‘wholly derivative’ of” the other causes of
action.  (Ball v. FleetBoston
Financial Corp. (2008) 164 Cal.App.4th 794, 800.)  Declaratory relief is also “unnecessary and
superfluous” when the issues involved are already “fully engaged by other
causes of action.”  (Hood v. Superior
Court (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 319, 324.) 

            The
complaint alleges, “An actual controversy exists between Plaintiff and
Defendant as to their respective rights and obligations under the Agreement.  Plaintiff seeks a declaration [of] the rights
and obligations of the parties under the Agreement.”  (¶¶ 21-22.) 
These allegations do not support a claim for declaratory relief because,
as discussed above, the agreement is not an enforceable contract.  If it were enforceable, this cause of action
would be superfluous.  Declaratory relief
is not available because any controversy over the agreement has already “ ‘crystallized
into a cause of action for past wrongs’ ” and “a money judgment will fully
resolve the dispute.”  (Cardellini v.
Casey (1986) 181 Cal.App.3d 389, 396.)
Disposition  
Defendant “The Ronald Marshall Trust
Cheron Turner Robinson” ’s demurrer to plaintiff Bruce Talbot’s entire
complaint is sustained with 20 days’ leave to amend.