 Case Number:  22STCV02938    Hearing Date:   July 25, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon.
Lee S. Arian, Dept 27 
 
MOTION
FOR LEAVE TO AMEND 
Hearing
Date: 7/25/24
CASE
NO./NAME: 21STCV02938 HEDYEH HAMEDANIZADEH vs CITY OF LOS ANGELES et al. 
Moving
Party: Plaintiff 
Responding
Party: Defendant Glenoaks
Business Park
Notice:
Sufficient  
Ruling:
MOTION FOR LEAVE TO AMEND IS DENIED
 
Background
 
On January 25, 2021, Plaintiff filed the
present complaint alleging that Defendants, including Glenoaks Business Park, a
limited partnership, were negligent and created a dangerous condition by
leaving a bolt/rebar exposed and protruding from the ground in an area
frequented by the public. After three years, Plaintiff now moves the Court for
leave to file an Amended Complaint to add facts supporting a claim for punitive
damages against Defendant Glenoaks Business Park.
 
Legal Standard
 
When a party moves to amend a pleading,
“courts generally should permit amendment to the complaint at any stage of the
proceedings, up to and including trial. [Citations.]” (Melican v. Regents of
University of California (2007) 151 Cal.App.4th 168, 175.) In ruling on
this type of motion, prejudice to another party is the main concern. (Hirsa
v. Superior Court (1981) 118 Cal.App.3d 486.) The type of prejudice the
court is to be concerned with should be something beyond simply having to cope
with a potentially successful new legal theory of recovery that has been
revealed during discovery. (Ibid.) Instead, the court should look for
delays in the trial date, loss of critical evidence, extensive increase in the
costs of preparation and other similar circumstances that create prejudice to
another party. (Melican, supra, 151 Cal.App.4th at p. 176.) The Court may
also deny leave to amend when amendment would be “futile”. (Foxborough v.
Van Atta (1994) 26 Cal.App.4th 217, 230-231.; Nestle v. Santa Monica (1972)
6 Cal.3d 920, 939[ denial is justified when the proposed amendment does not
state a cause of action].)
A motion to amend a pleading before trial
must include a copy of the proposed amendment or amended pleading.  (Cal.
Rules of Court, Rule 3.1324, subd. (a)(1).)  A motion to amend a pleading
must also be supported by a declaration which specifies the following: (1) the
effect of the amendment; (2) why the amendment is necessary and proper; (3)
when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered; and (4)
the reasons why the request for amendment was not made earlier.  (Cal.
Rules of Court, Rule 3.1324, subd. (b).) 
 
Punitive Damages 
Punitive damages
may be imposed where it is proven by clear and convincing evidence that the
defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice. (Civ. Code § 3294,
subd. (a).)  “Malice’ means conduct which is intended by the defendant to
cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by the
defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of
others.” (Civil Code section 3294 (c)(1).) Under the statute, malice does not
require actual intent to harm. Conscious disregard for the safety of another
may be sufficient where the defendant is aware of the probable dangerous
consequences of his or her conduct and he or she willfully fails to avoid such
consequences. (Pfeifer v.John Crane, Inc. (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 1270,
1299.) ‘Despicable’ is a powerful term that refers to circumstances that are
‘base,’ ‘vile,’ or ‘contemptible.’ (College Hospital, Inc. v. Superior Court
(1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 725.)    
In Dawes v.
Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 82, 89, the court differentiates
between risks that are foreseeable and those that are necessarily probable,
holding that the risk must be necessarily probable for the court to find the
conduct or the lack thereof to be willful. In this case, the allegations need
to establish that the risk was not merely foreseeable but necessarily probable
to support claims for punitive damages
A plaintiff must
assert facts with specificity to support a conclusion that a defendant acted
with oppression, fraud, or malice.  To wit, there is a heightened pleading
requirement regarding a claim for punitive damages.  (Smith v. Superior
Court (1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 1033, 1041-1042; Today's IV, Inc. v. Los
Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority (2022) 83 Cal.App.5th
1137, 1193.) 
“An employer
shall not be liable for damages pursuant to subdivision (a), based upon acts of
an employee of the employer, unless the employer had advance knowledge of the
unfitness of the employee and employed him or her with a conscious disregard of
the rights or safety of others or authorized or ratified the wrongful conduct
for which the damages are awarded or was personally guilty of oppression,
fraud, or malice. With respect to a corporate employer, the advance knowledge
and conscious disregard, authorization, ratification or act of oppression,
fraud, or malice must be on the part of an officer, director, or managing agent
of the corporation.”  (Civ. Code, § 3294(b).)  
Discussion
The Court denies
Plaintiff's request to amend on the grounds of futility, as the proposed
amendments fail to allege sufficient, specific facts to support a claim for
punitive damages. Despite Plaintiff's introduction of numerous new allegations
in the moving papers (Motion at pg. 15-16), Plaintiff did not specifically
detail how Glenoaks Business Park had prior knowledge of an employee’s
unfitness, authorized the employee's wrongful conduct, or was personally
engaged in malicious conduct, as required by Civ. Code, § 3294(b) for punitive
damages against employers. Specifically, Plaintiff did not identify who was
aware of the exposed bolt and neglected to remove it, the individual’s title,
whether that person is an employee or a managing agent, how Glenoaks was aware
of the employee's unfitness, and whether there were prior incidents, such as
trips and falls over the exposed bolt. Moreover, Plaintiff must specifically
demonstrate how the danger presented by the exposed bolt was not merely
foreseeable but also necessarily probable, as established in Dawes, 111
Cal. App. 3d at 89. The original complaint alleges that “the dangerous
condition of the premises, among other things, created a reasonably only
foreseeable risk of the kind of injury that was sustained by Plaintiff”
(Complaint ¶ 16.) This allegation remains unchanged by the proposed amendments
and failed to allege with particularity how the exposed bolt created a
necessary probability of danger.
 
MOTION TO COMPEL DEPOSITION AND
PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS AND REQUESTS FOR SANCTIONS

Moving
Party: Plaintiff 
Responding Party:
Defendant County of Los Angeles
Notice:
Sufficient  
Ruling: MOTION TO
COMPEL DEPOSITION AND REQUESTS FOR SANCTIONS ARE GRANTED
 
Background 
On
December 15, 2023, Plaintiff served Defendant County of Los Angeles with
Plaintiff’s Notice of Deposition of Defendant’s Person Most Knowledgeable re
Policies and Procedures for Inspection and Maintenance of the Premises to occur
on January 2, 2024. On December 21, 2023, Defendant County of Los Angeles
served its objections. On January 12, 2024, Plaintiff then served the Third
Amended Notice of Deposition of Defendant County of Los Angeles’ Person Most
Knowledgeable to occur on February 27, 2024. On January 16, 2024, defense
counsel sent an email stating that there should not be a problem relating to
the deposition. No objection was served to the Third Amended Notice of
Deposition. On February 27, 2024, Defendant’s PMK did not appear for the
deposition, and Plaintiff took a Certificate of Non-Appearance for this
deposition. Plaintiff then inquired into Defendant’s non-appearance and
alternative dates, to which she received no responses. Plaintiff now moves the
Court to compel Defendant County of Los Angeles’ PMK deposition re policies and
procedures.
Discussion
Defendant
failed to serve a written objection to Plaintiff's third notice of deposition
and did not appear for the deposition on the scheduled date. (CCP
§2025.450(a).) Plaintiff inquired into the deponent's non-appearance and
requested availability but received no responses. Consequently, all
requirements to compel Defendant’s PMQ deposition have been met, and the
present motion is GRANTED. Defendant’s PMQ is ordered to appear for deposition
within 30 days of today.
Although
Defendant filed an opposition claiming that Plaintiff did not inquire into the
non-appearance, this claim is unsupported by the evidence. On March 1, 2024,
Plaintiff’s counsel sent an email to defense counsel regarding the County’s
failure to appear at the deposition and inquired about the PMK’s availability
(Plf’s Ex. J). Defendant did not provide any evidence to refute this email.  The Court thus concludes that Plaintiff has
satisfied the inquiry requirement under CCP §2025.450(b)(2).
The
Court notes that the notice of deposition includes a demand for production of
documents, and Plaintiff seeks an order compelling Defendant to produce all
identified documents at its deposition. The moving papers fail to show good
cause for the production of the documents sought, as required by
§2025.450(b)(1). There is no discussion of good cause, and therefore, the Court
declines to enter an order compelling Defendant to produce documents but urges
the parties to work together to resolve any issues concerning documents without
court intervention.
Plaintiff
seeks sanctions of $2709.25 based on the missed PMQ deposition on February 27,
2024, and the cost of preparing its motion to compel. Defendant contends it
acted with substantial justification. On February 22, 2024, Defendant
communicated to Plaintiff that its PMQ, Officer Michael Mendoza, had been
transferred to the jail system and was unavailable for the deposition on
February 27. Defendant also mentioned that the new PMK, Ms. Faragoso, was only
recently identified. However, Defendant only did so without any prior objection
and also after multiple efforts by Plaintiff to schedule and confirm the
deposition. And then when Plaintiff inquired after the non-appearance on
February 27, Defendant failed to respond. 
Accordingly, the Court finds that Defendant has not acted with
substantial justification throughout the process, thereby leading to this
motion.  The Court thus orders sanctions
in the amount of $1500 against Defendant and its counsel, jointly and
severally, to be paid within 30 days.
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:
 
If a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed
by the case number.  The body of the email must include the hearing date
and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party
submitting.
 
Unless all parties submit by email
to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely
(encouraged) or in person for oral argument.  You should assume that
others may appear at the hearing to argue.
 
If the parties neither submit nor appear at
hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative
ruling as the order of the Court.  After the Court has issued a tentative
ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without
leave.
 