 Case Number:  23STCV08367    Hearing Date:   July 25, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27
 
MOTION TO CONTINUE TRIAL
Hearing Date: 7/25/24 
CASE NO./NAME: 23STCV08367 LAURA GELLES vs
CITY OF LOS ANGELES, et al.
Moving Party: Defendants Ali Hatam and
Zahra Zamani
Responding Party: Unopposed
Notice: Sufficient 
Ruling: MOTION TO CONTINUE TRIAL IS GRANTED
 
Legal Standard 
Although continuances
of trials are disfavored, each request for a continuance must be considered on
its own merits.¿ (CRC Rule 3.1332(c).)¿
The Court may grant a continuance only on an affirmative showing of good cause
requiring the continuance.¿ (CRC Rule 3.1332(c).)
The Court may look to the following factors in determining whether a trial
continuance is warranted: (1) proximity of the trial date; (2) whether there
was any previous continuance of trial due to any party; (3) the length of the continuance
requested; (4) the availability of alternative means to address the problem
that gave rise to the motion; (5) the prejudice that parties or witnesses will
suffer as a result of the continuance; and (6) whether trial counsel is engaged
in another trial.¿ (See generally CRC
Rule 3.1332(d)(1)-(11).)¿ Additional factors for
the Court to consider include: a party’s excused inability to obtain essential
testimony, documents, or other material evidence despite diligent efforts;
whether all parties have stipulated to a continuance; and any other fact or circumstance
relevant to the fair determination of the motion or application.¿(CRC
Rule 3.1332(c), (d).) 
Factual Background and Analysis 
On April 14, 2023,
Plaintiff filed the present trip and fall case. On June 25, 2024, Defendants
Ali Hatam and Zahra Zamani filed a motion for summary judgment, set to be heard
on May 2, 2025. The current trial date is set for October 11, 2024. Defendants
now move the Court to continue the trial to sometime in June 2025, after the
motion for summary judgment is to be heard.
Numerous courts of
appeal have held that a trial court cannot refuse to consider a motion for
summary judgment that is timely filed. "A trial court may not refuse to
hear a summary judgment filed within the time limits of [Code of Civil
Procedure] section 437c. [Citation.] Local rules and practices may not be
applied so as to prevent the filing and hearing of such a motion." (Sentry
Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (1989) 207 Cal.App.3d 526, 529); accord First
State Inc. Co. v. Superior Court (2000) 79 Cal.App.4th 324, 330
[invalidating case management order to the extent it precluded filing motions
pursuant to section 437c ]; Wells Fargo Bank v. Superior Court (1988)
206 Cal.App.3d 918, 923 [local court rule that "require a party filing a
complex summary judgment motion to file the motion six months before the date
set for trial is void and unenforceable because it is inconsistent with section
437c"].) As the Sentry court explained: "We are sympathetic to
the problems the trial courts experience in calendaring and hearing the many
motions for summary judgment. However, the solution to these problems cannot
rest in a refusal to hear timely motions." (Sentry, supra, at p.
530.) 
Defendants timely filed
their motion for summary judgment as it was filed more than 105 days prior to
the hearing. Thus, the Court finds good cause to continue the trial so
Defendants' motion for summary judgment can be heard. The Court grants the
present motion. The new Trial Date is set for June  ____, 2025,
at 8:30 a.m. The Final Status Conference is continued to June ____, 2025, at 10:00 a.m.
The only basis to continue the trial date is so the motion for summary judgment
can be heard. Defendants have not shown good cause to have the fact discovery
cut-off follow the new trial date. Should the parties wish to reopen fact
discovery, they can do so either through stipulation or motion. 
All other case-related deadlines, including expert discovery, will follow the
new trial date. 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿The body of the email must include the hearing date and
time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿You should assume that others may appear at the hearing
to argue.
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion.
 