 Case Number:  21STCV29312    Hearing Date:   July 25, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27
 
MOTION TO COMPEL INITIAL RESPONSES AND REQUESTS FOR SANCTIONS
Hearing Date: 7/25/24 
CASE NO./NAME: 21STCV29312 MEHDI RASSOLI POUR
KHAMENEH et al. vs JOSE SARAVIA ZELAYA, et al.
Moving Party: Defendant Brizuela Trucking 
Responding Party: Plaintiffs
Notice: Sufficient 
Ruling: MOTION TO COMPEL INITIAL RESPONSES AND REQUESTS FOR SANCTIONS ARE GRANTED.
 
On March 20, 2024,
Defendant Brizuela Trucking served its Supplemental Interrogatories and
Supplemental Inspection Demand on Plaintiffs Fatemeh Rezaeinik and Mehdi
Rassouli Khameneh. The verified responses were due by April 26, 2024. On April
26, 2024, Plaintiffs served hybrid responses to the discovery at issue
containing both objections and substantive responses, but no verification was
included. On May 8, 2024, Defendant sent Plaintiffs a meet and confer letter
requesting them to provide signed verifications for their responses at issue.
Plaintiffs’ counsel requested numerous extensions, and the final extension to
provide the verifications was set for June 3, 2024; however, no verifications
were provided, and Defendant now moves the court to compel verified initial
responses.
Plaintiff filed an
opposition stating that Motions to Compel Further Discovery Responses should
not be considered until the parties have engaged in an informal Discovery
Conference (IDC). The present motions are not motions to compel further, but a
motion to compel initial responses. Since no verifications were provided, no
responses have actually been provided as a response with no verification is
tantamount to no response at all. (Appleton v. Superior Court (1988) 206
Cal.App.3d 632.)
Plaintiffs also argue
that the motion is moot as responses have been provided; however, the verifications
are deficient, lacking a date of execution as required under CCP § 2015.5. The
Court orders Plaintiffs provide code-compliant verifications to the responses
at issue within 30 days of today. 
The Court finds
sanctions to be appropriate in this instance as Defendant provided Plaintiffs
numerous opportunities to provide the verifications, but Plaintiffs failed to
do so after promising to provide the verifications and forced Defendant to file
the instant motions. Defendant requests sanctions in the amount of $432.00 per
motion. The Court finds this amount reasonable. The Court sanctions Plaintiffs
in the amount of $1,700. Plaintiffs and their counsel are ORDERED to pay,
jointly and severally, sanctions of $1,700 to Defendant within 20 days of today’s
date.
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿The body of the email must include the hearing date and
time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿You should assume that others may appear at the hearing
to argue.
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion.