 Case Number:  23STCV10308    Hearing Date:   July 25, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27
 
MOTIONS TO COMPEL FURTHER AND REQUEST FOR SANCTIONS
Hearing Date: 7/25/24 
CASE NO./NAME: 23STCV10308 JILLIAN ARMENDARIZ
vs ACE HOTEL DOWNTOWN LOS ANGELES et al.
Moving Party: Plaintiff
Responding Party: Defendant Ace Hotel Downtown
Los Angeles
Notice: Sufficient 
Ruling: 
MOTIONS TO COMPEL FURTHER ARE GRANTED IN PART AND DENIED IN PART
 
REQUEST FOR SANCTIONS IS GRANTED
 
Background
On October 25, 2023,
Plaintiff served Defendant with Request for Admissions and Special
Interrogatories, Set One. After several extensions, Defendant served timely
discovery responses. On February 23, 2024, Plaintiff served a meet and confer
letter relating to the alleged deficiencies in the responses. Plaintiff gave
Defendant several extensions to provide further responses, and Defendant
extended Plaintiff's motion to compel further deadline to April 26, 2024. No
responses were provided by that date, and Plaintiff now moves the Court to
compel further responses to her Requests for Admissions, Set One, and Special
Interrogatories, Set One.
Discussion
The present motions
were timely filed. On February 23, 2024, Defendant provided its initial
responses and extended Plaintiff's motion to compel further deadline to April
26, 2024. On April 26, 2024, Plaintiff filed the present motions after not
receiving further responses. Plaintiff has fulfilled its meet and confer
obligations prior to filing the motion, and the parties attended an IDC on July
16, 2024, but were unable to resolve their discovery issues. Plaintiff has met
all procedural requirements for the Court to hear the two motions to compel
further. At issue are Special Interrogatories numbers 5, 22, 23, 33, 45, 46,
47, 48, 49, 50, and Requests for Admissions requests 4, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13,
17, 19, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 27, 28, and 29.
Special Interrogatories
SPECIAL INTERROGATORY NOS. 5, 33:
Defendant’s responses state "Unknown at this time."
Ruling: GRANT. If responding party lacks personal
knowledge sufficient to respond, he or she may so state, but only after making
a reasonable and good faith effort to obtain the information by inquiry to
other persons or organizations (Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v.
Pacific Healthcare Consultants, (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390, 406)
“a party has a general duty to conduct a reasonable investigation to obtain
responsive information…, and must furnish information from all sources under
his or her control.” (Gordon v. Superior Court, (1984) 161 Cal.App.3d
157, 167-168.)
Defendant must explicitly state the efforts made to
obtain the information in its responses.
SPECIAL INTERROGATORY NO. 22:
Please state all facts which YOU base YOUR contention that YOU were not
responsible for cleaning the stairways at the SUBJECT LOCATION on the date of
the INCIDENT. 
Response: Cleaning activities on the date of the
incident were subcontracted to DBS.
Ruling: GRANT. Defendant is ordered to provide
further responses explaining how subcontracting cleaning activities supports
Defendant's contention that it was not responsible for cleaning the stairway.
 
SPECIAL INTERROGATORY NO. 23:
Please IDENTIFY any and all PERSONS with knowledge of the facts set forth in
YOUR response to Special Interrogatories No. 22, supra.
Response: Stacey Levine who can be contacted through
Responding Party's counsel of record.
Ruling: DENY. Defendant has provided code complaint
response that is responsive. While Plaintiff may dispute the truthfulness of
Defendant's response, such disputes fall outside the scope of the present
motion.
SPECIAL INTERROGATORY NO. 45:
Did YOU OR ANYONE ACTING ON YOUR BEHALF conduct an investigation RELATING TO
the INCIDENT?
Response: Yes.
Ruling:  DENY.
Defendant has provided a responsive answer, as the question calls for a yes or
no response.
SPECIAL INTERROGATORY NOs. 46 49: These
requests all ask Defendant to identify witnesses.
Ruling: DENY. Defendant identified the responsive
witnesses. Plaintiff nevertheless requests a privilege log in the separate
statement; however a privilege log is inapplicable as Plaintiff is not
requesting documents and privilege logs do not apply to responses to
interrogatories (Hernandez v. Superior Court (2003) 112 Cal.App.4th 285,
293.)
 
SPECIAL INTERROGATORY NOs. 47, 48:
These requests all ask Defendant to identify documents.
Ruling: DENY. Defendant identified the responsive
documents. Plaintiff nevertheless requests a privilege log in the sperate
statement. A “privilege log is unnecessary with regard to answering
interrogatories seeking the identification of documents.” (Hernandez v.
Superior Court (2003) 112 Cal.App.4th 285, 293.)
 
SPECIAL INTERROGATORY NO. 50:
Please IDENTIFY all PERSONS who were employed by YOU who were at the SUBJECT
LOCATION within twenty-four (24) hours of the date of the INCIDENT.
RESPONSE TO SPECIAL INTERROGATORY NO. 50: Objection.
This interrogatory is overbroad and unduly burdensome in that it seeks
information related to the entire Ace Hotel while the incident occurred on one
staircase within the Ace Theatre, vague and ambiguous as to the term
"employed," and not full and complete in and of itself in violation
of CCP § 2030.060. Moreover, this interrogatory seeks irrelevant information
not reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.
Furthermore, Responding Party objects to this Interrogatory to the extent that
it seeks information protected by the work product doctrine and/or
attorney-client privilege. See Co/to v. Super/or Court (2012) 54 Cal. 4th 480.
Further, this Interrogatory violates Code of Civil Procedure Section 2034
because it calls for an expert opinion. Discovery and investigation are
continuing. Responding Party reserves the right to supplement this response.
Ruling: GRANT. Defendant failed to provide a
substantive response, offering only objections that the Court finds wholly unpersuasive.
The request is not overbroad as it is narrowly limited to the 24 hours
surrounding the incident and specifically to Defendant’s employees present at
the location in question. The term "employed" is neither vague nor
ambiguous. As established in Deyo v. Kilbourne (1978) 84 Cal.App.3d 771,
783, a question must be answered if “the nature of the information sought is
apparent.” Potential witnesses to the incident are discoverable; under CCP
§2017.010, parties are entitled to the identity and contact information of
witnesses. This includes persons who may have been actual witnesses, those who
have hearsay knowledge, or those with knowledge of any discoverable matter,
either fact or opinion, as noted in Gonzalez v. Superior Court (1995) 33
Cal.App.4th 1539, and Smith v. Superior Court (1961) 189 Cal.App.2d 6,
12. Additionally, the Court finds that neither attorney-client privilege nor
the attorney work product doctrine applies to this request for the identities
of potential witnesses. Defendant is ordered to provide further responses.
 
Requests For Admissions
RFA NOs. 4, 10, 11, 13:
Defendant’s responses admit to the requests only in part.
Ruling: GRANT. Respondents are required to admit the
part of a request that is true (as expressed in the request or as reasonably
and clearly qualified), deny the part that is untrue, and specify the part as
to which the responding party lacks sufficient information, per CCP
§2033.220(b) and Applera Corp. v. MP Biomedicals, LLC (2009) 173
Cal.App.4th 769, 778-79 n.5. Defendant has only partially admitted to the
requests and remained silent on other parts. Therefore, Defendant is ordered to
either admit, deny, or state insufficient knowledge to respond to the portions
of the requests that were not addressed in the original responses.
 
RFA NOs. 8, 9: Admit
that you controlled or operated the property at the subject location on the
date of the incident.
Response: Deny on the basis that AEG Presents, LLC,
licensed the use of the property for an event on the date of the incident per a
license agreement.
Ruling: DENY. This response is code complaint, as
Defendant denied the request and provided a straightforward reason for the
denial.
 
RFA NO. 12:
Admit that YOU were responsible for cleaning the stairways in the SUBJECT
LOCATION on the date of the INCIDENT.
Response: Without waiving the foregoing objections,
Responding Party responds as follows: A reasonable inquiry concerning the
matter in the particular request has been made, and that the information known
or readily obtainable is insufficient to enable Responding Party to admit the
matter at this time.
Ruling: DENY. Defendant’s response is code complaint
pursuant to CCP § 2033.220(c). That said, it is unclear to the Court why the
responding party would be unable to admit or deny this request.
RFA NOs. 17, 19, 21, 27, 28, 29:
Defendant’s responses states “Without waiving the foregoing objections,
Responding Party responds as follows: A reasonable inquiry concerning the
matter in the particular request has been made, and that the information known
or readily obtainable is insufficient to enable Responding Party to admit the
matter at this time. Additionally, neither party has designated expert
witnesses. On that basis, Responding Party responds: Deny.”
Ruling: GRANT. Defendant's response is
contradictory; it states insufficient information to admit or deny this matter
in one portion of its responses yet denies this request right after. Defendant
is ordered to provide a straightforward response.
RFA NOs. 22, 23, 24:
Admit that at the time of the INCIDENT YOU were responsible for implementing a
stairway cleaning plan or stairway inspection plan or stairway maintenance plan
at the SUBJECT LOCATION
Response: Deny to the extent that it is not clear
what is a "stairway cleaning plan." or “stairway inspection plan” or
“stairway maintenance plan.”
Ruling: GRANT. A question must be answered if “the
nature of the information sought is apparent.” (Deyo v. Kilbourne (1978)
84 Cal.App.3d 771, 783.) The Court, utilizing the plain meaning of the terms,
finds that the nature of the information sought is apparent. Defendant is
therefore ordered to provide a code-compliant response based on its
understanding of the plain meaning of these terms.
RFA NO. 25:
Admit that at the time of the INCIDENT YOU directed cleaning duties at the
SUBJECT LOCATION.
Response: Without waiving the foregoing objections,
Responding Party responds as follows: Deny.
Ruling: DENY. Defendant has provided code complaint
responses.
Conclusion
The Court grants
Plaintiff's motion in part and denies it in part. Defendant is ordered to
provide code-compliant responses to the requests that were granted in the
foregoing analysis within 30 days from today. Plaintiff requests attorney fees
in the amount of $2,310.00 per motion. Sanctions are mandatory to compensate
Plaintiff for having to bring this motion to seek code-compliant discovery
responses. Defendant did not fully act with substantial justification, as some
of its responses were not code-compliant and forced Plaintiff to file the
instant motions. However, the Court finds that Plaintiff might have been
overzealous with regard to some responses as they were indeed code complaint.
Therefore, the Court reduces the sanction to $1500 for both motions. Defendant
and its counsel are ORDERED to pay, jointly and severally, sanctions of $1500
to Plaintiff within 30 days of today’s date.
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿The body of the email must include the hearing date and
time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿You should assume that others may appear at the hearing
to argue.
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion.
 