  Case Number:  20STCV27855    Hearing Date:   March 13, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     March
13, 2024                      TRIAL DATE: 
June 24, 2024
                                                           
CASE:                                JCS El Segundo, Inc. v. El Segundo Plaza Associate, L.P., et
al.
 
CASE NO.:                 20STCV27855
 





















 
MOTION
TO CONTINUE TRIAL



 
MOVING PARTY:                   Defendants
El Segundo Plaza Associates, L.P., and El Segundo Plaza I, Inc.
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     No opposition
 
 
I.          BACKGROUND
 
            On February 14, 2024, Defendants, El Segundo Plaza
Associates, L.P. (erroneously sued and served as El Segundo Plaza Associate,
L.P. aka El Segundo Plaza, L.P.) and El Segundo Plaza I, Inc., filed this
motion to continue the trial date and to set all related cutoff dates to the
new trial date.  This is the second
request for a trial continuance.
 
            The motion
is unopposed.[1]
 
II.           LEGAL STANDARD TO CONTINUE TRIAL
California Rules of Court, rule
3.1332, subdivision (b) outlines that “a party seeking a continuance of the
date set for trial, whether contested or uncontested or stipulated to by the
parties, must make the request for a continuance by a noticed motion or an ex
parte application under the rules in chapter 4 of this division, with
supporting declarations.  The party must make the motion or application as
soon as reasonably practical once the necessity for the continuance is
discovered.” 
Under California Rules of Court,
rule 3.1332, subd. (c), the Court may grant a continuance only on an
affirmative showing of good cause requiring the continuance.  Circumstances that may indicate good cause
include “a party’s excused inability to obtain essential testimony, documents,
or other material evidence despite diligent efforts.”  The Court should
consider all facts and circumstances relevant to the determination, such as
proximity of the trial date, prior continuances, prejudice suffered, whether all
parties have stipulated to a continuance, and whether the interests of justice
are served.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332, subd. (d).) 
Deadlines
for Summary Judgment Motion
            Code of
Civil Procedure, section 437c requires a Motion for Summary Judgment be made
any time after 60 days have elapsed since the general appearance in the
action.¿ The motion shall be heard no later than 30 days before trial, unless
the Court, for good cause, orders otherwise.¿ Parties must serve notice of the
motion and all supporting papers at least 75 days before the time appointed for
hearing.¿  
III.      DISCUSSION
 
            Defendants
argue good cause exists to continue the trial date because Defendants timely
filed their summary judgment motion and reserved the earliest available hearing
date for its motion for summary judgment. The motion is scheduled to be
heard on June 3, 2024, which is 21 days before the trial date of June 24, 2024.  (See Jamgotchian Decl.)  For this reason, Defendant requests a 6-week trial
continuance so that the court may have sufficient time to rule on the motion and,
if necessary, to allow the parties to prepare for trial.  Defendants also request all trial related
dates to correspond to the new trial date.
 
            Based on
the foregoing, the court finds good cause exists to continue the trial date. Defendants
are entitled to have their summary judgment motion heard at least 30 days
before trial.  As this is the second
trial continuance request only and no party has opposed this motion, the court
also finds no prejudice will result from granting this motion.
 
IV.       CONCLUSION 
 
The unopposed motion to continue trial is GRANTED.  Defendants El Segundo Plaza Associates, L.P.’s
and El Segundo Plaza I, Inc.’s motion for summary judgment is scheduled for June
3, 2024.  The Final Status Conference scheduled
for June 11, 2024 is CONTINUED to July 22, 2024 at 10:00 AM.  The Non-Jury Trial scheduled for June 24, 2024
is CONTINUED to August 5, 2024 at 8:30 AM. 
All discovery cut-off dates, all pretrial deadlines including discovery,
expert, and motion cut-off dates are set to the new trial date of August 5,
2024.
 
Moving party to give notice. 

 
Dated:   March 13, 2024  




 


   




 


  Kerry Bensinger  
  Judge of the Superior Court 




 


