 Case Number:  23STCV23219    Hearing Date:   March 13, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:      March 13, 2024                                             TRIAL DATE:   Not set
                                                           
CASE:                         Aaron Birt v. Cali Movers, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 23STCV23219
 





















 
DEMURRERS
WITHOUT MOTIONS TO STRIKE



 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant
Monica Nicole Laborico
                                                Defendant Jay Beckett
                                                Defendant
Oswaldo Flores 
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     No opposition
 
 
            On March 15, 2023, Plaintiff, Aaron Birt, a self-represented
litigant, filed a Judicial Council Form Complaint against Defendants, Cali
Movers, Jay Beckett (“Beckett”), Monique Laborico, erroneously sued as Nickie
Laborico (“Laborico”), Juan C. Becerra, and Oscar Flores for breach of contract.
 
            On June 15,
2023, Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint (FAC) Defendants, Cali Movers,
Juan C. Becerra dba Cali Movers (“Becerra”), and Oscar Flores dba Cali Movers
(“Flores”) only.
 
            On July 25,
2023, defendants Beckett, Laborico, and Flores each filed a demurrer to the
FAC. 
 
            On October 24,
2023, Plaintiff filed an amendment to the FAC indicating Defendants Beckett,
Laborico, Becerra, and Flores were incorrectly named and that the true name of
the defendant is Cali Movers, Inc. 
 
            On December
20, 2023, the court granted Plaintiff’s ex parte application to file a first
amended complaint deleting the individual defendants’ names and replacing their
names with the name of the company.
 
            On December
21, 2023, Plaintiff filed the FAC naming Cali Movers, Inc., and Does 1-4, as
the sole defendants in this action.  
 
“A party may amend its pleading once without leave of the
court at any time before the answer, demurrer, or motion to strike is filed, or
after a demurrer or motion to strike is filed but before the demurrer or motion
to strike is heard if the amended pleading is filed and served no later than
the date for filing an opposition to the demurrer or motion to strike. A party
may amend the pleading after the date for filing an opposition to the demurrer
or motion to strike, upon stipulation by the parties. The time for responding
to an amended pleading shall be computed from the date of service of the
amended pleading.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 472, subd. (a).)
 
Given that Plaintiff has filed an amended complaint which no
longer names any individuals as defendants in this action, the demurrers filed
by Beckett, Laborico, and Flores are MOOT.
 
Clerk of the Court to give notice.  
 
 
Dated:   March 13, 2024                                  




¿ 


¿¿¿ 




¿ 


¿ Kerry Bensinger¿¿ 
¿ Judge of the Superior Court¿ 




 
 
 
            