 Case Number:  23STCV23298    Hearing Date:   March 13, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     March
13, 2024                                  TRIAL
DATE:  March 24, 2025
                                                           
CASE:                         Emmanuel Akuamoah v. Kaiser Foundation Hospitals, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 23STCV23298
 





















 
MOTION
TO QUASH SUBPOENA FOR 
PLAINTIFF’S
MEDICAL RECORDS FROM KAISER PERMANENTE



 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff
Emmanuel Akuamoah
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Defendant Kaiser
Foundation Hospitals
 
 
I.          INTRODUCTION
 
This is a discrimination and wrongful termination action.  On September 26, 2023, Plaintiff, Emmanuel
Akuamoah, filed a Complaint against Defendant, Kaiser Foundation Hospitals,
alleging causes of action for (1) Retaliation in Violation of CFRA, (2) Violation
of Labor Code §§ 233, 234, 246.5, (3) Disability and Associational Disability
Discrimination (FEHA), (4) Violation of Labor  Code §§ 1102.5-1105, (5) Retaliation (FEHA),
(6) Wrongful Termination in Violation of Public Policy, and (7) Failure to
Prevent Discrimination and/or Retaliation (FEHA).
 
As alleged in the Complaint, Plaintiff was employed by
Defendant as a social worker.  During his
employment, Plaintiff suffered from symptoms related to COVID which required
leave from work, and he took medical leave because of work-related injuries to
his Achilles tendon and rotator cuff.  Plaintiff’s
Achilles tendon injury required accommodation.  Further, Plaintiff took medical leave for the
birth of his son and again took leave when his son contracted COVID.   In
retaliation for taking medical leaves due to workplace-incurred injuries and
issues regarding his son, Plaintiff was wrongfully terminated.  As a result, Plaintiff suffered humiliation,
mental anguish, anxiety, and emotional distress.
 
On November 28, 2023, Defendant issued a subpoena to Plaintiff’s
primary medical care provider, Kaiser Permanente, demanding production of all
medical records for Plaintiff between June 1, 2016 to December 31, 2016, and
January 1, 2021, to June 30, 2023.  
 
On January 17, 2024, Plaintiff filed this motion to quash the
subpoena.  Plaintiff does not seek
sanctions.   
 
Defendant filed an opposition.  Plaintiff replied.
 
II.        LEGAL STANDARD
FOR QUASHING A DEPOSITION SUBPOENA 
 
A deposition subpoena may request (1) only the attendance
and testimony of a deponent, (2) only the production of business records for
copying, or (3) the attendance and testimony, as well as the production of
business records.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.020.)  The court, upon
motion or the court’s own motion, “may make an order quashing the subpoena
entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance with it upon those terms or
conditions as the court shall declare, including protective orders.  In addition, the court may make any other
orders as may be appropriate to protect the person from unreasonable or
oppressive demands, including unreasonable violations of the right of privacy
of the person.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1, subd. (a).) “A deposition
subpoena that commands only the production of business records for copying
shall designate the business records to be produced either by specifically
describing each individual item or by reasonably particularizing each category
of item . . . .”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.410, subd. (a).)  
 
III.         DISCUSSION
 
Plaintiff moves for an order quashing the subpoena on the
grounds the request is overbroad and intrudes upon Plaintiff’s right to privacy.
 In an effort to resolve the issue,
Plaintiff proposed that the subpoena be limited to all at-issue medical
providers from Kaiser.  The resulting
list amounts to 12 medical care providers. 
(See Mot., p. 4.)  Plaintiff
argues the requests should be limited to his injuries at-issue.
 
Defendant opposes Plaintiff’s proposed list because it’s too
narrow, excludes relevant communications, and relevant medical information.  Defendant further argues the proposed list
does not allow Defendant to develop its defenses to Plaintiff’s claims.  Those defenses bear upon whether Plaintiff
did, in fact, suffer from a medical condition or disability giving rise to a
cause of action under the FEHA.  Plaintiff
alleges workplace injuries for which he took medical leave and filed workers’
compensations claims.  The veracity of
those workers’ compensation claims is at issue, which in turn bears upon
Plaintiff’s credibility.  
 
The court finds the requests should be narrowed to
Plaintiff’s at-issue injuries: Achilles tendon, rotator cuff, and mental and
emotional health.   The subpoena, as
written, is overbroad, but Plaintiff’s proposed limitation is too restrictive.  Defendant is entitled to investigate the
merit of Plaintiff’s injuries while protecting against discovery of irrelevant
information and unnecessary intrusion into Plaintiff’s private and irrelevant
information.
 
IV.       CONCLUSION         
 
Accordingly, the motion to quash is GRANTED.  The Subpoena is modified to allow for the
production of information relating to Plaintiff’s Achilles tendon, rotator
cuff, and mental and emotional health for the time periods identified in the
Subpoena.
 
Plaintiff to give notice. 

 
 
Dated:   March 13, 2024                     




 


   




 


  Kerry Bensinger  
  Judge of the Superior Court 




 
 