 Case Number:  21STCV36715    Hearing Date:   March 13, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     March
13, 2024                                  TRIAL
DATE:  December 9, 2024
                                                           
CASE:                         People of the State of California ex Rel. Heath & Yuen, APC v. Silver
Bird Auto Leasing LLC, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 21STC36715
 





















 
DEFENDANTS’
MOTION TO STAY DEPOSITION OF, QUASH NOTICE OF DEPOSITION OF, AND QUASH SUBPOENA
TO PROTECTIVE FILM SOLUTIONS, AND FOR A PROTECTIVE ORDER
 
DEFENDANTS’
MOTION TO STAY DEPOSITION AND QUASH NOTICES OF DEPOSITION TO SILVER BIRD AUTO
LEASING LLC AND FILIPPO MARCHINO, AND FOR A PROTECTIVE ORDER
 
DEFENDANTS’
MOTION TO STAY DEPOSITION OF, QUASH NOTICE OF DEPOSITION OF, AND QUASH SUBPOENA
TO GEICO, AND FOR A PROTECTIVE ORDER



 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendants
Silver Bird Auto Leasing LLC, et al.
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Plaintiff People
of the State of California ex Rel. Heath & Yuen, APC
 
 
I.          BACKGROUND
 
Factual Background
 
This is an insurance fraud case arising from a separately
filed action.  The underlying action arose
from a motor vehicle accident between a 2015 McLaren 650S Spider (“Subject
Vehicle”) and a tourism van.  Silver Bird
Auto Leasing LLC (hereinafter, “Silver Bird”) owned the Subject Vehicle and
leased it to a third-party driver who was operating it at the time of the
accident.  The tourism van was owned and
operated by Los Angeles USA Tours LLC, Sadegh Fatoorechi, and Ali Dayekh
(collectively, “Prior Litigation Defendants”).  Silver Bird’s complaint
alleges that the third-party driver of the Subject Vehicle was making a legal
turn when the Subject Vehicle was struck by the tourism van.  Silver Bird’s complaint seeks damages for the
motor vehicle collision, contending the collision was caused by the Prior
Litigation Defendants’ negligence.
 
The Prior Litigation Defendants held auto insurance with Gateway
Insurance Company dba Alano Insurance Company (“Gateway”).  Gateway hired
Heath & Yuen, APC, a law firm, for the purposes of defending the Prior
Litigation Defendants against Silver Bird’s complaint.  In relevant part,
Silver Bird was represented by The X-Law Firm (“X-Law”) in the latter part of
the underlying action.  After
participating in a Mandatory Settlement Conference, the parties agreed to
settle the underlying action for $25,000.
 
In this action, Heath & Yuen, APC[1]
(“Heath & Yuen”) alleges that the prosecution of the underlying action constituted
a violation of the California Insurance Frauds Prevention Act (“IFPA”).  The IFPA proscribes the presentation of a
false or fraudulent claim for the payment of a loss or injury, including the
payment of a loss or injury under a contract of insurance.  Based on a
post-collision photograph, Heath & Yuen alleges Silver Bird’s prior claim
that the driver of the Subject Vehicle made a “legal turn” was a false
representation.  The photograph
purportedly proves the driver made an illegal U-turn over a double-set of
parallel yellow lines immediately in front of the tourism van.  
 
Heath & Yuen also alleges that Silver Bird withheld and
concealed the fact that the driver of the Subject Vehicle was Filippo Marchino,
Silver Bird’s equity owner and a principal in X-Law.  Heath & Yuen further alleges that Silver
Bird and Marchino (1) obstructed discovery during the prior litigation by
failing to provide, and willfully withholding information concerning the name of
their insurer (GEICO); (2) produced a false and fabricated cost repair bill for
the purpose of proving their damages; and (3) wrongfully continued to prosecute
the prior action following the California Insurance Guarantee Association’s
(“CIGA”) substitution into the action, while knowing that the claim arising
from the motor vehicle accident was not a “covered claim” under CIGA’s
policies.
 
Procedural Background 
 
On October 5, 2021, Health & Yuen (“Plaintiff”)
initiated the present action by filing a Complaint against Silver Bird, X-Law,
and Marchino (collectively, “Defendants”). 
 
Subsequently, on October 6, 2021, Plaintiff filed the
operative First Amended Complaint (FAC) against Defendants, alleging a single
cause of action for Violation of the Insurance Frauds Prevention Act (Ins. Code
§ 1871 et seq.). 
 
On December 22, 2023, Defendants filed the following
motions: 
 
(1)  
motion to stay deposition of, quash
notice of deposition to, and quash subpoena to Protective Film Solutions, and
for a protective order;  
(2)  
motion to stay deposition, quash
notice of deposition, and quash subpoena to Geico, and for a protective order;
and
(3)  
motion to stay depositions of and
quash notices of deposition to Filippo Marchino and Silver Bird, and for a
protective order.
 
Defendants do not seek sanctions.   
 
Plaintiff filed oppositions. 
Defendants filed replies.
 
II.        JUDICIAL
NOTICE
 
In support of its oppositions to Defendants’ motions to
quash, Plaintiff requests judicial notice of three documents.  As the court does not rely on the documents
to resolve this motion, the court declines to rule on Plaintiff’s request.
 
III.       EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
 
            Plaintiff submitted an Exhibit List in support of its
oppositions.  Defendants submit an
objection to Exhibit H.  The court
declines to rule on this objection as it is not relevant to the disposition of
this motion.
 
IV.       PROTECTIVE
FILM SOLUTIONS
 
A.   
Additional Background
 
In the underlying action, Silver Bird asked Protective Film
Solutions (“PFS”) for an estimate to repair the Subject Vehicle.  PFS quoted a total price of $7,060.42.  Silver Bird elected not to have PFS perform
the work.  
 
On December 5, 2023, Plaintiff served a Notice of Deposition
and a Subpoena to PFS. The Notice and Subpoena contain 10 categories of
documents to be produced at deposition. 
Defendants now move for an order quashing category 2, 3, 4, 6, 8, 9, and
10, and a protective order blocking production of documents.  
 
B.    
Legal Standard 
 
Quash
 
A deposition subpoena may request (1) only the attendance
and testimony of a deponent, (2) only the production of business records for
copying, or (3) the attendance and testimony, as well as the production of
business records.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.020.)  The court, upon
motion or the court’s own motion, “may make an order quashing the subpoena
entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance with it upon those terms or
conditions as the court shall declare, including protective orders.  In addition, the court may make any other
orders as may be appropriate to protect the person from unreasonable or
oppressive demands, including unreasonable violations of the right of privacy
of the person.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1, subd. (a).) “A deposition
subpoena that commands only the production of business records for copying
shall designate the business records to be produced either by specifically
describing each individual item or by reasonably particularizing each category
of item . . . .”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.410, subd. (a).)  
 
Protective
Order
 
Before, during, or after a deposition, any party, any
deponent, or any other affected natural person or organization may promptly
move for a protective order.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.420, subd.
(a).)  The court, for good cause shown, may make any order that justice
requires to protect any party, deponent, or other natural person or
organization from unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment, or oppression, or undue
burden and expense.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.420, subd. (b).)  The
motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration.  (Id.,
subd. (a).)  The court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7
(commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion for a protective order, unless it
finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification
or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.420, subd. (h).) 
 
C.    
Application 
 
Category 2
seeks: “Any documents, photos, videos, communications, phone texts, emails, or data
files naming, or for, or regarding, or referring to Silver Bird Auto Leasing
LLC, or its contact information.” 
 
Category 3
seeks: “Any documents, photos, videos, communications, phone texts, emails, or
data files naming, or for, or regarding, or referring to Filippo Marchino, or
his contact information.”
 
            Defendants
argue Nos. 2 and 3 are overbroad.  Defendants
point out the sole issue raised by the FAC regarding PFS is whether the
estimate from PFS and produced by Silver Bird in the underlying action was
fraudulent.  Yet Nos. 2 and 3 go beyond
that issue by seeking documents that have no bearing on whether the estimate is
fraudulent.  Nor do Nos. 2 and 3 have any
relation to the Subject Vehicle or collision in the underlying action.   
 
            The court
agrees with Defendants.  
 
            Category
2: The motion to quash is granted. 
The category is overbroad.
Category 3:
The motion to quash is granted.  The
category is overbroad.
 
            Category 4
seeks: “Any documents, photos, videos, communications, phone texts, emails, or
data files naming, or for, or regarding, or referring to Silverbird Auto
Leasing LLC’s 2015 McLaren 650s Spider in 2018.” 
 
Category 6 seeks: “Any documents, photos, videos,
communications, phone texts, emails, or data files naming, or for, or
regarding, or referring to VIN # SBM11FAAXFW003688.”
 
Defendants object to Nos. 4 and 6 on the grounds that “photos,
videos, communications, phone texts, emails, or data files” have no bearing on
the issue of whether the repair estimate produced in the underlying action was
fraudulent.  
 
The court does not agree with Defendants.  Plaintiff alleges fraud involving the Subject
Vehicle.  Plaintiff is entitled to
discovery relating to the Subject Vehicle and the collision.  The court will modify Category 6 accordingly.
 
Category 4:  The motion to quash is DENIED.
Category 6:  The motion to quash is GRANTED in part.  The category is narrowed to the Subject
Vehicle in 2018.
 
Category 8
seeks: “Any documents, photos, videos, communications, phone texts, emails, or
data files naming, or for, or regarding, or referring to Michael Avenatti, or
his contact information.” Narrow to: with respect to Subject vehicle in 2018.   
 
Category 9
seeks: “Any documents, photos, videos, communications, phone texts, emails, or
data files naming, or for, or regarding, or referring to CRG Nordam Transports
LLC, or its contact information.” 
 
Category 10
seeks: “Any documents, photos, videos, communications, phone texts, emails, or
data files naming, or for, or regarding, or referring to Manager LLC, or its
contact information.” 
 
Defendants explain that Avenatti’s law firm, Eagen Avenatti LLP
was Silver Bird’s counsel in the underlying action for the first year the
action was pending.  They object to No. 8
as overbroad because it seeks documents which do not relate to the estimate,
the Subject Vehicle, or the collision.  And
as to Nos. 9 and 10, Defendants explain that CRG Nordam Transports LLC
(“Nordam”) and Manager LLC (“Manager”) are entities related to Silver Bird, but
are not Silver Bird nor defendants in this matter.  Therefore, any documents relating to Nordam
and Manager have no bearing to the claims in this matter.  
 
The court agrees with much of the foregoing.  However, Plaintiff is entitled to discovery
of any information bearing upon the Subject Vehicle and relevant time period.  
 
Category 8, 9 and 10:
The motion to quash is GRANTED in part. The category is overbroad. The court
limits this category to the Subject Vehicle and the relevant period of 2018.  Credit card information and financial information
are to be redacted.  
 
D.   
Conclusion
 
The motion to quash Category 2 and 3 is GRANTED.  
 
The motion to quash Category 4 is DENIED.
 
The motion to quash Category 6 is GRANTED in part.  The scope of Category 6 is narrowed to 2018.  
 
The motion to quash Category 8, 9, and 10 is GRANTED in
part.  The scope of Category 8, 9, and 10
is narrowed to the Subject Vehicle in 2018.
 
V.        GEICO
 
A.   
Additional Background
 
The underlying action sought recovery for physical damage to
the Subject Vehicle, as well as loss of use and diminution in value.  After the underlying action was filed, GEICO,
Marchino’s insurer, paid policy benefits to Marchino for the cost to repair the
Subject Vehicle.  Marcino then paid for
the repairs.  However, the GEICO policy
did not provide coverage for loss of use or diminution in value.  Silver Bird thereafter dropped its damages
claim and pursed recovery for loss of use and diminution of value of the
Subject Vehicle.
 
On December 8, 2023, Plaintiff served a Notice of Deposition
of GEICO’s Custodian of Records/Person(s) Most Qualified.  The Notice was accompanied by a
Subpoena.  The Notice and Subpoena
contain 10 categories of documents to be produced at deposition.  Defendants now move for an order quashing
category 1-7 and a protective order blocking production of documents.  
 
B.    
Legal Standard 
 
See Section IV, Part A.
 
C.    
Application 
 
Defendants seek an order quashing Category Nos. 1-7 and for
a protective order, arguing the Notice and Subpoena seek irrelevant information
and violate Marchino’s right to financial privacy because it is undisputed that
Silver Bird dropped its claim for damages in the underlying action.
 
Category 1-4
seek all GEICO insurance policies, including subrogation clauses, related
records of premium payments, and claims for the Subject Vehicle, roughly from
2017 to present.  
 
Nos. 5-7 seek any documents,
photos, videos, communications, phone texts, emails, or data files regarding or
referring to Marchino or Heath & Yuen, APC, in relation to the Subject
Vehicle for the date of loss of December 26, 2017.
 
The court agrees with Defendants that Category 1-4 are
overbroad.  However, Category 5-7 are
tailored to the issues in this matter.  Plaintiff
has alleged fraud against Defendants involving the Subject Vehicle and the
collision.  Plaintiff is entitled to
discover information bearing upon the Subject Vehicle in the relevant time
period.  
 
Category 1-4: The
motion to quash is GRANTED.  
 
Category 5-7:
The motion to quash is DENIED.  
 
D.   
Conclusion
 
Accordingly, the motion to quash Category 1-4 is GRANTED.  
 
The motion to quash Category 5-7 is DENIED. 
 
VI.       SILVER BIRD
AND FILIPPO MARCHINO
 
A.   
Legal Standard 
 
See Section IV, Part A.
 
B.    
Discussion: Silver Bird
 
Defendants seek an order quashing Category 1-4, 6, and 8-10
in the Notice of Deposition to Silver Bird, arguing the categories seek
information that does not relate to whether Silver Bird committed insurance
fraud but instead seek to relitigate the underlying case.  (See, e.g., Category 2-6.)  The court agrees.  Further, Category 8 may seek information
protected by the attorney-client privilege.  The court grants the motion to quash and
modifies where appropriate, as indicated below:
 
Category 1:
The motion to quash is GRANTED.
 
Category 2:
The motion to quash is GRANTED in part. 
Category 2 is narrowed to the Subject Vehicle.
 
Category 3, 4, 6:
The motion to quash is GRANTED in part.  Category 3, 4, and 6 are narrowed to the
Subject Vehicle, the related collision, and Plaintiff’s claim.  
 
Category 8, 9, 10:  The motion to quash is GRANTED. 
 
C.    
Discussion: Marchino 
 
Defendants seek an order quashing Category 1, 2, 4-10 in the
Notice to Marchino, arguing the categories seek information that is irrelevant
to the issue of fraud.  The court agrees
with these observations as to many of the requests.  Further, Category 1, 4, 7, and 10 may seek
information protected by the attorney-client privilege.   The
court grants the motion to quash and modifies where appropriate, as indicated
below:
 
Category 1, 2:
The motion to quash is GRANTED. Overbroad and may call for privileged information.
 
Category 4:  The motion to quash is GRANTED.  Overbroad as to time and may call for
privileged information.
 
Category 9:  The motion to quash is GRANTED.  Overbroad and irrelevant.
 
Category 5:  The motion to quash is GRANTED.  Overbroad.
 
Category 6:  The motion to quash is GRANTED.  Overbroad and irrelevant.
 
Category 7:
 The motion to quash is DENIED, except as
to “documents, photos, videos, communications, phone texts, emails, or data
files” that fall within the attorney client privilege.
 
Category 8:  The motion to quash
is GRANTED.  Overbroad.
 
Category 10.  The motion to quash
is GRANTED.  Overbroad and calls for
attorney client privilege. 
 
D.   
Conclusion
 
The motion to quash Category 1, 8, 9, and 10 in the Notice
of Deposition to Silver Bird is GRANTED.
 
The motion to quash Category 2, 3, 4, and 6 is GRANTED, in
part.  Category 2 is narrowed to the
Subject Vehicle.  Category 3, 4, and 6
are narrowed to the Subject Vehicle, the related collision, and Plaintiff’s
claim.  
 
The motion to quash Category 1, 2, 4, 5, 6, 8, 9, and 10 in
the Notice of Deposition to Marchino is GRANTED.
 
            The motion
to quash Category 7 in the Notice of Deposition to Marchino is DENIED except for
information that falls within the attorney client privilege.
 
VII.     DISPOSITIONS        
 
A.    Protective Film Solutions 
 
The motion to quash Category 2 and 3 is granted.  
 
The motion to quash Category 4 is denied.
 
The motion to quash Category 6 is granted in part.  The scope of Category 6 is narrowed to
2018.  
 
The motion to quash Category 8, 9, and 10 is granted in
part.  The scope of Category 8, 9, and 10
is narrowed to the Subject Vehicle in 2018.
 
            The motion
for protective order is moot.
 
B.     GEICO
 
The motion to quash Category 1-4 is granted in part.  Category 1-4 are narrowed to the Subject
Vehicle for the time period December 26, 2017 to present.  
 
The motion to quash Category 5-7 is denied. 
 
The motion for protective order is moot.
 
C.    Silver Bird and Marchino
 
The motion to quash Category 1, 8, 9, and 10 in the Notice
of Deposition to Silver Bird is granted.
 
The motion to quash Category 2, 3, 4, and 6 is granted in
part.
 
Category 2 is narrowed to the Subject Vehicle.  Category 3, 4, and 6 are narrowed to the
Subject Vehicle, the related collision, and Plaintiff’s claim.  
 
The motion to quash Category 1, 2, 4, 5, 6, 8, 9, and 10 in
the Notice of Deposition to Marchino is granted.
 
            The motion
to quash Category 7 in the Notice of Deposition to Marchino is denied except as
to information that falls under the attorney client privilege.
 
            The motions
for protective order are moot.
 
 
Dated:   March 13, 2024                     




 


   




 


  Kerry Bensinger  
  Judge of the Superior Court 




 
 


