 Case Number:  21STCV11698    Hearing Date:   November 6, 2024    Dept:  C John G.Z. Doe #1,
et al. v. Los Angeles Unified School District, et al.
CASE NO.:  21STCV11698
HEARING:  11/06/24
 
#2
TENTATIVE ORDER
 
Defendant Los Angeles Unified School District’s
Pitchess Motion is CONTINUED to April 1, 2025 at 9:30 a.m. in Dept. SE-C as
set forth below.  
 
Moving party to give notice. 
 
This action arises out of childhood sexual abuse claims
under the California Child Victims Act.
 
The facts, as alleged, are as follows: In the mid-1980s,
John G.Z. Doe #1 (John G.Z.) and John R.Z. Doe #2 (John R.Z.), (collectively Plaintiffs),
were students at Gage Middle School. (Compl., ¶¶ 15-16.) Eriberto “Eddie”
Garcia (Garcia) was their dance teacher at Gage Middle School. (Compl., ¶¶
15-16.) Garcia “groomed” Plaintiffs in order to gain Plaintiffs’ trust and
friendship which resulted in Garcia sexually abusing Plaintiffs. (Compl., ¶¶
15-16.) 
 
Shortly after Garcia sexually abused John G.Z., John G.Z
reported Garcia to a school counselor, Mr. Barcelo, and the school’s female
dance coordinator. (Compl., ¶ 17.) Neither Mr. Barcelo nor the female dance
teacher did anything to address John G.Z.’s report, and John G.Z. was told he
was not believed. (Ibid.) Garcia continued to work for Defendant Los
Angeles Unified School District (the District) for at least another year. (Compl.,
¶ 17.) Garcia abused “at least three other young boys that were a part of the
dance group at Gage Middle School.” (Compl., ¶ 18.) John G.Z., John R.Z., and
one other victim reported Garcia to the Huntington Park Police Department in
the mid/late 1980s. (Ibid.) Thereafter, Garcia was arrested and charged.
(Ibid.) 
 
While the abuse occurred, teachers, staff, and
administration at Los Angeles Unified School District chose to look the other
way and allow Garcia to abuse Plaintiffs and other young boys. (Compl., ¶ 19.)
Despite many red flags and complaints, Los Angeles Unified School District never
reported Garcia to the police even though they were mandated reporters. (Ibid.)
 
          Procedural
Background
 
Plaintiffs filed this action on March 26, 2021. At the time
of filing this action, John G.Z. was 48 years old and John R.Z. was 50 years
old. (Compl., ¶¶ 1-2.)
 
On May 18, 2021, Plaintiffs filed their First Amended
Complaint (FAC) naming Roe #1 (Los Angeles Unified School District) and Roe #2
(Edilberto “Eddie” Garcia).
 
On May 21, 2024, the District filed a Pitchess motion
seeking disclosure of documents regarding John G.Z.’s employment and
termination from the Los Angeles Police Department.
 
On October 23, 2024, Plaintiffs filed an opposition to the Pitchess
Motion.
 
On October 30, 2024, the District filed a reply.
 
Legal Standard
 
A motion to discover a law enforcement officer’s
personnel file or other police agency record that contains relevant information
is called a Pitchess motion. (Pitchess v. Superior Court (1974)
11 Cal.3d 531, 536-540.) The statutory scheme governing Pitchess motions
is outlined in Evidence Code sections 1043 through 1047 and Penal Code sections
832.5, 832.7, and 832.8. (People v. Mooc (2001) 26 Cal.4th 1216, 1226 (Mooc).) These
statutes provide the exclusive means of discovery of such records in both
criminal and civil proceedings. (County of Los Angeles v. Superior Court
(1990) 219 Cal.App.3d 1605, 1609-1610.) 
 
In general, the personnel records of peace officers
are protected from discovery pursuant to Penal Code section 832.7. The
exclusive means for obtaining these materials is through a Pitchess
motion. (County of Los Angeles v. Superior Court (1990) 219 Cal. App. 3d
1605, 1611.) A Pitchess motion shall (1) identify the proceeding in
which discovery or disclosure is sought, the party seeking discovery or
disclosure, the peace or custodial officer whose records are sought, the
governmental agency which has custody and control of the record, and the time
and place at which the motion for discovery or disclosure shall be heard, (2)
describe the type of records or information sought, and (3) present affidavits
showing good cause for the discovery or disclosure sought. (Warrick v.
Superior Court (2005) 35 Cal.4th 1011, 1019; Evid. Code, § 1043, subd. (b).)
 
If the court finds “good cause” under Evidence Code
section 1043, subdivision (b), section 1045 requires the court to examine the
information in chambers to determine relevance. (Evid. Code, § 1045, subd.
(b).)¿¿ 
 
 
Defendant Los Angeles Unified School District’s Pitchess
Motion
 
Motion Requirements
 
As stated above, a Pitchess
motion must identify the proceeding, the party seeking disclosure, the peace
officer, the governmental agency having custody of the records, the time and
place where the motion for disclosure will be heard, and a description of the
type of records or information sought. (Evid. Code, § 1043, subds. (b)(1)-(2).)
 
Here, Defendant Los Angeles Unified
School District’s (the District) motion identifies the proceeding. (Notice of
Motion, pp. 1-3.) The motion also identifies the party seeking the disclosure:
the District. (Notice of Motion, p. 1.) The motion also identifies the
governmental agency having custody of the records: City of Los Angeles Police
Department (the LAPD). (Notice of Motion, p. 2.) The motion provides the time
and place for the hearing. (Notice of Motion, p. 1.) Finally, the motion
describes the type of records or information sought: 
 
1.   
Documents contained in the City of Los Angeles
Police Department personnel file of John G.Z., including any interview
transcripts, exhibits, and identification of witnesses. 
2.   
All records concerning disciplinary action taken
against Plaintiff G.Z. for any reason that is retained in John G.Z.’s
performance management/personnel file; and 
3.   
All documents concerning John G.Z.’s
psychological evaluation. 
4.   
All documents concerning John G.Z.’s reasons for
terminating his employment with LAPD.
 
(Notice of Motion, p. 2.)
 
Accordingly, the District’s motion
has satisfied the requirements of section 1043, subdivisions (b)(1) and (b)(2).
 
Good Cause
 
A Pitchess motion must be
supported by affidavits showing good cause for the discovery. (Evid. Code, § 1043,
subd. (b)(3).)
 
Good cause is shown “first by
demonstrating the materiality of the information to the pending litigation, and
second by ‘stating upon reasonable belief’ that the police agency has the
records or information at issue.” (Warrick, supra, 35 Cal.4th at
p. 1019 [quoting Evid. Code, § 1043, subd. (b)(3).].)
 
          (1)
Reasonable Belief
 
The affidavits of support must
contain a “reasonable belief” that “the governmental agency has the ‘type’ of
information sought.” (City of Santa Cruz v. Municipal Court (1989) 49
Cal.3d 74, 92.) “[A] showing of ‘reasonable belief’ does not require personal knowledge
but may be premised upon a rational inference from known or reasonably
assumed facts.” (Id. at p. 90.)
 
Here, the District’s counsel states
that John G.Z.’s personnel file relating to his employment with the LAPD is
“maintained by the city.” (Declaration of Elisa D’Egidio, Esq. [D’Egidio
Decl.], ¶ 4.)
 
The Court finds the statement
satisfies the “reasonable belief” requirement. 
 
          (2)
Materiality
 
“To determine whether the defendant
has established good cause for in-chambers review of an officer’s personnel
records, the trial court looks to whether the defendant has established the
materiality of the requested information to the pending litigation.” (Warrick,
supra, 35 Cal.4th at p. 1026.) 
 
A
sufficient threshold showing is established if the party seeking records
demonstrates through affidavits a “plausible factual foundation” for how the
records are material to the subject matter of the pending litigation. (Riske
v. Superior Court (2016) 6 Cal.App.5th 647, 655 [citing Warrick, supra,
35 Cal.4th at p. 1027.].) A plausible scenario is one that might or could
have occurred. (Warrick, supra, 35 Cal.4th at 1026.) In assessing
the showing, “[t]he affiant’s credibility is not at issue; the trial court
determines whether a plausible factual foundation has been established; it does
not determine whether the moving party’s version of events is credible or
persuasive.” (Riske, supra, 6 Cal.App.5th at p. 655.)
 
“The court does that through the
following inquiry: [1] Has the defense shown a logical connection between the
charges and the proposed defense? [2] Is the defense request for Pitchess
discovery factually specific and tailored to support its claim of officer
misconduct? [3] Will the requested Pitchess discovery support the proposed
defense, or is it likely to lead to information that would support the proposed
defense? [4] Under what theory would the requested information be admissible at
trial? If defense counsel’s affidavit in support of the Pitchess motion
adequately responds to these questions, and states upon reasonable belief that
the governmental agency identified has the records or information from the
records’ (§ 1043, subd. (b) (3)), then the defendant has shown good cause for
discovery and in-chambers review of potentially relevant personnel records of
the police officer accused of misconduct against the defendant.” (Warrick,
supra, 35 Cal.4th at pp. 1026–1027.) 
 
Here, the District argues that John
Z.G.’s psychological evaluation and his reasons for leaving his position with the
LAPD are essential to the District’s affirmative defenses including whether the
statute of limitations bars Plaintiffs’ claims. (D’Egidio Decl., ¶ 4.)
Additionally, the personnel records, psychological evaluation, and other
employment documents are essential to determining with reasonable certainty
Plaintiffs’ alleged damages for past and future loss of earnings and
Plaintiffs’ failure to mitigate damages. (D’Egidio Decl., ¶ 5.) The District
also states that the documents regarding the reasons behind John G.Z.’s choice
to leave employment bear directly on John G.Z.’s credibility.  (D’Egidio Decl., ¶ 4.) Finally, the District
states it will be prejudiced if the Court does not grant its motion because
Defendant will be unable to properly defend itself. (Pitchess Motion, p. 9.)
 
In opposition, Plaintiffs argue the
grounds on which the District seeks these documents are invalid and irrelevant.
First, Plaintiffs note that Civil Procedure Code section 340.1 expressly extends
the statute of limitations to for filing childhood sexual abuse claims to three
years after January 1, 2020. Because Plaintiffs filed this action in March 2021,
these documents would not help the District’s statute of limitations defense. Second,
Plaintiffs argue that the District really seeks these documents to find ways to
attack John G.Z.’s character at trial which is not allowed under Evidence Code
section 1101. Plaintiffs also argue that because the records the District seeks
are over 20 years old, they should bear little weight on John Z.G.’s character.
(Opposition, p. 5. [citing cf. People v. McDaniel (2021) 12 Cal.5th 97,
134 (holding under a prior version of Evidence Code § 1045 that a “court may
not disclose complaints over five years old, conclusions drawn during an
investigation, or facts so remote or irrelevant that their disclosure would be
of little benefit”).].) Third, Plaintiffs argue the District’s document request
is overbroad because the District seeks John G.Z.’s entire personnel file
rather than just seeking documents relating to John G.Z.’s earnings or the
cases involving the incidents that triggered John G.Z.’s memories. Finally, the
District has not shown that the information sought is not readily obtainable
from other means such as written interrogatories. (See Craig v. Municipal
Court (1979) 100 Cal.App.3d 69, 73.)
 
On this record, the Court finds
that the District has failed to demonstrate good cause for in-chambers review
of John G.Z.’s confidential LAPD personnel records.  The statements contained within the Declaration
of Elisa D’Egidio are conclusory and lack factual support.  The declaration states, “[a]s set forth above
and further outlined below, there is good cause for the production and use of
the LAPD’s personnel file, psychological evaluation, and disciplinary records
of G.A. and related documents in this matter.” (D’Egidio Decl., ¶4.) But no
good cause is “set forth above” or “outlined below” in the declaration.  The District argues in Reply that “the crux”
of its arguments is that “Plaintiff specifically testified that his career as a
police officer came to an end because of the alleged wrongdoing underlying this
action”. (Reply, p. 2:2-4.) However, this assertion is nowhere to be found in the
Declaration of Elisa D’Egidio.  The
declaration does not summarize the relevant portions of John G.Z.’s deposition testimony
or include excerpts from it.  As such, the
District has failed to demonstrate through affidavits a “plausible factual
foundation” for how the records are material to the subject matter of the
pending litigation. (Riske v. Superior Court, supra, 6 Cal.App.5th
at 655.) 
 
In the exercise of discretion, the
Court grants leave to the District to file and serve a Supplemental Declaration
which sets forth a plausible factual foundation for the discovery sought.  The Pitchess Motion is CONTINUED to April 1, 2025 at 9:30 a.m. in Dept. SE-C.  The District may file and serve a
supplemental declaration/brief no later than nine court days before the new
hearing date, and Plaintiff may file a supplemental opposition no later than
five court days before the new hearing date. 
