 Case Number:  23NWCV02067    Hearing Date:   November 6, 2024    Dept:  C Moore v. Westlake Services, LLC 23NWCV02067
 
This
breach of contract action was filed on July 5, 2023. A Notice of Settlement was
FILED on June 24, 2024. 
 
Plaintiff
JAYSHAUD CHENEVERT's Ex Parte Application for Expedited Partial Settlement
Disbursement is DENIED. 
 
As
an initial matter, the Court finds that the parties have properly requested
that the Court retain jurisdiction to enforce their settlement agreement. (See
06/25/24 Minute Order.)
 
Procedurally,
the ex parte application is defective for failure to attach a Declaration
regarding notice in compliance with CRC Rule 3.1204(b). 
 
Substantively,
Plaintiff Chenevert's ex parte application goes beyond the scope of the
parties' Settlement Agreement. CCP §664.6 provides: “If parties to pending
litigation stipulate, in a writing signed by the parties outside the presence
of the court or orally before the court, for settlement of the case, or part
thereof, the court, upon motion, may enter judgment pursuant to the terms of
the settlement. If requested by the parties, the court may retain jurisdiction
over the parties to enforce the settlement until performance in full of the
terms of the settlement.” Although a judge hearing a section 664.6 motion may
receive evidence, determine disputed facts, and enter the terms of a settlement
agreement as a judgment, nothing in section 664.6 authorizes a judge to create
the material terms of a settlement, as opposed to deciding what terms the
parties themselves have previously agreed upon. (Weddington Productions,
Inc. v. Flick (1998) 60 Cal.App.4th 793,810.) A settlement agreement
is interpreted according to the same principles as any other written agreement
(Leeman v. Adams Extract & Spice, LLC (2015) 236 Cal.App.4th
1367, 1374.) It must be interpreted to give effect to the mutual intent of the
parties as it existed at the time, insofar as that intent can be ascertained
and is lawful. (Id.)Pursuant to CCP §664.6, the Court has authority to
enforce the terms of a settlement agreement only when the agreement is
sufficiently definitive to enable the trial court to give it an exact meaning.
(Weddington v. Flick (1998) 60 Cal.App.4th 793, 812.)
 
The
Settlement Agreement, attached as Exhibit H to the Exhibits filed in
conjunction with this Ex Parte Application, can be summarized as follows:
Defendant shall pay to Plaintiffs Haley N. Moore and Jayshaud Bernette
Chenevert the total sum of $30,055.53 payable to "CA Consumer Attorneys,
APC Client Trust Account", in consideration for Plaintiffs' return of the
fully executed Settlement Agreement and a waiver of the remaining balance owed
by Defendant to Plaintiffs. (See Ex Parte Application Exhibits, Ex. G.) 
 
Based
on the evidence presented to the Court at this time, it does not appear that
Defendant failed to comply with their obligations under the express terms of
the Settlement Agreement. Rather, Plaintiff Chenevert requests the immediate
release of $15,000.00 from the settlement funds held in trust, arguing that the
settlement funds held in trust are to be distributed 50/50 split between
Plaintiff Jayshaud Chenevert and Plaintiff Haley N. Moore. However, throughout
the Settlement Agreement, there is no requirement stating that once the funds
are paid into the trust account by Defendant, that the funds must be
distributed equally between the Plaintiffs. The Settlement Agreement merely
requires Defendant to pay both Plaintiffs the sum of $30,055.53, payable into a
trust account. Plaintiff Chenevert's request goes beyond the terms of the
parties' Settlement Agreement. Therefore, the Court is without authority to
enforce Plaintiff Chenevert's request. 
 
Court
Clerk to give notice.  
 