 Case Number:  22NWCV01649    Hearing Date:   November 6, 2024    Dept:  C SANTOS, et al. v. SPRINGER, et al. 
CASE NO.:  22NWCV01649
HEARING:  11/06/2024
 
#3
TENATIVE ORDER
 
Defendants’ Motions to Compel Responses to Form Interrogatories, and
Request for Production of Documents are GRANTED. Plaintiff Fariba Santos
is ordered to provide verified responses without objections to the discovery
requests within 30 days of this order.
 
Defendants’ request for sanctions is GRANTED. Plaintiff Fariba Santos and counsel of
record Liana Ter-Oganesyan are ordered to pay sanctions to Defendants’ counsel
in the amount of $620, jointly and severally, within 30 days of this order.
 
Moving Party to give Notice. 
This personal
injury action arises out of a vehicle collision. On December 19, 2022,
Plaintiffs Fariba Santos, Gabriel Herrarte, Zareena Herrarte, Rayleena Muniz,
and Raider Muniz filed a complaint against Defendants Laine Springer, and Kurt
Springer, alleging causes of action for motor vehicle negligence and general
negligence.
Defendants move to
compel Plaintiff Fariba Santos’ responses to request for production and form
interrogatories, and they also request monetary sanctions against Plaintiff and
counsel of record. No opposition has been filed.
 
“If a party to whom interrogatories are
directed fails to serve a timely response, the propounding party may move for
an order compelling responses and for a monetary sanction.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (b).) The
statute contains no time limit for a motion to compel where no responses have
been served. All that need be shown in the moving papers is that a set of
interrogatories was properly served on the opposing party, that the time to
respond has expired, and that no response of any kind has been served.  (Leach v. Superior Court (1980) 111
Cal.App.3d 902, 905–906.) 
 
Where
there has been no timely response to a demand for the production of documents, the
demanding party may seek an order compelling a response.  (Code Civ. Proc.
§ 2031.300(b).)  Failure to timely respond waives all objections,
including privilege and work product.  (Code Civ. Proc. §
2031.300(a).)  Thus, unless the party to whom the demand was directed
obtains relief from waiver, he or she cannot raise objections to the documents
demanded.  There is no deadline for a motion to compel responses. 
Likewise, for failure to respond, the moving party need not attempt to resolve
the matter outside court before filing the motion. 
 
Sanctions
are mandatory in connection with motions to compel responses to interrogatories
and requests for production of documents against any party, person, or attorney
who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel unless the court “finds
that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or
that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” 
(Code Civ. Proc. §§ 2030.290(c), 2031.300(c).) 
 
Under CCP section
2023.030(a), “[t]he court
may impose a monetary sanction ordering that one engaging in the misuse of the
discovery process, or any attorney advising that conduct, or both pay the
reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result
of that conduct. . . . If a monetary sanction is authorized by any provision of
this title, the court shall impose that sanction unless it finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  Failing to
respond or to submit to an authorized method of discovery is a misuse of the
discovery process.  (Code Civ.
Proc. § 2023.010.) 
On November 1,
2023, Defendants propounded Form Interrogatories, Set One; and Request for
Production of Documents, Set One on Plaintiff Fariba Santos. (Maxwell Decl., ¶ 2; Exh. A.)
Responses were due on December 5, 2023. (Id., ¶ 2.) Plaintiff failed
to respond. (Id.) Despite sending Plaintiff’s counsel a meet and confer
letter and requesting the overdue responses, Defendants have still not received
Plaintiff’s verified responses. (Id., ¶ 5; Exhs. B-C.)
As Defendants
properly served the requests for discovery, and Plaintiff has failed to provide
responses, the Court finds Defendants are
entitled to a court order directing Plaintiff to provide verified responses
without objections to the discovery requests served on Plaintiff. 
Therefore, the motions are granted. 
As the motions are granted, Defendant’s
requests for sanctions are also granted, but in a reduced amount due to the
simplicity of the motions and the nature of the concurrent facts. Thus, the
Court imposes sanctions against Plaintiff and counsel of record in the amount
of $620 ($500 per hour x 1 hour, plus $120 in filing fees), to be paid within
30 days of this order.
 