  Case Number:  22PSCV00691    Hearing Date:   June 14, 2024    Dept:  K Plaintiff
The
Buddhist Association of the United States’ Application for Default Judgment is DENIED without prejudice.
Background   
Plaintiff The Buddhist Association of the United States (“New
York BAUS”) alleges as follows:
New York BAUS was formed in 1964 and is
a New York non-profit corporation located in Carmel, New York. New York BAUS
was granted tax exempt status by the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) in 1965.
New York BAUS owns, manages and operates a large Buddhist monastery in Carmel,
as well as a temple in the Bronx, offers a wide range of programs and has an
extensive Internet presence through its website www.baus.org.
New York BAUS also has active, registered trademarks for “Buddhist Association
of the United States” and for its Chinese name. Defendant The Buddhist
Association of the United States (“California BAUS”) was incorporated in
California on May 10, 2005. In early 2018, the IRS communicated with New York
BAUS about a change of address to a location in El Monte; it was at this time
that New York BAUS learned that California BAUS was using the BAUS name and was
also using New York BAUS’s federal EIN number for tax purposes, without its
consent. California BAUS, Zhong Lin Sun (“Sun”), Zengkui Li (“Li”), Ke You Han
(“Han”) and Chan De (“De”) (together, “Defendants”) have also used New York
BAUS’s name, trademarks and other information without its consent. 
On July 8, 2022, New York BAUS filed a complaint, asserting
causes of action against California BAUS, Sun, Li, Han and De for:
1.                 
Conversion
2.                 
Fraud 
3.                 
Federal Trademark Infringement Under 15 U.S.C. §
1114(1)
4.                 
Common Law Trademark Infringement 
5.                 
Unfair Competition Under California Business &
Professions Code § 17200 et seq.
6.                 
False Designation of Origin, False Advertising, and
Unfair Competition Under 15 U.S.C. § 1125
7.                 
California Common Law Unfair Competition
On November 7, 2022, an “Order for Service by Publication of
Summons” was filed as to Sun, Li, Han and De; on December 9, 2022, proof of
publication was filed.
On March 22, 2023, California BAUS’s, Sun’s, Han’s, Li’s and
De’s defaults were entered.
An Order to Show Cause is set for June 14, 2024.
Discussion
Plaintiff’s Application for Default Judgment is denied without
prejudice. The following defects are noted:
1.                 
Plaintiff’s proposed judgment seeks, inter alia,
an “injunction enjoining Defendants from using Plaintiff’s Trademarks and EIN
number.” Plaintiff should provide the court with a proposed judgment defining
the phrase “Plaintiff’s Trademarks” and setting forth its EIN number. Further,
the relief sought in Paragraph 13 of Plaintiff’s prayer reads as follows: “For
the grant of a permanent injunction enjoining Defendants from using the
Trademarks and New York BAUS’s EIN number, or any confusingly similar marks or
information, in connection with the marketing, promotion, or advertising of
Defendants’ services.” The language in the proposed judgment should mirror that
set forth in Paragraph 13 of Plaintiff’s prayer (again, with “Plaintiff’s
Trademarks” defined and Plaintiff’s EIN number specifically set forth).
2.                 
The court queries whether or not Plaintiff’s claims
against Li, which appear to be based entirely on documents filed with the
California Secretary of State in 2015, are time-barred. Plaintiff is requested
to brief this issue. 
3.                 
The exhibits attached to the Memorandum have not been
authenticated.
4.                 
Plaintiff seeks injunctive relief via its fifth cause
of action for “Unfair Competition—California Business & Professions Code §
17200 et seq.” Plaintiff has not shown that Defendants “continue to
engage in trademark infringement, unlawful, unfair, and/or fraudulent conduct[
] in violation of § 17200, et seq. of the California Business and Professions
Code. . .,” that Defendants “continue to engage in conduct that is
deceptive, untrue, and misleading in violation of California Business and
Professions Code § 17500 . . .” and that “unless enjoined, [Defendants’
conduct] will continue to cause irreparable harm to Plaintiff and the
general public.” (Memorandum, 8:5-11 [emphasis added]). 
5.                 
It does not appear that the instant default prove-up
packet includes Exhibits 1-3 and 9-12 attached to Plaintiff’s complaint
(unverified).