 Case Number:  21STCV37502    Hearing Date:   May 24, 2024    Dept:  57  
On May 6,
2024, the Court heard Plaintiff Zvi Sperling (“Zvi”) Motion to Compel Defendant
Jacob Sperling (“Jacob”) to Produce Documents Improperly Withheld as
Attorney-Client Privileged (“the Motion”).  Jacob’s daughter and co-Defendant Naomi
Sperling (“Naomi”) and/or Zvi’s long-time accountant Samuel Levy (“Levy”) were
present on all of the communications (e-mail messages) that were the subject of
the Motion, either as a sender of the communication or as recipient of the
communication (including as a person copied on the communication).  Neither Naomi nor Levy is an attorney. Jacob
himself was present on some of the communications. Multiple lawyers whom Jacob
had retained as of the time of the communication or whom Jacob was consulting
at the time were present on some of the communications as the sender or a
recipient. Following the hearing on the Motion, the Court took the matter under
submission.  
On May 13,
2024, the Court issued a ruling (“the Privilege Ruling”) that denied the motion
in part and granted in part.  In the
Privilege Ruling, the Court denied the Motion to the extent it sought
disclosure of communications on which an attorney whom Jacob had retained or
was contemporaneously consulting was present on the communication, either as
the sender or a recipient (including as a person copied on the communication). In
reaching that conclusion, the Court found that Naomi and Levy were Jacob’s
agents and that their presence on communications with lawyers whom Jacob had
retained or whom Jacob had consulted furthered Jacob’s interest in the
consultation with the attorney or was reasonably necessary for the transmission
of the information to the attorney or the accomplishment of the purpose for
which Jacob was consulting the retained or non-retained lawyer, even if Jacob himself
was not on these communications. The Court granted the Motion to the extent it
sought disclosure of communications on which an attorney whom Jacob had
retained or was consulting was not present as a sender or recipient.  In other words, the Court determined that
communications to and from Naomi and Levy alone, or between one or both of them
with Jacob, are not privileged in the absence on the communication of an
attorney whom Jacob had retained or was consulting.
Pending
before the Court is the ex parte application of Jacob for clarification of the Privilege
Ruling (“the Application”).  The
Application posits that clarification of the Privilege Ruling is warranted as
to two categories of communications that Jacob has identified in his attempt to
comply with the Privilege Ruling.  One category
are emails that Naomi sent to Levy describing meetings with Jacob’s attorneys and
emails that Levy sent to Naomi providing edits, comments, and questions for Naomi
to transmit to Jacob’s attorneys.   Another
category are emails in which Naomi forwarded to Levy communications that she
(and sometimes Jacob) had with Jacob’s attorneys.  
The Court is
granting the Application to the extent it seeks clarification of the Privilege
Ruling.   The Court understands why Jacob
asked for clarification.  But the Application
is denied to the extent it seeks the Court’s approval of an interpretation of
the Privilege Ruling that would enable Jacob to withhold as attorney-client
privileged the two categories of communications that prompted Jacob to file the
Application.  
The client here,
Jacob, is the holder of the attorney-client privilege.  (Evidence Code Section 953.)   The client may waive the attorney-client
privilege.  (Id. Section
912.)  When the client authorizes his or
her agent to disclose attorney-client privileged information to a third party,
the client waives the privilege; by contrast, an agent’s unauthorized disclosure
to a third party does not waive the privilege. 
(DP Pham, LLC v. Cheadle (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th 653, 668 [“Pham”]  Here, Jacob’s position is that he authorized
Naomi and Levy to communicate with one another as his agents about attorney-client
privileged matter when attorneys whom Jacob had retained or was consulting were
not present on the communications.  Under
Pham, the authorization of those communications waived the
attorney-client privilege.  Jacob has not
cited any California precedent that shields on attorney-client privilege grounds
communications between agents of the client in the absence of the client’s
attorney.  As the Privilege Ruling
indicates, Section 952, 953, and 954 of the Evidence Code require the presence
of an attorney on communications between the client’s agents in order for the
communications to be privileged.  
In the
course of his or her representation of a client, an attorney can give and
receive information from agents of the client -- those communications are
privileged if the agent is acting within the scope of the agency.  (Zimmerman v. Superior Court (the
People) (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 389, 403; see also (D. I. Chadbourne,
Inc. v. Superior Court (Smith) (1964) 60 Cal.2d 723, 735.)  But this does not mean that agents of the
client can have freewheeling exchanges with one another in the absence of the
client’s attorney about information that would be attorney-client privileged if
the attorney were present on the exchange.