  Case Number:  20STCV12024    Hearing Date:   May 24, 2024    Dept:  57 Plaintiff Amko, LLC (“Amko”) sued Defendants
Maganda Corporation (“Maganda”), Faramarz Fred Faramarzi (“Faramarzi”), Sylvie
Merizan (“Merzian”), and Rita Jainkerian.  Amko’s asserts causes of action against the
Defendants for specific performance, breach of contract, and conversion.  Amko’s claims arise out of an alleged written
agreement (“the Agreement”) through which Maganda promised to sell to Amko real
property located at 3339 West 8th Street in Los Angeles, California
(“the Subject Property”).  The Agreement
states that the purchase price of the Subject Property was $1.1 million, which
was to be deposited into escrow within 45 days after Amko’s acceptance of the
Agreement.  It is undisputed that Merzian
forged Faramarzi’s signature on the Agreement.  Amko asserts, however that Merizan had actual or
ostensible authority, as agent for Maganda and Faramarzi, to sign the Agreement
on their behalf.  
Pending before the Court is the motion for summary
judgment, or, alternatively, summary adjudication of Maganda and Faramarzi (“the
Motion).    Based on the record before
the Court, Maganda and Faramarzi are entitled to summary judgment on Amko’s
claims against them.  The Court is thus
granting the Motion.
All of the evidentiary objections of Maganda and
Faramarzi to the declarations that Amko submitted in opposition to the Motion
are overruled.  
In support of the Motion, Maganda and Faramarzi presented
evidence that Merizan did not have authority to sign the Agreement on behalf of
Maganda and/or Faramarzi.  The Court
agrees with Amko, however, that there are disputed issues of material fact as
to Merzian’s authority.
Maganda and Faramarzi also presented evidence that
Amko failed to pay Maganda or Faramarzi $1.1 million for the Subject Property
as required by the Agreement.  In support
of its opposition to the Motion, Amko presents evidence, in the form of the declaration
of its principal Koko Polosajian (“Polosajian”) and documents attached to the
Polosajian declaration, of a cash payment to Merzian of $200,000 related to the
purchase of the Subject Property prior to the execution of the Agreement, and
subsequent payments to Merizan that brought the total amount of the payments up
to $510,000.  Polosajian’s declaration
states that his reference in an email to Faramarzi of the transmittal of “cigars”
to Faramarzi means the $200,000 cash payment prior to execution of the Agreement.

Even assuming that Merizan had authority to receive
the payments in connection with the sale of the Subject Property on behalf of Maganda
and Faramarzi, and accepting on its face (as the Court must on summary
judgment/summary adjudication) Polosajian’s assertion that “cigars” means the
$200,000 cash payment to Merzian, the Court nevertheless finds that there are no
disputed issues of material fact as to Maganda and Faramarzi’s contention that Amko
failed to pay Maganda or Faramarzi $1.1 million for the Subject Property as
required by the Agreement.  Amko’s evidence
is that $510,000 was paid, not $1.1 million.  The failure of Amko to pay the amount required
by the Agreement means that Amko’s claims for breach of contract and specific performance
fail as a matter of law.  That is because
in order to prevail on those claims, Amko must established that it performed
its end of the bargain. The evidence demonstrates that it did not do that.
Amko’s claim for conversion also fails as a matter
of law. Again assuming that Merizan had authority to receive payments in
connection with the sale of the Subject Property on behalf of Maganda and
Faramarzi, Amko presented no evidence that it was Amko itself that paid the
$510,000 to Maganda/Faramarzi through Merizan. 
The evidence indicates that it was Polosajian who paid the money.  .  Polosajian
is not the Plaintiff, however.  Amko is
the Plaintiff.  Polosajian asserts in his
declaration that he is the principal of Amko.  But the email from Polosajian to Faramarzi
that references the transmittal of “cigars” makes no mention of Polosajian’s
ownership of Amko.  It mentions instead a
company called “Standard Home Lending, Inc.,” and says that Polosajian is a “broker”
for the company.  Perhaps Polosajian
personally or Standard Home Lending has a conversion claim.  But there is nothing in the record indicating
that Amko does. 
Amko argues in its opposition that the doctrines of
waiver, estoppel, and forfeiture preclude entry of summary judgment or summary
adjudication for Maganda and Faramarzi.  The
opposition fails to demonstrate, however, that those doctrines apply to the
evidence before the Court on the Motion.
Finally, Amko requests in its opposition that the
hearing on the Motion should be continued so that Amko can depose Merzian.  Amko failed, however, to couple this request with
a supporting declaration from its counsel under Code of Civil Procedure Section
437c(h) on the need for continuance.  A declaration
of counsel for the party seeking a continuance of a hearing on a motion for
summary judgment/adjudication based on the need to conduct further discovery is
absolutely essential for purposes of Section 437c(h) continuances.  (Bahl v. Bank of America (2001) 89
Cal.App.4th 389, 395; Johnson v. Alameda County Medical Center (2012)
205 Cal.App.4th 521, 532.)   In the
absence of a declaration under Section 437c(h), courts still have discretion to
grant a request for a continuance of hearing on a motion for summary judgment
or summary adjudication if there is good cause to do so.   (Chavez v. 24 Hour Fitness USA, Inc.
(2015) 238 Cal.App.4th 632, 644).  In this
Court’s view, there is not good cause to continue the hearing on the Motion so
that Amko can depose Merizan.  