 Case Number:  24STCV08721    Hearing Date:   September 4, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court
  of California
County of Los
  Angeles




 
Andrew Luber,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case
  No.:
 


 
24STCV08721




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
Quixote Studios LLC; Sunset Quixote Holdings, LLC; Joseph Williams;
  and Does 1-100


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date: September 4, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion to Compel Arbitration and Stay Proceedings
Moving Parties: Defendants Quixote Studios, LLC; and
Sunset Quixote Holdings, LLC
Responding Party: Plaintiff Andrew Luber
 
T/R:    The
Court GRANTS the motion to compel arbitration as to the second, third, fourth,
and sixth causes of action, DENIES the motion as to the first and fifth causes
of action, and STAYS the case pending completion of the arbitration. 
 
DEFENDANTS TO GIVE NOTICE.  
 
If the
parties wish to submit on the tentative, please email the courtroom at¿SMCdept54@lacourt.org¿with notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party)
before 8:00 am on the day of the hearing.
 
The Court
considers the moving papers, opposition, and reply.
 
BACKGROUND
            
            This is an adverse employment action filed by Plaintiff Andrew Luber
against Defendants Quixuote Studios, LLC; Quixote Holdings, LLC; and Joseph
Williams on April 8, 2024, for (1) discrimination in violation of Gov. Code §
12940 et seq; (2) harassment in violation of Gov. Code. § 12940 et seq; (3)
failure to prevent discrimination in violation of Gov. Code § 12940 et seq; (4)
retaliation in violation of Gov. Code § 12940 et seq; (5) violation of Labor
Code §§ 1102.5 and 6311; and (6) violation of public policy. 
 
Defendants
Quixuote Studios, LLC; and Quixote Holdings, LLC now move to compel arbitration
and stay proceedings based on the arbitration agreement Plaintiff signed during
his employment. 
 
EVIDENTIARY MATTERS
 
Defendants ask
the Court to take judicial notice of Exhibits (1)-(4), which are California
Superior Court orders concerning various motions to compel arbitration.  Pursuant to Evidence Code §§ 452-453 and
California Rule of Court 3.1306(c), the Court judicially notices those exhibits.
The Court notes that rulings of other trial courts are not binding on this
Court.  
 
ANALYSIS
 
“On petition of a party to an arbitration agreement alleging the
existence of a written agreement to arbitrate a controversy and that a party
thereto refuses to arbitrate a controversy, the court shall order the
petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it determines
that an agreement to arbitrate the controversy exists….”  (CCP § 1281.2.)  The right to compel arbitration exists unless
the court finds that the right has been waived by a party’s conduct, other
grounds exist for revocation of the agreement, or where a pending court action
arising out of the same transaction creates the possibility of conflicting
rulings on a common issue of law or fact.  
(CCP § 1281.2(a)-(c).)  “The party
seeking arbitration bears the burden of proving the existence of an arbitration
agreement, and the party opposing arbitration bears the burden of proving any
defense, such as unconscionability.”  (Pinnacle Museum Tower Assn. v. Pinnacle
Market Development (US), LLC (2012) 55 Cal.4th 223, 236.) 
 
A. Existence of Arbitration Agreement
 
            Defendants move to compel
arbitration based on the Arbitration Agreement entered between Plaintiff and Defendants
on May 15, 2023, as condition of Plaintiff’s continued employment. The Agreement provides: 
 
(1) it is a mutual agreement to
arbitrate claims arising out of Plaintiff’s employment (to the extent permitted
by law) between HPP (i.e., Quixote’s parent company) and Plaintiff; (2) any
arbitration proceeding brought under the Agreement is to be governed by the
rules of JAMS, ADR Services, or any other reputable dispute resolution
organization; (3) HPP will pay all costs unique to any such arbitration; (4) a
neutral arbitrator is to be mutually selected by the parties; (5) parties to
arbitration would be entitled to all discovery to which they would have been
entitled had the parties’ controversy been filed in court; and (6) the
arbitrator must issue a written opinion stating the essential findings of fact
and conclusions of law. 
 
Plaintiff does not contest the existence of the arbitration agreement or
its general enforceability and validity. 

 
B.  Applicability of the FAA and the
Ending Forced Arbitration of Sexual Assault and Sexual Harassment Act
            
a.   
Second Cause of
Action for Sexual Harassment
            
Plaintiff contends that the case should not be sent to arbitration under
the Ending Forced Arbitration of Sexual Assault and Sexual Harassment Act of
2021, 9 USC §§ 401-402 (“EFAA”). “At the election of the person alleging
conduct constituting sexual harassment dispute or sexual assault dispute . .
.  no pre-dispute arbitration agreement.
. . . shall be enforceable with respect to a case which is filed under Federal,
Tribal, or State law and relates to the sexual assault dispute or the sexual
harassment dispute. (9 USC § 402(a).) Plaintiff also argues that his claim for
gender-based hostile work environment is a “sexual harassment dispute” because
FEHA defines sexual harassment broadly. Plaintiff says that the harassing
conduct “need not have anything to do with sexual advances.” (Acardi v.
Superior Court (1993) 17 Cal.App.4th 341, 348.) 
 
Plaintiff alleges that Defendant Williams repeatedly made pointed,
disparaging, and highly offensive references to Plaintiff’s sex, gender, and
purported lack of masculinity. The dispute in this case arose after the
execution of the arbitration agreement, making the agreement a “pre-dispute”
agreement as defined by EFAA. 
 
Defendants contend
that Plaintiff’s claim is not for “sexual harassment” because he does not
allege any sexual advances, conduct, or comments. 
 
“The term ‘sexual
harassment’ may lead many people to think of the...type of sexual
harassment...which involves unwelcome sexual advances...but sexual harassment
of the second type, the creation of a hostile work environment, need not have
anything to do with sexual advances.” (Accardi v. Superior Court (1993)
17 Cal. App. 4th 341, 348.) This type of sexual harassment “shows itself in the
form of intimidation and hostility for the purpose of interfering with an
individual's work performance.” (Id. at 348.) The “pervasive use of
derogatory and insulting terms relating to” an employee’s sex, and “addressed
to an employee” of that sex may support a cause of action for hostile work
environment sexual harassment. (Id. at 348-349 citing Andrews v. City
of Philadelphia (3d Cir. 1990) 895 F.2d 1469, 1485.) 
 
The Court finds that EFAA
applies to Plaintiff’s second cause of action for harassment in violation of
Government Code § 12940 et seq. As Plaintiff alleges in the Complaint:
Plaintiff
also experienced immense discomfort as a result of WILLIAMS’ numerous, repeated,
hostile, offensive, overt references to his sex/gender. On one particular
occasion, in response to Plaintiff’s complaint that WILLIAMS had assumed a
physically aggressive posture, WILLIAMS responded, “this is how a man acts.
You’re not used to that, obviously.” WILLIAMS requested that Plaintiff complete
unsafe work-related tasks, and when Plaintiff indicated that he was reticent to
engage in these tasks, on account of safety and other legitimate concerns,
WILLIAMS would suggest that Plaintiff was lacking in masculinity. WILLIAMS
repeatedly and consistently made pointed, disparaging, and highly offensive
references to Plaintiff’s sex, gender, and purported lack of masculinity to the
effect of comments, such as, “ . . . a real man would do this.” 
(Compl.,
¶ 23.)
It was
obvious to Plaintiff that WILLIAMS was attempting to strategically belittle him
in a way that was related to his sex, his gender, and his purported lack of
“masculinity.” Of
course, these comments contributed to the emotionally distressing nature
of the work environment. As time went on, WILLIAMS’ denigrating treatment on
account of Plaintiff’s religion, gender, and sex intensified. 
(Compl.,
¶ 24.)
Defendants
argue that Plaintiff does not plead facts sufficient to establish a prima
facie claim of harassment against Defendants. The Court does not reach an
argument properly made in demurrer, not a motion to compel arbitration.  This cause of action, as pleaded, falls within
EFAA. 
 
b.  Remaining Causes of Action
 
Plaintiff asserts that
his other causes of action are meaningfully intertwined with his claims for
hostile work environment harassment based on sex, and are all “related to”
Plaintiff’s sexual harassment dispute. Plaintiff argues that federal courts
interpreting the EFAA hold that when the plaintiff has adequately pleaded a
sexual harassment claim within the purview of the EFAA the entire lawsuit
should be litigated in civil court. (See, e.g. Johnson v. Everyrealm, Inc. (S.D.N.Y.
2023) 657 F.Supp.3d 535, 540 (“[T]he Court construes the EFAA to render an
arbitration clause unenforceable as to the entire case involving a viably pled
sexual harassment dispute, as opposed to merely the claims in the case that
pertain to the alleged sexual harassment.”); Molchanoff v. SOLV Energy, LLC (S.D.
Cal. 2024) 2024 WL 899384, at *5 (“[T]he Court holds that, because Plaintiff’s
2022 retaliation claim alleges conduct constituting a sexual harassment
dispute—as defined by 9 U.S.C. 401(4), and because the case as a whole relates
to that dispute, the EFAA bars enforcement of the arbitration agreement between
Plaintiff and PeopleReady as to all claims in this case, and as to all
Defendants in this case.”).) 
 
Defendants argue that
even if Plaintiff has pleaded a sexual harassment claim, Plaintiff’s other claims
that do not “relate to” his sexual harassment claim must be arbitrated. Defendants
contend that it is well-settled under the Federal Arbitration Act that “if a
dispute presents multiple claims, some arbitrable and some not, the former must
be sent to arbitration even if this will lead to piecemeal litigation.” (KPMG
LLP v. Cocchi, 565 U.S. 18, 19 (2011).) Defendants assert that Johnson
incorrectly took an “overbroad” approach to EFAA in concluding that other
claims could not be arbitrated. (Id.) 
 
The federal trial
court decisions Plaintiff advances and the Superior Court rulings Defendants
advance are not binding on this Court.  The
Court agrees that the FAA commonly permits claim splitting. Until the Court of
Appeal weighs in, the Court also concludes that EFAA intends only that claims “related
to” the sexual harassment dispute be adjudicated together in Court. The Court turns
to which of the remaining causes of action are related to the allegations of
sexual harassment in the second cause of action.
 
The first cause of
action for discrimination alleges discrimination based on “his disability,
perceived disability, and/or religious creed.” (Compl. ¶ 37.) The alleged disability
is “temporomandibular joint disorder, as well as other conditions.” (Compl. ¶
39. This is not related to the sexual harassment claim.
 
The third and fourth
causes of action for failure to prevent harassment in violation of the FEHA and
retaliation in violation of the FEHA, respectively, are based on his claim of
discrimination, harassment, and retaliation. They fall, at least in part, within
the ambit of EFAA.
 
The fifth cause of
action, for violation of Labor Code §§ 1102.5 and 6311, alleges that Plaintiff
was discharged from employment due to complaining about the right to work in a
safe and healthful workplace. (Compl. ¶ 73.) This does not appear to relate to
the sexual harassment claim.
 
The sixth cause of
action, for violation of policy, alleges that, “as set forth in Government Code
section 12940 et seq., there exists a fundamental public policy in California
prohibiting discrimination and harassment based on, among other things,
religious creed, sex, gender, disability, and perceived disability.” (Compl. ¶
81.) This relates, at least in part, to the sexual harassment claim.
 
            The Court GRANTS the motion to
compel arbitration as to the second, third, fourth, and sixth causes of action,
DENIES the motion as to the first and fifth causes of action, and STAYS the
case pending completion of the arbitration. 
 
 