  Case Number:  22VECV01970    Hearing Date:   May 15, 2024    Dept:  107 


 
SUPERIOR COURT
  OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS
  ANGELES
NORTHWEST
  DISTRICT
 




 
 
 
Mary Howard, 
 
Plaintiff.
 
   v.
 
El Camino Shopping Center, et al.,
 
Defendants.
 


 
 
   Case Number             Department
    22VECV01970                      107




 
 
COURT’S [TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: Defendant’s Motion to be Relieved from Deemed Admissions
 
  
                        



 
[THE FOLLOWING IS A TENTATIVE RULING IN THE ABOVE CASE]: This court DENIES Defendant’s
Motion and DENIES Plaintiff’s request for sanctions.
 
I. BACKGROUND
This is a premises
liability negligence case. On December 2, 2020, plaintiff Mary Howard
(“Plaintiff”) “fell in a recessed painted and camouflaged area of the asphalt”
in the parking lot of a shopping center maintained by defendant El Camino
Shopping Center, LLC (“Defendant”). (Complaint p. 4.)
 
On November 10,
2022, Plaintiff initiated this lawsuit by filing a form complaint (the
“Complaint”) alleging causes of action for (1) negligence, (2) willful failure
to warn, and (3) dangerous condition of public property. (Complaint p. 4.)
 
On December 20,
2023, this court granted Plaintiff’s motion to have matters specified in a
request for admissions deemed admitted; ordered Defendant “to provide code-compliant
responses, without objections,” to Plaintiff’s request for production of
documents, special interrogatories, and form interrogatories; and ordered
Defendant and Defendant’s counsel to pay Plaintiff sanctions. (12/20/2023
Minute Order pp. 1–2.)
 
On March 12, 2024,
Plaintiff filed the instant motion (the “Motion”) to be relieved from deemed
admissions pursuant to California Code of Civil Procedure section 2033.300,
subdivision (a).
 
On March 15, 2024,
this court continued trial and all related dates. Trial is now set for August
26, 2024.
 
On May 2, 2024,
Defendant filed an opposition (the “Opposition”) to the Motion, and on May 8,
2024, Plaintiff filed a reply (the “Reply”) to the Opposition.
 
II. PARTIES’ POSITIONS
 
In the Motion, Defendant states that it provided “non-objection, verified
responses” on February 7, 2024, and that the “delay in sending the discovery
was because the action was not at issue until over two and half years after the
incident occurred. Defendant needed additional time to prepare for discovery
and find all the requested information.” (Motion p. 3.) Defendant alleges that
Plaintiff “is delaying the completion of discovery.” (Ibid.) Defendant
contends that Plaintiff would not be prejudiced by the granting of the Motion
because “Plaintiff was served with the discovery responses immediately after
filing their motions and have had ample opportunity to conduct discovery
regarding Defendant’s responses.” (Ibid.)
 
In the Opposition, Plaintiff states that Defendant failed to respond to
its requests for admission for five months before Plaintiff moved to have the
matters deemed admitted, and that Defendant’s February 7, 2024 responses come
eight months later. (Opposition pp. 3–4.) Plaintiff contends that Defendant’s
responses were unverified and contained objections, although the court order on
Plaintiff’s motions to compel stated that objections had been waived. (Id. at
p. 4.) “Defendant is also claiming it needed additional time to prepare for
discovery and find all the requested information which is also untrue because
Defendant waited over eight months to respond to the discovery requests and
only did so after this Court’s order.” (Ibid.) Plaintiff also contends
that Defendant’s arguments about Plaintiff’s deposition are irrelevant. (Ibid.)
Plaintiff argues that she will be “significantly prejudiced” by the granting of
the Motion because “Plaintiff has had no time to conduct further discovery
because this case was set for trial for April 9, 2024, and the discovery
cut-off was on March 10, 2024, less than a month since having received the
untimely responses.” (Id. at pp. 4–5.) Plaintiff contends that its
discovery was conducted after its requests for admission were deemed admitted “under
the belief that the issues of liability had been established.” (Id. at
p. 5.) Plaintiff observes that Defendant was present at the hearing on its
motion to have the requests for admission deemed admitted and made oral
argument but “did not move for reconsideration and did not move to set aside
the ruling under any other ground.” (Ibid.) “As a result, vital issues
including but not limited to, causation, injuries, reasonableness and necessity
of medical treatments/bills were no longer an issue for Plaintiff, and
Plaintiff has been litigating this case under these premises. Granting Defendant’s
request would force Plaintiff to go to trial with inadequate discovery.” (Ibid.)
Plaintiff further observes that Defendant failed to include a declaration or
other evidence with the Motion, which this court “may [] construe[] as an
admission that the motion is not meritorious and cause for its denial.” (Id.
at pp. 5–6.)
 
The Opposition seeks monetary sanctions in the amount of $3,757.26, which
Plaintiff alleges are warranted against Defendant and Defendant’s counsel for
the filing of the Motion, which she argues is meritless and contains
“untruthful arguments, facts, and statements,” and is therefore an abuse of the
discovery process. (Opposition pp. 6–7.)
 
The Reply contends that the matters in Plaintiff’s requests for admission
were deemed admitted out of inadvertence, mistake, or neglect because “Plaintiff
obtained the order deeming the requests for admission admitted through motions
Defendant’s counsel did not receive, therefore was not aware of and could not
oppose.” (Reply p. 2.) “Plaintiff has confirmed that Defendant paid the
monetary sanctions issued against Defendant and served discovery responses.”
(Ibid.) Defendant reiterates that it sent verified discovery responses to
Plaintiff on February 7, 2024. (Id. at pp. 2–3.) Defendant contends that it
“has established that relief from the deemed admissions is appropriate” and
that this court’s “discretion to deny a statutory motion to withdraw or amend
an admission is limited to circumstances where it is clear that the mistake,
inadvertence, or neglect was inexcusable, or where it is clear that the
withdrawal or amendment would substantially prejudice the party who obtained
the admission in maintaining that party's action or defense on the merits.”
(Id. at p. 3.) Defendant states that “Defendant’s counsel was unaware of the
motion leading to the order deeming these admissions admitted until less than a
week before the hearing” because it “did not receive Plaintiff’s motions to
compel when served.” (Id. at p. 4.) “There is no meaningful dispute that the
order was a result of surprise.” (Ibid.) Defendant further argues that there
will be no prejudice against Plaintiff and that the “sole prejudice argued by
Plaintiff is that she will be forced to prove her case at trial,” which it
contends is not prejudice but “Plaintiff’s burden under the law.” (Id. at 2,
4.) “When considering whether substantial prejudice will result from the
withdrawal of the deemed admissions, the Court must consider the policy that
controversies should be heard and disposed of on their merits.” (Id. at p. 5.) 
 
The Reply also argues that “[s]anctions are completely unwarranted and
would be unjust.” (Reply p. 5.) Defendant argues that it “has engaged in no
conduct that is abusive, oppressive, or unjustified” and that the Motion is
meritorious. (Id. at pp. 5–6.) It also observes that “Plaintiff fails to cite
any authority that would entitle Plaintiff to sanctions in connection with a
motion for relief from deemed admissions.” (Id. at p. 6.)
 
III. LEGAL STANDARD
 
“Any matter
admitted in response to a request for admission is conclusively established
against the party making the admission for purposes of the pending action,
unless the court permits a withdrawal or amendment of the admission
under section 2033.300.” (New Albertsons, Inc. v. Superior Court (2008)
168 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1418.)
 
California Code of
Civil Procedure § 2033.300 reads, in relevant part,
 
(a)   
A
party may withdraw or amend an admission made in response to a request for
admission only on leave of court granted after notice to all parties.
 
(b)  
The
court may permit withdrawal or amendment of an admission only if it determines
that the admission was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable
neglect, and that the party who obtained the admission will not be
substantially prejudiced in maintaining that party's action or defense on the
merits.
 
This rule applies
equally to matters deemed admitted, as well as to admissions made in response
to a request for admission. (Wilcox v. Birtwhistle (1999) 21
Cal.4th 973, 982.)
 
“Because the law
strongly favors trial and disposition on the merits, any doubts in
applying section 2033.300 must be resolved in favor of the party
seeking relief. Accordingly, the court's discretion to deny a motion
under the statute is limited to circumstances where it is clear that the
mistake, inadvertence, or neglect was inexcusable, or where it is clear
that the withdrawal or amendment would substantially prejudice the party who
obtained the admission in maintaining that party's action or defense on the
merits.” (New Albertsons, Inc. v. Superior Court, supra, 168
Cal.App.4th 1403 at 1420–21.) “Unless inexcusable neglect is clear, the policy
favoring trial on the merits prevails.” (Elston v. City of Turlock (1985)
38 Cal.3d 227, 235, superseded by statute on other grounds (hereafter, Elston).) [1]  Denial of relief is appropriate, for example,
where the discovery violations are willful. (Standard Microsystems
Corp. v. Winbond Electronics Corp. (2009) 179 Cal.App.4th 868, 906.) An
error is excusable if a reasonably prudent person under the same or similar
circumstances might have made the same error. (Solv–All v. Superior Court (2005)
131 Cal.App.4th 1003, 1007.) To warrant relief, “the moving party must act
diligently in seeking relief and must submit affidavits or testimony
demonstrating a reasonable cause for the default.” (Elston, supra,
38 Cal.3d 227 at 234.) That the party opposing the motion for relief has not
been prejudiced is, alone, insufficient to warrant relief. (Carroll v.
Abbott Laboratories, Inc. (1982) 32 Cal.3d 892, 900 (hereafter, Carroll).)
 
In Elston, supra,
38 Cal.3d 227 at 234, the moving party’s counsel demonstrated excusable neglect
by submitting an affidavit in which he explained that he was “extensively”
involved in other business and litigation matters at the time and that because his
office was temporarily understaffed at the time the request for admissions was
received, the request for admissions was misplaced and he did not become aware
of it until he received notice that the matters contained in the request were
deemed admitted. The Elston court observes that “where an attorney
states that he was unaware of his duty to appear or answer because his
employees misplaced papers or misinformed him as to the relevant date, relief
is routinely granted.” (Ibid.) But, counsel’s statement that he was busy
with other matters “standing alone would not constitute excusable neglect.” (Ibid.)
 
IV. DISCUSSION
 
Defendant contends
that the requests for admission were deemed admitted as a result of mistake,
inadvertence, or excusable neglect for two reasons: first, it could not timely
respond to the requests for admission because it needed additional time to
prepare its discovery responses and find the requested information, and second,
it did not receive timely notice of Plaintiff’s motion for the matter in the
requests for admission to be deemed admitted and was therefore unable to oppose
the motion. It raises its second argument only in the Reply and not in the
Motion. In support of this argument and in support of the Motion, Defendant
also attaches a sworn declaration (the “Zade Declaration”) to the Reply.
 
We only consider
issues that were raised first in the Motion. “We will not ordinarily consider
issues raised for the first time in a reply brief. An issue is new if it
does more than elaborate on issues raised in the opening brief or rebut
arguments made by the [opposing party] in [opposing party’s] brief. Fairness
militates against allowing a[] [moving party] to raise an issue for the first
time in a reply brief because consideration of the issue deprives the [opposing
party] of the opportunity to counter the [moving party] by raising opposing
arguments about the new issue.” (American Indian Model Schools v. Oakland
Unified School Dist. (2014) 227 Cal.App.4th 258, 275–276, internal
citations omitted.) Following this reasoning, we decline to consider issues
that are raised for the first time in the Reply, including Defendant’s second
argument, to which Plaintiff did not have the opportunity to respond. We also
decline to consider the portions of the Zade Declaration which raise new facts
and arguments that are not addressed in either Motion or the Opposition for the
same reasons. Therefore, the only argument we consider to Defendant’s contention
that the requests for admission were deemed admitted as a result of mistake,
inadvertence, or excusable neglect is that because the accident underlying the
Complaint occurred years ago, Defendant needed additional time to prepare its
discovery responses and find the requested information and consequently could
not timely respond to the requests for admission. 
 
Defendant received
and was aware of the requests for admission before Plaintiff brought her motion
to have the matters therein deemed admitted but did not answer them until
months after this court granted Plaintiff’s motion. The Motion does not
describe any unusual or exigent circumstances that prevented Defendant from
answering the requests for admission except that the accident underlying the
Complaint had occurred “over two and a half” years before the action was “at
issue.” (Motion p. 3.) Defendant does not elaborate on any particular hardships
or difficulties that necessitated more time or any efforts to obtain an
extension of time for its response from Plaintiff. Thus, this situation is
unlike that in Elston, in which a sudden staffing shortage caused the
moving party’s counsel to be unaware of the requests for admission. Rather, we
find that this is more like the hypothetical posed by the Elston court,
in which the moving party contended only that he was busy on other matters and
whose mistake, inadvertence, or neglect would have been inexcusable. We
consequently find that Defendant’s mistake, inadvertence, or neglect in failing
to timely respond to the requests for admission was inexcusable. Additionally,
Defendant does not include with the Motion any affidavits or evidence
supporting this argument.
 
Although we agree
that Plaintiff would not suffer any prejudice were the Motion to be granted
since both trial and the discovery cut-off have since been rescheduled to
August 26, 2024, affording Plaintiff the opportunity to conduct any discovery
it chose not to conduct in light of the deemed admissions, following Carroll,
supra, 32 Cal.3d 892 at 900, this fact alone is insufficient to warrant
relief from deemed admissions.
 
Accordingly, the
Motion is DENIED.
 
V. SANCTIONS
 
Plaintiff seeks monetary sanctions against Defendant and Defendant’s
counsel in the amount of $3,757.26 for the filing of the Motion.
 
“To avoid
sanctions, an unsuccessful [party] may show ‘substantial justification’ for his
or her position—i.e., a rational basis to conclude that the party's failure to
fulfill its discovery obligations was justified. Substantial justification is
justification that is clearly reasonable because it is well-grounded in both
law and fact.” (Pollock v. Superior Court of Los Angeles County (2023)
93 Cal.App.5th 1348, 1359, internal citations omitted.)
 
As explained above
in our discussion of the merits of the Motion, we do not find that Defendant’s
arguments in the Motion were well-grounded in either law or fact. Indeed,
because the facts presented by Defendant in the Motion fell short of the
standard for relief in the law, we denied the Motion. Therefore, we do not find
that Defendant acted with substantial justification in filing the Motion.
 
However, Plaintiff
does not cite any statute that authorizes the imposition of sanctions in this
case other than California Code of Civil Procedure Section 2023.030,
subdivision (a) (“Section 2023.030”), which Plaintiff states permits the court
to order monetary sanctions against a party who engaged in misuse of the
discovery process. (Opposition p. 6.)
 
“Section 2023.030
describes the types of sanctions available under the Discovery Act when another
provision authorizes a particular sanction. Section 2023.030 does not
independently authorize the court to impose sanctions for discovery misconduct.”
(City of Los Angeles v. PricewaterhouseCoopers, LLC (2022) 84
Cal.App.5th 466, 502.) Thus, in the absence of a statute other than Section
2023.030 that independently authorizes sanctions for a particular misuse of the
discovery process, such as, in this case, the filing of a motion that is
without merit, sanctions cannot be issued under the power of Section 2023.030
alone. 
 
Accordingly, this
court DENIES Plaintiff’s request for sanctions.
 
Dated:             May 15, 2024                                      _______­­­­­­­­­­___________________________                                                                                                                   Hon. Eric
Harmon
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court


