 Case Number:  23STCV08667    Hearing Date:   December 10, 2024    Dept:  51 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Upinder S.
Kalra, Department 51
 
HEARING DATE:   December
10, 2024                                         
 
CASE NAME:           Lawrence
Molbury, et al. v. Robert Babish, et al. 
 
CASE NO.:                23STCV08667
 
[Related to Lawrence Molbury, et al. v. Robert Babish,
et al. 23STCV11717 and Lawrence
Molbury, et al. v. Robert Babish, et al. 23STCV09241] 

 
MOTION
FOR RECONSIDERATION
 
MOVING PARTY:  Plaintiffs
Lawrence Molbury and Rebecca Molbury 
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): None as of December 5, 2024
 
REQUESTED RELIEF: 
 
1.      An
Order reconsidering the prior dismissal of Complaint; and
2.      An
Order reconsidering the denial of ADA Accommodations.
TENTATIVE RULING: 
 
1.      Motion
for Reconsideration is DENIED.
STATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS: 
 
On April 19, 2023, Plaintiffs Lawrence Molbury and Rebecca
Molbury (Plaintiffs) filed a Complaint against Defendants Michael Sinkov,
Robert Babish, and S M Management LLC (Defendants) with four causes of action
for (1) Harassment, (2) Extortion, (3) Negligence, and (4) Discrimination
Against the Disabled. (The Sinkov Matter) 
 
On April 26, 2023, Plaintiffs Lawrence Molbury and Rebecca
Molbury (Plaintiffs) filed a Complaint against Defendants Domonique Cojone,
Katja Seib, and Robert Babish (Defendants) with four causes of action for (1)
Dereliction of Duty, (2) Harassment, (3) Discrimination Against Persons with
Disabilities, and (4) Inhabitability Violations. (The Cojone Matter) 
 
On May 24, 2023, Plaintiffs Lawrence Molbury and Rebecca
Molbury (Plaintiffs) filed a Complaint against Defendants Jake Ellwood Mallot
and Robert Babish (Defendants) with five causes of action for (1) Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress, (2) Negligence, (3) Fraudulent
Misrepresentation, (4) Unfair Business Practices, and (5) Conversion. (the
Mallot Matter) 
 
On September 6, 2023, Plaintiffs filed a First Amended
Complaint (FAC) to the Sinkov Matter which adding eight additional causes of
action for: (5) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress, (6) Breach of
Contract, (7) Invasion of Privacy, (8) Violation of Fair Housing Act, (9)
Violation of Tenant Protection Ordinances, (10) Fraud or Misrepresentation,
(11) Abuse of Process or Malicious Prosecution, and (12) Unlawful Business
Practices. 
 
On September 7, 2023, Plaintiffs filed a First Amended
Complaint (FAC) to the Cojone Matter which added two more defendants, S M
Management LLC and The Place LLC as well as adding nine additional causes of
action for: (5) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress, (6) Retaliatory
Eviction, (7) Breach of Contract, (8) Violation of the Americans with
Disabilities Act, (9) Constructive Eviction, (10) Fraud or Misrepresentation,
(11) Private Nuisance, (12) Invasion of Privacy, and (13) Unjust Enrichment. 
 
On September 7, 2023, Plaintiffs filed a First Amended
Complaint (FAC) in the Mallot matter which added two more defendants, S M
Management LLC and The Place LLC as well as adding six additional causes of
action for: (6) Breach of Contract, (7) Harassment, (8) Defamation, (9)
Constructive Eviction, (10) Violation of Consumer Protection Laws, and (11)
Retaliation. 
 
On October 19, 2023, Plaintiffs filed a Motion for
Preliminary Injunction in the Sinkov Matter which the court DENIED. 
 
On October 20, 2023, the court ordered the Complaint
stricken in all three matters and granted Plaintiffs 30 days leave to file an
amended complaint properly stating the causes of action. 
 
On November 15, 2023, Plaintiffs filed the operative Second
Amended Complaint (SAC) to the Sinkov Matter with six causes of action for: (1)
Harassment, (2) Retaliation, (3) Discrimination Against the Disabled, (4)
Breach of Contract, (5) Violation of the Fair Housing Act, (6)
Intentional/Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress, and (7) Deceitful
Business Practices. 
 
On November 16, 2023, Plaintiffs filed the operative Second
Amended Complaint (SAC) to the Cojone Matter with six causes of action for: (1)
Breach of the Covenant of Habitability, (2) Breach of Contract, (3) Negligence,
(4) Harassment, (5) Unlawful Business Practices, and (6) Invasion of
Privacy. 
 
On November 17, 2023, Plaintiffs filed the operative Second
Amended Complaint (SAC) in the  Mallot Matter with eleven causes of action
for: (1) Assault, (2) Conversion, (3) Intentional Infliction of Emotional
Distress, (4) Harassment, (5) Defamation, (6) Unfair Business Practices, (7)
Breach of Contract, (8) Constructive Eviction, (9) Retaliation, (10) Invasion
of Privacy, and (11) Disability Discrimination. 
 
On January 5, 2024, Defendants filed demurrers to the SAC
which the court ruled as follows:  
 
In the Sinkov
Matter, Demurrers to the First Cause of Action is OVERRULED as to Defendant The
Place and SUSTAINED with leave to amend as to Defendants Michael Sinkox, Robert
Babish, and S M Management, LLC; Demurrers to the Second, Third, Fourth, Fifth,
Sixth, and Seventh Cause of Action are SUSTAINED with leave to amend. 
 
In the Cojone
Matter, Demurrers to the Third Cause of Action is OVERRULED as to Defendant The
Place and SUSTAINED with leave to amend as to Defendants Robert Babish,
Dominique Cornejo, Katja Seib, and S M Management LLC; Demurrers to the First,
Second, Fourth, Fifth, and Sixth Causes of Action are SUSTAINED with leave to
amend. 
 
In the Mallot
Matter, Demurrers to the Fourth Cause of Action is OVERRULED as to Defendant
The Place and SUSTAINED with leave to amend as to Defendants Robert Babish,
Jake Ellwood Mallot, and S M Management LLC; Demurrers to the First, Second,
Third, Fifth, Sixth, Seventh, Eighth, Ninth, Tenth, and Eleventh Causes of
Action are SUSTAINED with leave to amend. 
 
On April 24, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a Third Amended
Complaint (TAC) against Defendants Manhattan Homes LLC d.b.a. The Place, and SM
Management LLC with five causes of action for: (1) Negligence/Breach of Implied
Warranty of Habitability, (2) Negligent Repair or Maintenance, (3) Negligent
Misrepresentation, (4) Breach of Covenant of Quiet Enjoyment of
Premises/Harassment, and (5) Unfair Business Practices. 
 
On May 31, 2024, Defendants S M Management LLC and The
Place, LLC (Moving Party) filed a Demurrer to the TAC which the court SUSTAINED
with leave to amend.
 
On August 14, 2024, Plaintiffs filed the instant Motion for Reconsideration.
On November 19, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a Supplemental Declaration in support of
their motion. Oppositions were due on or before November 25, 2024. As of
December 5, 2024, the court has not received an oppositions.[1]
 
LEGAL STANDARD: 
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 1008 provides, in pertinent
part:¿¿ 
¿ 
“(a) When an application for an order has
been made to a judge, or to a court, and refused in whole or in part, or
granted, or granted conditionally, or on terms, any party affected by the order
may, within 10 days after service upon the party of written notice of entry of
the order and based upon new or different facts, circumstances, or law, make
application to the same judge or court that made the order, to reconsider the
matter and modify, amend, or revoke the prior order. The party making the
application shall state by affidavit what application was made before, when and
to what judge, what order or decisions were made, and what new or different
facts, circumstances, or law are claimed to be shown.
 
(b) A party who originally made an application for an order
which was refused in whole or in part, or granted conditionally or on terms,
may make a subsequent application for the same order upon new or different
facts, circumstances, or law, in which case it shall be shown by affidavit what
application was made before, when and to what judge, what order or decisions
were made, and what new or different facts circumstances, or law are claimed to
be shown. For a failure to comply with this subdivision, any order made on a
subsequent application may be revoked or set aside on an ex parte
motion.¿¿ 
 
(c) If a court at any time determines that there has been a
change of law that warrants it to reconsider a prior order it entered, it may
do so on its own motion and enter a different order. 
… 
 
(e)¿This section specifies the court’s jurisdiction with
regard to applications for reconsideration of its orders and renewals of
previous motions, and applies to all applications to reconsider any order of a
judge or court, or for the renewal of a previous motion, whether the order
deciding the previous matter or motion is interim or final. No application to
reconsider any order or for the renewal of a previous motion may be considered
by any judge or court unless made according to this section.”¿ 
¿ 
(Code Civ. Proc.
§ 1008, subds. (b), (c), (e).)¿¿ 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
Plaintiffs contend the court should reconsider its prior
rulings sustaining the demurrers to the Complaint and First Amended Complaint.[2]
Specifically, Plaintiffs seek leave to pursue causes of action against
Defendants for ADA and FHA violations. Plaintiffs appear to additionally seek
reconsideration of this court’s denial of accommodation requests from December
2023. 
 
Timeliness
 
Plaintiffs’ motion is untimely. The Complaint was stricken
on October 20, 2023. The Request for Accommodations was denied on October 17,
2023. A second request for accommodations was denied on December 21, 2023. A
third request for accommodations was denied on February 26, 2024. The court
ruled on demurrers on March 13, 2024 and Defendants served notice on March 18,
2024. Plaintiffs filed this motion on August 14, 2024 – almost one year later.
 
 
Accordingly, the court DENIES Plaintiffs’ motion for
reconsideration.
 
CONCLUSION:
 
            For
the foregoing reasons, the Court decides the pending motion as follows: 
 
1.      Motion
for Reconsideration is DENIED.
Moving party is to give notice. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED. 
 
Dated:              December 10, 2024                 __________________________________                                                                                                                Upinder
S. Kalra
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 


