 Case Number:  24STCV09563    Hearing Date:   December 10, 2024    Dept:  51 Tentative Ruling   Judge Upinder S.  Kalra, Department 51   HEARING DATE:   December  10, 2024                                            CASE NAME:           Jacqueline  Granizo v. Build For You Remodeling Corp, et al.   CASE NO.:                24STCV09563    DEMURRER  TO FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT   MOVING PARTY:  Defendants  Build For You Remodeling Corp and Igor Rahlin   RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiff Jacqueline Granizo   REQUESTED RELIEF:    1.      Demurrer  to the First, Second, Third, Fourth, Fifth, Sixth, Seventh, Eighth, Ninth,  Tenth, Thirteenth, Seventeenth, and Eighteenth Causes of Action in the Complaint  for failure to allege facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action against  Defendants. TENTATIVE RULING:    1.      Demurrer  to the FAC is OVERRULED as to the Third, Fourth, Seventh, Eighth, Thirteenth,  and Seventeenth Causes of Action; 2.      Demurrer  to the FAC is SUSTAINED as to the First, Second, Fifth, Sixth, Ninth, and  Eighteenth Causes of Action; 3.      STATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:    On April 16, 2024, Plaintiff Jacqueline Granizo (Plaintiff)  filed a Complaint against Defendants Build For You Remodeling Corp, Igor  Rahlin, and Jamie Doe (Defendants) with nineteen (19) causes of action for: (1)  Wrongful Termination in Violation of Public Policy; (2)Whistleblower  Retaliation; (3) FEHA Violation – Disparate Impact/Treatment; (4) FEHA  Harassment; (5) FEHA Discrimination; (6) FEHA Violation – Retaliation; (7) FEHA  Violation – Failure to Provide Reasonable Accommodation; (8) FEHA Violation –  Failure to Engage in Interactive Process; (9) Intentional Infliction of  Emotional Distress; (10) Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress; (11) Failure  to Pay Earned Wages; (12) Failure to Pay Overtime Wages; (13) Failure to Pay  Rest Break Compensation; (14) Failure to Furnish Compliant Wage Statements;  (15) Waiting Time Penalties; (16) Failure to Produce Employment File; (17) Failure  to Produce Wage Records; (18) Breach of Contract; and (19) Unfair Competition.   According to the Complaint, Plaintiff worked for Defendants  from around March 19, 2023 to April 17, 2023 as a Telemarketer. Plaintiff  alleges that Defendants unlawfully discriminated against her based on her age  and other labor law violations. Plaintiff further alleges she was wrongfully terminated  after she complained about not receiving a bonus and for reporting a workplace  injury.    On May 28, 2024, Defendants filed a Demurrer to the  Complaint which the court OVERRULED as to the Nineteenth Cause of Action and  SUSTAINED as to the remaining causes of action with leave to amend.   On August 7, 2024, Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint  (FAC) with eighteen causes of action for: (1) Wrongful Termination in Violation  of Public Policy, (2) Whistleblower Retaliation, (3) FEHA Violation – Disparate  Impact/Treatment, (4) FEHA Harassment, (5) FEHA Discrimination, (6) FEHA  Violation – Retaliation, (7) FEHA Violation – Failure to Provide Reasonable  Accommodation, (8) FEHA Violation – Failure to Engage in Interactive Process,  (9) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress, (10) Failure to Pay Earned  Wages, (11) Failure to Pay Overtime Wages, (12) Failure to Pay Rest Break  Compensation, (13) Failure to Furnish Compliant Wage Statements, (14) Waiting  Time Penalties, (15) Failure to Produce Employment File, (16) Failure to  Produce Wage Records, (17) Breach of Contract, and (18) Unfair Competition.   On August 12, 2024, Defendants filed the instant Demurrer to  the FAC. On November 27, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition. Replies were due  on or before December 3, 2024. As of December 5, 2024, the court has not  received a reply brief.    LEGAL STANDARD:    Meet and Confer¿  ¿¿  Prior to filing a demurrer, the demurring party is required  to satisfy their meet and confer obligations pursuant to Code of Civ. Proc.  §430.41, and demonstrate that they so satisfied their meet and confer  obligation by submitting a declaration pursuant to Code of Civ. Proc.  §430.41(a)(2) & (3). There is no meet and confer declaration. Therefore, the court cannot determine  whether sufficient meet and confer occurred. While  failure to meet and confer is not a sufficient ground to overrule or sustain a  demurrer, the court admonishes Defendants’ counsel for failing, again, to  attach a meet and confer declaration to their demurrer. (CCP § 430.41(a)(4).)¿ ¿  Demurrer¿¿  ¿¿  A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint states  a cause of action.¿(Hahn v. Mirda¿(2007)  147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When considering demurrers, courts read the  allegations liberally and in context.¿In a demurrer proceeding, the defects  must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice.[1]¿(Donabedian v.  Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)¿“A demurrer tests the  pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters. …. The only  issue involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands,  unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.”¿(Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at 747.)¿¿  ¿  When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations  liberally and in context, accepting the alleged facts as true. (Nolte v. Cedars-Sinai Medical Center  (2015) 236 Cal.App.4th 1401, 1406.) Courts also consider exhibits attached to  the complaint and incorporated by reference. (See Frantz v. Blackwell (1987) 189 Cal.App.3d 91, 94 (Frantz).)¿    ANALYSIS:    First Cause of  Action – Wrongful Termination in Violation of Public Policy   Defendants contend that Plaintiff failed to plead specific  facts about the public policy Defendants allegedly violated when terminating  her. Plaintiff argues she identified the public policy outlined in Cal. Govt.  Code §§ 12900 et seq. that requires Defendants to provide a workplace free of  harassment, discrimination, and retaliation. Plaintiff also argues she  sufficiently alleged facts showing wrongful termination.   “The elements of a claim for wrongful discharge in violation  of public policy are (1) an employer-employee relationship, (2) the employer  terminated the plaintiff's employment, (3) the termination was substantially  motivated by a violation of public policy, and (4) the discharge caused the  plaintiff harm.” (Yau v. Allen (2014)  229 Cal.App.4th 144, 154.)  A four-part test is utilized to determine  whether a particular policy can support a common law wrongful termination  claim.  The “policy” in question must meet the following requirements: (1)  the policy is supported by either constitutional or statutory provisions; (2)  the policy is “public” in that it “inures to the benefit of the public” and not  merely the interests of the individual; (3) the policy was articulated at the  time of the discharge; and (4) the policy is “fundamental” and  “substantial.”  (Franklin v.  Monadnock Co. (2007) 151 Cal.App.4th 252, 258.)    Upon reviewing the FAC, Plaintiff once again failed to  sufficiently allege wrongful discharge in violation of public policy. Plaintiff  failed to allege facts that her termination was substantially motivated by the  violation of public policy. Specifically, Plaintiff alleges that she was  terminated for complaining about not receiving her bonuses and for complaining  about falling in the bathroom. (FAC ¶ 49.) While not commendable if true, Plaintiff  provides no authority that either of these violate public policy.   Accordingly, the court SUSTAINS Defendants’ Demurrer to  the First Cause of Action.   Second Cause of  Action – Whistleblower Retaliation (Cal. Lab. Code §§ 1102.5 & 98.6)   Defendants contend that this cause of action is not  supported by the FAC. Plaintiff argues that she plead she engaged in a  protected activity of reporting a workplace injury and unpaid bonuses to her  manager and was subsequently terminated.   Labor Code section 1102.5, subdivision (b) provides: “[a]n  employer, or any person acting on behalf of the employer, shall not retaliate  against an employee for disclosing information, or because the employer  believes that the employee disclosed or may disclose information, to a  government or law enforcement agency, to a person with authority over the  employee or another employee who has the authority to investigate, discover, or  correct the violation or noncompliance, or for providing information to, or testifying  before, any public body conducting an investigation, hearing, or inquiry, if  the employee has reasonable cause to believe that the information discloses a  violation of state or federal statute, or a violation of or noncompliance with  a local, state, or federal rule or regulation, regardless of whether disclosing  the information is part of the employee's job duties.”  (Lab. Code, §  1102.5, subd. (b).)    Labor Code section 98.6, subdivision (a) provides: “[a]  person shall not discharge an employee or in any manner discriminate, retaliate,  or take any adverse action against any employee . . . because the employee . .  . engaged in any conduct delineated in this chapter . . . or because the  employee . . . has filed a bona fide complaint or claim or instituted or caused  to be instituted any proceeding under or relating to their rights that are  under the jurisdiction of the Labor Commissioner, made a written or oral  complaint that they are owed unpaid wages, or because the employee has  initiated any action or notice pursuant to Section 2699, or has testified or is  about to testify in a proceeding pursuant to that section, or because of the  exercise by the employee or applicant for employment on behalf of themselves or  others of any rights afforded them.”  (Lab. Code, §  98.6, subd. (a).)    Upon reviewing the FAC, Plaintiff once again failed to  sufficiently allege a claim for whistleblower retaliation. Notably, Plaintiff did  not allege a protected activity. Plaintiff alleges she reported a workplace  injury to her manager and complained to her manager that she had not received a  bonus – as alleged, these acts are not violations of the law. (FAC. ¶ 57.)    Accordingly, the court SUSTAINS Defendants’ demurrer to  the Second Cause of Action.   Third Cause of  Action – FEHA Violation – Disparate Impact/Treatment (Cal. Govt. Code §§ 12900,  et seq., 12940(c))   Defendants contend that the Complaint fails to allege facts  that Defendants discriminated against Plaintiff due to her age, health, or  disability. Specifically, Defendants contend that identifying Plaintiff’s age  is insufficient to support this claim. Plaintiff argues that she alleged facts  that she was harassed and discriminated against based on her age, gender, and  health.    Under “disparate treatment theory” of employment  discrimination, an individual is discriminated against when employer treats  some people less favorably than others because of their race, color, religion,  sex or national origin. (Heard v.  Lockheed Missiles & Space Co. (1996) 44 Cal.App.4th 1735, 1748.) “Whatever  the employer's decisionmaking process, a disparate treatment claim  cannot succeed unless the employee's protected trait actually played a role in  that process and had a determinative influence on the outcome.” (Hazen Paper Co. v. Biggins (1993) 507  U.S. 604, 610.)    A claim for age discrimination requires plaintiff to show she  was: (1) a member of a protected class (over 40 years old); (2) plaintiff was  qualified or competent for the position sought or performed; (3) plaintiff  suffered an adverse employment action; and (4) some other circumstance  suggesting discriminatory motive. (Guz v.  Bechtel National, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 317, 355; Sandell v. Taylor-Listug, Inc. (2010) 188 Cal.App.4th 297,  321.)     Upon  reviewing the FAC, Plaintiff has sufficiently alleged a claim for Disparate  Impact/Treatment. First, Plaintiff alleges she was a member of a protected  class because she was over 60 years old at the time of her employment. (FAC ¶  69.) Second, Plaintiff alleges she was qualified for her role as a  telemarketer. (FAC ¶ 69.) Third, Plaintiff alleges she suffered adverse  employment actions. (FAC ¶ 69.) Finally, Plaintiff alleges other facts  suggesting discriminatory motive. (FAC ¶ 69.)   Accordingly,  the court OVERRULES Defendants’ demurrer to the Third Cause of Action.   Fourth Cause of  Action - FEHA Harassment (Cal. Govt. Code §§ 12900, et seq.)   Defendants contend that stating Plaintiff’s age and alleging  she fell in a bathroom is insufficient to support a claim for harassment.  Defendants provide no authority supporting this argument. Plaintiff argues that  she sufficiently plead harassment because she was moved to a different  manager’s department after returning from hospitalization, was scrutinized more  than others, did not receive her bonuses, and Defendants interpreted her  workplace injury as self-inflicted.   To establish a claim for discrimination in violation of  FEHA, the plaintiff must generally prove that (1) he or she was a member of a  protected class; (2) that he or she was qualified for the position he or she  sought or was performing competently in the position he or she held; (3) that  he or she suffered an adverse employment action, such as termination, demotion,  or denial of an available job; and (4)¿some other circumstance  suggesting¿discriminatory motive. (See¿Guz,  supra, 24 Cal.4th at 355.)¿    Upon reviewing the FAC, Plaintiff sufficiently stated a  claim for FEHA Harassment. First, Plaintiff alleges she was a member of a  protected class as a sixty year old woman. (FAC ¶ 73.) Second, Plaintiff  alleges that she was qualified for her position as a telemarketer. (FAC ¶ 74.) Third,  Plaintiff alleges an adverse employment action because she was terminated. (FAC  ¶ 74.) Fourth, Plaintiff alleges other circumstances suggesting discriminatory  motive because she was terminated after complaining about her clients being  transferred to other colleagues when she came back from medical leave, was  scrutinized more than others, was micromanaged, and was transferred to a more  hostile manager. (FAC ¶ 74.)   Accordingly, the court OVERRULES the demurrer to the  Fourth Cause of Action.   Fifth Cause of  Action – FEHA Discrimination (Cal. Govt. Code § 12900, et seq.)   Defendants raise the same argument, without authority,  proffered for the Fourth Cause of Action. Plaintiff argues that she  sufficiently plead discrimination based on her age and disability.   In order to sufficiently allege a prima facie case for gender  discrimination under FEHA, a plaintiff must generally establish the following  elements: (1) plaintiff was a member of a protected class; (2) plaintiff was  qualified for the position he or she sought or was performing competently in  the position he or she held at the time of the adverse action; (3) plaintiff  suffered an adverse employment action (e.g., termination, demotion, denial of  an available job); and (4) the adverse action occurred under circumstances  suggesting a discriminatory motive (e.g., persons outside the protected class  were hired or not demoted).  (Guz,  supra, 24 Cal.4th at 355; see  Nadaf-Rahrov v. Neiman Marcus Group, Inc. (2008) 166 Cal.App.4th 952, 992; see also Sandell, supra, 188 Cal.4th at p. 321.)  To establish a prima  facie case for discrimination under FEHA, the prima facie burden is light, and  the evidence necessary to sustain the burden is minimal.  (Id. at p. 310.)    In order to plead a prima facie case for disability  discrimination under FEHA, a plaintiff must plead the following elements: (1)  plaintiff suffered from a disability, or was regarded as suffering from a  disability; (2) plaintiff could perform the essential duties of the job with or  without reasonable accommodation, and (3) plaintiff was subjected to an adverse  employment action because of the disability or perceived disability.  (Wills v. Superior Court (2011) 195  Cal.App.4th 143, 159-160.)    Upon reviewing the FAC, Plaintiff insufficiently stated a  claim for FEHA Discrimination. First, Plaintiff alleges she suffered from a  disability – a lung infection requiring hospitalization. (FAC ¶ 87.) Second,  Plaintiff alleges she could perform the essential duties of her job. (FAC ¶  87.) However, Plaintiff insufficiently alleges adverse employment action. While  she alleges that “some of her clients had been transferred to other clients,  her bonuses were not paid to her, she was treated like an old person in front  of her colleagues, and her manager would not recognize some of her sales,” she  does not allege that this was resulting from the disability of lung infection.  (FAC ¶ 87.) Indeed, Plaintiff alleges these same adverse employment actions due  to her age and for complaining about not receiving bonus.   Accordingly, the court SUSTAINS the demurrer to the Fifth  Cause of Action.   Sixth Cause of  Action – FEHA Violation – Retaliation (Cal. Govt. Code § 12940(h), 12940 et  seq.)   Defendants contend that Plaintiff failed to allege facts  that she engaged in a protected activity, that her employer subjected her to an  adverse employment action, and a causal link existed between the protected  activity and the adverse employment action. Plaintiff argues she sufficiently  alleged retaliation because she was told to take more time off work, moved to a  different manager, not given her bonus, and terminated after complaining about  a workplace injury and not receiving her bonus.   “[I]n order to establish a prima facie case of retaliation  under the FEHA, a plaintiff must show (1) he or she engaged in a ‘protected  activity,’ (2) the employer subjected the employee to an adverse employment  action, and (3) a causal link existed between the protected activity and the  employer’s action.”  (Yanowitz v.  L’Oreal USA, Inc. (2005) 36 Cal.4th 1028, 1042.)  A plaintiff will  have engaged in a “protected activity” if he or she (a) made a charge,  testified, assisted, or participated in any manner in proceedings or hearings  under FEHA, or (b) opposed acts which are unlawful under FEHA.  (Gov.  Code, § 12940, subd. (h) [“It is an unlawful employment practice . . .: ¶(h)  For any employer . . . to discharge, expel, or otherwise discriminate against  any person because the person had opposed any practices forbidden under this  part or because the person has filed a complaint, testified, or assisted in any  proceeding under this part.”].)      Upon  reviewing the FAC, Plaintiff once again failed to sufficiently allege a claim  for FEHA retaliation. Specifically, Plaintiff failed to allege the protected  activity. Instead, Plaintiff alleges the protected activity was: “to report  non-payment of her bonuses; report her workplace injury which was caused by the  company’s negligence in fixing its water sink, as well as report discrimination  she received due to her age and disability by her supervisors, other complaints  she made about her work environment and harassment.” (FAC ¶ 96.) Plaintiff’s  inclusion of reporting discrimination and other complaints is contradicted by  other specific allegations that she complained about not receiving her bonus  and reporting the bathroom fall. (FAC ¶¶ 25-28.) There allegation that she complained  about discrimination is inconsistent with other allegations of the complaint  that omit this allegation. An explanation is warranted. Additionally, Plaintiff  failed to sufficiently allege a causal connection between the protected  activity and her termination.   Accordingly, the court SUSTAINS the demurrer to the Sixth  Cause of Action.   Seventh Cause of  Action – FEHA Violation – Failure to Provide Reasonable Accommodation (Cal.  Govt. Code § 12940(m), § 12940 et seq.)   Defendants raise the same argument proffered for the Fourth  Cause of Action. Plaintiff argues she sufficiently alleged this claim because  she suffered a workplace injury, requested reasonable accommodation, and did  not receive one.   To allege a cause of action for failure to provide a  reasonable accommodation, a plaintiff must plead the following elements: (1)  plaintiff has a disability, (2) plaintiff is qualified to perform the essential  functions of the position, and (3) the employer failed to reasonable  accommodate the plaintiff’s disability.”  (Swanson v. Morongo Unified School Dist. (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 954,  969.)    Upon reviewing FAC, Plaintiff sufficiently alleged a claim  for failure to engage in the interactive process. First, Plaintiff alleges a  disability – the lung infection that required hospitalization. (FAC ¶ 104.)  Second, Plaintiff alleges she was able to perform the essential functions of  her job. (FAC ¶ 102.) Third, Plaintiff alleges that Defendants failed to move  her desk away “from the smell of second-hand smoke” and failed to provide  “training to catch up on what she missed” while she was hospitalized for the  lung infection. (FAC ¶ 104.)   Accordingly, the court OVERRULES Defendants’ Demurrer to  the Seventh Cause of Action.   Eighth Cause of  Action – FEHA Violation – Failure to Engage in Interactive Process (Cal. Govt.  Code § 12940(m), § 12940 et seq.)   Defendants essentially raise the same argument, without  authority, proffered for the Fourth Cause of Action. Plaintiff argues that she  sufficiently alleged her lung infection impacted her work and Defendants failed  to make reasonable accommodations so she could carry out essential job  requirements.   In order to allege a cause of action for failure to engage in  interactive process, a plaintiff must allege the following facts: (1) plaintiff  was an employee of defendant, (2) plaintiff had a disability known by  defendant, (3) plaintiff requested that defendant make a reasonable  accommodation for his or her disability so that he or she may be able to  perform the essential job requirements, (4) plaintiff was willing to  participate in an interactive process to determine whether a reasonable  accommodation could be made so that he or she would be able to perform the  essential job requirements, and (5) defendant failed to participate in a timely  food-faith interactive process with plaintiff to determine whether a reasonable  accommodation could be made.  (Gov. Code, § 12940, subd. (n); CACI No.  2546 [Disability Discrimination—Reasonable Accommodation—Failure to Engage in  Interactive Process].) “Two principles underlie a cause of action for failure  to provide a reasonable accommodation.  First, the employee must request  an accommodation.  Second, the parties must engage in an interactive  process regarding the requested accommodation and, if the process fails,  responsibility for the failure rests with the party who failed to participate  in good faith.”  (Gelfo v. Lockheed  Martin Corp. (2006) 140 Cal.App.4th 34, 54.)    Upon reviewing the FAC, Plaintiff sufficiently alleged a  claim for failure to engage in the interactive process. First, Plaintiff  alleges she was employed by Defendants. (FAC ¶ 16.) Second, Plaintiff alleges  she had a disability – the lung infection – that Defendants knew about. (FAC ¶  117.) Third, Plaintiff alleges that she requested reasonable accommodations  (moved out of secondhand smoke) so she could perform her essential job duties.  (FAC ¶ 117.) Fourth, Plaintiff alleges she was willing to participate in the  interactive process. (FAC ¶ 117.) Fifth, Plaintiff alleges Defendants failed to  participate in the interactive process. (FAC ¶ 117.)   Accordingly, the court OVERRULES the demurrer to the  Eighth Cause of Action.   Ninth Cause of  Action – Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress   Defendants contend that Plaintiff failed to sufficiently  allege facts supporting outrageous conduct. Plaintiff argues that terminating  her for reporting a workplace fall in the bathroom constitutes outrageous  conduct.   The elements of an intentional  infliction of emotional distress (IIED) cause of action are: (1) extreme and  outrageous conduct by the defendant; (2) intention to cause or reckless  disregard of the probability of causing emotional distress; (3) severe  emotional suffering; and (4) actual and proximate causation of the emotional  distress.¿ (See¿Moncada¿v. West Coast  Quartz Corp.¿(2013) 221 Cal.App.4th 768, 780.)¿ To satisfy the element of  extreme and outrageous conduct,¿defendant’s conduct “‘must be so extreme as to  exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized society.’”¿ (Ibid.) (internal citations  omitted.)¿¿¿¿¿  ¿  While there is no bright-line as  to what constitutes outrageous conduct and thus this involves a case-by-case  analysis, courts can determine whether conduct was sufficiently outrageous at  the demurrer stage. (Cochran v. Cochran¿(1998)  65 Cal.App.4th 488, 494.)¿¿Recovery for emotional distress caused by injury to  property is permitted in IIED claims. (Ragland  v. U.S. Bank National Assn. (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th 182, 203-04.) (internal  citations omitted.)¿    Upon reviewing the FAC, Plaintiff failed to sufficiently  state a claim for IIED. Notably, Plaintiff failed to allege outrageous conduct.     Accordingly, the court SUSTAINS the demurrer to the Ninth  Cause of Action.   Thirteenth Cause of  Action – Failure to Furnish Compliant Wage Statements (Cal. Lab. Code §§ 226  and 226.3)   Defendants contend that Plaintiff failed include one or more  of the required items of information. Plaintiff argues that she alleged  Defendants did not provide all the information required by law on her wage  statements.   Labor Code § 226 requires employers to furnish an accurate  itemized statement in writing showing: “(1) gross wages earned, (2) total hours  worked by the employee . . ., (3) the number of piece-rate units earned and any  applicable piece rate if the employee is paid on a piece-rate basis; (4) all  deductions . . ., (5) net wages earned, (6) the inclusive dates of the period  for which the employee is paid, (7) the name of the employee and only the last  four digits of their social security number  or an employee identification number other  than a social security number, (8) the name and address of the legal entity  that is the employer . . ., and (9) all applicable hourly rates in effect  during the pay period and the corresponding numbers of hours worked at each  hourly rate by the employee . . . .” (Lab. Code § 226(a).)    Labor Code § 226.3 provides for civil penalties for  violation of Labor Code § 226(a). (Lab. Code § 226.3.)   Upon reviewing the FAC, Plaintiff sufficiently alleged a  claim for failure to furnish compliant wage statements. First, Plaintiff  alleges the wage statements failed to provide her “gross wages earned.” (FAC ¶  147.)   Accordingly, the court OVERRULES the demurrer to the  Thirteenth Cause of Action.   Seventeenth Cause  of Action – Breach of Contract   Defendant contends Plaintiff failed to identify a contract.  Plaintiff argues that her non-discretionary bonus was the contract Defendants  breached.   The standard elements of a claim for breach of contract are  (1) the contract, (2) plaintiff’s performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3)  defendant’s breach, and (4) damage to plaintiff therefrom. (Wall Street Network, Ltd. v. New York Times  Co. (2008) 164 Cal.App.4th 1171, 1178.) “A written contract may be pleaded  by its terms—set out verbatim in the complaint or a copy of the contract  attached to the complaint and incorporated therein by reference—or by its legal  effect.” (McKell v. Washington Mutual, Inc.  (2006) 142 Cal.App.4th 1457, 1489.) To plead a contract by its legal effect, a  plaintiff must “allege the substance of its relevant terms. This is more  difficult, for it requires a careful analysis of the instrument,  comprehensiveness in statement, and avoidance of legal conclusions.” (Ibid.)¿    Upon reviewing the FAC, Plaintiff has sufficiently alleged  breach of contract. First, Plaintiff alleges an employment contract when she  was hired. (FAC ¶ 158.) Since Plaintiff did not attach the contract to the FAC,  she instead alleges the terms: she would receive bonus payments for sales. (FAC  ¶ 158.) Second, Plaintiff alleges she performed. (FAC ¶ 157.) Third, Plaintiff  alleges Defendants breached because they did not pay her bonus. (FAC ¶ 158.)  Fourth, Plaintiff alleges resulting damages. (FAC ¶ 159.)   Accordingly, the court OVERRULES the demurrer to the Seventeenth  Cause of Action.   Eighteenth Cause of  Action – Unfair Competition (Cal. Bus. & Prof. Code § 17200 et seq.)   Defendant contends, without authority, that Plaintiff failed  to allege the unfair business practice or other facts sufficient to support  this claim. Plaintiff argues Defendants have reaped unfair benefits and illegal  profits at the expense of Plaintiff and members of the public.    Unfair competition is any unlawful, unfair, or fraudulent  business practices or act and unfair, deceptive, untrue, or misleading  advertising. (Bus. & Prof. Code § 17200.)¿ A plaintiff needs to identify  statutory, regulatory, or decisional law that the defendant has violated.¿ (Bernardo v. Planned Parenthood Federation of  America (2004) 115 Cal.App.4th 322, 352.)¿Unfair competition “borrows”  violations of other laws and authorizes a separate action pursuant to unfair  competition. (See Farmers Ins. Exch. v. Superior  Court (1992) 2 Cal.4th 377, 383.) Unfair conduct in unfair competition  actions must be violative of public policy and “tethered to specific  constitutional, statutory, or regulatory provisions.”¿ (Scripps Clinic v. Superior Court (2003) 108 Cal.App.4th 917, 940.)  As a statutory cause of action, allegations of unfair business practices must  state with reasonable particularity the facts supporting the statutory elements  of the violation. (Khoury v. Maly’s of  California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 619.) The statutory violations  must be specifically delineated and said violations must relate to a business  activity.¿ (Ibid.)¿¿¿    Upon reviewing the FAC, Plaintiff has insufficiently alleged  a claim under Bus. & Prof. Code § 17200 et seq. Here, Plaintiff alleges  that Defendants converted her unpaid wages. (FAC ¶ 161.) Plaintiff did not  allege which statutory, regulatory, or decisional law this violates or how  converting her wages relates to a business activity. Plaintiff also did not  allege this claim with the requisite particularity.    Accordingly, the court SUSTAINS the demurrer to the  Eighteenth Cause of Action.   Leave to Amend    Leave to amend should be liberally granted if there is a  reasonable possibility an amendment could cure the defect.¿ (County of Santa Clara v. Superior Court  (2022) 14 Cal.5th 1034, 1041.)¿ The Plaintiff has the burden of demonstrating  that leave to amend should be granted, and that the defects can be cured by  amendment. (“Plaintiff must show in what manner he can amend his complaint and  how that amendment will change the legal effect of his pleading.” (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335,  349). Here, Plaintiff requested leave to amend but  did not articulate how they can cure the defects. The court will consider the  request at oral argument.     CONCLUSION:               For  the foregoing reasons, the Court decides the pending motion as follows:    1.Demurrer to the FAC is OVERRULED  as to the Third, Fourth, Seventh, Eighth, Thirteenth, and Seventeenth Causes of  Action; 2.Demurrer to the FAC is SUSTAINED  as to the First, Second, Fifth, Sixth, Ninth, and Eighteenth Causes of Action; Moving party is to give notice.    IT IS SO ORDERED.    Dated:              December 10, 2024                             __________________________________                                                                                                                Upinder  S. Kalra                                                                                     Judge  of the Superior Court       