 Case Number:  24TRCV01572    Hearing Date:   June 12, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿ 
¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 June 12, 2024
¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                   24TRCV01572
¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                         Lilla
Dee v. Rishi Khatri, et al. 
¿¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                 Plaintiff, Lilla Dee
¿¿ 
RESPONDING PARTY:        Defendant,
Cross-Complainant, Rishi R. Khatri 
¿¿ 
TRIAL DATE:                        Not Set. 
¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Ex Parte Application for Appointment
of Receiver over Defendants Dragonfly Holding Corp. and Holistic Mental Health
LC; 
                                                (2) Temporary
Restraining Order and Preliminary Injunction. 
¿ 
Tentative Rulings:                  (1) DENIED
                                                (2) DISCUSS – During
oral argument, the Court would like the parties to discuss a stipulation as to
a preliminary injunction whereby Defendant Khatri will refrain from any
practice of medicine, maintain the interim measures regarding Plaintiff’s
access to financial records, and continue to take steps to preserve evidence.  
 
Note: The Court is currently
engaged in trial, and will not be able to entertain a lengthy hearing on this application
 
 
 
 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿  
 ¿ 
            On May 5, 2024, Plaintiff, Lilla Dee
(“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against Defendants, Rishi Khatri, Dragonfly
Holding Corp., Holistic Mental Health LLC, Pannado Group LLC, and DOES 1
through 10. On June 10, 2024, Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”)
alleging causes of action for: (1) Fraud; (2) Breach of Fiduciary Duty; (3)
Legal Malpractice; (4) Appointment of a Receiver; (5) Accounting of Dragonfly
Holding Corp.; (6) Accounting of Holistic Mental Health LLC; (7) Accounting of
Pannado Group, LLC; (8) Judicial Dissolution of Dragonfly (under Wyoming
Statutes § 17-16-1430); (9) Judicial Dissolution of Holistic Health (under
California Corporation Code § 17707.04; (10) Judicial Dissolution of Pannado
(under Arizona Revised Statutes §29-3804); and (11) Defamation (Libel). 
 
            Plaintiff previously brought an ex
parte Application for Appointment of Receiver over Defendants Dragonfly
Holdings Corp. and Holistic Mental Health LLC and a related Temporary
Restraining Order and Preliminary Injunction. The Court continued the hearing
on that application to June 12, 2024.  In
the Application, Plaintiff asserts that she is a 50% owner of all entities
involved, and seeks appointment of a receiver over the following mental health
treatment entities, (1) Dragonfly Holding Corp. (“Dragonfly”); and (2) Holistic
Mental Health LLC (“Holistic Health”) (collectively, “Clear Mind”).  The Application asserts a variety of alleged
wrongdoing by Defendant Khatri, including but not limited to his (a) using the
Clear Mind entities as a “front,” (b) impersonating a medical doctor to staff,
patients, and insurance companies, (c) providing medical treatment to patients
at the subject treatment facilities, (d) likely to be destroying records and
covering his wrongdoings that the State of California is actively
investigating; and (e) solely in charge of oversight of Clear Mind’s ketamine
program without Ms. Dee having access to the facilities to protect her
financial interests and the claimed interests of patients and staff.  
 
II. ANALYSIS¿ 
 
A. Legal Standard  
 
Code of Civil Procedure
section 564(b) provides that the court has authority to appoint a receiver in
any of the following pertinent circumstances: in an action by a vendor to
vacate a fraudulent purchase of property, or by a creditor to subject any
property or fund to the creditor's claim, or between partners or others jointly
owning or interested in any property or fund, on the application of the plaintiff,
or of any party whose right to or interest in the property or fund, or the
proceeds thereof, is probable, and where it is shown that the property or fund
is in danger of being lost, removed, or materially injured; and in all other
cases where necessary to preserve the property or rights of any party. The
appointment of a receiver is a drastic remedy to be utilized only in
“exceptional cases.”  As such, a receiver should not be appointed unless
absolutely essential and because no other remedy will serve its purpose. (City
& County of San Francisco v. Daley, (1993) 16 Cal.App.4th 734, 744 (“Daley”).)
A plaintiff who seeks appointment of a receiver of certain property under Code
of Civil Procedure section 564(b)(1) has the burden to establish by a
preponderance of the evidence that plaintiff has a joint interest with
defendant in the property, that the property is in danger of being lost,
removed or materially injured, and that plaintiff's right to possession is
probable. (AlhambraShumway Mines, Inc. v. Alhambra Gold Mine Corp.,
(1953) 116 Cal.App.2d 869, 873.)

 
B. Discussion 
 
Plaintiff’s Argument Summary 
 
            Plaintiff
argues that the grounds to immediately appoint a receiver exist because: (1)
Defendant Khatri has been and continues to actively impersonate a licensed
medical doctor and engages in the unauthorized practice of medicine; (2)
Defendant Khatri will likely destroy evidence of his wrongdoing; (3) Defendant
Khatri’s unauthorized medical decision-making and potential record “tampering”
poses a direct risk to the health and safety of the patients, making immediate
intervention crucial; (4) Defendant Khatri has engaged in wrongful past
practices, raising a risk that he will “cover up” his potential legally
actionable wrongdoings; (5) Defendant Khatri is allegedly running Dragonfly
without any corporate governance limitation; (6) that Defendant Khatri is fully
running Clear Mind by himself without Plaintiff to ensure that Clear Mind is
being run within compliance, and that an independent receiver would ensure that
the Clear Mind facilities comply with health care regulations and standards and
that only authorized medical professionals perform medical services; (7) that
Defendant Khatri has a history of fraud and deceit; (8) That a receiver can
provide necessary financial oversight, potentially neutrally identifying
financial misconduct, mismanagement, or other wrongdoing; (9) that Defendant
Khatri’s actions, including how he allegedly orchestrated a “coup” over Clear
Mind’s operations – are evidence of “shareholder oppression”; and (10) that the
appointment of a receiver can help restore trust among patient, staff, and
stakeholders, ensuring that the Clear Mind facilities operate in compliance
with legal and ethical standards. 
 
Defendant Khatri’s Argument Summary 
 
            In
opposition, Defendant argues that Plaintiff has failed to submit admissible
evidence to support appointment of a receiver.  The Opposition papers assert that Defendant
and his counsel have established a series of interim measures to address a
number of the concerns Plaintiff has raised including steps to preserve evidence,
to admonish staff to maintain records in light of the pending dispute between the
owners, to provide visibility for Plaintiff into the companies’ financial
accounts, and other measures.  Defendant
also argues that if there was a need for interim relief, that this Court has
less dramatic means available. Defendant also argues for the posting of a bond to
secure against the claimed risk that the expenses and involvement of a receiver
could result in the destruction of the very entities who Plaintiff seeks to
guard and protect.   
 
Court’s Disposition
 
This Court’s tentative ruling is to DENY
the request for the appointment of a receiver. First, this Court notes that
there is an ongoing and uncompleted Department of Consumer Affairs investigation
into the claimed authorized practice of medicine by Defendant Khatri. Fort he Court
to authorize a receiver when the DCA may make unknown determinations as to the
future of the companies or the future involvement of Mr. Khatri in them seems
to the Court to be premature.  Moreover, there are numerous factual
disputes between the parties that may need an evidentiary hearing with cross
examination to resolve, factual disputes that have bearing on what the role of the
Receiver would be. 
 
            Next,
Plaintiff argues that immediate appointment of a receiver is warranted due to claimed
likelihood of the destruction of records and preventing cover-up of misconduct.
However, this Court notes that the Opposition provides proof that Defendant has
retained SETEC Investigations, a computer forensics firm, to ensure that all
electronic records, including documents, emails, and WhatsApp messages were and
are preserved. Moreover, pursuant to the opposition brief, Defendant Khatri argues
that Plaintiff will continue to have view access to the companies’ Quickbooks
and financial records. 
 
            Further,
this Court notes that the provisional remedy of a receiver is very expensive, based
on the submitted Receiver expenses the Court has reviewed in other pending
cases.  The Court tentatively finds that Plaintiff
has not carried her burden of demonstrating that a less drastic remedy or
remedies would be sufficient. (Daley, supra, 16 Cal.App.4th at 744.)  One of those other remedies that Plaintiff in
facts seeks by this ex parte application is a temporary restraining order and/or
preliminary injunction whereby Defendant Khatri is enjoined from a wide range
of activities.  Based on the Opposition
papers and declarations, the Court believes that the defense may well be
willing to stipulate to a TRO or preliminary injunction to maintain the status
quo as to the interim measures put in place to address the claim of spoliation
of evidence and the denial of access by Plaintiff to various books and records
of the companies including the Quickbooks accounts.   
 
            The Court will inquire at the
hearing whether Defendant Khatri would be willing to stipulate to a preliminary
injunction that he refrain from the practice of medicine, and to maintain the
interim measures regarding access to financial records, and continued
preservation of evidence. 
 
III. CONCLUSION¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
For the foregoing reasons, Plaintiff’s
Motion for Appointment of Receiver is DENIED. Pending oral argument, this Court
will discuss a potential stipulation to a preliminary injunction on Defendant
Khatri that he refrain from the practice of medicine, refrain from holding
himself out to the public and to patients as a licensed medical doctor, and to maintain
the interim measures regarding access to financial records preservation of
evidence.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 