 Case Number:  23LBCV01102    Hearing Date:   February 29, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Allegations
of the Complaint
Plaintiff, Desragh Singh filed this
action against Defendants, Food 4 Less of Southern California, Inc. and The
Kroger Co. for damages arising out of a slip and fall on a slippery liquid
cleaning substance on the floor. 
Defendant answered as “Ralphs Grocery Company dba Food 4 Less
(incorrectly named and served as Food 4 Less of Southern California, Inc.)”  
 
2.     Motion
to Compel Further Responses to RPDs
a.    
Procedural History
Plaintiff propounded RPDs on
Defendant, and Defendant served responses. 
The parties met and conferred, but were unable to resolve various
issues.  Plaintiff thereafter filed this
motion to compel. 
 
b.    
RPD 3
The parties were unable to resolve
issues relating to RPD 3 prior to the filing of this motion.  RPD seeks production of schedules of all
employees who were working at the store on the date of the incident.  Defendant, subsequent to the filing of the
motion, has agreed to produce the schedules. 
Plaintiff, in reply, indicates Defendant has not yet done so.  To the extent this issue remains outstanding,
the motion is not opposed and granted. 
Defendant must provide a further response, within ten days, withdrawing
all objections and thereafter produce the schedules.  
 
c.    
RPDs 12, 13, 16, 18, and 23
The other RPDs at issue are RPDs
12, 13, 16, 18, and 23, all of which seek production of documents collectively
labeled by Defendant as “incident reports.” 
Specifically, Defendant has refused to produce the General Liability and
Workers Compensation Customer/Member Incident Investigation Check List,
Sweep/Floor Inspection Statement, Incident Report, and Evidence Report.  
 
i.             
Law Governing Production of Incident Reports
If the report is not a matter of
ordinary business routine, but appears to be specially prepared for the use of
the client's attorney in connection with anticipated litigation, it is
privileged. (See New York Cas. Co. v. Superior Court (1938) 30 Cal.App.2d 130,
132; Holm v. Superior Court (1954) 42 Cal.2d 500, 508.)  In many cases, however, an accident report is
required by a transportation company or similar party, as a matter of routine
business practice, but for a dual purpose: preparation for anticipated
litigation, and improvement of service by elimination of careless or
incompetent operators and defective equipment. In other words, the report would
be made even though no litigation were threatened or commenced; and, so far as
privilege is concerned, it might be held to fall within the general rule
requiring disclosure of preexisting documents. (See Holm v. Superior Court,
supra, 42 C.2d 511 [dissenting opinion].)
 
In Holm, the court held that, where
a report has a dual purpose, it is privileged if its dominant purpose is
transmittal to the attorney in the course of professional employment.  The question is one of fact for the trial judge,
but whose determination is subject to review for abuse of discretion. (42
Cal.2d 507.)
 
The "discretion" test of
the Holm case makes the result difficult to predict. In Union Oil Co. v.
Superior Court (1957) 151 Cal.App.2d 286, plaintiffs, heirs of decedents, sued
petitioner for wrongful death from poisonous gas. They sought inspection of
written statements made by petitioner's employees and other witnesses
concerning the accident, averring that the statements were made pursuant to a
petroleum safety order required by statute. Petitioner's affidavits averred
that the statements were prepared and delivered to counsel in anticipation of
litigation. The trial judge ordered inspection. Held, affirmed; his
determination of the dominant purpose (required report) on conflicting
affidavits was binding. (151 Cal.App.2d 289.)(Cf. Jessup v. Superior Court,
supra, 151 Cal.App.2d 110, 111 [discretion held abused, order of inspection
improper].)
 
The Holm and Jessup cases were
followed in Heffron v. Los Angeles Transit Lines (1959) 170 Cal.App.2d 709, a
wrongful death action. Defendant's bus driver, pursuant to company rules, made
a report which went to its insurance company and was then transmitted to its
attorney. An affidavit stated that the primary purpose of such a report is the
preparation of a defense to anticipated litigation. Held, this supported the
trial judge's implied finding of dominant purpose, and made the report
privileged. (170 Cal.App.2d 717.)  (See
Greeneich v. Southern Pac. Co. (1961) 189 Cal.App.2d 100, 110; Safeway Stores
v. Superior Court (1961) 193 Cal.App.2d 270, 274 [reviewing cases and holding
dominant purpose not established]; Greyhound Corp. v. Superior Court (1961) 56
Cal.2d 355, 398 [statements taken from independent nonparty witnesses; held not
confidential and not privileged].)
 
Payless Drug Stores, Inc. v.
Superior Court (1976) 54 Cal.App.3d 988, 991 held, “Evidence to the effect that
the report in question was prepared by an employee of the corporate employer on
the date of the accident on a preprinted form furnished by the insurance
carrier headed ‘Public Liability Accident-Report Every Accident Immediately to
Harbor Insurance Company’ is sufficient to establish the dominant purpose. No
other purpose was shown. Although the report was not labeled ‘confidential,’ as
was the report in Sierra Vista Hospital v. Superior Court (1967), 248
Cal.App.2d 359, Chadbourne establishes that when a corporate employer directs
the employee, at the request of the insurance carrier, to make such a report,
the intent of the employer controls. (D. I. Chadbourne, Inc. v. Superior Court,
supra, 60 Cal.2d at pp. 737-738.) That intent was established by the
declaration of petitioner's custodian of records, who declared that ‘The
reports are intended by PAY LESS and its managerial employees to be confidential.’”  In Payless Drug, the trial court’s order
compelling production of the incident report was reversed.  
 
ii.            
Evidence
Defendant’s opposing points and authorities,
page 6, lines 26-28, state, “In the present case, Assistant Store Manager, John
Ewing was directed by Defendant to prepare the Incident Reports in preparation
for and in anticipation from the threat of litigation arising out of the
incident.  (Decl. AY ¶ 15.)”  This is the only evidence referenced in the
points and authorities to support the contention that the documents are
privileged.  
 
The only declaration with the opposition
papers is the Declaration of Counsel, Arpineh Yeremian.  ¶15 of the declaration states, “15. On
February 5, 2024, Plaintiff served his Motion to Compel Defendant's further
responses to Request for Production of Documents, Set One.  a. A true and correct copy of Plaintiff's
Motion to Compel Production of Documents is attached herein as Exhibit K.”
 
The Court, in an abundance of
caution, reviewed the remainder of the Yeremian declaration to look for evidence
showing that Ewing was directed to prepare the report in preparation for
litigation.  The declaration is entirely
silent in this regard and contains no such evidence.  
 
iii.           
Analysis
It was Defendant’s burden to show
the evidence sought is subject to objection. 
Defendant failed to provide any evidence in this regard, and therefore
the objection is overruled and the motion to compel a further response is
granted.  
 
3.     Motion
to Compel Further Responses to FROGs and SROGs
a.    
Majority
of Interrogatories at Issue
Defendant, in opposition to the motion,
indicates it has agreed to provide further responses to all FROGs and the majority
of SROGs at issue.  Plaintiff, in reply,
indicates Defendant has not, to date, done so. 
To the extent Defendant does not do so prior to the hearing on the motion,
Defendant is ordered to serve further responses, without objections, to the
subject interrogatories, within ten days. 

 
The two interrogatories that remain
at issue are SROGs 21 and 31.  
 
b.    
SROG 21 
SROG seeks identifying information
for the persons responsible for establishing the rules, protocols, and
procedures in effect at the subject store on the date of the incident to
determine whether the floors are in a safe condition.  The parties discuss the ruling of Puerto v.
Superior Court (2008) 158 Cal.App.4th 1242, 1253-54 in this
regard.  In Puerto, the Court held that
production of identifying information for witnesses to an incident should be
compelled because any right to privacy is slight and is outweighed by the need
for the information.  Defendant argues
Puerto is distinguishable because the contact information sought in this case
is for “corporate policy-makers” who were not witnesses to the incident and
have no relevant information.  Defendant
contends that, under these circumstances, the right to privacy outweighs any
need for the information.  
 
The SROG does not appear to seek
the identification of “corporate policy makers.”  It seeks the identification of the
individual(s) who set cleaning protocols at the subject store.  Those cleaning protocols are directly
relevant to this litigation, as they will provide information about what
substances are used, what rinsing mechanisms are used, etc.  Defendant’s argument that this is about “mode
of operation,” which includes choosing a type of flooring or where to place
items in a store, is misplaced; cleaning protocols are not similar to choosing
a type of flooring or where to place items in a store.
 
Notably, Plaintiff has agreed to
enter into a protective order with respect to the contact information, which
will eliminate any private concerns.  Also
notably, to the extent the person(s) identified is/are a high-level corporate
officer, this ruling is not intended to affirmatively permit a deposition of
such person; that issue is not before the Court.
 
Defendant must provide a further response
to SROG 21, without objection, within ten days.
 
c.     SROG
31
SROG 31 seeks the identities of
persons who have slipped and fallen at the subject store in the past two
years.  Defendant contends this
information is not relevant because Plaintiff must prove there was a dangerous
condition on the day of the incident and that Defendant had notice of the
condition with sufficient time to cure the condition.  The problem with Defendant’s analysis is that
Plaintiff is attempting to prove Defendant has negligent cleaning procedures,
and those procedures caused the incident. 
This is not a fall where Plaintiff alleges a banana or gallon of milk
was dropped by a customer, and then the store failed to cure the danger within
a reasonable amount of time.  This is a
situation where Plaintiff alleges Defendant CREATED the condition.  If Plaintiff can show that persons are
constantly slipping and falling on cleaning liquid in the store, this will tend
to show that there is a problem with the cleaning methods of the store.  
 
There is a minimal burden to
produce this information, and any right to privacy is outweighed by the need
for the information.  The objections are overruled
and Defendant must provide a supplemental response within ten days.  
 
4.     Sanctions
Defendant argues, in opposition to the
motions, that the Court should not impose sanctions.  Plaintiff does not seek sanctions in the
moving papers, and therefore none are imposed.
 
5.     Conclusion
Plaintiff’s motions to compel are
granted.  Defendant is ordered to serve further
responses, without objections and in compliance with the above order, within
ten days.  
 
Plaintiff is ordered to give
notice.    
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative as
directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the tentative
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed off calendar.  If a party submits on the tentative, the
party’s email must include the case number and must identify the party
submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the tentative, the
party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing on this
matter.   