 Case Number:  22LBCV01046    Hearing Date:   February 29, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Motion
to Enforce Settlement
The parties entered into a
settlement agreement pursuant to which Defendant would pay Plaintiff $305,000
and, upon completion of all payments, Plaintiff would quitclaim title to the
subject property to Defendant.  Defendant
has made all payments to Plaintiff, but Plaintiff has not quitclaimed title to the
property to Defendant.  Defendant seeks
an order enforcing the settlement pursuant to CCP §664.6; specifically, Defendant
seeks an order requiring the Court to act as excelsior and sign the quitclaim
deed on behalf of Plaintiff.    
 
CCP §664.6 clearly permits the
Court to reduce the parties’ settlement to a legal judgment when one party is
in breach of the settlement agreement.  Specifically,
§664.6(a) provides, in relevant part:
If parties to pending litigation
stipulate, in a writing signed by the parties outside of the presence of the
court or orally before the court, for settlement of the case, or part thereof,
the court, upon motion, may enter judgment pursuant to the terms of the
settlement.
 
Defendant fails, however, to cite
any specific authority permitting the Court to “act as excelsior” and sign the
quitclaim deed itself on behalf of Plaintiff. 
The Court knows of no such authority. 
Absent such authority, the Court is not inclined to fashion this unique
remedy.  
 
If Defendant submits a proper proposed
judgment reflecting the terms of the parties’ settlement, the Court will process
the judgment.  If Plaintiff continues to
fail to comply with the terms of the settlement, once entered as a judgment,
Defendant may pursue any remedies for violation of the terms of the judgment,
including but not limited to contempt of court. 

 
2.     Motion
to Consolidate
Defendant filed a motion to
consolidate on 12/14/23, setting it for hearing on 3/14/24.  On 2/21/24, the Court granted Defendant’s ex
parte application to advance the hearing on the motion to consolidate, and
rescheduled the hearing for 2/29/24.  The
Court ordered Defendant to give notice.
 
The motion is denied for two
reasons.  First, it violates CRC 3.350(a),
which provides:
(a) Requirements of motion
(1) A notice of
motion to consolidate must:
(A) List all named parties in each
case, the names of those who have appeared, and the names of their respective
attorneys of record;
(B) Contain the captions of all
the cases sought to be consolidated, with the lowest numbered case shown first;
and
(C) Be filed in
each case sought to be consolidated.
 
Defendant did not provide the
information needed per (a), did not include the captions of all cases per (b), and
did not file the notice of motion in the case sought to be consolidated.
 
Additionally, Defendant has not
filed proof of service showing Defendant gave notice of the advanced hearing
date to Plaintiff.  
 
Defendant is ordered to give notice.  
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative as
directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the tentative
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed off calendar.  If a party submits on the tentative, the
party’s email must include the case number and must identify the party
submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the tentative, the
party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing on this
matter.   
 