 Case Number:  23LBCV01288    Hearing Date:   February 29, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.    
Complaint
Plaintiffs, Ghalib Abdelrahim, by and through his successor-in-interest,
Lina Abdelrahim, and Lina Abdelrahim, individually filed this action against
Defendant, Regent Villa Retirement Home, Inc. for elder abuse, negligence, and
wrongful death.  Plaintiffs allege
Decedent was a resident at Defendant’s facility, which was a “licensed assisted
living facility/residential care facility for the elderly.”  Complaint, ¶6.  Plaintiffs allege Defendant failed to monitor
Decedent, who wandered away from the facility and was found lifeless by a
passerby on an embankment ten days after the last time he was seen at the facility.  
 
2.    
Demurrer

Legal Standard on
     Demurrer

A demurrer is a pleading used to test
the legal sufficiency of other pleadings. It raises issues of law, not fact,
regarding the form or content of the opposing party’s pleading.  It is not the function of the demurrer to
challenge the truthfulness of the complaint; and for purpose of the ruling on
the demurrer, all facts pleaded in the complaint are assumed to be true, however
improbable they may be.
 
A demurrer can be used only to
challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack; or from
matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. Blank v. Kirwan 39
Cal.3d 311 (1985). No other extrinsic evidence can be considered (i.e., no
“speaking demurrers”). A demurrer is brought under CCP § 430.10 [grounds], §
430.30 [as to any matter on its face or from which judicial notice may be
taken], and § 430.50(a) [can be taken to the entire complaint or any cause of
action within].  Specifically, a demurrer
may be brought per CCP § 430.10(e) if insufficient facts are stated to support the
cause of action asserted.  Per CCP
§430.10(a) a demurrer may be brought where the court has no jurisdiction of the
subject of the cause of action alleged in the pleading.  Furthermore, demurrer for uncertainty will be
sustained only where the complaint is so bad that the defendant cannot reasonably
respond.  CCP § 430.10(f).  
 
However, in construing the
allegations, the court is to give effect to specific factual allegations that
may modify or limit inconsistent general or conclusory allegations. Financial
Corporation of America v. Wilburn, 189 Cal.App.3rd 764, 769 (1987). And, if the
facts pled in the complaint are inconsistent with facts which are incorporated
by reference from exhibits attached to the complaint, the facts in the
incorporated exhibits control. Further, irrespective of the name or label given
to a cause of action by the plaintiff, a general demurrer must be overruled if
the facts as pled in the body of the complaint state some valid claim for relief.
Special demurrers are not allowed in limited jurisdiction courts. (CCP § 92(c).)
 
Leave to amend must be allowed
where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. Goodman v.
Kennedy, 18 Cal.3d 335, 348 (1976). The burden is on the complainant to show
the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.) 
 
Finally, CCP section 430.41
requires that “[b]efore filing a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the
demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party
who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining
whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be
raised in the demurrer.” (CCP §430.41(a).) The parties are to meet and confer
at least five days before the date the responsive pleading is due. (CCP §430.41(a)(2).)
Thereafter, the demurring party shall file and serve a declaration detailing
their meet and confer efforts. (CCP §430.41(a)(3).)
 

Meet and Confer

Defense Counsel declares the attorneys for both sides met and conferred
by telephone, but were unable to resolve their dispute.  The Court will therefore rule on the demurrer
on its merits.  
 

Elder Abuse

i.             
Parties’
Positions 
Defendant demurs to the elder abuse cause of action, contending
Plaintiffs have improperly stated only legal conclusions, when specific factual
pleading is required in order to state a claim for elder abuse.  Defendant also contends Plaintiffs have failed
to plead facts showing authorization or ratification by a corporate
employer.  
 
Plaintiffs oppose the demurrer.  They
argue their claim is pled with the requisite particularity, because only facts
sufficient to acquaint the defendant with the nature of the claim need be pled,
and less particularity is required when the defendant necessarily has knowledge
of the facts equal to the knowledge of the plaintiff.  Plaintiffs contend they have pled statutory
and also state and local regulatory violations in their complaint.  They contend they have adequately alleged
corporate ratification.    
 
ii.            
Recklessness,
Oppression, Fraud, or Malice
Defendant establishes that each element of elder abuse must be pled
with specificity.  See, for example,
Covenant Care v. Superior Court (2004) 32 Cal.4th 771, 790.  Plaintiffs cite cases decided in
non-statutory contexts to support their position that notice-based pleading is
sufficient and/or that they need not plead all facts when the defendant has
equal knowledge of the facts.  These cases
do not apply in a statutory cause of action, such as elder abuse, and
Plaintiffs have cited no on point authority in this regard.  The Court will therefore apply the
particularity standard applies in Covenant Care and all other elder abuse cases
cited by Defendant.  
 
Plaintiffs contend the facts pled at ¶¶8 and 12 of the complaint are sufficient
to meet the pleading standard for elder abuse. 
Opposition, page 4, line 12.  ¶8
of the complaint is merely doe allegations. 
¶12 of the complaint alleges, “As a result of REGENT’s failure to monitor
and supervise ABDELRAHIM, Decedent wandered off from the facility and was found
lifeless by a passerby on an embarkment ten (10) days from the last time he was
seen at the facility.”  
 
It is unclear how these facts allege elder abuse.  The Court has reviewed the remainder of the
complaint, and finds it repeatedly includes nothing more than bare bones legal
conclusions.  By way of example, at ¶17,
Plaintiffs allege Defendant “neglected” Decedent as defined in the Welfare and
Institutions Code by failing to exercise the degree of care that a reasonable
person in a like position would exercise by denying or withholding goods or
services necessary to meet the basic needs of Decedent “as is more fully
alleged herein.”  The complaint fails,
however, to ever articulate what Defendant did to deny or withhold goods or
services to Decedent.  
 
Similarly, at ¶24, which is found in the negligence cause of action,
Plaintiffs allege Defendant breached its statutory, regulatory, and common law
duties of care “as more fully alleged above,” but no statute or regulation is
ever specifically enumerated in the complaint. 

 
Plaintiffs argue, at page 4, line 28 of the opposition that ¶26 alleges
facts showing failure to monitor and supervise led to Decedent’s death.  ¶26 of the complaint is the first paragraph
of the wrongful death cause of action and merely incorporates ¶¶1-25 by
reference.  
 
The demurrer is sustained.  At this
time, Plaintiffs have pled no facts other than the fact that Decedent wandered
off and was not found until ten days later. 
All other allegations in the complaint are mere conclusions.  Leave to amend is granted if and only if
Plaintiffs can plead specific facts articulating a claim for elder abuse.  
 
iii.           
Ratification
Plaintiffs’ only allegations concerning ratification are found at ¶¶9
and 14(f) of the complaint.  At ¶9, Plaintiffs
allege that the misconduct that led to Decedent’s “injuries” was the direct
result of financial and control policies and practices dictated by and forced upon
Regent by and through its corporate officers and directors.  At ¶14(f), Plaintiffs allege, “That an
officer, director, or managing agent of Defendants ratified or authorized the
employees’ conduct.”  
 
Neither party cites a case directly on point.  However, as noted above, the Court finds
Plaintiffs have not sufficiently alleged any facts showing elder abuse, as
opposed to ordinary neglect.  Plaintiffs
therefore necessarily could not have pled facts showing ratification of such abuse,
as they have not pled the abuse in the first instance.  The Court will reserve ruling on the
ratification issue for such time when Plaintiffs have met the threshold burden
to plead elder abuse in the first instance. 

 
3.    
Motion to Strike
Defendant moves to strike Plaintiffs’ prayer for punitive damages and
attorneys’ fees.  The motion is moot in
light of the ruling on the demurrer, above.
 
4.    
Conclusion
Defendant’s demurrer is sustained with leave to amend.  Defendant’s motion to strike is moot.  Plaintiffs are ordered to file an amended
complaint within twenty days.  If they do
not have specific facts to support their elder abuse cause of action, they must
omit it from the FAC.  Defendant must
file a responsive pleading within the statutory time thereafter.
 
Defendant is ordered to give notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative as
directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the tentative
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed off calendar.  If a party submits on the tentative, the
party’s email must include the case number and must identify the party
submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the tentative, the
party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing on this
matter.   
 