 Case Number:  23LBCV01278    Hearing Date:   February 29, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Allegations
of the Complaint
Plaintiff, Carolina Arce filed this
action against Defendants, Pro Employer Staffing, LLC and Creative Essences,
Inc. for violations of wage and hour laws and violations of FEHA.  The crux of Plaintiff’s complaint is that
Defendants employed her, she told them she was pregnant, and Defendants
wrongfully terminated her employment for missing too many days of work, even
though all of her missed work was due to appointments for her pregnancy, which
is protected.  
 
2.     Motion
to Strike
a.     Basis
for Motion
Plaintiff’s complaint contains a
prayer for punitive damages.  Defendant
moves to strike the prayer and related allegations, contending (a) nothing in the
complaint rises to the level of malice, fraud, or oppression, (b) Plaintiff has
failed to include allegations showing any malicious, fraudulent, or oppressive
conduct was done by an officer, director, or managing agent of Defendant, and
(c) Plaintiff improperly lumps the two defendants together when attempting to
plead allegations in support of her prayer for punitive damages.  
 
b.     Malice,
Fraud, or Oppression
Defendant’s threshold argument is
that Plaintiff pleads no facts to show it is guilty of malice, oppression, or
fraud.  In opposition to the motion,
Plaintiff cites Commodore Home Systems, Inc. v. Superior Court (1982) 32 Cal.3d
211, 220 to support her position that FEHA claims can support imposition of
punitive damages.  Defendant does not
address Commodore in reply.  The Court
finds allegations that an employer terminated an employee’s employment BECAUSE
the employee was pregnant, which is what is alleged here, could lead a reasonable
juror to conclude the employer acted with malice and/or oppression.  The motion to strike on this ground is
therefore overruled.
 
c.     Employer
Ratification
Defendant next argues Plaintiff has
not pled facts to support imposition of punitive damages against it, a
corporate entity, because Plaintiff has not pled facts showing Defendant acted through
its director, officer, or managing agent, or that one of those persons
authorized or ratified the subject conduct. 

 
Pursuant to Civil Code §3294(b), “An employer shall not be liable for
damages pursuant to subdivision (a), based upon acts of an employee of the
employer, unless the employer had advance knowledge of the unfitness of the
employee and employed him or her with a conscious disregard of the rights or
safety of others or authorized or ratified the wrongful conduct for which the
damages are awarded or was personally guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.
With respect to a corporate employer, the advance knowledge and conscious
disregard, authorization, ratification or act of oppression, fraud, or malice
must be on the part of an officer, director, or managing agent of the
corporation.”
 
A managing agent is someone who exercises substantial discretionary
authority over decisions that ultimately determine corporate policy.  White v. Ultramar Inc. (1999) 21 Cal.4th 563,
573; Cruz v. Homebase (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 160, 167 – 168.  Pursuant to Tilkey v. Allstate Ins. Co. (2020)
56 Cal.App.5th 521, 555, the ability to hire and fire employees is a
key component of determining whether someone is a managing agent of a corporate
entity.  
 
Defendant relies on Grieves v.
Superior Court (1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 159, 168. 
Grieves, at first blush, appears to be on point.  It involves a situation where the plaintiff made
bare bones allegations that the defendant, through its officer, director, or
managing agent, authorized or ratified the decision to allow a tubal ligation
without confirming the baby had no abnormalities.
 
The allegations in this case,
however, are different from those in Grieves. 
Plaintiff herein alleges that she was terminated from employment.  By its very nature, this allegation is that a
person with authority to hire or fire her terminated her employment.  Pursuant to Tilkey, supra, the ability to
hire and fire tends to show that someone was a managing agent of the corporate
entity.  At the pleading stage, the Court
finds Plaintiff’s allegations in this regard are sufficient.  
 
d.     Two
Entities
Defendant’s final argument is that Plaintiff
improperly lumps together her allegations against the two entity defendants in
connection with her allegations in support of her prayer for punitive damages.  Plaintiff alleges, at ¶6, that Defendants
were joint employers under the Labor Code. 
Plaintiff alleges, at ¶11, that each of the defendants was the agent,
managing agent, servant, employee, alter ego, co-conspirator, joint venturer,
partners, successor in interest, and predecessor in interest of the other defendant.  The Court finds this is sufficient at the
pleading stage.  
 
e.     Conclusion
The motion to strike is
denied.  Defendant is ordered to file an
answer to the complaint within ten days.
 
Defendant is ordered to give notice.  
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative as
directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does
not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the tentative and
there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed off calendar.  If a party submits on the tentative, the
party’s email must include the case number and must identify the party
submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the tentative, the
party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing on this
matter.   
 