 Case Number:  21STCV29394    Hearing Date:   July 11, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
August 10, 2021, Plaintiff Sandra Conklin (“Plaintiff”) filed this action
against Defendants Sun Ja Kang (“Defendant”) and Does 1-25 for motor vehicle
tort and general negligence. 
On
December 21, 2023, the Court dismissed the action without prejudice. 
On
June 20, 2024, Plaintiff filed a motion to set aside dismissal to be heard on
July 11, 2024. 
PARTY’S REQUEST 
Plaintiff
asks the Court to set aside the dismissal under Code of Civil Procedure section
473, subdivision (b). LEGAL STANDARD Code
of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (b), provides in part: 
“Notwithstanding
any other requirements of this section, the court shall, whenever an
application for relief is made no more than six months after entry of judgment,
is in proper form, and is accompanied by an attorney’s sworn affidavit
attesting to his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect, vacate any
(1) resulting default entered by the clerk against his or her client, and which
will result in entry of a default judgment, or (2) resulting default judgment
or dismissal entered against his or her client, unless the court finds that the
default or dismissal was not in fact caused by the attorney’s mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or neglect. The court shall, whenever relief is granted
based on an attorney’s affidavit of fault, direct the attorney to pay
reasonable compensatory legal fees and costs to opposing counsel or parties.
However, this section shall not lengthen the time within which an action shall
be brought to trial pursuant to Section 583.310.”(Code
Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (b).) 
DISCUSSION 
Plaintiff
asserts that her attorney’s assistant failed to calendar the December 21, 2023
order to show cause hearing.  As a result,
counsel did not appear at the hearing and the Court dismissed the case. 
Plaintiff
has provided an attorney declaration attesting to the attorney’s mistake, inadvertence,
and excusable neglect.  The Court grants
the motion. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court GRANTS Plaintiff Sandra Conklin’s motion to vacate the December 21, 2023
order dismissing the case. 
The
Court sets a OSC re: Dismissal for Failure to File Proof of Service on August
9, 2024, at 8:30 a.m., in Department 28 of the Spring Street Courthouse. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.