 Case Number:  21STCV22874    Hearing Date:   July 11, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers, the Court rules as
follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
June 18, 2021, Plaintiffs Caroline Thompson (“Thompson”) and Jessie Vesagas
(“Vesagas”) filed this action against Defendants 940 East Colorado, L.P.
(“940”), FIC-Master Lessee, LLC (“FIC”), Canoga Healthcare, Inc., Beverly
Enterprises - California, Inc., Beverly Enterprises, G.B.T, a Partnership,
Grossman Family, LLC, Theodore Birnkrant, Carole Birnkrant, Michael Birnkrant,
Sally J. Birnkrant, Thomas Birnkrant, Janet Birnkrant-Levine, Gary M. Tearson,
Rosalinda Villaraza (“Villaraza”), and Does 1-100 for negligence (motor
vehicle), negligence and premises liability, and loss of consortium. 
On
September 22, 2021, 940 and FIC filed an answer. On December 10, 2021,
Defendant Canoga Healthcare, Inc. dba West Hills Health and Rehabilitation
Center (“West Hills”) filed an answer. 
On
August 19, 2022, the Court dismissed Defendant Rosalinda Villaraza with
prejudice after granting her motion to enforce a settlement agreement. 
On
August 22, 2023, West Hills, 940 and FIC (“Moving Defendants”) filed a motion
for summary judgment or, in the alternative, summary adjudication to be heard
on November 6, 2023.  The Court continued
the hearing to July 11, 2024.  On June
28, 2024, Plaintiffs filed an opposition.  On July 5, 2024, Moving Defendants filed a
reply. 
Trial
is currently set for September 4, 2024.     
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Moving
Defendants ask the Court to grant summary judgment or, in the alternative, summary
adjudication. 
Plaintiffs
ask the Court to deny the motion. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
A.   Summary judgment and summary adjudication 
“‘[F]rom
commencement to conclusion, the party moving for summary judgment bears the
burden of persuasion that there is no triable issue of material fact and that
he is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.’”  (LAOSD Asbestos
Cases (2023) 87 Cal.App.5th 949, 945, quoting Aguilar v. Atlantic
Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850 (Aguilar)) “[T]he party
moving for summary judgment bears an initial burden of production to make a
prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact;
if he carries his burden of production, he causes a shift, and the opposing
party is then subjected to a burden of production of his own to make a prima
facie showing of the existence of a triable issue of material
fact.”  (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 850.) 
When
the moving party is a defendant, it must show that the plaintiff cannot
establish at least one element of the cause of action.  (Aguilar,
supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 853.) “The defendant has shown that the
plaintiff cannot establish at least one element of the cause of action by
showing that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain,
needed evidence.”  (Id. at p. 854.) The defendant must
“present evidence, and not simply point out that the plaintiff does not
possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence.”  (Ibid.)
Thus, “the defendant must ‘support[ ]’ the ‘motion’ with
evidence including ‘affidavits, declarations, admissions, answers to
interrogatories, depositions, and matters of which judicial notice’ must or may
‘be taken.’ [Citation.] The defendant may, but need not, present evidence
that conclusively negates an element of the plaintiff’s cause of action. The
defendant may also present evidence that the plaintiff does not possess, and
cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence—as through admissions by the
plaintiff following extensive discovery to the effect that he has discovered
nothing.”  (Id. at p. 855, original emphasis.) 
“Supporting
and opposing affidavits or declarations . . . shall set forth admissible
evidence.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (d).) “Matters which would be
excluded under the rules of evidence if proffered by a witness in a trial as
hearsay, conclusions or impermissible opinions, must be disregarded in
supporting affidavits.”  (Hayman v. Block (1986) 176
Cal.App.3d 629, 639.) 
In
addition, a party moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication must
support the motion with “a separate statement setting forth plainly and
concisely all material facts which the moving party contends are undisputed.
Each of the material facts stated shall be followed by a reference to the
supporting evidence.” (Parkview Villas Assn. v. State Farm Fire &
Casualty Co. (2006) 133 Cal.App.4th 1197, 1209 (Parkview Villas),
quoting Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (b)(1).) The party opposing the motion must
file with the opposition papers “a separate statement that responds to each of
the material facts contended by the moving party to be undisputed, indicating
whether the opposing party agrees or disagrees that those facts are undisputed.
The statement also shall set forth plainly and concisely any other material
facts that the opposing party contends are disputed. Each material fact
contended by the opposing party to be disputed shall be followed by a reference
to the supporting evidence.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd.
(b)(3).)  If either party fails to comply with the applicable
separate statement requirement, that failure may in the court’s discretion
constitute a sufficient ground to decide the motion adversely to the offending
party. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subds. (b)(1), (3).)  
In
ruling on the motion, the court must consider all the evidence and all the
inferences reasonably drawn from it and must view such evidence and
inferences in the light most favorable to the opposing
party.  (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 843.) 
B.   Negligence and premises liability 
 “The
elements of a negligence claim and a premises liability claim are the same: a
legal duty of care, breach of that duty, and proximate cause resulting in
injury.” (Kesner v. Superior Court (2016) 1 Cal.5th 1132, 1159.) 
“Landowners
under California law are required to maintain land in their possession and
control in a reasonably safe condition.” 
(Williams v. Fremont Corners, Inc. (2019) 37 Cal.App.5th 654, 663
(Williams), citing Ann M. v. Pacific Plaza Shopping Center (1993)
6 Cal.4th 666, 674 (Ann M.).) 
“The underlying principle, set forth in Civil Code section 1714,
subdivision (a), is that “‘[e]veryone is responsible ... for an injury
occasioned to another by his or her want of ordinary care or skill in the management
of his or her property or person . . . .’” (Ibid.)  This rule “‘establishes the general duty of
each person to exercise, in his or her activities, reasonable care for the
safety of others.’” (Ibid., quoting Vasilenko v. Grace Family Church
(2017) 3 Cal.5th 1077, 1083 (Vasilenko); see Brown v. USA Taekwondo
(2021) 11 Cal.5th 204, 214 (Brown).) 
“ ‘
“ ‘Courts ... invoke[ ] the concept of duty to limit generally “the otherwise
potentially infinite liability which would follow from every negligent act
....” ’ ” ’ ” (Williams, supra, 37 Cal.App.5th at p. 663, quoting
Vasilenko, supra, 3 Cal.5th at p. 1083.) “Our Supreme Court has
explained that an exception to the general rule of Civil Code section 1714 must
be “ ‘ “ ‘clearly supported by public policy.’ ” ’ ” (Ibid., quoting Vasilenko,
supra, 3 Cal.5th at p. 1083.) “Courts look to what are commonly called
‘the Rowland factors’ in determining whether policy considerations favor
such an exception.” (Ibid., citing Vasilenko, supra, 3
Cal.5th at p. 1083.)  “These are “ ‘ “the
foreseeability of harm to the plaintiff, the degree of certainty that the
plaintiff suffered injury, the closeness of the connection between the
defendant's conduct and the injury suffered, the moral blame attached to the
defendant's conduct, the policy of preventing future harm, the extent of the
burden to the defendant and consequences to the community of imposing a duty to
exercise care with resulting liability for breach, and the availability, cost,
and prevalence of insurance for the risk involved.” (Rowland [v. Christian
(1968)] 69 Cal.2d [108,] 113, 70 Cal.Rptr. 97, 443 P.2d 561 [(Rowland)].)’
” (Ibid., quoting Vasilenko, supra, 3 Cal.5th at p. 1083.) 
In
considering the Rowland factors, the court “determine[s] ‘not whether
they support an exception to the general duty of reasonable care on the facts
of the particular case before us, but whether carving out an entire category of
cases from that general duty rule is justified by clear considerations of
policy.’ ”  (Regents of University of
California v. Superior Court (2018) 4 Cal.5th 607, 629.) 
In
addition, “[c]ausation is an essential element of plaintiff’s complaint.”  (Christoff v. Union Pacific Railroad Co.
(2005) 134 Cal.App.4th 118, 126 (Christoff).)  “Causation may be determined as a question of
law if reasonable minds would not differ.” 
(Ibid.)  “If causation is
lacking, the complaint cannot stand.”  (Ibid.
[“the trial court’s ruling of lack of causation disposes of the entire
complaint and suffices to affirm summary judgment in favor of defendant”].) 
DISCUSSION 
A.   Undisputed facts 
Surveillance
videos captured the June 20, 2019 vehicle vs. pedestrian incident involving Thompson. 
West
Hills is a licensed skilled nursing facility which operates and maintains the
premises located at 7940 Topanga Canyon Blvd, Canoga Park, CA 91304 including
the parking lot which is utilized by employees and visitors. 
940 is
the owner of the property located at 7940 Topanga Canyon Blvd., Canoga Park, CA
91304 and leases the property to FIC.
 FIC
subleases the premises located at 7940 Topanga Canyon Blvd. Canoga Park, CA
91304, including the parking lot where the incident occurred, to West Hills. 
The
Lease Agreement between FIC and West Hills dated August 1, 2012, provides in
part: 
“Lessee’s obligations. 
Lessee shall keep in good order, condition, and repair the Premises and
every part thereof, structural and non-structural . . . including, without limiting
the generality of the foregoing, . . . all landscaping, driveways, parking
lots, fences, and signs located on the Premises and sidewalks and parkways
adjacent to the Premises.” 
At
the time of the June 20, 2019, incident, Thompson was employed as a charge
nurse and worked at the premises which West Hills subleased. 
Plaintiffs
allege the following: 
·       Moving Defendants negligently, carelessly, and recklessly
owned, occupied, leased, possessed, constructed, designed, configured, used,
maintained, managed, entrusted, operated, controlled, the premises located at
7940 Topanga Canyon Blvd., causing
Thompson to become injured.
·       The owner/driver of the vehicle and Villaraza, who
struck Thompson in the parking lot, were negligent.  Villaraza was an employee of West Hills.
·       Villaraza violently struck Thompson, a pedestrian,
with her vehicle on June 20, 2019 at approximately 8:00 a.m.  Villaraza failed to keep a proper lookout and
drove at an unsafe speed. 
Thompson
testified at her deposition in her pending workers’ compensation matter that
she came to work to start her shift, parked her car, and was hit by a car in
the parking lot while walking to the building at West Hills where she worked.
 Thompson asserts
that she stepped out of her vehicle, checked for traffic and looked left and
right, and while crossing the parking lot felt a blow to her body.   Thompson states that she did not see the car
that hit her prior to impact. 
B.   The motion 
1.   
Dangerous
condition 
a.   
Moving
Defendants have carried their initial burden of proving the parking lot was not
a dangerous condition 
Moving
Defendants have presented evidence that the parking lot complied with all
applicable building and safety codes. 
Although Plaintiffs “object” in their response to Moving Defendants’ separate
statement to the Declaration of Thomas L. Parco (“Parco”), which provides this
evidence, Plaintiffs did not file separate evidentiary objections.  (See L. Edmon & C. Karnow, Cal. Practice Guide:
Civil Procedure Before Trial (Rutter 2023) ¶ 10:211.1, p. 10-99, citing Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1354(b) & Hodjat v. State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins.
Co. (2012) 211 Cal.App.4th 1, 8-9.) 
Based
on his review of materials and site inspection, Parco (Moving Defendants’ expert) opines that (1) the parking lot is
industry compliant, properly maintained, and does not constitute a dangerous
condition and (2) nothing relating to the parking lot’s physical condition, including
its layout or design on June 20, 2019, contributed to Thompson’s accident. 
Moving
Defendants have carried their initial burden on summary judgment, shifting the
burden to Plaintiffs. 
b.    Plaintiffs have raised a triable issue of fact on the issue
of whether the parking lot was a dangerous condition 
Plaintiffs’
expert Zachary Moore (“Moore”), on the other hand, concludes that the parking
lot was not industry compliant, was not properly maintained, and constituted a
dangerous condition.  Although Moore did
not conduct a site inspection, he explained that he had sufficient information
to form an opinion. 
The
Court has reviewed Moore’s declaration and finds that it creates a triable
issue of fact concerning whether the parking lot constituted a dangerous
condition and whether that condition caused or contributed to Thompson’s accident.  
Moving
Defendants argue the Court should disregard Moore’s declaration because the
videotape of the accident contradicts Moore’s conclusions.  The Court may not make this kind of factual
determination on a motion for summary judgment.  (In addition, while Moving Defendants assert that
they have attached the videotapes and other materials to their notice of lodging
exhibits, the exhibits are not attached.) 
Moving Defendants also argue Moore’s declaration is “conclusory,” but
the Court concludes that Moore has provided sufficient support for his
opinions. 
2.    Causation 
The
parties’ arguments and evidence concerning causation generally duplicates their
arguments and evidence concerning the existence of a dangerous condition.  In addition, based on their interpretation of a
videotape of the accident, Moving Defendants argue that Thompson and Villaraza
caused the accident by not looking where they were going. 
For the reasons stated above, the Court
finds that Plaintiffs have raised a triable issue of fact concerning whether
the allegedly dangerous condition caused the accident. 
3.    Loss of consortium 
Moving
Defendants have not established a basis for summary adjudication of the loss of
consortium claim that is separate from their arguments concerning the allegedly
dangerous condition and causation.  Therefore,
based on the Court’s ruling on the dangerous condition and causation issues,
the Court finds that Plaintiffs have raised a triable issue of fact on the loss of consortium claim. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court DENIES the motion for summary judgment or, in the alternative, summary adjudication
filed by Defendants 940 East Colorado, L.P., FIC-Master Lessee, LLC, and Canoga
Healthcare, Inc. dba West Hills Health and Rehabilitation Center. 
Moving
parties are ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
parties are ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.