 Case Number:  21STCV28618    Hearing Date:   July 11, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
August 3, 2021, Plaintiffs Elia G. Castranova and Theresa Castranova filed this
action against Defendants Carolyn Lucy Giles (“Defendant”) and Does 1-50 for
motor vehicle tort and premises liability. 
On
December 28, 2022, Defendant filed an answer. 
On
May 15, 2023, the Court dismissed Plaintiff Elia G. Castranova with prejudice
at Plaintiffs’ request. 
On
May 29, 2024, Defendant filed a motion to set the deposition fee of Dr. Anthony
Virella, to be heard on July 11, 2024. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for October 18, 2024. 
PARTY'S REQUEST 
Defendant
asks the Court to set a reasonable fee for the expert witness deposition of Dr.
Anthony Virella. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
          Code of Civil Procedure section 2034.470 provides: 
“(a) If a party desiring to take the deposition of an
expert witness under this article deems that the hourly or daily fee of that
expert for providing deposition testimony is unreasonable, that party may move
for an order setting the compensation of that expert. Notice of this motion
shall also be given to the expert. 
“(b) A motion under subdivision (a) shall be
accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040. In any
attempt at an informal resolution under Section 2016.040, either the party or
the expert shall provide the other with all of the following: 
“(1) Proof of the ordinary and customary fee actually
charged and received by that expert for similar services provided outside the
subject litigation. 
“(2) The total number of times the presently demanded
fee has ever been charged and received by that expert. 
“(3) The frequency and regularity with which the
presently demanded fee has been charged and received by that expert within the
two-year period preceding the hearing on the motion. 
“(c) In addition to any other facts or evidence, the
expert or the party designating the expert shall provide, and the court’s
determination as to the reasonableness of the fee shall be based on, proof of
the ordinary and customary fee actually charged and received by that expert for
similar services provided outside the subject litigation. 
“(d) In an action filed after January 1, 1994, the
expert or the party designating the expert shall also provide, and the court’s
determination as to the reasonableness of the fee shall also be based on, both
of the following: 
“(1) The total number of times the presently demanded
fee has ever been charged and received by that expert. 
“(2) The frequency and regularity with which the
presently demanded fee has been charged and received by that expert within the
two-year period preceding the hearing on the motion. 
“(e) The court may also
consider the ordinary and customary fees charged by similar experts for similar
services within the relevant community and any other factors the court deems
necessary or appropriate to make its determination. 
“(f) Upon a determination that the fee demanded by
that expert is unreasonable, and based upon the evidence and factors
considered, the court shall set the fee of the expert providing testimony. 
“(g) The court shall impose a monetary sanction under
Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or
attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to set the expert witness
fee, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with
substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of
the sanction unjust.” 
(Code
Civ. Proc., § 2034.470.) 
DISCUSSION 
          After the accident, Plaintiff Theresa Castranova (“Plaintiff”)
received treatment from Dr. Virella.  Dr.
Virella’s office informed Defendant’s counsel that Dr. Virella’s deposition
fee is $2,500.00 per hour. 
Defendant
asks the Court for an order setting Dr. Virella’s compensation under Code of
Civil Procedure section 2034.470.  Defendant
has submitted unrefuted evidence that “similar experts . . . within the
relevant community” charge $1,050.00 (Dr. Paul Kaloostian), $1,500.00 (Dr. Luke
Macyszyn), and $1,500.00 (Dr. Sohaib Kureshi) per hour for services “similar” to
those Dr. Virella will provide at his deposition.  (See Code Civ. Proc., § 2034.470, subd (e).) 
          Although Defendant served the motion on Dr. Virella and
Plaintiff, they have submitted no response to the motion.  In addition, Dr. Virella’s office denied
Defendant’s request for the following: (1) “Proof of the ordinary and customary
fee actually charged and received by Dr. Virella for similar services provided
outside the subject litigation; (2) The total number of times the presently
demanded fee has ever been charged and received by Dr. Virella; and (3) The
frequency and regularity with which the presently demanded fee has been charged
and received by Dr. Virella within the preceding two years.”  (Mendoza dec. ¶¶ 8-9.)  Dr. Virella’s office stated that it could not
make any exceptions to the $2,500.00 per hour deposition fee. 
          Based on this evidence, the Court finds that the $2,500.00
fee which Dr. Virella demands is unreasonable. 
(See Marsh v. Mountain Zephyr, Inc. (1996) 43 Cal.App.4th 289,
304 [expert’s customary hourly fee is only one factor in determining a
reasonable fee under statutory predecessor to Code Civ. Proc., § 2034.470].)  The Court sets Dr. Virella’s deposition fee
at $1,500.00 per hour under Code of Civil Procedure section 2034.470. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court GRANTS Defendant Carolyn Lucy Giles’
motion to set Dr. Anthony Virella’s expert witness compensation.  The Court sets Dr. Virella’s expert witness
compensation at $1,500.00 per hour for deposition testimony. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.