 Case Number:  22STCV37829    Hearing Date:   July 11, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers, the Court rules as
follows.  
BACKGROUND 
On
December 5, 2022, Plaintiff Ebrahim Toutain (“Plaintiff”) filed this action
against Defendants Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority (“Metro”),
City of Los Angeles (“City”), County of Los Angeles (“County”), State of
California, and Does 1-50 for general negligence and premises liability. 
On
November 29, 2023, the Court dismissed the City without prejudice at
Plaintiff’s request. 
On
December 4, 2023, the County filed an answer. 
On
March 20, 2024, the Court sustained Metro’s demurrer with 30 days leave to
amend. 
On
April 22, 2024, Plaintiff filed a first amended complaint. 
On
May 3, 2024, the Court dismissed the County without prejudice at Plaintiff’s
request.  On May 7, 2024, the Court
dismissed the County with prejudice at Plaintiff’s request. 
On
May 16, 2024, Metro filed a demurrer to the first amended complaint, to be
heard on June 17, 2024.  On June 3, 2024,
Plaintiff filed an opposition.  On June
10, 2024, Metro filed a reply.  The Court continued the hearing to July 11, 2024. 
No trial date is currently scheduled. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Metro
asks the Court to sustain its demurrer to the first amended complaint. 
Plaintiff
asks the Court to overrule Metro's demurrer. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
A.   Demurrer 
“The party against whom a complaint or cross-complaint
has been filed may object, by demurrer or answer as provided in Section 430.30,
to the pleading on any one or more of the following grounds: 
* * *
  “(e) The pleading does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action. 
“(f) The pleading is uncertain. As used in this
subdivision, ‘uncertain’ includes ambiguous and unintelligible. . . .” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10,
subds. (e), (f).) 
In a
demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading
or by judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd. (a) [“When any ground
for objection to a complaint, cross-complaint, or answer appears on the face
thereof, or from any matter of which the court is required to or may take
judicial notice, the objection on that ground may be taken by a demurrer to the
pleading”].) 
“For
the purpose of testing the sufficiency of the cause of action, the demurrer
admits the truth of all material facts properly pleaded (i.e., all ultimate
facts alleged, but not conclusions, deductions, or conclusions of facts or
law).”  (L. Edmon
and C. Karnow, Cal. Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (Rutter 2023)
¶ 7:43, p. 7(l)-25, emphasis omitted (Cal. Practice Guide).) 
B.   Civil Code section 2100 
“In
California all governmental tort liability must be based on statute.” (Lopez
v. Southern Cal. Rapid
Transit Dist. (1985) 40 Cal.3d 780,
802, citations and fn. omitted (Lopez).) “There is no requirement the
statute imposing liability must provide on its face that it is applicable to
public bodies. ‘Rather, a liability is deemed “provided by statute” if a
statute defines the tort in general terms.’ ” (Ibid., quoting Levine
v. City of Los Angeles (1977) 68 Cal.App.3d 481, 487.) 
In Lopez,
the Court found “the language of section 2100 of the Civil Code sufficient to
impose liability on the [Southern California Rapid Transit District, a public
corporation] for breach of the duty to protect its passengers from assault by
fellow passengers.” (Lopez, supra, 40 Cal.3d at p. 802.) 
Civil
Code section 2100 provides: 
“A carrier of persons for reward must use the utmost
care and diligence for their safe carriage, must provide everything necessary
for that purpose, and must exercise to that end a reasonable degree of skill.” 
(Civ. Code, § 2100.) 
Under
Civil Code section 2100, “a carrier is liable for injuries resulting from an
assault by one passenger upon another only where, in the exercise of the
required degree of care, the carrier has or should have knowledge from which it
may reasonably be apprehended that an assault on a passenger may occur, and has
the ability in the exercise of that degree of care to prevent the injury.” (Lopez,
supra, 40 Cal.3d at p. 791.)          
C.   Public entity liability for injury caused by dangerous
condition of property 
Government
Code section 835 provides: 
“Except as provided by statute, a public entity is
liable for injury caused by a dangerous condition of its property if the
plaintiff establishes that the property was in a dangerous condition at the
time of the injury, that the injury was proximately caused by the dangerous
condition, that the dangerous condition created a reasonably foreseeable risk
of the kind of injury which was incurred, and that either: 
“(a) A negligent or wrongful act or omission of an
employee of the public entity within the scope of his employment created the
dangerous condition; or 
“(b) The public entity had actual or constructive
notice of the dangerous condition under Section 835.2 a sufficient time prior
to the injury to have taken measures to protect against the dangerous
condition.” 
(Gov. Code, § 835.) 
Government
Code section 835.2 provides: 
“(a) A public entity had actual notice of a dangerous
condition within the meaning of subdivision (b) of Section 835 if it had actual
knowledge of the existence of the condition and knew or should have known of
its dangerous character. 
“(b) A public entity had constructive notice of a
dangerous condition within the meaning of subdivision (b) of Section 835 only
if the plaintiff establishes that the condition had existed for such a period
of time and was of such an obvious nature that the public entity, in the
exercise of due care, should have discovered the condition and its dangerous
character. On the issue of due care, admissible evidence includes but is not
limited to evidence as to: 
“(1) Whether the existence of the condition and its
dangerous character would have been discovered by an inspection system that was
reasonably adequate (considering the practicability and cost of inspection
weighed against the likelihood and magnitude of the potential danger to which
failure to inspect would give rise) to inform the public entity whether the
property was safe for the use or uses for which the public entity used or
intended others to use the public property and for uses that the public entity
actually knew others were making of the public property or adjacent property. 
“(2) Whether the public entity maintained and operated
such an inspection system with due care and did not discover the condition.” 
(Gov. Code, § 835.2.) 
          Government Code section 830.2 provides: 
“‘Dangerous condition’ means a condition of property
that creates a substantial (as distinguished from a minor, trivial or
insignificant) risk of injury when such property . . . is used with due care in
a manner in which it is reasonably foreseeable that it will be used.” (Gov.
Code, § 830, subd. (a).) “A condition is not a dangerous condition within the
meaning of this chapter if the trial or appellate court, viewing the evidence
most favorably to the plaintiff, determines as a matter of law that the risk created
by the condition was of such a minor, trivial or insignificant nature in view
of the surrounding circumstances that no reasonable person would conclude that
the condition created a substantial risk of injury when such property . . . was
used with due care in a manner in which it was reasonably foreseeable that it
would be used.” 
(Gov. Code, § 830.2.) 
DISCUSSION 
A.   The first amended complaint 
The first
amended complaint alleges the following:         
Metro
is a government agency/entity and a
common carrier operating a rail line under Civil Code section 2168.
On
December 5, 2021, Plaintiff, was traveling on a Red Metro B Line as a passenger for hire when he was
the victim of an unprovoked assault and was violently attacked by another
passenger.  As a result of the attack,
Plaintiff suffered severe injuries. 
Metro
has actual and constructive knowledge that passengers are violently attacked on
its transit lines, including the Metro Red Line, because violent assaults had
been reported prior to the attack on Plaintiff. 
Through
negligent or wrongful acts, Metro created, or allowed to be created, a
dangerous condition under Government Code section 835. The dangerous condition was
a Red Line car that allowed an unprovoked and prolonged verbal and physical
assault on Plaintiff. 
Metro
is liable for the injuries to Plaintiff
under Civil Code sections 1714, subdivision (a), 2100, 2338 and 2343;
Government Code sections 815.2, subdivision (a), 820, subdivision (a), 835
and 840.2, and other relevant statutes, rules, and regulations. 
Plaintiff,
through counsel, presented a claim for injuries, disability, losses and damages
to Metro and other agencies in compliance with the requirements of Government
Code sections 910.4, 905, 910, 910.2, and 911.2, as well as all other notice
and claim presentation requirements.  Plaintiff's claims are deemed to have been
denied because 45 days have passed since the claims were filed or the government
agency expressly denied the claim. 
B.   The demurrer 
1.    Insufficient particularity 
Metro
argues the first amended complaint fails to plead with sufficient particularity
the facts supporting Plaintiff’s claims because it does not state “the time of
the incident; whether there are any witnesses; whether the train conductor help[ed]
Plaintiff; at what station Plaintiff boarded the train; what was his
destination; . . . the extent of Plaintiff’s injuries,” or “whether police
arrived at the scene, whether he requested emergency medical help, or whether
he was transported to a hospital.”  (Demurrer
p. 6.) 
Metro
relies on Lopez, supra, 40 Cal.3d 780, where the Court observed, “Ordinarily,
negligence may be pleaded in general terms and the plaintiff need not specify
the precise act or omission alleged to constitute the breach of duty.  [Citation.] However, because under the Tort
Claims Act all governmental tort liability is based on statute, the general
rule that statutory causes of action must be pleaded with particularity is
applicable. Thus, ‘to state a cause of action against a public entity, every
fact material to the existence of its statutory liability must be pleaded with
particularity.’ ” (Lopez, supra, 40 Cal.3d at p. 795, quoting Peter
W. v. San Francisco Unified Sch. Dist. (1976) 60 Cal.App.3d 814, 819.) 
But Metro bases its argument about insufficient pleading particularity on matters which are not “ ‘material to the existence
of [Metro’s] statutory liability.’ ” 
(See Lopez, supra, 40 Cal.3d at p. 795.)  Whether witnesses observed the assault or
where Plaintiff boarded the train (for example) are not material to establishing
statutory liability.  Plaintiff was not
required to include these facts in his first amended complaint. 
Metro
also argues that the first amended complaint does not plead facts supporting a
claim under Government Code section 815.6 based on a government entity’s mandatory
duty.  Plaintiff has not asserted a claim
under Government Code section 815.6 and therefore was not required to allege supporting facts. 
Metro’s
additional contention that Plaintiff did not plead facts showing that Metro
knew or should have known that a passenger might be assaulted or that Metro had
the ability to prevent the passenger’s injury is incorrect.  The first amended complaint alleges that
Metro (1) “has actual and constructive knowledge that passengers are violently
attacked on its transit lines, including the Metro Red Line in that there had
been reported prior incidents of violent assaults prior to Plaintiff’s attack
and also reported in the media,” (2) “Defendants have active and constructive
knowledge of these attacks through various sources such as news reports,
lawsuits, claims, and reports by passengers,” (3) Metro “has taken steps to
provide extra protection to its operators, such as barriers and doors that
protect them from attacks,” and (4) Metro “had the authority and the funds and
other means immediately available to take alternative action which would not
have created the dangerous condition; had the authority and responsibility to
take adequate measures to protect against the dangerous conditions at the
expense of [Metro]; the funds and other means for doing so were immediately
available to them; and they had actual or constructive notice of the dangerous
condition a sufficient time prior to the attack on Plaintiff to have taken
measures to protect against the dangerous condition.”  (First amended complaint ¶¶ 20, 20, 21, 28.) 
These
allegations are sufficient at the pleading stage. 
2.    Lack of duty 
Metro
also appears to argue that, as a matter of law, it had no duty to protect
Plaintiff against the assault.  (See Demurrer
pp. 8-9.)  The argument is not appropriate
for a demurrer because it rests on factual assertions outside the complaint (i.e.,
the assault was “sudden”) which Plaintiff has not had an opportunity to
dispute.  The Court does not consider the
argument. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court OVERRULES Defendant Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation
Authority’s demurrer.  Defendant Los
Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority is to file its answer
within 10 days. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of the Court’s ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling within five days.