  Case Number:  22STCV20484    Hearing Date:   September 27, 2023    Dept:  76 Pursuant to California Rule of Court
3.1308(a)(1), the Court does not desire oral argument on the motion addressed
herein.  Counsel must contact the staff
in Department 76 to inform the Court whether they wish to submit on the
tentative, or to argue the matter.  As
required by Rule 3.1308(a), any party seeking oral argument must notify ALL
OTHER PARTIES and the staff of Department 76 of their intent to appear and
argue.
Notice to Department 76 may be sent by email to
smcdept76@lacourt.org or telephonically at 213-830-0776.
Per Rule of Court 3.1308, if notice of intention
to appear is not given, the Court may adopt the tentative ruling as the final
ruling.Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant
Wayne Baldwin’s anti-SLAPP special motion to strike the Cross-Complaint is
GRANTED as to counts, one, two, five and six, and GRANTED IN PART as specified
in the ruling as to counts three and four.
Cross-Defendant’s request for an
award of attorney’s fees and costs in the amount of $10,139.31 pursuant to Civ.
Proc. Code, § 425.16(c)(1) is GRANTED. 
            Defendants
motion for an order declaring Defendant/Cross-Complainant Connie Villafan a vexatious litigant is DENIED
without prejudice to a renewed motion later in the proceedings. 
ANALYSIS
Anti-SLAPP Special Motion To Strike
Discussion
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant
Wayne Baldwin d brings an anti-SLAPP special motion to strike as to the First
Amended Cross-Complaint.
In ruling on a defendant’s special
motion to strike, the trial court uses a “summary-judgment-like procedure at an
early stage of the litigation.” (Varian
Medical Systems, Inc. v. Delfino (2005) 35 Cal.4th 180, 192.)  This is a two-step process.  First, the defendant must show that the act
or acts of which the plaintiff complains were taken “in furtherance of the [defendant]’s
right of petition or free speech under the United States or California
Constitution in connection with a public issue. (Code Civ. Proc., §
425.16(b)(1).) Second, if the defendant carries that burden, the burden shifts
to the plaintiff to demonstrate a probability of prevailing on the claim. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 425.16(b)(3).)  The
defendant has the burden on the first issue, and the plaintiff on the second. (Kajima Engineering & Construction, Inc.
v. City of Los Angeles (2002) 95 Cal.App.4th 921, 928; Rivero v. American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees,
AFL-CIO (2003) 105 Cal.App.4th 913, 919.) In making both determinations the
trial court considers “the pleadings, and supporting and opposing affidavits
stating the facts upon which the liability or defense is based.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §425.16(b)(2); Equilon Enterprises, LLC v. Consumer Cause,
Inc. (2002) 29 Cal.4th 53, 67.)
The Defendant’s act underlying the
cause of action must itself have been in furtherance of the right of petition
or free speech. (City of Cotati v.
Cashman (2002) 29 Cal. 4th 69, 76-78.) 
The defendant’s acts are protected activity – that is, made in
furtherance of protected petition or free speech in connection with a public
issue – if they fit into one of the following categories under the section
425.16, subdivision (e) categories: (1) oral or written statements made before
a legislative, executive, judicial or any other official proceeding; (2) oral
or written statements made in connection with an issue under consideration or
review by a legislative, executive, judicial body, or any other official
proceeding authorized by law; (3) written or oral statements made in a place
open to the public or in a public forum in connection with an issue of public
interest; and (4) any other conduct in furtherance of the exercise of the
constitutional rights of petition or free speech in connection with a public
issue or an issue of public interest. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 425.16(e).)
            If such a
showing is made, the burden now shifts to Plaintiff to show a probability of
prevailing on the claim.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 425.16(b)(1).)  To establish a
probability of prevailing on the merits, the Plaintiff must demonstrate that
the complaint is both legally sufficient and supported by a sufficient prima
facie showing of facts to sustain a favorable judgment if the evidence
submitted by the plaintiff is credited. (Matson
v. Dvorak (1995) 40 Cal.App.4th 539, 548.) In making this
assessment it is the court’s responsibility to accept as true the evidence
favorable to the plaintiff. (HMS Capital,
Inc. v. Lawyers Title Co. (2004) 118 Cal. App. 4th 204, 212.)
The Complaint needs only to establish that his or her claim has minimal merit (Navellier v. Sletten (2002) 29 Cal.4th
82, 89) to avoid being stricken as a SLAPP. (Jarrow Formulas, Inc. v. LaMarche (2003) 31 Cal.4th 728,
738.)
“For purposes of this inquiry, ‘the
trial court considers the pleadings and evidentiary submissions of both the
plaintiff and the defendant (§ 425.16, subd. (b)(2)); though the court does not
weigh the credibility or comparative probative strength of competing evidence,
it should grant the motion if, as a matter of law, the defendant's evidence
supporting the motion defeats the plaintiff's attempt to establish evidentiary
support for the claim.’ (Citation omitted.)” (Soukup v. Law Offices of Herbert Hafif (2006) 39 Cal.4th 260, 291.) 
1.         Re: Whether the Causes of Action Are
Subject To Being Stricken Pursuant to CCP § 425.16.
A.        Count
One – Policy to Abuse Process, Fraudulent Use of Process, Misuse of Process,
Harassment. 
          Count
One is based on the following allegations:
17. This case was filed with the intent
to deprive Villafan of her property through an intentional and
well-orchestrated practice to set up Villafan, in advance, by becoming a
plaintiff, in this case, Baldwin, engage in intentional, outlandish activity and
conduct during his tenancy, and, following his orchestrated
"eviction", then retained counsel to, draft and file the complaint
filled with untruths and innuendo but made with plausible allegations. 
 
18. This scheme is similar to the law
governing situations where an individual or a company makes repeat frivolous
filings. Sanctions can be issued including fines and citations.
 
19. An individual who files legal
complaint, must have a degree of certainty that their claim has merit as abuse
of the legal process is a very serious matter with harsh consequences for
violators. 
 
20. Cross-Defendant Baldwin
manufactured the alternative facts alleged in the Complaint.
 
(First Amended
Cross-Complaint, ¶¶ 17 – 20.)
 
This count is based upon
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant filing the Complaint in this action. 
 
Section 425.16, subdivision (b)(1)
defines the types of claims that are subject to the anti-SLAPP procedures.
These claims include causes of action "arising from" an "act of
that person in furtherance of the person's right of petition . . . under the
United States or California Constitution in connection with a public
issue." (§ 425.16, subd. (b)(1), italics added.) 

It is well established that filing a lawsuit is an exercise of a party's
constitutional right of petition. (Citations omitted.) " ' "[T]he
constitutional right to petition . . . includes the basic act of filing
litigation or otherwise seeking administrative action." ' "
(Citations omitted.) Further, the filing of a judicial complaint satisfies the
"in connection with a public issue" component of section 425.16,
subdivision (b)(1) because it pertains to an official proceeding. (Citations
omitted.) 

Under these accepted principles, a cause of action arising from a defendant's
alleged improper filing of a lawsuit may appropriately be the subject of a
section 425.16 motion to strike. (Citation 
omitted.) The essence of the  [*1088]  Chavezes' malicious
prosecution claim is that the plaintiff in the underlying action (Mendoza)
filed litigation that was improper because it was allegedly filed with a
malicious motive and without probable cause. This claim "aris[es]
from" the defendant's constitutionally protected petitioning activity, and
therefore is subject to the anti-SLAPP statute. (§ 425.16, subd. (b)(1).) 


(Chavez v. Mendoza (2001)
94 Cal.App.4th 1083, 1087-88.) 
“[A]n abuse of process claim . . . involves protected
activity under section 425.16. Therefore, the first anti-SLAPP prong is
satisfied.” (S.A. v. Maiden (2014) 229 Cal.App.4th 27, 42.)
            Accordingly,
count one is subject to being stricken.
The burden shifts to
Cross-Complainant to demonstrate a probability of prevailing on this count
against Cross-Defendant.
 B.       Count Two – Abuse of Process,
Fraudulent Use of Process, Misuse of Process, Harassment
            Count two is based upon the
following allegations: 
22. The Cross-Defendant's brought this lawsuit for reasons other than
resolving a dispute. There was no dispute. Baldwin intentionally caused all of
the problems set forth in his Complaint with the expectation of subsequently
filing this lawsuit. The ulterior motive for the Cross-Defendant is monetary
gain. Villafan already has suffered damages, not only emotionally but
pecuniary, as well. The willful actions include not only Baldwin's intentional
misconduct but also includes the filing of the Complaint. This case is clearly
an improper use of legal process. 
 
23. This abuse of process also was used to harass Villafan as it was a
course of conduct that was knowing and willful, was directed at Villafan
causing her serious emotional harm, which improper use of process served no
legitimate purpose. 
 
24. Cross-Defendant Baldwin engaged in the malicious perversion of
regularly issued process by this court, without reasonable or probable cause.
He did so in a manner not contemplated by the law, to effect a purpose for
which the law was not intended. 
 
25. Cross-Defendant Baldwin engaged in willful and intentional abuse of
process or misuse of process, to attain an objective which is unlawful itself
and beyond the purpose for which process may be legally employed.
 
26. Cross-Defendant Baldwin used process for fraudulent purposes by
creating fictitious claims. 
 
27. Cross-Defendant Baldwin used process to harass Villafan. 
 
28. Cross-Defendant Baldwin engaged in perversion of legal remedy.
     (First Amended Cross-Complaint, ¶¶ 22 –
28.)
This count is based upon
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant filing the Complaint in this action.
            Accordingly,
count two is subject to being stricken. 
The burden shifts to
Cross-Complainant to demonstrate a probability of prevailing on this count
against Cross-Defendant.
C.        Count Three – Fraud, Deceit,
Concealment
            Count three is based on the
following allegations:
30. The Complaint filed in this case contained allegations which were
known by Baldwin to be false and contrived. Baldwin initially met with
Villafan and moved into her residence, all the while, deceiving Villafan while
gaining her trust and apparent justifiable reliance which has resulted in
damages and emotional distress to Villafan. 
 
31. The knowingly false allegations contained in the Complaint and filed
with the Court are intended to mislead the Court and the jury into making a
decision in favor of Baldwin. 
 
32. The Complaint intentionally conceals material facts that Baldwin had
a duty to disclose and made with the intent to defraud Villafan and the Court. Villafan
would not have rented the room to Baldwin had there been truthful disclosure.
As a result of Villafan being "duped" by the Baldwin, she has
suffered damages and emotional distress. 
 
33. Baldwin made material misrepresentations as to the past and to
current facts, with knowledge or belief of its falsity, and with the intention
that the court would rely on them. There was reasonable reliance on the
material misrepresentations as to material facts. Baldwin lied and concealed
the evidence, thereby engaging in fraudulent concealment, fraud and deceit.
 
(First Amended Cross-Complaint, ¶¶ 30 – 33 [bold emphasis
added].)
            This count is a mixture of conduct
which is not subject to being stricken—alleged misrepresentations by Baldwin to
induce Villafan to renting a room to Baldwin—and conduct which is subject to
being stricken—an attempted fraud upon this Court based upon the allegations in
the Complaint.
            As such, only those portions of
count three based upon an attempted fraud upon this Court in making the
allegations in the Complaint are subject to being stricken. An
anti-SLAPP special motion to strike may be brought to strike allegations of
protected activity even if it is alleged alongside unprotected activity. (Baral
v. Schnitt (2016) 1 Cal.5th 376, 396.)
The burden shifts to
Cross-Complainant to demonstrate a probability of prevailing on these portions
of this count against Cross-Defendant.
D.        Count Four – Unclean Hands
            Count four is based upon the
following allegations:
35. Baldwin violated the unclean hands doctrine. The unclean hands
doctrine bars relief to a party who has engaged in inequitable behavior related
to the subject matter of that party's claim. Here, Baldwin acted unethically
through the filing of untruthful statements in the Complaint. Such untruthful
statements were, in actuality, the result of intentional actions made by
Baldwin to "create" a legal cause of action, to which he is now
trying to collect, as damages. The filing of untrue allegations is such a clear
abuse of process that equity demands dismissal of Baldwin' s Complaint. 
 
36. Baldwin misled Villafan as to his true intentions when he applied
to move into Villafan' s residence and begged her to move into her garage.
He should not be able to collect damages as his willful and intentional
misconduct should not be rewarded. 
 
37. The doctrine of Unclean Hands bar all Cross-Defendants from
obtaining any relief.
 
     (First Amended
Cross-Complaint, ¶¶ 35 – 37 [bold emphasis added].)
            As with the third count, this count
is a mixture of conduct which is not subject to being stricken—alleged
misrepresentations by Baldwin to induce Villafan to renting a room to
Baldwin—and conduct which is subject to being stricken—unclean hands in  filing the Complaint based upon inequitable
behavior.
            As such, only those portions of
count four based upon alleged inequitable behavior in making the allegations in
the Complaint are subject to being stricken.
The burden shifts to
Cross-Complainant to demonstrate a probability of prevailing on these portions
of this count against Cross-Defendant.
E.         Count Five – Unjust Enrichment
            Count five is based upon the
following allegations:
39. Baldwin, in advance of litigation, as a matter of his practice and
policy, engineered his scheme to deploy prefabricated claims as a means to
unjustly enrich himself. He is attempting to become enriched through the filing
of Baldwin' s frivolous law suit by receiving a benefit at Villafan's expense,
under circumstances that makes it unjust for him to receive such a Court award.

 
40. Baldwin and others to be named following discovery unjustly enriched
himself.
This count is based upon
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant filing the Complaint in this action.
            Accordingly,
count five is subject to being stricken. 
The burden shifts to
Cross-Complainant to demonstrate a probability of prevailing on this count
against Cross-Defendant.
F.         Count Six – Equitable Relief
            Count six is based upon the
following allegations:
42. Baldwin and others to be named following discovery,
should be enjoined from filing any claims involving landlords and tenants.
Baldwin intentionally engineered his scheme to enable him to a file
prefabricated complaint. Baldwin should be refrained from engaging in any
future filing of untrue, prefabricated complaints.
This count is based upon
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant filing the Complaint in this action.            Accordingly,
count six is subject to being stricken. 
            Accordingly,
count six is subject to being stricken. 
The burden shifts to
Cross-Complainant to demonstrate a probability of prevailing on this count
against Cross-Defendant. 
2.         Re:
Whether Plaintiff Has Established That There Is A Probability She Will Prevail
On The Claims – CCP ¶ 425.16(b)(1).
            On this
second prong of the anti-SLAPP analysis, the burden shifts to Plaintiffs to
show a probability of prevailing on the claim. (Civ. Pro. Code, §
425.16(b)(1).) 
A.        Count
One – Policy to Abuse Process, Fraudulent Use of Process, Misuse of Process,
Harassment. 
The common law tort of abuse of process arises
when one uses the court's process for a purpose other than that for which the
process was designed. (Citations  [*1057] omitted.) It has been
“interpreted broadly to encompass the entire range of ‘procedures’ incident to
litigation.” (Citation omitted.)
 
“[T]he essence of the tort [is] … misuse of
the power of the court; it is an act done in the name of the court and under
its authority for the purpose of perpetrating an injustice.” (Citation omitted.)
To succeed in an action for abuse of process, a litigant must establish that
the defendant (1) contemplated an ulterior motive in using the process, and (2)
committed a willful act in the use of the process not proper in the regular
conduct of the proceedings. (Citation omitted.)
(Rusheen v. Cohen (2006) 37 Cal.4th 1048, 1056-57.)
Here, Cross-Complainant submitted a
“Declaration” which is not made under the penalty of perjury, as required by Civ.
Proc. Code, § 2015.5. 
Moreover, as noted by
Cross-Defendant in the reply, the litigation privilege bars the tort of abuse
of process when it is based upon filing a lawsuit. 
The tort of abuse of process is barred by the litigation privilege,
which protects a “publication or broadcast … . [¶] … [¶] (b) In any … (2)
judicial  [*1430]  proceeding … .” (Civ. Code, § 47, subd. (b)(2),
italics added.) Section 47, subdivision (b)(2) is a defense to an abuse of
process action. (Citations omitted.) “The privilege is broadly applied to
protect most publications within lawsuits provided there is some connection
between the lawsuit and the publication. [Citation.]” (Citations omitted.)
Doubts about the privilege’s applicability are resolved in favor of its use. (Citation
omitted.)
 
This court held the Civil Code section 47, subdivision (b)(2)
privilege applied to bar a claim for abuse of process for the filing of an
allegedly false document valuing a husband’s medical practice in a dissolution
action. In Carden v. Getzoff, supra, 190 Cal. App. 3d at page 913, we stated,
“While courts have argued about the scope of the privilege [citation], it is
clear that ‘the privilege has been applied to publications which were private
communications between parties and which communications were related not only
to actual but potential court actions.’ [Citation.]” Thus, we held that
publications made in preparing documents for submission to the court in a
dissolution proceeding, as well as the defendant’s testimony at the trial, were
covered by the absolute privilege of former section 47, subdivision (b)(2),
because they were part of a judicial proceeding, where the dissolution action
was pending, and the defendant had been hired as an expert witness for the
appellant’s wife. “This situation is clearly part of a judicial proceeding … .”
(Citation omitted.)
 
(Pollock v.
University of Southern California (2003) 112 Cal.App.4th 1416, 1429-30.)
As such, Cross-Complainant cannot
demonstrate a probability of prevailing on this cause of action. The special
motion to strike count one is GRANTED. 
B.        Count
Two – Abuse of Process, Fraudulent Use of Process, Misuse of Process,
Harassment.
            The same
analysis applicable to count one also applies to count two.
As such, Cross-Complainant cannot
demonstrate a probability of prevailing on this cause of action. The special
motion to strike count two is GRANTED.
C.        Count Three
– Fraud, Deceit, Concealment.
            “To
establish a claim for deceit based on intentional misrepresentation, the
plaintiff must prove seven essential elements: (1) the defendant represented to
the plaintiff that an important fact was true; (2) that representation was
false; (3) the defendant knew that the representation was false when the
defendant made it, or the defendant made the representation recklessly and
without regard for its truth; (4) the defendant intended that the plaintiff
rely on the representation; (5) the plaintiff reasonably relied on the representation; (6) the plaintiff was
harmed; and (7) the plaintiff's reliance on the defendant's representation was
a substantial factor in causing that harm to the plaintiff. (Citations
omitted.)” (Manderville v. PCG&S Group, Inc. (2007) 146 Cal.App.4th 1486, 1498 [italics omitted].)
            As this
Court has concluded re: the first prong, the common law fraud claim based on
Cross-Defendant Baldwin making misrepresentations to Cross-Complainant Villafan
is not subject to being stricken under Civ. Proc. Code, § 425.16. 
As discussed above, to the extent this count is based upon an
alleged attempted fraud upon this Court based upon the allegations in the
Complaint, for the reasons discussed above re: count one, Plaintiff has not demonstrated
a probability of prevailing on count three.
As such, Cross-Complainant cannot
demonstrate a probability of prevailing on this cause of action, to the extent
it based upon an alleged attempted
fraud upon this Court based upon the allegations in the Complaint. The
special motion to strike count three is GRANTED in part.
D.        Count Four
– Unclean Hands.
            As this Court has concluded, this
count is a mixture of conduct which is not subject to being stricken—alleged misrepresentations
by Baldwin to induce Villafan to renting a room to Baldwin—and conduct which is
subject to being stricken—unclean hands in 
filing the Complaint based upon inequitable behavior.
As discussed above, to the extent this count is based upon an
alleged attempted fraud upon this Court based upon the allegations in the
Complaint, for the reasons discussed above re: count one, Plaintiff has not
demonstrated a probability of prevailing on count three.
As such, Cross-Complainant cannot
demonstrate a probability of prevailing on this cause of action, to the extent
it based upon an alleged attempted
fraud upon this Court based upon the allegations in the Complaint. The
special motion to strike count four is GRANTED in part.
E.         Count Five
– Unjust Enrichment.
As this Court has concluded re: the
first prong, this count is based upon Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant filing the
Complaint in this action.
            The same
analysis applicable to count one also applies to count five.
As such, Cross-Complainant cannot
demonstrate a probability of prevailing on this cause of action. The special
motion to strike count five is GRANTED.
F.         Count Six
– Equitable Relief.
As this Court has concluded re: the
first prong, this count is based upon Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant filing the
Complaint in this action.
            The same
analysis applicable to count one also applies to count six.
As such, Cross-Complainant cannot
demonstrate a probability of prevailing on this cause of action. The special
motion to strike count six is GRANTED.
            Because
Cross-Defendant’s anti-SLAPP motion, although denied in part, had a practical
effect of eliminating practically all of the First Amended Cross-Complaint,
Cross-Defendant’s request for an award of attorney’s fees and costs in the
amount of $10,139.31 pursuant to Civ. Proc. Code, § 425.16(c)(1) is GRANTED. (See
Declarations of David M. Saldana and Genevieve Jenkins.)
 
A defendant prevailing on a special
motion to strike is entitled to recover its attorney fees and costs. (§ 425.16,
subd. (c)(1); Ketchum v. Moses (2001) 24 Cal.4th 1122, 1131 [104 Cal. Rptr. 2d
377, 17 P.3d 735].) The defendant can
recover only its fees and costs in connection with the motion, not
the entire action. (Citations omitted.)
 
A defendant need not succeed in
striking every challenged claim to be considered a prevailing defendant
entitled to recover attorney fees and costs under the statute. Instead, a
defendant is entitled to recover fees and costs in connection with a partially
successful motion, unless the results obtained are insignificant and of no
practical benefit to the defendant. (Citation omitted.) A court awarding fees
to the prevailing defendant on a partially successful special motion to strike
must exercise its discretion in determining the amount of fees and costs to
award in light of the defendant's relative success in achieving its litigation
objectives. (Citation omitted].)

(City of Industry v. City of Fillmore (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 191, 218
[bold emphasis and underlining added].)
Motion To Declare Vexatious Litigant
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant
Wayne Baldwin  brings s a motion to
declare Defendant/Cross-Complainant Connie Villafan a vexatious litigant and to
require that she deposit with the Court a security
of no less than $5,000, or such amount as the Court sees fit, each time she
files any further motions in the instant litigation, pursuant to Code of Civ.
Proc. §391, et seq.
            Civ. Proc,.
Code, § 391 provides in pertinent part:
As used in this title, the following
terms have the following meanings:

 (a) "Litigation" means any civil action or proceeding,
commenced, maintained or pending in any state or federal court.

 (b) "Vexatious litigant" means a person who does any of
the following:

. . .

   (3) In any litigation while acting in propria persona, repeatedly
files unmeritorious motions, pleadings, or other papers, conducts unnecessary
discovery, or engages in other tactics that are frivolous or solely intended to
cause unnecessary delay.

. . .
 
 (c) "Security"
means an undertaking to assure payment, to the party for whose benefit the
undertaking is required to be furnished, of the party's reasonable expenses,
including attorney's fees and not limited to taxable costs, incurred in or in
connection with a litigation instituted, caused to be instituted, or maintained
or caused to be maintained by a vexatious litigant.

 (d) "Plaintiff" means the person who commences, institutes
or maintains a litigation or causes it to be commenced, instituted or
maintained, including an attorney at law acting in propria persona.

 (e) "Defendant" means a person (including corporation,
association, partnership and firm or governmental entity) against whom a
litigation is brought or maintained or sought to be brought or maintained.


(Civ. Proc. Code, § 391 [bold emphasis
added].)
            Civ. Proc.
Code, § 391.1(a) provides:
 
In any litigation pending in any court of this state, at any time
until final judgment is entered, a defendant may move the court, upon
notice and hearing, for an order requiring the plaintiff to furnish security or
for an order dismissing the litigation pursuant to subdivision (b) of Section
391.3. The motion for an order requiring the plaintiff to furnish security
shall be based upon the ground, and supported by a showing, that the plaintiff is a vexatious
litigant and that there is not a
reasonable probability that he or she will prevail in the litigation against
the moving defendant.
     (Civ Proc. Code,
§ 391.1(a) [bold emphasis and underlining added].)
            Here, the
Court only examines Villafan’s actions as a Cross-Complainant, not as the
defendant in the underlying action. Thus, only Villafan’s actions post-March
24, 2023—when she filed the Cross-Complaint—and in her capacity as
Cros-Complainant will be considered. (Civ. Proc. Code, § 391.1(a).)
            Moving
party basically argues that Defendant filing a Cross-Complaint and refusing to
dismiss it— justifies the vexatious litigant declaration. However, the
anti-SLAPP motion was only partially successful.
Further, moving party has not
demonstrated that Villafan has repeatedly filed unmeritorious motions,
pleadings, or other papers, conducts unnecessary discovery, or engages in other
tactics that are frivolous or solely intended to cause unnecessary delay (Civ.
Proc. Code, § 391(b)(3).) Cross-Complainant successfully obtaining entry of
Cross-Defendant’s default does not qualify. Nor does Villafan’s requests for a
continuance to obtain assistance of counsel, her request for attorney’s fees as
a pro per litigant, and an ex parte request for an extension of time to respond
to the anti-SLAPP motion.

            “A court exercises
its discretion in determining whether a person is a vexatious litigant.
[Citation.]” (Holcomb v. U.S. Bank
Nat. Assn. (2005) 129
Cal.App.4th 1494, 1498.)
            The Court
exercises its discretion in finding that the foregoing is insufficient to rise
to the level of  “repeatedly fil[ing]
unmeritorious motions, pleadings, or other papers” for purposes of Civ. Proc.
Code § 391(b)(3).
            As such,
the Court declines to declare Defendant/Cross-Complainant Connie Villafan a vexatious litigant at this
time. 
            Defendants
motion for an order declaring Defendant/Cross-Complainant Connie Villafan a vexatious litigant is DENIED
without prejudice to a renewed motion later in the proceedings.
 