 Case Number:  24STCP02646    Hearing Date:   December 23, 2024    Dept:  26 Young, Spiegel, & Hosp, LLP v. Mehelovith, et al.,TENTATIVE RULING:
Petitioner Young, Spiegel &
Hosp, LLP’s Petition to Compel Arbitration is GRANTED. THE COURT APPOINTS HON.
CHRISTINE BYRD, RET. AS THE ARBTIRATOR. 
ANALYSIS:
On August 19, 2024, Petitioner Young, Spiegel & Hosp,
LLP (“Petitioner”) filed the instant verified Petition to Compel Arbitration
(the “Petition”) against Respondent David L. Meholovitch (“Respondent”). No response
to the Petition has been filed to date.
Discussion
Petitioner moves for an order compelling Respondent to
arbitrate this matter pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.2, which
states in relevant part:
On petition of a party to an
arbitration agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement to
arbitrate a controversy and that a party thereto refuses to arbitrate such
controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate
the controversy if it determines that an agreement to arbitrate the controversy
exists, unless it determines that:
 
(a) The right to compel arbitration has
been waived by the petitioner; or 
(b) Grounds exist for the revocation of
the agreement.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2, subds. (a)-(b).) Petitioner
contends the parties entered into an agreement containing an arbitration
provision, attached as Exhibit A to the Petition. (Pet., Exh. A, ¶11.) The
arbitration provision provides that any unresolved disagreement or dispute
between the parties concerning fees must be resolved via binding arbitration. (Ibid.)
Respondent was served with a Notice of Client’s Right to Fee Arbitration on
July 17, 2024, but made no response. (Id. at ¶¶4-5 and Exh. B.) Therefore,
Petitioner has demonstrated the existence of a written agreement to arbitrate a
controversy and that Respondent refuses to arbitrate. Also, is there no showing
that Petitioner waived the right to arbitration or that grounds exist to revoke
the arbitration agreement. The request to compel arbitration is granted.
Petitioner also moves for an order by the Court appointing
an arbitrator in accordance with the terms of the arbitration agreement, which
requires that “[t]he arbitrator shall be a retired California Family Law
Superior or Appellate Court Judge.” (Id. at Exh. A, ¶11(a).) Petitioner
has provided a list of arbitrators who meet these qualifications. (Id.
at ¶6.) Accordingly, the Court appoints Hon. Christine Byrd, Ret.
Conclusion
Petitioner Young, Speigel &
Hosp, LLP’s Petition to Compel Arbitration is GRANTED. THE COURT APPOINTS HON.
CHRISTINE BYRD, RET. AS THE ARBTIRATOR. 
Petitioner to give notice. 