  Case Number:  19STCV30463    Hearing Date:   January 10, 2025    Dept:  200 LOS ANGELES
SUPERIOR COURT 
WEST DISTRICT -
BEVERLY HILLS COURTHOUSE 
DEPT. 200
 
TENTATIVE
RULING ON WINE WAREHOUSE’S MOTION FOR SUMMARY ADJUDICATION OF GOLDEN STATE
CIDER’S CROSS-COMPLAINT’S CAUSE OF ACTION FOR FRAUD AND ITS AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSE
OF FRAUD TO COMPLAINT
 
Ben Myerson Candy
Co., Inc., dba Wine Warehouse v. Devoto-Wade LLC, dba Golden State Cider, and
related cross-complaint, Case No. 19STCV30463
Hearing Date: January
10, 2025, 8:30 a.m. 
 
INTRODUCTION 
 
         On October
10, 2024, after briefing and hearing oral argument, the Court permitted Plaintiff
and Cross-Defendant Wine Warehouse (“WW”) to file a motion for summary
adjudication, notwithstanding expiration of the motion cut-off and the pending
trial date of February 18, 2025, based on the possible effect on this case of
the recent decision of the California Supreme Court in Rattagan v. Uber Tech.
(2024) 17 Cal.5th 1. 
 
CONTENTIONS 
 
          On
October 25, 2024, WW filed this motion to summarily adjudicate the second cause
of action of the cross-complaint of Defendant and Cross-Complainant Golden
State Cider (“GSC”) for fraud, and GSC’s parallel twenty-seventh affirmative
defense to the second amended complaint based on fraud, on the grounds that
they are both barred by the Economic Loss Rule. Relatedly, WW contends that to
the extent this cause of action or affirmative defense is based upon a claim of
fraudulent inducement, those would be barred by (a) GSC’s admission that there
are no grounds to find the Distribution Agreement unenforceable and (b) the
statute of limitations. 
 
          In
summary, WW contends that every fraud claim of GSC is in fact a claim that WW
breached the terms of their agreement by principally allegedly agreeing to sell
GSC product in every county in California (and concealing a contrary intent), and
that by agreeing to perform to other terms it was to have performed under sec.
1 of the agreement, WW was making false representations. In essence, WW asserts
it is undisputed that all the purported fraud arises out of contractual
obligations. 
 
          In
support of its argument, WW offers the following key facts it asserts are
undisputed: 
 
1.     
The parties negotiated over whether WW would use
“best efforts” or “reasonable efforts” in marketing GSC’s products and they
agreed upon the latter. 
2.     
Sec. 1 of the 2016 Distribution  Agreement sets forth WW’s obligations. 
3.     
Under sec. 3 of the agreement, GSC could
terminate the agreement on ninety days’ notice for a fee or for cause. Cause
would be either (a) fraud by WW, (b) breach of the terms of the agreement not
cured within thirty days of GSC giving notice or (c) three or more separate
breaches in the twelve months preceding termination,[1]
regardless of whether the breaches were cured following notice. 
4.     
As GSC’s distributor, WW substantially increased
distribution of GSC products from the limited amount GSC was itself
distributing previously. 
5.     
Through the length of the agreement, WW used a digital
platform (accessible to GSC) to monthly report its suppliers’ sales data,
including the month of sales, county of sales and purchasing retailers, as well
as if there was use of a sub-distributor.  
6.     
On June 27, 2019, GSC gave notice it was
removing fourteen counties from the agreement and indicated what it believed to
be the partial termination fee for those counties terminated. 
7.     
On August 1, 2019, GSC advised WW it was
terminating the agreement altogether for cause: asserting that WW had
misrepresented its ability to serve the entire state because of its use of sub-distributors
and that in 2019 there had been no sales in eleven counties and no sales for
thirty days in two other counties.  
8.     
The aggregate total population of those counties
was between 2% to 3% of the state’s population. 
9.     
In addition, still relevant, GSC asserted that WW
had offered discounts and incentives to three retailers without obtaining GSC’s
approval and had caused delay in sending product and displays to two retailers.

10.  WW
filed the complaint herein for payment of its termination fee, to which GSC
asserted an affirmative defense of fraud. GSC also filed a cross-complaint,
including for fraud.
11.  GSC
prevailed on its motion for summary adjudication of WW’s cause of action in
quantum meruit on the condition that it was not contending that the agreement
was unenforceable or subject to in tort a claim of fraudulent inducement.  
12.  GSC’s
claim that WW had an obligation to sell its products in every county arises
from the provision in the agreement that WW had the ability to sell GSC’s
products “throughout the entire State of California.” GSC has allegedly
admitted this fact. 
13.  GSC’s
other claims also arise out of WW’s obligations under the agreement. 
14.  GSC
seeks only contract damages (lost profits or enterprise value), not damages to
person or property. 
 
          In Rattagan,
supra, 17 Cal.5th at 38-40, the Court held that a party may
assert a tort claim for fraudulent concealment based on conduct occurring during
a contractual relationship if two conditions are met: (1) the elements of the
claim can be established independently of the parties’ contractual rights and
obligations and (2) the alleged wrongful conduct exposes the plaintiff to a
risk of harm “beyond the reasonable contemplation of the parties when they
entered into the agreement.” Stated otherwise, if a party cannot meet these
elements, the Economic Loss Rule would bar recovery in tort. 
 
          To assess
whether the claim is fundamentally contractual, a court must consider (a) the
scope of the contract and the rights involved, (b) whether there is an
independent duty to refrain from the conduct and (c) even if so, whether those
duties are then subsumed within the agreement. (Id., 17 Cal.5th
at 26) 
          WW
asserts that GSC’s fraud claim falls squarely within the confines of the Economic
Loss Rule and that the claim is therefore barred. The agreement did not require
WW to sell GSC product in each of California’s fifty-eight counties. It was
required to use reasonable efforts, not best efforts. A distributor cannot
guarantee that a retailer will buy the products. Requiring WW to have sold GSC
products in every county is inconsistent with using “reasonable efforts” and
requiring a level higher. 
 
          On December
19, 2024, GSC filed Opposition to the motion. GSC makes the following points:
 
1.     
The motion is untimely. It was filed four days
late based on the amended CCP sec. 437c(a)(2) requiring 81 days service prior
to the hearing -- for hearings after January 1, 2025 (as here.) The court lacks
the power to address this issue by continuing the hearing or shortening the
notice period. (Robinson v. Woods (2008) 168 Cal.App.4th 1258,
1267-68, McMahon v. Sup. Ct. (2003) 106 Cal.App.4th 112, 118)
 
2.     
A triable issue of material facts exists as to
fraudulent inducement. For example, on the one hand, GSC asserts that WW
promised to sell its product in every county whereas, on the other hand, WW
asserts it did not make that promise. 
3.     
The fraud cause of action and affirmative
defense are not barred by the Economic Loss Rule. 
a.      GSC
may pursue causes of action for both fraudulent inducement and breach of
contract. (Rattagan, supra, 17 Cal.5th at 41, citing Lazar
v. Sup. Ct. (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645 and Dhital v. Nissan
(2022) 84 Cal.App.5th 828, review granted.)[2] A
party may not, however, defeat a fraudulent inducement claim merely because it
may also be liable for post-agreement conduct. (Anderson v. Ford Motor Co.
(2022) 74 Cal.App.5th 946, 973)
b.      GSC
has produced evidence establishing the validity of both causes of action. GSC
contends WW promised to distribute in every county in California but did not. Further,
WW did not sell to convenience stores, nor keep the product in stock to where
it did distribute. GSC contends that it was induced to enter into the agreement
based on these false promises. 
c.      GSC
need not allege damages independent of economic loss to bring a fraudulent inducement
cause of action.
d.      WW’s
motion is limited to the impact of Rattagan on GSC’s fraud claim. For this
reason, the statute of limitations claim is outside the permitted scope of this
motion.  
4.     
GSC’s fraud claim is in any event not barred by
the statute of limitation. Lacey could not acknowledge GSC’s access to WW’s
data in 2016 when he did not start with GSC until 2017. Moreover, there can be
no delayed discovery for accrual purposes where GSC did not know and had no
reason to know of wrongdoing by WW. (Fox v. Ethicon Endo-Surgery (2005)
35 Cal.4th 797, 803)   
 
 
          On December
30, 2024, WW filed a Reply. WW contends the 75-day rule applies where amendment
of CCP sec. 437c was not effective until January 1, 2025 - after this motion
was already filed – consistent with discussion with GSC as to the hearing date.
WW again asserts that the allegations of the cross-complaint pertaining to
fraud concern alleged contractual obligations and that therefore the Economic
Loss Rule applies. There is no claim that GSC suffered damages other than based
on the agreement. Lazar, supra, on which GSC relies, is not to the
contrary: The contention there concerned promises made before an agreement was
reached. However, GSC cannot now contend its claim pertains to conduct to
induce the agreement where it previously withdrew that claim. (Hence, Dhital
is not applicable here.) In turn, Lazar did not address the Economic
Loss Rule in any event where personal injury damages were claimed. 
 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
          Initially, the motion was not served
four days too late. The 81-day rule under the new statute is not applicable
here where it went into effect as of January 1, 2025. This motion was filed
beforehand – and hence the new statute does not apply retroactively to when WW
filed the motion – even if it concerns a hearing date after January 1, 2025. A
party cannot be expected to comply with a law not in effect. Retroactivity
applies typically only where the change in the law reflects pre-existing
expectations. 
          The Cout grants WW’s request for
judicial notice of the census data, and overrules GSC’s objection thereto,
where the point was merely to note estimated population information
about which there is no reasonable question. Ultimately, however, as discussed
below, the Court does not depend on this information in reaching its decision. 
          The Court has ruled on the
evidentiary objections each side filed to the other party’s evidence in the
forms provided, filed herewith. 
          Rattagan, supra, permits a
fraudulent concealment claim (as opposed to a fraudulent inducement claim as GSC
is seeking to assert here) based on conduct occurring during the contractual
relationship (as opposed to here where the conduct GSC now complains of
occurred before the agreement was entered into) if the plaintiff can establish
the two elements set forth above.  The
Supreme Court notes (at 17 Cal.5th 41, fn. 12) that it then had under review Dhital,
supra, and another case, concerning claims for fraudulent inducement.[3]
Hence, Rattagan, supra, does not squarely address the claim here of
fraudulent inducement even if it does address application of the Economic Loss
Rule to a claim of fraudulent concealment. The Supreme Court states: “We do not
address these issues here.” (Id.)
          On the
merits, the parties are
talking at cross-purposes: GSC does not argue in opposition to the motion that the
fraud claim (independent of fraudulent inducement) does not fall under the  Economic Loss Rule, i.e., that the two
conditions are satisfied – which is the principal basis of the motion. As a
result, GSC has not provided any basis for the Court to conclude that either of
these independent bases are applicable to render the Economic Rule inapplicable,
taking account of the three above-referenced factors courts are to consider. To
the contrary, the evidence submitted indicates that the obligations under the
agreement created the claims asserted (i.e., as to where and how WW was to
distribute GSC’s products), it is unclear what other duty WW had that GSC is
claiming required it refrain from unstated conduct and whatever duties WW did
have would be governed by the agreement. 
          GSC’s argument is a different one -
that the Economic Loss Rule does not apply to a fraudulent inducement cause of
action - but WW was not contending it did.[4]

          The critical
issue on this motion is a slightly different one that the Opposition does not
address directly; namely, what is the consequence as far as the Economic Loss
Rule where a party affirms the contract and sues for fraud rather than
fraudulent inducement. While GSC is correct that the Economic Loss Rule is not applicable
if a party is suing for fraudulent inducement (Dhital, supra, 84
Cal.App.5th at 843, Robinson Helicopter v. Dana Corp. (2004)
34 Cal.4th 979) (and is not electing to affirm the agreement
and to sue instead for fraud), Rattagan does not state that the Economic
Loss Rule does not apply where, as here, a party has affirmed the contract and
is suing for fraud.[5]
In fact, in Rattagan, the Court held the Economic Loss Rule applied to
the alleged conduct concerning the subject of the agreement. The Opposition
fails to acknowledge that GSC previously asserted that it was not asserting a
fraudulent inducement cause of action (if it even was.)[6] By GSC contending that the agreement
was not voidable - to defeat WW’s quantum meruit claim – GSC relinquished any claim
for fraudulent inducement.[7]
Indeed, GSC’s counsel admits as much in the quoted language.[8]

 
          In opposition to the motion, however,
GSC now contends that notwithstanding its affirming the contract, and express
representation it was not seeking to assert fraudulent inducement, it is
inconsistently claiming it can still sue for fraudulent inducement to avoid applicability
of the Economic Loss Rule to the fraud claim. A claim for fraudulent inducement
– to find the agreement unenforceable - is no longer compatible with affirming
the contract. (Geraghty v. Shalizi (2023) 8 Cal.App.5th 593, 597
(“a party who is fraudulently induced to execute a contract can either rescind the
agreement and restore the consideration, or can affirm the contract and recover
damages for fraud”), Chapman v. Skype (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th
217, 234 (to same effect)) Instead, the fraud claim for damages survives. The Opposition
fails to address this issue at all. 
 
          Judicial estoppel applies here to bar
GSC from asserting a claim it previously relinquished - on which representation
the Court relied in granting GSC’s motion for summary adjudication of WW’s
claim in quantum meruit (where the Court knew the agreement would still stand.)
Consequently, in the absence of any argument that the Economic Loss Rule does
not apply to a fraud claim, or that GSC is seeking damages other than economic
ones,  WW is entitled to summary
adjudication.[9]
 
 
          Where the Economic Loss Rule applies
to the claim of fraud here as to WW’s performance of the terms of the agreement
(including the alleged wrongful use of sub-distributors or failure to ensure
retailers had sufficient product) - as a matter of law – the Court does not
need to reach the alleged factual issue (if at all) about whether WW misrepresented
it would distribute GSC’s product literally in every county in California. This
issue does not change the outcome that GSC cannot bring this claim as a tort
where it elected to affirm the agreement. 
          Moreover, it is in any event not
clear that even were the Economic Loss Rule not applicable under these
circumstances that jurors would reasonably believe WW was not using
“reasonable” as opposed to “best” efforts to service the whole State of
California where it was covering those counties having more than 90% percent of
its population. Those smaller population counties where WW was not selling product,
for example, in Humboldt (given the reference to not selling in Eureka) does
not necessarily mean WW was not doing what it represented it would do. Further,
it is worth noting that the agreement does not state WW would distribute in every
single county -- even if GSC believed a WW salesperson inferred it would beforehand.[10]
The terms of the written agreement in any event supersede prior oral
negotiations. (Civil Code sec. 1625)   
          In allowing this motion to be heard
at this time, the Court did not limit its scope to solely fraudulent inducement
as opposed to fraud.[11]
What the Court limited the motion to was fraud / fraudulent inducement as
opposed to other causes of action of the cross-complaint such as the third
cause of action for defamation. That said, it is true that the Court did not
specifically discuss the statute of limitations issue - which WW could have
asserted earlier regardless of Rattagan. WW is taking advantage of leave
to pursue the Economic Loss Rule issue to now address this statute of
limitations issue. The Court will not consider the statute of limitations
argument under these circumstances. Consequently, the Court does not reach
whether there is a triable issue in this regard. Where the statute of
limitations argument was additional to the one addressed above, this issue does
not change the Court’s ruling.  
          Finally, the Court does not find any material
issue for these purposes as to the facts in WW’s Separate Statement. Likewise, the
Court does not find that any of GSC’s additional facts in its counter-Separate
Statement create any material disputed issue. The principal issue is whether
the contentions fall under the Economic Loss Rule. Whether, for example, WW
promised to distribute in each of the fifty-eight counties versus all over California
does not matter for these purposes. The damages here are not personal nor
property based and there is no duty independent of that under the agreement which
GSC elected to affirm.   
 
CONCLUSION 
 
          For these reasons, the Court grants
the motion as to each of the first four issues set forth in the Separate
Statement. The Court denies summary adjudication of the fifth and sixth issues,
without prejudice. WW shall lodge a proposed order consistent herewith. 


