


[1] GSC contends under the agreement that the three breaches
did not have to be in the twelve months preceding termination. As discussed
below, this disagreement is not material on this motion. 


[2] When GSC filed its opposition, review was still
pending. 


[3] On December 18, 2024, however, the Supreme Court
dismissed the petition for review in Dhital and remanded to the Court of
Appeal. 


[4] Similarly, GSC’s argument that a party can sue for
breach of contract and for fraudulent inducement, per Dhital, supra,
does not address what happens when a party elects to affirm the agreement and
instead sue for damages. For the same reason, Anderson, supra, is not
instructive. (Anderson also does not address the Economic Loss Rule.) 


[5] GSC’s distinction between conduct occurring before
the agreement was entered into and conduct occurring thereafter is not material
here: By electing to stand on the agreement, a party is necessarily also
thereby stating that the conduct that occurred before the agreement was entered
into is now only of significance as far as fraud rather than fraudulent
inducement – the remedy for which would be setting aside the agreement rather
than damages. The Court is not holding that this conduct is no longer
actionable but that it is only in the context of the claim for fraud (subject
to the Economic Loss Rule.) 


[6] The second cause of action for fraud in the
cross-complaint does not specifically allege GSC was fraudulently induced to
enter into the agreement or seek its set-aside. Similalrly, the twenty-seventh
affirmative defense in GSC’s answer to the second amended complaint merely
asserts fraud. 


[7] P. 13 of the order, filed May 31, 2023, granting
GSC’s motion for summary adjudication as to WW’s quantum meruit claim, makes
clear that this is because the agreement was enforceable.  


[8]
If GSC could still sue
for fraudulent inducement then WW should have been entitled to assert a quantum
meruit claim.
 


[9] Robinson Helicopter, supra, 34 Cal.4th
at 992, that GSC cites, does not support the proposition that a fraud claim can
survive the Economic Loss Rule because a party also requests punitive damages.
Were that true, this rule would be irrelevant. Punitive damages are permissible
only where the underlying tortious conduct permits. Here, the Court is
indicating there can be no tort and only a contract claim. (Rattagan, supra,
17 Cal.5th at 20)


[10] WW emphasizes in its Reply that GSC did not point to
any WW employee who in fact stated that it would distribute GSC product in
every county – the GSC deponent, Hunter Wade, instead merely arguing that this
was his understanding of what WW represented by stating it would sell
throughout the state. 


[11] Indeed, significantly, the second cause of action for
fraud does not allege that WW fraudulently induced GSC to enter into the
agreement. The allegations concern WW’s acts during the contractual
relationship. There are no allegations specific to conduct occurring before the
parties entered into the agreement. 

