  Case Number:  21STCV03737    Hearing Date:   October 10, 2024    Dept:  39  TENTATIVE RULING
 



DEPT:


39




HEARING DATE:


October 10, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV03737, related to 21STCV03623 and 21STCV02841




MOTION:  


Motion for Leave to File Cross-Complaint




MOVING PARTY:


Defendants Julian Ledesma, Sweatheory LLC, Sweatheory Wellness,
  LLC, and the Sweatheory Group, LLC




OPPOSING PARTY:


None



 
MOTION
Plaintiffs Gabriel
Capra and Kristin Wright (“Plaintiffs”) sued Defendants Julian Ledesma,
Sweatheory LLC, Sweatheory Wellness, LLC, and the Sweatheory Group, LLC (“Defendants”)
because Plaintiffs contend Defendants leased a unit in which Plaintiffs were
residing and converted it to a business location.  Along with third-party JPL Ventures, LLC, Defendants
seek leave to file a cross-complaint against Paragon Resources, Inc. and
Royfield, Inc. (“Cross-Defendants”).  Cross-Defendants
are parties to this action, and have already cross-complained Christopher
Kantrowitz and Media Gobbler Inc.  
DISCUSSION 
Pursuant to Code
of Civil Procedure section 428.10, a party against whom a cause of action is brought
may file a cross-complaint to assert “[a]ny cause of action he has against a
person alleged to be liable thereon, whether or not such person is already a
party to the action, if the cause of action asserted in his cross-complaint (1)
arises out of the same transaction, occurrence, or series of transactions or
occurrences as the cause brought against him or (2) asserts a claim, right, or
interest in the property or controversy which is the subject of the cause
brought against him.”  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§428.10, subd. (b).)  A party must obtain
leave of court to file a cross-complaint if the party does not file the
cross-complaint at the same time as the party files an answer.  The Court may grant leave to file a
cross-complaint in the interests of justice at any time during the course of
the action.  (Code Civ. Proc., §428.10,
subd. (c).)  
Defendants seek
leave to assert a cross-complaint against Cross-Defendants for breach of
contract, indemnity, and contribution. 
Defendants contend Defendants leased the premises at issue from
Cross-Defendants, without knowledge of Plaintiffs’ presence on the
premises.  Defendants did not file this
cross-complaint in connection with their initial appearance.  However, the Court considers it in the
interest of justice to resolve all claims regarding the dispute over Plaintiffs’
right to the premises in this action. 
Accordingly, the Court grants the motion.  
Defendants are
ordered to provide notice of this order and file proof of service of same.
 