 Case Number:  22STCV13023    Hearing Date:   October 10, 2024    Dept:  39  TENTATIVE RULING
 



DEPT:


39




HEARING DATE:


October 10, 2024




CASE NUMBER:
  


22STCV13023




MOTION:  


Motion for Protective Order




MOVING PARTIES:


Defendant Lithia Motors Support Services, Inc.




OPPOSING PARTY:


Plaintiff Kenneth Oleesky



 
MOTION
            Defendant
Lithia Motors Support Services, Inc. (“Defendant”) moves for a protective order
that Defendant need not respond to inspection demands Plaintiff Kenneth Oleesky
(“Plaintiff”) served on Defendant, which require Defendant to produce its
electronic devices for inspection. 
Plaintiff opposes the motion.
ANALYSIS
Code of Civil
Procedure section 2017.020 permits the court to restrict a party’s right to
limit the scope of discovery if it determines the method of discovery is unduly
burdensome, expensive, or intrusive. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2017.020.)  Plaintiff
served inspection demands on Defendant in which Plaintiff seeks to inspect all
computers or other electronic devices with electronically stored information
about Plaintiff or any other issues from this litigation that Defendant’s
employees Gina Morse, Diana Rusnick, Tiani Langston, Angela Taber, and Mike
Murray used.
Defendant argues
the discovery is unduly burdensome.  To
demonstrate that responding to discovery requests would be so burdensome as to
be oppressive, the responding party must advance evidence of “the quantum of
work required . . . ,” along with evidence to show “that the ultimate effect of
the burden is incommensurate with the result sought.”  Such evidence would include evidence of “the
total man hours required to accomplish the task.” (West Pico Furniture Co.
of Los Angeles v. Superior Court In and For Los Angeles County (1961) 56
Cal.2d 407, 417.)  
Defendant advances
the declaration of its counsel, Matthew Noel (“Noel”).  Noel states the inspection demands would
require him to travel to Medford, Oregon to witness the inspection.  (Declaration of Matthew Noel, ¶ 15.)  The Court is not convinced the inspection
demands require Defendant’s counsel, who has not indicated he is an expert on
computer forensics, to personally witness the inspection.  As such, Defendant has not presented evidence
to show the burden of the inspection demands is unwarranted.  Further, Plaintiff has offered to stipulate
to another location for the inspection to minimize travel expenses.  (Opposition to Motion for Protective Order,
pp. 9-10.)  Defendant has not suggested
an alternative location.  Thus,
Defendant’s contention in this regard fails as unsupported.
Defendant also
argues the discovery is cumulative, because Plaintiff has already taken
depositions.  Plaintiff may pursue discovery, even if the
discovery seeks information that is duplicative of other information
already obtained.  (Tbg Ins. Servs. Corp. v. Superior Court (2002)
96 Cal.App.4th 443, 448.)  Plaintiff’s
right to use inspection demands “is in addition to and exclusive of the right
to take the deposition[s], and either procedure may be resorted to before or
after the other.”  (Greyhound Corp. v. Sup. Ct. In and For Merced
County (1961) 56 Cal.2d 355, 373.)  Defendant
has not shown Plaintiff has already inspected the electronic devices at
issue.  As such, Plaintiff’s use of other
discovery methods does not render the inspection demands unduly cumulative.
Likewise,
Defendant’s argument the inspection demands are overbroad and harassing is
unfounded.  “When discovery requests are
grossly overbroad on their face, and hence do not appear reasonably related to
a legitimate discovery need, a reasonable inference can be drawn of an intent
to harass and improperly burden.”  (Obregon v. Superior Court (1998)
67 Cal.App.4th 424, 431.)  The inspection
demands at issue are reasonably related to this litigation, as they are limited
to percipient witnesses involved with this matter and facts related to it.  The inspection demands are not overbroad or
harassing.
Defendant also
speculates Plaintiff seeks this discovery to find spoliation of evidence.  The Court cannot rule on potential future
issues in this litigation.  Further, actionable
spoliation occurs only in limited circumstances.  “Spoliation is the destruction or significant
alteration of evidence, or the failure to preserve property for another's use
as evidence, in pending or future litigation.”  (Hernandez v. Garcetti
(1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 675, 680.)  Under California law, a party cannot
destroy evidence “in response to a discovery request after litigation has
commenced . . . ,” or “in anticipation of a discovery request.”  (Cedars-Sinai
Medical Center v. Superior Court (1998) 18 Cal.4th 1, 12.)  Unless
Plaintiff discovers Defendant destroyed evidence in response to Plaintiff’s
discovery requests or in anticipation of discovery requests, Plaintiff will be
unable to raise spoliation as an issue in this case.  Accordingly, the motion is denied.
Defendant is to
give notice of this order and to file proof of service of same.
 