  Case Number:  23VECV03290    Hearing Date:   May 2, 2024    Dept:  W ALEXANDER
GHATAN v. BMW OF NORTH AMERICA, LLC, et al.
 
DEFENDANTS BMW
OF NORTH AMERICA, LLC’S AND BMW OF SHERMAN OAKS’ DEMURRER TO PLAINTIFF’S FIRST
AMENDED COMPLAINT
 
Date
of Hearing:        May 2, 2024                                       Trial Date:       None set. 
Department:              W                                                        Case
No.:        23VECV03290
 
Moving Party:            Defendants BMW NA, LLC and BMW of Sherman Oaks 
Responding Party:     Plaintiff Alexander Ghatan  
Meet and Confer:      See footnote[1]
 
BACKGROUND
 
On July 28, 2023, Plaintiff Alexander
Ghatan filed a complaint against BMW of North America, LLC and Sherman Oaks-B,
Inc. dba BMW of Sherman Oaks for 1. Violation of Song-Beverly Act – Breach of
Express Warranty; 2. Violation of Song-Beverly Act – Breach of Implied Warranty;
3. Violation of The Song-Beverly Act Section 1793.2; and 4. Violation of The
Song-Beverly Act Section 1793.22 – Tanner Consumer Protection Act.  Plaintiff leased a new 2020 BMW X5 xDrive 40i
from Defendants. Plaintiff alleges the Subject Vehicle was delivered to
Plaintiff with serious defects and nonconformities to warranty and developed
other serious defects and nonconformities to warranty including, but not
limited to, a malfunctioning steering intervention, vehicle key detection
issues, and electrical system defects.
 
On January 16, 2024, Plaintiff filed a
First Amended Complaint adding two additional causes of action for Negligent
Repair and Strict Liability – Design Defect as well as punitive damages as a
prayer for relief to this matter. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Defendants
BMW NA, LCL and BMW of Sherman Oaks’ Demurrer to the First Amended Complaint is
SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Defendants BMW NA, LLC and BMW of
Sherman Oaks demur to the first amended complaint on the grounds each of Plaintiff’s
six claims fails to state sufficient facts to support any of the claims
Plaintiff alleges. Specifically, neither BMW NA nor BMW of Sherman Oaks were
involved in the lease transaction which is the heart of Plaintiff’s
allegations.
 
Request for Judicial Notice 
 
Defendant requests this court take
judicial notice of the lease agreement referenced in Plaintiff’s FAC. 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff first argues
the court should not consider the Lease Agreement attached to Defendants’
demurrer as Defendants have not provided sufficient information to demonstrate
that the proffered copy of the lease agreement is not reasonably subject to
dispute and is “capable of immediate and accurate determination by resort to
sources of reasonably indisputable accuracy.” 
 
Defendants argue the agreement was
incorporated by reference into Plaintiff’s FAC, and it is the definitive and
indisputable source of rights and obligations regarding the Subject Vehicle and
Plaintiff’s claims.  
 
The court finds judicial notice proper.
Courts have taken judicial notice of documents referenced, but not attached to
a complaint. (See Ingram v. Flippo (1999) 74 Cal.App.4th 1280, fn. 1.)
Here, Plaintiff seeks to enforce express warranties under the lease agreement
and seeks to revoke acceptance of the agreement. Moreover, the complaint
alleges Plaintiff is entitled to rescission of the contract pursuant to Civil Code
section 1794, et seq. and Commercial Code, section 2711 under each cause of
action. 
 
First and Second Causes of Action
 
Defendants demur to the first cause of
action for breach of express warranty and second cause of action for breach of
implied warranty on the grounds Plaintiff fails to state sufficient facts to
support its breach of express or implied warranty claims against BMW NA or BMW
of Sherman Oaks. 
 
As to BMW NA, Defendants argue it is
impossible to identify what Plaintiff’s allegations are because he does not specify
any defect(s) in the subject vehicle. Further, Plaintiff fails to state with
reasonable particularity the substance of any alleged warrantable defect(s), on
what date(s) he allegedly presented the vehicle, how many times he allegedly
presented the vehicle, where the vehicle was presented, or the outcome of the
alleged presentations. Defendants also contend BMW NA is a “distributor” under the
Act, not a “manufacturer,” and thus cannot be held liable under this cause of
action. As to BMW of Sherman Oaks, Defendants argue it did not lease the
subject vehicle to Plaintiff, it was merely one of the several dealerships that
Plaintiff presented his vehicle to twice. Although it may be a retail seller,
it was not the retail seller for purposes of this FAC and it did not carry out
any duties as a retail seller. Similarly, Plaintiff does not specify any
defect(s) in the subject vehicle. 
 
 In
opposition, Plaintiff argues the complaint exactly pleads the elements for
Breach of Express and Implied Warranty under the Song-Beverly Act. 
 
The court disagrees. For statutory
violations, “facts in support of each of the requirements of a statute” must be
“specifically pled,” and “simply parroting the language” of a statute is
insufficient to survive a demurrer. (Hawkins v. TACA Internat. Airlines,
S.A. (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 466, 477-478.) While the complaint does allege
the defects suffered from including a malfunctioning steering intervention,
vehicle key detection issues, and electrical system defects, the complaint
fails to allege when he allegedly presented the vehicle for repair, how many
times, where it was presented, and the outcome and so forth. 
 
The court notes that as to the second
cause of action, Plaintiff has limited it to merchantability. “Under the
implied merchantability warranty, “every sale of consumer¿goods¿that are sold
at retail in this state shall be accompanied by the manufacturer's and the
retail seller's implied warranty that the goods are merchantable.”  (Civ. Code § 1792.) And while BMW NA states
it is a distributor, it does not request judicial notice of such. The complaint
alleges BMW NA is a manufacturer and/or distributor. Plaintiff 
 
Accordingly, the demurrer to the first
and second cause of action is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND to allege that
defendant is a manufacturer, if indeed, plaintiff has a factual basis for doing
so.
 
Third Cause of Action
 
Defendants demur to the third cause of
action for violation of civil code section 1793.2 on the grounds Plaintiff
fails to state sufficient facts. 
 
Civil Code section 1793.2(a)(1)
requires manufacturers to make repair facilities available to consumers, where
vehicles can be repaired to conform to any express warranties provided by the
manufacturers.   Civil Code § 1793.2(b) requires repairs to be
commenced “within a reasonable time” and completed “within 30 days.” 
 
Defendants argue Plaintiff merely
recites the requisite elements of the statute but fails to support the
allegations with facts. Further, BMW NA is not liable under this statute
because it is not a manufacturer as defined by the statute. BMW of Sherman Oaks
is similarly not liable because it is not the “manufacturer’s representative”
as defined by the statute. 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues under
Section 1793.2(b), the term “representatives” is used as a collective noun
that, in part, refers to agents which likely includes repair or service
facilities that have been authorized by a manufacturer of consumer goods to
carry out the terms of its express warranties. As such, Plaintiff’s FAC exactly
pleads the elements for Section 1793.2 under the Song-Beverly Act including
delivering the subject vehicle to an authorized service representative and
Defendants failing to conform the subject vehicle within 30 days and/or
commence repairs within a reasonable time. 
 
The court finds the complaint fails to
state facts sufficient to constitute a claim for violation of Civil Code
section 1793.2(b). As noted above, the causes of action must be plead with specifically.
The complaint does not allege how long the vehicle was in for repair or how
long it was in there for repair when Defendant and its repair facilities failed
to commence and complete repairs to the vehicle. 
 
Accordingly, the demurrer to the third
cause of action is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND. 
 
Fourth Cause of Action
 
Defendants demur to the fourth cause of
action for Violation of the Tanner Consumer Protection Act on the grounds
Plaintiff does not plead facts sufficient to state a cause of action against
Defendants. 
 
The Tanner Consumer Protection Act provides
a presumption that a reasonable number of attempts to repair the vehicle have
been made (i.e., a presumption that the third element of a Song-Beverly new
vehicle express warranty claim is satisfied) when one of three enumerated
factual situations is satisfied. (Jiagbogu v. Mercedes-Benz USA (2004)
118 Cal.App.4th 1235, 1244.)
 
Defendants argue the subject vehicle
was not out of service for a cumulative total of 30 calendar days within the
first 18 months/18,000 miles and Plaintiff failed to specify any details to the
contrary. Moreover, Defendants are not liable because there are no facts which
exist to support the allegation that the subject vehicle was out of service for
a total of 30 days when it never was during its entire 3 year lease period.
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues Plaintiff’s
FAC exactly pleads the elements for Section 1793.22. Again, the court
disagrees. The complaint generally alleges “In the first l8 months/l8,000 miles
of Plaintiff having owned the Subject Vehicle, Defendants have been given
sufficient repair opportunities under Civil Code section 1793.22 (b)(1),
(b)(2), and/or (b)(3), but failed to conform the vehicle to warranty.” (FAC
¶62.) This is insufficient. 
 
Accordingly, the demurrer to the fourth
cause of action is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND. 
 
Fifth Cause of Action
 
Defendants demur to the fifth cause of
action for negligent repair on the grounds the cause of action is woefully
deficient because Plaintiff has failed to plead any facts sufficient to survive
demurrer. 
 
In a negligent performance case, a
“plaintiff will be entitled to recover economic loss damages without the need
to allege and prove personal injury or property damage” based on a
consideration of the following factors: “(1) the extent to which the
transaction was intended to affect the plaintiff, (2) the foreseeability of harm
to the plaintiff, (3) the degree of certainty that the plaintiff suffered
injury, (4) the closeness of the connection between the defendant’s conduct and
the injury suffered, (5) the moral blame attached to the defendant’s conduct,
and (6) the policy of preventing future harm.”¿ (North American Chemical Co.
v. Superior Court (1997) 59 Cal.App.4th 764, 782, 786.)¿ “[T]he
foreseeability of the economic harm to the plaintiff from the defendant’s
negligent conduct [is] the critical factor.”¿ (Id. at 782.)¿¿ 
 
Defendants argue they do not understand
what conduct Plaintiff is alleging was tortious and/or compensable. Even if Defendants
did understand Plaintiff’s allegations, he has pled no facts in the First
Amended Complaint to support any negligence claim. Defendants further argue the
cause of action is improperly brought against BMW NA because it is neither the
retail seller, nor the servicing dealership, and did not have the opportunity
to commit any of the alleged breaches of duty that Plaintiff would have to
establish to prove a claim of negligent repair. Moreover, Defendants contend Plaintiff
can plead no facts supporting a claim of negligent repair because BMW of
Sherman Oaks correctly diagnosed the Subject vehicle as operating normally
virtually every time Plaintiff presented the Subject Vehicle for repair, and
correctly performed any necessary diagnoses and repairs to resolve Plaintiff’s
complaints within a reasonable number of attempts. Lastly, Defendants contend
the cause of action is barred by the economic loss rule. 
 
While a negligence claim may be
generally pled, the court sustains the demurrer to the fifth cause of action so
Plaintiff may allege more facts along with the other causes of action.
Moreover, the court finds the cause of action against BMW NA improper.
Plaintiff has not alleged BMW NA is the one who repaired the vehicle or how BMW
NA took part in the repair. As noted above, cases have found that the economic
loss rule does not apply to cases involving the negligent performance of
services. (North American Chemical Co. v. Superior Court (1997) 59
Cal.App.4th 764, 777-781 [holding the economic loss rule does not apply in
cases involving the negligent performance of services that results in
foreseeable economic loss].) 
 
Accordingly, the demurrer to the fifth
cause of action is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND. 
 
Sixth Cause of Action 
 
Defendants demur to the sixth cause of
action for strict liability – design defect on the grounds the claim is
deficient. 
 
In California, a product is defective
in design if ‘the product fails to meet ordinary consumer expectations as to
safety’ or ‘the design is not as safe as it should be.’ [Citations.]” (Johnson
v. United States Steel Corp. (2015) 240 Cal.App.4th 22, 31–32.) 
 
Defendants argue Plaintiff’s FAC fails
to state with any level of specificity what the alleged design defect actually
is. (FAC ¶ 80.) Instead, the complaint broadly states the elements of a design defect
claim, without providing any case specific facts to support such allegations.
Moreover, Plaintiff has not stated sufficient facts to substantiate an allegation
that Plaintiff was actually harmed by the alleged design defect - there are no
facts in the FAC that indicate the actual harm suffered by Plaintiff with any
level specificity, instead the claim merely states that “Plaintiff was harmed
by the Subject Vehicle.” (FAC ¶ 81.)
 
The court finds Plaintiff has failed to
allege facts sufficient for a strict liability claim. Plaintiff has failed to
allege any facts to substantiate what the defect is. 
 
Accordingly, Defendants’ demurrer to
the sixth cause of action is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND. 


