  Case Number:  22PSCV00507    Hearing Date:   October 23, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE
NAME:  Herbert
Hall, et al. v. Sunrise Senior Living, LLC, et al. 
Defendants’
Motion to Bifurcate Plaintiffs’ Punitive Damages Claims 
TENTATIVE
RULING 
The Court GRANTS Defendants’ motion to bifurcate. The issue of
punitive damages will be tried separately from the issue of liability, and only
if Plaintiffs first establish Defendants’ liability at trial. 
Defendants are ordered to give notice of the Court’s ruling within
five calendar days of this order. 
BACKGROUND 
This is an elder abuse case. On May 27, 2022, plaintiffs Herbert
Hall, by and through his successor-in-interest, Carol Lucille Hall, Carol
Lucille Hall, and Deborah Dunn (collectively, Plaintiffs) filed this action
against defendants Sunrise Senior Living, LLC, Sunrise Development, Inc.,
Sunrise Senior Living Services, Inc., Welltower Opco Group, LLC, Sunrise Senior
Living Management, Inc., Jennifer Serrano, Veronica Hermosillo, and Does 1
through 250, alleging causes of action for elder abuse/neglect, negligence,
negligent hiring, supervision & retention, and wrongful death. On August 1,
2022, Plaintiffs filed a Doe amendment naming Welltower, Inc. as a defendant. On
July 26, 2023, Sunrise Development, Inc., Sunrise Senior Living Services, Inc.,
Jennifer Serrano, Veronica Hermosillo, and Welltower, Inc. were dismissed from
this action. 
On September 30, 2024, Defendants Sunrise Senior Living, LLC,
Sunrise Senior Living Management, Inc., and Welltower Opco Group, LLC
(collectively, Defendants) moved to bifurcate Plaintiffs’ punitive damages
claims. The motion is unopposed. 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
            “The court, in furtherance of convenience or to avoid
prejudice, or when separate trials will be conducive to expedition and economy,
may order a separate trial of any cause of action, including a cause of action
asserted in a cross-complaint, or of any separate issue or of any number of
causes of action or issues, preserving the right of trial by jury required by
the Constitution or a statute of this state or of the United States.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 1048, subd. (b).) 
            “The court may, when the convenience of witnesses, the
ends of justice, or the economy and efficiency of
handling the litigation would be promoted thereby, on motion of a party,
after notice and hearing, make an order, no later than the close of pretrial
conference in cases in which such pretrial conference is to be held, or, in
other cases, no later than 30 days before the trial date, that the trial of any
issue or any part thereof shall precede the trial of any
other issue or any part thereof in the case, except for special defenses which
may be tried first pursuant to Sections 597 and 597.5. The court, on its own motion, may make such an order at any
time.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 598.) 
“The court shall, on
application of any defendant, preclude the admission of evidence of that
defendant's profits or financial condition until after the trier of fact
returns a verdict for plaintiff awarding actual damages and finds that a
defendant is guilty of malice, oppression, or fraud in accordance with Section
3294. Evidence of profit and financial condition shall be admissible only as to
the defendant or defendants found to be liable to the plaintiff and to be
guilty of malice, oppression, or fraud. Evidence of profit and financial
condition shall be presented to the same trier of fact that found for the
plaintiff and found one or more defendants guilty of malice, oppression, or
fraud.” (Civ. Code, § 3295, subd. (d).) 
DISCUSSION 
Defendants note
that Plaintiffs’ statement of damages indicates that Plaintiffs seek
$30,000,000 in punitive damages for all of Plaintiffs’ combined claims. Defendants
contend that, given the high value of this claim and the need to first
establish liability before punitive damages can be awarded, the issue of
punitive damages should be bifurcated and tried only if Plaintiffs are able to
establish liability. 
The
Court finds Defendants’ motion well taken. Plaintiffs are seeking punitive
damages here. (Compl., p. 23, ln. 1, ¶ 4; Tramontano Decl., Ex.1.) Bifurcation
of the issue of liability before trial of punitive damages is common and
proper. (Foreman & Clark Corp. v.
Fallon (1971) 3 Cal.3d 875, 888 fn. 8 [bifurcation is desirable to avoid
wasting court time where the plaintiff loses on the issue of liability, to
promote settlements where the plaintiff wins on the issue of liability, and to
make the case easier for the jury to understand].) The Court further construes
Plaintiffs’ lack of opposition to this motion as a tacit admission that Defendants’
arguments are meritorious. (Sexton v. Superior Court (1997) 58
Cal.App.4th 1403, 1410; C. Opposing the Motion—and Rebutting the Opposition,
Cal. Prac. Guide Civ. Pro. Before Trial Ch. 9(I)-C, ¶ 9:105.10; see also Moulton Niguel Water Dist. v. Colombo (2003) 111
Cal.App.4th 1210, 1215 [“Contentions are waived when a party fails to support
them with reasoned argument and citations to authority. [Citation]”].) 
Based on the
foregoing, the Court GRANTS the motion. 
CONCLUSION 
The Court GRANTS Defendants’ motion to bifurcate. The issue of
punitive damages will be tried separately from the issue of liability, and only
if Plaintiffs first establish Defendants’ liability at trial. 
Defendants are ordered to give notice of the Court’s ruling within
five calendar days of this order.