 Case Number:  22SMCV02938    Hearing Date:   April 30, 2024    Dept:  205    Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles – West District  Beverly Hills Courthouse / Department 205  BRADLEY FISCHER,    Plaintiff, v.  NEW REPUBLIC PICTURES, LLC, et al.,    Defendants.    Case No.:  22SMCV02938     Hearing Date:  April 30, 2024   [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE:   PLAINTIFF BRADLEY FISCHER’S    MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER    RESPONSES TO REQUESTS FOR    PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS (SET    ONE) AND FOR SANCTIONS   BACKGROUND This action arises from breach of contract.  According to the First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) Plaintiff Bradley Fischer is a film producer, while Defendant New Republic Pictures, LLC (“NRP”) is in the business of film and television production and financing.  (FAC ¶¶ 1-2.)   On November 1, 2019, Plaintiff and Defendant entered into a written contract for Plaintiff to serve as Defendant’s President and Chief Content Officer (the “2019 Agreement”).  (Ex. A to FAC.)  The 2019 Agreement had a two-year term of employment, with an option to extend the term for an additional two years.  (FAC ¶¶3, 22; Ex. A.)   The 2019 Agreement provided Fischer with a base salary and guaranteed Fischer bonuses on all movie and television projects that commenced principal photography during Fischer’s employment as well as a producer credit on all such projects.  (FAC ¶22.)  As to post term projects (i.e., projects acquired, greenlit or in production at the time of Fischer’s termination), the 2019 agreement also provided Fischer “shall receive producer fees and ... contingent compensation ... and shall provide services consistent with Fischer’s precedent and industry practice.”  (Id.) In 2020, NRP had an opportunity to team up with Paramount Pictures Corporation (“Paramount”) to produce and finance a slate of films (the “Paramount Slate Pictures”).  (Id. ¶25.)  Fischer and NRP agreed to modify the 2019 Agreement with respect to the Paramount Slate Pictures, including by extending Fischer’s bonus rights to all films included in the Paramount slate in exchange for lower bonus per-picture minimums payable to Fischer by NRP.  (Id. ¶¶ 26, 27.) In 2021, NRP extended the 2019 agreement for another two years.  (Id. ¶29.)  However, in June 2022, NRP fired Fischer without cause allegedly because its indirect majority owner and a Russian oligarch, Dimitry Rybolovlev needed to exit the business after Russia’s invasion of Ukraine.  (Id. ¶¶ 30-31.)   Fischer now sues for breach of the 2019 Agreement and seeks to recover the money and value of lost credits Fischer was entitled to under the agreement.  (Id. ¶¶ 34, 38-52.)  The operative complaint alleges claims for (1) breach of contract, (2) declaratory relief, and (3) accounting.   On March 6, 2023—more than a year ago—Fischer served a first set of requests for production of documents (“RFPs”) on NRP, consisting of 233 requests.  (Ex. 1 to Schwartz Decl.)  The document requests at issue include:  (1) documents related to the negotiation of the Paramount Slate Deal (RFP 12); (2) employment, services, equity agreements and contracts in which both NRP and eight named current or former NRP executives are parties (RFPs 59-66); (3) documents relating to any consideration NRP received or anticipates receiving from 16 specific film projects (RFPs 70-85); (4) documents relating to the identities of any producer of 73 specific film projects (odd numbered RFP Nos. 87-233). NRP served initial responses on April 21, 2023, and four rounds of amended and supplemental responses.  (Schwartz Decl. ¶3.)  NRP initially agreed to produce only documents relating directly to Fischer (such as his personnel file) and for all other requests, offered to meet and confer regarding scope and relevance.  (Id. ¶4.)  The parties met and conferred over the past ten months.  (Id. ¶¶ 4, 13.)  As a result of these efforts, NRP eventually agreed to produce additional documents, but not the full range of documents Fischer requested.  (Id. ¶4.) This hearing is on Plaintiff’s motion to compel further responses to the RFPs.  Plaintiff contends the requests are relevant to (1) damages, (2) NRP’s construction of contract terms that are common to its agreements with Fischer and its agreement with others (or NRP’s conspicuous omission of certain terms in either), and (3) to illustrate the nature and extent of NRP’s post-termination breaches, including its obligations to negotiate post-term producing deals for Fischer on NRP projects.   LEGAL STANDARD The propounding party may bring a motion to compel further responses to a demand for production if the propounding party deems that production is deficient, incomplete, or contains meritless objections. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.310(a).)  The legal burden to justify refusing or failing to provide discovery lies with the objecting party.  (Coy v. Superior Court (1962) 58 Cal.2d 210, 220). A party filing a motion to compel further needs to comply with two requirements. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310(b).)  First, a party filing a motion to compel further must include a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310(b)(2).)  Per Section 2016.040, “[a] meet and confer declaration in support of a motion shall state facts showing a reasonable and good faith attempt at an informal resolution of each issue presented by the motion.”  Second, the motion must set forth specific facts in a separate statement justifying the discovery sought. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310(b)(1).)  And in this Department, there must be a joint statement with four columns: the first column will identify the number of the discovery request; the second, the text of the discovery request; the third, the text of the response, and the fourth, brief bullet-point statements, one from each party as to why a further response should or should not be compelled.    A motion to compel further responses must be filed within 45 days of service of the verified responses, “or any supplemental verified response, or on or before any specific later date to which the demanding party and the responding party have agreed in writing, the demanding party waives any right to compel a further response to the demand.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310(c).) Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.310 provides the court shall award monetary sanctions against a person, party, or attorney that unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel further response, unless that subject to sanction acted “with substantial justification or other circumstances make the imposition of sanctions unjust.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 2023.010(h).) The court “may impose a monetary sanction” against any attorney or party, or both, to pay the reasonable expenses, including attorney fees, if there has been a “misuse of the discovery process.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 2023.030(a).)  “A trial court has broad discretion when imposing a discovery sanction.”  (Lee v. Lee (2009) 175 Cal.App.4th 1553, 1559). DISCUSSION Meet and Confer/Timeliness  Plaintiff has met the procedural requirements for filing a motion to compel further.  Plaintiff submits the declaration of his counsel, attesting that the parties engaged in extensive meet and confer efforts over the course of ten months and attended an informal discovery conference.  As a result of those efforts, NRP amended and supplemented its responses four times, but the issues raised in this motion were not resolved.  Thus, Plaintiff has plainly met the requirement to file a meet and confer declaration.  Plaintiff has also filed a separate statement and a joint statement.  In addition, Plaintiff filed the motion to compel within 45 days of the last supplemental response, served on March 22, 2024; accordingly, Plaintiff’s motion is timely.   Request No. 12 The Court turns now to the substance of the motion.  RFP 12 seeks documents regarding the negotiation of the Paramount Slate Deal.  In its final response, NRP agreed to produce documents that “discuss, mention or bear a logical connection to specific terms negotiated in the Paramount Slate Deal concerning any fees, credits or other forms of consideration assigned, collateralized, set off, garnished or provided to any other person or entity on [NRP’s] behalf.”  (Ex. 4 to Schwartz Decl.)   The Court concludes Fischer is not entitled to all documents regarding the negotiation of the Paramount Slate Deal.  The Court is persuaded that complying with RFP No. 12 as written would impose an undue burden on NRP.  The request would require NRP to collect, review and produce every single document and email about the Paramount Slate Deal—a significant film co-financing transaction that covered 20 films—negotiated over the course of eight months and involving multiple parties and their counsel.  To collect these documents, review them for responsiveness and privilege and produce them to Fischer would be a time-intensive and costly undertaking.  (Oliver Decl. ¶7.) The undue burden is only underscored by the fact that NRP has already produced at least 4,000 documents relating to the Paramount Slate Deal, including (1) specific terms negotiated in the Paramount Slate Deal concerning any fees, credits or other forms of consideration (RFP No. 12), (2) ultimates and participation statements for films released in connection with the Paramount Slate Deal (RFP No. 15), (3) the names of individuals who, for the films released in connection with the Paramount Slate Deal, would receive producer credits that NRP is entitled to control (RFP No. 16); (4) various other statements pursuant to the Paramount Slate Deal (RFP Nos. 19-21), and (5) documents relating to the individual films in the Paramount Slate Deal and Fischer’s employment with NRP (RFP Nos. 146, 148, 150, 154, 156, 158, 160, 162, 164, 166).  (Smith Decl. ¶3.)    However, the Court concludes that NRP’s narrowing of this request goes too far.  The Court will limit the request to all documents regarding the negotiation of the Paramount Slate Deal that reference Fischer or that relate to which individuals or entities would be entitled to control or assign any consideration payable to NRP or that relate to the financing arrangements that have been made with credit facilities or third parties such that the credit facility’s participation would prevent NRP from “receiving” any contemplated consideration.  This narrowing should be sufficient to target documents Fischer claims he needs.1  Further, to the extent NRP contends these documents have already been produced pursuant to other requests, then its burden should be limited.  Accordingly, the Court grants in part and denies in part the motion to compel RFP No. 12.    Request Nos. 59-66 RFP Nos. 59-66 seek employment, services, and equity agreements or contracts in which both NRP and eight NRP executives or former executives are parties.  NRP agreed to produce employment agreements with these executives, but nothing further.  (Ex. 4 to Schwartz Decl. at 96:25-27, 97:5-7.)  The Court concludes that the requests are proper.  The requests are tailored to capture documents which Plaintiff claims he needs to show each executive’s compensation, share of NRP’s revenues (if any) and benefits which is relevant because Plaintiff claims he has “most favored nation” treatment in the 2019 Agreement.  (FAC ¶6.)   Documents responsive to these requests may also show how NRP interpreted contractual terms that are included in Fischer’s 2019 Agreement and included in NRP’s contracts with each executive.  Accordingly, the Court grants the motion to compel further responses to RFP Nos. 59-66.  Request Nos. 70-85 RFP Nos. 70-85 seek documents relating to any consideration NRP received or anticipates receiving by virtue of its involvement with 16 specific film projects.  NRP agreed to produce only documents “sufficient to show” consideration that NRP or certain specific entities received with respect to each of the projects.  (See, e.g., Ex. 4 to Schwartz Decl. At 113:21-114:6.)  Specifically, NRP has agreed to produce a single document with respect to each project—called an “ultimate”.  The Court concludes NRP’s limitation is too narrow.  The requested documents will bear on the damages owed to Fischer under the 2019 Agreement, which includes a portion of all revenues received by NRP.  Accordingly, the Court grants the motion to compel further responses to RFP Nos. 70-85.  Odd Numbered Request Nos. 87-233 The odd numbered RFPs in the range of RFP Nos. 87-233, excluding RFP No. 185, seek all documents reflecting or relating to the identity of any producer in connection with 73 specific film projects.  NRP agreed to produce only documents sufficient to identify the producer or producers on each such project.  (Ex. 4 to Schwartz Decl. at 149:20-150:2.)  NRP also agreed to serve an interrogatory response that would describe the current status of those projects (including who had been retained or identified as a producer since Fischer left NRP).   The Court concludes the NRP has sufficiently shown that these requests will create an undue burden.  NRP has already produced documents or communications that discuss Fischer’s employment at NRP and the film projects at issue (even numbered RFP Nos. 86 through 232).  To compel production of more than this would require NRP to collect and review every single document about 73 projects.  The production of any one of these films involves numerous individuals—internal and external to NRP—who would communicate on a near daily basis over the course of several months or several years about these projects that form the basis of NRP’s business.  (Oliver Decl. ¶¶5-6.)  NRP should not be required to produce all documents reflecting the status of dozens of projects which would comprise its voluminous day-to-day operations.     The Court’s ruling does not preclude the possibility for more targeted follow-on discovery based on the responses provided by NRP.  While, as Fischer argues, this may be inefficient, the opposite result would create an extreme burden.  Accordingly, the Court denies the motion to compel responses to RFP Nos. 87-233 (odd numbered requests). Sanctions      Plaintiff seeks monetary sanctions in the amount of $15,060.  The Court concludes that sanctions are not warranted.  The Court finds there was substantial justification for the positions taken by NRP.  Accordingly, the Court denies the request for sanctions.     CONCLUSION Based on the foregoing, the Court GRANTS IN PART and DENIES IN PART Plaintiff’s motion to compel further responses to requests for production of documents and for sanctions.    IT IS SO ORDERED.  DATED: April 30, 2024    ___________________________ Edward B. Moreton, Jr. Judge of the Superior Court 