 Case Number:  23SMCV04866    Hearing Date:   April 30, 2024    Dept:  205    Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles – West District  Beverly Hills Courthouse / Department 205  YASAM LEGACY, LLC,     Plaintiff, v.  GAYLE HOOKS aka GAYLE LEONARD, et al.,    Defendants.    Case No.:  23SMCV04866     Hearing Date:  April 30, 2024   [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE:   DEFENDANTS GAYLE HOOKS AND    CHRISTOPHER HOOKS’ DEMURRER TO    FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT     BACKGROUND This is a landlord-tenant dispute.  Plaintiff Yasam Legacy Inc. (“Landlord”) bought the multi-family building located at 3750 Jasmine Avenue, Los Angeles, California.  (First Amended Complaint (“FAC”)  ¶9.)  The building consists of 40 units and is governed by the City of Los Angeles Rent Stabilization Ordinance (“RSO”).  (Id.) Landlord entered into a “responsible person agreement” with Defendant Gayle Hooks.  (Id. ¶14.)  Under the agreement, Gayle’s only responsibility was to report nighttime emergencies and any common area maintenance issues she observed.  (Id.)  The “responsible person agreement” prohibited Gayle from collecting rent.  (Id.)  Landlord claims Gayle breached the agreement by collecting rent, and worse still, she collected more rent than permitted by the RSO and kept it for herself.  (Id. ¶¶ 59-60.) Landlord entered into lease agreements with Defendants Kama Leonard, Christopher Hooks and Gayle Hooks.  (Id. ¶ 65.)  Landlord claims these Defendants breached their respective lease agreements and the implied covenants therein by subleasing and/or assigning their units, keeping the difference, and causing the rents to exceed those rents permitted by the Rent Stabilization Ordinance.  (Id. ¶¶ 67, 74.) Landlord also claims fraud on the part of Defendants Gayle Hooks, Kama Leonard, Chaka Jamila Dodson and Christopher Hooks.  Defendants allegedly misrepresented that none of them were subleasing their units, that a tenant (Kiette Leonard) was alive and occupying Unit 204 when in fact the tenant had been dead for over 20 years, that Kama Leonard occupied Unit 201 (when in fact it was Chaka Jamila Dodson), that Gayle Hooks had a lease for Unit 202 when it was really Unit 205, and that Gayle Hooks was not collecting rent on Landlord’s behalf.  (Id. ¶ 80.) The operative first amended complaint alleges claims for (1) breach of the responsible person agreement, (2) breach of the lease agreements, (3) breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing, (4) intentional misrepresentation, (5) conversion, (6) violation of the Unfair Competition Law, Bus. & Prof. Code § 17200 (“UCL”), (7) conspiracy to commit intentional misrepresentation, (8) intentional concealment, and (9) conspiracy to conceal material facts. This hearing is on Defendants Gayle Hooks and Christopher Hooks’ (“Moving Defendants’”) demurrer to the FAC.  Moving Defendants argue that (1) Landlord’s third cause of action for breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing fails because the claim is completely covered by contract, (2) Landlord’s fourth cause of action for intentional misrepresentation and seventh cause of action for conspiracy to commit intentional misrepresentation fail because the Complaint does not plead fraud with particularity, (3) Landlord’s fifth cause of action for conversion fails because the claim is clearly grounded in fraud but the Complaint fails to allege fraud with specificity, and (4) Landlord’s eighth cause of action for intentional concealment and ninth cause of action for conspiracy to conceal material facts fails because Landlord cannot plead it sustained any damages.     LEGAL STANDARD A demurrer to a complaint may be general or special.¿ A general demurrer challenges the legal sufficiency of the complaint on the ground it fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action. (Code Civ. Proc. § 430.10, subd. (e).)¿ A general demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable.  (See Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994 (in ruling on a demurrer, a court may not consider declarations, matters not subject to judicial notice, or documents not accepted for the truth of their contents).)  For purposes of ruling on a demurrer, all facts pleaded in a complaint are assumed to be true, but the reviewing court does not assume the truth of conclusions of law. (Aubry v. Tri-City Hosp. Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.)   A special demurrer challenges other defects in the complaint, including whether a pleading is uncertain. (Code Civ. Proc. § 430.10, subd. (f).)¿ The term “uncertain” means “ambiguous and unintelligible.”¿ (Id.)¿ A demurrer for uncertainty should be sustained if the complaint is drafted in such a manner that the defendant cannot reasonably respond, i.e., the defendant cannot determine what issues must be admitted or denied, or what counts are directed against the defendant.  (Khoury v. Maly's of California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)¿ Leave to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (See Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349 (court shall not “sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if there is any reasonable possibility that the defect can be cured by amendment”); Kong v. City of Hawaiian Gardens Redevelopment Agency (2002) 108 Cal.App.4th 1028, 1037 (“A demurrer should not be sustained without leave to amend if the complaint, liberally construed, can state a cause of action under any theory or if there is a reasonable possibility the defect can be cured by amendment.”).)  The burden is on the complainant to show the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.)  MEET AND CONFER Code Civ. Proc. § 430.41 requires that before the filing of a demurrer the moving party “shall meet and confer in person or by telephone” with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 430.41(a).)  The parties are to meet and confer at least five days before the date the responsive pleading is due. (Code Civ. Proc. § 430.41(a)(2).)  Thereafter, the moving party shall file and serve a declaration detailing their meet and confer efforts. (Code Civ. Proc. § 430.41(a)(3).)  Moving Defendants submit the Declaration of Danielle Richardson which shows the parties met and conferred by telephone on March 20, 2024, five days before Moving Defendants filed their demurrer (on March 25, 2024). This satisfies the meet and confer requirements of § 430.41.   DISCUSSION Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing Moving Defendants argue that Landlord fails to state a claim for breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing because the claim is completely covered by contract.  The Court agrees as to the result but not the reasoning. In every contract, there is an implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing by each party not to do anything which will deprive the other parties of the benefits of the contract, and a breach of this covenant by failure to deal fairly or in good faith gives rise to an action for damages.  (Sutherland v. Barclays American/Mortgage Corp. (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 299, 314.)   However, “[t]here can be no implied covenant where the subject is completely covered by the contract.”  (Third Story Music Inc. v. Waits (1995) 41 Cal.App.4th 798, 804 (noting this “long established” rule); see also City of Glendale v. Superior Court (1993) 18 Cal.App. 4th 1768, 1778 (1993) (stating the same and noting “[i]mplied covenants are not favored in the law because they interfere with the parties’ right to freely set such contractual terms as they choose”).)   Here, the Complaint alleges Moving Defendants “breached the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing by pretending and presenting CHAKA DODSON as if she were KAMA LEONARD (Unit 201) and by pretending that Kiette Leonard was alive in 2019.”  (FAC ¶ 74.)  The Complaint also alleges Moving Defendants collected rent beyond the RSO and kept the excess for themselves.  (Id.) Moving Defendants argue these allegations are covered by the anti-assignment and anti-sublease provisions in their lease agreements or the prohibition in the responsible person agreement against collecting rent.  The Court agrees the portion of the claim relating to the collection of rent beyond the RSO is covered by the responsible person agreement.  As to the anti-assignment and sub-lease provisions, Plaintiff is not alleging Moving Defendants wrongfully sublet or assigned their own units.  Rather, Plaintiff alleges that they misrepresented the identities of tenants in other units.  However, it is unclear how Moving Defendants’ own lease agreements would have an implied covenant that would preclude them from misrepresenting the identity of tenants subject to other lease agreements.  It would seem that the alleged wrongdoing is completely unrelated, and cannot be an implied covenant, to Moving Defendants’ own lease agreements.   The implied covenant prevents a party from unfairly frustrating the other party’s right to receive the benefits of the parties’ contract.  (Sutherland, 53 Cal.App.4th at 314.)  Lying about the identities of tenants subject to other lease agreements does not affect the benefits of Moving Defendants’ lease agreements with Landlord.   Accordingly, the Court sustains the demurrer to the third cause of action for breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing without leave to amend.     Intentional Misrepresentation Moving Defendants argue that Landlord’s claim for intentional misrepresentation fails because Landlord has failed to allege the claim with the required specificity and has not alleged damages.  The Court disagrees.   The elements of a claim for intentional misrepresentation are (1) a misrepresentation, (2) knowledge of falsity, (3) intent to induce reliance, (4) actual and justifiable reliance, and (5) resulting damage.  (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 639.)  Each element of a fraud claim must be pleaded with specificity.  (Orcilla v. Big Sur, Inc. (2016) 244 Cal.App.4th 982, 1008.)  This specificity requirement means the “plaintiff must allege facts showing how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the representations were made.”  (Id.)    Here, Landlord lists a number of alleged misrepresentations made by Moving Defendants (Compl. ¶ 80), and specifies who made the misrepresentations, how they were made, when they were made, to whom they were made and by what means.  Landlord, therefore, meets the specificity requirements for pleading fraud.  As to damages, Moving Defendants argue Landlord cannot be damaged because it could not have charged more rent than it already charged given the RSO.  Landlord counters that it could have charged more rent consistent with the RSO.  Neither party quotes the language of the RSO that supports their position.  Nevertheless, without deciding this dispute, the Court concludes Landlord has sufficiently alleged other damages in the form of exposure to penalties, fees and sanctions from the City for violations of the RSO.  (Id. ¶50.)   Accordingly, the Court overrules the demurrer to Plaintiff’s fourth cause of action for intentional misrepresentation. Conversion Moving Defendants argue that Plaintiff’s claim for conversion fails because it is grounded in fraud and Plaintiff fails to allege the claim with the requisite specificity.    The Court disagrees. Where the Plaintiff alleges a “unified course of fraudulent conduct and rel[ies] entirely on that course of conduct as the basis of a claim,” “the claim is said to be ‘grounded in fraud’” and the rules requiring fraud to be alleged with specificity apply.  (Vess v. Ciba-Geigy Corp. USA (9th Cir. 2003) 317 F.3d 1097, 1103-1104.)   Here, Plaintiff’s conversion claim relies on the same “unified course of conduct “ as Plaintiff’s intentional misrepresentation claim.  The conversion claim expressly incorporates the allegations from the intentional misrepresentation claim (FAC ¶ 88), and moreover, explicitly states that “Defendants’ acts and/or omissions … is conduct that is fraudulent.”  (FAC ¶ 92.)  Thus, Plaintiff’s conversion claim is clearly grounded in fraud and must be plead with particularity. As noted above, the Complaint sufficiently states the details that would establish the who, what, when, where and how of the alleged fraud.  Therefore, Plaintiff has sufficiently stated a claim for conversion that sounds in fraud.  And the Court overrules the demurrer to the fifth cause of action for conversion.   Conspiracy Moving Defendants argue that Plaintiff fails to state a cause of action for conspiracy to commit intentional misrepresentation because Plaintiff has not established the underlying tort of intentional misrepresentation.  The Court disagrees for reasons stated above.  Accordingly, the Court overrules the demurrer to Plaintiff’s seventh cause of action for conspiracy to commit intentional misrepresentation.     Intentional Concealment Moving Defendants argue that Plaintiff cannot state a claim for intentional concealment because it cannot allege damages.  The Court disagrees. The elements of an action for fraud and deceit based on a concealment are: (1)the defendant must have concealed or suppressed a material fact, (2) the defendant must have been under a duty to disclose the fact to the plaintiff, (3) the defendant must have intentionally concealed or suppressed the fact with the intent to defraud the plaintiff, (4) the plaintiff must have been unaware of the fact and would not have acted as he did if he had known of the concealed or supposed fact, and (5) as a result of the concealment or suppression of the fact, the plaintiff must have sustained damages.  (Boschma v. Home Loan Center, Inc. (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 230, 248.) Here, Plaintiff alleges that the following material facts were concealed: (1) Kiette Leonard, in Unit 204, passed in 1999; (2) Kama Leonard Ashley in Unit 201, had moved out in 2011; (3) Gayle Leonard was subleasing/assigning Unit 201, 204, and 207; (4) Gayle Leonard had assigned Unit 201 and was making at least $102 per month on the assignment (if not more).   Plaintiff has also alleged how it has been damaged, for reasons set forth above.  Accordingly, the Court overrules the demurrer to the eighth cause of action for intentional concealment.   Conspiracy to Conceal Material Facts Moving Defendants argue that the conspiracy to conceal material facts claim fails because the underlying concealment claim fails.  The Court disagrees.   To establish a conspiracy claim, Plaintiff must first show the defendant is “individually liable for the underlying wrong as a matter of substantive tort law” because conspiracy is not an independent tort.  As the conspiracy claim is derivative of the concealment claim, and the concealment claim survives, so too must the conspiracy claim.   Accordingly, the Court overrules the demurrer to the ninth cause of action for conspiracy to conceal material facts claim.   CONCLUSION Based on the foregoing, the Court OVERRULES IN PART and SUSTAINS IN PART without leave to amend Defendants Gayle Hooks and Christopher Hooks’ demurrer.    IT IS SO ORDERED.  DATED: April 30, 2024    ___________________________ Edward B. Moreton, Jr. Judge of the Superior Court 