 Case Number:  23TRCV01401    Hearing Date:   March 8, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
SERINA
  REED and MITCHELL REED, 


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23TRCV01401




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
HYUNDAI
  MOTOR AMERICA, a California Corporation and DOES 1 through 10, inclusive,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          March 8, 2024
Moving
Parties:                      Defendant Hyundai Motor America 
Responding
Party:                  Plaintiffs Serina Reed and Mitchell Reed
Motion
to Compel Arbitration and Stay Proceedings
The court considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers.
RULING
            The motion is DENIED. 
 
BACKGROUND
On
May 3, 2023, plaintiffs Serina Reed and Mitchell Reed filed complaint against
Hyundai Motor America for violation of Song-Beverly Act – Breach of Express
Warranty. On April 25, 2017, plaintiffs purchased a new 2017 Hyundai Elantra
from South Bay Hyundai. (Ameripour Decl., Exhibit 2 Retail Installment Sale Contract
“RISC”, pdf p.15.) On that day, plaintiffs signed a Retail Installment Sale
Contract, which included an agreement to arbitrate between South Bay Hyundai
and plaintiffs, not defendant. (Id.)
 
JUDICIAL
NOTICE 
Defendant
asks the Court to take judicial notice of the Plaintiff’s Complaint filed May
3, 2023.
That
Request is DENIED as it is not necessary to take judicial notice of it for any
valid purpose.  The Complaint is part of
this Court’s file.  That is enough to
allow the Court to know the allegations made.
Plaintiffs
request the court grant judicial notice for the following documents: 
1.     
Plaintiff’s
complaint filed on June 4, 2021 in the matter of Mark Kielar v. Hyundai Motor
America, Alameda Co. Case No. RG21101556, attached hereto as Exhibit A. 
2.     
The
Court Order granting Defendant’s Motion to Transfer Venue to Placer County
filed on February 28, 2022 in the matter of Mark Kielar v. Hyundai Motor
America, Alameda Co. Case No. RG21101556, attached hereto as Exhibit B. 
3.     
The
Alternative Writ filed in the Second Appellate District, Division Five for the
California Court of Appeal in the matter of Isrrael Rodriguez Contreras v.
Superior Court, Case No. B331737, attached hereto as Exhibit C.
The
Court DENIES that Request in it entirety. 
It is not necessary for the resolution of this motion.  The Court of Appeals decision which was
published is proper and sufficient.
 
LEGAL AUTHORITY
            Where a defendant seeking to
arbitrate a plaintiff's dispute has filed a motion to compel arbitration, the
plaintiff shall be compelled to take her dispute to arbitration upon the court
finding that: (a) there exists a valid agreement to arbitrate between the
parties; and (b) the agreement covers the controversy or controversies at issue
in the parties’ dispute. CCP, § 1281.2; Omar v. Ralphs Grocery Co. (2004)¿118
Cal.App.4th 955, 961. 
 
DISCUSSION
Defendant Hyundai America Motors moves to compel
arbitration and stay proceedings on the ground that it is a third-party
beneficiary in an agreement to arbitrate which covers the controversies in plaintiffs’
case against defendant.
a)      An agreement to arbitrate claims
arising from plaintiffs’ purchase of the Subject Vehicle in the RISC executed
between plaintiffs and South Bay Hyundai. 
Defendant
Hyundai America Motors asserts that plaintiffs are bound to arbitrate
their dispute with Hyundai because there is an agreement to arbitrate contained
in the RISC. 
On
April 25, 2017, Plaintiffs purchased
the Subject Vehicle from South Bay Hyundai.  Plaintiffs’ transaction with South
Bay Hyundai was subject to the terms of the RISC,
executed between Plaintiffs and South Bay Hyundai that same date. The RISC contains an arbitration provision, which
reads, in pertinent part, as follows: 
“Any claim or dispute, whether in contract, tort, statute
or otherwise (including the interpretation and scope of this Arbitration
Provision, and the arbitrability of the claim or dispute), between you and us
or our employees, agents, successors or assigns, which arises out of or relates
to your credit application, purchase or condition of this vehicle, this
contract or any resulting transaction or relationship (including any such
relationship with third parties who do not sign this contract) shall, at your
or our election, be resolved by neutral, binding arbitration and not by a court
action.”   
(Ameripour
decl., Exh. 2, pdf p. 15.) 
The plain text of this
provision, which is a facially valid agreement to arbitrate, indicates that
disputes arising from Plaintiffs’ purchase or condition of the Subject Vehicle
are covered by the mandatory arbitration provision.   
If the defendant in this
action were South Bay Hyundai, no further analysis would be needed, and the court
would grant the defendant’s motion and stay this proceeding pending the
parties’ arbitration.  See Omar, supra, Cal.App.4th at p.
961.  But South Bay Hyundai is not a defendant in this case.  And Hyundai has obviously chosen not to create its own arbitration
provision in its written warranty.
 
b) In determining whether the RISC binds plaintiffs to
arbitrate their warranty disputes against Hyundai as a third-party beneficiary
under the RISC, the Court will follow Ochoa. 
Defendant relies on Felisilda
v. FCA US LLC (2020) 53 Cal.App.5th 486 (Felisilda) for its position
that Plaintiffs are equitably estopped from refusing to arbitrate their
warranty disputes with defendant by way of their agreement to arbitrate
disputes with South Bay Hyundai. If the motion is denied, Defendant
requests the court to stay the matter until the California Supreme Court
issues its rulings on the Ford Motor Warranty Cases.
When Felisilda was the only decision addressing
this issue this Court, as an inferior court, was obligated to follow it.  However, on April
4, 2023, the Second Appellate District of the California Court of Appeal
reached a decision contrary to Felisilda in Ochoa v. Ford Motor
Company (Ford Motor Warranty Cases) (2023) 89 Cal.App. 5th 1324 (Ochoa,
granted review).  
As of July 19, 2023, the California
Supreme Court took the Ford Motor Warranty Cases under review which includes Ochoa.
The California’s Supreme Court Notice’s states “[p]ending review, the opinion
of the Court of Appeal, which is currently published at 89 Cal.App.5th 1324,
may be cited, not only for its persuasive value, but also for the limited
purpose of establishing the existence of a conflict in authority that would in
turn allow trial courts to exercise discretion under Auto Equity Sales, Inc.
v. Superior Court (1962) 57 Cal.2d 450, 456 [20 Cal. Rptr. 321, 369 P.2d
937], to choose between sides of any such conflict.” (Ochoa v. Ford Motor
Co. (In re Ford Motor Warranty Cases) (2023) 310 Cal.Rptr.3d 440.)
This bench officer found Felisilda
to be a less than satisfying legal analysis and factual determination.  This Court found the conclusion that “equitable
estoppel” came into play a questionable conclusion based on the traditional
notions of “equity.”  Now relieved of the
obligation to follow Felisilda this court shall follow what it believes
is a more soundly reasoned decision, Ochoa. 
In Felisilda, the
Court of Appeal held that a vehicle buyer who signed an arbitration provision
as part of her vehicle sales contract with the dealer may be compelled to
arbitrate her claim against an automobile manufacturer, even though the
manufacturer was a non-signatory to the sales contract containing the relevant
arbitration provision.  (Felisilda, supra, 53 Cal.App.5th at
pp. 496-497.)  The Felisilda Court reasoned that where the buyer
expressly agreed to arbitrate claims arising out of the condition of the
vehicle, even against third party non-signatories to the sales contract, and
where the buyer’s claim against the manufacturer relates to the condition of
the vehicle that allegedly violated the contract’s warranty, the buyer is
estopped from refusing to arbitrate.  (Ibid.)
In Ochoa, the Court
of Appeal expressly declined to follow Felisilda, finding that equitable
estoppel should not apply to compel arbitration in such circumstances because
“manufacturer vehicle warranties that accompany the sale of a motor vehicle
without regard to the terms of the sale contract between the purchaser and the
dealer are independent of the sale contract.” ( Ochoa, supra,
89 Cal.App.5th at p. 1334.)  The Ochoa court held that because the
plaintiffs alleged breaches of warranties in violation of the Song-Beverly Act,
rather than violations of the sales contracts’ express terms, the agreement to
arbitrate contained in the sales contract did not estop the plaintiff from
refusing to arbitrate breach of warranty claims against the manufacturer, who
was not a party to the sales contract. (Id. at p. 1335-1336.) “California
law does not treat manufacturer warranties imposed outside the four corners of
a retail sale contract as part of the sale contract.”  (Id.)
The Ochoa court also
held that car manufacturers are not necessarily third-party beneficiaries under
a plaintiff’s contract with the dealership. (Ochoa, supra,
89 Cal.App.5th at pp. 1336-1337; see also Ngo v. BMW of N. Am., LLC (9th
Cir. 2022) 23 F.4th 942, 946 (Ngo).)  “To show the contracting
parties intended to benefit it, a third party must show that, under the express
terms of the contract at issue and any other relevant circumstances under which
the contract was made[:] (1) the third party would in fact benefit from the
contract; (2) a motivating purpose of the contracting parties was to provide a
benefit to the third party; and (3) permitting the third party to enforce the
contract is consistent with the objectives of the contract and the reasonable
expectations of the contracting parties.”  (Ochoa at p. 1337
(internal quotations omitted), citing Goonewardene v. ADP, LLC (2019) 6
Cal.5th 817, 830 (Goonewardene).)  
The court finds good cause
to follow the holding in Ochoa, including because it is in harmony with
federal authority on the same question. (Ngo, supra, 23
F.4th at p. 946.)  Plaintiffs are therefore not estopped from refusing to
arbitrate their claims against Hyundai as a third-party beneficiary unless
Hyundai can show evidence that it is an intended third-party beneficiary under
the RISC. 
c) Under Ochoa,
Hyundai is not a third-party beneficiary to the RISC between plaintiffs and South
Bay Hyundai, and plaintiffs are not equitably estopped from refusing to
arbitrate disputes with Hyundai. 
The elements necessary to
establish a third-party beneficiary relationship are (1) the third party would
in fact benefit from the contract; (2) a motivating purpose of the contracting
parties was to provide a benefit to the third party; and (3) permitting the
third party to enforce the contract is consistent with the objectives of the
contract and the reasonable expectations of the contracting parties.  (Goonewardene,
supra, 6 Cal.5th at p. 830.)
With respect to the RISC’s
arbitration provision, the court finds that Hyundai has set forth enough
evidence to show that Hyundai stood to benefit from the RISC by way of its
receipt of indirect profits.  Such evidence is sufficient to satisfy the
first element under Goonewardene.  As to the second and third
elements, however, the court finds that the RISC reflects no intent by
Plaintiffs and South Bay Hyundai to benefit a vehicle manufacturer.   
First, nothing in the RISC
offers any direct benefit to Hyundai.  Second, the RISC’s arbitration
provision’s direct benefits are expressly limited to those persons who might
rely on it to avoid proceeding in court, i.e., the purchaser, the
dealer, and the dealer's employees, agents, successors or assigns. 
Hyundai is none of these. 
Second, there is no
indication that a benefit to Hyundai was plaintiffs’ and/or South Bay Hyundai’s
“motivating purpose” when they entered the RISC.  (Goonewardene, supra,
6 Cal.5th at p. 830.)  Rather, the manifest intent of the contracting
parties was to buy, sell, and finance a car, and to allow either plaintiffs or South
Bay Hyundai to compel arbitration of the specified categories of disputes
between them (or between plaintiffs and South Bay Hyundai’s employees, agents,
successors, or assigns).  (See Ameripour decl., Exh. 2, pdf p.15.) 
Any interest Hyundai may
have in where its dealers and consumers choose to resolve their disputes is
remote and not well articulated in Hyundai’s moving and reply papers.  The
court finds that in this scenario, Hyundai does not qualify as a third-party
beneficiary per the analysis laid out in Goonewardene and Ochoa. 
Because Hyundai has produced
no contractual agreement under which plaintiffs are bound to arbitrate their
warranty claims against Hyundai, the motion will be denied.  Parties may
be compelled to arbitrate a dispute only upon the trial court finding there
exists valid agreement to arbitrate. (Omar, supra,¿118 Cal.App.4th at p. 961.) 
 
ORDER
The motion is DENIED.
Moving party is ordered to give notice of ruling.