 Case Number:  23TRCP00418    Hearing Date:   March 8, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior Court of California 
County of Los Angeles 
Southwest District 
Torrance Dept. B 




 
HERBERT N. MESSICK,  
 


 
 
 
 
Petitioner, 


 
Case No.: 
 


 
 23TRCP00418




 
vs. 


 


 
[Tentative] RULING 
 




 
CETERA ADVISOR NETWORKS LLC,


 
 
 
 
Respondent. 
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date:                          March
8, 2024 
Moving Parties:                      Petitioner
Herbert N. Messick  
Responding Party:                  None
 
Petition to Confirm Arbitration Award and for Entry of Judgment
The court considered the moving
paper.  No opposition or reply papers
were filed. 
RULING 
The unopposed petition is GRANTED provided
that petitioner files proof of service that the petition and supporting
documents were served on respondent.   
BACKGROUND 
            Petitioner Herbert
Neslon Messick filed a petition to confirm the arbitration award and for entry
of judgment against respondent Cetera Advisor Networks LLC pursuant to CCP § 1280, et seq. 
Petitioner seeks an order of judgment confirming the final and binding
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (“FINRA”) arbitration award from August
3, 2023, which granted petitioner’s request for expungement of the customer
complaint and FINRA arbitration from his CRD record.  Petitioner filed proof of service of notice
of the hearing, however petitioner has not filed proof of service of the petition
and supporting documents.
No opposition has been filed
in response to petitioner’s petition. 
LEGAL AUTHORITY 
CCP § 1286 provides that “If a
petition or response under this chapter is duly served and filed, the court
shall confirm the award as made…unless in accordance with this chapter it
corrects the award and confirms it as corrected, vacates the award or dismisses
the proceedings.”
DISCUSSION 
Petitioner seeks an order of
judgment confirming the final and binding FINRA arbitration award of August 3,
2023, which granted petitioner’s request for expungement of the customer
complaint and FINRA arbitration from his CRD record.  The court grants the
petition provided that petitioner files proof of service that the petition and
supporting documents were served on respondent. 
 
A.    
Filing Requirements (CCP § 1285.4) 
Code of Civil Procedure, § 1285.4 states: “A petition under this
chapter shall:
(a) Set forth the substance of or have attached a copy of the
agreement to arbitrate unless the petitioner denies the existence of such an
agreement.
(b) Set forth the names of the arbitrators.
(c) Set forth or have attached a copy of the award and the written
opinion of the arbitrators, if any.
Here, petitioner’s petition meets the filing requirements for confirming
an arbitration
award as petitioner attached a copy of the agreement to arbitrate and a
copy of the award as well as set forth the name of the arbitrator, Stephen H.
Gentry.  Pet.
¶¶ 4-8; Exs. 4(b) and 8(c).   
 
B.    
Service of the Arbitration Award &
Timeliness of Petition (CCP §§ 1283.6,
1288, 1288.4) 
CCP § 1283.6 provides that:
“The neutral arbitrator shall serve a signed copy of the award on each party to
the arbitration personally or by registered or certified mail or as provided in
the agreement.”  In addition, a party may
seek a court judgment confirming an arbitration award by filing and serving a
petition no more than four years, but not less than 10 days, after the award is
served.  Code Civ. Proc. §§ 1288, 1288.4.
Here, petitioner indicates, on
August 3, 2023, FINRA served a written decision by the arbitrator in full and
final resolution of petitioner’s motion for expungement on all parties,
including the claimants.  Declaration of
David G. Smitham ¶ 14.  Moreover, the petition
was filed more than 10 days, but less than four years, after the award was
served. 
C.     Service of the Petition, and Notice of Hearing (CCP § 1290.4)
CCP § 1290.4, the statute
governing proper service of this Petition states, in pertinent part:
(a) A copy of the petition and a written notice of the time
and place of the hearing thereof and any other papers upon which the petition
is based shall be served in the manner provided in the arbitration agreement
for the service of such petition and notice.
(b) If the arbitration agreement does not provide the
manner in which such service shall be made and the person upon whom service is
to be made has not previously appeared in the proceeding and has not previously
been served in accordance with this subdivision: ¶ (1) Service within this
State shall be made in the manner provided by law for the service of summons in
an action.
Here, while petitioner
filed proof of service of the hearing on the petition, petitioner has not filed
proof of service indicating that the petition and supporting documents were
served on respondent.
Based on the foregoing,
provided that petitioner files proper proof of service, petitioner’s unopposed
petition to confirm the arbitration award is granted.  
ORDER 
Petitioner Herbert N. Messick’s
unopposed petition to confirm arbitration award is GRANTED provided that
petitioner files proof of service that the petition and supporting documents
were served on respondent.    
Moving party is ordered to give notice
of ruling. 