 Case Number:  23TRCV00188    Hearing Date:   March 8, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior Court of California 
County of Los Angeles 
Southwest District 
Torrance Dept. B 




 
TINA CHARNETT,  
 


 
 
 
 
Plaintiff, 


 
Case No.: 
 


 
 23TRCV00188




 
vs. 


 


 
[Tentative] RULING 
 




 
EPIC HEALTHCARE STAFFING, LLC, et al.,


 
 
 
 
Defendants. 
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date:                          March
8, 2024 
Moving Parties:                      Plaintiff
Tina Charnett   
Responding Party:                  None
 
Motion to Approve PAGA Settlement 
The court considered the moving
paper.  No opposition or reply papers
were filed. 
RULING 
The Motion for Approval of PAGA
Settlement is denied without prejudice so that plaintiff can explain why it
would be proper for plaintiff’s release to extend to former and present
spouses. 
BACKGROUND 
            On January 20, 2023,
plaintiff Tina Charnett, on behalf of the State of California, as a private
attorney general, filed her complaint against
defendants Epic Healthcare Staffing, LLC, Epic Healthcare Travel Staffing,
Inc., Epic School Staffing Holdco, Inc., Epic Staffing Group, Inc., and Therapy
Travelers LLC.  Plaintiff asserts a
single cause of action for violation of the Private Attorneys General Act.  
            The parties have
agreed on the terms of a settlement.  The
agreement negotiated by the parties provides for a Gross Settlement Amount of
$473,700.00.  From this amount, there is
a deduction of PAGA Counsel Fees Payment in the amount of $157,898 (33%), PAGA
Counsel Litigation Expenses Payment in an amount not to exceed $18,000, and Administration
Expenses Payment not to exceed $7,500.  The
remaining amount is the PAGA Payment, from which 75% (no less than $210,226.50)
will be paid to the LWDA and the remaining 25% (no less than $70,075.50) will
be paid to the Aggrieved Employees. 
Declaration of Kyle Nordrehaug (“Nordrehaug Decl”) ¶ 4; Ex. 1 at pp. 4-5, ¶¶ 3.1-3.2.3.
LEGAL AUTHORITY 
A court must review and approve any
penalties sought as part of a proposed settlement agreement pursuant to Labor
Code section 2699.  Lab. Code, § 2699, subd. (l).  “[C]ivil
penalties recovered by aggrieved employees shall be distributed as follows: 75
percent to the Labor and Workforce Development Agency for enforcement of labor
laws and education of employers and employees about their rights and
responsibilities under this code, to be continuously appropriated to supplement
and not supplant the funding to the agency for those purposes; and 25 percent
to the aggrieved employees.”  Lab. Code, § 2699, subd. (i).  
DISCUSSION 
Plaintiff moves for an order
approving the settlement of the PAGA claim alleged against defendants in
accordance with Labor Code §2699(l).  The Motion for
Approval of PAGA Settlement is denied without prejudice so that plaintiff can
explain why it would be proper for plaintiff’s release to extend to former and
present spouses. 
a.         Plaintiff Has Provided Notice of the Settlement to LWDA 
A proposed PAGA settlement must be
submitted to LWDA at the same time that it is submitted to the court for review
and approval.  Lab. Code, § 2699, subd. (l)(2).  Counsel
declares the notice of this motion and the PAGA settlement have already been submitted
to LWDA on February 7, 2024.  Nordrehaug Decl., ¶ 7; Proof of Service.
Accordingly, the Court finds that this
requirement is satisfied. 
b.         The Settlement is Entitled to a Presumption of Fairness 
A presumption of fairness¿for a settlement agreement exists
where: (1) the settlement is reached through arm’s-length
bargaining; (2) investigation and discovery are sufficient to allow counsel and
the court to act intelligently; (3) counsel is experienced in similar
litigation; and (4) the percentage of objectors is small.  (Dunk
v. Ford Motor Co.¿(1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 1794, 1802.)  The final factor
does not apply to PAGA.  (See Arias v. Superior Court (2009) 46
Cal.4th 969, 984 [representative actions under PAGA do not violate the due
process rights of “nonparty aggrieved employees who are not given notice of,
and an opportunity to be heard”].) 
Here, Counsel declares:
Prior
to the mediation, the Parties conducted significant investigation and discovery
of the facts and law.  Defendant produced
documents relating to its policies, practices, and procedures regarding paying
non-exempt employees for all hours worked, overtime, meal and rest period
policies, payroll and operations policies, and more.  Plaintiff was provided with sufficient
records and data to determine the number of Aggrieved Employees and the number
of pay periods in the PAGA Period.  The
Parties agree that the above-described investigation and evaluation, as well as
the information exchanged during the settlement negotiations, are more than
sufficient to assess the merits of the Parties’ positions and to compromise the
issues on a fair and reasonable basis.
Nordrehaug Decl., ¶ 3.  Subsequently, on October 11, 2023, the
parties engaged in all-day mediation session before Hon. Carl J. West, a former
judge and experienced mediator of wage and hour laws and representative
claims.  Id. “Through
arms-length negotiations with the assistance of the mediator, the Parties
reached an agreement to settle the PAGA claims in this action which led to the
signing of a Memorandum of Understanding memorializing the settlement.”  Id.
            Counsel believes the
PAGA Settlement is fair and reasonable considering potential defenses to
violations at issues, the risks and costs of continued litigation.  Id. at ¶ 6. 
Further, the Gross PAGA Settlement Amount is more than other PAGA
settlements, and, with the help of an expert, plaintiff calculated the maximum
amount of statutory PAGA civil penalties was potentially $1,382,000 based on
13,820 pay periods applicable to the Aggrieved Employees during the PAGA
Period.  Id.
            Lastly, counsel presents evidence of
significant experience in PAGA lawsuits and employment class actions, and
provides that his firm’s practice is devoted almost entirely to
in wage and hour class
actions and PAGA action matters.  Id.
at ¶  10.  
Based on the foregoing, the court
finds the settlement was reached through arm’s-length bargaining with sufficient
investigation to allow counsel and the court to act intelligently and that counsel
is experienced in similar litigation. 
Therefore,
the settlement is entitled to a presumption of fairness. 
c.         The Release Requires
Explanation as to Plaintiff’s Release 
Through the settlement agreement, plaintiff
releases all of her claims against defendant, including the rights and benefits
of Civil
Code section 1542; the release is not effective until the Gross PAGA Settlement
Amount has been funded.  Id.
at Ex. 1 at p. 8, ¶¶ 5-5.1.1.  The court notes, however, that the release
extends to plaintiff and “her respective former and present spouses.”  Id. at ¶  5.1.  The
court would like to hear how it would be proper for plaintiff’s release to
extend to former and present spouses. 
Plaintiff also releases, on behalf of
all aggrieved employees, from all Release PAGA Claims.  Released PAGA Claims is defined as “all
claims for PAGA penalties that were alleged, or reasonably could have been
alleged, based on the facts state in the Operative Complaint and the PAGA
Notice submitted by Plaintiff to the LWDA, which occurred during the PAGA
Period”; the release is not effective until the Gross PAGA Settlement Amount has
been funded. Id. at ¶¶  5,
5.2.  This release is limited to claims for
PAGA penalties that arise from or relate to allegations in plaintiff’s Operative
Complaint in this action, and it is permissible. 
d.        No Multiplier
is Appropriate 
A prevailing employee is entitled to
an award of reasonable attorney fees and costs incurred in the action. 
Lab. Code, § 2699, subd. (g)(1). 
The PAGA Settlement Agreement provides
that plaintiff’s counsel will receive up to 33% of the Gross PAGA Settlement
Amount for attorney fees (estimated to be $157,898.00) and PAGA Counsel
Litigation Expenses Payment of not more than $18,000.  Nordrehaug Decl., Ex. 1 at p. 5, ¶ 3.2.1.  Counsel
submitted evidence to support a lodestar as of February 7, 2024, in an amount
of $132,667.50 in attorneys’ fees for more than 198 hours of work prosecuting
the claims being resolved by this Settlement with a multiplier of less than
1.2, not including additional work to be performed, which will ultimately yield
a lodestar closer to 1.1.  Motion at pp.
15-16; Nordrehaug Decl., ¶ 8.  Counsel estimates time incurred after the
billing was finalized and the time spent managing the completion of the
settlement, which is estimated to add $10,000 in additional lodestar.  Nordrehaug Decl., ¶ 8.  The court finds that
this case is a typical PAGA case, and counsel has worked 198 hours of
work.  No multiplier is appropriate for
this case.  Given than determination, the
court finds that attorneys’ fees in the total amount of $142,667.50 are
reasonable.  
Counsel also submitted evidence that
the actual expenses incurred by plaintiff and PAGA Counsel currently are
$17,917.95, which is less than the $18,000 allocation for costs in the
Settlement Agreement, so the difference of $82.05 will be added to the PAGA
Payment amount.  The court finds that the
$17,917.95 in expenses are properly awarded. 
Id. at ¶ 9;
Ex. 2.    
e.        Representative
Enhancement is Reasonable 
The PAGA Settlement Agreement provides
plaintiff shall receive a Service Award in the amount of $10,000.00, paid
exclusively from the Gross PAGA Settlement Amount.  Nordrehaug Decl., Ex. 1 at p. 6, ¶ 3.2.4.  The
court finds the $10,000 Service Award to be reasonable in this case.   
ORDER 
Accordingly, the Motion for Approval
of PAGA Settlement is hereby DENIED without prejudice so that plaintiff can
explain why it would be proper for plaintiff’s release to extend to former and
present spouses. 
Moving party is ordered to give notice
of ruling. 
 
 