 Case Number:  23STCV10421    Hearing Date:   May 21, 2024    Dept:  68 Dept.
68
Date:
5-21-24
Case:
23STCV10421
Trial
Date: First Trial, 9-9-24 c/f 6-3-24; Second Trial, 12-2-24 c/f 9-23-24
 
LEAVE TO AMEND
 
MOVING
PARTY: Defendant/Cross-Complainant, Jason Lee
RESPONDING
PARTY: Unopposed/Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant, Kelly Kim
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Motion
for Leave to File a Second Amended Cross-Complaint
 
SUMMARY
OF ACTION
Plaintiff
Kelly Soojin Kim alleges Defendant Jason Lee approached her in “early 2021” to
establish a business relationship, whereby Lee would work with Kim at an
existing establishment owned and operated by Kim, and identified as Star Night.
Kim alleges Defendant proposed the joint venture in order to improve revenue at
Star Night given Lee’s prior operation of a similar restaurant business lost to
a fire. Lee purportedly represented to offer certain proprietary “secret”
recipes and “restaurant management know how” as part of said incentive. 
 
In
March 2021, the parties entered into a shareholder agreement, identified as the
B&K Enterprise, Inc., Agreement between Shareholders. The agreement
provides Kim with a 51% ownership share of the of the B&K Enterprise, Inc.
business entity, and Lee with the remaining 49%. The agreement articulates
certain responsibilities between the owners based on either the first or second
floor location within the premises, and also provided Lee with the right to
open additional OB Bear Restaurant locations outside the state of California
without the consent of majority shareholder Kim. 
 
The
parties’ working relationship was unsuccessful, with multiple accusations of
embezzlement and improper operational management practices. Lee subsequently
requested cessation from the partnership. Kim alleges Lee solicited the
purported business with the intention of either acquiring Star Night for
himself, or to destroy the business and open a new competing business upon
payment on the insurance casualty claim following the business premises fire.
Kim also contends that the failure to ever turn over the alleged secret recipes
constituted a violation of the partnership agreement, and therefore a lack of
consideration. Kim therefore denies any enforceable shareholder agreement,
thereby entitling Lee to any rights as a shareholder.
 
On
May 9, 2023, Kim filed a verified complaint for Breach of Contract; Breach of
Fiduciary Duty; Fraud [Cal. Civ. Code § 1710(1)]; Unfair Competition [Cal.
B&P Code §§ 17200 Et Seq.]; Rescission of Written Instrument Based Upon
Fraud [Cal. Civ. Code §§ 3399, 1571.73 and 1689(1)]; Declaratory Relief [C.C.P.
§ 1060]; and, Injunctive Relief. On June 26, 2023, Lee answered the complaint
and filed a cross-complaint for Involuntary dissolution of Corporation;
Accounting; Breach of Fiduciary Duty; Breach of Contract; Breach of Implied Covenant
of Good Faith and Fair Dealing; and Constructive Wrongful Discharge. On October
13, 2023, Lee filed a first amended cross-complaint for Involuntary dissolution
of Corporation; Accounting; Breach of Fiduciary Duty; Breach of Contract;
Breach of Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing; Constructive Wrongful
Discharge; Unjust Enrichment; and Theft by False Pretense.
 
Lee
confirms the represented terms of the deal, but also adds in an agreement for a
50-50 split of profits, with Lee receiving a $4,000/month salary as well. If
operations were successful, Lee would be entitled to a 1% share, thereby
rendering the parties equal shareholders. Lee also concedes to the agreement to
provide certain recipes, which apparently included a Korean fried chicken
recipe popular with customers. Lee also maintains tendering a $150,000 check to
Kim towards the agreement. 
 
Contrary
to Kim, Lee maintains the recipes were provided. Kim, however, began
interfering with operations. After “two or three months,” Lee sought to
negotiate the termination of the business relationship. 
 
On
October 23, 2023, the court granted Plaintiff’s motion to bifurcate the trial
on the issue of shareholder status of defendant Lee. On April 17, 2024, the
court overruled the demurrer and sustained the demurrer in part to the first
amended cross-complaint with 30 days leave to amend.
 
RULING: Granted.
Defendant/Cross-Complainant,
Jason Lee moves for leave to file a second amended cross-complaint. The motion
lists 47 articulated additions, including: new factual claims and exhibits in
support of both the overall pleading and specific causes of action, new allegations
of liability under alter ego and conspiracy doctrine, two new cross-defendants,
and the removal of one cause of action with the addition of several new causes
of action. [Declaration of Norma Garcia, Ex. 1.]
 
The notice of motion was filed and served via electronic
service on April 29, 2024, exactly 16 court days before the date of the subject
hearing. The court electronic filing system shows no opposition or reply on
file at the time of the tentative ruling publication cutoff.
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendants, Kelly Kim and B&K Enterprise, Inc. filed a
notice of non-opposition, with an indication of a future intent to challenge
the new pleading.
 
Moving party also submitted unredacted copies to the
courtroom on May 16, 2024. The court requests any redacted items be delivered
to the courtroom in conformance with filing deadlines (e.g. 16 court days
before the date of the hearing). 
 
A
motion for leave to amend must comply with the requirements set forth in
California Rules of Court Rule 3.1324, which states as follows:
 
“(a)      Contents of motion
A
motion to amend a pleading before trial must:
(1)              
Include a copy of the proposed amendment or amended
pleading, which must be serially numbered to differentiate it from previous
pleadings or amendments;
(2)              
State what allegations in the previous pleading are
proposed to be deleted, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number,
the deleted allegations are located; and 
(3)              
State what allegations are proposed to be added to the
previous pleading, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the
additional allegations are located.
 
(b)        Supporting declaration
A
separate declaration must accompany the motion and must specify:
(1)        The effect of the amendment;
(2)        Why the amendment is necessary and
proper;
(3)        When the facts giving
rise to the amended allegations were discovered; and 
(4)              
The reasons why the request for amendment was not made 
earlier…” (emphasis added).
 
Dilatory delays and prejudice to the opposing parties is a
valid ground for denial. (Hirsa v.
Superior Court (1981) 118 Cal.App.3d 486, 490.)  Prejudice exists where the amendment would
require delaying the trial, resulting in loss of critical evidence, or added
costs of preparation such as an increased burden of discovery. (Magpali v. Farmers Group, Inc. (1996) 48
Cal.App.4th 471, 486-488.) 
 
Leave to amend is generally liberally granted. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 473(a); Mesler v. Bragg
Management Co. (1985) 39 Cal.3d 290, 296.) The court will not generally
consider the validity of the proposed amended pleading in ruling on a motion
for leave, instead deferring such determinations for a demurrer or motion to
strike, unless the proposed amendment fails to state a valid claim as a matter
of law. (Kittredge Sports Co. v. Sup.Ct. (Marker, U.S.A.) (1989) 213
Cal. App.3d 1045, 1048; California
Casualty Gen. Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (1985) 173 Cal.App.3d 274, 280–281
disapproved of on other grounds by
Kransco v. American Empire Surplus Lines Ins. Co. (2000) 23 Cal.4th 390.) 
 
The motion comes more than seven months after October 2023
filing of the first amended cross-complaint. Cross-Complainant maintains the
delay was caused due to fragmented discovery as a result of the confidentiality
agreement amongst the parties. Said further discovery revealed additional
conduct supporting the new claims and new cross-defendants, including the
formation of a new corporate operating entity, transfer of assets, and improper
distribution of revenues. [Garcia Decl.]
 
Because the changes arise from the
common core of facts and otherwise adds no substantial material change to the
underlying action, the court finds no showing of significant prejudice to Cross-Defendant.
New cross-defendants will have sufficient time to address the claims against
them. Any potential claimed prejudice insufficiently outweighs the liberal
policy for leave to amend. (See Magpali v. Farmers Group, Inc. (1996)
48 Cal.App.4th 471, 486-487; Hulsey v. Koehler (1990) 218 Cal.App.3d
1150, 1159.) The court also finds none of the proposed changes constitute an
invalid amendment as a matter of law for purposes of the subject motion. When
and how responding parties chose to respond will be addressed in due course.
 
The unopposed motion is therefore
granted. The subject motion renders the April 17, 2024, order sustaining the
demurrer with 30 days leave to amend moot. Moving party to file a separate copy
of the second amended cross-complaint within 10 days of the order.
 
Motions to Compel Further Responses remain currently
scheduled for May 23, July 24, and August 15, 2024. As with the current motion,
the scheduled items only contain notices of motion. The court advises Moving
Party to adhere to cutoff dates in case any amended motions remain forthcoming.
The court also advises Moving Party that continuing, voluminous and contentious
discovery requests, which may include the repeated submission of unreadable
portions of operative item(s) to the court, may lead to referral to a referee
for consideration of any all items. 
 
Lee to provide notice.
 