 Case Number:  23AHCV00738    Hearing Date:   February 22, 2024    Dept:  X    Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Joel L. Lofton,
Department X
 
 
HEARING DATE:      February 22, 2024                                           TRIAL
DATE: No date set. 
                                                           
CASE:                         ALLIANCE LAUNDRY
SYSTEMS LLC v. MJ4 CAPITAL, LLC, a Wyoming limited liability company; JASON
SCOTT ARROW, an individual; JAMIE LYNN ARROW, an individual; JAY EDWARD
DAVENPORT, an individual; MICHELLE LYNETTE DAVENPORT, an individual; and DOES 1
through 20, inclusive.  
 
CASE NO.:                 23AHCV00738
 
            
 
MOTION
FOR OPPOSITION TO CLAIM OF EXEMPTION

 
MOVING PARTY:               Opposition to Claim of Exemption
filed by Plaintiff Alliance Laundry Systems LLC
 
RESPONDING PARTY:      No
response filed. 
 
SERVICE:                              Filed January 26, 2024
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED 
 
             Plaintiff Alliance Laundry Systems
files this opposition to Defendant’s Jason Scott Arrow’s claim of exemption. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
             This case arises out of Plaintiff Alliance
Laundry Systems LLC’s (“Plaintiff”) claim that Defendants failed to pay back a
loan. Plaintiff filed this complaint on April 5, 2023, alleging seven causes of
action for (1) breach of promissory note, (2) breach of guaranty, (3) money had
and received, (4) money lent, (5) account stated, (6) open book account, and
(7) recovery of personal property.
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            The hearing
on Arrow’s claim of exemption is order continued 30 days.
 
            The levying
officer is ordered to file the claim of exemption with this Court prior to the
continued hearing date. 
            
DISCUSSION
 
            Plaintiff files this opposition to Defendant Jason Scott Arrow (“Arrow”)
claim for exemption for $22,912.85 levied funds. On December 13, 2023, this
court issued a writ of execution. Plaintiff provides in its moving papers that
it issued instructions to the Orange County Sheriff Department, the levying
officer, to levy the writ on Citibank, N.A. Plaintiff provides Citibank N.A.
completed a memorandum of garnishee on January 9, 2024, and on January 18,
2024, Arrow submitted his claim of exemption.
 
            Code of Civil Procedure section 703.510
et seq. details the procedure for claiming exemptions after levy. Code of Civil
Procedure section 703.550, subdivision (a), provides, in part: “Within 15 days
after service of the notice of claim of exemption, a judgment creditor who
opposes the claim of exemption shall file with the court a notice of opposition
to the claim of exemption and a notice of motion for an order determining the
claim of exemption and shall file with the levying officer a copy of the notice
of opposition and a copy of the notice of motion. Upon the filing of the copies
of the notice of opposition and notice of motion, the levying officer shall
promptly file the claim of exemption with the court.”
 
            Further,
Code of Civil Procedure section 703.580, subdivision (a), provides: “The claim
of exemption and notice of opposition to the claim of exemption constitute the
pleadings, subject to the power of the court to permit amendments in the
interest of justice.” “The claim of exemption is deemed controverted by the
notice of opposition to the claim of exemption and both shall be received in
evidence.” (Code. Civ. Proc. section 703.580, subd. (c).)
 
            Although
Plaintiff filed its notice of opposition to Arrow’s claim of exemption on
January 26, 2024, no copy of the claim of exemption appears to be in the
court’s record.  Because the statutory
procedures provide that the claim of exemption constitute the pleading and
evidence and because the levying office has not filed a copy of the claim of
exemption with this court, the hearing on the present motion is continued. 
 
            Code
of Civil Procedure section 703.570, subdivision (a), provides: “The hearing on
the motion shall be held not later than 30 days from the date the notice of
motion was filed with the court unless continued by the court for good cause.”
The court finds good cause to continue this motion.
 
CONCLUSION
 
            The hearing
on Arrow’s claim of exemption is order continued 30 days.
 
            The levying
officer is ordered to file the claim of exemption with this Court prior to the
continued hearing date. 
 
 
 
 
            
 
Dated:   February 22,
2024                                         ___________________________________
                                                                                    Joel
L. Lofton
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court