 Case Number:  23STCV19444    Hearing Date:   December 19, 2024    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



MICHAEL B. SMITH, 
 
                                  Plaintiff,
  
         v.
 
 
MICHAEL KORS INC.,
 
                                  Defendant.
 


 Case No: 
  23STCV19444
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  December 19, 2024
 Calendar Number:  6



 
 
 
Plaintiff Michael B. Smith (“Plaintiff”) moves for summary
judgment on his Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”) against Defendant Michael Kors
Inc. (“Defendant”). 
 
The Court DENIES Plaintiff’s motion for summary judgment.
 
Background
 
This action arises out of Plaintiff’s employment
relationship with Defendant. Plaintiff worked for Defendant as a temporary
forklift operator. Plaintiff alleges that he suffered discrimination and
harassment on the basis of his race and disability, eventually leading to his
termination. Plaintiff appears to allege that his employment lasted from
October 2019 to March 2020, when his employment was terminated. In December
2021, Defendant denied Plaintiff re-employment.
 
The following allegations are taken from Plaintiff’s SAC.
 
Plaintiff was employed with Defendant as a temporary worker.
Plaintiff alleges that, due to his race, he was frequently instructed to cease
working on his forklift in order to complete other tasks, and was then
subsequently penalized in his evaluations for the reduced time working on the
forklift that resulted. Another employee harassed Plaintiff for going to the
bathroom frequently due to Plaintiff’s diabetes. A manager then denied him
bathroom breaks outside of scheduled break times. Plaintiff alleges the
harassment and racial discrimination occurred between October 2019 and March
2020.
 
The building that Plaintiff worked at shut down on March 16,
2020 due to the Covid-19 pandemic. On December 29, 2021, Defendant denied
Plaintiff the ability to return to work, with the reason given being that his
refusal to do work other than on his forklift made him not a team player.
 
Plaintiff alleges that he has suffered severe emotional
distress and mental anguish as a result. Plaintiff also alleges that Defendant
defamed and blacklisted him.
 
Plaintiff filed this action (the “Stanley Mosk Action”) on
August 15, 2023. The SAC, which is the operative complaint, raises claims for
(1) racial discrimination; and (2) retaliation.
 
This action is in fact the second action to be filed by
Plaintiff concerning these facts. On December 28, 2022, Plaintiff filed a
separate case against Defendant, arising out of the same set of facts, in the
Los Angeles Superior Court at the Compton Courthouse (the “Compton Action”). The
Compton Action, Case No. 22CMCV00753, was assigned to Judge Fumiko Wasserman in
Department B.
 
The complaint in the Compton Action alleged a single cause
of action for defamation. Plaintiff filed a first amended complaint in the
Compton Action on February 10, 2023 with claims for (1) defamation; (2)
reckless negligence; (3) IIED; and (4) punitive damages. Judge Wasserman sustained
Defendant’s demurrer to the first and second amended complaints in that action
on May 2, 2023 with leave to amend for all causes of action except reckless
negligence.
 
The second amended complaint in the Compton Action, filed on
May 19, 2023, alleged (1) willful and wanton conduct; (2) defamation; (3)
punitive damages; and (4) non-economic injury in the form of mental anguish,
emotional distress, stress, depression, anxiety, and loss of enjoyment of life.
Within the body of the second amended complaint, Plaintiff also alleged racial
discrimination and blacklisting. 
 
Judge Wasserman sustained a demurrer to the second amended
complaint in the Compton Action on August 22, 2023 respectively. Judge
Wasserman denied leave to amend as to willful and wanton conduct, defamation,
and blacklisting. Judge Wasserman dismissed the claim for non-economic injury
damages, which is not a cause of action. Judge Wasserman found that the issue
of punitive damages was moot without any causes of action pled. Because the
discrimination cause of action was dismissed for failure to exhaust administrative
remedies and Plaintiff had obtained a right-to-sue notice from the Department
of Fair Employment and Housing after filing the second amended complaint, Judge
Wasserman granted Plaintiff 20 days to amend the cause of action for
discrimination.
 
Plaintiff did not amend his discrimination claim in the
Compton Action, so Judge Wasserman dismissed the action without prejudice on
October 10, 2023.
 
Plaintiff filed the Stanley Mosk Action roughly a week
before the second demurrer was sustained in the Compton Action.
 
On March 5, 2024, the Court sustained Defendant’s demurrer
with respect to portions of Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint with leave to
amend.
 
Plaintiff filed the SAC on March 19, 2024, raising claims
for (1) discrimination; and (2) retaliation. On March 21, 2024, Plaintiff filed
a declaration which included exhibits that Plaintiff declares that he intended
to attach to the SAC.
 
            On
September 25, 2024, Plaintiff filed this motion for summary judgment. 
 
On November 19, 2024, Plaintiff filed a supplemental
declaration in support of his motion. 
 
On December 5, 2024, Defendant filed an opposition, separate
statement, and objection to Plaintiff’s evidence.
 
On December 6, 2024, Defendant filed an appendix of
evidence.
 
On December 11, 2024, Plaintiff filed a reply and amended
declaration in support of his motion.
 
Evidentiary Objections
 
The Court notes that, in order to introduce exhibits,
Plaintiff must provide evidence, such as testimony or declarations, that would
allow a reasonable trier of fact to conclude that the exhibit is what Plaintiff
says it is. Evidence authenticating an exhibit in this manner must include
foundation – that is, it must show or explain how the witness knows that the
exhibit is what it purports to be. 
Plaintiff has generally not done so, rendering the exhibits he seeks to
introduce technically inadmissible. The Court will, however, consider them in
an abundance of caution.
 
Legal Standard
 
The purpose of a motion for
summary judgment or summary adjudication “is to provide courts with a mechanism
to cut through the parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite
their allegations, trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co., supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 843.) “Code of
Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to
grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences
reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences
or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and
that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” (Adler v.
Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) 
 
“In ruling on the motion,
the court must consider all of the evidence and all of the inferences
reasonably drawn therefrom [citation] and must view such evidence [citations]
and such inferences [citations] in the light most favorable to the opposing
party.” (Aguilar, supra, at pp. 844-845 [quotation marks
omitted].) 
 
“On a motion for summary
judgment, the initial burden is always on the moving party to make a prima
facie
showing that there are no triable issues of material fact.” (Scalf v. D. B.
Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.) 
 
“A plaintiff or
cross-complainant has met his or her burden of showing that there is no defense
to a cause of action if that party has proved each element of the cause of
action entitling the party to judgment on the cause of action. Once the
plaintiff or cross-complainant has met that burden, the burden shifts to the
defendant or cross-defendant to show that a triable issue of one or more
material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto. The
defendant or cross-defendant shall not rely upon the allegations or denials of
its pleadings to show that a triable issue of material fact exists but,
instead, shall set forth the specific facts showing that a triable issue of
material fact exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” (Code
Civ. Proc. § 437c, subd. (p)(1).)
 
To establish a triable issue
of material fact, the party opposing the motion must produce substantial
responsive evidence. (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151,
166.) “If the [opposing party]
cannot do so, summary judgment should be granted.” (Avivi v. Centro Medico
Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.)
 
Discussion
 
Procedural Issues
 
“The supporting papers [for a motion for summary judgment] shall
include a separate statement setting forth plainly and concisely all material
facts that the moving party contends are undisputed. Each of the material facts
stated shall be followed by a reference to the supporting evidence. The failure
to comply with this requirement of a separate statement may in the court’s
discretion constitute a sufficient ground for denying the motion.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 437c, subd. (b)(1).)
 
“The separate statement is not merely a technical
requirement, it is an indispensable part of the summary judgment or
adjudication process. ‘Separate statements are required not to satisfy a
sadistic urge to torment lawyers, but rather to afford due process to opposing
parties and to permit trial courts to expeditiously review complex motions for
... summary judgment to determine quickly and efficiently whether material
facts are disputed.’ ” (Whitehead v. Habig (2008) 163 Cal.App.4th 896,
902.)
 
A litigant’s self-represented status does not entitle them
to a more liberal application of the rules of civil procedure. (Harding v.
Collazo (1986) 177 Cal.App.3d 1044, 1056.)
 
Here, Plaintiff has not filed a separate statement that is
compliant with Code of Civil Procedure, section 436c (b)(1) and California
Rules of Court, Rule 3.1350. This is a basis to deny Plaintiff’s motion for
summary judgment, and the Court denies the motion on this basis. As an
additional basis to deny the motion, the Court proceeds to the merits.
 
Discrimination – First Claim
 
To establish a claim for discrimination, a plaintiff must
show “that (1) [the plaintiff] was a member of a protected class, (2) [the
plaintiff] was qualified for the position [they] sought or was performing
competently in the position [they] held, (3) [the plaintiff] suffered an
adverse employment action, such as termination, demotion, or denial of an
available job, and (4) some other circumstance suggests discriminatory motive.”
(Guz v. Bechtel National Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 317, 355.)
 
Defendant has provided evidence that Plaintiff’s
productivity fell below expectations for most of the three months leading up to
his termination. (Defendant’s Additional Fact (“AF”) 5.) Defendant has provided
evidence that associates were sometimes asked to assist other departments due
to operational needs and that Plaintiff was asked to help other departments,
but pushed back when asked to do so. (AF 3-4, 11.) Defendant has provided
evidence that, on January 23 and 29, 2020, Plaintiff’s supervisor held documented
discussions with Plaintiff about Plaintiff’s failure to follow procedures
regarding aisle maintenance. (AF 6.)
 
Defendant has provided evidence that Plaintiff was initially
terminated along with 168 other temporary workers due to the Covid-19 pandemic.
(AF 7-9.) Plaintiff attempted to work for Defendant again through an employment
recruitment agency, but Plaintiff’s former supervisor responded that he
preferred that Plaintiff not be assigned to work for Defendant because
Plaintiff had pushed back when asked to help other departments and was not a
strong performer. (AF 10-11.) Plaintiff did not submit an employment application
directly to Defendant. (AF 13.)
 
Thus, without determining whether Plaintiff has carried his
initial burden on summary judgment, the Court finds that Defendant has supported
the existence of a triable issue of fact that it had a legitimate,
non-discriminatory purpose for terminating Plaintiff and not re-hiring him. The
Court therefore denies Plaintiff’s motion as to this claim.
 
Retaliation – Second Claim
 
“To establish a prima facie case of retaliation under the
[Fair Employment and Housing Act] FEHA, a plaintiff must show (1) he or she
engaged in a ‘protected activity,’ (2) the employer subjected the employee to
an adverse employment action, and (3) a causal link existed between the
protected activity and the employer’s action.” (Meeks v. Autozone, Inc. (2018) 24 Cal.App.5th 855, 878-879,
brackets omitted.) “An ‘adverse employment action,’ which is a critical
component of a retaliation claim, requires a substantial adverse change in the
terms and conditions of the plaintiff’s employment.” (Holmes v. Petrovich Development Co., LLC (2011) 191 Cal.App.4th
1047, 1063, quotation marks omitted.)
 
As discussed above, Defendant has supported the existence of
a triable issue of fact that Plaintiff was terminated, and not re-hired, due to
performance issues.
 
Thus, without determining whether Plaintiff has carried his
initial burden on summary judgment, the Court finds that Defendant has supported
the existence of a triable issue of fact that it had a legitimate,
non-retaliatory purpose for terminating Plaintiff and not re-hiring him. The
Court therefore denies the motion as to this claim.
 