 Case Number:  23STCV13030    Hearing Date:   December 19, 2024    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



RHONDA RUDOLPH, 
 
                                  Plaintiff,
  
         v.
 
 
LIVING SPACES FURNITURE, LLC, et
  al.,
 
                                  Defendants.
 


 Case No: 
  23STCV13030
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  December 19, 2024
 Calendar Number:  3



 
 
 
Plaintiff Rhonda Rudolph (“Plaintiff”) moves for leave to
file a Second Amended Complaint (“SAC” ) against Defendants Living Spaces
Furniture, LLC (“Living Spaces”), Susana Grennon (“Grennon”), and Charlynn Lok
(“Lok”).
 
The Court GRANTS the motion for leave to amend. Plaintiff
shall file and serve the SAC within five days of this ruling.
 
Background
 
This is an employment action. Plaintiff was employed by
Defendant Living Spaces Furniture, LLC. Plaintiff has leukemia and alleges that
Defendants Living Spaces, Charlynn Lok, and Susana Grennon failed to
accommodate and discriminated against her on the basis of her medical condition.
 
Plaintiff filed this action on June 7, 2023. The operative
complaint is now the First Amended Complaint (“FAC”), which raises claims for (1)
wrongful termination in violation of FEHA; (2) wrongful termination in
violation of public policy; (3) disability discrimination; (4) failure to
provide reasonable accommodations; (5) failure to engage in a good-faith
interactive process; (6) associational disability discrimination; (7) hostile
work environment; (8) unfair competition; (9) assault; and (10) failure to prevent
harassment.
 
            On
October 30, 2024, Plaintiff moved for leave to file an SAC. Living Spaces and
Grennon filed an opposition. Plaintiff filed a reply.
 
Legal Standard
 
A complainant may obtain leave from the trial court to amend
their pleading beyond the number of amendments allowed under Code of Civil
Procedure section 472 (a) by filing a noticed motion. (Cal. Rules of Court,
Rule 3.1324.) The motion must be accompanied by a declaration stating: (1) the
effect of the amendment; (2) why the amendment is necessary and proper; (3)
when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered; and (4)
why the request was not made earlier.¿(Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1324 (b).)
 
“Any judge, at any time before or after commencement of
trial, in the furtherance of justice, and upon such terms as may be proper, may
allow the amendment of any pleading or pretrial conference order.”¿(Code Civ.
Proc., § 576.) In the absence of a showing of prejudice from the opposing side,
the trial court ordinarily lacks discretion to deny a motion to amend a
pleading. (Honig v. Financial Corp. of America (1992) 6 Cal.App.4th 960,
965.) 
 
Discussion
 
Plaintiff seeks leave to amend to change her first claim,
for discriminatory termination in violation of FEHA, to a claim for retaliatory
discrimination in violation of FEHA. 
 
Although Plaintiff characterizes this as a clarification,
this amendment changes the nature of the claim. Plaintiff’s first claim, both
in the Complaint and the FAC, was founded in discrimination based on her
disability, and not retaliation. Although the FAC alleges in passing that
Defendants retaliated against Plaintiff, it does not attempt to raise a
retaliation claim.
 
Trial in this matter is scheduled for July 7, 2025 and
the discovery cut-off is not until January 24, 2025. Thus, if Defendants need
additional time for discovery of the new claim from Plaintiff, they may obtain.
If they encounter a need for a discovery extension based on the new claim, they
may bring the issue to the Court’s attention.