 Case Number:  BC624838    Hearing Date:   December 19, 2024    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DR. LAUREN PINTER-BROWN, 
 
                                  Plaintiff,
  
         v.
 
 
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA AT LOS
  ANGELES, et al.,
 
                                  Defendants.
 


 Case No: 
  BC624838
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  December 19, 2024
 Calendar Number:  8



 
 
 
Plaintiff Dr. Lauren Pinter-Brown (“Plaintiff”) moved for an
award of attorney’s fees against Defendant The Regents of the University of
California (the “Regents”).  She sought a
lodestar attorney’s fee amount of $6,052,050 and a multiplier of 2 for a total
of $12,104,100 in fees.
 
On November 5, 2024 the Court issued an order approving a
subset of the requested $6,052,050.  The
Court identified which charges it did not find reasonable and required various reductions.
The Court ordered the parties to meet and confer about the mathematical
calculation of the fees in light of the reductions ordered by the Court and to
file additional briefing on the propriety of a multiplier.
 
The parties have agreed that the correct calculation of the
fees the Court found reasonable is $3,926,753.75. The parties have also filed
additional briefing on the subject of a multiplier.
 
For the reasons explained in this order, the Court denies
Plaintiff’s request for a multiplier. 
Accordingly, the Court will award Plaintiff a total of $3,926,753.75 in
attorney’s fees.
 
The lodestar amount of attorney fees “may be adjusted by the
court based on factors including, as relevant herein, (1) the novelty and
difficulty of the questions involved, (2) the skill displayed in presenting
them, (3) the extent to which the nature of the litigation precluded other
employment by the attorneys, (4) the contingent nature of the fee award.
[Citation.] The purpose of such adjustment is to fix a fee at the fair market
value for the particular action.”  (Ketchum
v. Moses (2001) 24 Cal.4th 1122, 1132.) 
“[A]pplication of a lodestar multiplier is discretionary; that
is, it is based on the exercise of the court’s discretion after consideration
of the relevant factors in a particular case.” 
(Nichols v. City of Taft  (2007) 155 Cal.App.4th 1233, 1240.) 
 
The Court has considered all relevant factors and determines
that no lodestar multiplier is appropriate in this case. The Court explains
some of its reasoning below.
 
Plaintiff argues that this was an extraordinarily difficult
case and that it was the skill of Plaintiff’s counsel that in large part led to
the successful result. The Court disagrees with this view of the
litigation.  Plaintiff’s counsel did a
good job at trial.  So did counsel for
the Regents. Plaintiff’s counsel, however, did not pull a rabbit out of a hat by
prevailing at trial, as Plaintiff’s argument implies. As with many hard fought
cases, there were some facts that were problematic for Plaintiff but many facts
that strongly supported her claim. The legal issues in the case were not
particularly novel. Moreover, Plaintiff did not prevail on many of the claims
she originally asserted.
 
In addition, in the first trial Plaintiff’s counsel did not
exercise their skill as attorneys in a manner that protected the record such
that the judgment could be affirmed on appeal. While the Court of Appeal
overturned the judgment in part based on comments by the prior trial judge during
jury selection, the Court of Appeal also reversed because of Plaintiff’s
successful efforts in the first trial to admit inadmissible evidence. While
this was aggressive lawyering, it did not demonstrate extraordinary skill in a
manner that served anyone’s interest in the long run.  Failure to protect the record during the
first trial was part of the reason that a second trial was necessary, causing
everyone to expend millions of additional dollars in attorney’s fees. These
facts do not favor awarding a multiplier on the fee award.
 
Finally, Plaintiff’s counsel overcame challenges it faced in
part by putting shoulder to the grindstone and spending a large amount of hours
on this case. While the Court has reduced the attorney’s fees allowed, it has
still granted fees for hundreds of hours of meetings between lead counsel and Plaintiff,
and for many hours for a third chair to attend the trial. Thus, Plaintiff’s
work to overcome challenges is already reflected in the lodestar calculation. (See
Ketchum, 24 Cal. 4th at p. 1138 [factors may not justify multiplier “to the
extent they are already encompassed within the lodestar”].)
 
The Court has considered that the judgment may have some
positive but non-measurable effect benefitting employees, that Plaintiff’s
counsel took the case on a contingent basis, and that the lawyers working on
the case could not work on other cases at the same time. In the context of this
case, the Court does not believe these facts justify a multiplier.  (See Ketchum, 24 Cal.4th at p.1138 [“Of
course, the trial court is not required to include a fee enhancement to
the basic lodestar figure for contingent risk, exceptional skill, or other
factors . . .”].)  Not every contingency
case requires a multiplier. Moreover, Plaintiff’s counsel’s law firm routinely handles
multiple cases at the same time.  In the
totality of the circumstances, the Court does not view a multiplier as
appropriate in this case.
 
The Court has also considered applying a more modest
multiplier to account for fees for hours spent years ago.  The Court has similarly considered the
request by the Regents for a negative multiplier. After considering all the
factors, including those set forth above, the Court does not apply any positive
or negative multiplier.
 
Accordingly, the amount of the attorney’s award remains
$3,926,753.75.
 
 