  Case Number:  23LBCV02181    Hearing Date:   October 31, 2024    Dept:  S25 Plaintiff Gary Kellum’s Motion to Compel Defendant Dwayne Anthony Kellum, an individual, to Respond to Plaintiff’s SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES, SET ONE, and Request for Monetary SanctionProcedural HistoryOn November 15, 2023, Plaintiffs Gary Kellum and Arthur Kellum, III, (“Plaintiffs”) filed a complaint against Defendants Dwayne Anthony Kellum, as an individual, Dwayne Anthony Kellum, as Trustee of the Kellum Family Trust, dated June 7, 2022 and Does 1 to 25 (“Defendants”), alleging partition of real property, accounting/unjust enrichment, and declaratory relief causes of action. Plaintiffs allege that they each had an ownership interest of one-third in the real property located at 2315 Easy Ave., Long Beach, CA (“Subject Real Property”) and that Plaintiffs and Defendant Dwayne Anthony Kellum obtained their ownership by way of a Grant Deed recorded in 2022 which lists the parties each as 1/3 owners of the Subject Real Property. (Compl. ¶ 1, Ex. “1”.) Plaintiffs further allege that on or about June 17, 2022, Defendant, Dwayne Anthony Kellum, granted his one-third ownership interest to Dwayne A. Kellum and Dawn T. Martin, Trustees of the Kellum Family Trust, dated June 7, 2022. (Compl., ¶ 1.) Plaintiffs state that in or about May 2022, the parties refinanced the Subject Real Property in the amount of $156,000 to remodel the Subject Real Property and make it an attractive rental property; however, Defendants moved into the Subject Real Property with their family without permission of the Plaintiffs after the remodel was finished. (Compl., ¶ 2.) Plaintiffs assert that the parties had a falling out over the Subject Real Property and that while Plaintiffs have wanted to sell the Subject Real Property, Defendants have refused to do so and currently live at the Subject Real Property without paying any rent for their possession. (Compl., ¶ 3.) On December 18, 2023, Defendants Dwayne Anthony Kellum, an individual, Dwayne Anthony Kellum, as Trustee of the Kellum Family Trust, dated June 7, 2022, Dawn T. Martin, as Trustee of the Kellum Family Trust, dated June 7, 2022, filed an answer.On September 30, 2024, Plaintiff filed the instant motion to compel Defendant Dwayne Anthony Kellum’s Initial Responses to SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES, SET ONE. As of October 23, 2024, no opposition has been filed.Legal StandardIf a party to whom interrogatories are directed fails to respond at all, the propounding party’s remedy is to seek a court order compelling answers thereto. (Code Civ. Proc., §2030.290.) All that needs to be shown is that the discovery was properly served on the opposing party, that the time to respond has expired, and that no response of any kind has been served. The moving party is not required to show a reasonable and good faith attempt to resolve the matter informally before filing this motion. A motion to compel initial discovery responses need not show good cause, meeting and conferring, or timely filing, and need not be accompanied by a separate statement. (See Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pac. Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390, 404.) The failure to timely respond also waives all objections.¿¿On motion, a party may be relieved from its waiver of objections if: (1) the party subsequently served a response that is in substantial compliance “with Sections 2030.210, 2030.220, 2030.230, and 2030.240” and (2) “[t]he party’s failure to serve a timely response was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (a)(1)-(2).)Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.290, subd. (c), provides that, "[t]he court shall impose a monetary sanction . . . against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to interrogatories, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust." Code Civ. Proc. § 2023.010, subd. (d), provides that a misuse of the discovery process is failing to respond or to submit to an authorized method of discovery. Code Civ. Proc. § 2023.010, subd. (h), states that a misuse of the discovery process includes making or opposing, unsuccessfully and without substantial justification, a motion to compel or limit discovery. A court may impose a monetary sanction against a party engaging in the misuse of the discovery process or any attorney advising such conduct under Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.030, subd. (a). A court has discretion to fix the amount of reasonable monetary sanctions. (Cornerstone Realty Advisors, LLC v. Summit Healthcare Reit, Inc. (2020) 56 Cal.App.5th 771.)AnalysisIn the instant motion, Plaintiff states that Special Interrogatories, Set One, was served on Defendant Dwayne Anthony Kellum, as an individual, (“Defendant”) on June 27, 2024, and that Defendant failed to respond by the August 1, 2024 deadline. (Ensberg Decl., ¶¶ 2-4, Exs. 1-2.) Plaintiff’s counsel asserts that on August 13, 2024, an email was sent to Defendant’s counsel regarding the lack of a discovery response and that Plaintiff’s counsel has attempted to call Defendant’s counsel multiple times regarding outstanding written discovery to no avail; to date, no discovery response or email response has been received from Defendant’s counsel. (Ensberg Decl., ¶ 5-7, Ex. 3.)As of October 28, 2024, no opposition has been filed by Defendant.Tentative RulingThe instant motion is GRANTED. Defendant Dwayne Anthony Kellum, as an individual, is ordered to provide objection-less responses to Plaintiffs’ Special Interrogatories, Set One, within 20 days from the date of this ruling.The Court will hear from Defendant’s counsel at the hearing to determine whether sanctions should be imposed or if counsel acted with substantial justification for not responding to discovery or if there are any other circumstances which make the imposition of the sanction unjust.Plaintiff Gary Kellum’s Motion to Deem Admitted the Truth of the Matters in Plaintiff’s Requests for Admissions, Set One, to Defendant Dwayne Anthony Kellum, an individual, and Request for Monetary SanctionsOn September 30, 2024, Plaintiff filed the instant motion for an order deeming Plaintiff’s Requests for Admissions, Set One, admitted. As of October 28, 2024, no opposition has been filed.Legal StandardIf a party to whom requests for admission are directed fails to serve a timely response, the party to whom the requests for admission are directed waives any objection to the requests, including one based on privilege or on the protection for work product.(Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280.) The court “shall” grant the motion to deem requests for admission admitted, “unless it finds that the party to whom the requests for admission have been directed has served, before the hearing on the motion, a proposed response to the requests for admission that is in substantial compliance with Section 2033.220.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2033.280, subd. (c).)Sanctions are mandatory against the party, the attorney, or both whose failure to serve a timely response to the request necessitated the motion to deem request for admissions as admitted. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (c).)AnalysisIn the instant motion, Plaintiff states that Requests for Admissions, Set One, was served on Defendant Dwayne Anthony Kellum, as an individual, (“Defendant”) on June 27, 2024, and that Defendant failed to respond by the August 1, 2024 deadline. (Ensberg Decl., ¶¶ 2-4, Exs. 1-2.) Plaintiff’s counsel asserts that on August 13, 2024, an email was sent to Defendant’s counsel regarding the lack of a discovery response and that Plaintiff’s counsel has attempted to call Defendant’s counsel multiple times regarding outstanding written discovery to no avail; to date, no discovery response or email response has been received from Defendant’s counsel. (Ensberg Decl., ¶ 5-7, Ex. 3.)As of October 28, 2024, no opposition has been filed by Defendant.Tentative RulingThe instant motion is GRANTED. Plaintiffs’ Request for Admissions, Set One, Nos. 1-18 are deemed admitted. Sanctions are mandatory. Because Defendant did not file an opposition, the Court removes the 1.3 hours that Plaintiffs’ counsel anticipated spending on reviewing any potential opposition and preparing a reply. The Court awards monetary sanctions of $1,145.00 in favor of Plaintiff and against Defendant Dwayne Kellum, individually and Trustee and against Defendant’s attorney, payable within 20 days of this order.Plaintiff Gary Kellum’s Motion to Compel Defendant Dwayne Anthony Kellum, an individual, to Respond to Plaintiff’s Requests for Production of Documents, Set One, and Request for Monetary SanctionsProcedural HistoryOn September 30, 2024, Plaintiff filed the instant motion to compel Defendant Dwayne Anthony Kellum’s Initial Responses to Requests for Production of Documents, Set One. As of October 23, 2024, no opposition has been filed.Legal StandardIf a party to whom document demands are directed fails to respond at all, the propounding party’s remedy is to seek a court order compelling answers thereto. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300.) All that needs to be shown is that the discovery was properly served on the opposing party, that the time to respond has expired, and that no response of any kind has been served. The moving party is not required to show a reasonable and good faith attempt to resolve the matter informally before filing this motion. A motion to compel initial discovery responses need not show good cause, meeting and conferring, or timely filing, and need not be accompanied by a separate statement. (See Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pac. Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390, 404.) The failure to timely respond also waives all objections.¿¿Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.300, subd. (c), provides that, "[t]he court shall impose a monetary sanction . . . against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to a demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust." Code Civ. Proc. § 2023.010, subd. (d), provides that a misuse of the discovery process is failing to respond or to submit to an authorized method of discovery. Code Civ. Proc. § 2023.010, subd. (h), states that a misuse of the discovery process includes making or opposing, unsuccessfully and without substantial justification, a motion to compel or limit discovery. A court may impose a monetary sanction against a party engaging in the misuse of the discovery process or any attorney advising such conduct under Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.030, subd. (a). A court has discretion to fix the amount of reasonable monetary sanctions. (Cornerstone Realty Advisors, LLC v. Summit Healthcare Reit, Inc. (2020) 56 Cal.App.5th 771.)AnalysisIn the instant motion, Plaintiffs’ Requests for Production of Documents, Set One, was served on Defendant Dwayne Anthony Kellum, as an individual, (“Defendant”) on June 27, 2024, and that Defendant failed to respond by the August 1, 2024 deadline. (Ensberg Decl., ¶¶ 2-4, Exs. 1-2.) Plaintiffs’ counsel asserts that on August 13, 2024, an email was sent to Defendant’s counsel regarding the lack of a discovery response and that Plaintiff’s counsel has attempted to call Defendant’s counsel multiple times regarding outstanding written discovery to no avail; to date, no discovery response or email response has been received from Defendant’s counsel. (Ensberg Decl., ¶ 5-7, Ex. 3.)As of October 28, 2024, no opposition has been filed by Defendant.Tentative RulingThe instant motion is GRANTED. Defendant Dwayne Kellum, individually and as a trustee, is ordered to serve full and complete verified responses, without objection, and produce documents to Request for Production of Documents, Set One, No. 1-6, within 20 days from the date of the ruling.The Court will hear from Defendant’s counsel at the hearing to determine whether sanctions should be imposed or if counsel acted with substantial justification for not responding to discovery or if there are any other circumstances which make the imposition of the sanction unjust.