  Case Number:  24LBCV01221    Hearing Date:   November 14, 2024    Dept:  S25 Tentative RulingPlaintiff’s counsel states that a meet and confer letter concerning Plaintiff’s request for the electronically stored information was sent on July 30, 2024 and a meet and confer letter regarding Defendant’s boilerplate objections, lack of production of documents and deficient responses to Plaintiff’s Request for Production, Set One, was sent on September 25, 2024. (See Theophil Decl., ¶¶ 27-29, Exs. 7-8; see Supp. Theophil Decl., ¶ 5.) Plaintiff counsel states that Defendant failed to respond to the September 25, 2024 meet-and-confer letter to date, thereby necessitating the instant motion. (See Theophil Decl., ¶¶ 29-32; see Supp. Theophil Decl., ¶ 5.)Defendant’s counsel contests Plaintiff’s assertions, stating that he attempted to meet and confer with Plaintiff’s counsel regarding both letters on October 15, 18, 22, 24, and 25 as well as November 4-8; however, he has received no response from Plaintiff’s counsel. (See Cavanagh Decl., ¶¶ 9-13, Ex. F; see Supp. Cavanagh Decl., ¶¶ 6-14, Ex. H.)There appears to be a disconnect between the parties and it appears that a meaningful meet and confer has not occurred. On its own motion, the Court continues this matter to January 17, 2025 and orders the parties to meet and confer by December 13, 2024. The parties are ordered to file a joint statement setting forth any unresolved discovery disputes by January 3, 2025.To assist in the meet and confer process, the parties are advised that the Court typically orders and limits production of documents including ESI in a Song-Beverly single-vehicle case as follows:1. Purchase and/or lease contract concerning the subject vehicle must be produced.2. Repair orders and invoices concerning the subject vehicle must be produced, including the “accounting” copies showing the hours and dates of activity by dealer personnel.3. Communications between the plaintiff and the warrantor/manufacturer and/or its servicing dealers, and communications between Plaintiff and the manufacturer’s factory representative and/or call center concerning the subject vehicle.4. Warranty claims submitted to and/or approved by Defendant concerning the subject vehicle.5. The applicable Warranty Policy and Procedure Manual published by defendant and provided to its authorized repair facilities, within the State of California, for the year the lawsuit was filed. If a separate written policy, procedure, or manual exists regarding repurchases or buy backs applicable to vehicles sold or leased in California, that would also be required to be produced for the year the lawsuit was filed and/or the year Plaintiff contends the vehicle became qualified for repurchase (such as upon satisfaction of the Presentation Element of a Song-Beverly cause of action under Section 1793.2(d)(2) or 1793.22). Such documents would be produced subject to a protective order.6. Any internal analysis and/or investigation regarding the primary or other recurring alleged defects claimed by plaintiff in her/his vehicle, applicable to the same year, make and model of the subject vehicle. The Court tends to focus on the claimed symptom experienced by the plaintiff as described in the dealers’ repair records, rather than a broad and vague characterization of the claimed defect as described by counsel in the litigation. For example, if the customer experienced a black Infotainment screen when shifting in reverse, or a harsh engagement or clunk of the transmission when accelerating from 2nd to 3rd gear, those symptoms rather than any other nature of malfunction of the Infotainment system or transmission would be the narrowing of scope of such internal analysis or investigation to be produced.7. Other customers’ complaints similar to the alleged defects claimed by plaintiff, limited to vehicles purchased in California for the same year, make and model of the subject vehicle. The other customer complaints again would be limited in scope to the description of the symptom as shown on the dealer repair records. The Court typically discusses with counsel the type of documents that may be required and the format for a production of documents such as in a sortable Excel spreadsheet that lists a compilation or summary of voluminous documents.8. Technical Service Bulletins and/or Recall Notices for vehicles purchased in California for the same year, make and model of the subject vehicle, whether mentioned in the repair history of the subject vehicle or not.