  Case Number:  20STCV07875    Hearing Date:   March 28, 2024    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  KATHERYN CRESPIN, Plaintiff(s),  vs.  KATHRYN ALVERSON, ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 20STCV07875  [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: DEFENDANT’S MOTION TO COMPEL PHYSICAL EXAMINATION   Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  March 28, 2024  I. BACKGROUND Plaintiff Kathryn Crespin (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendant Kathryn Alverson (“Defendant”) for injuries arising from a motor vehicle incident. Trial is currently set for September 11, 2024.  Defendant now moves to compel Plaintiff’s physical examination and requests monetary sanctions. Any opposition to the motion was due by March 15, 2024; no opposition was filed by this date.   II. MOTION TO COMPEL PHYSICAL EXAMINATION  Legal Standard CCP § 2032.220 states: In any case in which a plaintiff is seeking recovery for personal injuries, any defendant may demand one physical examination of the plaintiff, if both of the following conditions are satisfied:  The examination does not include any diagnostic test or procedure that is painful, protracted, or intrusive.  The examination is conducted at a location within 75 miles of the residence of the examinee. CCP § 2032.240 provides that, when a plaintiff fails to respond to a demand, the defendant may move for an order compelling a response to the demand and compelling compliance with the request for an exam. CCP § 2032.310 further provides that the motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.    Discussion Here, Defendant contends that on October 4, 2023, she served a notice of neurosurgical examination with Luke Macyszyn, M.D. (“Dr. Macyszyn”) scheduling the physical examination to take place on November 15, 2023. Plaintiff’s counsel indicated that Plaintiff would not be presented for her neurosurgical examination on the grounds that she will not stipulate to a second DME. (Lunn Decl. ¶ 6.) However, defense counsel declares that Plaintiff has yet to appear at an IME in this matter, and that this was Defendant’s first demand for an IME of Plaintiff (Id. at ¶¶ 4, 10.) Defense counsel avers she attempted to e met and confer with Plaintiff’s counsel, but Plaintiff’s counsel never responded to the November 14, 2023 meet and confer efforts.  The Court notes that Exhibit C to Lunn’s declaration does not evidence that Plaintiff’s counsel responded that they would not “stipulate to a second DME” as averred. Rather, Exhibit C provides that Plaintiff’s counsel responded on November 13, 2023: “Please cancel this. We will have to meet and confer.” Notwithstanding this inconsistency, and defense counsel’s declaration that Defendant noticed a “mental examination” (Lunn Decl. ¶ 7) when this is, in fact, a demand for a physical examination, there is no evidence that Plaintiff’s counsel responded to defense counsel’s November 14, 2023 meet and confer correspondence (Ibid; Exh. D). In this case, the evidence shows Defendant served Plaintiff with a notice to appear for Plaintiff’s physical exam. As a personal injury plaintiff, Plaintiff is required to submit to a defense medical examination pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 2032.220. Plaintiff did not oppose the motion, or otherwise provide any valid grounds for refusing to proceed with her physical examination.  Accordingly, Defendant’s unopposed motion to compel the physical examination of Plaintiff is GRANTED.   Conclusion Plaintiff is ordered to appear for a physical examination with Dr. Macyszyn at 6133 Ventura Blvd. Suite 700, Encino CA 91436. The parties must meet and confer to determine the date and time for the examination; if Plaintiff does not meaningfully participate in the meet and confer process, Defendant may unilaterally set the date and time for the examination with at least ten days’ notice to Plaintiff (extended per Code if by other than personal service). The scope, manner, conditions, and nature of the examination previously noticed by Defendant (Lunn Decl. ¶ 5; Exh. B) may not be expanded in connection with the compelled exam.   III. SANCTIONS CCP § 2032.240(c) requires the court to impose sanctions in connection with a motion to compel physical examination unless the court finds Plaintiff acted with substantial justification or other circumstances make imposition of sanctions unjust.  Plaintiff does not oppose the motion, nor does Plaintiff provide any justification for failing to proceed for the properly noticed physical exam. Defendant requests sanctions of $1,410. However, a request for sanctions shall be supported by a memorandum of points and authorities, and accompanied by a declaration setting forth facts supporting the amount of any monetary sanction sought. (CCP §2023.040.) Defense counsel refers to the Court previously granting monetary sanctions in connection with Defendant’s prior motions to compel discovery responses to initial discovery, but fails to provide a basis for the amount sought as it relates to this particular motion to compel Plaintiff’s physical examination.  Defendant’s request for sanctions is therefore DENIED.   Moving party is ordered to give notice.    PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿ Dated this 27th day of March 2024      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court   