 Case Number:  20STCV36117    Hearing Date:   March 28, 2024    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  ARSHO HAROUTANIAN, Plaintiff(s),  vs.  ACCESS SERVICES, ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 20STCV36117  [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: PLAINTIFF’S MOTIONS TO COMPEL FURTHER     Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  March 28, 2024  I.  BACKGROUND Plaintiff, Arsho Haroutanian (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendants, Access Services (“Access Services”), San Gabriel Transit, Inc., and Rodolfo Martinez (“Martinez”) for injuries arising from a fall while being transported and being aided off a vehicle.  Plaintiff moves the Court for an order compelling: (1) Martinez to provide further responses to Plaintiff’s set one of request for admissions, form interrogatories, special interrogatories, and inspection demands, and (2) Access Services to provide further responses to set one of request for admissions, form interrogatories, special interrogatories, and inspection demands. The Court notes that it had issued tentative rulings regarding the IDC requirement for the very same motions pertaining to Martinez on December 21, 2023. However, it does not appear that an IDC was scheduled, nor is there record that the parties participated in an IDC since then.   II.  INFORMAL DISCOVERY CONFERENCE (“IDC”) Per the Eight Amended Standing Order for Procedures in the Personal Injury Hub Courts effective October 10, 2022 (Filed September 20, 2022), ¶ 9E, “PI Hub Courts will not hear Motions to Compel Further Discovery Responses to Discovery until the parties have engaged in an Informal Discovery Conference (IDC). PI Hub Courts may deny or continue a Motion to Compel Further Responses to Discovery if parties fail to schedule and complete an IDC before the scheduled hearing on a Motion to Compel Further Responses to Discovery.” Additionally, “Reserving or scheduling an IDC does not extend the time to file a Motion to Compel Further Discovery Responses.” (Ibid.) The purpose of an IDC is to avoid the necessity of a motion to compel, or to at least reduce its scope. The Eight Amended Standing Order further provides that parties are encouraged to stipulate to extend the deadline for filing a motion to compel further by 60 days to allow time to participate in an IDC and to informally resolve pending discovery issues.   Once more, as Plaintiff did not schedule an IDC prior to his motions being heard, Plaintiff’s motions are premature and must be continued to a new date. The parties are ordered to participate in an Informal Discovery Conference (“IDC”) as required by the Court’s Standing Order Re: PI Court Procedures.  Moving Party is also ordered to continue the Hearings on Motion to Compel Further Discovery Responses using the online reservation management system, at least 3 weeks after the IDC.  The Court is hopeful the hearing on the motions to compel further will not be necessary. If the parties are unable to resolve all outstanding issues at the IDC, the parties must submit a joint statement of items in dispute at least two weeks prior to the continued hearing date. The joint statement must be a single document, with analysis by both parties, addressing each remaining issue.  Moving party is ordered to give notice.    PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 27th day of March 2024      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court   