 Case Number:  23STCV29431    Hearing Date:   January 15, 2025    Dept:  14 #9Case Background
This is an action for violations of the Labor Code,
unfair competition, and failure to permit inspection. Plaintiff alleges that
while he was employed at Defendants’ business, Defendants failed to pay him
overtime wages and failed to provide meal periods and breaks.
On December 1, 2023, Plaintiff Mario Anibal Martinez
Monge filed his Complaint against Defendants 75S Corp dba FMC Metals and Kevin
Armstrong.
On October 28, 2024, Defendants filed this motion to
compel nonparty Major League Trucking, Inc. to comply with their deposition
subpoena.
Instant Pleading
Defendants move to compel nonparty Major League
Trucking, Inc. (Major League) to comply with their deposition subpoena.
Decision
Defendants’ motion to compel Major League Trucking,
Inc. to comply with their deposition subpoena is GRANTED. The Court awards
Defendants $500 in sanctions as permitted under Code Civ. Proc., section 1992
against Major League. Major League’s responses are due with 15 days of this
order. All sanctions are due within 30 days of this order.
Discussion
Defendants move to compel a nonparty, Major League
Trucking, Inc., to comply with their deposition subpoena. Defendants also
request sanctions against Major League in the amount of $500.
A party seeking discovery from a person who is not a
party to the action may obtain discovery by oral deposition, written
deposition, or deposition subpoena for production of business records.¿ (Code
Civ. Proc., section 2020.010.)¿  
California Code of Civil Procedure section 1987.1,
subdivision (a) states, “[i]f a subpoena requires the attendance of a witness
or the production of books, documents, or other things before a court, or at
the trial of an issue therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the court,
upon motion reasonably made by any person described in subdivision (b), or upon
the court’s own motion after giving counsel notice and an opportunity to be
heard, may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing
compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as the court shall declare,
including protective orders. In addition, the court may make any other order as
may be appropriate to protect the person from unreasonable or oppressive
demands, including unreasonable violations of the right of privacy of the
person.” 
Subpoenas which seek consumer records must adhere to
additional procedural requirements laid out in Code Civ. Proc., section 1985.3. 
The subpoena must first be served on the consumer at least five days before it
is served on the nonparty from whom records are sought (with a five-day
extension if served by mail, pursuant to Code Civ. Proc., section 1013). 
(Code Civ. Proc., section 1985.3(b)(3).)  A subpoena must be served on the
custodian of records at least fifteen days before the date upon which records are
to be produced.  (Id., sections 1985.3(d), 2020.410(c).) 
Therefore, as a practical matter, the subpoena must be personally served on the
consumer at least twenty days before the date upon which records are to be
produced.  This is extended by an additional five days if service on the
consumer is made by mail.  (Id., section 1985.3(b)(3).) 
Personal service of any deposition subpoena is
effective to require the deponent who is a resident of California at the time
of service to provide any specified production, inspection, testing, and
sampling. (Code Civ. Proc., section 2020.220(c)(2).)
A person failing to appear pursuant to a subpoena or
court order forfeits to the aggrieved party $500 and all damages the party
suffered by the failure of the person to appear pursuant to the subpoena or
court order. 
Here, Defendants served the deposition subpoena on
Plaintiff on May 3, 2024. (Bevan Decl., ¶3, Exh. 2.) Defendants thereafter personally
served Major League’s registered agent                                                                                                                               
 on May 13, 2024, at least five
days after service of the deposition subpoena. (Id.) The records were
due on May 29, 2024, at least 15 days after the subpoena was served on Major
League. (Id.) Major league failed to respond to the subpoena. 
Defendants complied with service requirements of Code
Civ. Proc., section 1985.3. Because Major League failed to respond to the
subpoena, Defendants’ motion to Compel Major League’s responses is granted. Defendants’
request for $500 in sanctions is also granted. 
Conclusion
Defendants’ motion to compel Major League Trucking,
Inc. to comply with their deposition subpoena is GRANTED. The Court awards
Defendants $500 in sanctions as permitted under Code Civ. Proc., section 1992 against
Major League. Major League’s responses are due with 15 days of this order. All
sanctions are due within 30 days of this order.