 Case Number:  24STCV02448    Hearing Date:   October 15, 2024    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



PAMELA RICHARDSON-ELEX, 
 
                                  Plaintiff,
  
         v.
 
 
CEDARS SINAI HEALTH VENTURES, et
  al.,
 
                                  Defendants.
 


 Case No: 
  24STCV02448
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  October 15, 2024
 Calendar Number:  6



 
 
 
Defendants Cedars-Sinai Medical Center (Cedars-Sinai) and
Julie Strumwasser (“Strumwasser”) (collectively, “Moving Defendants”) move for
an order compelling Plaintiff Pamela Richardson-Elex (“Plaintiff”) to arbitrate
her claims in this action.
 
The Court GRANTS the motion to compel arbitration and STAYS
this action pending the outcome of arbitration.
 
Background
 
This is an employment case between Plaintiff and Defendants
Cedars-Sinai, Cedars Sinai Health Ventures (“Health Ventures”), Cedars Sinai
Health Systems (“Health Systems”), and Strumwasser (collectively, “Defendants”).  Plaintiff alleges that Strumwasser was her
supervisor at Health Ventures. 
(Complaint ¶ 2(c).)
 
Plaintiff was employed with Cedars-Sinai beginning in March
2009 and ending on September 15, 2023. (Hickey Decl. ¶ 7.) Plaintiff alleges
that she was subjected to discrimination, harassment, retaliation, and wrongful
termination in connection with her employment.
 
Plaintiff filed this action against Defendants on January
30, 2024, raising claims for (1) employment discrimination (race) – hostile
environment; (2) employment discrimination (race) – disparate treatment; (3)
employment discrimination (disability); (4) employment discrimination
(retaliation); (5) employment discrimination (unlawful harassment); and (6)
whistleblower retaliation.
 
On September 3, 2024, Moving Defendants moved to compel
arbitration. Plaintiff filed an opposition and Moving Defendants filed a reply.
 
Request for Judicial Notice
 
The Court grants Moving Defendants’ request for judicial
notice and takes notice of the submitted materials as public records.
 
Legal Standard
 
Under both the
Federal Arbitration Act (“FAA”) and California law, arbitration agreements are
valid, irrevocable, and enforceable, except on such grounds that exist at law
or equity for voiding a contract. (Winter
v. Window Fashions Professions, Inc. (2008) 166 Cal.App.4th 943, 947.) 
 
The party moving to
compel arbitration must establish the existence of a written arbitration
agreement between the parties. (Code of Civ. Proc., § 1281.2.) In ruling on a
motion to compel arbitration, the court must first determine whether the
parties actually agreed to arbitrate the dispute, and general principles of
California contract law help guide the court in making this determination. (Mendez v. Mid-Wilshire Health Care Center
(2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 534, 541.) 
 
“A petition to
compel arbitration or to stay proceedings pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
sections 1281.2 and 1281.4 must state, in addition to other required
allegations, the provisions of the written agreement and the paragraph that
provides for arbitration. The provisions must be stated verbatim or a copy must
be physically or electronically attached to the petition and incorporated by
reference” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1330.) “With respect to the moving
party's burden to provide evidence of the existence of an
agreement to arbitrate, it is generally sufficient for that party to present a
copy of the contract to the court. Once such a document is presented to the
court, the burden shifts to the party opposing the motion to compel, who may
present any challenges to the enforcement of the agreement and evidence in
support of those challenges.” (Baker v.
Italian Maple Holdings, LLC (2017) 13 Cal.App.5th 1152, 1160 [internal
citations omitted].) 
 
Discussion
 
The Arbitration Agreements
 
While employed with Cedars-Sinai, Plaintiff executed three
arbitration agreements with Cedars-Sinai. The first agreement was executed on
March 24, 2009 (the “2009 Agreement”). (Hickey Decl. ¶ 4, Ex. A.) The second
agreement was executed on May 13, 2011 (the “2011 Agreement”). (Hickey Decl. ¶
4, Ex. B.) The third agreement was executed on November 8, 2019 (the “2019
Agreement”). (Hickey Decl. ¶ 5, Ex. C.) Plaintiff does not contest that she
executed the agreements.
 
Moving Defendants make this motion pursuant to the 2019
Agreement. The 2019 Agreement provides that it supersedes all prior agreements
between Cedars-Sinai and Plaintiff. (Hickey Decl., Ex. C at p. 4.)
 
Unconscionability
 
“ ‘The prevailing view is that [procedural and substantive
unconscionability] must both be present in order for a court
to exercise its discretion to refuse to enforce a contract or clause under the
doctrine of unconscionability.’ [Citation] But they need not be present in the
same degree. ‘Essentially a sliding scale is invoked which disregards the
regularity of the procedural process of the contract formation, that creates
the terms, in proportion to the greater harshness or unreasonableness of the
substantive terms themselves.’ [Citation] In other words, the more
substantively oppressive the contract term, the less evidence of procedural
unconscionability is required to come to the conclusion that the term is
unenforceable, and vice versa.” (Armendariz
v. Foundation Health Psychcare Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83,
114 (Armendariz).)
 
“ ‘Procedural unconscionability’ concerns the manner in
which the contract was negotiated and the circumstances of the parties at that
time. It focuses on factors of oppression and surprise. The oppression
component arises from an inequality of bargaining power of the parties to the
contract and an absence of real negotiation or a meaningful choice on the part
of the weaker party. The component of surprise arises when the challenged terms
are ‘hidden in a prolix printed form drafted by the party seeking to enforce
them.’” (Nyulassy v. Lockheed Martin
Corp. (2004) 120 Cal.App.4th 1267, 1281.)
 
Substantive unconscionability focuses on the actual terms of the
agreement and evaluates whether they create overly harsh or one-sided results
as to shock the conscience. (Suh v. Superior Court (2010) 181
Cal.App.4th 1504, 1515.) The paramount consideration in assessing substantive
unconscionability is mutuality. (Carmona v. Lincoln Millennium Car
Wash, Inc. (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 74, 85.) 
 
The California Supreme Court has held that a mandatory
pre-dispute arbitration agreement requiring arbitration of unwaivable statutory
rights must provide for the following: (1) a neutral arbitrator; (2) adequate
discovery; (3) availability of all types of relief that are otherwise available
in court; (4) a written decision that will permit a limited form of judicial
review; and (5) a provision that the employer must pay for the arbitrator’s
fees and all costs unique to arbitration. (Armendariz, supra, 24
Cal.4th at p. 102.)
 
            Plaintiff
argues that the 2009 Agreement is unconscionable because it does not
sufficiently set forth discovery procedures. There are two problems with this
argument. First, that is not the correct agreement. Moving Defendants move to
compel arbitration pursuant to the 2019 Agreement, which superseded the 2009
Agreement. Second, the 2019 Agreement accounts for discovery, providing that
“[t]he parties shall be entitled to engage in discovery as authorized by the
JAMS Rules.” (Hickey Decl., Ex. C at p. 2.)
 
            Finally,
even if Plaintiff were able to show substantive unconscionability, Plaintiff
makes no argument concerning procedural unconscionability, which is also a
requirement in order for the Court to deny enforcement of an arbitration
agreement.
 
            The
Court therefore finds that Plaintiff has not shown that the 2019 Agreement, the
operative arbitration agreement, is unconscionable.
 
Third-Party Beneficiaries
 
Plaintiff argues that the Court cannot impose arbitration as
to the Defendants other than Cedars-Sinai.
 
For a third party to be able to enforce a contract, three
factors must be established: (1) the third party would in fact benefit from the
contract; (2) a motivating purpose of the contracting parties was to provide a
benefit to the third party; and (3) permitting the third party to enforce the
contract against a contracting party is consistent with the objectives of the
contract and reasonable expectations of the third parties. (Goonewardene v.
ADP, LLC¿(2019) 6 Cal.5th 817, 830.) 
 
Whether the third party is an intended beneficiary or merely
an incidental beneficiary involves construction of the intention of the
parties, gathered from reading the contract as a whole in light of the
circumstances under which it was entered. (Cione v. Foresters Equity
Services, Inc. (1997) 58 Cal.App.4th 625, 636.) It is not necessary that
the beneficiary be named or identified as an individual. (Ronay Family
Limited Partnership v. Tweed (2013) 216 Cal.App.4th 830, 838.)
 
Where the language of a contract is clear and explicit, and
does not involve an absurdity, the plain meaning governs. (West Pueblo
Partners, LLC v. Stone Brewing Co., LLC (2023) 90 Cal.App.5th 1179, 1185, citing
Civ. Code, § 1638.)
 
The first element is satisfied because the third parties
would benefit from enforcing the 2019 Agreement as to Plaintiff’s claims
against them.
 
The second element is satisfied because the 2019 Agreement
covers “all claims or controversies in any way relating to or associated with
[Plaintiff’s] employment or termination of [Plaintiff’s] employment,” except as
provided in the 2019 Agreement’s limited exceptions – exceptions which no party
contends apply here. (Hickey Decl., Ex. C at p. 1.) Thus, the 2019 Agreement
contemplated arbitration of claims relating to Plaintiff’s employment and
termination, and not merely claims between the two contracting parties.
 
The third element is satisfied because permitting the third
parties to compel arbitration is consistent with the stated objective of the
2019 Agreement to cover all claims relating to Plaintiff’s employment and
termination.
 
Thus, the non-contracting Defendants can compel arbitration
under the 2019 Agreement.
 
The Court therefore grants the motion to compel arbitration
and stays this action pending the outcome of arbitration.