  Case Number:  23STCV10395    Hearing Date:   October 15, 2024    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



SUNWOO LEE, et al., 
 
                                  Plaintiffs,
  
         v.
 
 
COM2US HOLDINGS, A KOREAN
  CORPORATION, et al.,
 
                                  Defendants.
 


 Case No: 
  23STCV10395
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  October 15, 2024
 Calendar Number:  2



 
 
 
Specially appearing Defendants Com2us Holdings, Com2us
Corp., Byung Joon Song, and Jae Joon Song (collectively, “Moving Defendants”)
move for an order quashing service of the summons in this action for lack of
personal jurisdiction.
 
The Court GRANTS the motion and QUASHES service of summons
on Moving Defendants for lack of personal jurisdiction.
 
Background
 
The Defendants
 
This is a securities fraud case. The following facts are
taken from the allegations of the Third Amended Complaint (“TAC”) except where
otherwise noted.
 
The following is a brief description of the Moving
Defendants. Defendant Com2us Holdings is a corporation organized under the laws
of the Republic of Korea. Defendant Com2us Corp. is a subsidiary of Com2us
Holdings and is also organized under the laws of the Republic of Korea. Byung
Joon Song is the Chairman and Executive Director of the boards of both Com2us
Holdings and Com2us Corp, and a former CEO of these entities.  He was born and resides in the Republic of
Korea. (Byung Joon Song Decl. ¶¶ 1-4, 6.) 
Jae Joon Song is the Global Chief Investment Officer and President of
both Com2us Holdings and Com2us Corp., and a former CEO of Com2us Corp.  He was born and resides in the Republic of
Korea. (Jae Joon Song Decl. ¶¶ 1-4, 6.)  Both
Byung Joon Song and Jae Joon Song own real and personal properties in Korea,
where they received their educational degrees, pay taxes, and hold national
registration cards. (Byung Joon Song Decl. ¶¶ 2-5; Jae Joon Song Decl. ¶¶ 2-5.)
 
The following defendants are not Moving Defendants.  Defendant Com2us USA, Inc. (“Com2us USA”) is
a subsidiary of Com2us Holdings. Kyu Chang Lee is the CEO of Com2us USA.
 
Moving Defendants’ Connections with the State of California
 
Com2us Holdings owns a 69.9 percent stake in Com2us USA;
Com2us Corp. owns the remaining 30.1 percent stake. (Yu Decl. ¶ 2, Ex. A at p.
6:13-16, Ex. B at p. 6:16.) Com2us USA is located in California. (Yu Decl. ¶ 2,
Ex. A at p. 13:1-19, Ex. B at p. 12:19-13:8.) Both Jae Soon Song and Byung Joon
Song hold the position of “Non-Executive Director” on the board of Com2us USA
and have attended meetings by telephone or video conference. (Jae Joon Song
Decl. ¶¶ 7-9;  Byung Joon Song Decl. ¶¶
7-9.) Both were listed as directors in Com2us USA’s 2015 and 2016 Statement of
Information. (Request for Judicial Notice Exs. A, B.)
 
“From August 31-September 8, 2019, [Jae Joon Song] traveled
to Los Angeles for the Summoners War e-sports SWC America Cup and to visit
Com2uS USA’s offices; from March 18, March 26, 2023, Mr. Song participated in
GDC 2023, had meetings with Google (team Google Cloud) and attended an investor
relations non-deal roadshow in San Francisco; from May 26, June 4, 2023, Mr.
Song participated in a business coop meeting in San Francisco hosted by SK
networks and Bow Capital; from December 27, 2023-January 1, 2024, Mr. Song
participated in a business meeting in Los Angeles with Com2uS USA. All visits
were on behalf of Com2uS Corp. In addition, from August 18, August 26, 2024,
Mr. Song attended the 2024 Korea Conference in Los Angeles primarily on behalf
of Crit Ventures and secondarily on behalf of Com2uS Corp.” (Yu Decl., Ex. C at
p. 3:1-11.)
 
Byung Joon Song has traveled to California five times, all
on personal business, in the six years leading up to August 2024. (Yu Decl.,
Ex. D at pp. 2:28-3:3.) Byung Joon Song possesses a personal bank account in
California at Bank of America, which he has had since 2019. (Yu Decl., Ex. D at
p. 3:5-15.)
 
Com2us Corp. registered to do business in California on
January 4, 2005 and continued to operate in California until its termination on
January 7, 2010. (Request for Judicial Notice Exs. G-H.)
 
Com2uS Corp. filed trademarks for both “Com2uS” and “Com2uS
Holdings” with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office on March 20, 2011 and December
3, 2021, respectively. (Request for Judicial Notice Exs. J-K.)
 
Com2us Corp. and Com2us Holdings’ websites’ terms of service
both state: “If you have a dispute with any users of the Com2uS Service, you
release us … from claims,
demands and damages (actual and
consequential) arising out of or in any way connected with such disputes,
including damages for loss of profits, goodwill, use or data. If you are a
California resident, you waive California Civil Code § 1542.” (Lee Decl. ¶¶
2-3.) The terms of service for each website contain choice of law clauses
stating that California law will govern matters arising out of the policies.
(Lee Decl. ¶¶ 2-3.)
 
The Underlying Events
 
The Com2us companies developed C2X tokens, which are a type
of cryptocurrency. The Com2us companies developed C2X to interact with
videogames, where C2X would function as a currency in the video game.
 
Plaintiffs allege that Defendants offered and sold C2X
tokens through an initial exchange offering (“IEO”) on the FTX exchange. The
IEO took place on March 18, 2022. Plaintiffs allege that Defendants marketed
and sold C2X tokens in California. Although Moving Defendants present evidence
that they excluded the United States from their marketing efforts, the Court is
not able to consider such evidence at the pleading stage.
 
Plaintiffs allege that Defendants made a number of
misrepresentations about how C2X would function, including representations that
C2X would be part of a virtual ecosystem where it was the sole cryptocurrency
and that C2X would have multiple associated videogames. 
 
Many of these representations allegedly occurred in a C2X
Whitepaper, which Plaintiffs allege that Moving Defendants shared publicly on
Twitter. Com2us Holdings and Com2us USA both reposted the Whitepaper., which
was originally posted on the Twitter account of XPLA Games. (Lee Decl., Ex. C.)
Plaintiffs contend that XPLA Games is a platform created by Moving Defendants.
 
On March 19, 2022, Com2uS USA’s President, Kyu Chang Lee, Tweeted,
“People are global. Finance systems have to be global too. It was hard for the
general audience outside of Korea to invest into Korean public companies due to
the limited accessibility. Fascinating to see how #web3 can change this. $CTX
#C2X is coming next Monday!” (Lee Decl., Ex. D.) Kyu Chang Lee Tweeted on June
28, 2022 that digital platforms “really unlocked Korean talent globally” and
that the sale of cryptocurrency tokens would help artists that are struggling
and provide additional revenue streams. (Lee Decl., Ex. E.)
 
Plaintiffs are California residents. Plaintiffs allege that
they purchased shares of C2X in California via the FTX exchange.
 
Between April and May 2022, Defendants provided a ‘staking
program’ to owners of C2X, wherein customers staked their existing C2X tokens
by purchasing a separate digital asset and then used their C2X tokens to gain
additional ‘LP tokens’ from Defendants. (SAC ¶¶ 4, 60.) Plaintiffs allege that
they staked all of their C2X tokens.
 
Plaintiffs allege that, as a result of their investment in
C2X, they suffered economic losses.
 
Procedural History
 
Plaintiff filed this action on May 9, 2023. The operative
complaint is now the SAC, which raises claims for (1) violations of sections 5
and 12(a)(1) of the Securities Act of 1933; (2) violations of sections 5 and
12(a)(2) of the Securities Act of 1933; (3) violation of section 15 of the
Securities Act of 1933; (4) violation of Corporations Code, sections 25110 and
25503; (5) violations of Corporations Code, sections 25401 and 25501; (6)
violation of Corporations Code, section 25504; (7) violation of Corporations
Code, section 25504.1; (8) intentional misrepresentation; (9) negligent
misrepresentation; and (10) conversion.
 
On April 2, 2024, Moving Defendants moved to quash service
of the summons. Plaintiffs filed an opposition and Moving Defendants filed a
reply.
 
Request for Judicial Notice
 
The Court grants Plaintiff’s request for judicial notice and
takes notice of the submitted public records.
 
Evidentiary Objections
 
The Court has reviewed the parties’ evidentiary objections. 
 
The Court sustains the following evidentiary objections
raised by Plaintiffs:
 
Declaration of Bon Kook Koo: 1 (contradicted by party
discovery response).
 
Declaration of Jong Chul Jang: 5 (contradicted by party
discovery response).
 
Declaration of Byung Joon Song: 10 (lay opinion).
 
Declaration of Jae Joon Song: 15 (lay opinion).
 
The Court has reviewed Moving Defendants’ objections. “Each
written objection must be numbered consecutively[.]” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1354(b).) Moving Defendants did not number the thirteen pages of objections
that it submitted to the Court. The Court overrules Moving Defendants’
objections on this basis.
 
Legal Standard
 
“A defendant, on or before the last day of his or her time
to plead or within any further time that the court may for good cause allow,
may serve and file a notice of motion for one or more of the following
purposes: To quash service of summons on the ground of lack of jurisdiction of
the court over him or her.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 418.10, subd. (a)(1).) A
defendant has 30 days after the service of the summons to file a responsive
pleading, or 40 days if service was effectuated by substitute service. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 412.20, subd. (a)(3); Code Civ. Proc., § 415.20, subd. (b).) 
 
“A motion to quash service of summons lies on the ground
that the court lacks personal . . . jurisdiction over the moving party.” (Greener
v. Workers’ Comp. Appeals Bd.¿(1993) 6 Cal.4th 1028, 1036, citing to Code
of Civil Procedure § 418.10.) “A court of this state may exercise jurisdiction
on any basis not inconsistent with the Constitution of the United States.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 410.10.) “The exercise of jurisdiction over a nonresident
defendant comports with these Constitutions if the defendant has such minimum
contacts with the state that the assertion of jurisdiction does not violate
traditional notions of fair play and substantial justice.” (Elkman v.
National States Ins. Co. (2009) 173 Cal.App.4th 1305, 1313.) “An essential
criterion in all cases is whether the ‘quality and nature’ of the defendant’s
activity is such that it is ‘reasonable’ and ‘fair’ to require him to conduct
his defense in that state.” (Kulko v. Superior Court of California in and
for City and County of San Francisco (1978) 436 U.S. 84, 92.) 
 
“Personal jurisdiction may be either general or specific.
[Citation.] ‘The nature and quality of the defendant’s contacts determine
whether jurisdiction, if exercised, is general or specific. General
jurisdiction exists when a defendant is domiciled in the forum state or his
activities there are substantial continuous, and systematic.’ [Citation.] Where
the contacts are sufficiently substantial, continuous, and systematic, it is
not necessary that the cause of action alleged be connected with the defendant’s
business relationship to the forum. [Citation.] However, ‘contacts that are
random, fortuitous, or attenuated do not rise to the minimum level, and general
jurisdiction cannot be exercised under these circumstances.’ [Citation.] If a
defendant’s contacts with the forum state are not substantial, continuous, and
systematic, the defendant may be subject to specific jurisdiction.” (Shisler
v. Sanfer Sports Cars, Inc. (2006) 146 Cal.App.4th 1254, 1258-59.) 
 
Although the defendant is the moving party, the burden of
proof is on the plaintiff to demonstrate sufficient minimum contacts exist. (Milhon
v. Superior Court (1985) 169 Cal.App.3d 703, 710 [“[W]hen jurisdiction is
challenged by a nonresident defendant, the burden of proof is upon the
plaintiff to demonstrate that ‘minimum contacts’ exists between defendant and
the forum state to justify imposition of personal jurisdiction.”]; see also Floveyor
International, Ltd. V. Superior Court (1997) 59 Cal.App.4th 789,
793.) If the plaintiff is able to meet this burden, the burden shifts to the
defendant to demonstrate the exercise of jurisdiction would be unreasonable. (Buchanan
v. Soto (2015) 241 Cal.App.4th 1353, 1362.)
 
Discussion
 
General Jurisdiction
 
Plaintiffs argue that general jurisdiction over Moving
Defendants is proper because Moving Defendants are alter egos of Com2us USA,
which is itself located in California.
 
“In California, two conditions must be met before the alter
ego doctrine will be invoked. First, there must be such a unity of interest and
ownership between the corporation and its equitable owner that the separate
personalities of the corporation and the shareholder do not in reality exist.
Second, there must be an inequitable result if the acts in question are treated
as those of the corporation alone.” (Sonora Diamond Corp. v. Superior Court
(2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 523, 538.) When these conditions are met, courts
disregard the corporate structure and impute the actions of a corporation onto
its owner or parent. (McLaughlin v. L. Bloom Sons Co. (1962) 206
Cal.App.2d 848, 851-852.)
 
In determining whether to apply the doctrine, California
courts consider a number of factors which include but are not limited to (1)
inadequate capitalization, (2) commingling of funds, records, and other assets,
(3) disregard of corporate formalities (e.g., stock issuance, holding board
meetings, keeping of minutes, election of officers and directors, segregation
of corporate records), (4) the same equitable ownership in the two entities,
(5) the same directors and officers, (6) confusion about corporate identity,
(7) use of the same offices and employees, (8) use of subsidiary as a mere
shell or conduit for the affairs of the parent, and (9) lack of segregation of
corporate records. (Brooklyn Navy Yard Cogeneration Partners, L.P. v.
Superior Court (Parsons Corp.) (1997) 60 Cal.App.4th 248, 258.) 
 
Plaintiffs have shown that Com2us USA shares ownership and
some directors and officers with Com2us Holdings and Com2us Corp. However, the
only evidence they provide of a breakdown of the walls between these companies
is that they retweeted the Whitepaper. That is not enough. The fact that the
companies shared the same Tweet as their affiliates regarding an enterprise
that they were engaging in does not show that the corporate walls have broken
down and one company is a puppet of the other.
 
The Court does not find that Plaintiffs have established
general jurisdiction.
 
Specific Jurisdiction
 
“‘A court may exercise specific jurisdiction over a
nonresident defendant only if: (1) “the defendant has purposefully availed
himself or herself of forum benefits” [citation]; (2) “the ‘controversy is
related to or “arises out of” [the] defendant’s contacts with the forum’ ”
[citations]; and (3) “ ‘the assertion of personal jurisdiction would comport
with “fair play and substantial justice.” ’ ” [Citations.]’ ” (Shisler v.
Sanfer Sports Cars, Inc. (2006) 146 Cal.App.4th 1254, 1258-59.) 
 
“For claims sounding in contract, courts generally apply a
purposeful availment’ ” analysis, where the focus is on the defendant's
intentionality. [Citation.] This [inquiry] is only satisfied when the defendant
purposefully and voluntarily directs his activities toward the forum so that he
should expect, by virtue of the benefit he receives, to be subject to the
court's jurisdiction based on’ his contacts with the forum. [Citation.]” (Casey
v. Hill (2022) 79 Cal.App.5th 937, 965 [quotation marks omitted].)  “For claims sounding in tort, courts generally
apply a purposeful direction test and look to evidence that the defendant has
directed his actions at the forum state, even if those actions took place
elsewhere.” (Casey v. Hill, supra, 79 Cal.App.5th at p. 965
[quotation marks omitted].)
 
“[The Supreme Court has] never framed the specific
jurisdiction inquiry as always requiring proof of causation—i.e., proof that
the plaintiff ’s claim came about because of the defendant's in-state conduct.”
(Ford Motor Company v. Montana Eighth Judicial District Court (2021) 592
U.S. 351, 362.) “[F]orum contacts need not be directed at the plaintiff in
order to warrant the exercise of specific jurisdiction, and that the “arising
out of or relating to” standard is in the disjunctive, and is intended as a relaxed,
flexible standard, rather than one requiring that the plaintiff's claim arise
out of the forum contact in any narrow sense.” (Vons Companies, Inc. v.
Seabest Foods, Inc. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 434, 455.) “The United States Supreme
Court has stated more than once that the nexus required to establish specific
jurisdiction is between the defendant, the forum, and the litigation
[citations]—not between the plaintiff and the defendant.” (Id at p. 458,
citing Helicopteros Nacionales de Colombia, S.A. v. Hall (1984) 466 U.S.
408, 411 and Shaffer v. Heitner (1977) 433 U.S. 186, 204.)
 
            Plaintiffs’
claims here sound in tort. The Court therefore applies the purposeful direction
test and looks to evidence that Moving Defendants directed their actions at
California.
 
            Plaintiffs
argue that the entities’ retweeting of the Whitepaper purposefully directed
conduct at California. The Court disagrees. The website Twitter is accessible
in most countries worldwide. Merely posting a Tweet is not sufficient to
constitute purposeful direction toward every jurisdiction where users can
routinely access Twitter.
 
            The
terms of service pages for the two entities similarly indicate that they
contemplated that California users would access the website. However,
Plaintiffs do not explain how there is a substantial relationship between the
entities’ publicly available websites, and the alleged misrepresentations
spread on the independent website Twitter.
 
            While
Com2us Corp. was previously registered in California leading up to the
establishment of Com2us USA, it ended its registration in 2010, well before the
events that gave rise to this lawsuit.
 
            The
individual Moving Defendants similarly did not have conduct that showed
purposeful direction of tortious activity towards California. Byung Joon Song
and Jae Joon Song’s use of telephone and video calls to appear at Com2us USA
board meetings, which were held in California, is insufficient on its own. And
Plaintiffs have argued no connection between the individual defendants’ visits
to California and the facts underlying this litigation.
 
            The
Court finds that Plaintiffs have not shown that the Moving Defendants
purposefully directed their conduct at California such that the exercise of
personal jurisdiction would comport with principals of fair play and
substantial justice.
 
            Plaintiffs
request the opportunity to seek additional jurisdictional discovery on the
basis that Moving Defendants’ existing jurisdictional discovery responses are
evasive and incomplete. However, Plaintiffs have not sought to compel further
responses from any of the Moving Defendants. The Court is not persuaded that
additional jurisdictional discovery would unveil facts warranting the exercise
of personal jurisdiction over Moving Defendants.
 
            The
Court therefore grants the motion.