 Case Number:  22PSCV00888    Hearing Date:   November 1, 2023    Dept:  O Tentative Ruling
 
DEFENDANTS KHATRI INTERNATIONAL, INC. AND DILIP MULCHAND
KHATRI’S NOTICE OF MOTION AND MOTION FOR DETERMINATION OF GOOD FAITH SETTLEMENT
is DENIED. 
 
Background
 
This case pertains to the evacuation of over 150 residents
at the condominium units located at Diamond Bar Village (“DBV”). Plaintiffs,
the owners of condominium units, allege the following against Defendants THE
AVALON MANAGEMENT GROUP, INC. (“Avalon”), a California corporation; DIAMOND BAR
VILLAGE ASSOCIATION (“HOA” or “DBV”), a California nonprofit corporation; LARRY
CARMACK, an individual; JAMES HOPKINS, an individual; KHATRI INTERNATIONAL,
INC., a Nevada corporation and DIPLIP MULCHAND KHATRI, an individual
(collectively, “Khatri Defendants” or “Khatri”); RKA CONSULTING GROUP, a California
corporation (“RKA”); CITY OF DIAMOND BAR, a governmental entity (occasionally
referred to as the “City”): On September 27, 2021, Defendants Avalon and the
HOA sent an e-mail to all the residents and owners of DBV, including
Plaintiffs, advising them for the first time that all the residents may need to
evacuate the Subject Property due to “impending risk to the health and safety
of residents from the roof rafter conditions.” (First Amended Complaint (FAC) ¶75.) The City’s Notice and
Order to Vacate DBV (“Vacate Order”) referenced a 2017 report that found
similar problems with Termite, Dry Rot, and structural damage. However,
Plaintiffs were not informed about the 2017 report; therefore, the first time
Plaintiffs learned of any possible massive evacuation was in 2021. That said,
the Vacate Order was rescinded because on October 25, 2021, Plaintiffs’ own
structural engineer determined that there was no imminent threat of collapse to
the buildings at DBV. Although the Vacate Order had been rescinded by the City,
Plaintiffs still suffered damages because they “had to pay their tenants
relocation fees and lost rent for months . . . and had to live through the
chaos, discomfort, trash being dumped everywhere, the swimming pool being green
and full of mosquitos, the lack of maintenance to the Subject Property, the
news reporters being at the Subject Property, and the threat of fines and
penalties being levied by the City and being arrested by the police for failure
to vacate by October 18, 2021.” (FAC ¶100.) Plaintiffs seek damages in excess of two million dollars.
(See Prayer for Relief, FAC p. 42.)
 
On August 18, 2022, Plaintiffs filed suit against Defendants
for: 1.    
Negligence (Against Avalon) 2.    
Negligence (Against The Hoa, Larry Carmack, James
Hopkins) 3.    
Negligence (Against Khatri Defendants) 4.    
Negligence (Against Rka The City) And 5.    
Accounting (Against Avalon)
 
On October 13, 2022, non-party Tressler LLP filed a ‘Notice
of Attorney Lien Claim Against Judgment or Settlement.’ 
 
On October 24, 2022, Defendant City of Diamond Bar (“the
City”) filed a Demurrer to Plaintiffs’ Complaint, which on 12/22/22 the court
sustained with leave to amend (only as to issue of estoppel). 
 
On November 2, 202, Defendant RKA Consulting Group filed its
Answer to Plaintiffs’ Complaint and also filed a Cross-Complaint against
Defendants Khatri International Inc. and Diplip Mulchand Khatri for: 1.    
Comparative Indemnity and Apportionment of Fault, 2.    
Total Equitable Indemnity; 3.    
Declaratory Relief; 4.    
Express Contractual Indemnity; and 5.    
Breach of Contract
 
On November 7, 2022, default was entered against the
following two (2) Defendants: James Hopkins and the Avalon Management Group, Inc,
which per stipulation was set aside on 12/09/22 and that same day Avalon filed
its answer. 
 
On January 19, 2023, Avalon filed a substitution of
attorney.
 
On January 14, 2023, Khatri Defendants withdrew their motion
to strike.
 
On February 1, 2023, Plaintiffs filed their first amended
complaint (FAC) reasserting the same COAs against the same defendants.
 
On February 7, 2023, the Khatri Defendants filed their
answer to the FAC.
 
On March 7, 2023, RKA filed its answer to the FAC.
 
On April 4, 2023, a stipulation was filed and granted to
stay the case pending mediation and to extend the deadline for all parties to
file their answer to the FAC.
 
On June 26, 2023, Avalon filed its answer to the FAC and
that same day filed a cross-complaint (“CC”) against all other named defendants
(DBV, Cormack, Hopkins, Khatri Defendants, RKA, and City of Diamond Bar for: 
 
1.    
Express Indemnity
2.    
Comparative Indemnity
3.    
Contribution
4.    
Equitable Indemnity 
5.    
Declaratory Relief
 
On July 11, 2023, Plaintiffs filed a Notice of Conditional
Settlement Regarding Defendant, City of Diamond Bar, a Governmental Entity.
 
On July 28, 2023, RKA filed its answer to Avalon’s
cross-complaint.
 
On July 28, 2023, Plaintiffs dismissed two of the Plaintiffs
(Yuet Ching Lam and Ryan Ka Zhun Mai). 
 
On August 4, 2023, the City filed a GFS motion. 
 
On September 5, 2023, the court took the GFS motion under
submission. Also, the order noted that “The Court informs all parties that the
Motion to Strike (not anti-SLAPP) - without Demurrer will NOT be moving forward
on the next court date.” Therefore, the motion to strike (which is unopposed)
is taken off calendar. 
 
On September 6, 2023, the court granted the GFS motion.
 
On August 15, 2023, Plaintiffs filed a Notice Of Conditional
Settlement Regarding Defendants, Khatri International, Inc., A Nevada
Corporation, And Dilip Mulchand Khatri, An Individual.
 
On September 8, 2023, Defendant Avalon filed a MOTION FOR
PROTECTIVE ORDER REGARDING PRIVILEGED DOCUMENTS AND E-DISCOVERY OF EMAILS,
which on 10/25/2023 was taken off calendar. 
 
On September 14, 2023, Khatri Defendants filed the
instant GFS motion.
 
On September 20, 2023, Khatri Defendants filed an answer to
Avalon’s cross-complaint.
 
On September 21, 2023, Avalon filed an Objection to
[PROPOSED] JUDGMENT RE CITY OF DIAMOND BAR’S MOTON FOR DETERMINATION OF GOOD
FAITH SETTLEMENT, indicating that “Code of Civil Procedure Section 877.6
provides that upon the granting of such a motion, certain cross-complaints
against the settling party are barred. The statute, however, does not provide
for a Judgment to be entered against cross-complainants. The City is not
entitled to a Judgment against Avalon, and Avalon therefore objects.”
 
On September 25, 2023, the HOA filed its answer to Avalon’s
CC. 
 
On September 25, 2023, the court entered its order regarding
the City’s GFS motion.
 
On September 29, 2023, Plaintiffs filed a ‘NOTICE OF
NONOPPOSITION TO THE MOTION FOR DETERMINATION OF GOOD FAITH SETTLEMENT BY
DEFENDANTS, KHATRI INTERNATIONAL, INC. AND DILIP MULCHAND KHATRI.’
 
On October 11, 2023, the HOA filed its first amended answer.

 
On October 17, 2023, Avalon filed a motion for summary
judgment (“MSJ”) to Plaintiff’s FAC, with a scheduled hearing on 1/31/2024. 
 
On October 19, 2023, RKA and Avalon filed their respective
oppositions to Khatri’s GFS Motion. 
 
On October 25, 2023, Khatri filed its respective Replies to
RKA’s and Avalon’s oppositions to the GFS motion. 
 
Legal Standard
 
Under section 877.6 of the California Code of Civil
Procedure,[1] “[a] determination by the court that [a] settlement was
made in good faith shall bar any other joint tortfeasor . . . from any further
claims against the settling tortfeasor . . . for equitable comparative
contribution, or partial or comparative indemnity, based on comparative
negligence or comparative fault.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6, subd. (c).) “The party
asserting the lack of good faith has the burden of proof on that issue.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 877.6, subd. (d).) “If contested, declarations by the non-settlor
should be filed which in many cases could require the moving party to file
responsive counter declarations to negate the lack of good faith asserted by
the non-settling contesting party.” (City of Grand Terrace v. Superior Court
(1987) 192 Cal.App.3d 1251, 1262.)
 
In Tech-Bilt, Inc. v. Woodward-Clyde & Associates
(1985) 38 Cal.3d 488 (Tech-Bilt), the California Supreme Court set forth
the factors to consider when determining whether a settlement was made in good
faith. The Tech-Bilt factors are: 
 
(1) A rough
approximation of plaintiff’s total recovery and the settlor’s proportionate
liability; 
(2) The
amount paid in settlement; 
(3) The
allocation of settlement proceeds among plaintiffs;
(4) A
recognition that a settlor should pay less in settlement than he would if he
were found liable after a trial; 
(5) The
financial conditions and insurance policy limits of settling defendants; and 
(6) The
existence of collusion, fraud, or tortious conduct aimed to injure the
interests of the non-settling defendants.
 
(Tech-Bilt, supra, 38 Cal.3d at pp. 498-501.)
 
Thus, with a goal
of “allocating costs equitably among multiple tortfeasors” (id. at p.
502) and encouraging settlements among all interested parties, in a
trial court “must also consider the culpability of the tortfeasor vis-à-vis
other parties alleged to be responsible for the same injury. Potential
liability for indemnity to a nonsettling defendant is an important
consideration for the trial court in determining whether to approve a
settlement by an alleged tortfeasor.” (RKA Opp. p. 11, citing TSI Seismic
Tenant Space, Inc. v. Superior Court (2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 159, 166.)[2]
The court's failure
to consider this factor constitutes an abuse of discretion. (Id. at p.
168, citing Tech-Bilt, supra, 38 Cal.3d at p. 502.) 
 
In making its assessment, the showings must be supported by
sufficient evidence. (City of Grand Terrace,
supra, 192 Cal.App.3d at p. 1263) (emphasis added). This evidences
affidavits, declarations or other evidence that provide the court with the
facts necessary to evaluate the settlement in terms of the factors contemplated
by Tech-Bilt. (Ibid.) To exercise its discretion
in an appropriate fashion, there must at the very least need be sufficient
investigation and discovery as to each defendant’s liability. (See County of
Los Angeles v. Guerrero (1989) 209 Cal.App.3d 1149, 1156 [“The question of
whether a settlement meets the statutory requirement of good faith is one of
fact.”].)[3]
 
Discussion
 
Khatri Defendants seek an order determining that the
settlement between it and Plaintiffs for $250,000 was made in good faith, which
is about 13% of the $1.945 million total alleged damages. As already suggested
in the court’s ruling regarding the City’s GFS motion, this settlement does not
adequately represent Khatri’s proportionate liability.
 
Khatri brings forth the GFS motion on three predominant
grounds: (1) Khatri’s use of “red tag” in its reports was misinterpreted by the
City (through RKA/Tao), (2) there is lack of legal liability because Khatri
owed a duty to the HOA (who hired Khatri) not Plaintiffs, and (3) economic loss
rule bars Plaintiff’s recovery. 
 
1.    
The Khatri Reports 
 
Khatri maintains that the “RED tagged” language found in its
reports referred solely to Khatri’s Risk Rating of Green, Yellow and Red, and
not the colloquial “red tagging” of a building and that the 2021 Report did not
recommend immediate evacuation. (Motion p. 9.)
 
But a reading of the Khatri Reports provides that a reasonable,
objective interpretation of Khatri’s use of “red tag” is equivalent to that
used in the formal context of tagging a building. Take, for example, part of
the 2017 report. The 2017 report provides, in pertinent part, the following
survey of the building:
 
The Roof Rafters are severely
to critically damaged due to long term water/termite/dry rot damage. They will
have to replaced along with the plywood sheathing. . .  Moisture damage . . . is extensive . . . The
edge Facia Beams are extensively damaged and should be replaced . . . The
Buildings have extensive damage but do not pose an immediate life safety
threat, at the time of this inspection. 
The owners are urged to address these damaged areas promptly to avoid
further risk to the occupants.
 
Thus, though the 2017 Report states
that there is no impending, immediate danger to the residents’ safety,
the severe and critically damaged structural integrities poses a danger, hence
the need to promptly cure the defects. 
 
Then, take the 2021 Report, which
provides in pertinent part, the following:
 
3.1 Each building 2nd Floor units
are RED Tagged due to impending risk from the roof rafter conditions.
The occupancy on the 2nd floor must be vacated to allow
for safe inspection with destructive testing on all the roofs for all 12
buildings. No work can commence until the 2nd floor of 11 buildings are fully
evacuated.  3.2 The clubhouse is in
poor condition and is RED Tagged. Further investigation is necessary to
determine the scope of repair.  . . .
.  3.4 All Balcony Units are RED
Tagged with 2nd floor and should be evacuated promptly. (Motion
p. 9, quoting FAC ¶77, emphasis and underline added.) 
 
While Khatri may argue that section 3.1 of the 2021 Report
“did not recommend immediate evacuation” (Motion p. 9:19-20), that may be true
of section 3.1, but not the entirety of the report as section 3.4 suggests
prompt evacuation. To the extent that the word “immediate” was not used,
“prompt[]” is a synonym of immediate. To the extent that the “balconies” were
to be evacuated, balconies are a part of a unit. 
 
What is more, to the extent that Khatri denotes RKA/Tao
“misinterpreted” the reports, Khatri themselves describe section 3.1 being in
“contrast” to section 3.4 (Motion p. 9:21-22), suggesting a contradiction.
Plus, the Englekirk report notes “imprecise language” used in the Khatri
Reports (p. 131 of 264 of PDF (or p. 2 of 3 of Englekirk Report).[4]
Effectively, any misinterpretation was created by Khatri. Simply put,
that “different engineers c[a]me to different conclusions” (Motion p. 17:4-5)
all but indicates that the Reports were unclear as to the exact scope
of the problems and the exact recommendation, negating that Khatri bears
little if any liability. It was Khatri who was hired to make the initial
assessment/report, not RKA/Tao. 
 
Interpretations aside, the independent structural reports from
Cannon and Englekirk contradict Khatri's conclusions, underscoring the evidence
that Khatri negligently provided structural engineering services and made
incorrect conclusions as to the structural integrity of the property/buildings
and is therefore largely responsible for Plaintiffs' alleged damages as it
pertains to the vacate order.[5]

 
Therefore, as “red tag” was used by Khatri to mean “high
risk” and the 2021 Reports were replete with “numerous maintenance
items” (FAC, Ex. 6 [Cannon Report], p. 129 of 264 of PDF) and said reports were
used by RKA/Tao to decide upon the Vacate order[6]—the
evidence undermines Khatri’s predominant argument that any
misinterpretation by the City, RKA/Tao does not import liability onto Khatri.[7]
Without evidentiary support that the purported settlement is proportionate to
the settling defendants' liability or its share of costs, the settlement is not
in good faith and will not be granted. 
 
2.     Lack of Duty for
Negligence[8]
 
Next, Khatri argues that in addition to its Reports not
evidencing liability, it argues that there is a lack of duty for negligence
because any duty owed was to the HOA, not the individual owners. (Motion p.
17:18-19.) 
 
Where parties do not have a contract (i.e., here no contract
between Khatri and the individual owners/Plaintiffs), a duty will otherwise be
imposed upon a finding of a “special relationship” between the two parties.
(Motion p. 17, citing Biakanja v. Irving (1958) 49 Cal.2d 647.) “The
determination whether in a specific case the defendant will be held liable to a
third person not in privity is a matter of policy and involves the balancing
of various factors, among which are the extent to which the transaction was
intended to affect the plaintiff, the foreseeability of harm to him,
the degree of certainty that the plaintiff suffered injury, the closeness of
the connection between the defendant's conduct and the injury suffered, the
moral blame attached to the defendant's conduct, and the policy of preventing
future harm.” (Id. at p. 650, emphasis added.) 
 
Here, though Khatri maintains that the transaction was
intended to benefit the HOA which is responsible for the maintenance of the
common areas, that is not so. The maintenance is for the benefit of
Plaintiffs as Plaintiffs live in the building and Plaintiffs
use the common areas. As to foreseeability, there is a connection between the
Khatri Reports and RKA/Tao/the City’s decision to issue the vacate order. After all, it was Khatri who was
hired to investigate “the extent of Termite, Dry Rot, and structural damage”
(FAC, Ex. 2 [2017 Report], p. 49 of 264 of PDF) to then “determine whether there
was an imminent threat of collapse to the buildings,” a determination that
would then inform “next steps.” (FAC ¶85.) As “next steps” entails subsequent
decision making—whether that be made by Khatri or another
individual/entity—it is thus foreseeable that harm could be done to Plaintiffs
should the original determination be inaccurate or unclear.  
 
3.    
Economic Loss Rule[9]
 
Lastly, Khatri Defendants argue that Plaintiffs have not
identified any property damage or personal injuries which are normally required
to sue another party for negligence. (Motion pp. 18-19.) But the economic loss
rule applies to situations between contracting parties: “[T]he economic
loss rule prevents the law of contract and the law of tort from dissolving one
into the other.” (Sheen v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2022) 12 Ca.5th 905,
922; see also ibid, quoting Rest., § 3 [“[T]here is no liability in tort
for economic loss caused by negligence in the
performance
or negotiation of a contract between the parties.”].) As Khatri and Plaintiffs,
by Khatri’s own characterization, are not in privity of contract, the court is
uncertain as to the use of the economic loss rule as a defense.  
 
 
 
 
Conclusion
 
In summary, Khatri Defendants have not set
forth sufficient evidence to indicate that they bear sufficiently far less
proportionality for liability when it is its report that RKA/Tao/City relied
upon. To settle with Plaintiffs for a mere 13% of the alleged total damages
would create an unfair burden on the remaining Defendants/cross-Defendants.
Based on the foregoing, the motion is denied.


