


[1]
Intervenors 16-page opposition violates both the 15-page limit of CRC 3.1113(d)
and the court’s order.  Intervenors’ counsel
is admonished that the 15-page limit does not mean 15 pages plus a signature
page.


            [2]
SAR 6594 is not included in the joint appendix.


[3]
The court adopts the Commission’s and Intervenors’ use of the acronym “SCS” for
the species subject to CalTrout’s petition,
both its anadromous and resident life histories and below impassible barriers
from San Luis Obispo County to the U.S./Mexico border, “steelhead” for the
anadromous O. mykiss that travel to
the ocean to mature before returning to freshwater to spawn, “resident” or
“rainbow trout” for the O. mykiss
that spend their entire lives in freshwater, and “federally listed steelhead” for
the distinct population segment of steelhead listed as endangered under the federal ESA.


[4]
The 12 factors are: (1) Population trend;
(2) Range; (3) Distribution;
(4) Abundance; (5) Life history
of a species; (6) Factors affecting the ability to survive and reproduce; (7)
Degree and immediacy of threat; (8) Impact of existing management efforts; (9)
Suggestions for future management; (10) Availability and sources of
information; (11) Kind of habitat necessary for survival; and (12) A detailed
distribution map.  F&G Code
§§ 2072.3, 2074.2; 14 CCR
§§ 670.1(b), 670.1(d), 670.1(e)(1).  


          [5]
The Commission notes that, like CBD, NRDC overturned the
Commission’s finding that a listing petition did not meet the “may be
warranted” standard as an abuse of discretion. 
In NRDC¸ the court
found that the Commission applied too strict a standard when it interpreted
F&G Code section 2074.2’s phrase that
the “petition provides sufficient information to indicate that the petitioned
action may be warranted” to mean that it must be “reasonably probable that listing will occur.”  28 Cal.App.4th at 1116, 1120 (emphasis
added).  F&G Code section 2074.2 only requires a “substantial possibility that
listing could
occur.”  Id.
at 1125 (emphasis added).  Comm. Opp. at
16-17.  


[6]
District argues that Intervenors miss the mark in arguing that juvenile steelhead
and rainbow trout are difficult to distinguish like the salamanders in CBD
and therefore CalTrout’s petition should be accepted “despite extremely limited
information in one or more categories”.  Int. Opp. at 12.  Unlike the CBD petition which sought
to protect only the native salamander species, CalTrout’s petition seeks to
protect both resident and anadromous forms of O. mykiss.  Any difficulty in distinguishing between the
two forms is a red herring since a total population number for the species to
be protected (both resident and anadromous) can be reasonably estimated.  The reason why CalTrout’s petition did not
include such overall estimates is simple and was admitted by Cal Trout:
resident O. mykiss are abundant and would not qualify for CESA
protection.  AR 622, 1303. 
Reply at 8.        
District misunderstands the reason why Intervenors raised
the nearly indistinguishable nature of juvenile rainbow trout and
steelhead.  Intervenors did not contend
that this fact made it hard to estimate populations but rather pointed out that
CalTrout’s petition and DFW both concluded that it would be practically
impossible to protect only juvenile steelhead and not juvenile rainbow
trout.  Int. Opp. at 12.


[7]
The statewide abundance of rainbow trout, including those above barriers to
anadromy, does not factor into the Commission’s assessment whether SCS -- defined
as O. mykiss below complete barriers to anadromy -- may qualify for CESA
protections.  Int. Opp. at 13, n. 7.


            [8]
The relief District seeks also is unavailable. 
District asks that the court “order the Commission to reconsider the [2084
exception] to provide for incidental take of resident O. mykiss on projects subject to an ongoing court order.”  But the APA
does not give courts authority to order agencies to undertake new rulemaking;
the court can only issue a declaration as to the validity of the
regulation.   Govt.
Code §11350(a).  See Comm. Opp. at
18.

