  Case Number:  24TRCV00284    Hearing Date:   January 22, 2025    Dept:  M 
LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT – SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 




 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka     Wednesday, January 22, 2025 
Department M    Calendar No. 22  



 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Diane
Valine, et al. v. Derek A. Treherne, et al. 

24TRCV00284
1.      Derek A. Treherne, et al.’s Demurrer to First Amended Complaint
2.     
Derek A.
Treheren, et al.’s Motion to Strike Portions of First Amended Complaint   
 
TENTATIVE RULING

Derek A. Treherne, et al.’s Demurrer to First Amended
Complaint is overruled. 
 
Derek A. Treherne, et al.’s Motion to Strike Portions
of First Amended Complaint is denied.
 
Background
 
Plaintiffs’ Complaint was filed on January 26, 2024.
The First Amended Complaint was filed on September 3, 2024. Plaintiffs allege the
following facts. The Defendants own property adjacent to Plaintiffs’ property
and Defendants have allowed trees to grow in a manner that blocks Plaintiffs’
view. In support of their contention that Defendants have acted willfully and
intentionally, Plaintiffs allege that Defendants have also harassed and
threatened Plaintiffs.  Plaintiffs allege
the following causes of action: 1. Continuing Private Nuisance – Spite Fence;
2. Violation of Rancho Palos Verdes Municipal Code Section 17.76.030.   
 
            Meet and Confer
             
            Defendants set forth meet and confer
declarations in sufficient compliance with CCP § 430.41 and CCP § 435.5.  (Decls., Charles Peterson.) 
 
            Requests for Judicial Notice
            
Defendants’ requests for judicial notice, filed on
October 2, 2024, are granted pursuant to Evidence Code § 452(d).
 
Defendants’ request for judicial notice, filed on
January 15, 2025, is denied. The request was submitted with the Reply thus
denying Plaintiffs the opportunity to respond. Further, in any event, if the
Court had taken judicial notice, the Court could only have taken judicial
notice of the existence of this document and not the truth of any matters
asserted therein. Further, the existence of this document would not, in any
way, affect Plaintiffs’ right to assert the causes of action herein. 
 
            Demurrer

A demurrer tests the sufficiency of a
complaint as a matter of law and raises only questions of law. (Schmidt v.
Foundation Health (1995) 35 Cal.App.4th 1702, 1706.)  In testing the sufficiency of the complaint,
the court must assume the truth of (1) the properly pleaded factual
allegations; (2) facts that can be reasonably inferred from those expressly
pleaded; and (3) judicially noticed matters. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39
Cal.3d 311, 318.)  The Court may not
consider contentions, deductions, or conclusions of fact or law.  (Moore v. Conliffe (1994) 7 Cal.App.4th
634, 638.) Because a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of a complaint, the
plaintiff must show that the complaint alleges facts sufficient to establish
every element of each cause of action.  (Rakestraw
v. California Physicians Service (2000) 81 Cal.App.4th 39, 43.)  Where the complaint fails to state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action, courts should sustain the demurrer.
 (C.C.P., § 430.10(e); Zelig v. County
of Los Angeles (2002) 27 Cal.App.4th 1112, 1126.)
Sufficient facts are the essential facts
of the case "with reasonable precision and with particularity sufficiently
specific to acquaint the defendant with the nature, source, and extent of his
cause of action.”  (Gressley v.
Williams (1961) 193 Cal.App.2d 636, 643-644.)  "Whether the plaintiff will be able to
prove the pleaded facts is irrelevant to ruling upon the demurrer."  (Stevens v. Superior Court (1986) 180
Cal.App.3d 605, 609–610.)  Under Code
Civil Procedure § 430.10(f), a demurrer may also be sustained if a complaint is
“uncertain.”  Uncertainty exists where a
complaint’s factual allegations are so confusing they do not sufficiently
apprise a defendant of the issues it is being asked to meet.  (Williams v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp.
(1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 135, 139, fn. 2.)
Defendants demur to the second cause of
action for failure to state facts sufficient to state a cause of action.  
Second Cause of Action for
Violation of Rancho Palos Verdes Municipal Code Section 17.76.030 
 
            Defendants’ demurrer to the second
cause of action is overruled. Plaintiffs state facts sufficient to state a
cause of action. 
 
            Defendants’ primary argument is that
Plaintiffs lack standing to assert this cause of action. Defendants point to
the following authorities: Rancho Palos Verdes Municipal Code Section
17.76.030, Section 17.86.040, and Cohen v. Superior Court of Los Angeles
County (2024) 102 Cal.App.5th 706. (The Court notes that review has been
granted in Cohen but it remains citable pending a decision by the
California Supreme Court.)
 
            Rancho Palos Verdes Municipal Code
Section 17.76.030 is too lengthy for the Court to recite verbatim here.
However, the Court has reviewed this section. There is no specific provision in
this Section which would definitively establish that Plaintiffs lack standing. Defendants
also rely, in part, on Rancho Palos Verdes Municipal Court Section 17.86.040
which states: “It shall be the duty of the director or an authorized agent of
the director to enforce the provisions of this title. This duty shall include
taking such legal action as may be necessary to ensure compliance.” This
section outlines that the director or agent of the director has a “duty” to
enforce the provisions of the title, but, again, it does not definitively state
that private citizens cannot bring their own private actions pursuant to provision
of the title.
 
            In Cohen, the Court of Appeal
held that a private homeowner could not bring a private action against their
neighbors for a violation of a local Los Angeles City ordinance. Cohen
specifically held that Government Code Section 36900 precluded such a private
right of action. Section 36900 states, in relevant part: “The violation of a
city ordinance may be prosecuted by city authorities in the name of the people
of the State of California, or redressed by civil action.” Gov. Code, § 36900(a).
Also, importantly, Cohen acknowledged the right to bring a private right
of action can also be found in case law authority. “The authorities cited by
the [Plaintiffs] establish that an individual may file suit based on another's
violation of an ordinance when he or she: (1) suffers a special injury to
himself in person or property of a character different in kind from that
suffered by the general public; or (2) is a member of the community for whose
particular welfare the ordinance was enacted.” Cohen v. Superior Court
(2024) 102 Cal.App.5th 706, 728 (internal quotations omitted). The Court of
Appeal acknowledged this alternative method of pleading standing and stated
that the Plaintiffs had failed to plead facts under this method of pleading as
well. Id. at 728-29.
 
            However, here, the instant FAC does
allege facts demonstrating a special injury to property different than that
suffered by the general public – namely the obstruction and elimination of the
views that Plaintiffs once enjoyed. (FAC, ¶¶ 13-19.) Second, Plaintiffs have
alleged facts that they are a member of the community for whose welfare the
ordinance was enacted. (FAC, ¶ 40.) Thus, for the foregoing reasons, Plaintiffs
have alleged facts to demonstrate standing to pursue the second cause of
action.
 
            The demurrer to the second cause of
action is overruled.
 
            Motion
to Strike  
 
The court may, upon a motion, or at any
time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant,
false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading.  CCP § 436(a). 
The court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or
filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of
the court.  CCP § 436(b).  The grounds for a motion to strike are that
the pleading has irrelevant, false or improper matter, or has not been drawn or
filed in conformity with laws.  CCP §
436.  The grounds for moving to strike
must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice.  CCP § 437.
 
Defendants move to strike numerous
allegations. Rather than repeat all the allegations here, since the items are
lengthy, the Court refers the parties to the notice of motion. 
 
As to the allegations of the FAC, page 5,
lines 3-6, and page 6, line 17, the motion to strike is denied. The allegations
may be relevant to support the claim for punitive damages and also to support the
elements of Civil Code § 841.4 which states: “Any fence or other structure in
the nature of a fence unnecessarily exceeding 10 feet in height maliciously erected
or maintained for the purpose of annoying the owner or occupant of
adjoining property is a private nuisance. Any owner or occupant of adjoining
property injured either in his comfort or the enjoyment of his estate by such
nuisance may enforce the remedies against its continuance prescribed in Title
3, Part 3, Division 4 of this code.” Cal. Civ. Code § 841.4 (emphasis added).
The allegations may be relevant to support the “annoyance” element.
 
As to the rest of the allegations sought
to be stricken, the allegations may be relevant to support the claim for
punitive damages.
 
Civ. Code, § 3294 states, in relevant
part:
“(a) In an action for the breach of an
obligation not arising from contract, where it is proven by clear and
convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or
malice, the plaintiff, in addition to the actual damages, may recover damages
for the sake of example and by way of punishing the defendant.
(b) An employer shall not be liable for
damages pursuant to subdivision (a), based upon acts of an employee of the
employer, unless the employer had advance knowledge of the unfitness of the
employee and employed him or her with a conscious disregard of the rights or
safety of others or authorized or ratified the wrongful conduct for which the
damages are awarded or was personally guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.
With respect to a corporate employer, the advance knowledge and conscious
disregard, authorization, ratification or act of oppression, fraud, or malice
must be on the part of an officer, director, or managing agent of the
corporation.”
 
Plaintiffs have alleged sufficient
specific facts that Defendants acted willfully, maliciously, intentionally,
and/or recklessly to support Plaintiffs’ allegations of punitive damages under
these causes of action. In addition, the allegations are not on their face
false, irrelevant, or improper. 
 
“A nuisance may be either a negligent or
an intentional tort. If the latter, then exemplary damages are recoverable[.]” Stoiber
v. Honeychuck (1980) 101 Cal.App.3d 903, 920. Here, Plaintiffs plead facts
to attempt to assert that Defendants have acted in an intentional, malicious,
and reckless manner in maintaining the nuisance to support the claim for
punitive damages. The allegations may be relevant to support that claim.
 
Finally, Defendants move to strike certain
items that Plaintiffs alleged upon “information and belief.” “[P]laintiff may
allege on information and belief any matters that are not within his personal
knowledge, if he has information leading him to believe that the allegations
are true and thus a pleading made on information and belief is insufficient if
it merely assert[s] the facts so alleged without alleging such information that
lead[s] [the plaintiff] to believe that the allegations are true.”  Gomes v. Countrywide Home Loans, Inc.
(2011) 192 Cal.App.4th 1149, 1158–1159 (internal citations and quotations are
omitted; emphasis in original.) As to the allegations made on “information and
belief,” Plaintiffs have alleged sufficient facts throughout the FAC made with
their own personal knowledge that would support the contention that their
belief is true. 
 
Therefore, the motion to strike is denied.

 
Defendants are ordered to file and serve
an Answer within 10 days of this date. 
 
Plaintiffs are ordered to give notice of
this ruling.