 Case Number:  24TRCV04188    Hearing Date:   January 22, 2025    Dept:  M LOS ANGELES
SUPERIOR COURT – SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 
 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                         Wednesday, January 22, 2025 Department M                                                                                                  Calendar No. 20
 
  
PROCEEDINGS
 
Jorge
Ibarra, et al. v. Interinsurance Exchange of the Automobile Club, et al.
24TRCV04188
1.      Jose Ibarra, et al.’s Motion to Compel Arbitration,
Selection of Arbitrator, and Schedule a Return Date   
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Jose Ibarra, et al.’s Motion to Compel Arbitration, Selection
of Arbitrator, and Schedule a Return Date is denied. 
 
Background 
 
Plaintiffs filed the Petition to Compel Underinsured
Arbitration on December 11, 2024.  Plaintiffs allege the following facts.
Plaintiffs were passengers in a Lyft vehicle which was covered by Defendants’
insurance policies. 
 
Motion to
Compel Arbitration
 
“California law reflects a strong public policy in
favor of arbitration as a relatively quick and inexpensive method for resolving
disputes.  [Citation.]  To further
that policy, [Code of Civil Procedure] section 1281.2 requires a trial court to
enforce a written arbitration agreement unless one of three limited exceptions
applies.  [Citation.]  Those statutory exceptions arise where (1) a
party waives the right to arbitration; (2) grounds exist for revoking the
arbitration agreement; and (3) pending litigation with a third party creates
the possibility of conflicting rulings on common factual or legal issues.  (§ 1281.2, subds. (a)–(c).)”  Acquire II, Ltd. v. Colton Real Estate
Group (2013) 213 Cal.App.4th 959, 967. 
 
“The petitioner bears the
burden of proving the existence of a valid arbitration agreement by the
preponderance of the evidence, and a party opposing the petition bears the
burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence any fact necessary to its
defense.  In these summary proceedings,
the trial court sits as a trier of fact, weighing all the affidavits,
declarations, and other documentary evidence, as well as oral testimony
received at the court’s discretion, to reach a final determination.”  Giuliano v. Inland Empire Personnel, Inc.
(2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 1276, 1284.
 
“The party opposing
arbitration has the burden of demonstrating that an arbitration clause cannot
be interpreted to require arbitration of the dispute.  Nonetheless, this policy does not override
ordinary principles of contract interpretation. 
[T]he contractual terms themselves must be carefully examined before the
parties to the contract can be ordered to arbitration:  Although [t]he law favors contracts for
arbitration of disputes between parties, there is no policy compelling persons
to accept arbitration of controversies which they have not agreed to
arbitrate.”  Rice v. Downs (2016)
247 Cal.App.4th 1213, 1223 (internal citations and quotations omitted). 
 
In Rowe v. Exline (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1276, 1286, the Court of
Appeal found that “a nonsignatory sued as an agent of a signatory may enforce
an arbitration agreement.”  Id. at 1286.  In addition, “a nonsignatory who is the agent
of a signatory can even be compelled to arbitrate claims against his
will.”  Id. at 1285, citing Harris v. Superior Court (1986) 188
Cal.App.3d 475, 477–78.  Further, “in
many cases, nonparties to arbitration agreements are allowed to enforce those
agreements where there is sufficient identity of parties.”  Valley
Casework, Inc. v. Comfort Construction, Inc. (1999) 76 Cal.App.4th 1013,
1021.  This includes nonparties as agents
of a party as well as “a third party beneficiary of an arbitration
agreement.”  Ibid.  
 
“Under the doctrine of
equitable estoppel, [...] a nonsignatory defendant may invoke an arbitration
clause to compel a signatory plaintiff to arbitrate its claims when the causes
of action against the nonsignatory are intimately founded in and intertwined
with the underlying contract obligations. By relying on contract terms in a
claim against a nonsignatory defendant, even if not exclusively, a plaintiff
may be equitably estopped from repudiating the arbitration clause contained in
that agreement. Where the equitable estoppel doctrine applies, the nonsignatory
has a right to enforce the arbitration agreement.” Felisilda v. FCA US LLC (2020)
53 Cal.App.5th 486, 495–96 (internal citations and quotations omitted).
 
Petitioner moves for an
order to compel arbitration, select an arbitrator, and schedule an arbitration
return date. The motion is made on the grounds that this matter is an uninsured
motorist action and that the applicable insurance policies compel arbitration
of the underlying matter. Petitioner states that Respondents refuse to
arbitrate this matter.  
 
Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2
states, in relevant part: “On petition of a party to an arbitration agreement
alleging the existence of a written agreement to arbitrate a controversy and
that a party to the agreement refuses to arbitrate that controversy, the
court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate the
controversy if it determines that an agreement to arbitrate the controversy
exists[. . .]” CCP § 1281.2 (emphasis added). 
 
The motion is denied because
it is evident that respondent Interinsurance Exchange of the Automobile Club
(“AAA”) does not refuse to arbitrate this controversy. In fact, AAA
specifically states: “Respondent AAA has agreed to arbitrate this matter. On
November 25, 2024, the respondent’s attorney sent a letter to the claimants’
attorney informing that the respondent has accepted the claimants’ demand for
arbitration.” (Opposition, page 4, lines 14-16.)
 
The parties are encouraged
to continue to meet and confer to come to an agreement on the name of the
arbitrator. While Petitioner makes a reference to “selection of arbitrator” in
the title and body of the motion, the instant motion is not brought as a motion
or petition to appoint arbitrator which is governed by CCP § 1281.6. No
reference to this statute was made in the motion and the specific provisions of
this section were not followed.
 
Code
Civ. Proc., § 1281.6 states:
 
“If
the arbitration agreement provides a method of appointing an arbitrator, that
method shall be followed. If the arbitration agreement does not provide a
method for appointing an arbitrator, the parties to the agreement who seek
arbitration and against whom arbitration is sought may agree on a method of
appointing an arbitrator and that method shall be followed. In the absence of
an agreed method, or if the agreed method fails or for any reason cannot be
followed, or when an arbitrator appointed fails to act and his or her successor
has not been appointed, the court, on petition of a party to the arbitration
agreement, shall appoint the arbitrator.
When
a petition is made to the court to appoint a neutral arbitrator, the court
shall nominate five persons from lists of persons supplied jointly by the
parties to the arbitration or obtained from a governmental agency concerned
with arbitration or private disinterested association concerned with
arbitration. The parties to the agreement who seek arbitration and against whom
arbitration is sought may within five days of receipt of notice of the nominees
from the court jointly select the arbitrator whether or not the arbitrator is
among the nominees. If the parties fail to select an arbitrator within the
five-day period, the court shall appoint the arbitrator from the nominees.”
 
Again, the Court encourages
the parties to meet and confer to avoid the need for the use of judicial
resources with a subsequent petition or motion to appoint arbitrator. 
 
Petitioner’s Motion to
Compel Arbitration is denied.
 
Respondent AAA is ordered to
give notice of this ruing.