  Case Number:  23STCV22242    Hearing Date:   April 25, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Amanda Lynch,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23STCV22242




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
The Guestology Group, Inc., et al., 


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date: April 25, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion to Compel Arbitration 
Moving Party: Defendant The Guestology Group, Inc.
Responding Party: Plaintiff Amanda Lynch
 
T/R:     DEFENDANT’S
MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION IS DENIED AS TO THE CLAIMS FOR SEXUAL HARASSMENT
AND DISCRIMINATION AND GRANTED AS TO THE REMAINING CLAIMS. 
            THE ACTION IS STAYED.
DEFENDANT TO NOTICE.
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please
email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing.
 
The Court considers the moving papers,
opposition, reply, and supplemental stipulation. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On September 14, 2023, Plaintiff filed
a complaint against Defendants, asserting nine causes of action for Labor Code
and FEHA violations, retaliation, and wrongful termination.
 
ANALYSIS
 
“On petition of a party to an
arbitration agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement to
arbitrate a controversy and that a party thereto refuses to arbitrate a
controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to
arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement to arbitrate the
controversy exists….”  (CCP §
1281.2.)  The right to compel arbitration
exists unless the court finds that the right has been waived by a party’s
conduct, other grounds exist for revocation of the agreement, or where a
pending court action arising out of the same transaction creates the
possibility of conflicting rulings on a common issue of law or fact.   (CCP § 1281.2(a)-(c).)  “The party seeking arbitration bears the
burden of proving the existence of an arbitration agreement, and the party
opposing arbitration bears the burden of proving any defense, such as
unconscionability.”  (Pinnacle Museum
Tower Assn. v. Pinnacle Market Development (US), LLC (2012) 55 Cal.4th 223,
236.) 
 
A.           Existence of
Arbitration Agreement and Applicable Law
 
Defendant moves to compel arbitration
based on the arbitration agreement executed by Plaintiff on July 10, 2022.
(Decl. Garcia, Exh. A.) The agreement provides, “The
employee identified below (‘Employee’) and [COMPANY] (‘Company’) agree to
utilize binding arbitration as the sole and exclusive means to resolve all
disputes that may arise between Employee and the Company” (Id.) The agreement states that it is governed by
the FAA. Plaintiff also executed an arbitration agreement with the former owner
of the business where she was employed on June 21, 2021. 
 
Defendant has met its burden to
establish an agreement to arbitrate. The burden shifts to Plaintiff to
establish any defenses to enforcement.
 
B. Enforceability of Agreement
 
1. Ending Forced Arbitration of
Sexual Assault and Sexual Harassment Act 
 
Plaintiff asserts that the agreement is
unenforceable under the Ending Forced Arbitration of Sexual Assault and Sexual
Harassment Act (“EFASASHA”), which provides, “...at the election of the person
alleging conduct constituting a sexual harassment dispute or sexual assault
dispute, or the named representative of a class or in a collective action
alleging such conduct, no predispute arbitration agreement or predispute
joint-action waiver shall be valid or enforceable with respect to a case which
is filed under Federal, Tribal, or State law and relates to the sexual assault
dispute or the sexual harassment dispute.” (9 U.S.C. § 402(a)). 
 
In reply and at argument, Defendant
contends that the sexual harassment claims arose prior to the effective date of
EFASASHA. Defendant relies on Kader v. Southern Calif. Medical Center, Inc. (2024) 99 Cal.App.5th
214, in which the Court of Appeal held that “the date that a dispute has arisen
for purposes of the Act depends on the unique facts of each case, but a dispute
does not arise merely from the fact of injury. For a dispute to arise, a party
must first assert a right, claim, or demand.” (Id. at 218.)
 
The Complaint does not
clearly allege when the dispute arose in this case. And Plaintiff’s declaration,
filed with her opposition to this motion, says only in conclusory fashion that she
was subject to “ongoing” harassment until her termination in August 2023. On
March 12, 2024 the Court continued the hearing on this motion, finding that a brief
deposition of Plaintiff is appropriate, limited to when the alleged incidents
of sexual harassment or sexual assault took place (at both Defendant and the
predecessor entity), and when the dispute arose as defined by Kader. The
parties conducted that deposition on March 26, 2024, and subsequently filed a
stipulation agreeing that Plaintiff’s claims for sexual harassment and
discrimination will remain in state court.
 
2. Unconscionability 
 
Plaintiff asserts that the arbitration
agreement is procedurally unconscionable as it is an adhesion contract.
Regarding procedural unconscionability, the California Supreme Court has found:
 
“[T]here are degrees of procedural unconscionability. At
one end of the spectrum are contracts that have been freely negotiated by
roughly equal parties, in which there is no procedural unconscionability . . .
. Contracts of adhesion that involve surprise or other sharp practices lie on
the other end of the spectrum. [Citation.] Ordinary contracts of adhesion,
although they are indispensable facts of modern life that are generally
enforced (see Graham v. Scissor–Tail, Inc. (1981) 28 Cal.3d 807,
817–818, 171 Cal.Rptr. 604, 623 P.2d 165), contain a degree of procedural
unconscionability even without any notable surprises, and ‘bear within them the
clear danger of oppression and overreaching.’ (Id. at p. 818 [171
Cal.Rptr. 604, 623 P.2d 165].)” (Gentry v. Superior Court (2007) 42
Cal.4th 443, 469, 64 Cal.Rptr.3d 773, 165 P.3d 556.)
 
(Baltazar v. Forever 21, Inc.
(2016) 62 Cal.4th 1237, 1244.) 
 
Generally, in the employer-employee
context, there is unequal bargaining power. (See Amendariz v. Foundation
Health Psychcare Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 115 [“in the case of
preemployment arbitration contracts, the economic pressure exerted by employers
on all but the most sought-after employees may be particularly acute, for the
arbitration agreement stands between the employee and necessary employment, and
few employees are in a position to refuse a job because of an arbitration
requirement.”] 
 
The Court finds a low degree of
procedural unconscionability exists here, as the agreement is one of adhesion.
This low degree of procedural unconscionability does not render the arbitration
agreement unconscionable; to find the agreement unenforceable, the degree of
substantive unconscionability must be high. (See Dotson v. Amgen, Inc.
(2010) 181 Cal.App.4th 975, 981.) 
 
Plaintiff asserts that the agreement is
substantively unconscionable because it does not identify the “employer” or
location for arbitration and does not provide the arbitration rules or
arbitrator selection process. The agreement also requires that a second
arbitrator perform any “appellate review.” These issues do not establish
substantive unconscionability. There is no indication the agreement is unfairly
one- sided.
 