  Case Number:  22STCP03359    Hearing Date:   June 4, 2024    Dept:  85 
Coalition for Safe Coastal
Development, et al v. City of Los Angeles, et al., 22STCP03359 
 

Tentative decision on petition for
writ of mandate:  denied 




 



Petitioners Coalition for Safe Coastal Development (CSCD”)
and Charles Rosin (“Rosin”) seek a writ of mandate challenging the actions
taken by Respondent City of Los Angeles (“City”) in approving a Disposition and
Development Agreement (“DDA”) for the Reese Davidson, renamed Venice Dell
Median, Project of Real Parties-in-Interest Hollywood Community Development and
Venice Community Development Corporations (collectively, “Developerss”).
The court has read and considered the moving papers,
opposition, and reply, and renders the following tentative decision. 
 
A. Statement of
the Case
1. Petition
Petitioners commenced this proceeding on September 13, 2022
against Respondents City (erroneously sued also as the Los Angeles Housing
Department (“LAHD”), Los Angeles Transportation Commission (“Transportation
Commission”), Los Angeles Department of Transportation (“LADOT”), Ann Sewill
(“Sewill”), and Seleta Reynolds (“Reynolds”).  Real Parties-in-Interest Developerss are
Venice Dell GP, LLC and Venice Dell, LP.  
Petitioners filed the verified First Amended Petition (“FAP”)
on February 2, 2023, seeking declaratory and mandamus relief based on
violations of Los Angeles Administrative Code (“LAAC”) provisions as well as
taxpayer injunctive relief.  The FAP
alleges in pertinent part as follows.
This proceeding concerns the disposition of LADOT Parking
Lot No. 731 (the “parking lot”) for the purpose of development of an affordable
housing/mixed use commercial project referred to as the Venice Dell Median
Project (“Venice Dell Project” or “Project”).  The disposal would involve the acquisition of
a new public parking tower on the east side of the parking lot’s location.  FAP ¶17. 
Respondents failed to follow the necessary administrative procedures by
not referring the matter to the Transportation Commission to review or approve
the disposition of the parking lot.  FAP
¶3.
The Project is located within the City’s community of Venice
between two one-way streets, North Venice Boulevard and South Venice Boulevard,
and bounded by Dell Avenue and South Pacific Avenue.  FAP ¶41. 
A public parking lot is currently located on the western and eastern
portions of the Project site, and the eastern portion of the Project site is a
two-story, four-unit residential structure that low-income tenants rent from
the City.  FAP ¶41.  The Project site also includes a boat launch
area.  FAP ¶41.  The existing public parking lot represents 5%
of all parking revenue from all the City’s parking lots, and the area is zoned
for Open Space due to its low-lying character. 
FAP ¶43.
The Project proposes demolishing the existing parking lot
and the residential apartments owned by the City and constructing a
104,140-square foot, mixed-use, 100% affordable housing development (a 36,340
square-foot structure west of Grand Canal and a 67,800 square-foot structure
east of Grand Canal consisting of a total of 140 residential dwelling units,
136 restricted affordable dwelling units, and four unrestricted Manager Units),
685 square feet of office use, 2,255 square feet of retail use, 810 square feet
of restaurant use with 500 square feet of outdoor Service Floor Area, and 3,155
square feet of community arts center/art studio use distributed in both
structures.  FAP ¶44.  Two additional parking garage structures are
proposed to be constructed in the middle of the west and east sites.  FAP ¶¶ 45-47.  Over the course of the Project, the number of
parking spaces will be reduced from 360 to 252. 
FAP ¶49.  The Project is designed
to include only a minimum number of supporting housing units required by
law.  FAP ¶51.
In 2016, under then Mayor Eric Garcetti’s administration,
the City identified the existing parking lot as an “opportunity site” for
development of affordable housing projects.  In these early stages, the City did not ensure
that the existing parking lot was safe for a large development that would
include retail, restaurant, art gallery and replacement parking towers.  FAP ¶53.
On October 13, 2017, the City Council drafted an ordinance
proposing an amendment to the LAAC that would authorize LAHD to manage City
properties that are identified to support affordable housing goals. Through
this ordinance, City’s property could be conveyed via a DDA between City and
the developer.  FAP ¶11.  These transactions would be subject to a
noticed public hearing where real estate appraisals and assessments would be
considered to determine the resale value of the subject property.  If the disposition of the subject property
were less than fair market value, then certain conditions would be imposed
within the DDA.  FAP ¶11.  The LAAC requires these conditions to be
imposed on the transaction as part of the negotiated DDA, not at the end of the
life of the DDA when the deed or lease is issued if all conditions are
satisfied by the developer.  FAP ¶12.
In December 2018, the Developers applied for the Project
land-use entitlements for the property which were inconsistent with the site’s
zoning.  FAP ¶54. In 2019, the Garcetti
administration requested an exemption from CEQA environmental review from the
state legislature for any project for bridge or supportive housing, which was
adopted.  FAP ¶55.  As a result, all environmental studies of the
Project site stopped, and City ignored the community’s concerns that the CEQA
exemption did not also exempt this site from independent review under the
Subdivision Map Act and Coastal Act.  FAP
¶55.
By June 17 and 24, 2022, the City Council approved certain
amendments as part of the Project’s approvals. 
FAP ¶¶ 66-68. In July 2022, City gave notice to the Coastal Commission
that City had approved a Coastal Development Permit (“CDP”) in the Dual
Jurisdiction Zone.  Thereafter, several
community organizations and individuals filed appeals with the Coastal
Commission against the Project.  FAP ¶69.
City officials recommended that LAHD be authorized to
negotiate and execute a 99-year lease and DDA for the Project even though LAHD
had not prepared the necessary real estate appraisals, financial analysis, or
the impact analysis that the DDA conditions would have on the resale price of
the parking lot as required under LAAC sections 22.606.2(c) and 7.27.3.  FAP ¶14. 
Additionally, there was no public hearing before the approval of the DDA
for the Project.  FAP ¶14.  Because the appropriate administrative procedures
were not followed in negotiating the 99-year lease and DDA, these actions are
null and void and constitute a waste of taxpayer funds.  FAP ¶15.
Public records show that LADOT staff was meeting with Developers
to further design the public parking garage, even after the Project had been
approved by City Council and after notice had been given to the Coastal
Commission.  FAP ¶79.  Furthermore, the record does not reveal that the
City abided by LAAC sections 22.474(g)(2)(A)(7), 22.606.2(c), or 7.27.3.  FAP ¶¶ 80-81, 90-92, 95.  The Transportation Commission had a duty to
review all aspects of the conversion of the parking lot, but the City
unlawfully excluded it from performing this legal duty.  FAP ¶¶ 82-84. 
Developers lobbied Councilman Mike Bonin and the Mayor’s office to
streamline the process by entering into the DDA without following the requisite
procedures.  FAP ¶85.  Developers understood that the DDA could not
be entered into until after the requisite entitlements had been secured, but LAHD
authorized the execution the DDA on April 27, 2022 before those entitlements
had been secured.  FAP ¶¶ 86-87. A public
hearing was never conducted for the actions proposed by LAHD.  FAP ¶¶ 94-96. The report that was ultimately
adopted by the City Council’s Homelessness and Poverty Committee did not
contain copies of the land appraisals, conditions imposed in the DDA, a
valuation of the cost of those conditions, or factual findings justifying the
sale or lease of the City’s land to Developers as required by LAAC sections
22.606.2(c) and 7.27.3. FAP ¶97.
Since June 15, 2022, when the City Council approved execution
of the DDA, the City has used City resources paid for by taxpayers to process
the 99-year lease, DDA, and related instruments, and such expenditures are a
waste of taxpayer funds in pursuit of the unlawfully adopted authorization by
the City Council.  FAP ¶100.
 
2. Course of Proceedings
On February 1, 2023, the parties stipulated to allow
Petitioners to file the FAP on or before February 2, 2023.  Respondents and Developers filed their answers
to the FAP on April 10, 2023. Thereafter, on May 26, 2023, they both filed
amended answers to the FAP. 
By a stipulation filed on January 9, 2024, the trial was
continued to June 4, 2024. 
 
B. Governing Law[1]
1. City Charter
Los Angeles is a charter city.  Some of its departments are created and
delegated with authority over particular subject matter either as created in
the City Charter by voters (e.g., police, fire, public works, library,
recreation and parks, pensions, personnel, planning).  City Charter §§ 500–97; Pet. RJN, Ex. A.  
The City Council may create other departments by
ordinance.  City Charter section 214
states:
 
“The Council may by ordinance create additional departments,
offices and boards, and consistent with the Charter, provide for the election
or appointment of officers other than those designated in the Charter, whenever
the public necessity or convenience may require. The Council may by ordinance
prescribe the duties of those officers, provided that those duties
shall not include any of the duties of any officer designated in the Charter,
except as authorized under Section 514.” 
Pet. RJN Ex. A (emphasis added).
 
Under City Charter section 240, the City Council
possesses all legislative power to pass laws by ordinance subject to mayoral
veto and City Council override.  “Other
action of the Council may be by order or resolution, not inconsistent with the
duties and responsibilities set forth in the Charter or ordinance.”
City Charter §240 (Emphasis added.)  Pet.
RJN, Ex. A.
The City Council has the power to review, modify, or
overturn some decisions of the City’s boards of commissioners.  If the City Council timely asserts
jurisdiction over the action, it may, by 2/3 vote, veto the action but may not
amend or take other action with respect to the board’s action.  A vetoed action shall be remanded to the
board, which shall have the authority it originally held to take action.  City Charter §245. 
The City
Charter specifically endows the City Council with the power to provide for
public improvements.  City Charter §247;
Resp RJN, Ex. 1. 
City Charter section
534 delegates “full control” over library property to the Board of Library
Commissioners: “Acquisition of real property by the City for library sites
shall first be approved by the Board of Library Commissioners. The board
shall have full control over all library sites and none of these sites
shall be devoted to any other purpose in whole or in part without permission
from the board.”  Resp. RJN, Ex. 1
(emphasis added).  
The City
Charter requires that transfer of public recreation sites “shall require a
resolution of the [Board of Recreation and Park Commissioners], approved by
the Council by ordinance . . .”   City
Charter § 594(d)(1); Resp. RJN, Ex. 1 (emphasis added). 
The boards of
City proprietary departments of LAWA, Harbor, and DWP “shall have the power to
grant and set the terms and conditions for any . . . lease concerning any
property under its control . . .”  City
Charter § 605; Resp. RJN, Ex. 1.  DWP
board commissioners specifically have decision-making authority over DWP
property: “Subject to the water and water rights of the City set forth in
Section 673, no real property or any rights or interests in real property held
by the board shall be sold, leased or otherwise disposed of, or in any manner
withdrawn from its control, unless by written instrument authorized by the
board, and approved by the Council.” 
City Charter §675(e)(2); Resp. RJN, Ex. 1.
 
2. LAAC
The LAAC, created in
1969, is a codification of City ordinances that create non-charter created City
departments such as LADOT and LAHD.  LAAC
Foreword, §2.17; Pet. RJN, Ex. B.  LAAC
section 2.1 provides: “All legislative power of the City except as otherwise
provided in the Charter is vested in the Council and shall be exercised by
ordinance, subject to the power of veto or approval by the Mayor as set forth
in the Charter.  “Other action of the
Council may be by order or resolution, upon motion.”
“Except as
otherwise in the Charter specifically provided, the Council shall have full
power to pass ordinances upon any subject of municipal control, or to carry
into effect any of the powers of the City.” 
LAAC §2.14; Resp. RJN, Ex. 1. 
LAAC section 2.17 provides in relevant part: “The Council
may provide by ordinance the duties of all boards or officers
whose duties are not defined by the Charter, and it may by ordinance provide
for any board or officer created by the Charter or by ordinance, duties
other than those herein prescribed and not inconsistent with the provisions of
the Charter.”  Pet. RJN, Ex. B
(emphasis added).
LAAC section 7.27.3 provides:
 
“With the
exception of those properties subject to Section 7.33.2, et seq. of this Code,
the Los Angeles Housing Department is authorized to convey any interest
owned or controlled by the City in any real property below its fair market
value, subject to the Council making a finding that the conveyance at the price
with the terms and conditions imposed thereon serves a public purpose. Such
conveyance may be made by either sale or lease; however, the sale
or lease shall be first approved by the City Council after public hearing
and shall be subject to approval by the Mayor. 
 
Any disposition of
real property, whether by sale or lease, which is made at a price below fair market
value shall be supported by findings and an appraisal setting forth the
following:
a. The estimated fair market value of the interest
to be conveyed, determined at the highest and best use;
b. The purchase price or present value of the lease payments
which the lessee will be required to make during the term of the lease;
c. The conditions and covenants imposed by the City for the conveyance
(“City Conditions”) and an estimate of the increased development costs to be
incurred by the developer of the real property as a result of compliance with
the City Conditions;
d. The estimated value of the interest to be conveyed determined at
the use and with the City Conditions (“Fair Reuse Value”);
and
e. An explanation as to why the sale or lease of the real property
will assist in the development of affordable housing in the
City, with reference to all supporting facts and materials relied upon
in making this explanation.” Pet. RJN, Ex. B (emphasis added).
 
3. LADOT
By Ordinance No. 151832,
operative 2–25–1979, the City Council created LADOT and the Transportation
Commission.  LAAC §§ 22.480, 22.481,
22.482, 22.483, 22.484; Pet. RJN, Ex. B. 
LADOT and the
Transportation Commission were created by Division 22 of LAAC as “Departments,
Bureaus And Agencies Under The Control Of The Mayor And Council.”  LAAC Division 22; Pet. RJN, Ex. B. The ordinance provided or transferred certain
authority to LADOT (LAAC §§ 22.481(a)(3)), 22.487), LADOT’s General Manager
(LAAC §22.483(a)(5)), and the Transportation Commission (LAAC
§22.484(g)(2)(A)(5)-(8).[2]
LAAC section 22.484(g)
provides in pertinent part:
 
“(g) Powers and Duties [of the Transportation Commission].
The Transportation Commission’s relationship to the General Manager of
the Transportation Department shall be advisory.
Notwithstanding its advisory capacity, the Transportation Commission shall
exercise the following powers and duties, and such other powers and duties
as may be conferred by ordinance:
…
(7) The Transportation Commission shall have the power, duty, and
responsibility of coordinating, directing, and managing all matters respecting
the acquisition, and therefore the management, of all public off-street parking
places by the City….”  LAAC
§22484.(2)(A)(7); Pet. RJN, Ex. B; SE Ex. 6, pp. 11-13 (emphasis added).
 
4. LAHD
By Ordinance No. 166009, operative 8–2-1990, the City
Council created LAHD and assigned duties related to affordable housing to
it.  LAAC §§ 22.600, 22.601, 22.606.  The ordinance also created an Affordable
Housing Commission.  LAAC §§ 22.607,
22.608, 22.609, 22.611; Pet. RJN Ex. B. 
The Affordable Housing Commission appears to be wholly advisory on housing
policy.  LAAC §22.611; Pet. RJN Ex. B.
By Ordinance No. 185283, operative 1–15–2018, the City
Council amended the LAAC’s Chapter 24 to add Article 3.5 to set forth
additional LAHD authority, duties and responsibilities related to control,
acquisition and disposition of real property for affordable housing
development.  LAAC §§ 22.606.1, 22.606.2,
22.606.3; Pet. RJN, Ex. B. 
LAAC section 22.606.2(c)
provides in relevant part:
 
“Conveyance
of City Interests in Real Property. The Department is authorized to convey
any interest owned or controlled by the City in real property at its fair reuse
value for the public purposes and objectives of this chapter in accordance with
the procedures set forth in Section 7.27.3 of this Code. Any such conveyance
shall be made pursuant to one or more agreements requiring
the development, use and maintenance of such real property for affordable
housing purposes. Such agreement(s) shall additionally require as a
condition precedent to the conveyance that one or more deed restrictions be
recorded against the conveyed interest restricting the development and use, and
requiring the maintenance of such real property, so as to insure that the
affordable housing purpose for which the conveyance was made is fulfilled for
such period of time as is determined to be appropriate….” Pet. RJN, Ex. B
(emphasis added).
 
C. Standard of Review
            There are three general categories
of agency decisions challenged by mandamus: (1) quasi-adjudicative decisions in
which the agency exercised its discretion, and which are challenged by
administrative mandamus under CCP section 1094.5, (2) quasi-legislative
decisions challenged by traditional mandamus under CCP section 1085, and (3)
ministerial or informal administrative actions also challenged by traditional
mandamus.  See Western States
Petroleum Assn. v. Superior Court, (“Western States”) (1995) 9
Cal.4th 571-76.
            An agency decision is
quasi-adjudicative where it concerns the agency’s application of discretion in
the determination of facts after a hearing is required.  See Neighborhood Action Group v.
County of Calaveras, (1984) 156 Cal.App.3d 1176, 1186.  In contrast, a legislative act provides what
the law shall be in future cases arising under it.  Dominey v. Dept. of Pers. Admin.,
(1988) 205 Cal.App.3d 729, 737 (quoting Union Pac. R. Co. v. United States,
(“Sinking Funds Cases”) (1878) 99 U.S. 700, 761).  Quasi-legislative actions generally concern
the adoption of a “broad, generally applicable rule of conduct on the basis of
general public policy.”  Saleeby v.
State Bar, (1985) 39 Cal.3d 547. Actions are legislative in nature when
they declare a public purpose and make provisions for the accomplishment of
that purpose.  O’Loane v. O’Rourke
(1965) 231 Cal.App.2d 774, 784-85 (adoption of a general plan by way of a
resolution was a legislative act because it prescribed a new policy rather than
implementing an existing one).  The
distinction between a judicial and legislative act is that the former
determines what the law is and what the rights of the parties are with
reference to transactions already had and the other provides what the law shall
be in future cases arising under.  Sinking
Funds Cases, supra, 99 U.S. at
761.  
            An agency’s quasi-legislative
decision is an abuse of discretion only if it is “arbitrary, capricious,
entirely lacking in evidentiary support, unlawful, or procedurally
unfair.”  Kahn v. Los Angeles City
Employees’ Retirement System, (2010) 187 Cal.App.4th 98, 106; Dominey,
supra, 205 Cal.App.3d at 736.   Although mandate will not lie to control the
agency’s discretion, it will lie to correct abuses of discretion.  California Public Records Research, Inc.
v. County of Alameda, (“California Public Records”) (2019) 37
Cal.App.5th 800, 806.  The
court may not substitute its judgment for that of the agency, and it must
uphold the decision if reasonable minds can differ.  Id. 
            A record is required for traditional
mandamus review of quasi-legislative decisions where there are land use issues
of zoning, CEQA, general plans, public contracts, or charter schools, or other
issues of general application, depending on if the law requires a hearing at
which evidence is presented and fact-findings made.  See SN Sands Corp. v. City and
County of San Francisco, (2008) 167 Cal.App.4th 185, 191 (award of public
contract is quasi-legislative decision and judicial review is limited to
administrative record); Cypress Security, Inc. v. City and County of San
Francisco, (2010) 184 Cal.App.4th 1003, 1010 (same).  If the hearing does not require the
presentation of evidence, the quasi-legislative decision is challenged based on
declarations and exhibits.  
An agency is presumed to have regularly performed its
official duties (Evid. Code §664), and the petitioner therefore has the burden
of proof.  Steele v. Los Angeles
County Civil Service Commission, (1958) 166 Cal.App.2d 129, 137.  The burden of proof falls upon the party
attacking the agency’s decision to demonstrate wherein the proceedings were
unfair, in excess of jurisdiction or showed prejudicial abuse of
discretion.  California Public Records,
supra, 37 Cal.App.5th at
805.
            Extra-record evidence is not
admissible to contradict evidence upon which the agency relied in making a
quasi-legislative decision, or to raise a question regarding the wisdom of that
decision.  Western States, supra, 9 Cal.4th at 579.  A potential exception exists for extra-record
evidence that provides background information for the quasi-legislative
decision, establishes whether the agency fulfilled its duties in making the decision,
or assists the court in understanding the decision.  Id. at 578-79.
            In this case, Petitioners contend
that the City Council’s action is a failure to proceed in the manner required
by law which is subject to de novo review. 
Tracy Rural County Fire Protection District v. Local Agency Formation
Commission of San Joaquin County, (2022) 84 Cal.App.5th 91,
107.  Petitioners further contend that
this case is partly quasi-legislative, for which an administrative record is
required, but that extra-record evidence is permitted.  Pet. Op. Br. at 8. 
            The City does not dispute these
contentions.  See Reply at 4. The quasi-administrative
record was collectively agreed upon by the parties, and Petitioners also
conducted limited discovery by deposing two City witnesses: Kenneth Husting (“Husting”)
in his capacity as the head of LADOT’s Bureau of Parking Management, and Daniel
Huynh (“Huynh”) in his capacity as LAHD’s Assistant General Manager and as the
City’s Person Most Knowledgeable (“PMK”). 
SE Exs. 2, 8.[3]
 
D. Statement of Facts
1. The Project
The idea to dedicate the City’s
public parking lot to an affordable housing project arose in 2016.  AR 511–20. 
As part of LAHD’s
Public Land Development Program, the City identified the Project site as an
Affordable Housing Opportunity Site. AR 611.  
The Project
site is a City-owned asphalt parking lot and four-unit multi-family residential
building located in the Venice neighborhood of the City.  AR 24.  A
small four-unit residential building is located on a part of the Project site.
The site is bisected by the Grand Canal, which is part of the Venice
Canal system.  AR 1150-51.  The property is located within walking distance of Venice beaches and canals, in close
proximity to local and regional public transit opportunities, and with a surrounding
area which is a mix of commercial, retail, and residential uses.  AR 1135, 1145.  
The Project’s target population is homeless individuals and
families, low-income artists, and low-income families and individuals.  AR 189. 
The Project will be a two-building project that will consist of 140
residential units, 68 of which will be dedicated to homeless households, 34 to
low-income households, and 34 for low-income households with an artist
preference.  AR 189.  Four units will be set aside for on-site
managers.  AR 189.  The
Project will provide social services and support for tenants, including
assistance with employment and educational pursuits and on-site therapeutic and
community groups for housing support and stability, mental health support, harm
reduction and recovery.  AR 945.
The Project
proposes 105 parking spaces to be provided in the west side parking structure
that will include 57 residential spaces, 42 commercial spaces, a boat launch
space, and five non-required spaces.  AR
189.  Outside the DDA, and subject to a
separate agreement with LADOT, the Project requires a new public parking
structure to replace the existing 196 surface parking spaces.  AR 189. 
The current plan is to place these spaces in an east side public parking
structure that contains 252 public spaces. 
AR 189.
 
2. The
Staff Reports
The City and Developers
engaged in several years of community engagement, reaching thousands of
residents and interested persons with over one hundred activities including
more than ten large-scale public events designed to “elevate[] the voices and
ideas of low-income people.”  AR 5684;
Hanelin Decl., ¶6, Ex. A (AR 34357), Ex. B (AR 15488-94).  
The Project
required legislative and quasi-adjudicative approvals, for which the City held
three hearings before the Deputy Advisory Agency, Planning Commission, and City
Council, with hours of public testimony. AR 1211.  After
the City Council approved many Project land use entitlements on December 1,
2021, [4]
the Developers asked the City to develop and execute a DDA for the project so
that they could score higher in the state’s next Notice of Funding Availability
round, which closed applications on July 1, 2022.  Cf. SE, Ex. 2, pp.42–46 (Huynh Depo.) (In
some cases, state deadlines require presentation of the DDA and ground lease to
the City Council at the same time).  Meetings
and communications commenced to develop the term sheet (which would summarize
the key terms that would inform the development of the DDA). Ex. 2, p. 42 (term
sheet starts DDA).  On April 17, 2022,
LAHD’s Huynh executed the Project’s term sheet. 
AR 615-24; SE Ex. 2, pp. 33-42 (Huynh Depo.) (LAHD must receive City
Council approval to execute a term sheet). 
LAHD commissioned its
financial consultant, Keyser Marston Associates, Inc. (“KM”), to run the
numbers for determining the less than Fair Market Value price Developers would
pay.  On March 3, 2022, Julie Romey
(“Romey”) of KM discussed with LAHD employees the challenges she was having to
justify the Fair Reuse Value of the $1 per year lease. SE Ex. 3.  Under some scenarios Romey laid out, the Developers
would be required to pay significant rental payments.  Id.
On April 27, 2022, LAHD
submitted its report seeking City Council authorization (1) for LADOT to
effectuate a non-monetary transfer of the parking lot from LADOT to LAHD and
(2) for LAHD to negotiate and execute a DDA for the Project. AR 610-771. The draft DDA (AR 654-71) at page 1 stated that
“[t]he Developers will lease the Site for a Ninety Nine (99) year term and will
pay rent to the City for a below Fair Market Value (“FMV”) ground lease rent
based on a Reuse Value Appraisal to be conducted prior to the execution of the
Ground Lease.” AR 659.  The DDA stated
that Developers would pay $1 per year for the initial 55-year term of the
ground lease.  AR 659.[5]  
On May 19, 2022, KM
delivered a Reuse Value Report authored by Romey “in accordance with Los
Angeles Administrative Code section 7.27.3.”  AR 8. KM relied upon a December 22, 2020 appraisal
by Gold Coast Appraisals,
Inc. (“Gold Coast”) appraising the property’s Fair Market Value at $3,349,000 (whole site). AR 10.  After imposition of the City’s Conditions to
develop the affordable housing and commercial uses, KM stated that the costs
associated with the City Conditions reduced the Fair Market Value of the Project
site to less than the City’s proposed $1 per year lease payment.  AR 20. Neither the appraisal nor the Reuse
Value Report by KM was distributed to the City Council or made available for
public review.  SE Ex. 2, pp. 47-52 (Huynh
Depo.) (Reuse Report is “internal” and never disclosed).[6] 
The next day, May 20,
2022, the CAO reported to Mayor Garcetti, concurring with LAHD.  AR 772-74.
 
3. The Objections
The City Clerk scheduled
the Project item for the May 26, 2022 meeting of the Homelessness and Poverty (“HP”)
Committee of the City Council.  SE Ex. 4.
This item immediately received concerned public comment and was continued to
June 9, 2022.  SE Ex. 5; AR 777, 782, 783–85,
928–37, 922–27, 997, 1020–38, 1081–83, 1091–95, 1097–1101.  On June 3, 2022, the CAO sent a report to the
Mayor and City Council correcting the LAHD April 27 report related to the
number of parking spaces for the Project, and the street addresses proposed for
disposition by the ground lease terms set forth in the Term Sheet and the
proposed DDA.[7]  AR 938-96.
There were objections
filed by the now City Attorney Hydee Feldstein Soto (AR 782) and now City Councilmember
Traci Park.  AR 777.  City Councilmember Park, who lives in Venice,
opined:
 
“Including the fair market value of the City’s
land, cost of the LADOT parking garage ($25 million), and cost of the west
parking garage ($3 million), the total price tag per door comes in at a
whopping $1.24 million per 460 square foot unit. This is an egregious waste
of taxpayer dollars, and overall, the proposed mixed-use development does
little or nothing to address either the homelessness or affordability crisis in
our City or the Westside of LA. Further, this project is opposed by the vast
majority of Venice residents, and has repeatedly been voted down by the
Venice Land Use and Planning Committee and the Venice Neighborhood Council.” AR
777 (emphasis added).
 
Petitioners also submitted
objections. AR 998–1019.  CSCD expressed
alarm that the City was proposing to dedicate land far more valuable than the
$3.3 million figure used in the Developers’ pro forma, submitting evidence that
residentially zoned lots across the street were selling for $1.7 to $2.1
million per lot. AR 923–27.  Given that
the Project site was the merger of 40 lots, CSCD asserted that the cost to
taxpayers was a donation of a 99-year leasehold interest with a conservative
Fair Market Value of up to $60 million.  Id.
 
 
4. The City Council
Approval
On June 9, 2022, the HP Committee
reported to the City
Council, approving the item with
Councilmember Busciano casting a “no” vote consistent with his contention that
the Project is a waste of taxpayer funds.  AR 1039–40.
On June 15, 2022, without
taking any further public comment, the City Council adopted the Report of the HP
Committee recommending approval of the DDA for the Project.  AR 1096.
The process
culminated in execution of the DDA between the City and Developers on June 30,
2022. AR 175-76.  The DDA
identified the conditions precedent imposed by the City for the eventual
conveyance of the property.  AR 100-03;
see §7.27.3(c).  The 7.27.3 Reuse
Analysis estimated the increased development costs to be incurred by Developers
as a result of compliance with those conditions.  AR 14-15, 987; see LAAC[8]
§7.27.3(c)).  No ground lease of the Project site has been negotiated with Developers,
approved, or executed.  SE Ex. 2, pp. 164-65
(Huynh Depo.).[9]
 
5. Other Cases Concerning the Project
On August 3, 2021, Venice Vision, a member of Petitioner
CSCD, filed a petition for writ of mandate alleging that the City actions
related to the Project violated the Brown Act (LASC Case No. 21STCP02522).
After failing to name Affordable Housing Providers as real parties in interest,
Venice Vision voluntarily dismissed the petition on October 4, 2022.  Hanelin Decl., ¶2.
On August 22, 2022, CSCD filed another petition for writ of
mandate asserting similar Brown Act theories (LASC Case No. 22STCP03125). Judge
Beckloff granted the City’s motion for judgment on the pleading for the causes
of action challenging the Project’s approvals, CSCD dismissed its petition as
to the remaining causes of action, and judgment was entered for the City on
August 18, 2023.  Hanelin Decl., ¶3.
On January 13 and October 5, 2022, respectively, CSCD and
Los Indios De San Gabriel, Inc. filed two lawsuits (LASC Case Nos. 22STCP00162
and 22STCP03626) (collectively, “CEQA Litigation”), which were later
consolidated, challenging the City’s compliance with the Mello Act, Los Angeles
Municipal Code, CEQA, and the Subdivision Map Act in granting various land use
entitlements for the Project and determining that the Project is statutorily
exempt from CEQA. The CEQA Litigation is currently pending before Judge Fruin.
Trial concluded on March 11, 2024. 
Hanelin Decl., ¶4. 
 
E. Analysis
Petitioners argue that (1) section 22484(g) required the Transportation
Commission approval before the DDA was approved, and (2) the City failed to
comply with the public disclosure requirements of sections 7.23.3 and 22606.2
before approving the DDA.[10]
 
1. Principles of Statutory Interpretation
            Petitioners’ arguments require
interpretation of City ordinances.  An
ordinance in its primary and usual sense means a local law.  San Diego City Firefighters, Local 145,
AFL-CIO v. Board of Admin. of San Diego City Employees' Retirement System,
(2012) 206 Cal.App.4th 594, 607.  The
construction of local agency charter provisions, ordinances, and rules is
subject to the same standards applied to the judicial review of statutory
enactments.  Domar Electric v. City of
Los Angeles, (1994) 9 Cal.4th 161, 170-72; Department of
Health Services of County of Los Angeles v. Civil Service Commission,
(1993) 17 Cal.App.4th 487, 494.
            In construing a legislative
enactment, a court must ascertain the intent of the legislative body which
enacted it so as to effectuate the purpose of the law.  Brown v. Kelly Broadcasting Co.,
(1989) 48 Cal.3d 711, 724; Orange County Employees Assn. v. County of Orange,
(“Orange County”) (1991) 234 Cal.App.3d 833, 841.  The court first looks to the language of the
statute, attempting to give effect to the usual, ordinary import of the
language and seeking to avoid making any language mere surplusage.  Brown v. Kelly Broadcasting Co., supra,
48 Cal 3d at 724.  Significance, if
possible, is attributed to every word, phrase, sentence and part of an act in
pursuance of the legislative purpose.   Orange
County, supra, 234 Cal.App.3d at 841.  The statutory language must be harmonized
with provisions relating to the same subject matter to the extent
possible.  Id.  “’The
statute's words generally provide the most reliable indicator of legislative
intent; if they are clear and unambiguous, ‘[t]here is no need for judicial
construction and a court may not indulge in it. [Citation.]’” MCI
Communications Services, Inc. v. California Dept. of Tax & Fee
Administration, (“MCI”) (2018) 28 Cal. App. 5th 635, 643.
            If a statute is ambiguous and
susceptible to more than one reasonable interpretation, the court may resort to
extrinsic aids, including principles of construction and legislative
history.  MacIsaac v. Waste Management Collection & Recycling, Inc.,
(2005) 134 Cal.App.4th 1076, 1082 (quoting
Riverview Fire Protection Dist. v.
Workers’ Comp. Appeals Bd., (1994) 23 Cal.App.4th 1120, 1126).             Where
ambiguity remains, the court should consider “reason, practicality, and common
sense.”  Id. at 1084.  This requires consideration of the statute’s
purpose, the evils to be remedied, public policy, and contemporaneous
administrative construction.  MCI,
supra, 28 Cal.App.5th at
643.  The enactment must be given a
reasonable and commonsense interpretation consistent with the apparent purpose
and intent of the lawmakers, practical rather than technical in nature, and
which, when applied, will result in wise policy rather than mischief or
absurdity.  Lungren v. Deukmejian,
(1988) 45 Cal. 3d 727, 735.  Finally,
statutes are not construed in isolation and every statute must be read and
harmonized with the statutory scheme.  People
v. Ledesma, (1997) 16 Cal.4th 90, 95.   

            An agency's interpretation of an
ambiguous statute consisting only of the agency's litigating position, without
promulgation of formal regulations, is entitled to no deference.  Culligan Water Conditioning, Inc. v. State
Bd. of Equalization, (1976) 17 Cal. 3d 86, 92-93. 
 
2. Section 22.484(g)(2)(A)(7) Does Not Require Transportation
Commission Approval of the DDA and Transfer of the Parking Lot to LAHD
Petitioners argue that the HP Committee on June 9, 2022,
and the City Council on June 15, 2022, lacked authority to direct LADOT to
effectuate a non-monetary transfer of the parking lot to LAHD.  As a result, the City failed to proceed in
accordance with law.  Pet. Op. Br. at 12.
In the LAAC, the City Council delegated to the
Transportation Commission authority over all City off-street parking lots and
facilities (except for some not relevant in this case).  SE Ex. 6, pp.11–13.  Section 22.484(g)(2)(A)(7) expressed the City
Council’s intent to delegate decision-making for off-street parking lots to the
Transportation Commission:
 
“(g) Powers and Duties [of the Transportation Commission].
The Transportation Commission’s relationship to the General Manager of
the Transportation Department shall be advisory.
Notwithstanding its advisory capacity, the Transportation Commission shall
exercise the following powers and duties, and such other powers and duties
as may be conferred by ordinance:…
(7) The Transportation Commission shall have the power, duty and
responsibility of coordinating, directing, and managing all matters respecting
acquisition, 
and thereafter the management, of all public off-street parking places by the
City except for those parking facilities which are under
jurisdiction or control of departments controlling their own funds. (emphasis
added).
 
Section 22.484(g)(2)(A)(7) is a specific delegation to
the Transportation Commission of the City Council’s authority over public
off-street parking places.  Petitioners note
that City Charter section 240’s second
sentence states: “Other action of the Council may be by order or resolution, not
inconsistent with the duties and responsibilities set forth in the Charter
or ordinance.” (emphasis added). 
The Transportation Commission was given plenary initial authority to
make decisions on “all matters respecting the acquisition and thereafter the
management, of all public off-street parking places by the City.”
(emphasis added).  The phrase “by the
City” makes clear that the City Council delegated these decisions to the
Transportation Commission.   If the assignment to the Transportation
Commission to act for “the City” as the initial decision maker includes a role
in the decision to dedicate a portion of the off-street parking lot to a
long-term lease for the mixed use component of the Project, then the City
Council violated City Charter section 240’s second sentence when it directed
LADOT to make a non-monetary transfer of a portion of the parking lot to LAHD.  Pet. Op. Br. at 12-13; Reply at 7.
Due to the political sensitivity of homelessness, Mayor
Garcetti’s office, through the CAO, identified City parking lots as possible
candidates to dedicate to construction of low-cost housing.  AR 511–20. 
In haste, no one considered that the Transportation Commission possessed
authority over actions involving these valuable assets. The Transportation
Commission has not heard or determined any of the major policy issues affecting
the Project’s parking lot site: (1) the creation of the development program to use
the City’s off-street parking lots, (2) the review and approval of RFPs for
construction of the Project’s replacement parking, (3) the selection of the
developer for the construction of the Project’s replacement parking facilities
that LADOT would operate, (4) review and approval of an exclusive negotiating
agreement with Developers, (5) review and approval of Project conceptual plans
for the replacement parking, (6) review of the binding DDA that commits the
City to the specific Project terms, including Coastal Commission jurisdiction
over parking rates, and (7) the decision to direct LADOT’s General Manager to
effectuate the non-monetary transfer of the Project parking lot to Developers.  Pet. Op. Br. at 13.
In response to discovery, the City admitted that, from
2016 to mid-2022, the Transportation Commission was never given a presentation
about the Venice Dell Project.  SE Ex. 7
(RFAs 1 & 2).  At his deposition,
Husting, Principal Transportation Engineer at LADOT, confirmed that the Project
was never presented to the Transportation Commission.  He also confirmed that, when the public was
expressing concerns about the Project, he had discussions with Assistant
General Manager Jay Kim and the City Attorney’s office about taking the Project
to the Transportation Commission, but that did not occur.   SE Ex. 8, pp. 14, 65–74.  
After this lawsuit was
filed, the City now seeks Transportation Commission approval of changes of the
use of the City’s parking lots to temporary or long-term uses for homelessness
or housing projects.  SE Ex. 2, p. 189-91
(Huynh Depo.) (staff will go to the Transportation Commission but that issue is
better answered by LADOT staff); SE, Ex. 9 (October 18, 2023 General Manager report)
(August 23, 2023 General Manager report).  The Transportation Commission minutes show
City attorneys advising that the Transportation Commission has authority to
approve the change of use, or enter into Exclusive Negotiating Agreements, none
of which were done for the Venice Dell Project.  SE Ex. 9 (October 18, 2023 Minutes) (City
attorney confirming Transportation Commission has discretionary authority to approve
temporary change of use of parking lot to interim housing); (August 23, 2023
Minutes) (City attorney asking for approval of terms of Exclusive Negotiating
Agreement for five LADOT lots).  Pet. Op.
Br. at 10; Reply at 10.
The case of Langsom v.
City of Sausalito, (1987) 190 Cal.App.3d 871, 878-79, is instructive.
There, the Sausalito city council refused to follow the plain language of its
off-street parking law, and the court held the City accountable to its own
code: “[W]e determine that the city council’s interpretation of the ordinance
was in error….[C]lear standards have been lawfully enacted, they must control
and cannot be ignored.”  Id. at
878, 882.  In this case, the
Transportation Commission is the decision-maker for the acquisition and
management of off-street parking, not the City Council. Yet, even after being
alerted, Mayor Garcetti’s staff presented nothing to the Transportation
Commission.  Pet. Op. Br. at 14.
The City
responds that Petitioners’ argument fails that section 22.484(g) delegates the City
Council’s authority over public off-street parking to the Transportation
Commission, and therefore requires the Transportation Commission’s approval of
the non-monetary transfer of the parking lot from LADOT to LAHD fails.  Opp. at 14.
First, it is
elementary government law that the City Council’s authority cannot be usurped
by subordinate commissions.  The City is
a charter city. “A chartered city under the ‘home rule’ provisions of article
XI, section 5, of the California Constitution has complete powers over
municipal affairs and unless limited by the charter, the city council may
exercise all powers not in conflict with the California Constitution.”  Miller v. City of Sacramento, (1977)
66 Cal. App. 3d 863, 867-68 (“no restriction on the [chartered city]’s power
may be implied”).  The City Charter
specifically endows the City Council with (1) “all legislative power of the
City except as otherwise provided in the Charter” and (2) the power to provide
for public improvements.[11]  City Charter §§ 240, 247; Resp. RJN, Ex. 1.
The LAAC similarly provides: “Except as otherwise in the Charter specifically
provided, the Council shall have full power to pass ordinances upon any subject
of municipal control, or to carry into effect any of the powers of the
City.”  LAAC §2.14; Resp. RJN, Ex.
1.  As the City’s PMK testified, “[the
City] Council is ultimately the key decision-maker.”  SE Ex. 2, p. 18 (Huynh Depo.).  Consistent with these provisions, LADOT and
the Transportation Commission were created by LAAC Division 22 as “Departments,
Bureaus And Agencies Under The Control Of The Mayor And Council.”  Pet. RJN, Ex. B.  Opp. at 14-15.
Petitioners properly
rebut this point.  The issue is not
whether the City Council has authority to control the transfer of the parking
lot, but rather whether it delegated that initial authority.  The City relies on the holding in Miller
v. City of Sacramento, supra, 66 Cal.App.3d at 867-68, that no
restriction on a chartered city’s power may be implied, but Petitioners are
arguing that the City Council was explicit in its delegation of authority over
acquisition and management of off-street parking places in section
22.484(g)(A)(7).  See Reply at 8.
However, the City
correctly argues (Opp. at 16) that the City Council did not delegate its power
to the Transportation Commission concerning the conveyance of an interest in
City-owned parking lots.  Nothing in the
City Charter grants initial or ultimate decision-making authority to the
Transportation Commission to dispose of City-owned parking lots, regardless of
whether they are operated by LADOT.  Section
22.484(g)(A)(7) provides that the Transportation Commission has “the power,
duty, and responsibility of coordinating, directing, and managing all matters
respecting the acquisition, and thereafter the management, of all public
off-street parking places by the City.” 
(emphasis added).  There is no
“acquisition” at issue in this case; the Project site is owned by the
City.  AR 24.  Section 22.484(g)(A)(7) only concerns the
Transportation Commission’s management power, not an exclusive power to
transfer jurisdiction between City departments or to dispose of City-owned
property.  Section 22.606.1 provides that
LAHD, not the Transportation Commission, “shall have charge, superintendence
and control of all City-owned real property, the use of which currently is or
is intended to be for affordable housing development purposes, projects or
activities.”
When the City
delegates authority to a City department to acquire and convey interests in
real property owned by the City, that transfer of authority is express and
unambiguous.  As examples, City Charter
section 534 delegates “full control” over library property to the Board of
Library Commissioners.  Resp. RJN, Ex.
1.  The City Charter states that transfer
of public recreation sites “shall require a resolution of the [Board of
Recreation and Park Commissioners], approved by the Council by ordinance .
. .”  City Charter §594(d)(1) (emphasis
added); Resp. RJN, Ex. 1.  City Charter
section 605 provides that boards of City proprietary departments LAWA, Harbor,
and DWP “shall have the power to grant and set the terms and conditions for any
…lease concerning any property under its control….” See City Charter
§675(d)(2); Resp. RJN, Ex. 1.  The City
Council could have used similar language unequivocally delegating full
authority over the City’s off-street parking lots to the Transportation
Commission and chose not to do so.  “It
is not the role of the courts to add statutory provisions the Legislature could
have included, but did not.”  Artus v.
Gramercy Towers Condo. Assn., (2018) 19 Cal. App. 5th 923, 945.  Opp. at 15-16.
Petitioners reply that this
is a non sequitur.  The difference
between City Charter-created departments (which control their own funds or perform
proprietary functions) and ordinance-created departments and commissions is who
delegates the authority: the voters or the City Council.  The people voted language in the City Charter
that withdraws absolute power of the Mayor and Council to divert special
revenue streams dedicated to libraries and parks/recreation, or to dedicate
their lands to other uses without Commission oversight. The voters also put
citizen commissions directly in charge of the City’s proprietary departments --
DWP, LAWA, and Harbor – that perform public utility-type functions that require
management of the City’s lands dedicated to these uses.  It is no surprise the City Charter does not expressly
delegate to the Transportation Commission because LADOT and the Transportation
Commission are an ordinance-created department and commission, respectively.  Reply at 9.
This argument does not
really respond to the City’s point. 
Whether created by City Charter or ordinance, the delegation of
functions to City departments usually is express.   The City Council can do so just as easily as
the voters did.  In any event, the City
is correct that section
22.484(g)(A)(7) only delegates the acquisition and management of the City’s public
off-street parking places to the Transportation Commission.  The disposition of the City’s real property,
including parking places, intended to be for affordable housing development
purposes is delegated to LAHD by section 22.606.1.
Petitioners also argue
that the City deemphasizes critical wording in section 22.484(g)(A)(7) granting
the Transportation Commission authority over “all matters” concerning acquisition
and management of off-street parking places “by the City.”  They ask: How is this not delegation of full
control over off-street parking matters including decisions whether to dedicate
the use of off-street parking places for short or long-term leases to support homelessness
and affordable housing?  The City claims
the proposed transfer land to LAHD for a long-term lease is not an acquisition,
but the very purpose of the transfer necessitates replacement of critically
needed beach parking and the acquisition of the new public parking garage that
will be managed by LADOT/Transportation Commission. The requested transfer to
LAHD is the first step to acquire the new parking facility, and it is
definitely a management issue when the City retains ownership of land and the
Transportation Commission, which has expertise, must decide if the new user should
replace the parking spaces lost.  The
plain language of the statute makes the delegation mandatory (“shall”), total
(“all matters”), and on behalf of the entire City (“by the City”).  Reply at 9-10.
This argument is answered
by the City’s third point, which is that section 22.484(g) does not specify the timing of when the Project
needs to be put before the Transportation Commission.  See SE pp. 116-17.  The City and Developers have not yet
negotiated an agreement regarding the ownership, construction, and operation of
the new public parking structure portion of the Project, and this agreement will
be separate from the DDA.  Thus, no
Transportation Commission consideration is required at this time.  See Opp. at 16.
Huynh, the
City’s PMK, confirmed that the Project (or some agreement related to the
Project’s parking component) will be put before the Transportation Commission
prior to seeking approval for the ground lease. 
Ex. 2, p. 189. Huynh also testified that the “nonfinancial transfer of
jurisdiction” from LADOT to LAHD has not yet occurred. SE Ex. 2, p. 181 (Huynh
Depo.).  Such transfer “typically happens
after the approval of the ground lease by [the City C]ouncil and we work toward
the full conveyance of the property. That’s when we typically procedurally go
through that process to transfer the property over to LAHD.”  Id.  Husting, the head of LADOT’s Bureau of
Parking Management, testified to this same procedure.  SE Ex. 8, pp. 68, 73, 78, 93, 94,
116-17 (Husting Depo.).  Petitioners cite no authority
requiring Transportation Commission consideration at this stage.   
Section
22.484(g)(2)(A)(7) does not require that the Transportation Commission be
included in the DDA process. 
 
3. Failure to
Comply with Sections 2.606.2 and 7.27.3
Section 22.606.2(c) states:
 
“[LAHD] is authorized to convey any interest owned
or controlled by the City in real property at its fair reuse value for the
public purposes and objectives of this chapter in accordance with the
procedures set forth in Section 7.27.3 of this Code. Any such conveyance
shall be made pursuant to one or more agreements requiring the development,
use and maintenance of such real property for affordable housing purposes. Such
agreement(s) shall additionally require as a condition precedent to the
conveyance that one or more deed restrictions be recorded against the
conveyed interest restricting the development and use, and requiring the
maintenance of such 
real property, so as to insure that the affordable housing purpose for which
the conveyance was made is fulfilled for such period of time as is
determined to be appropriate.”  (emphasis
added).
 
Petitioners argue that the plain language of the first
sentence states that compliance with section 7.27.3 is required when LAHD
proposes to convey any real property interest (1) at its Fair Reuse
Value (less than Fair Market Value) (2) for the public purpose of affordable
housing.  The second sentence defines the
meaning of the phrase “to convey” in the first sentence: “Any such conveyance shall
be made pursuant to one or more agreements,” and the agreements require “the
development, use and maintenance of such real property [the property proposed
to be transferred] for affordable housing purposes.”  Pet. Op. Br. at 15.
Thus, when the City commits to sell at “Fair Reuse Value”,
the developer commits to restrict the transferred real property interest to
“affordable housing purposes” and the parties include a condition precedent
that deed restrictions be recorded against the conveyed interest to assure that
the affordable housing purpose shall be fulfilled, the resulting
DDA memorializing these mutually enforceable binding promises is the conveyance
of the real property interest, even though the actual deed or ground lease
transfer will occur later.  Pet. Op. Br.
at 15.
This construction of section 22.606.2 is consistent with
the City staff’s interpretation of its Public Land Development Program and
Ordinance 185283 that codified portions of this Program in sections 22.606.2
and 7.27.3:
 
“Disposition Process
The Land Development Program disposition process consists of four steps.
The first step is to define the project vision with the City Council. . . .
Step two involves the selection of a developer. . . . Step three involves
defining the project and negotiating deal terms. . . . Step four, the last
step, is to execute the Disposition and Development Agreement (DDA). This
agreement enables the transfer of public land for development. The
DDA describes project scope, development timeline and milestones, the
comprehensive financing plan, and codifies the City’s commitment to transfer
or ground lease the property once the project milestones have been achieved.”
 SE Ex. 10, p. 3 (staff report).  See also SE Ex. 10 (powerpoint presentation
of the Public Land Development Program).
 
Petitioners conclude that this statement shows that the
City consistently treated the City Council’s authorization of LAHD’s authority
to negotiate and execute the DDA as the final discretionary step until this
action was filed.  Pet. Op. Br. at 16.
Concurrent with the enactment of sections 7.27.3 and
22.606.2, the City Council approved a Housing Development Land Conveyance
Policy (the “Policy”).  SE Ex. 10.[12]  Relevant to this case, the
Policy says that a ground lease will be “at fair market value, however, in some
cases the fair reuse value will be more appropriate.”  Id. The Policy acknowledges the
obligation of public agencies to dispose of real estate at Fair Market Value,
but states that if “fair reuse value” is pursued a Financial Gap Analysis or
Fair Reuse Analysis “pursuant to Health and Safety Code section 33433 will be
prepared.” Id.  Based upon that
analysis, the property will be recommended for sale or ground lease at “fair
market value or below fair market value.”  Id.  Pet. Op. Br. at 16.
Health and Safety Code section 33433 required redevelopment
agencies (which no longer exist) to provide public notice and a review period so
that Fair Market Value appraisal and Fair Reuse Value analysis reports of could
be reviewed and challenged by the public at a public hearing before the redevelopment
agency entered into a binding sale or lease of the real property.  The Legislature required transparency and
accountability when valuable public real estate was being disposed of/sold at
less than Fair Market Value for redevelopment.  Id. 
Pet. Op. Br. at 16.
Petitioners
argue that section 7.27.3 is patterned after Health and Safety Code section
33433.  It provides:
 
“With the
exception of those properties subject to Section 7.33.2, et seq. of this Code,
the Los Angeles Housing Department is authorized to convey any interest
owned or controlled by the City in any real property below its fair market
value, subject to the Council making a finding that the conveyance at the price
with the terms and conditions imposed thereon serves a public purpose. Such
conveyance may be made by either sale or lease; however, the sale
or lease shall be first approved by the City Council after public hearing
and shall be subject to approval by the Mayor. 
Any disposition of
real property, whether by sale or lease, which is made at a price below fair
market value shall be supported by findings and an appraisal setting forth the
following:
f. The estimated fair market value of the interest
to be conveyed, determined at the highest and best use;
g. The purchase price or present value of the lease payments
which the lessee will be required to make during the term of the lease;
h. The conditions and covenants imposed by the City for the conveyance
(“City Conditions”) and an estimate of the increased development costs to be
incurred by the developer of the real property as a result of compliance with
the City Conditions;
i. The estimated value of the interest to be conveyed determined at
the use and with the City Conditions (“Fair Reuse Value”);
and
k. An explanation as to why the sale or lease of the real property
will assist in the development of affordable housing in the
City, with reference to all supporting facts and materials relied upon
in making this explanation.” Pet. RJN, Ex. B (emphasis added).
 
Petitioners contend that sections
22.606.2, 7.27.3, and the Policy (SE Ex. 10) must be read in harmony.  Together they specify the timing of when section
7.27.3 requirements must be met, and how the City must be transparent with its
taxpayers about disposition of assets worth billions of dollars.  The phrase “authorized to convey” in section
7.27.3 dovetails with section 22.606.2’s statement that “such conveyance”
occurs through one or more agreements that require the “development, use, and
maintenance of such real property for affordable housing purposes.”  Section 7.27.3 also must be construed
consistent with the City’s interpretation before this lawsuit, which was to
apply it at the first time in the development process where the City makes an
irrevocable commitment to transfer the real estate interest.  That is the logical and constitutional time
of public accountability when the City can show its math justifying a below
market value or free disposition of public real estate.  Pet. Op. Br. at 14, 16-17.
Petitioners argue that the City failed to comply with
sections 7.27.3 and 22.606.2(c) by approving the DDA without releasing the
appraisal or Reuse Report, and by not making findings required by section
7.27.3.  The staff of Mayor Garcetti,
acting through the CAO, and LAHD failed to comply at the time they sought City
Council authority to negotiate and execute the DDA for the Project.  In fact, it appears to be a City pattern and
practice to prepare staff reports that purposely fail to identify for the public
that sections 22.606.2 and 7.27.3 even exist. 
Both the CAO and LAHD staff reports seeking City Council approval to
negotiate and execute the DDA do not mention sections 7.27.3 and 22.606.2.  AR 610–14, 712-74, 938-40 (CAO staff report
and LADH staff report).  Pet. Op. Br. at
17-18.
Petitioners
contend that the Policy supports their interpretation.  The Policy cites Health and Safety Code
section 33433, stating that when the City’s valuable land assets are disposed
of for less than Fair Market Value, a Reuse Report comparable to that required
for redevelopment agencies to dispose of their assets by sale or lease will be
prepared.  Health and Safety Code section
33433 required a redevelopment agency to give notice, a ten-day public review period
for the Reuse Report, and a public hearing.  The City’s’ former redevelopment agency
conducted hearings under Health and Safety Code section 33433, including at the
DDA approval stage.  SE Ex. 11 (Ex. 6 dated
March 2, 2024 showing City Council approval of Mercy Housing Reuse Report at
the DDA approval stage).  The City
drafted sections 22.606.2 and 7.27.3 without the same transparency as Health
and Safety Code section 33433, even though City officials said in the Policy that
they would emulate this statute.  The
City’s historic compliance with Health and Safety Code section 33433 at the
time of DDA approval is consistent with Petitioners’ interpretation.  Reply at 13.[13]
The City did not comply with these requirements.  LAHD commissioned its financial consultant, KM,
to prepare a Fair Reuse Value Report (“KM Report”).  The KM Report, dated May 19, 2022, was
prepared after LAHD submitted its March 27, 2022 staff report proposing
authority to enter into the binding DDA with the $1 per year lease.  AR 8–22.[14]  Despite possessing the KM Report
and the $3.349 million fair market value appraisal, the CAO and LAHD made no
effort to disclose them for consideration at the public hearing cited in the
City’s Policy.  Sections 22.606.3 and
7.27.3 required the release of these reports before the City Council exercised
its discretion to enter into a binding DDA with Developers so that the public
could bring to the City Council’s attention discrepancies or facts that warrant
modification of the price at which the public’s land would be sold or leased to
the Developers.   Pet. Op. Br. at 18-19.
Petitioners conclude that the Project is a poster child why
the failure of the City to comply with sections 22.606.3 and 7.27.3 at the time
of proposed entry into a binding DDA undermines the
public’s confidence in the City’s homelessness and housing program.  At the outset of the City’s
Affordable Housing Opportunity Site program, the General Services Department
(“GSD”), which has authority over disposition of surplus City property,
commissioned a 2016 Fair Market Value appraisal which valued the Venice Dell
site at $34 million.  SE Ex. 13.  Gold Coast’s 2020 appraisal valued the site
at $3.349 million, more than 90% less. 
Pet. Op. Br. at 19.
When KM’s consultant, Romey, prepared the Fair Reuse
Value report, she started with the Gold Coast appraisal of $3.349 million.  AR 8–22; SE Ex. 3.  Romey expressed concerns that she could not
get the Fair Reuse Value down to $0.  Id.
 Ultimately, the KM Report asserted that
the $1 per year lease is justifiable under Fair Reuse Value.  But if the true Fair Market Value is closer to
the 2016 appraisal of $34 million, LADH should be required to reappraise the
property or at least properly run the numbers.  The Project demonstrates the harm stemming
from the hubris of the Mayor’s staff at the CAO and of LAHD thinking that they
could hide from the public the fact that millions of dollars of public land is
being given to a private developer without the rational justification the
City Council required of itself in enacting these laws.  The City failed to proceed in accordance with
law, and the discretionary authorization of the execution of the DDA must be
set aside for the City to comply with sections 22.606.3 and 7.27.3.  Pet. Op. Br. at 20.
This
is a fair argument.  There appears little
doubt that it would be good policy to submit the Fair Use Value appraisal,
analysis, and findings required by section 7.27.3 at a public hearing before
the City Council approves a DDA.  The
City’s argument notwithstanding, the DDA is a binding agreement requiring the
City to enter into a long-term lease with Developers under certain conditions
precedent.  AR 84.  Petitioners have shown that the Project’s
Fair Use Value appears to have been seriously manipulated to ensure the Project
proceeds.  If so, this manipulation undermines the credibility of the City’s
homelessness housing program.  Submission of these key documents at a public
hearing before entry into a DDA would shed light on a program project and enable
rationale decision-making.
The
question is, however, is not whether it would be good practice to do so but whether
sections 7.27.3, 22.606.2(c) and the Policy required this exposure before entry
into the DDA.  The City is correct that
these provisions only apply before the actual conveyance of a real property
interest.  
Section
7.27 governs the sale, conveyance, or exchange of City-owned land, and it authorizes
LAHD to convey City-owned property below its fair market value for the purposes
of affordable housing development and sets forth the procedure and requirements
for such conveyance.  Relatedly, section
22.606 describes the duties and powers of LAHD, which include disposition of
real property for affordable housing development pursuant to section
22.606.2.  
Contrary
to Petitioners’ claim, the City is only required to comply with these sections upon
execution of the ground lease, and the DDA is not a conveyance of an
interest in real property.  The plain
language of section 7.27.3 expressly provides that such conveyance
may be made by
either sale or lease, not by a DDA. 
Section 22.606.2(c) also plainly establishes that conveyance is separate
and distinct from a DDA by providing that there must be “one or more
agreements” in place -- such as a DDA -- requiring the property’s “development,
use and maintenance…for affordable housing purposes” in order for the City to
be able to avail itself of the conveyance procedure in section 7.27.3.  Section 22.606.2(c) does not provide that
such an agreement is the vehicle for disposition.  
Section 22.606.2(c)’s
requirement to follow the procedures set forth in section 7.27.3 exists at the
time of conveyance, which is made clear by the plain language of section 7.27.3
which uses the words “convey,” “conveyance,” “lease,” and “disposition”
throughout. The agreement with Developers that will convey the interest in the
Project site will be the ground lease, not the DDA. This is consistent
with the well-established legal principle that a lease of real property
constitutes a conveyance of an estate in land (a leasehold) and a
contract.  Valley Investments v.
BancAmerica Commercial Corp., (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 816, 822.  
Although a binding agreement
with conditions precedent, the DDA does not purport to convey an interest in
real property.  To the contrary, the DDA
contains numerous provisions that contemplate the future conveyance of
real property through a ground lease. 
Section 1.2 of the DDA defines “Ground Lease” as the “99-year ground
lease with respect to the Site to be entered into between the City, as
ground lessor, and Developers, as ground lessee, subject to and contemplated in
this agreement . . .”  AR 91 (emphasis
added).  The use of the phrase “to be
entered into” indicates that conveyance has not yet occurred.  DDA section 1.1(b) similarly establishes that
conveyance is a future occurrence by stating that “[t]he Developers will
lease the Site for a Ninety Nine (99) year term . . .”  AR 84 (emphasis added).  Section 3.1 sets forth conditions precedent that
must be satisfied prior to conveyance via ground lease:
“Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, the City shall
execute and deliver the Ground Lease to the Site to Developers for
redevelopment and the provision of affordable housing. The City shall not be
obligated to convey title to the Site to Developers, and the Close of
Escrow shall not occur, if an Event of Default has occurred and has not
been cured within the applicable cure period, if any.”  AR 100 (emphasis added); see AR 105
(“Provided the conditions precedent in Section 3.1 of this Agreement have been
satisfied, upon the terms, covenants and conditions set forth in this
Agreement, the City agrees to lease and convey the leasehold interest in the
Site to Developers…)”.  Section 3.9(a)
again confirms that conveyance has not yet occurred: “Subject to any extensions
of time mutually agreed upon in writing between the City and Developers, the
conveyance of leasehold interest to Developers pursuant to the Ground Lease
shall be completed upon the occurrence of all of the following (the
“Closing Date”) (i) not sooner than the satisfaction of all Conditions
Precedent to the Close of Escrow set forth in Section 3.1 of this Agreement;
and (ii) not later than the date specified for the scheduled Closing Date in
the Schedule of Performance.”  AR 114
(emphasis added).  
The City’s Policy also provides
that conveyance is by sale or by lease. 
SE Ex. 10, p. 4.  The Policy is
described as “a standardized framework as to how real property is to be
conveyed” and requires that LAHD “shall utilize long-term ground leases” where
feasible.  Ibid. 
Petitioners
reply that this interpretation is based upon the faulty premise that the words
“convey” and “conveyance” have a plain dictionary meaning.  Our Supreme Court has held, however, that “the
intent prevails over the letter of the words”. 
Calatayud v. State of California, (1998) 18 Cal.4th
1057, 1064-65.  This court should find
that the City’s litigation-adopted “interpretation” is of “no use at all” (Yamaha
Corp. of America v. State Board of Equalization, (1998) 19 Cal.4th
1, 8) because it defeats the essential purpose of the statutory scheme and contradicts
the legislative intent.  Reply at 12-13.
Petitioners
add that the City’s interpretation of sections 22.606.2 and 7.27.3, premised on
a law dictionary literal reading of the words “convey” and “conveyance”, would
postpone compliance with these transparency laws so late in the process that
the City Council and public would be deprived of a meaningful opportunity to
review or affect the decision-making for the Land Appraisal, Reuse Report, and
price at which the City proposes to sell or lease its valuable land.  This is an evil that the Court’s construction
of these sections must avoid because it contradicts the City’s
interpretation of its own program before this litigation started.  Reply at 11.[15]
Although the plain language
of sections 7.27.3, 22.606.2(c) and the Policy require an actual conveyance of
a property interest before disclosure of the reports and findings required by
section 7.27.3, Petitioners are correct that the intent of these provisions
must control.  But the plain language is
supported by the legislative intent because the City Council will address the
issues required by section 727.3 before entry into a ground lease.  
Petitioners claim that the
DDA is the “final discretionary step”, but this is incorrect. The DDA provides
that the City Council’s retention of its authority and obligations under
applicable law.  DDA section 11.23
provides that nothing contained in the DDA restricts or limits “any of the
City’s duties, obligations, rights or remedies . . . pursuant [to its
ordinances] or the general police powers, rights, privileges, and discretion of
the City . . . including, without limitation, the right under law to
make and implement independent judgments, decisions and/or acts with respect to
planning, development and/or redevelopment matters . . . whether or not
consistent with the provisions of this Agreement.”  AR 172-73 (emphasis added).  DDA section
3.1(v) states as a Condition Precedent that an “Appraisal or Other
Determination of Value” by which “[t]he City shall have determined, in their
(sic.) sole discretion, that the City Rent payable by Developers is
acceptable.” AR 101 (emphasis added). 
This means that the City Council can address the Fair Use Value
appraisal and analysis, and make the findings required by section 7.27.3, at a
public hearing held after the DDA is executed. 
As Huynh, the City’s PMK, testified: “[N]othing in the Venice Dell DDA
restricts or waives the [C]ity’s duty to follow its own ordinances among other
things,” and this duty includes compliance with section 7.27.3.  SE Ex. 2, p. 240 (Huynh Depo.).  
Thus, the City’s decision
concerning section 7.27.3 compliance is one of the obligations retained and required by DDA section 11.23. When
the Project reaches the stage of ground lease consideration, it will be
presented to the City Council for approval in compliance with section 7.27.3
before “full conveyance” occurs.  SE Ex.
2, pp. 240-41 (Huynh Depo.); see id., pp. 164-65 (“we have
to go back to council to receive authority to execute the ground lease”).  City Council consideration is a necessary and
expected next step, as the City Council is ultimately the key decision-maker.  Ex. 2, p. 188.  It is at this point that the City Council’s
decision will be subject to section 7.27.3 and its requirement of findings,
which must be supported by substantial evidence.  See CCP §1094.5; Topanga Assn. for
a Scenic Community v. County of Los Angeles, (1974) 11 Cal.3d 506,
514-15.  While it may be a better policy
to perform this decision-making before entry into a DDA, it is not required.
The Policy is not inconsistent
with this interpretation.  The Policy
recommends that “a Financial Gap Analysis or a Fair Reuse Analysis. . .
will be prepared” before real property is sold or ground leased; it does not
recommend doing so at the time of seeking approval to enter into a DDA.  SE Ex. 10 (Attachment 3). 
Nor has City staff interpreted the Public Land Development
Program and sections 22.606.2 and 7.27.3 as treating the City Council’s
authorization of LAHD’s authority to negotiate and execute the DDA as the final
discretionary step.  Staff merely stated
that step four, the last step, is to execute the DDA, which enables the
transfer of public land for development. The DDA codifies
the City’s commitment to transfer or ground lease the property once the project
milestones have been achieved.  SE Ex.
10, p. 3.  This is not a statement
that the City Council has no further discretion.
If there were any doubt, the
City’s interpretation of its LAAC provisions is “‘entitled to deference’ in [a
court’s] review of the meaning or application of the law.”  Harrington v. City of Davis, (2017) 16
Cal.App.5th 420, 434.  “[A]n agency’s
view of the meaning and scope of its own . . . ordinance is entitled to great
weight unless it is clearly erroneous or unauthorized.”  Anderson First Coalition v. City of
Anderson, (2005) 130 Cal.App.4th 1173, 1193. Opp. at 12-13.
Petitioners argue that the City’s litigation-inspired interpretation is
entitled to no judicial deference.  An
agency's interpretation of an ambiguous statute consisting only of the agency's
litigating position, without promulgation of formal regulations, is entitled to
no deference.  Culligan Water
Conditioning, Inc. v. State Bd. of Equalization, supra, 17 Cal. 3d at
92-93.  
The City’s interpretation is
not inspired by litigation.  The city’s
practice is to present the ground lease to the City Council for approval in
compliance with section 7.27.3 before “full conveyance” occurs. SE Ex. 2, pp.
240-41 (Huynh Depo.); see id., pp. 164-65 (“we have
to go back to council to receive authority to execute the ground lease”); Id.,
p. 188.   Huynh testified
that the Reuse analysis really is needed for the formal transfer.  SE Ex. 2, p. 42.  It depends on the financing and funding
sources when the reuse analysis gets ordered. 
Ex. 2, p. 42.  The Reuse Report is
usually prepared after the City Council approves the term sheet because at that
point the critical deal terms, including the proposed price of the sale or
lease, are crystalized.  Ex. 2, pp.
42-43.  Authority for entry into the
ground lease requires approval by the City Council.  Ex. 2, p. 45. 
In some cases, state deadlines require presentation of the DDA and
ground lease to the City Council at the same time.  Ex. 2, p. 45-46.  The City does not have a policy of providing
the Reuse Analysis to the City Council for approval of the DDA.  Ex. 2, p. 47. 
As a result, the City’s interpretation is entitled to deference.
Sections 7.27.3, 22.606.2(c) and
the Policy do not require submission of the Fair Use Value appraisal, analysis,
and findings required by section 7.27.3 at a public hearing before the City
Council approves a DDA.  The City is
correct that these provisions only apply before the actual conveyance of a real
property interest.
 
F. Conclusion
Petitioners are correct that this case is about timing, but
the required timing is not as they contend. 
The FAP is denied.  
The City’s counsel is ordered to prepare a proposed
judgment, serve it on all other counsel for approval as to form, wait ten days
after service for any objections, meet and confer if there are objections, and
then submit the proposed judgment along with a declaration stating the
existence/non-existence of any unresolved objections.  An OSC re: judgment is set for July 18, 2024
at 9:30 a.m.


