


[1] Petitioners ask the court to judicially
notice various City Charter provisions (Pet. RJN Ex. A) and provisions from the
Los Angeles Administrative Code (“LAAC”) (Pet. RJN Ex. B).  The City also seeks judicial notice of
provisions of the City Charter (Resp. Ex. 1). 
In reply, Petitioners seek judicial notice of two more City Charter
provisions (Exs. 1-2).  All of the
requests are granted.  Evid. Code
§452(b).


[2] LAAC section
22.484(g)(2)(A)(5), (6) and (8) delegates employment of personnel, the Special
Parking Revenue Fund, and state law concerning parking to the Transportation Commission,
with (5) and (6) “subject to Council approval”, prior authorization of the
mayor”, or City Charter limitations.


[3] The parties refer to the
quasi-administrative record as “QAR” but the court will use “AR”.  The parties refer to Petitioners Supplemental
Evidence as “SE” and the court also will use that acronym.


[4] The
Project does not have a CDP from the Coastal Commission.  SE Ex. 15 (six letters of incomplete application
for CDP or plan amendment).  The Coastal
Commission asked that LADOT be a co-applicant with Developers because of the
Project’s new parking garage and LADOT has declined.  Compare SE Ex. 15 and SE Ex.
16.  Reply at 6, n. 2. 


[5] Petitioners note
that the LAHD Report did not contain a Fair
Reuse Value report, appraisal report, or any of the analysis for the findings
of the City Council to support the DDA. 
Pet. Op. Br. at 6.


[6] Petitioners contend that neither of the LAHD and CAO reports cited any
statutory authority under which the City Council was proposing to act in
directing LADOT to transfer the parking lot to LAHD or in authorizing LAHD to
negotiate and execute a DDA disposing of the parking lot.  Pet. Op. Br. at 7.


[7] The CAO report and meeting agenda item called for
the April 27 LAHD report to be subject to “note and file” and for the June 3
CAO report to be adopted instead.  AR
938-39; SE Ex. 5.  Petitioners contend
that, since the executed term sheet and proposed DDA were part of the April 27
LAHD report, the City Council’s action to note and file the April 27 LAHD report
did not approve the term sheet or the draft DDA attached to it.  Pet. Op. Br. at 7, n. 3.


[8]
All further statutory references are to the LAAC unless otherwise  noted.


[9] The public parking garage is part of the approved
DDA.  AR 189.  The Transportation Commission has never
reviewed or approved any aspect of this change in use of its parking lot.  SE Ex. 7 (Admissions 1, 2); SE Ex. 8, pp. 14,
65-74 (Husting Depo.).  Reply at 6, n. 1.


[10] Petitioners argue that they have both taxpayer
and public interest standing.  Pet. Op.
Br. at 20-21.  The City does not dispute
Petitioners’ standing.  See Reply
at 4.


[11] The City argues that, while the term “public
improvement” is not defined in the City Charter or LAAC, “a public improvement
is a project or use that involves ‘(1) a deliberate action by the state (2)
taken in furtherance of public purposes.’” 
Mercury Cas. Co. v. City of Pasadena, (2017) 14 Cal. App. 5th
917, 928.)  Under this standard, the
Project is clearly a “public improvement.” 
Opp. at 15, n. 4.  
Petitioners
reply that “public improvement” is defined by
City Charter sections 580 and 581 define it. Pet. RJN, Ex. A.  Reply at 8, n. 5.  Not so. 
These provisions and state laws cited by Petitioners concern public works
improvements (water, storm and sanitary sewers, streets, bridges, etc.), which
differ from public improvements. 
Petitioners add that City
Charter section 247 (Public Improvements) merely recognizes the authority of
the City or the City Council to provide for public improvements by issuing bonds
or notes to finance residential housing developments, including low-income
developments.  Pet. Reply RJN, Ex. C.  City Charter section 248 (Issuance Of Housing
Revenue Bonds) is the next provision in the City Charter and it confirms the City
Council’s power to issue revenue bonds to develop market rate and affordable
housing so long as none of the costs are paid from tax revenues of the City.  Pet. Reply RJN, Ex. C.  Reply at 8-9. 
The court agrees.


[12] Petitioners miscite the Policy as Pet. RJN
Ex. B.


[13]
In discovery, the
City was asked to admit that its staff reports failed to notify the public of
the City Council’s authority to approve the DDA. The City denied that it failed
to notify the public of its authority, stating that the LAHD and CAO reports
were contained in Council File No. 22-0496 and the CAO report referred to the
Policy.  SE Ex. 7 (RFA 3).  Yet, a policy is not authorization for a
municipal body to act. That takes a law.  Reply at 13-14.


[14] The KM
Report was based upon a LAHD procured December 22, 2020 appraisal of the Venice
Dell Project site.  SE Ex. 12.  Gold Coast concluded that the Fair Market
Value of the site was $3.349 million.  Ex
12, p. 7.  The KM Report took Gold
Coast’s $3.349 Fair Market Value, estimated the increased development cost of
the City’s conditions imposed upon the Project that lowered its value to the
Fair Reuse Value (the site value with the use reduced by the cost of the City’s
Conditions).  AR 17–20. The KM Report concluded
that the increased development costs reduced the Fair Market Value of $3.349
million to below $0 and therefore, the lease price of $1 per year was a fair
price for the City to long-term lease the land in exchange for the deed
restrictions for low cost housing purposes.  AR 21–22. 
Petitioners argue that the KM Report inadequately (a) fails to comply
with section 7.27.3’s requirement to disclose what increases in costs are
specifically attributable to the City’s Conditions and (b) does not include the
benefit of the public funding for which the Project qualifies due to affordable
housing requirements.  Pet. Op. Br. at
18, n. 6.


[15]
Petitioners explain that sections 22.606.2 and 7.27.3 use the terms “convey” and “disposition”
interchangeably, particularly in section 7.27.3 where the City imposes the
obligation to comply with the list of disclosures required to justify a below
fair market price.  This language uses the
word “disposition” to trigger the timing. 
Reply at 11-12.  In 2017, the
staff report summary of this program described the process using the term “disposition”
multiple times without ever using the words “convey” or “conveyance.”  Pet. Op. Br. at 15–16; SE Ex. 10, p. 3
(October 13, 2017 staff report: Disposition Process).  Only when the City Attorney was tasked with
drafting the ordinances did the words “convey” and “conveyance” appear. But
even the word “convey” reflects the intent to trigger the transparency of the
Property Appraisal, Fair Reuse Valuation Report, and required findings in
conjunction with entering into an agreement that imposes the affordable housing
conditions.  The intent
expressed in the City’s 2017 reports for the program requires that the words
“disposition” and “convey” or “conveyance” be read in harmony, rather than the
literal reading the City urges.  Reply at
12.  

