  Case Number:  19STCP00482    Hearing Date:   October 6, 2023    Dept:  56  
 
 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



CITIZENS FOR AMENDING PROPOSITION L, et al., 
 
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
 
CITY OF POMONA, et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


 


     
  CASE NO.:  19STCP00482
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: DEMURRER AND
  MOTION TO STRIKE
 
Date: 
  October 6, 2023
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
Judge: Holly J. Fujie
 



AND RELATED
CROSS-ACTIONS
 
            MOVING
PARTY: Defendant/Cross-Complainant/Cross-Defendant City of Pomona (the “City”
or “Pomona”) 
 
RESPONDING PARTY:
Defendant/Cross-Complainant/Cross-Defendant Real Party in Interest, Regency
Outdoor Advertising, Inc. (“Regency”) 
 
The Court has
considered the moving, opposition and reply papers.
 
BACKGROUND
This
action concerns billboard structures (the “Billboards”) located in Pomona that
are operated by Regency.  On November 17,
2022, Regency filed a cross-complaint (the “XC”) alleging two causes of action
for declaratory relief.  The currently
operative third amended cross-complaint (the “TAXC”) alleges: (1) declaratory
relief; (2) declaratory relief; (3) breach of the implied covenant of good
faith and fair dealing; (4) breach of contract; (5) unconstitutional takings;
(6) negligence; (7) enforcement of equitable servitude; (8) breach of warranty;
(9) fraud; and (10) negligent misrepresentation.[1]
 
In relevant part, the TAXC alleges: On
or about June 24, 1993, Pomona and Regency (the “Parties”) entered into a
development agreement (the “Development Agreement”) under which Regency was
permitted to erect the Billboards along freeways in Pomona.  (See TAXC ¶ 9, Exhibit A.)  The Development Agreement provided for a
ten-year term which would automatically extend into a second ten-year term, and
permitted subsequent extensions by the Parties’ mutual agreement.  (TAXC ¶ 13.)  Section IV.K of the Development Agreement,
labeled “Supersedure by Subsequent Laws,” provided that if a federal or state
law enacted after the Development Agreement’s execution precluded compliance
with its terms, the provisions of the Development Agreement would be modified
to the extent feasible to comply with such law. 
(TAXC ¶ 14.)  The Development
Agreement also provided that its provisions constituted covenants running with
the land.  (See TAXC ¶ 16.)  
 
On November 1, 1993, the City adopted
Proposition L, which added a provision to the Pomona Zoning Code (the “Zoning
Code”) prohibiting new or structurally altered offsite billboards within the
City.  (TAXC ¶ 27.)  
 
 
Before the Development Agreement’s
second ten-year term expired, the Parties negotiated a proposed third extension
of the Development Agreement that would extend through 2026, and on July 7,
2014, the City adopted Ordinance No. 4190, which approved a third extension (the
“Third Extension”) for Regency to continue operating the Billboards.  (See TAXC ¶¶ 17-19.)  In reliance on the terms of the Third
Extension and Ordinance No. 4190, Regency entered into new contracts with third
parties for the use of the Billboards.  (See
TAXC ¶ 18.)  Although the City had
control over making the Third Extension effective, because of its own delay, it
failed to approve the extension before the Development Agreement’s
expiration.  (TAXC ¶ 21.) 
 
Plaintiffs, who are competing
billboard operators, filed a petition for writ of mandate (the “First Writ”) on
August 13, 2014 to set aside Ordinance No. 4190 on the ground that it violated
Proposition L.  (TAXC ¶ 23.)  The City opposed the First Writ.  (Id.) 
The Superior Court granted the First Writ in April 2017.  (Id.) 
The City appealed the decision, and on November 7, 2018, the appellate
court affirmed the trial court’s decision, finding that the Third Extension
constituted a new contract rather than an extension of the original Development
Agreement because the original 20-year term passed before it was adopted.  (See TAXC ¶ 24.)  
 
Regency alleges that the City failed
to comply with its obligations under the Development Agreement by failing to
timely approve the Third Extension. 
(TAXC ¶ 25.)  Regency further
alleges that the City’s efforts to remove the Billboards constitute an
unconstitutional taking.  (See TAXC
¶ 77.) 
 
Regency seeks a declaration that: (1)
the Billboards were legally installed under the laws that were in effect at the
time of their installation; (2) the Billboards are “Legal Nonconforming Signs”
as defined by section .503 of the Zoning Code; (3) since they are Legal
Nonconforming Signs, the Billboards do not constitute “Illegal Signs” that
require abatement under section .503-K-H of the Zoning Code; (4) the City
agreed and promised that it would not seek to remove the Billboards after the
adoption of Ordinance No. 4190, thereby promising Regency that it could
continue operating the Billboards through June 24, 2026; and (5) the City is
precluded from removing the Billboards until at least June 24, 2026 under the
doctrines of estoppel and promissory estoppel. 
(TAXC ¶ 54.)
 
The City filed a demurrer (the
“Demurrer”) that challenges the sufficiency of each cause of action alleged
against it in the TAXC on numerous grounds. 
The City also filed a motion to strike (the “Motion”) portions of the TAXC.
 
DEMURRER
Meet and Confer
The meet and
confer requirement has been met for the Demurrer and Motion.
 
Legal Standard
A demurrer tests the sufficiency of a
complaint as a matter of law.  (Durell v. Sharp Healthcare (2010) 183
Cal.App.4th 1350, 1358.)  The court
accepts as true all material factual allegations and affords them a liberal
construction, but it does not consider conclusions of fact or law, opinions,
speculation, or allegations contrary to law or judicially noticed facts.  (Shea
Homes Limited Partnership v. County of Alameda (2003) 110 Cal.App.4th 1246,
1254.)  With respect to a demurrer, the
complaint must be construed liberally by drawing reasonable inferences from the
facts pleaded.  (Rodas v. Spiegel (2001) 87 Cal.App.4th 513, 517.)  Demurrers for uncertainty are
disfavored.  (Chen v. Berenjian (2019)
33 Cal.App.5th 811, 822.)  A demurrer for
uncertainty is strictly construed, even where a complaint is in some respects
uncertain, because ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery
procedures.  (Id.)  A demurrer will be sustained without leave to
amend if there exists no reasonable possibility that the defect can be cured by
amendment.  (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.)  
 
Government Claims Act:
            Under the Government Claims Act imposes a claim
presentation requirement for “all claims for money or damages against local public entities” and
generally bars lawsuits for money or damages against such public entities
unless a written claim has been timely presented and acted upon or deemed to
have been rejected.  (See Gov.
Code §§ 905, 945.4; Branciforte Heights, LLC v.
City of Santa Cruz (2006) 138 Cal.App.4th 914, 929.)  When a claim for “money or damages” is not based
on a governmental obligation to return specific property, it is subject to the
claim requirements.  (City of Stockton v. Superior Court (2007) 42 Cal.4th
730, 743.)[2]
 
 
            The City
argues that Regency’s claims that are rooted in both contract and tort fail
because the TAXC does not allege compliance with the Government Claims
Act.  Regency contends that compliance
with the Government Claims Act is not required because the TAXC does not seek
monetary damages.  The Court is not
persuaded by Regency’s argument.  First,
damages are an element of several of the claims alleged in the TAXC, and
Regency does not cite any authority that stands for the proposition that a
plaintiff may avoid claim presentation requirements by only seeking nonmonetary
relief.  The Court also observes that
Regency does not dispute that the Third Extension was invalidated by the Court
of Appeal, and the TAXC is silent as to a basis for the City’s authority to
enforce the terms of an agreement that has been deemed legally invalid.  The Court therefore finds that the TAXC does
not sufficiently allege compliance with the Government Claims Act.  Because Plaintiff has now had multiple
opportunities to amend the complaint and has failed to demonstrate that it
would be able to amend it to cure this defect, the Court SUSTAINS the Demurrer
to the third, fourth, sixth, and eighth through tenth causes of action without
leave to amend. 
 
Declaratory Relief
To
state a declaratory relief claim, the plaintiff must allege a proper subject of
declaratory relief and an actual controversy involving justiciable questions
relating to the party’s rights or obligations. 
(See Jolley v. Chase Home Finance, LLC (2013) 213
Cal.App.4th 872, 909.)  The fundamental basis of declaratory relief is the
existence of an actual, present controversy over a proper subject.  (DeLaura
v. Beckett (2006) 137 Cal.App.4th 542, 545.)  The court may sustain a
demurrer on the ground that the complaint fails to allege an actual or present
controversy, or that it is not justiciable.  (Id.)  
Declaratory
relief operates prospectively, serving to set controversies at rest before
obligations are repudiated, rights are invaded or wrongs are committed.  (Kirkwood v. California State Automobile
Assn. Inter-Ins. Bureau (2011) 193 Cal.App.4th 49, 59.)  Thus, the remedy is to be used to advance
preventive justice, to declare rather than execute rights.  (Id.) 
In order to state a proper claim for declaratory relief, the plaintiff
must assert “some recognized or cognizable legal theories” that are “related to
subjects and requests for relief that are properly before the court.”  (See Otay Land Co. v. Royal Indemnity Co.
(2008) 169 Cal.App.4th 556, 563.)
 
The doctrine of equitable estoppel is
founded on concepts of equity and fair dealing. 
(Attard v. Board of Supervisors
of Contra Costa County (2017) 14 Cal.App.5th 1066, 1079.)  It provides that a person may not deny the
existence of a state of facts if he intentionally led another to believe a
particular circumstance to be true and to rely upon such belief to his
detriment.  (Id.)  The elements of the doctrine are that: (1)
the party to be estopped must be apprised of the facts; (2) he must intend that
his conduct shall be acted upon, or must so act that the party asserting the
estoppel has a right to believe it was so intended; (3) the other party must be
ignorant of the true state of facts; and (4) he must rely upon the conduct to
his injury.  (Id.)  Equitable estoppel will not apply against a
governmental body except in unusual instances when necessary to avoid grave
injustice and when the result will not defeat a strong public policy.  (Id.) 
The existence of equitable estoppel generally is a factual question for
the trier of fact to decide, unless the facts are undisputed and can support
only one reasonable conclusion as a matter of law.  (Schafer
v. City of Los Angeles (2015) 237
Cal.App.4th 1250, 1263.)  In a case
involving equitable estoppel against the government, however, the existence of
estoppel is in part a legal question to the extent it involves weighing policy
concerns to determine whether the avoidance of injustice in the particular case
justifies any adverse impact on public policy or the public interest.  (Id.) 
A party faces daunting odds in establishing estoppel against a
government entity in a land use case.  (Id.
at 1264.)
 
            The
Court finds that despite changes made from its earlier iterations, the
declaratory relief claim does not state a claim for prospective relief.  While the TAXC seeks a declaration regarding
Regency’s rights to operate the Billboards through 2026, the gravamen of the
claim is the enforcement of the City’s past promise to extend the Development
Agreement for a third term.  A
development agreement is a legislative act that shall be approved by ordinance
and is subject to referendum.  (Gov. Code
§ 65867.5, subd. (a).)  Here, the
legislative act approving the Development Agreement’s extension was
invalidated.  (See Citizens for Amending Proposition L v. City of
Pomona (2018) 28 Cal.App.5th 1159,
1189-90.)  Moreover, while Regency argues that the City is estopped
from removing the Billboards, the Court finds that the TAXC does not allege
facts to show an equitable basis for requiring the City to adhere to the terms
of an invalidated contract.  While the
TAXC alleges that Regency relied on the City’s promise to extend the
Development Agreement and entered into contracts with third parties in
anticipation of its execution, Regency was on notice of the City’s
statutorily-proscribed authority to validly execute the Third Extension.  As a result, there are no facts to show that
Regency’s reliance was justifiable, particularly given the backdrop of the
voter-approved restrictions on billboards imposed by Proposition L.  (See, e.g., San Diego City Firefighters,
Local 145 v. Bd. of Admin. Of San Diego City Emples. Ret. Sys. (2012) 206
Cal.App.4th 594, 609-611.)
‘
 
Unconstitutional Taking
The Takings Clause of the Fifth
Amendment, made applicable to the States through the Fourteenth Amendment provides
that private property shall not “be taken for public use, without just
compensation.”  (Lingle v. Chevron U.S.A. Inc. (2005) 544 U.S. 528,
536.)  As its text makes plain, the
Takings Clause “does not prohibit the taking of private property, but instead
places a condition on the exercise of that power.”  (Id.) 
Where the government authorizes a physical occupation of property or
actually takes
title, the Takings
Clause generally requires compensation. 
(Hensler v. City of Glendale (1994) 8 Cal.4th 1, 9-10.)  But where the government merely regulates the
use of property, compensation is required only if considerations such as the
purpose of the regulation or the extent to which it deprives the owner of the
economic use of the property suggest that the regulation has unfairly singled
out the property owner to bear a burden that should be borne by the public as a
whole.  (Id. at 10.) 


            The
Court finds that the TAXC does not sufficiently allege that the City’s
prohibiting Regency from maintaining the Billboards through June 24, 2026
constitutes an unconstitutional taking. 
The allegations concerning this claim are cursory and do not make any
reference to the significance of Proposition L or the Court of Appeal’s
invalidating the Third Extension.  Nor
does the TAXC allege that Regency’s property has been deprived of all economic
value.  The Court therefore SUSTAINS the
Demurrer to the fifth cause of action without leave to amend. 
 
 
 
 
Equitable Servitude
The doctrine of equitable servitudes
makes enforceable at equity a covenant appurtenant to other benefited property
that might be otherwise unenforceable.  (Southern California School of Theology v. Claremont Graduate
University (2021) 60 Cal.App.5th 1, 8.)  A covenant running with the land is created
by language in a deed or other document showing an agreement to do or refrain
from doing something with respect to use of the land.  (Id.) 
An equitable servitude may be created when a covenant does not run with
the land but equity requires that it be enforced.  (Id.)  An equitable servitude will be enforced unless
it violates public policy; it bears no rational relationship to the protection,
preservation, operation or purpose of the affected land; or it otherwise
imposes burdens on the affected land that are so disproportionate to the
restriction's beneficial effects that the restriction should not be
enforced.  (Nahrstedt v. Lakeside Village
Condominium Assn. (1994) 8 Cal.4th 361, 382.)
 
            The TAXC
alleges that the Development Agreement and the Third Extension created a right
for Regency to operate the Billboards. 
The TAXC does not allege, however, a basis for operating of the
Billboards pursuant to an invalid contract, and Plaintiff has demonstrated an
inability to amend the complaint in a way that avoids this defect.  The Court therefore SUSTAINS the Demurrer to
the seventh cause of action without leave to amend. 
 
            In light of the Court’s ruling on the Demurrer, the
Motion is MOOT. 
  
Moving party is ordered to give notice of this
ruling. 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to
the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed by the instructions provided on
the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive
an email and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed
off calendar. 
 
 
  Dated
this 6th day of October 2023
 



  






Hon. Holly J. Fujie 
Judge of the Superior Court 
 



 
 


