 Case Number:  23STCV09155    Hearing Date:   October 6, 2023    Dept:  56  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



RICHARD HERNANDEZ,
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
AMERICAN GUARD SERVICES, INC., et al.,  
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.                               





     
  CASE NO.: 23STCV09155
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION
 
Date: October 6, 2023
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 



 
MOVING
PARTY:  Defendant American Guard
Services, Inc. (“Moving Defendant”)
 
RESPONDING
PARTY: Plaintiff
 
            The Court has considered the moving, opposition and reply
papers. 
 
BACKGROUND
            Plaintiff’s complaint (the
“Complaint”) alleges 15 causes of action arising from an employment
relationship. 
 
On September 8, 2023, Moving Defendant filed a
motion to compel arbitration (the “Motion”) on the grounds that when Plaintiff
began working for Moving Defendant, he signed agreements that contain
provisions that require him to adjudicate his current claims in binding
arbitration. 
 
REQUEST
FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
            Plaintiff’s Request for Judicial Notice is GRANTED with respect to
Exhibit I and DENIED with respect to Exhibits M and N.
 
EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
            Plaintiff’s objections to the Declaration of Natalie Solano (“Solano
Decl.”) are OVERRULED. 
 
DISCUSSION
The
purpose of the Federal Arbitration Act (“FAA”) is to move the parties in an
arbitrable dispute out of court and into arbitration as quickly and easily as
possible.  (Moses H. Cone Memorial Hosp. v. Mercury Constr. Corp. (1983) 460
U.S. 1, 23.)  The FAA is consistent with
the federal policy to ensure the enforceability, according to their terms, of
private agreements to arbitrate.  (Mastrobuono v.
Shearson Lehman Hutton, Inc. (1995) 514 U.S. 52, 57.)  A written agreement to submit to arbitration
an existing controversy or a controversy thereafter arising is valid,
enforceable, and irrevocable, save upon such grounds as exist for the
revocation of any contract.  (CCP § 1281.)  California law, like federal law, favors
enforcement of valid arbitration agreements. 
(Armendariz v. Foundation Health
Psychcare Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 97.)  On petition of a party to an arbitration
agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement to arbitrate a
controversy and that a party to the agreement refuses to arbitrate that controversy,
the court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate the
controversy unless grounds exist not to compel arbitration.  (CCP § 1281.2.)  
 
The
party moving to compel arbitration bears the burden of producing prima facie
evidence of a written agreement to arbitrate the controversy.  (Gamboa v. Northeast Community Clinic
(2021) 72 Cal.App.5th 158, 165.)  The
moving party can meet its initial burden by attaching a copy of the alleged
arbitration agreement purporting to bear the opposing party’s signature.  (Id.) 
Alternatively, the moving party can meet its burden by setting forth the
agreement’s provisions in the motion.  (Id.)  It is not necessary to follow the normal
procedures of document authentication.  (Id.)  If the moving party meets its initial prima
facie burden and the opposing party does not dispute the existence of the
arbitration agreement, then nothing more is required for the moving party to
meet its burden of persuasion.  (Id.)
 
If
the moving party meets its initial prima facia burden and the opposing party
disputes the agreement, then in the second step, the opposing party bears the
burden of producing evidence to challenge the authenticity of the agreement,
which can be done in several ways.  (Id.)  For example, the opposing party may testify
under oath or declare under penalty of perjury that the party never saw or does
not remember seeing the agreement, or that the party never signed or does not
remember signing the agreement.  (Id.)  If the opposing party meets its burden of
producing evidence, then in the third step, the moving party must establish
with admissible evidence a valid arbitration agreement between the parties.  (Id.)
 
 
 
When a plaintiff does not recall signing or agreeing
to an electronic agreement, the defendant has the burden of proving by a
preponderance of the evidence that an electronic signature or acceptance is
authentic, i.e., that it was the act of the plaintiff.  (Ruiz v. Moss Bros. Auto Group, Inc.
(2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 836, 846.)  A
party may establish that the electronic signature was “the act of the person”
by presenting evidence that a unique login and password known only to that
person was required to affix the electronic signature, along with evidence
detailing the procedures the person had to follow to electronically sign the
document and the accompanying security precautions.  (Bannister v. Marinidence Opco, LLC
(2021) 64 Cal.App.5th 541, 545.)
 
The
trial court may resolve a motion to compel arbitration in summary proceedings.  (Gamma Eta Chapter of Pi Kappa Alpha v.
Helvey (2020) 44 Cal.App.5th 1090, 1097.) 
Factual issues may be submitted on declarations and affidavits, or by oral
testimony in the court’s discretion.  (Juen
v. Alain Pinel Realtors, Inc.  (2019)
32 Cal.App.5th 972, 978.)  When the
enforceability of an arbitration clause may depend upon which of two sharply
conflicting factual accounts is to be believed, the better course would
normally be for the trial court to hear oral testimony and allow the parties
the opportunity for cross-examination.  (See
Rosenthal v. Great Western Fin.
Securities Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 414.)
 
Existence of Agreement to
Arbitrate
In
support of the Motion, Moving Defendant provides evidence of the onboarding
documents that Plaintiff filled out and electronically signed before beginning
employment on October 27, 2015 and July 23, 2021 (collectively, the
“Agreements”).  (See Solano Decl.
¶¶ 15-16, Exhibits B, D.)[1]  
 
            The Agreements provide, in part: 
“The agreement between each individual
employee and the Company to be bound by the Policy creates a contract requiring
both parties to resolve most employment-related disputes (excluded disputes are
listed below) that are based on a legal claim through final and binding
arbitration. Arbitration is the exclusive forum for the resolution of such
disputes, and the parties mutually waive their right to a trial before a judge
or jury in federal or state court in favor of arbitration under the
Policy.”  (See Solano Decl.,
Exhibit D.) 
 
The
Solano Declaration states that the Agreements were obtained from Moving
Defendant’s records and describes the process for prospective employees to sign
paperwork by using a personal login and password.  (See Solano Decl. ¶¶ 6-14.)  Solano was not responsible for overseeing
Plaintiff’s onboarding process; the Solano Declaration provides that a human
resources manager, Rafaela Ramirez (“Ramirez”) was present during the
process.  (See Solano Decl.
¶ 17.)  
 
Plaintiff declares that he does not recognize
either of the Arbitration Agreements. 
(Declaration of Richard Hernandez (“Hernandez Decl.”) ¶ 4.)  Plaintiff declares that he never signed the
documents or authorized anyone to electronically sign them.  (Id.) 
Plaintiff’s full name is “Richard Frankie Hernandez,” rather than
“Richard Frank Hernandez” as it appears in the electronic signature affixed to the
2021 Agreement.  (See Hernandez
Decl. ¶ 5, Exhibits 1-2.)  When
Plaintiff applied to work for Moving Defendant, he was not able to log into the
computer system.  (Hernandez Decl. ¶ 7.)  Instead, an employee at the front desk logged
in and completed the documents for Plaintiff. 
Plaintiff never entered a password and has no record of receiving an
email or text message to create a password. 
(Id.)  
 
 In support of the reply brief (the “Reply”),
Ramirez submitted a declaration confirming her familiarity with Moving
Defendant’s onboarding process.  (See Declaration
of Rafaela Ramirez (“Ramirez Decl. ¶¶ 4-8.) 
The Ramirez Declaration notes that Ramirez does not recall Plaintiff
having any issues creating an account or filling out the onboarding paperwork,but
does not specifically state that Ramirez oversaw Plaintiff during the
process.  (See Ramirez Decl. ¶
10.) 
 
The evidence regarding whether Plaintiff signed the
Arbitration Agreements is in dispute.  Given
Plaintiff’s position and the new evidence submitted with the Reply,
the Court finds it appropriate to allow the parties the opportunity to provide
additional evidence as follows: 1) from Moving Defendant an additional
declaration from Ramirez regarding whether she oversaw Plaintiff during the
onboarding process as stated in the Solano Declaration; and 2) from Plaintiff
in response to the Ramirez Declaration and the Supplemental Ramirez Declaration.   The Supplemental
Ramirez Declaration is due on October 13, 2023 and any supplemental evidence or
authority submitted by Plaintiff is due on October 20, 2023.  The hearing on this matter will be held on October
27, 2023 at 8:30 a.m..  The hearing
currently scheduled for October 6, 2023 is therefore continued to that date.  


 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
            
           Dated this 6th day of October 2023
 



 


 




 


Hon.
  Holly J. Fujie
Judge
  of the Superior Court
 



 
 


