  Case Number:  22STCV38135    Hearing Date:   October 27, 2023    Dept:  30 Dept.
30 
Calendar
No.
C.L. vs. Doe 1, et. al.,
Case No. 22STCV38135
 
Tentative Ruling re: 
Defendant’s Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings
 
Defendant Los Angeles Unified School
District (Defendant) moves for judgment on the pleadings as to the Second
Amended Complaint of Plaintiff C.L. (Plaintiff). The motion is denied.
 
A
motion for judgment on the pleadings may be made after the time to demur has
expired and an answer has been filed. (Code Civ. Proc., § 438, subd. (f).) A
motion by a defendant may be made on the grounds that the complaint or
cross-complaint “does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action against that defendant.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 438, subd. (c)(B)(ii).) A
motion for judgment on the pleadings has the same function as a general
demurrer but is made after the time for demurrer has expired. Except as
provided by statute, the rules governing demurrers apply. (Cloud v. Northrop Grumman Corp. (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 995, 999.) 
Like
a general demurrer, “ordinarily, a [motion for judgment on the pleadings] does
not lie as to a portion of a cause of action, and if any part of a cause of
action is properly pleaded, the [motion] will be overruled.” (Fire Ins. Exchange v. Superior Court
(2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 446, 452.) In considering a motion for judgment on the
pleadings, courts consider whether properly pled factual allegations—assumed to
be true and liberally construed—are sufficient to constitute a cause of action.
(Stone Street Capital, LLC v. Cal. State
Lottery Com’n (2008) 165 Cal.App.4th 109, 116.)
 
Plaintiff alleges that, in 1974, when
she was approximately 12 years old, she was sexually abused by a teacher while
attending Paul Revere Charter Middle School. (SAC ¶ 33.) Plaintiff asserts two
causes of action against Defendant, for Negligence and Negligent Hiring,
Retention, and Supervision. 
Plaintiff brings her claims pursuant to
Code Civ. Proc. § 340.1, which “establishes a liberalized statute of
limitations for actions to recover damages caused by childhood sexual assault brought against direct perpetrators of
the abuse, as well as third party defendants directly or vicariously
responsible for the abuse.” (X.M. v. Superior Court (2021) 68 Cal.App.5th 1014, 1025.)
“[I]n 2019, the Legislature passed Assembly Bill No. 218 . . . which amended section 340.1 to extend the
statute of limitations for childhood sexual
assault by 14 years, revive time-barred claims for three years, and eliminate
the shortened limitations period for claims against public agencies.” (Ibid.)
AB 218 also retroactively
eliminated the claim presentation requirement for childhood sexual assault
claims made against public entities. (Gov. Code § 905, subd. (m).)
 
Defendant moves for judgment on the
pleadings on the basis that AB 218’s retroactive elimination of the claims
presentation requirement is unconstitutional under article XVI, § 6 of the
California Constitution (the gift clause). Defendant
argues that, in eliminating the claims presentation requirement, the
Legislature changed a substantive element of childhood sexual abuse claims
under Code Civ. Proc. § 340.1, and so violated the gift clause by creating
liability where none previously existed. 
 
In relevant part,
article XVI, § 6 provides as follows:
 
The Legislature shall have no power to give or to lend, or to
authorize the giving or lending, of the credit of the State, or of any county,
city and county, city, township or other political corporation or subdivision
of the State now existing, or that may be hereafter established, in aid of or
to any person, association, or corporation, whether municipal or otherwise, or
to pledge the credit thereof, in any manner whatever, for the payment of the
liabilities of any individual, association, municipal or other corporation
whatever; nor shall it have power to make any gift or authorize the making of
any gift, of any public money or thing of value to any individual, municipal or
other corporation whatever…
“The term ‘gift’ in the
constitutional provision ‘includes all appropriations of public money for which
there is no authority or enforceable claim,’ even if there is a moral or
equitable obligation.” (In re William M.W. (2019) 43 Cal.App.5th 573,
594.) “An appropriation of money by the legislature for the relief of one who
has no legal claim therefor must be regarded as a gift within the meaning of
that term, as used in this section, and it is none the less a gift that a
sufficient motive appears for its appropriation, if the motive does not rest
upon a valid consideration.” (Conlin v. Board of Sup'rs of City and County
of San Francisco (1893) 99 Cal. 17, 22; see Heron v. Riley (1930)
209 Cal. 507, 517.)
The parties dispute whether
AB 218 serves a “public purpose,” such that the gift clause would not apply. “It is generally held that in
determining whether an appropriation of public funds is to be considered a
gift, the primary question is whether the funds are to be used for a ‘public’
or ‘private’ purpose; the benefit to the state from an expenditure for a public
purpose is in the nature of consideration and the funds expended are therefore
not a gift even though private persons are benefited therefrom. [Citations.]
The determination of what constitutes a public purpose is primarily a matter
for the Legislature to determine, and its discretion will not be disturbed by
the courts so long as that determination has a reasonable basis.” (County of Alameda v.
Carleson (1971) 5
Cal.3d 730, 746.) “The courts may infer the public purpose from other
legislation or the manner in which the legislation is enacted.” (Scott v.
State Bd. of Equalization (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 1597, 1604.)
Here, the Legislature could
have reasonably concluded, for a number of reasons, that the elimination of the
claims presentation requirement for childhood sexual abuse claims serves a
public purpose. The Legislature’s Assembly Floor analysis of AB 218 states that
the bill is intended “to allow more victims of childhood sexual assault to be
compensated for their injuries and, to help prevent future assaults by raising
the costs for this abuse”; “AB 218 would expand access to justice for victims
of childhood sexual assault by removing the arbitrary time limits upon victims
to pursue a case,” and “confront the pervasive problem of cover ups in
institutions, from schools to sports leagues, which result in continuing
victimization and the sexual assault of additional children.” (RJN, Ex. 12
[89].) Additionally, Plaintiff suggests that AB 218’s purposes include
encouraging positive internal change in public institutions regarding abuse,
reducing societal costs of abuse, and increasing public trust and transparency
by holding institutions accountable. Each of these rationales show a
“reasonable basis” for the Legislature’s determinations.
            Defendant argues that AB 218 does not serve a public
purpose because it only offers damages for a small group of plaintiffs. No
authority supports Defendant’s contention that the class of childhood sexual
abuse victims is too small to be the subject of a “public purpose,” and the
argument appears meritless on its face. Furthermore, AB 218’s purposes are not
limited to victims of past abuse; the bill was also intended to deter future
abuse (“to help prevent future assaults by raising the costs for this abuse”).
(RJN, Ex. 12.) Defendant’s arguments fail to refute the reasonableness of the
various rationales offered by the Legislature for AB 218, and so “its discretion will not be disturbed
by the courts.” (County of
Alameda, 5
Cal.3d at 746.) Accordingly, the motion is denied.