  Case Number:  20STCV03577    Hearing Date:   July 2, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


July
  2, 2024




CASE NUMBER


20STCV03577




MOTION


Motion
  for Good Faith Settlement Determination




MOVING PARTIES


Defendants Topanga Creek Properties, a
  General Partnership; Topanga Creek Properties, LLC; Young Ok Bae; and Moon
  Shik Bae




OPPOSING PARTIES


Defendants
  Label27, LLC and Brooks Ellis  



 
BACKGROUND
 
On January 29, 2020, Plaintiff Derek Underwood (“Plaintiff”) brought
suit alleging five causes of action for (1) assault; (2) battery; (3) negligent
hiring, training, retention, and supervision; (4) general negligence; and (5)
premises liability, stemming from a physical attack at a music venue.  Defendants Topanga Creek Properties, a
general partnership; Topanga Creek Properties, LLC; Young Ok Bae; and Moon Shik
Bae (“Moving Defendants”) move for a good faith settlement determination.  
 
Defendants Label27, LLC and Brooks Ellis (“Opposing Defendants”)
oppose the motion and Moving Defendants reply. 
Moving Defendants also filed a Notice of Errata and Opposing Defendants filed
objections to the Notice of Errata and Reply.
 
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
Moving Defendants request judicial notice of the following:
 
1. Defense Motion in Limine No. 22 filed on or
about June 5, 2024– attached as Exhibit A;
 
2. Declaration of Simon Yoon in Support of Motion
for Summary Judgment filed 9/29/24– attached as Exhibit B; 
 
3. Declaration of Young Ok Bae in Support of
Motion for Summary Judgment filed 9/29/24– attached as Exhibit C; 
 
4. Declaration of Herbert Rothner in Support of
Motion for Summary Judgment filed 9/29/24– attached as Exhibit D; 
 
5. Declaration of James Hart in Support of Motion
for Summary Judgment filed 9/29/24– attached as Exhibit E; 
 
6. Appendix of Exhibits in Support of Motion for
Summary Judgment filed 9/29/24– attached as Exhibit F; 
 
7. Brooks Ellis/Label27 LLC Joinder in Motions in
Limine filed on or about June 6, 2024 – attached as Exhibit G.
 
Judicial notice may be taken
of records of any court in this state. 
(Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (d)(1).) 
However, “while courts are free to take judicial notice of the existence
of each document in a court file, including the truth of results reached, they
may not take judicial notice of the truth of hearsay statements in decisions
and court files.  Courts may not take
judicial notice of allegations in affidavits, declarations and probation
reports in court records because such matters are reasonably subject to dispute
and therefore require formal proof.”  (Lockley
v. Law Office of Cantrell, Green, Pekich, Cruz & McCort (2001) 91
Cal.App.4th 875, 882 [cleaned up].)  
 
Accordingly, the Court may
take judicial notice of the existence of the above documents as court records,
but not the truth of the hearsay statements or allegations contained
therein.  
 
EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
 
            The Court rules as follows on Opposing
Defendants’ Evidentiary Objections:
 
1.    
Sustained
2.    
Sustained
3.    
Sustained
 
ANALYSIS
 
A.   
THE LAW GOVERNING GOOD FAITH SETTLEMENTS
 
Under
section 877.6 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 
“[a] determination by the court that [a] settlement was made in good
faith shall bar any other joint tortfeasor . . . from any further claims
against the settling tortfeasor . . . for equitable comparative contribution,
or partial or comparative indemnity, based on comparative negligence or
comparative fault.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §
877.6, subd. (c).)  Additionally, a
determination that a settlement was made in good faith will reduce the claims
against the non-settling defendants by the amount specified in the settlement
agreement.  (Id. at subd.
(a).)  “The party asserting the lack of
good faith has the burden of proof on that issue.”  (Id. at subd. (d).)  
 
Section
877.6 requires “that the courts review [settlement] agreements made under its
aegis to insure that the settlements appropriately balance the . . . statute’s
dual objectives” (i.e., providing an “equitable sharing of costs among the
parties at fault” and encouraging parties to resolve their disputes by way of
settlement).  (Tech-Bilt, Inc. v.
Woodward-Clyde & Associates (1985) 38 Cal.3d 488, 494 (hereafter Tech-Bilt).)  In Tech-Bilt, the California Supreme
Court set forth the factors to consider when determining whether a settlement
was made in good faith.  The Tech-Bilt factors are: (1) a rough approximation of plaintiff’s total recovery and
the settlor’s proportionate liability; (2) the amount paid in settlement;
(3) the allocation of settlement proceeds among plaintiffs; (4) a recognition
that a settlor should pay less in settlement than he would if he were found
liable after a trial; (5) the financial conditions and insurance policy limits
of settling defendants; and (6) the existence of collusion, fraud, or tortious
conduct aimed to injure the interests of the non-settling defendants.  (Id.
at pp. 498-501.)  “Practical
considerations obviously require that the [trial court’s] evaluation [of the
settlement] be made on the basis of information available at the time of
settlement.”  (Id. at p.
499.)  
 
“The
party asserting the lack of good faith . . . [is] permitted to demonstrate, if
he can, that the settlement is so far ‘out of the ballpark’ in relation to [the
above] factors as to be inconsistent with the equitable objectives of [Section
877.6].  Such a demonstration would
establish that the proposed settlement was not a ‘settlement made in good
faith’ within the terms of section 877.6.” 
(Tech-Bilt, supra, 38 Cal.3d at pp. 499–500.)  
 
B.   
APPLICATION OF THE TECH-BILT FACTORS
TO THE FACTS OF THE CASE
 
1.    
A ROUGH APPROXIMATION OF PLAINTIFF’S TOTAL
RECOVERY AND THE SETTLOR’S PROPORTIONATE LIABILITY.
 
The
first Tech-Bilt factor consists of two parts – a rough approximation of
Plaintiff’s total recovery and the settlor’s proportionate liability.  When approximating a plaintiff’s total
recovery or the settling defendant’s proportionate liability, “judges should .
. . not yearn for the unreal goal of mathematical certainty.  Because the application of section 877.6
requires an educated guess as to what may occur should the case go to trial,
all that can be expected is an estimate, not a definitive conclusion.”  (North County Contractor’s Assn. v.
Touchstone Ins. Services (1994) 27 Cal.App.4th 1085, 1090 (hereafter, North
County).)  
 
Additionally,
“a court not only looks at the alleged tortfeasor’s liability to the plaintiff,
but it must also consider the culpability of the tortfeasor vis-à-vis other
parties alleged to be responsible for the same injury.  Potential liability for indemnity to a
nonsettling defendant is an important consideration for the trial court in
determining whether to approve a settlement by an alleged tortfeasor.  [Citation.]” 
(TSI Seismic Tenant Space, Inc. v. Superior Court (2007) 149
Cal.App.4th 159, 166.)


Here, the Complaint does not specify the amount of damages sought.  Moving Defendants indicate in the motion that Plaintiff
failed to appear for his physical exam and pending motion in limine no. 22
seeks evidentiary and issue sanctions regarding future damages.  In support, they cite to RJN Ex. A.  While the Court can take judicial notice of
Ex. A to demonstrate that such a motion is indeed pending, the Court cannot
take judicial notice of the hearsay allegations contained therein, including
the fact that Plaintiff failed to appear for his exam.  However, the Declaration of James P. Hart, Jr.
(“Hart”) indicates “Plaintiff was set for defense neurological IME in our
action in Georgia on 6/3/24 where he resides (per written discovery responses
and his deposition testimony) but his attorney claims he lives in Panama now
and plaintiff did not appear.”  (Hart
Decl. ¶ 4 j.)  
 
Therefore, Moving Defendants have established that failed to appear
for his physical examination and there is a motion in limine pending seeking
issue and evidentiary sanctions with regard to Plaintiff’s future damages.  Notwithstanding, the resolution of the pending
motion in limine is inherently uncertain, and in light of the Court’s ruling on
Opposing Defendants’ evidentiary objections, Moving Defendants have not
provided any admissible evidence about what those future medical damages could
potentially be, should the issue and evidentiary sanctions be denied.  
 
The Hart Declaration also indicates “Plaintiff has been unable to
produce documentation supporting a claim of earnings losses.”  (Id. at ¶ 4 c.)  However, Moving Defendants have provided no
further information about this.  As such,
the Court cannot determine whether future earnings losses remain at issue, and
if so, what their estimated value may be.
 
The Hart Declaration further indicates, “Plaintiff’s past economic
damages are minimal.” (Id. at ¶ 4 c.) 
However, Moving Defendants have provided no evidence of what Plaintiff’s
past economic damages are, or what constitutes “minimal” damages.
 
The Hart Declaration further provides: 
 
4. I attended all of the depositions in this case
and am trial counsel and am familiar with the pleadings and discovery responses
and they demonstrate the following; 
 
[…]
 
g. Plaintiff had a very serious accident on
10/28/17, about 3-months pre-incident, when he was hit by a drunk driver and
sustained multiple orthopedic (fractured rib, dislocated thumb, cervical,
mid-back and low back) and neurologic issues (vertigo, trouble concentrating).
He had a brain MRI and treated with a neurologist for that. He noted that he
was still “recovering” from these issues when the subject altercation took
place, according to what plaintiff wrote to the district attorney related to
our incident. 
 
h. Plaintiff has a subsequent injury, tearing his
calf muscle in 2021 while trail running. He also has had Covid-19 several times
post-incident but disputes that his claimed brain fog at times arose from that.

 
i. Plaintiff on 4/5/20 had the development of
random foot drop after sitting in a chair with his legs crossed for 30-34 minutes
[sic] Per the history given he had not developed any neurological symptoms in
his lower extremities until 4/5/20 (over 2 years post-incident) On 5/8/20, he
was seen by Julian Bragg, M.D. at Midtown Neurology in Decatur, GA. He
presented with peroneal neuropathy. Alcohol use was suspected as a contributor.
A 4/24/20 brain MRI was normal. On 7/6/20 he had a telemedicine consult with
Sean Pittock, M.D. of the Mayo Clinic who diagnosed him with anxiety and
stress. 
 
j. Plaintiff was set for defense neurological IME
in our action in Georgia on 6/3/24 where he resides (per written discovery
responses and his deposition testimony) but his attorney claims he lives in
Panama now and plaintiff did not appear.
 
(Hart
Decl. at ¶ 4 g.-j.)  
 
The Court notes that Hart’s description of the parties’ discovery and deposition
testimony constitutes hearsay and provides little, if any evidentiary value.  (Hart Decl. at ¶ 4.)  And Moving Defendants have not provided the
underlying deposition testimony.  But
even if this evidence were taken at face value, the fact that Plaintiff had a
prior accident and various health complications that may or may not be related
to the subject incident to this lawsuit, does not demonstrate what Plaintiff’s
potential damages for this lawsuit are. 
 
The only other evidence regarding the potential value of Plaintiff’s
claims is in paragraph 5 of the Hart Declaration:
 
5. On May 6, 2024, Plaintiff and TCP Defendants
engaged in a private mediation with mediator Victoria Lindenaeur with other
counsel on phone standby as may have been necessary to effect a global
resolution. Plaintiff waived his economic damages for the purpose of the
mediation. The mediation concluded without resolution but did result in a
mediator’s proposal in the amount of $250,000.00 as between Underwood and the
TCP defendants which was communicated among all the parties while it was
pending. The proposal was not accepted initially and it expired. However,
shortly thereafter, the TCP Defendants made a CCP Section 998 offer to
compromise in the amount of $250,001.00 ($1 more than mediator’s proposal)
which was accepted in writing by plaintiff on 6/5/24. A true and correct copy
of the acceptance is attached hereto as Exhibit 1.
 
(Hart
Decl. ¶ 5.)  
 
But this merely establishes that Plaintiff and Moving Defendants
agreed to settle the case for $1 more than the mediator’s proposal. It does not
provide the Court any information about Plaintiff’s total potential recovery, without
which, the Court lacks information necessary to conduct its analysis of the
Moving Defendants’ proportionate liability thereof, and the resulting
reasonableness of the settlement.[1]
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
Therefore, because Moving Defendants have not provided the Court
sufficient evidence regarding a rough approximation of Plaintiff’s total
recovery and Moving Defendants’ proportionate liability, the Court denies
Moving Defendants’ motion for good faith settlement determination without
prejudice.   
 
Moving Defendants shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling  and file the notice with a proof of service
forthwith.    
 
 
DATED:  July 2, 2024                                                            ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court
 


