 Case Number:  SC127147    Hearing Date:   July 2, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


July 2, 2024




CASE NUMBER


SC127147




MOTIONS


Motion for Leave to File a Cross-Complaint




MOVING PARTY


Defendant, Cross-Complainant, and Cross-Defendant Western
  National Builders




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff Regency Enterprises, Inc. dba Regency Lighting



 
MOTION
 
            This case arises from alleged construction
defects in an apartment building complex located in Marina Del Rey.  Defendant, Cross-Complainant, and
Cross-Defendant Western National Builders (“WNB”), the general contractor for
the project, now moves for leave to file a cross-complaint against Plaintiffs Regency
Enterprises, Inc. dba Regency Lighting (“Regency”) and Mon Arc Group, Inc. dba
Vankirk Electric (“Vankirk”), lighting subcontractors for the project.  
 
            Regency opposes the motion and WNB
replies.   
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
A
party against whom a cause of action has been asserted in a complaint or
cross-complaint may file a cross-complaint setting forth either or both of the following:
 
(a)   Any
cause of action he has against any of the parties who filed the complaint or
cross-complaint against him. Nothing in this subdivision authorizes the filing
of a cross-complaint against the plaintiff in an action commenced under Title 7
(commencing with Section 1230.010) of Part 3.
 
(b)   Any
cause of action he has against a person alleged to be liable thereon, whether
or not such person is already a party to the action, if the cause of action
asserted in his cross-complaint (1) arises out of the same transaction,
occurrence, or series of transactions or occurrences as the cause brought
against him or (2) asserts a claim, right, or interest in the property or
controversy which is the subject of the cause brought against him.
 
(Code
Civ. Proc., § 428.10, subds. (a)-(b).)  
 
(a)   A
party shall file a cross-complaint against any of the parties who filed the
complaint or cross-complaint against him or her before or at the same time as
the answer to the complaint or cross-complaint.
 
(b)   Any
other cross-complaint may be filed at any time before the court has set a date
for trial.
 
(c)   A
party shall obtain leave of court to file any cross-complaint except one filed
within the time specified in subdivision (a) or (b). Leave may be granted in
the interest of justice at any time during the course of the action.
 
(Code
Civ. Proc., § 428.50, subds. (a)-(c).)  
 
Indeed, where a cause of action would
otherwise be lost, leave to amend is appropriate even if the party was
negligent in not moving for leave to amend earlier.  “The legislative mandate is clear.  A policy of liberal construction of section
426.50 to avoid forfeiture of causes of action is imposed on the trial
court.  A motion to file a
cross-complaint at any time during the course of the action must be granted
unless bad faith of the moving party is demonstrated where forfeiture would
otherwise result.”  (Silver
Organizations, Ltd. v. Frank (1990) 217 Cal.App.3d 94, 98-99.)   
 
DISCUSSION
 
            WNB seeks leave to file a
cross-complaint against Regency and Vankirk for breach of contract, indemnity,
and other related causes of action, arising out of claims brought against WNB
by PPF AMLI 4242 Via Marina, LLC (“AMLI”), the owner of the apartment
complex.  
 
            Regency and Vankirk are already part
of the main case (SC127147) by virtue of having initiated separate lawsuits
against WNB to recover “retainage” amounts owed, which actions were
consolidated for purposes of trial.  (See
Minute Order, Jan. 26, 2024.)  The trial has
been bifurcated in stages, with the sewer claims, railing claims, emergency
lighting claims (including associated mechanic’s liens), and all other
mechanic’s liens being tried in four separate trials.  (Ibid.)  A trial date has not yet been set for the
emergency lighting claims.
 
WNB’s claims also arise out of the same transaction or occurrence or
series of transactions or occurrences at issue in the main case, which involves
the construction work done to the Marina Del Rey apartment complex.  Regency and Vankirk provided lighting products
in connection with that project.  
 
Further, “Cross-complaints for
comparative equitable indemnity would appear virtually
always¿transactionally¿related to the main action.”¿¿(Time for Living, Inc.
v. Guy Hatfield Homes¿(1991) 230 Cal.App.3d 30, 38; see also Countrywide
Home Loans, Inc. v. Superior Court (1999) 69 Cal.App.4th 785, 799
[“Undoubtedly, a claim for contribution or indemnity ‘arises out of’ the same
transaction or occurrence as the plaintiff's claim”].)¿ Thus, WNB’s request appears generally proper.
 
            Regency opposes WNB’s request on the
grounds that it is extremely belated, given that the lighting products at issue
were sold to WNB eight (8) years ago, this case has been pending for seven (7)
years, and AMLI filed its Notice of Completion of the project nearly four (4)
years ago.
 
            WNB counters that while it has
suspected it may ultimately have claims against Regency and Vankirk, and despite
its diligent efforts to obtain definitive discovery on the matter, both from
AMLI and from third parties, WNB only recently received documents in discovery on
April 8, 2024 from AMLI that finally implicate Vankirk and Regency in the
emergency lighting deficiencies, giving rise to WNB’s claims for breach of
contract, indemnity, etc.  (Mot. at p. 3;
Danskin Decl. ¶ 7.)[1]
 
            Further, WNB points out that the
interests of justice and judicial economy will be best served by allowing it to
file the cross-complaint, as opposed to requiring WNB to file a separate
lawsuit against Regency and Vankirk, and then move to relate and consolidate
that lawsuit with this case.  The Court
agrees.
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
            Having found that WNB is generally
entitled to bring its cross-claims against Regency and Vankirk, who are parties
to the litigation by virtue of the consolidation of their cases against WNB,
and because WNB’s cross-claims against Regency and Vankirk arise out of the
same transaction or occurrence or series of transactions or occurrences as the
primary claims of AMLI against WNB, the Court grants WNB’s motion for leave to file
the cross-complaint, and orders WNB to file and serve the cross-complaint on or
before July 23, 2024. 
 
            Further, the Court orders WNB to
provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file the notice with a proof of
service forthwith.
 
 
 
DATED: 
July 2, 2024                                    ___________________________
                                                                  Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                  Judge
of the Superior Court
 


