 Case Number:  24VECV01283    Hearing Date:   October 25, 2024    Dept:  T MCGINNIS V LAYTIN
24VECV01283
[TENTATIVE] ORDER:  Defendant Matan Laytin’s Demurrer to the
Complaint is SUSTAINED WITH 20 DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND. 
Defendant Matan Laytin’s Request
for Judicial Notice is GRANTED but not as to any hearsay or disputed facts.
Plaintiff Andrew McGinnis’
Request for Judicial Notice is GRANTED but not as to any hearsay or disputed
facts.
Introduction 
Defendant Matan Laytin
(Defendant) demurred to Plaintiff Andrew McGinnis’ (Plaintiff) Complaint.  The demurrer placed into issue the first
cause of action (COA) for negligence, the second COA for breach of contract, and
the third COA for breach of implied covenant of good faith and fair
dealing.  
Procedure 
Defendant requested judicial
notice of the Complaint filed in Andrew McGinnis v. Compass of California and
Lilach Basson (Super. Ct. L.A. County, (pending) No. 22VECV00477) and the
Complaint filed in Matan Laytin v. Compass of California, Lilach Basson, and
Jabob Serazi aka Kobi Serazi (Super. Ct. L.A. County, (pending) No.
22VECV002535).  The fact that these
actions were filed is judicially noticeable but any hearsay or facts in dispute
are not judicially noticed.
Plaintiff requested judicial
notice of a Motion in Limine filed by Defendant.  The only matter of fact that is noticeable is
the filing of the motion.  Any hearsay or
facts in dispute within the motion are not judicially noticed.  
Discussion 
Defendant argued that all COAs
lack sufficient fact pleading because the Purchase Agreement at issue requires
mediation/arbitration of the claims and because the negligence COA is barred by
the relevant statute of limitations (SOL). 
A general demurrer will lie where the complaint either failed to allege
some ultimate fact required to state a COA or it can be used where Plaintiff
included allegations that clearly disclose a defense or bar to recovery,
without pleading around the defense. 
(Cryolife, Inc. v. Superior Court (2003) 110 Cal.App.4th 1145,
1152.)  Asserting an arbitration
provision in the attached Purchase Agreement is not proper grounds for a
general demurrer because it is not a defense or bar to recovery.  The arbitration provision, if enforceable,
merely dictates the forum within which the claims are to be resolved.  For a demurrer to be sustained without leave
to amend, the facts within the Complaint or facts judicially noticeable must
provide a complete defense so as to dismiss the COA or action.  An arbitration provision does not act to
provide a complete defense and/or does not act to provide grounds to dismiss
the action.  At most, the instant
Complaint would be stayed pending the outcome of the arbitration, if the
arbitration provision were to be found enforceable.  Whether the arbitration provision is
enforceable or not is outside the scope of a demurrer.  
Defendant’s argument relying upon
the arbitration provision is not persuasive and OVERRULED.
Defendant argued that another
action is pending.  (Code Civ. Proc.,
sec. 430.10(c).)  Defendant argued that
1st Amended Complaint/Arbitration are grounds to support the “another action
pending” demurrer.  The special demurrer
for “another action pending” requires the same parties standing in the same
relationship (i.e., as plaintiff or defendant) in both suits and identical
causes of action so that a judgment in the first action would be res judicata
on the claim in the second action. 
((Plant Insulation Co. v. Fibreboard Corp. (1990) 224 Cal.App.3d 781,
788-789);  Bush v. Superior Court (1992)
10 Cal.App.4th 1374, 1384.)  To be the
same cause of action, each complaint must allege the same primary right.  (Bush v. Superior Court, supra, 10
Cal.App.4th at p. 1384.)  
The same parties are in the
Arbitration and this action.  The 1st
Amended Complaint added Matan Laytin as a Defendant.  Therefore, there are two actions pending
between McGinnis and Laytin (22VECV00477 in which the parties are in
Arbitration) and the instant action. 
The Arbitration action alleges a
claim for failing to disclose: the unpermitted ADU, the failure to obtain
permits for a southwest wall; the failure to obtain City Inspector approval of
a pool fence which resulted in the pool being unpermitted; and the failure to
disclose cracks in the pool. 
The instant Complaint mentions
"Guest House" without specifying what that means. In the absence of
more specificity as to what "Guest House" means, and whether it
pertains to being the unpermitted ADU, as in the Arbitration, the “another
action pending” demurrer based upon the Arbitration Complaint is persuasive and
the demurrer is sustained with leave to amend to give specific information by
what is meant as "Guest House" and pool cracks.  Otherwise, looking at the complaint as a
whole, there is an allegation that there was a failure to disclose concerning
the "Guest House" which sound like the lack of permit issue.
Finally, Paragraph 18
specifically mentions that Defendant "lied" on transfer disclosure
statements which sounds like a claim for failure to disclose, the same as what
is pending in the Arbitration. Because there appear to be duplicate claims,
Defendant’s demurrer on the grounds of “another action pending” is SUSTAINED
WITH LEAVE TO AMEND.
Defendant argued that the first
COA for negligence is barred by the relevant SOL.  Defendant argued that the relevant SOL is the
two year SOL for negligent misrepresentation, despite the COA being titled
general negligence.  Defendant asserted
that the SOL accrued at the time the Purchase Agreement was entered, March 17,
2021. (Compl., par. 12. [The actual alleged date in the Complaint is March 17,
2024, but this is seen as a typographical error in that the attached Purchase
Agreement provides the entry date of March 17, 2021.])  Defendant’s SOL argument is based upon a
narrow reading of the allegations.  As
argued by Defendant, the “negligence” COA (however, it is titled) alleged that
there were failures to disclose the “construction defects or building
additions, modifications, alterations, or repairs not constructed in compliance
with building codes” and misrepresentations made on the transfer disclosure
statement.  (Compl. pars. 13, 16, 17, 18,
34.)  However, the negligence claim
appears to also allege a construction defect claim.  Plaintiff appears to allege that Defendant’s
negligent construction caused Plaintiff’s damages.  (Compl. par. 20.)  Defendant is alleged to be the seller and
owner-builder of the property.  (Compl.
par. 16.)  Plaintiff listed the alleged
construction defects in Complaint paragraphs 22-33.  But despite Plaintiff’s argument, there are
no express allegations that the claims are for construction defect.  The express allegations only appear to allege
a failure to disclose.  Despite Plaintiff’s
contention that the negligence claim is grounded in construction defect, the
allegations of the Complaint are uncertain. 
Because the theory of the COA is uncertain, it is not yet possible to
determine the proper and relevant SOL. 
The SOL argument is unpersuasive as of yet.  Because the negligence COA is uncertain as to
the factual grounds for the COA, the negligence COA fails to plead sufficient
facts as to the element of duty or breach – whether it be a negligent
misrepresentation claim or a construction defect claim.  
The demurrer to the first COA for
negligence based upon the SOL argument is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND.  A determination of what this claim is based
on (failure to disclose or constructive defect) needs to be clarified.  If negligence, then the SOL argument would be
valid.  If construction defect, then
perhaps not. 
As to breach of contract and
breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing, the Complaint
alleged that the breach was the failure to disclose salient information about
the property and misrepresented the condition of the property, again, the same
issues in Arbitration.  (Compl. pars. 41
and 46.)   Defendant argued that there
are no facts to show any contract provision requiring disclosure.  However, this is again a narrow reading of
the allegations because the argument ignores the allegation that part of the
Purchase Agreement included a Transfer Disclosure Statement.  (Compl. par. 13.)  Defendant’s argument is unpersuasive because
the argument does not take into consideration all the facts alleged.  However, these claims are similar to the
claims made in Arbitration.  For the
reasons stated above, the court sustains the demurrer with leave to amend based
on another action pending.  More
specificity is required.  
Defendant then argued that the
“as is” contract provision is a defense to the contract claims.  However, the “as is” provision is not
sufficient to resolve issues related to the potential construction defect
claims because the “as is” provision is not applicable to defects hidden from
the buyer and known by the seller. 
(Lingsch v. Savage (1963) 213 Cal.App.2d 729, 742.)  The potential allegations for construction
defect appear to include defects that may have been hidden from Plaintiff and
known by Defendant.  The defense of the
“as is” contract provision would require a review of many facts that are
outside the four corners of the pleading and outside any judicially noticed
facts.  Because the argument requires a
review of facts beyond a demurrer, the argument is not proper for a demurrer
and not persuasive.
The demurrer based upon the “as
is” provision of the Purchase Agreement is OVERRULED.
IT IS SO ORDERED, CLERK TO GIVE
NOTICE.