 Case Number:  24STCV11955    Hearing Date:   August 7, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles




 
Catherine Elizabeth Graham,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case
  No.:
 


 
24STCV11955




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
Western University of Health Sciences,


 
 
 
Defendant.


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date: August 7, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Demurrer to Complaint
Moving Party: Western University of
Health Sciences
Responding Party: Plaintiff Catherine Elizabeth Graham
T/R:     DEFENDANT’S DEMURRER
IS SUSTAINED WITH 30 DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND. THE MOTION TO STRIKE IS DENIED.
            DEFENDANT
TO NOTICE. 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative,
please email the courtroom at¿SMCdept54@lacourt.org¿with notice
to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the day of
the hearing.
The Court
considers the moving papers, opposition, and reply.
BACKGROUND
            On
February 1, 2023, Plaintiff Catherine Elizabeth Graham filed a complaint
against Defendant Western University of Health Sciences, alleging these causes
of action:
1.   
Fraud:
Suppression Of Fact
2.   
Strict
Liability
a.   
Count
1: Ultrahazardous Activity
b.   
Count
2: Nuisance
3.   
Breach
Of Contract
4.   
Negligence
c.   
Count
1: Negligence Per Se
d.   
Count
2: Res Ipsa Loquitur
e.   
Count
3: Professional Negligence
f.    
Count
4: Negligent Supervision And Performance Of Services
5.   
Intentional
Infliction Of Emotional Distress
g.   
Count
1: Harassment
h.   
Count
2: Trespass To Chattels
i.     
Count
3: Invasion Of Privacy: Misappropriation
6.   
Products
Liability: Conversion
 
            On June
12, 2024, Defendant filed a demurrer to the complaint with motion to strike. On
July 1, 2024, Plaintiff filed a notice of supplement to the complaint[1].
On July 30, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition. On July 26, 2024, Defendant
filed a reply. 
SUMMARY
OF ALLEGATIONS
Plaintiff applied to Western
University of Health Sciences in the 2017-2018 application cycle, having
graduated from UCLA and UC Irvine with three majors, a minor, and a master’s
degree. In the fall of 2018, Plaintiff encountered a grade discrepancy due to
conflicting instructions from Naida Jakirlic, College of Optometry instructor,
and Tobias Boehm, College of Dental Medicine instructor, leading to a formal
grade appeal in April 2019. (Compl. ¶¶ 14-15.) She alleges that in retaliation
for her grade appeal, she was placed on academic probation by Ida Chung in May
2019, which she claims was unjust. (Compl. ¶¶ 16-17.) Upon resuming classes in
the fall, she faced additional tensions and allegations of unprofessionalism,
leading to further academic probation and eventually her dismissal in January
2020 after a Student Performance Committee hearing. (Compl. ¶¶ 18-23.)
In February 2020, Plaintiff
met with Elizabeth Hoppe, Dean of the College of Optometry, and Andrea Quezada,
where she was pressured to either repeat the second year or withdraw. She
alleges that this was part of continued harassment and discrimination due to
her affiliation with ophthalmology and her ambitions. (Compl. ¶¶ 24-27.) Upon
reapplying, Plaintiff’s request to resume her studies was denied by Hoppe, who
claimed the decision was made by the Admissions Committee. She further alleges
covert involvement by Hoppe in subsequent meetings and continued harassment.
(Compl. ¶¶ 32-39.) In August 2021, Plaintiff reported a violation of the Family
Education Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA) and stalking by Hoppe to the Office of
the Provost, David Baron, who acknowledged her intent to transfer. (Compl. ¶¶
40-41.)
Plaintiff alleges that from
August 2021 to June 2022, WesternU operated under a “cult-like” covert culture,
engaging in harassment, unauthorized use of her data, and false advertising
practices. (Compl. ¶¶ 42-57.) In May 2022, she filed multiple Title IX
complaints and reported various incidents, including unauthorized processing of
her information by Andrea Quezada and cyber law violations to the Board of
Trustees. (Compl. ¶¶ 85-86.) She continued to face retaliation, including being
locked out of university facilities and having her withdrawal mishandled.
(Compl. ¶¶ 87-98.) In September 2022, she notified the Office of the Attorney
General about her complaints, alleging ongoing issues and seeking redress. (Compl.
¶¶ 99-100.)
ANALYSIS
A
demurrer to a complaint may be taken to the whole complaint or to any of the
causes of action in it. (CCP § 430.50(a).) A demurrer challenges only the legal
sufficiency of the complaint, not the truth of its factual allegations or the
plaintiff's ability to prove those allegations. (Picton v. Anderson Union
High Sch. Dist.¿(1996) 50 Cal. App. 4th 726, 732.) The court must treat as
true the complaint's material factual allegations, but not contentions,
deductions or conclusions of fact or law. (Id. at 732-33.) The complaint
is to be construed liberally to determine whether a cause of action has been
stated. (Id. at 733.)
A. First Cause of Action for
Fraud
“The elements of fraud, which
give rise to the tort action for deceit, are (a) misrepresentation (false
representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (b) knowledge of falsity (or
‘scienter’); (c) intent to defraud, i.e., to induce reliance; (d) justifiable
reliance; and (e) resulting damage.” (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12
Cal. 4th 631, 638.) “[F]raud must be pled specifically; general and conclusory
allegations do not suffice. . . .This particularity requirement necessitates
pleading facts which show how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the
representations were tendered.” (Lazar, supra, 12 Cal. 4th at 645
[internal quotation marks and ellipses omitted].) The law holds plaintiffs to a
higher stand where there is a corporate defendant. In that case plaintiff must
“allege the names of the persons who made the allegedly fraudulent
representations, their authority to speak, to whom they spoke, what they said or
wrote, and when it was said or written.” (Id. at p. 645; See also
Wald v. TruSpeed Motorcars, LLC (2010) 184 Cal.App.4th 378 [applying the
heightened corporate pleading standing to an LLC].)
Plaintiff alleges that
WesternU failed to inform prospective applicants, including herself, about the
existence of a covert entity and culture at WesternU and defects in the
university’s design and leadership, which would lead to harassment of students
pursuing academic rather than cult objectives. (Compl., ¶ 106.) Plaintiff also claims
that WesternU representatives provided misleading information that obscured an
accurate evaluation of the programs offered. (Compl., ¶¶ 103, 105-106.) 
The claim is unclear; Plaintiff
does not specify whether the claim is for fraudulent concealment, intentional
misrepresentation, or both. Plaintiff’s allegations also lack the necessary
specificity regarding what facts were misrepresented or concealed, by whom, and
when. Nor does Plaintiff show Defendant has a duty to disclose details about
the enthusiasm of its administration and alumni.  
Even if the Supplement to
Complaint were properly before the Court, Plaintiff does not plead sufficient
facts concerning what was allegedly misrepresented, when or by whom. Nor does
Plaintiff show a duty to disclose the purportedly withheld facts.             
B. Second Cause of Action for
Strict Liability (Ultrahazardous Activity; Nuisance)
Under California law, an
activity is considered ultrahazardous if it necessarily involves a risk of
serious harm that cannot be eliminated by the exercise of utmost care and is
not a matter of common usage. (Lipson v. Super. Ct., (1982) 31 Cal.3d
362; Luthringer v. Moore (1948) 31 Cal.2d 489, 498.)
According to California Civil
Code § 3479, a nuisance is defined as anything injurious to health, indecent or
offensive to the senses, or an obstruction to the free use of property. A
public nuisance affects an entire community or a considerable number of
persons, while a private nuisance affects an individual's use and enjoyment of
their land. (Cal. Civ. Code §§ 3480, 3481.)
Defendant argues that the
operation of a university with a culture of encouraging a lifelong association
with the school does not meet the criteria for ultrahazardous activity, as it
does not inherently involve a risk of harm to persons or property that cannot
be mitigated through due care. Defendant also contends there is no legal
authority to support Plaintiff’s allegation that emails, regardless of their
frequency, can interfere with the use and enjoyment of land. And Defendant
argues that Plaintiff has not demonstrated an injury different from that of the
public, as required to maintain a claim for public nuisance. (Venuto v.
Owens-Corning Fiberglas Corp. (1971) 22 Cal. App. 3d 116, 124.) 
The Court agrees with
Defendant’s arguments. Plaintiff concedes that her commercial stock at the
University of California, Berkeley, and her website Review of Optology, do not
involve ultrahazardous activity or nuisance. (Supplement to Complaint, p. 6.) Plaintiff
provides no facts showing that the ultrahazardous activities described in her
Complaint originated at Western University of Health Sciences. (Supplement to
Complaint, p. 14.) 
As to nuisance, frequent and
numerous communications sent to Plaintiff’s WesternU email address are
insufficient to state a claim. 
 
C. Third Cause of Action for
Breach of Contract
“To prevail on a cause of
action for breach of contract, the plaintiff must prove (1) the contract, (2)
the plaintiff's performance of the contract or excuse for nonperformance, (3)
the defendant's breach, and (4) the resulting damage to the plaintiff.” (Richman
v. Hartley (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 1182, 1186.)
Plaintiff fails to allege a
specific contractual promise. Courts have recognized the relationship between a
student and an educational institution as contractual but have been reluctant
to strictly apply contract law to general promises or expectations. (Kashmiri
v. Regents of University of California (2007) 156 Cal. App. 4th 809,
824-26.) To state a claim for breach of contract, Plaintiff must point to an
identifiable contractual promise that Defendant failed to honor. (Ross v.
Creighton University, 957 F.2d 410, 416-17 (7th Cir. 1992).) Plaintiff has
not pointed to any express promise made to her by WesternU. Instead, she relies
on provisions of the “University Catalog” and “Enrollment Agreement,” by which
she agreed to abide by WesternU’s “policies and procedures” as outlined in the
catalog and WesternU’s policies on Network Acceptable Use, Non-discrimination,
Anti-Harassment and Anti-Retaliation, Title IX, Tuition Refund, and the
Standards of Academic Integrity, Professionalism and Student Conduct. Plaintiff
acknowledges that these policies are “broad” (Compl., ¶¶146, 159) and admits
that she was advised in her Application Agreement that”"[t]he only
document that can be relied upon is the University Catalog for general
information purposes, and this document is subject to change at any time.”
(Compl., ¶27 and Ex. 2, Par. 8.) The catalog itself states that it “does not
constitute a contract, or terms or conditions of contract between the student,
staff, and/or faculty and Western University of Health Sciences.” (Compl., ¶142.)

Plaintiff has not alleged any
promises that would constitute an implied-in-fact contract. None of the
statements cited by Plaintiff, such as WesternU’s statement in the Network
Acceptable Use Policy that “it will take appropriate, necessary steps to ensure
its ongoing compliance with all State and Federal law,” or the statement in the
Non-discrimination, Anti-Harassment and Anti-Retaliation Policy that WesternU “recognizes
that unlawful treatment and harassment, on the basis of an individual's
protected characteristic (or status), is a form of discrimination,” are
specific promises. These are general declarations of the school’s values,
procedures, and compliance with applicable laws. 
            D.
Fourth Cause of Action for Negligence 
“The elements for negligence
cause of action are duty, breach, causation and damages.” (County of Santa
Clara v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2006) 137 Cal.App.4th 292, 318.)¿
“Ordinarily, negligence may be alleged in general terms, without specific facts
showing how the injury occurred, but there are limits to the generality with
which a plaintiff is permitted to state his cause of action, and the plaintiff
must indicate the acts or omissions which are said to have been negligently
performed.  He may not recover upon the
bare statement that the defendant’s negligence has caused him injury.” (Berkley
v. Dowds (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 518, 527 [Internal quotations and ellipses
omitted].) “However, there is no requirement that plaintiff identify and allege
the precise moment of the injury or the exact nature of the wrongful act.” (Hahn
v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747 [internal brackets omitted].) 
Defendant asserts that “negligence
per se” is an evidentiary doctrine, not a separate cause of action, which
creates a rebuttable presumption of negligence if certain elements are met:
violation of a statute, causation of injury, the statute’s purpose to prevent
such injury, and protection of the injured party by the statute. Even if the
presumption applies, Plaintiff still must plead all elements of a negligence
cause of action, including the existence of a legal duty of care owed by
WesternU. Defendant argues that universities do not have a special relationship
with students that imposes an affirmative duty to protect students from harm,
except in specific academic settings where physical safety is at issue. (Regents
of Univ. of California v. Superior Ct. (2018) 4 Cal. 5th 607, 624-25.) Plaintiff
does not allege any foreseeable threat of violence or actual violence in a
curricular setting. Nor does Plaintiff dispute that “negligence per se” is not
a separate cause of action. And Plaintiff does not address her failure to
allege facts establishing a legal duty of care. 
Similarly, res ipsa loquitor
creates an inference of negligence in certain cases and affects the burden of
producing evidence, but it is not a cause of action imposing liability in the
absence of negligence. The presumption only addresses causation, and Plaintiff still
must plead all other elements of a negligence cause of action, which she has
not done. 
Finally, the elements of a
professional negligence cause of action include a duty to use professional
skill, breach of that duty, causation, and resulting injury. Defendant argues
that WesternU is not a “professional” but an institution of higher learning and
a corporation, and thus cannot be held liable for professional negligence. Plaintiff
concedes that WesternU, as defined in the pleadings, is not “a person or a
professional.” (Supplement to Complaint, p. 21). WesternU cannot be liable for
professional negligence. (Shopoff & Cavallo LLP v. Hyon (2008) 167
Cal.App.4th 1489, 1509.) 
            E.
Fifth Cause of Action for IIED
To state a claim for IIED,
plaintiff must allege (1) defendant’s outrageous conduct; (2) intentional or
reckless causing of emotional distress; (3) severe emotional distress resulting
from the defendant’s conduct; and (4) causation. (Trerice v. Blue Cross of
California (1989) 209 Cal.App.3d 878, 883.) Conduct is outrageous if it is
of “such substantial quantity or enduring quality” that an individual in
civilized society should not be expected to endure it. (Angie M. v. Superior
Court (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1217, 1227; see also Cochran v. Cochran
(1998) 65 Cal App.4th 488, 494 [stating that the conduct must be “so outrageous
in character, and so extreme in degree, as to go beyond all bounds of decency,
and to be regarded as atrocious. . .”].) The pleading must include “specific
facts that establish severe emotional distress resulting from [a] defendant's
conduct.” (Michaelian v. State Comp. Ins. Fund (Michaelian) (1996) 50
Cal.App.4th 1093, 1114; see, e.g., Hailey v. California Physicians’ Service
(2007) 158 Cal.App.4th 452, 474-77 (finding facts supporting IIED claim where
plaintiff plead resulting “depression, anxiety, and physical illness,” which
manifested as “vomiting, stomach cramps, and diarrhea”].)
The conduct described, such as
communicating about academic performance and processing a withdrawal
application, does not meet the threshold for extreme and outrageous conduct.
Mere insults, indignities, threats, annoyances, petty oppressions, or other
trivialities are insufficient. (Hughes v. Pair (2009) 46 Cal.4th 1035,
1051.) 
Regarding harassment,
Plaintiff alleges under CCP § 527.6 that she was subjected to excessive
communications, coerced into unpaid work, had her commercial interactions
disrupted, and had her likeness appropriated. But section 527.6 provides only for
a temporary restraining order and injunction against harassment, not monetary
damages or other relief sought by Plaintiff. 
For trespass to chattels,
Plaintiff claims that WesternU intruded on her personal computers and networks.
Under California law, this requires showing intentional and unauthorized
interference with personal property that proximately causes injury. Plaintiff
does not allege that the intrusion caused any harm or impairment to her
computer systems. 
As to invasion of privacy:
misappropriation, Plaintiff alleges that WesternU posted her photograph on the
College of Optometry’s Facebook page without permission, identifying her as a
member of the class of 2024. The elements of this claim include using the plaintiff’s
likeness without permission, gaining a commercial benefit or advantage, causing
harm, and the use of likeness being a substantial factor in causing harm. (CACI
No. 1803; Gionfriddo v. Major League Baseball (2021) 94 Cal. App. 4th
400, 409 (2001).) Plaintiff does not allege that WesternU gained a commercial
benefit from using her likeness, which is an essential element of the claim.
F. Sixth Cause of Action for
Conversion
Conversion is “the wrongful
exercise of dominion over the property of another.” (Lee v. Hanley
(2015) 61 Cal. 4th 1225 (quotations omitted).) To establish a claim for
conversion, a plaintiff must plead: “(1) the plaintiff's ownership or right to
possession of the property; (2) the defendant's conversion by a wrongful act or
disposition of property rights; and (3) damages.” (Id. (quotations
omitted).)
Plaintiff’s sixth cause of
action for products liability and conversion fails to state a claim. In a
products liability case, recovery can be sought based on defects in a product
under theories of both negligence and strict liability. (Johnson v. United
States Steel Corporation (2015) 240 Cal. App. 4th 22, 30-31 (2015).) Plaintiff
does not allege that her academic transcript, which she describes as a “unique
product,” was defective. Instead, she claims that WesternU “converted” her
transcript by fraudulently changing her failing grades for the Spring 2022
semester to “W,” making the transcript invalid and useless as a reflection of
her academic record (Compl., ¶201.) There are no facts to allege conversion,
which requires interference with tangible property. Plaintiff’s academic
transcript is considered information and not tangible property. The failure to
accurately reflect her failing grades cannot support a cause of action for
conversion.
G. Motion to Strike
Defendant’s motion to strike
is denied as moot.


