  Case Number:  23STCV28326    Hearing Date:   November 7, 2024    Dept:  49 Farzad Rad v. Lending Star Capital, LLC, et al. DEFENDANTS’ DEMURRER TO THE SECOND AMENDED COMPLAINT MOVING PARTY: Coastal Capital Group, LLC, Chris Tomaszewski; SF Services, LLC; and California TD SpecialistsRESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiffs Farideh Rad; the Rad Family Trust Dated 9/8/2003; and Farzad RadSTATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS: Plaintiff Farzad Rad, an individual, and Plaintiff Farideh Rad, individually and as trustee of The Rad Family Trust dated September 8, 2003, bring this action for elder financial abuse and other claims. Plaintiffs allege that Defendants induced Farideh Rad—who was behind on her conventional mortgage—to enter into a predatory hard money loan. The loan devoured Plaintiff Farideh Rad’s life savings in home equity, resulting in the foreclosure of her family home and the eviction of her family. Plaintiffs now assert causes of action for (1) Elder Financial Abuse, (2) Wrongful Foreclosure, (3) Attorneys’ Fees Under Contract, (4) Breach of Fiduciary Duty, and (5) Quiet Title.Defendants now demurrer to the four causes of action in the Second Amended Complaint, which apply to them.  Plaintiffs opposed. TENTATIVE RULING:Defendants’ Demurrer to the SAC is SUSTAINED in full. Thirty (30) days leave to amend is GRANTED as to the First and Second Causes of Action only.  Leave to amend is DENIED as to the Third and Fifth Causes of Action.Plaintiffs are ordered to file a Third Amended Complaint within 30 days, consistent with this ruling..Defendants ordered to give notice, unless waived.DISCUSSION:DemurrerI. Judicial NoticePursuant to Defendants’ request, the court takes judicial notice of Defendants’ Exhibits 1 through 9.II. Meet and ConferThe Declaration of Attorney Terry J. Kent reflects that the parties met and conferred. III. Legal StandardA demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action.  (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal. App. 4th 740, 747.)  When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in context.  (Taylor v. City of Los Angeles Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal. App. 4th 1216, 1228.)  In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or by proper judicial notice.  (CCP § 430.30(a).)  A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters.  (SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153 Cal. App. 3d 902, 905.)  Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed.  (Id.)  The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.  (Hahn, 147 Cal.App.4th at 747.)IV. AnalysisDefendants demurrer to the First, Second, Third, and Fifth causes of action in the Second Amended Complaint. Each is addressed in turn.A. Allegations in the Second Amended ComplaintThis action arises from a dispute over the real property located at 5832 Scotwood Drive, Ranchos Palos Verdes, California 90275. (SAC ¶ 26.) Plaintiff Farideh Rad, a 78-year-old woman, has “owned and lived in the Property for over two decades.” (Id. ¶ 28.) She is “a native Farsi speaker with very limited English language skills.” (Id. ¶ 29.) Her son, Farzad Rad, also resides at the property. (Id. ¶ 29.) Farzad “assisted his mother with legal and financial matters because his mother is financially unsophisticated and speaks limited English.” (Id.) Originally, the “only loan secured against the Property was a conventional, fixed-rate, 30-year, conventional consumer mortgage serviced by Select Portfolio Servicing, Inc. (the “SPS mortgage”). In November 2021, this mortgage had a balance of approximately $853,000 at an interest rate of 4.125 percent.” (Id. ¶ 30.) “In late 2021, Mrs. Rad was over $275,000 delinquent on her payments to the SPS mortgage and the lender had initiated foreclosure of that loan.” (Id. ¶ 31.)Thereafter, “Plaintiffs were contacted by the Lending Star Defendants [FN 1] with an invitation to refinance Mrs. Rad’s defaulted SPS mortgage.” (Id. ¶ 32.) Plaintiffs allege that the Lending Star Defendants “steer[ed] Plaintiffs into a high-cost ‘commercial’ hard money loan (“the Loan”) that was unsuitable for Plaintiffs’ residential or consumer needs.” (Id.) Defendant Coastal Capital [FN 2]  were the lenders on the loan. (Id. ¶ 43.) Plaintiff alleges that “the Coastal Capital Defendants also relied on the Lending Star Defendants, who acted as their agents.” (Id. ¶ 45.) “Notwithstanding the Loan’s intended use to refinance an existing consumer Loan (the SPS mortgage), Plaintiffs’ occupancy at the Property, and Plaintiffs’ lack of any identifiable business interest, the Lending Star Defendants and Coastal Capital Defendants generated false loan documents reflecting the terms of a “business purpose” loan secured by a non-owner-occupied property.” (Id. ¶ 33.) Defendants then presented Ms. Rad with false or fraudulent documents to sign, memorializing the loan. (Id. ¶¶ 37-40.)“The Loan refinanced Mrs. Rad’s conventional mortgage into a commercial hard money loan, with a principal amount of $1,400,000 and an initial interest rate of 11.5 percent. Monthly payments were “prepaid” at origination and funded from the principal balance, and the loan term concluded with a balloon payment for the $1,400,000 principal after 12 months.” (Id. ¶ 40.) As a result, Defendants “collected exorbitant origination fees and prepaid interest-only monthly payments that Plaintiffs could not afford, charged high interest rates and unconscionably high penalties for late payments, and saddled Mrs. Rad with an impossible-to-pay balloon payment after one year.” (Id. ¶ 42.) When the Loan’s one-year term concluded in November 2022, Mrs. Rad was unable to make the balloon payment of $1,400,000, and the interest rate jumped to 24.99 percent. (Id. ¶ 57.) On or about June 20, 2023, a Notice of Trustee’s Sale was recorded stating that Mrs. Rad owed Coastal Capital $1,641,264. (Id. ¶ 58.) “On October 11, 2023, the Coastal Capital Defendants foreclosed on the Property, selling it (to themselves) for an amount under its market value.” (Id. ¶ 59.) B. First Cause of Action for Elder Financial AbuseDefendants demurrer to the first cause of action for elder financial abuse. First, they argue that Plaintiff has not alleged facts against the moving Defendants with particularity to support a cause of action for elder abuse. As a general rule, “statutory causes of action must be pleaded with particularity.” (Covenant Care, Inc. v. Superior Ct. (2004) 32 Cal. 4th 771, 790; Gutierrez v. Carmax Auto Superstores California (2018) 19 Cal. App. 5th 1234, 1261 [statutory causes of action must be pleaded “with reasonable particularity”].) Elder financial abuse occurs when one “[t]akes, secretes, appropriates, obtains, or retains real or personal property of an elder or dependent adult for a wrongful use or with intent to defraud, or both,” or assists in doing the same.  (Cal. Welf. & Inst. Code § 15610.30). “A person or entity shall be deemed to have taken, secreted, appropriated, obtained, or retained property for a wrongful use if, among other things, the person or entity takes, secretes, appropriates, obtains, or retains the property and the person or entity knew or should have known that this conduct is likely to be harmful to the elder or dependent adult.” (Id.)Plaintiff alleges the Coastal Capital Defendants “had no contact with the Plaintiffs before the Loan was funded.” (SAC ¶ 45.) However, Plaintiff alleges that “the Coastal Capital Defendants also relied on the Lending Star Defendants, who acted as their agents.” (Id. ¶ 45 [emphasis added].) Plaintiff alleges the Coastal Capital Defendants “had both actual and imputed knowledge that the loan documents were prepared by the [Lending Star] defendants with fraudulent intent.” Plaintiffs allege the Coastal Capital Defendants “knew or should have known that the Loan was predatory and illegal.” (Id. ¶ 56.) “Notwithstanding the Loan’s intended use to refinance an existing consumer Loan (the SPS mortgage), Plaintiffs’ occupancy at the Property, and Plaintiffs’ lack of any identifiable business interest, the Lending Star Defendants and Coastal Capital Defendants generated false loan documents reflecting the terms of a “business purpose” loan secured by a non-owner-occupied property.” (Id. ¶ 33 [emphasis added].) Thus, Plaintiff alleges “[t]he Coastal Capital Defendants ‘took’ Mrs. Rad’s property by recording an illegal and unenforceable lien on the Property to secure repayment of the predatory loan, then foreclosing and auctioning the Property. Their takings were for a wrongful use because they knew or should have known their conduct would be harmful to Mrs. Rad.” (Id. ¶ 68.) Here, the conduct supporting the cause of action is the Lending Star defendants targeting Plaintiff to enter into a predatory loan. Thus, there must exist some connection between the Coastal Capital Defendants and the Lending Star Defendants to demonstrate that the Coastal Capital Defendants played a role in procuring the loan. After all, merely funding a loan—as the Coastal Capital Defendants are alleged to have done here—does not demonstrate any wrongful conduct under the statute. But as currently pled, the Coastal Capital Defendants may have done only that.Plaintiffs have attempted to allege an agency relationship between the Coastal Capital and Lending Star Defendants. They also attempt to allege that the conduct of Lending Star is “imputed” to Coastal Capital. But Plaintiffs do so in only conclusory terms, alleging conclusions, but not facts. (See Rodas v. Spiegel (2001) 87 Cal. App. 4th 513, 517 [“In determining the merits of a demurrer, all material facts pleaded in the complaint and those that arise by reasonable implication, but not conclusions of fact or law, are deemed admitted by the demurring party.”].) This defect is even more apparent when considering that statutory causes of action must be pled with particularity. Therefore, Plaintiffs have failed to plead facts sufficient against the moving Defendants to constitute a cause of action. Accordingly, Defendants’ Demurrer to the First Cause of Action is SUSTAINED, with leave to amend. When amending, Plaintiffs must allege specific facts to support an agency relationship between the Lending Star and Coastal Capital Defendants, or some other facts alleging their involvement in the procuring of the loan. C. Second Cause of Action for Wrongful ForeclosureDefendants also demurrer to the second cause of action for wrongful foreclosure. “The elements of a wrongful foreclosure cause of action are: (1) [T]he trustee or mortgagee caused an illegal, fraudulent, or willfully oppressive sale of real property pursuant to a power of sale in a mortgage or deed of trust; (2) the party attacking the sale (usually but not always the trustor or mortgagor) was prejudiced or harmed; and (3) in cases where the trustor or mortgagor challenges the sale, the trustor or mortgagor tendered the amount of the secured indebtedness or was excused from tendering.”  (Citrus El Dorado, LLC v. Chicago Title Co. (2019) 32 Cal. App. 5th 943, 948.)As discussed supra, Plaintiffs have not alleged sufficient facts against the moving Defendants to demonstrate that the foreclosure was illegal, fraudulent, or willfully oppressive. As currently pled, Defendants did nothing more than fund the loan and foreclose when it was not repaid. This can be remedied by pleading adequate facts connecting the Coastal Defendants with the Lending Star Defendants. This Court will grant 30 days leave to amend to Plaintiff to attempt to do this, consistent with this ruling.D. Third Cause of Action for Attorneys’ Fees Under ContractDefendants also demurrer to the third cause of action for attorney’s fees, arguing it is not a standalone cause of action. In opposition, Plaintiffs concede “that a standalone fee claim is improper” and agreed to dismiss this cause of action.Accordingly, Defendants’ Demurrer to the Third Cause of Action is SUSTAINED, without leave to amend. E. Fifth Cause of Action for Quiet TitleFinally, Defendants argue the quiet title cause of action fails against Defendants Tomaszewski and SF Services. Defendants ask the court to take judicial notice of the deed of trust the trustee’s deed upon sale, which establish Tomaszewski and SF never held an interest in the property. In opposition, Plaintiffs concede “that SF Services LLC and Tomaszewski are not on title to the Property” and agree to dismiss these Defendants from the cause of action.Accordingly, Defendants’ Demurrer to the Fifth Cause of Action is SUSTAINED, without leave to amend.IT IS SO ORDERED.Dated:   November 7, 2024 ___________________________________ Randolph M. Hammock Judge of the Superior CourtFN 1 - “Lending Star Defendants” includes Defendants Lending Star Capital, LLC, Gersom Ivan Torres, Kim Gomez, and Gabriel Angel Albanez. (SAC ¶ 17.) FN 2 -  “Coastal Capital Defendants” includes Defendants Coastal Capital Group, LLC, SF Services, LLC, Chris Tomaszewski, Scott Griest, and Anh-Thu Le. (SAC ¶ 23.) The Coastal Capital Defendants are alleged to have “all acted as lenders of the at-issue loan and currently hold title to the Property adverse to Mrs. Rad.” (Id.) 