  Case Number:  22SMCV01892    Hearing Date:   November 12, 2024    Dept:  O  Case Name: 
Bita/Samir LLC v. 2013 Babak Agah, et al. 



Case No.:


22SMCV01892


Complaint Filed:


10-19-22          




Hearing Date:


11-12-24


Discovery C/O:


2-17-25




Calendar No.:


7


Discovery Motion C/O:


3-3-25




POS:


OK


 Trial Date:


3-17-25 



SUBJECT:                MOTION TO CONTEST APPLICATION
FOR DETERMINATION OF GOOD FAITH SETTLEMENT 
MOVING
PARTY:  Non-Settling Defendants
Yanonis Enterprises dba Save the Day Restoration
RESP.
PARTY:        Settling Defendants
Babak Agah, Meroeh Meraji, and Park Westwood Towers Condominium Assoc., Inc.
and Plaintiff BITA/SAMIR LLC
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
            Non-Settling
Defendants Yanonis Enterprises dba Save the Day Restoration’s Motion to
Contest Settling Defendants Babak Agah, Meroeh Meraji, and Park Westwood
Towers Condominium Assoc., Inc. Application for Determination Good Faith
Settlement is DENIED. Settling Defendants provide evidence to show that the
good faith settlement was made in good faith pursuant to the Tech-Bilt
factors and CCP § 877.6. Non-Settling Defendant fail to meet their burden to
show that settlement was not obtained in good faith.  
 
            Settling Defendants Babak Agah, Meroeh Meraji, and Park
Westwood Towers Condominium Assoc., Inc. Application for Good Faith Settlement
is GRANTED. The 
Court orders any and all
and comparative indemnity based on comparative negligence or comparative fault
arising from the alleged damages and injuries be forever barred.  
 
            The terms of the settlement are as follows:
 
A total settlement sum
of $110,000.00 has or will be paid on behalf of Moving Defendants to  Plaintiff. Each party is to bear their own
attorneys' fees and costs. In exchange for payment of the foregoing sums,
BITA/SAMIR LLC will dismiss its claims against the Settling Defendants and Settling
Defendants will dismiss any Cross-Actions against one another. In addition, the
Settling Parties have executed a General Release.
 
(8-13-24 Application for
Determination of Good Faith Settlement, p. 3.)
 
  
 
REASONING
CCP
§877.6 states, in pertinent part: “(a) Any party to an action wherein it is
alleged that two or more parties are joint tortfeasors shall be entitled to a
hearing on the issue of good faith or a settlement entered into by the
plaintiff or other claimant and one or more alleged tortfeasors . . . [para.]
(c) A determination by the court that the settlement was made in good faith
shall bar any other joint tortfeasors from any further claims against the
settling tortfeasors for equitable comparative contribution, or partial or
comparative indemnity, based on comparative negligence or comparative fault.
[para.] (d) The party asserting the lack of good faith shall have the burden of
proof on that issue.”  
 
Two
procedures are available to obtain a court determination of the “good faith”
issue, either an application, which may be followed by a motion contesting the
application or a regular motion filed by the party seeking approval. (Code
Civ. Proc., §877.6(a)(1) and (2).) 
 
Non-Settling
Defendant Yanonis Enterprises dba Save the Day Restoration (“STDR”) move to
contest the Application for Determination of Good Faith Settlement filed on
8-13-24 by Settling Defendants Babak Agah (“Agah”), Meroeh Meraji (“Meraji”)
and Park Westwood Towers Condominium Assoc., Inc. (“PWTCA”) (collectively,
“Settling Defendants”). STDR filed the motion on 8-29-24, within the statutory
period to file the motion pursuant to CCP § 877.6(a)(2). STDR contests the
good faith settlement based on the Tech-Bilt factors arguing that the
Settling Defendants fail to provide a rough approximation of Plaintiff
Bita/Samir LLC’s (“Plaintiff”) recovery, and secondly, there is an existence of
collusion, fraud, or tortious conduct aimed at injuring STDR since over 90% of
the total settlement amount goes towards Plaintiff’s attorneys’ fees. (Motion,
pp. 5–8.)
 
In
determining whether a settlement is in good faith, the Tech-Bilt court stated
that the trial court should inquire into, among other things, “...whether the
amount of the settlement is within the reasonable range of the settling
tortfeasor’s proportional share of comparative liability for the plaintiff’s
injuries.”  (Tech-Bilt, Inc. v. Woodward-Clyde & Associates
(1985) 38 Cal.3d 488, 499.)
 
The
intent and policies underlying CCP §877.6 require that a number of facts be
taken into account (i.e. the Tech-Bilt factors) including: (1) a
rough approximation of plaintiff’s total recovery and the settlor’s
proportionate liability; (2) the amount paid in settlement; (3) the allocation
of settlement proceeds among defendants; (4) a recognition that a settlor
should pay less in settlement than he would if he were found liable after a
trial; (5) the financial conditions and insurance policy limits of settling
defendants; and (6) the existence of collusion, fraud, or tortious conduct
aimed to injure the interest of the nonsettling defendants. (Ibid.) ¿A
defendant’s settlement figure must not be grossly disproportionate to what a
reasonable person, at the time of the settlement, would estimate the settling
defendant’s liability to be.  (Ibid.)
 
The
party asserting the lack of good faith has the burden of proof. (See Code Civ.
Proc., § 877.6, subd. (d).) ¿The party asserting lack of good faith should
demonstrate, if he can, that the settlement is so far “out of the ballpark” in
relation to these factors as to be inconsistent with the objective of §877.6. (Tech-Bilt,
supra, 38 Cal.3d at pp. 500-501.) A determination that the settlement
was in good faith would “bar any other joint tortfeasor or co-obligor from any
further claims against the settling tortfeasor or co-obligor for equitable
comparative contribution, or partial or comparative indemnity, based on
comparative negligence or comparative fault.” ¿(Code Civ. Proc., 877.6, subd. (c).)
¿Any existing cross-complaints for such claims would be subject to
dismissal. 
 
While
an unopposed application for good faith settlement may be granted on bare bones
facts, an opposed application requires the Court to consider the settlement
based on the Tech-Bilt factors.  (City of Grand Terrace v. Superior
Court (1987) 192 Cal.App.3d 1251, 1261.) This requires the settlor to
provide the Court with “sufficient evidentiary basis to enable the court to
consider and evaluate the various aspects of the settlement.”  (Id.
at p. 1263.)  “Because Tech-Bilt mandates a rough approximation of the
settling defendant's proportionate liability and consideration of all other
defendants' proportionate liability and consideration of all other factors that
might affect the fairness of the settlement as respects non-settling
defendants, the affidavits, declarations or other evidence should provide the
court with the facts necessary to evaluate the settlement in terms of the
factors contemplated by Tech-Bilt. Without the facts, in a contested hearing,
it is impossible for a court to exercise its discretion in an appropriate
fashion.”  (Ibid.)  
 
            As a preliminary matter, STDR argues in the Reply that
the Settling Defendants cannot provide declarations and evidence within the
opposition to the Motion to Contest that were not included in the original
Application for Determination of Good Faith Settlement. (Reply, pp. 2–3.) This
argument is incorrect. CCP § 877.7(b) expressly states, “[t[he issue of the
good faith of a settlement may be determined by the court on the basis of
affidavits served with the notice of hearing, and any counteraffidavits filed
in response, or the court may, in its discretion, receive other evidence at the
hearing.” (Code Civ. Proc., ¶ 877.7, subd. (b).) STDR does not provide any authority
to support their argument, and the statute specifically states that affidavits
can be filed to support the claims. Thus, the Court will consider the
declarations submitted by the Settling Defendants in their opposition. 
 
            The Settling Defendants, joined by the Plaintiff, provide
evidence of good faith within their initial application, as well as the
opposition to the motion, which shows that nearly 100% liability should be
placed upon STDR, and thus the $110,000.00 settlement total is “fair and
reasonable in comparison to their argued proportional share of liability,” of
$594,312.16. (Settling Defendants Oppo., pp. 3–4; Ex. B, Deposition of Juan
Martinez (“Martinez Depo.”), 70:18-21, 72:11-22, 73:1-7, 73:23-74:1, 74:21-24, 81:14-22;
83:19-23; Ex. C, (“Kreitenberg Decl., at pp. 1, 3; Plaintiff’s Oppo, pp. 3–4.).
The Settling Defendants include a rough approximation of Plaintiff’s total
recovery within their application, thus STDR’s argument that the approximation
is not included is without merit. (See Heimler Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. A , Application
for Determination of Good Faith Settlement, ¶ II.A.)
 
            The Settling Defendants, joined by the Plaintiff, show
that the settlement allocation was made in good faith since Plaintiff, as an
HOA member, has claimed attorney’s fees from the Settling Defendants based on
the applicable CC&R’s and the Davis-Stirling Act , where no such claim is
viable against STDR. Settling Defendants argue that the allocation is
reasonable because “even if a $100.00 award of monetary damages was found
against the Settling Defendants, they could have been liable for 100% of the
attorneys’ fees incurred,” which are expected to be greater than economic
damages. The Court agrees and finds the settlement allocation reasonable. 
 
            Additionally, the Settling Defendant and Plaintiff argue,
and provide evidence, that the Parties participated in a “full-day private mediation,”
on 7-24-24 where the settlement was negotiated and facilitated through a
neutral mediator, as well as the parties engaging in “numerous back-and-forth
efforts that took an entire day to” finalize the settlement. (Settling
Defendant Oppo., p. 6; Heimler Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. A, Application for Determination
of Good Faith Settlement, at pp. 5, 8 with attached Heimler Decl., ¶ 7 and Todd
Decl., ¶ 7.)
 
            STDR provides no evidence for their arguments to rebut
the Settling Defendants provided evidence. STDR does not provide any
declarations, no discovery responses or deposition testimony, or anything else
other arguments within the brief. This alone is not enough to contest an
application for good faith settlement. The party asserting the lack of good
faith has the burden of proof to show lack of good faith, and STDR fails to
meet that burden. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6, subd. (d).)
 
            Thus, STDR’s Motion to Contest Settling Defendants
Application for Good Faith Settlement is DENIED. 
 
            Settling Defendants Application for Good Faith Settlement
is GRANTED. The 
Court orders any and all
and comparative indemnity based on comparative negligence or comparative fault
arising from the alleged damages and injuries be forever barred.  
 