 Case Number:  24SMCV03160    Hearing Date:   November 12, 2024    Dept:  O Case
Name:  Scovell v. City of Santa Monica



Case No.:                    24SMCV03160


Complaint Filed:                   6-28-24 




Hearing Date:            11-12-24


Discovery C/O:                      None




Calendar No.:            10


Discover Motion C/O:           None




POS:                           OK


Trial Date:                             None 



SUBJECT:                MOTION FOR DISCOVERY OF PEACE
OFFICER PERSONNEL RECORDS (PITCHESS MOTION)
MOVING
PARTY:  Plaintiff Philice Scovell
RESP.
PARTY:        Defendant City Of Santa
Monica  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
            Plaintiff
Philice Scovell Motion for Discovery of Peace Officer Personnel Records (Pitchess
Motion) is DENIED. Plaintiff does not include a declaration with the motion
showing good cause for the discovery or disclosure sought.  
 
REASONING
The statutory
scheme for obtaining police officer’s confidential personnel records in civil
and criminal cases is contained in Evidence Code sections 1043 through 1047 and
Penal Code sections 832.7 and 832.8. (People v. Mooc (2001) 26 Cal.4th
1216, 1226–1227.)
 
Evidence Code § 1043 provides the
Pitchess Motion requirements. 
 
(a) In any case in which discovery or
disclosure is sought of peace or custodial officer personnel records or records
maintained pursuant to Section 832.5 of the Penal Code or information from
those records, the party seeking the discovery or disclosure shall file a
written motion with the appropriate court or administrative body upon written
notice to the governmental agency that has custody and control of the records,
as follows:
(1) In a civil action, the written
notice shall be given at the times prescribed by subdivision (b) of Section
1005 of the Code of Civil Procedure.
. . . .
(b) The motion shall include all of the
following:
(1) Identification of the proceeding in
which discovery or disclosure is sought, the party seeking discovery or
disclosure, the peace or custodial officer whose records are sought, the
governmental agency that has custody and control of the records, and the time
and place at which the motion for discovery or disclosure shall be heard.
(2) A description of the type of
records or information sought.
(3) Affidavits showing good cause for
the discovery or disclosure sought, setting forth the materiality thereof to
the subject matter involved in the pending litigation and stating upon
reasonable belief that the governmental agency identified has the records or
information from the records.
(c) Upon receipt of a notice served
pursuant to subdivision (a), the governmental agency shall immediately notify
the individual whose records are sought.
(d) No hearing upon a motion for
discovery or disclosure shall be held without full compliance with the notice
provisions of this section except upon a showing by the moving party of good
cause for noncompliance, or upon a waiver of the hearing by the governmental
agency identified as having the records.
 
(Evid. Code, § 1043.)
 
There is a two-step process
mandated by Evidence Code §§ 1043 and 1045 for “obtaining a police officer’s
confidential personnel records. (Riske v. Superior Court (2018) 22
Cal.App.5th 295, 303.) “First, the party seeking the information must file a
motion with the court describing the records sought, supported by an
affidavit demonstrating good cause for their disclosure.” (Id., at pp.
303–304.)  “Good cause for discovery
under the statutory scheme exists when the party seeking discovery demonstrates
through a plausible factual showing the information is material—that is, the
evidence sought is admissible or may lead to the discovery of admissible
evidence.” (Id., at p.304.)
 
“If the threshold showing of good
cause is met, the trial court reviews the pertinent documents in chambers in
conformity with section 915 and discloses only that information that is
relevant to the subject matter involved in the pending litigation.” (Ibid.) Evidence Code “section 1045, subdivision (b), requires the trial
court when considering relevance to “exclude from disclosure: [¶] (1)
Information consisting of complaints concerning conduct occurring more than
five years before the event or transaction that is the subject of the
litigation”; “(2) [i]n any criminal proceeding the conclusions of any officer
investigating a [citizen] complaint”; and “(3) [f]acts sought to be disclosed
that are so remote as to make disclosure of little or no practical benefit.” (Ibid.)
 
            Plaintiff
Philice Scovell (“Scovell”) moves for Discovery of Peace Officer Personnel
Records, otherwise known as a Pitchess Motion, however, Scovell does not
provide the statutorily mandated declaration, or affidavit, showing that good
cause exists either through a plausible factual showing, and that the evidence
sought is admissible or may lead to discovery of admissible evidence. (See Code
Civ. Proc., § 1043, subd. (b)(3). Thus, Scovell has not complied with the Pitchess motion statutory scheme. 
 
            Even if the Motion itself were to be
considered a declaration or affidavit, Scovell fails to set forth a plausible
factual showing that the information is material. “A scenario is plausible when
it asserts specific misconduct that is both internally consistent and supports
the proposed defense.” (People v.
Sanderson (2010) 181 Cal.App.4th
1334, 1340.) A declaration that merely creates a credibility question is
insufficient to support Pitchess discovery. (Id., at pp. 1340-1341.) Scovell
does not provide any plausible factual showing, and merely states:
 
plaintiff
is entitled to information concerning Defendant Officer Dustin Braschi’s
employment records as to his integrity when dealing with on the job duties
pertaining to any complaints filed against Officer Dustin Braschi’s conduct
pertaining to police reports, or the sorts or any reports on dishonesty, or
misconduct complaints, disciplinary actions filed against Officer Dustin
Braschi with the Santa Monica Police Department or Internal Affairs Department.
 
(Motion,
p. 2.)
 
            Scovell’s reply does
not include a declaration, nor any more detailed factual information as to why
the discovery is necessary, and, even if the Reply contained the mandated
information, the Court could not consider new arguments presented within the
Reply. (See Jay v. Mahaffey (2013) 218 Cal.App.4th 1522, 1538 [“[P]oints
raised for the first time in a reply brief will ordinarily not be considered,
because such consideration would deprive the respondent of an opportunity to
counter the argument.”].)
 
            Scovell’s Pitchess motion is DENIED.