 Case Number:  24SMCV03289    Hearing Date:   November 12, 2024    Dept:  O   Case Name: 
Rose v. King



Case No.:                    24SMCV03289


Complaint Filed:                   9-21-22 




Hearing Date:            11-12-24


Discovery C/O:                      None




Calendar No.:            9


Discover Motion C/O:           None




POS:                           OK


Trial Date:                             None 



SUBJECT:                MOTION TO QUASH SERVICE OF
SUMMONS
MOVING
PARTY:  Defendant Rachel King 
RESP.
PARTY:        Plaintiff Lawrence D.
Rose, Trustee of the Rose Living Trust 
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
Defendant Rachel King’s Motion to
Vacate Default is DENIED. Defendant was properly personally served on 7-16-24,
and thus King’s argument to vacate default essentially based on lack of service
is without merit. 
 
Defendant Rachel King’s Motion to
Quash Service of Summons is DENIED.  Defendant
was personally served with the summons and complaint on 7-16-24. The Motion was
not timely under CCP § 1167. 
 
The stay on the enforcement of the
writ of possession is vacated.  Plaintiff
is to submit the proposed order.
 
REASONING
 
King seeks to vacate the default under CCP §§ 473(d),
473(b), 473.5. 
 
CCP § 473(b) provides:
 
The court may, upon any terms as may be just, relieve
a party or his or her legal representative from a judgment, dismissal, order,
or other proceeding taken against him or her through his or her mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. Application for this relief shall
be accompanied by a copy of the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed
therein, otherwise the application shall not be granted, and shall be made
within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment,
dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken.


(Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (b).)
 
CCP § 473(d) provides:
 
The court may, upon motion of the injured party, or
its own motion, correct clerical mistakes in its judgment or orders as entered,
so as to conform to the judgment or order directed, and may, on motion of
either party after notice to the other party, set aside any void judgment or
order.
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (d).)
 
CCP § 473.5(a) provides:
 
When service of a summons has not resulted in actual
notice to a party in time to defend the action and a default or default
judgment has been entered against him or her in the action, he or she may serve
and file a notice of motion to set aside the default or default judgment and
for leave to defend the action. The notice of motion shall be served and filed
within a reasonable time, but in no event exceeding the earlier of: (i) two
years after entry of a default judgment against him or her; or (ii) 180 days
after service on him or her of a written notice that the default or default
judgment has been entered.


(Code Civ. Proc., § 473.5, subd. (a).)
 
A properly executed proof of service gives rise to a rebuttable
presumption of proper personal service.  (See Dill v. Berquist Const. Co., Inc. (1994) 24 Cal.App.4th 1426, 1441-1442.)
 
            Defendant Rachel King (“King”)
argues that she was not personally served and submits a declaration stating
that the “only papers I received were the Summons and Cohabitation Agreement
(with no complaint) I found on the ground on July 16, 2024 at about 5:30 p.m.
and a copy by mail.” (King Decl., ¶ 10.) 
 
Plaintiff Lawrence D. Rose, Trustee of the Rose Living Trust
(“Rose”) submits evidence that shows King
was personally served on 7-16-24. (See Sallee Decl., ¶¶ 3–11; Ex. 1–3.) Rose
includes a declaration from service processor Ryan Sallee (“Sallee”) in which
Sallee declares that he encountered King in the backyard of her residence at
249 Glenroy Ave, Los Angeles, CA 90049 tending to the pool. (Id., ¶¶
4–5.) Sallee declares he informed King that he had court paperwork for King, in
which King responded that Sallee could not come onto the property. (Ibid.)  Sallee declares that he asked King “if she
wanted me to leave the documents in the yard or at the gate. She responded by
telling me to leave the documents under the garage, and again reiterated for me
not to come on the property.” (Id., ¶ 5.) Sallee declares he left
the paperwork at the gate, and took time stamped photographs of King by the
pool and the documents left by the gate. (Id., ¶¶ 5–8; Ex. 2, 3.) 
 
Thus, Rose
has shown that a properly executed proof of personal service on King occurred
on 7-16-24. (See Sternbeck v. Buck (1957) 148 Cal.App.2d 829, 833 [holding
the essence of personal service is the passing of the document from the hand of
the process server into the hands of the defendant or the equivalent act in
case the defendant refuses to take the same]; Crescendo Corp. v. Shelted,
Inc. (1968) 267 Cal.App.2d 209, 213 [“The individual upon whom the process
server attempts to make personal service by manual delivery may not be heard to
claim that service was improper because he refused to accept service”].) Sallee
tried to personally serve the papers upon King, King refused, but King
understood that the papers would be left at the front gate of her residence. The
Court finds King was properly served on 7-16-24. 
 
King does not include any persuasive evidence that she was not properly
personally served.  King testifies she
was in bed at the time of the service. (King Decl., ¶ 5.) This testimony lacks
credibility. The credible evidence shows pictures of Rose at the time of
service cleaning the pool in the backyard of her residence. (Sallee Decl., ¶ 6;
Ex. 2.)  King’s only argument as to why
the default should be set aside under CCP § 473(d) is that Rose was never
validly served. The Court disagrees. King’s request to set aside the default
pursuant to CCP § 473(d) is DENIED. 
 
King also argues
that the default was taken against her through mistake, inadvertence, surprise,
or excusable neglect since she was not properly served, and thus the default
should be vacated pursuant to CCP § 473(b). 
Again, King’s argument lacks merit. King was personally served on
7-16-24. King provides no other evidence showing surprise, inadvertence,
mistake or excusable neglect. Additionally, King’s attorney does not include an
affidavit attesting to any  mistake of
counsel. The only declaration provided stating any possible mistake or surprise
is from King herself, and the declaration does not provide any persuasive evidence
for the Court to find excusable neglect. Thus, King’s request to vacate the
default judgment under CCP § 473(b) is DENIED. 
 
Finally, the motion to set aside the default judgment under CCP §
473.5(a) is DENIED.   Again, Rose does
not provide any credible evidence that she lacked actual notice of the complaint
in time to defend this action or that such claimed lack of notice was not
caused by her avoidance of service or inexcusable neglect.  
 
While the Court’s denial of King’s
motion to vacate the default judgment is dispositive, the Court likewise finds
Rose’s motion to quash lacks merit. Preliminarily, in an action for unlawful detainer, a motion to quash under Code Civ.
Proc. § 418.10 must be filed and served within five days of service. (See Code
Civ. Proc. § 418.10, subd. (a) [motion to quash must be made “on or before the
last day of [defendant’s] time to plead,” which is 5 days in an unlawful
detainer case per Code Civ. Proc. § 1167(a)]; Code Civ. Proc., § 1167, subd.
(a) [after personal service “the defendant's response shall be filed within
five days . . .”] 
 
Again, Rose has shown that the unlawful detainer complaint was personally
served on 7-16-24. The deadline to file a motion to quash was on 7-23-24. (See
Code Civ. Proc., § 418.10, subd(a).) King filed the motion to quash on 8-15-24,
which was twenty-three days after personal service. King did not follow the strict
statutory procedures for unlawful detainer actions and thus the motion could be
denied. (Stancil v. Superior Court (2021) 11 Cal.5th 381, 394–395 [“the
statutory procedures must be strictly adhered to, including the stringent
requirements for service, notice, and filing deadlines”].)  The Court finds King’s motion to quash is
untimely under CCP §§ 418.10 and 1167(a).
 
In her motion, King challenges the Court’s “subject matter” jurisdiction over
this action based on the perceived defective allegations of the complaint for
unlawful detainer.  King is mistaken.
 
“[A] defendant may not use a motion to quash service
of summons to dispute the truth of the allegations contained in an unlawful
detainer complaint. Rather, a motion to quash under section 418.10, subdivision
(a)(1) is a limited procedural tool to contest personal jurisdiction
over the defendant where the statutory requirements for service of process are
not fulfilled. In the unlawful detainer context, a defendant may contest personal
jurisdiction where the five-day summons specific to unlawful detainer
actions is not supported by a complaint for unlawful detainer. Such instances
are unusual, and arise only where the summons is served alongside a complaint
for a completely different cause of action (e.g., breach of contract) or a
complaint that fails to allege the allegations necessary to assert the
defendant is guilty of unlawful detainer as specified in the relevant
subdivision of section 1161.”


(Stancil
v. Superior Court (2021) 11 Cal.5th 381, 390. Emphasis added.) While a defendant may use a motion to quash
in limited circumstances, “no defendant may use a motion to quash service of
summons as a means of disputing the merits of the unlawful detainer complaint's
allegations or to argue the plaintiff failed to comply with the pleading
requirements specific to unlawful detainer actions.” (Id. at p. 391.) 
 
King argues that the
cohabitation agreement attached to the complaint shows there was no landlord
tenant relationship between Rose and King. Under Stancil, however, that substantive
challenge is not properly raised in a motion to quash. Notwithstanding the
contractual obligations recited in the cohabitation agreement, the complaint does
allege a landlord tenant relationship between Rose and King.  Specifically, in accord with Code of Civil Procedure
§1161, Rose alleges: “On or about February 9, 2015 defendant Rachel King (1)
agreed to rent the premises as a other tenancy: See Attachment 1. [Complaint
Para. 6. A. (1)]; “The agreement was later changed as follows:  Current monthly rent totals $19,000.00 due on
the 24th of each month.”] Para 6(d).].
 
King’s motion to quash is DENIED.