  Case Number:  22AHCV00922    Hearing Date:   January 10, 2025    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF  CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST  DISTRICT      WILLIAM HENRY MEURER,                      Plaintiff(s),           vs.   QINPEI     LI,                       Defendant(s).   ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )         CASE NO.: 22AHCV00922   [TENTATIVE]    ORDER RE: MOTION TO EXTEND DISCOVERY CUT-OFF DATE   Dept.    3 8:30    a.m. January     10, 2025      On October 26, 2022, plaintiff William  Henry Meurer (“Plaintiff”) filed this partition action against defendant Qinpei  Li (“Defendant”). On October 11, 2024, the Court continued the non-jury trial  to April 14, 2025, but kept discovery closed. On October 21, 2024, Defendant  filed this motion to reopen discovery. Plaintiff filed an opposition brief on  November 25, 2024. At the hearing on December 16, 2024, the Court continued the  hearing to January 10, 2025, so that Defendant would have an opportunity to  file a reply brief. Defendant filed a reply brief on December 24, 2024.  Except as otherwise provided, any party  shall be entitled as a matter of right to complete discovery proceedings on or  before the 30th day, and to have motions concerning discovery heard on or  before the 15th day, before the date initially set for trial of the action.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.020, subd. (a).) On motion of any party, the court may  grant leave to complete discovery proceedings, or to have a motion concerning  discovery heard, closer to the initial trial date, or to reopen discovery after  a new trial date has been set. This motion shall be accompanied by a meet and  confer declaration demonstrating a good faith effort at informal resolution.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.050, subd. (a).) The court shall take into  consideration any matter relevant to the leave requested, including, but not  limited to: (1) the necessity and the reasons for the discovery, (2) the  diligence or lack of diligence of the party seeking the discovery or the  hearing of a discovery motion, and the reasons that the discovery was not  completed or that the discovery motion was not heard earlier, (3) any  likelihood that permitting the discovery or hearing the discovery motion will  prevent the case from going to trial on the date set, or otherwise interfere  with the trial calendar, or result in prejudice to any other party, and (4) the  length of time that has elapsed between any date previously set, and the date  presently set, for the trial of the action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.050,  subd. (b).) Here, Defendant argues that discovery  should be reopened “to excavate the information intentionally hidden by the  alter ego of Plaintiff” (Motion, p. 7.) Defendant declares that it was recently  discovered that “Plaintiff frauded [sic] the court by producing illegal  evidence to evade paying alimony to Defendant, and also by not disclosing his  income to evade child support with an alter ego business account.” (Li Decl., ¶  2.) Defendant also accuses Plaintiff of engaging in harassing conduct which  interfered with her attempts to conduct discovery. (Li Decl., ¶ 4.)  In opposition, Plaintiff argues that discovery  should not be reopened because Defendant has made no effort over the past two  years to conduct any discovery. (Opp., p. 1.) Plaintiff  also argues that the discovery sought relates to alimony and child support  issues and not the partition action. (Opp., p. 2.)  In her reply brief filed on December  24, 2024, Defendant argues that she has, in fact, served interrogatories but  that Plaintiff has been uncooperative. Plaintiff’s claim that she has  participated in discovery is not persuasive because Defendant never moved to  compel Plaintiff to serve responses to her interrogatories. Therefore, the  Court is not inclined to reopen discovery based on Defendant’s evidence  submitted in her latest filing. However, the Court notes that Defendant filed a  motion for leave to file a cross-complaint and recognizes that discovery will  necessarily be reopened if her request to file a cross-complaint is granted.  Accordingly, in the interest of  judicial economy, the Court defers its decision to reopen discovery and  CONTINUES this hearing to January 28, 2025, the same date that Defendant’s  motion for leave to file a cross-complaint is scheduled to be heard.  The Court advises the parties that, given the allegations of the proposed cross-complaint, and Plaintiff’s argument with respect to this motion that the discovery sought relates to alimony and child support issues and not the partition action, the parties should be prepared, at the January 28 hearing, to address whether this matter belongs in family court and if any such court continues to have jurisdiction over the parties. The matter here is a real property partition action and any agreement with respect to ownership of or title to the property not reduced to writing may be non-cognizable. Moreover, Defendant apparently seeks to assert claims over real property that ultimately arise from modifications to court-ordered child and spousal support obligations without first obtaining the family court’s approval. Whether any such modifications, not having been reduced to writing or reflected in the property ownership records, would prevent a partition remains to be seen. But in any event, the valuation of Defendant’s claims to any partition proceeds would appear to require the application of family law child and spousal support principles. Moving party to give notice. Dated  this 10th  day of January 2025                     William A. Crowfoot Judge of the Superior Court           Parties who intend to submit on this  tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating  intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided  on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit  on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may  nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a  submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others  might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from  the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no  appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the  tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.  