 Case Number:  23AHCV02077    Hearing Date:   January 10, 2025    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



MICHELLE WU, 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
EILEEN
   WANG, et al.,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  23AHCV02077
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: PLAINTIFF MICHELLE WU’S SPECIAL MOTION TO STRIKE YAONING
   SUN’S FIRST AMENDED CROSS-COMPLAINT; SPECIAL MOTION TO STRIKE PURSUANT TO
   CODE OF CIVIL PROCEDURE § 425.16 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
January 10,
  2025




 


)


 



 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
This action was initiated on September
11, 2023, by plaintiff Michelle Wu (“Wu”) against defendants Eileen Wang,
Yaoning Sun (“Sun”), Yuntao Chen aka Andy Chen (“Chen”), Jennifer Cheung
(“Cheung”), and American Southwest Chamber of Commerce USA (“ASCC”). Wu asserts
causes of action for defamation per se, intentional infliction of emotional
distress, negligent infliction of emotional distress, breach of fiduciary duty,
and accounting arising from her brief tenure as President and CEO of ASCC. 
On August 27, 2024, Sun filed a First
Amended Cross-Complaint (“FACC”) against Wu for declaratory relief and
asserting causes of action for misappropriation of funds, breach of fiduciary
duty, conversion, accounting, damages, and “unlawful change of business
entity.” 
On October 24, 2024, Wu filed a motion
to strike pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 436 (which is
misidentified on the Court’s docket summary as a “Motion to Strike with anti
slapping motion”), as well as a special motion to strike pursuant to Code of
Civil Procedure section 425.16. 
Sun filed opposition briefs on November
27, 2024. 
Wu filed reply briefs on December 23,
2024. 
II.         
MOTION
TO STRIKE PURSUANT TO CODE OF CIVIL PROCEDURE SECTION 436
As an initial matter, the Court notes
that although Wu’s motion is styled as a motion to strike “portions” of the
FACC, Wu’s motion targets each cause of action in their entirety. Therefore,
the Court will treat the so-called motion to “strike” as one for judgment on
the pleadings pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 438. 
A motion for judgment on the pleadings
may be brought by a cross-defendant on the grounds that the cross-complaint
does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 438, subd. (c)(1)(B)(ii).) “A trial court's determination of a motion
for judgment on the pleadings accepts as true the factual allegations that the
plaintiff makes. [Citations.] In addition, it gives them a liberal
construction.” (Gerawan Farming, Inc. v. Lyons (2000) 24 Cal.4th 468,
515.) As with a demurrer, “[a]ll properly pleaded, material facts are deemed
true, but not contentions, deductions, or conclusions of fact or law;
judicially noticeable matters may be considered. (Kapsimallis v. Allstate
Ins. Co. (2002) 104 Cal.App.4th 667, 672 [citing Blank v. Kirwan
(1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318].)
A.  
First
Cause of Action for Declaratory Relief/Defamation Per Se 
For his First Cause of Action, Sun
requests a judicial declaration that Wu is a limited public figure for purposes
of the defamation per se cause of action asserted in Wu’s complaint. Declaratory
relief may be obtained by any person claiming rights under a contract (oral or
written) or under a written instrument other than a will or trust, or with
respect to property. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1060.) Determining whether Wu is a
“limited public figure” is not a proper subject for declaratory relief. Sun
identifies no written instrument which sets forth his respective rights or
duties, but only claims that whether she is a public figure affects the
applicable standard of proof. (Opp., p. 5.) Indeed, the issue of public figure
status merely delineates the constitutional limitations on the ability for
certain plaintiffs to recover for defamation without proof of actual malice. (Reader’s
Digest Assn. v. Superior Court (1984) 37 Cal.3d 244, 252-253 [citing New
York Times Co. v. Sullivan (1964) 376 U.S. 254 and Gertz v. Robert
Welch, Inc. (1974) 418 U.S. 323, 344-345.) This is insufficient to show
that a proper subject for declaratory relief exists. 
Insofar as Sun attempts to save his
cause of action by claiming that it is rooted in Wu’s defamatory statements
about him, this argument lacks merit because there are, in fact, no allegations
within the FACC that Wu “falsely accused Sun of embezzlement and financial
mismanagement within [] public communications.” (Opp., pp. 5-6.) 
Accordingly, Wu’s motion to strike the
First Cause of Action is GRANTED. Leave to amend is only granted insofar as Sun
intends to allege a claim for defamation against Wu, which is not currently
pleaded anywhere in the FACC. 
B.  
Sun’s
Remaining Claims
Wu moves to strike Sun’s remaining Second,
Third, Fourth, Fifth, Sixth, and Seventh Causes of Action on the grounds that Sun
lacks standing to bring them. A plaintiff's lack of standing is a
jurisdictional defect to an action that requires its dismissal. (Cummings v.
Stanley (2009) 177 Cal.App.4th 493, 501.) 
For all these causes of action, Sun
generally alleges that Wu owed fiduciary duties to ASCC and its members but
breached them by depositing funds that were intended for ASCC into a personal
bank account and issuing checks to herself from ASCC’s bank accounts without
approval from the board of directors. (FACC, ¶¶ 25-27, 29, 35-37, 39, 46-47.) Sun
also alleges that Wu failed to abide by ASCC’s bylaws and applicable laws in
altering ASCC’s articles of incorporation without the board of director’s
authorization. (FAC, ¶ 84.) Wu’s argument has merit because nowhere in the FACC
does Sun allege that he sustained any personal injury from Wu’s alleged
misconduct. All of the alleged damage is to ASCC’s operations, reputation, and
relationships. (See, e.g., FACC, ¶¶ 30-32, 35-41, 49-52, 61, 93-94.) Furthermore,
Sun does not address the issue of standing anywhere in his opposition brief, nor
does he include any of the required allegations for a member’s derivative action
in the FACC. (See Corp. Code, §§ 5710; 7710.) The Court additionally
notes that “Damages” is not a cause of action, but a remedy, and the
allegations comprising Sun’s Sixth Cause of Action simply repeat his
allegations of misappropriation, breach of fiduciary duty, conversion,
accounting. 
Accordingly, Wu’s motion to strike the
Second, Third, Fourth, and Fifth Causes of Action is GRANTED. Sun is granted
leave to amend the FACC to add allegations of direct injury or properly allege
a derivative action on behalf of ASCC. 
III.       
SPECIAL
MOTION TO STRIKE PURSUANT TO CODE OF CIVIL PROCEDURE SECTION 425.16
Wu contends that the FACC arises from her
constitutionally protected right to petition. However, since the Court GRANTS
her motion to strike each cause of action from the FACC, the special motion to
strike is MOOT. 
IV.       
CONCLUSION
Wu’s motion to strike is GRANTED with
20 days’ leave to amend.
Wu’s special motion to strike is MOOT. 
Dated
this 10th
day of January 2025
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 