 Case Number:  22AHCV00871    Hearing Date:   May 14, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



LYCO 1, LLC, 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
MICHAEL
   CHENG,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 22AHCV00871
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION FOR TERMINATING SANCTIONS
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
May 14,
   2024



 
On April 18,
2024, plaintiff Lyco 1, LLC (“Lyco 1”) filed this motion for terminating, issue,
evidentiary, and/or monetary sanctions against cross-defendant Truong Ngoc
(“Ngoc”). Lyco 1 seeks sanctions due to Ngoc’s failure to attend her deposition
as ordered by the Court on February 9, 2024. 

On April 23,
2024, Lyco 1 filed a notice of withdrawal. The notice stated that the parties
stipulated to continue the hearing to Friday, May 17, 2024, due to opposing
counsel’s unavailability. The notice also stated that the motion has since been
refiled and noticed for a hearing on May 17, 2024. 
Lyco 1 did
not reschedule the hearing through the online Court Reservation System (“CRS”)
and the parties’ “agreement” to continue the hearing to a specific date without
first seeking leave of court is not well-taken because it interferes with the
Court’s ability to manage its calendar. CRS allocates a specific number of
hearings for different types of motions and litigants may not unilaterally add
to the number of hearings heard a day. Accordingly, the hearing is NOT
continued to May 17, 2024. Instead, this motion is taken off-calendar. If Lyco
1 wishes to continue its pursuit for sanctions against Ngoc, Lyco 1 may reserve
a hearing date on CRS and re-file its motion. 
Moving party to give notice.
Dated
this 1th
day of May
2024
 




 


 




 


William A. Crowfoot 
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.