  Case Number:  21STCV19641    Hearing Date:   May 14, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



IVAN CERVANTES, 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
SUNBELT
   RENTALS, INC.,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  21STCV19641
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
May 14,
  2024




 


)


 



 
On April 5, 2024, defendant Sunbelt
Rentals, Inc. (“Sunbelt”) filed this motion for an order compelling plaintiff
Ivan Cervantes (“Plaintiff”) to serve further responses to Special
Interrogatories, Set Two, Nos. 80, 83, 86, 89, 92, and 95. Sunbelt also
requests an order imposing monetary sanctions against Plaintiff and counsel in
the amount of $5,440. 
Special Interrogatory No. 80 requests
Plaintiff to state “all facts” supporting his Third Cause of Action for
negligence against Junior Steel Company (“JSC”). Special Interrogatory Nos. 83
and 86 request Plaintiff to state all facts supporting the claims that JSC had
a duty to inspect the forklift and jib extension and ensure they were properly
attached and secured, and that JSC had to a duty to ensure the forklift and jib
extension were safe and ready to use. Special Interrogatory Nos. 89, 92, and 95
requests Plaintiff state all facts to support his contention that he relied on
the expertise and training of JSC’s personnel to: (1) inspect and determine
whether the jib extension and forklift were attached, secured, safe, and ready
to use, and (2) determine where Plaintiff was supposed to be located in
relation to the equipment in order to perform his duties. 
All of Plaintiff’s responses to these
interrogatories are evasive. In response to Special Interrogatory Nos. 80 and
83, Plaintiff merely restates his allegation that JSC and Sunbelt had a duty to
inspect and describes the “three points of securement” which were supposed to
fasten the jib extension to the forklift. 
Plaintiff’s response to Special
Interrogatory No 86 only mentions JSC insofar as JSC’s representatives stated
that any equipment with an attachment would be properly secured while being
delivered. This response is evasive unless Plaintiff is basing the imposition
of duty solely on these representations. 
Plaintiff’s responses to Special
Interrogatory Nos. 89, 92, and 95 are also evasive because they do not include
any facts related to Plaintiff’s reliance on JSC’s personnel to inspect and
ensure the safety of the equipment or his reliance on JSC personnel to direct
him where to stand. Instead, Plaintiff deflects from the information requested
and instead describes Sunbelt’s responsibilities. The Court notes that on May
8, 2024, Plaintiff filed a request for judicial notice referring to several
declarations filed in opposition to a summary judgment motion. Plaintiff argues
that citing to these declarations is sufficient as a response to the special
interrogatories. The Court disagrees. A review of the declarations shows that
the declarations do not address Plaintiff’s contentions relating to JSC’s
obligations or Plaintiff’s reliance on JSC; the declarations mainly opine on
Sunbelt’s obligations. 
Accordingly, the motion to compel
further response is GRANTED in its entirety. Plaintiff is ordered to provide
further responses to Special Interrogatory Nos. 80, 83, 86, 89, 92, and 95 within
20 days of the date of this order. 
The Court also imposes monetary
sanctions against Plaintiff in the reduced amount of $2,150 consisting of 11
hours at defense counsel’s hourly rate of $190 and a $60 filing fee, to be paid
within 20 days of the date of this order. 
The Court does not award Sunbelt’s its attorneys’
fees incurred for drafting meet-and-confer letters or preparing its previously-filed
discovery motion which was voluntarily taken off calendar. 
Dated
this 14th
day of May, 2024
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 