 Case Number:  24SMCV01070    Hearing Date:   August 9, 2024    Dept:  I This is a motion to compel further responses, although (as
defendants point out) it is really separate motions that should have been
brought separately under the rules.  The
motion is GRANTED.  Sanctions against
defendants, but not counsel, are GRANTED in the amount of $3180, payable within
30 days.  Sanctions against plaintiff and
counsel are AWARDED and payable to the court in the amount of $120 to represent
the filing fee that should have been paid to the court had the motions been
filed properly, but recognizing that some of the motions are essentially
duplicates and that there was a greater efficiency in combining the motions.
 
The underlying case is a personal injury case.  Plaintiffs served discovery on
defendants.  At issue are form
interrogatories 13.1 and 13.2, special interrogatory 12,  and RFP 17. 
The form interrogatories seek sub rosa surveillance information.  Defendants objected to that on attorney
client/attorney work product grounds. 
Neither has merit.  First, there
is no attorney client privilege.  This is
not a communication between attorney and client.  As to work product, an argument might be made
that the surveillance itself is qualified work product, but information
surrounding it is not.  The interrogatory
does not require that the surveillance be turned over; it requires only that
information about the circumstances of it be provided.  Further, the court notes that there is no
declaration from counsel concerning the information, so defendants have failed
to establish even a prima facie case that this would be protected under
the work product doctrine (it is not actually a privilege).  In fact, there may not be any surveillance at
all.  The court believes that when the
Judicial Council approved these interrogatories it was well aware of the work
product doctrine, and the court does not believe it applies such that the interrogatory
is objectionable—certainly on this record. 
The motion is GRANTED.  When it
comes time to turn over the documents, defendant should note that if it is
successful in asserting a work product protection (which is not really likely)
it will likely be precluded from introducing that evidence at trial, even for
impeachment.
 
SI 12 asks Alkillani to identify cell phone information
relating to devices he had at the time of the accident, and RFP 17 asks that
those records be provided for the time of the crash.  Defendant claims privacy protection.  The identification of a cell phone is not
going to be protected by the constitutional right of privacy here.  Contents of a cell phone device might well be
strongly privileged, but the fact that one has a cell phone and identifying
information about it is hardly a state secret, at least if identifying
information is protected by a confidentiality agreement.  As to the records themselves, the court reads
the request as pertaining only to the time of the incident.  As so limited, plaintiff has a strong
interest in knowing if the device was in use at that time.  Defendant has not waived contributory
negligence, and therefore it might well be for the jury to decide which side
bears what proportion of fault.  If
defendant was driving while using a cell phone, that is certainly
pertinent.  And more than the fact of use
is pertinent; what was going on in particular is pertinent.  Because the request as to content is limited
to the time of the incident—not something broader like all communications that
day—it is narrowly tailored.  The court
has done the required Hill balancing test and plaintiff’s interest
easily outweighs whatever rights the defense might have so long as any private
information can be so designated and protected by a confidentiality
agreement.  The motion is GRANTED as to
SI 12 and RFP 17.  
 
The supplemental discovery as ordered above is to be
provided within 5 court days in the form of verified supplemental responses
without objection.  This includes both
the verified supplemental responses and the document itself.
 
As to sanctions, the court does not believe that there was
any substantial justification in defendants’ position other than the argument
that this should have been more than one motion—which hardly justifies
defendants’ conduct.  The court believes
that the request is legitimate.  Because
this goes primarily to objections, the court believes that counsel is at
fault.  Therefore, sanctions are awarded
against defendants and counsel jointly and severally in the amount of $3180,
which, frankly, is quite low.  They are
payable within 30 days. 