 Case Number:  22SMCV01282    Hearing Date:   August 9, 2024    Dept:  I These are two motions to compel further.  They are GRANTED IN PART.  Plaintiff’s request for sanctions is GRANTED
in the reduced amount of $11,390 for both motions. 
 
Plaintiff filed a bad faith insurance action against
defendant.  Plaintiff seeks to compel
further responses to certain requests for production and special
interrogatories.  The court turns first
to the RFP’s.  Preliminarily, the court
believes that plaintiff has made at least somewhat of the needed showing to
shift the burden.  In motions to compel
further responses to an RFP, the initial burden is on plaintiff to justify the
RFP.  These RFP’s are designed to show
that defendant has engaged in bad faith denials of claims in the past, thereby
establishing a pattern or practice, or perhaps establishing knowledge that its
procedures are inadequate but that defendant will not change them even with
such knowledge.  The court is not saying
that the discovery will so establish; only that it is reasonably
calculated to obtain the discovery of admissible evidence.
 
Defendant contends that it has already produced the
responsive documents and provided updated responses, albeit after the motion
was filed.  The court notes that the
responses still are “Subject to, and without waiving the foregoing
objections.”  As described in the court’s
guidelines appended hereto, that injects inherent and improper ambiguity into
the response.  If documents are being withheld
on the basis of an objection, plaintiff is entitled to know it so that
plaintiff can decide whether to bring a motion to compel.  It is also unclear that such an objection
remains viable.
 
As to the specifics, the motion is GRANTED with regard to
RFP 13 but with some limitations.  The
court is not sure that every document filed with the Insurance Commissioner is
proper here.  There are lots of documents
that might be filed that have nothing to do with bad faith—requests to raise
premiums, for example.  And there should
be a time limit.  The court therefore
GRANTS the motion but limits as to time for documents filed on or after January
1, 2018 and also to documents pertaining to alleged bad faith denials of
claims.  The spreadsheet is helpful here,
but it is no answer to an RFP to provide a spreadsheet but not the documents,
nor is it an answer to say plaintiff should go get them.  Of course, if defendant no longer has them,
then the “equally available” response is appropriate, but then a statement
under 2031.230 must also be made.  If
defendant does have the documents, it must produce them.  The court does not understand what defendant
means when it says it has the documents but not in a form in which they can be
produced.  If there is private
information in those documents not available to the public but that would
affect the privacy rights of third parties, that may be redacted with an
appropriate log.  As to RFP 22, defendant
contends that it produced the information requested as to the only four
lawsuits that have been filed against it. 
Plaintiff contends that such is not the case because there were other
lawsuits of which plaintiff is aware that are not on the list and, worse,
defense counsel was counsel in those suits also.  Defendant will need to explain that.  Plaintiff also complains that defendant
limited the response to California. 
Plaintiff states that it had discussed that limitation as a potential
compromise, but that defendant did not agree to the deal.  The court agrees that the deal is no deal.  An offer to compromise will be enforced in
this court, but only if it is accepted. 
Here it was not.  But that said,
the court is not convinced that a nationwide response is appropriate.  The court does not know the law in other
jurisdictions or whether that law is similar to California law, and no one has
briefed it.  The court will limit the
production to California but without prejudice to another request.   At this point, the court will also limit the
production to the complaint, answer, and any merits rulings by the court or
other tribunal.  If the documents
responsive to RFP 22 contain confidential information relating to an insured
that is not in the public record, it may be redacted with an appropriate
log.  Finally, as to RFP 23, the issue is
harder.  The court DENIES the RFP to the
extent it is demanded claims made to the carrier that never resulted in a filed
lawsuit or arbitration.  The line there
would be hard to draw, and almost by definition it will contain a lot of
private information from non-party insureds. 
However, the motion is GRANTED to the extent that the complaint resulted
in a filed complaint or arbitration in California from January 1, 2018 to the
present.  Documents must be produced
responsive to the request, but private information about a third party insured
may be redacted with a log.  As with RFP
22, for now the response may be limited to the complaint, answer, and any merits
rulings by the court or tribunal.
 
The court now turns to the special interrogatories.  The discovery seeks the identification of
those the defendant would consider to be officers, directors, or managing
agents.  The obvious purpose is to find
out who they are because those are the folks whose conduct can give rise to a
claim for punitive damages.  Further,
identifying what those people do might allow plaintiff to argue that those with
similar duties are also in that category—even if defendant does not include
them.  That is calculated to lead to the
discovery of admissible evidence. 
Defendant suggests that maybe this is a prelude to an apex doctrine
violation.  That doctrine suggests that
deposing the senior executives of an entity ought to be disallowed unless those
executives have particular knowledge pertaining to the suit that cannot be
obtained in other ways because such depositions are often done more for the
litigation value than any real discovery value. 
(Liberty Mutual Ins. Co v. Superior Court (1992) 10 Cal.App.4th
1282.)  But this is not a deposition
notice; it is just an interrogatory. 
There is no apex issue here.  The
court also notes that this interrogatory could be relevant to whether there was
authorization or ratification of actions taken by a lower level employee.  The other two interrogatories go to those who
were involved in the decision-making in this case.  Defendants state that this information can be
gleaned from the documents provided.  If
defendant wants to point to the specific documents, there is a Code provision so
allowing, but it must be done with precision. 
Alternatively, a list is appropriate. 
The motion is GRANTED as to the interrogatories. 
 
Supplemental verified responses without objection other than
privilege (or third party privacy) will be served along with the documents and
any log within 30 days.
 
That leaves sanctions. 
The court believes that some reduction in the request is appropriate
given that the RFP scope was reduced. 
The court agrees that the hourly rate is appropriate.  In light of that, and having reviewed the
appropriate declaration and supporting documents, the court will award $11,390
against defendant, but not counsel.  It
is payable in 30 days.  That is for both
motions combined.
 
 
DISCOVERY RELATED GUIDELINES FOR DEPARTMENT I
The guidelines below are not “rules” and they are not
universally applicable in all cases. 
Rather, they are guidelines as to the court’s general views.  Each case, of course, will be decided on its
own facts and circumstances, and some of the guidelines below may not apply to
particular circumstances.  That said, the
court does take these views seriously.
Discovery Responses
The court provides the following guidance concerning its
general views on some common issues regarding responses to written
objections.  The court has noticed that
many attorneys view objections and the manner of making them in a way different
than does the court.  To avoid these
common pitfalls, the court offers the following in addition to the provisions
of the Litigation Guidelines appended to the Los Angeles County Superior Court
Local Rules.
First, “General Objections” are not permitted.  The Code of Civil Procedure does not provide
for them, and therefore they are disregarded by the Court.  Any response that “incorporates” the “General
Objections” is improper by definition.  
Second, the 
court often views boilerplate objections as being in bad faith.  A bad faith response is no response at all in
the court’s view.  Therefore, making
boilerplate objections does not preserve those objections nor does it
constitute a good faith response to written discovery.  A bad faith response is viewed by the court
for what it is: bad faith.  The
objections will be stricken and deemed waived. 
In the context of a Request for Admission, such objections may lead to a
finding that the request is deemed admitted, although that will depend on the
facts of the particular case and the specific discovery at hand.
Objections should be tailored to each specific request.  If a request truly is overbroad, then an
objection to that effect is proper.  But
such an objection is best accompanied by some reasonable limitation by the
responding party that will narrow the request appropriately and (as narrowed)
provide a substantive response rather than a mere statement that the request is
overbroad.  The same is true as to an
objection that a request is unduly burdensome. 
The court also notes that the party asserting that a request is unduly
burdensome has the obligation at some point to provide an evidentiary basis for
the objection, including evidence as to what the burden of compliance would
be.  (West Pico Furniture Co. v.
Superior Court (1961) 56 Cal.2d 407.) 
Often such an objection will include a statement by the responding party
as to a narrower request that would not be unduly burdensome and provide
substantive responses as so limited. 
Objections that a request is “vague and ambiguous” should set forth the
vague and ambiguous term as well as the responding party’s reasonable
interpretation of that term as well as a statement that, so interpreted, the
response will provide the discovery requested. 
If there is no reasonable interpretation possible (which is a rare
situation), then the responding party should so state.  Objections as to privilege must set forth the
basis explaining why the information sought is in fact privileged.  Where a privilege is asserted in the context
of a document request, a privilege log should accompany the answer or be
provided within a short and reasonable time after the answer, and the log will
serve as the explanation.  Where the
objection is made in the context of an interrogatory, it must be clear from the
objection the scope of the information being withheld.  If there is no log, there should be no
privilege objection to a document request (meaning that a prophylactic
privilege objection is the equivalent of no objection; it preserves
nothing).  There are some rare
exceptions, such as where the entire point of the discovery is to get allegedly
privileged information or where compliance would require a log that is in
essence an index of counsel’s file.  In
that situation, the log is unnecessary, but the assertion should be made that
the request is in that rare context.
Third, if an objection is made to the discovery but a
response is being given, it must be clear whether information or documents are
in fact being withheld on the basis of the objections.  If the objections are clear and done in the
manner set forth above, with statements in the objection as to a narrowing that
will make the request proper, this is usually a simple task.  The objections themselves state the limit and
the response will be full and complete as limited.  But where the objections are not so clear,
the response must clearly state whether any information or document is being
withheld on the basis of the objection and, if so, the extent of the
withholding.  Accordingly, in those
situations, phrases like “Notwithstanding and subject to the foregoing
objections, responding party states as follows” are generally improper.  Those sorts of phrases make the verification
useless, as the verifier can always fall back on the ”objections” as the reason
why a document was not produced or information was not disclosed.  On the other hand, where the line of
demarcation is clear, the verification will still serve its purpose.
Fourth, for document requests, the substantive
response must conform to the Code of Civil Procedure.  There are relatively tight rules as to what
the response must say, and the response must say it.  For example, where a responding party is not
producing documents because they are not in the party’s possession, custody, or
control, the responding party must verify that a diligent search has been made
and must further provide the information set forth in the Code of Civil
Procedure section 2031.230 in such cases. 
In the case of interrogatories, the responses must also conform to the
Code of Civil Procedure and must be made after diligent inquiry.  It is not proper to refuse to respond because
the responding party has no personal knowledge. 
If the knowledge is hearsay, it must still be disclosed, although it can
be qualified to make it clear that it is not based on the verifier’s personal
knowledge.
Fifth, the court frowns on responses that do not
conform to the foregoing rules being served with the view that the responses
will moot themselves out in the meet and confer process.  That is not how the process works.  A good faith response is required before the
meet and confer process begins.  The meet
and confer process will (hopefully) bridge the gaps between the parties’
respective positions.  Further, where a
response to a request for documents is made and documents are to be produced
subject to certain objections (with the documents withheld properly
delineated), the documents should be turned over irrespective of the meet and
confer.  The documents are to be produced
with alacrity to the extent that there is no objection to them, but the court
recognizes that there is often a lag between the date responses are served and
the date that the documents are produced.
What this means is that the response to a discovery request
is not a trivial undertaking.  Nabbing
the response from the form file is a generally bad idea and can lead to all
objections being waived.  The point is
that the boilerplate often renders the remainder of the response useless.  The only exception is where it is clear that
the substantive response is not in any way limited by the objections.  In that case, the objections do no harm,
although they also do no good.
Meet and Confer
The Code of Civil
Procedure requires that before a motion to compel further responses or a motion
for a protective order is filed, the parties engage in a good faith attempt to
resolve their differences.  They are to
“meet and confer” for that purpose.  Only
if that effort fails can a motion be brought. 

Sadly, many
litigants view the meet and confer process as just another procedural hoop
through which they must jump in order to bring the motion, similar to the need
to include an actual demurrer with the demurrer papers.  The Code of Civil Procedure requires it, so
they do it, but no one’s heart is really in it. 
That is not sufficient.
Given that, the
court believes it appropriate to set forth how the court views the meet and
confer requirement.  Failure to abide by
the guidelines below may well justify denial of the motion or a continuance of
it to allow the process to take place. 
If one party but not the other refuses to participate as set forth, more
likely than not the party refusing to participate will find itself on the
losing end of the motion.  The following
quotation fairly sums up the court’s own view.
“[W]e feel compelled
to observe that resort to the courts easily could have been avoided here
had both parties actually taken to heart Justice Stone's
admonitions in Townsend that ‘the statute requires that there
be a serious effort at negotiation and informal resolution.’ (Townsend,
supra, 61 Cal.App.4th at p. 1438.) 
Perhaps after 11 years it is necessary to remind trial counsel and the
bar once again that ‘[a]rgument is not the
same as informal negotiation’ (id at p. 1437); that attempting
informal resolution means more than the mere attempt by the discovery proponent
‘to persuade the objector of the error of his ways’ (id. at p.
1435); and that ‘a reasonable and good faith attempt at informal resolution
entails something more than bickering with [opposing] counsel. . . .  Rather, the law requires that counsel attempt
to talk the matter over, compare their views, consult, and deliberate.’ (Id. at
p. 1439.)”  (Clement v. Alegre (2009)
177 Cal.App.4th 1277, 1294, emphasis in original, parallel citations omitted.) 
In practical terms, it means as
follows.  It is entirely appropriate to
begin the process with a letter or other correspondence.  The letter should not include a demand in the
form of an ultimatum, but it can certainly include the relief that is being
sought with an invitation to meet and confer. 
It is also entirely appropriate for the other party to respond with a
letter or other correspondence to set forth its position on the issues.  Such an initial exchange can often be helpful
to narrow the dispute or at least articulate plainly the boundaries.  Whether further exchanges make sense will
depend on each case and each dispute.
However, at some point before impasse is
reached the process must generally include an actual “meet.”  The letters might well suffice to “confer,”
but an exchange of correspondence is not a meeting.  In the COVID-19 era, the “meeting” can be
virtual or telephonic, but a meeting there should be.  The meeting must be attended by a person from
each side with the authority to agree to the other side’s position without
getting further permission from anyone, including the client.  If only the client can give the needed
authority, then the client must be available instantaneously at all times
during the meeting.  This does not mean
that one side or the other must concede, but it does mean that the people
meeting have the ability in real and practical terms to strike a deal.
The parties should approach the meet and
confer process as a problem-solving exercise. 
The purpose of the meet and confer is not to convince the other side of
the bankruptcy of its position; rather the purpose is to reach an agreement by
which the party seeking discovery is able to obtain the information that it
reasonably needs and the party providing discovery is not put to an undue
burden or forced to provide unnecessary information that might infringe on a
privacy interest or disclose a competitive trade secret or the like.
At the conclusion of the meet and confer,
the parties should have an agreed statement as to the outcome.  If the outcome is a total impasse, then they
should agree on that.  If they have
resolved some or all of their differences, then they should state—in
writing—what that agreement is so that there will be no confusion later.  Often, an agreement will be without prejudice
to a further request by the propounding party for more information after that
party receives the further responses.
If a motion is still required, the
declaration in support should describe with some detail the meet and confer
process.  While the court is not
interested in the back and forth (and indeed describing it can be counter-productive),
the court is interested in when the meeting took place, who was there, and how
long it lasted.
All communications—in writing or oral—must
be civil, polite, and professional. 
Name-calling and accusations are devices that undermine the process;
they do not further it.  A party engaging
in such activity generally is not acting in a good faith effort to reach an
agreement.

Informal Discovery Conferences
The court generally prefers an Informal Discovery Conference
(IDC) before any party files a motion to compel further responses, and the
failure to use this avenue of resolution can greatly affect the amount of
sanctions that might be awarded because sanctions are limited to fees that are
reasonable and necessary.  The goal of
the IDC is to “get to yes.”  To achieve
that goal, the court adopts the following.

Five court days before the IDC, the parties will
     submit a JOINT statement no more than eight pages total (on pleading
     paper, but excluding the caption page) setting forth their respective
     positions.  Where a similar issue is
     raised that will resolve many requests, it can be dealt with as a single
     issue.  
The IDC follows the good faith meet and
     confer.  It is not a substitute for
     the meet and confer.  The court’s
     time is to be spent only on issues after the parties have tried to narrow
     the dispute as much as possible.
As stated above, the goal is to “get to
     yes.”  This means a few things.  One is that each party must be
     represented by a person who has the authority to agree to the other side’s
     position without getting further permission.  It need not be lead counsel and that
     authority need not be exercised. 
     But the people at the conference must have that authority.  If only the client has that authority,
     then the client will be present physically with counsel in a adjacent room
     without distraction after initial introductions are made.
All IDC’s are “off the record.”  That means that whatever anyone says at
     the IDC will not be binding or quoted back at the party unless an
     agreement is struck.  It is very bad
     form to quote the court’s comments at an IDC during a later hearing unless
     the comments were part of a stipulated order.
All parties have the right to change
     position if no deal is reached.  The
     court, for example, might strongly indicate that it believes one side or
     the other has the better position but rule in a completely different way
     if there is a formal motion. 
     Partial agreements that are contingent upon a full resolution are
     not binding unless a full resolution is reached.  Partial resolutions that are not
     contingent on a full resolution are binding.  Parties who are suggesting a resolution
     should make it clear whether their proposal depends upon other
     resolutions.
Parties should be especially willing to give
     up sanctions at an IDC if it will resolve the dispute.  That is not a requirement, but the
     court’s experience is such that if a party is really going to insist on a
     sanction, the likelihood of a resolution is very low.
It is likely that no party will get
     everything that it wants.  The goal
     is to abide the Code of Civil Procedure, but at the same time make sure
     that the party seeking discovery is not creating busy-work or demanding a
     lot of work for no benefit (or virtually no benefit).  The responding party might well have the
     right (should it come to motion practice) to avoid some aspect of the
     discovery, but in order to get to a resolution it might be in the
     responding party’s interest to be willing to offer something.  Conversely, the propounding party might
     have the right (should it come to motion practice) to get some aspect of
     discovery, but in order to get to a resolution it might be in the
     propounding party’s interest to forego aspects of the discovery that are
     not really needed, perhaps reserving the right to seek that information at
     a later time should it prove necessary. 
     The point is not to have the court simply hammer away at the opponent.  That might happen at a motion, but it is
     not the goal of the IDC.
No orders will be made except on
     stipulation.  However, if there is
     an agreement, the court may well want to make an appropriate order or ask
     the parties to confirm it in writing.
Parties should take careful notes on any
     agreements.  Because there are no
     Court Reporters, it is hard to put an agreement on the record.  However, unless the agreement is confirmed
     quickly, people have a tendency to forget or to have “buyer’s
     remorse.”  Therefore, it is best to
     have one party send an immediate confirming email to the other and obtain
     an agreement.  The court would
     prefer not to get into the specific wording of the agreement during the
     IDC unless absolutely necessary.
The IDC process does not work if people view
     it as just a necessary step to filing a motion.  The court does not see it that way—if it
     did, then the court would abandon the IDC as a waste of time.  Rather, this is an off-ramp to avoid
     motion practice and the attendant costs and time.  Hopefully, it is also a way to get
     discovery more quickly than through formal motion practice.
At the IDC, no matter how hot tempers have run in
     the past, the court expects all counsel to be polite and civil in tone to
     one another.  The court will not
     tolerate rudeness or unnecessary accusations.  They do not move the ball forward and
     they make it nigh impossible to reach an agreement.
