 Case Number:  SC123117    Hearing Date:   August 9, 2024    Dept:  I The court will hear argument on the motions.  Below are the court’s current thoughts.  
 
The court is inclined to DENY the motion for a JNOV.  The court believes that the evidence
presented could support the jury’s verdict, especially when seen in the light
most favorable to Rav-Noy.  The court
also believes its Statement of Decision was appropriate.  As to the JNOV, the judgment will stand.  Most of the issues raised have already been
addressed and discussed in various hearings and the court will not repeat those
discussions here.  There are procedural
questions as to whether the motion was filed properly, but because the court
denies the motion on the merits the court need not rule on the procedure.
 
The new trial motion is harder.  Illulian argues that there was misconduct by
Rav-Noy’s counsel and the jury.  The
court does not find the argument as to misconduct by counsel to be
persuasive.  While there was a statement
that perhaps ought not have been made regarding church abuse scandal, that was
not a part of the case and, in the absence of some other problem, would not
suffice to justify a new trial.
 
But there is substantial evidence of jury misconduct.  Four jurors provided declarations (2 regular
jurors and 2 alternates who sat in on all or part of the deliberations by
stipulation of the parties).  One of the
four provided two separate declarations. 
The declarations are troubling. 
They suggest that some jurors expressed a firm decision almost
immediately after entering the jury room. 
The declarations expressed that some jurors expressed anger at Illulian
for making them sit through the trial and stated that they were going to vote
against him for that reason.  Further,
they declared that they saw jurors discussing amongst themselves how to react
or respond to the court’s questioning when Juror 11 wrote the court a note
concerning juror misconduct and the court elected to inquire.  
 
One Juror, Schaffer, recounted misconduct by three specific
jurors.  While some of the misconduct
might not really be misconduct—such as a complaint that some jurors were
vociferous in responding to those who disagreed—some more plainly was.  Juror Schaffer was concerned enough to send a
note to the court after the first day of deliberations.  Juror Horn, an alternate, said she was so
distraught by the deliberations on the first day that she could not bear to
come back.  There was also a statement by
alternate juror Horn that after the verdict was read, some jurors were looking
at their cell phones and finding out other information concerning
Illulian.  Of course, the instruction
against doing independent research did not apply after the jury was discharged,
but there is at least some circumstantial reason to believe that some of the
things that alternate juror Horn recounted could not have been easily found on
the web in the time that had expired. 
Juror Morales, also an alternate, confirmed the gist of the statements
by juror Shaffer and alternate juror Horn. 
She testified that she heard some jurors state that they were voting
against Illulian because he had wasted their time by making them sit through
the trial.  Alternate juror Morales also
stated that she could not bear to return on the second day.  Juror Dinkins also submitted a declaration
that confirmed what the other declarants had stated.  Juror Dinkins also stated that he could hear
deliberations continue when he was in the rest room.  It is clear to the court that the declarants
viewed the statements as being serious and accurately reflecting those jurors’
views and reasons for their verdict and were not made in jest.  Although not a juror, Bracha Illulian provided
a declaration in which she said that she had spoken with alternate juror Horn
(after the jury was excused) who appeared distraught.  She also claims to have seen jurors
discussing how to respond to the court’s questions, although she could not hear
what was said.
 
In opposition, juror Gillespie (the foreperson) provided a
declaration.  Her declaration explained
how some of the things the other jurors saw and heard were actually not
improper.  For example, she stated that
while she did use the easel during deliberations, it was to write down verbatim
certain instructions.  She also stated
that although she did say that if the jurors answered one question in the
negative the cause of action would fail, that was because the instructions so
stated.  In other words, where the
instructions stated that for Illulian to prevail he had to prove each of a
number of elements in a cause of action, the failure to prove any one of them
would be fatal to the cause of action, which is a correct statement of law and
a correct interpretation of the court’s instructions.  Her declaration, the court must say, was far
more detailed and precise than those of the jurors attacking the verdict.  On the other hand, she wrote her declaration
after reviewing the other declarations.  
She also recounted misconduct by Illulian’s side of the case,
specifically stating that Illulian’s daughter attempted to engage in
conversation during the trial with jurors and had her daughter (Illulian’s
grand-daughter) approach juror Gillespie and say “I know you’re a lawyer and I
want to be just like you when I grow up!” 
She also stated that the cell phone issue came up because people did
look up Illulian on their phones, but only after the jury was excused and that
to the best of her knowledge nothing of the sort was done before then.
 
Rightly, there were no declarations submitted in reply.
 
The court is more than a little bit troubled.  When this was first brought to the court’s
attention during the trial, the court—before taking the verdict but after the
court had been informed that a verdict had been reached—conducted an
inquiry.  The court asked specific
questions of each juror and alternate. 
Their responses were essentially consistent with the things each said in
declaration but because the court’s questions were deliberately limited, there
was less detail provided.  Although the
court denied the motion for a mistrial based on that more limited record, the
court must admit that it was very close. 
The court ultimately concluded that, based on that testimony alone, it
was not of the view that there had been a sufficient showing misconduct to
warrant declaring a mistrial and accordingly the court took and entered the
verdict.  But the later declarations have
caused the court greater concern.  And
the court is aware that the verdict was a close one.
 
The court hates new trial motions.  Having gone through the time and expense of
trying a case, the court is more than a little reluctant to throw out a
verdict.  And the court has not yet done
so since being appointed to the bench. 
And this case it is more painful than others.  This case has been going on forever.  It started, then stopped so that the parties
could arbitrate before a rabbinical court, but that court dropped the ball and
the case.  Upon coming back to court, the
case took a detour as the parties litigated (before the trial court and on
appeal) certain preliminary issues including whether there ought to be further
arbitrations.  The trial, when it finally
occurred, took a very long time.  The
court would very much like to deny this motion. 
But in good conscience, it cannot. 
Having considered all of the evidence, the court is left with the view
that there was jury misconduct and that it was prejudicial.  It was not appropriate for jurors to decide
to vote against Illulian because he was the plaintiff or because the trial took
time.  And it was inappropriate for any
juror not only to do so, but through words or conduct try to convince others to
do so as well.  The comments made by some
of the jurors favoring Rav-Noy were made immediately and forcefully.  There do not seem to have been any comments
retracting those statements by the jurors in question, nor does the court
believe that the statements were made in jest. 
The court does not believe that all jurors engaged in misconduct, and
the court is not making any particular findings as to any individual
jurors.  In particular, the court is not
finding that the foreperson acted wrongly or in some way deserving of
sanctions.  But the court is left with
the firm belief that some of the jurors—and given the close verdict (10-2 on
some questions and 9-3 on others) the number needed is low—expressed that they
were voting based on their personal dislike of Illulian for forcing them to sit
through the trial and not based on the evidence and that they sought to, and
did, impose that view on some others. 
The court is also concerned that one or more jurors engaged in improper
internet searches concerning Illulian or JEM. 
The court is aware that as to some questions the objecting jurors’ votes
seem to be odd, and the court is aware that the verdict was hardly a “blow out”
for Rav-Noy; in some respects, Rav-Noy recovered far less than he sought.  And the court is aware that a new trial
motion generally does not lie where the issue is an attempt to second guess the
jury’s reasoning or the reasoning of a particular juror.  But here the evidence suggests that the
misconduct transcends misunderstanding the court’s instructions or faulty logic
concerning the evidence but rather shows juror misconduct.  The court must therefore, and reluctantly,
GRANT the motion for a new trial.
 
The court will discuss what that means for this case.  Some of the case was decided by way of a
bench trial.  For the most part, the
court does not believe that this motion affects that determination.  Given the court’s ruling on the equitable
issues, it might or might not require that the judgment must be changed (other
than not to provide a credit for the amount of the jury’s award).  The court will discuss that with the
parties.  The court also notes that
(unlike the federal system), orders granting a new trial are appealable.
Therefore, even assuming that the judgment cannot stand (which is likely) in
the trial court, if the court is wrong about the new trial motion, the jury’s
verdict can be reinstated on appeal.  The
court does view the question as close.
 
The court will ask the parties to try resolving the case
again.  The court is well aware that this
is essentially a blood feud at this point. 
There is so much ill will between them and so much time and money has
been sunk into this case that it seems like the problems facing the globe are
easier to solve than this case.  But that
is actually not so.  At this point, there
is quite a lot to be said for putting this matter behind the parties for good
and all.  It is time for both parties to
move beyond what appears to be endless and undoubtedly expensive litigation and
move on with, and enjoy, their lives and families.  Of course, the court cannot and does not
order the parties to settle.  But the
need for a full and final resolution is palpable.  The case will now almost certainly go to the
Court of Appeal.  That is a process that
will easily take another year or more. 
It is not likely that this case will go further, but it might.  If this court’s order is affirmed, then the
case will return to this court for trial. 
It will take some time to get on the court’s docket, and once it does,
the trial will begin all over again.  And
there will be an appeal after that.  In
short, while it is possible that the appellate court will simply reinstate the
verdict and end the case in a year, it could also be four years or more of
continued expensive litigation on the road ahead.  The court urges the parties, and strongly, to
avail themselves of an off ramp.
 
The court is considering writing a more detailed order
granting the new trial motion.  However,
once entered in the minutes, this order will be effective pursuant to the CCP’s
requirements for an effective order in section 660.  To be clear, the reason that the motion is
granted is juror misconduct.  This order
will be effective even if the court ultimately decides not to write a more
detailed order.  If the court elects to
write a more detailed order, it will do so within 3 weeks.  There will be no further briefing and the
court is not requesting Illulian to submit a proposed order.
 
The matter is also here to determine Illulian’s application
to continue the fee motion.  That request
is GRANTED.  The court believes that the
parties and the court ought to discuss the effect of this order on that motion
before attempting to resolve it—assuming, without deciding, that the motion is
still proper.
 