  Case Number:  22SMCV00818    Hearing Date:   August 6, 2024    Dept:  N TENTATIVE RULINGDefendants Shahnaz Levyim and Desiree Levyim’s Demurrer to First Amended Complaint is SUSTAINED with thirty (30) days leave to amend as to the third, fourth, and eighth causes of action.Plaintiffs Cornell Gillenwater and Bret Kadel may amend their complaint only as authorized by the Court’s order and may not amend the complaint to add a new party or cause of action without having obtained permission to do so. (Harris v. Wachovia Mortgage, FSB (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 1018, 1023.)Defendants Shahnaz Levyim and Desiree Levyim to give notice. REASONINGDefendants Shahnaz Levyim and Desiree Levyim (collectively “Defendants”) demur to Plaintiffs Cornell Gillenwater and Bret Kadel (“Plaintiffs”)’s third, fourth, and eighth causes of action in Plaintiffs’ First Amended Complaint.Request for Judicial NoticeDefendants ask the Court to take judicial notice of the Court’s ruling as to Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiffs’ initial complaint. While the Court need not take judicial notice of its own case file, Defendants’ request is GRANTED pursuant to Evidence Code section 452, subdivision (d).Legal Standard“[A] demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of the allegations in a complaint.” (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.) A demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. (See Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994 [in ruling on a demurrer, a court may not consider declarations, matters not subject to judicial notice, or documents not accepted for the truth of their contents].) For purposes of ruling on a demurrer, all facts pleaded in a complaint are assumed to be true, but the reviewing court does not assume the truth of conclusions of law. (Aubry v. Tri-City Hosp. Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.)Leave to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (See Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349 [court shall not “sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if there is any reasonable possibility that the defect can be cured by amendment”]; Kong v. City of Hawaiian Gardens Redevelopment Agency (2002) 108 Cal.App.4th 1028, 1037 [“A demurrer should not be sustained without leave to amend if the complaint, liberally construed, can state a cause of action under any theory or if there is a reasonable possibility the defect can be cured by amendment.”]; Vaccaro v. Kaiman (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 761, 768 [“When the defect which justifies striking a complaint is capable of cure, the court should allow leave to amend.”].) The burden is on the complainant to show the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.)Third Cause of Action: Fraud – Intentional Misrepresentation and Fourth Cause of Action: Fraud – Promise Made Without Intent to Perform“The elements of fraud are (a) a misrepresentation (false representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (b) scienter or knowledge of its falsity; (c) intent to induce reliance; (d) justifiable reliance; and (e) resulting damage.” (Hinesley v. Oakshade Town Ctr. (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.) “The elements of a cause of action for intentional misrepresentation are (1) a misrepresentation, (2) with knowledge of its falsity, (3) with the intent to induce another’s reliance on the misrepresentation, (4) actual and justifiable reliance, and (5) resulting damage.” (Daniels v. Select Portfolio Servicing, Inc. (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th 1150, 1166.) The facts constituting the alleged fraud must be alleged factually and specifically as to every element of fraud, as the policy of “liberal construction” of the pleadings will not ordinarily be invoked. (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.)Defendants demur to Plaintiffs’ fraud claims against them on the ground the complaint fails to allege any specific conduct by Defendants, and Plaintiffs have not sufficiently alleged claims for conspiracy liability. Again, neither claim alleges specific fraudulent conduct by Defendants; instead, Plaintiffs allege the existence of a conspiracy with allegations that they met several times per week to discuss the business of the company, they agreed to form a plan to induce Plaintiffs to contribute their resources to the company, and to personally line Defendants’ pockets with money obtained. (FAC ¶¶ 51, 59.)Civil conspiracy “is a legal doctrine that imposes liability on persons who, although not actually committing a tort themselves, share with the immediate tortfeasors a common plan or design in its perpetration.” (City of Industry v. City of Fillmore (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 191, 211-212, quotation marks omitted.) “The elements of a civil conspiracy are (1) the formation of a group of two or more persons who agreed to a common plan or design to commit a tortious act; (2) a wrongful act committed pursuant to the agreement; and (3) resulting damages.” (Id. at p. 212.)Plaintiffs have failed to allege any specific facts which would support a finding of a conspiracy. Plaintiff provide conclusory facts that a conspiracy existed, and they allege that Defendants benefited from Defendant Davis S. Sibelman’s conduct, but they fail to allege that Defendants knew of Sibelman’s alleged intent to defraud Plaintiffs besides providing conclusory statements to that effect. There is no basis to impose conspiracy liability simply because Defendants were related to Sibelman, had an interest in the corporate entities, or benefited from his conduct. While conspiracy liability may exist where the trier of fact can infer the existence of a conspiracy, the facts alleged here are insufficient to support such a finding, as each of the alleged facts, such as a familial or business relationship, may just as easily be innocuous.Further, it also remains unclear how the two claims differ in any way, as Plaintiffs allege in both claims that Sibelman made certain promises with no intention to follow through on those promises, such that the claim for “fraud – promise made without intent to perform” is duplicative of Plaintiffs’ claim for “fraud – intentional misrepresentation.” Accordingly, Defendants’ demurrer to the third and fourth causes of action is SUSTAINED with thirty (30) days leave to amend.Eighth Cause of Action: Accounting“A cause of action for an accounting requires a showing that a relationship exists between the plaintiff and defendant that requires an accounting, and that some balance is due the plaintiff that can only be ascertained by an accounting. An action for accounting is not available where the plaintiff alleges the right to recover a sum certain or a sum that can be made certain by calculation.” (Teselle v. McLoughlin (2009) 173 Cal.App.4th 156, 179, citations and paragraph break omitted.)In the eighth cause of action, Plaintiffs allege no specific facts against Defendants and state only that an accounting is proper based on Sibelman’s conduct and because there was an alleged conspiracy, which has not been properly stated. (FAC ¶ 81.) Accordingly, Defendants’ demurrer to the eighth cause of action is SUSTAINED with thirty (30) days leave to amend.