 Case Number:  24STCV01349    Hearing Date:   June 14, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     June 14, 2024             TRIAL DATE: NOT
SET
                                                           
CASE:                         Airsha Byars v. Bio Clarity, LLC
 
CASE NO.:                 24STCV01349            
 
MOTION
TO QUASH SERVICE OF SUMMONS AND COMPLAINT

 
MOVING PARTY:               Specially Appearing Defendant Bio Clarity, LLC
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiff Arisha
Byars
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is an action for violation of the California Invasion of Privacy Act
that was filed on January 18, 2024. Plaintiff alleges that Defendant violated
the act by employing a third party to harvest data collected from the chat
feature on Defendant’s website. 
 
Defendant moves to quash service of
the summons and complaint for lack of personal jurisdiction. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Defendant’s Motion to Quash
Service of the Summons and Complaint is DENIED. 
 
            Defendant
is deemed to have made a general appearance this date. 
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Defendant moves to quash service of
the summons and complaint for lack of personal jurisdiction. 
 
Special Appearance 
 
No motion under Code of Civil Procedure 418.10 “shall be
deemed a general appearance by the defendant.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 418.10(d).)
Here, Specially Appearing Defendant (“Defendant”) brought this motion under
section 418.10. Thus, filing this motion does not constitute a general
appearance.  
 
Missing
Proof of Service
 
            Although this motion was filed on May
22, 2024, Defendant’s moving papers do not contain a proof of service of the
motion on Plaintiff. However, Plaintiff filed an opposition to the motion on
June 3, 2024 and did not object to the motion as improperly noticed. The Court
will therefore address the motion on its merits. 
 
Defendant’s
Evidentiary Objections
 
            Defendant raises several evidentiary
objections to the Declaration of Scott J. Ferrell in support of the opposition
to this motion. The Court rules on these objections as follows:
 
            Objections to Paragraphs 2-5 and
7: OVERRULED. Does not lack foundation nor personal knowledge; the contents
of a public website may be viewed and described by counsel for a party. 
 
            Objection to Paragraph 8:
OVERRULED. Not an improper conclusion, but a description of the website’s
contents. Does not lack foundation nor personal knowledge.
 
            Objection to Paragraph 9:
SUSTAINED as irrelevant. 
 
Requests
for Judicial Notice
 
            Plaintiff
requests that the Court take judicial notice of a series of minute orders in other
proceedings concerning unrelated factual disputes. As these rulings are
entirely immaterial to the motion at hand, Plaintiff’s requests for judicial
notice are DENIED. (Gbur v.
Cohen (1979) 93 Cal.App.3d 296, 301 [“[J]udicial notice . . . is always
confined to those matters which are relevant to the issue at hand.”].) 
 
Legal Standard
 
“When a motion to quash is
properly brought, the burden of proof is placed upon the plaintiff to establish
the facts of jurisdiction by a preponderance of the evidence.”  (Aquila, Inc. v. Sup. Ct. (2007) 148
Cal.App.4th 556, 568; see also Elkman v. National States Ins. Co. (2009)
173 Cal.App.4th 1305, 1312-13 [“Where a nonresident defendant challenges
jurisdiction by way of a motion to quash, the plaintiff bears the burden of
establishing by a preponderance of the evidence that minimum contacts exist
between the defendant and the forum state to justify imposition of personal
jurisdiction.”].) Evidence of the facts giving rise to personal jurisdiction or
their absence may be in the form of declarations. (Arensen v. Raymond Lee
Organization, Inc. (1973) 31 Cal.App.3d 991, 995.) The Court should
exclude evidence that would be inadmissible at trial. (See, e.g., Judd v.
Superior Court (1976) 60 Cal.App.3d 38, 43-44 [Court of Appeal excluded
inadmissible hearsay evidence offered in support of affirmation of trial
court’s denial of motion to quash, and subsequently reversed the trial court’s
denial].) A non-resident defendant may be subject to either general or specific
jurisdiction. (See Elkman v. National States Insurance Co., supra, 173
Cal.App.4th at 1314.) 
 
General Jurisdiction
 
The parties agree that the Court does not
possess general jurisdiction over Defendant and, if personal jurisdiction
exists, it is premised on a theory of specific jurisdiction. The Court
therefore confines its analysis to the question of specific personal
jurisdiction. 
 
Specific Jurisdiction
 
Defendant contends that the Court lacks specific personal
jurisdiction over Bio Clarity, LLC.
 
“Where
general jurisdiction cannot be established, a court may assume specific
jurisdiction over a defendant in a particular case if the plaintiff shows the
defendant has purposefully availed himself or herself of forum benefits; [i.e.]
the nonresident purposefully directed its activities at forum residents or
purposefully availed itself of the privilege of conducting activities within
the forum state, thus invoking the benefits and protections of local law. 
(Hanson v. Denckla (1958) 357 U.S. 235.)
 
Specific
jurisdiction involves a 3-part test in California.  California courts
adopt the same test as the test used by the court in Boschetto v.
Hansing (9th Cir. 2008) 539 F.3d 1011,1016): (1) The nonresident
defendant must do some act or consummate some transaction with the forum or
perform some act by which he purposefully avails himself of the privilege of
conducting activities in the forum, thereby invoking the benefits and
protections of its laws; (2) the claim must be one which arises out of or
results from the defendant's forum-related activities; and (3) exercise of
jurisdiction must be reasonable.” (Panavision International, L.P. v. Toeppen (9th
Cir. 1998) 141 F.3d 1316, 1320 [applying California law].).” (Jewish Defense
Organization, Inc. v. Sup. Ct. of Los Angeles County (Rambam) (1999)
72 Cal.App.4th 1045, 1054.) Purposeful availment as defined by Boschetto requires
affirmative conduct promoting the transaction. “To have purposefully
availed itself of the privilege of doing business in the forum, a defendant
must have ‘performed some type of affirmative conduct which allows or promotes
the transaction of business within the forum state.’” (Boschetto, 539
F.3d at 1016.) If the plaintiff satisfies the first two prongs of the test, the
burden shifts to the defendant to present a compelling case that the exercise
of jurisdiction would be unreasonable. (Burger King Corp. v. Rudzewicz (1985)
471 U.S. 462, 476-78.)
 
In the context of internet
activity, the California Supreme Court has adopted the following “sliding
scale” test for personal jurisdiction:
 
At one end of the
spectrum are situations where a defendant clearly does business over the
Internet. If the defendant enters into contracts with residents of a foreign
jurisdiction that involve the knowing and repeated transmission of computer
files over the Internet, personal jurisdiction is proper. [Citation.] At the
opposite end are situations where a defendant has simply posted information on
an Internet Web site which is accessible to users in foreign jurisdictions. A
passive Web site that does little more than make information available to those
who are interested in it is not grounds for the exercise [of] personal
jurisdiction. [Citation.] The middle ground is occupied by interactive Web
sites where a user can exchange information with the host computer. In these
cases, the exercise of jurisdiction is determined by examining the level of
interactivity and commercial nature of the exchange of information that occurs
on the Web site. 
 
(Pavlovich v. Superior Court (2002) 29 Cal.4th 262,
274, quoting Zippo Mfg. Co. v. Zippo Dot Com, Inc. (W.D.Pa. 1997) 952 F.
Supp. 1119, 1124.)
 
            Plaintiff
opposes the motion arguing Defendant’s website is sufficiently interactive to
subject Defendant to personal jurisdiction because it functions as an online
store (Declaration of Scott. J. Ferrell ISO Mot. ¶ 3; Exh. 3), contains an
interactive chat feature (Id. ¶ 4), and has fillable forms to sign up
for electronic newsletters and discounts and to contact Defendant’s customer
service representatives. (Id. ¶¶ 4-6.) Plaintiff also states that the
website expressly references the rights of Californians under the Consumer
Privacy Act of 2018, and thus argues that the website was constructed with an
eye toward California. (Ferrell Decl. ¶ 7; Exh. 6.) Plaintiff thus
distinguishes Defendant’s website from Pavlovich, where the website had
no interactive features nor any reference to California (Pavlovich, supra, 29
Cal.4th at 274) and argues that it is sufficiently interactive and commercial
to subject Defendant to personal jurisdiction.  
 
As our Supreme Court has stated, for
cases falling within the “middle ground” of the sliding scale, federal courts “have
been less than consistent.” (Snowney v. Harrah’s Entertainment, Inc. (2005)
35 Cal.4th 1054, 1064.) Snowney declined to address what interactivity
was required to establish personal jurisdiction because the website in that
case touted the proximity of the defendant’s hotels to California and provided
driving directions from California to those hotels. (Id. at 1064-65.) Subsequently,
the Court of Appeal in Thurston v. Fairfield Collectibles of Ga., LLC held
that a facially neutral website that generated a substantial number of sales of
goods or services to California residents constitutes purposeful availment. (Thurston
v. Fairfiled Collectibles of Ga., LLC (2020) 53 Cal.App.5th 1231, 1241.) Under
California authority, even a small number of sales may be “substantial.” (As
You Sow v. Crawford Laboratories, Inc. (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 1859, 1864 [16
sales totaling no more than 1% of annual sales sufficient to establish personal
jurisdiction].) Plaintiff has offered no evidence of the quantity of sales made
to California, even though the website appears to have been designed with this
state in mind. 
 
In reply, Defendant dismisses
Plaintiff’s analysis as a misapplication of the sliding scale test, describing
its website as a national website accessible from California. Defendant
analogizes this case to Jacqueline B. v. Rawls Law Group, P.C., in which
the Court of Appeal found no specific jurisdiction over a Virginia law firm
whose website described a nationwide practice and included examples of
settlements from across the nation, including two in California. (Jacqueline
B. v. Rawls Law Group, P.C. (2021) 68 Cal.App.5th 243, 255.) The Court does
not share Defendant’s view, as the website in this case does not merely list
California as one of many examples, but specifically calls out a protection
established by California law for California residents. The Court therefore
finds that Plaintiff has offered sufficient evidence to demonstrate purposeful
availment by Defendant through operation of its interactive website, and that
the claim asserted arises out of those activities. 
Where, as
here, the plaintiff has satisfied her burden on a motion to quash for lack of
personal jurisdiction, the burden shifts to the moving party to demonstrate
that the exercise of jurisdiction would be unreasonable. (Burger King Corp.
v. Rudzewicz (1985) 471 U.S. 462, 476-78.) The moving party must show that
litigating the case in a foreign state would be “so gravely difficult and
inconvenient that it would put him at a severe disadvantage in comparison to
his opponent.” (Doe v. Damron (2021) 70 Cal.App.5th 684, 693.) Mere
inconvenience is insufficient to defeat jurisdiction. (Id.) When
evaluating the reasonableness of the exercise of jurisdiction, courts commonly
balance several factors in making the determination, including (1) the extent
of the defendant’s purposeful interjection into the forum state; (2) the burden
on the defendant; (3) the extent of conflict with the sovereignty of the
defendant’s state; (4) the forum state’s interest in adjudicating the dispute;
(5) the most efficient judicial resolution of the controversy; (6) the
importance of the forum to the plaintiff’s interests in convenient and
effective relief; and (7) the existence of an alternate forum. (See Core-Vent
Corp. v. Nobel Indus. (9th Cir. 1993) 11 F.3d 1482, 1488-89.) 
 
Here,
Defendant offers no evidence demonstrating why the exercise of jurisdiction
would be so inconvenient and difficult as to put it at a severe disadvantage. Mere
statements that Defendant is based in New York and has no personnel or property
in California are not sufficient to demonstrate unreasonableness by themselves,
because those statements are not evidence of burden. (See Declaration of Sol
Silberstein ISO Mot.) Defendant has therefore failed to demonstrate that the
exercise of personal jurisdiction would be unreasonable. 
 
CONCLUSION:

 
            Accordingly,
Defendant’s Motion to Quash Service of the Summons and Complaint is DENIED. 
 
            Defendant
is deemed to have made a general appearance this date. 
 
            Moving
Party to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  June 14, 2024                         ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 