  Case Number:  22STCV33525    Hearing Date:   June 14, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     June 14, 2024             TRIAL DATE: November
26, 2024
                                                           
CASE:                         Roselia Orrego Carrera v. United Moving
Cars, et al. 
 
CASE NO.:                 22STCV33525            
 
MOTION
FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT OR SUMMARY ADJUDICATION

 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff Roselia Orrego Carrera
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Defendants United
Moving Cars and Juan Carlos Acosta Martinez
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is an action for retaliation and wage and hour violations that was
filed on October 14, 2022. Plaintiff alleges that she was terminated in
retaliation for filing a police report and pursuing a worker’s compensation
claim for harassment perpetrated by a client of her employer.
 
Plaintiff moves for summary
judgment, or, in the alternative, for summary adjudication of each cause of
action and Defendants’ affirmative defenses Nos. 38 (legitimate
nondiscriminatory basis), 58 (legitimate, independent reasons) and 59 (no
protected activity). 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Plaintiff’s Motion for Summary
Judgment is DENIED.
 
            Plaintiff’s
Motion for Summary Adjudication is GRANTED as to the 38th
affirmative defense (legitimate nondiscriminatory purpose) and 58th
affirmative defense (legitimate independent reason) and otherwise DENIED. 
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Motion for Summary Judgment
 
Plaintiff moves for summary
judgment.
As Plaintiff has not prevailed on
all causes of action for the reasons stated below, Plaintiff’s Motion for
Summary Judgment is DENIED. 
 
Motion for Summary Adjudication
 
Plaintiff moves in the alternative
for summary adjudication of each cause of action and Defendants’ affirmative
defenses Nos. 38 (legitimate nondiscriminatory basis), 58 (legitimate,
independent reasons) and 59 (no protected activity). 
 
Legal Standard for Summary Adjudication by Plaintiff
 
The function of a motion for
summary judgment or adjudication is to allow a determination as to whether an
opposing party can show evidentiary support for a pleading or claim and, if
not, to enable an order of summary dismissal without the need for trial. (Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) Code of Civil
Procedure Section 437c(c) “requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment
if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from
the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that
there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is
entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” 
(Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110,
1119.)  “The function of the pleadings in
a motion for summary judgment is to delimit the scope of the issues; the
function of the affidavits or declarations is to disclose whether there is any
triable issue of fact within the issues delimited by the pleadings.” (Juge
v. County of Sacramento (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67, citing FPI
Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal. App. 3d 367, 381-82.)
 
As to each claim as framed by the
complaint, a plaintiff moving for summary judgment satisfies the initial burden
to show that there is no defense to a claim by proving each element of the
cause of action entitling the party to judgment. (Code Civ Proc. § 437c(p)(1).)
Courts “liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing
summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that
party.” (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.) The
lack of opposition is not grounds to grant a motion for summary judgment if a
defendant cannot meet their initial burden of proof. (See Thatcher v. Lucy
Stores, Inc. (2000) 79 Cal.App.4th 1081, 1087.)
 
            Once the plaintiff
has met that burden, the burden shifts to the defendant to show that a triable
issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action or a
defense thereto. (Code Civ. Proc. § 437c(p)(1).) To establish a triable issue
of material fact, the party opposing the motion must produce substantial
responsive evidence. (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151,
166.)
 
Plaintiff’s Separate Statement
 
            Pursuant to
the California Rules of Court, a Separate Statement of Undisputed Material Fact
in support of a motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication must separately
identify each cause of action, claim for damages, issue of duty, or affirmative
defense that is the subject of the motion, and must separately identify each
material fact with respect to each issue. (Cal. Rules of Court 3.1350(d).)
Rather than comply with this requirement, Plaintiff’s Separate Statement of
Undisputed Material Fact in support of her motion sets forth all nine issues at
once before listing fourteen facts which are claimed to be undisputed and
material to all issues. That said, Defendants have not objected to the Separate
Statement on this basis and prepared their Response to the Separate Statement
accordingly. As there appears to have been no prejudice to Defendants by
Plaintiff’s failure to obey procedural requirements, the Court will overlook
this deficiency and address the motion on its merits. 
 
Plaintiff’s “Response to Defendants’ Separate Statement
of Facts”
 
            Plaintiff
also filed a “Response to Defendants’ Separate Statement of Facts” in support
of her Reply papers on June 7, 2024. No such filing is authorized either by the
Code of Civil Procedure or the Rules of Court. This filing will therefore not
be considered in the Court’s ruling on this motion. 
 
First Cause of Action: Retaliation (Gov. Code Section
12940(h))
 
            Plaintiff
moves for summary adjudication of the first cause of action for retaliation
under the Fair Employment and Housing Act on the basis that there is no defense
to this cause of action. 
 
“[I]n order to establish a prima
facie case of retaliation under the FEHA, a plaintiff must show (1) he or she
engaged in a 'protected activity,' (2) the employer subjected the employee to
an adverse employment action, and (3) a causal link existed between the
protected activity and the employer's action.” (Yanowitz v. L'Oreal USA,
Inc. (2005) 36 Cal.4th 1028, 1042 [describing the burden-shifting analysis
for retaliation claims on summary adjudication by defendants].) 
 
            Plaintiff
contends that the undisputed evidence demonstrates that she engaged in
protected activity by calling the police on her harasser on August 2, 2022.
(SSUMF No. 6.) Plaintiff states that she was terminated that same month. (SSUMF
No. 1.) As Plaintiff states in her moving papers, both direct and
circumstantial evidence can demonstrate retaliatory intent. (Colarossi v.
Coty US Inc. (2002) 97 Cal.App.4th 1142, 1153.) Close temporal proximity
between the protected activity and the adverse employment action where the
employer is aware of the protected activity is proof of retaliatory motive.
(E.g. Fisher v. San Pedro Peninsula Hospital (1989) 214 Cal.App.3d 590,
615.) 
 
            Although
Plaintiff contends the issues should be straightforwardly resolved in her
favor, close reading of the evidence cited by Plaintiff in support of her
motion belies the argument that there is no dispute such that Plaintiff is
entitled to judgment as a matter of law on this issue. Plaintiff’s papers make
much of Defendants’ statements in special interrogatories that Plaintiff was
terminated for recording her co-workers and was hostile and antagonistic, and
of a letter which states that she was, in fact, terminated. (See, e.g., Memo of
Ps. & As. p.11:3-11.) However, this evidence is not referenced in the
Separate Statement and therefore is immaterial to the motion. “This is the
Golden Rule of Summary Adjudication: if it is not set forth in the separate
statement, it does not exist.” (United Community Church v. Garcin
(1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 327, 337 [italics in original].) Even if this evidence
were properly before the Court, Defendant Martinez contradicts that theory in
the deposition testimony cited by Plaintiff, contending that the termination
letter was a form letter that was prepared in haste because Plaintiff quit
voluntarily and requested a “resignation sheet.” (Plaintiff’s Exh. E. p.136:17-141:10.)
Defendants raise this issue in their opposition, arguing that Plaintiff has not
carried her burden, or, alternatively, there is a triable issue of fact as to
whether they took any adverse employment action against Plaintiff at all.  
 
            While
Plaintiff casts significant doubt on Defendant Martinez’s credibility as a
witness and on the veracity of the theory which he proffers, the Court cannot
weigh evidence in the context of a motion for summary adjudication. Plaintiff’s
citation to D’Amico v. Board of Medical Examiners and its progeny is
unavailing, as that body of authority only stands for the position that a
self-serving declaration in support of an opposition to a motion for
summary adjudication does not raise a triable issue of fact by contradicting
admissions made in prior sworn deposition testimony. (D’Amico v. Board of
Medical Examiners (1974) 11 Cal.3d. 1, 21.) Indeed, D’Amico “does
not countenance ignoring other credible evidence that contradicts or explains
that party’s answers.” (Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128
Cal.App.4th 1510, 1524.) None of the authorities cited by Plaintiff stand for
the position that the Court may or should disregard deposition testimony which
contradicts statements in written interrogatories. (Preach v. Monter Rainbow
(1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 1441, 1451 [declaration contradicting pleadings]; Cohen
v. Kabbalah Centre Int’l. Inc. (2019) 35 Cal.App.5th 13, 18-19 [declaration
contradicting pleadings]; Alvis v. County of Ventura (2009) 178
Cal.App.4th 536, 549 [declaration contradicting prior statement].) Scalf,
in particular, emphasizes that the D’Amico rule is very narrow, and only
“bars a party opposing summary judgment from filing a declaration that
purports to impeach his or her own prior sworn testimony.” (Scalf, supra, 128
Cal.App.4th at 1522.) The credibility of Defendant Martinez’s explanation,
therefore, is not subject to D’Amico, and must be resolved by a jury,
not by the Court on summary adjudication. Thus, even assuming Plaintiff has
carried her burden to establish each element of the first cause of action,
Defendants have offered evidence which demonstrates a triable issue of material
fact about whether Plaintiff was, in fact, terminated. Moreover, for the
reasons stated below in connection with the 59th affirmative
defense, Plaintiff has not established as a matter of law that she did, in
fact, engage in protected activity of any sort.
 
            Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s Motion for Summary Adjudication of the first cause of action is
DENIED.
 
Second Cause of Action: Whistleblower Retaliation
 
            Plaintiff
moves for summary adjudication of the second cause of action for whistleblower
retaliation. As the parties agree that this cause of action is premised on the
same facts as the first cause of action, Plaintiff’s Motion for Summary
Adjudication of the second cause of action is DENIED for the reasons stated
above. 
 
Thirty-Eighth Affirmative Defense (Legitimate
Nondiscriminatory Purpose)
 
            Plaintiff
also moves for summary adjudication of the 38th affirmative defense
claiming a legitimate nondiscriminatory purpose on the same basis as the first
two causes of action. She properly bases her motion on evidence negating a
series of possible nondiscriminatory reasons for Defendant’s alleged actions.
(SSUMF Nos. 8-10.) In opposition, Defendant fails to address Plaintiff’s
showing as to this affirmative defense arguing instead that she has not shown
she was terminated, which is a separate and independent element of Plaintiff’s
claims, and that Plaintiff must negate all affirmative defenses to obtain
summary adjudication on one.  This is
plainly not the law. (Code Civ. Proc. § 437c(p)(1).)  While the Court has found that Plaintiff has
not demonstrated as a matter of law that she was subjected to the adverse
employment action of termination, Plaintiff is entitled to summary adjudication
of the 38th affirmative defense because Defendant has raised no
triable issue of fact showing a legitimate reason for any termination that may
be proven.  
 
Fifty-Eighth Affirmative Defense (Legitimate Independent
Reasons)
 
            Plaintiff
moves for summary adjudication of the 58th affirmative defense
claiming that the alleged action would have occurred for legitimate independent
reasons, notwithstanding any protected activity, on the same basis as the first
two causes of action. Again, Plaintiff properly bases her motion on evidence
negating a series of possible nondiscriminatory reasons for Defendant’s alleged
actions. (SSUMF Nos. 8-10.) Defendant again responds to this showing by arguing
Plaintiff has not shown she was terminated and by raising the unsupported
contention that Plaintiff must negate all affirmative defenses to obtain
summary adjudication on one.  While the
Court has found that Plaintiff has not demonstrated as a matter of law that she
was subjected to the adverse employment action of termination, Plaintiff is
entitled to summary adjudication of the 58th affirmative defense because
Defendant has raised no triable issue of fact showing a legitimate reason for
any termination that may be proven.  
 
Fifty-Ninth Affirmative Defense (No Protected Activity)
 
            Plaintiff
moves for summary adjudication of the 59th affirmative defense
claiming that Plaintiff did not engage in any protected activity under Labor
Code section 1102.5. Although Plaintiff asserts that it is undisputed that she
engaged in protected activity under both the Labor Code and FEHA, the Separate
Statement of Undisputed Material Fact only references Defendant Martinez’s
deposition, wherein he testified that Plaintiff called the police on one of the
client’s employees because he “was being disrespectful with [Plaintiff].”
(SSUMF No. 6; Exh. D. pp.40:15-41:24.) This testimony, by itself, does not
establish protected activity because it does not demonstrate that Plaintiff
disclosed information “to a government or law enforcement agency” which she had
reasonable cause to believe disclosed “a violation of state or federal statute,
or a violation of or noncompliance with a local, state, or federal rule or
regulation.” (Labor Code § 1102.5(a).) Nor, for that matter, does it demonstrate
on its face a complaint for a violation of Government Code section 12940,
although that issue is less pertinent with respect to this affirmative defense.
 While other evidence presented in
support of the motion might address that deficiency, the Court does not
consider factual contentions which are not set forth in the Separate Statement.
This is the Golden Rule of Summary Adjudication: if it is not set forth in the
separate statement, it does not exist.” (United Community Church v.
Garcin (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 327, 337 [italics in original].)
 
            As
Plaintiff has not offered evidence demonstrating that she has, in fact, engaged
in protected activity, Plaintiff’s Motion for Summary Adjudication of the 59th
affirmative defense is DENIED. 
 
Third Cause of Action: Unpaid Overtime Wages
 
            Plaintiff
moves for summary adjudication of the third cause of action for unpaid overtime
wages. 
 
            Labor
Code section 510 states that any employee who works more than eight hours in
one workday or more than 40 hours in one work week, or who works more than six
days per week must be compensated by at least one and one-half times their
regular pay. (Labor Code § 510(a).) Further, any work in excess of 12 hours in
one day, or for more than eight hours on the seventh day of the week, must be
compensated with double pay. (Id.) An employee who receives less than the
legal overtime compensation may recover the full unpaid balance of that
compensation via a civil action. (Labor Code § 1194.) To prevail on this cause
of action, an employee must prove that the employee “has in fact performed work
for which he was improperly compensated” and produce “sufficient evidence to
show the amount and extent of that work as a matter of just and reasonable
inference.” (Hernandez v. Mendoza (1988) 199 Cal.App.3d 721, 727.) 
 
            Plaintiff
contends that she is entitled to summary adjudication of this cause of action
because Defendant Martinez admitted in deposition that Plaintiff’s work
schedule was 3:00 pm to 11:30 pm, and that she would work five to six days a
week, on average, and frequently worked six days per week at that schedule.
(SSUMF No. 4.) Thus, Plaintiff argues, Defendants have conceded that Plaintiff worked
more than 40 hours per week and is therefore owed overtime compensation, which
Defendant Martinez admitted was never paid. (SSUMF Nos. 12-13.) However,
Plaintiff does not address the amount and extent of the unpaid work in her
papers. Moreover, while Defendant Martinez’s statements show that some overtime
work was performed, no testimony was elicited which suggests the amount.
Plaintiff has therefore failed to establish the extent of unpaid wages, which
is an element of this cause of action. Consequently, the burden does not shift
to Defendants to establish a triable issue of fact, and Plaintiff is not
entitled to summary adjudication. 
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s Motion for
Summary Adjudication of the third cause of action is DENIED.
Fourth Cause of Action: Inaccurate Wage Statements
 
            Plaintiff
moves for summary adjudication of the fourth cause of action for failure to
provide accurate itemized wage statements on the basis that if Plaintiff
prevails on the third cause of action for unpaid overtime, Defendants’ wage
statements are inaccurate as a matter of law. The parties agree that this cause
of action runs alongside the third cause of action, and, for that reason,
Plaintiff’s motion for summary adjudication of the fourth cause of action is DENIED.

 
Fifth Cause of Action: Waiting Time Penalties
 
            Plaintiff
moves for summary adjudication of the fifth cause of action for waiting time
penalties. The parties agree that this cause of action runs alongside the third
cause of action, and, for that reason, Plaintiff’s motion for summary
adjudication of the fifth cause of action is DENIED. 
 
Interest, Attorney’s Fees, and Costs
 
            Plaintiff
moves for summary adjudication of her entitlement to interest, attorney’s fees,
and costs for prevailing on her claims. Prejudgment interest, attorney’s fees,
and costs are not issues which are subject to summary adjudication under Code
of Civil Procedure section 437c(f)(1). Plaintiff’s Motion for Summary
Adjudication is therefore DENIED with respect to prejudgment interest,
attorney’s fees, and costs, without prejudice to a separate, procedurally
compliant, motion for prejudgment interest and/or attorney’s fees and costs.  
 
CONCLUSION:

 
            Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s Motion for Summary Judgment is DENIED.
 
            Plaintiff’s
Motion for Summary Adjudication is GRANTED as to the 38th
affirmative defense (legitimate nondiscriminatory purpose) and 58th
affirmative defense (legitimate independent reason) and otherwise DENIED. 
 
            Moving
Party to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  June 14, 2024                         ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 