 Case Number:  24STCP01192    Hearing Date:   June 14, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     June 14, 2024             TRIAL DATE: NOT
SET
                                                           
CASE:                         Cylinder Enterprises Inc., et al. v.
Carmen Salinas, et al. 
 
CASE NO.:                 24STCP01192            
 
PETITION
TO PERPETUATE TESTIMONY AND EVIDENCE BEFORE COMMENCEMENT OF ACTION

 
MOVING PARTY:               Petitioners Cylinder Enterprises, Inc., and Tasi Uia
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Respondent Shamane
Draper
 
 
CASE
HISTORY:
·        
06/28/22: Petition filed.
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is a petition to perpetuate testimony and evidence before
commencement of litigation. Petitioner Cylinder Enterprises is the owner of a
vehicle operated by Petitioner Uia that was involved in a traffic accident with
several other vehicles and seeks to conduct discovery relating to the injuries
and treatment of the other individuals involved in the accident. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
The Petition for Pre-Commencement
Discovery is DENIED.
 
DISCUSSION:
 
            Petitioners
seek an order authorizing pre-litigation discovery in the form of
interrogatories pertaining to the Respondents’ treating physicians and
employers, inspection of all medical records relating to the Respondents’
injuries from the accident, subpoenas for records from Respondents’ medical
providers, and physical examinations of the Respondents’ injuries. 
 
 
Legal Standard
 
One who expects to be a party,
whether a plaintiff or defendant, to a cognizable action in a Court of this
State may obtain discovery “for the purpose of perpetuating that person’s own
testimony or that of another natural person or organization, or of preserving
evidence for use in the event an action is subsequently filed.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2035.010, subd. (a).) Discovery methods available in these cases
include oral and written depositions, inspection of documents, things, and
places, and physical and mental examinations. (Code Civ. Proc., §
2035.020.)  
 
A petition under this chapter
must be verified and filed in the superior court of the county where at least
one adverse party resides. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2035.030, subd. (a).)
(Emphasis added.)  The petition must also include all of the following (1)
the expectation that the petitioner will be a party to an action cognizable in
this state; (2) petitioner’s present inability either to bring that action or
to cause it to be brought; (3) the subject matter of the expected action and
the petitioner’s involvement and must attach a copy of any written instrument
connected to the litigation; (4) the particular methods the petition seeks to
employ; (5) the facts the petitioner wishes to establish by engaging in
discovery under this section; (6) the reasons for desiring to perpetuate
testimony or preserve evidence before an action has been filed; (7) the name or
description of those the petitioner expects to be adverse parties; (8) the name
and address of those from whom discovery is sought; and (9) the substance of the
information expected to be elicited from each of those from whom discovery is
sought. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2035.030, subd. (b).)  
 
Service of this petition must be
made in the same manner as service of summons on each person named in the petition
as an expected adverse party. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2035.040, subd. (a).)  
 
“If the Court determines that all
or part of the discovery requested under this chapter may prevent a failure or
delay of justice, it shall make an order authorizing that discovery.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2035.050, subd. (a).) “The order shall identify any witnesses
whose deposition may be taken, and any documents, things, or places that may be
inspected, and any person whose physical or mental condition may be examined.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2035.050, subd. (b).)  
 
Analysis
 
            Petitioners
seek an order authorizing pre-litigation discovery in the form of
interrogatories pertaining to the Respondents’ treating physicians and
employers, inspection of all medical records relating to the Respondents’
injuries from the accident, subpoenas for records from Respondents’ medical
providers, and physical examinations of the Respondents’ injuries. 
 
            Petitioners
served a Notice of Hearing for the petition, along with a memorandum of points
and authorities and a declaration of Petitioner’s counsel on all parties on April
30, 2024 via mail and email, as required by Code of Civil Procedure section
2035.040. (Notice Proof of Service.) A copy of the petition itself was served
on all parties on June 29, 2022 via mail and email. (Proof of Service –
Conformed Petition.) Petitioners have therefore complied with Code of Civil
Procedure section 2035.040.
 
            Petitioners
Cylinder and Uia were the owner and operator, respectively, of a tow truck
involved in an automobile accident on December 4, 2023 with a 2015 Toyota Rav4
owned and operated by Respondent Salinas, a 2014 Toyota Prius operated by Uziel
Guzman, a 1996 Nissan Maxima operated by Shamae Draper, and a 2017 Chevrolet
Cruze owned and operated by Blanca Velasco. (Declaration of Samuel D. Gallman
ISO Petition ¶ 3.) Petitioners expect that they will be named defendants in an
action filed by Respondents (Petition ¶¶ 2-3.) Indeed, Respondent Draper has
filed a response to this motion stating that she filed a Complaint concerning
this accident on April 2, 2024. (Declaration of Carolyn M. Afari ISO Response
Exh. 1.) Petitioners assert that they do not expect to be able to bring this
action, but do not explain why this is so. (Petition ¶ 2.) Petitioners describe
the subject matter as concerning the collision. (Id. ¶ 3.) 
 
            Petitioners
wish to pursue discovery via interrogatories pertaining to the Respondents’
treating physicians and employers, inspection of all medical records relating
to the Respondents’ injuries from the accident, subpoenas for records from
Respondents’ medical providers, and physical examinations of the Respondents’
injuries. (Petition ¶¶ 9-13.) Petitioner seeks to use this information to
establish the extent and degree of injuries suffered by Respondents (Id.)

 
            Petitioners
seek to preserve this evidence before the filing of an action because they are
not aware of the identity of Respondents’ employers or medical providers or if
they have policies that would result in the destruction of records. (Gallman
Decl. ¶ 18.)  
 
            Petitioners
state that the names and addresses from the persons from whom the pre-lawsuit
discovery is sought include: Carmen Salinas; 207 East Victoria Avenue,
Montebello, California 90640; Uziel Guzmand; 2737 West Twelfth Street, Los
Angeles, California 90006; and Shamane Latice Draper; 4218 ½ East Woodlawn
Avenue, Los Angeles, California 90011 (Petition ¶ 11.) The Petition also
includes a verification page with Petitioner’s declaration and signature.
(Petition, Verification.)
 
            The Court
is not persuaded, based on the evidence presented, that there is a risk of a
failure or delay of justice in the circumstances presented here. Petitioners
offer no evidence that demonstrates a risk that the Respondents’ medical or
treatment records will be lost or destroyed. Indeed, such a proposition appears
counter-intuitive, as accurate medical records are essential for effective
medical care, whether routine or emergency. A lack of response from counsel for
Respondents (see Gallman Decl. Exhs. D-K) is not evidence of a risk of
destruction of this evidence. Moreover, in the case of Respondent Draper, the
petition is moot, as a personal injury Complaint seeking damages for injuries
sustained in the accident was filed on April 2, 2024. (Afari Decl. Exh. 1.) On
this record, the Court is not satisfied that pre-litigation discovery should be
authorized. 
 
//
CONCLUSION
 
            Accordingly,
the Petition for Pre-Commencement Discovery is DENIED.
 
            Petitioners
to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  June 14, 2024                         ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 