 Case Number:  22VECV02514    Hearing Date:   February 5, 2024    Dept:  W BRYAN GUINO v.
AMERICAN HONDA MOTOR CO., INC.
 
PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO COMPEL
FURTHER DISCOVERY RESPONSES FROM DEFENDANT, AND REQUEST FOR SANCTIONS –SET ONE
OF REQUESTS FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS
 
Date of Hearing:        February
5, 2024                               Trial
Date:       None Set.
Department:              W                                                        Case No.:        22VECV02514
 
Moving Party:            Plaintiff Bryan Guino
Responding Party:     Defendant
American Honda Motor Co., Inc.  
Meet and Confer:      Yes. (Zamudio Decl. ¶¶9-13.) 
 
BACKGROUND
 
This is a lemon law action which arises
from Plaintiff’s lease of a 2020 Honda Accord. On December 21, 2022, Plaintiff
filed a complaint against Defendant American Honda Motor Co. asserting causes
of action for Violation of Song-Beverly Act and Fraudulent Inducement –
Concealment. Plaintiff alleges their vehicle had a sensing defect, which
Defendant knew about and concealed. 
 
Plaintiff filed a first amended
complaint on April 17, 2023. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Plaintiff’s motion to compel further
responses to requests for production set one from Defendant American Honda
Motor Co. is GRANTED. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Plaintiff Bryan Guino moves the court
for an order compelling further responses to Plaintiff’s Set One Requests for Production
of Documents Nos. 19, 21, 32-36, 40, 53-54, and 61. Plaintiff further moves
this court for an order awarding sanctions in the amount of $1,830.00 against
Defendant American Honda Motor Co. Inc. and its attorneys of record, Bowman and
Brooke LLP. 
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.310(a)
provides that if, on receiving responses to an inspection demand, a propounding
party deems that responses are incomplete, evasive, or inadequate, or that an
objection is without merit, that party may move for an order compelling a
further response.  For requests for
production of documents, the moving party must also demonstrate “good cause”
for production of the documents sought (CCP § 2031.310(b)(1)), which “is met
simply by a fact-specific showing of relevance.” (TBG Ins. Servs. Corp. v.
Superior Court (2002) 96 Cal.App.4th 443, 448.) Materials are relevant when
they will “reasonably assist a party in evaluating its case, preparing for
trial, or facilitating a settlement.”  (Glenfed
Dev. Corp. v. Superior Court (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 1113, 1117.) Even if
there are no affidavits, the Court can determine good cause based on the
pleadings alone. (Greyhound Corp. v. Superior Court (1961) 56 Cal.2d
355, 389.)
 
Plaintiff argues the request seek
documents regarding policies and procedures; similar customer complaints and
warranty repairs that Plaintiffs had with the Subject Vehicle from other owners
of 2020 Honda Accord vehicles; and hardware requirements for the HONDA SENSING
system from 2020 to present, all which have been found to be highly relevant to
Plaintiff’s underlying Song-Beverly Act claims. As a result, American Honda’s
objections are without merit. American Honda also failed to produce a privilege
log. 
 
In opposition, American Honda first
opposes the motion on the grounds it is untimely by seven days. The court finds
the motion timely. Plaintiff has provided evidence of an agreed upon date in
writing. (Tran Decl., Exh. A.) 
 
Next, American Honda argues the motion
is moot as to RFPs Nos. 19, 21, 32-36, and 40 because the responses mirror the
language set forth in Code of Civil Procedure sections 2031.210 and 2031.230 and
American Honda will withdraw its privilege objection and language in its response. The court agrees the responses
improperly contain conditional language. Although Defendant has agreed to
remove the privilege objections, American Honda cannot condition their
response. If there are attorney client privileged documents, American Honda
must provide a privilege log. 
 
American Honda also argues RFP Nos. 53
and 54 (directed to customer complaints and warranty repairs on other vehicles)
are irrelevant to the issues in the case because they seek documents and
information beyond the Subject Vehicle and which have no bearing on Plaintiffs’
burden of proof. The court disagrees. Plaintiff has agreed to limit to the same
year, make, and model as the Subject Vehicle, as well as only to the symptoms
Plaintiff experienced as evidenced through their repair orders. (Zamudio Decl.
¶9, Exh. C.) With this representation, the court finds the requests narrowed in
scope and necessary to support Plaintiff’s violation of the Song-Beverly Act
allegations. 
 
Lastly, American Honda argues RFP No.
61 is hopelessly overbroad given the definition of HONDA SENSING, not limited
to Plaintiff’s vehicle, a 2020 Accord, and American Honda does not design,
test, or manufacture those products so this request is well beyond the scope of
documents that are kept in the ordinary course of business. Again, the court
disagrees pursuant to Plaintiff’s stipulation to the same year, make, and model
as the Subject Vehicle, as well as only to the symptoms Plaintiff experienced
as evidenced through their repair orders. Moreover, if it does not have the
information requested, it must state so in code compliant language.
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s motion to
compel further responses to requests for production set one from Defendant
American Honda Motor Co. is GRANTED. 
 
Sanctions
 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 2031.310(h) provides for the imposition of monetary sanctions
against any party who unsuccessfully makes or opposes such a motion unless the
court finds that the one subject to sanction
acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the
imposition of sanctions
unjust.  
 
There being substantial justification, with merit
to both sides, the court denies the requests for sanctions.¿¿¿ 
 