 Case Number:  21VECV01054    Hearing Date:   February 5, 2024    Dept:  W LAURA RUANO v.
JULIE GOLDBERG, et al.
 
PLAINTIFF AND CROSS-DEFENDANTS
LAURA RUANO, BARONE’S, INC., THOMAS MONTELEONE, AND JOHN MONTELEONE’S MOTION
FOR JUDGMENT ON THE PLEADINGS
 
Date of Hearing:        February
5, 2024                               Trial
Date:       None
Set
Department:              W                                                        Case
No.:        21VECV01054
 
BACKGROUND
 
This case was originally an action by
Plaintiff Laura Ruano (“Laura”) against Defendants Luis Roberto Ruano II
("Luis”) and Julie Goldberg ("Goldberg”).  On August 10, 2021,
Laura filed her original complaint, alleging: (1) breach of fiduciary duties as
to Goldberg; (2) intentional interference with marital relations as to both
Defendants; and (3) intentional infliction of emotional distress (“IIED”) as to
both Defendants. 
 
On April 19, 2022, Goldberg filed her
cross-complaint against Laura, alleging the following causes of action against
various cross-defendants: (1) assault; (2) battery; (3) trespass to chattels;
(4) false light; (5) intentional interference with contractual relations; (6)
IIED; (7) negligence; (8) negligent retention and supervision of employee; (9)
defamation; (10) abuse of process; (11) professional negligence; and (12)
negligent infliction of emotional distress. On August 2, 2022, the court
granted Ms. Ruano’s Special Motion to Strike and struck Cross-Complainants’
claim for false light, intentional interference with contractual relations,
IIED, defamation, abuse of process, and NIED.      
 
On March 5, 2022, Laura filed her first
amended complaint (the “FAC”) against Goldberg and Luis, alleging: (1)
ejectment; (2) conversion; (3) defamation per se; and (4) NIED.  On July
8, 2022, the Court struck Laura’s FAC without prejudice on the ground that
Plaintiff’s counsel had failed to meet and confer with defense counsel prior to
its filing. 
 
On August 27, 2022, Laura filed her
second amended complaint (the “SAC”) against Goldberg and Luis, alleging: (1)
breach of fiduciary duty; (2) IIED; (3) ejectment; (4) conversion; (5)
defamation per se; and (6) NIED. On December 13, 2022, the Court struck
the SAC on the ground that Plaintiff’s counsel had failed to meet and confer
with defense counsel prior to its filing. 
 
On March 2, 2023, Laura filed her
motion for leave to file a third amended complaint (the “TAC”).  On March
28, 2023, the court granted Laura’s motion. Laura filed her TAC on April 6,
2023 for ejectment, conversion, defamation per se, and negligent infliction of
emotional distress. Defendants demurred to the TAC and on October 30, 2023,
Laura filed a 4AC for ejectment, conversion, and defamation per se. On January
3, 2024, Plaintiff filed a 5AC asserting four additional causes of action for
unfair business practices, elder abuse, and civil harassment. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Plaintiff and
Cross-Defendants Laura Ruano, Barone’s, Inc., Thomas Monteleone, and John
Monteleone’s Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings is GRANTED, in part. 
 
Cross-Complainant
Julie Ann Goldberg’s Motion for a Protective Order in Response to Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant
Laura Ruano’s Subpoenas for Production of and Related Cross-Action Business
Records is GRANTED, in part. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
I.                   
MOTION
FOR JUDGMENT ON THE PLEADINGS 
 
Plaintiff and
Cross-Defendant Laura Ruano and Cross-Defendants Barone’s, Inc., Thomas Monteleone,
and John Monteleone move the court for an order granting judgment on the
pleadings in connection with five of the claims asserted in the Cross-Complaint
filed by Defendant and Cross-Complainant Julie Goldberg on the grounds the
claims are not pled with sufficient facts to constitute a cause of action.
 
A motion for judgment on the pleadings has the same function as a
general demurrer but is made after the time for demurrer has expired. Except as
provided by statute, the rules governing demurrers apply. (Cloud v. Northrop
Grumman Corp. (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 995, 999.)  
 
Like a general demurrer, “ordinarily, a [motion for judgment on the
pleadings] does not lie as to a portion of a cause of action, and if any part
of a cause of action is properly pleaded, the [motion] will be overruled.” (Fire
Ins. Exchange v. Superior Court (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 446, 452.) In
considering a motion for judgment on the pleadings, courts consider whether
properly pled factual allegations—assumed to be true and liberally
construed—are sufficient to constitute a cause of action. (Stone Street Capital,
LLC v. Cal. State Lottery Com’n (2008) 165 Cal.App.4th 109, 116.) 
 
Assault
 
Cross-Defendants move for judgment on the pleadings as to the assault
cause of action on the grounds Goldberg has failed to plead the necessary
elements for assault. 
 
“The elements of a cause of action for assault are: (1) the defendant
acted with intent to cause harmful or offensive contact, or threatened to touch
the plaintiff in a harmful or offensive manner; (2) the plaintiff reasonably
believed he was about to be touched in a harmful or offensive manner or it
reasonably appeared to the plaintiff that the defendant was about to carry out
the threat; (3) the plaintiff did not consent to the defendant’s conduct; (4)
the plaintiff was harmed; and (5) the defendant’s conduct was a substantial
factor in causing the plaintiff’s harm.” (Carlsen v. Koivumaki (2014)
227 Cal.App.4th 879, 890 (citing So v. Shin (2013) 212 Cal.App.4th 652,
668-69).) Physical injury is not required; rather, the tort of assault is
complete when anticipation of harm occurs. (See Kiseskey v. Carpenters’
Trust for Southern California (1983) 144 Cal.App.3d 222, 232.) 
 
Cross-Defendants
argue Goldberg’s allegations that Ms. Ruane ran towards Cross Complainant and yelled
profanities is not enough to satisfy the elements of assault. Nor has Goldberg
alleged that Ms. Ruano actually carried out any overt act as the parties were
not face to face when Ms. Ruane allegedly punched the car windows and Ms.
Goldberg was holding onto the door handle to ensure it could not be opened.
Lastly, Cross-Defendants contend it bears importance that Mr. Ruano, the person
actively filing for divorce from Ms. Ruano, was also in the vehicle with the
Cross Complainant.
 
In
opposition, Goldberg argues the threat can be express or implied and Ms. Ruane both
coming after Ms. Goldberg yelling profanities and punching the car were sufficient
to make Ms. Goldberg apprehensive, especially when coupled with the actual contact
with the car. Goldberg further contends even if Ms. Ruane’s anger was directed
towards Luis, “‘[i]f defendant unlawfully aims at one person and hits another he
is guilty of assault and battery on the party he hit, the injury being the
direct, natural and probable consequence of the wrongful act.’ ” (Singer v.
Marx (1956) 144 Cal.App.2d 637, 642.) 
 
The court
finds Goldberg has sufficiently alleged a cause of action for assault. “’ “Generally
speaking, an assault is a demonstration of an unlawful intent by one person to
inflict immediate injury on the person of another then present.” [Citation.]’ (Lowry
v. Standard Oil Co. of California (1944) 63 Cal.App.2d 1, 6–7, 146 P.2d
57.) In Lowry, the plaintiff was injured when he fled from a man who
pointed what turned out to be an unloaded gun at him and pulled the trigger. In
finding this conduct constituted an assault, the appellate court stated, ‘A
civil action for assault is based upon an invasion of the right of a person to
live without being put in fear of personal harm. Every person has “the right of
protection from bodily restraint or harm.” [Citation.] ... The pointing of a
gun at another in a threatening manner is sufficient to cause fear of personal
injury unless it is known by the person at whom the weapon is pointed that the
gun is in fact unloaded. [Citations.]’ [Citation.]” (Plotnik v. Meihaus
(2012) 208 Cal.App.4th 1590, 1603–1604.) Here, Plaintiff has alleged she was in
fear of personal harm when Ms. Ruane intended to cause offensive contact by
punching the car window of the vehicle Goldberg was in. Ms. Ruane’s actions
together with her words could be found to be intended to inflict immediate
injury to Goldberg. 
 
Accordingly,
Cross-Defendants’ motion for judgment on the pleadings as to the first cause of
action is DENIED. 
 
Battery
 
Cross-Defendants
move for judgment on the pleadings as to the battery cause of action on the
grounds Goldberg has failed to state facts sufficient to state a cause of
action against Cross-Defendants. 
 
“Battery is
an offensive and intentional touching without the victim’s consent.” (Kaplan
v. Mamelak (2008) 162 Cal.App.4th 637, 645.)  “The essential elements
of a cause of action for battery are: (1) defendant touched plaintiff, or
caused plaintiff to be touched, with the intent to harm or offend plaintiff;
(2) plaintiff did not consent to the touching; (3) plaintiff was harmed or offended
by defendant’s conduct; and (4) a reasonable person in plaintiff’s position
would have been offended by the touching.” (Yun Hee So v. Sook Ja Shin
(2013) 212 Cal.App.4th 652, 669.) 
 
Cross-Defendants
argue Cross-Complainant has failed to plead the requisite elements for a cause
of action of Battery, because no harmful or offensive touching of the
Cross-Complainant occurred as Goldberg was in the car, doors locked, and the only
alleged contact was with the window vehicle she was in, and not her as a person
or anything on her. 
 
In
opposition, Goldberg argues that to constitute battery, it is not necessary for
there to be skin-to-skin contact. (See People v. Puckett (1975) 44
Cal.App.3d 607.) While battery occurs when the defendant wrongfully touched the
plaintiff or caused the plaintiff to be touched, Goldberg has not alleged
anything touched her. (Puckett, supra, 44 Cal.App.3d at pp. 614–615
holding “[e]ven though pushing a door cannot be deemed a harmful injury, the
pushing of a door which was touching the prosecutrix could be deemed an
offensive touching and a battery is defined as a harmful [o]r offensive
touching.”)
 
Accordingly, Cross-Defendants’
motion for judgment on the pleadings as to the second cause of action is
GRANTED.
 
Trespass to
Chattel
 
Cross-Defendants
move for judgment on the pleadings as to the trespass to chattel cause of
action on the grounds Goldberg fails to allege a cause of action against Ms.
Ruano for trespass to chattels.
 
“[T]respass
to chattels ‘lies where an intentional interference with the possession of
personal property has proximately caused injury.’” (Intel Corp. v. Hamidi
(2003) 30 Cal.4th 1342, 1350-51 (quoting Thrifty-Tel, Inc. v. Bezenek (1996)
46 Cal.App.4th 1559, 1566).) “A trespass to a chattel may be committed by
intentionally dispossessing another of the chattel, or using or intermeddling
with a chattel in the possession of another.” (Jamgotchian v. Slender
(2009) 170 Cal.App.4th 1384, 1401.) 
 
Cross-Defendants
argue Cross-Complainant fails to allege that the vehicle she was occupying
belonged to her and moreover, Cross-Complainant fails to allege any damage to
the vehicle she occupied. Without either of these elements pled adequately,
Cross-Complainant has failed to plead a cause of action for trespass to
chattels.
 
In
opposition, Goldberg argues the cross-complaint explicitly alleges Goldberg had
a possessory interest in the vehicle. Goldberg contends trespass to chattels is
not only about ownership but interferences with the possession of chattels.
(See Thrifty-Tel, Inc. v. Bezenek (1996) 46 Cal.App.4th 1559, 1566-1567.)
While only a possessory interest is sufficient, Goldberg’s conclusory
allegations are insufficient to withstand a motion for judgment on the
pleadings.  She merely alleges that Ruano
rushed at the car and struck the car. She does not allege interference with her
possession, which continued unabated.  
 
Accordingly,
Cross-Defendants’ motion for judgment on the pleadings as to the third cause of
action is GRANTED. 
 
Barone
Defendants
 
Cross-Defendants’
argue since Cross-Complainant has failed to plead the causes of action of
Assault, Battery, and Trespass to Chattels against Ms. Ruano for the reasons
noted above, she has also not adequately alleged said causes of action against
the Barone’s Defendants. As noted above, the court finds Goldberg has
sufficiently alleged a claim for assault. However, the court agrees Goldberg
has not sufficiently alleged Barone’s Defendants are vicariously liable for Ms.
Ruano’s actions. “If an employee inflicts an injury out of personal malice, not
engendered by the employment, the employer is not liable.” (Carr v. Wm. C.
Crowell Co. (1946) 28 Cal.2d 652, 656.) Goldberg was not a customer of
Barone’s. As such, Cross-Complainant has also failed to properly allege a cause
of action for negligent retention and supervision against the Barone’s
Defendants for Ruano’s action, as there is no allegation this was done out of
anything more than personal anger directed at Ruano’s ex husband and Ms.
Goldberg. 
 
Accordingly,
Cross-Defendants’ motion for judgment on the pleadings as to the Barone
Defendants’ is GRANTED.
 
Negligence
 
Cross-Defendants
move for judgment on the pleadings as to the negligence cause of action on the
grounds Cross-Complainant’s negligence cause of action solely seeks recovery of
economic damages. 
 
Cross-Defendants
argue Goldberg has not plead damages which are recoverable. The complaint
alleges “LAURA’s acts directly and proximately caused GOLDBERG to suffer economic
damages, for the cost of medical, psychological and/or psychiatric treatment. Ladd
v. County of San Mateo (1996) 12 Cal.4th 913, 917.” (Compl. ¶151.) “In general,
there is no recovery in tort for negligently inflicted 'purely economic
losses,' meaning financial harm unaccompanied by physical or property damage.”
(Sheen v. Wells Fargo Bank,
N.A. (2022) 12 Cal. 5th 905, 922.)
 
The economic
loss rule prevents claims of stand-alone economic loss without associated
emotional distress or other noneconomic damages as to tort causes of action.
(Sheen v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2022) 12 Cal. 5th 905, 922.) While plaintiff
does not expressly state “emotional distress” as a damage in the negligence cause
of action, in the paragraphs describing the assault (all of which are
incorporated into the negligence cause of action) she adequately describes
emotional distress and fear sufficient to support a claim for damages for
negligence.  
 
Accordingly,
Cross-Defendants’ motion for judgment on the pleadings as to the negligence
cause of action is DENIED.
 
II.                 
PROTECTIVE
ORDER
 
Cross-Complainant
Julie Ann Goldberg moves the court for an order preventing the production of
business records in response to Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Laura Ruano’s
deposition subpoenas for production of business records on the grounds a protective
order is needed to prevent “unwarranted embarrassment and oppression” of Ms. Goldberg.
 
The court has
discretion to grant a protective order on the court’s determination that
“justice so requires.”  The motion is directed to the court’s inherent
power to control the proceedings before it.  The granting or denial of
relief therefore lies within the sound discretion of the court and is
reviewable only for abuse.  Greyhound Corp. v. Sup. Ct. (1961) 56
Cal.2d 355, 389-381 (superseded by statute on other grounds). 
 
The burden is
on the party seeking the protective order to show “good cause” for whatever
order is sought.  (Fairmont Ins. Co. v. Sup. Ct. (2000) 22 Cal.4th
245, 255.)  A party seeking a protective order must show good cause for
issuance of the order by a preponderance of the evidence.  (Stadish v.
Sup. Ct. (1991) 71 Cal.App.4th 1130, 1145.)  
 
Goldberg
argues she is faced with subpoenas that are overly broad and fail to align with
the principles of discovery. Specifically, the subpoenas request highly
sensitive and private information that bear no apparent connection to the claims
of intentional infliction of emotional distress (IIED) and negligent infliction
of emotional distress (NIED) that stem from the assault and battery inflicted
upon Ms. Goldberg by Ms. Ruano. Ms. Goldberg underwent an emergency procedure
conducted by Dr. Chopra. Gentera Center for Precision Medicine is a medical
center where Katherine M. Zagone, ND functions as a naturopathic expert.  
 
In
opposition, Cross-Defendants argue the Subpoenas, limited in time and subject
matter, seek the medical records and billing records for patient Goldberg
because these providers have treated Goldberg for the claimed medical,
psychological and/or psychiatric injuries she attributes to the incident and
been identified in her responses to written discovery. Specifically, Goldberg
served answers to Form Interrogatories, Set One propounded by Plaintiff where
she attributed emotional and mental distress and stress-induced physical
autoimmune issues to the incident and additionally identified Katherine Zagone,
ND as a health care provider who treated her for the injuries she attributed to
the incident. Moreover, Plaintiff had a letter from Ritu Chopra, M.D., dated
May 30, 2023, advising Goldberg suffered with autoimmune disease the last two
years which necessitated surgery.
 
The court
finds the medical records from Dr. Zagone relevant and discoverable. Goldberg’s
own discovery indicates she received consultation, examination or treatment
from Dr. Zagone for injuries she attributed to the accident. However, the court
agrees it must be limited to records only central to the claims. Cross-Defendants
have not shown how the medical records from Dr. Chopra are relevant. Moreover,
the court finds the medical records from Dr. Chopra relevant and discoverable
only as to the autoimmune disease as it relates to the note. 
 
Accordingly, Cross-Complainant
Julie Ann Goldberg’s Motion for a Protective Order in Response to
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Laura Ruano’s Subpoenas for Production of and Related
Cross-Action Business Records is GRANTED, in part. 
 