  Case Number:  20VECV01388    Hearing Date:   February 5, 2024    Dept:  W MARK A. LIKER
v. ELIEZER APPEL, et al.
 
Defendant/Cross-complainant Eliezer Appel’s APPLICATION
TO RECONSIDER AND TO REVOKE ORDER LIFTING THE STAY AND TO MODIFY THE ORDER WITH
LEAVE TO REFILE AN AMENDED CROSS CROSS-COMPLAINT
 
Date
of Hearing:        February 5, 2024                                            Trial Date:       None
set. 
Department:              W                                                                     Case No.:        20VECV01388
 
Moving
Party:            Defendant/Cross-Complainant
Eliezer Appel 
Responding
Party:     Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Mark
A. Liker  
 
BACKGROUND
 
Plaintiff Mark A. Liker alleges
Defendant Eliezer Appel, in his capacity as a California licensed attorney,
instructed Plaintiff to purchase certain real property for $250,000.00 and promised
Plaintiff a return on his investment as well as plaintiff would take ownership
of the property or that the property would secure Plaintiff’s investment.
Plaintiff further alleges Eliezer Appel concealed from Plaintiff the fact that plaintiff
did not own the property or the company that took title to the property that is,
the Defendant Lockhart Development, Inc., and that Eliezer Appel took Plaintiff’s
investment for his own gain. 
 
On November 24, 2020, Plaintiff Mark A.
Liker filed a complaint against Defendants Eliezer Appel, Lockhart Development,
Inc., and Cochran Inc. asserting a single cause of action for fraud. Plaintiff
filed a Second Amended Complaint on August 30, 2023, asserting new causes of
action – breach of contract, negligent misrepresentation, intentional
misrepresentation, conspiracy to commit fraud, and breach of attorney fiduciary
duty/duty of loyalty. 
 
On February 11, 2021, Lockhart
Development, Inc. filed a cross-complaint against Mark A. Liker asserting
causes of action for (1) Breach of Written Contract; (2) Intentional or
Negligent Interference with Contractual Relations; (3) Interference with Prospective
Economic Advantage; (4) Breach of Fiduciary Duty; (5) Declaratory Relief; (6) Implied
Contractual Indemnity; and (7) Slander of Title. 
 
On October 20, 2022, Appel filed a
cross-complaint against Liker, the California Neurological Institute, and Avi
Marciano asserting causes of action for (1) Violation of Physician’s Medical
Practice Act (MPA); (2) Undue Influence (CA Welfare & Institutions Code
15610.70); (3) Negligent Infliction of Extreme Emotional Distress (NIED); (4) Intentional
Infliction of Extreme Emotional Distress (IIED); (5) Intentional Interference with
Prospective Economic Advantage; and (6) Civil Extortion.      
 
This action is related to Marc A.
Larocque v. Christine Larocque Franz, et al. (LC105233). 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Defendant/Cross-Complainant Eliezer
Appel’s Application to Reconsider and to Revoke Order Lifting the Stay and
to Modify the Order with Leave to Refile an Amended Cross-Complaint is DENIED. 
 
discussion
 
Defendant/Cross-Complainant Eliezer
Appel makes an application for a motion for reconsideration of the order made
in open court on November 28, 2023, to lift the stay pending the appeal
previously entered by this court pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section
1008. 
 
A motion for reconsideration must be
made “…within 10 days after service upon the party of written notice of entry
of the order…” (CCP §1008(a).) The moving party must present new facts,
circumstances or law in order to grant a motion for reconsideration. (See CCP §
1008(a); see also Mink v. Superior Court (1992) 2 Cal.App.4th 1338,
1342.) The party seeking reconsideration of an order shall state by affidavit
what application was made before, what order or decisions were made, and what
new or different facts or circumstances are claimed to be shown.  (CCP § 1008(a).)  Further, “…the party seeking reconsideration
must provide not only new evidence but also a satisfactory explanation for the
failure to produce that evidence at an earlier time.” (Glade v. Glade
(1995) 38 Cal.App.4th 1441, 1457 [emphasis added].)  The legislative intent was to restrict
motions for reconsideration to circumstances where a party offers the court
some fact or circumstance not previously considered and some valid reason for
not offering it earlier. (Gilberd v. AC Transit (1995) 32 Cal.App.4th
1494, 1500.)   
 
Defendant Appel argues the court should
reconsider its decision to lift the stay order previously imposed pending an
appeal based on new facts. Defendant Appel contends he was not prepared at the
OSC to make such arguments but realized after the hearing the following: Liker
had full control over the entities sued herein and was in effect the alter-ego
of those entities via his strawman, employee and representative Thomas Nyselius;
the claims on appeal encompass only two causes of action while the remainder of the complaint has not been
challenged by the anti-slap motion; Appel was not represented by counsel at the
hearing; and the SAC alleges new causes of action and facts. 
 
First, the court notes the motion is
timely. Second, the court finds Defendant Appel has not shown grounds for
reconsideration. The fact that Appel was not prepared or appeared without
counsel is not a new or different circumstance than those before the court at
the time of the original ruling. Moreover, the declarations submitted by Appel opposing
the lifting of the stay, Appel discussed his alter ego argument as well as his
view that there are overlapping issues between the SAC and what is on appeal. 
 
Accordingly, Defendant/Cross-Complainant
Eliezer Appel’s Application to Reconsider and to Revoke Order Lifting the Stay and
to Modify the Order with Leave to Refile an Amended Cross-Complaint is DENIED. 
 
 
 
 
 
 