On October 18, 2021, Plaintiff Christopher Brown filed the operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) for discrimination and retaliation under the Unruh Act.On November 28, 2023, the Court granted a summary judgment motion (“MSJ”) filed by Defendants City of Compton, Compton Housing Authority, and Delmonsha Green.  The Court’s ruling was because “there is no opposition . . . .”  On December 20, 2023, the Court entered judgment in favor of Defendants based on the MSJ.On February 27, 2024, the Court denied a motion for new trial filed by Plaintiff Brown.  That motion sought relief in part because the MSJ was not served on Plaintiff’s attorney of record, Darren Richie, at his Santa Ana office.  After a lengthy review of the facts, the Court ruled as follows: “it is true that the attorney of record information as to Richie has never changed. . . . Defense counsel, however, had been communicating, seemingly exclusively, with the Beverly Hills office after he filed a demurrer to the FAC.  There were several communications with that office as to discovery matters.  It is not clear how Richie was involved thereafter, and none of the other attorneys that were cc’d to Valdez’s emails, including Castillo, objected that Richie should be served. [¶] Thus, the Court concludes that Dre Law’s actions and omissions led Defendants to believe that service was proper at the Beverly Hills office, and, therefore, service at that location only does not warrant a new trial.”  The Court concluded its analysis with the thought that “the result might be different if a motion were filed under the mandatory provision of Code Civ. Proc. § 473(b).”Plaintiff has now filed a Motion to Set Aside the Dismissal per the mandatory provision of Code Civ. Proc. § 473(b).The mandatory provision of Code Civ. Proc. § 473(b) provides in relevant part, “Notwithstanding any other requirements of this section, the court shall, whenever an application for relief is made no more than six months after entry of judgment, is in proper form, and is accompanied by an attorney's sworn affidavit attesting to his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect, vacate any (1) resulting default entered by the clerk against his or her client, and which will result in entry of a default judgment, or (2) resulting default judgment or dismissal entered against his or her client, unless the court finds that the default or dismissal was not in fact caused by the attorney's mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect. The court shall, whenever relief is granted based on an attorney's affidavit of fault, direct the attorney to pay reasonable compensatory legal fees and costs to opposing counsel or parties.”“[A]n attorney affidavit of fault under the mandatory relief provisions of section 473, subdivision (b) need not include an explanation of the reasons for the attorney's mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect.”  (Martin Potts & Assocs., Inc. v. Corsair, LLC (2016) 244 Cal. App. 4th 432, 443.)  Moreover, under this mandatory provision “it does not matter whether [counsel’s] neglect was excusable or inexcusable.”  (Ibid.) For the mandatory provision of Code Civ. Proc. § 473(b) to apply, the dismissal must “be the procedural equivalent of [a] default[] . . . .”  (Leader v. Health Indus. of America, Inc. (2001) 89 Cal.App.4th 603, 618.)  Examples of dismissals which are the equivalent of a default are dismissals resulting from counsel’s failure to respond to discovery such that terminating sanctions are imposed (Rodriguez v. Brill (2015) 234 Cal.App.4th 715, 719), counsel’s failure to oppose a dismissal motion (Bernasconi Comm’l Real Estate v. St. Joseph’s Regional Healthcare System (1997) 57 Cal.App.4th 1078, 1082), and counsel’s failure to tender fees for transfer of venue.  (Gee v. Estate of Jewett (2016) 6 Cal.App.5th 477, 491.)Notably, however, “More recent cases . . . hold that the provision for mandatory relief does not apply to summary judgments.”  (Las Vegas Land & Dev. Co., LLC v. Wilkie Way, LLC (2013) 219 Cal.App.4th 1086, 1091; see also Eng. v. IKON Bus. Sols., Inc. (2001) 94 Cal.App.4th 130, 149; Prieto v. Loyola Marymount Univ. (2005) 132 Cal.App.4th 290, 295; Cal. Prac. Guide Civ. Pro. Before Trial Ch. 5-G.)Thus, mandatory relief is rejected.  It is not apparent that Plaintiff also seeks discretionary relief under CCP § 473(b), but if he does, such relief is precluded based on the determination that counsel’s conduct was inexcusable.  The reasoning for this conclusion is found in the Court’s order denying the motion for new trial, as discussed above.  That order is incorporated herein by reference.  In sum, the Motion is denied.Moving party to give notice. If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic.