 On April 11, 2024, Rancho del Valle Preservation, L.P. filed a Petition to allow the filing of an unsigned certification of the removal of its general partner, Respondent Rancho Del Valle Preservation, LLC, with the California Secretary of State.  Petitioner contends that Respondent defaulted under Petitioner’s limited partnership agreement and has been replaced.  Petitioner further contends that it submitted a Certificate of Amendment of Limited Partnership (LP-2) with the California Secretary of State to update its general partner, but “[d]espite diligent attempts to secure cooperation from the Removed General Partner, Plaintiff was unable to obtain a signature for Defendant RANCHO DEL VALLE PRESERVATION, LLC on its Amendment of Limited Partnership (LP-2) form. As stated above, Plaintiff is informed and believes and based thereon alleges that Defendant RANCHO DEL VALLE PRESERVATION, LLC has failed to maintain its corporate existence, is no longer in active existence as a limited liability company or any other entity, and is defunct as a corporate entity. To the date of the filing of this Petition, Plaintiff has been unable to reach any officer or employee of Defendant RANCHO DEL VALLE PRESERVATION, LLC for purposes of obtaining a signature on the Amendment of Limited Partnership (LP-2) form.” Petitioner further contends that “[t]he California Secretary of State has indicated that the Secretary of State’s office will require either a signature of the Removed General Partner or an order of the Los Angeles County Superior Court pursuant to California Corporations Code Section 15902.05 to direct the execution and filing of the Certificate of Amendment dissociating RANCHO DEL VALLE PRESERVATION, LLC as a removed General Partner.”  Corp. Code § 15902.05(a) states, “If a person required by this chapter to sign a record or deliver a record to the Secretary of State for filing does not do so, any other person that is aggrieved may petition the superior court to order: (1) the person to sign the record; (2) deliver the record to the Secretary of State for filing; or (3) the Secretary of State to file the record unsigned.” On June 24, 2024, the Court entered a default for Respondent. Because a default has been entered and there is no opposition, the Petition is granted under Corp. Code § 15902.05.  The Court finds that (1) Respondent Rancho Del Valle Preservation, LLC has been removed as general partner; (2) that Kingdom Rancho Del Valle, LLC has replaced Respondent as general partner; and (3) that the California Secretary of State is to accept the Certificate of Amendment of Limited Partnership (LP-2) even though it is not signed by Respondent.  Petitioner to give notice.If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic. 