On February 14, 2024, Plaintiff Olivier Demussat filed a Complaint against Defendant Stassia Stakis, alleging that Stakis, his landlord, improperly retained his security deposit.  On May 10, 2024, a default was entered against Defendant.On July 2, 2024, Defendant Stakis filed a Motion to Set Aside her default.On July 3, 2024, the Court entered a default judgment against Defendant in the amount of $60,067.61.Stakis seeks to set aside her default and default judgment because “after being served with the Complaint and Notice of Case Management Conference, Defendant erroneously believed she did not have to appear until the court date. Defendant retained COUNTS LAW FIRM, PC in June 2024 who discovered that Plaintiff filed Request for Default and said Default was entered on 5/10/24.  Defendant did not understand that she needed to respond prior to the 7/3/24 court hearing. This was regrettable negligence in not retaining counsel sooner and followed by this expeditious request to vacate the default, justifies relief from the default.”  Stakis seeks relief under the discretionary provision of Code Civ. Proc. § 473(b).The discretionary provision of Code Civ. Proc. § 473(b) provides, “The court may, upon any terms as may be just, relieve a party or his or her legal representative from a judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken against him or her through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect.  Application for this relief . . . shall be made within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment, dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken.”  The statute is liberally construed in order to give effect to the policy favoring resolution of disputes on their merits.  (Hopkins & Carley v. Gens (2011) 200 Cal.App.4th 1401, 1410.)  To be entitled to relief under the statute, the moving party must demonstrate a satisfactory excuse for his or her default, as well as diligence in seeking relief after discovery of the default.  Whether the moving party has carried this burden is a question to be resolved in the discretion of the trial court.  (Ibid.)For relief to be warranted, any mistake must be something other than professional incompetence or ignorance of the law.  (Hearn v. Howard (2009) 177 Cal.App.4th 1193, 1206.)  The term “surprise” refers to “some condition or situation in which a party is unexpectedly placed to his injury, without any default or negligence of his own, which ordinary prudence could not have guarded against.”  (Ibid., internal quotations omitted.)  Similarly, to be excusable, a litigant’s inadvertence or neglect must have been “such as might have been the act of a reasonably prudent person under the same circumstances.”  (Ibid.)Here, it is not apparent how the negligence or mistake of fact/law at issue was excusable or reasonable.  Defendant believed that she did not need to file an answer and could instead appear at a July 2024 hearing.  This is inexcusable.  If Defendant had read the summons, she would have known that she had an obligation to file a responsive pleading.  Notably, “Mistake is not a ground for relief under section 473, subdivision (b), when ‘the court finds that the ‘mistake’ is simply the result of professional incompetence, general ignorance of the law, or unjustifiable negligence in discovering the law. . . .”  (Henderson v. Pac. Gas & Elec. Co. (2010) 187 Cal.App.4th 215, 229.)  Further, there is evidence that on May 13, 2024, Defendant’s agent left a voicemail for Plaintiff’s counsel, stating: “Hello, my name is Susan Edwards Driskel and I work for Stassia Stakis. I am calling you [ ] to see if you can give me a number, a figure of how much she owes your client because she wants to pay that amount to avoid a default judgment. So my number is [ ]. Thank you so much. Bye.”  That is, Defendant was aware, as of May 13, 2024, that a default judgment was a real possibility.  If Defendant didn’t know the default was entered at that time, then her credibility as to the need for a responsive pleading is questionable.  If she did know that a default was entered at that point—and, therefore, a default judgment was impending—then she was not diligent in filing the instant Motion about a month and a half later.  (See Younessi v. Woolf (2016) 244 Cal.App.4th 1137, 1145 [unexplained delay of 7 weeks rendered motion untimely].)  For these reasons, the Motion to Set Aside Default/Default Judgment is denied.Moving party to give notice.If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic.