 Case Number:  24STCV01615    Hearing Date:   July 1, 2024    Dept:  32      FERNANDO    BARAJAS-SALOMON,                         Plaintiff,             v.   101 GRANITE COUNTERTOP    LLC, et al.,                          Defendants.           Case No.:  24STCV01615   Hearing Date:  July 1, 2024        [TENTATIVE]    order RE: defendant qiu & C. Corp’s motion to    strike (CRS# 6471)              BACKGROUND             On January 19, 2024, Plaintiff  Fernando Barajas-Salomon filed this product liability action against various  defendants. Plaintiff filed the operative First Amended Complaint on March 18,  2024, asserting (1) negligence, (2) products liability – failure to warn, (3)  products liability – design defect, (4) fraudulent concealment, (5) breach of  implied warranties, and (6) loss of consortium.              According to the complaint, from  2005 to 2023, Plaintiff worked as a cutter, fabricator and/or installer of  Defendants’ stone products. (FAC ¶¶ 172-175.) As a result of this work,  Plaintiff came into contact with “inherently hazardous stone products  manufactured, imported, supplied, distributed, contracted, and/or brokered, by  the named Defendants and Does 1-100.” (Id., ¶ 177.) Specifically,  Plaintiff was “exposed to and inhaled stone dust containing silica and other  toxins and carcinogens.” (Ibid.) Plaintiff allegedly developed lung  disease and is at increased risk of developing other silica-related diseases. (Id.,  ¶ 178.) Plaintiff alleges that he “has had to receive substantial medical  treatment, including hospitalizations and surgeries, and will require lung  transplantation.” (Id., ¶ 179.)              On May 16, 2024, Defendant Qui &  C. Corp filed the instant motion to strike certain allegations from the FAC. Plaintiff  filed his opposition on June 21, 2024. Defendant filed its reply on June 24,  2024.  LEGAL STANDARD Any party, within the time allowed to  respond to a pleading, may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the  whole or any part of that pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b).) The  court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it  deems proper, strike (1) any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in  any pleading and (2) all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in  conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.  (Id., § 436.) The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face  of the pleading or by way of judicial notice. (Id., § 437.) MEET AND CONFER Before filing a demurrer or a motion to  strike, the demurring or moving party is required to meet and confer with the  party who filed the pleading demurred to or the pleading that is subject to the  motion to strike for the purposes of determining whether an agreement can be  reached through a filing of an amended pleading that would resolve the  objections to be raised in the demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 430.41, 435.5.)  The Court notes that Defendant has complied with the meet and confer  requirement. (See Akhavan Decl.) DISCUSSION I.  Additional Products to be Identified in Discovery             Defendant seeks to strike the phrase  “and other silica-containing stone products to be identified during the course  of discovery.” (FAC ¶ 171.) The heightened standard for pleading toxic exposure  requires Plaintiff to “identify each product that allegedly caused the injury.”  (Bockrath v. Aldrich Chemical Co. (1999) 21 Cal.4th 71, 80.) The  catchall allegation in the FAC would allow Plaintiff to base liability on  unidentified products, thereby contravening Bockrath. Therefore, the  phrase is stricken.  II.  Punitive Damages             “In an action for the breach of an  obligation not arising from contract, where it is proven by clear and  convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or  malice, the plaintiff, in addition to the actual damages, may recover damages  for the sake of example and by way of punishing the defendant.” (Civ. Code, §  3294, subd. (a).) “‘Malice’ means conduct which is intended by the  defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is  carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the  rights or safety of others.” (Id., subd. (c)(1).) “‘Oppression’ means  despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in  conscious disregard of that person’s rights.” (Id., subd. (c)(2).) Fraud  is “intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact  known to the defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of  thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing  injury.” (Id., subd. (c)(3).)             Defendant has not demurred to the  fraudulent concealment claim, which is adequately pled in any event, as  discussed in the Court’s prior rulings. Fraud is an independent basis for  punitive damages. Additionally, Plaintiff alleges that Defendant knew of the  hazardous nature of its products for an extended period of time yet concealed  the nature and extent of such hazards. (See, e.g., FAC ¶¶ 359, 361, 394,  395.) Even if this did not constitute fraud, it would constitute a conscious  disregard for Plaintiff’s rights and safety.              Plaintiff alleges that the  intentional concealment of known hazards “was ratified by the corporate  officers and managers of each of the defendants.” (FAC ¶ 1247.) This is an  ultimate fact that must be assumed true for pleading purposes. Therefore,  Plaintiff has adequately pled punitive damages.    CONCLUSION             Defendant Qui & C. Corp’s motion  to strike is GRANTED as to the phrase “and other silica-containing stone  products to be identified during the course of discovery” (FAC ¶ 171) and  DENIED as to punitive damages.      


 
FERNANDO
  BARAJAS-SALOMON,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
101 GRANITE COUNTERTOP
  LLC, et al., 
                        Defendants.



 
  Case No.:  24STCV01615
  Hearing Date:  July 1, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
defendant costco wholesale corporation’s
  demurrer and motion to strike (CRS# 8341)




 


 




BACKGROUND

            On January 19, 2024, Plaintiff
Fernando Barajas-Salomon filed this product liability action against various
defendants. Plaintiff filed the operative First Amended Complaint on March 18,
2024, asserting (1) negligence, (2) products liability – failure to warn, (3)
products liability – design defect, (4) fraudulent concealment, (5) breach of
implied warranties, and (6) loss of consortium. 

            According to the complaint, from
2005 to 2023, Plaintiff worked as a cutter, fabricator and/or installer of
Defendants’ stone products. (FAC ¶¶ 172-175.) As a result of this work,
Plaintiff came into contact with “inherently hazardous stone products
manufactured, imported, supplied, distributed, contracted, and/or brokered, by
the named Defendants and Does 1-100.” (Id., ¶ 177.) Specifically,
Plaintiff was “exposed to and inhaled stone dust containing silica and other
toxins and carcinogens.” (Ibid.) Plaintiff allegedly developed lung
disease and is at increased risk of developing other silica-related diseases. (Id.,
¶ 178.) Plaintiff alleges that he “has had to receive substantial medical
treatment, including hospitalizations and surgeries, and will require lung
transplantation.” (Id., ¶ 179.) 

            On May 1, 2024, Defendant Costco
Wholesale Corporation filed the instant demurrer and motion to strike against
the FAC. Plaintiff filed his opposition on June 17, 2024. Defendant filed its
reply on June 24, 2024.  

LEGAL STANDARD

A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether
the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When
considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in
context. (Taylor v. City of Los
Angeles Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1228.)
In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the
pleading or by proper judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd.
(a).) A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other
extrinsic matters. (SKF Farms v. Superior
Court (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) Therefore, it lies only where the
defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed. (Ibid.) The only issue involved in a
demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with
extraneous matters, states a cause of action. (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at 747.)

Any party, within the time allowed to
respond to a pleading, may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the
whole or any part of that pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b).) The
court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it
deems proper, strike (1) any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in
any pleading and (2) all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.
(Id., § 436.) The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face
of the pleading or by way of judicial notice. (Id., § 437.)

 

 

MEET AND CONFER

Before filing a demurrer or a motion to
strike, the demurring or moving party is required to meet and confer with the
party who filed the pleading demurred to or the pleading that is subject to the
motion to strike for the purposes of determining whether an agreement can be
reached through a filing of an amended pleading that would resolve the
objections to be raised in the demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 430.41, 435.5.)
The Court notes that Defendant has complied with the meet and confer
requirement. (See Chan Decl.)

DISCUSSION

I.
Demurrer


            a. Fraudulent Concealment

“The elements of fraud that will give rise
to a tort action for deceit are: ‘(a) misrepresentation (false representation,
concealment, or nondisclosure); (b) knowledge of falsity (or ‘scienter’); (c)
intent to defraud, i.e., to induce reliance; (d) justifiable reliance; and (e)
resulting damage.’” (Engalla v. Permanente Medical Group, Inc. (1997) 15
Cal.4th 951, 974, quoting Lazar v.
Superior Court (1996) 12
Cal.4th 631, 638.) 

                        1.
Specificity 

Defendant argues that Plaintiff has failed
to plead fraud with the requisite specificity. However, the rule of specificity
“is intended to apply to affirmative
misrepresentations.” (Alfaro v. Community Housing Improvement System &
Planning Assn., Inc. (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1356, 1384.) “[I]t is harder to
apply this rule to a case of simple nondisclosure. How does one show ‘how’ and
‘by what means’ something didn't happen, or ‘when’ it never happened, or
‘where’ it never happened?” (Ibid.) Plaintiff cannot provide specific
details on nonexistent statements. For pleading purposes, Plaintiff has
sufficiently alleged that Defendants failed to disclose the hazardous nature of
their stone products, thereby inducing Plaintiff to purchase or use Defendants’
products, leading to his injuries. (FAC ¶¶ 1219-1227.) The complaint makes
clear that the toxic nature of the stone products, specifically the presence of
silica, is a material fact which Defendants concealed from Plaintiff. On a
demurrer, these allegations must be assumed true regardless of their
plausibility. 

Defendant’s
intent is an ultimate fact that must also be accepted as true on a demurrer.
(See FAC ¶ 1236.) Plaintiff is not required to allege the evidentiary facts
proving Defendant’s intent. “Fraudulent intent is an issue for the trier of
fact to decide.” (Diamond Woodworks, Inc. v. Argonaut Ins. Co. (2003)
109 Cal.App.4th 1020, 1046.) The same applies to a defendant’s knowledge of
falsity. (Universal By-Products, Inc. v. City of Modesto (1974) 43
Cal.App.3d 145, 151.) 

Lastly,
Plaintiff has identified the corporate officers allegedly knowledgeable about
the toxic nature of the listed products who ratified Defendant’s concealment.
(FAC ¶ 665.) For pleading purposes, it must be assumed true that these
individuals are corporate officers who knew of and concealed the toxic
substances. Plaintiff need not allege the evidentiary facts proving the
individuals’ knowledge or actions.  

 Therefore, the fraud claim is properly pled
with the requisite specificity. 

            2.
Bockrath Standard

In order for a complaint to properly plead
causation in a toxic exposure case, the plaintiff must allege the
following:  

(1) he was exposed to each of the toxic
materials claimed to have caused a specific illness;

(2) he must identify each product that
allegedly caused the injury;

(3) he must allege that as a result of the
exposure, the toxins entered his body;

(4) he must allege that he suffers from a
specific illness, and that each toxin that entered his body was a substantial
factor in bringing about, prolonging, or aggravating that illness; and

(5) he must allege
that each toxin he absorbed was manufactured or supplied by a named defendant. 

(Bockrath
v. Aldrich Chemical Co. (1999) 21 Cal.4th 71, 80.) These facts must be pled
“in ordinary and concise language” and may be pled “in a conclusory fashion if [the
plaintiff’s] knowledge of the precise cause of injury is limited.” (Ibid.)

            Here, the complaint identifies the
offending products attributable to Defendant Costco and alleges that Plaintiff
was exposed to toxic chemicals, specifically silica, within those products.
(FAC ¶¶ 166, 171, 177, 1155-56.) Plaintiff alleges that the exposure caused the
toxins to enter his body. (Id., ¶ 1168.) Plaintiff alleges that the
toxins were a substantial factor in his illness, specifically silicosis. (Id.,
¶ 1169.) Plaintiff alleges that each hazardous stone product was “manufactured,
imported, supplied, distributed, contracted, and/or brokered, by the named
Defendants.” (Id., ¶ 177.) Therefore, the complaint satisfies the
requirements of Bockrath, and Plaintiff has adequately pled causation. 

            Defendant argues that Plaintiff has
failed to “sufficiently apprise[] defendant[] of which of their products were
at issue and how plaintiff allegedly came in contact with the same.” (Dem.
9:13-15.) However, Plaintiff clearly lists the specific products attributable
to each defendant, including Defendant Costco. (See FAC ¶ 171.) Plaintiff also
alleges that he came into contact with toxic silica as a result of his
occupation as a cutter, installer, or fabricator of the listed products. (Id.,
¶¶ 172-176.) Plaintiff specifically alleges that he inhaled toxic stone dust. (Id.,
¶ 177.) Plaintiff also identifies his various employers from 2005 to 2023 and
lists their addresses. (Id., ¶¶ 172-175.) This satisfies the specificity
standard under Bockrath and adequately apprises Defendant of the nature
of Plaintiff’s claims. Whether Plaintiff can ultimately establish that the
stone products were truly purchased from Costco is immaterial on a demurrer.
Plaintiff need not allege “how he knows” or is “certain” that the harmful stone
products were actually from Costco. This is a matter of evidence, and neither Bockrath
nor any other authority requires such information in a complaint.  

            3.
Defendant’s Status as a Retailer

Defendant argues that the allegations are
insufficient because it is a mere retailer or seller of the listed products
rather than a manufacturer. Defendant cites no authority for the proposition
that liability for concealing material defects is limited to manufacturers or
that allegations against a seller must be more specific than those against a
manufacturer. As discussed above, the allegations in the FAC meet the Bockrath
standard. Plaintiff has alleged that Costco knew of the material hazards of its
stone products and intentionally concealed such information. These allegations
must be taken as true on a demurrer, and Plaintiff need not allege the
evidentiary facts regarding how Costco knew of or concealed the defects. These
are matters of proof.     

In sum, Plaintiff has adequately pled the
fraudulent concealment claim, and Defendant’s demurrer is OVERRULED. 

II.
Motion to Strike

            a. Punitive Damages

            “In an action for the breach of an
obligation not arising from contract, where it is proven by clear and
convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or
malice, the plaintiff, in addition to the actual damages, may recover damages
for the sake of example and by way of punishing the defendant.” (Civ. Code, §
3294, subd. (a).) “‘Malice’ means conduct which is intended by the
defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is
carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the
rights or safety of others.” (Id., subd. (c)(1).) “‘Oppression’ means
despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in
conscious disregard of that person’s rights.” (Id., subd. (c)(2).) Fraud
is “intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact
known to the defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of
thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing
injury.” (Id., subd. (c)(3).)

            As discussed above, Plaintiff has
adequately pled the fraudulent concealment claim. Fraud is an independent basis
for punitive damages. Additionally, Plaintiff alleges that Defendant knew of
the hazardous nature of its products for an extended period of time yet
concealed the nature and extent of such hazards. (See, e.g., FAC ¶¶ 359,
361, 394, 395.) Even if this did not constitute fraud, it would constitute a
conscious disregard for Plaintiff’s rights and safety. Therefore, the complaint
adequately pleads punitive damages.

            b. Additional Products to be
Identified in Discovery

            Defendant seeks to strike the phrase
“and other silica-containing stone products to be identified during the course
of discovery.” (FAC ¶ 171.) As discussed above, the heightened standard for
pleading toxic exposure requires Plaintiff to “identify each product that
allegedly caused the injury.” (Bockrath, supra, 21 Cal.4th at p. 80.)
The catchall allegation in the FAC would allow Plaintiff to base liability on
unidentified products, thereby failing to apprise Defendant of the basis for
the claims in the manner required by Bockrath. Plaintiff may amend the
complaint if he discovers additional products, but the catchall phrase is
stricken. 

CONCLUSION

            Defendant Costco’s demurrer is OVERRULED.
The motion to strike is GRANTED as to the phrase “and other silica-containing
stone products to be identified during the course of discovery” (FAC ¶ 171) and
DENIED as to punitive damages.   