 Case Number:  24STCV07459    Hearing Date:   July 1, 2024    Dept:  32 


MARIA
  BRIZUELA, an individual, 
 
Plaintiff,
 
v.
  
 
PACIFIC
  ENERGY NETWORK LLC; CROSS RIVER BANK; BUSINESS ALLIANCE INSURANCE COMPANY;
  and DOES 1 through 30, inclusive
 
Defendants.



 



Case No.:  24STCV07459
 
Hearing Date: July 1, 2024
 
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
 
DEFENDANT CROSS RIVER BANK’S MOTION TO COMPEL
  ARBITRATION OF PLAINTIFF’S CLAIMS AND DISMISS OR ALTERNATIVELY STAY THE
  ACTION



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
BACKGROUND
            On March 25, 2024, Plaintiff Maria
Brizuela (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendants Pacific Energy
Network LLC; Cross River Bank; Business Alliance Insurance Company; and Does 1
through 30, asserting causes of action for (1) Consumer Legal Remedies Act:
Against PACIFIC ENERGY NETWORK (“PACIFIC”), and CROSS RIVER BANK (“CRB”); (2)
Unfair Competition Law: Against PACIFIC, and CRB; (3) Song Beverly, Against CRB;
(4) Breach of the Implied Warranty of Merchantability: Against PACIFIC, and CRB;
(5) Breach of the Implied Warranty of Fitness: Against PACIFIC, and CRB; and (6)
Business and Professions Code §7071.5 Against Business Alliance Insurance Company
(“BAIC”). 
            The disputes between the parties’ stem
from two separate contracts. One is a Residential Solar System Installation
Agreement (“Installation Contract”) between Plaintiff and Pacific allegedly
signed on or about October 6, 2022 for the sale and installation of a
residential photovoltaic system (“Solar Panels”). (Compl.) The second contract
is between Plaintiff and CRB which was a loan agreement for the financing of
the sale and installation of the Solar Panels signed on October 6, 2022.
(Goller Decl. at p. 4) The Loan Agreement between CRB and Plaintiff contained
an arbitration provision. 
Defendant Pacific has not filed an
answer in this lawsuit and is a nonsignator to the contract from which the
instant motion arises. 
LEGAL STANDARD
            “On petition of a party to an
arbitration agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement to
arbitrate a controversy and that a party to the agreement refuses to arbitrate
that controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to
arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement to arbitrate the
controversy exists….” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2.) The court shall order
arbitration unless: “[…] (b) Grounds exist for rescission of the agreement. (c)
A party to the arbitration agreement is also a party to a pending court action
or special proceeding with a third party, arising out of the same transaction
or series of related transactions and there is a possibility of conflicting
rulings on a common issue of law or fact …” (Code Civ. Proc., §1281.2 (b) and
(c).) If the court makes such a determination, it: “(1) may refuse to enforce
the arbitration agreement and may order intervention or joinder of all parties
in a single action…; (2) may order intervention or joinder as to all or only
certain issues; (3) may order arbitration among the parties who have agreed to
arbitration and stay the pending court action … pending the outcome of the
arbitration proceeding; or (4) may stay arbitration pending the outcome of the
court action.” (Code Civ. Proc., §1281.2.) 
“The party seeking arbitration
bears the burden of proving the existence of an arbitration agreement, and the
party opposing arbitration bears the burden of proving any defense, such as
unconscionability.” (Pinnacle Museum Tower Assn. v. Pinnacle Market
Development (US), LLC (2012) 55 Cal.4th 223, 236.)
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS
Plaintiff’s objections to the Goller
Declaration are overruled. 
DISCUSSION
I.              
 Proof of an Agreement to Arbitrate
“The moving party ‘can meet its
initial burden by attaching to the motion or petition a copy of the arbitration
agreement purporting to bear the opposing party’s signature.’” (Gamboa v.
Northeast Community Clinic (2021) 72 Cal.App.5th 158, 165, quoting Bannister
v. Marinidence Opco, LLC (2021) 64 Cal.App.5th 541, 543-44.)  
            CRB
move to compel Plaintiff to submit all her claims against it to arbitration. In
support, CRB submits a contract with an arbitration agreement (“Agreement”)
signed by Plaintiff. The Agreement was provided in the Declaration of Adam
Goller in Support of Cross River Bank’s Motion to Compel Arbitration (“Goller
Declaration”) and states in pertinent part:
BY SIGNING BELOW, YOU AGREE TO THE
TERMS OF THIS NOTE, INCLUDING THE ADDITIONAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS BELOW AND THE
ATTACHED ARBITRATION PROVISION. (Goller
Decl. Ex. A. at 4)
THE ARBITRATION PROVISION ATTACHED
AS EXHIBIT A WILL HAVE A SUBSTANTIAL IMPACT ON YOUR RIGHTS IN THE EVENT OF A
DISPUTE BETWEEN YOU AND US OR BETWEEN YOU AND CONTRACTOR. FOR EXAMPLE, WE (OR
CONTRACTOR) MAY REQUIRE YOU TO ARBITRATE ANY CLAIM YOU INITIATE. (Goller Decl. Ex. A. at 4)
(a) Effect of Provision. Unless
prohibited by applicable law, you and we agree that either party may elect to
require arbitration of any Claim under this Provision. (Goller Decl. Ex. A. at
13)
(ii) “Claim” means any claim,
dispute or controversy between you and us (or any Related Party) that arises
from or relates in any way to this Note (including any amendment, modification
or extension of this Note), the Contractor Agreement, the work performed by the
Contractor or a subcontractor; the System, including maintenance and servicing
of the System […] (Goller Decl. Ex. A. at 13)
 
With the Submission of this
contract containing an arbitration agreement signed by Plaintiff, CRB has met
its initial burden. (Baker v. Italian Maple Holdings, LLC (2017) 13
Cal.App.5th 1152, 1160 (“With respect to the moving party’s burden to provide
evidence of an agreement to arbitrate, it is generally sufficient for that
party to present a copy of the contract to the court.”); see also Metters v.
Ralphs Grocery Co. (2008) 161 Cal.App.4th 696, 701 (noting that “ordinarily
one who signs an instrument which on its face is a contract is deemed to assent
to all its terms.”).) 
II.           
Unconscionability
Unconscionability has both a
procedural and substantive element. (Aron v. U-Haul Co. of California
(2006) 143 Cal.App.4th 796, 808.) Both Elements must be present for a court to
invalidate a contract or clause. (Ibid.) However, the two elements need
not be present in the same degree; courts use a sliding scale approach in
assessing the two elements. (Carbajal v. CWPSC, Inc. (2016) 245
Cal.App.4th 227, 242.) 
a.    
Procedural
Unconscionability
Procedural unconscionability
“focuses on two factors: ‘oppression’ and ‘surprise.’ ‘Oppression’ arises from
an inequality of bargaining power which results in no real negotiation and ‘an
absence of meaningful choice.’ ‘Surprise’ involves the extent to which the
supposedly agreed-upon terms of the bargain are hidden in the prolix printed
form drafted by the party seeking to enforce the disputed terms.” (Zullo v.
Superior Court (2011) 197 Cal.App.4th 477, 484, internal citations and
quotations omitted.) 
A contract of adhesion typically
denotes a standardized contract imposed and drafted by the party of superior
bargaining strength which relegates to the subscribing party only the
opportunity to adhere to the contract or reject it. (Armendariz v.
Foundation Health Psychare Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 113.) The
adhesive nature of a contract is one factor that the courts may consider in
determining the degree of procedural unconscionability. (Carmona v. Lincoln
Millenium Car Wash, Inc. (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 74, 84 fn.4.) 
Although CRB drafted the
arbitration form, a standardized form in itself does not render a contract to
be a contract of adhesion. “In determining whether an individual contract may
be classified as a contract of adhesion, the seminal test is whether the
stronger party has disappointed the reasonable expectations of the other
party.” (Yeng Sue Chow v. Levi Strauss & Co. (1975) 49 Cal.App.3d
315, 325.)  In many cases of adhesion
contracts, “the weaker party lacks not only the opportunity to bargain but also
any realistic opportunity to look elsewhere for a more favorable contract; he
must either adhere to the standardized agreement or forego the needed service.”
(Madden v. Kaiser Foundation Hospital (1976) 17 Cal.3d 699, 711.)  
In the present case, there is no evidence
that Plaintiff did not have the ability to negotiate the terms of the contract with
CRB.  Also, Plaintiff could have opted for
different financing.  CRB is not the only
company that provides financing for solar panels.  As such, the court finds that the contract in question
was not an adhesion contract.
Plaintiff also asserts that the
Arbitration Provision was not conspicuously placed.  Under California law, “‘Conspicuous,’ with
reference to a term, means so written, displayed, or presented that, based on
the totality of the circumstances, a reasonable person against whom it is to operate
ought to have noticed it.” Cal. Com. Code § 1201(b)(10).  The court finds that the arbitration provision
and its related notices throughout the Loan Agreement are conspicuous.  For example, directly above Plaintiff’s signature
on the Loan Agreement in bold and capital letters is the following:
“BY SIGNING BELOW, YOU AGREE TO THE
TERMS OF THIS NOTE INCLUDING THE ADDITIONAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS BELOW AND THE
ATTACHED ARBITRATION PROVISION.”
(See, Goller Decl. Ex. A at p 14 (emphasis
in original).)
Based upon the foregoing, Plaintiff
fails to show any procedurally unconscionable.  
b.    
Substantive
Unconscionability
Substantive unconscionability
focuses on the actual terms of the agreement and evaluates whether they create
overly harsh or one-sided results as to shock the conscience. (Suh v.
Superior Court (2010) 181 Cal.App.4th 1504, 1515.) The paramount
consideration in assessing substantive unconscionability is mutuality. (Carmona,
supra, 226 Cal.App.4th at 85.) 
Plaintiff argues that the Agreement
is substantively unconscionable because (1) the Agreement gives CRB remedies in
the case of a default which allow CRB to initiate a collection action, (2) self
help remedies are not included as a “Claim” subject to arbitration in the
Agreement and CRB is more likely to employ self help remedies than Plaintiff,
and (3) that the cost shifting provision violates C.C.P. § 1284.3(a) in
that it would require Plaintiff to pay the fees and costs of arbitration if
Plaintiff does not prevail. 
First, the Agreement provides that
“The Complaining Party [either Cross River or Plaintiff] may commence the
Proceeding either as a lawsuit or an arbitration . . .” Then, “[i]f a lawsuit
is filed, the Defending Party [either Cross River or Plaintiff] may elect to
demand arbitration under this Provision of the Claim(s) asserted in the
lawsuit.” (See, Goller Decl. Ex. A.) Thus, both rights are reciprocal. 
Second, while the self-help remedies
will more likely be invoked by CRB, CRB point out the agreement also provides
Plaintiff with the exclusive right to raise a claim in small claims court, which
is an option not afforded to CRB.  (See, Goller
Decl. Ex. A.)  Based on this evidence, the court finds that Plaintiff
has established a low degree of substantive unconscionability.
Lastly, C.C.P. § 1284.3(a) states
that “[n]o neutral arbitrator or private arbitration company shall administer a
consumer arbitration under any agreement or rule requiring that a consumer who
is a party to the arbitration pay the fees and costs incurred by an opposing
party if the consumer does not prevail in the arbitration….”   The provision
in the Agreement which governs cost shifting makes no mention of requiring
Plaintiff to pay fees and costs of CRB if Plaintiff does not prevail in the
arbitration. (See, Goller Decl. Ex. A.)  The
court finds that fee and cost shifting provision of the Agreement favor Plaintiff,
and that the Agreement is consistent with  C.C.P. §  1284.3(a).  However, since Plaintiff has already paid court
filing fees concerning this lawsuit, the court is ordering CRB to pay any filing
fee concerning the arbitration.
In sum, the Court finds only a minimal
degree of  substantive unconscionability and
no procedural unconscionability.  As such,
the arbitration clause in the Agreement remains enforceable.   
III.         
Business
and Professions Code Section 7191
Plaintiff asserts that the
Agreement is unenforceable because it is in violation of Business and Professions
Code § 7191 which states that “if a contract for work on a residential
property with four or fewer units contains a provision for arbitration of a
dispute between the principals in the transaction, the provision shall be
clearly titled ‘ARBITRATION OF DISPUTES.’” (Cal. Bus. & Prof. Code §
7191(a).) The statute goes on to say that arbitration agreements which are not
in compliance with the code are “not enforceable” against any person other than
the licensee. (Cal. Bus. & Prof. Code § 7191(c).)
Here, there were two separate
contracts. One was for work on a residential property between Plaintiff and
Pacific for the sale and installation of a residential rooftop photovoltaic
system. (Compl. ¶11.) The other contract is the loan agreement between
Plaintiff and CRB which contains the Agreement at issue in the instant motion.
(Compl. ¶12.) The Agreement at issue was not for work on a residential property.
 It was a loan agreement and as such California
Business & Professions Code § 7191 (a) and (c) do not apply. 
IV.         
Arbitrability
of Public Injunctive Relief Claims 
Plaintiff in her second cause of
action asserts that CRB violated unfair competition laws and seeks injunctive
relief. (Compl. ¶38.) “Agreements to arbitrate claims for public injunctive
relief under […] the UCL, […] are not enforceable in California.” (McGill v.
Citibank, N.A. (2017) 2 Cal.5th 945, 956.) The first step in determining
whether public injunctive relief claims are arbitrable, is to determine whether
“the complaint does, in fact, appear to seek the type of public injunctive
relief” which is required. (Id.) Public injunctive relief is primarily
“for the benefit of the general public” and its purpose is “to remedy a public
wrong, not to resolve a private dispute.” (Broughton v. Cigna Healthplans (1999)
21 Cal.4th 1066, 1080-82.)
Here, the injunctive relief sought
is (a) for the enforcement of Plaintiff’s rescission of the contracts; (b) for
restitution; (c) for removal of the system and repairs to Plaintiff’s roof and
(d) for attorney’s fees, costs, and expenses. (Compl. at p. 14-15.) The nature
of the prayer for injunctive relief is not to remedy a wrong to the public at
large and thus does not constitute the type of public injunctive relief which
is required to be non-arbitrable. 
V.            
Rescission

One exception to ordering
arbitration when there is a valid arbitration agreement is when “grounds exist
for rescission of the agreement.” (Code Civ. Proc. §1281.2(b).)  “Contractual arbitration clauses generally
must be enforced where one of the parties seeks rescission of the entire
contract on the bases that it allegedly was induced by fraud […] or where an
alleged breach of warranty or other promise justifies the aggrieved party in
putting an end to the contract.” (St. Agnes Medical Center v. Pacificare of
California (2003) 31 Cal.4th 1187, 1198.) Further, an arbitration clause is
separable from other portions of a contract, and even when something “might
justify rescission of the contract as a whole” this “does not render an
arbitration clause unenforceable.” (Id. at 1199.) 
The court is unpersuaded that Plaintiff
showed that grounds exist for rescission of the Arbitration Agreement included
in its loan agreement with CRB. 
 
CONCLUSION
            CRB’s motion to compel arbitration is GRANTED.  CRB shall pay any filing fee concerning the
arbitration.