  Case Number:  23STCP03462    Hearing Date:   March 8, 2024    Dept:  40 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



Robert Schumann, and Real Estate West, Inc., a corporation,
                        Petitioner,
            v.
Robert Y. Greenberg and M. Susan Greenberg, as Trustees of the
  Greenberg Family Trust Dated May 3, 1988,
                        Respondents.
______________________________________
Robert Y. Greenberg and M. Susan Greenberg, as Trustees of the Greenberg
  Family Trust dated May 3, 1998,
                        Cross-Petitioner,
            v.
Robert Schumann, and Real Estate West, a corporation,
                        Cross-Respondents.


 Case No.:          23STCP03462
 Hearing Date:   3/8/24
 Trial Date:        N/A
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Petitioners/Cross-Respondents
  Robert Schumann, and Real Estate West, Inc.’s Petition to Vacate Arbitration
  Award; and
Respondents/Cross-Petitioners
  Robert Y. Greenberg and M. Susan Greenberg, as Trustees of the Greenberg
  Family Trust dated May 3, 1998’s Petition to Confirm Arbitration Award.



 
Background
On September 19, 2023, Petitioners/Cross-Respondents
Robert Schumann (Schumann), and Real Estate West, Inc. (REW) filed a petition
to vacate a July 25, 2023, contractual arbitration award based upon a prior
October 18, 2022, settlement agreement between the parties. The settlement
agreement is based on a prior arbitration proceeding between the parties and
award for Respondents/Cross-Petitioners
Robert Y. Greenberg and M. Susan Greenberg (the Trustees), as
Trustees of the Greenberg Family Trust dated May 3, 1998 (the Trust;
collectively with the Trustee, Greenberg). That arbitration proceeding
arose in the context of a breach of a promissory note for a loan made by Greenberg
to Schumann and REW, as secured by Schumann’s and REW’s interest in non-party
Manhattan StandHomes, LLC (the LLC), with the arbitrator finding in favor of
Greenberg on August 21, 2022, and the parties subsequently executing a
settlement agreement for their dispute on October 18, 2022. The July 25, 2023
final arbitration award ordered and declared that the Trustee own 100% of
Schumann and REW’s interest in the LLC based on Schumann’s and REW’s default on
the settlement agreement.
The petition to vacate challenges
the July 25, 2023, arbitrator award made by Max Loeterman in favor of the
Trustees as against Schumann and REW on the grounds that the arbitrator
exceeded his or her authority—made a ruling contrary to Commercial Code section
9620, subdivision (c)—and that the award cannot be fairly corrected.
On November 1, 2023, Schumann and
REW filed a notice of acknowledgement of receipt of Schumann and REW’s petition
to vacate as of October 28, 2023.
On November 7, 2023, the
Trustees filed a combined (1) opposition to Schumann and REW’s petition to
vacate and (2) request to grant a concurrently filed petition to confirm the
arbitration award based on the arbitrator’s reasoning.
The Trustees’ opposition argues that the
arbitrator did not commit a clear error of law that supports granting Schumann
and REW’s petition for various reasons: (1) the arbitrator did not deny
Schumann and REW a hearing on the merits of their statutory rights; (2) California
authorities holding that an arbitrator’s erroneous interpretation or
application of the facts or law support a petition to vacate an arbitration
award are premised on a denial of a hearing related to those rights; (3) the
arbitrator did in fact consider section 9620, subdivision (c), with Schumann
and REW having made the same arguments now made before the Court to the
arbitrator, and the arbitrator making an express determination as to that
statute; and (4) the arbitrator’s section 9620 determination was in favor of the
Trustees and reasoned that Schumann and REW consented to strict
foreclosure pursuant to section 9620 in light of Schumann and REW’s prior
default on the secured note from which the proceedings between the parties
arose.
On November 8, 2023, the Trustees
filed a notice of errata to note incorrect citations to evidence in the joint
opposition and request to grant the petition to confirm.
On December 1, 2023, Schumann and
REW filed an opposition to the petition to confirm arbitration award, which
simply incorporates the petition to vacate as its opposition to the petition to
confirm.
On January 9, 2024, the parties
filed a joint status conference statement indicating that the parties agree
that all issues in this matter have been fully briefed and that all relevant
evidence has been submitted and that the parties decided to forgo discovery and
jointly requested a date for oral argument and a final ruling.
The cross petitions are now before
the Court.
 
Petitions to Vacate or Confirm Arbitration Award
I. Legal
Standard
“Regardless
of the particular relief granted, any arbitrator’s award is enforceable only when
confirmed as a judgment of the superior court. [Citation.]” (O’Hare v. Municipal
Resource Consultants (2003) 107 Cal.App.4th 267, 278.) “Once a petition to confirm
an award is filed, the superior court must select one of only four courses of action:
It may confirm the award, correct and confirm it, vacate it, or dismiss the petition.
[Citation.]” (EHM Productions, Inc. v. Starline Tours of Hollywood, Inc.
(2018) 21 Cal.App.5th 1058, 1063 (EHM Productions).) 
“It
is well settled that the scope of judicial review of arbitration awards is extremely
narrow. [Citations.]” (California Faculty Assn. v. Superior Court (1998)
63 Cal.App.4th 935, 943.) “Neither the trial court, nor the appellate court, may
‘review the merits of the dispute, the sufficiency of the evidence, or the arbitrator’s
reasoning, nor may we correct or review an award because of an arbitrator’s legal
or factual error, even if it appears on the award’s face. Instead, we restrict our
review to whether the award should be vacated under the grounds listed in section
1286.2. [Citations.]’” (EHM Productions, supra, 21 Cal.App.5th at
pp. 1063-1064, final brackets in original, fn. omitted.)
Only
where both (1) the arbitrator abused his or her discretion and (2) there was resulting
prejudice, can a trial court properly vacate an arbitration award. (See SWAB
Financial, LLC v. E*Trade Securities, LLC (2007) 150 Cal.App.4th 1181, 1198.)
“A
response to a petition under this chapter may request the court to dismiss the petition
or to confirm, correct or vacate the award.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 1285.2.)
II. Order Vacating
or Correcting Arbitration Award: DENIED [Petition to Vacate Arbitration
Award]; GRANTED [Petition to Confirm Arbitration Award].
A.
Procedural Requirements
1. Local Standard
“Any
party to an arbitration in which an award has been made may petition the court
to confirm, correct or vacate the award.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 1285.) “A petition
under this chapter shall” “(a) [s]et forth the substance of or have attached a copy
of the agreement to arbitrate unless the petitioner denies the existence of such
an agreement,” “(b) [s]et forth names of the arbitrators,” and “(c) [s]et forth
or have attached a copy of the award and the written opinion of the arbitrators,
if any.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 1285.4.)
2. Analysis
Here,
Schumann and REW’s petition to vacate (a) attaches a copy of the arbitration clause
in the parties’ October 18, 2022 settlement agreement (Vacate Petition, § 4.b.,
citing Vacate Petition, Exhibits, Ex. 2, p. 17, § 22), (b) sets forth the name
of the arbitrator (Vacate Petition, § 6 [Max Loeterman]), and (c) attaches a
copy of the arbitration awards at issue (Vacate Petition, Exhibits, Exs. 6-7
[interim and final arbitration awards]).
B.
Vacating Arbitration Award
1. Local Standard
“Subject
to Section 1286.4, the court shall vacate the award if the court determines any
of the following: 
(1)
The award was procured by corruption, fraud or other undue means.
(2)
There was corruption in any of the arbitrators.
(3)
The rights of the party were substantially prejudiced by misconduct of a
neutral arbitrator.
(4)
The arbitrators exceeded their powers, and the award cannot be corrected
without affecting the merits of the decision upon the controversy submitted.
(5)
The rights of the party were substantially prejudiced by the refusal of the
arbitrators to postpone the hearing upon sufficient cause being shown therefor
or by the refusal of the arbitrators to hear evidence material to the
controversy or by other conduct of the arbitrators contrary to the provisions
of this title.
(6)
An arbitrator making the award either: (A) failed to disclose within the time
required for disclosure a ground for disqualification of which the arbitrator
was then aware; or (B) was subject to disqualification upon grounds specified
in Section 1281.91 but failed upon receipt of timely demand to disqualify
himself or herself as required by that provision. However, this subdivision
does not apply to arbitration proceedings conducted under a collective
bargaining agreement between employers and employees or between their
respective representatives.”
(Code
Civ. Proc., § 1286.2, subd. (a).)
“In
cases involving private arbitration, ‘[t]he scope of arbitration is … a matter of
agreement between the parties’ [citation], and ‘“[t]he powers of an arbitrator are
limited and circumscribed by the agreement or stipulation of submission.
[Citation.]’” (Moncharsh v. Heily & Blase (1992) 3 Cal.4th 1, 8 (Moncharsh).)
“Arbitrators are not obliged to read contracts literally, and an award may not be
vacated merely because the court is unable to find the relief granted was authorized
by a specific term of the contract. [Citation.] The remedy awarded, however, must
bear some rational relationship to the contract and the breach. The required link
may be to the contractual terms as actually interpreted by the arbitrator (if the
arbitrator has made that interpretation known), to an interpretation implied in
the award itself, or to a plausible theory of the contract’s general subject matter,
framework or intent. [Citation.] The award must be related in a rational manner
to the breach (as expressly or impliedly found by the arbitrator).” (Advanced
Micro Devices, Inc. v. Intel Corp. (1994) 9 Cal.4th 362, 381, emphasis added,
fn. Omitted (Advanced Micro Devices).)
“‘Generally,
a decision exceeds the arbitrator’s powers only if it is so utterly irrational
that it amounts to an arbitrary remaking of the contract between the parties.” (Id.
at p. 377, citations omitted.) Moreover, “[w]here the damage is difficult to
determine or measure, the arbitrator enjoys correspondingly broader discretion
to fashion a remedy. [Citation.]” (Id. at p. 381.)
2. Analysis
After
review, the Court agrees with the Trustees.
Here,
a review of the final arbitration award shows that it considered Commercial
Code section 9620 and made a determination as to its application, finding in
favor of the Trustees by incorporation of the August 21, 2022, order on a
motion for summary adjudication granted in favor of the Trustees. (Vacate Petition,
Exhibits, Ex. 7, Findings, ¶ 8 [Arbitration Order regarding Schumann’s express
consent to using interest in the LLC to satisfy breaches of the note] & Vacate
Petition, Exhibits, Ex. 8, Hill Decl., Sub-Ex. 1 [order incorporated into July
25, 2023 final arbitration award].)
The
arbitrator otherwise considered whether a default under the settlement
agreement took place and whether the Trustees were entitled to relief, finding
in their favor. (Vacate Petition, Exhibits, Ex. 7, Findings, ¶¶ 1-16 &
Decree, ¶¶ 1-5.)
That
award bears a rational relationship to the settlement agreement, for which
reason the arbitrator did not exceed his authority by making a ruling so
irrational as to amount to an arbitrary remaking of the contract between the
parties. (Advanced Micro Devices, supra, 9 Cal.4th at p. 377; see
Vacate Petition, Exhibits, Ex. 2, §§ 9 [Events of Default], § 10 [Effect of an
Event of Default].)
Moreover,
as pointed out by the Trustees, the arbitrator afforded Schumann and REW a
hearing as to their statutory rights, considered their arguments, and ruled in
favor of the Trustees, and, under similar circumstances, “courts have refused
to apply the [Moncharsh] exception … where the sole issue is merely an
alleged error in the interpretation or application of the law ….” (Opp’n, pp. 12-13,
quoting and comparing SingerLewak LLP v. Gantman (2015) 241 Cal.App.4th
610, 614-615, 620, 625 and Epic Medical Management, LLC v. Paquette (2015)
244 Cal.App.4th 504, 514, comparing Prima Donna Development Corp. v. Wells
Fargo Bank, N.A. (2019) 42 Cal.App.5th 22, 45-46, and distinguishing Board
of Education v. Round Valley Teachers Assn (1996) 13 Cal.4th 269, 273 and Pearson
Dental Supplies v. Superior Court (2010) 48 Cal. 4th 665, 680; see Vacate Petition,
Exhibits, Ex. 7, Findings, ¶¶ 1-16 & Decree, ¶¶ 1-5.)
The
court notes that Schumann and REW’s opposition to the Trustees’ combined
opposition and petition to confirm merely incorporates the arguments of the
petition to vacate, which does not convince the Court to make a contrary
determination from the one made above. The petition on its face reads as a
petition challenging the validity of the arbitrator’s reasoning as to
Commercial Code section 9620. (Vacate Petition, Summary, pp. 5-7.)  But, as discussed above, the award bears a
rational relationship to the settlement agreement, and even were there an
erroneous application of Commercial Code section 9620 by the arbitrator, that
would not be a ground for granting Schumann and REW’s petition to vacate.
The
Court accordingly DENIES Schumann and REW’s petition to vacate.
The
Court also CONFIRMS the arbitration award, as requested by the Trustees' combined opposition and petition to confirm. (Code Civ. Proc. § 1285.2.) 

Conclusion
Petitioners/Cross-Respondents
Robert Schumann, and Real Estate West, Inc.’s Petition to Vacate Arbitration
Award is DENIED.
Respondents/Cross-Petitioners
Robert Y. Greenberg and M. Susan Greenberg, as Trustees of the Greenberg Family
Trust dated May 3, 1998’s Petition to Confirm Arbitration Award
is GRANTED.