

Hearing Date:              August 16, 2024          
Case Name:                 William Rossetter v. Trellis
Advisors LLC, et al.
Case
No.:                    23STCV26514
Motion:                       Motion
to Compel Arbitration
Moving
Party:             Defendants Trellis Advisors
LP and Jeffrey Luzzi (Joined by Defendants Lotus Domaine Management LLC, Lotus
Domaine III, LP, Lotus Domaine III GP LP, Lotus Domaine III-A LP, and Lotus
Domaine Associates LLC)

Responding Party:      Plaintiff William Rossetter


 

Tentative
Ruling:      The Motion to Compel
Arbitration is granted. The action is stayed pending arbitration. The
following provisions are severed: (1) section 15.1 of the employment agreement
in its entirety; (2) section 2 of the arbitration agreement in its entirety;
(3) section 6 of the arbitration agreement, referencing Austin Texas and Texas
Rules of Civil Procedure; (4) section 7 of the arbitration agreement in its
entirety; (5) section 8 of the arbitration agreement following “Each party will
pay its own Costs (as defined below) and attorneys' fees. . . ”; (6) section
11.1 of the employment agreement in its entirety; and (7) section 7.1 to the
extent that it references “compensation.” The Lotus Defendants’ notice of
joinder is granted.
 

 
This is an action for wrongful
termination and for violations of the Labor Code.  Plaintiff William Rossetter (“Plaintiff”) initiated
this action on October 30, 2023. Plaintiff filed the operative First Amended
Complaint (“FAC”) against Defendants Trellis Advisors LLC, Trellis Advisors LP,
Lotus Domaine Management LLC, Lotus Domaine III LP, Lotus Domaine III GP LP,
Lotus Domaine III-A LP, Lotus Domaine Associates LLC, Terra Rossa Family Office
LP, Terra Rossa Family Office LLC, and Jeffrey Luzzi (collectively,
“Defendants”), alleging the following causes of action: (1) Civil Penalties
Pursuant to the Labor Code Private Attorneys General Act of 2004; (2)
Retaliation in Violation of Labor Code § 98.6; (3) Retaliation in Violation of
Labor Code § 1102.5; (4) Wrongful Discharge in Violation of Public Policy; (5)
Failure to Timely Pay Earned Wages During Employment in Violation of Labor Code
§ 204; (6) Failure to Provide Complete and Accurate Wage Statements in
Violation of Labor Code § 226; (7) Failure to Pay All Wages Timely Upon
Separation of Employment in Violation of Labor Code §§ 201, 202 and 203; (8)
Unfair Business Practices in Violation of Business and Professions Code §§
17200, et seq.; (9) Accounting; (10) Declaratory Relief; and (11)
Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress.
 
On January 23, 2024, Defendant
Trellis Advisors LP filed its answer to the FAC. 
 
On February 5, 2024, Defendant Jeff
Luzzi filed his answer to the FAC. 
 
On February 13, 2024, Defendants
Trellis Advisors LLC, Terra Rossa Family Office LP, and Terra Rossa Family
Office, LLC filed their joint answer to the FAC. 
 
On March 22, 2024, Defendants Lotus
Domaine Management LLC, Lotus Domaine III, LP, Lotus Domaine III GP LP, Lotus
Domaine III-A LP, and Lotus Domaine Associates LLC (collectively, the “Lotus
Defendants”) filed their answer to the FAC. 
 
On June 25, 2024, Defendants Trellis
Advisors LP (“Trellis”) and Jeffrey Luzzi (“Luzzi”) (collectively, hereinafter
“Movants”) filed the instant motion to compel arbitration pursuant to the
Federal Arbitration Act (“FAA”), 9 U.S.C. § 2, and the California Arbitration
Act on the ground that Plaintiff entered into a valid and enforceable
arbitration agreement in connection with his employment with Trellis. These
defendants further request that the current action be stayed during the
pendency of arbitration. The Lotus Defendants join in this motion pursuant to
the theory of agency and equitable estoppel. 
 
Legal Standard 
 
California law incorporates many of the basic policy objectives contained
in the Federal Arbitration Act, including a presumption in favor of
arbitrability. (Engalla v. Permanente
Medical Group, Inc. (1997) 15 Cal.4th 951, 971-972.) The petitioner bears
the burden of proving the existence of a valid arbitration agreement by the
preponderance of the evidence, the party opposing the petition then bears the
burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence any fact necessary to
demonstrate that there should be no enforcement of the agreement, and the trial
court sits as a trier of fact to reach a final determination on the issue. (Rosenthal v. Great Western Financial
Securities Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 413.) The Court is empowered by
Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.2 to compel parties to arbitrate disputes
pursuant to an agreement to do so.  
 
 
Discussion
 
A.   
Existence of an Arbitration Agreement
 
Under the California law,
arbitration agreements are valid, irrevocable, and enforceable, except on such
grounds that exist at law or equity for voiding a contract. (Winter v. Window Fashions Professions, Inc.
(2008) 166 Cal.App.4th 943, 947.) The party moving to compel arbitration must
establish the existence of a written arbitration agreement between the parties.
(Code Civ. Proc. § 1281.2.) In ruling on a motion to compel arbitration, the
court must first determine whether the parties actually agreed to arbitrate the
dispute, and general principles of California contract law help guide the court
in making this determination. (Mendez v.
Mid-Wilshire Health Care Center (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 534, 541.)
 
Here, Movants submit evidence that
Plaintiff signed an employment agreement on August 13, 2022 that included an
arbitration provision as part of his promotion from Managing Direct of Deal
Origination to Managing Direct/V.P. of Deal Origination. (Motion at pp. 10-11;
Luzzi Decl. ¶¶ 3-6, Exhs. 1-4; see also Condee v. Longwood Management Corp. (2001)
88 Cal.App.4th 215, 218 [“With respect to the moving party's burden to provide
evidence of the existence of an agreement to arbitrate, it is
generally sufficient for that party to present a copy of the contract to the
court.”].)
 
The arbitration agreement states in
pertinent part: 
 
Any dispute, claim, action, causes
of action, or controversy of any kind relative to the validity, construction,
performance, application or interpretation of this Agreement shall be submitted
to final and finding arbitration . . . . . . No Jury. The Company and Employee
give up each of the rights to trial by jury for claims covered by this
Agreement. The Company and Employee further understand that arbitration
represents an alternative to a jury trial, and that each is giving up any right
that each may otherwise have for a civil court action, which would allow a
judge or jury to decide any issue or dispute.
 
(Luzzi Decl. ¶ 6, Exh. 4, at pp. 1-2.)
 
Based on this evidence, the Court finds that Movants have met their
initial burden and that the arbitration agreement exists between the parties. Notably,
Plaintiff does not deny signing the arbitration agreement. Instead, Plaintiff
contends that the arbitration agreement is unenforceable because it is
unconscionable and severance would not cure the defects found therein. The
Court shall address this issue next. 
 
B.   
Unconscionability
 
Next, Plaintiff argues that the arbitration agreement is unenforceable
because it is procedurally and substantively unconscionable.  (Opposition at pp. pp. 3-15.)
 
An agreement is unenforceable if it is both procedurally and
substantively unconscionable.  (OTO,
L.L.C. v. Kho (2019) 8 Cal.5th 111, 125; Sanchez v. Valencia Holding
Co., LLC (2015) 61 Cal.4th 899, 910.) 
But procedural and substantive unconscionability need not be present in
the same degree.   (OTO, supra,
8 Cal.5th at 125.)  Courts use a “sliding
scale” approach—“the more substantively unconscionable the contract term, the
less evidence of procedural unconscionability is required to come to the
conclusion that the term is unenforceable, and vice versa.”  (Armendariz v. Found Health Psychcare
Servs., Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 114.)  
Under general contract principles, unconscionability has both a
procedural and substantive element, with the former focusing on oppression or
surprise due to unequal bargaining power, and the latter focusing on overly
harsh or one-sided rules (Armendariz, supra, 24 Cal.4th at p.
114.)  Both procedural and substantive unconscionability must be
present in order for a court to exercise its discretion to refuse to
enforce a contract on the basis of unconscionability.  (Stirlen v.
Supercuts, Inc. (1997) 51 Cal.App.4th 1519, 1533.)
 
                                  
i.         
Procedural Unconscionability
 
“Procedural unconscionability pertains to the making of the agreement; it
focuses on the oppression that arises from unequal bargaining power and the
surprise to the weaker party that results from hidden terms or the lack of
informed choice.”  (Ajamian v. CantorCO2e, L.P. (2012)
203 Cal.App.4th 771, 795.)  Arbitration clauses are often found in
adhesion contracts (standardized contracts drafted by a party of superior
bargaining power and presented to the weaker party on a take-it-or-leave-it
basis).  (See, e.g., Armendariz, supra, 24 Cal.4th at
113-114.)  
 
Here, Plaintiff argues that the arbitration agreement is procedurally
unconscionable because it is an adhesion contract and it imposes another
state’s laws in the interpretation of the agreement.  (Opposition at pp. 4-5.)
 
As to the former argument, Movants contend that the arbitration agreement
is not a contract of adhesion because Plaintiff had an opportunity to consult
with an attorney before signing the agreement. (Reply at pg. 4.)  However, this argument is not persuasive
because, upon review of the arbitration agreement, there is no indication that
Plaintiff had an opportunity to opt-out of the arbitration provision.
Nevertheless, the mere fact an adhesion contract is involved does not per
se render the arbitration provision unenforceable because such contracts
are “an inevitable fact of life for all citizens—businessman and consumer
alike.”  (Graham v. Scissor-Tail, Inc.¿(1981) 28 Cal.3d 807,
817.) 
 
With regard to the latter argument, Movants argue that the choice of law
provision should not suggest that the agreement is procedurally unconscionable
because they are willing to stipulate for arbitration to be held in Los Angeles
County. (Reply at 5.) While Movants are willing to stipulate to not enforce
this provision, such choice of law provisions have been found to be
procedurally unconscionable because it would require an employee to hire an
out-of-state attorney in order to fully grasp the legal ramifications of the
arbitration agreement. (See Pinela v. Neiman Marcus Group, Inc. (2015)
238 Cal.App.4th 227, 244.) Additionally, under Labor Code section 925,
employers are prohibited for requiring an employee to adjudicate their claims
that arising in California outside of California. (Lab. Code, § 925, subds. (a)(1)-(2).)

 
The Court finds that there is a
moderate degree of procedural unconscionability because the arbitration
agreement is an adhesion contract and it contains an unlawful – and thus, in
California, unenforceable – choice of law provision.
 
                                 
ii.         
Substantive Unconscionability
 
Substantive unconscionability focuses on the actual terms of the
agreement and evaluates whether the terms create overly harsh or
one-sided results as to shock the conscience.  (Suh v. Superior Court (2010)
181 Cal.App.4th 1504, 1515; Sanchez, supra, 61 Cal.4th at
910-911 [an “old-fashioned bad bargain” or a contract term which “merely
gives one side a greater benefit” insufficient].) 
 
            Here,
Plaintiff argues that the arbitration agreement has a high degree of
substantive unconscionability for the following reasons.  First, Plaintiff contends that the agreement
is one-sided because it excludes claims that Movants could bring for
provisional injunctive relief, permanent injunctive relief, and specific
performance relating to confidentiality, trade secret claims, non-compete and
non-solicitation claims. (Opposition at pp. 6-7; Luzzi Decl., Exh. 4 at § 7.)
Plaintiff argues that this is one-sided because he must arbitrate all of his
claims and results in a lack of mutuality. (Ibid., relying on Murrey
v. Superior Court (2023), 87 Cal.App.5th 1223, 1251-1252.)
 
            In reply,
Movants argue that this provision is not substantively unconscionable because
it merely amounts to a bad bargain and they are permitted to include such terms
for extra protection as a margin of safety based on commercial needs. (Reply at
pg. 7, relying on Pinnacle Museum Tower Ass’n v. Pinnacle Market Development
(2012) 55 Cal.4th 223, 246 and Balthazar v. Forever 21, Inc. (2016) 62
Cal. 4th 1237, 1250.) This argument is unpersuasive because the arbitration
agreement does not merely permit Movants to seek preliminary injunctive relief
through the courts as was the case in Balthazar. Instead, through the
arbitration agreement, Movants seek to retain the advantage of adjudicating
their specific claims through the courts but require Plaintiff to go through
arbitration for any and claims that arise from his employment. This lack of mutuality
has been found to increase an agreement’s substantive unconscionability. (See Murrey,
supra, 87 Cal.App.5th at 1251-1252.)
 
            Second,
Plaintiff argues that the arbitration agreement is substantively unconscionable
because it requires him to waive protections that are afforded to California
employees by requiring Plaintiff to agree that money damages are not an
adequate remedy for a breach of the employment agreement. (Opposition at pp.
7-8, relying on Alberto v. Cambrian Homecare (2023) 91 Cal.App.5th 482,
492-493.) Movants effectively concede that this provision is substantively
unconscionable on the basis that it can be severed from the arbitration
agreement. (Reply at pg. 8.)
 
            Third,
Plaintiff argues that the arbitration agreement improperly increases his risk
of paying for Defendant’s attorney fees and costs. (Opposition at pp. 8-9,
relying on Wherry v. Award, Inc. (2011) 192 Cal.App.4th 1242, 1248-1249; Luzzi
Decl., Exh. 4 at §§ 8-9.) Plaintiff points out that the Labor Code only awards
attorney’s fees and costs to an employer if a claim had been brought in bad
faith. (See Lab. Code §218.5.)  Movants
effective concede that this provision is substantively unconscionable by
stating that this provision can be severed. (Reply at pp. 8-9.)
 
            Fourth,
Plaintiff contends that the arbitration agreement improperly puts him at risk
of paying arbitration costs in excess of what it would cost to file a lawsuit
in court by authorizing the arbitrator to award all costs to the prevailing
party. (Opposition at pp. 9-10; Luzzi Decl., Exh. 4 at §§ 8-9.) Again,
Defendants have conceded that this provision is substantively unconscionable
because they have stipulated to pay the arbitration fees upfront. (Reply at pg.
8.)
 
            Fifth,
Plaintiff argues that the employment agreement improperly precludes employees
from discussing their salary with others during their employment and
thereafter, and if this provision is violated, Movants are permitted to seek
remedies through the court. (Opposition at pg. 10; Luzzi Decl., Exh. 3, §§ 7.1,
7.2, Exh. 4 §§ 3, 7.) Plaintiff points out that employers are prohibited from
enforcing such a requirement under Labor Code §§ 1197.5(k)(1). 
 
            Movants contend
that Plaintiff misrepresents the clause pertaining to employee wages because
confidential information does not include information that is independently
known by the employee. (Reply at pg. 9.) But under section 7.1 of the
employment agreement, confidential information “includes: personnel
information, including the identity of employees of the Company, their
responsibilities, competence, abilities, and compensation.” (Luzzi Decl., Exh.
3 at § 7.1.) Thus, if an employee discussed salary information, Movants are
permitted under the arbitration agreement to seek equitable remedies from the
court. (Luzzi Decl., Exh. 4 at § 7.) As discussed above, this one-sided remedy
is substantively unconscionable. Additionally, because discussing one’s or
other’s wages is a substantive right under Labor Code § 1197.5(k)(1), the
employment agreement improperly restricts this right under Labor Code § 925.
(See Alberto, supra, 91 Cal.App.5th at 493 [“A facially illegal
provision, in direct contravention of the Labor Code, is unconscionable.”].)
 
            Sixth,
Plaintiff argues that the arbitration agreement is substantively unconscionable
because it requires arbitration to be held in Texas in violation of Labor Code
§ 925(a)(1). (Opposition at pp. 10-11; Luzzi Decl., Exh. 3 at § 15.1, Exh. 4 at
§§ 6, 7, 10.) As stated above within the analysis for procedurally
unconscionability on this issue, the Court agrees. Defendants effectively
concede that this provision is unconscionable because they are willing to
stipulate to arbitrate the dispute in Los Angeles County. 
 
            Seventh,
Plaintiff asserts that the arbitration agreement is substantively
unconscionable because it requires the application of Texas law. The Court
agrees. Because Texas law does not allow for the private enforcement of the
Labor Code, the incorporation of Texas law to arbitration agreement involving a
California employee is substantively unconscionable. (Pinela, supra,
238 Cal.App.4th at 251-252.) Furthermore, Movants have effectively conceded
this issue because they are willing to stipulate to the application of
California Law. (Reply at pg. 7.)
 
            Lastly,
Plaintiff asserts that the non-compete provision found within the employment
agreement increases the degree of substantive unconscionability because under
California law an employee has the right to compete with his former employer in
a fair and legal manner. (Opposition at pg. 13, relying on Bus. & Prof.
Code § 16600; Luzzi Decl., Exh. 11.1(b)-(e).) Defendants concede this issue by
stating that any provision relating to non-solicitation can be severed. 
 
            In light of the fact that the Court has found several
provisions within the arbitration agreement to be unlawful, Plaintiff has met
his burden in showing that there is a high degree of substantive
unconscionability present. Accordingly, the Court finds that if these
provisions are part of the arbitration agreement, the agreement is
unconscionable. 
 
                               
iii.         
Severability
 
Because
of the multiple defects found within the arbitration agreement, Plaintiff
argues that the instant motion should be denied because the agreement is permeated
with unlawfulness, rending it impossible to cure these defects through
severance. (Opposition at pp. 13-14.) 
 
Just
last month our Supreme Court explained that “no bright line rule requires
a court to refuse enforcement if a contract has more than one unconscionable
term. Likewise, a court is not required to sever or restrict an
unconscionable term if an agreement has only a single such term. Instead, the
appropriate inquiry is qualitative and accounts for each factor Armendariz
identified. At the outset, a court should ask whether ‘the central purpose of
the contract is tainted with illegality.’ ” (Ramirez v. Charter
Communications, Inc. (2024) 16 Cal.5th 478, 546, quoting Armendariz,
supra, 24 Cal.4th at pg. 124 (italics in original).) “If no ‘reformation is
required,’ the offending provision can be severed or limited, and ‘the rest of
the arbitration agreement left intact,’ then severance or restriction is the
preferred course for provisions that are collateral to the agreement's main
purpose.” (Id. at 547, quoting (Little v. Auto Stiegler, Inc. (2003)
29 Cal.4th 1064, 1075.) 
 

In its seminal opinion in Armendariz,
our Supreme Court concluded two factors weighed against severance:  (1) the fact that the arbitration agreement
contained more than one unlawful provision; and (2) regarding lack of
mutuality, the fact that there was “no single provision a court can strike or
restrict in order to remove the unconscionable taint from the agreement.”  (Armendariz, supra, 24 Cal.4th
at pp. 124–125.)
 
Here, as stated above, several
provisions found within the arbitration agreement are unlawful under California
Law. However, the Court declines to find that the “central purpose” of the
arbitration agreement is “tainted with illegality.” Based on the severance
clause within the arbitration agreement, it is clear that the purpose of this
agreement is to ensure that the disputes between the parties are resolved
through arbitration. It states: “If any portion of this Exhibit B is held
invalid or unenforceable, other than the limitation of the arbitrator's
jurisdiction to individual employee claims, this portion of the Agreement shall
be modified to the minimum extent necessary to make it or its application
valid.” (Luzzi Decl., Exh. 4 at § 12.) This is in contrast to the arbitration
clause in Graham Oil Co. v. ARCO Products Co., a Div. of Atlantic Richfield
Co. that contained a survival clause despite having illegal provisions
within that clause. (Id., (9th Cir. 1994) 43 F.3d 1244, 1248-1249, as
amended (Mar. 13, 1995).) 
 
The Ramirez decision noted
that “if the contract contains a severance clause, the court should take it
into account as an expression of the parties’ intent that an agreement curable
by removing defective items can otherwise be enforced.” (Ramirez, supra, 16
Cal.5th at p. 547.) Here, paragraph 12 of the arbitration agreement provides
that if any portion of it is found invalid (other than the arbitrator’s
jurisdiction limited to individual employee claims) the “Agreement shall be modified
to the minimum extent necessary to make it or its application valid.”
 
Here, unlike the arbitration
agreement in Armendariz, the Court is capable of severing the unlawful
provisions without needing to reform the agreement. For instance, the choice of
venue provision and governing law provisions found within the employment
agreement and arbitration agreement can be severed without issue because Labor
Code section 925 by operation of law that the action shall be adjudicated in
California and that California law shall govern. (Lab. Code § 925(b).) Thus,
section 15.1 of the employment agreement and section 2 of the arbitration
agreement are deemed severed in their entirety. Likewise, the following
language from section 6 of the arbitration agreement is severed: “to be held in
Austin, Texas. Discovery in any arbitration proceeding shall be conducted
according to the Texas Rules of Civil Procedure.”
 
Moreover, the provision that
permits Movants, not Plaintiff, to seek equitable relief from the court can be
severed without issue. (See Manning v. Parsons Transp. Group, Inc. (E.D.
Cal. 2016) 2016 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 76733 at *9.) Thus, section 7 of the
arbitration agreement is deemed severed. 
 
Furthermore, with regard to section
8 of the arbitration agreement for arbitration fees and costs that permits the
prevailing party to recover all of their expenses, including attorney’s fees,
this provision can be severed following the language after it states “Each
party will pay its own Costs (as defined below) and attorneys' fees. . . .”
(Luzzi Decl,, Exh. 4 at ¶ 8.) This is because courts have interpreted
arbitrations agreements that lack cost provisions to “implicitly include an
agreement to proportion costs in a manner that is reasonable for the
plaintiff.” (Little, supra, 29 Cal.4th at 1080-1081.)  Thus, the costs unique to arbitration would
still be borne by the employer.
 
Moreover, with regard to the
non-compete provisions and the prohibition of salary discussion found within
the employment agreement, severance of these provisions is feasible.  Because section 11.1 and a portion of section
7.1 that references compensation violate California law, the Court deems these
provisions severed. 
 
Accordingly, because the
arbitration agreement is not permeated with illegality and reformation of the
agreement is not required, severance of the illegal provisions is the proper
course of action. (See Little, supra, 29 Cal.4th at 1075.) Consequently,
the following provisions are severed: (1) section 15.1 of the employment
agreement in its entirety; (2) section 2 of the arbitration agreement in its
entirety; (3) section 6 of the arbitration agreement, referencing Austin Texas
and Texas Rules of Civil Procedure; (4) section 7 of the arbitration agreement in
its entirety; (5) section 8 of the arbitration agreement following “Each party
will pay its own Costs (as defined below) and attorneys' fees. . . ”; (6) section
11.1 of the employment agreement in its entirety; and (7) section 7.1 to the
extent that it references “compensation.” 
 
C.   
Claims within the Scope of the Arbitration Agreement
 
“[A]bsent some ambiguity in the agreement. . . it is the language of the
contract that defines the scope of disputes subject to arbitration.” (EEOC
v. Waffle House Inc. (2002) 534 U.S. 279.) 
 
            Here, Movants
argue that all of Plaintiff’s claims are subject to arbitration because they
arise from his employment.  (Motion at pg.
16.)  The Court finds that the arbitration agreement is not ambiguous.  It states that arbitration applies to “Any
dispute, claim, action, causes of action, or controversy of any kind relative
to the validity, construction, performance, application or interpretation of
this Agreement shall be submitted to final and finding arbitration” (Luzzi Decl, Exh. 4 at § 6.)  Thus, Plaintiff’s claims relating to his
employment fall within the scope of the arbitration agreement.  
 
Accordingly, the Court finds that Plaintiff’s claims are subject to
arbitration. 
 
A.        Non-Signatory Defendants
 
The Lotus Defendants move to join the instant motion, contending that
each of them are covered by the arbitration agreement because the FAC alleges
that they are agents of the Movants.  (Notice
of Joinder at pg. 4, relying on Thomas v. Westlake (2012) 204 Cal. App.
4th 605, 613; FAC ¶¶ 8, 10.)  Thus, the
Lotus Defendants argue that Plaintiff is bound to arbitrate his individual
claims against them. Notably, Plaintiff has failed to provide any response to
this argument. 
 
Under the circumstance, the Court finds that arbitration of Plaintiff’s
claims against the Lotus Defendants because they are alleged to be agents of
the Movants.  Courts have found that an
agent of a signatory may enforce an arbitration agreement (24 Hour Fitness,
Inc. v. Superior Court (1998) 66 Cal.App.4th 1199; Dreyer v. Los Angeles
Rams (1985) 40 Cal.3d 406, 418.)  
 
Accordingly, the Court finds that the arbitration agreement applies to
all parties in this action.  
 
D.   
Stay Request
 
If a party applies to a court “for an order to arbitrate a controversy
which is an issue involved in an action or proceeding pending before a court of
this State and such application is undetermined, the court in which such action
or proceeding is pending shall, upon motion of a party to such action or
proceeding, stay the action or proceeding until the application for an order to
arbitrate is determined and, if arbitration of such controversy is ordered,
until an arbitration is had in accordance with the order to arbitrate or until
such earlier time as the court specifies.” (Code of Civ. Proc., § 1281.4.) 
 
Because the Court has found that arbitration is warranted in this matter,
the Court also stays the proceedings during the pendency of the arbitration
process. 
 
Conclusion
 
Based on the foregoing, the
arbitration agreement is valid and enforceable with the illegal and
unconscionable provisions severed from both the arbitration agreement and
corresponding employment agreement.  The
Court grants Movant’s motion to compel arbitration. The Court reiterates that
the following provisions are severed and unenforceable with respect to the arbitration
proceedings here: (1) section 15.1 of the employment agreement in its entirety;
(2) section 2 of the arbitration agreement in its entirety; (3) section 6 of
the arbitration agreement, referencing Austin Texas and Texas Rules of Civil
Procedure; (4) section 7 of the arbitration agreement in its entirety; (5)
section 8 of the arbitration agreement following “Each party will pay its own
Costs (as defined below) and attorneys' fees. . . ”; (6) section 11.1 of the
employment agreement in its entirety; and (7) section 7.1 to the extent that it
references “compensation.” 
 
The Court further grants the Lotus
Defendants’ notice of joinder, requiring that the claims asserted against them
are also subject to arbitration. The Court further stays the proceedings during
the pendency of the arbitration process. 
 