 Case Number:  23STCV07373    Hearing Date:   February 6, 2024    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



CLAUDIA VERONICAL PULIDO,
 
                                  Plaintiff,
  
         v.
 
 
GENERAL MOTORS LLC,
 
                                  Defendants.
 


 Case No:  23stcv07373
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  February 6, 2024
 Calendar
  Number:  6



 
          Plaintiff Claudia
Veronica Pulido (“Plaintiff”) seeks further responses to  document requests Nos. 16-21 propounded to
Defendant General Motors LLC (“Defendant”). 

 
The parties’ respective positions can be found in their
filings, including the separate statements. The Court’s rulings on each request
are set forth below.  In general, the Court agrees with Plaintiff that the
documents are discoverable but also agrees they must be subject to reasonable
limits.  Accordingly, the customer complaint documents shall be limited to
California, and the internal investigation of defects shall not include an
email production.
 
The Court orders that Defendant, within 30 days, shall
produce full and complete responses and all responsive documents as
follows:  
 
Request No. 16:  Defendant shall produce all responsive
documents except that it shall not be required to search for or produce emails.
 
Request No. 17:  Defendant shall produce all responsive
documents except that (a) to the extent this seeks internal communications of
Defendants, it shall not have to search for or produce emails; (b) to the
extent that this seeks communications with customers, it shall be limited to communications
with customers in California.
 
Request No. 18:  Defendant shall produce any warranty
extensions, technical bulletins and recalls responsive to this request but
shall not have to produce other sorts of documents in response to this request.
 
Request No. 19:  Defendant shall produce all responsive
documents except that the production shall be limited to communications with
customers in California.
 
Request No. 20:  Defendant shall produce all responsive
documents except that Defendant shall not be required to search for or produce
emails.
 
Request No. 21:  Defendant shall produce all responsive
documents except that Defendant shall not be required to search for or produce
emails.
 
 
 
 
 
 