 Case Number:  23STCV09338    Hearing Date:   August 7, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27 
 
MOTION FOR RELIEF¿ 
Hearing Date: 7/31/24¿ 
CASE NO./NAME: 23STCV09338 CARIN DICKMEYER vs
KECK MEDICAL CENTER OF USC 
Moving Party: Plaintiff 
Responding Party: Defendant KECK MEDICAL
CENTER OF USC
Notice: Sufficient¿ 
Ruling: MOTION FOR RELIEF¿IS DENIED
 
Background 
 
On January 25, 2021, Plaintiff filed suit
against Defendant Keck Medical Center of USC. Defendant served discovery
requests, including requests for admission to Plaintiff, and filed motions to
compel responses on March 21, 2024. On February 8, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel,
Marielys Acosta, filed a motion to be relieved as counsel. On March 21, 2024,
the court granted Acosta’s relief as counsel and also deemed Defendant’s RFAs
admitted. Plaintiff, now appearing pro per, moves the court for relief from the
admission.
 
Legal standard
 
A party may withdraw or amend an admission
made in response to a request for admission only on leave of court granted
after notice to all parties. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2033.300, subd. (a).) The court
may permit the withdrawal only if it determines the admission was the result of
mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect, and the party who obtained the
admission will not be substantially prejudiced in maintaining that party’s
action or defense on the merits.¿ (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2033.300, subd. (b).) The “mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect”
under CCP § 2033.300 have similar meanings as those words used in CCP § 473(b).
(New Albertsons, Inc. v. Superior Court (2008) 168 Cal.App.4th 1403,
1419.)
 
“Because the law strongly favors trial and
disposition on the merits, any doubts in applying section 2033.300 must be
resolved in favor of the party seeking relief. Accordingly, the court's
discretion to deny a motion under the statute is limited to circumstances where
it is clear that the mistake, inadvertence, or¿neglect was inexcusable, or where it is clear that the withdrawal
or amendment would not substantially prejudice the party who obtained the
admission in maintaining that party's action or defense on the merits.” (New
Albertsons, Inc., supra, 168 Cal.App.4th at 1420–21.)
 
Discussion
 
Plaintiff moves for relief under the incorrect CCP section. The
applicable section is 2033.230, not CCP 473, though both sections provide
relief for mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect, which the court will
consider. It is unclear from Plaintiff’s motion what the specific mistake,
inadvertence, or excusable neglect is. Plaintiff alleges various failures by
her attorney that purportedly harmed her case, such as not filing timely
discovery responses or collaborating with Plaintiff on the discovery responses.
Additionally, Plaintiff accuses her attorney of lying to the court in the
motion to be relieved as counsel. The court is still unsure what the exact
mistake or inadvertence was that led to the RFAs being deemed admitted against
Plaintiff. Plaintiff seems to be arguing that this was due to her attorney's
alleged incompetence or deliberate refusal to cooperate. However, these do not
constitute a mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect as required for relief
under 2033.230.[1]
Thus, the motion is denied.
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:¿ 
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿The body of the email must include the hearing date and
time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting. 
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿You should assume that others may appear at the hearing
to argue. 
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion. 
 
 


