  Case Number:  19STCV10557    Hearing Date:   August 7, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27 
 
MOTIONS FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT; MOTION FOR SANCTIONS
Hearing Date: 8/7/24 
CASE NO./NAME: 19STCV10557 OLEKSANDR MELNYK vs
BEVERLY HILLS BMW, et al.
Moving Party: Defendant Beverly Hills BMW
Responding Party: Plaintiff¿ 
Notice: Sufficient¿ 
Ruling:       MOTION
FOR SUMMARY IS
GRANTED;
MOTION FOR SANCTIONS IS GRANTED IN PART AND DENIED IN PART
        
MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT
 
Background
On March 27, 2019,
Plaintiff filed his complaint alleging that he experienced issues with the
steering wheel locking up on his vehicle and had Defendant BHB service the
vehicle on March 20, 2017, to address this issue. On March 27, 2017, Defendant
allegedly repaired the malfunction and returned the vehicle to Plaintiff. On
March 28, 2017, Plaintiff alleges that while driving on San Gabriel Canyon Road
in Los Angeles County, the steering wheel of his car locked up, preventing him
from turning the steering wheel. As a result, his vehicle went down a cliff and
rolled over.  He brought action against
Beverly Hills BMW and Kiki Cholewki, an employee of Beverly Hills BMW, based on
this accident, alleging causes of action for negligence, negligent repair and
negligent misrepresentation. 
Defendants Beverly
Hills BMW and Kiki Chowleki have brought motions for summary judgment
contending that no facts support Plaintiff’s action.  
Legal Standard
MSJ
In reviewing a motion
for summary judgment or adjudication, courts must apply a three-step analysis:
“(1) identify the issues framed by the pleadings; (2) determine whether the
moving party has negated the opponent’s claims; and (3) determine whether the
opposition has demonstrated the existence of a triable, material factual
issue.” (Hinesley
v. Oakshade Town Center (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.)    
“[T]he initial burden
is always on the moving party to make a prima facia showing that there are no triable
issues of material fact.” (Scalf v. D. B. Log
Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.) A
defendant moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication “has met his or
her burden of showing that a cause of action has no merit if the party has
shown that one or more elements of the cause of action . . . cannot be
established, or that there is a complete defense to the cause of action.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) If
the moving party fails to carry its burden, the inquiry is over, and the motion
must be denied. (See Id.; see also Consumer Cause, Inc. v. SmileCare
(2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 454, 468.) Even
if the moving party does carry its burden, the non-moving party will still
defeat the motion by presenting evidence of a triable issue of material fact. (Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 849-50.)   
To meet this burden of
showing a cause of action cannot be established, a defendant must show not only
“that the plaintiff does not possess needed evidence” but also that “the
plaintiff cannot reasonably obtain needed evidence.” (Aguilar,
supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 854.) It
is insufficient for the defendant to merely point out the absence of evidence. (Gaggero
v. Yura (2003) 108 Cal.App.4th 884, 891.) The
defendant “must also produce evidence that the plaintiff cannot reasonably
obtain evidence to support his or her claim.” (Ibid.) The
supporting evidence can be in the form of affidavits, declarations, admissions,
depositions, answers to interrogatories, and matters of which judicial notice
may be taken. (Aguilar, supra, 25
Cal.4th at p. 855.)    
“Once the defendant …
has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff … to show that a
triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or
a defense thereto.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) The plaintiff may not
merely rely on allegations or denials of its pleadings to show that a triable
issue of material fact exists, but instead, “shall set forth the specific facts
showing that a triable issue of material fact exists as to the cause of
action.” (Ibid.) “If
the plaintiff cannot do so, summary judgment should be granted.” (Avivi
v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.)    
The court must “liberally
construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and
resolve all doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party,” including
“all inferences reasonably drawn therefrom.” (Yanowitz
v. L’Oreal USA, Inc. (2005) 36 Cal.4th 1028, 1037; Aguilar, supra,
25 Cal.4th at pp. 844-45.) “On a summary judgment motion, the court must
therefore consider what inferences favoring the opposing party a factfinder
could reasonably draw from the evidence. While
viewing the evidence in this manner, the court must bear in mind that its
primary function is to identify issues rather than to determine issues. [Citation.] Only
when the inferences are indisputable may the court decide the issues as a
matter of law.  If the evidence is in conflict,
the factual issues must be resolved by trial.” (Binder
v. Aetna Life Ins. Co. (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832, 839.) Further,
“the trial court may not weigh the evidence in the manner of a factfinder to
determine whose version is more likely true. [Citation.] Nor
may the trial court grant summary judgment based on the court’s evaluation of
credibility. [Citation.]” (Id. at p. 840; see also Weiss v. People ex
rel. Department of Transportation (2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts
deciding motions for summary judgment or summary adjudication may not weigh the
evidence but must instead view it in the light most favorable to the opposing
party and draw all reasonable inferences in favor of that party”].) 
Negligence
The elements for
negligence are: (1) a legal duty owed to the plaintiff to use due care; (2)
breach of duty; (3) causation; and (4) damage to the plaintiff. (County of
Santa Clara v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2006) 137 Cal.App.4th 292,
318.)  
Causation is an
essential element of establishing Defendant’s liability in this case. (See Tribeca
Companies, LLC v. First American Title Insurance Company (2015) 239
Cal.App.4th 1088, 1102-03.) Causation includes both actual cause and proximate
cause. (See id. at 1103.) A defendant’s negligence is the actual cause
of the plaintiff’s injury if it is a substantial factor in bringing about the
harm. (See Mitchell v. Gonzales (1991) 54 Cal.3d 1041,
1052-53.)  
An essential element of
negligence and premises liability claims are that “a defendant’s alleged
misconduct was the cause in fact of the plaintiff’s damage.”  (Tribeca
Companies, LLC v. First American Title Ins. Co. (2015) 239 Cal.App.4th
1088, 1102-03; Castellon v. U.S. Bancorp (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 994, 998
(stating that the elements for premises liability are the same as those for
negligence).)  “In California, the causation element of negligence is
satisfied when the plaintiff establishes (1) that the defendant’s breach of
duty (his negligent act or omission) was a substantial factor in bringing about
the plaintiff’s harm and (2) that there is no rule of law relieving the
defendant of liability.”  (Leslie G. v. Perry & Associates
(1996) 43 Cal.App.4th 472, 481.)  “‘If the conduct which is claimed to
have caused the injury had nothing at all to do with the injuries, it could not
be said that the conduct was a factor, let alone a substantial factor, in the
production of the injuries.’”  (Mitchell v. Gonzales (1991) 54
Cal.3d 1041, 1052 (quoting Doupnik v. General Motors Corp. (1990) 225
Cal.App.3d 849, 861).) 
Undisputed Facts
On March 28, 2017,
Plaintiff Oleksandr Melnyk (“Plaintiff”) was driving the 2016 BMW M4 STD 2D
Coupe motor vehicle bearing VIN WBS3R9C52GK338005 (“Subject Vehicle”)
southbound on SR-39 (San Gabriel Canyon Road in Los Angeles County), when the
Subject Vehicle left the roadway, traveled over a dirt berm and down an
embankment on the right side of the roadway, landing on its left side at the
bottom of the embankment (“Subject Accident”). Prior to the Subject
Accident, the Subject Vehicle traveled along a straight roadway at first, then
turned right along a right-hand curve in the roadway, then turned left along a
left-hand curve in the roadway, and then returned towards straight while the
roadway continued to curve left, resulting in the Subject Vehicle driving off
the right side of the roadway. 
Evidentiary Objections
Plaintiff's objections
to the declaration of Ryan Cram, numbers 1, 2, 3, 5, 6, 7, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13,
14, and 15 are overruled. Plaintiff's objections to the declaration of Michael
Stapleford, numbers 1, 3, and 5 through 14 are also overruled. The parties did
not make any other objections to evidence that were material to the Court’s
ruling, as per CCP § 437c(q). The Court notes that Plaintiff objected to every
paragraph of Defendant's witnesses' declarations using the same set of
objections.
Preliminary Matter
The court will excuse
any alleged defects in the parties' separate statements or evidentiary
objections and will hear the motions on their merits.
Discussion
        Initial
Burden
At the heart of these
summary judgment motions is whether Defendant Beverly Hills BMW was negligent
in fixing Plaintiff's car locking issue, which allegedly led to the car's
steering wheel locking up, or whether the incident was due to Plaintiff not
steering correctly. Both the video and the Event Data Recorder (EDR) show that
prior to the car leaving the roadway and traveling over a dirt embarkment, it
first turned right and left. The video then shows the car traveling straight as
it went over the dirt embarkment, with the EDR data correspondingly showing
that the steering wheel returned to center before the event. The crucial issues
is whether the driver steered incorrectly, allowing the steering wheel to
return to center or the steering wheel locked up as Plaintiff has alleged in
his complaint.
On May 1, 2017,
Defendant’s expert Ryan Cram, along with Plaintiff’s expert, examined the
vehicle and determined that the steering system was functional, the steering
wheel was connected to the steering system, and when the wheel was turned left
and right, the car's wheels moved accordingly without binding. There were no
diagnostic trouble codes related to the steering system, and they found no
defects or malfunctions in the steering system. (Cram 12-15.)
Defendant’s expert Michael
Stapleford, who examined the event data recorder (EDR), noted frontal, side,
and rollover events or crashes and reviewed 5 seconds of data preceding each of
these three events. The data showed varying steering inputs. Stapleford opined
that had there been a steering wheel lock as alleged by Plaintiff, the data
from the EDR would show fixed angles (Stapleford ¶ 10). However, this was not
the case as the angle data values kept changing preceding the frontal event.
Furthermore, the expert examined the EDR data 5 seconds preceding the side
event, a second collision/event that occurred 1.374 seconds after Plaintiff hit
the embankment. This data showed steering input after the car hit the
embankment and it showed that the steering wheel was turned to various angles even
after the car hit the embankment and did not lock up at a fixed angle. Had the
steering wheel “locked” during this 5-second period, it would have stayed at a
fixed angle, with several consecutive boxes showing identical steering wheel
angle data in the “Steering Input (deg)” column, but that was not the case
here. (Stapleford ¶ 11.)
Overall, the expert
opined that the subject accident was not caused by the steering wheel locking
up. Instead, the evidence and documents indicate that the accident was caused
by driver error, specifically the driver allowing the steering wheel to return to
center while attempting to negotiate a left-hand curve in the roadway.
(Stapleford ¶ 14.) Defendant has met its burden to show that it was not
defendant’s negligence in fixing the steering system that caused the car to
lock up that led to the accident.  
Plaintiff’s Argument
Plaintiff argues that
Defendants have not met their burden because the video is inconsistent with
BHB's theory; however, the video shows that the car turned left and right and
then traveled straight and hit the embankment. This path is consistent with the
EDR data showing that the wheel returned to center after turning left. The key
question remains whether this was due to the driver's error in allowing the car
to return to center or if it was due to the steering wheel locking up. Defendant’s
expert examined the data and concluded that the data is not consistent with the
steering wheel locking up, as the steering input would have stayed at a fixed
angle had there been a lockup. Furthermore, both Plaintiff's and Defendant's
experts examined the vehicle. Defendant’s expert, Ryan Cram, found the steering
system to be functional, but Plaintiff did not present the opinion of his
expert witness who examined the car or any expert witness statement for that
matter to the contrary.
Plaintiff specifically
argues that the steering wheel returned to nearly center, which suggests that
the steering wheel likely locked in the near-center position, causing the BMW
to travel straight over the embankment and off the road. Plaintiff contends
that this prevented steering to the left as alleged in the complaint and stated
in Plaintiff’s verified interrogatory responses. However, answers to
interrogatories are admissible only against the party providing the answer, per
CCP § 2030.410. They may be offered as admissions by the responding party
(Ev.C. § 1220) or as prior inconsistent statement to impeach the responding
party's testimony at trial (Ev.C. § 1235) but are inadmissible hearsay as to
other parties and not admissible as evidence by the responding party to raise a
triable issue of fact. Furthermore, complaints are also considered hearsay and
are not admissible as evidence.
Plaintiff further
argues that the vehicle returned nearly to center, then continued turning past
center toward the right as it traveled over the dirt berm, down the embankment,
and landed on its left side. Plaintiff contends that this movement "plainly
and clearly shows to the naked, lay, and untrained eye that there was no
steering to the right past the center," directly contradicting Mr.
Stapleford’s opinions and the EDR data. The video, according to Plaintiff,
clearly shows the BMW proceeding in a straight trajectory off the embankment,
with no apparent steering in any direction, and particularly not to the left,
suggesting that the steering wheel was likely locked in a near-center position.
The court examined the video and it shows that once the vehicle hits the
embankment, it generates a lot of dust, obscuring whether the car is traveling
right or left from the point of view of the motorist who took the video from
behind. Additionally, once the car hits the embankment, it becomes uncertain
whether the front wheels are making contact with the road and whether turning
the steering wheel would result in the car actually turning in the intended
direction.
The situation is not as
straightforward as Plaintiff has suggested. Questions such as to whether the
car would actually turn right after driving off the embankment, the
interpretation of the EDR data and other technical analysis should be evaluated
by an expert witness with the requisite training and education to offer a
qualified opinion on these complex matters. This type of analysis should not be
left to Plaintiff's counsel or the court, neither of which possess the
specialized qualifications required. Regrettably, Plaintiff has not provided
any expert witness declaration. The only evidence submitted by Plaintiff
includes a copy of the motion to bifurcate and Plaintiff’s discovery responses.
Therefore, Plaintiff has failed to raise a triable issue of fact as to the
issue of causation, and summary judgment is granted as to Plaintiff’s first
cause of action for negligence and second cause of action for negligent repair.
Since Plaintiff failed
to raise a triable issue of fact regarding the steering wheel locking up, there
is insufficient evidence to establish that Defendant failed to properly repair
Plaintiff’s vehicle and made a false representation concerning a past or
existing material fact. Therefore, summary judgment as to the third cause of action
for false misrepresentation is granted.
Continuance
Plaintiff seeks a
continuance to take the declarants' depositions and cites CCP § 473c(h), which
states that if affidavits submitted in opposition to a motion for summary
judgment or summary adjudication suggest that essential facts to justify
opposition may exist but cannot currently be presented for stated reasons, the
court shall either deny the motion, order a continuance to allow for obtaining
affidavits or for further discovery, or make any other just order. However,
Plaintiff submitted no affidavit to support his request for a continuance,
failed to specify what facts he seeks to obtain from the declarants’ depositions,
and, most significantly, did not explain why these facts could not have been
obtained over the past two years since the motions were filed in August 2022.
Thus, Plaintiff’s request is denied.
 
MOTION FOR SANCTIONS
On March 27, 2019,
Plaintiff filed the present complaint. On March 27, 2024, the Court issued an
Order granting Beverly Hills BMW’s motions to compel and ordered Plaintiff to
provide responses to Defendant’s Requests for Production, Set Six, supplemental
responses to RFP, Set Two, and supplemental responses to Special
Interrogatories, Set Two, within 30 days of the date of this ruling. The Court
also ordered Plaintiff to pay sanctions in the amount of $4,500.00. Defendant alleges
that Plaintiff’s counsel stated that Plaintiff would return in April 2024 for
his mental and physical examination. However, as of the date of the filing of
the motions, no discovery responses had been served, no sanctions were paid,
and no mental or physical examination had been conducted. Defendant now moves
the Court for terminating, issue, evidentiary and/or monetary sanctions against
Plaintiff.
Plaintiff argues that
"Plaintiff will have complied by providing verified responses to Beverly
Hills BMW’s Request for Admissions (Set 2), Beverly Hills BMW’s Form
Interrogatories (Set 4), Kiki Cholewka's Request for Admissions (Set 1), and
Kiki Cholewka’s Form Interrogatories (Set 1) now due on July 18, 2024 based on
the graciously granted extension by counsel, Libman Decl, ¶.2 – exh. 1."
(Oppo at p. 6.) But, the discovery order in question relates to RFP, Set Six,
supplemental responses to RFP, Set Two, and supplemental responses to SROG, Set
Two, and not to RFAs or Form Interrogatories as Plaintiff has alleged. So far, Plaintiff
has not shown any indication of complying with the Court's March 27, 2024
discovery order.
Second, Plaintiff
argues that the court did not explicitly state a time period for paying
sanctions, suggesting an indefinite period is available. However, this
interpretation is incorrect; in the absence of a specified timeline, sanctions
must be paid within a reasonable period, typically 30 days from the issuance of
the order, consistent with the court's requirements for discovery responses.
Indefinitely delaying payment is not considered reasonable under any legal
standard.
Furthermore, Plaintiff’s
counsel indicates that Plaintiff does not intend to comply with the order to
pay until the case is settled or a verdict is rendered in Plaintiff's favor.
This stance indicates a deliberate non-compliance with the court’s order for
monetary sanctions.
Third, Plaintiff's
attorney now represents that he has retained the services of an immigration
attorney in Ukraine to obtain a visa for travel back to the United States;
however, no additional information was provided. There is no declaration from
Plaintiff himself or from his retained immigration attorney detailing how long
the visa process would take, the likelihood of success, or when Plaintiff can
be reasonably expected to return to California. Moreover, the declaration does
not address why Plaintiff was unable to access the internet in Ukraine to
respond to discovery requests or otherwise fulfill his discovery obligations.
Additionally, Plaintiff represented to Defendant that he would return to
California in April 2024 to attend a physical and mental examination, but this
did not materialize. Without more information, the court does not find
Plaintiff’s counsel’s bare-bones declaration to be a sufficient indication that
Plaintiff will comply with his discovery obligations.
It is true that there
is a policy to determine matters on their merits, as Plaintiff has argued.
However, the trial court has broad discretion in selecting the appropriate
sanction, and its determination must be upheld absent an abuse of discretion. (Dept.
of Forestry & Fire Protection v. Howell (2017) 18 Cal.App.5th 154,
199.)  The court may impose a terminating
sanction after considering the totality of the circumstances. This includes
assessing the willfulness of the actions, the detriment to the propounding
party, and the number of attempts to obtain discovery. (Lang v. Hochman (2000)
77 Cal.App.4th 1225, 1246.) Courts are justified in imposing a terminating
sanction where the "violation is willful, preceded by a history of abuse,
and the evidence shows that less severe sanctions would not produce compliance
with the discovery rules." (Mileikowsky v. Tenet Healthsystem
(2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 262, 279-280.)
The court has
considered the totality of the evidence: Plaintiff initiated the lawsuit but
subsequently left for Ukraine for a significant period. Since then, Plaintiff
has failed to fulfill his various discovery obligations, specifically the
court’s orders to respond to RFP Set 6, RFP Set 2, and SROG Set 2 (as well as
to pay discovery sanctions – though such a failure does not support terminating
sanctions). Plaintiff did not make any representations that he would provide
the required discovery responses at issue. Furthermore, no concrete information
has been provided by Plaintiff regarding when he will return to California and
whether he will fulfill his discovery obligations. Based on the totality of the
evidence and the sequence of events leading up to the present motion, the Court
finds that it could impose terminating sanctions.  However, the Court is persuaded by the fact
that Plaintiff did apparently recently comply with a different discovery
request to refrain from issuing terminating sanctions.  (The Court recognizes that in light of its ruling
above on Defendants’ motions for summary judgment, this determination re
sanctions may not be much consolation to Plaitntiff.)  Based on that compliance, albeit that is not the
discovery upon which Defendant brought this motion, the Court finds a lesser
sanction than terminating sanctions to be appropriate.  In light of the discovery requested and ignored
in relation to this motion, the Court grants evidentiary sanctions as follows:
Plaintiff is precluded from introducing any photographs or videos of Plaintiff,
the subject vehicle and the accident scene. 

Further, Plaintiff is sanctioned
$3,305, the cost to Defendant in bringing its motion.  Defendant is ordered to pay this sanction
within 30 days.
While the Court is not
awarding terminating sanctions, it notes that the idea that Plaintiff can institute
a legal proceeding and then take whatever action he wants without consideration
of how his action impacts that lawsuit is misguided. He instituted this action in
2019 and essentially abandoned it. The Court recognizes the tragic
circumstances currently taking place in Ukraine as a result of Russian
aggression, but Plaintiff has not in any way established why he has been completely
unable to participate in this action given the ability of technology to allow
people throughout the world to connect, including people in Ukraine.  In fact, the Court finds it telling that
throughout this litigation, which has included motions to compel, this motion for
terminating sanctions, and a motion for summary judgment, Plaintiff has not
submitted one declaration himself; the declarations that have been submitted in
support of his positions are from his attorneys.  
 
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:
 
If a party
intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party must send an email to
the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.  The body of
the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact
information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless all parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.  You should
assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.
 
If the
parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off
calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion
without leave.
 
 
 