 Case Number:  20STCV43198    Hearing Date:   August 7, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27
 
MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT 
Hearing Date: 7/30/24 
CASE NO./NAME: 20STCV43198 LISA WILTROUT,
et al. vs CITY OF ALHAMBRA, et al.
Moving Party: Defendant City of Alhambra 
Responding Party: Plaintiffs 
Notice: Sufficient 
Ruling: MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT IS GRANTED 
 
Background
On May 23, 2019, at
approximately 8:20 p.m., Plaintiff Lisa Wiltrout (“Plaintiff”) and her husband Plaintiff
Michael Valenzuela were walking on a pedestrian breezeway (the “Breezeway”)
from the Road to Seoul Restaurant to a parking garage when the brick pavers
composing the ground surface suddenly sank or gave way.  Plaintiff fell and fractured her left ankle.  
Plaintiffs brought this
lawsuit against Defendant City of Alhambra, among others, alleging that the
City was liable to (1) Plaintiff Wiltrout for the injuries she suffered based
on a dangerous condition and (2) Plaintiff Valenzuela based on a loss of
consortium.  Defendant City of Alhambra
now moves the Court for summary judgment on the basis that the alleged defect
is trivial and that the City did not have notice of the alleged dangerous
condition and that Plaintiff Valenzuela’s action is wholly dependent on
Plaintiff Wiltrout’s, so if her action is subject to summary judgment, his is
as well. 
Legal Standards
        Summary
Judgment 
In reviewing a motion
for summary judgment or adjudication, courts must apply a three-step analysis:
“(1) identify the issues framed by the pleadings; (2) determine whether the
moving party has negated the opponent’s claims; and (3) determine whether the
opposition has demonstrated the existence of a triable, material factual
issue.”¿(Hinesley
v. Oakshade Town Center (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.)¿ 
“[T]he initial burden
is always on the moving party to make a prima facia showing that there are no
triable issues of material fact.”¿(Scalf
v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.)¿A
defendant moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication “has met his or
her burden of showing that a cause of action has no merit if the party has
shown that one or more elements of the cause of action . . . cannot be
established, or that there is a complete defense to the cause of action.”¿(Code
Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).)¿If
the moving party fails to carry its burden, the inquiry is over, and the motion
must be denied. (See Id.; see also Consumer Cause, Inc. v. SmileCare
(2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 454, 468.)¿Even
if the moving party does carry its burden, the non-moving party will still
defeat the motion by presenting evidence of a triable issue of material fact. (Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 849-50.) 
To meet this burden of
showing a cause of action cannot be established, a defendant must show not only
“that the plaintiff does not possess needed evidence” but also that “the
plaintiff cannot reasonably obtain needed evidence.”¿(Aguilar,
supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 854.)¿It
is insufficient for the defendant to merely point out the absence of evidence.¿(Gaggero
v. Yura (2003) 108 Cal.App.4th 884, 891.)¿The
defendant “must also produce evidence that the plaintiff cannot reasonably
obtain evidence to support his or her claim.”¿(Ibid.)¿The
supporting evidence can be in the form of affidavits, declarations, admissions,
depositions, answers to interrogatories, and matters of which judicial notice
may be taken.¿(Aguilar, supra, 25
Cal.4th at p. 855.)¿ 
“Once the defendant …
has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff … to show that a
triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or
a defense thereto.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) The plaintiff may not
merely rely on allegations or denials of its pleadings to show that a triable
issue of material fact exists, but instead, “shall set forth the specific facts
showing that a triable issue of material fact exists as to the cause of
action.”¿(Ibid.)¿“If
the plaintiff cannot do so, summary judgment should be granted.”¿(Avivi
v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.)¿ 
The court must
“liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary
judgment and resolve all doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that
party,” including “all inferences reasonably drawn therefrom.”¿(Yanowitz
v. L’Oreal USA, Inc. (2005) 36 Cal.4th 1028, 1037; Aguilar, supra,
25 Cal.4th at pp. 844-45.) “On a summary judgment motion, the court must
therefore consider what inferences favoring the opposing party a factfinder
could reasonably draw from the evidence.¿While
viewing the evidence in this manner, the court must bear in mind that its
primary function is to identify issues rather than to determine issues.¿[Citation.]¿Only
when the inferences are indisputable may the court decide the issues as a
matter of law.¿ If the evidence is in conflict,
the factual issues must be resolved by trial.”¿(Binder
v. Aetna Life Ins. Co. (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832, 839.)¿Further,
“the trial court may not weigh the evidence in the manner of a factfinder to
determine whose version is more likely true.¿[Citation.]¿Nor
may the trial court grant summary judgment based on the court’s evaluation of
credibility. [Citation.]” (Id. at p. 840; see also Weiss v. People ex
rel. Department of Transportation (2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts
deciding motions for summary judgment or summary adjudication may not weigh the
evidence but must instead view it in the light most favorable to the opposing
party and draw all reasonable inferences in favor of that party”].)
Dangerous Condition
Under Government Code §
835, a public entity is liable for injury caused by a dangerous condition of
its property if the plaintiff establishes that (1) the property was in a
dangerous condition at the time of the injury, (2) the injury was proximately
caused by the dangerous condition, (3) the dangerous condition created a
reasonably foreseeable risk of the kind of injury which was incurred, and (4)
either: 
“(a) a negligent or
wrongful act or omission of an employee of the public entity within the scope
of his employment created the dangerous condition; or 
(b) the public entity
had actual or constructive notice of the dangerous condition under Section
835.2 a sufficient time prior to the injury to have taken measures to protect
against the dangerous condition.”
Notice
Government Code 835.2
states:  
(a) A public entity had
actual notice of a dangerous condition within the meaning of subdivision (b) of
Section 835 if it had actual knowledge of the existence of the condition and
knew or should have known of its dangerous character.
(b) A public entity had
constructive notice of a dangerous condition within the meaning of subdivision
(b) of Section 835 only if the plaintiff establishes that the condition had
existed for such a period of time and was of such an obvious nature that the
public entity, in the exercise of due care, should have discovered the
condition and its dangerous character.
(b) (1) In assessing
the exercise of due care, the court looks at whether the existence of the
condition and its dangerous character would have been discovered by an
inspection system that was reasonably adequate (considering the practicability
and cost of inspection weighed against the likelihood and magnitude of the
potential danger to which failure to inspect would give rise) to inform the
public entity whether the property was safe for the use or uses for which the
public entity used or intended others to use the public property and for uses
that the public entity actually knew others were making of the public property
or adjacent property.
(b) (2) Whether
the public entity maintained and operated such an inspection system with due
care and did not discover the condition.
Preliminary Matter
As a preliminary
matter, the opposition brief submitted is 33 pages in length, which exceeds the
prescribed limit by 13 pages.  See
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1113(d). 
Notably, the excess here is 13 pages beyond what is permitted. There is
no accompanying explanation from Plaintiff for this deviation nor is there a
request for permission to file an oversized opposition. Given this substantial
non-compliance with procedural rules, the Court strikes the last 13 pages of
the opposition brief.
Evidentiary Ruling
The Court sustains
Defendant’s objections No. 10 to Declaration of Brad Avrit on the basis that it
misstates the testimony/evidence and No. 17 to Declaration of Brad Avrit on the
basis that it lacks foundation and is speculative.
The Parties did not
make any objections to evidence that were material to the Court’s ruling. (CCP
§ 437c(q).)¿  
Discussion
To meet its initial
burden of showing that it had no notice of the alleged dangerous condition, Defendant
City submitted a declaration from Chris Kustra, the claim director overseeing
the City’s liability claims. Kustra searched the database for any claims of
damage presented to the City at the location in question and found no prior
claims for damages. (Kustra Decl. ¶ 2-6.)
There was, however, a prior
request for services to be performed on the Breezeway.  Specifically on February 19, 2019, Kip Su, the
City's Utilities Technician, noticed sunken bricks in the Breezeway while
walking on it and filed a request for service. 
That request pertains to a different portion of the Breezeway than the
location where Plaintiff fell. The February 2019 service location was near the
entrance of the Breezeway; the location of Plaintiff’s fall was near a manhole,
a considerable distance from the entrance. (Su Decl. ¶ 6-8, Ex. J to
Declaration of Ricky Vergara.) Su testified that had he observed a similar sunken
condition at the location at issue, he would have reported it, but he did not.
(Su Decl. ¶ 9.) “To establish ‘actual notice,’ it is not enough to show that
the state employees had a general knowledge [of the dangerous condition]. There
must be some evidence that the employees had knowledge of the particular
dangerous condition in question.” (State v. Superior Court for San Mateo
County (1968) 263 Cal.App.2d 396, 399.) 
Furthermore, Rick
Vergara, a public works inspector for the City, declares that in responding to
the February 19, 2019 request for service, he performed an inspection of the
entire Breezeway and does not recall seeing any condition that needed repair
other than the site identified in the February 2019 request for service. If he
had observed any other condition in need of repair, he would have noted it in
the request for service and recommended repair. (Vergara Decl. ¶ 7-8.)  In deposition, he likewise testified that he
had inspected the entire alley in February in response to Su’s service request
and noted only the sections of the Breezeway that were damaged. (Vergara Depo.
22:19-24.) When asked to clarify what he meant by inspecting the entire alley,
Vergara explained that he inspected the whole Breezeway from the parking lot to
Garfield Avenue, which allowed him to sufficiently view the area. He stated
that the visual inspection occurred during working hours and took approximately
five minutes. (Vergara Depo. 23:1-25:19.)
Defendant has met its
initial burden that it had no actual notice or constructive notice of the
alleged dangerous condition.
Furthermore, to prevail
on constructive notice, Plaintiff must demonstrate that the condition at issue
was obvious (Heskel v. City of San Diego (2014) 227 CA4th 313, 319-320.)
Photos of the area taken by Plaintiff just weeks after the incident on June 5,
2019, did not reveal any visible sunken pavers, displacement, cracks, or any
other distinguishing features from the surrounding tiles. Even with knowledge
of the approximate location where Plaintiff allegedly fell, the Court is unable
to precisely identify where she fell due to the non-obvious nature of the
alleged dangerous condition. (Def. Ex. A.) It is not surprising that Vergara
did not spot any signs of a dangerous condition at the location at issue when
he allegedly performed the inspection in February 2019.
Triable Issue of Fact
Although as noted above
the Court is striking pages 21 to 33 of the opposition, which contain all of
Plaintiff's arguments regarding the issue of notice, even if the Court were to consider
the arguments set forth in the opposition, it still does not find that
Plaintiff has raised a triable issue of fact relating to notice.
Before the Court
assesses whether the City has a reasonable inspection program in place for
purposes of constructive notice, Plaintiff must make a threshold showing that
the alleged dangerous condition was obvious. (Heskel v. City of San Diego
(2014) 227 CA4th 313, 319-320.) Defendant has introduced photographs
demonstrating that the alleged dangerous condition was not obvious.  (Def. Ex. A). 
These photographs do not show any distinguishing features at the
location where the alleged dangerous condition purportedly exists compared to
the surrounding area or tiles.  Although
there are photographs showing missing tiles, sunken tiles, and repairs being
made to the location at issue (Exhibit I to Hernandez Decl.), Luis Hernandez, a
senior concrete worker for the City, has declared that these photos were taken
in October 2019, five months after the incident. (Hernandez Decl. ¶ 5-8.) And,
of course, they were taken at the time repairs were being made.  This timeline is confirmed by the declaration
of Plaintiff’s counsel’s legal assistant, Tracy Hughley. Hughley investigated
the Breezeway on two occasions and took photographs. The first set of photos,
taken in June 2019 (Ex. A to Hughley Decl.), show no signs of sunken tiles at
the location at issue even after the incident occurred.  The second set, taken in September 2019 (Ex. B
to Hughley Decl.), show missing tiles and repairs being conducted at the same
location. Besides these photographs from September 2019, Plaintiff has not
produced any affirmative evidence that the location at issue was visibly sunken
or that the dangerous condition was obvious, which is necessary to prevail on
the basis of constructive notice.
Plaintiff argues that
Vergara did not inspect the entirety of the Breezeway, thereby missing the
alleged dangerous condition that was supposedly obvious. However, Plaintiff’s
argument selectively cites Vergara’s deposition and omits the part where he
stated he visually inspected the whole Breezeway and did not observe any sunken
tiles other than the areas identified by Su, which, as discussed above, do not
include the location where Plaintiff fell. Plaintiff further contends that
there is no documentation of Vergara's inspection of the Breezeway in February
2019; however, Vergara clearly states in his deposition that he conducted the
inspection but only documented the areas that needed service on the request.
(Vergara Depo. 25:1-19). The absence of written records does not demonstrate
that the inspection did not take place, as Vergara has declared to the
contrary. In fact, a good amount of Plaintiff's argument centers on the theme
that Defendant's evidentiary support could have been stronger. For example, no
documents were produced showing Vergara's inspection. However, Defendant is not
required to provide all-encompassing documents as long as Defendant has met its
burden, which it has. Plaintiff cannot create a triable issue by attacking the
credibility of the moving party’s evidence. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c.) 
Plaintiff also argues
that between February 19, 2019, and May 23, 2019, no one from Defendant City,
other than Vergara, went out to check whether any other pavers in the Breezeway
were sinking. The Court finds this argument unpersuasive because Vergara, the
city’s inspector, already conducted a visual inspection and found no sunkenness
at the location in question. It is unclear why additional employees would need
to perform further inspections, or what such additional inspections would
entail.
Plaintiff argues that
Vergara did not individually check each paver, did not use a leveling device,
and did not employ a device to press and depress each paver. (Vergara Depo.
25:24-26) Plaintiff and her expert contend that the City or Vergara should have
inspected each tile and tested them one by one to determine if a particular
tile was dangerous. Plaintiff's expert states that had Vergara sufficiently
inspected the stability of each brick paver during his inspection on February
19, 2019, he would have noticed the blank/empty space between the pavers and
the gravel/sand underneath. (Avrit Decl. 8:3-6.) The expert attests to a
potential condition beneath the tiles, but this simply supports Defendant's
argument regarding the non-obvious nature of the dangerous condition. Given
that there are likely thousands of tiles in the Breezeway, the Court finds it
unreasonable to impose the burden on the City to inspect each tile individually
when there is no visible indication of a dangerous condition.
Plaintiff has not
raised a triable issue of fact that Vergara should have discovered the alleged
dangerous condition during his inspection of the Breezeway just three months
before the incident. Photographs provided by Plaintiff, Plaintiff counsel’s
legal assistant, and the Defendant all show that the location at issue
exhibited no signs of sunken pavers and lacked any distinguishing features that
could deem it potentially dangerous compared to the surrounding tiles.
Plaintiff has failed to introduce any affirmative evidence to the contrary and
has not shown how Defendant had either actual or constructive notice of the
alleged dangerous condition. Thus, the City’s motion for summary judgment is
granted.
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿The body of the email must include the hearing date and
time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿You should assume that others may appear at the hearing
to argue.
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion.
 