 Case Number:  EC064876    Hearing Date:   November 3, 2023    Dept:  D TENTATIVE RULINGCalendar: 9Date:     11/3/2023           Case No:      EC 064876 Case Name: Leyva, et al. v. Baca, et al.  MOTION FOR ATTORNEYS’ FEESMoving Party: Plaintiffs Micaela Leyva and Rafael Duran   Responding Party: Defendants Karen Baca, Ana Moreno and Co-op Management RELIEF REQUESTED: Award of attorneys’ fees in the amount of $201,762.01 and expenses of $1,712.01. SUMMARY OF FACTS:Plaintiffs Micaela Leyva and Rafael Duran allege that they have resided in an illegally built structure located at 12223 Wick Street in Sun Valley, Unit B, since April 2012 to the present, pursuant to a written lease agreement with the former landlord.  Plaintiffs allege that defendant Karen Baca is the true owner of the subject property and unit, and that defendant Ana Moreno has acted as property manager since September of 2015.  Plaintiffs allege that during their tenancies at the unit and defendants’ ownership and operation of it, the unit has been unsafe, unsanitary, unhealthy, uninhabitable and in a serious state of disrepair, including that the unit was constructed and remodeled without required permits, and is substandard due to illegal occupancy. The complaint alleges that on February 19, 2015, the Los Angeles Department of Building and Safety issued a Notice of Violation directing defendants to make repairs to the subject property and unit, but defendants did not make the required repairs within the 30 days, or at any time after receiving notice.  Plaintiffs allege that at all relevant times, and through January 4, 2015, plaintiffs and defendants have been in a landlord-tenant relationship and that plaintiffs have paid rent to defendants until November 2015. The matter went to a court trial in February and March of 2022, with closing arguments heard in June 2022.  The matter was tried together with related case Mendoza v. Baca, LASC Case No. EC 065134.  On July 1, 2022, the court filed its Joint Statement of Decision, finding in favor of plaintiffs and against defendants on all but one of plaintiffs’ causes of action and awarding damages in the amount of $177,946.80.  The Statement of Decision states, “Any award of attorneys’ fees would be subject to a post judgment motion for attorneys’ fees.”  [Statement of Decision, 38:17-18].  The First Amended Judgment was entered on September 8, 2022, with plaintiffs to recover from defendants, jointly and severally, the sum of $177,946.80, including “Return of rent pursuant to CC 1942.4 and Health & Safety 17920.3 and rent stabilization ordinance in the sum of $27,762.00.” [Judgment, 2:3-4].  This motion for attorney’s fees was originally heard on December 16, 2022.   The court issued its tentative ruling via posting on LACourt.org website, which was to continue the motion for submission of further declarations in support of the billing rates and the hours sought to permit the court to fix the reasonable attorney’s fees.   At the hearing, the tentative ruling was adopted as the final order of the court, and the matter was continued for the filing of further declarations.  The matter was then continued several times.  On July 18, 2023, the court continued the then scheduled hearing date of July 21, 2024 to September 15, 2023, the court ruling:“This will be the last continuance for the submission of further declarations in support of the billing rates claimed and the hours sought, as required by this Court’s previous order of December 16, 2022.” The court order specifically required:“In the supplemental declarations, the hours claimed must be broken down by hours expended by each attorney in each category of services rendered, e.g., attending trial, conducting discovery, preparing opposition to motion for judgment on the pleadings, preparing opposition to motion to dismiss, preparing trial briefing, etc. The declarations must also explain how the fees are apportioned between work on this matter and work on the related matter, and how the fees are apportioned between work on the claims based on Civil Code § 1942.5, and work spent on other claims.” Supplemental declarations were filed in advance of the September 15, 2023 hearing.  No opposition papers had been filed.  Prior to the September 15, 2023 hearing, the court issued a detailed tentative ruling via posting on LACourt.org website, which was to award plaintiffs as prevailing parties under Civil Code section 1924.4(b)(2) the sum the court determined a reasonable sum to prevail on the claim under Civil Code section 1924.4 (b)(2), a total of $24,726.51.At the hearing, both sides appeared, and defense counsel stated that he did not receive notice of the motion and requested a continuance.  The court granted the request and continued the matter to November 3, 2023.  The court permitted defense counsel to file an opposition as dictated by statute and ruled that plaintiff’s counsel was permitted to file a Supplemental brief by September 25, 2023.  A Second Supplemental Declaration was timely filed by plaintiffs on September 25, 2023.  On October 23, 2023, defendants filed their timely opposition to the motion for attorneys’ fees.  ANALYSIS:In general, under CCP § 1021  “Except as attorney’s fees are specifically provided for by statute, the measure and mode of compensation of attorneys and counselors at law is left to the agreement, express or implied, of the parties...”Under CCP section 1032(b), “a prevailing party is entitled as a matter of right to recover costs in any action or proceeding.”  Section 1033.5 (a) provides that an allowable cost under §1032 includes attorney’s fees, when authorized by contract, statute or law.  CCP § 1033.5 (a)(10).    CCP § 1032 defines “prevailing party”:“(4) “Prevailing party” includes the party with a net monetary recovery, a defendant in whose favor a dismissal is entered, a defendant where neither plaintiff nor defendant obtains relief, and a defendant as against those plaintiffs who do not recover any relief against that defendant.  When any party recovers other than monetary relief and in situations other than as specified, the “prevailing party’ shall be as determined by the court, and under those circumstances, the court, in its discretion, may allow costs or not and, if allowed may apportion costs between the parties on the same or adverse sides...”(Emphasis added). Plaintiffs argue that since they are the parties with a net monetary recovery, they are the prevailing parties for purposes of costs, and for any fees awardable as costs. Plaintiffs in their notice of motion and moving papers seek fees pursuant to statute, Civil Code § 1942.4, which provides, in pertinent part:“(a) A landlord of a dwelling may not demand rent, collect rent, issue a notice of a rent increase, or issue a three-day notice to pay rent or quit pursuant to subdivision (2) of Section 1161 of the Code of Civil Procedure, if all of the following conditions exist prior to the landlord's demand or notice:(1) The dwelling substantially lacks any of the affirmative standard characteristics listed in Section 1941.1 or violates Section 17920.10 of the Health and Safety Code, or is deemed and declared substandard as set forth in Section 17920.3 of the Health and Safety Code because conditions listed in that section exist to an extent that endangers the life, limb, health, property, safety, or welfare of the public or the occupants of the dwelling.(2) A public officer or employee who is responsible for the enforcement of any housing law, after inspecting the premises, has notified the landlord or the landlord's agent in writing of his or her obligations to abate the nuisance or repair the substandard conditions.(3) The conditions have existed and have not been abated 35 days beyond the date of service of the notice specified in paragraph (2) and the delay is without good cause. For purposes of this subdivision, service shall be complete at the time of deposit in the United States mail.(4) The conditions were not caused by an act or omission of the tenant or lessee in violation of Section 1929 or 1941.2.”Under Civil Code § 1942.4 (b):“(b)(1) A landlord who violates this section is liable to the tenant or lessee for the actual damages sustained by the tenant or lessee and special damages of not less than one hundred dollars ($100) and not more than five thousand dollars ($5,000).(2) The prevailing party shall be entitled to recovery of reasonable attorney's fees and costs of the suit in an amount fixed by the court.”(Emphasis added). The notice of motion also refers to Health and Safety Code section 17920.3, which provides the conditions which qualify a building as a substandard building but does not appear to contain language providing for recovery of attorney’s fees.   As noted above, the court at trial found that defendants had violated both statutes and awarded the sum of $27,762.00 to plaintiffs in rent pursuant to those statutes. The court had accordingly previously been prepared to conclude in its tentative rulings that plaintiffs prevailed under Civil Code section 1942.4, which provides for an award of fees, and were entitled to reasonable attorney’s fees and costs as against defendants for the fees and costs incurred in prevailing on the claim under Civil Code § 1942.5 (b). The court then requested, in more than one ruling or tentative ruling in this matter, that plaintiffs submit further information concerning the fees, tasks performed, and billing rates claimed, as well as apportionment of the fees claimed between this matter and the related matter, and between the fees incurred to pursue the claim under Civil Code § 1942.5 (b), and the other claims.   As set forth above, in its July 18, 2023 ruling, the court specifically required, “The declarations must also explain …how the fees are apportioned between work on the claims based on Civil Code § 1942.5, and work spent on other claims.”Plaintiffs in their supplemental declarations filed on August 23, 2023 in advance of the September 15, 2023 hearing submitted a copy of billing records reflecting the time spent in this case “combined with the related case,” without explaining either how the fees were apportioned between this case and the other case, or how the fees were to be apportioned between work on the claims based on Civil Code § 1942.5, and work spent on other claims.  [Supp. Rodriguez Decl., para. 12].   The court nevertheless conducted its own  detailed review of the billing records, and based on that review, the court’s own experience with this matter, and the outcomes with respect to the basis for the judgment on the various claims made in the matter, determined that plaintiffs had made a sufficient showing that the billing rates for each of plaintiffs’ attorneys were reasonable, and was prepared to award $450 per hour for attorney Rodriguez and $650 per hour for attorney Kwasigroch.  [See Supp. Rodriguez Decl., paras. 3-11; Supp. Kwasigroch Decl., paras. 3-20; Minute Order 09/15/2023, p. 6].  With respect to the apportionment of fees between this case and the related case, the court was prepared to find that the showing presented explained that the total fees sought in the notice of motion, the maximum sum which could be awarded on this motion, $201,762.01, was the sum of total fees incurred for both cases, and that approximately half of those fees should be allocated to the prosecution of this case, and the other half allocated to the prosecution of the related case, Mendoza v. Baca.  This left the total fees claimed in this case as $100,881.05.    With respect to the requirement that the supplemental showing explain “how the fees are apportioned between work on the claims based on Civil Code § 1942.5, and work spent on other claims,” despite the failure of plaintiffs to offer any explanation at all concerning this matter, the court conducted a detailed analysis and was prepared to find that the reasonable fees incurred for prevailing on plaintiff’s second cause of action for Demand for Rent for Uninhabitable Dwelling under Civil Code section 1942.4, which also required evidence of breach of the implied warranty of habitability, but did not involve proof to establish six other causes of action and related damages, at 25% of the fees claimed. The court reduced the total sum claimed by obvious duplication in the billing records and was prepared to award a total sum of $24,726.51 in fees.  [Minute Order, 09/15/2023]. At the hearing, defendants requested a continuance, indicating defendants had not received notice of the motion, and the matter was continued to this date. Plaintiffs then filed a Second Supplemental Declaration in support of the motion, which argues, for the first time, that attorneys’ fees are awardable to plaintiffs pursuant to the written lease agreement between the parties.  [Second Supp. Grace Decl., p. 5].  Plaintiffs submit a copy of the written Rental Contract between plaintiffs and what appears to be the previous owner/landlord, which plaintiffs indicate was introduced into evidence as Exhibit 17 at trial.  [Second Supp. Grace Decl., para. 3, Ex. A].Plaintiffs rely on paragraph 15 of that Rental Contract, which provides:“15.  COURT COSTS:  Resident agrees to pay all court costs and Attorney’s fees incurred by the Owner in enforcing legal action or any of the Owner’s other rights under this agreement or any state law. In the event any portion of this Agreement shall be found to be unsupportable under the law, the remaining provisions shall continue to be valid and subject to enforcement in the courts without exception.”[Second Supp. Grace Decl., para. 3, Ex. A, p. 2, para. 15]. Plaintiffs argue that defendants, as the successor owner and manager of the subject property within the meaning of Civil Code section 1962 (c), succeed to the rights and duties under the Rental Contract after a change in ownership or management, step into the shoes of the prior landlord, and assume the terms and conditions of the lease the tenants had with the prior owner.  Plaintiffs also argue that although the provision applies only for an award of attorneys’ fees to the “Owner,” under the reciprocity provisions of Civil Code section 1717, the prevailing party in a contract dispute is entitled to recover attorney’s fees if the contract provides for attorney’s fees to be awarded to one of the parties.  Plaintiffs argue that based upon the broad language of the Rental Contract, plaintiffs are entitled to an award of all attorney’s fees for each and every cause of action, as all conduct which gave rise to the emotional distress and other damages arose from a violation of the Rental Contract, and the failure of defendants to comply with landlord tenant law.  This is the first time that plaintiffs have argued that they are entitled to fees under contract, have asserted the various arguments pursuant to which such fees are awardable under contract, and have requested that all fees, not just fees under statute, are properly awardable. Defendants in opposition argue that plaintiffs are requesting attorneys’ fees in the lead case as well as the related case for all causes of action, although only a single cause of action has a statutory recovery for fees.  Defendants also argue that no delineation of the fees is made at all, and then argues that the billings for each of plaintiff’s attorneys contain double billings and overinflated requests without any details, and that plaintiff’s attorneys have refused to produce or serve the details of their requests.  Defendants have not responded to the argument that fees are available as to all causes of action based on the provisions of the Rental Contract. Defendants argue that, specifically, without consent from defendants, plaintiffs have been using a third-party service company to serve motions and supporting declarations, which form of service defendants have rejected, resulting in defendants not receiving post-judgment documents, with plaintiffs refusing to serve the papers directly through email with appropriate attachments, instead indicating defendants could acquire the subject documents online themselves. The opposition is confusing, as defendants appear to argue that they have not received any documents beyond the declarations of counsel, which fail to provide evidence as to the hours spent, but then also argue that there is double billing and referring to plaintiffs submitting “a commingled billing statement for the matters.”  [Opposition, p. 4:18-19].  It appears, then, that defendants are in possession of the billing statements which have been submitted by plaintiffs but have chosen not to address them.  Instead, defendants object to the manner of service by electronic service through what defendants indicate is an unreliable third party service and argue that they have not been directly served with the relevant documents.  Defendants argue that this violates defendants’ due process, and request that the court deny the motion, or, in the alternative, reduce the requested fees awarded.  Alternatively, defendants request that plaintiffs serve their motion papers either as paper copies or PDF documents transmitted to the defense. The court had reasonably expected that the supplemental papers and opposition would address issues from the court’s previous tentative ruling, including the appropriate allocation of the fees between the two related cases, and between the statutory claims and other claims.  It was not expected that an entirely new basis for an award of attorneys’ fees be raised by the plaintiffs, or that defendants, which concede they have access to a copy of the billings submitted with the papers filed prior to the previous hearing, would not review the billings entries and make specific arguments concerning the reasonableness of the time spent, and its relationship to the pertinent issues in connection with the motion. In any case, the court finds that because plaintiffs have now raised issues which were not raised in the moving papers, and it is not clear that all of the moving papers are properly before all parties with the opportunity to address the papers at the current hearing date of November 3, 2023, good cause exists to continue the hearing on the motion for attorney’s fees to ensure that proper notice and opportunity to be heard on all issues is provided. The hearing is continued to December 8, 2023 (60 days) to allow defendants to respond to all arguments made by plaintiffs in the moving papers, the supplemental papers and the second supplemental papers.  Specifically, defendants are permitted to respond to the issue that plaintiffs seek all fees under the attorney’s fees provision of the Rental Contract, not just statutory fees under Civil Code section 1942.5.  The supplemental opposition may be up to 20 pages long, to permit defendants to respond to the attorneys’ fees sought pursuant to contract, including, if warranted, the issues of successor liability, the reciprocity doctrine, and the reach of the particular attorneys’ fees provision at issue.   Defendants will address all grounds raised by the moving papers, even if addressed previously, including the allocation of the fees between the two related cases, and any specific items in the billings which defendants find appropriate to challenge.   The court requires a detailed opposition addressed to the claimed hourly rate, the matters charged, and defendants’ proposal of an appropriate alternative number for any attorneys’ fees award, and the basis for that number.  This will be the final continuation of the hearing on the matter.  Plaintiffs are ordered to serve all moving documents, including the original moving papers filed on November 22, 2022, the supplemental declarations and supporting papers and exhibits filed on August 23, 2023, and the second supplemental declaration and supporting papers and exhibits filed on September 25, 2023, and all other previously filed and served relevant documents no later than November 7, 2023. Service is to be by direct email from plaintiffs’ counsel to defendants’ counsel’s email, with pdf documents attached directly to and accessible from the direct email message.  Plaintiffs also are to serve all documents by follow up mailing the same date, with hard copies mailed to defendants’ counsel’s mailing address of record.  Plaintiffs also are ordered to deliver courtesy copies of all documents to the court no later than two calendar weeks prior to the continued hearing on the motion.   Defendants’ opposition must be filed and served by electronic service no later than fifteen court days prior to the continued hearing date, by 12:00 pm (noon), with courtesy copies of all opposition papers to be delivered to the court on the date opposition is filed.  Plaintiffs’ reply papers are due no later than nine court days prior to the continued hearing date, by 12:00 pm (noon), with courtesy copies to be delivered to the court on the date reply is filed. RULING:  Motion for an Award of Attorneys’ Fees and Expenses:Motion is CONTINUED to December 8, 2023 (60 days) (FINAL CONTINUANCE), to allow defendants to respond to all arguments made by plaintiffs in the moving papers, the supplemental papers and the second supplemental papers.  Specifically, defendants are permitted to respond to the issue that plaintiffs seek all fees under the attorney’s fees provision of the Rental Contract, not just statutory fees under Civil Code section 1942.5.  The supplemental opposition memorandum may be up to 20 pages long, to permit defendants to respond to the attorney’s fees sought pursuant to contract, including, if warranted, the issues of successor liability, the reciprocity doctrine, and the reach of the particular attorneys’ fees provision at issue.  Defendants are expected to address all grounds raised by the moving papers, even if addressed previously, including the allocation of the fees between the two related cases, and any specific items in the billings which defendants find appropriate to challenge.   The Court requires a detailed opposition addressed to the claimed hourly rate, the matters charged, and defendants’ proposal of an appropriate alternative number for any attorney’s fees award, and the basis for that number.  The submission of an opposition of 20 pages in length is optional, depending on defendants’ preference. Plaintiffs are ordered to serve all moving documents, including the original moving papers filed on November 22, 2022, the supplemental declarations and supporting papers and exhibits filed on August 23, 2023, and the second supplemental declaration and supporting papers and exhibits filed on September 25, 2023, and all other previously filed and served relevant documents no later than November 7, 2023. Service is to be by direct email from plaintiffs’ counsel to defendants’ counsel’s email, with pdf documents attached directly to and accessible from the direct email message.  No third-party service is to be used for this service.  Plaintiffs are also ordered to serve all documents by follow up mailing the same date, with hard copies mailed by U.S. Postal Service to defendants’ counsel’s mailing address of record.  Plaintiffs are also ordered to deliver courtesy copies of all documents to the Court no later than two calendar weeks prior to the continued hearing on the motion.   Defendants’ opposition must be filed and served by electronic service no later than fifteen court days prior to the continued hearing date, by 12:00 pm (noon), with courtesy copies of all opposition papers to be delivered to the Court on the date opposition is filed.  Plaintiffs’ reply papers are due no later than nine court days prior to the continued hearing date, by 12:00 pm (noon), with courtesy copies to be delivered to the Court on the date reply is filed. DEPARTMENT D IS CONTINUING TO CONDUCT AND ENCOURAGE AUDIO OR VIDEO APPEARANCESPlease make arrangement in advance if you wish to appear via LACourtConnect by visiting www.lacourt.org to schedule a remote appearance.  Please note that LACourtConnect offers free audio and video appearances.  However, ADVANCE REGISTRATION IS REQUIRED. If no appearance is set up through LACourtConnect, or no appearance is otherwise made, then the Court will assume the parties are submitting on the tentative. 