 Case Number:  22GDCV00336    Hearing Date:   November 3, 2023    Dept:  D TENTATIVE RULINGCalendar:  3 Date: 11/3/2023 Case No:  22 GDCV00336  Trial Date: January 13, 2025Case Name: Korea Trade Insurance Corporatation v. Mix & Match Apparel, Inc. MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO REQUESTS FOR ADMISSIONSMoving Party:  Defendant and Cross-complainant Mix & Match Apparel, Inc.   Responding Party: Plaintiff Korea Trade Insurance Corporation      RELIEF REQUESTED:Further Responses to Requests for Admissions, Nos. 1-8  FACTUAL BACKGROUNDPlaintiff Korea Trade Insurance Corporation alleges that it is assignee to Mido Trade Co., Ltd, and brings this action for common counts, alleging that defendant Mix & Match Apparel, Inc. has become indebted to plaintiff in the sum of $152,244.49.  The complaint alleges causes of action for open book account, account stated, and reasonable value.  Defendant Mix & Match Apparel, Inc. has filed a cross-complaint against Mido Trade Co., Ltd., alleging that in July and August of 2020, cross-complainant and cross-defendant entered into a written agreement by way of a series of purchase orders and invoices whereby cross-defendant agreed to sell, and cross-complainant agreed to purchase certain women’s leggings.  The cross-complaint alleges that cross-defendant breached the contract by failing to deliver conforming goods, failing to have the goods manufactured at the main factory of cross-defendant, placing false UPC codes on the goods, failing to inspect the goods in a proper manner, and delivering goods that were “bleeding” and had sewing defects so that the goods failed to pass inspection with an acceptable defect rate.  The cross-complaint alleges that as a direct result of cross-defendant’s breach, cross-complainant has been damaged.  It is also alleged that during the negotiations for the sale of the goods, cross-defendant falsely represented the goods would be manufactured at the main factory of cross-defendant, that correct UPC codes would be placed on the goods, and that the goods would be inspected in a proper manner and pass inspection at an acceptable defect rate and that the goods would otherwise conform to the specifications required by cross-complainant.  The cross-complaint alleges causes of action for breach of contract, breach of implied warranty of merchantability, breach of implied warranty of fitness for a particular purpose, fraud, negligent misrepresentation, and fraudulent billing. ANALYSIS:Under CCP § 2017.010, “any party may obtain discovery regarding any matter, not privileged, that is relevant to the subject matter involved in the pending action...if the matter either is itself admissible in evidence or appears reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.”  Under CCP Section 2033.290:“(a) On receipt of a response to requests for admissions, the party requesting admissions may move for an order compelling a further response if that party deems that either or both of the following apply:(1) An answer to a particular request is evasive or incomplete.(2) An objection to a particular request is without merit or too general.”  There are eight RFAs at issue, which each seek admissions concerning what information plaintiff Korea Trade had concerning the claim it is suing on.  The responses for each of the eight are the same. Specifically, the RFAs seek the following admissions:Request for Admission 1 “You did not receive any report on inspections performed on the GOODS (" GOODS" shall mean "the goods agreed to be sold and purchased between MIX & MATCH APPAREL, INC.  and MIDO TRADE CO., LTD. under a series of purchase orders and invoices memorialized in Purchase Order numbers M2001 and M2002 and Invoice numbers MIDO/M&M/20201217 and MIDO/M&M20201225.”Request for Admission 2“You did not verify whether the GOODS were conforming to the specifications required by MIX & MATCH APPAREL, INC.” Request for Admission 3“You did not verify whether MIDO ("MIDO" shall mean "MIDO TRADE CO., LTD.") had the GOODS manufactured at the main factory of MIDO.” Request for Admission 4“You did not verify whether MIDO placed false UPC codes on the GOODS.” Request for Admission 5“You did not verify whether MIDO inspected the GOODS in a proper manner.” Request for Admission 6“You did not verify whether the GOODS were ‘bleeding’.”Request for Admission 7“You did not verify whether the GOODS had sewing defects.” Request for Admission 8“You did not verify whether the GOODS passed the inspection with an acceptable defect rate.” The responses are the same for each, and state:“Responding party lacks information or personal knowledge to admit or deny to this request. Reasonable inquiry has been made and the information known or readily obtainable by the Responding party is insufficient to enable the answering party to admit or deny.  Responding Party is not the manufacturer of the goods. Responding Party is assignee to MIDO TRADE CO., LTD.  Despite numerous attempts, Defendant evaded Responding Party's investigation. Defendant Mix & Match argues that the requests ask Korea Trading to admit or deny what it did or did not do, as opposed to what Mido did or did not do, and so this information is within Korea Trading’s knowledge and does not require a third person’s knowledge. Defendant argues that reasonable inquiry would permit the RFAs to be responded to, as if Korea Trading had only asked these of an employee or officer in charge of the Mido account, Korea Trading could have fully responded to these RFAs, based on its own acts or omissions.  Defendant argues that the response that responding party is not the manufacturer, but an assignee, is irrelevant, as is the response that defendant evaded an investigation.  Defendant argues that the responses do not comply with CCP section 2033.220:“(a) Each answer in a response to requests for admission shall be as complete and straightforward as the information reasonably available to the responding party permits.(b) Each answer shall:(1) Admit so much of the matter involved in the request as is true, either as expressed in the request itself or as reasonably and clearly qualified by the responding party.(2) Deny so much of the matter involved in the request as is untrue.(3) Specify so much of the matter involved in the request as to the truth of which the responding party lacks sufficient information or knowledge.”Specifically, section 2033.220, subdivision (c) provides:“If a responding party gives lack of information or knowledge as a reason for a failure to admit all or part of a request for admission, that party shall state in the answer that a reasonable inquiry concerning the matter in the particular request has been made, and that the information readily known or readily obtainable is insufficient to enable that party to admit the matter.”  While the responses parrot the statutory language, it is not clearly stated why the information readily obtainable by the responding party is not sufficient to enable plaintiff what measures plaintiff took to determine what plaintiff was aware of or what steps it took with respect to the rights it was assigned, which would be within the knowledge or records of plaintiff or its employees.  If plaintiff took and sought to enforce the assigned obligations without taking any of the actions referred to in the RFAs, plaintiff should admit those facts.  Plaintiff would retain the opportunity to argue that it stands in the shoes of the assignor, or otherwise that such admissions are of little weight with respect to defendant’s defenses or cross-complaint against Mido.     In Chodos v. Superior Court (1963) 215 Cal.App.2d 318, the Second District, in interpreting the former version of the discovery statutes, set a standard for claiming lack of information which was quite high, given the purpose of Requests for Admissions.  The Second District stated:“The case is controlled by the decision of the Supreme Court in Cembrook v. Superior Court (1961) 56 Cal.2d 423 [15 Cal.Rptr. 127, 364 P.2d 303], where the court said (at p. 429): "Most of the other discovery procedures are aimed primarily at assisting counsel to prepare for trial.  Requests for admissions, on the other hand, are primarily aimed at setting at rest a triable issue so that it will not have to be tried. Thus, such requests, in a most definite manner, are aimed at expediting the trial. For this reason, the fact that the request is for the admission of a controversial matter, or one involving complex facts, or calls for an opinion, is of no moment. If the litigant is able to make the admission, the time for making it is during discovery procedures, and not at the trial."Section 2033 requires a party, if he does not admit or deny, to set forth "in detail the reasons why he cannot truthfully admit or deny" the matters involved. In the light of this statutory language, the validity of the Lowes' refusal to admit or deny the six requests herein involved and the propriety of the trial court's order sustaining such refusal must be judged solely by the reasons assigned by the Lowes in their "response" filed in the trial court -- namely, as to Nos. 7, 8, 9, 10 and 11, that the Lowes had no "independent information" and, as to No. 41, that it called for an opinion. Neither of these grounds is tenable. (Cembrook v. Superior Court, supra, 56 Cal.2d 423.)In the instant case, the declaration of plaintiffs' counsel,  filed in connection with the hearing on the motion to compel an admission or a denial, set forth facts from which it may be inferred that the Lowes have available to them sources of information as to the matters involved. Neither these allegations nor the inference to be drawn therefrom are denied by the Lowes. Under these circumstances, it is neither unfair nor improper to require the Lowes to make such reasonable investigation as they may deem needed in order for them to determine now that, when the trial is held, they will, or they will not, dispute the matters involved.  Neither these allegations nor the inference to be drawn therefrom are denied by the Lowes. Under these circumstances, it is neither unfair nor improper to require the Lowes to make such reasonable investigation as they may deem needed in order for them to determine now that, when the trial is held, they will, or they will not, dispute the matters involved. If the Lowes do not intend to contest any of these facts,  the statute requires them to say so now, by an admission (for the purpose of this suit only [§ 2033, subd. (b)]). If they want to put plaintiffs to their proof, they may deny, risking, however, the possibility of being surcharged with costs if the plaintiffs ultimately prove the fact involved (§ 2034, subd. (c)).Chodos, at 323-324.  Here, the motion establishes that the responses do not in fact call for information within the knowledge of a third person, but information within the knowledge of responding party, “you.”  The motion indicates that the subject set of RFAs did in fact include RFAs which called for information within the knowledge of Mido, plaintiff’s assignor, such as “MIDO failed to have the GOODS manufactured at the main factory of MIDO,” and accepted the identical responses set forth above concerning the lack of information or personal knowledge.  The subject RFAs, however, are not directed to Mido’s conduct, but directed to plaintiff Korea Trade, and its acts or omissions.  This information is known to plaintiff, and certainly by reasonable inquiry to its own personnel.   The opposition argues broadly that the responding party is the assignee, and that it lacks information or knowledge to be able to admit or deny the subject RFAs because defendant evaded the initial investigation period. The opposition fails to present any legal analysis under which defendant is not entitled to discovery concerning what the assignee did or did not do or what information it did or did not obtain in connection with the obligations assigned.  There is no legal authority cited with respect to the scope of an assignment, or the duties of an assignee, and, in any case, the broad scope of discovery appears to justify defendant and cross-complainant in pursuing this discovery to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence concerning the allegations of the cross-complaint against the assignor. The argument that defendant failed to cooperate in an initial investigation appears to concede that an initial investigation was conducted by plaintiff, the conduct and outcome of which would be within the knowledge of plaintiff.  Plaintiff, by directly responding to the subject RFAs based on its knowledge and reasonable investigation within its own company would not be foregoing the argument concerning any reasons it did not have the requisite knowledge.  In fact, plaintiffs indicate in the opposition that an acceptable response should and could be that the particular RFA concerning plaintiff’s action or inaction is admitted, but plaintiff did not investigate because it had no such duty. Further responses which fully comply with the Code and respond to the RFAs as posed in connection with plaintiff Korea Trade’s knowledge are ordered to be served.   Sanctions This leaves the issue of monetary sanctions, which are sought by both sides.    CCP § 2033.290 (d) provides that the court “shall impose a monetary sanction...against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel further response, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”      Under CCP § 2023.010, misuse of the discovery process includes “(f) making an evasive response to discovery.”  Where there has been a misuse of the discovery process, under Section 2023.030(a), the court “may impose a monetary sanction ordering that one engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or any attorney advising that conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct.”The burden is on the party subject to sanctions to show substantial justification or injustice.  Mattco Forge, Inc. v. Arthur Young & Co. (1990, 2nd Dist.) 223 Cal.App.3d 1429, 1436. Here, the motion is granted so moving party has not unsuccessfully brought this motion, and sanctions requested by responding party plaintiff Korea Trade will be denied.    Responding party has unsuccessfully opposed the motion, served evasive responses, which it has stood by through meet and confer efforts clarifying that the RFAs were in fact directed to plaintiff’s knowledge, and has made the motion necessary.  The opposition argues that the motion is without substantial justification because plaintiff timely served substantive responses.  The responses were evasive, however, and no substantial justification for the evasiveness of the responses is established.   Sanctions are awarded to the moving party.  The sanctions sought are $2,068.91.  These do not appear unreasonable, and plaintiff in the opposition does not challenge the amount of time spent or the billing rate.  The sanctions are awarded in the full sum requested. RULING:Motion to Compel Further Responses to Requests for Admissions is GRANTED.   Plaintiff Korea Trade Insurance Corporation is ordered to serve further complete verified responses to Request for Admission, Set No. One, Requests Nos. 1 through 8, inclusive, which fully comply with CCP section 2033.220, based on information or knowledge of responding party plaintiff Korea Trade Insurance Corporation, not its assignor, as well as responding party’s reasonable inquiry and information readily known or readily obtainable by plaintiff. Further responses to be served within ten days. Monetary sanctions requested by moving party: Utilizing a lodestar approach, and in view of the totality of the circumstances, the Court finds that the total and reasonable amount of attorney’s fees and costs incurred for the work performed in connection with the pending motion is $2,000.00 (5.0 hours @ $400/hour) (5 hours requested ) plus $61.65 in filing fees and $7.26 in efiling fees [Amount Requested $2,068.91], which sum is to be awarded in favor of defendant and cross-complainant Mix & Match Apparel, Inc. and against plaintiff Korea Trade Insurance Corporation, payable within 30 days. CCP §§ 2033.290(d), 2023.010 (f), and 2023.030(a).Monetary sanctions requested in the opposition are DENIED. DEPARTMENT D IS CONTINUING TO CONDUCT AND ENCOURAGE AUDIO OR VIDEO APPEARANCESPlease make arrangement in advance if you wish to appear via LACourtConnect by visiting www.lacourt.org to schedule a remote appearance.  Please note that LACourtConnect offers free audio and video appearances.  However, ADVANCE REGISTRATION IS REQUIRED. If no appearance is set up through LACourtConnect, or no appearance is otherwise made, then the Court will assume the parties are submitting on the tentative. 