 Case Number:  23SMCV02581    Hearing Date:   May 2, 2024    Dept:  P Tentative
Ruling
Jane Doe v. Edward Bass Films, et
al., Case No. 23SMCV02581
Hearing date May 2, 2024
Demurrer of Defendant Bass to Second
Amended Complaint
 
Plaintiff Jane Doe alleges defendant
Bass raped her in 2021 when she was 17. Defendant Bass in pro per demurs to the
Second Amended Complaint (SAC) for uncertainty and for failure to state a cause
of action. 
 
A complaint is subject to demurrer for
uncertainty if it fails “as a whole . . . to apprise the
defendant of the basis on which the
plaintiff is seeking relief.” E.g., Perkins v. Superior Court
(1981) 117 Cal.App.3d 1, 6.
 
The SAC fails to address the deficiencies
the court identified in the FAC. All causes of action in the SAC are alleged
with a similar formula as the FAC. All preceding paragraphs are re-alleged, and
plaintiff states defendant engaged in conduct constituting the elements of the
claim. This is insufficient. The court cannot determine whether all causes of
action are based on the 2021 rapes alleged in paragraph 8 or if other conduct
underlies some or all of plaintiff’s claims. Each claim must be amended with
specific – not conclusory -- factual allegations so the factual basis for every
cause of
action is clear.
 
However, the demurrer argues for more
specificity than is required. Doe need not allege “how the parties met, how long the relationship lasted,
when it ended, etc.” She needs only to ground each cause of action in specific facts, so Bass is
aware of the nature of the claims alleged. SUSTAINED with ten days leave to amend.
 
Request for Judicial Notice
Bass requests judicial notice of text
messages, photographs and various alleged extrinsic facts, including
plaintiff’s alleged use of a false ID, length of plaintiff’s relationship with
defendant, text messages between the parties, plaintiff’s alleged sexual
history, use of marijuana and involvement in an insurance fraud scam. Bass does
not cite any statute or other basis for these documents or allegations to be
judicially noticed. DENIED.