 Case Number:  BC665330    Hearing Date:   January 22, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     January
22, 2024                   TRIAL DATE: 
N/A
 
CASE:                         Arnette
Travis, et al. v. Bill Brand, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 BC665330





















 
MOTION
FOR ATTORNEY FEES



 
MOVING
PARTY:               Nonparties Redondo
Beach Waterfront, LLC; Fred Bruning; and Jean Paul Wardy 
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Defendants Bill Brand, et al.
 
 
I.          FACTUAL
AND PROCEDURAL BACKGROUND
 
            This case
arises from a 2017 Redondo Beach municipal election.[1]  In the election political action committee
Rescue Our Waterfront P.A.C. (“ROW”) and political candidates Bill Brand
(“Brand”) and Nils Nehrenheim (“Nehrenheim”), successfully campaigned for a
ballot measure.  Proponents of the ballot
measure opposed a large redevelopment of the Redondo Beach municipal waterfront.
  Opponents of the measure supported the
waterfront redevelopment.  After the
vote, two citizens, Plaintiffs Arnette Travis (“Travis”) and Chris Voisey
(“Voisey”) sued ROW, Brand, Nehrenheim, ROW officer Wayne Craig (“Craig”), Bill
Brand for Mayor 2017 (Brand’s mayoral campaign committee) and its treasurer,
Linda Moffat (“Moffat”), claiming Brand and Nehrenheim violated the Political
Reform Act, Government Code (Gov. Code) section 81000 et seq., (PRA) by
controlling the committee and using an improper title for itself.  
 
            After a
bench trial, the trial court ruled in Defendants’ favor.  The court awarded Defendant’s their attorney’s
fees pursuant to Gov. Code section 91003 as the prevailing party.  On April 3, 2019, the trial court entered
judgment in favor of the Defendants and against the Plaintiffs.  The judgment included several findings.  In relevant part, the trial court found
Travis and Voisey were “shills” for nonparty developer Redondo Beach Waterfront,
LLC (“RBW”), and its principals Fred Bruning (“Bruning”), and Jean Paul Wardy (“Wardy”)
who initiated this lawsuit against Defendants and directed and financed the
prosecution of this case.  Defendants
submitted a proposed judgment for the court’s signature which included nonparties
RBW, Bruning, and Wardy.  RBW, Bruning,
and Wardy of the submission.  The court
signed the judgment making RBW, Bruning, and Wardy liable for the fees. 
 
            RBW,
Bruning, and Wardy (hereafter, the “Nonparty Developers”) appealed the
judgment.[2]  On appeal, the court in Travis I, 62
Cal.App.5th 240 held the judgment was void as to the Nonparty Developers
because they were not parties to the action.  The Nonparty Developers were awarded their costs
on appeal.  Plaintiffs also appealed the judgment.  The court in Travis I affirmed the
award of attorney fees against the Plaintiffs. 

 
            The Supreme
Court granted review and reversed.  In Travis
II, 14 Cal.5th 411, the California High Court held that an award of fees
and costs under the PRA was governed by the standard set forth in Christiansburg
Garment Co. v. Equal Employment Opportunity Comm’n (1978) 434 U.S. 412 (Christiansburg).  Upon remand, the Court of Appeal in Travis
v. Brand (2023) 91 Cal.App.5th 996 (Travis III) applied the Christiansburg
standard and reversed the award of fees against Plaintiffs.  The Travis III court reaffirmed Nonparty
Developers recovery of their appellate costs.
 
            On August 23,
2023, the Nonparty Developers filed this motion for attorney fees as prevailing
parties under the PRA.
 
            On October 19,
2023, Brand, Brand for Mayor 2017, and Moffat filed an opposition.  On the same day, Nehrenheim and ROW each filed
a Joinder to the opposition.  Nehrenheim
also separately filed an opposition. [3]
 
            On October 25,
2023, the Nonparty Developers filed a consolidated reply.
 
II.        DISCUSSION
& LEGAL STANDARD 
 
            Nonparty Developers
seek an award of attorney fees in the sum of $164,560 against Defendants based
on the following grounds: (1) they are prevailing parties under the PRA, and
(2) alternatively, they are entitled to fees under Code of Civil Procedure
(CCP) section 1021.5.  Neither argument
succeeds. 
 
A.      Nonparty Developers Are Not Prevailing
Parties.  
            Under Gov.
Code section 91003, “The court may award to a plaintiff or
defendant who prevails his costs of litigation, including
reasonable attorney's fees.”  (Gov. Code,
§ 91003, subd. (a), emphasis added.)  “This
section applies to cases seeking injunctive relief to enjoin violations or to
compel compliance with the provisions of the Political Reform Act of 1974.”  (Travis I, supra, 62
Cal.App.5th at p. 276.)  Here, Nonparty
Developers were not parties to the action.[4]  
 
            While Nonparty
Developers had to pursue their rights in the court of appeal to set aside the
judgment, they were neither parties in the underlying case nor were they
prevailing parties in the underlying case. 
Nonparty Developers argue they are prevailing parties because the trial
court’s judgment joined them in this action and because they successfully voided
the judgment on appeal.  Nonparty
Developers contend they advanced “the goals of the PRA, which is to encourage
such lawsuits.”  (Mot., p. 12.)  Not so.  Nonparty Developers’ appealed to eliminate
their own liability.  Nonparty Developers
ignore the basis upon which the Travis I Court voided the judgment.  There, the appellate court stated: 
 
“The court erred by
entering judgment against the nonparties.
 
The court acted
beyond its authority by issuing a judgment against nonparties to
the action. The Second District, Division One, analyzed this issue in Moore
v. Kaufman (2010) 189 Cal.App.4th 604, 117 Cal.Rptr.3d 196. In Moore,
the court found a judgment against the plaintiff's counsel was void because
that attorney was not a party to the action. (Id. at pp. 615–616, 117
Cal.Rptr.3d 196.) The opinion quoted the Witkin treatise, which says, “A
judgment in favor of a person who is not a party to the action is obviously
beyond the authority of the court.” (2 Witkin, Cal. Procedure (5th ed. 2008)
Jurisdiction, § 315, p. 927.) The trial court in this case also acted beyond
its authority by issuing judgment against the nonparties.”
 
(Travis I, supra, 62 Cal.App.5th at p. 262,
emphasis added.)
 
            In other words, the Travis I court
voided the judgment because Nonparty Developers were precisely that:
nonparties.  Nonparty Developers argue at
cross-purposes.  On the one hand, they
argue the judgment against them is void because they were not parties to the
action.  On the other hand, they argue
they are entitled to attorney’s fees because they are prevailing parties.  They were not parties to the PRA action and
don’t fall within the scope of the statute. 
 
            With respect to advancing the goals
of the PRA, Nonparty Developers conflate and confuse appealing the judgment successfully
with being a prevailing party under the PRA.   As
discussed above, Nonparty Developers prevailed on appeal because they were not
parties to the action.  Moreover, at
trial the court found in favor of the Defendants.  As such, Defendants were the prevailing
parties in Plaintiffs’ PRA action.  Travis
I reversed the judgment as to Nonparty Developers but upheld the judgment against
Plaintiffs.  Travis II reversed the
court of appeal finding that the asymmetrical standard under Christiansburg
applied to fee awards for prevailing defendants in a PRA action but did not disturb
the trial court’s finding in favor of the Defendants on the merits. [5]
 Accordingly, Travis II reversed the
attorney’s fees award against the Plaintiffs and remanded to allow the court of
appeal to apply the Christiansburg standard.  On remand, Travis III applied the Christiansburg
standard and concluded Plaintiffs’ action had a factual and legal
foundation.  The appellate court reversed
the attorney’s fee award.  Nowhere in the
appellate history does the Court of Appeal or the Supreme Court suggest that
Plaintiffs were prevailing parties, let alone that Nonparty Developers were
prevailing parties on the PRA action.  
 
            Undeterred, Nonparty Developers
argue that under California law, prevailing parties are not limited to parties
of record.  For this proposition,
Nonparty Developers rely on CCP section 1032, subdivision (a)(4), which
provides:
 
“Prevailing party” includes the party with a
net monetary recovery, a defendant in whose favor a dismissal is entered, a
defendant where neither plaintiff nor defendant obtains any relief, and a
defendant as against those plaintiffs who do not recover any relief against
that defendant. If any party recovers other than monetary relief and in
situations other than as specified, the “prevailing party” shall be as
determined by the court, and under those circumstances, the court, in its
discretion, may allow costs or not and, if allowed, may apportion costs
between the parties on the same or adverse sides pursuant to rules adopted
under Section 1034.”  (Emphasis added.)
 
Reference to Section 1032 is to no avail because, at best, the statutory
section affords Nonparty Developers costs.  And the appellate court in Travis I already
awarded them costs on appeal.  Travis
III so confirmed.  Nothing more was
awarded to Nonparty Developers.[6]  And as described below, nothing more should
be awarded.[7]
 
B.    
 Nonparty Developers Are Not Entitled to
Fees Under Section 1021.5
Alternatively, Nonparty Developers argue they are entitled to attorney’s
fees pursuant to CCP section 1021.5 -- “the so-called private attorney
general fees.”  (Travis III, supra,
at p. 1008.).  Section 1021.5 provides, in relevant part:
 
“Upon motion, a court may award attorneys’
fees to a successful party against one or more opposing parties in any
action which has resulted in the enforcement of an important right affecting
the public interest if: (a) a significant benefit, whether pecuniary or
nonpecuniary, has been conferred on the general public or a large class of
persons, (b) the necessity and financial burden of private enforcement, or of
enforcement by one public entity against another public entity, are such as to
make the award appropriate, and (c) such fees should not in the interest of
justice be paid out of the recovery, if any.”  (Emphasis added.)
 
                The court of
appeal in Travis III described the elements of the private attorney
general statute as follows: “A party must satisfy
four elements to earn private attorney general fees. In shorthand, the elements
are: (1) the party enforces an important
right affecting the public interest; (2)
the party confers a significant benefit to the
general public or a large class of people;
(3) an award is appropriate because private enforcement was necessary and
financially burdensome; and (4) fees must not be paid out of a recovery.
(Citations omitted.)”  (Travis III,
supra, at p.758.”)[8]
 
In Travis III, Defendants pursued
a fee award.  According to Defendants,
they were entitled to fees because their victory enforced an important right
affecting the public interest and conferred a significant benefit on the
general public.  Nonparty Developers
advance the same argument here.   The
court of appeal disagreed.  Whether
viewed from Plaintiffs’, Defendants’, or Nonparty Developer’s side, the court
of appeal’s comments apply with equal force to considerations whether fees are
warranted under the private attorney general fee statute.  The court of appeal had strong feelings on
this point.  Here are several excerpts: 
 
·        
The
public at large did not know and did not care about the issues the court
adjudicated. Nothing in the record demonstrates even minimal public interest in
these obscurities. Practically and realistically, important rights affecting
the public interest were nowhere to be seen. (Citation omitted.)  The claim for fees fails element one of the
test. (Travis III, supra, at p.  1010.). 
 
·        
The
Supporters seek, unsuccessfully, to inflate the significance of this litigation
by suggesting the redevelopment proposal was large and many people voted for
Measure C. The lawsuit, however, did not tackle the merits of redevelopment.
Nor did it challenge the election's validity. These pitches are balls, not
strikes. (Ibid.) 
 
·        
There
has been no showing that anyone besides the parties does care, or should care,
about this case. The claim for fees flunks element two of the test. (Citation
omitted.) (Ibid.)
            In
addition, Nonparty Developers argue they are entitled to fees under the
private attorney general statute because Travis I resulted in a published
opinion.  Nonparty Developers reach too
far.  Part C in Travis I is devoted
to Nonparty Developers’ issue.  It spans six
paragraphs.  It is not a novel concept
that “[a] judgment in favor of a person who is not a
party to the action is obviously beyond the authority of the court.” (2 Witkin,
Cal. Procedure (5th ed. 2008) Jurisdiction, § 315, p. 927.)”  (Travis I, supra, at p. 262.)  This particular concept did not travel up to
the California Supreme Court and back down to the California Court of Appeal.[9]  The Christiansburg issue
did.  No doubt, it is unfortunate that a judgment
was entered against the Nonparty Developers requiring them to untangle
themselves from liability, but that misfortune 
does not sweep the Nonparty Developers’ issue within the ambit of the
private attorney general statute.  
 
III.      CONCLUSION
 
            “California
follows the American rule regarding attorney's fees.  Under that rule, litigants are ordinarily
responsible for paying their own attorney's fees, unless a statute or agreement
provides otherwise.”  (Travis II, supra, 14 Cal.5th at p. 417.). 
Here, neither Gov. Code section 91003 nor CCP section 1021.5 authorizes
an award of attorney fees to the Nonparty Developers.  The “American rule” applies.
 
The motion for attorney fees is DENIED.  
 
Defendants to give notice.   
 
 
Dated:   January 22,
2024                        




¿ 


¿¿¿ 




¿ 


¿ Kerry Bensinger¿¿ 
¿ Judge of the Superior Court¿ 




 
 
 
 


