 Case Number:  23STCV20613    Hearing Date:   January 22, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     January
22, 2024                               TRIAL
DATE:  Not set
                                                           
CASE:                         John M.E.L. Doe v. Los Angeles Unified School District
 
CASE NO.:                 23STCV20613
 





















 
DEMURRER
WITHOUT MOTION TO STRIKE



 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant
Los Angeles Unified School District
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Plaintiff John
M.E.L. Doe
 
 
I.          BACKGROUND
 
            This is a
childhood sexual abuse case.  On August 23,
2023, Plaintiff, John M.E.L. Doe, initiated this action against Defendant Los
Angeles Unified School District (“LAUSD”) for actions for (1) Negligence and
(2) Negligent Failure to Warn, Train, or Educate.  
 
            In relevant
part, the Complaint alleges that Plaintiff was sexually abused by Vance Miller (“Miller”)
from 1998 to 2002 while he was a student at Hamilton Music Academy.  Miller was an employee of the Los Angeles
Unified School District (“LAUSD”).  The Complaint
further alleges that LAUSD had notice of Miller’s misconduct.
 
            On October
30, 2023, LAUSD filed this Demurrer to the Complaint.
 
            Plaintiff
filed an opposition.  LAUSD replied.
 
II.        JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
            Each party requests judicial notice of rulings and
orders in other similar cases.  As the court
does not rely on any of the documents for which judicial notice is requested,
the court declines to rule on the requests.
 
III.      LEGAL STANDARD FOR DEMURRER
            A demurrer
tests the legal sufficiency of the pleadings and will be sustained only where
the pleading is defective on its face.¿ (City of Atascadero v. Merrill
Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith, Inc. (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 445, 459.)¿
“We treat the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded but not
contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.¿ We accept the factual
allegations of the complaint as true and also consider matters which may be
judicially noticed.¿ [Citation.]”¿ (Mitchell v. California Department of
Public Health (2016) 1 Cal.App.5th 1000, 1007; Del E. Webb Corp. v.
Structural Materials Co. (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 593, 604 [“the facts alleged
in the pleading are deemed to be true, however improbable they may be”].)
Allegations are to be liberally construed.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 452.)¿ In
construing the allegations, the court is to give effect to specific factual
allegations that may modify or limit inconsistent general or conclusory
allegations.¿ (Financial Corporation of America v. Wilburn (1987) 189
Cal.App.3d 764, 769.)¿¿  
            A
demurrer may be brought if insufficient facts are stated to support the cause
of action asserted.¿(Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e).)¿“A demurrer for
uncertainty is strictly construed, even where a complaint is in some respects
uncertain, because ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery
procedures.”¿(Khoury v. Maly’s of California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th
612, 616.)¿¿¿ 
            Where the
complaint contains substantial factual allegations sufficiently apprising
defendant of the issues it is being asked to meet, a demurrer for uncertainty
will be overruled or plaintiff will be given leave to amend.¿ (Williams v.
Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 135, 139, fn. 2.)¿ Leave to
amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful
amendment.¿ (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.)¿ The burden
is on the complainant to show the Court that a pleading can be amended
successfully. (Ibid.)¿
IV.       DISCUSSION
 
            Meet and Confer
 
            Defense counsel has complied with
the meet and confer requirement. (See Declaration of Ramon L. Quintanilla, ¶¶ 3-4.)
 
            Analysis
 
LASUD advances four
arguments in support of its motion: (1) Plaintiff did not allege a statutory
basis to impose liability on LAUSD; (2) Plaintiff’s negligence-based causes of
action are duplicative; (3) the allegations are not pled with sufficient
particularity, and (4) the Complaint
does not state a valid claim against LAUSD because the statutory basis for
exempting Plaintiff’s claims from the Government Claims Act violates Article XVI,
section 6 of the California Constitution. 
 
A.    
Statutory Liability 
 
             “[I]n California all government tort liability
is dependent on the existence of an authorizing statute or ‘enactment’ . . .
and to state a cause of action every fact essential to the existence of
statutory liability must be pleaded with particularity, including the existence
of a statutory duty.”  (Searcy v. Hemet Unified School District
(1986) 177 Cal.App.3d 792, 802.) 
 
            LAUSD argues that the Complaint does
not allege a statutory basis for liability against LAUSD.  Plaintiff concedes he did not plead the
applicable statutory grounds.  He
requests leave to amend to plead Government Code section 815.2.  (Opposition, p. 1:4-12.)  The Complaint is not pled with
particularity.  Given Plaintiff’s
concession, the Court sustains the demurrer on these grounds with leave to
amend.
 
            Notwithstanding the Court’s ruling,
the Court addresses LAUSD’s remaining arguments.
 
B.    
Plaintiff’s Negligence-Based Causes of Action Are Not Duplicative
 
            Defendant argues Plaintiff’s claims
for negligence and negligent failure to warn, train, or educate are
duplicative.   Not so here. 
The Complaint alleges that Defendant breached their duty of care to
Plaintiff by failing to adequately supervise, or negligently retaining Miller
who they permitted to have access to Plaintiff. 
(See Complaint, ¶ 14.)  Unlike a
“cause of action” for negligent failure to warn, train, or educate, a negligent
supervision and retention claim is a distinct cause of action.  (See CACI No. 426.)  The causes of action are not duplicative. 
 
C.    
AB 218 Is Not An Unconstitutional Gift of Public Funds
 
Under Code of Civil
Procedure section 340.1, as amended by AB 218, the time for commencement of the
action shall be within 22 years of the date the plaintiff attains the age of
majority or within five years of the date the plaintiff discovers or reasonably
should have discovered that psychological injury or illness occurring after the
age of majority was caused by the sexual assault, whichever period expires
later, for any of the following actions: (1) an action against any person for
committing an act of childhood sexual assault; or (2) an action for liability
against any person or entity who owed a duty of care to the plaintiff, if a
wrongful or negligent act by that person or entity was a legal cause of the
childhood sexual assault that resulted in the injury to the plaintiff.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 340.1, subd. (a)(1)-(2).) 
 
            AB 218 also amended the provision
that lists exceptions to the Government Claims Act, Government Code section 905,
by removing language in subdivision (m) that limited the exception to claims
arising out of conduct that occurred on or after January 2009 and adding
subdivision (p), which made this change retroactive.  (See Coats v. New
Haven Unified School District (2020) 46 Cal.App.5th 415, 424 (Coats);
Gov. Code § 905, subds. (m), (p).)   
 
            Article XVI, section 6 of the
California Constitution (“the Anti-Gift Provision”) provides, in relevant part:
“The Legislature shall have no power to give or to lend, or to authorize the
giving or lending, of the credit of the State, or of any county, city and
county, city, township or other political corporation or subdivision of the
State now existing, or that may be hereafter established, in aid of or to any
person, association, or corporation, whether municipal or otherwise, or to
pledge the credit thereof, in any manner whatever, for the payment of the
liabilities of any individual, association, municipal or other corporation
whatever; nor shall it have power to make any gift or authorize the making of
any gift, of any public money or thing of value to any individual, municipal or
other corporation whatever… .”  (Cal. Const., art. XVI, § 6.) 
 
            LAUSD argues that the portion of AB
218 that retroactively exempts childhood sexual abuse claims from the
Government Claims Act is unconstitutional with respect to public entities because
it constitutes an impermissible gift of public funds.  Compliance with the
Government Claims Act is a substantive prerequisite to stating a claim for
money damages against a public entity.  (See
State of California v. Superior Court (2004) 32 Cal.4th 1234,
1240-41.)  LAUSD’s argument turns on the distinction between the
nature of the statutes of limitation for childhood sexual abuse cases and the
substantive requirements of the Government Claims Act for stating a claim
against a government entity.   
 
            Ultimately, LAUSD’s Government
Claims Act argument fails to overcome AB 218’s public purpose.  As LAUSD notes, “the retroactive elimination
of the claims-presentation requirement may still be constitutional if it serves
a ‘public purpose.’”  (Motion, at p. 15.)
 Plaintiff points out successfully that AB
218 serves a public purpose.
 
“It is well
settled that in determining whether any appropriation of public funds is to be
deemed a gift, ‘The primary and fundamental subject of inquiry is as to whether
the money is to be used for a public or private purpose.  If it is for a public purpose it is not
generally speaking, to be regarded as a gift.”  (San Diego County v. Hammond (1936) 6
Cal.2d 709, 721 (Hammond) (citation omitted).)  “The determination of what constitutes a
public purpose is primarily a matter for the Legislature, and its discretion
will not be disturbed by the courts so long as that determination has a
reasonable basis.  Accordingly, a wide
variety of welfare and other social programs have been upheld against
constitutional challenge.”  (County of
Alameda v. Carleson (1971) 5 Cal.3d 730, 746, citation omitted.)  “[T]he failure to expressly state a public
purpose is not decisive.  The courts may
infer the public purpose from other legislation or the manner in which the
legislation is enacted.”  (Scott v.
State Bd. Of Equalization (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 1597, 1605.)
 
                In Coats,
supra, 46 Cal.App.5th at p. 428, the appellate court addressed the very
issue raised here – the revival of a cause of action barred by a claim
presentation requirement.  The school
district in Coats, however, raised an ex post facto challenge to AB 218.  Rejecting that argument, the Appellate Court held
that the Legislature has the power to expressly revive time-barred civil causes
of action.  
 
Here, the school
district pivots and raises an Anti-Gift challenge instead of an ex post facto
challenge.  In Martin v. Santa Clara
Unified School District (2002) 102 Cal.App.4th 241, 253, the school district
challenged the payment of backpay under section 44940.5 for teachers who
successfully completed diversion.  The school
district argued such payments were an unconstitutional gift of public
funds.  According to the school district the
legislation “manifestly lacks a public purpose.”  (Ibid.)  The Martin Court disagreed, holding
that it “could not find as a matter of law that section 44940.5 as applied to
diversion dismissals is devoid of a legislative purpose.”  (Id. at p. 254.) 
 
So too here.  As discussed in Coats, the Legislature’s
purpose in passing AB 218 was to assure that victims of childhood sexual abuse
receive justice.  (See also Liebig v.
Superior Court (1989) 209 Cal.App.3d 828, 834 [“In the case the important
state interest espoused by section 340.1 is the increased availability of tort
relief to plaintiffs who had been victims of childhood sexual abuse while a
minor …. the public policy is manifest from the text of the law.”].  Deterring future sexual abuse by holding those
responsible and accountable similarly provides a reasonable basis and public
purpose for the legislation.  Contrary to
Defendant’s argument, the statute does not aid E.H. alone.  The statute here is multifaceted and benefits
the public, specifically an unknown and unspecified class or group of persons
harmed by sexual assaults.  AB 218’s public
purpose distinguishes this case from the turn of the 20th century cases
cited by LAUSD.  (See Hammond, supra,
6 Cal.2d at p. 723 [distinguishing private person cases from public purpose cases].)
     
 
V.          CONCLUSION
            
The Demurrer is SUSTAINED. 
Leave to amend is GRANTED.  
 
Plaintiff is ordered to serve and file his First Amended
Complaint within 30 days of this order.
 
Defendant is to file and serve its responsive pleading
within 30 days of service of Plaintiff’s amended pleading. 
 
Defendant to give notice. 

 
Dated:   January 22,
2024                                         




 


   




 


  Kerry Bensinger  
  Judge of the Superior Court 




 
            