 Case Number:  SC124878    Hearing Date:   March 13, 2024    Dept:  I The court
received plaintiff’s status conference statement on December 28, 2023.  The fact that it was sent so soon suggests a
lack of a willingness to try and resolve the matter in good faith.  The court received defendants’ response this
morning, having been filed yesterday morning. 
The court has not read it.  It
appears that this case will never resolve unless  both parties are willing to reach an
agreement.  The court therefore REFERS
the matter to a referee to be appointed pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
section 639 to make a recommendation as to how to go forward.  The court is convinced that the parties will
never come to terms and, frankly, the court is getting tired of the constant
back and forth between the parties.  The
court believes it will be best if a referee is therefore appointed who can
devote the time necessary (at the parties’ expense) to get to the bottom of the
problem, hear from any experts the parties may wish to call, and make a final
determination as to what is to be done for the court’s review and
consideration.  The costs will be
initially paid by both parties but will be subject to reapportionment at the
conclusion of these proceedings and will not exceed a total of $25,000 absent
further court approval.  The court
directs the parties to Code of Civil Procedure section 640.  If the parties do not agree, the parties will
submit a JOINT submission to the court of six names—three nominated by each
party.  The names will be submitted in
alphabetical order with no indication as to which party nominated with
person.  Attached to the submission will
be a statement including the nominee’s CV and hourly rate.  The matter will be continued for
approximately 3 months, at which time the court will appoint the referee and
set a new date.  The referee will also
have the authority to recommend whether defendants are entitled to any refund
of monies already paid.  The referee may
also recommend sanctions to be imposed upon one or both parties for bad faith
in terms of resolving this matter or regarding their conduct or positions
during the reference. 
 