 Case Number:  23SMCV04614    Hearing Date:   March 13, 2024    Dept:  I This is the continuation of a matter heard on March 4,
2024.  At that hearing, the court ordered
further papers be filed regarding what happened when service was
attempted.  Specifically, plaintiff
served defendant by substituted service. 
Plaintiff’s process server served Lea Nahabedian, although the proof of
service mis-spells the name.  Defendant
contends that although the address was correct, that person worked for MASH
Accounting and Consulting Group, not VS Accounting.  Accordingly, she did not have the authority
to accept service of process on VS Accounting’s behalf, and therefore there is
no proper service.  The court’s view was
that defendant’s position was contrived and not forthright.  But the court gave defendant three court days
to submit a supplemental declaration explaining the relationship between MASH
and VS Accounting sufficient to show that serving MASH would not be sufficient,
whether there was someone present other than Nahabedian to whom service could
have and should have been made, what was said by the parties at the time, and
what Nahabedian did with the documents once received.  Plaintiff had three court days to respond.
The court has reviewed the receptionist’s declaration, filed
March 8, 2024.  She states that she is a
receptionist for MASH and has no idea who or what VS Accounting is.  She claims she was not served with anything
at the date and time in the POS.  She
says that had she been asked, she would have declined because she does not work
for VS.  But she says she would have
asked her employer Vigram Shalvardzhyan about it.  He is usually in the office adjacent or near
the reception area.  The court notes that
“Vigram Shalvardzhyan” has the same initials as the “VS” in VS Accounting,
which the court does not find is a coincidence. 
In response, plaintiff notes that the undisputed address for VS
Accounting is 500 N. Central Ave., Suite 600—which is where the process server
went.  Counsel also visited the location
and confirmed that there is but one desk in the reception area—there is no
separate signage or desk for VS Accounting.
It is difficult for the court to conclude that the process
server is just lying; that he never delivered the papers to anyone at the date
and time set forth in the declaration. 
The court just does not buy it. 
It could well be that he did not announce that he was serving VS
Accounting, but whether he announced it or not, the court believes as a matter
of credibility that he left the papers with the receptionist, even if she was
employed by MASH.  The court also notes
that the supplemental declaration is carefully worded.  The receptionist states that she was not
served at the specific date and time in the proof of service, but she does not
say that she was never served with anything or that no one attempted to serve.  The declaration would be true if the service
occurred at 4:05 rather than 4:02, for example, but it would not address the
real issue.  Further, the court does not
believe that VS Accounting can list an address and then pretend not to be
there.  Under these circumstances, the
court believes that the papers were dropped off and that the receptionist did
give them to Mr. Shalvardzhyan or at least inform him that they had been
served.  Mr. Shalvardzhyan’s declaration
is also quite peculiar.  It states that
he was not given any papers at the specific date and minute in the POS.  But, again, he never says he never got
them.  Given that, VS Accounting was
aware of the suit.
The concern that the court has is this.  Service was purportedly made on October 4,
2023.  Defendant had until October 11,
2023 to answer.  Plaintiff took a default
on October 19, 2023—about a week later. 
Defendant moved to set it aside the next day—October 20, 2023.  The reason that the court requires that
notice of default be mailed to the defendant is so that the defendant can
timely move to set it aside.  Here, the
motion was filed the next day.  That
motion was denied on December 22, 2023, but that was because the evidence in
support was not proper.  That led the
court to be concerned that the delay was tactical, not accidental.  Almost immediately after the court’s order, a
new motion was filed to set aside.  It
was filed on December 26, 2023.  That is
the motion now at issue.
The court will discuss the matter with counsel.  The court’s inclination is to DENY the motion
because the court is having trouble believing that the process server just made
the whole thing up (and miraculously got the name of the receptionist
fundamentally right).  But that said, if
the matter proceeds by default, the court will allow defendant a reasonable
opportunity to test the court’s ruling on appeal (by way of a request to the
DCA for a stay).  Given that, plaintiff
might prefer withdrawing the opposition in return for a very early trial date.