  Case Number:  20SMCV00201    Hearing Date:   March 13, 2024    Dept:  I This is a default prove up hearing and also an OSC re:
Dismissal for failure to appear at the last hearing.  Defense counsel has filed a motion to
withdraw that is set to be heard on March 25, 2024, claiming that defendant is
no longer communicating.  The amount
plaintiff seeks in default is quite high--$866,776.  The complaint alleges $48,249.99 in unpaid
rent as of January 1, 2020, which was about a month before suit was filed.  It also asserted holdover rent of $536.11 per
day from January 1, 2020, until judgment was entered.  Because it has been well over four years
since the complaint was filed, those holdover damages are pretty huge.  The court has a few questions, though.  First, is RADG still in the building?  If so, then the holdover damages seem a bit
tamer.  Defendant well knew that rent
would continue to accrue and plaintiff could not re-let the space while
defendant was in it.  Further, there were
a number of protections during the pandemic that protected defendant from
eviction.  On the other hand, if RADG
vacated the building, then the court would need to see some powerful evidence
showing that the space could not have been re-let.  After all, plaintiff has a duty to mitigate
and plaintiff cannot just leave the space vacant without trying to re-let
it.  The court is aware of the Cherniak
declaration, which states in somewhat conclusory fashion that plaintiff was
unable to re-let the premises but did try. 
(Cherniak Decl., ¶ 7, page 2:19-24.) 
However, the court does not view this as sufficient for an award of that
magnitude.
There is also the question of fees, but plaintiff’s counsel
has filed an appropriate declaration in that regard. 
Because the judgment includes unpaid rent through July 31,
2024, the court sees no problem CONTINUING the hearing until August 2024.  That will also allow defense counsel’s motion
to withdraw to be heard.  The court will
discuss the specific date with counsel.
 