 Case Number:  22SMCV01207    Hearing Date:   March 13, 2024    Dept:  I This is a motion to set aside the default.  There is no timely opposition.
Orange Team is in default. 
It was defaulted in May 2023, but waited until February 2024 to move to
vacate the default.  The court sees no
basis for the delay.  Orange Team appears
to have had actual notice of the case since March 28, 2023, but nonetheless did
nothing.  Orange Team claims that there
was improper service because service was made on the CEO’s spouse, but
according to Orange Team, she was not an employee or agent of that entity.  Orange Team also claims that the papers were
not properly mailed.  But there is no
good showing that the mailing was improper and plainly Orange Team was well
aware of the suit.  The decision not to
appear was not due to excusable neglect or a defect in service; it was much
more likely tactical; a decision by Orange Team to delay coming into the
case.  And when default was entered in
May of 2023, Orange Team’s decision to wait almost nine months to move to
vacate the default was also likely a tactical one.
That said, however, there is a strong public policy favoring
resolution of cases on their merits.  And
the technical issues regarding service are still troubling.  Finally, Orange Team has stated that it will
not seek a trial continuance if it is allowed to answer.
The court is, therefore, inclined to GRANT the motion.  Orange Team may file its answer, but no cross
action, within 2 court days.  However,
the court will hold Orange Team to its promise and will not entertain a request
from Orange Team or anyone else to continue the trial or any deadline.  Orange Team should also be careful not to
abuse the privilege.  A raft of discovery
served at the last second that is impossible to answer in the time allotted
before the discovery cut-off will be looked at askance by the court, which will
not hesitate to issue a protective order if needed.  Orange Team would be well advised not to make
the court do so.  The court notes that
Westowne HOA did not oppose the motion—including the part where Orange Team
represented that no one would seek a continuance.  The court will therefore hold defendant to
its affirmative decision to allow the default to be vacated and the court will
not entertain a motion from the defense to continue the case.  If there is limited discovery yet to be done,
it had better get done quickly.  The
court will also condition the granting of the motion on Orange Team’s agreement
not to notice the deposition of any party or witness who has already been
deposed.  Requiring a second deposition
is a form of prejudice that the court will not allow at this late date.  In short, the court will not allow Orange
Team to blow up the trial or cause an inordinate amount of extra work before
the trial but will allow Orange Team to be heard at trial. 
The court is aware of plaintiffs’ untimely opposition.  It is STRICKEN.  If plaintiffs wanted to oppose the motion,
they had an opportunity to do so.  The
court notes plaintiffs’ statement that there exists a jural entity called Green
Planet, Inc., that is not a moving party but might still be in default.  The court agrees that this motion is brought
only on Orange Team’s behalf.  That would
include any “dba” under which Orange Team operates, but it would not include a
separate jural entity.  If there is a separate
jural entity that remains in default, that condition is not altered by this
motion or order. 
Finally, defendant Westowne is ORDERED to provide a copy of
all written discovery and the responses thereto served in this case
(irrespective of who propounded or responded the discovery) to Orange Team’s
counsel within 5 court days.  That can be
done electronically.