 Case Number:  22STCV29986    Hearing Date:   April 26, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Alison Oley,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
22STCV29986




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




County of Los Angeles, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date: April 26, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice Leiter
Demurrer to Second Amended Complaint
Moving Party: Defendant County of Los Angeles
Responding Party: Plaintiff Alison Oley
 
T/R:     DEFENDANT’S DEMURRER IS OVERRULED.
 
DEFENDANT TO FILE AND SERVE AN ANSWER
TO THE SECOND AMENDED COMPLAINT WITHIN 20 DAYS OF NOTICE OF RULING.
 
DEFENDANT TO NOTICE.
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please
email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing.
The Court considers the moving papers,
opposition, and reply. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On January 19, 2024, Plaintiff Alison
Oley filed the operative second amended complaint against Defendants County of
Los Angeles and Mario Rangel, asserting causes of action for (1) violation of the
Unruh Act; (2) sexual harassment; (3) failure to prevent harassment; (4)
violation of Bane Act; (5) IIED; and (6) distribution of private explicit
materials. Plaintiff alleges Defendant Rangel, a drill instructor at the LA
Sherriff’s Department academy, sexually harassed her beginning when she was a
trainee. 
 
REQUEST FOR
JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
Defendant’s request for judicial notice
is GRANTED as to the existence of the documents, but not as to the truth of the
matters asserted in them.
 
ANALYSIS
 
A demurrer to a complaint may be taken to the whole complaint or to any
of the causes of action in it.  (CCP §
430.50(a).)  A demurrer challenges only
the legal sufficiency of the complaint, not the truth of its factual
allegations or the plaintiff's ability to prove those allegations.  (Picton v. Anderson Union High Sch. Dist. (1996)
50 Cal. App. 4th 726, 732.)  The court
must treat as true the complaint's material factual allegations, but not
contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.  (Id. at 732-33.)  The complaint is to be construed liberally to
determine whether a cause of action has been stated.  (Id. at 733.)
 
A. Fourth Cause
of Action for Violation of the Bane Act
 
Defendant demurs to the fourth cause of action on the ground that
Plaintiff failed to file a government tort claim addressing these allegations.
Defendant presents the County’s rejection of Plaintiff’s April 7, 2022 tort
claim for conduct that occurred prior to October 6, 2021 as untimely. Defendant
also presents the Superior Court’s denial of Plaintiff’s application for leave
to file a late claim. Defendant asserts that the Bane Act allegations occurred
before October 6, 2021. In opposition, Plaintiff lists Rangel’s conduct that occurred
after October 6, 2021, including physically choking Plaintiff to the point of
unconsciousness in January 2022. The demurrer cannot be sustained on this
basis.
 
Defendant also asserts that the fourth cause of action fails because
Rangel’s conduct was outside the scope of his employment. Plaintiff argues that
this is a question of fact not suitable for determination on demurrer. The
Court agrees.
 
The demurrer to
the fourth cause of action is OVERRULED.
 
B. Sixth Cause
of Action for Violation of Civil Code § 1708.85
 
Defendant demurs to the sixth cause of action for distribution of
private explicit materials in violation of Civil Code § 1708.85 on the grounds
that Rangel’s conduct fell outside the scope of employment and that Civil Code
§ 1708.85 allows for liability only against persons, not entities. As discussed,
whether Rangel’s conduct was within the scope of employment is a question of
fact. Plaintiff alleges Rangel violated this section by uploading private text
messages to the County’s computer system while working. This is sufficient to
allege that Rangel’s conduct occurred within the scope of employment. Defendant
does not provide authority stating an entity cannot be held liable for an
individual’s acts violating Civil Code § 1708.85 under respondeat superior. 
 
The demurrer to the sixth cause of action is OVERRULED.