 Case Number:  23STCP04483    Hearing Date:   April 26, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior
  Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Studio City
  Residents Association, et al.,


 
 
 
Petitioners,


 
Case Nos.:

 


 
23STCP04483
23STCP04501




v.


 


 
Tentative
  Ruling

 




City of Los
  Angeles,


 
Respondent.

 


 


 




 
Save Weddington
  Inc.,
 
v.
 
City of Los Angeles,


 
 
Petitioner,
 
 
 
Respondent.

 


 


 




 
Harvard-Westlake
  School, County of Los Angeles, et al.,


 
 
 
 
Real Parties in
  Interest.
 

 


 


 




 


 


 


 



 
Hearing Date: April
26, 2024
Department 54,
Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion for
Preliminary Injunction
Moving Party: Petitioners
Save Weddington, Inc., Studio City Residents Association, and Save Los Angeles
River Open Space 
Responding Parties: Respondent City
of Los Angeles; Real Parties in Interest Harvard-Westlake School and 4141
Whitsett LLC
 
T/R:     PETITIONERS’ REQUEST FOR A PRELIMINARY INJUNCTION OR STAY STOPPING
ALL APPROVALS, SITE PREPARATION, AND CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES IS DENIED.
 
THE PARTIES ARE ASKED TO ADDRESS AT ARGUMENT
WHETHER IT IS IN THE PUBLIC INTEREST TO STAY REMOVAL OF THE 240 TREES UNTIL
TRIAL, AND TO ANSWER CERTAIN QUESTIONS RAISED BELOW. 
 
            PETITIONERS TO NOTICE.
            The Court considers the moving papers,
oppositions, and replies filed in both cases.  
            Petitioners
claim in these lawsuits that the City of Los Angeles failed to comply with the
California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) in approving the Harvard-Westlake
River Park Project. Before the Court today are Petitioners’ motions to stop site
preparation and construction activities until the Court decides the merits of
their CEQA claims.
            To decide
these motions, the Court must weigh the likelihood that Petitioners will
succeed on their CEQA claims at trial. The Court also must balance the respective
harms to the parties and the public of stopping or not stopping construction.
As discussed in more detail below, the Court finds that Petitioners have not proved
they are likely to succeed on the merits of their claims. The City considered the
environmental concerns Petitioners raised and included mitigation measures in
the Project plan the City approved. Petitioners have not shown in this motion that
the City likely failed to follow proper procedures when evaluating the
environmental impacts of the Project or reached conclusions that are not supported
by substantial evidence.
            In
weighing the respective harms and benefits of imposing an injunction or stay,
the Court has paid particular attention to the possible imminent removal of 240
trees. The risk of irreparable harm is greater here. Removing the trees now
would effectively deprive Petitioners and the public of a full review at trial of
the City’s decision to allow their removal. The parties’ briefs do not provide
adequate information on the timing of the planned tree removal or the impact of
a relatively brief stay of tree removal until trial. Below, the Court asks
questions the parties should be prepared to answer at argument.           
BACKGROUND 
  
On
December 13, 2023, Petitioners Studio
City Residents Association and Save Los Angeles River Open Space filed a petition
for writ of mandate against Respondent City of Los Angeles.  On December 14, 2023, Petitioner Save
Weddington, Inc. filed a similar action. The Court related the two cases.
The petitions challenge the City of Los
Angeles’ approval of the Harvard-Westlake River Park Project. The Project site
is a 17.2-acre area in Studio City adjacent to the Los Angeles River and the
Zev Yaroslavsky Greenway. The Project would construct a two-story multi-purpose
gymnasium, a 52-meter swimming pool, tennis courts, athletic fields, bleachers,
locker and meeting room space, and below-grade parking. It also would provide publicly
accessible open space and landscaped pathways connecting to the Greenway and add
on-site landscaped areas. The Project seeks to remove 240 mature trees and
plant 368 new trees. Harvard-Westlake says the trees to be removed are
invasive, the replacement trees are native, and overall the Project will reduce
water usage and pollutants and increase the carbon sequestration rate. 
In September 2021, the Los Angeles City
Council designated the Studio City Golf & Tennis Center as a Historic
Cultural Monument, making the Project site a historic resource.  Save
Weddington claims the Project would destroy this historical designation by
altering its setting, landscape, and recreational facilities and interfering
with its ability to convey its historic significance. 
On March 10, 2022, the City published a
Draft Environmental Impact Report (DEIR).  The final Environmental Impact Report (EIR)
was published on May 24, 2023, and was certified by the City Planning
Commission on August 24, 2023.  Petitioners
filed appeals of the Commission's actions in late September 2023; in November
the Planning and Land Use Management Committee of the City Council recommended
denial of the appeals, approval of the entitlements, and certification of the
EIR.
 
DISCUSSION
 
In these
motions, Petitioners request (1) a stay of all approvals for the Project or in
the alternative (2) a preliminary injunction preventing the removal of 240
mature trees and other site preparation/construction activities in conjunction
with the Project. They move under both Code of Civil Procedure section 1094.5
subdivision (g) and the traditional preliminary injunction standard.
CCP § 1094.5(g)
states that court may stay the operation of an administrative order or decision
when doing so is not against the public interest. The Court exercises its
discretion in deciding whether a stay is appropriate: “Subdivision (g) of
§1094.5 requires only that before the issuance of a stay order ‘the court [be]
satisfied that it is [not] against the public interest.’” (Bd. of Med.
Quality Assurance v. Superior Court (1980) 114 Cal.App.3d 272, 276.) The
Court must “weigh the public interest in each individual case.” Sterling v.
Santa Monica Rent Control Bd. (1985) 168 Cal.App.3d 176, 187; see also
Am. Indian Model Schools v. Oakland Unified School Dist. (2014) 227
Cal.App.4th 258, 295.
 
On a motion for
preliminary injunction the Court considers two factors: “(1) the likelihood
that the Petitioner will prevail on the merits, and (2) the relative balance of
harms that is likely to result from the granting or denial of interim
injunctive relief.”  (White v. Davis (2003) 30 Cal.4th 528,
553-54.) The factors are interrelated, with a greater showing on one permitting
a lesser showing on the other.  (Dodge, Warren & Peters Ins. Services,
Inc. v. Riley (2003) 105 Cal.App.4th 1414, 1420.)  But the party seeking an injunction must
demonstrate at least a reasonable probability of success on the merits.  (IT
Corp. v. County of Imperial (1983) 35 Cal.3d 63, 73-74.)  The party seeking the injunction bears the
burden of demonstrating both a likelihood of success on the merits and the
occurrence of irreparable harm.  (Savage v. Trammell Crow Co. (1990) 223
Cal.App.3d 1562, 1571.) 
In a CEQA
action, the Court reviews the agency’s decision for a prejudicial abuse of
discretion.  (Public Resources Code §
21168.5.)  “Abuse of discretion is
established if the agency has not proceeded in a manner required by law or if
the determination or decision is not supported by substantial evidence.”  (Ibid.;
see also Vineyard Area Citizens for Responsible Growth, Inc. v. City of Rancho
Cordova (2007) 40 Cal.4th 412, 435.) 
Challenges to whether an agency failed to proceed as required by CEQA
are subject to a less deferential standard than challenges to an agency’s
factual conclusions.  (Vineyard, supra, 40 Cal.4th at 435.) 
In reviewing claims for failure to proceed as required the Court must
“determine de novo whether the agency has employed the correct
procedures.”  (Ibid.; see Dry Creek Citizens Coalition v. County of
Tulare (1999) 70 Cal.App.4th 20, 26.) 

Challenges to the
agency’s factual conclusions look to whether the conclusions are supported by
substantial evidence. Substantial evidence means “enough relevant evidence and
reasonable inferences from this information that a fair argument can be made to
support a conclusion, even though other conclusions might also be
reached.”  (14 California Code Regulations
§ 15384(a).)  “A court may not set aside
an agency’s approval of an EIR on the ground that an opposite conclusion would
have been equally or more reasonable.”  (Laurel Heights Improvement Association v.
Regents of the University of California (1988) 47 Cal.3d 376, 393.)  “The reviewing court must resolve reasonable
doubts in favor of the administrative finding and decision.”  (Ibid.)
An agency is
presumed to have regularly performed its official duties.  (Evid. Code § 664.)  The petitioner bears the burden of proof to
demonstrate, by citation to the administrative record, that the EIR is legally inadequate,
and that the agency abused its discretion in certifying it.  (See
South Orange County Wastewater Authority
v. City of Dana Point (2011) 196 Cal.App.4th 1604, 1612; Cherry Valley Pass Acres and Neighbors v.
City of Beaumont (2010) 190 Cal.App.4th 316, 327-28.)  
A.        Request for Judicial Notice
            The
Court GRANTS Respondent’s request for judicial notice pursuant to Evidence Code
§§ 453 (c) and (h).
B.        Evidentiary Objections
            Real
Parties’ Objections to Austin Declaration:
                        SUSTAINED:
None
                        OVERRULED:
1, 2
            Real
Parties’ Objections to Bissell Declaration:
                        SUSTAINED:
3
                        OVERRULED:
4-10
            Real
Parties’ Objections to Cohn Declaration:
                        SUSTAINED:
11
                        OVERRULED:
12-14
            Real
Parties’ Objections to Cole Declaration:
                        SUSTAINED:
15
                        OVERRULED:
16-19
            Real
Parties’ Objections to Haibach Declaration:
                        SUSTAINED:
20
                        OVERRULED:
21-22
Real Parties’
Objections to Hobbs Declaration:
                        SUSTAINED:
None
                        OVERRULED:
23-26
            Real
Parties’ Objections to Longcore Declaration:
                        SUSTAINED:
None
                        OVERRULED:
27-33
            Real
Parties’ Objections to McConnell Declaration:
                        SUSTAINED:
None 
                        OVERRULED:
34-39
            Real
Parties’ Objections to O’Toole Declaration:
                        SUSTAINED:
41
                        OVERRULED:
42-43
            Real
Parties’ Objections to Tonisson Declaration:
                        SUSTAINED:
44, 47
                        OVERRULED:
46, 48
            Real
Parties’ Objections to Tucci Declaration:
                        SUSTAINED:
None
                        OVERRULED
49-54:
            Real
Parties’ Objections to Vereb Declaration:
                        SUSTAINED:
55
                        OVERRULED:
56-60
            Real
Parties’ Objections to Hall Declaration:
                        SUSTAINED:
None
                        OVERRULED:
61-62
            Real
Parties’ Objections to Minteer Declaration:
                        SUSTAINED:
None
                        OVERRULED:
63
C.        Analysis
1.         Likelihood of Prevailing on the Merits
            a.         Impacts
of Tree Removal
Petitioners
argue they are likely to prevail on the merits at trial because the EIR is
deficient.  Petitioners first say the EIR
failed to adequately analyze the environmental impact of removing 240 mature
trees because it did not address the survivability and susceptibility to
disease of the replacement trees intended to mitigate these impacts.  Petitioners also criticize the EIR for allegedly
misleading claims regarding carbon sequestration and the mitigation of urban
heat island effects, arguing that the replacement trees cannot adequately
compensate for the environmental benefits of the mature trees.  
In opposition,
Real Parties argue that Petitioners are unlikely to succeed on the merits under
the deferential standard applied to the City’s factual findings. They also
argue that the City thoroughly analyzed the potential mortality of replanted
trees and the Project’s impact on urban heat and carbon sequestration, and has
measures in place to mitigate any adverse effects, including plans to replace
any trees that do not survive.  
Respondent also
argues that the EIR thoroughly evaluated the environmental impacts of the Project,
particularly the effects of removing and replacing trees on biological
resources, tree canopy cover, carbon sequestration, and urban heat island
effects. They contend that substantial evidence supports the City’s findings
that the impact of these actions would be minimal, especially given the
mitigation measures in place, such as increasing the number of native and
compliant tree species and replacing invasive, non-compliant species.  
In reply, Petitioners
argue that the EIR fails to provide adequate information. It neglected to
address the potential death or stunted growth of replacement trees due to
natural causes, disease, or transplant shock, which would significantly impact
the Project’s alleged environmental benefits, particularly canopy cover and
habitat recovery.  They also say there is
insufficient analysis of replacement tree mortality and how such mortalities
would delay the benefits of carbon sequestration and mitigation of urban heat
island effects.  
Petitioners
have not shown in this motion that they are likely to succeed on the merits on
this issue. Based on the information before the Court, the EIR analyzed the
potential for replacement tree health and mortality.  The City’s consultant explained that the
mortality rate of 6.6-7% claimed by Petitioners has not been seen in the area.  The Project will source trees from reputable
nurseries with a replacement program in the event trees fail.  
The EIR also prepared
an urban heat island study and found that the Project’s tree and landscaping
program would help reduce urban heat island effects, and that replacement trees
over the Project’s lifetime would have a net carbon sequestration benefit.  Petitioners argue that the carbon
sequestration short-term impacts analysis is deficient because it will take ten
years for a sapling in a 46-inch box tree to begin sequestering carbon at
all.  But the EIR’s Carbon Sequestration
and Tree Canopy Study states that “‘during Year 2 of Project operation, the
annual CO2 sequestration rate of the Project’s replacement trees would be
approximately equivalent to existing sequestration rates.’ (Exh. J, p. 686).” The
Court finds that reasonable inferences in favor of the City’s findings support
their decision.  Petitioners have not
shown in this motion they are likely to prevail on issues concerning the
survivability of replacement trees and the adequacy of mitigation measures for
carbon sequestration and the urban heat island effect.  
            b.         Air
Quality Impacts
Petitioners contend
the EIR fails to address air quality impacts from Valley Fever spores likely to
be released during construction. They also fault the EIR’s mitigation plans for
construction-related traffic and noise.  
In opposition,
Real Parties and Respondents argue there is no evidence indicating the presence
of Valley Fever spores at the Project site, and they defend mitigation measures
for air quality and construction impacts as sufficient and well-integrated
within the Project’s design. 
The EIR analyzed
potential Valley Fever impacts from Project construction and found them to be insignificant.
Since the City found no meaningful Valley Fever impact the EIR did not need to
discuss potential health effects.  Petitioners
cannot show a reasonable likelihood of success on the merits merely by pointing
to conflicting evidence in the record of Valley Fever impacts.  The EIR also provides that the Project will
comply with South Coast Air Quality Management District Rule 403 to minimize
potential Valley Fever transmission. From
the evidence provided by the parties here, Petitioners have not shown a
likelihood of prevailing on their claim that there was no substantial evidence
to support the City’s analysis and conclusion of air quality impacts.  
            c.         Construction
Impacts
Petitioners argue
that the proposed traffic and noise mitigation measures are insufficiently
detailed and fail to contain adequate planning or commitment. Petitioners say
the Project design feature of the Construction Management Plan (CMP) “improperly
compress[ed] the EIR’s disclosure and analysis function of potential impacts
and efficacy mitigation for those impacts.” Petitioners claim it is an
improperly deferred mitigation as there are no performance standards set for
this plan.  (Id.)  
Real Parties and
Respondent defend the CMP and the assessment of construction noise impacts,
asserting that all necessary mitigation measures have been planned and
disclosed adequately. Respondent points out that the Project design features
disclose the potential impact of construction traffic and compare the
significance of the impact with and without the CMP. 
In reply,
Petitioners contend that the EIR improperly relies on a future,
yet-to-be-developed Construction Management Plan to address traffic impacts,
which does not meet the CEQA requirements for effective and immediate
mitigation measures. Petitioners also assert that the EIR’s analysis of
construction noise impact assumes without substantial evidence that noise
barriers will achieve sufficient noise reduction and fails to connect
construction noise levels to potential health impacts on nearby residents.  
“Under CEQA, an
agency's conclusion as to whether a given impact is significant is not enough; ‘there
must [also] be a disclosure of the analytic route the ... agency traveled from
evidence to action’.” (Sierra Watch v. County of Placer (2021) 69
Cal.App.5th 86, 101-102.)  The EIR
considered and analyzed the contemplated mitigation measures and found them to
be adequate. It appears the City disclosed the evidence supporting their
conclusions: the EIR found that a 15-dBA construction can be achieved through
specific mitigation measures and that construction noise would not cause
adverse health effects such as sleep deprivation, since noise generating
construction activity would cease at 4pm. Though Petitioners claim the EIR failed
to address other health impacts such as cardiovascular and hearing impacts and
failed to consider that community members may have jobs that necessitate they
sleep during daytime hours, the EIR considered relevant evidence and made
reasonable inferences in analyzing the mitigation of construction noise and
reaching the conclusion that the mitigation measures would be sufficient and
would not cause adverse health effects.  Petitioners
have not satisfied their burden of showing likelihood of success as to
construction noise impacts and mitigation measures. 
            d.         History
of Noncompliance
Petitioners
suggest that the Project failed to comply with prior regulatory requirements
and that the sufficiency of the EIR is contingent on Harvard-Westlake’s
maintenance of replacement trees in excellent condition indefinitely.  
In opposition, Real
Parties refute allegations of past violations by pointing out that there is no
admissible evidence linking such violations to the current Project or
suggesting they might recur.  
In reply, Petitioners
argue against the reliance of unenforceable promises by Harvard-Westlake
regarding mitigation measures, highlighting the school’s history of
non-compliance with zoning and permit requirements. 
This allegation
does not change the analysis. It does not show Petitioners are likely to
succeed on the merits at trial.
2.         Balance of Harms and Public Interest
            a.         Tree
Removal 
Petitioners
contend that removal of 240 mature trees will result in environmental damage
which would impact wildlife, exacerbate the urban heat island effect, and
hinder carbon sequestration, and that this environmental harm is often
irreversible and cannot be compensated monetarily.  
In opposition,
Real Parties argue that the removal of non-native, invasive trees will benefit
the environment by allowing the planting of native species that will enhance
the habitat and increase carbon sequestration.     
As discussed
above, Petitioners have not shown they are likely to succeed at trial on their
claim that the City failed to comply with CEQA in deciding to allow the removal
of these trees, or failed to support their decision with substantial evidence. But
at trial the Court will have the benefit of information it does not have now,
including the administrative record and full briefing on the merits. In other
words, Petitioners may fare better on this issue at trial than they do in this
motion. But if the trees are removed now, Petitioners will be deprived of an
effective remedy if they prevail at trial. (Hixon v. Cnty. of Los
Angeles (1974) 38 Cal.App.3d 370, 378.)
Petitioners
assert that a stay or preliminary injunction would not delay completion of the Project
because issuance of building permits is not imminent.  They point to several approvals that are
still pending, which are prerequisites for the Project to proceed, including
approvals for a haul route, a county lease amendment, and environmental
surveys. In opposition, Harvard-Westlake submits a declaration of James DeMatte,
who states: “As of the date of this declaration, all permits required to
commence construction have either been issued by the required City departments
or are ‘RTI’ (ready to issue), meaning that conditions have been cleared and
the permits are ready for issuance.”  (DeMatte
Decl. ¶ 8.)  In reply, Petitioners state
that no fewer than 22 clearances remain “Not Cleared.”  
The record
before the Court is unclear about when the trees will be removed under the
current timeline, whether all approvals and permits are in place that would
allow removal of the trees, and what impact a delay in tree removal until trial
would have on the overall Project. The parties are asked to address these
issues at argument, as well as the general issue of whether it is in the public
interest under CCP § 1094.5(g) to stay removal of the 240 trees until
resolution of this case at trial.[1]
            b.         Health
Risks, Noise Impacts, Right to Full Disclosure
As discussed
above, Petitioners have not shown they are likely to prevail on these matters
at trial. This weighs heavily against granting a preliminary injunction. The
Court also finds that balancing the respective harms does not weigh in Petitioners’ favor.
            c.         Financial
Harm to Harvard-Westlake and Readiness to Proceed with Construction
Real Parties
claim that any delay in the Project would cause substantial harm to Harvard-Westlake,
its students, and the community, including financial losses of $700,000 per
month and delays in providing educational and recreational benefits to the
community. They state that Harvard-Westlake is about to begin construction and an
injunction would only delay the inevitable. 
Petitioners
dispute Harvard-Westlake’s claims of financial harm due to Project delays,
arguing that these claims are exaggerated and speculative. They contend it is
merely “an estimated 4% annualized increase in construction costs, over the
whole of the Project, grossly exaggerated by a failed conversion of future
expenses into present values.” They also contend that the alleged financial
losses do not consider the opportunity cost of investment returns that could be
earned during the delay and that any harm is self-inflicted, as the site’s
previous income-generating golf course was closed prematurely.  
 The Court has weighed the claimed financial
harm in deciding against stopping all approval- and construction-related
activities.
 
 


