 Case Number:  22NWCV01428    Hearing Date:   October 24, 2024    Dept:  C Baik v. Kaiser Foundation Hospitals 22NWCV01428
 
This
action was filed on November 28, 2022. On October 4, 2023, the entire action
was STAYED pending binding arbitration by the parties. 
 
Plaintiffs
move ex parte to advance the Motion to Vacate Order Submitting Action to
Arbitration, in order to place this case back on the active docket. The grounds
for Plaintiffs' request is Defendant's "failure to pay timely fees"
resulting in Plaintiffs' election to withdraw from arbitration and proceed in
Court as authorized by CCP 1281.98.
 
Plaintiffs'
Ex Parte Application to Advance the Hearing Date on Plaintiffs' Motion to
Vacate Order Submitting Action to Arbitration is DENIED without prejudice.
When a court grants a petition to arbitrate and stays the underlying action,
“the action at law sits in the twilight zone of abatement with the trial court
retaining merely vestigial jurisdiction over matters submitted to arbitration.
During that time, under its ‘vestigial’ jurisdiction, a court may: appoint
arbitrators if the method selected by the parties fails (§1281.6); grant a
provisional remedy ‘but only upon the ground that the award to which an
applicant may be entitled may be rendered ineffectual without provisional
relief (§1281.8, subd. (b)); and confirm, correct or vacate the arbitration
award. (§1285) Absent an agreement to withdraw the controversy from
arbitration, however, no other judicial act is authorized.” (Titan/Value
Equities Group, Inc. v. Sup. Ct. (1994) 29 Cal.App.4th 482, 487.)
 
The
Court is not asked to do any of the three things it is authorized by statute to
do while exercising its vestigial jurisdiction. Therefore, the Court lacks
jurisdiction to grant the requested relief, and the Application is DENIED
without prejudice. 
 
The
Court notes that there is no indication or evidence submitted to show that JAMS
has administratively closed the arbitration due to the non-payment of fees, or
that either party has withdrawn the claims from arbitration. 
 
Moving
Party to give notice. 
 