  Case Number:  20NWCV00592    Hearing Date:   October 24, 2024    Dept:  C MENDOZA v. CITY OF
MAYWOOD
CASE NO.:  20NWCV00592
HEARING:  10/24/24
 
#6
 
     I.       
Defendants CITY OF MAYWOOD; EDDIE DE LA RIVA;
REYNA MENDEZ. HEBER MARQUEZ; and RICARDO LARA’s Motion for Summary Judgment, or
in the Alternative, Summary Adjudication is CONTINUED to a date agreed
upon by the Court and counsel.  
 
    II.       
Defendant CARMEN PEREZ’s Motion for Summary
Judgment, or alternatively, Summary Adjudication is CONTINUED to a date
agreed upon by the Court and counsel.  
 
Opposing Party(s) to give notice. 
 
This RICO action was filed by Plaintiffs JOSE MENDOZA and LA
LABS, INC. on October 23, 2020. On January 25, 2022, the operative Second
Amended Complaint (“SAC”) was filed. 
 
Defendants CITY OF MAYWOOD; EDDIE DE LA RIVA; REYNA MENDEZ.
HEBER MARQUEZ; and RICARDO LARA move for summary judgment, or alternatively,
summary adjudication. Defendant CARMEN PEREZ separately moves for summary
judgment, or alternatively summary adjudication. 
 
In each Opposition, Plaintiffs seek a continuance of these
matters, arguing that facts essential to justify opposing the Motions may exist,
but cannot, for reasons stated, be presented. 
 
“If it appears from the affidavits submitted in opposition
to a motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication, or both, that facts
essential to justify opposition may exist but cannot, for reasons stated, be
presented, the court shall deny the motion, order a continuance to permit
affidavits to be obtained or discovery to be had, or make any other order as
may be just. The application to continue the motion to obtain necessary
discovery may also be made by ex parte motion at any time on or before the date
the opposition response to the motion is due.” (CCP §437c(h).) 
 
In Declarations submitted in conjunction with each
Opposition, Attorney Juan Dotson declares under penalty of perjury that
“Plaintiffs have been attempting to obtain the declaration of a former
employee, David Mango, the former Assistant City Manager & Director,
Building & Planning at City of Maywood during the times alleged in the
second amended complaint. Mr. Mango provided his recommendation of approval of
the conditional use permit to the planning commission and city counsel.
Plaintiffs’ complaint alleges that the Defendants spearheaded a campaign to
derail the conditional use permit for a marijuana testing laboratory because
Plaintiff Mendoza would not pay a bribe to the Defendants.” (Dotson Decl., ¶6.)
“Plaintiff has been unable to depose David Mango because he and the former
mayor of Maywood and 9 other people have been charged in a corruption probe
alleging they solicited and received bribes, misappropriated public funds and
embezzled money over a three-year period. LA Superior Court case, The People of
the State of California vs. MANGO, DAVID, LACBA692573-03.” (Id. ¶8.) “David
Mango’s defense counsel… would not agree to a deposition or a declaration to be
submitted by his client until the criminal case is resolved.” (Id. ¶11.) “Plaintiffs
are informed and believe that Mr. Mango would help establish the unlawful
motivation of the defendants to attempt to extort Plaintiffs’ and Mr. Mango was
familiar with Defendants’ attempt to unlawfully influence witnesses prior to
their appearance at the city council meetings.” (Id. ¶16.) “[S]ince the
deadline for the summary judgment is before the resolution of David Mango’s
criminal case, Plaintiff cannot obtain Mr. Mango’s declaration or deposition
since the 5th Amendment right against self-incrimination would trump
Plaintiffs’ right to seek evidence.” (Id. ¶17.) 
 
The subject Motion is potentially dispositive against the moving party.
The Court finds that the information to be derived from the deposition/declaration
of David Mango is important to Plaintiffs’ Oppositions. In the interests of
justice, and in favor of adjudicating this matter on the merits, the Motions are
CONTINUED to a date agreed upon by the Court and counsel. 
 
According to court records, People v. David Mango, Case No.
LACBA492573-03 is scheduled for preliminary hearing on January 7, 2025 in CSF
Dept. 50.  The time estimate is three
weeks.  
 
Trial in this matter is currently scheduled for December 3,
2024.  The parties are not foreclosed
from seeking a continuance of the trial date in Dept. SE-F. 
 
Supplemental Oppositions and Supplemental Replies may be
filed and served per Code in accordance with the new hearing date. 
 
 
 
 
 