 Case Number:  20STCV13393    Hearing Date:   October 24, 2024    Dept:  C DOE v. THE  SALVATION ARMY, A RELIGIOUS CORPORATION CASE NO.:  20STCV13393 HEARING:  10/24/24   #1   Plaintiffs’ Motion to Compel the Deposition of Defendant THE  SALVATION ARMY’s Person(s) Most Qualified is DENIED.    Opposing Party to give notice.    This childhood sexual assault action was filed by Plaintiff  JOHN DOE (“Plaintiff” or “Doe”) on April 5, 2020.    Plaintiff alleges that “PLAINTIFF, JOHN DOE is an adult  male. PLAINTIFF was born on June 6, 1981 and was a minor at the time of the  sexual abuse alleged herein. PLAINTIFF alleges that he was the victim of sexual  abuse….” (Complaint ¶1.) “Fanning’s sexual abuse of PLAINTIFF began in or  around 1992 when Fanning used the authority vested in him by DEFENDANTS to  cajole and otherwise persuade PLAINTIFF to sleep at his home under the guise of  offering friendship and mentorship. Said abuse continued through approximately  1996.” (Id. ¶21.)    Plaintiff Doe’s Complaint asserts the following causes of  action:    (1) Negligence;   (2) Negligent  Supervision and Failure to Warn Plaintiff;  (3) Negligent  Hiring and Retention;  (4) Negligent  Failure to Warn, Train, or Educate Plaintiff; and  (5) Sexual  Battery   A separate, later-filed action was filed by Plaintiff JOHN  DOE OQ (“Plaintiff” or “Doe OQ”) on December 30, 2020 (John Doe OQ v. The  Salvation Army, Case No. 20STCV49948). On May 6, 2021, the operative First  Amended Complaint (“FAC”) was filed in the later-filed action, alleging the  following relevant facts: “PLAINTIFF, JOHN DOE OQ is an adult male. PLAINTIFF  was born on April 23, 1978 and was a minor at the time of the sexual abuse  alleged herein. PLAINTIFF alleges that he was the victim of sexual abuse….”  (FAC ¶1.) “Fanning’s sexual abuse of PLAINTIFF began in or around 1992 when  Fanning used the authority vested in him by DEFENDANTS to cajole and otherwise  persuade PLAINTIFF to sleep at his home under the guise of offering friendship  and mentorship. Said abuse continued through approximately 1994.” (Id. ¶21.)   Plaintiff Doe OQ’s FAC asserts the following causes of  action:    (1) Negligence;   (2) Negligent  Supervision of an Alleged Perpetrator and Failure to Warn Plaintiff;  (3) Negligent  Hiring and Retention;  (4) Negligent  Failure to Warn, Train, or Educate Plaintiff; and  (5) Sexual  Abuse of a Minor   On December 20, 2021, both actions were consolidated. Doe  v. The Salvation Army (Case No. 20STCV13393) is the lead case.    Plaintiffs John Doe and John Doe OQ now move for an order  compelling the deposition of Defendant THE SALVATION ARMY’s (“Defendant”)  Person(s) Most Qualified. The Notice of Deposition served by Plaintiffs on  August 27, 2024 seeks the deposition(s) of Defendant’s PMQ(s) as to 18 topics. In  support of the Motion, Plaintiffs contend that during meet and confer efforts,  Defendants stated that they would not produce PMQs as to topics 12, 13, and 18.  Consequently, Plaintiffs move to compel the deposition of Defendant’s PMQ(s) as  to those topics, which seek PMQs to testify as to:    12.  All  complaints of an adult employee and/or volunteer in The Salvation Army sexually  abusing a minor prior to 2002.  13.  Any  investigations of a complaint of an adult employee and/or volunteer in The  Salvation Army sexually abusing a minor prior to 2002.  18.  Any  and all investigation by The Salvation Army regarding Paul Fanning’s sexual  misconduct at any time.    In Opposition, Defendant argues that the Motion should be  denied on the following procedural grounds: the Motion is premature because it  was filed before an objection was served; the Motion is moot because an Amended  Notice of Deposition was served after the Motion was filed; and the Motion is procedurally  defective because there is no separate statement attached. Substantively,  Defendant argues that the Motion should be denied because Defendant’s  objections are valid.    Pursuant to CCP §2025.450, if after service of a deposition  notice, a party to the action, without having served a valid objection, fails  to appear for examination, or proceed with it, or to produce for inspection any  document, the party giving notice may move for an order compelling the  deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the production for inspection of any  document. (CCP §2025.450(a).)    The August 27, 2024 Notice of Deposition noticed the PMQ(s)  Deposition(s) for October 9, 2024. (Masry Decl., ¶3, Ex. 1.) Defendant’s  Responses and Objections to Plaintiff’s Notice of Taking Virtual Videotaped  Deposition of Defendant The Salvation Army’s Person Most Qualified was served  on October 3, 2024. (Cope Decl., Ex. 5.)    This Motion was filed on October 2, 2024—before the date the  deposition was noticed to occur, and prior to Defendant’s timely service of  objections to the Notice of Deposition.    It is undisputed that a Second Amended Notice of Taking  Virtual Videotaped Deposition of Defendant The Salvation Army’s Person Most  Qualified and Request for Production of Documents was served on October 9,  2024, which notices the PMQ depositions for October 22, 2024—the day before  this matter is scheduled to be heard. (Cope Decl., Ex. 6.)    The Motion is DENIED.    Defendant served timely objections to the initial Notice of  Deposition. Thereafter, after meeting and conferring, a Second Amended Notice  of Deposition was served on October 9, 2024.    The contents/deficiencies of the Second Amended Notice of  Taking Deposition are not properly at issue before this Court at this time,  especially since the deposition is scheduled to occur the day before this  hearing. Based on what is before the Court at this time, it is unclear whether  Defendant will or will not appear/produce a PMQ to testify as to categories 12,  13 and 18. Nothing has been filed with this Court to suggest that Defendant  served an Objection to the Second Amended Notice of Taking Deposition.    Plaintiff is not foreclosed from filing a Motion to Compel  Defendant’s PMQ(s) Depositions as to the Second Amended Notice of Deposition,  served on October 9, 2024, if necessary.   Doe v. The Salvation Army 20STCV13393

 

This
childhood sexual assault action was filed on April 5, 2020. Trial is scheduled
to begin on January 16, 2025. There is a Motion for Leave to Amend Plaintiffs'
Complaints to Allege Punitive Damages scheduled to be heard on February 11,
2025- after trial. 

 

Plaintiffs'
Ex Parte Application to Advance the Hearing Date for Plaintiffs' Motion for
Leave to Amend Plaintiffs' Complaints to Allege Punitive Damages is DENIED.
As argued in Opposition, if Plaintiffs' Motion was advanced to be heard prior
to the currently scheduled trial date and then granted, such a ruling would
necessarily require a trial continuance because the pleadings would no longer
be at issue. The parties are not foreclosed from seeking a trial continuance in
Dept. SE-F, if necessary. Opposing Party to give notice. 

     