 Case Number:  23NWCV00185    Hearing Date:   October 24, 2024    Dept:  C RACK LEE, INC. v. M.G. UNICORN,
INC. 
CASE NO.:  23NWCV00185 
HEARING:  10/24/24
 
#8
 
    
I.       
Cross-Defendants
RACK LEE, LLC; XIANGMEI LI; and ZHANG CHENG GUANG’s Demurrer to the First
Amended Cross-Complaint is SUSTAINED
with 15 days leave to amend in part and OVERRULED in part. 
 
   
II.       
Cross-Defendants
RACK LEE, LLC; XIANGMEI LI; and ZHANG CHENG GUANG’s Motion to Strike Portions
of the First Amended Cross-Complaint is DENIED in part and MOOT in part. 
 
Moving Party to give notice. 
 
This action for breach of contract was filed on January 18,
2023. 
 
On October 26, 2023, a Cross-Complaint was filed by
Cross-Complainant M.G. UNICORN, INC. (“Cross-Complainant” or “M.G. Unicorn”)
against Cross-Defendants RACK LEE, LLC and XIANGMEI LI.  
 
On February 22, 2024, Amendments were filed naming CHENG
GUANG ZHANG as Cross-Defendant Doe 1; and SHANDONG SHENGZIANG SMART WAREHOUSE
TECHNOLOGY COMPANY LIMITED as Cross-Defendant Doe 2. 
 
After this Court issued a ruling sustaining a Demurrer to
the Cross-Complaint with 30 days leave to amend, M.G. Unicorn filed the
operative First Amended Cross-Complaint (“FAXC”) against Cross-Defendants RACK
LEE, LLC; XIANGMEI LI; ZHANG CHENG GUANG; SHANDONG SHENGXIANG SMART WAREHOUSE
TECHNOLOGY COMPANY LIMITED (collectively “Cross-Defendants”) on March 28, 2024.

 
The FAXC alleges the following relevant facts: “Starting
around four years ago, Cross-Defendant Li and Zheng Cheng Guang approached
Cross-Complainant, stating their interest in doing business with
Cross-Complainant by selling wire storage racks together. Li, DBA ‘Rack Lee’
told Cross-Complainant that she was a Chinese manufacturer of wire storage
racks who owns factory in China, and she could provide low-cost wire storage
racks to Cross-Complainant.” (FAXC ¶3.) “Li promised Cross-Complainant to
supply exclusively Cross-Complainant at least 30 containers of wire storage
rack every month through her Chinese company Shandong Shengxiang Smart
War[e]house Technology Company Limited. [¶] Li promised Cross-Complainant that
the price for those wire storage racks would be based on the cost of
manufacturing those products in China. [¶] Cross-Complainant was interested in
Li’s wire storage rack products, and they started doing business together. [¶]
However, at no time the parties had entered into a written contract for the
purchase and sale of wire storage rack products.” (FAXC ¶¶3-7.) 
 
Cross-Complainants further allege that “the parties’
cooperation did not go smoothly… The quantities of racks Cross-Defendant
delivered were always in question.” (Id. ¶8.) “Li did not exclusively supply
Cross-Complainant wire storage racks as she promised either.” (Id. ¶9.)
“[S]ince 2022, Cross-Defendants have kept delivering incorrect products and
poor-quality products to Cross-Complainant.” (Id. ¶10.) 
 
Cross-Complainant alleges that Cross-Defendants owe
reasonable storage and warehouse fees incurred by Cross-Defendants failure to
pick up rejected goods. 
 
The FAXC asserts the following causes of action: 
 
(1) Common
Count – Goods and Services Rendered 
(2) Conversion
 
Cross-Defendants RACK LEE, LLC; XIANGMEI LI; and ZHANG CHENG
GUANG specially and generally demur to each cause of action. In both the
demurrer and the motion to strike, Cross-Defendants argue that the FAXC fails
to state sufficient facts to support the inclusion of Shangdong Shengxiang
Smart Warehouse, Xiangmei Li. and Zhang Cheng Guan as cross-defendants. 
 
The Court notes that Cross-Defendant Shandong Shengxiang
Smart Warehouse Technology Company Limited is not one of the moving parties on
the instant Demurrer/Motion to Strike. 
 
Uncertainty 
 
Cross-Defendants
argue that the XC is fatally uncertain. This argument lacks merit because “[a]
special demurrer for uncertainty is not intended to reach the failure to
incorporate sufficient facts in the pleading but is directed at the uncertainty
existing in the allegations actually made.” (Butler v. Sequeira (1950)
100 Cal.App.2d 143, 145-146.) Moreover, demurrers for uncertainty are
disfavored and will only be sustained where the pleading is so bad that the
defendant cannot reasonably respond, i.e., he or she cannot reasonably
determine what issues must be admitted or denied, or what counts or claims are
directed against him or her. (Khoury v. Maly’s of Calif. Inc. (1993) 14
Cal.App.4th 612, 616.) A demurrer for uncertainty is strictly construed, even
where a complaint is in some respects uncertain, because ambiguities can be
clarified under modern discovery procedures.” (Ibid.) Here, it is clear
from Cross-Defendants’ other arguments that they understand what the FAXC at
least attempts to allege, and there is no true uncertainty. The Demurrer is not
sustained on the basis of uncertainty. 
 
First Cause of
Action – Common Count (Goods and Services Rendered)
 
To state a common count cause of action for services
rendered, a cross-complainant must demonstrate: (1) the cross-defendant
requested that cross-complainant perform services or deliver goods; (2) the
cross-complainant delivered the requested goods or performed the requested
services; (3) cross-defendant has not paid for the services/goods as requested;
and (4) the reasonable value of the goods or services delivered. (Ochs v.
PacifiCare of California (2004) 115 Cal.App.4th 782, 794.) 
 
A demurrer to a common count is properly sustained where
there is neither an express nor implied promise between the parties. (See Farmers
Ins. V. Zerin (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 1, 20.) Here, and as argued by
Cross-Defendants in the instant demurrer, Cross-Complainant has not alleged a
“promise” that Cross-Defendants would reimburse Cross-Complainant for incorrect
or unacceptable goods. Rather, as argued in Demurrer and as alleged in the
FAXC, the purported oral agreement between the parties concerned the sale of
goods. 
 
In the interests of justice, the demurrer to the first cause
of action for goods and services rendered is SUSTAINED with 15 days leave to
amend. 
 
Second Cause of Action – Conversion 
 
The
elements of a cause of action for conversion are: (1) Cross-Complainant’s
ownership or right to possession of personal property; (2) Cross-Defendant’s
disposition of the property inconsistent with plaintiff’s rights; and (3)
resulting damages. (Fremont Indemnity Co. v. Fremont General Corp.
(2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97, 119.) “A cause of action for conversion of money can
be stated only where a defendant interferes with the plaintiff’s possessory
interest in a specific, identifiable sum, such as when a trustee or agent
misappropriates the money entrusted to him.” (Kim v. Westmoor Partners, Inc.
(2011) 201 Cal.App.4th 267, 284.) [U]nless there is a specific, identifiable
sum involved, such as where an agent accepts a sum of money to be paid to
another and fails to make the payment,” money cannot be the subject of a cause
of action for conversion. (McKell v. Wash. Mut., Inc. (2006) 142
Cal.App.4th 1457, 1491.) 
 
The
demurrer to the second cause of action is SUSTAINED with 15 days leave to
amend. Cross-Complainant does not allege a claim for conversion based on a
specific identifiable sum of money. Rather, Cross-Complainant alleges an
entitlement to “storage fees”—which are not the proper subject of a conversion
claim. 
 
Alter Ego/The Entire FAXC as to Xiangmei Li and Zhang
Cheng Guang
 
Cross-Defendants argue that Cross-Complainants fail to
adequately allege facts to support naming Xiangmei Li as an individual
cross-defendant. 
 
To recover on an alter
ego theory of liability, a plaintiff must allege sufficient facts to “show a
unity of interest and ownership, and inequitable result from treatment of the
corporation as the sole actor.” (Leek v. Cooper (2011) 194 Cal.App.4th
399, 415.) Among the factors to be considered in applying the doctrine are
commingling of funds and other assets of the entities, the holding out by one
entity that is liable for the debts of the other, identical equitable ownership
in the two entities, use of the same offices and employees, and use of one as a
mere shell or conduit for the affairs of the other.” (Sonora Diamond Corp.
v. Sup. Ct (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 523, 538-539.) Other factors include
inadequate capitalization, disregard of corporate formalities, lack of
segregation of corporate records, and identical directors and officers. (Id.
at 539.)
 
Cross-Complainants sufficiently allege that Xiangmei Li and
Zhang Cheng Guang “insufficiently capitalized Rack Lee LLC/or intermingled
personal funds into the company before recently looting said company to such an
extent that it is being believed that Rack Lee LLC may now be ‘judgment proof’
or as close to said state as possible. Xiangmei Li and Zhang Cheng Guang have
disregarded the corporate formalities, by failing to hold annual meetings,
maintaining records, and other duties established by California statute, to
such an extent that the corporate veil or business entity should be pierced.”
(FAXC PARTIES ¶9.)  These allegations are
sufficient to withstand demurrer. Therefore, the demurrer as to Xiangmei Li and
Zhang Cheng Guang is OVERRULED on this ground. 
 
Alter Ego/The Entire FAXC as to Shandong Shenxiang Smart
Warehouse
 
Cross-Complainants allege: “On information and belief,
Xiangmei Li and Zheng Chang Guang insufficiently capitalized Shandong Shenxiang
Smart Warehouse Technology Company Limited / or intermingled personal funds in
the company before recently looting said company to such an extent that it is
believed that Shandong Shengxiang Smart Warehouse Technology Company Limited
may now be ‘judgment proof’ or as close to said state as possible. Xiangmei Li
and Zhang Cheng Guang have disregarded the corporate formalities, by failing to
hold annual meetings, maintaining records, and other duties established by
California statute, to such an extent that the corporate veil or business
entity should be pierced.”
 
In the Demurrer/Motion to Strike, the moving Cross-Defendants
argue that this Court has no jurisdiction over Shandong Shenxiang Smart
Warehouse, a Chinese corporation. As noted above, Shandong Shenxiang Smart
Warehouse is not one of the moving parties on the Demurrer/Motion to Strike. As
such, the Moving Cross-Defendants have no standing to assert arguments on
behalf Shandong Shenxiang Smart Warehouse, and the Court declines to address
any arguments by the Moving Cross-Defendants on behalf of the non-moving
Cross-Defendant Shandong Shenxiang Smart Warehouse.
 
The Court notes that, as of October 21, 2024, no Motion to
Quash Service of Summons/FAXC has been filed/lodged with this Court. 
 
The Motion to Strike
portions of the FAXC is DENIED in part and rendered MOOT in part by the Court’s
ruling above. 