 Case Number:  20STCV41850    Hearing Date:   January 22, 2025    Dept:  78  Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles Department 78 ¿ LISA ACROND, et al., Plaintiff(s), vs. HYUNDAI MOTOR AMERICA, et al., Defendant(s). Case No.: 20STCV41850 Hearing Date: January 22, 2025   [TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING MOTION FOR SUMMARY ADJUDICATION  I. BACKGROUND On October 30, 2020, plaintiffs Lisa Acrond (“Acrond”) and Margie Armstead (“Armstead”) (collectively “Plaintiffs”) filed this lemon law action against defendants Hyundai Motor America (“Defendant”) and Does 1 through 10, alleging that on October 12, 2012, Plaintiffs purchased a 2012 Hyundai Elantra (“Vehicle”) in which Plaintiffs received an express written warranty which covers the engine and transmission. (Compl. ¶¶ 6-7.) During the warranty period, the Vehicle contained or developed defects relating to the engine. (Compl. ¶ 8.) Plaintiffs allege the statute of limitations period for their express and implied warranty claims are tolled under the discovery rule, because Plaintiffs did not and could not reasonably discover the engine defect until around February 2020 and that Defendant had concealed information about the engine defect. (Compl. ¶¶ 12-13.) The Complaint sets forth six causes of action for (1) Violation of Civil Code Section 1793.2(d), (2) Violation of Civil Code Section 1793.2(b), (3) Violation of Civil Code Section 1793.2(a)(3), (4) Breach of Express Written Warranty, (5) Breach of Implied Warranty of Merchantability, and (6) Fraud by Omission. On October 31, 2024, Defendant filed its motion for summary adjudication (“MSA”) against all six causes of action of the Complaint. On January 8, 2025, Plaintiff filed an opposition. On January 17, 2025, Defendant filed a reply. Preliminary, the Court notes that it granted Defendant’s motion to continue trial for the purpose of allowing the MSA to be heard at least 30 days prior to trial. (Min. Order, Jan. 10, 2025.) Thus, any argument related to the timeliness of the motion is moot. The Court considers the MSA on the merits.  II. LEGAL STANDARD A party may move for summary judgment “if it is contended that the action has no merit or that there is no defense to the action or proceeding.” (California Code of Civil Procedure (“CCP”) § 437c, subd. (a).) “[I]f all the evidence submitted, and all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law,” the moving party will be entitled to summary judgment. (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) A motion for summary adjudication may be made by itself or as an alternative to a motion for summary judgment and shall proceed in all procedural respects as a motion for summary judgment. (CCP § 437c, subd. (f)(2).) The moving party bears an initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact, and if the party does so, the burden shifts to the opposing party to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a triable issue of material fact. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850; accord Code Civ. Proc. § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) Where a defendant seeks summary judgment or adjudication, he must show that either “one or more elements of the cause of action, even if not separately pleaded, cannot be established, or that there is a complete defense to that cause of action.” (CCP §437c(o)(2).) “Once the defendant...has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff...to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” (Ibid.) “If the plaintiff cannot do so, summary judgment should be granted.” (Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Med. Ctr. (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.) “When deciding whether to grant summary judgment, the court must consider all of the evidence set forth in the papers (except evidence to which the court has sustained an objection), as well as all reasonable inferences that may be drawn from that evidence, in the light most favorable to the party opposing summary judgment.” (Avivi, supra, 159 Cal.App.4th at p. 467; see also CCP § 437c(c).)  III. DISCUSSION Standing Defendant argues the first, second, third, fourth, and fifth causes of action fail as a matter of law because Plaintiff Acrond does not have standing to bring the lawsuit as a “buyer” under the Song-Beverly Act (“SBA”). Defendant contends that because Plaintiff Armstead purchased the vehicle, that Plaintiff Acrond is therefore not a “retail buyer from a retailer seller”. (Mot. p. 10, line 15.) Defendant relies extensively on Dagher v. Ford Motor Co. (2015) 238 Cal.App.4th 905, 916. However, in Dagher, the “crucial focus” was the nature of the transfer between plaintiff and the sellers, who were private parties not routinely engaged in a “retail” business. (Id. at 923.) Because the plaintiff was a purchaser of a used truck from a private sale, the court found that he had no standing to bring any new car implied warranty protections claim under the SBA. Dagher is not analogous to the current matter, because here, the Vehicle was not purchased from a private seller and Defendant does not argue otherwise. Rather, Defendant’s primary contention about standing is that Plaintiff Acrond lacks it because she did not sign the sales contract. Plaintiffs point to the background facts of Bishop v. Hyundai Motor Am. (1996) 44 Cal. App. 4th 750 (Bishop) to argue that Plaintiff Acrond does have standing. The plaintiff in Bishop was 17 years old when her parents signed a purchase contract for the car for which she made all ensuing payments and was the primary driver. (Id. at 753–54.) Although standing was not raised in Bishop, Plaintiffs note the analogous facts to this matter. Here, even though it was Plaintiff Armstead who signed the sales contract, the purpose of the purchase was for Plaintiff Acrond’s use, and Plaintiff Acrond made all payments for the Vehicle, including all insurance payments. (Plf. Acrond Depo. 17:16-20; 18:3-16.) Plaintiffs also cite federal case Islas v. Ford Motor Co. (2019) No. EDCV 18-2221-GW(SPX), 2019 WL 10855294 (Islas). In Islas, two brothers (Fernando and Roberto) purchased the vehicle for personal use by Fernando. Roberto was the only person named on the purchase contract for the vehicle and the only person listed on the vehicle's California Department of Motor Vehicles Registration. However, Fernando made payments for the vehicle, obtained its insurance, made the insurance payments, and was the primary driver. The defendant argued Fernando had no standing to bring any claims for relief under the SBA because he was not a “buyer” since he was not listed on the sales contract nor on the vehicle’s registration. The Islas court rejected this argument, noting that the SBA was a remedial measure intended to protect consumers, and that if the California legislature wished to exclude SBA coverage for people in Fernando’s shoes who may be considered a de facto purchaser/buyer, then legislature may amend or clarify the SBA to define “buyer” as such. (Id. at 5.) The SBA should generally be construed in a manner that will bring its benefits into action (Murillo v. Fleetwood Enterprises, Inc. (1998) 17 Cal.4th 985, 990). The civil remedies section of the SBA (Civ. Code § 1794) grants standing and a cause of action to “any buyer of consumer goods who is damaged by a failure to comply with any obligation under this chapter or under an implied or express warranty or service contract…”¿ (Civ. Code, § 1794(a).)¿ Civ. Code, section 1791(b) defines a buyer as “any individual who buys consumer goods from a person engaged in the business of manufacturing, distributing, or selling consumer goods at retail.” (Civ. Code § 1791(b).) The plain language of Civ. Code, section 1791 et seq., does not limit the definition of a “buyer” to a retail contract. Rather, the plain language of section 1791 provides for a broad construction of a “buyer” or “retail buyer” in connection to a retail purchase of a consumer good from a retail seller. Given the remedial purpose of the SBA, and finding Plaintiffs’ proffered authority on this question more persuasive, the Court finds that Plaintiff Acrond has standing to bring her SBA claims as a “buyer”. The motion for summary adjudication of the first, second, third, fourth, and fifth causes of action is therefore DENIED. Statute of Limitations Defendant argues that Plaintiffs’ fifth cause of action or breach of implied warranty is time-barred as a matter of law because the deadline to file the claim is four years from the purchase of the car. Defendant argues there is no “delayed discovery” or tolling that may extend the deadline for an implied warranty cause of action, and that therefore Plaintiff’s cause of action expired on October 12, 2016, in reliance on Krieger v. Nick Alexander Imports, Inc. (1991) 234 Cal. App. 3d 205 (Krieger) and Covarrubias v. Ford Motor Co. (2019) No. 19-CV-01832-EMC, 2019 WL 2866046 (Covarrubias). The SBA is manifestly a consumer protection law, liberally interpreted to broaden consumer rights and ease the consumer’s proof of a warranty or statutory liability claim. (Martinez v. Kia Motors America, Inc. (2011) 193 CA4th 187, 191; Reveles v. Toyota by the Bay (1997) 57 CA4th 1139, 1158, disapproved on another ground in Gavaldon v. DaimlerChrysler Corp. (2004) 32 Cal.4th 1246, 1259.) The California Uniform Commercial Code defines three kinds of warranty relevant to consumer purchases: express warranty, the implied warranty of merchantability, and the implied warranty of fitness for a particular purpose. (Krieger, supra, 234 Cal. App. 3d at 212.) While the SBA supplements rather than supersedes the provisions of the UCC and itself contains no express limitations period, the same four-year statute of limitations applies to claims brought under either statute. (Comm. Code § 2725; Krieger, supra, 234 Cal. App. 3d at 213-24.)  "Section 2725 of the California Uniform Commercial Code provides that an action for breach of warranty accrues on tender of delivery. An exception is made where a warranty “explicitly extends to future performance of the goods and discovery of the breach must await the time of such performance.” (Krieger, supra, 234 Cal. App. 3d at 215 [internal citation omitted].) “A promise to repair defects that occur during a future period is the very definition of express warranty of future performance…” (Id. at 217.) Thus, in Krieger, the evidence that respondent had been unable to repair his car as of May 30, 1984 meant that a reasonable trier of fact could conclude that the cause of action accrued in May 1984. (Id. at 218.) However, Kreiger applied its analysis of the statute of limitations in section 2725 to express breach of warranty claims.  As noted in Covarrubias, "since Krieger, the California Court of Appeal has squarely held that an express warranty does not toll the statute of limitations on an implied warranty claim. The court explained in Cardinal Health 301, Inc. v. Tyco Elecs. Corp., 169 Cal. App. 4th 116 (2008) that “[b]ecause an implied warranty is one that arises by operation of law rather than by an express agreement of the parties, ... it is not a warranty that ‘explicitly extends to future performance of the goods’ ” such that it triggers the future performance exception." (Citation omitted).” (Covarrubias at 4.) However, tolling may still apply to an implied warranty claim under the “repair doctrine” because “§ 1795.6(b) extends an implied warranty by the number of days that the plaintiff made the vehicle available for repairs.” (Id. at 5.) California Civil Code § 1795.6(b) extends the warranty period by the number of days from the date upon which the buyer “delivers nonconforming goods to the manufacturer or seller for warranty repairs” up to the date upon which the repaired goods “are delivered to the buyer” or is made “available for the buyer's possession.” (Id. at 4.) Here, the Complaint specifically alleges the “repair doctrine”, which Defendant altogether fails to address. The Complaint alleges the repair history of the Vehicle, wherein Plaintiffs presented the Vehicle to Defendant’s authorized repair facility on April 23, 2018, November 25, 2019, December 10, 2019, February 17, 2020, and on August 25, 2020. (Compl. ¶¶ 16-20.) Thus, Defendant has not met its burden of demonstrating that no triable issue of material fact exists as to whether Plaintiffs’ implied warranty claim is time-barred. The motion for summary adjudication of the fifth cause of action is DENIED. Duty To Disclose Defendant argues there was no specific relationship between it and Plaintiffs such that Defendant owed Plaintiffs a duty, because Plaintiff Armstead purchased the vehicle from South Bay Hyundai, a separate entity from Defendant. Defendant argues that Plaintiffs cannot prove the elements of this cause of action for fraudulent concealment. “[T]he elements of a cause of action for fraud based on concealment are: ‘“(1) the defendant must have concealed or suppressed a material fact, (2) the defendant must have been under a duty to disclose the fact to the plaintiff, (3) the defendant must have intentionally concealed or suppressed the fact with the intent to defraud the plaintiff, (4) the plaintiff must have been unaware of the fact and would not have acted as he did if he had known of the concealed or suppressed fact, and (5) as a result of the concealment or suppression of the fact, the plaintiff must have sustained damage.”’” (Jones v. Conoco Phillips Co. (2011) 198 Cal. App. 4th 1187, 1198, quoting Kaldenbach v. Mutual of Omaha Life Ins. Co. (2009) 178 Cal.App.4th 830, 850.) Plaintiff’s fraud claim is based on an omission. As such, one of the following four circumstances must apply to establish the defendant’s duty to disclose information to the plaintiff: (1) the defendant is the plaintiff’s fiduciary; (2) the defendant has exclusive knowledge of material facts not known or reasonably accessible to the plaintiff; (3) the defendant actively conceals a material fact from the plaintiff; and (4) the defendant makes partial representations that are misleading because some other material fact has not been disclosed. (LiMandri v. Judkins (1997) 52 Cal.App.4th 326, 336; see also Heliotis v. Schuman (1986) 181 Cal.App.3d 646, 651.)¿The exception to the heightened pleading standard for fraud claims provides that, “the requirement of specificity is relaxed when the allegations indicate that "the defendant must necessarily possess full information¿[concerning the facts of the controversy" . . . or "when the facts lie more in the knowledge of the opposite party[.]" (Tarmann v. State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co.¿(1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 153, 158.) Defendant argues it had no duty to disclose because it had no transactional relationship with Plaintiffs, in reliance on Bigler-Engler v. Breg, Inc., (2017) 7 Cal. App. 5th 276 (Bigler-Engler).  A transaction giving rise to a duty to disclose that would support a claim for intentional concealment must necessarily arise from direct dealings between the plaintiff and defendant; it cannot arise between the defendant and the public at large. (Bigler-Engler, supra, 7 Cal. App. 5th at 312). As a matter of common sense, such a relationship can only come into being because of some sort of¿transaction¿between the parties. (LiMandri v. Judkins¿(1997) 52 Cal.App.4th 326, 337.) A duty to disclose may arise from the relationship between seller and buyer, employer and prospective employee, doctor and patient, or parties entering into any kind of contractual agreement. (Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum Com. v. Insomniac, Inc. (2015) 233 Cal.App.4th 803, 831.) A vendor has a duty to disclose material facts not only to immediate purchasers, but to subsequent purchasers when the vendor has reason to expect that the item will be resold. (OCM Principal Opportunities Fund, L.P. v. CIBC World Markets Corp. (2007) 157 Cal.App.4th 835, 851 (“OCM”).) The Court finds Bigler-Engler distinguishable. Bigler-Engler involved injuries associated with the use of a medical device, the Polar Care 500, manufactured by Breg, Inc. The plaintiff’s doctor recommended use of the device after surgery, which the plaintiff’s parents rented from the doctor’s medical group Oasis. As to the plaintiff’s claim of intentional concealment, the court found no duty to disclose because there was no evidence the manufacturer was involved in the sale of the device, that it directly advertised its products to consumers, or that it derived any monetary benefit from the parents’ individual rental of the device. By contrast, here Plaintiffs have alleged that the Vehicle was manufactured and distributed by Defendant and sold by Defendant’s authorized dealership, South Bay Hyundai, located in Torrance, California. (Compl. ¶ 6.) Unlike Bigler-Engler, here Defendant has not provided any evidence that it was not involved with the sale and advertisement of the product to consumers, or that it did not derive any monetary benefit from the Vehicle being sold by its authorized dealership. Further, Defendant is the source of the warranties which form the basis for Plaintiffs’ SBA claims. By manufacturing and distributing cars to its dealership, including the Vehicle, it was reasonable for Defendant to expect that the Vehicle would subsequently be sold.¿(See OCM, supra, 157 Cal.App.4th at 851.) Defendant argues that Plaintiffs cannot prove that it actively concealed material information about potential problems with the Vehicle’s engine, because Plaintiffs cannot base their fraud claim on defects found in other vehicles. Defendant relies on Santana v. FCA US, LLC (2020) 56 Cal. App. 5th 334 (Santana). The Complaint frames the scope of the issues which must be addressed in the summary judgment motion. (FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 367, 381-82.) The Complaint alleges as follows: the Vehicle had a 1.8L Nu engine, which suffered from a latent defect in the piston assemblies, which caused total and irreparable engine failure such as loss of power and failures with power steering and assistance; the symptoms included a knocking noise from the engine. (Compl. ¶ 31.) Defendant had knowledge of this engine defect no later than 2011, when it began to make changes to its piston manufacturing processes, in addition to changes in 2013. (Compl. ¶ 32.) In March 2014, Hyundai Auto Canada Corp. (HACC), a subsidiary of Hyundai Motor Corporation, issued Technical Service Bulletin 14-20-002, which attributed the engine knock to manufacturing defects in the pistons and connecting rods of Nu 1.8L engines. (Ibid.) Canadian Hyundai dealers were instructed to replace Nu 1.8L engines affected by the engine knock, but no such relief was offered in the United States. (Ibid.) The 2011-2016 Elantras who reported the engine knock routinely had their concerns dismissed by Hyundai dealers, who described the sound as “normal” and routinely denied knowledge of the engine knock issue – even where the engine was replaced under the warranty, the replacement contained the same latent defect. (Compl. ¶ 34.) Even though Defendant had knowledge of the engine defect, Defendant did not recall or offer adequate engine repair to owners of 2011-2016 Elantras. (Compl. ¶ 37.) Here, Plaintiffs purchased a 2012 Hyundai Elantra and allege the same defects were found in other Elantras from a certain time period.  These alleged facts are distinguishable from the facts of Santana. In Santana, the plaintiff purchased a 2012 Dodge Durango and alleged a problem with the Totally Integrated Power Module (TIPM). The issue with the TIPM was noted in other vehicles, such as the Dodge Ram Truck and Jeep Cherokee, which “was a different configuration than the TIPM in the Durango.” (Santana, supra, 56 Cal. App. 5th at 341.) Unlike in Santana, here Defendant has not demonstrated that Plaintiffs are basing their engine defect claim on other vehicles that are unlike the Vehicle that was purchased. Neither has Defendant demonstrated that Elantras manufactured in different years over the alleged time period are so unlike one another that Defendant had no awareness of the alleged engine defect. Defendant also argues generally that Plaintiffs have failed to come forward with any evidence of active concealment by Defendant. Defendant must still present evidence reflecting that the plaintiff does not possess such evidence. (Leyva v. Garcia (2018) 20 Cal.App.5th 1095, 1103.)¿A defendant’s initial evidentiary showing may “ “consist of the deposition testimony of the plaintiff's witnesses, the plaintiff's factually devoid discovery responses, or admissions by the plaintiff in deposition or in response to requests for admission that he or she has not discovered anything that supports an essential element of the cause of action.” ” (Id. at 1102 [internal citations omitted].) Here, the only evidence identified in Defendant’s separate statement is that Plaintiffs did not speak to anyone at Hyundai prior to the Vehicle’s purchase. (Plf. Acrond Depo. 52:24-53:3.) This is insufficient to meet Defendant’s burden of demonstrating that it did not have exclusive knowledge of material facts not known or reasonably accessible to Plaintiffs, or to demonstrate that it did not actively conceal a material fact from Plaintiffs. Defendant’s contention that it made no affirmative misrepresentations about the Vehicle is not relevant because Plaintiffs’ fraud action is concealment based, and an affirmative statement is not an element to that cause of action. Further, Defendant’s contention that there is no evidence of any piston slap during Plaintiffs’ ownership of the Vehicle does not specifically identify or refer to any evidence. Defendant’s Separate Statement merely refers to the entirety of Plaintiff Acrond’s 76-page deposition. “Courts are entitled to assistance from counsel, and an invitation to search without guidance is no more useful than a litigant's request to a district court at the summary judgment stage to paw through the assembled discovery material.” (Albrechtsen v. Bd. of Regents of Univ. of Wisconsin Sys. (2002) 309 F.3d 433, 436.) The Court therefore finds that Defendant has not met its prima facie burden. The motion for summary adjudication of the sixth cause of action on the grounds of no duty and no evidence of concealment is DENIED. Economic Loss Rule Defendant argues that even if Plaintiffs can demonstrate a triable issue of material fact for fraud by omission, the sixth cause of action is nonetheless barred under the economic loss doctrine. Defendant relies on Robinson Helicopter Co., Inc. v. Dana Corp. (2004) 34 Cal.4th 979 (Robinson Helicopter). The economic loss rule posits that a purchaser of a product that does not live up to the buyer’s expectations can only recover in contract and not tort, “unless [the purchaser] can demonstrate harm above and beyond a broken contractual promise.” (Food Safety Net Services v. Eco Safe Systems USA, Inc. (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th 1118, 1130 (quoting Robinson Helicopter, supra, 34 Cal.4th at 988).) A tort claim for fraud must be sufficiently independent from a breach of contract claim for which the plaintiff suffered economic loss. (Id. at 991.) Thus, to plead around the economic loss rule, a party must plead the existence of a duty that arises independent of any contractual duty and independent injury, other than economic loss, that arises from the breach of that duty. (Id. at 988-91.) There are four (4) exceptions to the economic loss rule barring recovery in tort in a breach of contract action: (1) where the breach of duty directly caused physical injury; (2) where there was a breach of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing in insurance contracts; (3) for wrongful discharge in violation of fundamental public policy; or (4) where the contract was fraudulently induced. (See Erlich v. Menezes (1999) 21 Cal.4th 543, 551-552; see Robinson Helicopter, supra, 34 Cal.4th at pp. 989-990.) Defendant does not provide any California Supreme Court or state Court of Appeal published decisions on the economic loss doctrine as applied to the SBA. Plaintiffs argue the issue is pending review by the California Supreme Court, in reference to Dhital v. Nissan N. Am., Inc. (2022) 84 Cal. App. 5th 828 (Dhital). The Court notes that as of December 18, 2024, the  California Supreme Court dismissed review of the matter. (See Dhital v. Nissan N. Am. (2024) 559 P.3d 1083.) Dhital therefore has precedential value. In Dhital, the Court of Appeal found that the economic loss rule does not bar causes of action for fraudulent inducement by concealment because fraudulent inducement claims fall within an exception to the economic loss rule, citing Robinson Helicopter. (Dhital, supra, 84 Cal. App. 5th at 841.) The court held that fraudulent inducement, regardless of whether it is achieved by intentional concealment or intentional misrepresentations, is independent conduct from a breach of contract. (Ibid.) Therefore, based on the allegations of the Complaint, the Court finds that Defendant had a duty sufficiently independent from its duties under the parties’ warranty to support a tort claim for fraud. Defendant fails to demonstrate that the economic loss rule affirmatively bars Plaintiffs’ cause of action for fraud by omission. The motion for summary adjudication of the sixth cause of action based on the economic loss rule is therefore DENIED.  IV. CONCLUSION Defendant Hyundai Motor America’s motion for summary adjudication of the first, second, third, fourth, fifth, and sixth causes of action of Plaintiffs’ Complaint is DENIED.  Moving Party is ordered to give notice.  DATED: January 21, 2025 __________________________ Hon. Tiana J. Murillo Judge of the Superior Court  PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: • Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. • If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the court at SMCDEPT78@lacourt.org with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number. The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting. • Unless all parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument. You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue. • If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court. After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave. 