 Case Number:  23STCV19773    Hearing Date:   January 22, 2025    Dept:  78  Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles Department 78 ¿ XCEL MECHANICAL SYSTEMS, INC., Plaintiff(s), vs. CHA HOLLYWOOD MEDICAL CENTER, LP, et al., Defendant(s). Case No.: 23STCV19773 (R/T 21STCV33416, et al.) Hearing Date: January 22, 2025   [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION AND STAY ACTION PENDING ARBITRATION  I. BACKGROUND On August 17, 2023, plaintiff Xcel Mechanical Systems, Inc. (“Xcel”) initiated this action against defendants CHA Hollywood Medical Center (“CHA”) and Does 1 through 100 to for work performed on the property commonly known as 1300 N. Vermont Ave, Los Angeles, CA 90027 (the “Property”). (Compl. ¶¶ 4, 5.) CHA is the owner of the Property, and its general contractor was Skanska USA Building, Inc. (“Skanska”). On November 22, 2019, Skanska retained Plaintiff to furnish and install the HVAC system in exchange for $2,699,541. (Compl. ¶¶ 5-6.) After Xcel performed the work, Xcel did not receive payment and subsequently recorded a mechanic’s lien. (Compl. ¶¶ 6, 8.) The complaint sets forth causes of action for common count, account stated, unjust enrichment, and foreclosure of mechanic’s lien. On October 16, 2024, CHA filed a Cross-Complaint against Skanska for express indemnity and declaratory relief. Xcel’s action is related to twenty-one other matters, with Case No. 21STCV33416 (the “Herrick Action”) as the lead case. On October 30, 2024, Skanska filed the instant motion to compel arbitration and to stay the action pending arbitration. Skanska argues there is a written contract between Skanska and Xcel (the “Subcontract”) in which Xcel is bound by the dispute resolution procedure and final determination specified in Skanska’s contract with CHA (the “Owner Contract”). Skanska, CHA, and fifteen of Skanska’s subcontractors, including Xcel, are currently engaged in arbitration in the consolidated proceeding The Herrick Corporation v. Skanska USA Building Inc., et al., AAA Case No. 01-22-0001-1030 (the “Arbitration”). CHA joins the motion. On December 9, 2024, Xcel filed an opposition. Xcel argues Exhibit N of the Subcontract modifying the terms of Exhibit E is unsigned, and the Owner Contract was never provided to Xcel at the time of the Subcontract’s execution, thus rendering = the arbitration provision procedurally and substantively unconscionable. Xcel objects to Skanska’s and CHA’s joint application requesting Xcel’s joinder to the Arbitration pursuant to Rule 7 of the AAA rules, and also contends that the R7 arbitrator lacked jurisdiction to order Xcel to Arbitration because there was no delegation clause giving the R7 arbitrator the right to determine arbitrability. Xcel also argues that Skanska and CHA waived arbitration under the Subcontract by not requesting Xcel to join the Arbitration in August 2024 and by not initiating mediation prior to arbitration. On December 13, 2024, Skanska filed a reply. Skanska argues that Section 13.4.2 of Exhibit N to the Subcontract was entered into by two sophisticated construction companies after arms-length negotiation, and that it is neither procedurally nor substantively unconscionable. Skanska argues the Owner Contract was made available to all subcontractors, and that if Xcel did not have a copy, Xcel should have asked for it before agreeing to the terms of the Subcontract which refer to and incorporate elements of the Owner Contract. Additionally, Skanska avers Exhibit N existed at the time the parties executed the Subcontract, that it was incorporated and attached to the Subcontract on the date of execution, and that none of the exhibits were required to be signed or initialed. Skanska argues the R7 arbitrator did have jurisdiction to determine arbitrability of Xcel’s claims because the AAA Commercial Arbitration Rules were incorporated into the contract. Lastly, Skanska argues it did not waive arbitration based on the provisions of Exhibit N and the date it was made a party to the action.  II. REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE Skanska requests the Court take judicial notice of (1) Skanska’s First Amended Cross-Complaint, filed in LASC Case No. 21STCV33416 on October 9, 2023, (2) Xcel’s Complaint in this action, (3) the Herrick Complaint, filed in LASC Case No. 21STCV33416 on September 10, 2021, (4) Herrick’s Amended Complaint, filed in LASC Case No. 21STCV33416 on December 14, 2021, (5) Stipulation and Order Staying Action Pending Arbitration, entered in LASC Case No. 21STCV33416 on March 11, 2022, and (6) CHA’s Cross-Complaint against Skanska in this action. The unopposed requests are granted. (Cal. Evid. Code § 452(d).)  III. LEGAL STANDARD Under both the Federal Arbitration Act and California law, arbitration agreements are valid, irrevocable, and enforceable, except on such grounds that exist at law or equity for voiding a contract. (Winter v. Window Fashions Professions, Inc. (2008) 166 Cal.App.4th 943, 947.)¿The party moving to compel arbitration must establish the existence of a written arbitration agreement between the parties.¿(Code of Civ. Proc. § 1281.2.) This is usually done by presenting a copy of the signed, written agreement to the court. “A petition to compel arbitration or to stay proceedings pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure sections 1281.2 and 1281.4 must state, in addition to other required allegations, the provisions of the written agreement and the paragraph that provides for arbitration. The provisions must be stated verbatim or a copy must be physically or electronically attached to the petition and incorporated by reference.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1330.) The moving party must also establish the other party’s refusal to arbitrate the controversy.¿(Code of Civ. Proc. § 1281.2.) The filing of a lawsuit against the moving party for a controversy clearly within the scope of the arbitration agreement affirmatively establishes the other party’s refusal to arbitrate the controversy.¿(Hyundai Amco America, Inc. v. S3H, Inc. (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 572, 577.)¿ “Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.2 requires a trial court to grant a petition to compel arbitration ‘if the court determines that an agreement to arbitrate the controversy exists.’”¿(Avery v. Integrated Healthcare Holdings, Inc. (2013) 218 Cal.App.4th 50, 59 (quoting CCP § 1281.2).) Accordingly, “when presented with a petition to compel arbitration, the court’s first task is to determine whether the parties have in fact agreed to arbitrate the dispute.”¿(Ibid.)¿A petition to compel arbitration is in essence a suit in equity to compel specific performance of a contract.¿(Id. at 71.)¿As with any other specific performance claim, “a party seeking to enforce an arbitration agreement must show the agreement’s terms are sufficiently definite to enable the court to know what it is to enforce.”¿(Ibid. [internal citations omitted].) “Only the valid and binding agreement of the parties, including all material terms well-defined and clearly expressed, may be ordered specifically performed.”¿(Ibid.) An arbitration agreement “must be so interpreted as to give effect to the mutual intention of the parties as it existed at the time of contracting, so far as the same is ascertainable and lawful.” (Civ. Code, § 1636.)¿ The language of the contract governs its interpretation if it is clear and explicit.¿ (Civ. Code, § 1368.) If uncertainty exists, “the language of a contract should be interpreted most strongly against the party who caused the uncertainty to exist.”¿(Civ. Code, § 1654.) The party seeking to compel arbitration bears the burden of proving the existence of a valid arbitration agreement by the preponderance of the evidence.¿(Engalla v. Permanente Medical Group, Inc. (1997) 15 Cal.4th 951, 972.) It would then be plaintiff’s burden, in opposing the motion, to prove by a preponderance of the evidence any fact necessary to her opposition.¿(Ibid.) “In these summary proceedings the trial court sits as a trier of fact, weighing all the affidavits, declarations, and other documentary evidence, as well as oral testimony received at the court’s discretion, to reach a final determination.¿(Ibid.)  IV. DISCUSSION Here, there are two relevant contracts: the Subcontract and its incorporation of the Owner Contract. Section 13.4.2 of the Subcontract provides, in relevant part:  “In the event any dispute or claim between Contractor and Owner which directly or indirectly involves Work performed or to be performed by Subcontractor, or in the event of any dispute or claim between Contractor and Subcontractor caused by or arising out of conduct for which the Owner may be responsible, Subcontractor agrees to be bound to Contractor and Contractor agrees to be bound to Subcontractor to the same extent the Contractor is bound to Owner by the terms of the Owner Contract and by all procedures and resulting decisions, findings, determinations and/or awards made thereunder by the person or entity so authorized in the Owner Contract, or by an administrative agency, board, court of competent jurisdiction, or arbitration.”  (Childress Decl. Ex. 8 [Exh. N at p. 5.] (emphasis added).)  Section 15.4.1 of the Owner Contract provides: “Any Claim arising out of or related to the Contract, except Claims relating to aesthetic effect and those waived as provided for in Section 9.10.4, referred to but not resolved by mediation, shall be subject exclusively to binding arbitration, which shall be administered by the American Arbitration Association in accordance with its Construction Industry Arbitration Rules currently in effect; provided, however, that the matter shall be referred to a single arbitrator notwithstanding any procedure or requirement established by such rules. A demand for arbitration shall be made in writing, delivered to the other party to the Contract, and filed with the person or entity administering the arbitration. The party filing a notice of demand for arbitration must assert in the demand all Claims then known to that party on which arbitration is permitted to be demanded. The locale for the arbitration shall be Los Angeles, California.” (Childress Decl. Ex. 7 at p. 43(bold and italic emphasis added). Xcel does not dispute the existence of the arbitration agreement; Xcel objects to the arbitration provision on the grounds that it is unconscionable. Unconscionability is a valid reason for refusing to enforce an arbitration agreement under CCP section 1281 because it is a reason for refusing to enforce contracts generally. (Armendariz v. Foundation Health Psychcare Servs. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 113-27.) “The party resisting arbitration bears the burden of proving unconscionability.”¿(Pinnacle Museum Tower¿Ass’n¿v. Pinnacle Market Dev. (US) (2012) LLC,¿55 Cal.4th 223, 247.)¿Both procedural and substantive elements must be present for a court to exercise its discretion to refuse to enforce a contract or clause under the doctrine of unconscionability. (Crippen v. Central Valley RV Outlet. Inc. (2004) 124 Cal.App.4th 1159, 1165.) Procedural Unconscionability Xcel argues the arbitration clause is procedurally unconscionable because the terms of the arbitration agreement are contained in the Owner Contract, and the Owner Contract was not provided to Xcel prior to or following the execution of the Subcontract. (Michel Decl. ¶ 2.) “Procedural unconscionability focuses on “oppression” or “surprise” due to unequal bargaining power. [Citation.] The procedural element generally takes the form of an adhesion contract, which “ ‘imposed and drafted by the party of superior bargaining strength, relegates to the subscribing party only the opportunity to adhere to the contract or reject it.’ ” (Fitz v. NCR Corp. (2004) 118 Cal. App. 4th 702, 713.)  Xcel’s cites Fitz v. NCR Corp. (2004) 118 Cal. App. 4th 702 (“Fitz”) and Harper v. Ultimo (2003) 113 Cal.App.4th 1402 (“Harper”) to argue surprise and oppression. The Court does not find Fitz or Harper to be persuasive here. Fitz involved an employment contract where the employee plaintiff either had to quit her job of 14 years or agree to the terms of an ACT policy that was presented on a take-it or leave-it basis and in which the plaintiff had no bargaining power; the court found that all of these factors presented a high degree of oppressiveness such that the ACT policy was procedurally unconscionable. The employer’s ACT policy incorporating arbitration rules not attached and requiring the other party to go to another source to learn the full ramifications of the arbitration agreement was problematic because that policy incorporated AAA rules, which presented an adverse material inconsistency between the discovery provisions. Thus, the arbitration policy was unconscionable because it posed the potential for preliminary legal battles over which arbitration rules applied. There is no such issue here, because there is no indication that the Subcontract was presented on a take-it or leave-it basis with unequal bargaining power between the parties, and the Owner Contract executed by the parties unambiguously provides that the arbitration shall be in accordance with “American Arbitration Association in accordance with its Construction Industry Arbitration Rules currently in effect” such that there is no lack of clarity or inconsistency as to which rule to follow. (Childress Decl. Ex. 7.) Harper presented a similar issue. In that case, property owners hired contractors to stabilize the soil and re-level a pool on the customers’ property. (Harper, supra.) The contract included  an arbitration provision clause that incorporated arbitration rules of the Better Business Bureau (BBB), but the arbitration clause failed to state whether the arbitration would be conducted under the BBB’s rules at the time of contracting or time of arbitration,1 which would add to the customer’s legal expense of a preliminary fight over which set of arbitration rules governed. (Harper, supra, 1407.) Additionally, the reference to BBB arbitration rules without attaching those rules presented oppression because the customer would be forced to go to another source to find out what he or she is about to sign prior to signing. (Id. at 1406.) Here, the contract provides that arbitration would be governed by the AAA’s Construction Industry Arbitration Rules  “currently in effect” at the time of the contract’s execution, which  is unambiguous. As for the Subcontract not providing the specific AAA rules, under the totality of the circumstances and based on the parties’ relative positions and bargaining power, the Court finds that it presents a minimal degree of procedural unconscionability. “‘Oppression’ arises from an inequality of bargaining power which results in no real negotiation and ‘an absence of meaningful choice.’” (Zullo v. Superior Court (2011) 197 Cal.App.4th 477, 484.) Here, there does not appear to be any unequal bargaining power between two parties in this general contractor and subcontractor context, nor does Xcel argue as much. The Court thus finds no oppression. “‘Surprise’ involves the extent to which the supposedly agreed-upon terms of the bargain are hidden in the prolix printed form drafted by the party seeking to enforce the disputed terms.”” (Ibid.) Skanska disputes Xcel’s contention that the Owner Contract was not provided and avers that the Owner Contract was made available to all subcontractors. Whether or not the Owner Contract was accessible to Xcel, Michel nonetheless executed the agreement on behalf of Xcel on December 9, 2019 despite the clear reference to the Owner Contract. As such, the Court finds Xcel’s argument of procedural unconscionability to be tenuous considering the express reference to the Owner Contract, Xcel’s own bargaining power, and Xcel’s experience in the matter. Quite unlike Xcel’s cited authorities, the Owner Contract not being directly attached with the Subcontract presents, at most, a minimal degree of procedural unconscionability given the parties’ positions, experience and sophistication under the circumstances.   As to the validity of Exhibit N, the Court notes that Xcel provides Exhibit E and Exhibit N separately, whereas Skanska appears to provide the full Subcontract by including the execution page that was omitted in Xcel’s exhibit. The Subcontract and the following Exhibits E and N are all dated November 22, 2019, prior to the date of the Subcontract’s execution on December 9, 2019. Xcel offers no evidence to support the general argument that Exhibit N was not actually included as an exhibit to the Subcontract at the time of signing; notably, Michel’s declaration makes no such attestation. Absent any extrinsic evidence demonstrating otherwise, it appears that Exhibit N was incorporated as part of the Subcontract together with Exhibit E, in which Exhibit N expressly modified certain provisions of Exhibit E. There is nothing about either exhibit that suggests or indicates that they must be independently signed to be effectively incorporated as part of the Subcontract. The Court therefore finds that the Subcontract presents a minimal degree of procedural unconscionability.¿  Substantive Unconscionability An agreement is substantively unconscionable if it imposes terms that are “overly harsh,” “unduly oppressive,” “unreasonably favorable,” or “so one-sided as to ‘shock the conscience.’”¿(Sanchez v. Valencia Holding Co., LLC¿(2015) 61 Cal.4th 899, 910-911¿(Sanchez).)¿“All of¿these formulations point to the central idea that unconscionability doctrine is concerned not with ‘a simple old-fashioned bad bargain’ [citation], but with terms that are ‘unreasonably favorable to the more powerful party.’ [Citation.]”¿(Id. at p. 911.)¿“These include ‘terms that impair the integrity of the bargaining process or otherwise contravene the public interest or public policy; terms (usually of an adhesion or boilerplate nature) that attempt to alter in an impermissible manner fundamental duties otherwise imposed by the law, fine-print terms, or provisions that seek to negate the reasonable expectations of the¿nondrafting¿party, or unreasonably and unexpectedly harsh terms having to do with price or other central aspects of the transaction.’ ”¿(Id. at p. 911.) Xcel argues that Section 13.4.2 of the Subcontract is in Skanska’s favor and that it is one-sided because it allows Skanska and CHA to choose the size and composition of the panel, and the discovery plan. In reply, Skanska avers that it was Xcel’s own choice to not participate in the creation of the discovery plan in October 2024 despite having been joined as a party to the Arbitration more than a month prior, and that Xcel has since participated in other aspects of the Arbitration including approving the parties’ proposed discovery plan. Here, the arbitration agreement specifies that arbitration is to be administered by the AAA. All parties are equally bound by the Subcontract, and there are no provisions in the agreement which are overly harsh, unduly oppressive, or so one-sided as to shock the conscience nor is there any evidence that the arbitration agreement favors any other party in any way. Because there is minimal procedural unconscionability and no substantive unconscionability, the Court finds that the agreement is not unconscionable.  Arbitrability Determination The enforceability of an arbitration agreement is generally determined by the court. (See Aanderud¿v. Superior Court¿(2017) 13 Cal.App.5th 880, 891; Ajamian¿v. CantorCO2e, L.P. (2012) 203 Cal.App.4th 771, 781.) However, parties may agree to arbitrate gateway questions of arbitrability such as the enforceability of an arbitration agreement and whether claims are covered by the arbitration agreement. (See Rent-A-Center, West, Inc. v. Jackson¿(2010) 561 U.S. 63, 68-69; Aanderud, supra, 13 Cal.App.5th at 891-92; Ajamian, supra, 203 Cal.App.4th at 781. “To establish this exception, it must be shown by ‘clear and unmistakable’ evidence that the parties intended to delegate the issue to the arbitrator.” (Ajamian, supra, 203 Cal.App.4th at 781 (citing First Options of Chicago, Inc. v. Kaplan (1995) 514 U.S. 938, 944). Skanska argues that the R7 arbitrator had jurisdiction to determine the arbitrability of Xcel’s claims because the AAA Commercial Arbitration Rules were incorporated into the Subcontract. AAA Rule R-9(a) provides that the arbitrator has jurisdiction to decide whether the dispute must be submitted to arbitration and provides that the situation here is analogous to that in Dream Theater, Inc. v. Dream Theater (2004) 124 Cal.App.4th 547 (Dream Theater). In Dream Theater, the Contract between the parties specified that the arbitration would be in accordance with the AAA Commercial Arbitration Rules, which provide that the arbitrator “shall have the power to rule on his or her own jurisdiction, including any objections with respect to the existence, scope or validity of the arbitration agreement.”. (Id. at 550.) The court concluded that the agreement to arbitrate according to this rule was “clear and unmistakable evidence of the intent that the arbitrator will decide whether a Contested Claim is arbitrable.” (Id.  at 557.) Xcel’s only contention that the R7 arbitrator lacked jurisdiction to rule on the enforceability of the arbitration agreement was that it never signed the arbitration clause. However, as provided above, the Court finds that Xcel has agreed to the arbitration clause at issue. “When the parties' contract delegates the arbitrability question to an arbitrator, a court may not override the contract. In those circumstances, a court possesses no power to decide the arbitrability issue.” (Henry Schein, Inc. v. Archer & White Sales, Inc. (2019) 586 U.S. 63, 68.) If the court determines that a valid arbitration agreement exists, and if the agreement delegates the arbitrability issue to an arbitrator, a court may not decide the arbitrability issue. (Id. at 69.) Here, the Court finds that a valid arbitration agreement exists, and the issue of arbitrability was for the arbitrator’s determination. The same arguments by Xcel were previously presented to the R7 Arbitrator, who concluded that Xcel’s claims are subject to the pending Arbitration. As such, the motion to compel arbitration is moot pursuant to the R7 Arbitrator’s determination, and the motion stay the action pending arbitration will be granted.  V. conclusion Skanska’s Motion to Compel Arbitration is moot. The Motion to Stay the Action pending arbitration is GRANTED.  Moving Party is ordered to give notice.  DATED: January 21, 2025 __________________________ Hon. Tiana J. Murillo Judge of the Superior Court  PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: • Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. • If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the court at SMCDEPT78@lacourt.org with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number. The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting. • Unless all parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument. You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue. • If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court. After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave. 