  Case Number:  20STCV38683    Hearing Date:   January 22, 2025    Dept:  78  Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles Department 78 ¿ THOMAS WEEKS, Plaintiff(s), vs. CALIFORNIA INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, et al., Defendant(s). Case No.: 20STCV38683 Hearing Date: January 22, 2025   [TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING   MOTION FOR ATTORNEY FEES  I. BACKGROUND Plaintiff Thomas Weeks (“Plaintiff”) filed this FEHA action against defendant California Institute of Technology (“Defendant”) and Does 1 through 100. The First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) sets forth nine causes of action for (1) Disability Discrimination, (2) Failure to Provide Reasonable Accommodations, (3) Failure to Engage in the Interactive Process, (4) Retaliation, (5) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress, (6) Wrongful Termination in Violation of Public Policy, (7) Violation of Labor Code section 1102.5, (8) Unfair Business Practices, and (9) Negligent Supervision. On October 18, 2023, the Court granted Defendant’s motion for summary adjudication as to the sixth cause of action for wrongful termination and the request for punitive damages only. Adjudication against the remaining causes of action were denied. (Min. Order, Oct. 18, 2023.) The matter was tried before a jury and a verdict was returned in Defendant’s favor on June 12, 2024. On August 26, 2024, Defendant filed a motion for attorney fees On January 8, 2025, Plaintiff filed an opposition On January 14, 2025, Defendant filed a reply.  II. LEGAL STANDARD “Government Code section 12965, subdivision (b), governs cost awards in FEHA actions, allowing trial courts discretion in awards of both attorney fees and costs to prevailing FEHA parties.” (Williams v. Chino Valley Independent Fire District (2015) 61 Cal.4th 97, 99.) Although Code of Civil Procedure section 1032, subdivision (b) broadly mandates that costs be awarded to the prevailing party in civil actions, our Supreme Court in Williams made abundantly clear that Government Code section 12965(b) is an “express exception to Code of Civil Procedure section 1032(b)” in actions governed by FEHA. (Id. at 109.)¿ At the same time, the California Fair Employment and Housing Act, enacted at Government Code sections 12900-12996, provides that “[i]n civil actions brought under [FEHA], the court, in its discretion, may award to the prevailing party . . . reasonable attorney's fees and costs . . . except that, notwithstanding [a different Code section not at issue here], a prevailing defendant shall not be awarded fees and costs unless the court finds the action was frivolous, unreasonable, or groundless when brought, or the plaintiff continued to litigate after it clearly became so.” (Gov. Code, § 12965, subd. (b).) An unsuccessful FEHA plaintiff should not be ordered to pay the defendant’s fees or costs “unless the plaintiff brought or continued litigating the action without an objective basis for believing it had potential merit.” (Williams v. Chino Valley Independent Fire Dist. (2015) 61 Cal.4th 97, 99-100.) Further, “a plaintiff’s ability to pay must be considered before awarding attorney fees in favor of the defendant.” (Villanueva v. City of Colton (2008) 160 Cal.App.4th 1188, 1203.) “Because the majority of cases under the FEHA involve litigants who would not have the financial means to prosecute this type of case, the public policy behind the FEHA is served by not discouraging them from pursuing the litigation by potentially imposing fees that could easily devastate them financially simply because a few file frivolous claims. Thus, a plaintiff’s ability to pay must be considered before awarding attorney fees in favor of the defendant.” (Villanueva v. City of Colton (2008) 160 Cal.App.4th 1188, 1203.) “[A]n award of attorney fees should not subject the plaintiff to financial ruin.” (Rosenman v. Christensen, Miller, Fink, Jacobs, Glaser, Weil & Shapiro (2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 859, 868.)  III. DISCUSSION It is undisputed that Plaintiff’s claims are FEHA based such that the section 12965(b) express exception applies. Under section 12965(b), a successful FEHA defendant is awarded costs only if “the action was frivolous, unreasonable, or groundless when brought, or [if] the plaintiff continued to litigate after it clearly became so.” (Gov. Code, § 12965, subd. (b).) If  neither of these conditions is met, Defendant may not be awarded its costs. “Attorney fees should be awarded to a prevailing defendant ‘only where the action brought is found to be unreasonable, frivolous, meritless or vexatious,’ and ‘the term “meritless” is to be understood as meaning groundless or without foundation, rather than simply that the plaintiff has ultimately lost his case....’ ” (Jersey v. John Muir Medical Center¿(2002) 97 Cal.App.4th 814, 831.) Lack of merit is not the proper standard. (Ibid.)  Rather, the case must be egregious and/or baseless. (Rosenman v. Christensen, Miller, Fink, Jacobs, Glaser, Weil & Shapiro¿(2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 859, 869.) A case that is at least colorable, though it is not ultimately supported with adequate evidence, is not frivolous or vexatious for the purpose of attorneys’ fees. (Id. at 873-74.) Thus, Defendant must show either that no reasonable attorney would have brought the case at its inception, or that there was some decisive point between the filing of the complaint and jury trial where the case became obviously baseless. Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s action lacked merit because the jury found that Plaintiff was not disabled. Defendant contends that the bulk of Plaintiff’s FEHA claims were based on doctor notes written by Plaintiff’s wife Sonia Weeks, that the notes were signed off by their long-time friend Dr. Tran and that Plaintiff attempted to convince his psychologist Dr. Santana to change progress notes taken during Plaintiff’s visit to benefit him in the litigation. Defendant argues Plaintiff’s own treating medical providers testified that Plaintiff was never diagnosed with a disability, and that Plaintiff refused to return to work because he did not want to work with his coworkers at Caltech. In opposition, Plaintiff argues Defendant deposed at least five of Plaintiff’s treating health care providers, which included Plaintiff’s primary care physician Dr. Tran, treating psychologist Dr. Santana, previous treating psychiatrist Dr. Carignan, current treating psychiatrist Dr. Nguyen, and Dr. Artin for TMS treatments. Plaintiff argues four of these doctors diagnosed Plaintiff with anxiety and depression, and/or treated Plaintiff for anxiety and depression. Plaintiff argues his action was not frivolous because Defendant failed to accommodate Plaintiff from 2018 up to trial. In reply, Defendant reiterates that Plaintiff’s claims were frivolous because there was no evidence to support his FEHA claims other than Plaintiff’s own testimony. In determining whether an action was frivolous, unreasonable, or groundless such that an award of costs is appropriate, “it is important that a . . . court resist the understandable temptation to engage in post hoc reasoning by concluding that, because a plaintiff did not ultimately prevail, his action must have been unreasonable or without foundation. This kind of hindsight logic could discourage all but the most airtight claims, for seldom can a prospective plaintiff be sure of ultimate success.” (Rosenman v. Christensen, Miller, Fink, Jacobs, Glaser, Weil, & Shapiro (2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 859, 895 [analyzing identical language applicable to Title VII claims]; see also Williams, supra, 61 Cal.4th at pp. 113 [embracing the “asymmetrical” nature of section 12965(b)’s costs provision in light of the Legislature’s express intent “to encourage persons injured by discrimination to seek judicial relief”].) Here, Defendant moved against all nine causes of action of the FAC, wherein Judge Feeney denied adjudication as to all except the sixth cause of action and the request for punitive damages. (Min. Order, Oct. 18, 2023.) On June 11, 2024, Judge Feeney denied Defendant’s motion for judgment of nonsuit. (Min. Order, June 11, 2024.) Thereafter, the jury found in favor of Defendant as to all remaining causes of action against it. On these facts, the Court does not find there is sufficient reason to warrant a fee award against Plaintiff. The term “meritless” means groundless or without foundation, not simply that Plaintiff ultimately lost his case. (Christiansburg Garment Co. v. Equal Employment Opportunity Comm’n (1978) 434 U.S. 412, 421-22.) Plaintiff’s action survived both a motion for summary adjudication and a motion for nonsuit. Thus, the Court cannot conclude that the lawsuit was frivolous, egregious, or vexatious, despite that his causes of action were later resolved against him. Therefore, Defendant is not entitled to attorneys’ fees as a prevailing defendant pursuant to Code of Government Code section 12965.  IV. CONCLUSION Defendant’s motion for attorney fees is DENIED. Defendant shall not recover their fees in this action.  Moving Party is ordered to give notice.  DATED: January 21, 2025 __________________________ Hon. Tiana J. Murillo Judge of the Superior Court  PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: • Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. • If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the court at SMCDEPT78@lacourt.org with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number. The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting. • Unless all parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument. You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue. • If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court. After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave. 