  Case Number:  23STCV17341    Hearing Date:   October 25, 2023    Dept:  15 [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE MOTION TO QUASH (LIDGERWOOD)
            Plaintiffs
Wayne Osenga and Esperanza Osenga allege Wayne Osenga was injured as a result
of asbestos exposure from Defendant Lidgerwood Mundy Corporation’s
products.  Defendant filed a motion to
quash service of summons for lack of personal jurisdiction.
A defendant may move to quash
service of summons on the ground of lack of jurisdiction of the court over him or
her.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 418.10, subd. (a)(1).)  The court may dismiss without prejudice the complaint
in whole, or as to that defendant, when dismissal is made pursuant to Section 418.10.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 581, subd. (h).)  
“A court of this state may
exercise jurisdiction on any basis not inconsistent with the Constitution of this
state or of the United States.”  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 410.10.)  “The Due Process Clause
protects an individual’s liberty interest in not being subject to the binding judgments
of a forum with which he has established no meaningful ‘contacts, ties, or relations.’”  (Burger
King Corp. v. Rudzewicz (1985) 471 U.S. 462, 471-472.)  A state court may not exercise personal jurisdiction
over a party under circumstances that would offend “traditional notions of fair
play and substantial justice.”  (Asahi Metal Industry Co., Ltd., v. Superior Court
of California, Solano County (1987) 480 U.S. 102, 113.)  
When a defendant moves to
quash service of process on jurisdictional grounds, the plaintiff has the initial
burden of demonstrating facts justifying the exercise of jurisdiction.  (Jayone
Foods, Inc. v. Aekyung Industrial Co. Ltd. (2019) 31 Cal.App.5th 543, 553.)  Once facts showing minimum contacts with the forum
state are established, the defendant has the burden to demonstrate that the exercise
of jurisdiction would be unreasonable.  (Ibid.) 
“The plaintiff must provide specific evidentiary facts, through affidavits
and other authenticated documents, sufficient to allow the court to independently
conclude whether jurisdiction is appropriate. 
[Citation.]  The plaintiff cannot rely
on allegations in an unverified complaint or vague and conclusory assertions of
ultimate facts.  [Citation.]”  (Strasner
v. Touchstone Wireless Repair & Logistics, LP (2016) 5 Cal.App.5th 215,
222.)
A defendant is subject to
a state’s general jurisdiction if its contacts “are so continuance and
systematic as to render [it] essentially at home in the forum State.”  (Daimler AG v. Bauman (2014) 571 U.S.
117, 127.)  A nonresident defendant may be
subject to the specific jurisdiction of the forum “if the defendant has purposefully
availed himself or herself of forum benefits [citation], and the ‘controversy is
related to or “arises out of” a defendant’s contacts with the forum.’  [Citations.]” 
(Vons Companies, Inc. v. Seabest Foods,
Inc. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 434, 446.) 
This test does not require a “causal relationship between the
defendant’s in-state activity and the litigation.”  (Ford Motor Co. v. Montana Eighth Judicial
District Court (2021) 141 S.Ct. 1017, 1026.)  The “arise out” of standard “asks about
causation,” but “relate to” does not.  (Ibid.)  “[W]hen a corporation has ‘continuously and
deliberately exploited [a State’s] market, it must reasonably anticipate being
haled into [that State’s] court[s]’ to defend actions ‘based on’ products
causing injury there.”  (Id. at p.
1027.)  
Plaintiffs do not dispute
there is no general jurisdiction over Defendant.
Defendant argues
Plaintiffs cannot prove specific jurisdiction because Defendant sold only a
small number of pumps to a Navy subcontractor in California from 1978 to
1986.  (Motion at p. 6.)  Plaintiffs argue Defendant sold the pumps
during the time ships on which Osenga served were being built.  (Opposition at pp. 3, 4.)
“In the products
liability context, merely placing a product into the stream of commerce, even
with knowledge that the product might enter the forum state, is not a
sufficient basis for personal jurisdiction over a nonresident defendant.  [Citations.] 
On the other hand, ‘if the sale of a product of a manufacturer or
distributor . . . is not simply an isolated occurrence, but arises from the
efforts of the manufacturer or distributor to serve, directly or indirectly,
the market for its product in other States, it is not unreasonable to subject
it to suit in one of those State if its allegedly defective merchandise has
there been the source of injury to its owner or to others.’  [Citation.]” 
(Jayone, supra, 31 Cal.App.5th at pp. 558-559.)  “[T]he indirect placement of products into the stream of
commerce does not necessarily insulate a foreign manufacturer from the
jurisdiction of California courts.  Even
an indirect effort to serve a California market for a manufacturer's product
may reasonably make that manufacturer subject to suit in California if its
product has caused injury.”  (In re
Automobile Antitrust Cases I & II (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 100,
115.)  “A nonresident defendant's
indirect sales through its California distributors constitutes economic
activity in California as a matter of commercial actuality when the defendant
earned substantial gross income from that activity.”  (Id. at p. 116.)  
Defendant acknowledges that from 1978 to 1986 it sold
213 pumps to a Navy contractor that owned a shipyard in California and shipped
those pumps to California.  (Woodman
Decl., ¶ 10.)  Plaintiffs also have some
evidence that Defendant’s predecessor sold pumps for Navy ships built in
California in the 1960s.  (See evidence
cited at Opposition at p. 3.)  Defendant
argues the sale of 213 pumps was random and it did not know they were going to California
and therefore this case is not like the fact pattern presented in Ford.  However, building Navy ships is not like
making and selling cars.  There are many
fewer ships than cars built each year.  Plaintiffs
have the right to take discovery on Defendant’s knowledge about where the ships
were being built that would include the pumps it sold.  For example, when Defendant sold the 213
pumps, did it know the contractor buying the pumps was building the ships in
California?
Plaintiffs have not shown that their claims arise out
of or relate to Defendant’s California contacts.  One of the ships on which Osengo served was
constructed in the 1960s in California, and another was constructed in
California in 1979-1980, and so may have had Defendant’s pumps installed.  (Opposition at p. 3.)  (Plaintiffs mention Osenga’s service on Gridley
(which may have contained Defendant’s pump) in 1980 in Long Beach, but they do
not show that the presence of Defendant’s pump on that ship arises out of or
relates to Defendant’s contacts with California.  Rather it looks like that ship was built in
Washington State.  (Ex. 6.))Plaintiffs have the right
to discover whether Defendant knew the destination of the pumps it was selling and
whether the ships on which Osenga served that were built in California contained
Defendant’s pumps.  The request for
discovery on that issue is granted.  The
hearing on the motion is CONTINUED to January 18, 2024 at 9 a.m.  Plaintiffs may file a supplemental opposition
brief and Defendant may file a supplemental reply brief on regular notice.
The moving party is to
give notice.