 Case Number:  21STCV04367    Hearing Date:   September 25, 2023    Dept:  27 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 27
 
 
HEARING DATE:     September
25, 2023                           TRIAL
DATE:  December 11, 2023
                                                           
CASE:                                Edwin Sargenti v. City of Long Beach, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 21STCV04367
 





















 
MOTION
FOR LEAVE TO FILE AN AMENDED ANSWER
 
MOTION
FOR LEAVE TO AMENDED CROSS-COMPLAINT



 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant/Cross-Complainant
City of Long Beach
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Plaintiff Edwin
Sargenti
 
 
I.          INTRODUCTION

 
On February 3, 2021, Plaintiff, Edwin Sargenti, initiated
this premises liability action against Defendants, City of Long Beach (“City”) and
ASM Global[1].  Plaintiff filed the operative First Amended Complaint
(“FAC”) on March 22, 2021.  Plaintiff
alleges he was riding a Lime scooter and attempted to use the driveway at or
near 202 E. Shoreline Drive (the “Premises”) when he fell due to a hazardous
condition in the driveway.  Plaintiff
alleges Defendants owned the Premises.  The
FAC alleges a single cause of action for dangerous condition of public property
against the City.
 
On April 21, 2021, City filed an Answer to Plaintiff’s FAC.  On the same day, the City filed a
Cross-Complaint against Roes 1-30 for equitable indemnity, apportionment, and
contribution. 
 
On August 30, 2023, City filed these motions for leave to
file an amended Answer and for leave to amend its Cross-Complaint to substitute
ASM Global and the Grand Prix Association of Long Beach as Roe cross-defendants.
 
Plaintiff filed Oppositions to these motions.  City filed Replies.
 
II.        LEGAL STANDARD
 
            The court
may, in its discretion and after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any
terms as may be just, an amendment to any pleading, including adding or
striking out the name of any party, or correcting a mistake in the name of a
party, or a mistake in any other respect.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd.
(a)(1).)¿ “Public policy dictates that leave to amend be liberally granted.”¿ (Centex
Homes v. St. Paul Fire & Marine Ins. Co. (2015) 237 Cal.App.4th 23,
32.)¿ “Although courts are bound to apply a policy of great liberality in
permitting amendments to the complaint at any stage of the proceedings, up to
and including trial . . . this policy should be applied only ‘where no
prejudice is shown to the adverse party.’¿ [Citation].¿ A different result is
indicated ‘where inexcusable delay and probable prejudice to the opposing
party’ is shown.¿ [Citation.]” ¿(Magpali v. Farmers Group, Inc. (1996)
48 Cal.App.4th 471, 487.)¿ 
 
            A motion to
amend a pleading must include a copy of the proposed amendment or amended
pleading which must be serially numbered to differentiate it from previous
pleadings or amendments and must state what allegations in the previous
pleading are proposed to be deleted or added, if any, and where, by page,
paragraph, and line number, the allegations are located. (Cal. Rules of Court,
Rule 3.1324, subd. (a).)¿ The motion shall also be accompanied by a declaration
attesting to the effect of the amendment, why the amendment is necessary and
proper, when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered,
and why the request for amendment was not made earlier.¿ (Cal. Rules of Court,
Rule 1.324, subd. (b).)¿ 
 
            In ruling
on a motion for leave to amend a pleading, the court does not consider the
merits of the proposed amendment, because “the preferable practice would be to
permit the amendment and allow the parties to test its legal sufficiency by
demurrer, motion for judgment on the pleadings or other appropriate
proceedings.”¿ (Kittredge Sports Co. v. Superior Court (1989) 213
Cal.App.3d 1045, 1048.)¿ While the court may deny leave to amend where the
proposed amendment is insufficient to state a valid cause of action or defense,
such denial is most appropriate where the insufficiency cannot be cured by
further amendment—i.e., where the statute of limitations has expired or the
insufficiency is established by controlling caselaw. (California Casualty
Gen. Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (1985) 173 Cal.App.3d 274, 280-281,
disapproved on other grounds in Kransco v. American Empire Surplus Lines
Ins. Co. (2000) 23 Cal.4th 390.)¿ 
 
III.       DISCUSSION
 
Motion for Leave to Amend Answer 
 
Generally, leave is liberally granted at any stage of the
proceedings unless inexcusable delay and probable prejudice to the opposing
party is shown.¿¿(Magpali, supra, 48 Cal.App.4th at p. 487.)
 
City seeks leave to file the proposed First Amended Answer to
add affirmative defenses, including applicable immunities under the Government
Code and contractual defenses pursuant to the User Agreement Plaintiff entered
into to rent the Lime scooter.  
 
Plaintiff contends the motion should be denied because the
City has not explained the reason for the delay in seeking to amend its Answer.  Further, Plaintiff contends he will be
prejudiced if City is given leave to amend.  City struggles to explain the reason for the
delay.  According to the declaration of
defense counsel, Tania Ochoa, City’s current counsel substituted into the case on
March 14, 2023 and thereafter, conducted a thorough review of the record and
concluded additional defenses had not been pled.  (Motion for Leave to File An Amended Answer,
Ochoa Decl., ¶ 7.)  Absent from Ms.
Ochoa’s declaration is any explanation why City waited six months to seek leave
to amend.  Moreover, it is not clear why City
did not plead the affirmative defenses it now seeks to include when City filed
its initial Answer on April 21, 2021 (other than prior counsel failed to plead
them).  Immunity defenses under the
Government Code were available at the time of the filing of City’s Answer.  As to the User Agreement between Plaintiff
and Lime, Plaintiff’s FAC makes clear he was riding a Lime scooter at the time
of the incident.  (See Green v. Rancho
Santa Margarita Mortg. Co. (1994) 28 Cal.App.4th 686, 693-694 (leave
to amend properly denied where no excuse was offered to explain the failure to
assert the defense originally).)  While
the City does not provide a an entirely satisfactory explanation for the delay,
that is not the end of the analysis.  The
Court must also consider prejudice.  
 
Plaintiff fails to establish he will suffer prejudice if
leave is granted.  Plaintiff contends
granting leave will allow City to retroactively bolster its summary judgment motion
which is based, in part, on contractual defenses City has not previously pled.  Plaintiff further contends granting City
leave to amend will force Plaintiff to meet affirmative defenses after
Plaintiff’s opposition to the summary judgment motion is due.  However, Plaintiff has already filed his
opposition to City’s summary judgment motion. 
A review of the opposition reveals Plaintiff engages in and discusses City’s
contractual defenses and why they are insufficient to merit summary judgment.  Given Plaintiff’s apparent ability to contend
with City’s contract-based defenses, Plaintiff’s purported prejudice is unfounded.  Plaintiff further contends the proposed
affirmative defenses will require additional discovery and delay trial even
further but does not otherwise explain what additional discovery is needed or
the extent of the delay.[2]

 
Given the liberal policy of allowing amendments prior to
trial and the overall importance of adjudicating cases on the merits, the Court
grants City’s motion for leave to file its proposed amended Answer.
 
Motion for Leave to File Amended Cross-Complaint 
 
City also seeks leave to amend its cross-complaint to
substitute ASM Global and Grand Prix Association of Long Beach as Roe defendants.
 City argues it has diligently sought
information to establish the proposed cross-defendants’ liability and only learned
in late June 2023 of ASM Global and Grand Prix Association involvement.  In the declaration of City’s person most
knowledgeable, Willie Owens, Mr. Owens states that in late June of 2023, “Dwight
Tanaka, Vice President and Director of Operations for the Grand Prix, informed [Owens]
that a potential employee or representative of ASM asked the Grand Prix to move
the subject barrier to the subject location on the City sidewalk.”  (Owens Decl., ¶ 4.)  
 
City delayed in seeking leave to add ASM Global and Grand
Prix as cross-defendants.  As Plaintiff
points out, City has known of ASM Global and Grand Prix’s potential liability
from the outset of the case.  Plaintiff
originally named ASM Global as a defendant before dismissing ASM Global without
prejudice.  City does not dispute that
ASM Global and Grand Prix maintained the subject premises and that City had
contractual agreements with ASM Global and Grand Prix predating the subject
incident.  Additionally, the only new information
upon which City builds its argument for leave to amend are the statements made
by Mr. Tanaka to Mr. Owens.  Otherwise, City
was in a position previously to proceed and dd not.    
 
Nonetheless, Plaintiff fails to demonstrate sufficient
prejudice to overcome the liberal policy of allowing amendment and the
importance of adjudicating matters on the merits.  Plaintiff argues he may be subject to further
and duplicative discovery but does not otherwise explain the prejudice.  And, even assuming additional discovery and
time are needed, Plaintiff does not demonstrate how that prejudices the
adjudication on the merits of the case.  “Where
no prejudice is shown to the adverse party, the liberal rule of allowance
prevails.” (Higgins v. Del Faro (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 558, 564-565.)  City is entitled to an order granting leave
to amend its cross-complaint.
 
IV.       CONCLUSION 
 
            The motion
for leave to file an amended answer is GRANTED. 
Defendant City of Long Beach is directed to file its proposed amended answer
within 5 court days of this order.
 
            The motion
for leave to amend the cross-complaint is GRANTED.  Defendant City of Long Beach is directed to
file its proposed amended cross-complaint within 5 court days of this order.
 
Moving party to give notice. 

 
 
Dated:   September 25,
2023                                   ___________________________________
                                                                                    Kerry
Bensinger
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 
            Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an
email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on
the tentative as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at
www.lacourt.org.  Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative
and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless
appear at the hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive
emails from the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and
there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion,
adopt the tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar. 
 
 


