 Case Number:  22STCV02313    Hearing Date:   September 25, 2023    Dept:  27 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 27
 
 
HEARING DATE:     September
25, 2023               TRIAL DATE:  December
21, 2023
                                                           
CASE:                                Ignacio Saavedra Baulo v. City of Los Angeles, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 22STCV02313
 





















 
MOTION
TO CONTINUE TRIAL



 
MOVING PARTY:                   Defendant
State of California, acting by and through the Department of Transportation
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     No opposition
 
 
I.          BACKGROUND
 
            On August 30, 2023, Defendant, State of California, acting
by and through the Department of Transportation, filed this motion to continue
the trial date and to set all related cutoff dates to the new trial date.  This is the second request for a trial
continuance.
 
            The motion
is unopposed.
 
II.           LEGAL STANDARD TO CONTINUE TRIAL
California Rules of Court, rule
3.1332, subdivision (b) outlines that “a party seeking a continuance of the
date set for trial, whether contested or uncontested or stipulated to by the
parties, must make the request for a continuance by a noticed motion or an ex
parte application under the rules in chapter 4 of this division, with
supporting declarations.  The party must make the motion or application as
soon as reasonably practical once the necessity for the continuance is
discovered.” 
Under California Rules of Court,
rule 3.1332, subd. (c), the Court may grant a continuance only on an
affirmative showing of good cause requiring the continuance.  Circumstances that may indicate good cause
include “a party’s excused inability to obtain essential testimony, documents,
or other material evidence despite diligent efforts.”  The Court should
consider all facts and circumstances relevant to the determination, such as
proximity of the trial date, prior continuances, prejudice suffered, whether all
parties have stipulated to a continuance, and whether the interests of justice
are served.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332, subd. (d).) 
Deadlines
for Summary Judgment Motion
            Code of
Civil Procedure, section 437c requires a Motion for Summary Judgment be made
any time after 60 days have elapsed since the general appearance in the
action.¿ The motion shall be heard no later than 30 days before trial, unless
the Court, for good cause, orders otherwise.¿ Parties must serve notice of the
motion and all supporting papers at least 75 days before the time appointed for
hearing.¿  
III.      DISCUSSION
 
            Defendant
argues good cause exists to continue the trial date because Defendant reserved
the earliest available hearing date for its motion for summary
judgment. The motion is scheduled to be heard on December 11, 2024.  (Declaration of Nancy Naylor.) Trial is
currently scheduled for December 21, 2023.  For this reason, Defendant
requests a trial continuance so that its summary judgment motion may be heard
before trial.  Alternatively, Defendant
requests the Court specially set its summary judgment motion.  Defendant also requests all trial related
dates to correspond to the new trial date.
 
            Based on
the foregoing, the Court finds good cause exists to continue the trial date. Defendant
is entitled to have its summary judgment motion heard before trial.  As this is the second trial continuance
request only and no party has opposed this motion, the Court also finds no
prejudice will result from granting this motion.  Further, a sooner date
of June 5, 2024 has come available to hear Defendant’s summary judgment motion.
 The Court will specially set Defendant’s
summary judgment motion for June 5, 2024 and continue the trial date to the
first available date thereafter.  If the summary
judgment and trial dates conflict with counsels’ schedules, they are to notify
the Court at the hearing.
 
IV.       CONCLUSION 
 
The unopposed motion to continue trial is GRANTED.  Defendant State of California’s motion for
summary judgment, currently scheduled for December 11, 2024, is SPECIALLY SET
for June 5, 2024.  The Final Status
Conference scheduled for December 7, 2023 is CONTINUED to June 24, 2024 at
10:00 AM in Department 27 of the Spring Street Courthouse.  The Non-Jury Trial scheduled for December 21,
2023 is CONTINUED to July 8, 2024 at 8:30 AM in Department 27 of the Spring
Street Courthouse.  All discovery cut-off
dates, all pretrial deadlines including discovery, expert, and motion cut-off
dates are set to the new trial date of July 8, 2024.
 
Moving party to give notice. 

 
 
Dated:   September 25,
2023                                            ___________________________________
                                                                                    Kerry
Bensinger
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 
            Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an
email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on
the tentative as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at
www.lacourt.org.  Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative
and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless
appear at the hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive
emails from the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and
there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion,
adopt the tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar. 