  Case Number:  19STCV02070    Hearing Date:   September 25, 2023    Dept:  27 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 27
 
 
HEARING DATE:     September
25, 2023               TRIAL DATE: 
November 8, 2023
 
CASE:                         Latasha
Bracks v. The City of Los Angeles, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 19STCV02070 





















 
MOTION
FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT, 
OR
ALTERNATIVELY, SUMMARY ADJUDICATION



 
MOVING
PARTY:               Defendant Los
Angeles Unified School District
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Plaintiff Latasha Bracks
 
 
I.          PROCEDURAL
BACKGROUND
 
            On January
23, 2019, Plaintiff, Latasha Bracks, initiated this action[1]
against Defendant, Los Angeles Unified School District (“LAUSD”) for injuries arising
from a slip and fall while walking through the main hallway on Defendant’s
premises.  Plaintiff alleges the floor of
the hallway was in a dangerous condition, and Defendant had actual or
constructive notice of the dangerous condition.
 
            On August 30,
2022, LAUSD filed this motion for summary judgment, or in the alternative,
summary adjudication.  Plaintiff opposes
and LAUSD replies. 
 
II.        BRIEF
SUMMARY OF THE FACTUAL BACKGROUND
 
            On August 13,
2018, Plaintiff attended a “Welcome Back BBQ” at Florence Griffith Joyner
Elementary School (the “Premises”) for parents and students.  At the conclusion of the event, Plaintiff walked
through the main hallway of the Premises intending to leave through the front
door of the Premises.  While walking through
the hallway, Plaintiff slipped and fell on a liquid substance and sustained
injuries.
 
III.       LEGAL
STANDARD FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT
 
In reviewing a motion for summary
judgment, courts must apply a three-step analysis: “(1) identify the issues
framed by the pleadings; (2) determine whether the moving party has negated the
opponent’s claims; and (3) determine whether the opposition has demonstrated
the existence of a triable, material factual issue.”  (Hinesley v. Oakshade Town Center
(2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.) 
 
“[T]he initial burden is always on
the moving party to make a prima facia showing that there are no triable issues
of material fact.”  (Scalf v. D. B.
Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.)  A defendant moving for summary judgment or
summary adjudication “has met his or her burden of showing that a cause of
action has no merit if the party has shown that one or more elements of the
cause of action . . . cannot be established, or that there is a complete
defense to the cause of action.”  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).)  If
the moving party fails to carry its burden, the inquiry is over, and the motion
must be denied.  (See Id.; see
also Consumer Cause, Inc. v. SmileCare (2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 454,
468.)  Even if the moving party does
carry its burden, the non-moving party will still defeat the motion by
presenting evidence of a triable issue of material fact.  (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.
(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 849-50.) 
 
To meet this burden of showing a
cause of action cannot be established, a defendant must show not only “that the
plaintiff does not possess needed evidence” but also that “the plaintiff
cannot reasonably obtain needed evidence.”  (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at
p. 854.)  It is insufficient for the
defendant to merely point out the absence of evidence.  (Gaggero v. Yura (2003) 108
Cal.App.4th 884, 891.)  The defendant
“must also produce evidence that the plaintiff cannot reasonably obtain
evidence to support his or her claim.”  (Ibid.) 
The supporting evidence can be in the form of affidavits, declarations,
admissions, depositions, answers to interrogatories, and matters of which
judicial notice may be taken.  (Aguilar,
supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 855.) 
 
“Once the defendant … has met that
burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff … to show that a triable issue of
one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense
thereto.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c,
subd. (p)(2).)  The plaintiff may not
merely rely on allegations or denials of its pleadings to show that a triable
issue of material fact exists, but instead, “shall set forth the specific facts
showing that a triable issue of material fact exists as to the cause of
action.”  (Ibid.)  “If the plaintiff cannot do so, summary
judgment should be granted.”  (Avivi
v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.) 
 
            The
California Supreme Court described the shifting burdens of proof in Aguilar, supra, 25
Cal.4th at p. 845:
 
“From commencement to conclusion, the moving party bears
the burden of persuasion that there is no genuine issue of material fact and
that he is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.[2]
There is a genuine issue of material fact if, and only if, the evidence would
allow a reasonable trier of fact to find the underlying fact in favor of the
party opposing the motion in accordance with the applicable standard of proof.
Initially, the moving party bears a burden of production to make a prima facie
showing of the nonexistence of any genuine issue of material fact. If he
carries his burden of production, he causes a shift: the opposing party is then
subjected to a burden of production of his own to make a prima facie showing of
the existence of a genuine issue of material fact. How each party may carry his
burden of persuasion and/or production depends on which would bear what burden of proof at
trial. Thus, if a plaintiff who would bear the burden of proof by a
preponderance of evidence at trial moves for summary judgment, he must present
evidence that would require a reasonable trier of fact to find any underlying
material fact more likely than not. By contrast, if a defendant moves for
summary judgment against such a plaintiff, he may present evidence that would
require such a trier of fact not to find any underlying material fact more likely than not.
In the alternative, he may simply point out—he is not required to present
evidence (see Fed. Rules Civ. Proc., rule 56(b), 28 U.S.C.)—that the plaintiff
does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, evidence that would allow such
a trier of fact to find any underlying material fact more likely than not.”  (Footnote added.)
 
The court must “liberally construe
the evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve all
doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party,” including “all
inferences reasonably drawn therefrom.”  (Yanowitz v. L’Oreal USA, Inc. (2005)
36 Cal.4th 1028, 1037; Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at pp. 844-45.)
 “On a summary judgment motion, the court
must therefore consider what inferences favoring the opposing party a
factfinder could reasonably draw from the evidence.  While viewing the evidence in this manner,
the court must bear in mind that its primary function is to identify issues
rather than to determine issues.  [Citation.]  Only when the inferences are indisputable may
the court decide the issues as a matter of law. 
If the evidence is in conflict, the factual issues must be resolved by
trial.”  (Binder v. Aetna Life Ins. Co.
(1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832, 839.) 
Further, “the trial court may not weigh the evidence in the manner of a
factfinder to determine whose version is more likely true.  [Citation.]  Nor may the trial court grant summary judgment
based on the court’s evaluation of credibility. 
[Citation.]”  (Id. at p.
840; see also Weiss v. People ex rel. 
Department of Transportation (2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts
deciding motions for summary judgment or summary adjudication may not weigh the
evidence but must instead view it in the light most favorable to the opposing
party and draw all reasonable inferences in favor of that party”].)  
 
IV.       EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
 
            Plaintiff
submits five (5) objections to LAUSD’s evidence.  Four objections are aimed at portions of Plaintiff’s
testimony and the last objection is aimed at portions of the Declaration of Dai
Shalon Jordan.  Ms. Jordan is the
principal of Florence Griffith Joyner Elementary School and was present at the
Premises on the day of the incident.  The
Court need not rule on the objections as they do not affect the Court’s decision.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd.
(q).)    
 
            LAUSD
submits three (3) objections to Plaintiff’s evidence.  LAUSD objects to the Declaration of
Plaintiff’s expert, Eris J. Barillas, portions of Plaintiff’s testimony, and
portions of the testimony of LAUSD employee Mary Charlotte Borgen[3].  LAUSD does not identify the purportedly
objectionable portions of Plaintiff’s or Ms. Borgen’s testimony.  Given the lack of clarity, the Court cannot
rule on LAUSD’s objections.  Ultimately, LAUSD’s objections are not material
to the Court’s ruling.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (q).)    
 
 V.       DISCUSSION
 
The Incident
 
On August 13, 2018, Florence Griffith Joyner Elementary School hosted a
“Welcome Back BBQ” in the outside patio area of the school campus (the “Premises”).
 (LAUSD’s Undisputed Material Facts
(“UMF”) 1, 2.)  Plaintiff attended the
event.  (UMF 3.)  At the conclusion of the event at 4:00 p.m.,
Plaintiff walked through the main hallway of the Premises.  (UMF 6.)  As she walked through the hallway, Plaintiff contends
she slipped on water on the floor.  (UMF
1, 5.)  Plaintiff did not see anything on
the floor prior to her fall.  (UMF
6.)  Plaintiff’s view not obstructed, nor
was she distracted as she walked through the hallway of the Premises.  (UMF 7.) 
Plaintiff could not describe the amount of water on the floor which
caused her fall but indicated at her deposition that “[i]t was enough to make
me hurt myself”, (Plaintiff’s Depo., p. 58:4-10), and that the back of her
pants and her back were wet after she slipped and fell (Plaintiff’s Depo., p. 57:7-19).  LAUSD employee Mary Charlotte Borgen’s
testimony also confirms there was water on the floor where Plaintiff
slipped.  (Borgen Depo., pp.
14:21-15:9.)  Plaintiff did not know how
long the water had been on the floor before she fell.  (Plaintiff’s Depo., p. 143:16-18.)  Plaintiff saw other people leaving the
Premises and walking through the main hallway at the time she did.  (UMF 12.) 
No one else fell in the main hallway on the day of the incident.  (UMF 14.) 

On the day of the incident, maintenance worker Carlos Carrillo conducted
a visual inspection of the Premises.  He
did not see an spills, debris, food, liquid, trash or other items on the
floor.  (Declaration of Carlos Carrillo, ¶¶
9, 13.)  School principal Dai Shalon
Jordan walked through the main hallway approximately 15-20 minutes before 4:00
p.m. and did not see any material that could be a slip, trip, or fall
hazard.  (Declaration of Dai Shalon
Jordan, ¶ 13.)  LAUSD is not aware of any
complaints made regarding slip and falls in the main hallway prior to
Plaintiff’s slip and fall.  (Carrillo
Decl., ¶ 14; Jordan Decl., ¶ 15.)
 
Analysis[4]
 
To establish a claim of dangerous
condition on public property, a plaintiff must prove: (1) that the defendant
owned or controlled the property; (2) that the property was in a dangerous
condition at the time of the injury; (3) that the dangerous condition created a
reasonably foreseeable risk of the kind of injury that occurred; (4) that
defendant had notice of the dangerous condition for a long enough time to have
protected against it; (5) that plaintiff was harmed; and (6) that the dangerous
condition was a substantial factor in causing plaintiff’s harm.¿ (Gov. Code, §
835; CACI No. 1100.)¿   
 
A.  Contentions 
 
There are three issues to be
decided: (1) Whether the hallway where Plaintiff fell was in a dangerous
condition at the time of the injury; (2) Whether the dangerous condition
created a reasonably foreseeable risk of the kind of injury that occurred, and (3)
Whether LAUSD had actual or constructive notice of the condition.[5]  
 
1. 
Dangerous Condition 
 
A “dangerous condition” is a
condition of public property that creates a substantial (as distinguished from
a minor, trivial, or significant) risk of injury to members of the general
public when the property [or adjacent property] is used with reasonable care
and in a reasonably foreseeable manner.¿ (Gov. Code, § 830; CACI No. 1102.)¿¿“A
claim alleging a dangerous condition may not rely on generalized allegations
but must specify in what manner the condition constituted a dangerous
condition.”  (Cerna v. City of Oakland
(2008) 161 Cal.App.4th 1340, 1347; Brenner v. City of El Cajon (2003)
113 Cal.App.4th 434, 439.)  
 
LAUSD argues Plaintiff cannot
establish the main hallway of the Premises was in a dangerous condition at the
time of the incident.  This argument
lacks merit.  Plaintiff testified the back of her pants and her back were wet
after she slipped and fell. (Plaintiff’s Depo., p. 57:7-19).  Further, LAUSD employee, Mary Charlotte
Borgen, also testified there was water where Plaintiff fell.  Ms. Borgen stated, “In my memory it was wet
where [Plaintiff] slipped, but I can’t remember the specific.”  (Borgen Depo., p. 15:2-3.)  When asked again, Ms. Borgen confirmed that in
her memory, it was wet where Plaintiff slipped. 
(Id., p. 15:4-9.)  Read together,
this testimony establishes that there was water on the floor where Plaintiff
fell.  Construed liberally in favor of
the party opposing summary judgment, Plaintiff establishes there was a
dangerous condition on LAUSD’s property.  As LAUSD fails to carry its initial burden on
this issue.
 
2. 
Foreseeable Risk
 
To establish a claim of dangerous
condition on public property, a plaintiff must prove, in part, that the
dangerous condition created a reasonably foreseeable risk of the kind of injury
that occurred when the property is used with reasonable care.¿ (Gov. Code, §§ 830,
835; CACI Nos. 1100, 1102.)¿  
 
LAUSD argues that if a dangerous
condition existed at the time of the incident, Plaintiff fails to show that the
dangerous condition created a reasonably foreseeable risk of the kind of injury
that occurred because Plaintiff did not pay attention to where she was
walking.  In support, LAUSD points to the
undisputed fact that Plaintiff did not observe the alleged spill as she walked
through the hallway.  (UMF 6.)  From this undisputed fact, LAUSD tries to draw
several conclusions.  First, LAUSD argues
Plaintiff’s failure to see water on the ground means she did not walk with due
care.  The undisputed fact does not
support this conclusion.  Second, LAUSD argues
that because Plaintiff did not see water on the floor, a slip and fall is not a
reasonably foreseeable risk.  Again, the
undisputed fact does not support his argument. 
Indeed, a slip and fall is a reasonably foreseeable risk of water on the
floor. The fact Plaintiff did not see the water prior to falling does not alter
the foreseeability of the risk of a slip and fall if the water was present on
he floor.  LAUSD fails to make a prima
facia showing that there are no triable issues of material fact regarding the
foreseeability of risk and Plaintiff’s due care.
 
3. Actual or Constructive Notice
 
            a.
Legal Principles
 
            A property
owner is not the insurer of the safety of its guests. (Ortega, supra,
26 Cal.4th at p. 1205.)  The owner’s actual
or constructive knowledge of the dangerous condition is key to establishing
liability.  (Hall v. Rockcliff Realtors (2013) 215 Cal.App.4th
1134, 1139-40.)  The jury instruction on ”Constructive
Notice Regarding Dangerous Conditions on Property” states: “In determining whether
[a defendant] should have known of the condition that created the risk of harm,
[the jury] must decide whether, under all the circumstances, the condition was
of such a nature and existed long enough that [the defendant] had sufficient
time to discover it and, using reasonable care: (1) repair the condition; or
(2) protect against harm from the condition; or adequately warn of the
condition.  A defendant must make
reasonable inspections of the property to discover unsafe conditions.  If an inspection was not made within a
reasonable time before the accident, this may show that the condition existed
long enough so that [store] using reasonable care would have discovered it.”  (CACI No. 1011.)  It is
generally a question of fact for the jury as to whether, under all the
circumstances, a defective condition existed long enough such that a reasonable
person, exercising reasonable care, would have discovered it.  (Hale v. Safeway Stores, Inc. (1954)
129 Cal.App.2d 124, 128-129 (Hale).) 
 
            In Girvetz v. Boys’ Market (1949) 91 Cal.App.2d 827, 829 (Girvetz),
the Court of Appeal stated: 
 
“The defendant market owner was not an
insurer of the safety of his patrons, but owed them the duty to exercise
reasonable care in keeping the premises safe for his invitees. To impose
liability for injuries suffered by an invitee due to the defective condition of
the premises, the owner or occupier must have either actual or constructive
knowledge of the dangerous condition or have been able by the exercise of
ordinary care to discover the condition, which if known to him, he should
realize as involving an unreasonable risk to invitees on his premises. His
negligence in such cases is founded upon his failure to exercise ordinary care
in remedying the defect after he has discovered it.  Whether, under all the circumstances, the
defective condition had existed long enough so that a reasonable man exercising
reasonable care would have discovered it, is ordinarily a question of fact to
be decided by the jury. The fact alone that a dangerous condition existed at
the time the accident occurred will not warrant an inference that the defendant
was negligent. There must be some evidence, direct or circumstantial, to
support the conclusion that the condition had existed long enough for the
proprietor, in the exercise of reasonable care, to have discovered and remedied
it.”  
 
And “[w]here the
only evidence is that the foreign object has been on the floor of the market
for a minute and a half, it must be held that it is insufficient to support an
inference that the defendant proprietor failed to exercise the care required of
him.”  (Id. at p. 831.)  
 
            On the other hand, where the
evidence fails to show how long the dangerous condition existed prior to the
injury, “evidence of the owner’s failure to inspect the premises within a
reasonable period of time is sufficient to allow an inference that the
condition was on the floor long enough to give the owner the opportunity to
discover and remedy it. [Citation.]” (Ortega, supra, 26 Cal.4th at
p. 1203 [employees usually walked the aisle where plaintiff slipped every 15 to
30 minutes]; Sapp v. W.T. Grant Co. (1959) 172 Cal.App.2d 89, 91-92 (Sapp)
[whether 15-to-25-minute interval between inspections was commensurate with the
exercise of reasonable care was a question properly left to the trier of fact].)
 
b. Application
 
LAUSD’s
Arguments
 
LAUSD submits the Declarations of Carlos
Carrillo and Dai Shalon Jordan to show LAUSD did not have actual notice of the
spill.  Mr. Carrillo was the Buildings
and Grounds worker of the Premises. 
(Carrillo Decl., ¶ 1.)  Mr. Carrillo was working on the Premises on the
day of the incident.  (Carrillo Decl., ¶ 6.)  Mr. Carrillo did not observe any spills or
other debris on the main hallway floor, nor did he receive any complaints about
spills or debris in the hallway.  (Carrillo Decl., ¶¶ 9, 12, 13.)  Further, Ms.
Jordan walked through the main hallway 15-20 minutes before 4:00 p.m. (around
the time the event ended, and Plaintiff proceeded to exit the Premises through
the main hallway).  Ms. Jordan states she
did not see any slipping hazards in the main hallway.  (Jordan Decl., ¶ 13.)  As such, LAUSD did
not have actual notice of the spill.  
 
            However, LAUSD
fails to show it did not have constructive notice of the spill.  Ms. Jordan’s declaration indicates she walked
through the main hallway 15 to 20 minutes prior to Plaintiff’s fall and did not
see any slipping hazards.  Based on Ms.
Jordan’s declaration, the liquid which caused Plaintiff to fall could have been
present on the floor for up to 20 minutes.  
 
            A review
of relevant California case law suggests 15 to 20 minutes is enough time for LAUSD
to have conducted a reasonable inspection of the area.[6]  Or, at the very least, the period of time is sufficient
to raise a question of fact which is properly left for the jury to decide.  At one end of the spectrum is Girvetz, supra,
where the Court of Appeal found one and one-half minutes is, as a matter of
law, too short a period of time to establish constructive notice.  (Girvetz, 91 Cal.App.2d at p.
832.)  Towards the other end of
the spectrum are cases holding that ten to twenty minutes between the
inspection and the fall requires a jury’s determination of the reasonableness
of the inspection.[7]  For example, in Louie v. Hagstrom’s Food
Stores, Inc., (1947) 81 Cal.App.2d 601, 607, the plaintiff slipped in a
pool of syrup spilled on the floor of defendant’s grocery store. No employee
examined the relevant area for 15 to 25 minutes before the accident.  The court held that whether the dangerous
condition existed long enough so that a person exercising ordinary care would
have discovered it was a question for the jury. Similarly, in Hale,
supra, plaintiff, while shopping in defendant’s store slipped on a
banana.  The banana may have been on the
floor for 30 to 45 minutes.  Again it was
held that whether defendant should have discovered and removed the banana
within this time was a jury question.  In
Sapp, supra, 172 Cal.App.2d at p. 94, the court asked: “Was a twenty
minute interval between inspections of the aisles commensurate with the
exercise of ordinary care by defendant?” 
The court answered: “This is a question that was properly left with the
jury to decide.”  
 
            Applying
this framework, 15 to 20 minutes lands at the Louie and Sapp end
of the spectrum.  As such, Ms. Jordan’s walkthrough
the hallway (credited here as an inspection), which took place roughly 15 to 20
minutes prior to Plaintiff’s fall, requires a jury to resolve the question whether
the inspection was reasonable.  LAUSD
fails to meet its initial burden to show there are no triable issues of
material fact regarding constructive notice. 
Stated differently, the Court cannot find, as a matter of law,
that LAUSD did not have constructive notice.
 
 
VI.       CONCLUSION
 
            The motion
for summary judgment, or in the alternative, summary adjudication, is DENIED.  
 
Moving party to give notice.   
 
 
Dated:   September 25,
2023                   ___________________________________
                                                                        Kerry Bensinger
                                                                        Judge of the Superior Court
 
            Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the
tentative as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org. 
Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to
appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the
hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you
receive a submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume
that others might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive emails from the
parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the tentative
as the final order or place the motion off calendar. 




