


[1] Plaintiff also named Department of
General Services, City of Los Angeles, and County of Los Angeles as
defendants.  Plaintiff dismissed these
defendants in March and April 2021.


[2] “On summary
judgment, the moving party’s burden is more properly labeled as one of persuasion rather than proof. That is
because, in order to carry such burden, he must persuade the court
that there is no material fact for a reasonable trier of fact to find, and not prove any such fact to the satisfaction of the court
itself as though it were sitting as the trier of fact.”  (Aguilar, supra, at p. 845, fn. 4.) 
 


[3] Ms. Borgen is described as LAUSD’s
employee but it is unclear what her job duties entailed.  Whatever the case, Ms. Borgen was at the
Premises on the day of the incident.


[4] Plaintiff’s opposition focuses on
the causes of action for negligence and premises liability.  However, LAUSD is a public entity.  Common law causes of action cannot be
asserted against a public entity.  “Under
the Government Claims Act (Gov. Code, § 810 et seq.), there is no common law
tort liability for public entities in California; instead, such liability must
be based on statute.”  (Guzman v.
County of Monterey¿(2009) 46 Cal.4th 887, 897.)  “[S]ection 835 sets out the exclusive
conditions under which a public entity is liable for injuries caused by a
dangerous condition of public property.”  (Metcalf v. County of San Joaquin
(2008) 42 Cal.4th 1121, 1129, citing Brown v. Poway Unified School Dist. (1993)
4 Cal.4th 820, 829.)   As such
Government Code section 835 is controlling.  


[5] LAUSD also contends the alleged
dangerous condition was not created by a wrongful act or omission of an LAUSD
employee.  As Plaintiff does not
challenge this contention, the Court need not address it.  But it does not alter the outcome.  Rather, as discussed herein, the issue is one
of notice. 


[6] Various factors may calibrate this
timing.  For example, heavily trafficked
areas where slippery substances may be present requires more frequent
inspections and attention from the property owner.  


[7] There are other variables to be
considered when determining the reasonableness of an inspection.  For example, the length of the inspection;
how the inspection was performed, the record of the inspection, etc.  Given the 15- to 20-minute differential here,
the Court need not address these issues.

