  Case Number:  22SMCV01230    Hearing Date:   November 20, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


November 20, 2024




CASE NUMBER


22SMCV01230




MOTION


Leave to Conduct Financial Discovery




MOVING PARTY


Plaintiff Reubin Azari




OPPOSING PARTY


Defendants Abs Shoring, Inc. and George Soleimany aka
  Arash Soleimany



 
MOTIONS
 
On December 11, 2023, the parties filed and the Court signed a
stipulation to continue the trial to enable the parties to pursue alternative
dispute resolution.  The Order continued
the final status conference to November 15, 2024 and the trial to December 3,
2024, and held “All related trial dates, including discovery cut-off and expert
deadlines, are likewise continued.”  Further,
the Court ordered the parties “to meet and confer forthwith to schedule and
complete all non-expert discovery and to prepare for the completion of expert
discovery to obviate the need for a further continuance of the trial” and “no
further continuance of the trial absent sufficient good cause.”  
 
On January 3, 2024, Plaintiff Reubin Azari (“Plaintiff”) filed the
operative Second Amended Complaint against Defendants ABS Shoring, Inc.
(“ABS”); AIM Development, Inc. dba Sol Construction (“AIM”); George Soleimany
aka Arash Soleimany (“George”); and Sara Soleimany (“Sara”) (together,
“Defendants”) alleging seven causes of action for (1) breach of oral contract;
(2) common count – account stated; (3) conversion; (4) failure to pay earned
wages; (5) failure to reimburse business expenses; (6) failure to timely pay
wages; and (7) unjust enrichment.  The
third cause of action for conversion seeks punitive and exemplary damages.  
 
Plaintiff now moves for leave to conduct financial discovery in
connection with his request for punitive and exemplary damages.  Defendants ABS and George (“Opposing
Defendants”) oppose the motion and Plaintiff replies.
 
ANALYSIS
 
            Motion for Leave
 
            Plaintiff’s motion cites Civil Code
sections 3294 and 3295, which govern evidence pertaining to punitive
damages.  However, Plaintiff does not
address the fact that non-expert discovery is already closed.  (See Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.020.)  In reply, Plaintiff argues (1) Plaintiff was
under the impression that discovery had been continued by virtue of the Court’s
December 11, 2023 Order; and (2) even if the discovery cut-off had passed, the
Court has discretion to reopen discovery.  

 
            Discovery was continued by virtue of
the Court’s December 11, 2023 Order, and the new cut-off date was thirty days
prior to the continued trial date of December 3, 2024, which has now passed, as
has the deadline to hear discovery motions fifteen days prior to the continued
trial.
 
            Moreover, the Court does not find
Plaintiff has provided any good cause to reopen discovery or continue the
hearing.  The operative complaint
requesting punitive damages has been on file since January 3, 2024, and the
Court’s December 11, 2023 order warned the parties to complete all discovery
“to obviate the need for a further continuance of the trial” and that there
would be no further trial continuances absent a showing of sufficient good
cause.  Yet, Plaintiff has provided no
explanation, much less good cause for the delay in requesting financial
discovery.
 
            Sanctions
 
            “The court shall impose a monetary
sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party,
person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to extend or
to reopen discovery, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted
with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition
of the sanction unjust.”  (Code of Civ.
Proc., § 2024.050, subd. (c).)   
 
Opposing
Defendants request monetary sanctions against Plaintiff in the amount of
$4,020, representing 5.7 hours preparing the opposition and 1 hour appearing at
the hearing, at a rate of $600 per hour.
 
Although
the motion itself is styled as a motion for leave to conduct financial
discovery, the scheduled hearing for the motion is after the already-extended
discovery cut-off and in reply, Plaintiff requests that the Court “permit
discovery even after the deadline” which is effectively an affirmative request
“to extend or reopen discovery” for which Plaintiff has provided no good
cause.  
 
Therefore,
the Court grants in part Opposing Defendants’ request for sanctions in the
amount of $1,800.  
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
Therefore, because the discovery cut-off and the deadline to hear
discovery motions have both passed, and Plaintiff has not provided good cause
to reopen discovery on the eve of trial, which has already been continued, the
Court denies Plaintiff’s motion for leave to conduct financial discovery.  
 
Further, the Court grants in part Opposing Defendants’ request for monetary
sanctions, and orders Plaintiff to pay monetary sanctions in the amount of $1,800 to
Opposing Defendants, by and through counsel for Opposing Defendants, within 10
days of notice of the order.
 
Opposing Defendants shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and
file the notice with a proof of service forthwith.  
 
 
DATED:  November 20, 2024                                               ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court