 Case Number:  24SMCV00306    Hearing Date:   November 20, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


November
  20, 2024




CASE NUMBER


24SMCV00306




MOTION


Motion
  for Summary Judgment




MOVING PARTIES


Defendants Alliance Property Management,
  Inc. and Great for Six, LLC




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff
  David Schlosberg  



 
MOVING PAPERS:
 

Notice
     of Motion and Motion for Summary Judgment; Memorandum of Points and
     Authorities
Declaration
     of Lisa M. Allen
Compendium
     of Exhibits
Request
     for Judicial Notice
Separate
     Statement of Undisputed Material Facts 

 
OPPOSITION PAPERS:
 

Opposition to Motion for Summary
     Judgment


 
REPLY PAPERS:
 

Reply
     in Support of Motion for Summary Judgment

 
BACKGROUND
 
On January 23, 2024, Plaintiff David Schlosberg (“Plaintiff”) filed
suit against Defendants Alliance Property Management, Inc. (“Alliance”) and
Great for Six LLC (“Great for Six”) (together, “Defendants”) alleging four
causes of action for (1) wrongful eviction; (2) vacate void judgment; (3)
breach of covenant of quiet enjoyment of the premises; and (4) negligence.  
 
On June 5, 2024, the Court sustained Defendants’ demurrer to the
first, second, and third causes of action without leave to amend, leaving only
the fourth cause of action for negligence at issue.  (Minute Order, Jun. 5, 2024.)  
 
Defendants now move for summary judgment on the grounds that
Plaintiff’s action is barred by the doctrines of res judicata and collateral
estoppel in connection with a prior unlawful detainer action.
 
Plaintiff opposes the motion and Defendants reply.
 
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
            Defendants request judicial notice
of the following:
 
1.    
Exhibit A: Unlawful Detainer Complaint (the “UD
Complaint”) filed on February 9, 2023, as case number 23SMUD00248.
 
2.    
Exhibit B: 
Answer to the UD Complaint filed by Mr. Schlosberg.
 
3.    
Exhibit C: Judgment and Special Verdict in the
UD action.
 
4.    
Exhibit D: An action filed by Plaintiff against
Alliance and others seeking damages related to his tenancy, as case number
23SMCV02310.
 
5.    
Exhibit E: A Motion Notwithstanding the Verdict
(“JNOV”) relating to the Judgment and Special Verdict in the UD action.
 
6.    
Exhibit F: The decision rendered on the JNOV
against Mr. Schlosberg and in favor of Alliance.
 
Judicial notice may be taken
of records of any court in this state. 
(Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (d)(1).) 
Because the requested exhibits are all court records within this state,
the Court may take judicial notice of them. 
(Ibid.)   However, “while courts are free to take
judicial notice of the existence of each document in a court file, including
the truth of results reached, they may not take judicial notice of the truth of
hearsay statements in decisions and court files.  Courts may not take judicial notice of
allegations in affidavits, declarations and probation reports in court records
because such matters are reasonably subject to dispute and therefore require
formal proof.”  (Lockley v. Law Office
of Cantrell, Green, Pekich, Cruz & McCort (2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 875,
882 [cleaned up].)  
 
Accordingly, the Court takes
judicial notice of the court records, including the truth of results reached
and legal implications of the records, the Court does not take judicial notice
of the truth of hearsay allegations in the requested pleadings.  
 
LEGAL STANDARD – MOTION FOR SUMMARY
JUDGMENT
 
“[T]he party moving for
summary judgment bears the burden of persuasion that there is no triable issue
of material fact and that he is entitled to judgment as a matter of law[.]
There is a triable issue of material fact if, and only if, the evidence would
allow a reasonable trier of fact to find the underlying fact in favor of the
party opposing the motion in accordance with the applicable standard of proof.”
 (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.)
 “[T]he party moving for summary judgment bears an initial burden of
production to make a prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable
issue of material fact; if he carries his burden of production, he causes a
shift, and the opposing party is then subjected to a burden
of production of his own to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a
triable issue of material fact.”  (Ibid.)  
 
“On a summary judgment
motion, the court must therefore consider what inferences favoring the opposing
party a factfinder could reasonably draw from the evidence. While viewing the
evidence in this manner, the court must bear in mind that its primary function
is to identify issues rather than to determine issues.  Only when the inferences are indisputable may
the court decide the issues as a matter of law. If the evidence is in conflict,
the factual issues must be resolved by trial.” 
(Binder v. Aetna Life Ins. Co. (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832, 839
[cleaned up].)  Further, “the trial court
may not weigh the evidence in the manner of a factfinder to determine whose
version is more likely true.  Nor may the
trial court grant summary judgment based on the court's evaluation of
credibility.”  (Id. at p. 840
[cleaned up]; see also Weiss v. People ex rel. Department of Transportation
(2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts deciding motions for summary judgment or
summary adjudication may not weigh the evidence but must instead view it in the
light most favorable to the opposing party and draw all reasonable inferences
in favor of that party”].)  
 
DISCUSSION

 
            Defendants argue that this action is
barred by the doctrines of res judicata and collateral estoppel, because the
issues were already adjudicated in connection with a prior unlawful detainer
action.
 
“Under the doctrine of collateral estoppel or issue preclusion, when
an issue of ultimate fact has been determined by a valid and final judgment,
that issue cannot be relitigated between the same parties in a future lawsuit.”  (California Logistics, Inc. v. State of
California (2008) 161 Cal.App.4th 242, 249.)
 
“Collateral estoppel has five threshold requirements: 1) the issue to
be precluded must be identical to that decided in the prior proceeding; 2) the
issue must have been actually litigated at that time; 3) the issue must have
been necessarily decided; 4) the decision in the prior proceeding must be final
and on the merits; and 5) the party against whom preclusion is sought must be
in privity with the party to the former proceeding.”  (Cruz v. City of Merced (2023) 95
Cal.App.5th 453, 471.)  
 
“Privity for collateral estoppel and res judicata purposes refers to a
relationship between the party to be estopped and the unsuccessful party in the
prior litigation sufficiently close to justify application of the doctrine of
res judicata. The determination of privity depends on the fairness of binding
one party with the result from an earlier proceeding in which it did not
participate. Such a determination requires a close examination of the
circumstances. The nonparty must have had an identity or community of interest
with, and adequate representation by, the party in the first action, so that
the nonparty should have expected to be bound by the prior adjudication.”  (Central Delta Water Agency v. Department
of Water Resources (2021) 69 Cal.App.5th 170, 209.)
 
            Defendants’ Evidence
 
            On or about February 7, 2023,
Defendant Alliance filed an unlawful detainer complaint against Plaintiff,
pertaining to Plaintiff’s rental of Defendants’ apartment unit 103 in Santa
Monica. (RJN Ex. A.)  Plaintiff answered
that complaint, asserting, among other things, the affirmative defense that the
three-day eviction notice was defective. 
(RJN Ex. B.)  Following a jury
trial, judgment was entered in favor of Alliance and against Plaintiff.  (RJN Ex. C.) 
Specifically, Alliance was granted possession of the premises and a
money judgment in the amount of the jurisdictional limit of $25,000.  (RJN Ex. C.) 
The jury specifically found that Alliance had properly given Plaintiff a
Three (3) Day Notice to Perform or Quit. 
(See RJN Ex. C at Ex. 1 ¶ 2.)  
 
            Plaintiff moved for judgment
notwithstanding the verdict, including on the grounds that the Three-Day Notice
was illusory because Defendants prevented Plaintiff from complying by refusing
to accept Plaintiff’s proposed new roommates. 
(RJN Ex. E.)  On November 16,
2023, the court denied Plaintiff’s motion in its entirety (RJN Ex. F.)  In so holding, the court found that Plaintiff
had not established any such frustration or impossibility defense warranting a
judgment notwithstanding the jury’s verdict. 
(RJN Ex. F at p. 13.)
 
            On or about October 1, 2023, Plaintiff
filed a lawsuit, styled as case number 23SMCV02310 against Alliance, Tim Leinen
and Tim Dietenhofer, alleging that the defendants colluded to evict Plaintiff
by refusing to allow him to rent out the unit to others so they could rent out
the unit to another tenant at a higher rent.
 
            In this action, Plaintiff alleges
“Defendants breached their duty of care owed to Plaintiff in their negligent
management of the subject property, to the extent that they pursued unlawful
detainer based on defective notice, which caused Plaintiff harm when he was
evicted.”  (Complaint ¶ 27.)  
 
            Thus, Defendants have produced
sufficient evidence to demonstrate that the same issue regarding the validity
of the Three-Day Notice was previously litigated between Plaintiff and Alliance
in connection with the Unlawful Detainer action.  Further, Plaintiff alleges that Alliance is
an authorized agent for Great for Six (Complaint ¶ 7) and that both Defendants
to this action were responsible for serving Plaintiff with the Three Day Notice
at issue (Complaint ¶ 8.)  As such, Great
for Six is in privity with Alliance regarding the prior unlawful detainer
action.
 
Thus, Defendants have met their initial burdens of production and
persuasion that Plaintiff is collaterally estopped from challenging the
validity of the Three Day Notice again in this lawsuit.
 
Plaintiff’s Evidence
 
Plaintiff does not offer any evidence in opposition, nor does
Plaintiff provide his own separate statement disputing any of Defendant’s
facts.[1]  Instead, Plaintiff argues that summary
judgment is inappropriate because there exist material issues of disputed fact
as to whether (1) Defendants violated the Tenant Protection Act (“TPA”) by
evicting Plaintiff pursuant to a defective Three-Day Notice; (2) Defendants
acted in bad faith during settlement negotiations; and (3) Defendants violated
the covenant of quiet enjoyment. 
Plaintiff also argues that Plaintiff has been unable to complete
necessary discovery, due to Plaintiff’s former counsel withdrawing from
representation.
 
Regarding Plaintiff’s first argument, Plaintiff has not offered any
evidence to create a triable issue of material fact that the validity of the
Three-Day notice was not already finally determined in connection with the
unlawful detainer action, or is otherwise not barred by the doctrine of
collateral estoppel.  Instead, Plaintiff
merely argues that the dispute in the unlawful detainer action was limited
possession of the premises, not whether Defendants violated the TPA, engaged in
bad faith settlement negotiations, or violated the covenant of quiet
enjoyment.  
 
Although possession and back rent were at issue by virtue of the
unlawful detainer complaint, Defendants have presented evidence that Plaintiff
raised the validity of the Three Day Notice in the answer as an affirmative
defense, which both the jury and the court determined was valid, in connection
with the jury verdict and the denial of Plaintiff’s motion for judgment
notwithstanding the verdict.  Thus,
Plaintiff has not raised any triable issue of material fact that collateral
estoppel bars Plaintiff from again contesting the validity of the Three-Day
Notice.
 
With regard to Plaintiff’s remaining arguments, the Court sustained without
leave to amend Defendants’ demurrer to the first three causes of action for
wrongful eviction, vacate void judgment, and breach of covenant of quiet
enjoyment of the premises, respectively, and those issues are not pleaded in
connection with the only remaining fourth cause of action for negligence.  (See Complaint ¶ 27 [“Plaintiff alleges
Defendants breached their duty of care owed to Plaintiff in their negligent
management of the subject property, to the extent that they pursued unlawful
detainer based on defective notice, which caused Plaintiff harm when he was
evicted”].)  Thus, whether Defendants
engaged in bad faith during settlement negotiations or violated the covenant of
quiet enjoyment are not at issue in this action.
 
Finally, with respect to Plaintiff’s argument that further discovery
is needed, the law provides, “If it appears from the affidavits submitted in
opposition to a motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication, or both,
that facts essential to justify opposition may exist but cannot, for reasons
stated, be presented, the court shall deny the motion, order a continuance to
permit affidavits to be obtained or discovery to be had, or make any other
order as may be just.”  (Code of Civ.
Proc., § 437c, subd. (h).)
 
But here, it is unclear what additional discovery Plaintiff would need
from Defendants to establish whether the issue of the validity of the Three Day
Notice was already adjudicated in the prior unlawful detainer action—an action
to which Plaintiff himself was a party and presumably privy to all relevant
information and documents pertaining to that proceeding.  Further, Plaintiff has not identified any
specific discovery Plaintiff anticipates receiving that would be relevant to
this issue.   
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
Therefore, having found Defendants met their initial burdens of
production and persuasion that the issue of the validity of the Three Day
Notice at the heart of Plaintiff’s remaining cause of action for negligence was
already fully and completely litigated in connection with the prior unlawful
detainer action, and Plaintiff did not produce any argument or evidence
creating a triable issue of material fact, the Court grants Defendants’ motion
for summary judgment in its entirety.  
 
Further, the Court orders Defendants to serve and lodge a proposed
Order granting the motion for summary judgment and a proposed Judgment on or before  December 6, 2024.  
 
Defendants shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file the
notice with a proof of service forthwith.   
 
 
 
 
 
DATED:  November 20, 2024                                               ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court


