 Case Number:  24SMCV04108    Hearing Date:   November 20, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


November 20, 2024




CASE NUMBER


24SMCV04108




MOTION


Motion to be Relieved as Counsel




MOVING PARTY


Randy Chang of The Chang Firm




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff Nadia Heshmati



 
MOTION
 
            Randy Chang of The Chang Firm,
counsel for Plaintiff Nadia Heshmati (“Counsel”) moves to be relived as counsel,
citing a “fatal breakdown in communication[.]” 
Plaintiff Nadia Heshmati (“Plaintiff”) opposes the motion and Counsel
replies.  
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 284 provides “[t]he attorney in an
action or special proceeding may be changed at any time before or after judgment
or final determination as follows: 1. Upon the consent of both client and
attorney, filed with the clerk, or entered in the minutes; 2. Upon the order of
the court, upon the application of either client or attorney, after notice from
one to the other.”
 
Procedural Requirements
 
California Rules of Court, rule 3.1362, requires:
 
(1) the motion must be made on
form MC-051; (subd. (a)); 
 
(2) it must be accompanied by
a declaration on form MC-052 stating why the motion is brought under Code of
Civil Procedure section 284(2) instead of a consent brought under section
284(1); (subd. (c));
 
(3) a proposed order on form
MC-053 must be lodged with the court, specifying all hearing dates scheduled in
the action or proceeding, including the date of trial, if known; (subd. (e));
and 
 
(4) The documents must be
served on the client and on all parties that have appeared in the case. (subd.
(d).)
 
If
the notice is served by mail or electronic service, it must be accompanied by a
declaration indicating that the address served is the current address, or in
the case of service by mail, that it was served on the last known address and a
more current address could not be located after reasonable efforts within 30
days before filing the motion.  (Ibid.)  The court may delay the effective date of the
order relieving counsel until proof of service of a copy of the signed order on
the client has been filed with the court.” 
(Ibid.)  
 
Substantive Requirements
 
Rules of Professional Conduct, rule 1.16(a) outlines the reasons a
lawyer must withdraw from representation of a client:
 
(1)   the
client is bringing an action, conducting a defense, asserting a position in
litigation, or taking an appeal, without probable cause and for the purpose of
harassing or maliciously injuring any person;
 
(2)   the
representation will result in violation of the Rules of Professional Conduct or
the State Bar Act;
 
(3)   the
lawyer’s mental or physical condition renders it unreasonably difficult to
carry out the representation effectively; or
 
(4)   the
client discharges the lawyer.
 
Rules of Professional Conduct, rule 1.16(b) outlines the reasons a
lawyer may withdraw from representation of a client:
 
(1)   the
client insists upon presenting a claim or defense in litigation, or asserting a
position or making a demand in a non-litigation matter, that is not warranted
under existing law and cannot be supported by good faith argument for an
extension, modification, or reversal of existing law;
 
(2)   the
client either seeks to pursue a criminal or fraudulent course of conduct or has
used the lawyer’s services to advance a course of conduct that the lawyer
reasonably believes was a crime or fraud;
 
(3)   the
client insists that the lawyer pursue a course of conduct that is criminal or
fraudulent;
 
(4)   the
client by other conduct renders it unreasonably difficult for the lawyer to
carry out the representation effectively;
 
(5)   the
client breaches a material term of an agreement with, or obligation, to the
lawyer relating to the representation, and the lawyer has given the client a reasonable
warning after the breach that the lawyer will withdraw unless the client
fulfills the agreement or performs the obligation;
 
(6)   the
client knowingly and freely assents to termination of the representation;
 
(7)   the
inability to work with co-counsel indicates that the best interests of the
client likely will be served by withdrawal;
 
(8)   the
lawyer’s mental or physical condition renders it difficult for the lawyer to
carry out the representation effectively;
 
(9)   a
continuation of the representation is likely to result in a violation of these
rules or the State Bar Act; or
 
(10)        
the lawyer believes in good faith in a proceeding
pending before a tribunal that the tribunal will find the existence of other
good cause for withdrawal.
 
DISCUSSION
 
Counsel has filed forms MC-051, MC-052, and MC-053.  The attorney declaration (MC-052) indicates
that the motion was filed instead of filing a consent because “There is a fatal
breakdown in communication between attorney and client such that it would be
impractical and impossible to effectively represent the client.”  
 
Plaintiff opposes the motion on the grounds that she does not have money
to pay another lawyer (Heshamti Decl. at ¶¶ 14-16; 18; 22-23), but also indicates
that there may be a conflict of interest between Counsel and the opposing party
Defendant Michael Carbajal.  (Heshmati
Decl. at ¶¶ 9-13.)
 
The Court finds that both Counsel’s and Plaintiff’s declarations
demonstrate there has been an irreparable breakdown of the attorney-client
relationship.  As such, the Court finds
that the motion is substantively proper. 
(See generally Rules Prof. 
Conduct, rule 1.16(b)(4).)  
 
            The proof of service indicates that the
motion (form MC-051) was served on the client by mail and email.  However, there is no indication that forms
MC-052 or MC-053 were served on any party. 
Specifically, there is no indication that either Defendant (both of whom
have answered) was served the required forms. 
(See Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362(d) [“The notice of motion and
motion, the declaration, and the proposed order must be served on the client
and on all other parties who have appeared in the case. The notice may be by
personal service, electronic service, or mail”].)   As
such, the Court finds the motion to be procedurally defective.
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
            For the foregoing reasons, the Court
continues the hearing to January 15, 2025 at 8:30 A.M. in Department 207 to
enable Counsel to properly serve the required forms.  
 
            Further, on the Court’s own motion,
the Court continues the Case Management Conference from January 7, 2025 to
January 15, 2025 at 8:30 A.M. in Department 207.  All parties shall comply with California
Rules of Court, rules 3.722, et seq., regarding Initial and Further Case
Management Conferences.  In particular, all
parties shall adhere to the duty to meet and confer (Rule 3.724) and to the requirement
to prepare and file Case Management Statements (Rule 3.725).  
 
Counsel shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and the continued proceedings.  Thereafter, Counsel shall file the notice and
proof of service to demonstrate compliance with the Court’s orders and the California
Rules of Court.
            
 
 
DATED:  November 20, 2024                       ___________________________
                                                                  Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                  Judge
of the Superior Court