 Case Number:  23SMCV01858    Hearing Date:   November 20, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


November 20, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23SMCV01858 (c/w 23SMCV04518)




MOTIONS


Motion for Leave to File a Cross-Complaint




MOVING PARTY


Defendant Miguel Anaya




OPPOSING PARTIES


Cross-Complainant Daniel Salcido and Plaintiff Ashley
  Zamora 



 
MOTION
 
This action stems from a multi-vehicle motor collision.  On April 28, 2023, Plaintiff Sophia Kraft
(“Plaintiff” or “Kraft”) sued Defendant Miguel Anaya (“Anaya”) for motor
vehicle negligence.  On August 9, 2023,
Plaintiff added Defendant Daniel Salcido, Jr. (“Salcido”) via Doe amendment,
and Salcido filed a cross-complaint against Anaya on September 26, 2023.  Kraft dismissed her complaint with prejudice
on April 18, 2024.
 
On September 25, 2023, Plaintiff Ashlee Zamora filed a complaint for
motor vehicle negligence against Anaya in the now-consolidated case number
23SMCV04518.  
 
            Anaya now moves for leave to file a
cross-complaint against a new party to the litigation, Jonati Yedidsion (“Yedidsion”),
who Salcido claims is responsible for causing the multi-vehicle collision by
driving erratically and unexpectedly cutting off the line of cars that collided
with each other.
 
            Cross-Complainant Salcido and
Plaintiff Zamora oppose the motion and Anaya replies.
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
A
party against whom a cause of action has been asserted in a complaint or
cross-complaint may file a cross-complaint setting forth either or both of the
following:
 
(a)   Any
cause of action he has against any of the parties who filed the complaint or
cross-complaint against him. Nothing in this subdivision authorizes the filing
of a cross-complaint against the plaintiff in an action commenced under Title 7
(commencing with Section 1230.010) of Part 3.
 
(b)   Any
cause of action he has against a person alleged to be liable thereon, whether
or not such person is already a party to the action, if the cause of action
asserted in his cross-complaint (1) arises out of the same transaction,
occurrence, or series of transactions or occurrences as the cause brought
against him or (2) asserts a claim, right, or interest in the property or
controversy which is the subject of the cause brought against him.
 
(Code
Civ. Proc., § 428.10, subds. (a)-(b).)  
 
(a)   A
party shall file a cross-complaint against any of the parties who filed the
complaint or cross-complaint against him or her before or at the same time as
the answer to the complaint or cross-complaint.
 
(b)   Any
other cross-complaint may be filed at any time before the court has set a date
for trial.
 
(c)   A
party shall obtain leave of court to file any cross-complaint except one filed
within the time specified in subdivision (a) or (b). Leave may be granted in
the interest of justice at any time during the course of the action.
 
(Code
Civ. Proc., § 428.50, subds. (a)-(c).)  
 
Indeed, where a cause of action would
otherwise be lost, leave to amend is appropriate even if the party was
negligent in not moving for leave to amend earlier.  “The legislative mandate is clear.  A policy of liberal construction of section
426.50 to avoid forfeiture of causes of action is imposed on the trial
court.  A motion to file a
cross-complaint at any time during the course of the action must be granted
unless bad faith of the moving party is demonstrated where forfeiture would
otherwise result.”  (Silver
Organizations, Ltd. v. Frank (1990) 217 Cal.App.3d 94, 98-99.)   
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Anaya contends that he learned
during the depositions of Kraft, Zamora, and Salcido, taken on November 13,
2023, August 13, 2024, and August 13, 2024, respectively, that Yedidsion was
driving erratically in a black Porsche and made an unsafe lane change that
caused the multi-vehicle collision at issue. 

 
            Salcido and Zamora oppose the motion
on the grounds that the jury trial is currently set for December 9.  Further, Salcido and Zamora argue that
because Anaya was aware of Yedidsion’s involvement since at least November 13,
2023, the extreme delay in moving for leave to file a cross-complaint is
evidence that Anaya seeks to file the cross-complaint in bad faith as a delay
tactic.
 
            Although Anaya may have been aware in
November 2023 that a black Porsche cut Salcido off, it was not necessarily
clear that the black Porsche was driving erratically prior to the accident
until the August 13, 2024 depositions of Zamora and Salcido.
 
            Anaya first moved for leave to file
a cross-complaint on October 3, 2024, and twice moved ex parte to shorten time
to hear the motion or to continue the trial. 
 
            Under these circumstances, the Court
does not find that Anaya failed to act diligently or moves now to file a
cross-complaint against Yedidsion in bad faith. 

 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
            Therefore, in light of the liberal
policy of granting leave to avoid forfeiture of claims, and because Anaya did
not become aware of the extent of Yedidsion’s alleged culpability until August
13, 2024, the Court grants Anaya’s motion for leave to file a cross-complaint
against Yedidsion.  Further, Anaya shall
file and serve the summons and cross-complaint on or before December 31, 2024.  
 
            Further, in light of the forthcoming
addition of a new party to the litigation, the Court vacates the final status
conference currently scheduled for November 22, 2024 and the trial currently
scheduled for December 9, 2024, and schedules a Trial Readiness Conference for March
26, 2025 at 8:30 A.M. in Department 207. 
The parties shall file a Joint Trial Readiness Conference Statement, which
shall provide at minimum information about the status of discovery and when the
parties contemplate the consolidated actions will be ready for trial, no later
than 5 court days before the scheduled conference.  
 
            Anaya shall provide notice of the
Court’s ruling and file the notice with a proof of service forthwith.
 
 
 
DATED: 
November 20, 2024                       ___________________________
                                                                  Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                  Judge
of the Superior Court