  Case Number:  20STPB09955    Hearing Date:   November 1, 2024    Dept:  200 .LOS ANGELES
SUPERIOR COURT 
WEST
DISTRICT - BEVERLY HILLS COURTHOUSE 
DEPT. 200
 
In the
Matter of the David Martin Finkelstein Trust dated September 18, 2020, Case No.
20STPB09955 (related to the Matter of the Teresa A. Yui Life Estate Trust, Case
No. 21STPB07420 and the Estate of David Martin Finkelstein, Case No.
20STPB08825)
Hearing
Date: November 1, 2024, 10:30 a.m. 
 
TENTATIVE RULING ON MOTION
OF DAWN MILLS REGARDING WAIVER OF RIGHT TO OBJECT TO HER FIRST AND THIRD
ACCOUNTS UNDER RULES OF COURT, RULE 7.801  

 
CONTENTIONS 
          On October 2,
2024, Dawn Mills, as then interim trustee, filed this motion contending that Teresa
Yui, Ronald Reagan Presidential Foundation and Institute, City of Hope,
Dollywood Foundation (“Dollywood”) and National Park Foundation (collectively, “Beneficiaries”)
had waived their rights to object to her petitions for approval of her first
and third accounts under California Rules of Court (“CRC”), Rule 7.801. Specifically,
Mills asserts: 
First Account 
On February 24, 2022, Mills filed her petition for approval of
first account. 
On October 18, 2022, the Court ordered that objections to the
first account be filed by November 17, 2022. 
By November 17, 2022, allegedly no objections were filed to the first
account.  
On August 15, 2024, City of Hope and Dollywood filed a joinder in
the objections of Teresa Yui to the first account. 
As a result, Mills contends under CRC Rule 7.801 that
Beneficiaries have waived their right to object to her first account and that
City of Hope and Dollywood’s Joinder is untimely and should not be considered. 
 
Third Account 
On July 30, 2024, the Court ordered that any objections to the
third account be filed by August 15, 2024. 
On August 19, 2024, City of Hope and Dollywood filed objections to
the third account. 
          On October 21,
2024, Beneficiaries filed a Joint opposition to the motion. They contend that
there was no waiver of their right to object to either account and that the
relevant filings were timely, as indicated below. The October 18, 2022 order
Mills cites did not apply to City of Hope and Dollywood and was only intended to
respond to Yui’s inquiry about her deadline if the then pending petition to
approve a settlement agreement was not approved. They also argue that neither
order applied to joinders or supplements, only objections, and that there is no
authority setting deadlines on filing of supplements. 
On November 16, 2022, Yui filed objections to the first account.
On August 15, 2024, City of Hope and Dollywood submitted for
filing and service their objections to the third account. The objections were
rejected by the Clerk for an erroneous filing fee and on payment of the correct
fee the objections were then filed.  
On September 18, 2024, Yui filed supplemental objections to the
third account. 
          Moreover, waiver
is discretionary under Rule 7.801. See also Estate of Davis (1990)
219 Cal.App.3d 663 (rejecting formalistic approach to participation in Probate
proceedings and rejecting claim that a surety could not appear on accounting
proceeding without a joinder) Mills has suffered no prejudice from the timing
of these filings. 
          Here there are
facts warranting the hearing of objections, namely, Beneficiaries’ not knowing
until after the deadline on the first account of facts occurring during the
first account period warranting objection, including (a) City of Hope and
Dollywood not receiving their entire specific bequest due to administrative
costs and (b) Mills’ allegedly improperly seeking to make a payment to Jeffrey
Condon in the sum of $35,450 and then purporting to allow and pay (during the
third account period) a claim by Condon for that amount.  
          On October 24,
2024, Mills filed a Reply to the opposition to the motion. Mills contends that
the Court should not allow objections or supplements that were not verified, are
duplicative of other objections and that Yui and the Reagan Foundation lack
standing to assert objections in the Finkelstein Trust matter where their
interests therein have now been transferred to the Yui Trust. Mills also cites
to LASC Rule 4.28 that has similar language to CRC Rule 7.801. 
          On October 28,
2024, Beneficiaries filed a Joint Sur-Reply. They point out that Local Rule
4.28 was repealed on July 1, 2023 and therefore cannot serve as a basis for
waiver. In addition, they argue Mills cannot make the above-referenced
additional alleged defects in Beneficiaries’ filings that were not raised in
the motion where they have not had an opportunity to respond to her claims. 
 
DISCUSSION 
          CRC Rule 7.801
states: “If the court continues a matter to allow a written objection or
response to be made, and the responding or objecting party fails to serve and
file a timely objection or response, the court may deem the objections
or responses waived.” (Emphasis added) 
         The Court finds Yui
timely objected to the first account and that therefore City of Hope and
Dollywood properly joined therein. They did not waive their right to join in
Yui’s objections by themselves not objecting within the deadline for objections.
The order by its terms did not apply to joinders or supplements nor does it
make sense to read it that way where a joinder or supplement do not allow for
any more litigation than would already be at issue by way of the objection. It
would be duplicative and an unnecessary expense for additional beneficiaries to
assert what one beneficiary has already raised. That Yui may no longer have
standing by reason of an order entered after filing of the objection does not
mean that the joinder is therefore moot. Beneficiaries (and Yui) may still have
an “interest” in the account. As referenced above, City of Hope and Dollywood
also claim their specific bequest was wrongly compromised. Mills offers no
authority requiring Beneficiaries to obtain leave of court before filing a
joinder or supplement. They are not non-parties but are interested persons
entitled to appear by reason of Probate Code secs. 17003 and 17203. 
         The Court finds City
of Hope and Dollywood timely objected to the third account. They did not waive
their right to object where they attempted to timely file their objections and
only did not do so due to an error concerning the filing fee. Mills was in any
event timely served. 
          Moreover, even if
the joinder and objection were deemed untimely, CRC Rule 7.801 does not require
that the Court disregard documents. As noted above, the rule is permissive.
Here, the Court exercises its discretion to hear the objections and supplements
where Mills has not shown any prejudice from when these documents were filed,
there appears good cause to hear the objections  and judicial policy favors hearing matters on
their merits, not by applying technical rules to avoid the merits. 
          Further, the
Probate Court has a duty to oversee administration by trustees where its
accounts are submitted for approval – as is in issue here. Relatedly, it may be
necessary to consider the first and third accounts in connection with approval
of the second account and now the final account that the Court just ordered. 
          Finally, the Court
does not find “waiver” or the “intentional relinquishment of a known right”
under these facts.      
          The Court
sustains the objections in the Sur-Reply to Mills raising for the first time in
her Reply issues arising from verifications, duplication and standing - which
she did not assert in the motion. The Court will address those issues at time
of trial. Similarly, the Court does not address at this time the validity of Mills
having allowed Condon’s claim or payment to him – which will likely depend on
the evidence at trial and therefore cannot now be decided.  
 
CONCLUSION  
          For these
reasons, the Court denies the motion. 