 Case Number:  SP007923    Hearing Date:   November 1, 2024    Dept:  200 LOS ANGELES
SUPERIOR COURT 
WEST
DISTRICT - BEVERLY HILLS COURTHOUSE 
DEPT. 200
 
In the
Matter of the Pacific Trust, Case No. SP007923 (Related Cases: BC664811,
SP007984 and 17STPB07675)
 
TENTATIVE RULING ON CROSS-MOTIONS
OF BRIAN CORMAN AND ELIZABETH WEAVER RE: APPOINTMENT OF LAWRENCE LEBOWSKY AS
SUBSTITUTE GUARDIAN AD LITEM (“GAL”) FOR MINOR BENEFICIARY CAROLINE CORMAN IN
LIEU OF RESIGNING GAL     
 
Hearing
Date: November 1, 2024, Time: 8:30 a.m. 
 
INTRODUCTION / BACKGROUND 
          On April 23, 2024,
the Court filed its ruling on an objection to a proposed order permitting the GAL
for Caroline Corman to review certain financial records of Brian Corman’s
Sub-Trust.[1] Caroline
is now six. This ruling (and the attached tentative ruling from a hearing on
November 2, 2023) address many of the issues Brian relitigates here, including
his stipulation on January 9, 2024 that the trustee’s decisions concerning
distributions to Elizabeth shall not be impacted by the December 12, 2019 Family
Law stipulation – on which he relies to a significant degree here. As discussed
at prior hearings, and in the attached tentative ruling, the underlying Family
Law stipulation and order appear to have been executed as a means by Brian to
avoid an earlier ruling of this Court. It has no applicability in these Trust
proceedings, even if it may in the Family Court case. As indicated below, Elizabeth
also contends that the Family Law stipulation was procured by Brian’s false
promises. 
 
          The backdrop to these
motions is an issue that Brian studiously avoids in his motion and opposition
to Elizabeth’s motion; namely, the disclosure by trustee Crawford Trust Company
(“Crawford”), based on an order to provide an account, of its decision to move
half of Brian’s sub-trust out-of-state (apparently $4.5 million) and further to
modify the Sub-Trust so that Caroline may not receive any distributions until she
is thirty. Friedman raised concerns on learning of these developments, as well
as other issues that led to the Court ordering Crawford to file an account,
that these might constitute a breach of fiduciary duty by Crawford. Friedman indicated,
however, an inability himself to handle what might be protracted proceedings and
sought to resign. Hence, the Court stated its intent on September 12, 2024 to
appoint another lawyer on the Court GAL panel, with the ability to evaluate and
or litigate these issues, if necessary, subject to any objection or motion by
Brian to his appointment. 
STATEMENT OF CONTENTIONS 
 
          On October 11,
2024, Brian filed a motion objecting to the proposed appointment of Lebowsky as
GAL, or in the alternative, to narrow the scope of his appointment. Brian
asserts that this Court is bound by the December 12, 2019 Family Law
stipulation and order and that pursuant to that order he has “custody” of Caroline
for purposes of Trust distributions. He therefore contends he is the “de facto
GAL” and that the Court does not need to appoint Lebowsky. He argues also that
this case is completed and that there is nothing further for a GAL to do. Relatedly,
he again argues that the order pertaining to the Deal Point Memorandum, filed
December 7, 2021, and the pending appeal from that order, divests this Court of
further jurisdiction.  Finally, he argues
that if the Court does appoint Lebowsky, it should clarify the scope of his
appointment. 
 
           On October 14,
2024, Elizabeth filed a motion in support of the appointment of Lebowsky and
with expanded scope of authority. She contends Brian cannot be a GAL as he has
a conflict with Caroline and further has wrongly used Trust funds to contest
Caroline’s entitlement to those funds. She also asserts Brian exercised undue
influence over her to sign the Family Law stipulation and states without
providing specifics that there was “domestic violence.” She also states
Crawford improperly transferred $4.5 million from the sub-trust to Nevada and that
Brian wrongly modified the Trust to preclude Caroline receiving distributions
until she is thirty. Eliabeth requests Lebowsky pursue actions necessary to
determine whether Brian unduly influenced her to sign the stipulation and other
alleged improper actions by Brian vis-à-vis Caroline.  
 
          On October 21,
2024, Brian filed opposition to Elizabeth’s motion. Brian contends initially that
Elizabeth’s motion is untimely where the Court ordered that Brian’s motion be
filed by October 11, 2024. Brian contends the issues Elizabeth raises are for
the Family Court. He also denies exercising any undue influence over Eliabeth
related to the stipulation. In turn, he contends there are no new facts or
circumstances since the 2019 stipulation and order warranting appointment of another
GAL. Finally, he reasserts issues raised in his own motion.  
 
          On October 25,
2025, Crawford filed a Reply with respect to the GAL motions. Crawford argues that
a GAL is not necessary and would violate the Family Court order.  He indicates that the transfer of funds to
Nevada was for tax purposes – that benefits both Caroline and Brian. He also
indicates the restrictions on distributions was to protect Caroline from
unscrupulous people who might take advantage of Caroline as a young adult,
creditors and or her own financial immaturity. Finally, Crawford again indicates
Elizabeth’s petition is about her improperly seeking payment of rent and
country club dues, though she is not a beneficiary.          
 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
          The Court finds
good cause to allow Elizbeth’s motion, filed the next court day after Brian’s
motion was to be filed by, where it appears Brian has had ample opportunity to
oppose the motion and has done so. The other option would have been to continue
the hearing to meet the statutory time for filing a motion before the hearing
date – which makes little sense. There was also no deadline for Elizabeth to have
filed a motion because it was only discussed that Brian would be filing a
motion. The Court also treats Elizabeth’s motion as opposition to Brian’s
motion.
 
          Initially, that
Friedman wishes to resign is not a reason not to appoint another GAL, as Brian
argues. To the contrary, Friedman acknowledges that he is unable to adequately
address the significant issues raised by the accounting.  
 
          For the reasons
set forth in the above-referenced tentative ruling attached as Ex. A to the
April 23, 2024 ruling, which are incorporated by reference here, including that
the GAL did not approve the stipulation, the Probate Court should not be bound
by the Family Court order. Further, Brian stipulated that the Family Court
order would have no bearing on distribution issues when this Court raised the
concerns in the tentative ruling. In addition, though the Court is at least not
now relying on Elizabeth’s contention that Brian unduly influenced her to sign
the stipulation, this also raises significant concerns, coupled with the
Court’s own reasons why it does not believe the order would be applicable
herein. As discussed previously, Elizabeth’s contentions would need to be heard
at an evidentiary hearing – presumably in the Family Court since it was an
order entered in that case.     
 
          Even if the Family
Law stipulation and order had any bearing here, the order does not make clear
whether Brian could therefore permissibly represent Caroline’s interests in her
rights to Trust distributions. The order does not specifically address that
issue. After all, this is Caroline’s money, not Brian’s. By the same token, it
is also not child support which is for Elizabeth. Property to which a minor is entitled
is for a GAL to control (and the GAL can be a parent if they do not have a
conflict.) (Williams v. Superior Court (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th
36) 
 
          How the
distributions impact the level of child support is an issue for the Family
Court. What Trust distributions Caroline is entitled to receive, however, is
for this Probate Court. As indicated below, it would be useful for Lebowsky to
seek input from the Family Court related to what continuing effect, if any, the
2019 stipulation and order should have in this case, as Elizabeth requests. As
noted at prior hearings, what amount of distribution Caroline receives will
likely impact child support and vice-versa. Moreover, the issues here now also
concern Caroline’s right to distribution as an adult – which likely is not an
issue the Family Court would have jurisdiction concerning. 
 
          Moreover, Brian
cannot be Caroline’s GAL for at least two reasons: 
 
          First, Brian has a
conflict where the more money he receives as beneficiary the less Caroline
receives and vice-versa. A GAL, unlike a parent in some instances,  would not have a conflict. (See Chui
v. Chui (2022) 75 Cal.App.5th 873) 
 
          Second, a GAL is
not a guardian or parent. A GAL is an agent of the Court acting here for a
minor, subject to court approval under CCP sec. 372. (County of Los Angeles
v. Superior Court (2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 1303) Brian cannot here
be both a litigant and GAL given his potential and or actual competing interests
to Caroline in the same funds. (Probate Code secs. 1003(b) and (d), Williams,
supra) 
 
         As discussed when
Friedman was first appointed, one of the reasons for a GAL here is to provide input
for Caroline, separate and apart from the ongoing differing views of her
parents. Previously, for example, based on GAL’s petition for instructions, filed
August 16, 2023, Crawford agreed to pay for the cost of any private school education
for Caroline, which Brian had previously resisted Crawford agreeing upon. In
addition, Elizabeth has raised whether Brian may properly use Sub-Trust funds
for payment of significant attorneys’ fees to contest distributions to Caroline
while not paying for expenses of Caroline.[2] By
contrast, Crawford asserts that Elizabeth is improperly seeking money for
herself through receiving money for Caroline and that the modifications at
issue in fact benefit and or are for Caroline’s protection. A GAL is needed to
weed through these competing claims. 
 
          Brian does not
articulate what “parentage” issues there are here. The Family Court has already
determined Brian is Caroline’s father. 
 
          The Amended Final
Ruling pertaining to the Deal Point Memorandum, filed December 7, 2021, and the
pending appeal from that order, do not divest this Court of further
jurisdiction or make this appointment unnecessary. The Court addressed that
issue in its above-referenced April 23, 2024 ruling and will not repeat those
reasons now.  In addition, the Court has
recently learned of changes to the Sub-Trust by way of the court ordered
accounting that may be disadvantageous to Caroline. A GAL needs to evaluate the
competing arguments for those changes. These are “new facts and circumstances”
warranting a continuing role for a GAL.  
 
CONCLUSION 
 
          For these reasons,
the Court grants Elizabeth’s motion and denies Brian’s motion. The Court
confirms its provisional appointment on September 12, 2024 of Lawrence Lebowsky
in lieu of David Friedman as GAL for Caroline. The Court finds that Brian’s
proposed representation of Caroline’s interests would be “inadequate,” and that
therefore Lebowsky should instead serve as GAL, for purposes of Probate Code
sec. 1003(a). 
 
          The scope of
Lebowsky’s appointment shall include the scope of Friedman’s appointment, as
set forth in the April 24, 2019 order (related to Caroline’s distribution
rights), its October 2, 2020 order (related to reviewing and seeking approval
on the part of Caroline to the Deal Point Memorandum (post-remittitur), as well
as the April 23, 2024 order (related to review of Crawford’s accounts as to the
Sub-Trust). In addition, Lebowsky is authorized to do the following:
 
1.     
Respond to Crawford’s petition for approval of
its account, and take such other steps, if necessary, consistent with
Caroline’s best interests, including potentially, on the one hand, seeking
approval in whole or part of the account or, on the other hand, potentially
objecting to the account in whole or part and or filing a petition for removal
of Crawford as trustee, (The Court does not intend thereby to imply whether it
would grant such petition.) 
2.     
Determine whether it would be appropriate to seek
the input of the Family Court concerning the ongoing legal effect, if any, of
the December 12, 2019 order in this Trust proceeding and or the validity of
that order, and if so, to do so. Lebowsky is not authorized to pursue Elizabeth’s
own independent claims or act for her. 
3.     
File a response to the still pending petition
for writ of mandate if the Court of Appeal seeks further briefing. 
 
          Lebowsky shall
lodge a proposed order consistent with the foregoing.
 

