 Case Number:  23PSCV02694    Hearing Date:   November 6, 2023    Dept:  K The hearing on Counsel
for Plaintiff Juvani Licea’s (i.e., BD&J, PC) Motion to be Relieved as
Counsel is CONTINUED to January 24, 2024 at 8:30 a.m. [see below].
Background   
Plaintiff Juvani Licea (“Plaintiff”) alleges that she
sustained injuries in a September 4, 2021 motor vehicle accident.
On September
1, 2023, Plaintiff filed a complaint, asserting causes of action against Beth
Meryl Fogel and Does 1-20 for:
1.                 
General
Negligence
2.                 
Motor
Vehicle
A Case
Management Conference is set for January 24, 2024.
Discussion
BD&J, PC (“Firm”)
seeks to be relieved as counsel of record for Plaintiff (“Client”).
The court has discretion to allow an attorney to withdraw,
and such a motion should be granted provided that there is no prejudice to the
client and it does not disrupt the orderly process of justice. (See
Ramirez v. Sturdevant (1994) 21
Cal.App.4th 904, 915; People v. Prince
(1968) 268 Cal.App.2d 398.)
California
Rule of Court (“CRC”) Rule 3.1362 requires (1) a notice of motion and motion
directed to the client (made on the Notice
of Motion and Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel—Civil form (MC-051)); (2) a
declaration stating in general terms and without compromising the
confidentiality of the attorney-client relationship why a motion under Code of
Civil Procedure § 284(2) is brought instead of filing a consent under section
284(1) (made on the Declaration in
Support of Attorney's Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel—Civil form
(MC-052)); (3) service of the notice of motion and motion, the declaration, and
the proposed order on the client and on all other parties who have appeared in
the case; and (4) a proposed order relieving counsel (prepared on the Order Granting Attorney's Motion to Be
Relieved as Counsel—Civil form (MC-053)). The court may delay the effective
date of the order relieving counsel until proof of service of a copy of the
signed order on the client has been filed with the court.
Notice
At the outset, the
court notes that no proof of service has been filed, to date (i.e., as of November
3, 2023, 11:00 a.m.), even though counsel represents that the Client was
mail-served with the motion [see below]. Proof of service of moving
papers must be filed no later than 5 court days before the hearing. (Cal. Rules
Ct. rule 3.1300, subd. (c)). Incidentally, service of the motion upon Fogel is
not necessary, inasmuch as there is no indication that Fogel has appeared in
the case.
Counsel’s declaration
advises that the moving papers have been served on clerk of the court “pursuant
to California Rule of Court, Rule 3.1362(d).” 
California Rules of Court Rule 3.1362, subdivision (d), in turn, provides
as follows:
The
notice of motion and motion, the declaration, and the proposed order must 
be
served on the client and on all other parties who have appeared in the case.
The 
            notice may be by personal service, electronic service, or
mail.
 
(1)              
If the notice is
served on the client by mail under Code of Civil Procedure section 1013, it
must be accompanied by a declaration stating facts showing that either:
(A)            
The service
address is the current residence or business address of the client; or 
(B)             
The service address is the last
known residence or business address of the client and the attorney has been
unable to locate a more current address after making reasonable efforts to do
so within 30 days before the filing of the motion to be relieved.
(2)              
If the notice is served on the client
by electronic service under Code of Civil Procedure section 1010.6 and rule
2.251, it must be accompanied by a declaration stating that the electronic service
address is the client's current electronic service address.
 
As used in this rule, ‘current’ means that the
address was confirmed within 30 
days before the filing of the motion to be
relieved. Merely demonstrating that the 
notice was sent to the client’s last known
address and was not returned or no 
electronic delivery failure message was
received is not, by itself, sufficient to demonstrate that the address is
current. If the service is by mail, Code of Civil 
Procedure section 1011(b) applies.”
 
The subdivision does not provide for service upon the court
clerk. Counsel is requested to provide the court with further authority, at or
before the time of the hearing, permitting service in this fashion.
Merits
Attorney Malek H. Shraibati (“Shraibati”) represents, in relevant
part, that “[t]here has been a significant breakdown in the attorney-client
relationship , which has significantly impeded counsel's ability to effectively
prosecute this case and represent Plaintiff's interests.”  Shraibati advises that “[a] voluntary
substitution of attorney form could not be obtained from Plaintiff, who no
longer responds to calls and/or mailings.”
Shraibati represents that she has
served the Client by mail at the Client’s last known address with copies of the
motion papers served with her declaration (again, however, no proof of service
reflecting as such has been filed). Shraibati represents that she has been
unable to confirm that the address is current or to locate a more current
address for the Client after mailing the motion papers to the Client’s last
known address, return receipt requested, calling the Client’s last known
telephone number(s) and commissioning the services of a private investigator.
Again, no proof of service has
been filed, let alone one reflecting service via return receipt requested upon
the Client.
The court will continue the
hearing, to January 24, 2024 at 8:30 a.m. In the interim, counsel is to address
the service issues noted above. Counsel is also to provide notice of the
continued hearing date.