Plaintiffs Irene Young and Jesse Chang seek to compel further responses from Defendant Pacific Plaza Elite-Alhambra Homeowners Association as to their requests for production, set two, and form interrogatories, set two.The first Motion pertains to form interrogatory no. 17.1 as it relates to requests for admission nos. 7 and 15.  An amended response was served with respect to request no. 15 and an accompanying amended response was provided for form interrogatory no 17.1.  Therefore, the Motion is denied as moot with respect to request no. 15.  With respect to request no. 7, the response for form interrogatory no. 17.1 is deficient.  No facts or documents are specifically identified and no contact information is provided for Partners Community Management.  The Motion to Compel is granted in part—a further response is required within 30 days for form interrogatory no. 17.1 as it relates to request for admission no. 7.  The Court awards reduced sanctions to Plaintiffs in the amount of $750.With respect to the requests for production, Defendant contends that supplemental documents were served such that the Motion is moot.  Defendant, however, never addresses its actual responses.  The Motion is granted as to request nos. 1-7, 9-12, 15-22 because the non-privilege objections lack merit and Defendant should provide updated responses in which documents are identified with Bates numbers.  For its privilege log, Defendant should indicate recipients and authors.  With respect to request nos. 8, 13, 14, 24, and 25, Defendant should provide a response that complies with Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.230.  The Motion is denied without prejudice as to request no. 23, which seems to target predominantly privileged matters.  Further responses are to be provided within 30 days.  The Court awards Plaintiffs reduced sanctions in the amount of $750.Moving parties to give notice.If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic.