 Case Number:  BC619869    Hearing Date:   March 6, 2024    Dept:  27 Complaint: 7/13/24
Hon. Lee S. Arian¿ 
Department 27¿ 
Tentative Ruling 
 
Hearing
Date:           3/6/2024
at 1:30 p.m.¿¿ 
Case
No./Name.:      BC619869 DEBORAH AMELON VS JASON SINNER M
D ET AL.
Motion Name:           Motion
for Determination of Good Faith Settlement 
Moving
Party:           Defendants
Jason, M.D. Sinner and Beverly Radiology Medical Group 
Responding
Party:    Unopposed
Notice:                      Sufficient¿¿ 
¿¿ 
Ruling: DEFENDANTS’
MOTION FOR DETERMINATION OF GOOD FAITH SETTLEMENT
IS GRANTED
 
Background
 
On
May 10, 2016, Plaintiff Deborah Amelon initiated a medical malpractice lawsuit
against Defendants Jason Sinner, M.D., Beverly Radiology Medical Group, Robin
Solymanijam, and Consultants For Lung Diseases Medical Group, Inc. After
mediation with retired California trial Judge Hon. Chris R. Conway on March 28,
2023, Plaintiff Deborah Amelon and Defendants Jason Sinner, M.D., and Beverly
Radiology Medical Group (collectively "Settling Defendants") entered
into a formal settlement agreement. (Exhibit A.) Defendants Robin Solymanijam,
M.D and Consultants For Lung Diseases Medical Group, Inc were not included in
this settlement. The Settling Defendants issued a Consent Judgment for $228,000
in favor of the Plaintiff, with $227,999 attributed to Beverly Radiology
Medical Group and $1 to Sinner. The Settling Defendants are now seeking court
confirmation that this $228,000 settlement with Plaintiff Amelon is a good
faith settlement and precluding any further contribution or indemnity claims against
the Settling Defendants based on comparative negligence or fault by
Non-Settling Defendants or any other parties. An opposition to this motion was
not filed, nor are there any other filings opposing the settlement at issue.
 
Legal
Standard
 
CCP
section 877.6(a)(1) provides that “[a]ny party to an action wherein it is
alleged that two or more parties are joint tortfeasors or co-obligors on a
contract debt shall be entitled to a hearing on the issue of the good faith of
a settlement entered into by the plaintiff . . . and one or more alleged
tortfeasors or co-obligors . . . .”  (Code. Civ. Proc., §
877.6(a)(1).)  “A determination by the court that the settlement was made
in good faith shall bar any other joint tortfeasor or co-obligor from any
further claims against the settling tortfeasor or co-obligor for equitable
comparative contribution, or partial or comparative indemnity, based on
comparative negligence or comparative fault.”  (Id., §
877.6(c).)  Although a determination that a settlement was in good faith
does not discharge any other party from liability, “it shall reduce the claims
against the others in the amount stipulated” by the settlement.  (Id.,
§ 877(a).) 
 
Factors
to consider in determining if a settlement was made in good faith include “a
rough approximation of plaintiffs’ total recovery and the settlor’s
proportionate liability, the amount paid in settlement, the allocation of
settlement proceeds among plaintiffs, and a recognition that a settlor should
pay less in settlement than he would if he were found liable after a
trial.”  (Tech-Bilt, Inc. v. Woodward-Clyde & Associates (1985)
38 Cal.3d 488, 499.)  “Other relevant considerations include the financial
conditions and insurance policy limits of settling defendants, as well as the
existence of collusion, fraud, or tortious conduct aimed to injure the
interests of nonsettling defendants.”  (Id.) 
 
The
evaluation of whether a settlement was made in good faith is required to “be
made on the basis of information available at the time of settlement.”  (Tech-Bilt,
Inc. v. Woodward-Clyde & Associates (1985) 38 Cal.3d 488, 499.) 
“[A] court not only looks at the alleged tortfeasor’s potential liability to
the plaintiff, but it must also consider the culpability of the tortfeasor
vis-à-vis other parties alleged to be responsible for the same injury.”  (TSI
Seismic Tenant Space, Inc. v. Superior Court (2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 159,
166.)  “Potential liability for indemnity to a nonsettling defendant is an
important consideration for the trial court in determining whether to approve a
settlement by an alleged tortfeasor.”  (Id.) 
 
“The
party asserting the lack of good faith shall have the burden of proof on that
issue.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6(d).)  The party asserting the lack
of good faith can establish that the proposed settlement was not a settlement
made in good faith by showing the settlement is so far “out of the ballpark” in
relation to the Tech-Bilt factors as to be inconsistent with the
equitable objectives of the statute.  (Tech-Bilt, Inc., supra, 38
Cal.3d at 499-500.) 
 
Unopposed
Motion
 
An
unopposed motion for determination of good faith of settlement need not contain
a full and complete discussion of the Tech-Bilt factors (Tech-Bilt,
Inc. v. Woodward-Clyde & Associates (1985) 38 Cal.3d 488) by
declaration or affidavit; rather, a bare bones motion setting forth the grounds
of good faith and a declaration containing a brief background of the case is
sufficient.  (City of Grand Terrace v. Superior Court (1987) 192
Cal.App.3d 1251, 1261.) 
 
Analysis
and Conclusion
 
The
present motion is unopposed, and there are no other filings objecting to the
settlement at issue. The motion demonstrates that the settlement agreement was
reached in good faith during mediation facilitated by a former California judge.
It also contained a brief background of the case. The moving party has made a
sufficient showing. Thus, Settling Defendants’ Motion for Determination of Good
Faith Settlement IS GRANTED
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:     
  
·               
If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by
the case number.  The body of the email must include the
hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the
party submitting.       
·               
Unless all parties submit by email to this tentative
ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person
for oral argument.  You should assume that others may appear at
the hearing to argue.       
·               
If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the
Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the
order of the Court.  After the Court has issued a tentative
ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without
leave.      
 
 
 