 Case Number:  21STCV13833    Hearing Date:   March 6, 2024    Dept:  27 Complaint: 4/12/21
Hon. Lee S. Arian¿ 
Department 27¿ 
Tentative Ruling 
 
Hearing
Date:                 3/6/2024
at 1:30 p.m.¿¿ 
Case
No./Name.:            21STCV13833
DANA ZOULIN vs VLADIMIR SYELSKY
Motion Name:                 MOTION
TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES, SET TWO, AND REQUESTS
FOR PRODUCTION, SET TWO
Moving
Party:                 Defendant
VLADIMIR SYELSKY
Responding
Party:          Plaintiff
DANA ZOULIN
Notice:                            Sufficient¿¿ 
¿¿ 
Ruling:                           DEFENDANT’S
MOTION
TO COMPEL FURTHER DISCOVERY RESPONSES TO SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES, SET TWO, IS
GRANTED IN PART AND DENIED IN PART.
                                   
DEFENDANT’S MOTION
TO COMPEL FURTHER DISCOVERY RESPONSES TO REQUESTS FOR PRODUCTION, SET TWO, IS
GRANTED IN PART AND DENIED IN PART.
 
Background
On 4/12/21, Plaintiff Dana Zoulin filed
the present auto accident case alleging that Defendant Vladmir Syelsky rear-ended
her. The Complaint details that Plaintiff suffered injuries, incurred medical
bills, will need future medical treatment, and experienced loss of earnings and
earning capacity, along with pain, suffering, loss of enjoyment of life, and
other ongoing damages. (Complaint ¶ 20). On October 30, 2023, Defendant propounded Request
for Production of Documents (Set Two) and Special Interrogatories (Set Two). (Nguyen
Decl.; Exhibit A). On December 22, 2023, following several extensions,
Plaintiff responded to the discovery requests at issue. (Nguyen Decl.; Exhibit
B). Between December 26 and 29, 2024, the parties engaged in extensive
meet-and-confer efforts but ultimately hit an impasse. (Nguyen Decl.; Exhibit
C). On January 31, 2024, the parties attended an Informal Discovery Conference.
The court found the issues were not resolved and instructed Defendant to
proceed with the present Motion. (Nguyen Decl.; Exhibit D).
Legal Standard
A party responding to requests for
inspection must either provide a statement of compliance, represent that it
lacks the ability to comply, or object. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.210.) When a
party propounding demands for inspection deems responses to be incomplete or
evasive, or deems objections to be without merit, the propounding party may
move for an order to compel further responses. Such motion must set forth facts
showing good cause for the discovery, be accompanied by a meet and confer
declaration, and include a separate statement. Such motion must also be made
within 45 days of verified responses or supplemental responses, or on or before
any specific later date the parties have agreed to in writing. (Code Civ. Proc.
§2031.310(a)-(c).) 
 Analysis

 
A.
Meet and Confer 
 
The
Parties have met and conferred and participated in an IDC, yet the disputes
remain unresolved.
 
B.
Discovery Requests at Issue 
 
Request for Production No. 28: Seeks all documents
supporting Plaintiff’s contention of emotional distress.
 
See analysis below re RFPs 29-34.  However, unlike those RFPs that appear to be
primarily seeking medical records, this request is clearly broader in regard to
the type of record requested.  The Court orders
further response that is directly related to the incident and is not a medical
record.  For instance, if Plaintiff has a
text to a friend after the accident indicating that she feels anxious all the
time because of the accident, that would reasonably be a document to be
produced.  
 
Requests
for Production Nos. 29-34: These requests seek documents relating
to Plaintiff’s mental health, and appear to primarily relate to medical records.
 
A
party seeking access to privileged medical records may only have
those directly relevant to
those specific conditions the plaintiff has raised in the case.
(Britt v. Superior Court (1978) 20 Cal.3d 844, 863-864.) A plaintiff’s
right of privacy remains protected as to physical and mental conditions unrelated to
the claim or injury sued upon. (Id. at p. 864.) Further, the burden
is on the party seeking the discovery to demonstrate that the information
sought is directly relevant. (Id. at 859-862.) A “garden variety”
emotional distress claim seeking damages for “pain and suffering” associated
with the injuries sustained in an automobile accident does not place
plaintiff’s mental condition in issue. (Davis v. Superior Court (1992) 7
Cal.App.4th 1008,1016.)  In an auto
accident case where plaintiff alleges emotional distress as a result of the
incident, plaintiff’s right to privacy in his or her post-injury
psychotherapeutic records outweighs any need for discovery of that information.
(Id.)
 
Defendant
seeks medical or psychotherapeutic records but has not demonstrated evidence
that Plaintiff is claiming anything beyond garden variety emotional distress.
The complaint only contains Plaintiff's allegations of pain, suffering, and loss
of enjoyment of life due to the accident. (Complaint ¶ 20.) Furthermore,
Plaintiff's declaration attached to Defendant’s reply brief states that
Plaintiff suffers only from physical injuries and emotional distress from the
incident. Defendant has failed to produce any deposition transcript or evidence
showing Plaintiff suffers from severe ongoing anxiety, depression, stress, and
ADHD as a result of the incident. Without evidence to suggest Plaintiff's
claims exceed garden variety emotional distress, Defendant's motion to compel further
responses to RFPs 28-34 is hereby DENIED.
 
Special
Interrogatories Nos. 36 and 37: Seek facts or witnesses supporting
Plaintiff's claims of emotional distress.
 
While
contention interrogatories are allowed under CCP § 2030.010(b), the
interrogatories at issue are overly broad as they fail to be tailored to the
incident.  The Court thus limits these
interrogatories to the incident alleged in the Complaint.  Plaintiff is ordered to provide further responses
to interrogatories 36 and 37 regarding her claims of emotional distress as a
result of the incident alleged in the complaint.
 
Special
Interrogatories Nos. 38-44: Seek information regarding Plaintiff’s mental
health.
Defendant
has not provided any evidence to suggest that Plaintiff is alleging anything
beyond garden variety emotional distress as claimed in the complaint.
Therefore, the identification of Plaintiff’s therapists or any psychiatric
issues are deemed irrelevant, private, and/or privileged. Consequently,
Defendant’s motion to compel further responses to Special Interrogatories 38-44
is denied.
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:     
  
·               
If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by
the case number.  The body of the email must include the
hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the
party submitting.       
·               
Unless all parties submit by email to this tentative
ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person
for oral argument.  You should assume that others may appear at
the hearing to argue.       
·               
If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the
Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the
order of the Court.  After the Court has issued a tentative
ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without
leave.      
 
 