 Case Number:  22STCV18833    Hearing Date:   September 28, 2023    Dept:  27 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 27
 
 
HEARING DATE:     September
28, 2023               TRIAL DATE:  December
6, 2023
                                                           
CASE:                                Shiloh Tate v. William Walsh
 
CASE NO.:                 22STCV18833
 





















 
MOTION
TO CONTINUE TRIAL



 
MOVING PARTY:                   Defendant
William Walsh
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     No opposition
 
 
I.          BACKGROUND
 
            On July 13, 2023, Defendant, William Walsh, filed this
motion to continue the trial date to a date after February 1, 2024, and to set
all related cutoff dates to the new trial date.  This is the first request for a trial
continuance.
 
            The motion
was heard on August 29, 2023.  The Court found
good cause existed to continue the trial. 
However, because there was no proof of service showing Plaintiff, who is
self-represented, was served with the motion by non-electronic means, the Court
continued the motion to allow Defendant to perfect service.
 
            On
September 1, 2023, Defendant filed a proof of service showing Plaintiff was
served with this motion by mail service.
 
II.           LEGAL STANDARD TO CONTINUE TRIAL
California Rules of Court, rule
3.1332, subdivision (b) outlines that “a party seeking a continuance of the
date set for trial, whether contested or uncontested or stipulated to by the
parties, must make the request for a continuance by a noticed motion or an ex
parte application under the rules in chapter 4 of this division, with
supporting declarations.  The party must make the motion or application as
soon as reasonably practical once the necessity for the continuance is
discovered.” 
Under California Rules of Court,
rule 3.1332, subd. (c), the Court may grant a continuance only on an
affirmative showing of good cause requiring the continuance.  Circumstances that may indicate good cause
include “a party’s excused inability to obtain essential testimony, documents,
or other material evidence despite diligent efforts.”  The Court should
consider all facts and circumstances relevant to the determination, such as
proximity of the trial date, prior continuances, prejudice suffered, whether all
parties have stipulated to a continuance, and whether the interests of justice
are served.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332, subd. (d).) 
Notwithstanding any other law and
unless ordered otherwise by a court or otherwise agreed to by the parties, a
continuance or postponement of a trial¿or arbitration¿date extends any
deadlines that have not already passed as of March 19, 2020, applicable to
discovery, including the exchange of expert witness information, mandatory
settlement conferences, and summary judgment motions in the same matter. The
deadlines are extended for the same length of time as the continuance or
postponement of the trial date.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 599.)
III.      DISCUSSION
 
            Defendant
has cured the defect noted in the Court’s previous order.  
 
            Accordingly,
the motion to continue trial is GRANTED. 
The Court will continue the trial date to the first available date on
the Court’s calendar.  All trial related
dates are set to the new trial date. 
 
IV.       CONCLUSION 
 
The unopposed motion to continue trial is granted.  The Final Status Conference scheduled for November
22, 2024 is CONTINUED to March 29, 2024 at 10:00 AM in Department 27 of the
Spring Street Courthouse.  The Non-Jury Trial scheduled for December 6,
2023 is CONTINUED to April 12, 2024 at 8:30 AM in Department 27 of the Spring
Street Courthouse.  All discovery cut-off dates, all pretrial deadlines
including discovery, expert, and motion cut-off dates are set to the new trial
date of April 12, 2024.
 
Moving party to give notice. 

 
 
Dated:   September 28,
2023                                            ___________________________________
                                                                                    Kerry
Bensinger
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 
            Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an
email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on
the tentative as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at
www.lacourt.org.  Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative
and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless
appear at the hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive
emails from the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and
there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion,
adopt the tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar. 