 Case Number:  21STCV07948    Hearing Date:   September 28, 2023    Dept:  27 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 27
 
 
HEARING DATE:     September
28, 2023               TRIAL DATE:  November
16, 2023
                                                           
CASE:                                Gabriela Sabet-Baktash v. City of Los Angeles, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 21STCV07948
 





















 
MOTION
TO CONTINUE TRIAL



 
MOVING PARTY:                   Defendants
Adam Kligfeld and Havid Kligfeld
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Plaintiff
Gabriela Sabet-Baktash
 
 
I.          BACKGROUND
 
            On March 1, 2021, Plaintiff, Gabriela Sabet-Baktash, initiated
this action against Defendants, City of Los Angeles, Adam Kligfeld, and Havid
Kligfeld, for injuries arising from a trip and fall on a sidewalk adjacent to
6601 Lindenhurst Avenue, Los Angeles, California.  Adam Kligfeld and Havid Kligfeld are the
owners of the property at 6601 Lindenhurst Avenue.
 
            On August 31,
2023, Adam Kligfeld and Havid Kligfeld (hereafter, “Defendants”) filed this
motion to continue the trial date and all trial-related dates so that Defendants’
motion for summary judgment may be heard before trial.  Defendants’ summary judgment motion is
scheduled for February 22, 2024.  This is
the third request for a trial continuance.
            
            Plaintiff
opposes and Defendants reply. 
 
II.           LEGAL STANDARD TO CONTINUE TRIAL
California Rules of Court, rule 3.1332,
subdivision (b) outlines that “a party seeking a continuance of the date set
for trial, whether contested or uncontested or stipulated to by the parties,
must make the request for a continuance by a noticed motion or an ex parte
application under the rules in chapter 4 of this division, with supporting
declarations.  The party must make the motion or application as soon as
reasonably practical once the necessity for the continuance is
discovered.” 
Under California Rules of Court,
rule 3.1332, subd. (c), the Court may grant a continuance only on an
affirmative showing of good cause requiring the continuance.  Circumstances that may indicate good cause
include “a party’s excused inability to obtain essential testimony, documents,
or other material evidence despite diligent efforts.”  The Court should
consider all facts and circumstances relevant to the determination, such as
proximity of the trial date, prior continuances, prejudice suffered, whether all
parties have stipulated to a continuance, and whether the interests of justice
are served.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332, subd. (d).) 
Deadlines
for Summary Judgment Motion
            Code of
Civil Procedure, section 437c requires a Motion for Summary Judgment be made
any time after 60 days have elapsed since the general appearance in the
action.¿ The motion shall be heard no later than 30 days before trial, unless
the Court, for good cause, orders otherwise.¿ Parties must serve notice of the
motion and all supporting papers at least 75 days before the time appointed for
hearing.¿  
III.      DISCUSSION
 
            Defendants
argue good cause exists to continue the trial date because after determining  on November 16, 2022 that they had a
meritorious summary judgment motion, Defendants reserved the earliest available
hearing date for the motion.  The motion is scheduled to be heard on February
22, 2024.  (Declaration of Jamie Shepherd.) Trial
is currently scheduled for November 16, 2023.  For this reason, Defendants
request a trial continuance to March 25, 2024, or the next available date
thereafter.  Defendants also request all
trial related dates to correspond to the new trial date.
 
            Plaintiff argues
the motion should be denied because Defendants have yet to file their summary
judgment motion.  However, there is no
requirement that Defendants file their motion more than 105 days in advance of
the hearing date.  Plaintiff further
argues Defendants’ motion is untimely. 
At the time Defendants reserved their hearing date for the summary
judgment motion, trial was set for May 24, 2023.  The parties stipulated to a trial continuance
on March 14, 2023 because discovery had not yet been completed.  Defendants, however, failed to mention the
need to continue the trial date to accommodate the summary judgment hearing
date.  Perhaps Defendants should have
mentioned they intended to file a summary judgment motion and that the hearing
was reserved for a date after May 24, 2023, and after the current trial date of
November 16, 2023.  Defendants’ reply
admits as much.   However, it is
undisputed Defendants reserved the hearing date for the summary judgment motion
well in advance of the current trial date. 
Defendants are entitled to have their summary judgment motion heard
before trial.
            
            Based on
the foregoing, the Court finds good cause exists to continue the trial date.  Given the Court’s impacted calendar, the Court
will continue the trial to the first available date. However, Defendants do not
set forth any grounds to set all trial-related dates to the new trial date.  As such, discovery and all other trial-related
dates remain tied to the November 16, 2023 trial date.
 
IV.       CONCLUSION 
 
The motion to continue trial is GRANTED.  Defendants Adam Kligfeld’s and Havid
Kligfeld’s motion for summary judgment is scheduled for February 22, 2024.  The Final Status Conference scheduled for November
2, 2023 is CONTINUED to March 28, 2024 at 10:00 AM in Department 27 of the
Spring Street Courthouse.  The Non-Jury
Trial scheduled for November 16, 2023 is CONTINUED to April 11, 2024 at 8:30 AM
in Department 27 of the Spring Street Courthouse.  All discovery cut-off dates, all pretrial
deadlines including discovery, expert, and motion cut-off dates remain set to
the trial date of November 16, 2023.
 
Moving party to give notice. 

 
 
Dated:   September 28,
2023                                            ___________________________________
                                                                                    Kerry
Bensinger
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 
            Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an
email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on
the tentative as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at
www.lacourt.org.  Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative
and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless
appear at the hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive
emails from the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and
there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion,
adopt the tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar. 