  Case Number:  23STCV07706    Hearing Date:   February 26, 2024    Dept:  49 Arman Tadevosyan v. LA Fine Motors, LLC, et al.MOTION TO BE RELIEVED AS COUNSEL MOVING PARTY: Farzad Seyfnia (counsel for Defendant LA Fine Motors, LLC)RESPONDING PARTY(S): None.STATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS: On March 3, 2023, Plaintiff Arman Tadevosyan purchased a 2011 BMW from Defendant LA Fine Motors. After the purchase, LA Fine Motors assigned the purchase contract to Defendant Capital One. Plaintiff alleges that Defendant LA Fine Motors misrepresented the mechanical condition of the vehicle; sold the vehicle with defective headlights, blinkers, and emergency flashers; sold the vehicle for more than the advertised price; and failed to repair the vehicle’s headlights as promised upon sale. Plaintiff brings causes of action for (1) Violation of the Consumers Legal Remedies Act, Civil Code § 1750, et seq, (2) Fraud & Deceit, (3) Negligent Misrepresentation, (4) Breach of Express Warranty, (5) Breach of the Implied Warranty of Fitness, (6) Breach of the Implied Warranty of Merchantability, (7) Violation of the Rosenthal Fair Debt Collection Practices Act, Civil Code § 1788, et seq., (8) Violation of the Unfair Competition Law, Business & Professions Code § 17200, et seq., and (9) Violation of Vehicle Code § 11711.On September 21, 2023, this court granted Defendants’ motion to compel arbitration, and stayed the entire action pending arbitration. Counsel Farzad Seyfnia now moves to be relieved as counsel for Defendant LA Fine Motors, LLC.  [FN 1]  No opposition was filed.TENTATIVE RULING:Counsel’s motion to be Relieved as Counsel is GRANTED on the condition that Counsel submit an Order (Form MC-053) which indicates that the next hearing will be an OSC re; Striking of Answer on April 3, 2024, at 8:30 a.m.  IF LA FINE MOTORS DOES NOT HAVE A NEW ATTORNEY OF RECORD BY THAT DATE, ITS ANSWER MAY BE STRICKEN.Moving party is ordered to give notice.DISCUSSION:Motion to be Relieved as CounselFirst and foremost, this Court is somewhat at a loss as to why this motion is being filed and heard by this Court, as opposed to be filed and heard before the Arbitrator.  This case has been STAYED so that all relevant matters be heard by the Arbitrator.  Indeed, in a somewhat ironic twist, it was the Defendants who insisted that this case be sent to binding arbitration, not the Plaintiff.Be that as it may, since there appears to be no objection to this Court hearing this matter at this time, this Court will reluctantly temporarily lift the stay to do so.A. Legal StandardFor a motion to be relieved as counsel under CCP section 284, subdivision¿(2), California Rules of Court rule 3.1362 requires (1) a notice of motion and motion directed to the client (made on the Notice of Motion and Motion to be Relieved as Counsel – Civil form (MC-051)); (2) a declaration stating in general terms and without compromising the confidentiality of the attorney-client relationship why a motion under CCP section 284(2) is brought instead of filing a consent under CCP section¿284(1) (made on the Declaration in Support of Attorney’s Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel – Civil form (MC-052)); (3) service of the notice of motion and motion, declaration, and proposed order on the client and on all other parties who have appeared in the case; and (4) the proposed order relieving counsel (prepared on the Order Granting Attorney’s Motion to be Relieved as Counsel – Civil form (MC-053)).¿ (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362.)¿The court has discretion to allow an attorney to withdraw, and such a motion should be granted provided that there is no prejudice to the client and it does not disrupt the orderly process of justice.  (See Ramirez v. Sturdevant (1994) 21 Cal.App.4th 904, 915.)B. AnalysisCounsel filed Civil forms MC-051, MC-052 and MC-053 as to Defendant LA Fine Motors. Counsel served the moving papers on the client and opposing counsel by mail and email on January 24, 2024. (See 01/24/2024 Proof of Service.)  Counsel confirmed the client’s mailing address through a business search with the California Secretary of State.  (Form MC-052 ¶ 3.)In support of withdrawal, Counsel attests that interactions between client and counsel have “irreparably broken down to the point where counsel cannot effectively perform his duties.” (MC-052, ¶ 2.) “Good cause” has been adequately demonstrated by Counsel.  The matter is pending in arbitration, and there is no undue prejudice to Defendant if counsel is relieved at this time.Accordingly, Counsel’s motion to be Relieved as Counsel is GRANTED on the above-stated conditions. IT IS SO ORDERED.Dated:   February 26, 2024 ___________________________________ Randolph M. Hammock Judge of the Superior CourtFN 1- Counsel also filed a motion to be relieved as counsel for Defendant Capital One Auto Finance, which has become moot by the filing of the 02/20/2024 Substitution of Attorney form. Any party may submit on the tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept49@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day before the hearing.  All interested parties must be copied on the email.  It should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.