  Case Number:  24NNCV00267    Hearing Date:   January 22, 2025    Dept:  P [TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING MILANO
REALTY, LLC’S MOTION TO EXPUNGE LIS PENDENS and MONETARY SANCTIONS and GRANTING
DEFENDANTS MONETARY SANCTIONSI.          INTRODUCTION
This action arises from a dispute
regarding the sale of real property located at 12138 Valley Boulevard, El
Monte, California ("Subject Property"). On or about October 3, 2020,
Cross-Complainant W&B Investment Group, LLC (“W&B”) entered into a
Purchase Agreement with Cross-Defendant To Van Luu (“Luu”) for the sale of two
parcels of vacant land comprising the Subject Property. Cross-Complainant
Vincent Hung Shing Hui (“Hui”), the sole owner and member of W&B, was also
involved in the transaction. Subsequently, Luu assigned her rights and
obligations under the Purchase Agreement to Cross-Defendants Milano Realty,
LLC, (“Milano”) and Cam Vinh Luu (“Cam”) 
The transaction was facilitated by
Cross-Defendants Premier Escrow Services, Inc. (“Premier”) and First American
Title Company (“FATCO”). On July 31, 2024, W&B and Hui (collectively,
“Defendants”) filed a First Amended Cross-Complaint (“FACC”) against Luu,
Milano, Luu, Premier, and FATCO, asserting the following causes of action: (1)
Breach of Contract, (2) Negligence, (3) Fraud, (4) Rescission of Transaction,
and (5) Indemnification.
On November 25, 2024, the Court
sustained Milano’s demurrer to the FACC without leave to amend. On December 24,
2024, Milano filed the present motion to expunge the lis pendens. Defendants
filed their opposition on January 8, 2025, and Milano filed a reply on January
14, 2025.
Request for Judicial notice
Milano requests that the Court take judicial notice of the
following documents:

Defendants’
     Cross-Complaint, dated May 10, 2024;
The
     recorded lis pendens;
The
     First Amended Cross-Complaint; and
The
     Court’s Minute Order of November 25, 2024

The court may take judicial notice of “official acts of the
legislative, executive, and judicial departments of the United States and of
any state of the United States,” “[r]ecords of (1) any court of this state or
(2) any court of record of the United States or of any state of the United
States,” and “[f]acts and propositions that are not reasonably subject to
dispute and are capable of immediate and accurate determination by resort to
sources of reasonably indisputable accuracy.” (Evid. Code § 452, subds. (c),
(d), and (h).) The Court notes that additional exhibits are attached to the
Declaration of David Fu but are not explicitly included in the Request for
Judicial Notice. Thus, the request for Judicial Notice is GRANTED as to
Exhibits 1-4. 
II.        LEGAL STANDARD
Any party¿or a non-party having an
interest in the property affected by a notice of lis pendens¿may move for
expungement¿any time after the lis pendens is recorded.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., §
405.30.)¿ A lis pendens must be removed for being improper on account of (a)
the¿pleading on which the notice is based¿not containing a real property claim,
assuming the allegations to be true, or¿(b) the claimant not being able
to establish by a preponderance of the evidence the probable validity of the
real property claim.  (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 405.31, 405.32;¿Ziello v.
Superior Court¿(1995) 36 Cal.App.4th¿321, 331-32; Urez Corp. v. Superior
Court¿(1987) 190 Cal.App.3d 1141, 1149.)¿
Burden of Proof 
            When
questioning the evidentiary merit of a claim, the claimant who filed the lis
pendens has the burden of proof.  (C.C.P., § 405.30.)  Thus, that
claimant, in opposing the motion to expunge the lis pendens, must demonstrate
the following: (1) the action affects title to or right of possession of the
real property described in the notice; (2) in so far as the said notice is
concerned, the party recording the notice has commenced the action for a proper
purpose and in good faith; and (3) the probable validity of the real property
claim by a preponderance of the evidence.  (Hunting World, Inc. v.
Superior Court (1994) 22 Cal.App.4th 67, 70; see also C.C.P., §405.30, et
seq.)  Only admissible evidence is permitted on the motion.¿ (Burger v.
Superior Court¿(1984) 151 Cal.App.3d 1013, 1019.) 
CCP section 405.38 provides “[t]he
court shall direct that the party prevailing on any motion under this chapter
be awarded the reasonable attorney’s fees and costs of making or opposing the
motion unless the court finds that the other party acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of attorney’s
fees and costs unjust.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 405.38.) 
III.      ANALYSIS
Milano filed a motion to expunge
the lis pendens, asserting that the notice was improper because Defendants
lacked a valid real property claim after the Court sustained the demurrer to
the First Amended Cross-Complaint ("FAXC") without leave to amend.
Milano requests attorney’s fees and costs in the amount of $22,777.57 under
Code of Civil Procedure section 405.38, arguing that Defendants acted in bad
faith by maintaining the lis pendens without justification and forcing Milano
to incur unnecessary litigation costs. (Motion, p.5)
In opposition, Defendants argue
that the motion is moot because they voluntarily withdrew the lis pendens on
December 30, 2024. They contend that any further litigation on the matter is
unnecessary as the lis pendens has been withdrawn. (Motion, pp.4-5) 
Defendants assert that their
counsel communicated their intent to withdraw the lis pendens on three times
during a December 20, 2024, email exchange that explicitly stated that
withdrawal would occur after holiday season. (Phou Decl., ¶¶ 4-6; Exh.A)
Defendant’s counsel argues that Milano filed the motion unnecessarily despite
being aware of these assurances. (Opposition, p.4)
In reply, Milano conceded that
Defendants withdrew the lis pendens on December 30, 2024, but argued that the
withdrawal occurred only because Milano filed the motion. Milano highlighted
discrepancies in Defendants’ assurances and actions, pointing to the email
chain, which demonstrated conflicting statements from Defendants’ counsel
regarding the timing and intent to withdraw the lis pendens. Milano contended
that Defendants’ delay and inconsistent communications reflected bad faith and
a lack of candor, further necessitating the motion to expunge. Milano concluded
that sanctions were warranted under CCP § 405.38.
The Court finds that the motion is
moot, given that the lis pendens was withdrawn on December 30, 2024 (Phou
Decl.; Exh. 2). Further, the Court is unpersuaded by Milano’s argument that
Defendants acted in bad faith. The evidence submitted demonstrates that
Defendants’ counsel communicated multiple times that the lis pendens would be
withdrawn and explicitly stated it would occur after the holidays by January
10, 2025. Notably, the lis pendens was withdrawn on December 30, 2024, prior to
the deadline provided by Defendants’ counsel. This conduct does not rise to the
level of bad faith.
Additionally, Defendants’ counsel
served a notice and stipulation to withdraw this motion to avoid further
litigation costs, but Milano’s counsel did not withdraw the motion (Phou Decl.,
¶10; Exh. C).
Defendants’ counsel requests
monetary sanctions of $3,750.00 for time spent drafting the opposition,
meet-and-confer letter, declaration, and compiling evidentiary exhibits in
support of the motion to expunge. Defendants’ counsel asserts that they spent 6.5
hours at an hourly rate of $500. (Phou Decl., ¶10)
The Court grants Defendants’
counsel compensation for one hour of appearance time at the hearing, at the
rate of $500 per hour.
Accordingly, the Court DENIES
Milano’s motion as MOOT and DENIES Milano’s request for monetary sanctions. The
Court awards Defendants’ counsel $500 in sanctions for the hearing appearance.
            IV.       CONCLUSION
            The Court
DENIES Milano’s motion to expunge lis pendens as MOOT and DENIES Milano’s
request for monetary sanctions.
            The Court
GRANTS Defendant’s request for monetary sanctions for $500 to be paid within 20
days of this order.
            Milano is
to give notice.
 
Dated: January 22, 2025
 
 
 
                                                                                          JARED D MOSES JUDGE OF THE SUPERIOR COURT

                                                                            