


[1] The Court does not address Defendant’s argument that
the Motion originally failed to provide adequate notice, in light of the fact
that the hearing was continued to correct any notice deficiencies.TENTATIVE RULING - NO. 2 


DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


December 14, 2023




CASE NUMBER


23SMCV03707




MOTION


Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings




MOVING PARTY


Defendant Gold’s Gym California, LLC




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff Joseph Robert Giannini


 MOTION Plaintiff Joseph Robert Giannini (“Plaintiff”) brings this action
against Defendant Gold’s Gym California, LLC (“Defendant”), alleging causes of
action for (1) unfair competition; (2) breach of the Unruh Act; and (3) bad
faith denial of the existence of a contract, stemming from Defendant’s alleged
refusal to honor Plaintiff’s lifetime contract for access to the Gold’s Gym
location in Venice for $29 per month.   Defendant moves for judgment on the pleadings.  Plaintiff opposes the motion and Defendant
replies.  REQUEST
FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE Defendant requests the Court take judicial notice of the following: (1) Exhibit A – The caption and select pages from the schedules and
attachments to the final Order (I) Approving the Sale of Assets to the Successful
Bidder Free and Clear of Liens, Claims and Encumbrances, (II) Approving the
Asset Purchase Agreement, (III) Authorizing the Debtors to Assume and Assign
Executory Contracts and Unexpired Leases in Connection with the Sale, and (IV)
Granting Related Relief issued by the United States Bankruptcy Court for the
Northern District of Texas Dallas Division on July 29, 2020. (2) Exhibit B – Application to Register a Foreign Limited Liability
Company (LLC) filed on July 28, 2020 by Gold’s Gym California, LLC with the
California Secretary of State.  (3) Exhibit C – State of Delaware Limited Liability Company
Certificate of Formation of Gold’s Gym California, LLC filed on July 22, 2021
by Gold’s Gym California, LLC with the Delaware Secretary of State. (4) Exhibit D – Statement and Designation by Foreign Corporation,
filed on January 28, 2000 by Gold’s Holding Corp. with the California Secretary
of State. (5) Exhibit E – Statement of Information filed on December 30, 2019 by
Gold’s Holding Corp. with the California Secretary of State. As for Exhibit A, judicial
notice may be taken of records of any court in this state.  (Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (d)(1).)  Because Exhibit A is a signed, file-stamped
bankruptcy court order, the Court grants Defendant’s request and takes judicial
notice of Exhibit A. With respect to Exhibits B, C, D, and E, official notices, statements,
and certificates made by the Secretary of State are properly the subject of
judicial notice as documents reflecting official acts of the executive
department of the State of California, pursuant to Evidence Code, section 452,
subdivision (c).  (Friends of Shingle
Springs Interchange, Inc. v. County of El Dorado (2011) 200 Cal.App.4th
1470, 1483–1484.)  However, “materials
prepared by private parties and merely on file with the state agencies” may not
be properly judicially noticed as an official act of a legislative, executive,
or judicial department of the United States or any state of the United
States.  (People v. Thacker (1985)
175 Cal.App.3d 594, 598.)   Because those exhibits were all prepared and filed by a private party,
they are not “official statements” made by the Secretary of State.  Therefore, the Court denies Defendant’s
request for judicial notice as to Exhibits B, C, D, and E. LEGAL
STANDARD A motion for judgment on the pleadings has the same function as a
general demurrer, but may be made after the time to demur has expired. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 438, subd. (f).)  “Like a
demurrer, the grounds for the motion [for judgment on the pleadings] must
appear on the face of the challenged pleading or from any matter of which the
court is required to take judicial notice.” (Civic Partners Stockton, LLC v. Youssefi (2013) 218 Cal.App.4th
1005, 1013.)  In ruling on a motion for
judgment on the pleadings, “[a]ll allegations in the complaint and matters upon
which judicial notice may be taken are assumed to be true.” (Rippon v. Bowen (2008) 160 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1313.)   ANALYSIS Defendant moves for judgment on the pleadings as to all three causes
of action in Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint on the basis that it fails to
state a cause of action. A.    MOTION
FOR JUDGMENT ON THE PLEADINGS 1.      First
Cause of Action – Unfair Competition Law Business and Professions Code section 17200, known as the Unfair
Competition Law, or “UCL,” bars unfair competition, defined as “any unlawful,
unfair or fraudulent business act or practice and unfair, deceptive, untrue or
misleading advertising and any act prohibited by Chapter 1 (commencing with
Section 17500) of Part 3 of Division 7 of the Business and Professions
Code.  “An ‘unlawful’ business practice
or act within the meaning of the UCL is an act or practice, committed pursuant
to business activity, that is at the same time forbidden by law.”  (Bernardo v. Planned Parenthood Federation
of America (2004) 115 Cal.App.4th 322, 351.)  “By proscribing ‘any unlawful’ business
practice, section 17200 borrows violations of other laws and treats them as
unlawful practices that the unfair competition law makes independently
actionable.”  (Cel-Tech
Communications, Inc. v. Los Angeles Cellular Telephone Co. (1999) 20
Cal.4th 163, 180.)  Moreover, “a practice
may be deemed unfair even if not specifically proscribed by some other
law.”  (Ibid.) Moreover, in order to have
standing to bring a UCL claim, a plaintiff must “(1) establish a loss or
deprivation of money or property sufficient to qualify as injury in fact, i.e.,
economic injury, and (2) show that that economic injury was the result of,
i.e., caused by, the unfair business practice or false advertising that is the
gravamen of the claim.”  (Kwikset
Corp. v. Superior Court (2011) 51 Cal.4th 310, 322.)             Plaintiff alleges: 33.       GOLD’S GYM CALIFORNIA,
LLC, was not authorized to do business in California and was not
registered with the California Secretary of State on July 13, 2015 when it was
expressly named as the contracting party in an agreement with plaintiff.  Plaintiff alleges this five-year gap (2015 to
2020) in registering with the California Secretary of State is an unlawful and
unfair trade practice that has injured plaintiff, and other similarly situated
senior citizens.”   (FAC
¶ 33.)  Thus, Plaintiff adequately
alleges an unlawful and unfair trade practice.             Defendant contends Plaintiff fails
to state an unfair competition law claim because (1) Plaintiff does not allege
an economic injury for standing to bring a UCL claim; (2) the allegation in
paragraph 18 that Plaintiff was “ban[ned]” from the Venice gym location is
contradicted by the allegations in paragraph 14 that Defendant offered
Plaintiff access if he would “pay a lump sum of $900 for a yearly membership or
$100 per month”; and (3) the factual premise underlying Plaintiff’s claim “is
demonstrably wrong” because the entity Plaintiff contracted with in 2015 was
properly registered with the California Secretary of State at the time.             Regarding Defendant’s second and
third arguments, those raise factual issues which cannot be determined at the
pleading stage.  However, the Court
agrees that Plaintiff does not allege an economic injury.  With respect to injuries, the Plaintiff
alleges as follows: 26. Plaintiff has suffered severe emotional distress and physical
injuries as direct consequences of Gold's malicious and reckless conduct.  […] 
Plaintiff has also suffered severe emotional distress as a result of these
nagging and persistent physical injuries.  (FAC
¶ 26.)   The only damages Plaintiff requests are as follows: 7. Statutory Damages as per B & P Code § 17200, at $4,000 per day
and $80,000 per month and as enhanced as per Civil Code § 3345, since March 1,
2023  8. Damages for breach of contract according to proof.  9. Attorney fees, pursuant to California Civil Code § 52(b)(3).  10. Punitive and Exemplary damages, as per Civil Code § 3294,
according to proof.  11. Allowable Costs as per Code of Civil Procedure § 1032, et seq. (FAC
at Prayer ¶¶ 7-11.)             Therefore,
the Court grants Defendant’s Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings as to the
first cause of action. 2.      Second
Cause of Action – Breach of Unruh Act In order to state a cause of
action for discrimination under the Unruh Civil Rights Act, a plaintiff must
allege (1) defendant denied, aided or incited a denial of, discriminated, or
made a distinction that denied full and equal accommodations, advantages,
facilities, privileges, and/or services to plaintiff; (2) a substantial
motivating reason for defendant’s conduct was plaintiff’s sex, race, color,
religion, ancestry, national origin, medical condition, genetic information,
marital status, sexual orientation, citizenship, primary language, and/or
immigration status or defendant’s perception thereof; (3) that plaintiff was
harmed; and (4) that defendant’s conduct was a substantial factor in causing
plaintiff’s harm.  (See CACI No. 3060.)             Plaintiff alleges as follows: 38. The Unruh Civil Rights Act proscribes arbitrary discrimination
based on an individual's age, a personal characteristic similar to the
classifications enumerated in the Act. "Unequal treatment" as a
result of a business practice, within the meaning of the Unruh Civil Rights
Act, includes offering price discounts on an arbitrary basis to certain classes
of individuals." The challenged discrimination against a senior citizen is
based on an arbitrary price and insurance coverage based on gym membership at
some locations, but not others. This arbitrary discrimination in public
accommodations directed against plaintiff as a customer, and other similarly
situated seniors, bears no relationship to his or other senior citizen
abilities to pay or to utilize its gym facilities. These Golds Gyms sell the
same merchandize.  39. Plaintiff, as a senior citizen, is in the class protected. Cases
hold that favorable pricing for senior citizens and children is not arbitrary
discrimination under the Act.  Even in
this class of favored citizens, discrimination against members within the
protected class is prohibited.  40. Plaintiff alleges the defendants reliance on falsified documents
to disqualify senior citizens from their lifetime membership privileges
constitutes an unlawful and unfair discrimination practice protected by the
Unruh Civil Rights Act. (FAC
¶¶ 38-40.)  Thus, Plaintiff adequately
alleges that Defendant intentionally discriminates against Plaintiff and other senior
citizen gym members on the basis of age. 
As discussed above, Plaintiff has alleged that Defendant’s conduct has
caused Plaintiff physical injuries and emotional distress.             Defendant argues that the FAC fails
to allege a cause of action for Unruh violations because it does not allege facts
that the conduct impacted any other senior citizens; that senior citizens are
subjected to age discrimination at the Venice location; or that Defendant
refused to honor Plaintiff’s lifetime membership agreement because of
Plaintiff’s age.  The Court
disagrees.  Plaintiff need not plead
evidentiary facts at this stage of the litigation.  Plaintiff has sufficiently pleaded “ultimate
facts” to move past the pleading stage.[1] 3.      Third
Cause of Action – Bad Faith Denial of the Existence of the Contract The elements of the tort for bad faith denial of the existence of a
contract are “(1) an underlying contract, (2) which is breached by the
defendant, (3) who then denies liability by asserting that the contract does
not exist, (4) in bad faith and (5) without probable cause for such
denial.”  (Careau & Co. v.
Security Pacific Business Credit, Inc. (1990) 222 Cal.App.3d 1371, 1401.) Defendant argues there is no such tort for noninsurance contracts, and
Plaintiff does not allege that the contract at issue in this case is an
insurance contract.  The Court agrees.  California Courts have recognized that there
is no such tort for contracts outside the insurance context.  (See, e.g., Freeman & Mills, Inc. v.
Belcher Oil Co. (1995) 11 Cal.4th 85 [expressly overruling Seaman’s
Direct Buying Service, Inc. v. Standard Oil Co. (1994) 36 Cal.3d 752, which
first acknowledged the tort for noninsurance contracts.]) The alleged contract at issue here is not an insurance contract, but
rather, is gym membership agreement, whereby Defendant grants Plaintiff access
to the Venice location gym in exchange for Plaintiff’s payment of $29 per
month.  (See, e.g., FAC, ¶¶ 11-12, Exh.
A.) Therefore, Plaintiff has failed to state a cause of action for bad
faith denial of the existence of a contract. B.     LEAVE
TO AMEND             A plaintiff has the burden of showing in what
manner the complaint could be amended and how the amendment would change the
legal effect of the complaint, i.e., state a cause of action.  (See The Inland Oversight Committee v City
of San Bernardino (2018) 27 Cal.App.5th 771, 779; PGA West Residential
Assn., Inc. v Hulven Int'l, Inc. (2017) 14 Cal.App.5th 156, 189.)  The plaintiff must not only state the legal
basis for the amendment, but also the factual allegations sufficient to state a
cause of action or claim.  (See PGA
West Residential Assn., Inc. v Hulven Int'l, Inc., supra, 14
Cal.App.5th at p. 189.)  Moreover, a
plaintiff does not meet his or her burden by merely stating in the opposition
to a demurrer or motion to strike that “if the Court finds the operative
complaint deficient, plaintiff respectfully requests leave to amend.”  (See Major Clients Agency v Diemer
(1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1116, 1133; Graham v Bank of America (2014) 226
Cal.App.4th 594, 618 [asserting an abstract right to amend does not satisfy the
burden].)   Here, Plaintiff does not
articulate any amendments he could make to correct these deficiencies, instead dedicating
the opposition to repeating factual arguments that Defendant was not registered
to transact business in 2015.[2]  Therefore, the Court grants Defendant’s
motion for judgment on the pleadings as to the first and third causes of action
without leave to amend.   CONCLUSION AND ORDER The Court grants Defendant’s motion for judgment on the pleadings with
respect to the first and third causes of action without leave to amend and
denies Defendant’s motion for judgment on the pleadings as to the second cause
of action.       Defendant shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof
of service regarding the same.    DATED:  December 14, 2023                                                ___________________________                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court


