 Case Number:  23SMCV03707    Hearing Date:   December 14, 2023    Dept:  207 NOTE:  TWO TENTATIVE RULINGS BELOWTENTATIVE RULING - NO. 1
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


December 14, 2023




CASE NUMBER


23SMCV03707




MOTION


Motion to Strike Answer




MOVING PARTY


Plaintiff Joseph Robert Giannini




OPPOSING PARTY


Defendant Gold’s Gym California, LLC



 
MOTION
 
Plaintiff Joseph Robert Giannini (“Plaintiff”) brings this action
against Defendant Gold’s Gym California, LLC (“Defendant”), alleging causes of
action for (1) unfair competition; (2) breach of the Unruh Act; and (3) bad
faith denial of the existence of a contract, stemming from Defendant’s alleged
refusal to honor Plaintiff’s lifetime contract for access to the Gold’s Gym location
in Venice for $29 per month.  
 
Plaintiff moves to strike Defendant’s answer.  Defendant opposes the motion.  
 
MEET
AND CONFER REQUIREMENT
 
            Code of Civil Procedure section
435.5, subdivision (a) requires, “Before filing a motion to strike pursuant to
this chapter, the moving party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone
with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to the motion to strike
for the purpose of determining if an agreement can be reached that resolves the
objections to be raised in the motion to strike.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5, subd. (a).)  Section 435.5 further requires:  “As part of the meet and confer process, the
moving party shall identify all of the specific allegations that it believes
are subject to being stricken and identify with legal support the basis of the
deficiencies. The party who filed the pleading shall provide legal support for
its position that the pleading is legally sufficient, or, in the alternative,
how the pleading could be amended to cure any legal insufficiency.”  (Ibid.)  And “[t]he parties shall meet and confer at
least five days” prior to filing the motion to strike.  (Ibid.)
 
The moving party shall file and serve with the
motion to strike a declaration stating either of the following:
 
(A) The means by which the moving party met and
conferred with the party who filed the pleading subject to the motion to
strike, and that the parties did not reach an agreement resolving the
objections raised by the motion to strike.
 
(B) That the party who filed the pleading subject
to the motion to strike failed to respond to the meet and confer request of the
moving party or otherwise failed to meet and confer in good faith.
 
(Code
Civ. Proc., § 435.5, subd. (a)(3).)  
 
            Here, Plaintiff has filed a
declaration, indicating, “I sought to meet and confer with defense counsel on
November 10, 2023 at 10:00 am.  The phone
was not answered.  On November 13, 2023
advised my claims are frivolous and threatened sanctions.”  (Giannini Decl. ¶ 8.)
 
            Defendant contends this attempt to
meet and confer was insufficient because Plaintiff only called Defendant’s
office line one time, did not attempt to reach Defendant’s counsel at either
cell phone number listed in the email correspondence, and Plaintiff’s voicemail
did not set forth the grounds for the forthcoming motion to strike.  
 
            Yet, “[a] determination by the court
that the meet and confer process was insufficient shall not be grounds to grant
or deny the motion to strike.”  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 435.5, subd. (a)(4).)  Against
that backdrop, while the Court agrees that the rule requires Plaintiff to make more
of an attempt to reach Defendant’s counsel to substantively meet and confer before
filing the instant motion, the Court is satisfied that further meet and confer
efforts would not be fruitful.  
 
REQUEST
FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
Judicial notice may be taken of the following:
 
(a)  
The decisional, constitutional, and statutory law of
any state of the United States and the resolutions and private acts of the
Congress of the United States and of the Legislature of this state.
 
(b)  
Regulations and legislative enactments issued by or
under the authority of the United States or any public entity in the United
States.
 
(c)  
Official acts of the legislative, executive, and
judicial departments of the United States and of any state of the United
States.
 
(d)  
Records of (1) any court of this state or (2) any court
of record of the United States or of any state of the United States.
 
(e)  
Rules of court of (1) any court of this state or (2)
any court of record of the United States or of any state of the United States.
 
(f)   
The law of an organization of nations and of foreign
nations and public entities in foreign nations.
 
(g)  
Facts and propositions that are of such common
knowledge within the territorial jurisdiction of the court that they cannot
reasonably be the subject of dispute.
 
(h) Facts and propositions that are not
reasonably subject to dispute and are capable of immediate and accurate
determination by resort to sources of reasonably indisputable accuracy.
 
(Evid.
Code, § 452.)   Here, Plaintiff respectfully
requests the Court to: 
 
(i)                
take Judicial Notice of California Secretary of State
public records that prove defendant Golds Gym California, LLC was not
registered with the Secretary of State and licensed to transact business in
California on July 13, 2015 when its purported cancellation of Plaintiff’s
lifetime membership contract is dated; 
 
(ii)             
take Judicial Notice that defendant Golds Gym
California, LLC acquired its interests in Plaintiff’s contract from not
registered or suspended corporations, it thus stands in their shoes, and this
purported contract is not enforceable until it obtains reinstatement and
revivor with the Secretary of State[.]
 
With regard to the first request, Plaintiff does not specify which
specific California Secretary of State records he requests the Court to take
judicial notice of, however, the Court acknowledges that Plaintiff attached to
the Motion, as Exhibits A.2 and A.3, two purported Secretary of State
documents.  
 
Official notices, statements, and certificates made by the Secretary
of State are properly the subject of judicial notice as documents reflecting
official acts of the executive department of the State of California, pursuant
to Evidence Code, section 452, subdivision (c). 
(Friends of Shingle Springs Interchange, Inc. v. County of El Dorado
(2011) 200 Cal.App.4th 1470, 1483–1484.)    However,
“materials prepared by private parties and merely on file with the state
agencies” may not be properly judicially noticed as an official act of a
legislative, executive, or judicial department of the United States or any
state of the United States.  (People
v. Thacker (1985) 175 Cal.App.3d 594, 598.)
 
Here, Both Exhibits A.2 and A.3 are documents apparently prepared and
submitted by a private party, and therefore do not reflect “official acts” of
the Secretary of State’s office.
 
With respect to Plaintiff’s second request, the “fact” that Defendant
“acquired its interest in Plaintiff’s contract from not registered or suspended
corporations” is neither a fact or proposition that is “of such common
knowledge within the territorial jurisdiction of the court that [it] cannot
reasonably be the subject of dispute” pursuant to Evidence Code section 452,
subdivision (g), nor is it “not reasonably subject to dispute” and “capable of
immediate and accurate determination by resort to sources of reasonably
indisputable accuracy” pursuant to subdivision (h).
 
Therefore, the Court denies Plaintiff’s request for judicial notice.
 
LEGAL
STANDARD – MOTION TO STRIKE
 
Any party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading, may serve
and file a motion to strike the whole pleading or any part thereof.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(1); Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1322, subd. (b).) 
On a motion to strike, the court may: (1) strike out any irrelevant,
false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (2) strike out all or
any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of
California, a court rule, or an order of the court.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subds. (a)-(b); Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767,
782.)
 
Subdivision (b) of Code of Civil Procedure, section 436 “authorizes
the striking of a pleading due to improprieties in its form or in the
procedures pursuant to which it was filed.” 
(Ferraro v. Camarlinghi (2008) 161 Cal.App.4th 509, 528.)  
 
ANALYSIS
 
Although Plaintiff’s Motion is captioned a “Motion to Strike
Defendant’s Appearance and Answer,” the substance of Plaintiff’s notice of
motion motion requests that the court (1) “declare void the July 13, 2015,
August 5, 2015, and December 5, 2017 (Exhibit p.6-10) agreement” on the basis
that it is “fake and counterfeit[;]” (2) “reinstate Plaintiff’s written
lifetime membership contract[;]” and (3) “set this case for trial[.]”  Plaintiff’s accompanying memorandum
additional requests that the court “strike the appearance and answer of Gold’s
Gym California, LLC” on the basis that “it was not registered to do business in
California in between 2015 and 2020.”
 
Defendant opposes, on the bases that (1) Plaintiff did not adequately
meet and confer prior to filing the Motion; (2) Plaintiff’s motion is
substantively flawed; (3) Plaintiff’s Motion is untimely; (4) Plaintiff’s
memorandum exceeds the allowable page limitation; and (5) Plaintiff initially
failed to provide Defendant proper notice.
 
A.   
Procedural Issues
 
As a preliminary matter, the Court notes that the motion is
untimely.  “Any party, within the time
allowed to respond to a pleading may serve and file a notice of motion to
strike the whole or any part thereof[.]” 
(Code Civ. Proc. § 435, subd. (b)(1).) 
“A party who has filed a complaint or cross-complaint may, within 10
days after service of the answer to his pleading, demur to the answer.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 430.40, subd. (b).)
 
Here, Defendant electronically served Plaintiff with its answer on
September 22, 2023.  Thus, Plaintiff’s
motion to strike the answer was due by October 4, 2023.  (See Code Civ. Proc. § 1010.6, subd.
(a)(3)(B) [extending response period by two court days for documents served
electronically.])  Plaintiff did not file
the motion to strike until October 30, 2023. 
Thus, the untimeliness of Plaintiff’s motion is grounds alone to for the
Court to deny the motion.  (See Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1300(d).)   
 
Moreover, Plaintiff’s motion
exceeds the page limitation.  California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1113(d) states: “Except in a summary judgment or summary
adjudication motion, no opening or responding memorandum may exceed 15
pages.”  Therefore, it is also within the
authority of the Court to disregard all pages of the Motion in excess of the
fifteenth page.[1]  
 
B.     Substantive Issues
 
Even if the Court were to consider the merits, it would still deny
Plaintiff’s motion.  
 
To the extent Plaintiff requests, via a motion to strike, that the
Court issue an order to “declare void” various evidence, such a motion is
improper.  “Any party, within the time
allowed to respond to a pleading may serve and file a notice of
motion to strike the whole or any part thereof[.]”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(1), emphasis
added.)  “The term ‘pleading’ means a
demurrer, answer, complaint, or cross-complaint.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (a)(2).)  Thus, Plaintiff may not properly move to
strike evidence.
 
Similarly, Plaintiff’s request to “reinstate Plaintiff’s written
lifetime membership contract” is not a request to strike anything at all, and
as such, is an improper remedy request on a motion to strike.
 
With regard to Plaintiff’s request to strike Defendant’s answer,
Plaintiff appears to request that Defendant’s answer be stricken on the basis
that Defendant was not a registered entity during the time period when
Plaintiff’s lifetime membership contract was cancelled in July 2015.  Plaintiff does not contend that Defendant was
not registered or otherwise inactive when it filed the answer.  Therefore, whether the cancellation is valid
is a substantive issue that goes beyond the scope of a motion to strike.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
For the foregoing reasons, Plaintiff’s Motion to Strike is denied in
its entirety.
 
Defendant shall provide notice of the Court’s order and file a proof
of service of the same.
 
 
 
DATED:  December 13, 2023                                                ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court
 


