 Case Number:  23SMCV03392    Hearing Date:   December 14, 2023    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


December 14, 2023




CASE NUMBER


23SMCV03392 – Hughes v.
  California Fair Plan




MOTION


Demurrer 




MOVING PARTY


Defendant Carrington Mortgage Services, LLC




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff Erin Hughes



 
MOTION
 
On October 25, 2023, Plaintiff Erin Hughes (“Plaintiff”) filed a First
Amended Complaint, alleging six causes of action: (1) breach of insurance
policy contract; (2) breach of implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing;
(3) negligence; (4) fraud; (5) negligent misrepresentation; and (6) unfair
business practices.  The first two causes
of action are not alleged against Defendant Carrington Mortgage Services.  
 
Defendant Carrington Mortgage Services (“Defendant”) demurs to the
third, fourth, fifth, and sixth causes of action on the grounds that they fail
to state a cause of action and are uncertain pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 430.10, subdivisions (e) and (f).  Plaintiff has opposed and Defendant has
replied.  
 
REQUEST
FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
            Defendant requests the Court to take
judicial notice of the following documents:
 
1.     
Exhibit 1 – Deed of Trust recorded in the Los Angeles
County Recorder’s Office on July 16, 2007 as Instrument No. 2007167387
 
2.     
Exhibit 2 – Assignment of Deed of Trust recorded in the
Los Angeles County Recorder’s Office on April 20, 2011 as Instrument No.
20110572484
 
3.     
Exhibit 3 – Assignment of Deed of Trust recorded in the
Los Angeles County Recorder’s Office on June 9, 2016 as Instrument No.
20160661641
 
4.     
Exhibit 4 – Assignment of Deed of Trust recorded in the
Los Angeles County Recorder’s Office on May 19, 2020 as Instrument No.
20200547985
 
5.     
Exhibit 5 – Complaint in Los Angeles Superior Court
Case No. 22SMCV01175
 
6.     
Exhibit 6 – Cross-Complaint in Los Angeles Superior
Court Case No. 22SMCV01175
 
With regard to Exhibits 1, 2, 3, and 4, courts can take judicial notice of the existence and recordation of real
property records, including deeds, if authenticity is not reasonably
disputed.  (Fontenot v. Wells Fargo
Bank, N.A. (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 256, 264-265.)  “The official act of recordation and the
common use of a notary public in the execution of such documents assure their
reliability, and the maintenance of the documents in the recorder’s office
makes their existence and text capable of ready confirmation, thereby placing
such documents beyond reasonable dispute.” 
(Ibid.)  Moreover, courts
can take judicial notice not only of the existence and recordation of recorded
documents but also matters that can be deduced from the documents, including
the parties, dates, and legal consequences of recorded documents relating to
real estate transactions.  (Ibid.)
Plaintiff objects to those Exhibits on the grounds that they are not
certified, they are hearsay, and “they are mostly illegible.”  The Court notes that these documents each
bear the stamp of a notary public and bear the stamp of the recorder’s office,
as well as an official instrument numbers, placing them beyond reasonable
dispute.  Beyond the general objections, Plaintiff
does not raise any specific genuine dispute concerning the authenticity of any
portion of any of the documents. 
Therefore, Plaintiff’s objections are overruled, and the Court takes
judicial notice of Exhibits 1, 2, 3, 4, as well as the legal consequences of
the recorded documents.
 
With respect to Exhibits 5 and 6, judicial notice may be taken of records of any court in this state.  (Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (d)(1).)  Therefore, the Court may take judicial notice
of them.  (Ibid.)   However, “while courts are free to take
judicial notice of the existence of each document in a court file, including
the truth of results reached, they may not take judicial notice of the truth of
hearsay statements in decisions and court files.  Courts may not take judicial notice of
allegations in affidavits, declarations and probation reports in court records
because such matters are reasonably subject to dispute and therefore require
formal proof.”  (Lockley v. Law Office
of Cantrell, Green, Pekich, Cruz & McCort (2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 875,
882 [cleaned up].)  Accordingly, the
Court takes judicial notice of the existence of Exhibits 5 and 6, but not the
truth of the allegations contained therein.
 
ANALYSIS
 
1.      DEMURRER
 
“It is black letter law that a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of
the allegations in a complaint.”  (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015)
235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  In testing the sufficiency of a cause of
action, a court accepts “[a]s true all material facts properly pled and matters
which may be judicially noticed but disregard contentions, deductions or
conclusions of fact or law.  [A court
also gives] the complaint a reasonable interpretation, reading it as a whole
and its parts in their context.”  (290
Division (EAT), LLC v. City & County of San Francisco (2022) 86
Cal.App.5th 439, 450 [cleaned up]; Hacker v. Homeward Residential, Inc.
(2018) 26 Cal.App.5th 270, 280 [“in considering the merits of a demurrer,
however, “the facts alleged in the pleading are deemed to be true, however
improbable they may be”].)
 
Further, in ruling on a demurrer, a court must “liberally construe”
the allegations of the complaint “with a view to substantial justice between
the parties.”  (See Code Civ. Proc., §
452.)  “This rule of liberal construction
means that the reviewing court draws inferences favorable to the plaintiff, not
the defendant.”  (Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist. (2012) 209
Cal.App.4th 1228, 1238.)   
 
In summary, “[d]etermining whether the complaint is sufficient as
against the demurrer on the ground that it does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action, the rule is that if one consideration of all the
facts stated it appears the plaintiff is entitled to any relief at the hands of
the court against the defendants the complaint will be held good although the
facts may not be clearly stated, or may be intermingled with a statement of
other facts irrelevant to the cause of action shown, or although the plaintiff
may demand relief to which he is not entitled under the facts alleged.”  (Gressley v. Williams (1961) 193
Cal.App.2d 636, 639.)
 
A.   
UNCERTAINTY
 
A demurrer for uncertainty will be sustained only where the pleading
is so bad that the responding party cannot reasonably respond - i.e., he or she
cannot reasonably determine what issues must be admitted or denied, or what
claims are directed against him or her. 
(Khoury v. Maly’s of California (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612,
616.)  Where a demurrer is made upon the
ground of uncertainty, the demurrer must distinctly specify exactly how or why
the pleading is uncertain, and where such uncertainty appears by reference to
page and line numbers.  (See Fenton
v. Groveland Comm. Services Dist. (1982) 135 Cal.App.3d 797, 809.)  
 
Defendant does not demonstrate that any portions of the FAC are so bad
that it cannot reasonably determine what issues must be admitted or denied, or
what claims are directed against it.  The
Court thus declines to sustain Defendant’s demurrer on the basis of
uncertainty.  
 
B.    
FAILURE TO STATE A CAUSE OF ACTION
 
                                                                   
i.           
Third
Cause of Action – Negligence 
 
“The elements of any
negligence cause of action are duty, breach of duty, proximate cause, and
damages.”  (Peredia v. HR Mobile
Services, Inc. (2018) 25 Cal.App.5th 680, 687.)
 
Defendant contends that the
economic loss doctrine bars Plaintiff’s claim for negligence.  
 
“[T]he economic loss rule
provides: where a purchaser’s expectations in a sale are frustrated because the
product he bought is not working properly, his remedy is said to be in contract
alone, for he has suffered only economic losses.”  (Robinson Helicopter Co., Inc. v. Dana
Corp. (2004) 34 Cal.4th 979, 988.)  “This
doctrine hinges on a distinction drawn between transactions involving the sale
of goods for commercial purposes where economic expectations are protected by
commercial and contract law, and those involving the sale of defective products
to individual consumers who are injured in a manner which has traditionally
been remedied by resort to the law of torts.” 
(Ibid.)  
 
In construction cases, the
economic loss rule has been applied to bar recovery for the costs of repairing
minor construction defects and diminution in property value.  (See Aas v. Superior Court (2000) 24
Cal.4th 627;  State Ready Mix, Inc. v.
Moffatt & Nichol (2015) 232 Cal. App. 4th 1227.)  As applied to loans, the economic loss rule
provides, “there is no liability in tort for economic loss caused by negligence
in the performance or negotiation of a contract between the parties.”  (Sheen v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2022)
12 Cal.5th 905.) 
 
Here, with respect to
Defendant, Plaintiff alleges:
 
24. The Defendants owed a duty of reasonable care
to the Plaintiff and breached their duty of care owed to the Plaintiff when
they […]
 
(b) CFP Unreasonably delayed payment of policy
benefits and intentionally stalled the claim by issuing a low ball estimate for
rebuild of the dwelling, use of outdated and incorrect floor plans by
Defendants CFP, William Ball, as well as Crawford & Company who prepared
incorrect rebuild estimates and floor plans of Plaintiff’s property which they
refused to revise causing delay and ultimate freezing of $802,135.01 in
insurance benefits payments by Plaintiff’s mortgagee Carrington Mortgage
Services LLC ;
 
(c) CFP Failed to accurately specify the
allocation of approximately $225,000 in insurance benefits causing Carrington
Mortgage to refuse to pay these funds to Plaintiff;
 
[…]
 
(e) William Ball and Crawford negligently issued
faulty rebuild estimates which had incorrect description of the property and
allocation of benefits. CFP’s insurance disbursement lacked sufficient detail
for allocation of insurance benefits and which caused Plaintiff’s mortgagee
Carrington Mortgage Services LLC to refuse the release to Plaintiff of
approximately $802,135.01 in insurance benefits; 
 
(f) CARRINGTON wrongfully, negligently and or
intentionally based its refusal to disburse insurance premiums to Plaintiff on
erroneous estimates and floor plans prepared by WILLIAM BALL and CRAWFORD
despite Plaintiff informing them that William Ball estimates were inaccurate;
 
(g) WILLIAM BALL negligently lost or
intentionally converted the original plans for the property which Plaintiff
provided to him and instead used incorrect description of the property in the
estimates he prepared used by CFP and CARRINGTON;
 
[…]
 
26. As a direct and proximate result Plaintiff
suffered damages in excess of $10,000,000.
 
(FAC
¶¶ 24, 26.)
 
            Thus, Plaintiff alleges that
Defendant Carrington based its refusal to disburse insurance premiums to
Plaintiff on erroneous information.  As
such, Plaintiff alleges purely contractual damages resulting from Defendant’s
performance under the insurance agreement. 
 
            In opposition, Plaintiff argues,
“Carrington negligently interfered with Plaintiff’s contractual relationship
with its insurer California Fair Plan by negligently seizing her fire insurance
proceeds without a proper investigation of the accuracy of the rebuild
estimates or any inspection of the property. 
Thus they did breach a duty of care.” 
(Opp. at pp. 8-9.)  But Plaintiff
does not allege a cause of action for tortious interference with economic
advantage, and these allegations, which do not appear in the FAC, would still
just pertain to Defendant’s performance under the insurance agreement.
 
Plaintiff also argues, “Carrington further was negligent in wrongly
failing to credit Plaintiff’s mortgage payments, charging improper forbearance
fees in violation of the CARES act, creating an escrow account for plaintiff’s
property tax payments while failing to confirm loss of dwelling after the fire
and thereby accumulating escrow fees for property tax on a dwelling destroyed
by the fire, failing to establish chain of title for its standing to collect
mortgage payments from Plaintiff (FAC ¶28b)[.]” 
(Opp. at p. 9.)  Paragraph 28 of
the FAC alleges intentional misconduct pursuant to Plaintiff’s fraud cause of
action.  
 
Therefore, the Court sustains
Defendant’s demurrer to the third cause of action, on the basis that the purely
economic contractual losses Plaintiff claims are barred by the economic loss
doctrine. 
 
                                                                 
ii.           
Fourth
and Fifth Causes of Action – Fraud & Negligent Misrepresentation
 
The elements for fraudulent misrepresentation are “(1) the defendant
represented to the plaintiff that an important fact was true; (2) that
representation was false; (3) the defendant knew that the representation was
false when the defendant made it, or the defendant made the representation
recklessly and without regard for its truth; (4) the defendant intended that
the plaintiff rely on the representation; (5) the plaintiff reasonably relied
on the representation; (6) the plaintiff was harmed; and (7) the plaintiff's
reliance on the defendant's representation was a substantial factor in causing
that harm to the plaintiff.”  (Graham
v. Bank of America, N.A. (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 594, 605–606.)  
 
“The essential elements of a count for negligent misrepresentation are
the same [as intentional misrepresentation] except that it does not require
knowledge of falsity but instead requires a misrepresentation of fact by a
person who has no reasonable grounds for believing it to be true.”  (Chapman v. Skype Inc. (2013) 220
Cal.App.4th 217, 230-231 (hereafter Chapman).)  Like intentional misrepresentation, causes of
action for negligent misrepresentation sound in fraud, and must also,
therefore, be pleaded with particularity. 
(Ibid.)  
 
“In California, fraud must be pled specifically; general and conclusory
allegations do not suffice.”  (Lazar
v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.)  “This particularity requirement necessitates
pleading facts which show how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the
representations were tendered.”  (Ibid.)  Causes of action for negligent
misrepresentation sound in fraud, and must also, therefore, be pleaded with
particularity.  (Chapman v. Skype Inc.,
supra, 220 Cal.App.4th at pp. 230-231.)  
 
With respect to Defendant, Plaintiff alleges:
 
(b) CARRINGTON: 1)
intentionally misrepresented to Plaintiff that the estimate prepared by Ball, Crawford
and approved by CFP was correct and had to be used to repair the property or no
insurance funds will be released and then fraudulently seized the insurance
funds based on this estimate and failed to release them; 2) Concealed the fact
that they did not have a proper assignment of Plaintiff’s Note and Deed of
Trust and are not the real party in interest to collect mortgage or initiate a
judicial foreclosure against Plaintiff in violation of the Federal as well as
California Rosenthal Fair Debt Collection Practices Act; 3) Misrepresented its
forbearance practices and procedures to Plaintiff in violations of the CARES
ACT and thereafter initiated a judicial foreclosure against Plaintiff; 4)
Refused to release the Fair Rental Value payment to Plaintiff
 
[…]
 
29. The Plaintiff
relied on the above fraudulent representations by the Defendants and Does 2-
50, and was not aware of the true nature of the facts due to the half truth
representation of CFP’s adjusters including Kwanza Johnson , Mandy Thornton,
William Ball and other Does 1-50 who misrepresented the reason for partial
denial of Plaintiff’s insurance benefits for damage to her vegetation, used
inaccurate and false estimates for damages to Plaintiff’s dwelling prepared by
William Ball and Does 1-50 who knew or should have known that these
representations were not true. 
 
30. As a direct and
proximate result of the tortious breach of the Covenant of Good Faith and Fair
Dealing Plaintiff suffered damages in excess of $10,000,000
 
[…]
 
33. The Defendants
and each of them made representations as stated in paragraphs 1-31 which they
alleged were true but in facts were false. The Defendants had no reasonable
grounds to believe that such representations were true when they made them. The
Plaintiff relied on such representations and was harmed in excess of
$10,000,000.
 
(FAC ¶¶ 28-30, 33.)  Plaintiff
fails to plead her fraud and negligent misrepresentation claims with requisite
specificity.  Plaintiff does not allege
who at Defendant Carrington made these representations, when they were made,
how they were made, or any facts demonstrating that the person making the
representations either knew they were false when made, or had no reasonable
grounds to believe they were true when made. 

 
            Therefore,
the Court sustains Defendant’s demurrer to the fourth and fifth causes of
action.
 
                                                               
iii.           
Sixth
Cause of Action – Unfair Business Practices
 
Business and Professions Code section 17200, known as the Unfair
Competition Law, or “UCL,” bars unfair competition, defined as “any unlawful,
unfair or fraudulent business act or practice and unfair, deceptive, untrue or
misleading advertising and any act prohibited by Chapter 1 (commencing with
Section 17500) of Part 3 of Division 7 of the Business and Professions Code.  “An ‘unlawful’ business practice or act
within the meaning of the UCL is an act or practice, committed pursuant to
business activity, that is at the same time forbidden by law.”  (Bernardo v. Planned Parenthood Federation
of America (2004) 115 Cal.App.4th 322, 351.)  “By proscribing ‘any unlawful’ business
practice, section 17200 borrows violations of other laws and treats them as
unlawful practices that the unfair competition law makes independently
actionable.”  (Cel-Tech
Communications, Inc. v. Los Angeles Cellular Telephone Co. (1999) 20
Cal.4th 163, 180.)  Moreover, “a practice
may be deemed unfair even if not specifically proscribed by some other
law.”  (Ibid.)
 
Defendant argues that Plaintiff does not plead the Unfair Business
Practices cause of action with the requisite specificity.  Plaintiff
alleges:
 
35. The Defendants and each of them made false
representations and engaged in deceptive business practices as stated in
paragraphs 1-31which harmed the Plaintiff and require a restitution of the
Plaintiff’s funds, compensatory and punitive damages due to malice of the
Defendants. 
 
36. The Defendant CARRINGTON MORTGAGE violated
the Fair Credit Reporting Act as well as Consumer Financial Protection Act by
misrepresenting its forbearance practices to Plaintiff, charging unauthorized
fees, representing that Plaintiff could not have 180 days of forbearance on
request and engaging in unlawful practices by misappropriation and unjust
enrichment on funds belonging to Plaintiff as stated in paragraphs 1-31.
 
While the Court finds that
Plaintiff failed to plead the fraud-based causes of action with requisite
specificity, and therefore cannot base the sixth cause of action on alleged
fraud, the Unfair Competition Law does not otherwise have a heightened pleading
standard. Therefore, the allegations are sufficient to allege that Defendant
engaged in potentially unfair and/or unlawful business practices to withstand
demurrer.
 
2.     
LEAVE TO AMEND
 
A plaintiff has the burden of showing in what
manner the complaint could be amended and how the amendment would change the
legal effect of the complaint, i.e., state a cause of action. (See The
Inland Oversight Committee v City of San Bernardino (2018) 27 Cal.App.5th
771, 779; PGA West Residential Assn., Inc. v Hulven Int'l, Inc. (2017)
14 Cal.App.5th 156, 189.) A plaintiff must not only state the legal basis for
the amendment, but also the factual allegations sufficient to state a cause of
action or claim. (See PGA West Residential Assn., Inc. v Hulven Int'l, Inc.,
supra, 14 Cal.App.5th at p. 189.) Moreover, a plaintiff does not meet his
or her burden by merely stating in the opposition to a demurrer or motion to
strike that “if the Court finds the operative complaint deficient, plaintiff
respectfully requests leave to amend.” (See Major Clients Agency v Diemer
(1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1116, 1133; Graham v Bank of America (2014) 226
Cal.App.4th 594, 618 [asserting an abstract right to amend does not satisfy the
burden].)
 
Here, all Plaintiff argues “[i]f the Court finds that the
Plaintiff’s Complaint is not sufficiently pleaded, Plaintiff respectfully
requests leave to amend the language contained in the Complaint.”  Thus, Plaintiff has failed to
meet the burden and does not address what facts Plaintiff could add to the complaint
if the demurrer is sustained.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
For the reasons stated, the Court sustains Defendant’s Demurrer to the
third, fourth, and fifth causes of action without leave to amend and overrules
Defendant’s Demurrer to the sixth cause of action.
 
Further, the Court orders Defendant to file an Answer to the FAC on or
before January 12, 2024.
 
Defendant shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof
of service regarding the same.  
 
 
DATED:  December 14, 2023                                                ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court