  Case Number:  22SMCV01873    Hearing Date:   December 14, 2023    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


December
  14, 2023




CASE NUMBER


22SMCV01873




MOTION


Motion
  for Summary Judgment or in the alternative Motion for Summary Adjudication




MOVING PARTY


Defendant
  Warehouse Restaurant, Inc.




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff
  Samantha Dewey-Gartner



 
MOVING PAPERS:
 

Notice
     of Motion & Motion for Summary Judgment and/or Adjudication;[1]
     Memorandum of Points & Authorities
Separate
     Statement of Undisputed Material Facts
Defendant’s
     Compendium of Exhibits
Defendant’s
     Errata Declaration of Armando DeArcus

 
OPPOSITION PAPERS:
 

Opposition to Motion for Summary Judgment; Memorandum
     of Points & Authorities
Declaration
     of Samantha Dewey-Gartner
Declaration
     of Rhonda Earick
Plaintiff’s
     Separate Statement of Disputed Material Facts

 
REPLY PAPERS:
 
1.      Reply 
2.      Exhibit K – Declaration
of Paola Orozco
3.      Exhibit L – Declaration
of Jaime Ramirez
4.      Exhibit M – Warehouse Front Desk
Responsibility & Etiquette
 
BACKGROUND
 
Plaintiff Samantha Dewey-Gartner (“Plaintiff”) filed suit for
negligence, alleging she suffered a fracture to her left foot while returning
back to her table from the restroom at the Warehouse Restaurant, when an
employee of Defendant The Warehouse Restaurant, Inc. (“Defendant”) negligently stepped
on Plaintiff’s foot.  
 
Defendant has moved for summary judgment and/or adjudication.  Plaintiff opposes the motion and Defendant replies.  
 
LEGAL STANDARD – MOTION FOR SUMMARY
JUDGMENT
 
“[T]he party moving for
summary judgment bears the burden of persuasion that there is no triable issue
of material fact and that he is entitled to judgment as a matter of law[.]
There is a triable issue of material fact if, and only if, the evidence would
allow a reasonable trier of fact to find the underlying fact in favor of the
party opposing the motion in accordance with the applicable standard of proof.”
(Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.) “[T]he
party moving for summary judgment bears an initial burden of production to make
a prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable issue of material
fact; if he carries his burden of production, he causes a shift, and the
opposing party is then subjected to a burden of production of his own to make a
prima facie showing of the existence of a triable issue of material fact.” (Ibid.)

 
“On a summary judgment motion,
the court must therefore consider what inferences favoring the opposing party a
factfinder could reasonably draw from the evidence. While viewing the evidence
in this manner, the court must bear in mind that its primary function is to
identify issues rather than to determine issues. Only when the inferences are
indisputable may the court decide the issues as a matter of law. If the
evidence is in conflict, the factual issues must be resolved by trial.” (Binder
v. Aetna Life Ins. Co. (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832, 839 [cleaned up].)
Further, “the trial court may not weigh the evidence in the manner of a
factfinder to determine whose version is more likely true. Nor may the trial
court grant summary judgment based on the court's evaluation of credibility.” (Id.
at p. 840 [cleaned up]; see also Weiss v. People ex rel. Department of
Transportation (2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts deciding motions for
summary judgment or summary adjudication may not weigh the evidence but must
instead view it in the light most favorable to the opposing party and draw all
reasonable inferences in favor of that party”].)
 
PLAINTIFF’S OPPOSITION SEPARATE STATEMENT
 
            Code
of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (b)(3) requires:   “The
opposition papers shall include a separate statement that responds to each of
the material facts contended by the moving party to be undisputed, indicating
if the opposing party agrees or disagrees that those facts are undisputed. The
statement also shall set forth plainly and concisely any other material facts
the opposing party contends are disputed. Each material fact contended by the
opposing party to be disputed shall be followed by a reference to the
supporting evidence. Failure to comply with this requirement of a separate
statement may constitute a sufficient ground, in the court's discretion, for
granting the motion.”  Equally important,
the California Rules of Court, rule 3.1350(h) provides:  “Supporting and opposing separate statements
in a motion for summary judgment must follow this format . . . .”  (See Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1350(h)
[formats].)        
 
            Here,
Plaintiff submitted “Plaintiff’s Separate Statement of Undisputed Material
Facts” which fails to comply with the Section 437c and Rule 3.1350.  Instead, Plaintiff merely introduces her own material
facts, but does not respond to the material facts presented by Defendant as
disputed or undisputed.  
 
            Defendant
argues that the Court is within its discretion to grant Defendant’s motion on
the basis that Plaintiff failed to comply with the separate statement
requirements.
 
            Although
Defendant is correct, the Court exercises its discretion to consider the
substance of Plaintiff’s proffered evidence, notwithstanding Plaintiff’s
failure to comply with the separate statement requirements.  (See, e.g., San Diego Watercrafts, Inc. v.
Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2002) 102 Cal.App.4th 308, 315 [“in ruling on a
motion for summary judgment, a trial court must consider all the evidence
submitted, except the court may ignore evidence not disclosed in moving party's
separate statement of undisputed facts”] (hereafter San Diego Watercrafts).)  
 
DISCUSSION
 
Plaintiff asserts a single cause
of action for negligence, stemming from an injury she suffered when someone
stepped on her foot while she was returning to her table from the bathroom
while dining at the Warehouse Restaurant. 
Plaintiff contends one of Defendant’s staff members, wearing a black
uniform and carrying a tray of dishes, negligently stepped on her foot.  Defendant contends it was another patron who
was wearing high heels who stepped on Plaintiff’s foot in the bathroom. 
 
“The elements of a negligence
cause of action are the existence of a legal duty of care, breach of that duty,
and proximate cause resulting in injury.”  (Castellon v. U.S. Bancorp (2013)
220 Cal.App.4th 994, 998, citation omitted.)  
 
Here, Defendant moves for
summary judgment on the ground that Plaintiff cannot establish that there was “any
female employee on duty, or working the floor at the date and time of her
alleged injury.”  (Mot. at p. 3.) 
 
1.     
DEFENDANT’S
EVIDENCE
 
·        
There
were no female servers/waitresses on duty, or in the restaurant at the time of
the incident.  (DeArcus Decl., Exhibits
A, B & D.)  
 
·        
The
dress code for female servers/witnesses (sic) is an (sic) Hawaiian shirt and
light pants, either tan or white, and low button [non-heel] shoes.  (Exhibit C.) 

 
·        
The
incident occurred while Plaintiff was walking back to her table from the
restroom.  (Exhibit G [Plaintiff’s
response to Special Interrogatory No. 4.])
 
·        
The
person who stepped on Plaintiff’s foot was an “Unidentified female,
approximately 30 years old, wearing all black clothing and carrying dirty
dishes.”  (Exhibit G [Plaintiff’s
response to Special Interrogatory No. 5.])
 
·        
The
restaurant gave Plaintiff the restaurant bill after she came back from the
restroom.  (DeArcos Decl. ¶¶ 3, 6, 7, 9,
10, 11, 12.)
 
·        
The
customer check/billing statement shows the check was given to Plaintiff at 3:46
p.m. and Plaintiff paid the check at 3:58 p.m.[2]  (DeArcos Decl. ¶ 17; Exhibit B.)
 
·        
The
first female server clocked in to work at 4:20 p.m., wearing a Hawaiian shirt
and light color pants, as required by the restaurant’s dress code for
servers.  (Exhibit A; Nynatten Decl. ¶¶
3, 7.)
 
·        
At
first, Plaintiff told the female server and the Warehouse manager on duty that
another female customer wearing high heels stepped on her in the restaurant.  (Nynatten Decl. ¶ 3; Remirez Decl. ¶ 6.)
 
·        
Approximately
30 minutes later, Plaintiff changed her story and said a female employee
stepped on her foot and threatened to sue the restaurant.  (Remirez Decl. ¶ 12.)
 
·        
Generally,
it is the bussers who clean the tables and carry dirty dishes.  (Remirez Decl. ¶ 18.)
 
·        
All of
the bussers at the restaurant are male. 
(Remirez Decl. ¶ 18.)
 
Defendant has met its burden
of production and persuasion that it did not breach a duty of due care owed to Plaintiff
or cause Plaintiff’s alleged injuries.  Consequently, Defendant has shifted the burden
of production to Plaintiff to raise triable issues of material fact as to
whether Defendant breached a duty of due care, causing injuries.  
 
2.     
PLAINTIFF’S
EVIDENCE
 
            In
opposition, Plaintiff advances her own declaration and the declaration of her
dining companion on the date of the incident, indicating as follows:
 
1.      On September 20, 2022, Plaintiff had lunch
with her friend/colleague Rhonda Earick (“Earick”) at the Warehouse Restaurant
in Marina del Rey. (Dewey-Gartner Decl. ¶ 4; Earick Decl. ¶ 3.)
 
2.      Plaintiff and Earick arrived at the
restaurant at approximately 2:00 p.m. and stayed until almost 5:00 p.m.  (Dewey-Gartner Decl. ¶ 5; Earick Decl. ¶ 4;
DeArcos Decl. ¶ 5.)
 
3.      At approximately 4:00 p.m., their waiter
brought them their check.  He told them
that his shift was over in minutes and asked them to pay the check now.  (Dewey-Gartner Decl. ¶ 6; Earick Decl. ¶ 5.)
 
4.      Plaintiff paid the check, totaling $224.64
with tip, with her MasterCard ending in 6457. 
The electronic record of this charge from Plaintiff’s credit card issuer
shows that this transaction occurred at 4:09 p.m.  (Dewey-Gartner Decl. ¶ 7 and Ex. A; Earick
Decl. ¶ 6.)
 
5.      After Plaintiff paid their bill, Plaintiff
and [Earick] remained seated at their table for at least another 30 minutes,
nursing the remainder of a third martini which they shared and enjoying each
other’s company.  (Dewey-Gartner Decl. ¶
8; Earick Decl. ¶ 7.)
 
6.      Toward the end of their lunch, Rhonda went to
use the restaurant’s restroom.  When she
returned to their table, Plaintiff decided to also use the restaurant’s
restroom before they left the restaurant. 
(Dewey-Gartner Decl. ¶ 9; Earick Decl. ¶ 8.)
 
7.      While Plaintiff was walking back to their
table from the restroom, a female employee of the restaurant wearing all black
clothing and carrying dirty dishes, stepped forcefully on Plaintiff’s left
foot.  (Dewey-Gartner Decl. ¶ 10; Earick
Decl. ¶ 9.)
 
8.      After Plaintiff returned to her table,
“another server, a female, arrived at their table.  Plaintiff told this new server what had just
happened.”  After this new server brought
Plaintiff a bag of ice, Plaintiff never saw her again.  (Dewey-Gartner, ¶ 11; Earick Decl. ¶ 10.)
9.      The manager was dismissive toward Plaintiff
and refused her request for assistance to her car.  Ultimately two male customers at the
restaurant carried Plaintiff to her car. 
(Dewey-Gartner Decl. ¶ 12 and Ex. B; Earick Decl. ¶ 11.)
 
10.  Plaintiff never told anyone it was another
customer that stepped on her foot or that the subject incident occurred within
the restroom.  (Dewey-Gartner Decl. ¶ 13;
Earick Decl. ¶ 12.)
 
11.  The required attire for Warehouse Restaurant Hosts/Hostesses
is all black.  (Warehouse Policy Manual,
page 2.)
 
12.  There were at least three female employees
present at the Warehouse Restaurant at the time of Plaintiff’s injury, to wit,
Tifany Izzo, Ana Karina Van Nyatten and Paola Orozco.  Most importantly, Paola Orozco is identified
as a Hostess, an employee who was required to wear “Black shirt, black pants,
black shoes, black socks”, who clocked in at 3:58 p.m.  (Warehouse Payroll Report for September 20,
2022, pages 1-2.)
 
13.  The Guest Accident Investigation Report form Warehouse
Manager Ramirez handed to Plaintiff and which Plaintiff filled out indicates
the “time of accident” as “5:00 p.m.” and indicates Plaintiff was “stepped on
by an employee[.]”  (Dewey-Gartner Decl.
¶ 12 and Ex. B; Earick Decl. ¶ 11.)
 
Based upon that evidence, the
Court finds that Plaintiff met her burden of production in establishing triable
issues of material fact as to whether Defendant breached a duty of due care
owed to Plaintiff, resulting in harm as alleged.  In particular, Plaintiff has demonstrated
that  there is a genuine issues of
material fact regarding whether the alleged incident occurred before or after
Plaintiff paid her bill at 3:58 p.m., and whether Paola Orozco, a hostess, who
clocked in at 3:58 p.m., wearing all black, could have been the one who stepped
on Plaintiff’s foot.  In short,
Plaintiff’s evidence in support of the opposition shows that an employee of
Defendant as opposed to a third party, non-employee, stepped on her foot resulting
in a “broken foot 
 
3.     
DEFENDANT’S
REPLY EVIDENCE
 
In Reply, Defendant argues
that Paola Orozco (“Orozco”) could not have been the one who stepped on
Plaintiff’s foot because Plaintiff described the person who stepped on her foot
as having “brownish hair,” being a “median build” and “approximately 5’6” tall,
whereas Orozco has black hair and is 5’5” tall and weighs 230 pounds, which
“any other person […] asked to describe Ms. Orozco would automatically state
she is a huge woman[.]”  (Reply at p.
3.)  Moreover, Defendant argues that the
hostess job description does not include cleaning tables or carrying dirty
dishes.  (Reply at p. 4.)  In support, Defendant provides Declarations
of Paola Orozco and of Jaime Ramirez, as well as The Warehouse Front Desk
Responsibility & Etiquette and Host Training packet.
 
In general, a reply cannot contain new evidence because it violates
the moving party’s right to due process. 
(San Diego Watercrafts, supra, 102 Cal.App.4th at p. 316
[“Where a remedy as drastic as summary judgment is involved, due process
requires a party be fully advised of the issues to be addressed and be given
adequate notice of what facts it must rebut in order to prevail”]; see also Wall
Street Network Ltd. v. New York Times Co. (2008) 164 Cal.App.4th 1171.)  Thus, the Court is disinclined to consider
Defendant’s additional evidence proffered in reply.  Defendant could have proffered the evidence
and arguments about Orozco in its moving papers, instead of selectively
omitting them to focus exclusively on female waitresses and bus boys, creating
the misleading narrative that no restaurant employees wore all black and no
female employees were on duty at the time of the incident.
 
But even if the Court were to consider this new evidence, it does not negate
that a genuine issue of material fact still exists with regard to whether
Orozco stepped on Plaintiff’s foot.  Whether
the assailant was 5’5” or 5’6” and had brown hair versus black hair are
sufficiently close descriptors to raise a genuine issue of material fact as to
whether Orozco is the one who stepped on Plaintiff’s foot.  
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
In considering the competent
evidence proffered by Plaintiff and Defendant, and viewing said evidence most
favorably to Plaintiff, the Court finds that are triable issues of material
fact regarding whether Defendant breached a duty of due care owed to Plaintiff
and whether Defendant’s breach of that duty of due care caused Plaintiff’s harm.
 
Therefore, the Court denies
Defendant’s motion for summary judgment, or in the alternative, motion for
summary adjudication. 
 
The Clerk of the Court shall
provide notice of the Court’s ruling.  
 
 
DATED:
December 14, 2023                                                 ___________________________
Michael E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court
 


