  Case Number:  22BBCV00949    Hearing Date:   October 10, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
OCTOBER 10,
2024

MOTION
TO COMPEL DEPOSITION 

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 22BBCV00949

 



MP:  


Ford Motor Company (Defendant) 




RP:  


Dionisio Alcala (Plaintiff)



 
NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
  
Dionisio Alcala (Plaintiff) brings this action against Ford Motor Company
(Ford). Plaintiff alleges that Ford sold him a defective 2019 Ford F-150 (the Subject Vehicle) and thereafter
refused to repurchase the vehicle in violation of the Song-Beverly Act. 
Ford now moves to
compel Plaintiff’s deposition pursuant to C.C.P. § 2025.240. Plaintiff opposes
the motion and Ford replies. 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.               
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
“If, after service of a deposition
notice, a party to the action or an officer, director, managing agent, or
employee of a party, or a person designated by an organization that is a party
under Section 2025.230, without having served a valid objection under Section
2025.410, fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce
for inspection any document, electronically stored information, or tangible
thing described in the deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move
for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the
production for inspection of any document, electronically stored information,
or tangible thing described in the deposition notice.” (C.C.P. § 2025.450(a).)
 
II.             
MERITS 
 
Meet and Confer
 
The Court begins by addressing Plaintiff’s
argument that Ford did not meet and confer in good faith before filing this
motion. Plaintiff argues that Ford has refused to respond to Plaintiff’s
request to depose Ford’s Person Most Knowledgeable (PMK) in exchange for a
deposition of Plaintiff. 
 
The Court finds Ford’s failure to
provide dates for the deposition of its PMK is entirely irrelevant to whether Ford
met and conferred prior to this motion. “A meet and confer declaration in
support of a motion shall state facts showing a reasonable and good faith
attempt at an informal resolution of each issue presented by the motion.”
(C.C.P. § 2016.040.) Whether Ford cooperated with Plaintiff’s discovery
requests is not an issue presented by this motion. Each side’s discovery
obligations are independent of one another. If Ford refused to provide dates
for the deposition of its PMK, Plaintiff’s remedy is to file a motion, not
refuse to provide his own responses.
 
Timeline 
 
On December 18, 2023, Ford served upon
Plaintiff a notice for deposition to occur April 2, 2024. (Scott Decl.
¶ 3, Exh. A.) On March 29, 2024, Plaintiff served an objection to the
noticed deposition on grounds that it was unilaterally noticed. (Scott Decl.
¶ 4, Exh. B) Ford’s counsel reached out that same day to meet and confer with
Plaintiff’s counsel on alternative dates. (Scott Decl.  5, Exh. C.) Ford
also served an amended notice of deposition, this time to occur on May 15,
2024. (Scott Decl. Exh. D.) 
 
On April 3, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel
responded to the meet and confer email by stating that they were working on alternative
dates. (Scott Decl. ¶ 6, Exh. F.) On April 4, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel
followed up and provided June 12, 19, and 26 as available dates. (Scott. Decl.
Exh. F.) Based on this response, Ford’s counsel re-noticed Plaintiff’s
deposition for June 26, 2024 (Second Amended Notice). (Scott Decl. Exh. G.) 
 
On June 21, 2026, Plaintiff served an
objection to the Second Amended Notice on grounds that Plaintiff was
unavailable. (Scott Decl. ¶ 8, Exh. I.) On June 28, 2024, Ford’s counsel
emailed again to request alternative dates. (Scott Decl. ¶ 9, Exh. J.) It
is unclear from the submissions of the parties whether this notice was ever
responded to. 
 
On July 30, 2024, Ford served another
notice for Plaintiff’s deposition to occur on August 12, 2024 (Third Amended
Notice). (Scott Decl. ¶ 10, Exh. K.) On August 9, 2024, Plaintiff served an
objection to the Third Amended Notice on grounds that it was unilaterally
noticed, and Plaintiff was unavailable. (Scott Decl. Exh. K.) 
 
On September 20, 2024, Ford filed the
instant motion. On September 26, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel email to suggest October
4, 2024 as an available date. (Smith Decl. ¶ 3, Exh. A.) 
 
Discussion
 
The Court finds Plaintiff’s argument
that the instant motion is moot to be unpersuasive. Although Plaintiff has now
offered alternative dates for the deposition, Ford is without a guarantee that
the deposition actually goes forward on that date. 
 
As preliminary matter, the Court notes
that objection on grounds that a deposition was unilaterally noticed, or that a
party is unavailable, is not a valid objection for purposes of C.C.P. § 2025.410.
Were an objection based on alleged unavailability, coupled with a failure to timely
provide available dates deemed a valid objection, then depositions would never
happen.  In this instance, there has been
a delay of approximately ten months from the initial attempt by Defenant to
depose Plaintiff.  Though it may be a
professional courtesy to mutually schedule a deposition, the Civil Discovery
Act does not require it. “The service of a deposition notice under Section
2025.240 is effective to require any deponent who is a party to the action… to
attend and to testify, as well as to produce any document, electronically
stored information, or tangible thing for inspection and copying.” (C.C.P. §
2025.280(a).) The party serving the notice of deposition can choose the date so
long as it complies with these requirements and Ford did so here. 
 
Here, Plaintiff’s objections to each of
the noticed depositions are invalid because they present no objection based on
failure to comply with Article 2. Plaintiff’s objections are all based purely
on unilateral notice and unavailability. There is no appellate nor statutory
authority for this objection, especially when it is not accompanied by
alternative dates and the objection is asserted months after the initial
deposition notice.  These concerns are
generally resolved via meet and confer efforts. The Court finds that Ford
attempted to do so here, but that Plaintiff’s continual delay frustrated Ford’s
efforts such that a motion to compel became necessary. Ford has clearly
demonstrated its attempts to schedule Plaintiff’s deposition on four separate
occasions, each met with Plaintiff stating unavailability. This is true even
where Plaintiff previously confirmed availability, as is apparent from the
email by Plaintiff’s counsel confirming June 26, 2024 as available. (Scott
Decl. Exh. F.)
 
Plaintiff, when bringing a lawsuit, must
understand the concomitant discovery responsibilities and obligations. If they
are unwilling to assent to these, then perhaps a lawsuit is not ultimately in
Plaintiff’s best interest.  "[P]retrial
discovery promotes the 'historically important state interest of facilitating
the ascertainment of truth....'" (Davies v. Superior Court (1984)
36 Cal.3d 291) "The policy of the state is that the parties to a lawsuit
'shall cooperate.' Period. Full stop." (Lasalle v. Vogel (2019) 36
Cal.App.5th 127, 130).  
 
Plaintiff’s argument that Ford did not
attempt to meet and confer after the August 12, 2024 date is unpersuasive. Ford’s
meet and confer attempts are well documented in their moving papers. The lack
of meet and confer after Plaintiff’s third refusal to appear does not
invalidate Ford’s previous attempts. Plaintiff cannot object ad nauseam to
deposition notices and then claim that Ford’s counsel did not attempt to secure
alternative dates.   
 
Plaintiff’s argument that a
nonappearance was not taken is also unpersuasive. C.C.P. § 2025.450 only
requires that the party to be deposed failed to appear. The declaration of Ford’s
counsel is sufficient to establish that Plaintiff did not appear for any of the
noticed depositions. 
 
The facts here are clear. Ford appropriately
noticed Plaintiff’s deposition several times and Plaintiff failed to appear.
The Court finds that Ford attempted to meet and confer with Plaintiff as to
alternative deposition dates, but that attempt fell upon deaf ears. 
 
Accordingly, Ford’s motion is GRANTED. In
the event Plaintiff’s deposition did not occur on October 4th, Plaintiff’s
deposition shall occur no later than October 31, 2024. Counsel for Ford and
counsel for Plaintiff are ordered to meet and confer as to a mutually agreeable
date within this window. 
 
Sanctions 
 
“If a motion under subdivision (a) is
granted, the court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing
with Section 2023.010) in favor of the party who noticed the deposition and
against the deponent or the party with whom the deponent is affiliated, unless
the court finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust.” (C.C.P. § 2025.450.) 
 
Here, the Court finds Plaintiff was
without substantial justification in opposing the motion. Plaintiff’s continuous
refusal to appear for noticed depositions necessitated the filing of this
motion. The eventual offering of a date in October is insufficient to circumvent
this motion or sanctions.  Accordingly,
the Court awards $560 in sanctions as against Plaintiff’s counsel. (Scott Decl.
¶ 14.) 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Ford Motor
Company’s Motion to Compel Deposition came on regularly for hearing on October 10, 2024, with
appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the court,
being fully advised in the premises, did then and there rule as follows: 
 
THE MOTION TO COMPEL PLAINTIFF’S ATTENDANCE AT
DEPOSITION IS GRANTED. 
 
PLAINTIFF’S DEPOSITION SHALL OCCUR NO LATER THAN
OCTOBER 31, 2024. 
 
SANCTIONS
ARE GRANTED IN THE AMOUNT OF $560 AS
AGAINST PLAINTIFF’S COUNSEL.  SANCTIONS
TO BE PAID WITHIN 30 DAYS. 
 
FORD TO
GIVE NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
October 10, 2024                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
     F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 