 Case Number:  23NWCV00237    Hearing Date:   December 6, 2024    Dept:  SEC GIRON v. AMERICAN HONDA MOTOR CO., INC.CASE NO.: 23NWCV00237HEARING: 12/06/24Plaintiffs MELISSA GIRON and RUDY GIRON’s Unopposed Motion for Summary Adjudication is GRANTED.Moving Party to give notice.No Opposition filed as of December 2, 2024. Due by November 21, 2024. (CCP §437c(b)(2).)This “lemon law” action was filed by Plaintiffs MELISSA GIRON and RUDY GIRON (“Plaintiffs”) on January 24, 2023. On April 7, 2023, the operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) was filed. Plaintiffs allege that AMERICAN HONDA MOTOR CO., INC. (“Defendant” or “Honda”) did not disclose and actively concealed defects involving Honda’s Transmission Defect affecting Plaintiffs’ 2017 Honda Pilot vehicle. (See e.g., FAC ¶¶20, 43.) Plaintiffs allege that Defendant Honda manufactured the Subject Vehicle. (FAC ¶13.)Plaintiff’s FAC asserts the following causes of action: (1) Violation of Song-Beverly Act (Breach of Express Warranty); and (2) Fraudulent Inducement – Concealment.On October 31, 2023, Defendant Honda filed its Answer to Plaintiffs’ FAC, Defendant’s Answer asserts a general denial and 28 affirmative defenses to the FAC. Honda alleges “that it possesses a qualified third-party dispute resolution process, thereby barring Plaintiffs from any civil penalty in this lawsuit.” (Answer to FAC ¶8.)Plaintiff now moves for summary adjudication of the following issues:(1) Plaintiffs are entitled to summary adjudication as to Defendant’s Fifth Affirmative Defense (Third Party Resolution Process), because Defendant does not have a qualified third-party dispute resolution process;(2) Plaintiffs are entitled to summary adjudication as to Defendant’s Eighth Affirmative Defense (No Civil Penalty), because Defendant does not have a qualified third-party resolution process; and(3) Plaintiffs are entitled to summary adjudication as to Defendant’s Eighth Affirmative Defense because willful and civil penalties are not barred by the existence of a qualified third-party dispute resolution process. Plaintiff argues that summary adjudication of these issues is proper because“[t]here is no evidence that Honda maintains a qualified third-party dispute resolution process[.]” (Motion 2:24.)“If the buyer establishes that the failure to comply was willful, the judgment may include, in addition to the amounts recovered under subdivision (a), a civil penalty which shall not exceed two times the amount of actual damages.” (Cal. Civ. Code §1794(c).) Under Cal. Civ. Code §1794(e), “if the buyer establishes a violation of paragraph (2) or subdivision (d) of Section 1793.2, the buyer shall recover damages and reasonable attorney’s fees and costs, and may recover a civil penalty of up to two times the amount of damages. [¶] If the manufacturer maintains a qualified third-party dispute resolution process which substantially complies with Section 1793.22, the manufacturer shall not be liable for any civil penalty pursuant to this subdivision.” (Cal. Civ. Code §1794(e)(2).)In support of their Motion, Plaintiffs proffer the following evidence:(1) Honda conceded in discovery that it does not have a certified third-party dispute resolution process. (UMF No. 3, Swanson Decl., ¶¶6-7.);(2) The Department of Consumer Affairs (“DCA”) maintains a publicly available list of automakers for which it has certified their “qualified third-party dispute resolution process,” and Honda is not among them. (UMF No. 4.)(3) The Program Chief for the DCA Arbitration Certification Program has attested in a signed affidavit that Honda has not had a certified dispute resolution program since 2013, that Honda’s National Center for Dispute Settlement Program is not certified by the DCA, that a qualified program must be certified by the DCA, and that Honda’s non-certified program has not been subject to any regulatory review or oversight by the DCA. (UMF Nos. 5-10.)As indicated above, the Motion is unopposed. Based on the foregoing, the Court finds that there is no existence of disputed issues of material fact with regards to Plaintiffs’ ability to obtain civil penalties because Defendant fails to establish that it maintains a qualified third-party resolution process. Moreover, as argued in the Moving Papers, even if Defendant did have a third-party dispute resolution process, that would not be a shield to civil penalties under Cal. Civ. Code §1794(c) (which depends on a finding of willfulness).The unopposed Motion for Summary Adjudication as to Honda’s Fifth and Eighth Affirmative Defenses is GRANTED.