  Case Number:  19STCV34640    Hearing Date:   January 19, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



JOSE R. ROCALEON, 
                   Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
HARLEY-DAVIDSON
   MOTOR COMPANY, Inc., et al.
 
                   Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  19STCV34640
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION TO SEAL EVIDENCE IN SUPPORT OF MOTION FOR SUMMARY
   JUDGMENT OR, IN THE ALTERNATIVE, SUMMARY ADJUDICATION 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
January
   19, 2024




 


)


 



 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
On September 30, 2019, plaintiff Jose
R. Rocaleon (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against defendant Harley-Davidson Motor
Company Group, LLC (“Harley-Davidson”) (erroneously sued as Harley-Davidson
Motor Company, Inc.), TMCHB, Inc. dba Huntington Beach Harley-Davidson
(“TMCHB”) (erroneously sued as The Motorcycle Company, LLC), and Precision
Performance, LLC dba TNT Cycle Works. 
On October 11, 2023, Harley-Davidson
and TMCHB (collectively, “Defendants”) filed this motion to seal evidence
submitted in support of their motion for summary judgment/summary adjudication.
Defendants also filed a redacted version of their motion for summary
judgment/summary adjudication. 
On January 5, 2024, Plaintiff filed a brief
opposing this motion to seal. 
On January 11, 2024, Defendants filed a
reply brief in support of their motion to seal. 
II.         
LEGAL
STANDARD
Pursuant
to California Rules of Court Rule 2.550 the court may seal a record “only if it
expressly finds facts that establish: (1) There exists an overriding interest
that overcomes the right of public access to the record; (2) The overriding
interest supports sealing the record; (3) A substantial probability exists that
the overriding interest will be prejudiced if the record is not sealed; (4) The
proposed sealing is narrowly tailored; and (5) No less restrictive means exist
to achieve the overriding interest.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.550(d).) 
A
“reasoned decision about sealing or unsealing records cannot be made without .
. . (1) identifying the specific information claimed to be entitled to such
treatment; (2) identifying the nature of the harm threatened by disclosure; and
(3) identifying and accounting for countervailing considerations. The burden of
presenting information sufficient to accomplish the first two steps is
logically placed on the party seeking the sealing of the documents, who is
presumptively in the best position to know what disclosures will harm and how.”
(H.B. Fuller Co. v. Doe (2007) 151 Cal.App.4th 879, 894.)
III.       
DISCUSSION
The
Court notes at the outset that the documents lodged with the Court were lodged
in Department 31, to which this action was previously assigned. Not having
received these, this Court is inquiring of Department 31 as to the location of
the lodged documents, but, as a matter of practicality, Defendants may want to re-lodge
those documents with this Department because without the documents the Court necessarily
cannot rule on the motion to seal. That said, the Court has reviewed the motion
and has some observations about it below.
Accordingly,
the Court will continue the hearing to allow for: (1) the documents to be
re-lodged or delivered to this Department, and (2) supplemental briefing to
address the issues below. 
Defendants
state that “[c]ourts should find business information confidential and entitled
to protection from public view where the party asserting confidentiality has
taken measures to guard the information’s secrecy and where the material
contains information valuable to the business or its competitors.” (Motion, p. 4.)
However, Defendants’ motion does not contain any evidence that they have taken
measure to guard the secrecy of the materials which they seek to have sealed.
Instead, defense counsel only states that he has “reviewed documents provided
to me by Harley-Davidson related to the design and manufacture of
Harley-Davidson motorcycles related to the above captioned case and [has]
determined that Harley-Davidson treats such documents as confidential.” That
determination is one left to the Court, not counsel. It is also unclear how
counsel would have sufficient personal knowledge to attest to his assertion
that “the documents are not publicly disclosed and would damage Harley-Davidson
if released to their competitors.” In total, the evidence presented to the
Court, which solely consists of defense counsel’s declaration, is insufficient
for the Court to find an overriding interest which supports sealing. 
Accordingly,
the hearing is CONTINUED to [February 9, 2024], so that Defendants may file
a supplemental brief (not to exceed 5 pages) and additional evidence further
substantiating their claims that the information at issue in this motion should
be sealed, such as a declaration from someone with personal knowledge of how
the purportedly confidential information is actually kept confidential and the prejudicial
effect, if any, that disclosure would cause. Defendants are also ORDERED to
file another notice of lodging and lodge another copy of the unredacted
documents with the Court. 
Defendants
are also ORDERED to file in the record an amended notice of motion which lists
each document or exhibit, page, and, if applicable, the line numbers with the
information that Defendants wish to have sealed. 
All
documents should be lodged/filed no later than 5 days before the hearing date.  
IV.        
CONCLUSION
The hearing is continued to [February
9, 2024], at 8:30 a.m. in Department 3 of the Alhambra Courthouse.  
Dated
this 19th
day of January, 2024
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 