  Case Number:  20SMCV00596    Hearing Date:   September 27, 2023    Dept:  I This is a motion to quash a subpoena.  The ex parte was heard on September
21, 2023, but Virk was not present.  The
court advanced the hearing on the motion to quash to today and gave Virk until
Tuesday to file an opposition.  The court
afforded no right of reply.  No
opposition was filed although defendant did serve plaintiff with the notice of
ruling (and has attached proof thereof to a declaration filed on September 25,
2023).
The gist of the motion is that plaintiff is seeking to
depose Lohan’s counsel.  The subpoena was
issued on September 14, 2023.  Defendant
objects that the subpoena was not delivered personally, but the court will not
rule on that objection.  If that is all
that there is, it is a problem with an easy solution and the court would expect
the defense not to press such a make-work objection.
More to the point, the subpoena requires counsel to produce
documents at the hearing on September 28, 2023, and to be deposed at that
time.  The court is inclined to GRANT the
motion.
First, depositions (at least testimonial ones) of opposing
counsel are rarely allowed.  An
extraordinary showing must be made, and it was not made here.  For example, there is no reason that all of
the documents sought could not be obtained from sources other than
counsel.  Indeed, defendants state that
the first two documents (all communications with the Szegar family and the
Pisnoy-Dobrin family) have been produced already.  As to the third category, it is for documents
obtained by way of a subpoena duces tecum to a third party.  Those documents can be readily obtained from
the deposition officer.  The court also
does not understand why plaintiff insists on an actual deposition rather than
mere production of the documents.  Nor
does the court believe that a deposition officer will be available to take the
deposition in the courtroom (where the notice claims the deposition will
occur).  The objection is well taken.  That said, the court does not understand why
defense counsel did not offer to produce the documents at plaintiff’s expense
at normal copying charges.  Unless doing
so would be an improper action vis a vis the court reporter/deposition officer
(and it might be, which would change the analysis), it would hardly be an
imposition and would moot out that aspect of the motion.  But by the same token, the court does not
understand why plaintiff did not request the documents of the deposition
officer, who has a legal obligation to provide them.
In any event, plaintiff has not made the showing necessary
to depose defense counsel.