 Case Number:  23SMCV01704    Hearing Date:   September 27, 2023    Dept:  I This is a Song-Beverly case with a fraud cause of
action.  Plaintiff’s theory is that GM
knew that there was a problem with the car but did not disclose the problem to
plaintiff.  Accordingly, plaintiff
alleges fraudulent concealment.  In its
demurrer, GM contends that there can be no fraudulent concealment because there
was no duty to speak.  First, GM notes
that plaintiff never spoke to anyone at GM. 
Accordingly, GM argues, there can be no fraud in the misrepresentation
sense because no false statement was uttered by GM to plaintiff.  Thus, GM concludes that fraud can only occur
if GM had an affirmative duty to disclose. 
According to GM, that can occur only where there is a transactional
relationship.  In other words, GM
contends that the seller of goods has an affirmative duty to inform the buyer
of any known defects, but that applies only as between the buyer and the
seller, not as between the manufacturer and the public at large.  (Bigler-Engler v. Breg, Inc. (2017) 7
Cal.App.5th 311.)  Bigler-Engler
was decided in the context of a medical device, but GM argues that the law is
the same.
In its opposition, plaintiff contends that fraud is well
pled and contains the requisite specificity. 
But this is not really a pleading motion regarding the specifics.  The main thrust of GM’s motion is not that it
is scratching its head over what it failed to disclose; the thrust is that it
had no duty to disclose anything. 
(Obviously, GM is also contending that if plaintiff is claiming that
plaintiff spoke to a GM employee, that would need to be better pled, but the
court does not see plaintiff so alleging.) 
But plaintiff also adverts to Dhital v. Nissan of North America, Inc.
(2022) 84 Cal.App.5th 828.  There, the
Court of Appeal at least suggested that the car dealer was acting as the
manufacturer’s agent.  If that is
the case, then the situation is different. 
The court will assume (and would certainly allow plaintiff to amend if
need be) that there were lots of conversations with the dealer and that the
dealer did not hint at any known problems. 
The dealer (at least for these purposes) did have a duty to speak and to
disclose any known defects with the car before the car was sold.
Dhital was a similar case to this one in some
respects.  Plaintiff sued the
manufacturer for Song-Beverly problems as well as fraudulent inducement by
concealment.  Nissan’s demurrer was
successful, but it was brought on the economic loss rule, not the duty
argument.  The economic loss rule states
that where the parties have a contract, a tort alleging only economic loss will
not lie because the contract distributes the parties’ relative division of
risks.  There are exceptions to that
rule, though.  One of the major
exceptions is where there is a duty independent of the contract that is
breached, and one duty often alleged is fraud. 
Thus, it is no defense to a fraudulent inducement suit to say that the
plaintiff’s damages are only economic and therefore the tort must be
dismissed.  (True, plaintiff cannot have
a double recovery.  The tort, however,
will survive as will the claim for punitive damages.)  It was that theory (fraud) upon which the Dhital
plaintiffs relied.  The manufacturer
argued that the exception only applied to affirmative misrepresentations, not
to concealment.  The Court of Appeal
disagreed, and found that fraudulent concealment survived the economic loss
argument, at least at the pleading stage.  The Dhital court recognized a split of
authority on the question, however, which is probably why our Supreme Court has
granted review.  (S277568, rev. granted
and briefing deferred pending Rattagan v. Uber Technologies, S272113,
Feb. 1, 2023.  Rattagan also
involves the viability of the economic loss defense in the context of a
question certified by the Ninth Circuit.) 
The Dhital court went on to discuss the manufacturer’s other
arguments (which the trial court did not reach).  One argument the manufacturer made (which the
appellate court characterized as “short”) was that there was no duty to
disclose because there was no transactional relationship between the
manufacturer and the purchaser—the argument at issue in this motion.  The Court of Appeal held that for pleading
purposes, the manufacturer had provided a warranty and that the authorized
dealerships were the manufacturer’s agents. 
The Court of Appeal applied no analysis or reasoned discussion on this
point, but it was a holding.
This court is inclined to see what happens to Dhital and
Rattagan in the Supreme Court.  It
could be that only the economic loss rule issue is decided (which could also be
dispositive of the fraud claim here), or it could be that the court also
addresses the agency argument.  The Rattagan
case has been fully briefed.  No argument
date has been set, but this court believes (based on no inside information)
that argument is likely to be this calendar year.
The court will set a status conference for some time in
December 2023 to assess the status of Rattagan and Dhital.