 Case Number:  22SMCV92422    Hearing Date:   September 27, 2023    Dept:  I The motion to set aside the default is GRANTED.  Plaintiff sues defendant because after
selling defendant a car, defendant allegedly never transferred ownership and
the car was in an accident (leading plaintiff to be sued) and also had parking
tickets.  Plaintiff served defendant via
substituted service.  According to the
proof of service, the papers were left with “Manvel Doe.”  This person did not give his last name, but
was “in apparent charge” of the premises according to the POS.  According to defendant, though, Manvel is not
even an employee, let alone in charge of the location.  Rather, defendant states that Manvel is a
contractor who is called upon from time to time when needed.  He was not authorized to accept service and
was not in “apparent charge” of anything. 
While defendant admits to getting “numerous legal documents,” he did not
know he was being sued or in default until he got the order of April 25, 2023.  When he got that, he hired a lawyer and on
August 28, 2023, moved to vacate.
This is somewhat troubling. 
The court must agree that service of the complaint and summons does not
appear proper.  If Manvel was not even an
employee, he would not really be the right person to serve.  And there is no evidence as to what, if
anything, the process server did to find out who was in charge.  It is unclear, for example, whether the
process server asked to speak to the manager. 
Handing a summons and complaint to someone who is at the defendant’s
work location is not enough.  And while
there is a presumption of good service when there is a POS from a registered
process server, that presumption affects only the burden of production.  Once contrary evidence is introduced, the
presumption goes away completely.  The
declaration is still evidence, of course, but it carries no further
presumption.
Here, default was entered on April 25, 2023.  The motion was filed just over four months
later.  That is timely.
The court is a bit more concerned about the fact that
defendant got “numerous legal documents” but did not think to look to see
whether he was getting them for a reason. 
But the failure of service is enough, especially given the strong public
policy favoring resolution on the merits.
Accordingly, the motion is GRANTED.  Defendant is to file a standalone answer no
later than September 29, 2023 at 4:00 pm.
Defendant also seems to argue the merits.  That is not before the court at the moment
and the court makes no comments thereon.
The court will set a Case Management Conference for about 45
days from today.  
