 Case Number:  22STCV12174    Hearing Date:   June 6, 2024    Dept:  57 This is a case under the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act.  Pending before the Court is  Plaintiff Lawrence Razo's motion to compel  Defendant American Honda Motor Company to provide further responses to over 30 requests for production of documents. In resolving disputes over plaintiffs' requests to defendant automobile manufacturers for the production of documents in Song-Beverly cases, the Court has relied on the template set forth below as to what is fair game in discovery, and what is not.  The Court conducted an informal discovery conference with Razo and Honda over a year ago.  The Court cannot recall, however, whether at that conference, the Court discussed this template with the parties.  In any event, at this time, the Court is inclined to continue the hearing on the motion so that the parties can meet and confer, using the template as a to guide to inform the possible resolution of this discovery dispute.  TEMPLATE OF DISCOVERABLE INFORMATION FROM AUTO MANUFACTURERS IN SONG-BEVERLY ACT CASES1.The Warranty Policy and Procedure Manual published by Defendant and provided to its authorized repair facilities, within the State of California, from the date of purchase of the subject vehicle to the present. 2. Any internal analysis or investigation regarding defects alleged in plaintiff's complaint in vehicles of the same year, make, and model as the subject vehicle. This includes Recall Notices and Technical Service Bulletins.   3. Policies and procedures used to evaluate customer complaints relating to defects alleged in plaintiff's complaint in vehicles purchased in California of the same year, make and model as the subject vehicle. 4. Policies and procedures used to evaluate customer requests for repurchase pursuant to the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act, from the date of purchase to the present. 5. Repair orders and invoices concerning the subject vehicle. 6. Communications with dealer, factory representative and/or call center concerning the subject vehicle. 7. Warranty claims submitted or and/or approved by Defendant concerning the subject vehicle.  