  Case Number:  20STCV48692    Hearing Date:   June 6, 2024    Dept:  57 Hicham Zerhouni ("Zerhouni") and Wafae
Bencherkoun (collectively, "the Plaintiffs") owned a 2016 Mercedes
Benz S550 ("the Mercedes"), which was insured under an automobile
insurance policy ("the Policy") issued by State Farm Mutual
Automobile Insurance Company ("State Farm").   In March 2020, the Plaintiffs authorized
Adam Lowe, a friend of Zerhouni's, to drive the Mercedes.  On March 26, 2020, Lowe informed the
Plaintiffs that, while driving the Mercedes, he was involved in a  collision in which the Mercedes hit something
in the road, swerved to the left, hit two parked cars, and then rolled over
("the "Crash").   The next
day, the Plaintiffs made a claim to State Farm under the Policy for coverage of
the damage to the Mercedes that resulted from the Crash. 
 
After investigating the Crash, State Farm denied
coverage.  In denying coverage, State
Farm concluded that (1) the Crash did not occur as reported  and Plaintiff's claimed losses arising from
the Crash thus were not covered under the Policy, and (2) Plaintiffs breached
their obligations under the Policy by misrepresenting and concealing
information that was material to State Farm's investigation.   Following State Farm's denial of coverage,
the Plaintiffs  sued State Farm.  Their operative Second Amended Complaint
("SAC") asserts causes of action against State Farm for (1) breach of
contract in denying coverage under the Policy for the Crash, and (2) bad faith
denial of coverage.  
 
Pending before the Court is State Farm's motion for
summary judgment or, alternatively, summary adjudication.  The Court is denying State Farm's motion
because the evidence that Plaintiffs submitted in support of their opposition
to the motion demonstrates that there are disputed issues of material fact as
to both Plaintiffs' breach of contract claim and their claim for bad faith
denial of coverage.  The existence of
these disputed issues of material fact precludes the entry of summary judgment
or summary adjudication in State Farm's favor. 

 
In support of its motion, State Farm submitted the
declarations of its coverage counsel Richard Knapp ("Knapp"), who
conducted the investigation, that led to State Farm's denial of coverage for
the Crash under the Policy, and Michael Akerson ("Akerson"), an
accident reconstruction expert whom State Farm retained in the course of its
investigation.   State Farm's separate
statement of undisputed material facts sets forth the critical portions of the
Knapp and Akerson declarations.  The
Plaintiffs' objections to Knapp's declaration are overruled.  Together, the Knapp and Akerson declarations
satisfied State Farm's burden on summary judgment/adjudication of showing that
one or more elements of Plaintiffs' claims for breach of contract and bad faith
denial of coverage cannot be established and/or that State Farm has a complete
defense to those claims.  (The Court
notes that State Farm's briefs in support of its motion refer to a claim by
Plaintiffs against State Farm for negligence. 
The SAC contains no negligence claim.) 
The burden thus shifted to the Plaintiffs to show that there are triable
issues of material fact on their claims. 
In the Court's view, the Plaintiffs carried their burden. 
 
In support of their opposition to the motion, Plaintiffs
submitted the declarations of Zerhouni and Jeffrey Suway, an accident
reconstruction expert whom the Plaintiffs retained.  Plaintiffs also submitted a response to State
Farm's separate statement of undisputed material facts; the response sets forth
the critical portions of the Zerhouni and Suway declarations.  
 
The Plaintiffs' remarkably slender four-page opposition
brief is short on argument and long on hyperbole.  Nevertheless, the Zerhouni and Suway
declarations, together with Plaintiffs' response to State Farm's separate
statement of undisputed material facts, show the presence of disputed issues of
material fact that preclude the entry of summary judgment or summary
adjudication for State Farm. 
Specifically, the Zerhouni and Suway declarations raise triable issues
of fact on whether the Crash occurred  as
the Plaintiffs reported it did and whether the Plaintiffs breached their
obligations under the Policy by concealing or misrepresenting information material
to State Farm's investigation of the Crash. 
( The Plaintiffs' response to State Farm's separate statement of
undisputed material facts is rife with typographical errors.  But those errors do not sap the force of the
response.) 
 
State Farm contends that the Plaintiffs did not provide
Suway's export report to Knapp while he was conducting his investigation and
therefore State Farm's acceptance of Knapp's recommendation to deny coverage
under the Policy could not, as a matter of law, have been done in bad
faith.  State Farm cites no authority for
the proposition that an insurer is shielded as a matter of law from a bad faith
claim by dint of its retention of an expert when the insured does not offer for
the insurer's consideration in deciding whether to accept coverage for a claim
an expert report of his or her own. 
Suway's report, which counter's Akerson's, is fair game for the
Plaintiffs to rely on in demonstrating the existence of a triable issue of fact
on the reasonableness of State Farm's coverage decision for purposes of the
Plaintiffs' bad faith claim.  Even if
State Farm's contention about the Suway report is correct, Zerhouni's
declaration creates a disputed issue of material fact on whether State Farm's
denial of coverage was done in bad faith. 
State Farm characterizes Zerhouni's declaration as
"self-serving."  It is. But so
what.  Zerhouni's declaration is quite
detailed and furnishes a substantial response to the evidence (the Knapp and
Akerson declarations) that State Farm submitted in support of its motion.
 
In sum, because there are disputed issues of material
fact, it is for a jury at trial to resolve Plaintiffs’ claims for breach of
contract and bad faith, not for the Court on summary judgment/summary
adjudication.