  Case Number:  23VECV05732    Hearing Date:   December 10, 2024    Dept:  O
 
 
 
 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES – NORTHWEST DISTRICT
 



WELLLEAD, LLC, a California limited liability company,
                  Plaintiff,
         vs.
 
GIG REAL ESTATE, INC., a California
  corporation; HAN WIDJAJA CHEN, an individual; and DOES 1 through 20,
  inclusive,
 
                  Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.: 23VECV05732
 
ORDER
  SUSTAINING DEFENDANTS’ DEMURRER AND GRANTING DEFENDANTS’ MOTION TO STRIKE
  WITH LEAVE TO AMEND
 



 
I.       INTRODUCTION
Plaintiff
Welllead, LLC (“Plaintiff”), alleges it purchased a multifamily home located at
22769 Del Valle St., in the Woodland Hills neighborhood (“Property”) from
non-party DVWH. Plaintiff alleges it entered into an agreement with Defendant
GIG Real Estate, Inc. (“GIG”) and Han Widjaja Chen (“Chen”)(collectively,
“Defendants”) to act as broker and broker-associate, respectively, for the
purchase of the Property. Plaintiff further alleges Defendants mispresented the
Property’s status as a controlled or subject to a rent stabilization ordinance,
which Plaintiff did not discover until after the purchase was complete.
Defendants now
demurrer to Plaintiff’s fourth cause of action for negligent misrepresentation and
fifth cause of action for intentional misrepresentation and move to strike
other portions of the Complaint.
II.     PROCEDURAL
HISTORY
On December
28, 2023, Plaintiff filed its Complaint, alleging (1) Breach of Contract; (2)
Breach of Fiduciary Duty; (3) Negligence; (4) Negligent Misrepresentation; and (5)
Intentional Misrepresentation. 
On September
6, 2024, Plaintiff filed its First Amended Complaint (“FAC”), alleging (1)
Breach of Contract; (2) Breach of Fiduciary Duty; (3) Negligence; (4) Negligent
Misrepresentation; and (5) Intentional Misrepresentation. 
On October
18, 2024, Defendants filed the instant Demurrer and Motion to Strike
(“Motion”). 
On November
25, 2024, Plaintiff filed its Oppositions. 
On December
3, 2024, Defendants filed their Replies. 
III.    LEGAL
STANDARD
A demurrer is a pleading used to test
the legal sufficiency of other pleadings. It raises issues of law, not
fact, regarding the form or content of the opposing party’s pleading
(complaint, answer or cross-complaint). (See Code Civ. Proc. §§
422.10, 589; see Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116
Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)[1] It
is not the function of the demurrer to challenge the truthfulness of the
complaint; and for purposes of the ruling on the demurrer, all facts pleaded in
the complaint are assumed to be true. (See Donabedian, 116 Cal.App.4th
at 994.) 
“We treat the demurrer as admitting all
material facts properly pleaded but not contentions, deductions or conclusions
of fact or law. We accept the factual allegations of the complaint as true and
also consider matters which may be judicially noticed. [Citation.]” (Mitchell
v. California Department of Public Health (2016) 1 Cal.App.5th 1000, 1007; Del
E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials Co. (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 593, 604
[“the facts alleged in the pleading are deemed to be true, however improbable
they may be”].) Allegations are to be liberally construed. (See Code
Civ. Proc. § 452.) A demurrer may be brought if insufficient facts are stated
to support the cause of action asserted. (See Code Civ. Proc. §
430.10(e).)  
A demurrer tests the sufficiency of a
complaint as a matter of law.”  (Durell v. Sharp Healthcare (2010)
183 Cal.App.4th 1350, 1358.) “[T]he court gives the complaint a reasonable
interpretation, and treats the demurrer as admitting all material facts
properly pleaded.” (Id.) In testing the sufficiency of the
complaint, the court must assume the truth of (1) the properly pleaded factual
allegations; (2) facts that can be reasonably inferred from those expressly
pleaded; and (3) judicially noticed matters. (See Blank v. Kirwan (1985)
39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence
or other extrinsic matters. (See SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984)
153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) No other extrinsic evidence can be considered. (See
Ion Equip. Corp. v. Nelson (1980) 110 Cal.App.3d 868, 881 [error for court
to consider facts asserted in memorandum supporting demurrer]; see also Afuso
v. United States Fid. & Guar. Co. (1985) 169 Cal.App.3d 859, 862
[disapproved on other grounds in Moradi-Shalal v. Fireman’s Fund Ins. Cos.
(1988) 46 Cal.3d 287] [error to consider contents of release not part of court
record].) Accordingly, “[w]hether the plaintiff will be able to prove the
pleaded facts is irrelevant to ruling upon the demurrer.” (Stevens v.
Superior Court (1986) 180 Cal.App.3d 605, 609-10.) 
A demurrer can only be sustained when
it disposes of an entire cause of action. (See Poizner v. Fremont
General Corp. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97, 119; Kong v. City of Hawaiian
Gardens Redev. Agency (2003) 108 Cal.App.4th 1028, 1046.) Leave to
amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful
amendment. (See Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) The
burden is on the complainant to show the Court a pleading can be amended
successfully. (Id.) However, “[i]f there is any reasonable possibility
that the plaintiff can state a good cause of action, it is error to sustain a
demurrer without leave to amend.” (Youngman v. Nevada Irrigation Dist.
(1969) 70 Cal.2d 240, 245).  
IV.     MEET AND CONFER
Before
filing a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the demurring party shall meet
and confer in person, by telephone, or by video conference with the party
who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of
determining whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the
objections to be raised in the demurrer. (See Code Civ. Proc. § 430.41(a),
(emphasis added).) A declaration must be filed with a demurrer regarding the
results of the meet and confer process. (See Code Civ. Proc. § 430.41(a)(3).)
Defendants
did not attach a meet and confer declaration to their Demurrer or Motion. Defendants
addressed their lack of a meet and confer declaration in their Reply      Motion, but again failed to attach a
declaration attesting to their efforts. (See Reply Motion, pg. 3.) Defendants
have not fulfilled their meet and confer obligations.
The
Court will nonetheless rule on Defendants’ Demurrer and Motion in the interest
of judicial efficiency. However, the Court reminds the parties to comply with
their meet and confer obligations in future filings. If they fail to do so, the
Court will likely overrule or deny Defendants’ filings for failing to meet and
confer alone. 
V.      ANALYSIS
A.      Plaintiff
Fails to State a Cause of Action for Negligent Misrepresentation
To
satisfy the elements of a negligent misrepresentation cause of action, a
plaintiff must allege the following: (1) assertion of an untrue fact; (2)
believed by defendant to be true; (3) lack of reasonable ground for the belief;
(4) defendant’s intent to induce plaintiff’s reliance upon the representation;
(5) plaintiff’s justifiable reliance upon the representation; and (6) resulting
damage. (See Melican v. Regents of Univ. of Cal. (2007) 151 Cal.App.4th
168, 182.) “As is true of negligence, responsibility for negligent
misrepresentation rests upon the existence of a legal duty, imposed by
contract, statute or otherwise, owed by a defendant to the injured person. The
determination of whether a duty exists is primarily a question of law.” (Eddy
v. Sharp (1988) 199 Cal.App.3d 858, 864 (citations omitted).) 
Defendants
argue Plaintiff fails to plead her negligent misrepresentation cause of action
with specificity. (See Demurrer, pp. 8-9.) Defendants also argue the
Residential Income Property Purchase Agreement and Joint Escrow Instructions (“Agreement”)
specifically excludes Defendants from liability because it states “Buyer and
Seller acknowledge and agree that Broker shall not be responsible for verifying
square footage, representations of others or information contained in
investigation reports, Multiple Listing Service, advertisements, flyers or
other promotional material.” (Demurrer, pg. 5, quoting FAC, ¶ 9, Ex. E, ¶ 27(B)(viii).)

In
opposition, Plaintiff argues it has plead the required elements to allege a
cause of action for negligent misrepresentation, as it alleged (and attached)
the advertisements sent by Chen on behalf of GIG which state the property is
non-rent controlled. (See Opposition, pp. 6-7, referencing FAC, ¶ 8,
Exs. C & D.) Plaintiff also argues “Defendants’ arguments concerning the
contractual provisions are not embodied in the statute's grounds for demurrer
because they do not concern the sufficiency of the pleadings.” (Opposition, pg.
12.)
Plaintiff
fails to state sufficient facts to state a cause of action for negligent
misrepresentation. As an initial matter, courts are not settled on whether negligent
misrepresentation must be plead with specificity generally, but “there is a
consensus that the causal elements, particularly the allegations of reliance,
must be specifically pleaded.” (See National Union Fire Ins. Co. of
Pittsburgh, PA v. Cambridge Integrated Services Group, Inc. (2009) 171
Cal.App.4th 35, 50.)
Here,
however, the Court does not find specificity to be a concern. Plaintiff’s cause
of action, when read in conjunction with Paragraphs 7 through 12 (under the
header “General Allegations”), satisfies every element of negligent
misrepresentation. The issue arises when these collective allegations are read
in conjunction with the Agreement attached to Plaintiff’s FAC, which, in Paragraph
27(B)(viii), precludes Plaintiff from holding Defendants liable for information
contained in advertisements.[2]
Plaintiff alleges Defendants also made oral representations, but
Plaintiff does not further elaborate upon Defendants’ alleged oral
misrepresentations. (See FAC, ¶ 34.) Plaintiff must plead Defendants made
misrepresentations beyond those misrepresentations the face of the Agreement
attached to the FAC bars. Since Plaintiff does not do so here, its negligent
misrepresentation cause of action is fatally flawed.   
Accordingly,
the Court SUSTAINS Defendants’ Demurrer WITH LEAVE TO AMEND as to Plaintiff’s
fourth cause of action for negligent misrepresentation.  
B.      Plaintiff
Fails to State a Cause of Action for Intentional Misrepresentation   
“The
elements of fraud, which give rise to the tort action for deceit, are (1) a
misrepresentation, (2) with knowledge of its falsity, (3) with the intent to
induce another's reliance on the misrepresentation, (4) justifiable reliance,
and (5) resulting damage.” (Conroy v. Regents of Univ. of Cal. (2009) 45
Cal.4th 1244, 1255.) 
“[F]raud
must be specifically pleaded. This means: (1) general pleading of the legal
conclusion of fraud is insufficient; and (2) every element of the cause of
action for fraud must be alleged in full, factually and specifically, and the
policy of liberal construction of pleading will not usually be invoked to
sustain a pleading that is defective in any material respect.” (Wilhelm v.
Pray, Price, Williams & Russell (1986) 186 Cal.App.3d 1324, 1331.) In
addition, a cause of action of fraud against a corporation requires a plaintiff
to allege the names of persons who made the allegedly fraudulent
representations, their authority to speak, to whom they spoke, what they said
or wrote, and when. (See Tarmann v. State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co.
(1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 153, 157-58.)
Plaintiff
fails to state a cause of action for intentional misrepresentation for the
reasons discussed above. Accordingly, the Court SUSTAINS Defendants’ Demurrer WITH
LEAVE TO AMEND as to Plaintiff’s fifth cause of action for intentional
misrepresentation.
VI.    MOTION TO STRIKE
Defendants also seek to strike Plaintiff’s punitive
damages allegations. (See Motion, pg. 2, ¶¶ 1-4.)
The court may, upon a motion, or at any time in
its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false,
or improper matter inserted in any pleading. (See Code Civ. Proc. §
436(a).) The court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or
filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of
the court. (See id. at § 436(b).) The grounds for a motion to strike are
that the pleading has irrelevant, false or improper matter, or has not been
drawn or filed in conformity with laws. (See id. at § 436.) The grounds
for moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of
judicial notice. (See id. at § 437.)
Punitive
damages may be recovered upon a
proper showing of malice, fraud, or oppression. (See Code Civ. Proc. §
3294(a).) “Malice” is defined as conduct intended to cause injury to a person
or despicable conduct carried on with a willful and conscious disregard for the
rights or safety of others. (See Turman v. Turning Point of Cent. Cal., Inc.
(2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 53, 63.) “Oppression” means despicable conduct
subjecting a person to cruel and unjust hardship, in conscious disregard of the
person’s rights. (See id.) “Fraud” is an intentional misrepresentation,
deceit, or concealment of a material fact known by defendant, with intent to
deprive a person of property, rights or otherwise cause injury. (See id.)
Conclusory allegations, devoid of any factual assertions, are insufficient to
support a conclusion that parties acted with oppression, fraud or malice. (See
Smith v. Superior Court (1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 1033, 1042.) 
The
Court does not find Plaintiff’s allegations against Defendants, which as
currently alleged detail an intentional or unintentional misrepresentation
regarding the Property’s status as a rent-controlled property, amount to a
showing of malice, fraud, or oppression. Accordingly, the Court GRANTS Defendants’ Motion WITH LEAVE TO
AMEND.  
VII.    
CONCLUSION
         
Based on the foregoing analysis, the Court SUSTAINS Defendants’ Demurrer WITH
LEAVE TO AMEND as to Plaintiff’s fourth and fifth causes of action.
         The
Court also GRANTS Defendants’ Motion to Strike WITH LEAVE TO AMEND.
         Plaintiff
shall file a second amended complaint on or before December 31, 2024. 
         IT
IS SO ORDERED.
DATED:     December 10, 2024 



Hon. Michael R. Amerian
Judge,
  Superior Court



 


