  Case Number:  23CMCV01619    Hearing Date:   November 26, 2024    Dept:  A SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES – SOUTH CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



SHISHA AROMA, INC.,
                     Plaintiff, 
           vs.
 
AIR
   DISTRIBUTION USA, INC., et al.,
 
                     Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)



      CASE NO: 23CMCV01156
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER GRANTING DEFENDANT’S MOTION TO COMPEL PLAINTIFF SHISHA AROMA, INC. AND
  CROSS-DEFENDANT RAMZI HAIFAWI TO SERVE FURTHER RESPONSES TO SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES,
  REQUESTS FOR ADMISSIONS AND REQUESTS FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS AND MONETARY
  SANCTIONS AGAINST CROSS-DEFENDANT RAMZI HAIFAWI AND PLAINTIFF SHISHA AROMA,
  INC. 
 
Dept.
  A
 
DATE:
  November 26, 2024
TIME:
  8:30 A.M. 
 
COMPLAINT
  FILED: 10/09/2023
TRIAL:
  None set
 



 
1.    
Background
This is an action arising from a breach of contract.
The complaint alleges that defendants Air Distribution USA, Inc. and Robert
Maneson (collectively, Defendants) entered into an agreement with plaintiff
Shisha Aroma, Inc. (Plaintiff) not to sell certain products except to certain
persons or under certain circumstances, and that Defendants breached this
agreement. The complaint alleges causes of action for (1) breach of contract;
(2) fraud; and (3) breach of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing.  No cross-complaint has been filed in this
action.  
Defendant Air Distribution USA, Inc. (“Air
Distribution”) filed a cross-complaint against Plaintiff and cross-defendant
Ramzi Haifawi (Cross-Defendant). In the cross-complaint, Air Distribution
alleges that Plaintiff and Cross-Defendant failed to pay for more than $6,509,503.34
worth of tobacco products. The cross-complaint alleges causes of action for (1)
breach of written contract; (2) common count – goods sold and delivered; (3)
common count – account stated; and (4) breach of personal guaranty. 
2.    
Motions
to Compel Further Responses to Discovery 
Air Distribution served initial written requests for
discovery, including special interrogatories, requests for production of
documents, and requests for admission on Plaintiff and Cross-Defendant on
August 16, 2024. Discovery responses were due on September 17, 2024. On
September 16, 2024, Ethan Nelson, counsel for Plaintiff and Cross-Defendant,
requested an extension of time to respond, which was granted to October 1,
2024. On that date, Nelson provided Defendants with non-code-compliant
responses on behalf of Plaintiff and Cross-Defendant, comprised entirely of boilerplate
privilege objections which were, in most if not all instances, frivolous. 
Air Distribution sent Nelson a meet and confer letter
on October 7, 2024 to which it received no response. Defendant Air Distribution
filed the instant motions to compel further responses to the three sets of
written discovery, with one motion against Plaintiff and one against
Cross-Defendant.  
Plaintiff and Cross-Defendant do not oppose Air
Distribution’s motions to compel further discovery. However, they oppose the
imposition of sanctions in light of their non-opposition to the motions.  They contend that they failed to provide
substantive responses to Defendant’s discovery requests because Cross-Defendant
Haifawi has been out of the country since at least August 16, 2024, with
limited ability to respond to electronic communications. Plaintiff and
Cross-Defendant promised to provide substantive responses to discovery before
the hearing date set for November 26, 2024 and request that sanctions not be
granted.  There is no indication in the
court file that they complied with this representation.
3.    
Motion
to Compel Further Discovery standards
Any party may obtain any discovery of information,
documents, land, property or electronically stored information so long as the
discoverable matter is not privileged, is relevant to the subject matter and
can lead one to admissible evidence. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2017.010.) 
“On receipt of a response to a demand for inspection,
copying, testing, or sampling, the demanding party may move for an order
compelling further response to the demand if the demanding party deems that …
[a] statement of compliance with the demand is incomplete[;] … [a]
representation of inability to comply is inadequate, incomplete, or evasive[;
or] … [a]n objection in the response is without merit or too general.”¿ (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (a).) “On receipt of a response to requests
for admissions, the party requesting admissions may move for an order
compelling a further response if that party deems that… [a]n answer to a
particular request is evasive or incomplete[; or]… [a]n objection to a
particular request is without merit or too general.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2033.290, subd. (a).) 
When responses to interrogatories are deficient, the
propounding party may file a motion to compel further responses. (Code Civ.
Proc. § 2030.300.) A motion to compel further responses to interrogatories may
be brought when an answer to a particular interrogatory is evasive or incomplete,
or an objection is without merit or too general. (Ibid.) 
While a separate statement is required to be filed in
support of any motion to compel brought under the Discovery Act (Cal. Rules of
Court 3.1345(a)), the court interprets Defendant’s request to submit the
discovery requests and responses at issue in lieu of a separate statement as a
request made under Cal. Rule of Court 3.1345(b)(2) and grants said request.
“The court shall impose a monetary sanction under
Chapter 7 against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or
opposes a motion to compel a further response…, unless it finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2031.310, subd. (d); Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.290, subd. (d); Code Civ. Proc., §
2030.300, subd. (d).)
Other misuse
of discovery procedures is also sanctionable. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010.)
Misuse of discovery procedures includes failing to respond or to submit to an
authorized method of discovery; making, without substantial justification, an
unmeritorious objection to discovery; or making an evasive response to
discovery. (Id., subds. (d)-(f).)
The court may
award sanctions under the Discovery Act in favor of a party who files a motion
to compel discovery, even though no opposition to the motion was filed, or
opposition to the motion was withdrawn, or the requested discovery was provided
to the moving party after the motion was filed. (Cal. Rules of Court, 1348(a).)
4.    
Discussion
           a. Motion to Compel Further Discovery
The court finds that Plaintiff and
Cross-Defendant failed to provide substantive responses to any of Air
Distribution’s
discovery requests, having instead provided boilerplate objections stating that
the requested information falls under the attorney-client privilege. “Boilerplate,
generalized objections are inadequate and tantamount to not making any
objection at all.” (Walker v. Lakewood Condominium Owners Ass'n (C.D. Cal. 1999)
186 F.R.D. 584, 587.) Moreover, if only a part of an interrogatory is
objectionable, the remainder of the interrogatory shall be answered.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.240(a).)  Even a cursory review of the discovery responses at
issue compels a conclusion that the vast majority of if not all objections are
frivolous.  The special interrogatories primarily
consist of contention questions seeking identification of the facts, witnesses
and documents which support Plaintiff’s and Cross-Defendant’s contentions, and do
not solicit privileged information or communications. The boilerplate
objections to the requests for admissions are similarly frivolous, as the
requests seek admissions of facts and conclusions of law and do not solicit
privileged information on their face.  
Nor do Air Distribution’s requests for
production of documents appear on their face to seek privileged communications,
either in whole or in part.  Section
2031.240 provides in pertinent part: “(a) If only part of an item or category
of item in a demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling is
objectionable, the response shall contain a statement of compliance, or a
representation of inability to comply with respect to the remainder of that
item or category.  (b) If the responding
party objects to the demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling of an
item or category of item, the response shall do both of the following:  (1) Identify with particularity any document,
tangible thing, land, or electronically stored information falling within any
category of item in the demand to which an objection is being made.  (2) Set forth clearly the extent of, and the
specific ground for, the objection. If an objection is based on a claim of
privilege, the particular privilege invoked shall be stated. If an objection is
based on a claim that the information sought is protected work product under
Chapter 4 (commencing with Section
2018.010), that claim shall be expressly asserted. (c)(1)
If an objection is based on a claim of privilege or a claim that the
information sought is protected work product, the response shall provide
sufficient factual information for other parties to evaluate the merits of that
claim, including, if necessary, a privilege log.  (2) It is the intent of the Legislature to
codify the concept of a privilege log as that term is used in California case
law. Nothing in this subdivision shall be construed to constitute a substantive
change in case law.”  Plaintiff and
Cross-Defendant failed to comply with these requirements.
Accordingly, Defendant Air
Distribution’s
motion to compel Plaintiff to provide code-compliant verified responses to Defendants’
special interrogatories, requests for admission and requests for production of documents
at issue in the motion is GRANTED.  Defendants’
motion to compel Cross-Defendant to provide code-compliant verified responses
to the special interrogatories, requests for admission and requests for
production of documents at issue in the motion is GRANTED.  Plaintiff Shisha Aroma, Inc. and Cross-Defendant
Ramzi Haifawi are ordered to serve, either electronically or by hand delivery
to Air Distribution’s counsel, verified, code-compliant responses within
fifteen (15) calendar days of the date of this order.
           b. Sanctions
Defendant Air Distribution requests $2,812.50
in sanctions per motion to compel, based on Defendants’ counsel’s hourly rate
of $625 and an anticipated 4.5 hours spent on work done for each of these
motions.
Plaintiff and Cross-Defendant have not opposed
these motions. As such, sanctions are not mandatory. Plaintiff and
Cross-Defendant argue that sanctions are not warranted because Plaintiff and
Cross-Defendant have not refused to provide substantive responses to discovery,
but merely been unavailable to do so. They contend they will serve responses
when they are “available and able to do so.”
However, Plaintiff and Cross-Defendant have
misused discovery procedures by making evasive responses to discovery, by
asserting frivolous objections, and by failing to timely comply with their
discovery obligations. 
Even assuming the truth of Plaintiff’s and
Cross-Defendant’s unsubstantiated assertion that Cross-Defendant has been
unable to receive or engage in electronic communications for several months, this
does not constitute good cause for their failure to comply with their discovery
obligations under the Discovery Act. 
They do not explain any purported inability of counsel to mail or ship
via courier (i.e. FedEx or UPS) hard copies of the discovery requests to
Plaintiff and Cross-Defendant, or any ability to respond in writing in similar
fashion.  Nor do they explain counsel’s
purported inability to communicate with Plaintiff and Cross-Defendant via
telephone or video conference.  In any
event, Plaintiff elected to bring this action, and must make itself available
to participate in discovery and to comply with its obligations under the
Discovery Act.  Cross-Defendant Haifawi is
equally obligated to comply with his discovery obligations.  Defendants previously granted an extension of
time to provide discovery responses, and Counsel Nelson agreed to provide discovery
responses by the extended deadline. No such discovery responses were provided.  While a reasonable further extension may have
been warranted as a professional courtesy, Nelson did not provide an expected
compliance date during subsequent communications.  Not even in Plaintiff’s and Cross-Defendant’s
non-opposition has he done so.  
On October 7, 2024, after receipt of the
non-compliant discovery responses and before filing the instant motions, Defendants
attempted to meet and confer with Nelson but were unable to obtain a response. No
further extension was granted. Under the circumstances, the denial of a further
extension was not unreasonable.  Nelson
has not provided an explanation for why Plaintiff and Cross-Defendant did not
respond to meet and confer efforts.  Nor
has he provided any meaningful explanation for Cross-Defendant’s absence from
the United States or his anticipated return. 

A party should not force their adversary to
bring a motion and then fail to oppose it. 
(Los Angeles Superior Court Local Rules, Appendix 3A(h).)  Plaintiff’s and Cross-Defendant’s conduct
constitutes sanctionable misuse of discovery procedures. Plaintiff and
Cross-Defendants failed to provide substantive discovery responses after
receiving a reasonable extension to respond, failed to provide a timeframe in
which substantive verified discovery responses would be provided, and failed to
adequately respond to Defendants’ meet and confer efforts.
Defendants’ counsel states that his hourly
rate is $625. (Hershorin Decl., ¶ 8.) The court finds this amount
reasonable.  He affirms that he has spent
2.5 hours preparing the motions and anticipates spending one hour drafting a
reply to the opposition and one hour at the hearing, for a total value of
$2,812.50 in sanctions. (Hershorin Decl., ¶ 8.) Because no reply was filed, the
court reduces the amount sought by one hour to $2,187.50 per motion.  The court finds this amount to be reasonable
and will grant sanctions as requested against Plaintiff and Cross-Defendant. 
Because Defendant failed to identify with
particularity in the notices of motion which of Plaintiff’s and Cross-Defendant’s
“counsel” against whom sanctions are sought, the court will deny said request.
5.    
Conclusion

Based on the
foregoing, the court GRANTS Defendants’ motion to compel as against Plaintiff
Shisha Aroma, Inc., and orders Plaintiff to serve verified, code-compliant further
responses to Defendant’s special interrogatories, requests for production of
documents, and requests for admission. Plaintiff is ordered to pay $2,187.50 in
monetary sanctions to Defendant Air Distribution USA, Inc. within thirty (30)
days of the date of this order.
The court also
GRANTS Defendant’s motion to compel as against Cross-Defendant Ramzi Haifawi,
and orders Cross-Defendant to serve verified, code-compliant further responses to
Defendant’s special interrogatories, requests for production of documents, and
requests for admission.  Cross-Defendant is
ordered to pay $2,187.50 in monetary sanctions to Defendant Air Distribution
USA, Inc. within thirty (30) days of the date of this order.
Plaintiff’s
and Cross-Defendant’s verified responses are to be served electronically not
later than fifteen (15) calendar days after the date of this order.
The request
for monetary sanctions against Plaintiff’s and Cross-Defendant’s “counsel” is
DENIED.
The court
notes that the cross-complaint apparently filed in the federal court proceeding
on or about November 9, 2023 has not been filed in this proceeding. Defendant/Cross-Complainant
Air Distribution USA, Inc. is hereby ordered to file in this action within ten
(10) calendar days from the date of this order a conformed copy of the
cross-complaint previously filed in the federal action, with a caption/cover
page affixed to it indicating the document title and the date and location of
filing in the federal action. 

Moving party is ordered to give notice. 
 
DATED: November 26, 2024 
  
 Hon. Elizabeth L. Bradley
 Judge of the Superior Court