  Case Number:  21STCV42296    Hearing Date:   May 14, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Background
Facts
Plaintiff, John Doe filed this
action against Defendants, LBUSD, Cabrillo High School, John Doe, and Does 1-50
for damages arising out of childhood sexual abuse.  Plaintiff filed her complaint on 11/17/21.  LBUSD filed a demurrer and motion to strike
on 7/05/23, which resulted in a court order limiting the causes of action pled
in the complaint and striking Cabrillo High School as a defendant from the
action.  LBUSD filed an answer to the
complaint, with the subject causes of action and allegations stricken, on
12/20/23.    
 
2.     Motion
to Compel 
The basic facts relating to this
motion are simple and not in dispute. 
Defendant propounded SROGs, set three on Plaintiff, and Plaintiff failed
to timely respond.  Plaintiff, through
her attorney, communicated to Defendant that she is incarcerated and cannot
timely respond.  Defendant filed this
motion to compel, seeking sanctions. 
Plaintiff filed opposition, seeking a continuance of the hearing until
after her pending criminal court hearing date of 6/03/24.  Plaintiff seeks sanctions in the
opposition.  Defendant, in reply,
contends Plaintiff is playing games with the proceedings, as she has a right to
see her attorney even though she is incarcerated.  Defendant notes that Plaintiff has responded
to other discovery, but has been recently stalling and failing to serve
responses.  
 
Defendant has discovery motions on
calendar on 6/13/24 and 7/30/24.  The
Court is continuing this hearing, as well as the 6/13/24 hearing, to
7/30/24.  If Plaintiff remains unable to
respond, she must file a motion for a stay of discovery and schedule it for
hearing on 7/30/24.  The Court will not
impose restrictions on discovery absent a motion for a discovery stay, which
motion will allow the Court to weigh Plaintiff’s access to her attorney, her
incarceration, her anticipated release date, etc., against Defendant’s right to
conduct discovery and move the case to trial. 
The Court notes that trial is not scheduled until 3/10/25, and
therefore, while Defendant of course has a right to conduct discovery, this
brief continuance will not prejudice Defendant in its defense of the
action.  
 
LBUSD is ordered to give
notice.  
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the
tentative, the party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing
on this matter.   