  Case Number:  24PSCP00353    Hearing Date:   November 7, 2024    Dept:  G Petitioner Edward Zheng’s Petition to Vacate
Arbitration Discovery Order
Respondent: Respondent United
Safety Technology Inc.
TENTATIVE RULING
Petitioner Edward Zheng’s Petition to Vacate
Arbitration Discovery Order is DENIED.
BACKGROUND
This petition arises from a
discovery dispute in a separate arbitration proceeding. In July 2023, Stone
Barkley Company LLC (SBC) commenced arbitration proceedings against Respondent
United Safety Technology Inc. (UST) for an alleged breach of a commercial lease
agreement. The arbitrator for that proceeding issued a deposition subpoena to
Petitioner Edward Zheng on March 26, 2024. On June 14, 2024, the arbitrator granted
a motion by UST to compel Zheng’s compliance with the deposition subpoena.
On July 18, 2024, Zheng filed
the present petition seeking to vacate the arbitrator’s order to comply with
the deposition subpoena.
A hearing on the present
petition is set for November 7, 2024, with a case management conference and OSC
Re: Failure to File Proof of Service set for December 4, 2024.
ANALYSIS
Zheng
seeks to vacate the arbitrator’s order to
comply with the deposition subpoena on the grounds that the arbitrator lacks
the authority to order Zheng’s compliance as a non-party. For the following
reasons, the court DENIES Zheng’s petition.
Legal Standard
Code
of Civil Procedure section 1283.05 provides for depositions in arbitration
proceedings. Its provisions are automatically incorporated into any “agreement
to arbitrate any dispute, controversy, or issue arising out of or resulting
from any injury to, or death of, a person caused by the wrongful act or neglect
of another.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1283.1, subd. (a).) In all other cases, its
provisions only apply “if the parties by their agreement so provide.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 1283.1, subd. (b).)
“Generally,
an arbitrator's decision in a dispute between parties to an arbitration
agreement is subject to only limited judicial review.” (Berglund v. Arthroscopic
& Laser Surgery Center of San Diego, L.P. (2008) 44 Cal.4th 528, 534 (Berglund).
But when a nonparty is subject to an arbitrator’s discovery orders, those
orders are subject to “full judicial review.” (Id., at p. 537-538.)
Discussion
In
this case, the key issue is whether the arbitration provision in SBC and UST’s
lease agreement incorporates the provisions of Code of Civil Procedure section
1283.05 as required by Code of Civil Procedure section 1283.1, subdivision (b).
In ordering
Zheng’s compliance, the arbitrator found it did. (Sperling Decl., Ex. 4, p. 2.)
While the arbitrator acknowledged that the arbitration provision lacks any
explicit reference to Code of Civil Procedure section 1283.1, the arbitrator
noted Zheng had failed to point to any authority that required an explicit
reference to this code section. (Sperling Decl., Ex. 4, p. 3-4.) Instead, the
arbitrator found it significant that arbitration provision explicitly allowed
for the arbitrator to order the deposition of third-party witnesses. (Sperling
Decl., Ex. 4, p. 4.) The language that the arbitrator focused on states as
follows:
“The Arbitrator shall have the discretion to order a
pre-hearing exchange of information by the Parties, including, without
limitation, production of requested documents, exchange of summaries of
testimony of proposed witnesses, and examination by deposition of parties and
third-party witnesses. This discretion shall be exercised in favor of discovery
reasonable under the circumstances. The Arbitrator shall issue subpoenas and
subpoenas duces tecum as provided for in the applicable statutory or case law
(e.g., in California Code of Civil Procedure Section 1282.6).” (Enin Decl., Ex.
1, SB000124.)
Zheng
disagrees and argues the “case law is clear” that the arbitration provision
must specifically reference the applicable authority. (Petition, p. 6:23-7:10.)
But Zheng’s supporting citation to Aixtron, Inc. v. Veeco Instruments Inc. (2020)
52 Cal.App.5th 360, 396-397, provides no such requirement. While the court in Aixtron
held the arbitration agreement did not incorporate Code of Civil Procedure
section 1283.05 because it neither referenced this provision nor the California
Discovery Act, the court also noted the arbitration provision failed to “even
contain the word ‘discovery.’” (Id., at p. 397.) Unlike the arbitration
provision in Aixtron, the present arbitration provision in this matter
specifically discusses the parties’ discovery remedies and includes specific
reference to the arbitrator’s ability to issue subpoenas.
Ultimately,
as in the proceedings before the arbitrator, Zheng fails to point to any
authority that requires the arbitration agreement to specifically reference the
applicable discovery statutes. Furthermore, such an approach is inconsistent
with the principles of contractual interpretation which focus on determining
the parties’ intent. (See Pacific Gas & Elec. Co. v. G. W. Thomas
Drayage & Rigging Co. (1968) 69 Cal.2d 33, 38.) While the parties would
certainly be well-served to specifically reference the applicable discovery
code sections in their arbitration provision, their intent to incorporate Code
of Civil Procedure section 1283.05 is evidenced by the agreement’s specific
discussions of the arbitrator’s discovery powers and their specific reference
to the arbitrator’s ability to order the depositions of third party witnesses. Thus,
the court finds the arbitrator was not without authority to order Zheng’s
deposition and Zheng is without authority to refuse.
Last,
Zheng argues there is no factual need for Zheng to be deposed, insinuating that
the purpose of such deposition is to harass Zheng and distract from the issues
in arbitration. (Petition, p. 7:11-8:11.) 
Zheng fails to provide any evidence, however, to support this claim. Zheng
also claims the issues Zheng will be examined on were already addressed in a
separate arbitration. But as the arbitrator noted in rejecting the same
argument, the other arbitration proceeding involved an interim decision that
appeared only to address breach of contract claims as opposed to the present
case which involves allegations of fraudulent inducement. (Sperling Decl., Ex. 3-A,
Ex. 4, p. 4.)
Accordingly,
the court DENIES Zheng’s petition.
CONCLUSION
Based on the foregoing,
Zheng’s petition to vacate the arbitrator’s discovery order is DENIED.