 Case Number:  24PSCV01203    Hearing Date:   November 7, 2024    Dept:  G Plaintiff Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation  Authority’s Motion to Quash Subpoena to Non-Party Bender Rosenthal Inc.   Respondent: Defendants Russell L. Fox and Linda K. Fox   TENTATIVE  RULING   Plaintiff Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation  Authority’s Motion to Quash Subpoena to Non-Party Bender Rosenthal Inc. is  GRANTED.   BACKGROUND  This is an  eminent domain action. Plaintiff Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation  Authority (LA Metro) seeks to acquire a property in the City of Industry near  Valley Boulevard and Interstate 605 for the purposes of constructing a  maintenance road. LA Metro alleges the City of Industry property is owned by  Defendants Russell L. Fox and Linda K. Fox, trustees of the Fox Family Trust  dated July 12, 2001 (Fox Trust).   On April 16,  2024, LA Metro filed a complaint for eminent domain against the Foxes, all  persons unknown, and Does 1-50.   On October 16,  2024, LA Metro filed the present motion. A hearing on the present motion is set  for November 7, 2024, along with a final status conference on March 12, 2025,  and a non-jury trial on March 25, 2025.   ANALYSIS  LA Metro moves to quash a business records subpoena  served on non-party Bender Rosenthal Inc. (Bender Rosenthal) by the Foxes. For  the following reasons, the court GRANTS  their motion.   Legal Standard  If a subpoena requires the attendance of a  witness or the production of books, documents, electronically stored  information, or other things before a court, or at the trial of an issue  therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the court, upon motion reasonably  made by any person described in subdivision (b), or upon the court's own motion  after giving counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard, may make an order  quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance with it  upon those terms or conditions as the court shall declare, including protective  orders. In addition, the court may make any other order as may be appropriate  to protect the person from unreasonable or oppressive demands such as  unreasonable violations of the right of privacy.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1.)   Discussion  At issue here is a business records subpoena  that the Foxes served on Bender Rosenthal. In it, they ask for a broad category  of documents relating to Bender Rosenthal’s appraisal of the City of Industry  property. (Wetzel Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. A.) Bender Rosenthal’s appraisal and analysis  served as a basis for a “Statement of Just Compensation and Appraisal Summary”  that was included in LA Metro’s offer letter dated June 1, 2023. (Wetzel Decl.,  ¶ 4, Ex. B.)   In moving to quash the Foxes’ subpoena, LA  Metro argues the requested documents are inadmissible for two reasons. First,  LA Metro argues the documents are inadmissible pursuant to Code of Civil  Procedure section 1255.060. (Motion, p. 3:17-5:6.) This section provides that  “[i]n the trial of the issue of compensation, an appraisal report, written  statement and summary of an appraisal, or other statement made in connection  with a deposit or withdrawal pursuant to this chapter may not be considered to  be an admission of any party.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1255.060, subd. (b).) This  section also states that “[u]pon objection of the party at whose request an  appraisal report, written statement and summary of the appraisal, or other  statement was made in connection with a deposit or withdrawal pursuant to this  chapter, the person who made the report or statement and summary or other  statement may not be called at the trial on the issue of compensation by any  other party to give an opinion as to compensation.” (Code Civ. Proc., §  1255.060, subd. (c).) But if that person is called by that party and they  testify on the issue of compensation, such documentation is admissible as  impeachment evidence. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1255.060, subd. (c).) Here, LA  Metro’s counsel states they have no intention of calling Bender Rosenthal’s  appraiser as a witness. (Wetzel Decl., ¶ 4.) Second, LA Metro argues the  requested documents are inadmissible as an offer of compromise. (Motion, p.  5:10-6:16.) It is well established that evidence of an offer to compromise  cannot be used as evidence of liability, subject to exceptions inapplicable  here. (Evid. Code, §§ 1152, subd. (a), 1154.) And courts have applied this rule  to the use of statements of value in condemnation proceedings. (San Joaquin  County (1967) 252 Cal.App.2d. 840, 842-843; People ex rel. Dept. Pub.  Wks. v. Southern Pac. Trans. Co. (1973) 33 Cal.App.3d 960, 969.)   In opposition, the Foxes argue admissibility  is not the standard for discovery. (Opp., 4:5-21, 7:7-14.) Although they are  correct in that inadmissible evidence may be discoverable, that discoverability  depends on whether the evidence “appears reasonably calculated to lead to the  discovery of admissible evidence.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2017.010.) Here, because  any evidence contained in Bender Rosenthal’s records regarding the appraisal of  the City of Industry is inadmissible for the reasons noted above, their  documents cannot reasonably lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. The  Foxes also argue they need this evidence to object to the validity of LA  Metro’s pre-condemnation offer pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section  1250.360, subdivisions (f) and (h). (Opp., p. 4:22-5:7.) But while these  provisions allow a party to object to the public agency’s right to take  property, they mention nothing about a party’s ability to challenge the  evidentiary sufficiency of a public agency’s pre-condemnation offer nor do they  provide an exception to the explicit bar on such evidence in Code of Civil  Procedure section 1255.060. Last, the Foxes argue they may require this  evidence to bring a motion pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 1255.030  to increase LA Metro’s deposit of probable just compensation on the grounds  that there was a mistake in the appraisal. (Opp., p. 7:24-8:12.) But again,  while this provision allows the Foxes to seek a redetermination of the amount  deposited, nothing in this provision appears to suggest the Foxes may attack  the accuracy of LA Metro’s appraisal.   Accordingly, the court GRANTS LA Metro’s motion.   CONCLUSION  Based on the  foregoing, LA Metro’s motion to quash the Foxes’ business records subpoena is GRANTED.