 Case Number:  21STCV33539    Hearing Date:   September 13, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27
 
MOTION FOR PROTECTIVE ORDER 
Hearing Date: 9/13/24 
CASE NO./NAME: 21STCV33539 KEVIN MCELRATH
vs LOS ANGELES COUNTY METROPOLITAN TRANSIT
AUTHORITY et al.
Moving Party: Defendants Los
Angeles County Metropolitan Transit Authority (LAMTA) and Robert Albertazzi
Responding Party: Plaintiff 
Notice: Sufficient 
Ruling: MOTION FOR PROTECTIVE ORDER IS GRANTED 
Background
Trial is currently set for October 31, 2024. On
July 8, 2024, Plaintiff served an Expert Designation identifying four retained
experts and forty-three non-retained experts. Defendants LAMTA and Robert
Albertazzi move the court for a protective order on the basis that, in expert
disclosure, a party needs to list witnesses that it truly expects to call in
order to give Defendants notice of those medical providers who are expected to
provide expert opinion at trial, and not an exhaustive list of all of its medical
providers.
Legal Standard
Code
of Civil Procedure section 2034.250 permits a party who has been served with a
demand to exchange information concerning expert trial witnesses to promptly
move for a protective order.  The motion shall be accompanied by a meet
and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2034.250, subd. (a).)  The court, for good cause shown, may make any order
that justice requires to protect any party from unwarranted annoyance,
embarrassment, oppression, or undue burden and expense.  The protective
order may include, but is not limited to, one or more of the following
directions: 
(1)
That the demand be quashed because it was not timely served. 
(2)
That the date of exchange be earlier or later than that specified in the
demand. 
(3)
That the exchange be made only on specified terms and conditions. 
(4)
That the production and exchange of any reports and writings of experts be made
at a different place or at a different time than specified in the demand. 
(5)
That some or all of the parties be divided into sides on the basis of their
identity of interest in the issues in the action, and that the designation of
any experts as described in subdivision (b) of Section 2034.210 be made by any
side so created. 
(6)
That a party or a side reduce the list of employed or retained experts
designated by that party or side under subdivision (b) of Section 2034.210. 
(Code Civ. Proc., §
2034.250, subd. (b).) 
If
the motion for a protective order is denied in whole or in part, the court may
order that the parties against whom the motion is brought, provide or permit
the discovery against which the protection was sought on those terms and
conditions that are just.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 
Discussion
A party intending to
offer expert testimony must provide “the name and address of any person whose
expert opinion that party expects to offer in evidence at the trial” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2034.260, subd. (b)(1)). The purpose of the expert witness discovery
statute is to give fair notice of what an expert will say at trial. This allows
the parties to assess whether to take the expert’s deposition, to fully explore
the relevant subject area at any such deposition, and to select an expert who
can respond with a competing opinion on that subject area (Bonds v. Roy
(1999) 20 Cal.4th 140, 146-147). “The treating physicians are not listed or
identified by name but simply referred to in the designation as "all past
or present examining and/or treating physicians," there has been no
compliance with the letter or the spirit of section 2034.” (Kalaba v.
Gray, (2002) 95 Cal.App.4th 1416, 1423.) “Read together, the statutory
scheme and the Supreme Court's discussion in Schreiber  make
it clear that a party who intends to call a treating physician as an expert
must identify that physician in her designation of experts.” (Id.)
In Plaintiff’s expert
disclosure, it states that the listed non-retained experts may be called
upon to present testimony in an area requiring expertise related to the
incident. Defendants argue that Plaintiff listed all of Plaintiff’s treating
physicians in the expert disclosure, not just those expected to offer evidence
at trial. As a result, it does not give Defendants fair notice of who will
actually be expected to give expert opinion at trial.
Plaintiff filed an
opposition but did not address the distinction between “expect to” as used in
the statute versus “may be” used in Plaintiff’s expert disclosure. Nor does it
show why Plaintiff expects to call 43 non-retained expert witnesses at trial.
Plaintiff argues that Defendants have known about the non-retained experts
prior to the expert disclosure. However, without knowing which of the
non-retained experts are expected to provide expert opinion at trial, Defendants
are left in the position of potentially needing to depose all 47 providers.
This underscores the importance of narrowing down the list of experts to only
those expected to testify at trial.
It is not the case that
“counsel ought to depose every treating physician without regard to whether the
treating physician has been designated as an expert” (Kalaba v. Gray,
(2002) 95 Cal.App.4th 1416, 1423-24).  “We
see absolutely no reason to encourage more depositions than reasonably
necessary in any particular case.” (Id.) 
Plaintiff listed 43 non-retained experts. An effort to depose all
treating physicians would be both unnecessary and prohibitively expensive and
there is no reason to encourage more depositions than reasonably necessary.
Plaintiff then argues that Plaintiff is required to
identify all non-retained treaters in the designation or said treaters will be
barred from testifying at all. This is only true for the treating physicians’
expert testimony. Even if they were not listed in the expert disclosure, they
can still testify as fact witnesses. Furthermore, the language of the statute
does not ask a party to provide a list of witnesses who will ultimately testify
at trial, but rather expert witnesses who are expected to testify at trial. This
strikes a balance between giving the opposing party notice while allowing
flexibility for changes in the list of experts who may ultimately testify at
trial, thereby reducing the risk that an expert will be barred from doing so.
Plaintiff argues that
it has fulfilled all the requirements of C.C.P. § 2034.260(b)(1) by listing the
names and addresses of Plaintiff’s non-retained experts. However, it ignores
the restriction that only the names and addresses of those persons whose expert
opinion the party expects to offer in evidence at the trial are to be provided.
The Court agrees with
Plaintiff that the language of Code of Civil Procedure section 2034.250 does
not allow the Court to strike Plaintiff’s witness list. Instead, however, the Court
finds it appropriate to order Plaintiff to amend its expert disclosure and list
only the non-retained experts that Plaintiff expects will testify at trial;
that list is to be provided to Defendants within 5 days of today.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿The body of the email must include the hearing date and
time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿You should assume that others may appear at the hearing
to argue.
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion.