 Case Number:  20STCV40236    Hearing Date:   September 13, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27
 
MOTION TO CONTINUE TRIAL
Hearing Date: 9/13/24 
CASE NO./NAME: 20STCV40236 PATRICIA ANN
VENTI vs THE DECURION CORPORATION, et al.
Moving Party: Defendant Decurion
Responding Party: Plaintiff
Notice: Sufficient 
Ruling: MOTION TO CONTINUE TRIAL IS GRANTED
 
Numerous courts of appeal have held that
a trial court cannot refuse to consider a motion for summary judgment that is
timely filed. "A trial court may not refuse to hear a summary judgment
filed within the time limits of [Code of Civil Procedure] section 437c.
[Citation.] Local rules and practices may not be applied so as to prevent the
filing and hearing of such a motion." (Sentry Ins. Co. v. Superior
Court (1989) 207 Cal.App.3d 526, 529); accord First State Inc.
Co. v. Superior Court (2000) 79 Cal.App.4th 324, 330 [invalidating case
management order to the extent it precluded filing motions pursuant to section
437c ]; Wells Fargo Bank v. Superior Court (1988) 206 Cal.App.3d 918,
923 [local court rule that "require a party filing a complex summary
judgment motion to file the motion six months before the date set for trial is
void and unenforceable because it is inconsistent with section 437c"].) As
the Sentry court explained: "We are sympathetic to the problems the
trial courts experience in calendaring and hearing the many motions for summary
judgment. However, the solution to these problems cannot rest in a refusal to
hear timely motions." (Sentry, supra, at p. 530.) 
 
The trial is currently set for October
21, 2024. Defendant Decurion moves the court to continue the trial to sometime
in June 2025, so its MSJ can be heard. On July 3, 2024, Defendant filed its
summary judgment, 110 days prior to trial. The MSJ is to be heard on April 8,
2025.  MSJs are required to be served at
least 107 days before trial if done electronically. (Cole v. Superior Court
(2022) 87 Cal.App.5th 84, 88.) Defendant’s MSJ fulfills this requirement, and
therefore the motion was timely filed. 
Plaintiff opposes this motion on three
grounds:
 
First, Plaintiff argues that Plaintiff is
entitled to trial preference. Plaintiff cannot request trial preference in an
opposition to a motion to continue trial. Plaintiff needs to fully brief the
court in a separate motion for trial preference.
 
Second, Plaintiff argues that the MSJ is
meritless. Again, Plaintiff needs to fully brief the court on why the MSJ is
meritless in the opposition to the MSJ. An opposition to a motion to continue
trial is not the appropriate place to argue an MSJ.
 
Third, Plaintiff argues that Defendant
should have submitted the MSJ sooner but provided no legal authority and facts
in support of this argument. All that is required for the court to continue the
trial date so that an MSJ can be heard is that the MSJ was timely filed, which
Defendant has done so.
 
Thus, the court grants the present
motion. The new Trial Date is set for June 2, 2025, at 8:30 a.m. The Final Status
Conference is continued to May
20, 2025, at 10:00 a.m. all case related deadline is to follow the new
trial date.  The Court is now aware that
additional MSJ dates are likely to appear open as a result of a recently
identified reservation scheduling issue; as such, the Court suggests that the
parties intermittently check the reservation system for an earlier MSJ date. 
 
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿The body of the email must include the hearing date and
time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿You should assume that others may appear at the hearing
to argue.
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion.