 Case Number:  22STCV19488    Hearing Date:   September 13, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27 
 
MOTIONS TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES AND
REQUESTS FOR SANCTIONS 
Hearing Date: 9/12/24¿ 
CASE NO./NAME: 22STCV19488 GILBERT GUERRERO vs
FRANKLIN VLADIMIR LOPEZ ALAS, et al. 
Moving Party: Plaintiff 
Responding Party: Defendant Turo Inc. 
Notice: Sufficient¿ 
Ruling: MOTIONS TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES ARE
GRANTED¿IN PART. REQUESTS FOR SANCTIONS ARE DENIED. 
 
Background
 
On February 6, 2024, Plaintiff served his Requests for Production,
Set One, and Form Interrogatories, Set One, to Defendant Turo. On March 11,
2024, Defendant provided its initial responses. Despite several IDCs and a
couple of attempts by Defendant to provide further responses, the discovery
issues remained unresolved. Plaintiff now moves the court to compel responses
to his Requests for Production, Set One, Nos. 1, 4, 7, 10, 15, 16, 18, 20, 21,
25, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 50, 51, 52, 58, and 59, and
Form Interrogatories, Set One, Nos. 7.1, 7.2, 7.3, and 12.1.
 
The statutory deadline to file the present motions to compel
further responses was July 15, 2024. Defendant extended that deadline numerous
times, with the final extension being August 15, 2024. (Exhibit H.) Plaintiff
served his motions on August 15, 2024, but filed them on August 16, 2024.
Defendant does not oppose the present motion on its substance but instead makes
a procedural argument that because the motion was untimely filed, Plaintiff has
waived his right to compel further.
 
Discussion
 
The controlling statutory provision for the
present motions to compel further responses is CCP § 2031.310(c) and 2030.300
(c), which states:
"Unless notice of this motion is given
within 45 days of the service of the verified response, or any supplemental
verified response, or on or before any specific later date to which the
demanding party and the responding party have agreed in writing, the demanding
party waives any right to compel a further [responses].”
 
Furthermore, the timeframe within which to
make a motion to compel production of documents is mandatory and
jurisdictional. Although the 45-day limitation is not 'jurisdictional' in the
fundamental sense, it is 'jurisdictional' in the sense that it renders the
court without authority to rule on motions to compel other than to deny them. (Sexton
v. Superior Court (1997) 58 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1410.)
 
It is undisputed that the parties agreed to
extend Plaintiff’s motion to compel further deadline to August 15, 2024. Proof
of service of the present motion showed that Defendant was served on August 15,
2024 via electronic service. Defendant does not dispute that the motion was
timely served but argues that it was untimely filed, and therefore Plaintiff
has waived his rights to compel further. In support of this claim, Defendant
cites CCP § 2031.310(c), which requires that notice of the motion must be "given"
by the date agreed upon by the parties. It is crucial to note that the statute
specifically uses the term "given." The court finds that service of
the notice fulfills the notice requirements of CCP § 2031.310(c) for the
following reasons: First, the plain language of the term “given” aligns closely
with the concept of service. The terms “to give notice” and “to serve notice”
can be used interchangeably in common usage, both fulfilling the same function
of informing parties of impending legal actions. Second, there is no language
in the statute that requires the motion to also be filed by the agreed-upon
date. The statute focuses on the act of giving notice, not the filing of the
motion. Third, Defendant does not cite any statute or case law to support its
contention.
 
Defendant seeks to oppose this motion purely
on procedural grounds and requests an opportunity for a full briefing should
the court not adopt its procedural arguments in the opposition. However, the
court declines this request because a plain language reading of the statute
seems to indicate that the timeliness of the motion is determined by the time
of service, or at the very least there is a reasonable probability that a court
would reject this procedural argument. Furthermore, it is standard practice for
the opposing party to address the merits of the motion as an alternative
argument, which Defendant failed to do. Defendant was given an opportunity to
oppose the motion on its merits but failed to do so. The court will now proceed
to analyze the discovery responses at issue.
 
Requests for Production of Documents, Set One,
Nos. 1, 4, 7, 10, 15, 16, 18, 20, 21, 25, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39,
40, 41, 50, 51,52, 58, and 59
 
1.  Requests For Productions Nos 1 and 43
 
REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION NO. 1: ALL DOCUMENTS
referring to or related to the INCIDENT.
 
AMENDED RESPONSE TO REQUEST NO. 1: Responding
Party objects to this request to the extent that it calls for documents covered
by the attorney-client privilege. Subject to and without waiving the foregoing
objection, Responding Party responds as follows: Responding Party will produce
all non-privileged responsive documents in its possession or control to this
request and to date has produced documents bates stamped Turo 1-70. Responding
Party is in possession of the traffic collision report that has already been
produced in this action, bates stamped Saha 1-16. Responding Party will further
produce a Notice of Loss report dated September 27, 2021 and bates stamped Turo
71.
 
REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION NO. 43: ALL DOCUMENTS
that refer to, evidence, or reflect each PERSON who participated in any oral or
written communication relating to the INCIDENT.
 
AMENDED RESPONSE TO REQUEST NO. 43: Responding
Party will produce all responsive documents in its possession or control to
this request other than attorney-client privileged documents. See also Turo
1-70. Responding Party is in possession of the traffic crash report has already
been produced in this action, bates stamped Saha 1- 16.
 
DENY. Defendant’s responses to RFPs 1 and 43 are
substantially similar and will be analyzed together. Plaintiff contends, “We
would like to know what procedures Defendant has undergone to obtain/search for
said information as it's claimed that it either does not exist or is not within
Defendant’s possession, custody, and/or control.” However, there is no
provision under the California Code of Civil Procedure that mandates a
statement of compliance to state what procedures it has undergone to search for
said information. Plaintiff has not provided any legal authority to support
such a requirement. CCP § 2031.220 only requires a statement of compliance to
indicate whether the response will be in full or in part and that all documents
in the possession, custody, or control of the party will be produced.
Defendant’s responses to the requests at issue have fulfilled this requirement by
stating that “Responding Party will produce all responsive documents in its
possession or control to this request other than attorney-client privileged
documents.”
 
Per California Civil Procedure § 2031.280(a),
any documents or category of documents produced in response to a demand for
inspection, copying, testing, or sampling shall be identified with the specific
request number to which the documents respond. Contrary to Plaintiff’s
contentions, Defendant’s response appropriately identified the responsive
documents/Bates stamp numbers for the responsive documents.
 
Regarding privilege, if any documents are
withheld pursuant to a claimed privilege, the responding party must “(A)
identify with particularity the document, and (B) set forth clearly the extent
of, and the specific ground for the objection, the particular privilege, and if
an objection is based on a claim that the information sought is protected work
product [under CCP § 2018.010], that claim shall be expressly asserted.” (CCP §
2031.240(b).) The purpose of this requirement—to provide a specific factual description
of documents in aid of substantiating a claim of privilege in connection with a
request for document production—is to permit a judicial evaluation of the claim
of privilege. (Hernandez v. Superior Court (2003) 112 Cal.App.4th 285,
292.) Plaintiff contends that Defendant’s privilege
log fails to comply with the code. However, Plaintiff does not provide specific
reasons for this assertion, instead offering a conclusory statement that the
privilege log is non-compliant. The privilege log in
question (Exhibit H) identifies the documents being withheld as ongoing
communications, including letters and emails, between client representatives
and attorneys of record. The grounds for objection are based on attorney-client
privilege and work product doctrine. The parties involved are Defendant and its
counsel, and the date range is ongoing since Turo’s counsel was retained in
this matter in or around November 2023. The Court finds Defendant’s privilege
log to be substantially code compliant and a new privilege log need not be
produced.
 
Overall, Defendant’s responses are code
complaint.
 
2.  Requests For Productions Nos 4, 10, 16, 32,
39, 40, 42
 
GRANT. Defendant’s responses to these requests are
presented as statements of compliance; however, they are not code compliant.
According to CCP § 2031.220, a party's statement of compliance must indicate
whether it will respond in full or in part, and affirm that all documents in
the possession, custody, or control of the party will be produced. Defendant’s
responses do not comply with this requirement. For example, the amended
response to request No. 10 states, “Responding Party notes that Turo 1-70 are
responsive. Responding Party will further produce a Notice of Loss report,
bates stamped Turo 71.” However, this response and Defendant’s other responses
under this section fail to clarify whether the requests will be complied with in
full or in part and do not confirm that all documents in the party's
possession, custody, or control will be produced. 
 
Defendant is ordered to provide code complaint
responses to the requests at issue within 20 days of today.
 
3.  Requests For Productions Nos 7, 12, 15, 20,
21, 25, 31, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 50, 51, 52
 
Deny. Defendant’s responses that “Upon conducting a
diligent search and reasonable inquiry, Responding Party does not have in its
possession or control any documents responsive to this request. Responding
Party has not ever had responsive documents in its possession or control” are
code-compliant. There is no requirement under the statute for Defendant to
specify the procedures it has undergone to obtain/search for said information.
A statement of inability to comply must (1) affirm that a diligent search and
reasonable inquiry have been made, and (2) state that the inability to comply
is because the responsive item has never existed, has been destroyed, lost,
misplaced, or stolen, or has never been or is no longer in the responding
party’s possession, custody, or control. (C.C.P. § 2031.230). Defendant’s
responses did just that by affirming that a diligent search and reasonable
inquiry have been made and the responsive item has never existed. 
 
Plaintiff further argues that “the objections
raised are inappropriate, as there is neither a valid privilege log nor are the
responses compliant with the required standards.” However, no objections are
raised in the response, nor is there any indication that documents being
withheld on the basis of privilege.
 
Overall, Defendant’s responses are code
complaint.
 
4.  Requests For Productions Nos 18, 14, 58, 59
 
REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION NO. 14: ALL DOCUMENTS
RELATED TO insurance policies, including umbrella and excess coverage, covering
the MOTOR VEHICLE that were in effect at the time of the INCIDENT.
 
AMENDED RESPONSE TO REQUEST NO. 14: The
primary policy has already been produced in this action, bates stamped Saha
36-487. There are no umbrella or excess policies that insure this incident.
 
DENY. The Court is uncertain what specific policy
Plaintiff is seeking beyond the primary policy, which Defendant has already
provided and umbrella or excess policies that Defendant has stated it does not
possess. 
 
REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION NO. 18: ALL COMMUNICATIONS
sent OR received by YOU RELATING TO the INCIDENT.
 
AMENDED RESPONSE TO REQUEST NO. 18: Responding
Party objects to this request to the extent that it calls for documents covered
by the attorney-client privilege. Subject to and without waiving the foregoing
objection, see Turo 13-17 and 37-49. Responding Party will further produce a
Notice of Loss report, bates stamped Turo 71.
 
GRANT IN PART. Defendant’s statement of compliance is not
code compliant. According to CCP § 2031.220, a party's statement of compliance
must indicate whether it will respond in full or in part, and affirm that all
documents in the possession, custody, or control of the party will be produced.
Defendant’s responses does not comply with this requirement. It fails to
clarify whether the request will be complied in full or in part and does not
confirm that all documents in the party's possession, custody, or control will
be produced.
 
Per California Civil Procedure § 2031.280(a),
any documents or category of documents produced in response to a demand for
inspection, copying, testing, or sampling shall be identified with the specific
request number to which the documents respond. Contrary to Plaintiff’s
contentions, Defendant’s response appropriately identified the responsive
documents/Bates stamp numbers for the responsive documents. 
 
The privilege log in question (Exhibit H) is
substantially code complaint. The log has identified the documents being
withheld as ongoing communications, including letters and emails, between
client representatives and attorneys of record. The grounds for objection are
based on attorney-client privilege and work product doctrine. The parties
involved are Defendant and its counsel, and the date range From November 2023,
when counsel has been retained to represent Defendant to present. The Court is
not persuaded that a new privilege log needs to be produced. 
 
Defendant is ordered to provide code compliant
responses within 20 days of today.
 
REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION NO. 58: YOUR profit and
loss statements for the period of September 25, 2021, to date.
 
RESPONSE TO REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION NO. 58:
Responding Party objects to this request on the grounds that it is not
calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. Responding Party
further objects to this request on the grounds that it seeks private
information outside the scope of this action.
 
DENY. Plaintiff makes the conclusory argument that
the Request is used to provide context as to whether TURO, INC., has the
ability to pay for litigation expenses and fees. However, Plaintiff failed to
demonstrate why this information is relevant to liability and damages and how
it is reasonably calculated to lead to admissible evidence in a car accident
case. 
 
REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION NO. 59: A chart of YOUR
corporate hierarchy.
 
RESPONSE TO REQUEST NO. 59: Responding Party
objects to this request on the grounds that it is not calculated to lead to the
discovery of admissible evidence. Responding Party further objects to this
request on the grounds that it seeks private information outside the scope of
this action.
 
GRANT. The court agrees with Plaintiff's rationale
for requesting the identification of board members and department leaders
within the corporation hierarchy who may be held accountable due to TURO's
oversight in allowing Defendant to operate a vehicle. The disclosure of the
identity, address, and telephone numbers of these witnesses is not considered a
serious invasion of their privacy. (See Puerto v. Superior Court 158
Cal. App. 4th 1242, 1251-1254 (generally no protection for the identity,
addresses, and phone numbers of percipient witnesses, even if they are
employees of Defendant, unless there is a demonstrated danger to the witness. 
  
Defendant is ordered to provide code complaint
responses within 20 days of today.
 
Form Interrogatories, Set One, Nos 7.1 7.2 7.3 and 12.1
 
1.  Form Interrogatories Nos 7.1 7.2 7.3
 
DENY.
Plaintiff’s argument for compelling further responses from Defendant is both
boilerplate and conclusory. Plaintiff claims that the interrogatories were met
with boilerplate objections, yet Defendant’s responses contain no such
objections.
Plaintiff requests that Defendant provide
information regarding the other driver, Manual Fabian, and Taaj Conti Condoll’s
vehicle information and/or estimates pertaining to their vehicles. However,
this request exceeds the scope of Form Interrogatories 7.1, 7.2, and 7.3, which
relate specifically to damages to a vehicle that Defendant attributes to the
incident. Defendant has clearly stated that it does not attribute any vehicle
damage to the incident.
Plaintiff’s insistence that Defendant provide
further responses to these interrogatories as they relate to the other drivers,
Fabian and Condoll, is beyond the scope of the present interrogatories.
2.  Form Interrogatories Nos 12.1


INTERROGATORY NO. 12.1:
State the name, ADDRESS, and telephone number of each individual: 
(a) who witnessed the INCIDENT or the events
occurring immediately before or after the INCIDENT; 
(b) who made any statement at the scene of the INCIDENT; 
(c) who heard any statements made about the INCIDENT by any individual at the
scene; and
(d) who YOU OR ANYONE ACTING ON YOUR BEHALF claim has knowledge of the INCIDENT
(except for expert witnesses covered by Code of Civil Procedure section 2034)
FURTHER AMENDED
RESPONSE TO INTERROGATORY NO. 12.1: 
(a) Plaintiff Gilbert Guerrero; Defendant Franklin
Vladimir Lopez Alas; Defendant Taaj Condoll; Amadeo Rubiocuevas; Roberto Perez;
CHP Officer Gering; CHP Officer Marin; Roberto Perez; Officer Elias; Officer
Hernandez; Officer Morales; Officer Gutierrez; Officer Rodriguez; Unknown LAFD
emergency personnel. 
(b) Plaintiff Gilbert Guerrero; Defendant Franklin Vladimir Lopez Alas;
Defendant Taaj Condoll; 
(c) Plaintiff Gilbert Guerrero; Defendant Franklin Vladimir Lopez Alas;
Defendant Taaj Condoll; Amadeo Rubiocuevas; Roberto Perez; CHP Officer Gering;
CHP Officer Marin; Roberto Perez; Officer Elias; Officer Hernandez; Officer
Morales; Officer Gutierrez; Officer Rodriguez; Unknown LAFD emergency
personnel. 
(d) Plaintiff Gilbert Guerrero; Defendant Franklin Vladimir Lopez Alas;
Defendant Taaj Condoll; Amadeo Rubiocuevas; Roberto Perez; CHP Officer Gering;
CHP Officer Marin; Roberto Perez; Officer Elias; Officer Hernandez; Officer
Morales; Officer Gutierrez; Officer Rodriguez; Unknown LAFD emergency
personnel. None of Responding Party’s employees have firsthand knowledge of the
incident. However, Byron Gardner and Jeff Platt, who may be contacted through
Responding Party’s attorneys of record, have secondhand knowledge of the
incident.
DENY.
Plaintiff requests further responses to provide information on Defendant’s
employees who have been in contact with Turo regarding this case. This includes
the identification of each employee who was given relevant information, each
employee within Turo’s intake office, Turo’s customer support team, and Turo’s
employees who handle communications between Turo and its clients.
However, Plaintiff’s
request exceeds the scope of the form interrogatory. The interrogatory only
asks for the identification of individuals who witnessed the incident, made
statements, heard statements at the incident, or have knowledge of the
incident. It does not require Defendant to provide identification of its
employees in different departments. Plaintiff’s request is therefore beyond
what the form interrogatory requires and is not justified.
Sanctions 
 
The court declines to impose sanctions against
Plaintiff as the motion was granted in part, and the court rejected Defendant’s
argument that the motion was untimely. The court equally declines to impose
sanctions against Defendant as it found a large portion of Defendant’s
responses to be code compliant and therefore should not have been subject to
the present motion. 
¿ 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:¿ 
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿The body of the email must include the hearing date and
time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting. 
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿You should assume that others may appear at the hearing
to argue. 
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion.