 Case Number:  20STCV13799    Hearing Date:   September 13, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27
 
MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT
Hearing Date: 9/13/24 
CASE NO./NAME: 20STCV13799 KAREN GLENN vs
STEVEN SAMUEL LIVING TRUST, et al. 
Moving Party: Defendant 
Responding Party: Plaintiff 
Notice: Sufficient 
Ruling: MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT IS GRANTED 
 
On June 24, 2024, the Court
heard Defendant’s motion for summary judgment. Upon examining all of
Plaintiff’s evidence, the Court held that all of Plaintiff’s purportedly
corroborating evidence is either not admissible or not truly corroborating.
Accordingly, in the Court’s view, the outcome of this motion depends on whether
Plaintiff’s own declaration and testimony are sufficient to defeat summary
judgment. The court ordered supplemental briefing on this issue, which both
parties have provided.
There are certain
circumstances in which the Court can disregard evidence. For example, a
declaration submitted in support of a motion for summary judgment may be
disregarded if it contradicts prior discovery responses (D’Amico v. Board of
Med. Examiners (1974) 11 Cal.3d 1, 21). Another instance is when a
plaintiff’s opposition is supported by “uncorroborated and self-serving
declarations,” which the court found insufficient to create a triable issue of
material fact (King v. United Parcel Service, Inc. (2007) 152
Cal.App.4th 426, 433-34).
Judges may, under
certain circumstances, lawfully set aside testimony that is so undermined as to
be incredible. The removal of a factual question from the jury is most likely
when a plaintiff’s claim is supported solely by the plaintiff’s own
self-serving testimony, unsupported by corroborating evidence, and undermined
by other credible evidence, physical impossibility, or other persuasive
evidence that the plaintiff has deliberately committed perjury (See Johnson
v. Wash. Metro. Area Transit Auth., 883 F.2d 125, 128 (D.C. Cir. 1989).)
The reasoning behind this is that when a party’s self-serving testimony or
declaration is so undermined, there is not sufficient disagreement with the
other evidence to require submission to a jury (Kennedy v. Applause, Inc.,
90 F.3d 1477, 1481 (9th Cir. 1996).)
In examining the
evidence here, the Court finds Plaintiff’s self-serving declaration to be so undermined
by other credible evidence and unsupported by corroborating evidence that it
cannot stand on its own as a basis to deny summary judgment.
Plaintiff’s contention
that she fell a second time in April 2018 is undermined by her own conduct.
When Plaintiff fell in 2017, she texted the property manager, Charles Wrobel,
about her slip and fall and sent him photographs of the oil spill, her fall,
and her injury (Exhibits 3 and 4 to Wrobel Dec.). In response, Wrobel completed
an incident report documenting the fall.
In contrast, Plaintiff
did not inform Wrobel of the Aril 2018 fall, and therefore no incident report
was ever created. Wrobel’s text messages do not show Plaintiff sent him any
messages or pictures during the relevant time period. Defense counsel also
declared that despite Plaintiff’s discovery responses and testimonies
indicating there were text messages informing the property manager of the fall
in April 2018, no such messages were produced showing Plaintiff informing
Defendant of her fall in April 2018. Plaintiff points to a screenshot of a text
message purportedly between her and the property manager regarding the 2018
fall; however, the message is dated June 16. It does not show in which year the
text message was sent and references an incident without specifying whether it
is the 2017 or 2018 incident (Plaintiff’s Exhibit 3).
Plaintiff’s contention
is further undermined by her chiropractor’s medical documentation. The
documents show that when Plaintiff fell in July 2017, the fall was noted in the
medical records (Defendant’s Exhibit 6). However, there is no reference to a
second fall in any of the records, especially those created following
Plaintiff’s alleged fall on April 20, 2018. (Exhibit 7 to the motion).
Additionally, Plaintiff’s treating chiropractor for more than 12 years, Dr.
Haig, testified that Plaintiff never mentioned any alleged slip and fall
incident occurring on April 20, 2018. (Exhibit 12 to Defendant’s Reply Brief).
Further, on August 21,
2019, one of Plaintiff’s medical providers, Abraham Abramayan, at The Southern
California Orthopedic Institute, made a note to his earlier report dated May
17, 2019, stating, “Note amended per patient request to change onset of pain to
April 2018. Original date of July 2017 was based on her intake form.” There is thus
a basis to believe that the documents were altered at Plaintiff’s request to
reference April 2018 to avoid having the case dismissed on the basis of the
statute of limitations.
Plaintiff argues that
her declaration/testimony is corroborated by the declarations of Ms. Quiroz and
Dr. Haig, asserting that she indeed fell on April 20, 2018, at the subject
premises and suffered injuries for which she sought medical treatment. However,
as stated in the minute order, Ms. Quiroz’s declaration is impermissible
hearsay, as her knowledge about the fall is based entirely on what Plaintiff
told her. Furthermore, Dr. Haig’s statement is not a declaration, as it is not
made under oath and therefore is not admissible evidence to be considered by
the court.
Overall, when the
declaration/testimony is viewed in light of the other evidence—where it is
undermined by the medical records and other documents, indicates suspicious
conduct, and is uncorroborated by other admissible evidence—the court finds
sufficient grounds to discard it. On that basis, the motion for summary
judgment is granted.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿The body of the email must include the hearing date and
time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿You should assume that others may appear at the hearing
to argue.
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion.
 