 Case Number:  22STCV29050    Hearing Date:   September 13, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27
 
MOTION TO CONTINUE TRIAL
Hearing Date: 9/13/24 
CASE NO./NAME: 22STCV29050 CHLOE SANCHEZ vs
MARCUS KYLE SY, et al.
Moving Party: Plaintiff
Responding Party: Unopposed
Notice: Sufficient 
Ruling: MOTION TO CONTINUE TRIAL IS GRANTED 
 
On July 12, 2024, the
court denied the parties’ stipulation for a continuance, finding that there was
not sufficient good cause, as the parties had sufficient time to complete the
identified discovery and mediation prior to trial. The court noted that the
parties appear to be failing to take the concept of a firm trial date
seriously, given that they have already had two continuances granted. The trial
is currently set for October 2, 2024.
Plaintiff’s attorney
now moves the court to continue the trial and alleges additional reasons for
the continuance. Plaintiff’s attorney, Mr. Henderson, declares that he and
other attorneys handling Plaintiff’s matter have an upcoming trial in the case
of Joel Benjamin Fuentes v. Trencore Plastering, Inc., Case No.
19STCV20224, which is a five-year-old case that cannot be continued beyond the
five-year statute of limitations, and the court estimates 40 days for trial. As
a result of this trial, Plaintiff’s attorneys will be unavailable for trial in
the instant case. The court examined the minute order for 19STCV20224 and
confirmed that jurors have been requested and approved for October 3, 2024, for
a trial estimated to last 40 days. Defendant does not oppose the continuance of
the trial and joins in the motion. The court finds good cause to continue the
trial to January 2024, thereby allowing Plaintiff’s attorney to finish the
trial by November 2024. However, as the court stated when it denied the
parties’ stipulation, the parties had sufficient time to complete the
identified discovery prior to trial. Plaintiff has not set forth any new
reasons to extend the discovery cut-off date in the present motion, and the
only compelling reason set forth is the unavailability of counsel during the
time of trial. Therefore, fact discovery will not follow the new trial date.
The new trial date is
set for January 6, 2024, at 8:30 a.m. The Final Status Conference is continued
to December 30, 2024, at 10:00 a.m. With the exception of expert discovery, all
other case-related deadlines will not follow the new trial date.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿The body of the email must include the hearing date and
time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿You should assume that others may appear at the hearing
to argue.
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion.