 Case Number:  20STCV22330    Hearing Date:   September 13, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27
 
MOTION FOR SANCTIONS
Hearing Date: 9/13/24
CASE NO./NAME: 20STCV22330 KELLY HARGROVE
vs BERNARD ALVINE, et al. 
Moving Party: Defendant Douglas Alvine 
Responding Party: Plaintiff 
Notice: Sufficient 
Ruling: MOTION FOR SANCTIONS IS GRANTED IN PART
 
On April 3, 2023,
Plaintiff designated, among other experts, vocational rehabilitation/life care
expert Enrique Vega. Defendant alleges that Plaintiff’s attorney, Mr. Sullivan,
lied in his expert disclosure declaration, stating that he had retained Mr. Vega
as an expert and that Vega would testify at trial. During Mr. Vega’s deposition
on August 23, 2024, Mr. Vega testified that he was not actually retained by
Plaintiff and his Counsel until July 15, 2024—17 months after Plaintiff
initially designated him as an expert who would testify at trial. After Mr.
Vega’s deposition, documents were produced indicating that on August 20, 2024,
Plaintiff’s Counsel sent an email to Mr. Vega requesting that he delete the
“folder with ‘admin emails’.” Defendant now moves the court for terminating,
evidentiary, issue, and monetary sanctions under CCP § 2023.010 for discovery
abuse.
This motion for
sanctions really comes down to whether Plaintiff’s attorney, Mr. Sullivan, lied
in his declaration in the expert disclosure, and whether there is foul play
when Plaintiff’s attorney asked Mr. Vega to delete admin emails relating to Mr.
Vega’s retention.
The court examined Mr.
Sullivan’s declaration in the expert disclosure. Pertinent parts of the
declaration state that “Mr. Vega has agreed to testify at the time of trial,”
but the declaration does not state that Mr. Vega or any of the experts have
been retained. Furthermore, Plaintiff argues that CCP § 2034.260, the statute
of expert disclosure, does not require the experts to be “retained.” However,
CCP § 2034.260 does cite to subdivision (b) of Section 2034.210, which states:
“If any expert
designated by a party under subdivision (a) is a party or an employee of a
party, or has been retained by a party for the purpose of forming and
expressing an opinion in anticipation of the litigation or in preparation for
the trial of the action, the designation of that witness shall include or be
accompanied by an expert witness declaration under Section 2034.260.”
The very fact that
Plaintiff filed an expert witness declaration under § 2034.260 presupposes that
the expert designated has been retained. 
Having said that, Plaintiff did not outright lie in
his declaration. An email chain between Plaintiff’s attorney’s office and Mr.
Vega’s office states that “Mr. Vega will be available to assist you in this
matter.” The email chain shows that Plaintiff’s attorney did intend to retain
Mr. Vega in 2023, and that Mr. Vega was available and willing to be engaged.
However, these emails did not show that anything formal, such as a retainer
agreement, was signed or that retainer fees were sent.
Mr. Vega’s testimony
confirms this. He testified that there was an initial inquiry for his services
in August 2023, and a service agreement was issued at that time. Although there
was some activity about potentially retaining him in 2023, and a file was
officially opened, he was not officially engaged until July 2024. Mr. Vega was
not paid his retainer fee until July 2024, and he believes that he is
officially retained when he is paid his retainer fee.
The court sees that
there might be a different understanding of the term “retained” between the
parties. Defendant understands an expert as only retained when the retainer fee
has been paid, and Plaintiff, on the other hand, sees that an expert has been
retained when there is a preliminary understanding between the parties. Defendant’s
position is the common-sense view on the term “retained” and the one adopted by
Mr. Vega. At the same time, the court understands that experts can be costly,
and cases often settle before expert depositions are taken. Sometimes the
attorneys want to confirm that the expert is available, especially those who
already have an established working relationship, and then only pay the
retainer fee before the expert report or deposition is guaranteed to take
place.
The court understands
both parties’ perspectives and finds grounds for both interpretations of the
term “retained.” Therefore, the court does not find Mr. Sullivan to have
perjured himself in his declaration.
The court does agree
with Defendant that Plaintiff’s office’s request to Mr. Vega to delete certain
admin emails, including emails about retaining Vega’s services, is suspicious.  Plaintiff argues that the emails and
documents to be deleted were confidential. However, this email was sent on
August 20, 2024, just days prior to Mr. Vega’s deposition, where he would be
asked questions about his retainment. The email also states that the reason for
the deletion is “defense counsel picks on everything in this case.” 
While the e-mail
requesting deletion is troubling, “[g]enerally, ‘[a] decision to order
terminating sanctions should not be made lightly. But where a violation is
willful, preceded by a history of abuse, and the evidence shows that less
severe sanctions would not produce compliance with the discovery rules, the
trial court is justified in imposing the ultimate sanction.’” (Los
Defensores, Inc. v. Gomez (2014) 223 Cal. App. 4th 377, 390 [citation
omitted].) Discovery sanctions should be appropriate to and commensurate with
the misconduct, and they “should not exceed that which is required to protect
the interests of the party entitled to but denied discovery.” (Doppes v.
Bentley Motors, Inc. (2009) 174 Cal.App.4th 967, 992.) “If a lesser
sanction fails to curb misuse, a greater sanction is warranted: continuing
misuses of the discovery process warrant incrementally harsher sanctions until
the sanction is reached that will curb the abuse.” (Ibid.; see also,
e.g., Mileikowsky v. Tenet Healthsystem (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 262,
279-280.)
There is no history of
rampant discovery abuse as alleged by Defendant except the ones relating to
Plaintiff’s expert disclosure. It does not seem to be the case where a lesser
sanction would fail to curb discovery misuse.
Furthermore, Mr. Vega’s
expert deposition has been taken, Mr. Vega’s information and the subject matter
of his deposition have been disclosed in the initial disclosure, and the
deleted email does not touch on any substance of the case itself. A discovery
sanction should not create a “windfall” for a party or place a party in a
better position than it would have been if the opposing party had simply
complied with its obligations under the Court’s orders and the Civil Discovery
Act. (Rutledge v. Hewlett-Packard Co. (2015) 238 Cal.App.4th 1164,
1194.)
The court therefore
finds terminating, issue, and evidence sanctions to be inappropriate under the
circumstances. However, the troubling request to delete items is enough to
warrant a monetary sanction. Defendant requests a monetary sanction in the
amount of $2,060.00.  The Court finds
that excessive, but finds a $1000 sanction reasonable. Plaintiff’s counsel is
hereby ordered to pay a sanction in the amount of $1,000.00 to Defendant within
20 days of today.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿The body of the email must include the hearing date and
time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿You should assume that others may appear at the hearing
to argue.
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion.
 