 Case Number:  22STCV28139    Hearing Date:   September 13, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27
 
MOTION CONTESTING GOOD FAITH SETTLEMENT 
Hearing Date: 9/13/24 
CASE NO./NAME: 22STCV28139 HECTOR HIPOLITO
vs M2 CONCRETE PUMPING, LLC, et al.
Moving Party: Defendant Catalina Pacific
Concrete Company 
Responding Party: Defendant M2 Concrete
Pumping
Notice: Sufficient 
Ruling: MOTION CONTESTING GOOD FAITH
SETTLEMENT IS
DENIED.
 
This case involves an
incident where Plaintiff Hector Hipolito was placing and finishing concrete at
3860 Grand View Blvd., Los Angeles, CA. Plaintiff contends he was forcefully
struck in the chest while standing at the end of a boom pump pouring concrete.
Defendant Catalina Pacific Concrete Company (“Catalina Pacific”) manufactured
and delivered the concrete used at the jobsite. Catalina Pacific also owned and
provided the concrete truck, concrete mix, and the chute used to pour the
concrete mix into the concrete pump truck. Defendant M2 Concrete Pumping, LLC
owned and operated the concrete pumping truck and hose used to distribute the
concrete.
On July 15, 2024,
Defendant M2 served its Notice of Settlement and related documents, indicating
that a settlement between Plaintiffs Hipolito and Everest National Insurance
Company (“Everest”) and Defendant M2 was reached on February 26, 2024, during
mediation to M2’s policy limit of $1,000,000. On July 15, 2024, M2 filed its
application for good faith settlement, discussing various relevant factors
under Tech-Bilt, Inc. v. Woodward-Clyde & Associates (1985)
38 Cal.3d 488.
Defendant Catalina
Pacific filed the present motion contesting the settlement between Plaintiff
and M2. On July 18, 2024, counsel for Catalina Pacific sent an email to all
counsel requesting the allocation amounts between Hector Hipolito and Everest,
but the settling parties refused to provide this information. Defendant
contests the settlement on this sole basis, arguing that the settling parties
failed to specify the proportion of the settlement between Plaintiff Hector
Hipolito and Everest, one of the factors in assessing good faith settlement
under Tech-Bilt.
Everest is not a
separate plaintiff. Everest’s interest is by equitable and legal right of
subrogation. An allocation of settlement proceeds among plaintiffs is relevant
in some cases, where each plaintiff in an action has a unique damages claim, as
in a multi-party lawsuit brought by several passengers in an automobile
collision. Here, Everest is a workers’ compensation carrier seeking to recover
in subrogation disability and medical bill payouts made on behalf of Plaintiff
Hector Hipolito. Everest is a subrogee that steps into the shoes of the
plaintiff. Everest’s damages are subsumed within Plaintiff Hipolito’s full
damages. The settlement that goes to Everest would be for Plaintiff’s past
medical expenses. Everest’s claim is substantively treated as a lien for past
medical expenses paid to be satisfied by the Plaintiff out of the full
settlement proceeds. How much of the settlement is proportioned to a certain
lienholder for Plaintiff’s past medical expenses is irrelevant in assessing
whether the settlement is so far ‘out of the ballpark’ in relation to these
factors as to be inconsistent with the equitable objectives of the statute,
which are to encourage settlement and the competing public policy favoring
equitable sharing of costs among tortfeasors (Tech-Bilt, Inc., 38 Cal.3d
at 499-500).  Ultimately, particularly in
light of the fact that the settlement is for the full amount of DefendantM2’s
insurance coverage and it does not have any other coverage or significant
assets (see Declaration of Michael Bernard Jr.), the Court finds the
settlement to be within the ballpark and a good faith settlement.
Furthermore, Defendant M2
has provided documentation that Everest seeks to recover from Plaintiff
Hipolito $372,807.63 in medical expenses.[1]
Defendant Catalina does not oppose the settlement on any other basis than it
has not been informed of the proportionate share of the settlement of the
settling parties.  But, in essence,
Defenant has this information. More importantly, as referenced above, it has information
regarding M2’s financial ability to pay more. 
Accordingly, the present motion is denied and M2’s application for good
faith settlement is granted.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿The body of the email must include the hearing date and
time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿You should assume that others may appear at the hearing
to argue.
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion.
 


