 Case Number:  22STCV32356    Hearing Date:   September 13, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27
 
MOTIONS TO COMPEL FURTHER AND REQUESTS FOR
SANCTIONS
Hearing Date: 9/13/24 
CASE NO./NAME: 22STCV32356 LANI MILLER vs
JOANNA DEFIRMIAN, et al.
Moving Party: Plaintiff
Responding Party: Defendant Joanna Defirmian 
Notice: Sufficient 
Ruling: MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER IS GRANTED IN
PART AND REQUEST FOR SANCTIONS IS DENIED
 
Background
On April 2, 2024, the
court granted Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Financial Discovery, ordering that
Plaintiff could serve one set of discovery with 25 requests. On April 3, 2024,
Plaintiff served her request for production of financial documents on Defendant
Joanna Defrimian. On May 20, 2024, Defendant served her responses to
Plaintiff’s request. The parties met and conferred and attended an IDC on
August 26, 2024, but were not able to resolve the discovery issues pertaining
to the requests for production. Plaintiff now moves the court to compel further
responses to all 25 requests for production.
Discussion
The court finds that
the parties have sufficiently met and conferred, especially considering that
the parties met face-to-face at an IDC on August 26, 2024, to resolve their
discovery issue. Therefore, all the preliminary requirements have been met for
the court to hear the present motion. The court examined Plaintiff’s separate
statement and notes that for each individual request, Plaintiff put forth the same
argument, which essentially consists of a recitation of Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §
2031 and the conclusory remark that “There must be a further response and any
compliant production.” There is no reasoning put forth as to why Defendant’s
responses are not code compliant and why Defendant should be compelled to
provide further responses. Nonetheless, the court analyzed each request and
makes the following ruling:
Requests Nos 1, 3, 4, 6, 21, 22
GRANT.
Defendant’s statement of compliance for each request is not code compliant as
it does not state whether the response will be in full or in part, and whether
all documents in the possession, custody, or control of the party will be
produced, as required by Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.210. For example, in response
to Request No. 21, Defendant states, “See documents attached as Exhibits 1, 2,
and 3.” This response does not make it clear whether all documents in
Defendant’s possession, custody, or control will be produced. An example of a
code-compliant response would be: “The responding party will produce all
responsive documents in its possession, custody, or control” and then identify
the Bates stamp or exhibit number of the responsive documents in compliance
with CCP 2031.280.
Requests Nos. 2, 5, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12,
13, 14, 16, 17, 18, 20, 23, 25
DENY. With
respect to requests for production of documents, there are only three
appropriate ways to respond: (1) a statement that the party will comply with
the request, (2) a statement of inability to comply, or (3) an objection
(C.C.P. § 2031.210).
A statement of inability to comply must (1) affirm
that a diligent search and reasonable inquiry have been made, and (2) state
that the inability to comply is because the responsive item has never existed,
has been destroyed, lost, misplaced, or stolen, or has never been or is no
longer in the responding party’s possession, custody, or control. The statement
must also set forth the name and address of the person or organization believed
to have possession, custody, or control of the item.
Here, Defendant
provided substantially code-compliant responses by stating that she is not able
to comply with these requests because no such documents exist. For example,
Request No. 25 asks for “Any and all originals or legible copies of any and all
WRITINGS which evidence any and all brokerage or investment account statements
during the TIME PERIOD,” to which Defendant responded, “Responding Party did
not and does not have any brokerage or investment accounts during the time
period. Accordingly, there are no documents responsive to this request.” This
response is typical of Defendant’s responses in this section and is
substantially code-compliant, as Defendant states that she is unable to comply,
one of the three proper responses to a request for production, and provided an
explanation as to why she is unable to comply.
Request No. 7
REQUEST NO. 7: Any and
all originals or legible copies of any and all WRITINGS (as defined by
California Evidence Code Section 250) which evidence YOUR interest in any and
all businesses during the TIME PERIOD.
DENY.
The court agrees with Defendant that this request is duplicative and it is
merely a rephrasing of Request No. 6, which states, “Any and all originals or
legible copies of any and all WRITINGS (as defined by California Evidence Code
Section 250) which evidence any and all businesses in which YOU had any type of
interest during the TIME PERIOD.” This resquest is duplicative and need not be
responded to.
Request No. 15
REQUEST NO. 15: Any and
all originals or legible copies of any and all WRITINGS (as defined by
California Evidence Code Section 250) which evidence the transfer of any
business interest held by YOU during the TIME PERIOD. 
RESPONSE TO REQUEST NO.
15: Responding Party has not transferred any marriages during this time period.
Accordingly, there are no documents responsive to this request.
GRANT. Request
No. 15 relates to the transfer of business interests, but the response pertains
to the transfer of marriages. It is not responsive. Defendant states that this
was a typo in the opposition and is willing to amend her response. Defendant is
ordered to provide code-compliant responses within 20 days of today.
Request No. 19
REQUEST NO. 19: Any and
all originals or legible copies of any and all WRITINGS (as defined by
California Evidence Code Section 250) which evidence any and all of YOUR
interests in any real property during the TIME PERIOD. 
RESPONSE TO REQUEST NO.
19: Responding Party did not and does not own any real property during the time
period. Accordingly, there are no documents responsive to this request.
GRANT.
Ownership is not the only type of interest an individual can have in real
property. Defendant, in the opposition, argues that Defendant has no real
property interests during this time period; however, the response as phrased
does not represent that. 
Defendant is ordered to
provide code-compliant responses within 20 days of today.
Request No. 24
REQUEST NO. 24: Any and
all originals or legible copies of any and all WRITINGS (as defined by
California Evidence Code Section 250) which are YOUR W-2s, 1099s, and earning
statements during the TIME PERIOD. 
RESPONSE TO REQUEST NO.
24: Responding Party did not receive any W-2's or 1099's during the time
period. Accordingly, there are no documents responsive to this request.
GRANT. This
request, in addition to W-2 or 1099 forms, also asks for all earning
statements, which include pay stubs, paychecks, payroll reports, or any other
documents showing income probative of Defendant’s financial conditions. The
response as stated is only limited to W-2 or 1099 forms and therefore not fully
responsive. 
Defendant is ordered to
provide code-compliant responses within 20 days of today.
Sanctions are denied
for both parties as the present motion is granted in part and denied in part.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿The body of the email must include the hearing date and
time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿You should assume that others may appear at the hearing
to argue.
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion.
 