  Case Number:  21STCV08797    Hearing Date:   December 9, 2024    Dept:  E 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Southwest District
Torrance Dept. E




 
FRANCINE
  E. MCKAY,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:


 
21STCV08797




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  Granted
 




 
LOS
  ANGELES COUNTY METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY and DOES 1 to 25,


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:              December
9, 2024
 
Moving Parties:          Defendant Los Angeles County
Metropolitan Transportation 
 
Responding Party:      Plaintiff Francine E. McKay
 
HEARING: Motion for Summary
Judgement 
 
            The Court considered the moving,
opposition, and reply paper.
 
RULING
            
            The Court
grants the Motion for Summary Judgment.
 
BACKGROUND
 
            On March
5, 2021, Plaintiff Francine
E. McKay filed the Complaint against Defendant Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation,
alleging causes of action for negligence and motor vehicle negligence arising
from a trip and fall incident on Defendant’s bus.
 
            On December 5, 2023, Defendant filed
the instant Motion for Summary Judgment or, in the alternative, Summary
Adjudication.
 
On
November 22, 2024, Plaintiff filed the opposition.
 
            On December 2, 2024, Defendant filed
the Reply.
 
            Trial is set for February 13, 2025.
 
EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
 
Plaintiff’s Objections to Plaintiffs’
Evidence:
·      
The following objections are overruled:
Declaration of Scott Conner ¶ 3,4 Exhibit F, G.
·      
The following objections are sustained: 
            
LEGAL STANDARD
 
            The function of a
motion for summary judgment or adjudication is to allow a determination as to
whether an opposing party cannot show evidentiary support for a pleading or
claim and to enable an order of summary dismissal without the need for trial. (Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) Code of Civil
Procedure section 437 subdivision (c) “requires the trial judge to grant
summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably
deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or
evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that
the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” (Adler v.
Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) “The function of
the pleadings in a motion for summary judgment is to delimit the scope of the
issues; the function of the affidavits or declarations is to disclose whether
there is any triable issue of fact within the issues delimited by the
pleadings.” (Juge v. County of Sacramento (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67,
citing FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal. App. 3d 367,
381-382.)  
 
As to each cause of action, as framed by the
complaint, the defendant moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication
must satisfy the initial burden of proof by presenting facts to show “that one
or more elements of the cause of action ... cannot be established, or that
there is a complete defense to the cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
437c(p)(2); see also Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128
Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.) Courts “liberally construe the evidence in support of
the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence
in favor of that party.” (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39
Cal.4th 384, 389.)  
 
Once the defendant has met that burden, the
burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a triable issue of one or more
material facts exists as to that cause of action or a defense thereto. To
establish a triable issue of material fact, the party opposing the motion must
produce substantial responsive evidence. (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68
Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)  
 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
            On February 17, 2020,
Plaintiff was working as a caretaker for Helen Adolphus when they boarded a
LACMTA bus near Manchester Avenue and Hoover Street in Los Angeles. The bus
operator, Yolanda Galbert, secured Ms. Adolphus’ wheelchair in the designated
area.  For approximately three miles,
Plaintiff stood near the wheelchair while it remained secure. When the bus
reached their stop, Ms. Galbert released the wheelchair. Plaintiff began to
push the wheelchair but fell onto her left knee.  Plaintiff filed the Complaint against Defendant
on March 5, 2021, alleging causes of action for dangerous condition of public
property and motor vehicle negligence. 
 
            Defendant moves for
summary judgment on the grounds that Plaintiff cannot prove a dangerous
condition existed, Plaintiff cannot prove actual or constructive notice, and
that Plaintiff's second claim for motor vehicle negligence is barred under
Government Code Section 835. In the alternative, Defendant asks for summary
adjudication of the same three issues.
 
Cause of Action One – Negligence Under
Government Code Section 835 
 
Government
Code section 835 sets out the exclusive conditions under which a public entity
is liable for injuries caused by a dangerous condition of public property.¿ (Metcalf
v. County of San Joaquin (2008) 42 Cal.4th 1121, 1129, citing Brown v.
Poway Unified Sch. Dist. (1993) 4 Cal.4th 820, 829; see also, Zelig v.
County of Los Angeles (2002) 27 Cal.4th 1112.)¿ Per Government Code section
835, “a public entity is liable for injury caused by a dangerous condition of
its property if the plaintiff establishes that the property was in a dangerous
condition at the time of the injury, that the injury was proximately caused by
the dangerous condition, that the dangerous condition created a reasonably
foreseeable risk of the kind of injury which was incurred, and that either: [¶]
(a) A negligent or wrongful act or omission of an employee of the public entity
within the scope of his employment created the dangerous condition; or [c] (b)
The public entity had actual or constructive notice of the dangerous condition
. . . a sufficient time prior to the injury to have taken measures to protect
against the dangerous condition.”¿ (Gov. Code, § 835.)¿¿¿  
 
            Dangerous Condition
 
A
“dangerous condition” is a condition of public property that “create[s] a
substantial (as distinguished from a minor, trivial or insignificant) risk of
injury when such property or adjacent property is used with due care in a
manner in which it was reasonably foreseeable that it would be used.” (Gov.
Code, § 830.2.)
 
Defendant
argues that Plaintiff cannot establish the existence of a dangerous condition
on the LACMTA bus, as required under Government Code § 830(a). Defendant
contends that reasonable minds could only conclude that no dangerous condition
existed as the only evidence identified by Plaintiff as showing the existence
of a dangerous condition include: (1) the incident video, which does not show
any liquid on the floor before Plaintiff’s fall; (2) a light-yellow stain on
Plaintiff’s pants and underclothes at the hospital, which does not establish
when or where the liquid came into contact with her clothing; (3) the testimony
of Ms. Adolphus, who is deceased and, therefore, cannot provide evidence; and
(4) Plaintiff’s own statements. (UMF 6, 11, 13, 14, 17, 18, 19, 22.) Plaintiff
admitted she walked through the area without incident before her fall, did not
see any liquid before the fall, did not see anyone spill anything, did not
witness other passengers encountering issues in the same area, and heard no
reports of a spill. (UMF 19.)
 
Defendant
emphasizes that the bus operator, Ms. Galbert, observed no liquid in the area
before Plaintiff’s fall. (UMF 10) Plaintiff’s claims rely solely on her
unsupported statements, which are contradicted by the video evidence, the bus
operator’s observations, and Plaintiff’s own admissions. Defendant asserts that
the available evidence does not support the existence of a liquid substance on
the floor of the bus and concludes that Plaintiff cannot demonstrate a triable
issue of material fact regarding the presence of a dangerous condition.
 
In
opposition, Plaintiff asserts that a dangerous condition existed on the LACMTA
bus in the form of a liquid substance on the floor, which caused her to slip
and fall. Contrary to Defendant’s assertion that there was no liquid substance
on the floor, Plaintiff points to surveillance video footage, which she claims
shows a yellow-blue glare that could reasonably be construed as the liquid
substance. (Abazari Decl. ¶ 5.). Plaintiff also relies on her deposition
testimony, in which she stated that she informed the bus driver of the liquid
after the fall and later noticed her clothing was wet and stained with a yellow
substance, consistent with her claim of slipping on a liquid on the bus floor.
Plaintiff argues that the surveillance footage is inconclusive and does not
definitively establish the absence of a liquid, leaving the issue as one for
the jury to decide.
 
Plaintiff
contends that determining whether a dangerous condition existed is a question
of fact and inappropriate for summary judgment. (Mathews v. City of Cerritos
(1992) 2 Cal.App.4th 1380, 1384.) She maintains that her deposition
testimony, the surveillance video, and her discovery responses provide
sufficient evidence to raise a triable issue of material fact regarding the
existence of the liquid and whether it constituted a dangerous condition.
Plaintiff concludes that the Court should not grant summary judgment because
factual determinations regarding the existence of the liquid and its role in
her fall must be made by a jury.
 
            Courts “liberally
construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and
resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore,
supra, 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.) 
 
            Plaintiff admits that
the only evidence identified by Plaintiff to support her claim that the liquid substance
did exist and had been on the floor of the bus for longer than thirty seconds
to one minute prior to her fall was (1) video of the incident; (2) Plaintiff
statements; (3) Ms. Adolphus statements; and (4) that the seat of her pants and
underclothes were stained with a light yellow liquid when she was at the
hospital. (Plaintiff's response to Defendant Separate Statement ¶ 22.) 
 
            The Court has reviewed the video
footage of the incident and could not find any “yellow-blue glare” that could
be construed as a liquid. (Declaration
of Scott Conner, Exhibit F, G.) However, the Court notes that the footage was
low quality and grainy. Plaintiff has also stated that there was liquid on the
floor of the bus. (Abazari Decl. ¶ 3, Exhibit. B p. 61:12-18.) Defendant argues
that Plaintiff cannot make a genuine dispute of material fact by submitting a
declaration that contradicts video footage. (Swigart v. Bruno (2007) 13
Cal.App.5th 529, 534.) However, given the low quality of the video and the fact
that the Court must construe all evidence in Plaintiff's favor, the Court
cannot conclude that the video contradicts Plaintiff's testimony.
 
            Therefore,
the Court finds that there is a genuine dispute of material fact over whether
there was a liquid substance on the bus that created a dangerous condition of
public property.
 
Notice
 
“A
public entity is liable for injury caused by a dangerous condition of its
property if the plaintiff establishes that the property was in a dangerous
condition at the time of the injury, that the injury was proximately caused by
the dangerous condition, that the dangerous condition created a reasonably
foreseeable risk of the kind of injury which was incurred, and that either: [¶]
(a) A negligent or wrongful act or omission of an employee of the public entity
within the scope of his employment created the dangerous condition; or [c] (b)
The public entity had actual or constructive notice of the dangerous condition
. . . a sufficient time prior to the injury to have taken measures to protect
against the dangerous condition.”¿ (Gov. Code, § 835.)¿¿¿  
 
            Defendant
argues that even if the existence of a dangerous condition is established, Plaintiff
must also prove that LACMTA had sufficient notice of the condition to take
protective measures. To succeed in her claim, Plaintiff must show that either
LACMTA employees negligently created the condition or that LACMTA had actual or
constructive notice of the dangerous condition in time to address it.
Constructive notice requires evidence that the condition was both obvious and
existed for a sufficient duration to be discovered through due care.
 
Plaintiff admits that she does not know how
long the alleged liquid substance was on the floor before her fall and cannot
offer evidence that it was present for more than a minute. (UMF 15) She also
acknowledges that she did not hear any passengers notify the bus operator of a
spill or see anything that would have alerted the operator. (UMF 22).  Moreover, the bus operator, Ms. Galbert,
received no complaints about a liquid on the floor before the incident. (UMF
19, 20.)   Plaintiff’s discovery responses fail to
provide any evidence of actual or constructive notice of the alleged dangerous
condition. As such, Plaintiff cannot establish this critical element, leaving
no triable issue of fact regarding LACMTA’s notice of the condition.
 
In Opposition, Plaintiff argues that whether
a defendant had constructive notice of a dangerous condition is generally a
question of fact, becoming a question of law only when reasonable minds cannot
differ. (Gentekos v. City & County of S.F. (1958) 163 Cal.App.2d
691, 700.)
 
Plaintiff contends that Defendant’s evidence,
including declarations and limited surveillance footage, does not definitively
prove a lack of notice. For example, the bus driver, Ms. Galbert, declared that
she performed a pre-shift inspection but did not specify when this inspection
occurred relative to Plaintiff’s fall. Defendant provided no written records,
such as inspection logs or sweep sheets, to verify when the last inspection
occurred. (Abazari Decl. ¶ 6.). The surveillance footage covers only two minutes,
showing no inspection or sweep during that time. Plaintiff asserts that this
lack of documentation creates a reasonable inference that the alleged liquid
substance could have existed long enough for Defendant to discover it.
 
Although Plaintiff admitted she did not know
how long the liquid was on the floor, she testified that she was not actively
looking for hazards. Plaintiff also argues that Defendant failed to produce
evidence of its policies and procedures for inspecting or maintaining safety on
the bus and that the failure to conduct reasonable inspections can lead to an
inference that the condition existed long enough to be discovered through due
care. (Ortega v. Kmart Corp. (2001) 26 Cal. 4th 1200, 1203.)
 
Plaintiff further critiques the surveillance
footage, noting that it does not clearly establish whether a liquid substance
was present. Plaintiff argues that any ambiguities in the footage are matters
for the jury to decide.  In conclusion,
Plaintiff contends that there are triable issues of material fact regarding
whether Defendant had constructive notice of the dangerous condition.
Specifically, whether Defendant failed to inspect the area adequately and
whether the condition existed long enough to be discovered and remedied remain
factual disputes that preclude summary judgment.
 
In reply, Defendant asserts that Plaintiff’s
reliance on Ortega is misplaced, as that case pertains to a store's duty
to conduct regular inspections, which does not apply in the context of a public
bus. Defendant highlights that bus drivers conduct pre-trip inspections and may
rely on passengers to report hazards during transit. In this case, the bus
driver, Ms. Galbert, performed a pre-trip inspection and observed no liquid substance
when securing the wheelchair upon Plaintiff's boarding and again just prior to
Plaintiff’s fall. Additionally, the video footage shows only nine seconds
elapsed between Ms. Galbert un-securing the wheelchair and Plaintiff’s fall,
which is insufficient time to establish constructive notice of any spill.
 
Defendant argues that the surveillance
footage does not depict any liquid substance on the floor and notes that
Plaintiff herself did not observe any liquid before her fall or hear reports of
a spill from other passengers. Ms. Galbert also received no complaints or
indications of a spill. 
 
Defendant maintains that there is no evidence
to support Plaintiff’s claim of a dangerous condition or that Defendant had
notice of such a condition. Ms. Galbert’s observations and actions further
demonstrate that no dangerous condition existed at the time of the incident.
Thus, Defendant concludes that there is no triable issue of material fact and
requests that the court grant summary judgment.
 
            Under
Government Code section 835 Plaintiff has the burden of proof to show actual or
constructive notice. (Gov.
Code, § 835.) Here, Plaintiff has not provided sufficient evidence to show that
Defendant had notice. In contrast, the weight of the evidence shows that
Defendant did not have notice as Plaintiff admits that the bus operator received no complaints
about liquid on the floor before the incident. (UMF 19, 20.)
 
            While
Plaintiff relies on Ortega, the Court finds that Ortega is
distinguishable. First, Ortega involved a common law claim for
negligence and not a claim under Government Code section 835. (Ortega,
supra, 6 Cal. 4th 1200, 1206.) Furthermore, the Court, in Ortega,
found that “evidence that an inspection had not been made within a particular
period of time prior to an accident may warrant an inference that the defective
condition existed long enough so that a person exercising reasonable care would
have discovered it.” (Id, at 1210.) Here, Plaintiff provides no evidence
that an inspection had not been made, but instead argues that Defendant did not
produce any evidence to show whether an inspection was made. However, Ortega
puts the burden of proof on Plaintiff to produce the evidence showing that
Defendant failed to inspect the incident scene. (Id.) Thus, the Court
finds the Defendant has shown notice cannot be established and that no genuine
issues of material fact exist regarding notice.
 
            Therefore,
the Court grants the Motion for Summary Judgment as to the first cause of
action.
 
            Cause
of Action 2 – Motor Vehicle Negligence
 
            Plaintiff
concedes that the cause of action for motor vehicle negligence is barred.
(Opposition p. 3 Fn. 1)
 
            Therefore,
the Court grants the Motion for Summary Judgement as to the second cause of
action.