Case Number: 24TRCV02402   Hearing Date: December 8, 2024     Dept: ESuperior Court of CaliforniaCounty of Los AngelesSouthwest DistrictTorrance Dept. E TYSON B. SCHILZ, an individual; and GECTWO, INC., a California Corporation,   Plaintiffs, Case No.: 24TRCV02402 vs.  [Tentative] Sustained in part/overruled in part THE HILD CORPORATION dbaINDUSTRIAL HIGH VOLTAGE, a California Corporation; and DOES 1 through10, inclusive,       Defendants.       Hearing Date:             December 9, 2024 Moving Party:             Plaintiffs Tyson B. Schilz and Gectwo, Inc. Responding Party:      Defendant The Hild Corporation Dba Industrial High Volt AgeHEARING: Demurrer to the First Amended Answer             The Court considered the moving and opposition papers. RULING             The Court Sustains the Demurrer as to the second, tenth, twelfth, thirteenth, twenty-third, twenty-fourth, twenty-ninth, thirty-second, thirty-third, thirty-fourth, thirty-sixth, thirty-seventh and twenty-eight affirmative defenses. The Court overrules the demurrer as to the first, third, fourth, sixth, seventh, eighth, sixteenth, seventeenth, twentieth, twenty-first, twenty-second, twenty-fifth, twenty-sixth, twenty-seventh, twenty-eighth, thirty-first, and forty-first affirmative defenses. BACKGROUND                       On July 18, 2024, Plaintiffs Tyson B. Schilz and Gectwo, Inc. filed the Complaint against Defendant the Hild Corporation Dba Industrial High Volt Age alleging causes of action for Malicious Prosecution, IIED, NIED, and violation of Business and Professional Code Section 17200 arising out of allegedly frivolous lawsuit previously filed against Plaintiffs.             On October 24, 2024, Plaintiff filed the instant Demurrer to the Answer.             On November 7, 2024, The Court granted an Anti-Slapp motion dismissing Plaintiffs second, third, and fourth causes of action.             On November 22, Defendants filed the Opposition.             No Reply has been filed.           LEGAL STANDARDA demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) A demurrer to an answer may be brought on one of three (3) grounds: (1) failure to state facts sufficient to constitute a defense; (2) uncertainty; and (3) failure to state whether the contract alleged in the answer is written or oral.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.20.) Affirmative defenses should be relevant to a plaintiff’s legal claims and averred carefully, with as much detail as the facts constituting the corresponding causes of action in the complaint.  (FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 367, 384.) Affirmative defenses should not be proffered in the form of “terse legal conclusions.”  (Ibid.)  DISCUSSIONPlaintiffs demur to the first, second, third, fourth, sixth, seventh, eighth, tenth, eleventh, twelfth, thirteenth, sixteenth, seventeenth, twentieth, twenty-first, twenty-second, twenty-third, twenty-fourth, twenty-fifth, twenty-sixth, twenty-seventh, twenty-eighth, twenty-ninth, thirty-first, thirty-second, thirty-third, thirty-fourth, thirty-sixth, thirty-seventh, thirty-eighth and forty-first affirmative defenses. On February 9, 2022, Defendant initiated a lawsuit against Plaintiffs in Los Angeles Superior Court, titled The Hild Corporation dba Industrial High Voltage v. Jason P. Guillen, et al., Case No. 22TRCV00100 (the "Underlying Action"). The claims in that action included conversion, intentional interference with contractual relations, intentional interference with prospective economic advantage, negligent interference with prospective economic advantage, and unfair competition under Business and Professions Code § 17200. Plaintiffs successfully prevailed on summary judgment. Subsequently, Plaintiffs filed the current lawsuit against Defendant, asserting claims for malicious prosecution, intentional infliction of emotional distress, negligent infliction of emotional distress, and violation of Business and Professions Code § 17200. Plaintiffs allege that Defendant brought the Underlying Action with the improper purpose of harassing, damaging, and disrupting Plaintiffs' business activities. On October 16, 2024, Defendant filed and served a First Amended Answer, asserting thirty-eight affirmative defenses. Meet and confer Before filing a demurrer, “the demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a).) Defendant’s counsel sent a meet and confer letter on October 22, 2024, regarding the demurrer. (Salek Decl. ¶ 3.) The parties met telephonically on the same day. Therefore, the Court finds that Defendant has met the meet and confer requirement. (Salek Decl. ¶ 4.) First Affirmative Defense – Failure to State a Cause of Action Plaintiffs argue that Defendant's first affirmative defense, which asserts that the Complaint fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action, lacks any factual basis or explanation as to how the claims for malicious prosecution, IIED, NIED, and violation of Business and Professions Code § 17200 are deficiently pleaded. Plaintiffs contend that the defense is entirely conclusory and devoid of supporting facts. Therefore, Plaintiffs request that the Court sustain their demurrer to Defendant's first affirmative defense. In opposition, Defendants argue that their affirmative defense asserting that the Complaint and its causes of action fail to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action is legally sufficient. They claim it provides adequate notice to Plaintiffs of a "potentially meritorious defense."(Hata v. L.A. County Harbor/UCLA Med. Ctr. (1995) 31 Cal.App.4th 1791, 1804-05.)  Defendants assert that this defense informs Plaintiffs of the issues they will need to address at trial, thereby meeting the necessary legal standard for an affirmative defense. (Lewis v. Fahn (1952) 113 Cal.App.2d 95, 100.) For an affirmative defense to survive a demurrer, it must only plead the ultimate fact and give notice to the opposing party of a potentially meritorious defense. (See, Welch v. Derian (1964) 224 Cal.App.2d 750, 754; Hata, supra, 31 Cal.App.4th 1791, 1804-05.) Here, the Court finds that Defendant’s affirmative defense for Failure to State a Cause of Action, read in light of the Complaint, was sufficient to give notice to Plaintiff of a potentially meritorious defense. While Plaintiff argues that Defendant is conclusory and fails to provide supporting facts, an affirmative defense must only plead the ultimate fact. (See, Welch, supra, 224 Cal.App.2d 750, 754.) Therefore, the Court overrules the Demurrer as to the first affirmative defense. Second Affirmative Defense – Offset             Plaintiffs argue that Defendant's second affirmative defense for offset is deficient because it lacks factual support and fails to meet the requirements of Code of Civil Procedure § 431.70. While the statute allows a defendant to assert offset based on cross-demands for money, Defendant has not alleged any cross-claims or provided facts demonstrating entitlement to recover damages from Plaintiffs. Without such a factual basis, the defense is inadequately pleaded and should be dismissed.             Defendant argues that its second affirmative defense for offset is validly pleaded, as it asserts the existence of a potential offset to Plaintiffs' claims for damages. Defendant contends that there is no legal requirement to assert this affirmative defense. Additionally, Defendant emphasizes that Plaintiffs have sufficient notice of the issue, can pursue discovery to obtain evidence supporting the defense, and are aware of the matters they will need to address at trial to counter this defense.             No cross-demands for money have been made between the two parties. Therefore, offset is not a potentially meritorious defense. (Code Civ. Proc., § 431.70.)             Therefore, the Court sustains the Demurrer as to the second affirmative defense. Third Affirmative Defense – Waiver             Plaintiffs argue that Defendant's affirmative defense based on the doctrine of waiver is inadequately pleaded. They contend that waiver requires the intentional relinquishment of a known right with full knowledge of the relevant facts. (Earl of Loveless, Inc. v. Gabele (1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 27, 35.) However, Defendant's Answer fails to specify the conduct by Plaintiffs that allegedly constitutes waiver or the rights Plaintiffs purportedly waived. As a result, the defense lacks sufficient factual detail and is subject to demurrer.             In opposition, Defendant argues that its affirmative defense alleges Plaintiffs engaged in conduct constituting a waiver of rights, thereby excusing Defendant from further performance. Defendant asserts that Plaintiffs do not claim to be unaware of the allegations against them or unable to obtain evidence supporting the defense through discovery. Therefore, Defendant contends the demurrer to this affirmative defense should be overruled. For an affirmative defense to survive a demurrer, it must only plead the ultimate fact and give notice to the opposing party of a potentially meritorious defense. (See, Welch, supra, 224 Cal.App.2d 750, 754; Hata, supra, 31 Cal.App.4th 1791, 1804-05.) Here, the Court finds that Defendant has properly pleaded an affirmative defense for waiver as Defendant has pleaded the ultimate fact of a potentially meritorious defense. While Plaintiff argues that Defendant is conclusory and fails to provide supporting facts, an affirmative defense must only plead the ultimate fact. (See, Welch, supra, 224 Cal.App.2d 750, 754.) Therefore, the Court overrules the Demurrer as to the third affirmative defense. Fourth Affirmative Defense – Estoppel Plaintiffs argue that to establish estoppel, Defendant must demonstrate four elements: (1) knowledge of the facts by the party to be estopped; (2) conduct intended to be acted upon or conduct that gives the asserting party a right to believe it was so intended; (3) ignorance of the true facts by the asserting party; and (4) reliance on the conduct resulting in injury. (Gaunt v. Prudential Ins. Co. (1967) 255 Cal.App.2d 18, 23.) Plaintiffs contend that Defendant has not alleged any conduct to satisfy these elements, making the defense insufficiently pleaded. Defendant argues that Gaunt pertains to the standard of proof for an estoppel claim and does not require an answer to assert each element of the claim with particularity. (Gaunt, supra, 255 Cal.App.2d 18, 23.) Defendant contends that its answer provides sufficient facts to notify Plaintiffs of the basis for the estoppel defense, enabling Plaintiffs to conduct discovery to explore the affirmative defense further. For an affirmative defense to survive a demurrer, it must only plead the ultimate fact and give notice to the opposing party of a potentially meritorious defense. (See, Welch, supra, 224 Cal.App.2d 750, 754; Hata, supra, 31 Cal.App.4th 1791, 1804-05.) Furthermore, the Court in Guant was stating the elements of estoppel and not any particular pleading standard. (Gaunt, supra, 255 Cal.App.2d 18, 23.) Here, the Court finds that Defendant has properly pleaded an affirmative defense for estoppel as Defendant has pleaded the ultimate fact of a potentially meritorious defense. Therefore, the Court overrules the Demurrer as to the fourth affirmative defense.  Sixth Affirmative Defense – Unclean Hands Plaintiffs argue that the doctrine of unclean hands applies only when there is "unconscionable, bad faith, or inequitable conduct" by the plaintiff related to the matter in controversy. (Fladeboe v. American Isuzu Motors, Inc. (2007) 150 Cal.App.4th 42, 56.)  Defendant's assertion that Plaintiffs' claims are barred by unclean hands is unclear because Plaintiffs' Complaint arises from Defendant's alleged wrongful use of civil proceedings, not from a series of transactions. Plaintiffs further contend that Defendant's answer fails to allege any specific facts demonstrating bad faith or inequitable conduct by Plaintiffs, rendering the affirmative defense inadequately pleaded. Defendant argues that Plaintiffs improperly seek a narrow interpretation of the term "transactions," claiming it does not apply to interactions within the context of civil proceedings. Defendant contends that the term should be interpreted broadly and that its affirmative defense has been properly pleaded. (Alton H. Saxer v. Phillip Morris (1975) 54 Cal.App.3d 7, 18.) For an affirmative defense to survive a demurrer, it must only plead the ultimate fact and give notice to the opposing party of a potentially meritorious defense. (See, Welch, supra, 224 Cal.App.2d 750, 754; Hata, supra, 31 Cal.App.4th 1791, 1804-05.) Here, the Court finds that transactions can be reasonably interpreted to include interactions in civil proceedings. Thus, the Court finds that Defendant has properly pleaded an affirmative defense for unclean hands as Defendant has pleaded the ultimate fact of a potentially meritorious defense. While Plaintiff argues that Defendant is conclusory and fails to provide supporting facts, an affirmative defense must only plead the ultimate fact. (See, Welch, supra, 224 Cal.App.2d 750, 754.) Therefore, the Court overrules the Demurrer as to the sixth affirmative defense. Seventh Affirmative Defense – Latches             Plaintiffs argue that Defendant's laches defense is improperly pleaded because it fails to allege any facts supporting the necessary elements: (1) delay in asserting a right or claim, (2) that the delay was unreasonable or inexcusable, and (3) prejudice to the opposing party. (Magic Kitchen LLC v. Good Things 10 International, Ltd. (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1144, 1157.) Plaintiffs assert that Defendant merely provides a conclusory statement that the complaint is barred by laches, which constitutes an improper "terse legal conclusion" subject to demurrer Development, Inc., supra, 231 Cal.App.3d 367, 384. Defendant argues that Plaintiffs misinterpret the requirements for pleading an affirmative defense. While Plaintiffs cite Magic Kitchen LLC for the elements needed to prove laches at trial, Defendant contends that the case does not establish heightened pleading requirements for affirmative defenses in an answer. (Magic Kitchen LLC, supra, 153 Cal.App.4th 1144, 1157.) Defendant asserts that its answer sufficiently notifies Plaintiffs of the basis for the laches defense, allowing Plaintiffs to investigate the issue through discovery. (Doheny Park Terrace Homeowners Ass’n, Inc. v. Truck Ins. Exch. (2005) 132 Cal.App.4th 1076, 1099.) For an affirmative defense to survive a demurrer, it must only plead the ultimate fact and give notice to the opposing party of a potentially meritorious defense. (See, Welch, supra, 224 Cal.App.2d 750, 754; Hata, supra, 31 Cal.App.4th 1791, 1804-05.) Here, the Court finds that Defendant has properly pleaded an affirmative defense for latches as Defendant has pleaded the ultimate fact of a potentially meritorious defense. While Plaintiff argues that Defendant is conclusory and fails to provide supporting facts, an affirmative defense must only plead the ultimate fact. (See, Welch, supra, 224 Cal.App.2d 750, 754.) Therefore, the Court overrules the Demurrer as to the Seventh affirmative defense. Eighth Affirmative Defense – Failure to Mitigate             Plaintiffs argue that Defendant’s failure to mitigate defense is insufficiently pleaded. They contend that Defendant fails to specify the reasonable steps Plaintiffs should have taken or the damages that could have been avoided. (Shaffer v. Debbas (l 993) 17 Cal.App.4th 33, 41.) Plaintiffs emphasize that the lawsuit arises from Defendant’s actions in filing and continuing to litigate the underlying action, despite knowing or having reason to know it lacked merit. By successfully defending against the underlying lawsuit, Plaintiffs assert that they inherently took all reasonable steps to mitigate their damages. Therefore, they argue this affirmative defense lacks merit and should be subject to demurrer. Defendant argues that Plaintiffs' objection to the mitigation of damages defense is premature, as discovery has not yet been conducted to gather evidence supporting the defense. Defendant asserts that it is entitled to plead affirmative defenses based on the expectation of uncovering supporting evidence during discovery. Additionally, Defendant emphasizes that it is not required to provide detailed evidence at this stage, as the purpose of asserting the defense is to preserve it for trial and avoid waiver. (McKell v. Washington Mut., Inc. (2006) 142 Cal.App.4th 1457, 1469-70.) For an affirmative defense to survive a demurrer, it must only plead the ultimate fact and give notice to the opposing party of a potentially meritorious defense. (See, Welch, supra, 224 Cal.App.2d 750, 754; Hata, supra, 31 Cal.App.4th 1791, 1804-05.)  Here, the Court finds that Defendant has properly pleaded an affirmative defense for failure to mitigate as Defendant has pleaded the ultimate fact of a potentially meritorious defense. While Plaintiff argues that Defendant is conclusory and fails to provide supporting facts showing how Plaintiff failed to mitigate, an affirmative defense must only plead the ultimate fact. (See, Welch, supra, 224 Cal.App.2d 750, 754.) Therefore, the Court overrules the Demurrer as to the eighth affirmative defense.  Eleventh Affirmative Defense – Statute of Limitations           Plaintiffs argue that Defendant's statute of limitations defense is inadequately pleaded and fails to specify how Plaintiffs' claims are time-barred. Defendant cites numerous code sections, including many that either do not exist or are irrelevant to the claims at issue, such as sections related to contracts, book accounts, or construction improvements. Plaintiffs assert that Defendant has not provided any factual basis to support the applicability of any statute of limitations to their claims and, therefore, request that the court sustain their demurrer to this affirmative defense. The First Amended Answer cites Code of Civil Procedure Section 335, which includes all non-real estate statutes of limitations. While Plaintiffs citing of Code of Civil Procedure, Section 335 is not particularly helpful, the two-year statute of limitations for malicious prosecution is found in Code of Civil Procedure, Section 335.1. Thus, the Court finds that the eleventh affirmative defense was properly pleaded as it gave Plaintiff notice of a potentially meritorious defense. (See, Welch, supra,224 Cal.App.2d 750, 754.) Therefore, the Court overrules the Demurrer as to the eleventh affirmative defense. Sixteenth Affirmative Defense – Res Judicata             Plaintiffs argue that Defendant's res judicata defense is inapplicable because the doctrine requires a final judgment on the merits in a prior proceeding involving the same cause of action and the same parties or their privies. (DKN Holdings, LlC v. Faerber (2015) 61 Cal.4th 813, 824.) Plaintiffs assert that they have not previously filed any lawsuit against Defendant. While Plaintiffs prevailed in the underlying action initiated by Defendant, that case did not involve claims by Plaintiffs. As a result, the elements of res judicata are not met, and Plaintiffs request the court sustain their demurrer to this affirmative defense. Defendant argues that Plaintiffs misapply legal authority by referencing the elements required to prove res judicata at trial, rather than what is necessary to plead the defense in an answer. Defendant contends that Plaintiffs' claim that the underlying action cannot serve as a "previous action" ignores the court's prior anti-SLAPP ruling and prematurely assumes that the underlying action has no res judicata effect. Defendant asserts that these arguments are inaccurate and premature and requests the court overrule the demurrer to the res judicata defense. For an affirmative defense to survive a demurrer, it must only plead the ultimate fact and give notice to the opposing party of a potentially meritorious defense. (See, Welch, supra,224 Cal.App.2d 750, 754; Hata, supra, 31 Cal.App.4th 1791, 1804-05.) Here, the affirmative defense of res judicata is potentially meritorious because of the possibility of the Anti-Slapp or underlying action barring this action, however unlikely that may be. While Plaintiff argues that Defendant is conclusory and fails to provide supporting facts showing how res judicata would apply an affirmative defense must only plead the ultimate fact. (See, Welch, supra, 224 Cal.App.2d 750, 754.) Therefore, the Court overrules the Demurrer as to the sixteenth affirmative defense. Seventeenth, Twenty-First, Twenty-Second, Twenty-Sixth, and Twenty-Seventh Affirmative Defenses Plaintiffs argue that Defendant’s affirmative defenses for Intentional or Negligent Conduct of Third Parties, Acts of Others, Secondary Liability, and Failure to Name Indispensable Parties are deficiently pleaded. Defendant fails to identify any specific third parties, their alleged acts or omissions, or any indispensable parties relevant to the case. Plaintiffs assert that their Complaint straightforwardly alleges that Defendant pursued a meritless lawsuit against them for improper purposes. Since no third parties are relevant to the claims or defenses, Plaintiffs argue these affirmative defenses lack sufficient factual basis and should be subject to demurrer. Defendant argues that their affirmative defenses are being asserted prior to the completion of discovery, which is a necessary and expected step in the litigation process. Defendant contends that requiring specific factual evidence at this stage, as Plaintiffs demand, is unreasonable and premature. The purpose of an answer is to preserve potential defenses that may be supported by evidence discovered later. Defendant asserts that Plaintiffs’ position, seeking to sustain a demurrer based on the lack of evidence at this early stage, overreaches the Court’s authority. Therefore, Defendant argues that the demurrer should be overruled. For an affirmative defense to survive a demurrer, it must only plead the ultimate fact and give notice to the opposing party of a potentially meritorious defense. (See, Welch, supra,224 Cal.App.2d 750, 754; Hata, supra, 31 Cal.App.4th 1791, 1804-05.) Here, the Court finds that Defendant has properly pleaded the listed affirmative defenses as Defendant has pleaded the ultimate fact of potentially meritorious defenses. While Plaintiff argues that Defendant is conclusory and fails to provide supporting facts showing which third parties are at fault, an affirmative defense must only plead the ultimate fact. (See, Welch, supra, 224 Cal.App.2d 750, 754.)             Therefore, the Court overrules the Demurrer as to the Seventeenth, Twenty-First, Twenty-Second, Twenty-Sixth, and Twenty-Seventh Affirmative Defenses. Twentieth Affirmative Defense – Assumption of Risk             Plaintiffs argue that the doctrine of primary assumption of risk applies only to certain sports or recreational activities where inherent risks are integral to the activity, and removing those risks would fundamentally alter its nature. Plaintiffs emphasize that the doctrine is intended to prevent imposing duties that might discourage participation in such activities. (Childs v. County San1a Barbara (2004) 115 Cal.App.4th 64. 20 69-70. Plaintiffs contend that their complaint, which alleges wrongful prosecution of a meritless lawsuit, does not involve sports or recreational activities. Thus, the affirmative defense of assumption of the risk is inapplicable and lacks a factual basis, rendering it deficient and subject to demurrer.             As there are no facts in the Complaint that could be read to indicate that recreational activity, The court finds that assumption of risk is not a potentially meritorious affirmative defense.             Therefore, the Court sustains the Demurrer as to the Twentieth Affirmative Defense. Twenty-Fifth, Thirty-First, and Forty-First Affirmative Defenses             Plaintiffs argue that Defendant's twenty-fifth affirmative defense for Justification, which claims that Defendant's actions were justified, as well as the defenses of Bad Faith and False Representations to the Court, are insufficiently pleaded. Defendant has not provided any factual basis to support these defenses. Plaintiffs contend that even if these defenses are theoretically valid, the lack of specific facts renders them deficient. As such, Plaintiffs request that the Court sustain their demurrer to these affirmative defenses. For an affirmative defense to survive a demurrer, it must only plead the ultimate fact and give notice to the opposing party of a potentially meritorious defense. (See, Welch, supra,224 Cal.App.2d 750, 754; Hata, supra, 31 Cal.App.4th 1791, 1804-05.) Here, the Court finds that Defendant has properly pleaded the listed affirmative defenses as Defendant has pleaded the ultimate fact of potentially meritorious defenses. While Plaintiff argues that Defendant has not provided specific facts supporting these defenses, an affirmative defense must only plead the ultimate fact. (See, Welch, supra, 224 Cal.App.2d 750, 754.)             Therefore, the Court overrules the Demurrer as to the Twenty-Fifth, Thirty-First, and Forty-First Affirmative Defenses.  Tenth, Twelfth, Thirteenth, Twenty-Third, Twenty-Fourth, Twenty-Ninth, Thirty-Second, Thirty-Third, Thirty-Fourth, Thirty-Sixth, and Thirty-Seventh Affirmative Defenses             Plaintiffs argue that Defendant’s tenth, twelfth, thirteenth, twenty-third, twenty-fourth, twenty-eighth, twenty-ninth, thirty-second, thirty-third, thirty-fourth, thirty-sixth, and thirty-seventh defenses affirmative defenses are improperly pleaded because they merely negate elements of the claims in Plaintiffs' Complaint rather than asserting new matters (State Farm Mutual Auto. Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (1991) 228 Cal.App.3d 721, 725.) Plaintiffs contend that these defenses amount to denials of allegations or elements of the causes of action, which do not qualify as affirmative defenses. As such, these defenses are not responsive to the requirements for affirmative defenses and should be subject to demurrer.             In State Farm, the Court found that an affirmative defense must include a new matter constituting a defense. (State Farm, supra¸228 Cal.App.3d 721, 725.) For an affirmative defense to be a new matter, it must not be an essential element of the instant cause of action. (Id.)             Defendant provides no rebuttal to State Farm.             Thus, the Court finds that the tenth, twelfth, thirteenth, twenty-third, twenty-fourth, twenty-ninth, thirty-second, thirty-third, thirty-fourth, thirty-sixth, and thirty-seventh affirmative defenses are not new matters as they are elements of Plaintiffs causes of actions.             Therefore, the Court sustains the Demurrer to the tenth, twelfth, thirteenth, twenty-third, twenty-fourth, twenty-ninth, thirty-second, thirty-third, thirty-fourth, thirty-sixth, and thirty-seventh affirmative defenses. Twenty-Eighth Affirmative Defense – No Fiduciary Relationship             Plaintiffs argue that Defendant's twenty-eighth affirmative defense, "No Fiduciary Relationship," is improperly pleaded because Defendant has not demonstrated that a fiduciary relationship is a required element of any of Plaintiffs' causes of action. Plaintiffs contend that Defendant has failed to provide sufficient factual support for this defense, rendering it subject to demurrer.             The Court finds that no fiduciary relationship is not a potentially meritorious defense as a fiduciary relationship is not required for any of Plaintiff causes of action. Therefore, the Court sustains the Demurrer as to the Twenty-Eighth Affirmative Defense.  