  Case Number:  23TRCV01292    Hearing Date:   May 14, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
GERALD
  JOHNSON,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23TRCV01292




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
GLOBAL
  CLEAN ENERGY, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendant.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          May 14, 2024
 
Moving Parties:                      Attorney Ryan Jackman,
Esq., attorney for plaintiff Gerald Johnson 
Responding
Party:                  None
Motion to Be Relieved
as Counsel
 
The court considered the moving
papers.
RULING
The motion is CONTINUED to
____________ to allow moving counsel to make further efforts to confirm the
client’s address and to file a supplemental declaration. 
BACKGROUND
On April 25, 2023, plaintiff Gerald
Johnson filed a complaint against Global Clean Energy, Global Clean Energy
Holdings, Inc., and Richard Palmer for Labor Code violations, common counts,
and conversion. 
LEGAL STANDARD
The court has discretion to allow
an attorney to withdraw, and such a motion should be granted provided that
there is no prejudice to the client and it does not disrupt the orderly process
of justice.  See Ramirez v. Sturdevant (1994) 21 Cal. App. 4th 904, 915; People v. Prince (1968) 268 Cal. App. 2d
398.
CRC Rule 3.1362 (Motion to Be
Relieved as Counsel) requires (1) notice of motion and motion to be directed to
the client (made on the Notice of Motion and Motion to be Relieved as
Counsel—Civil form (MC-051)); (2) a declaration stating in general terms and
without compromising the confidentiality of the attorney-client relationship
why a motion under Code of Civil Procedure section 284(2) is brought instead of
filing a consent under Code of Civil Procedure section 284(1) (made on the
Declaration in Support of Attorney's Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel—Civil
form (MC-052)); (3) service of the notice of motion and motion and declaration
on all other parties who have appeared in the case; and (4) the proposed order
relieving counsel (prepared on the Order Granting Attorney's Motion to Be
Relieved as Counsel—Civil form (MC-053)).
DISCUSSION
            Plaintiff Gerald Johnson’s attorney,
Ryan Jackman, Esq., seeks to be relieved as counsel.
            Counsel states in his declaration
that the attorney-client relationship has broken down to the extent that he is
unable to continue representation.  He
states that he has been unable to confirm that the address is current or to
locate a more current address for the client after making the following
efforts:  calling the client’s last known
telephone number and electronic mail to client. 
Counsel further states that the client has been unresponsive to his
efforts.  
The Court finds that the attorney’s
declaration is insufficient as to efforts to confirm the client’s address as it
appears that the attorney only called and emailed but received no response.
The motion is CONTINUED to allow
counsel to show further efforts to confirm the client’s address.
 
ORDER
The motion is CONTINUED to
____________ to allow moving counsel to make further efforts to confirm the
client’s address and to file a supplemental declaration. 
Moving counsel is ordered to give
notice of this ruling.