 Case Number:  23STCV01738    Hearing Date:   September 20, 2024    Dept:  29 Garfias v. County of Los Angeles
23STCV01738
Plaintiff’s Motion for Relief from Waiver of Jury Trial
Tentative
The motion is granted.
Background
On January 26, 2023, Amayel Garfias
(“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against County of Los Angeles and Deputy Miguel
Leon (collectively “Defendants”) for (1) Assault and Battery, (2) Negligence,
(3) Interference with Civil Rights under Civil Code section 52.1, and (4) Harassment
and Hostile Work Environment in violation of FEHA (Government Code section
12940 et seq.) causes of action arising out of harassment of Plaintiff starting
on December 20, 2021 and continued to January 30, 2022. Plaintiff’s complaint
included a demand for a jury trial. (Complaint, p. 18.)
On September 25, 2023, Defendant Miguel Leon
filed an answer; On October 25, 2023, County of Los Angeles filed an answer.
On July 3, 2024, Plaintiff filed notice of
posting jury fees.
On August 13, 2024, Plaintiff filed this motion for an
order granting relief from potential waiver of trial by jury. This motion was
continued from September 6 to September 20 due to service issues. 
 
No opposition has been filed.
 
Legal Standard
 
“Trial by jury is an
inviolate right and shall be secured to all.” (Cal. Const., art. I, § 16.) “In
a civil cause a jury may be waived by the consent of the parties expressed as
prescribed by statute.” (Ibid.) 
 
Code of Civil Procedure
section 631 is the primary statute addressing waiver of a jury trial in a civil
case. Under section 631, subdivision(f)(5), a party waives their right to a
jury trial by not timely posting jury fees. Jury fees must be paid “on or
before the date scheduled for the initial case management conference in the
action”; where there is no case management conference, the fees are due “no
later than 365 calendar days after the filing of the initial complaint.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 631, subd. (c) & (c)(2).) 
 
“The court may, in its
discretion upon just terms, allow a trial by jury although there may have been
a waiver of a trial by jury.” (Id., subd. (g).) 
 
The California Supreme
Court recently addressed the exercise of this discretion in TriCoast
Builders, Inc. v. Fonnegra (2024) 15 Cal.5th 766. In ruling on a request
for relief from waiver of jury trial: 
 
“[T]he primary
consideration is … whether granting relief from waiver would result in any
hardship to other parties or to the court, such as delay in rescheduling the
trial for a jury or inconvenience to witnesses. But courts have also regularly
considered other factors, including the timeliness of the request; whether the
requester is willing to comply with applicable requirements for payment of jury
fees; and the reasons supporting the request.” (15 Cal.5th at pp. 779-780.) 
 
“[T]he presence or absence
of hardship is not always dispositive,” and the court may, in its discretion,
also consider (among other things) whether the motion for relief from waiver
“simply reflects a belated change of heart about trial tactics” or is being
used as a “pretext” to obtain a continuance. (Id., at p. 780.) But when
a party “has timely given notice that it desires trial by jury” but then loses
that right by nonpayment of fees, “lack of hardship to the other parties or the
court is generally controlling, absent other factors that weigh against
relief.” (Id., at p. 782.) 
 
In ruling on request from
relief from waiver under section 631, subdivision (g), “courts are mindful of
the requirement ‘to resolve doubts in interpreting the waiver provisions of
section 631 in favor of a litigant's right to jury trial.’” (Tesoro del
Valle Master Homeowners Assn. v. Griffin (2011) 200 Cal.App.4th 619, 638, quoting
Grafton Partners v. Superior Court (2005) 36 Cal.4th 944, 956.)
 
Discussion
 
Plaintiff’s counsel states
that they inadvertently failed to post fees for a jury trial in a timely
fashion. (Contreras Decl., ¶ 4.) Plaintiff untimely posted jury fees on July 3,
2024.  There is no indication that this
was a deliberate tactical decision, that Plaintiff is having a belated change
of heart, or that this is a pretext for a continuance. Inadvertence is a factor
that weighs in support of granting the motion. 
 
Although the presence or
absence of prejudice is not independently dispositive, the Court notes that no
opposition has been filed. Plaintiff contends there is no prejudice as the parties
have been preparing for a jury trial. (Id., ¶ 5.) The Court notes
Plaintiff’s complaint included a demand for jury trial.
 
The Court finds that Plaintiff
did not timely post jury fees; that in doing so, Plaintiff waived the right to jury trial;
that this waiver was inadvertent; and that no party would suffer any undue or
unfair prejudice from a court order granting relief from waiver.
 
After considering all of
the evidence in the record, the Court exercises its discretion under Code of
Civil Procedure section 631, subdivision (g), to grant relief from waiver and
to allow a trial by jury.
 
Conclusion
 
The Court
GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion for relief from waiver of jury trial.
 
Moving party is ORDERED to give notice.