 Case Number:  23STCV09093    Hearing Date:   September 20, 2024    Dept:  29 Garcia v. LA Rentals
23STCV09093
Plaintiff’s Motion for Entry of Default
Tentative
The motion is denied.
Background 
On April 25,
2023, Plaintiff Heidy Garcia (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Defendant
LA Rentals asserting a negligence cause of action. 
 
On March 6,
2024, Commercial Property Management, Inc. dba LA Rentals (erroneously sued as
LA Rentals) (“Defendant”) filed an answer to Plaintiff’s complaint.
 
On July 11, 2023, Plaintiff filed a motion for summary
judgment. That motion was DENIED as Defendant has not yet made a general
appearance.
 
On August 8, 2024, and again on August 12, 2024,
Plaintiff filed a Motion for Entry of Default. 
On August 14, 2024, Plaintiff filed what appears to be a proof of
service of the motion.
 
No opposition has been filed.
 
Legal Standard 
 
“In
an action arising upon contract or judgment for the recovery of money or
damages only, if the defendant has, or if more than one defendant, if any of
the defendants have, been served, other than by publication, and no answer… the
clerk, upon written application of the plaintiff, and proof of the service of
summons, shall enter the default of the defendant or defendants, so served, and
immediately thereafter enter judgment for the principal amount demanded in the
complaint.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 585, subd. (a).)
 
Discussion 
It is unclear whether proper notice of this motion and hearing
was provided to Defendant.  The version
of the motion filed on August 8 has an incorrect hearing date and an incorrect
department (but the correct name of the judge). 
The version of the motion filed on August 12 has the same incorrect information,
along with additional information with a different incorrect hearing date but
the correct department.  
Even assuming proper notice was given, the Court must deny the
motion.  Defendant filed an answer on March
6, 2024. Therefore, default cannot be entered against Defendant under Code of
Civil Procedure section 585, subdivision (a).
Conclusion
 
The Court DENIES Plaintiff’s motion for entry
of default.
The Court directs the Judicial Assistant to
give notice.