 Case Number:  22STCV17999    Hearing Date:   September 20, 2024    Dept:  29 Glenn v. Cand Rentals, LLC
22STCV17999
Defendants’ Motion to Continue Trial
Defendants’ Motion to Compel Plaintiff to Produce Vehicle for Inspection
Defendants’ Motion to Compel Plaintiff to Respond to Special Interrogatories
(Set Two)
Defendants’ Motion to Compel Plaintiff to
Respond to Requests for Production (Set Two)
Defendants’ Motion to Compel Plaintiff to
Respond to Supplemental Interrogatory
Defendants’ Motion to Compel Plaintiff to Respond to Supplemental Request for
Production
Tentative
The
motion to continue trial is granted.
The
motion to compel Plaintiff to produce vehicle for inspection is denied without
prejudice.
The motions
to compel Plaintiff to respond to Special
Interrogatories (Set Two), Requests for Production (Set Two), Supplemental
Interrogatory, and Supplemental Request for Production are granted.
The requests for sanctions are denied.
Background
On June 1, 2022, Michele
Glenn (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against C&D Rentals, Kevin Ciara, and
Does 1 through 10 for motor vehicle negligence and general negligence arising
out of an accident on July 20, 2020.
On December 9, 2022,
Plaintiff amended her complaint to name C & D Rentals, LLC as Doe 1.
On December 30, 2022, C
& D Rentals, LLC, and Kevin Caira (erroneously sued as Kevin Ciara)
(collectively “Defendants”) filed an answer.
On January 4, 2024,
Plaintiff’s counsel was relieved as counsel of record.  Since that time,
Plaintiff has been representing herself in pro per.
Currently before the Court,
and set for hearing on September 20, are six separate motions.
First, on August 16, 2024, Defendants
filed a motion to compel Plaintiff to produce a vehicle for inspection.  The hearing on this motion was set for
September 17.  On September 17, the
motion came on for hearing, and the Court continued the hearing to September
20.  No opposition was filed.  Defendants filed a supplemental declaration,
with leave of the Court, on September 18.
Second, on August 20, 2024,
Defendants filed a motion to continue trial. 
The hearing on this motion was set for September 20.  No opposition was filed.
Third, on August 20, 2024, Defendants
filed a motion to compel Plaintiff to respond to Special Interrogatories (Set
Two).  The hearing on this motion was set
for September 19.  On September 19, the
Court continued the hearing to September 20. 
No opposition was filed.
Fourth, on August 20, 2024,
Defendants filed a motion to compel Plaintiff to respond to Requests for
Production (Set Two).  The hearing on
this motion was set for September 19.  On
September 19, the Court continued the hearing to September 20.  No opposition was filed.
Fifth, on August 20, 2024, Defendants
filed a motion to compel Plaintiff to respond to a Supplemental
Interrogatory.  The hearing on this
motion was set for September 19.  On
September 19, the Court continued the hearing to September 20.  No opposition was filed.
Sixth, on August 20, 2024, Defendants
filed a motion to compel Plaintiff to respond to a Supplemental Request for
Production.  The hearing on this motion
was set for September 20.  No opposition
was filed.
Legal
Standard
Motion
to Continue Trial
Code of
Civil Procedure section 128, subdivision (a)(8), provides that the court has
the power to amend and control its process and orders so as to make them
conform to law and justice. “The power to determine when a continuance should
be granted is within the discretion of the trial court.” (Color-Vue, Inc. v.
Abrams (1996) 44 Cal.App.4th 1599, 1603.) “A trial court has wide latitude
in the matter of calendar control including the granting or denying of
continuances.” (Park Motors, Inc. v. Cozens (1975) 49 Cal.App.3d 12,
18.)  
“To
ensure the prompt disposition of civil cases, the dates assigned for trial are
firm.  All parties and their counsel must
regard the date set for trial as certain.” 
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(a).)
“Although
continuances of trials are disfavored, each request for a continuance must be
considered on its own merits.”  (Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(c).)  “The
court may grant a continuance only on an affirmative showing of good cause
requiring the continuance.”  (Ibid.)  Circumstances that may support a finding of
good cause include:  
“(1) The
unavailability of an essential lay or expert witness because of death, illness,
or other excusable circumstances;  
(2) The
unavailability of a party because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances;  
(3) The
unavailability of trial counsel because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances;  
(4) The
substitution of trial counsel, but only where there is an affirmative showing
that the substitution is required in the interests of justice;  
(5) The
addition of a new party if: (A) The new party has not had a reasonable
opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for trial; or (B) The other
parties have not had a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare
for trial in regard to the new party's involvement in the case;  
(6) A
party's excused inability to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other
material evidence despite diligent efforts; or 

(7) A
significant, unanticipated change in the status of the case as a result of
which the case is not ready for trial.”  
(Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(c).)  
“In
ruling on a motion or application for continuance, the court must consider all
the facts and circumstances that are relevant to the determination.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(d).)  California Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(d)
sets forth a non-exhaustive list of factors that the court may consider:  
“(1) The
proximity of the trial date;  
(2)
Whether there was any previous continuance, extension of time, or delay of
trial due to any party;  
(3) The
length of the continuance requested;  
(4) The
availability of alternative means to address the problem that gave rise to the
motion or application for a continuance; 

(5) The
prejudice that parties or witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance;

(6) If
the case is entitled to a preferential trial setting, the reasons for that
status and whether the need for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid
delay; 
(7) The
court's calendar and the impact of granting a continuance on other pending
trials; 
(8)
Whether trial counsel is engaged in another trial;  
(9)
Whether all parties have stipulated to a continuance;  
(10)
Whether the interests of justice are best served by a continuance, by the trial
of the matter, or by imposing conditions on the continuance; and  
(11) Any
other fact or circumstance relevant to the fair determination of the motion or
application.”  
(Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(d).) 
“A trial court may not
refuse to hear a summary judgment motion filed within the time limits of
section 437c.” (Sentry Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (1989) 207 Cal.App.3d
526, 529; accord Cole v. Superior Court (2022) 87 Cal.App.5th 84, 88.)
Motion
to Compel Responses to Interrogatories and Supplemental Interrogatory
A party must
respond to interrogatories within 30 days after service. (Code Civ. Proc., §
2030.260, subd.(a).) If a party to whom interrogatories are directed does not
provide a timely response, the propounding party may move for an order
compelling response to the interrogatories. (Id., § 2030.290, subd. (b).) There
is no time limit for a motion to compel initial responses, and no meet and
confer efforts are required. (See id., § 2030.290; Sinaiko Healthcare
Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390,
411.) Nor must a separate statement be filed. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1345(b)(1).)  In addition, a party who
fails to provide a timely response generally waives all objections.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (a).) 
“In addition to
the number of interrogatories permitted by Sections 2030.030 and 2030.040, a
party may propound a supplemental interrogatory to elicit any later acquired
information bearing on all answers previously made by any party in response to
interrogatories.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.070, subd. (a).)
When a
party moves to compel initial responses to interrogatories, “the court shall
impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010)
against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes [the
motion], unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with
substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of
the sanction unjust.”  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2030.290, subd. (c).)
Motion
to Compel Responses to Request for Inspection, Requests for Production, and Supplemental
Request for Production
A party must
respond to requests for inspection or for the production of documents within 30
days after service. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.260, subd.(a).) If a party to whom
requests for inspection or production are directed does not provide timely
responses, the requesting party may move for an order compelling response to
the demand. (Id., § 2031.300, subd. (b).) There is no time limit for a motion
to compel initial responses, and no meet and confer efforts are required. (See
id., § 2031.300; Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare
Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390, 411.) Nor must a separate statement be
filed. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1345(b)(1).)  In addition, a party who fails to provide a
timely response generally waives all objections.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300, subd. (a).) 
“In addition to
the demands for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling permitted by this
chapter, a party may propound a supplemental demand to inspect, copy, test, or
sample any later acquired or discovered documents, tangible things, land or
other property, or electronically stored information in the possession,
custody, or control of the party on whom the demand is made.” (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2031.050, subd. (a).)
When a party
moves to compel initial responses to requests for inspection or production,
“the court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with
Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully
makes or opposes [the motion], unless it finds that the one subject to the
sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make
the imposition of the sanction unjust.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300, subd. (c).) 
Discussion
Motion
to Continue Trial
Defendants
seek to continue trial based on their inability to obtain essential testimony
documents, and evidence despite diligent efforts. (See California Rules of
Court, rule 3.1332(c)(6).) Defendants state that this need for further
discovery was based on a phone call with Plaintiff on June 27, 2024, during
which Plaintiff disclosed for the first time that she had had two recent
surgeries, a cervical surgery in April 2023 and a lumbar surgery in December
2023. (Casey Decl., ¶ 3 & Exh. A.) Defendants noticed Plaintiff’s deposition
as well as served Plaintiff with written discovery on June 28, 2024. (Id., ¶ 4.) Further, Defendants
served Plaintiff with a demand for vehicle inspection and noticed Plaintiff’s
independent medical examination for August 20, 2024. (Id., ¶¶ 5 &
6.) Plaintiff has failed to appear for her deposition and respond to written
discovery. (Id., ¶¶ 10 & 16.) 
The
Court finds Defendants have been diligent in seeking discovery once they
learned of Plaintiff’s two significant medical procedures in 2023.  Defendants have also filed several motions regarding
Plaintiff’s failure to respond to discovery requests.
Finally,
the Court notes that Plaintiff has not opposed the motion and in fact has stated
in email correspondence with Defendants’ counsel that she supports a trial
continuance.  (Id., ¶¶ 13-14 & Exhs.
B, C.)  Thus, it does not appear that a
continuance would cause Plaintiff to suffer any undue prejudice.
Good
cause has been shown.  The motion to
continue trial is granted.
Motion
to Compel Vehicle Inspection
Defendants seek an order compelling Plaintiff to
produce, for inspection, her 2009 Smart Fortwo, one of the vehicles involved in
the accident.  
Defendants state that they made an oral request
for the inspection on August 12, 2024.  (Casey Decl., ¶
5.)  In the supplemental declaration filed on September 18,
Defendants attach a copy of the written demand. 
(Milligan Decl., Exh. C.)  The
demand was served on July 9, 2024, and Plaintiff did not respond.  (Id., ¶ 4 & Exh. C.)
The Civil Discovery Act provides for three
separate types of motions relating to inspection demands: (1) a motion to
compel a code compliant initial written response (when no response has been
provided) (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300); (2) a motion to compel a further
response (when a response has been provided but it is not code compliant or
contains unmeritorious objections) (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310); and (3) a
motion to compel compliance with a response stating that the inspection will be
allowed (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.320).
Where, as here, there has been no response to
the request, Defendants’ remedy under the Civil Discovery Act is to seek an
order compelling Plaintiff to provide a written response to the request.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300, subd.
(b).)  But Defendants seek an order allowing
them to skip the process set forth in the Civil Discovery Act and compel
Plaintiff to provide for the inspection. 

Defendants may have a reasonable argument that
there is good cause for the inspection, but Defendants must comply with the process
set forth in the Civil Discovery Act to obtain a court order compelling the
inspection.  The motion is denied. 
The denial is without prejudice to Defendants bringing a subsequent
motion seeking an appropriate order under the provisions of the Civil Discovery
Act in relation to their inspection demand.
Motions
to Compel Responses to Interrogatories and Supplemental Interrogatory
Defendants
move for orders compelling Plaintiff to respond to Special Interrogatories (Set
Two) and a Supplemental Interrogatory.
On June 28,
2024, Defendants properly propounded the written discovery in question on
Plaintiff. (Casey Decls., ¶ 3 & Exhs. B.) Plaintiff failed to respond. (Id.,
¶ 5.)
Defendants need
not show anything more.  The motions are
granted.
The requests for
sanctions are denied.  The applicable
provision of the Civil Discovery Act authorizes the imposition of sanctions “against
any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes” a motion to
compel initial responses to interrogatories. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (c).)  Here, Plaintiff has not opposed the
motion.  
Motion
to Compel Responses to Requests for Production and Supplemental Request for
Production
Defendants
move for orders compelling Plaintiff to respond to Requests for Production (Set
Two) and a Supplemental Request for Production. 
On June 28,
2024, Defendants properly propounded the written discovery in question on
Plaintiff. (Casey Decls., ¶ 3 & Exhs. B.) Plaintiff failed to respond. (Id.,
¶ 5.)
Defendants need
not show anything more.  The motions are
granted.
The
requests for sanctions are denied.  The
applicable provision of the Civil Discovery Act authorizes the imposition of
sanctions “against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or
opposes” a motion to compel initial responses to requests for production.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300, subd. (c).)  Here, Plaintiff has not opposed the motion.
Conclusion
The
Court GRANTS Defendants’ motion to continue trial.
The
Court CONTINUES the trial to a date on or after January 6, 2025.  The Final Status Conference and all discovery
deadlines are reset based on the new trial date.
The
Court DENIES, without prejudice, Defendants’ motion to compel Plaintiff to
allow a vehicle inspection.
The
Court GRANTS Defendants’ motions to compel Plaintiff to respond to Special Interrogatories (Set Two), Requests for Production (Set Two), Supplemental
Interrogatory, and Supplemental Request for Production.
The Court DENIES Defendants’ requests for sanctions.
The Court ORDERS Plaintiff to serve code compliant, verified, written
responses, without objection, to Defendants’ Special Interrogatories (Set Two),
within 15 days of notice.
The Court ORDERS Plaintiff to serve code compliant, verified, written
responses, without objection, to Defendants’ Supplemental Interrogatory, within
15 days of notice.
The Court ORDERS Plaintiff to serve code compliant, verified, written
responses, without objection, to Defendants’ Requests for Production (Set Two),
within 15 days of notice.
The Court ORDERS Plaintiff to serve code compliant, verified, written
responses, without objection, to Defendants’ Supplemental Request for
Production, within 15 days of notice.
Moving
party is to give notice.