  Case Number:  21STCV35122    Hearing Date:   September 20, 2024    Dept:  29 Velasco v. Nuestra Senora de Guadalupe, Inc.
21STCV35122
Plaintiff’s Motion to Set Aside Dismissal
Tentative
The motion is denied.
Background
On September 22,
2021, Plaintiff Marta Velasco (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Nuestra
Senora De Guadalupe, Inc. (“Defendant”) and Does 1 through 30 for premises
liability and general negligence arising out of a fall on September 26, 2019.
 
Several requests
for entry of default were rejected in 2023.
 
On November 29,
2023, Plaintiff amended the complaint to correct the name of Defendant to “Our
Lady of Guadalupe Church.”  
 
On February 13,
2024, there was no appearance at the Trial Setting Conference.  The Court dismissed the entire action without
prejudice.
 
On June 11,
2024, Plaintiff filed a motion to set aside the dismissal.  The hearing was set for July 24.  There was no appearance by Plaintiff.  As the hearing was shortly after a cyber attack
on the Los Angeles County Superior Court that disrupted some court functions,
the Court continued the hearing to August 20, 2024.  The Clerk gave notice.
 
On August 20,
2024, there was again no appearance by Plaintiff.  The Court placed the motion off calendar.
 
On August 23,
2024, Plaintiff filed this new motion to set aside the dismissal.  No opposition has been filed.
 
Legal Standard
Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (b) provides
for both discretionary and mandatory relief from dismissal. 
As to discretionary relief, the statute states: “The court
may, upon any terms as may be just, relieve a party or his or her legal
representative from a judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken
against him through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable
neglect.”  (Code of Civil Procedure § 473,
subd. (b).) Where such an application for discretionary relief is made, the
motion must be accompanied by a copy of the answer or pleading proposed to be
filed; “otherwise the application shall not be granted.”  (Ibid.)  The application for relief must be made within
a reasonable time, and in no case exceeding six months after the judgment. (Ibid.)
The statute also provides for mandatory relief from dismissal,
default, or default judgment:
“whenever an application for relief is made no more than six
months after entry of judgment, is in proper form, and is accompanied by an
attorney’s sworn affidavit attesting to his or her mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or neglect … unless the court finds that the default or dismissal was
not in fact caused by the attorney’s mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect.”  
(Ibid.)
 
A request for discretionary relief under section 473,
subdivision (b), must be made (subject to certain exceptions) “within a reasonable
time, in no case exceeding six months.” 
(Ibid.)  A request for
mandatory relief must be made within six months.  (Ibid.) 
Discussion
Plaintiff moves
to set aside the dismissal under Code of Civil Procedure section 473,
subdivision (b).  The dismissal order was
entered on February 13, 2024.  This
motion was filed on August 23, 2024.
 
As the motion
was filed more than six months after the dismissal order was entered, the Court
must deny the motion.  The Court has no
power or discretion to extend that deadline. 

 
Conclusion
 
The Court DENIES the motion of Plaintiff Marta Velasco to
set aside the dismissal.
 
Moving party is ordered to give any required notice.