 Case Number:  22STCV24102    Hearing Date:   September 20, 2024    Dept:  29 Simuel v. Evolution Energy Solutions
22STCV24102
Plaintiff’s Motion for Relief from Waiver of Jury Trial
Tentative
The motion is granted.
Background
On July 26, 2022, Plaintiff Pamela Maxine Simuel
(“Plaintiff”), filed suit against Evolution Energy
Solutions, LLC (“Evolution”), 15105 Sherman Way LLC (“Sherman Way”), and
Does 1 through 10, alleging the causes of action for premises liability and negligence
arising from an incident on February 2, 2021, in which, Plaintiff alleges, she
was struck by a large metal pipe that fell on her. 
 
On September 27, 2022, Evolution filed an answer, which
included a demand for jury trial. On October 26, 2022, Sherman Way filed an
answer and cross-complaint against Evolution. Evolution filed an answer to Sherman
Way’s cross-complaint on December 5, 2022 and its own cross-complaint against
Sherman Way. Sherman Way filed an answer to Evolution’s cross-complaint on January
3, 2023.
 
On November 17, 2023, Plaintiff filed notice of posting
jury fees. On August 1, 2024, Plaintiff filed a demand for jury trial.
 
On August 20, 2024, Plaintiff filed
this motion for an order granting relief from potential waiver of jury trial.
No opposition has been filed.
 
Legal Standard
 
“Trial by jury is an
inviolate right and shall be secured to all.” (Cal. Const., art. I, § 16.) “In
a civil cause a jury may be waived by the consent of the parties expressed as
prescribed by statute.” (Ibid.) 
 
Code of Civil Procedure
section 631 is the primary statute addressing waiver of a jury trial in a civil
case. Under section 631, subdivision(f)(5), a party waives their right to a
jury trial by not timely posting jury fees. Jury fees must be paid “on or
before the date scheduled for the initial case management conference in the
action”; where there is no case management conference, the fees are due “no
later than 365 calendar days after the filing of the initial complaint.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 631, subd. (c) & (c)(2).) 
 
“The court may, in its
discretion upon just terms, allow a trial by jury although there may have been
a waiver of a trial by jury.” (Id., subd. (g).) 
 
The California Supreme
Court recently addressed the exercise of this discretion in TriCoast
Builders, Inc. v. Fonnegra (2024) 15 Cal.5th 766. In ruling on a request
for relief from waiver of jury trial: 
 
“[T]he primary
consideration is … whether granting relief from waiver would result in any
hardship to other parties or to the court, such as delay in rescheduling the
trial for a jury or inconvenience to witnesses. But courts have also regularly
considered other factors, including the timeliness of the request; whether the
requester is willing to comply with applicable requirements for payment of jury
fees; and the reasons supporting the request.” (15 Cal.5th at pp. 779-780.) 
 
“[T]he presence or absence
of hardship is not always dispositive,” and the court may, in its discretion,
also consider (among other things) whether the motion for relief from waiver
“simply reflects a belated change of heart about trial tactics” or is being
used as a “pretext” to obtain a continuance. (Id., at p. 780.) But when
a party “has timely given notice that it desires trial by jury” but then loses
that right by nonpayment of fees, “lack of hardship to the other parties or the
court is generally controlling, absent other factors that weigh against
relief.” (Id., at p. 782.) 
 
In ruling on request from
relief from waiver under section 631, subdivision (g), “courts are mindful of
the requirement ‘to resolve doubts in interpreting the waiver provisions of
section 631 in favor of a litigant's right to jury trial.’” (Tesoro del
Valle Master Homeowners Assn. v. Griffin (2011) 200 Cal.App.4th 619, 638, quoting
Grafton Partners v. Superior Court (2005) 36 Cal.4th 944, 956.)
 
Discussion
 
Plaintiff’s counsel states
that they inadvertently failed to post fees for and demand a jury trial in a
timely fashion. (Molchan Decl., ¶ 3.) Plaintiff untimely posted jury fees on November
17, 2023.  There is no indication that
this was a deliberate tactical decision, that Plaintiff is having a belated
change of heart, or that this is a pretext for a continuance. Inadvertence is a
factor that weighs in support of granting the motion. 
 
Although the presence or
absence of prejudice is not independently dispositive, the Court notes that no
opposition has been filed. Plaintiff contends there is no prejudice as the
parties have been preparing for a jury trial. (Id., ¶ 3.) The Court
notes Evolution’s answer to the complaint included a demand for jury trial.
 
The Court finds that Plaintiff
did not timely post jury fees; that in doing so, Plaintiff waived the right to jury trial;
that this waiver was inadvertent; and that no party would suffer any undue or
unfair prejudice from a court order granting relief from waiver.
 
After considering all of
the evidence in the record, the Court exercises its discretion under Code of
Civil Procedure section 631, subdivision (g), to grant relief from waiver and
to allow a trial by jury.
 
Conclusion
 
The Court
GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion for relief from waiver of jury trial.
 
Moving party is ORDERED to give notice.
 