 Case Number:  24STCV04497    Hearing Date:   December 18, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



 DARA SUE CRIPPEN, an individual; 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
 LYFT,
  INC., a corporation; WALTER ROBINSON; URIEL HERNANANDEZ; DOES 1 through 50,
  inclusive, 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.                               


 


     
  CASE NO.:  24STCV04497
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
MOTION TO QUASH
 
Date: December 18, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING PARTY:  Plaintiff Dara Sue Crippen (“Plaintiff”)
RESPONDING PARTY: Defendant
Walter Robinson (“Robinson”)
 
            The Court has considered the moving
and opposition papers. 
 
BACKGROUND
            The case arises from a motor vehicle
accident. Plaintiff alleges that she was injured when the Lyft she was riding
in, driven by Defendant Robinson, collided with a vehicle driven by Defendant
Uriel Hernandez (“Hernandez”) (collectively, “Defendants”). 
 
On February 22, 2024, Plaintiff filed the
instant complaint (the “Complaint”) alleging causes of action for: (1)
negligence, and (2) negligence per se, against all Defendants; and (3) false
imprisonment; (4) assault; (5) battery; and (6) intentional infliction of
emotional distress against Robinson only.
 
On November 20, 2024, Plaintiff filed the
instant Motion to Quash Deposition Subpoenas for the Production of Records
Issued by Walter Robinson (the “Motion”). On December 5, 2024, Robinson filed
an opposition (the “Opposition”).           
 
PROCEDURAL
DEFICIENCES
            The Court first notes that Plaintiff
moves to quash 18 separate subpoenas in this single Motion as opposed to filing
separate motions for each item of discovery. The Court next notes that there is
no proof of service of the subpoenas on the deponents. 
 
For the sake of judicial efficiency, the
Court will not deny the Motion on procedural grounds alone and will instead
address the Motion on the merits. Plaintiff is, however, required to pay the
additional filing fees that would have been incurred had separate motions to
quash been properly filed for each subpoena. Thus, Plaintiff is ordered to
remit $1,020.00 to the Court ($60 court filing fee x 17 motions) within twenty
days of the date of this order.  
 
DISCUSSION
            Code of Civil Procedure (“CCP”) section
1987.1 states, “[w]hen a subpoena requires the attendance of a witness or the
production of books, documents or other things before a court, or at the trial
of an issue therein, …, upon motion reasonably made by the party, the witness,
or any consumer described in Section 1985.3, or upon the court's own motion
after giving counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard, may make an order
quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance with it
upon such terms or conditions as the court shall declare, including protective
orders.” There is no requirement that the motion contain a meet-and-confer
declaration demonstrating a good-faith attempt at informal resolution. (Id.)
A motion to quash does require a separate statement, unless the party being
subpoenaed did not provide any response to the subpoena. (Rule of Court (“CRC”)
rule 3.1345(a)(5), (b)(6).)  
 
“Unless otherwise limited by order of the
court in accordance with this title, any party may obtain discovery regarding
any matter, not privileged, that is relevant to the subject matter involved in
the pending action or to the determination of any motion made in that action,
if the matter either is itself admissible in evidence or appears reasonably
calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. Discovery may
relate to the claim or defense of the party seeking discovery or of any other
party to the action. Discovery may be obtained of the identity and location of
persons having knowledge of any discoverable matter, as well as of the
existence, description, nature, custody, condition, and location of any
document, electronically stored information, tangible thing, or land or other
property.” (CCP § 2017.010.) 
 
“[P]laintiffs¿are ‘not obligated to
sacrifice all privacy to seek redress for a specific [physical,] mental or
emotional injury’; while they may not withhold information which relates to any physical or mental condition which
they have put in issue by bringing [a] lawsuit, . . . they are entitled to
retain the confidentiality of all unrelated medical or psychotherapeutic
treatment they may have undergone in the past.”¿¿(Britt v. Superior Court¿(1978)
20 Cal.3d 844, 864¿[citation and footnote omitted].)¿¿However, “. . . privacy
interests may have to give way to [an] opponent’s right to a fair trial.¿ Thus,
courts must balance the right of civil litigants to discover relevant facts
against the privacy interests of persons subject to discovery.”¿ (Vinson v.
Superior¿Court¿(1987) 43 Cal.3d 833,¿842.)¿ 
 
            Plaintiff seeks to quash the
deposition subpoenas issued to: (1) Dr. Faramarz Davidi c/o Libbet Surgical
Center (Billing); (2) Dr. Faramarz Davidi c/o Libbet Surgical Center (Medical);
(3) Dr. Faramarz Davidi c/o Libbet Surgical Center (Radiology); (4) King Point
Foot and Ankle Specialist (Billing); (5) King Point Foot and Ankle Specialist
(Medical); (6) King Point Foot and Ankle Specialist (Radiology); (7) LA Pain
(Billing); (8) LA Pain (Medical); (9) LA Pain (Radiology); (10) LAC/USC Medical
Ctr. (Billing); (11) LAC/USC Medical Ctr. (Medical); (12) LAC/USC Medical Ctr.
(Radiology); (13) PIH Health (Billing); (14) PIH Health (Medical); (15) PIH
Health (Radiology); (16) Vigilant Anesthesia (Billing); (17) Vigilant
Anesthesia (Medical); and (18) Vigilant Anesthesia (Radiology). Plaintiff
argues that the subpoenas are overbroad as they request information that is
beyond the scope of this litigation and would unjustifiably violate Plaintiff’s
privacy rights. Plaintiff argues that the subpoenas are unnecessarily intrusive
because she “claims injury to her head, back, right hand and ankles” from a car
accident in February 2023, but the subpoenas “seek all treatment, billing and
imaging records going back to 2014.” (Mot. p. 6:4-6.) 
 
            In
the Opposition, Robinson argues that the subpoenas are necessary because in her
discovery responses, Plaintiff stated that she has visited over nineteen
healthcare providers for her alleged injuries including imaging centers,
surgeons, ambulances, orthopedic doctors and specialists. (Opp. p. 3:21-25; see e.g., Mot., Ex. A
[response to Form Interrogatory No. 6.4)].) Robinson also asserts that although
Plaintiff originally asserted that she had no pre-existing conditions or
emotional or mental disability prior to the accident, discovery has revealed
that Plaintiff does have pre-existing conditions that may have contributed to
her injuries. (Opp. p. 4:4-7.) 
 
Upon review,
the subpoenas that Plaintiff seeks to quash were issued to the medical
providers she identified in her discovery responses as having treated her for
injuries attributed to the accident. (Mot, Ex. A [response to Form
Interrogatory No. 6.4].)  While there can
be no dispute that Plaintiff has a legally protected privacy interest with
respect to her medical records, she may not withhold information that relates
to the conditions for which she seeks redress in this lawsuit. Plaintiff has
asserted that she sought treatment from Dr. Faramarz Davidi, King Point Foot and Ankle Specialist, LA Pain, LAC/USC Medical
Ctr., PIH Health, and Vigilant Anesthesia for her injuries. (Mot, Ex. A [response to Form Interrogatory
No. 6.4].) Thus, Plaintiffs billing and treatment records from those providers
are relevant to assessing the injuries and damages that Plaintiff alleges in
this lawsuit. Moreover, Robinson has a compelling interest in accessing the
medical records pertaining to those injuries, and the scope of discovery is
broad.  (CCP § 2017.010 [allowing discovery of any matter that is
“relevant to the subject matter involved in the pending action or to the
determination of any motion made in that action, if the matter either is itself
admissible in evidence or appears reasonably calculated to lead to the
discovery of admissible evidence”].) 
 
Thus, the
information sought by the subpoenas is necessary to ascertain the extent of
Plaintiff’s claimed injuries and the extent to which the injuries were caused
or exacerbated by pre-existing conditions. Thus, the Court DENIES the Motion. 
 
Request
for Sanctions
            Pursuant to CCP section 1987.2,
subdivision (a), if a court makes an order to quash a subpoena, the “court may
in its discretion award the amount of the reasonable expenses incurred in
making or opposing the motion, including reasonable attorney's fees, if the
court finds the motion was made or opposed in bad faith or without substantial
justification or that one or more of the requirements of the subpoena was
oppressive.”  
 
            Robinson requests sanctions in the
amount of $2,268.00 based upon counsel’s rate of $280/hour for: (1) 5.1 hours
preparing the Opposition; (2) 2.0 hours preparing for the hearing; and (3) 1.0
hour to attend the hearing. Sanctions are appropriate here considering Plaintiff’s
multiple and ongoing misuses of the discovery process in this matter. The Court
finds that 8.1 hours to prepare the Opposition and prepare for and attend the
hearing is excessive; therefore, a reduction is appropriate. The request for
sanctions is GRANTED in the reduced total amount of $840.00 
 
Plaintiff’s Motion to Quash Deposition Subpoenas for the Production of Records Issued
by Walter Robinson is DENIED. 
 
Plaintiff is
ordered to remit $1,020.00
to the Court for additional filing fees within twenty days of this order.  
            
            The request for sanctions is GRANTED.
Plaintiff is ordered to remit sanctions to Robinson in the amount of $840 within
twenty days of this order. 
 
Moving
Party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.            
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
Dated this 18th day of December 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 



