  Case Number:  19STCV22166    Hearing Date:   December 18, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 





REAGAN
  YEWATA and AMERICAN MYANMAR BUDDHIST FEDERATION, INC., 
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
 
NEZA WTA MA, et al., 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.                               


 


     
  CASE NO.: 19STCV22166
 
STATEMENT OF DECISION ON TRIAL
 
 
Trial Held: July24-26, 2024
Dept. 56
 
 



 
PLAINTIFF AND
CROSS-DEFENDANT[1]: Regan
Yewata (“Yewata” or “Plaintiff”)
DEFENDANTS AND
CROSS-COMPLAINANTS: Defendants Neza Wta Ma (“Ma”) and Mya Hnin Yi (“Yi”)
(sometimes collectively, “Defendants”)
 
            This Court held a bench trial on
this matter on July 24-26, 2024.  By
stipulation, the direct testimony of the following witnesses was presented by
declaration: Plaintiff; Khin Than Da; Godakalana Gunara Tanas aka Bhante Chao
Chu (“Bhante”); Khin Ohmar; Yasa Zawtika; Yi; Mynit Mynit Lwin; and Albert Ho (“Ho”).  The Court ruled on objections to the
declarations and cross-examination of the following witnesses was presented at
trial: Plaintiff; Yi; Ho; and Bhante. 
Exhibits were entered as set forth in the record and briefs were
submitted. The matter was taken under submission and the following is the
Statement of Decision on this matter. 
 
BACKGROUND
             On December 1, 2021, Plaintiffs Yewata and AMBF
filed the operative First Amended Complaint (the “FAC”) against Defendants Ma
and Yi, and “All Persons Unknown, Claiming Any Legal or Equitable Right, Title,
Estate, Lien, or Interest in the Property described in the Complaint Adverse to
Plaintiffs’ Title thereto; and DOES 1 through 50.” The FAC asserts the
following causes of action: (1) Fraud; (2) Breach of Fiduciary Duty; (3)
Constructive Fraud; (4) Constructive Trust; and (5) Quiet Title.  On February 24, 2020, Defendants Ma and Yi
filed a Cross-Complaint (the “XC”) against Plaintiffs, alleging causes of
action for: (1) Partition and (2) Fraud. 
            
            All of the claims in the FAC and in
the XC arise from the same set of facts. 
The undisputed relevant facts are as follows: 1) Plaintiff is a Buddhist
monk with Buddhist temples in Myanmar (formerly known as Burma) and at 15623
Longworth Avenue,  Norwalk, California
90650 (the “Property”); 2) Na is a Buddhist monk with a Buddhist temple in
Myanmar; 3) Yi is a part-time Buddhist nun with a business that operates in
Myanmar and Thailand; 4) Plaintiff and Defendants met in Myanmar; 5)  In 2016, Yi made at least two donations to
Plaintiff in an amount totaling 60 million Myanmar kyat to Plaintiff for
religious purposes; 6) on September 27, 2016, Yewata executed a grant deed (the
“Grant Deed”), transferring title in the Property to Ma and Yi, together with
himself, as joint tenants; 9) the Grant Deed recites that it is a “bona fide
gift”; 7) a “water dripping ceremony” was held on September 30, 2016 at the Property, at which an empty box
was displayed, labeled “$200,800 [Burmese equivalent] 9/30/16”; 8) water
dripping ceremonies are used in certain Buddhist traditions to commemorate
donations; 10) in June of 2019, Yewata requested that Ma and Yi reconvey their
interest in the Property to him; and 11) Yi and Ma refused to reconvey the
Property to Yewata.
 
THE WITNESSES
            The Court makes the following
credibility determinations:
1.    
Plaintiff
Yewata – The Court finds him credible on some issues and not credible in
others.  Specifically, the Court notes
that while he has taken the position throughout this litigation that Yi did not
give him an additional sum in September, 2016 for a total donation of the
equivalent of $200,800, and that evidence that no such additional sum was given
was that no plaque or other physical evidence of the donation was created, it
was shown at trial that donations that are not for the specific purpose of
creating a physical place are not commemorated with a plaque.  The Court does not find credible that Plaintiff
did not receive the additional donation in September 2016.  The Court also does not find credible
Plaintiff’s testimony regarding the execution of the Grant Deed or about the
existence of a mortgage lien on the Property, as it is not supported by the
exhibits entered into evidence.  The
Court also does not find Plaintiff credible in his testimony regarding Yi’s
allegedly having made enforceable promises to raise additional money for
Plaintiff.  
2.    
Defendant
Yi – The Court finds Defendant Yi credible as to the amount and timing of her
donations; however, the Court does not find her credible insofar as she
contends that false representations were made as to the use of the money
donated.  
3.    
Ho
– The Court finds Mr. Ho to be generally credible.
4.     Bhante Chao Chu –
The Court found this witness to be credible; however, his expertise was of
minimal use to the Court because it is in Chinese Buddhist practices and not those
of Plaintiff Yewata’s branch of Myanmar Buddhism.  For example, he did not know what a “water
dripping ceremony” is or the significance or lack of significance of a plaque
or other physical evidence of a donation.
 
FINDINGS OF FACT BY THE COURT
1.    
Defendant Yi did make a third donation to Plaintiff
in Myanmar kyat, and the total US Dollar equivalent value of her gifts to
Plaintiff was approximately $200,800.  
2.    
Defendant Yi did not make this donation either to
purchase an interest for herself and Ma in the Property or for any other
consideration to be received from Plaintiff – it was a religious donation only.
3.    
Defendants paid nothing for the interest they
received in the Property.
4.    
Defendants did not agree to fundraise for Plaintiff
or otherwise perform any work for him.
5.    
Defendants did not expressly agree to reconvey the
Property back to Plaintiff upon his request.
6.    
Plaintiff did not make any misrepresentations to
Defendants to cause Defendant Yi to make any donations to him.
7.    
Defendants did not make any misrepresentations to
Plaintiff to cause him to execute the Grant Deed in their favor jointly with
Plaintiff.
8.    
Although Plaintiff may have mistakenly believed that
as a religious follower, Defendants would understand that the Property was only
being given to them until such time as he requested it to be reconveyed, that
was not Defendants’ understanding at any time and Defendants are not bound by
that mistaken belief.
9.    
The Property is owned equally by Plaintiff and the
two Defendants, and none of the parties wish to continue owning the Property
jointly.
10. 
The Property is a house and there is no reasonable
way to divide it among the three owners short of sale.
THE CLAIMS
The FAC
            Fraud 
The elements of a cause of action for fraud are: 1)
an actionable misrepresentation of fact; 2) knowledge of falsity; 3) intent to
defraud; 4) justifiable reliance on that misrepresentation; and 5) proximately
caused damages.  (Lazar v. Superior
Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 638.)
 
The only alleged misrepresentation allegedly made by
Defendants to Plaintiff before the execution of the Grant Deed was that “Defendants
promised to join Plaintiff to raise funds for AMBF and carry[] out missionary
work in the U.S. with Plaintiff.” (FAC, para. 18.)  Setting aside the issue of whether such a
vague “promise” would be enforceable[2],
Plaintiff continues by alleging that Defendants “only donated another
$2,290.00.” (Complaint, para. 21.)  Therefore,
according to the FAC, Defendants fulfilled any alleged obligation to did raise
funds, namely another $2,290. There is no allegation that Plaintiff signed the
Grant Deed in reliance upon any promise to fundraise.  Moreover, the Court finds that any such reliance
would not have been justifiable.
 
Based upon the evidence at trial, the Court finds
that there was: 1) no actionable misrepresentation of fact, either false or
otherwise; 2) no intent on Defendants’ part to defraud; 3) no justifiable
reliance by Plaintiff; and 4) no proximately-caused damages.  
 
The Court finds in favor of Defendants and against
Plaintiff on the First Cause of Action for fraud.    


 
Breach of Fiduciary Duty
            The elements of a cause
of action for breach of fiduciary duty are: 1) the existence of a fiduciary
duty; 2) breach of that duty; and 3) proximately-caused damages arising from
said breach. (Stanley v. Richmond (1995) 35 Cal.App.4th 1070,
1086.)
 
            Initially, the Court
finds that there was no fiduciary relationship between Plaintiff and
Defendants.  No legal grounds for the
creation of a fiduciary relationship has been established in this case.  Also, the Court finds that Defendants did not
commit to being “fundraising agents” for Plaintiff.  As such, there is no valid breach of
fiduciary duty claim against Defendants. 

 
            The Court finds in favor
of Defendants and against Plaintiff on the Second Cause of Action for Breach of
Fiduciary Duty.
 
            Constructive Fraud
The elements of a cause of action for constructive
fraud are: 1) a fiduciary relationship; 2) nondisclosure; 3) intent to deceive;
and 4) reliance; and 5) resulting injury. 
(Tindell v. Murphy 22 Cal.App.5th 1239, 1249-50.)
 
Because the Court has not found a fiduciary duty
between Plaintiff and Defendants, the claim for Constructive Fraud must also
fail.  For that reason, the Court finds
in favor of Defendants and against Plaintiff on the Third Cause of Action for
Constructive Fraud.
 
            


 
Constructive Trust
            The elements of a cause
of action for constructive fraud are: 1) a wrongful act; 2) specific,
identifiable property; 3) plaintiff’s right to the property; and 4) defendant
has title thereto.  (Stansfield v.
Starkey (1990) 220 Cal.App.3d 59, 76.)
 
            The Court finds that there
was no wrongful act upon which to base a Constructive Trust.  The Court specifically finds that Defendants
made their donations to Plaintiff for charitable purposes and not for the
purpose of obtaining title to the Property. 
The Court further finds that no consideration was paid for the placement
of Defendants’ names on title and that Plaintiff took that action voluntarily.  While the Court finds that Plaintiff may have
believed that Defendants would reconvey the Property upon request, there was no
representation made by Defendants that they would do so and no right to that
reconveyance that should have been expected by Plaintiff.  
 
The Court finds that Plaintiff and Defendants have
equal rights to the Property and that it is not being held by Defendants in
constructive trust for Plaintiff.
 
            Quiet Title
            The elements of a cause
of action for quiet title are: 1) a description of the property; 2) the
plaintiff’s title and the basis on which it is asserted; 3) the adverse claims
against which the determination is sought; 4) the date as of which the
determination is sought and why; and 5) a prayer for determination of the
plaintiff’s title against the adverse claims. 
Also, if the basis for the claim is fraud, the factual basis for that
fraud.  (Code of Civil Procedure, Section
761.020.)
 
            The Court finds that the
title of the Property is validly held by Plaintiff and Defendants, in equal
parts.  The Court therefore finds that Plaintiff’s
claim that he is entitled to Quiet Title as against Defendants must fail.
 
The XC
            Partition
            The elements of a claim
for partition are: 1) description of the property; 2) all interests the
claimant has to the property, all interests of record in the property; the
estate to which partition is sought are identified; and 4) if seeking sale of
the property, facts justifying such relief. 
(CCP section 872.230.)
 
            All elements of this
claim have been satisfied by the evidence admitted at trial. The Property is
properly identified as 15623 Longworth Avenue, Norwalk CA 90650; all interests
in and to the Property have been identified, as Plaintiff and Defendants own
the Property in equal parts; and the Court finds that no other relief is
possible, as the parties’ interests in the Property cannot be divided.  
 
The Court therefore finds in favor of Defendants and
against Plaintiff on the cause of action in the XC for Partition and orders
that the Property be sold and the proceeds divided equally between Plaintiff
and each of the two Defendants, according to the procedures set forth in CCP
section 872.210, et seq. 
 
            Fraud
            The Court finds that under the
standards discussed above, no actionable misrepresentation was made by
Plaintiff to Defendants.  
            The parties had until December 2,
2024 to file and serve any proposed corrections to this Proposed Statement of
Decision, together with a plan for the partition of the Property.  Only Plaintiff filed an Objection to the
Tentative Statement of Decision, which proposed only that an accounting be made
of the amounts owing on the Property, including mortgage payments and taxes
owed.  No plan for partition was included
in the Objections.  Therefore, at the
hearing set for December 18, 2024 at 9 a.m., the Court will consider the plan
for partition of the Property.
 
Dated this 18th day of December, 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 






