 Case Number:  23SMCV05401    Hearing Date:   October 24, 2024    Dept:  I This is a motion for sanctions.  The basis of it is simple.  Plaintiff served a subpoena on Trombly.  Defense counsel wrote a letter to Trombly
suggesting that Trombly not respond to the subpoena because a motion to quash
had been filed.  The basis of this motion
is that no such motion had been filed, and therefore this was improper conduct
to prevent plaintiff from obtaining discovery. 
 
The court will inquire. 
The court’s own review of the docket shows no motion to quash the
subpoena directed to Trombly.  (There was
a motion to quash the subpoena issued to Bank of America, but that is not at
issue today.  That was yesterday.)  The court must agree with plaintiff that
writing a letter to a witness directing the witness to ignore court process
without any good cause—and especially giving a false reason—appears
sanctionable.  And make no mistake.  A subpoena is court process.  It can be issued by counsel, but it is still
an order of the court.  Failure to obey
it can be punished by contempt. 
Therefore, one ought not ignore it lightly nor interfere with it without
good cause.
 
Here, the court will hear from defendant as to why the
letter was written stating that there was a motion on file when there was not.
 
Defendants object on the basis of inadequate notice, but
provide no substantive response.  The
court notes that the objection goes to the original motion, that it seems was
served timely but filed a day late. 
However, the motion was re-noticed and set for today’s date, and it
appears that the re-noticed motion was timely served and filed.  Given that, the court wants to know from the
defense why counsel interfered with court process.  If there is justification, that is well and
good.  If the issue is that defendants
were honestly mistaken and thought they had filed the motion to quash but had
not, the court can understand human error, although the court assumes that
defense counsel would have immediately sent a letter to the witness withdrawing
the prior letter upon discovery of the error. 
On the other hand, if defense counsel wrote that letter knowing that
there was no motion to quash on file, or did nothing to withdraw the letter
upon learning of the mistake, the court has serious concerns about the propriety
of such conduct.  Those concerns are
independent of the motion for sanctions. 
 
Defense counsel seems to be taking this lightly.  Counsel should be aware that the court does
not view it that way.  It might well be
that a motion for sanctions is not the right way to address the issue.  Rather, it could be that a motion under
section 128.5 or 128.7 is more appropriate (and the court notes that the
procedures are different).  But the court
would like to get to the bottom of this and understand why it is that such
behavior (if it occurred) took place. 
That is an independent inquiry from the court.  If counsel would prefer, the court can set an
OSC re: Sanctions not to exceed $10,000 for unethical behavior interfering for
court process.
 