 Case Number:  SC125609    Hearing Date:   October 24, 2024    Dept:  I Plaintiffs Holy Shirts and
Pants, LLC, Early Bird Restaurant, LLC and Marcelo Caraveo (“plaintiffs”) filed
this action against various defendants for issues arising out of plaintiffs’
purchase of luxury vehicles from defendant O’Gara.  Currently before the court is plaintiffs’
motion to reopen discovery. O’Gara opposes. 
As an aside, O’Gara is correct that only Caraveo has standing to bring
any of the noted motions. But that defect is not determinative where he is one
of the parties bringing the motion.
The Code of Civil Procedure
provides that “[o]n motion of any party, the court may grant leave . . . to
have a motion concerning discovery heard, closer to the initial trial date, or
to reopen discovery after a new trial date has been set.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.050, subd.
(a).)  Subdivision (b) of this section
provides: “In exercising its discretion to grant or deny this motion, the court
shall take into consideration any matter relevant to the leave requested,
including, but not limited to, the following: [¶] (1) The necessity and the
reasons for the discovery. [¶] (2) The diligence or lack of diligence of the
party seeking the discovery or the hearing of a discovery motion, and the
reasons that the discovery was not completed or that the discovery motion was
not heard earlier. [¶] (3) Any likelihood that permitting the discovery or
hearing the discovery motion will prevent the case from going to trial on the
date set, or otherwise interfere with the trial calendar, or result in
prejudice to any other party. [¶]  (4)
The length of time that has elapsed between any date previously set, and the
date presently set, for the trial of the action.” (Id. at subd. (b).)
The factors above are not a
neat analytical guide for the court here, though, because plaintiffs do not
actually want to conduct more discovery. 
Instead, they seek to punish O’Gara for its purported failure to provide
full responses via a motion for terminating, issue, evidentiary, or monetary
sanctions.  Plaintiffs’ example of
O’Gara’s offending conduct consists of a high school event run by Legion.  They contend that they have no idea what this
event is, and therefore cannot defend against the claim.  O’Gara apparently claims it will not produce
additional information because it amounts to work product.  (Cook Decl., ¶31.)  Plaintiffs insist the only want the facts
about the high school events.  (See COE,
Exh. 4, p. 37 of PDF [Response to SI No. 562].) 
Plaintiffs note, though, that this is only an example.  They believe that the responses in full are
designed more to hide the facts than disclose them.
According to O’Gara,
plaintiffs have had this information since at least July 2023 (which seems to
be a bit at odds with the notion that this is work product).  (COE, Exh. 16, p. 5.)  Impliedly, O’Gara is contending it gave a
full and complete response with the information it had in its possession,
custody, and control (and this is made explicit in opposition).  O’Gara adds that plaintiffs have created this
issue.  The problem, according to O’Gara,
is that plaintiffs had the information and did not bother to review it until
recently, and now they seek to punish O’Gara for their own delay.  O’Gara notes that Lacro is the person alleged
to have knowledge at least in part, and Lacro is someone plaintiffs could have
asked for the information.
The above recitation goes
more to the merits of the motion for sanctions, but it is worth laying out the
general parameters of the dispute because it informs the court’s analysis on
the necessity of the motion for sanctions and plaintiffs’ diligence.  The court has questions about both
factors.  O’Gara is claiming it has
provided what it can, and there is some indication that any further information
would be available from Lacro.  That
might or might not be the case, and plaintiffs suggest that even were Lacro
completely forthcoming it would not answer the question in full.
Diligence is another
concern.  Plaintiffs supposedly had this
information since July 2023 and did nothing until July 2024.  That is a year, though counsel indicate they
had busy calendars.  Admittedly, though,
O’Gara’s most recent responses were served on May 2024.  The fact that it took so long to get a
semi-proper response (according to plaintiffs) is a problem in and of
itself.  So both parties are to blame
somewhat for the delay in having this motion brought.
The facts on the factors
are too hazy for the court to come to a solid conclusion on whether any one
party is solely or predominantly at fault. 
It seems like failings on both sides have necessitated this long and drawn
out dispute.  The court notes that issues
pertaining to this discovery have been brewing for a while.  Plaintiffs propounded the discovery and
defendants responded.  Plaintiffs
believed that the responses were insufficient and brought a motion to
compel.  The motion became moot because
O’Gara, in the teeth of that motion, supplemented the responses.  Those supplemental responses were also viewed
as insufficient and plaintiffs again moved to compel.  That motion was granted and O’Gara was warned
that its conduct was very close to warranting the imposition of sanctions.  O’Gara then supplemented the responses again
and again plaintiffs believed that the responses were inadequate.  Plaintiffs then filed a motion for
sanctions.  There was an objection and
there was an issue as to whether the referee retained jurisdiction to decide
the question.  The court found that the
referee did have jurisdiction and so ordered. 
The referee, however, concluded that the motion was procedurally
improper.  Because of the intricacies of
timing, the referee concluded that the motion for sanctions was itself untimely
and that what really needed to occur was a motion to re-open discovery (which
would then allow the sanctions motion to be heard).  The referee could not deem the motion to be
one to re-open discovery, though, because the referee concluded that there had
been no meaningful meet and confer on that issue.  (The referee did not so hold with regard to
the merits of the responses.)  As a
result, the referee recommended that the court deny the motion as being outside
the court’s jurisdiction absent an order re-opening discovery.  The court agreed with the referee and so
ordered.  Plaintiffs then brought the
instant motion.  Phew.  O’Gara suggests that this is just an attempt
by plaintiffs to delay the case, which the court agrees has been pending too
long.  But the court does not view the
motion as having been brought in bad faith. 
The procedure here was complex for a variety of reasons, some dealing
with problems getting the motion actually on file right at the deadline.  While the court ultimately agreed that the
motion for sanctions was out of time, the court also believed that the issue
was sufficiently murky as to refuse to award sanctions.  And the court is still of that view.  Plaintiffs chose the wrong procedure and are
now following the path suggested by the referee and the court.  In a perfect world, we wouldn’t be here, but
we live in an imperfect world.
Ultimately, the court will
GRANT the motion.  Plaintiffs’ motion for
sanctions will be heard.  There are a
couple reasons.  First, as noted above,
it is difficult to determine who bears the fault in the delay in bringing the
motion.  Second, prejudice is minimal
because the court will not continue trial. 
If the motion is granted in whole, there is no need for trial.  If the motion is granted in part, then the
parties will have to submit new trial documents in line with that ruling.  If the motion is denied, then nothing
changes.  Assuming that O’Gara has not
been forthcoming, then the motion for sanctions is necessary.  The high school events are an example of
plaintiffs’ purported fraudulent intent. 
The court notes that even if Lacro had the documents, it does not excuse
O’Gara from producing all the information if it is in its custody, control,
and/or possession.  And finally, O’Gara’s
conduct does smack of running out the clock, which the court does not
favor.  Because the motion to re-open,
O’Gara’s somewhat over-the-top request for sanctions is DENIED.  
Having said that, the court
STRONGLY recommends that the parties talk once again.  The court would be more inclined simply to
move forward to trial and put the entire sanctions issue behind it if
responsive and adequate responses to the questions are quickly provided.  If some additional (very narrow) discovery is
needed as a result of that, the court will entertain another motion to re-open,
but the court will need to be convinced that it is truly needed and will not
delay the trial.  It is time to stop squabbling
and get this case over and done.  But
fairness also dictates that plaintiffs know what they are accused of doing in
the cross-complaint.  The court also
notes that the defense need not disclose trial strategy or the like.  But defendants do have to say what they think
plaintiffs did wrong (and with particularity). 
That is not attorney work product; it is underlying fact.