 Case Number:  24STCV19495    Hearing Date:   December 5, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     December
5, 2024                              TRIAL
DATE:  Not set
                                                           
CASE:                         John M.E.L. Doe, et al. v. Los Angeles Unified School District
 
CASE NO.:                 24STCV19495
 





















 
DEMURRER
WITH MOTION TO STRIKE



 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant
Los Angeles Unified School District
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Plaintiffs John M.C.
Doe and John M.S. Doe
 
 
I.          BACKGROUND
 
            On August 5,
2023, Plaintiffs, John M.C. Doe (M.C.) and John M.S. Doe (M.S.), initiated this
childhood sexual abuse action against defendant Los Angeles Unified School
District (LAUSD), alleging causes of action for (1) Sexual Battery, (2) Negligence,
and (3) Negligent Failure to Warn, Train, or Educate.  
 
            According
to the Complaint, M.C. attended Hamilton Music Academy (the Academy) from 2003
to 2007.  M.S. attended the Academy from
2001 to 2005.  While students at the
Academy, Plaintiffs were sexually molested by Vance Miller (Miller), a teacher
at the Academy.  Plaintiffs were approximately
14 to 18 years old at the time of the abuse. 
Miller was employed by LAUSD.
 
            On August 5,
2024, LAUSD filed this Demurrer to the Complaint and concurrently filed a
Motion to Strike portions of the Complaint.
 
            On November
20, 2024, Plaintiffs filed an opposition to the Demurrer only.  
 
On November 25, 2024, LAUSD filed a reply.  On the same day, LAUSD filed a Notice of
Non-Receipt of Opposition to Motion to Strike Portions of Plaintiffs’
Complaint.
 
            As a
threshold issue, Plaintiffs state in their opposition that they agree to
dismiss the first cause of action for sexual battery against LAUSD.  The court will sustain the demurrer as to the
first cause of action.  The court proceeds
to address the second and third causes of action.
 
II.        LEGAL STANDARD FOR DEMURRER
            A demurrer
for sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action.¿ (Hahn
v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)¿ When considering demurrers,
courts read the allegations liberally and in context, accepting the alleged
facts as true.¿ (Nolte v. Cedars-Sinai Medical Center (2015) 236
Cal.App.4th 1401, 1406.)¿ “Because a demurrer challenges defects on the face of
the complaint, it can only refer to matters outside the pleading that are
subject to judicial notice.”¿ (Arce ex rel. Arce v. Kaiser Found. Health
Plan, Inc. (2010) 181 Cal.App.4th 471, 556.)¿¿¿  
III.       DISCUSSION
 
A.   
Demurrer

 
LASUD advances three
overarching arguments in support of its demurrer: (1) the negligence causes of
action fail because Government Code section 815.6, Education Code Section
44807, and California Code of Regulations Title 5, Section 5552 do not impose a
mandatory duty, (2) Plaintiffs’ respondeat superior theory lacks specific
allegations, and (3) AB 218, which abolished the claims requirement for
childhood sexual abuse cases, violates the California Constitution.[1]  
 
As to the first
argument, Plaintiffs concede the statutes do not impose a mandatory duty upon
LAUSD.  The court proceeds to consider
LAUSD’s remaining arguments.
 
1.     
Respondeat Superior Liability 
 
            Plaintiffs allege LAUSD is liable
for their injuries pursuant to Government Code section 815.2.  (See Complaint, ¶ 22.)  The court notes that, although alleged as a
cause of action for negligence, the Second Cause of Action is for negligent
hiring, supervision, or retention.  (See
Complaint, ¶ 21.)  The elements for a
negligent hiring, supervision, and retention claim are: (1) LAUSD hired an employee
(Miller); (2) employee was/became either unfit or incompetent to perform the
work for which he was hired; (3) LAUSD knew or should have known that the
employee was/became unfit or incompetent and that this unfitness or
incompetence created a particular risk to others; (4) Employee’s unfitness or
incompetence harmed Plaintiff; and (5) LAUSD’s negligence in
hiring/supervising/or retaining the employee was a substantial factor in
causing Plaintiff’s harm. (CACI No. 426.)  
 
            Buried in its discussion regarding
mandatory duty, LAUSD argues the claims are not sufficiently pled because there
are no specific employees named who allegedly possessed knowledge that Miller
presented a risk to Plaintiffs or any students. 
The court disagrees. Although specific employees other than Miller are
not named in the Complaint, Plaintiffs allege “Defendants, by and through their
agents, servants and employees, knew or reasonably should have known of Vance
Miller’s dangerous and exploitative propensities and/or that Vance Miller was an
unfit agent. It was foreseeable that if Defendants did not adequately exercise
or provide the duty of care owed to children in their care, including but not
limited to Plaintiff, the children entrusted to Defendants’ care would be
vulnerable to sexual abuse by Miller or others.”  (Complaint, ¶ 20.)  Plaintiffs further allege Miller “began a
regular practice of openly kissing students on the lips during class, rubbing
his body against students in class; taking students one-on-one to a local gym
and showering naked with them while he stared on; and counseling students one
on one behind closed doors at Hamilton Academy, regarding the students’ sexual
identity and sexual activities. All of these activities were known and/or observed
by fellow students, faculty and staff of the LAUSD and Hamilton High School. Despite
having awareness of this conduct, faculty and staff with the LAUSD and Hamilton
High School failed to make mandatory reports and failed to enforce the policies
and rules of Defendants designed to protect children from being sexually
molested by teachers.”  (Complaint, ¶
2.)  The court finds the allegations
sufficiently specific to apprise LAUSD of the nature of Plaintiffs’ negligence claims.
 
2.      AB 218 Is Not An
Unconstitutional Gift of Public Funds 
 
LAUSD argues AB
218 violates the California Constitution, Article XVI, Section 6 which
prohibits gifts of public funds.  This
exact argument was addressed and rejected in West Contra Costa Unified
School Dist. v. Superior Court (2024) 103 Cal.App.5th 1243.  The Second and Third Causes of Action do not
fail on these grounds.
 
B.    
Motion
to Strike
 
LAUSD seeks to
strike the request for attorneys’ fees and all other applicable statutory
damages, and fees from the Complaint.  Absent
a contractual agreement, attorneys’ fees are only recoverable if provided by statute.
 (Code Civ. Proc. § 1033.5(a)(10).)  Here, there is no contractual or statutory
basis for recovery of attorneys’ fees. There is also no basis for recovery of
statutory damages.  Plaintiffs, having
not filed an opposition to the Motion to Strike, do not provide any argument or
authority to the contrary.
 
IV.        CONCLUSION
            
Based on the foregoing, the demurrer is SUSTAINED without
leave as to the First Cause of Action.  The
demurrer is OVERRULED with respect to the Second and Third Causes of Action.  
 
The motion to strike is GRANTED without leave to amend. 
 
Plaintiffs are directed to file a First Amended Complaint
(FAC) consistent with this order within 5 court days.  Defendant is ordered to file an Answer to the
FAC within ten days after being served with the FAC.
 
Plaintiffs to give notice.   
 
Dated:   December 5,
2024                                      




 


   




 


  Kerry Bensinger  
  Judge of the Superior Court 




 
            


