


[1] In her declaration, Gite explains
she met with a notary on September 2, 2011 in a proposed sales transaction with
Lions Proof.  Gite signed a grant deed
conveying the Property to Lions Proof which was notarized and sent to escrow to
be held in escrow until certain deal terms were met.  However, those terms were not met, and the
escrow was cancelled. (Gite Decl., ¶ 5.)
 


[2] 
In Gite’s quiet title action, Judge Christopher K. Lui issued a
statement of decision finding Gite’s testimony credible that (1) she never
transferred the Property to any of the defendants, (2) the signature on the
document purporting to execute a grant deed transferring the Property to Lions
Proof was not hers (i.e., a forgery); (3) Gite deeded the Property to Earthsicle
in an effort to clean the title, and (4) Earthsicle executed a deed reconveying
the Property to the Vaughn Family Trust. 
(Statement of Decision, Case No. BC692757, 10/31/20.)  In other words, Gite’s quiet title action
established Gite’s right to the Property, Lions Proof’s grant deed was a
forgery, and each subsequent transaction derived from Lions Proof’s grant deed
was illegitimate.  Judgment
was entered consistent with the court’s findings. 
 


[3] Also referred to herein as Chung
Yong Hwa, Yong Chun, Chung Yong, and Yong Hwa Chung.
 


[4] Yong Chung would later record
grant deeds again conveying the Property to Yong Chung as trustee of the
Kramerwood Trust in August 2015 and October 2017.


[5] Although not discussed by the
parties, US Bank, by way of assignment, has the first lien on the Property.


[6] Gite also alleged a cause of
action for negligence against US Bank and Mara. 
On June 14, 2023, the court sustained US Bank’s Demurrer to the
negligence claim without leave to amend. 
On August 16, 2023, the court sustained Mara’s demurrer to the
negligence claim with leave to amend. 
Gite, however, did not amend her pleading.  Accordingly, the only claims alleged against
US Bank and Mara are for quiet title, declaratory relief, and slander of title.


[7]  US Bank and Mara both ask the court to disregard
and strike Gite’s Opposition to Separate Statement of Undisputed Material Facts
in Support of the Motion for Summary Judgment because Gite did not comply with
California Rules of Court, rule 3.1350.  The court declines to do so. 
 


[8]  With respect to Cross-Defendants’ motions, the operative conveyances are (1) Lions Proof’s recording of
the November 15, 2011 grant deed, (2) Velocity’s recording of the July 18, 2019
Deed of Trust, (3) Mara’s recording of the December 30, 2019 Deed of Trust, and
(4) Velocity’s October 2020 assignment to US Bank.  
 


[9] The parties do not explain Lawson’s
relationship to the Property or whether he is still alive. 


[10] Article 4.3 of the Vaugh Family
Trust states, in pertinent part:  “After
the death of trustor, … , the successor trustee shall have the power to
partition, allot and distribute the trust estate in undivided interests or in
kind, or partly in money and partly in kind, at valuations determined by the
trustee, and to sell such property as the trustee, in the trustee’s
discretion, considers necessary to make a division or distribution.  (See Vaughn Family Trust, Art. 4.3,
emphasis added.)  
 


[11] In her declaration, Gite explains
she met with a notary on September 2, 2011 in a proposed sales transaction with
Lions Proof.  Gite signed a grant deed
conveying the Property to Lions Proof which was notarized and sent to escrow to
be held in escrow until certain deal terms were met.  However, those terms were not met, and the
escrow was cancelled. (Gite Decl., ¶ 5.)
 


[12] 
In Gite’s quiet title action, Judge Christopher K. Lui issued a
statement of decision finding Gite’s testimony credible that (1) she never never
transferred the Property to any of the defendants, (2) the signature on the
document purporting to execute a grant deed transferring the Property to Lions
Proof was not hers (i.e., a forgery); (3) Gite deeded the Property to
Earthsicle in an effort to clean the title, and (4) Earthsicle executed a deed
reconveying the Property to the Vaughn Family Trust.  (Statement of Decision, Case No. BC692757,
10/31/20.)  In other words, Gite’s quiet
title action established Gite’s right to the Property, Lions Proof’s grant deed
was a forgery, and each subsequent transaction derived from Lions Proof’s grant
deed was illegitimate.  Judgment was
entered consistent with the court’s findings. 
 


[13] Also referred to herein as Chung
Yong Hwa, Yong Chun, Chung Yong, and Yong Hwa Chung.
 


[14] Yong Chung would later record
grant deeds again conveying the Property to Yong Chung as trustee of the
Kramerwood Trust in August 2015 and October 2017.


[15] Although not discussed by the
parties, US Bank, by way of assignment, has the first lien on the Property.


[16] Gite also alleged causes of action
for quiet title and negligence against Velocity.  On June 19, 2023, the court sustained
Velocity’s Demurrer to the First and Sixth Causes of Action with leave to
amend.  Gite did not amend the FAXC.  Accordingly, the only claims alleged against Velocity
are for declaratory relief and slander of title.
 


[17] Gite argues Velocity’s motion
should be denied because Velocity seeks summary judgment on the wrong
pleading.  Gite argues the SAXC and not
the FAXC is the operative pleading.  Gite
is not entirely correct.  The FAXC is the
operative pleading in the US Bank Action while the SAXC is the operative
pleading in the Mara Action.


[18]
With respect to Velocity’s
motion, the operative conveyances are (1) Lions
Proof’s recording of the November 15, 2011 grant deed, (2) Velocity’s recording
of the July 18, 2019 Deed of Trust, (3) Mara’s recording of the December 30,
2019 Deed of Trust, and (4) Velocity’s October 2020 assignment to US Bank.  
 
 


[19] The assignment, however, does not
affect the slander of title claim because title to the Property is not an
element of that claim.


[20] Gite also
admits her declaratory relief claim is a proxy for her quiet title claim.  (See Opposition, p. 9:13-15 [stating Gite
“did not amend the complaint to preserve the same legal effect of clearing
title”].)  A cause of action for
declaratory relief should not be used as a duplicate cause of action for the
determination of identical issues raised in another cause of action.¿ (General
of America Insurance Co. v. Lilly (1968) 258 Cal.App.2d 465, 470.)  The court sustained Velocity’s demurrer to
Gite’s quiet title claim. (See Minute Order, 6/15/23.) 
 

