 Case Number:  24STCP01022    Hearing Date:   December 5, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Order
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:      December 5, 2024                                        TRIAL DATE:  Not
set
                                                           
CASE:                         Wayfair LLC v. Jebel
Juan, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 24STCP01022
 





















 
MOTION
TO COMPEL DEPOSITION TESTIMONY AND PRODUCTION FROM RESPONDENTS 



 
MOVING PARTY:               Petitioner
Wayfair LLC
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     No opposition 
 
 
I.          INTRODUCTION
 
            On April 2, 2024, petitioner Wayfair LLC (Wayfair or Petitioner)
filed a Petition and Memorandum to Enforce Deposition Subpoena Pursuant to Code
of Civil Procedure § 2029.600 against respondents, Jebel Juan a/k/a Jabel Juan
a/k/a Michael Juan (Juan) and Leon Cao (Cao) (collectively, Respondents).  Wayfair is an international furniture and
home goods retailer.  In the underlying
litigation, Wayfair alleges that certain of Wayfair’s suppliers—Rosevera Corporation,
Mulhouse Furniture Corp f/k/a Alton Furniture Group, and Fully Wind Co.—along
with agents of those suppliers, Ping Hua Hsu (Hsu) and Tzu Ju Huang (Huang)—engaged
in multiple schemes to defraud Wayfair.  Wayfair first learned of these fraudulent
schemes through Juan.  Cao is a former
employee of one of the defendant corporations and, on information and belief,
was Hsu’s former business partner.
 
            On October
11, 2024, Petitioner filed this Motion to Compel Deposition Testimony and
Production of Documents from Respondents. 
Petitioner does not seek sanctions.
 
            The motion is
unopposed.
                         
II.        LEGAL STANDARDS
 
Any party may obtain discovery by
taking in California the oral deposition of any person.  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2025.010.)  “If, after service of a deposition notice, a party to the
action…without having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails to
appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for inspection any
document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the
deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move for an order compelling
the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the production for inspection of
any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in
the deposition notice.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (a).) 
 
III.      DISCUSSION
 
            Petitioner
seeks an order compelling Respondents to appear for deposition and to produce
documents responsive to the deposition notices. 
It is undisputed Respondents were properly served subpoenas compelling
their appearances at depositions.   (See Wheat Decl., ¶¶ 2-3, Exs. A, B.)  Juan’s deposition was scheduled for February
12, 2024.  Mr. Cao’s deposition was
scheduled for March 21, 2024.  Neither
appeared for deposition.  Their
non-appearances were recorded by court reporter.  (Wheat Decl. ¶¶ 4-5, Exs. C, D.)
 
            Given
that Plaintiff has not opposed the motion, the court finds good cause to compel
Respondents to appear for deposition and to produce the requested documents.  
 
IV.       CONCLUSION 
 
            The
unopposed motion is GRANTED.  Respondents
Jebel Juan a/k/a Jabel Juan a/k/a Michael Juan and Leon Cao are ordered to
appear for deposition prior to March 5, 2025, and to produce documents
responsive to the deposition notice. 
 
Moving party to give notice, unless waived.  
 
 
Dated:   December 5,
2024                                      




 


   




 


  Kerry Bensinger  
  Judge of the Superior Court 




 
 
            
 