 Case Number:  23STCV30103    Hearing Date:   March 27, 2024    Dept:  14  Doe v DoeCase Background
 
Plaintiff alleges that his talent agents
worked against Plaintiff’s best interests in the compensation negotiations for
Plaintiff’s appearance on the hit television show ‘Empire.’
 
On December 8, 2023, Plaintiff filed
his Complaint for (1) Breach of Fiduciary Duty, (2) Constructive Fraud, and (3)
Fraudulent Concealment against Defendants Creative Artists Agency, LLC (“Creative
Artists”), David Bugliari, Jon Teiber, Michael Katcher, and DOES 1-10.
 
No proof of service has been
filed as to Defendants David Bugliari, Jon Teiber and Michael Katcher.
 
            No trial
date has yet been set.
 
Instant Pleading
 
            Defendant Creative
Artists now demurs to the entire Complaint on the grounds that all claims are
barred by the statute of limitations.
 
Decision
 
            Defendant
Creative Artists’ Request for Judicial Notice is DENIED. The attachment of
another lawsuit, and the publicity surrounding that lawsuit, invites the court
to make certain factual conclusions about what Plaintiff must have or should
have seen or known. The Court of Appeal has made it very clear that this court
cannot use a request for judicial notice to transform a demurrer into an
evidentiary hearing. See Del E. Webb
Corp. v. Structural Materials Co. (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 593, 604-605; see also Sanai v. Saltz
(2009) 170 Cal.App.4th 746, 768-770
 
            The
demurrer is SUSTAINED, with 20 days leave to amend.
 
Discussion
 
            The acts
alleged in the Complaint occurred in 2014, 2016, and 2018. (Complaint ¶¶ 13-20,
34-36). The parties tacitly agree, for present purposes (Defense asserts, and
Plaintiff does not disagree), that the three-year limitations period contained
in Code of Civil Procedure § 338(d) applies to these claims. While that
would, facially, put these claims beyond the statute, Subdivision 338(d) also
contains the well-known “discovery rule.”
 
            The
Discovery Rule “postpones accrual of a cause of action until the plaintiff
discovers, or has reason to discover, the cause of action.” Fox v. Ethicon
Endo-Surgery, Inc. (2005) 35 Cal.4th 797, 807. “The discovery rule
only delays accrual until the plaintiff has, or should have, inquiry notice of
the cause of action.” Id. A Plaintiff who wishes to rely on the Discovery
Rule has the burden of specifically pleading “(1) the time and manner of
discovery and (2) the inability to have made earlier discovery
despite reasonable diligence.” Id. at 808 (emphasis in original).
 
            Plaintiff
has done neither. Paragraph 41 pleads generically that “sometime in 2021,
[Plaintiff] discovered that the representations made by his agents regarding
the comparisons discussed in 2018 were in fact misleading.” While the
identification of a specific year is arguably sufficient pleading of the time
of discovery, this does not describe the manner in which the discovery was
made. Further, it only applies to what happened in 2018, not the events of 2014
or 2016.
 
            Nor is
there any attempt to explain how Plaintiff was unable to make the discovery
earlier. He pleads ignorance and misunderstanding of what it meant that
Defendant Creative Artists also served as the “packaging agent” for the show.
(Complaint ¶¶ 21-22). On demurrer the court must accept this allegation and its
necessary implication: that Plaintiff did not know the nature of the conflict
of interest he now alleges. But the conflict is not itself the harm; Plaintiff’s
loss of pay is the harm. And Plaintiff alleges that he was unhappy with his pay
as early as 2016, to the point of hiring counsel to help with renegotiations.
(Complaint ¶¶ 33-34). Plaintiff needs to provide a more detailed
explanation as to why the discovery of the harm alleged did not lead him to
find its source.
 
            As
Plaintiff notes in his opposition, the Discovery Rule is not a high hurdle at
the pleadings stage. It is likely that Plaintiff will ultimately be able to clear
it. When a person should reasonably have notice of a claim is a classic factual
question. But Plaintiff must provide the court and the Defense with some
details to allow for assessment. ‘This happened and I just discovered it two
years ago’ is not enough. 
 
Conclusion
 
            Because
Plaintiffs’ Complaint presently lacks the requisite details, the demurrer is
SUSTAINED with 20 days leave to amend.