 Case Number:  23STCV20155    Hearing Date:   March 27, 2024    Dept:  14 Beltran v. General MotorsCase Background
 
Lemon law case involving
Plaintiff’s 2020 Chevrolet Traverse. 
 
On July 8, 2021, Plaintiffs filed
their Complaint for (1) Breach of Implied Warranty of Merchantability, (2)-(3)
Breach of Express Warranty, (4) Violation of Magnuson-Moss, and (5) Violation
of the CLRA against Defendants General Motors LLC (“GM”) and DOES 1-10.
 
No trial date has yet been set.
 
(1)       Demurrer
 
            Defendant
GM now demurs, per Code of Civil Procedure § 430.10(e) to the fifth cause
of action in the Complaint on the grounds that there are no facts sufficient to
support that cause of action against Defendant GM. 
 
Decision
 
The demurrer is SUSTAINED, with 45
days leave to amend.
 
Fifth Cause of Action: CLRA
 
            Civil Code
§ 1770 provides in relevant part as follows:
 
“(a) The unfair methods of
competition and unfair or deceptive acts or practices listed in this
subdivision undertaken by any person in a transaction intended to result or
that results in the sale or lease of goods or services to any consumer are
unlawful:
…
(5) Representing that goods or
services have sponsorship, approval, characteristics, ingredients, uses,
benefits, or quantities that they do not have or that a person has a
sponsorship, approval, status, affiliation, or connection that the person does
not have.
…
(7) Representing that goods or
services are of a particular standard, quality, or grade, or that goods are of
a particular style or model, if they are of another.
…
(14) Representing that a
transaction confers or involves rights, remedies, or obligations that it does
not have or involve, or that are prohibited by law.
 
Civil Code § 1780 provides in
relevant part as follows:
 
“(a) Any consumer who suffers any
damage as a result of the use or employment by any person of a method, act, or
practice declared to be unlawful by Section 1770 may bring an action against
that person to recover or obtain any of the following:
(1) Actual damages, but in no case
shall the total award of damages in a class action be less than one thousand
dollars ($1,000).
(2) An order enjoining the
methods, acts, or practices.
(3) Restitution of property.
(4) Punitive damages.
(5) Any other relief that the
court deems proper.”
 
Notice
 
            Civil Code
§ 1782 requires that, before filing a lawsuit, a consumer give notice to
the manufacturer or seller and allow them time to cure the issue. Notice must
be given at least 30 days prior to filing a lawsuit. Civil Code § 1782(a).
If the manufacturer or seller agrees to an “appropriate” curative measure
within that period, the suit is barred. Civil Code § 1782(b). However,
there is no need to comply with the notice procedure if the plaintiff is only
seeking injunctive relief. Civil Code § 1782.
 
            Paragraphs 64-68
of the Complaint admit that Plaintiff has not complied with the notice period. They
concede that Plaintiff sent her notice to cure simultaneously with service of
the complaint, and state that “upon the expiration of thirty (30) days” the
complaint will be amended “by operation of law and without leave of court” to
state a proper claim for violations of the CLRA. This is not proper.
 
            Plaintiffs
cite to Morgan v. AT&T Wireless Services, Inc. (2009) 177 Cal.App.4th
1235, 1259-61. In that case, the initial versions of the complaint had made no
mention of damages, instead seeking purely injunctive relief. Id. at
1260. Only in the second amended complaint was there a request for damages, and
only in the third amended complaint was compliance with the notice requirement
properly alleged. Id. The Court of Appeal held that the failure to
allege compliance in the second amendment, and resulting sustention of the demurrer,
did not result in a dismissal of the damages claim with prejudice. Id.
at 1260-61.
 
            Morgan
does not authorize plaintiffs to file their notices simultaneous with their
complaints. Nor does it authorize any sort of amendment “by operation of law
and without leave of court” once the notice period has passed. Plaintiffs
cannot get around the notice period by giving notice simultaneously with their
complaint, secure in the knowledge that the notice period will have passed
before the defense can raise any objection. Plaintiffs are obliged to leave
damages out of any CLRA claim until they can allege that compliance with the notice
period occurred prior to the filing of the operative complaint.
 
Substantive Pleading
 
            As noted
above, the ordinary rules of fraud pleading do not apply to a concealment
claim. It is not entirely clear whether they apply to a claim under the CLRA.
See Gutierrez v. CarMax Auto Superstores California (2018) 19 Cal.App.5th
1234, 1261. However, unlike common law fraud, a claim under the CLRA cannot be
based on the simple failure to disclose; it must identify some specific
representation that was contrary to, or necessarily concealed, the true facts. Daugherty
v. American Honda Motor Co., Inc. (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 824,
833-834; see e.g. Gutierrez, supra, 19 Cal.App.5th at
1261-63 (representation that a car subject to a safety recall for a brake light
part had passed a 125-point inspection which included brake lights). And as a
corollary, it must allege that the Plaintiffs were damaged by that
representation. See Civil Code § 1780(a).
 
            The
Complaint fails on this ground as well. It does not identify any specific
representation which was made to Plaintiff, upon which Plaintiff relied, which
turned out to be false.
 
Conclusion
 
            However,
Plaintiffs have not properly pled a CLRA claim because (a) they have sought
restitution without complying with the notice requirement, and (b) they have
failed to identify any specific misrepresentation upon which they relied.
 
            Therefore,
the demurrer is SUSTAINED, with 45 days leave to amend. The lengthy
amendment period is necessary to give Plaintiff sufficient time to comply with
the notice requirement before re-filing her damages claim.
 
(2)       Motion to
Strike
 
            Defendant
GM now moves this court, per Code of Civil Procedure §§ 435-436, for an
order striking the punitive damages allegations from the Complaint. 
 
Decision
 
The motion is GRANTED, with 45
days leave to amend. In light of the ruling above, Plaintiffs are left only
with contract claims, which will not support a request for punitive damages.
See Civil Code § 3294(a).
 
 