  Case Number:  23STCV10736    Hearing Date:   October 23, 2023    Dept:  51 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Upinder S.
Kalra, Department 51
 
HEARING DATE:   October
23, 2023                                            
 
CASE NAME:           Daisy Gomez v. The Illumination
Foundation
 
CASE NO.:                23STCV10736

 
MOTION
TO STRIKE PORTIONS OF PLAINTIFF’S COMPLAINT

 
MOVING PARTY:  Defendant
The Illumination Foundation
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiff Daisy Gomez
 
REQUESTED RELIEF: 
 
1.      An
Order striking various portions of the Complaint pertaining to punitive
damages.
TENTATIVE RULING: 
 
1.     Motion
to Strike is GRANTED.
 
STATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS: 
 
Plaintiff Daisy Gomez (Plaintiff) filed a Complaint against
Defendant The Illumination Foundation (Defendant) on May 12, 2023 with nine
causes of action for:
1.      Discrimination
in Violation of Gov’t Code §§ 12940 et seq.;
2.      Retaliation
in Violation of Gov't Code §§ 12940 et seq.;
3.      Failure
to Prevent Discrimination and Retaliation in Violation of Gov’t Code §
12940(k);
4.      Failure
to Provide Reasonable Accommodation in Violation of Gov't Code §§ 12940 et
seq.;
5.      Failure
to Engage in Good Faith Interactive Process in Violation of Gov’t Code §§ 12940
et seq.;
6.      Violation
of the Pregnancy Disability Leave Law (Gov’t Code § 12945(a));
7.      For
Declaratory Judgment; 
8.      Wrongful
Termination in Violation of Public Policy; and
9.      Failure
to Permit Inspection of Personnel and Payroll Records (Cal. Labor Code §
1198.5).
According to the Complaint, Defendant hired Plaintiff on
January 11, 2022 as a full-time non-exempt employee to clean rooms, wash
sheets, and serve food. Plaintiff alleges she notified Defendant that she was
pregnant in April 2022 and requested accommodations for pregnancy related
medical visits and time off as requested by her doctor. Plaintiff alleges
Defendant wrongfully terminated her on May 13, 2022. 
 
Defendant timely filed the instant motion on August 8, 2023.
Plaintiff timely filed an opposition on October 10, 2023. Defendant timely
filed a reply on October 16, 2023.
 
LEGAL STANDARD: 
 
Motion to Strike
 
The court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion,
and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper
matter inserted in any pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436(a).) The court may
also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity
with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court. (Id., § 436(b).) The grounds for moving
to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice.
(Id.¿§¿437.)¿“When the defect which
justifies striking a complaint is capable of cure, the court should allow leave
to amend.” (Vaccaro v. Kaiman¿(1998)
63 Cal.App.4th 761, 768.) 
 
Meet and Confer
 
A
moving party is required to meet and confer prior to filing a motion to strike
and to submit a declaration demonstrated they satisfied this requirement. (CCP § 435.5.)
Upon reviewing the Declaration of Yolanda E. Lopez submitted with the motion to
strike, the meet and confer requirement is met. (Lopez Decl. ¶¶ 5, 6.) 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
Defendant moves to strike various portions of the Complaint
which call for punitive damages.
1.      “Because
the acts taken toward Plaintiff were carried out by officers, directors and/or
managing agents acting in a deliberate, cold, callous, cruel and intentional
manner, in conscious disregard of Plaintiff’s rights and in order to injure and
damage Plaintiff, Plaintiff requests that punitive damages be levied against
Defendants and each of them, in sums in excess of the jurisdictional minimum of
this Court.” (Compl. ¶ 31.)
2.      “The
foregoing conduct of Defendants individually, or by and through their officers,
directors and/or managing agents, was intended by the Defendants to cause
injury to the Plaintiff or was despicable conduct carried on by the Defendants
with a willful and conscious disregard of the rights of Plaintiff or subjected
Plaintiff to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of Plaintiff’s
rights such as to constitute malice, oppression, or fraud under Civil Code
§3294, thereby entitling Plaintiff to punitive damages in an amount appropriate
to punish or make an example of Defendants.” (Compl. ¶¶ 42, 54, 60, 68, 76, 88,
109.)
3.      “punitive
damages, pursuant to Civil Code §§3294 in amounts sufficient to punish
Defendants for the wrongful conduct alleged herein and to deter such conduct in
the future.” (Prayer for Relief No. 6.) 
 
Punitive Damages –
Oppression, Fraud, Malice
 
Defendant contends that Plaintiff stated a
conclusory entitlement to punitive damages of which she is not entitled under
Civ. Code § 3294.[1] Plaintiff
argues that, when read as a whole, the Complaint facially satisfies the
pleading requirement regarding entitlement to punitive damages.
Plaintiff also argues that intentional
discrimination and wrongful termination related to her pregnancy falls under
the umbrella to warrant a punitive damages award. 
 
To obtain punitive damages, a plaintiff
must plead sufficient facts in support of punitive damages.¿ (See¿Hilliard v. A.H. Robins Co.¿(1983) 148
Cal.App.3d 374, 391-92.)¿ In addition,¿punitive damages are allowed only where
“it is proven by clear and convincing evidence that the defendant has been
guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.”¿ (Civ. Code, § 3294,¿subd. (a).)¿
Courts have viewed despicable conduct as conduct “so vile, base, contemptible,
miserable, wretched or loathsome that it would be looked down upon and despised
by ordinary decent people. (Scott v.
Phoenix Schools, Inc., (2009) 175 Cal.App.4th 702, 715.)  
  
Further,
Civil Code § 3294(c) provides the definition of malice, oppression, and fraud.
Malice is “conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the
plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a
willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.” Oppression
is “despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in
conscious disregard of that person's rights.” Fraud is “an intentional
misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the
defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving
a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.” 
 
After reviewing the Complaint, the court agrees with
Defendant that Plaintiff has not alleged sufficient facts to support a claim
for punitive damages. Unlike in Sasco
Electric v. Fair Employment and Housing Com. (2009) 176 Cal.App.4th 532, 546
(where the evidence established that the employer concocted a layoff to hide
that it terminated the plaintiff due to her pregnancy), here, Plaintiff alleges
that she learned she was pregnant in April 2022, she informed Defendant of her
pregnancy shortly thereafter, she requested accommodations for pregnancy
related medical visits and time off as requested by her doctor, and Defendant
terminated her employment on May 13, 2022. (Compl. ¶¶ 20, 21, and 22.) Reading
the Complaint in its entirety, the only factual allegation that the court can
identify is terminating Plaintiff because she was pregnant. (Compl. ¶¶ 20, 21,
and 22.) While terminating a person due to their pregnancy is unlawful, that
alone does not rise to the level of “oppression, fraud, or malice” required to
award punitive damages. 
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff did not sufficiently plead facts
warranting an award for punitive damages.[2]
 
Punitive Damages – Entity
Employer
 
Defendant contends that Plaintiff has not pleaded facts
showing that its employee(s), who exercise substantial independent authority
and judgment over decisions that ultimately determine policy, engaged in
conduct set forth in CCP § 3294. Plaintiff argues she alleged sufficient facts
for punitive damages against the entity employer.
 
Subsection (b) of Civil Code § 3294 states: 
An employer
shall not be liable for damages pursuant to subdivision (a), based upon acts of
an employee of the employer, unless the employer had advance knowledge of the
unfitness of the employee and employed him or her with a conscious disregard of
the rights or safety of others or authorized or ratified the wrongful conduct
for which the damages are awarded or was personally guilty of oppression,
fraud, or malice. With respect to a corporate employer, the advance knowledge
and conscious disregard, authorization, ratification or act of oppression,
fraud, or malice must be on the part of an officer, director, or managing agent
of the corporation. 
 
Plaintiff identifies “Charles Lorenzo” and DOES 1 through 20
as persons “authorized and empowered to make decisions that reflect and/or
create policy for Defendants.”[3]
(Compl. ¶ 27.) However, Plaintiff concludes, rather than allege facts, that Defendant
had “advanced knowledge” of the “aforementioned conduct of said managing
agents” and that Defendant “ratified, authorized, and approved” said conduct. (Ibid.) Reading the Complaint in its
entirety, the only factual allegation that the court can identify is
terminating Plaintiff because she was pregnant. (Compl. ¶¶ 20, 21, and 22.) The
court did not see any other factual allegations supporting Defendant’s
“authorization, ratification, or act of oppression, fraud, or malice . . . [by]
an officer, director, or managing agent.” (Civ. Code § 3294(b).) Additionally,
the court did not read any factual allegations of “substantial discretionary
authority over decisions that ultimately determine corporate policy” by any
alleged unfit employee in the Complaint. (White
v. Ultramar, Inc. (1999) 21 Cal.4th 563, 576.) 
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff did not sufficiently plead facts to
warrant punitive damages against Defendant as a corporate employer.[4]
 
CONCLUSION:
 
            For
the foregoing reasons, the Court decides the pending motion as follows: 
 
1.      Motion
to Strike is GRANTED in its entirety.
 
Moving party is to give notice. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED. 
 
Dated:             October
23, 2023                    __________________________________                                                                                                                Upinder
S. Kalra
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 


