  Case Number:  22STCV22091    Hearing Date:   August 9, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:      August 9, 2024                                              TRIAL DATE:  August
27, 2024
                                                           
CASE:                         Rachel Sungwon Yun
v. Velvet Apparel, LLC, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 22STCV22091 
 





















 
PLAINTIFF’S
MOTION TO STRIKE COSTS
 
PLAINTIFF’S
MOTION IN LIMINE NO. 1 TO EXCLUDE OLGA PALOMAR, MARLA LOPEZ, SARA CAMPUZANO,
AND CINDY GONZALEZ AS WITNESSES



 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff
Rachel Sungwon Yun 
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Defendants Velvet
Apparel, LLC, and Henry Hirschowitz
 
 
I.          INTRODUCTION
 
            On July 8, 2022, Plaintiff Rachel Sungwon filed this FEHA
action against Defendants Velvet Apparel, LLC (Velvet Apparel) and Henry
Hirschowitz (Hirschowitz).  The operative
pleading is the First Amended Complaint (FAC), which alleges causes of action for: 
 
(1)
Discrimination Based On Race And National Origin (Cal. Gov’t Code § 12940(a))
(2)
Discrimination Based On Age (Cal. Gov’t Code § 12940(a))
(3) Wrongful
Termination In Violation Of Public Policy
(4) Unfair
Business Practice In Violation Of California Business & Professions Code
Section 17200 et seq. 
 
As alleged in the FAC, Plaintiff is an immigrant from the
Republic of Korea (South Korea). Plaintiff has limited English skills. In
February 2022, Velvet Apparel employed Plaintiff as a pattern maker at the
annual salary of $90,000.00.  During
Plaintiff’s 90-day probationary period, Plaintiff worked overtime without
compensation despite being a non-exempt employee in order to meet Defendants’
demands. Plaintiff did not receive any complaint regarding her work.  During the probationary period, a less
skilled and substantially younger white female named Anja was hired part-time
and for less pay.  Defendants terminated Plaintiff’s
employment on June 24, 2022 citing complaints regarding her poor work.  Anja eventually replaced Plaintiff.  Plaintiff believes she was terminated due to
her race, national origin, and/or age.  Further, Plaintiff alleges that Henry
Hirschowitz, the sole member and manager of Velvet Apparel, is the alter ego of
Velvet Apparel.
             
            Before the
court are two motions: (1) Plaintiff’s Motion to Strike Defendant Hirschowitz’s
Memorandum of Costs, and (2) Plaintiff’s Motion in Limine No. 1.  The matters are briefed.  The court addresses each in turn.
 
II.        MOTION TO STRIKE COSTS
 
A.   
Relevant
Background
 
On May 6, 2024, Plaintiff
dismissed Hirschowitz from this action without prejudice.  The following day, Plaintiff dismissed her
third cause of action for wrongful termination.
 
On May 14, 2024, Hirschowitz filed
a Memorandum of Costs.  
 
On May 21, 2024, Plaintiff filed
this Motion to Strike the costs memorandum.
 
Hirschowitz filed an
opposition.  Plaintiff replied.
 
B.    
Legal
Standard
 
            A
party challenging the amounts claimed may file a motion to tax costs, which
must be served and filed 15 days after service of the cost memorandum.¿ If the
cost memorandum was served by mail, the period is extended as provided in Code
of Civil Procedure section 1013. If the cost memorandum was served
electronically, the period is extended as provided in Code of Civil Procedure
section 1010.6, subdivision (a)(4).¿ (Cal. Rules of Court., rule
3.1700(b)(1).)¿ “Unless objection is made to the entire cost memorandum, the
motion ... must refer to each item objected to by the same number and appear in
the same order as the corresponding cost item claimed on the memorandum of
costs and must state why the item is objectionable.”¿ (Cal. Rules of Court,
rule 3.1700(b)(2).)¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
The memorandum of cost is a
verified statement by the party, attorney, or agent that the costs are correct
and were necessarily incurred in the case.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1700(a)(1).)¿ “If
the items appear to be proper charges, the verified memorandum is prima facie
evidence that the costs, expenses and services therein listed were necessarily
incurred by the defendant, and the burden of showing that an item is not
properly chargeable or is unreasonable is upon the [objecting party].”¿ (Oak
Grove School Dist. v. City Title Ins. Co. (1963) 217 Cal.App.2d 678, 698.)¿
“[I]f the correctness of the memorandum is challenged either in whole or in
part by the affidavit or other evidence of the contesting party, the burden is
then on the party claiming the costs and disbursements to show that the items
charged were for matters necessarily relevant and material to the issues
involved in the action.”¿ (Id. at p. 699.)¿¿¿ 
¿ 
Code of Civil Procedure section
1033.5 lists the costs that are recoverable.¿ Section 1033.5 provides: “(1)
Costs are allowable if incurred, whether or not paid. (2) Allowable costs shall
be reasonably necessary to the conduct of the litigation rather than merely
convenient or beneficial to its preparation. (3) Allowable costs shall be
reasonable in amount. (4) Items not mentioned in this section ... may be
allowed ... in the court’s discretion.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., §¿1033.5, subd. (c).)¿¿¿ 
 
            However,
an award of costs in a FEHA action is governed by a different statute.  A prevailing defendant in a FEHA action may
be awarded fees and costs only when the court finds the action was frivolous, unreasonable, or groundless when brought,
or the plaintiff continued to litigate after it clearly became so.  (Gov.
Code, § 12965, subd. (c)(6).)  “By making a cost award discretionary
rather than mandatory, Government Code section 12965[(c)(6)] expressly excepts
FEHA actions from Code of Civil Procedure section 1032(b)’s mandate for a cost
award to the prevailing party.”  (Williams v. Chino Valley Independent
Fire Dist. (2015) 61 Cal.4th 97, 105.)  In determining whether an
action is frivolous, unreasonable, or groundless, the court must not “engage in
post hoc reasoning by concluding that, because a plaintiff did not
ultimately prevail, his action must have been unreasonable or without
foundation. . . . Even when the law or the facts appear questionable or
unfavorable at the outset, a party may have an entirely reasonable ground for
bringing suit.”  (Christiansburg
Garment Co. v. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (1978) 434 U.S. 412,
421-422.) 
 
C.    
Discussion
 
Hirschowitz seeks costs in the sum
of $6,202.13.  (See Memorandum of Costs, 5/14/24.) Plaintiff argues the
costs should be stricken on two principal grounds: (1) Hirschowitz is not a prevailing
party because Plaintiff voluntarily dismissed him from this action, as well as
the third cause of action for wrongful termination; and (2) Defendants never
moved the court to determine via motion for summary judgment or judgment on the
pleadings, whether Plaintiff’s action was “objectively without foundation when
brought, or the plaintiff continued to litigate after it clearly became so.”   
 
Hirschowtiz argues that Plaintiff
does not account for her other non-FEHA causes of action.  As the argument goes, because Plaintiff’s
non-FEHA claims are separate and stand-alone claims, he is entitled to costs as
the prevailing defendant following dismissal. 
In other words, Hirschowitz contends Plaintiff’s FEHA claims are not
inextricably intertwined with Plaintiff’s other claims.
 
In reply, Plaintiff advances the
new argument that the court lacks jurisdiction to determine whether Plaintiff’s
FEHA claims against Hirschowitz were frivolous. 
 
The parties provide “snapshots”
and incomplete statements of the relevant law. 
The court summarizes the issues as follows: (1) May Hirschowitz recover
costs as the prevailing defendant in a FEHA action after being dismissed
voluntarily by Plaintiff? (2) Does the court lack jurisdiction to determine whether
Plaintiff’s FEHA claims are frivolous? (3) Are Plaintiff’s FEHA causes of
action inextricably intertwined with her non-FEHA claims?  
 
As discussed herein, the answers
are “Yes” to Issue 1 and “No” to Issue 2. 
Further, because the court finds that the parties have not sufficiently
briefed Issue 3, the court will discuss with the parties whether a continuance
of this motion is needed.
Issue 1: Prevailing Defendants in
FEHA Actions and Voluntary Dismissal
 
Plaintiff argues that Hirschowitz
is not a prevailing defendant because Plaintiff voluntarily dismissed
Hirschowitz from this action.[1]  
 
Plaintiff is incorrect.  Under the general costs statute, a defendant
as “prevailing party” is not defined by whether the plaintiff’s claims have
been adjudicated in defendant’s favor or if the plaintiff voluntarily dismissed
the defendant.  Except as otherwise
expressly provided by statute, a prevailing party is entitled as a
matter of right to recover costs in any action or proceeding. (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 1032, subd. (b).)  A voluntary dismissal of an action without prejudice
is a sufficient precipitating event triggering the trial court’s discretion to
assess an award of costs.  (See, e.g., Mon
Chong Loong Trading Corp. v. Superior Court (2013) 218 Cal.App.4th 87, 90
[“a voluntary dismissal constitutes the conclusion of the action and is
therefore an appropriate precipitating event triggering the trial court's
discretion as to the assessment of expert witness fees under [the cost-shifting
provisions of Code of Civil Procedure] section 998.”].)
 
Here, as Plaintiff points out, a prevailing
defendant in a FEHA action may obtain an award of discretionary costs upon a
finding that the FEHA claim was frivolous or lacking in objective merit.  (See Christiansburg Garment Co. v.
E.E.O.C. (1978) 434 U.S. 412, 422 (Christiansburg) [holding in an
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (“EEOC”) action, trial court’s
discretion to award attorney fees does not extend to a prevailing defendant unless
trial court finds that the plaintiff’s EEOC “claim was frivolous, unreasonable,
or groundless, or that the plaintiff continued to litigate after it clearly
became so.”]; see also Williams v. Chino Valley Independent Fire District
(2015) 61 Cal.4th 97, 99-100 [holding that Christiansburg standard
applied to an award of costs in a FEHA action]; Neeble-Diamond v. Hotel
California By the Sea, LLC (2024) 99 Cal.App.5th 551, 557 (Neeble-Diamond)
[“when the defense prevails in a FEHA action, it has no automatic right to
recover costs under section 1032; instead, it must move the court to make a
discretionary award of such costs, based in part on a specific finding that the
action was frivolous.”]; see also.)
 
Further, by filing this motion to
strike the costs memorandum, Plaintiff has placed in issue the “minimal merit”
of her FEHA action.  (Cf. Neeble-Diamond,
99 Cal.App.5th at p. 551 [holding that a losing plaintiff in a FEHA action is
not required to respond to a Memorandum of Costs because discretionary costs in
the FEHA context is governed by Government Code section 12965, subdivision
(c)(6), not the general procedure for recovering the costs allowed under Code
of Civil Procedure section 1032].)  
 
In sum, following Plaintiff’s
voluntary dismissal, Hirschowitz is a prevailing defendant.  Hirschowitz may therefore seek discretionary
costs if he shows Plaintiff’s action was frivolous or lacking in objective
merit as to Hirschowitz.  Further,
because Plaintiff moved to strike Hirschowtiz’s memorandum of costs, Plaintiff
has placed at issue the merit of her claims against Hirschowitz.
 
Issue 2: Jurisdiction
Plaintiff next argues that
dismissal of Hirschowitz from this action deprived the court of jurisdiction to
determine whether her FEHA action was frivolous.  In support, Plaintiff cites Associated
Convalescent Enterprises v. Carl Marks & Co. (1973) 33 Cal.App.3d 116,
120 (Associated Convalescent) for the proposition that following
entry of voluntary dismissal, the trial court is without jurisdiction to act
further in the action.  The point is not
well taken.  Plaintiff submits a
selective citation of Associated Convalescent which omits language
directly unfavorable to her position.  In
full,  Associated Convalescent states:
“Following entry of such dismissal, the trial court is without jurisdiction to
act further in the action [citation] except for the limited purpose of
awarding costs and statutory attorney's fees.” 
(Id., emphasis added.)  Determining
whether Plaintiff’s FEHA action was frivolous is directly relevant to the
determination of awarding discretionary costs.  The court has jurisdiction to determine
Hirschowitz’s right, if any, to costs.
 
Issue 3: Whether Plaintiff’s FEHA
and Non-FEHA Claims are Inextricably Intertwined
 
“[T]he general rule pursuant
to section 1032[b)], is that ordinary litigation costs are recoverable by
the prevailing party. Government Code section 12965, subdivision
(b) creates an exception to that rule for FEHA cases,
allowing a prevailing defendant to recover costs only upon a showing the
lawsuit was objectively groundless. By a parity of reasoning to the cases
regarding allocation of attorney fees [e.g., Reynolds], that
provision establishing an exception to the general rule for an award of costs
should apply to any other cause of action that is intertwined and inseparable with
the FEHA claims.” 
(Roman v. BRE Properties, Inc. (2015) 237 Cal.App.4th 1040, 1062,
fn. 20, emphasis added.)
 
This issue has not been
sufficiently addressed by the parties. 
The court notes that Hirschowtiz points to evidence which allegedly
supports his view that Plaintiff’s claims lacked merit.  However, the court is inclined to continue
the matter to allow both parties to brief the matter and submit supporting
evidence.  
 
The court raises one issue not discussed
in the papers.  Plaintiff is proceeding
with her claims against Velvet Apparel. 
As alleged, Velvet Apparel is the alter ego of Hirschowitz.  (FAC, ¶¶ 5-8.)  Given this background, the resolution of
Plaintiff’s claims against Velvet Apparel may well impact any ruling on an
award of discretionary costs to Hirschowitz. 
The court will hear from the parties. 
 
D. Conclusion
 
The court will hear from the
parties about the issues discussed herein.
 

III.      PLAINTIFF’S MOTION IN LIMINE NO. 1 
 
A.   
Relevant Background
 
This action was filed on July 8, 2022.  Plaintiff thereafter propounded Form
Interrogatories on Velvet Apparel on August 17, 2022.  Velvet Apparel served responses on September
20, 2022.
On May 6, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel provided Defendants with
a proposed joint witness list.  The
follow day, Defense Counsel provided Defendants’ witness list, which includes
Olga Palomar, Marla Lopez, Sara Campuzano, and Cindy Gonzalez (“Proposed
Witnesses”), among others.
 
On May 10, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel met and conferred with
defense counsel to exclude the Proposed Witnesses, claiming Defendants never
disclosed or identified them in responses to Plaintiff’s Form Interrogatories.  Defense counsel did not respond.
 
Plaintiff now moves in limine to exclude Proposed Witnesses
from testifying at trial. 
 
Velvet Apparel filed an opposition.  Plaintiff replied.
 
B.    
Discussion
 
It is undisputed that Velvet Apparel did not specifically
identify Proposed Witnesses Olga Palomar, Marla Lopez, Sara Campuzano, and
Cindy Gonzalez in their responses to Plaintiff’s Form Interrogatories.  (Opp., Ex. A, Responses to Form Interrogatories
12.1, 15.1, and 17.1.)  Accordingly, the
issue to be decided is whether Velvet Apparel’s Proposed Witnesses may be
excluded from testifying at trial when the Proposed Witnesses were not
specifically identified in discovery responses. 

 
In essence, Plaintiff seeks an evidence sanction.  That remedy is not warranted.  “[E]xclusion of a party's witness for that
party's failure to identify the witness in discovery is appropriate only if the
omission was willful or a violation of a court order compelling a response. (Mitchell
v. Superior Ct. (2015) 243 Cal.App.4th 269, 272, citing Code Civ. Proc., §§
2023.030, 2030.290, subd. (c), 2030.300, subd. (e).) 
 
Here, the court finds the omission was not willful.  As Velvet Apparel explains, Plaintiff
propounded the Form Interrogatories on August 17, 2022—a mere 40 days after
Plaintiff commenced this action.  (Horwitz
Decl., ¶ 4.)  The “infancy” of the action
prompted the following responses by Velvet Apparel:
 
Response to Form Interrogatory 12.1: “This matter is in its
infancy. Responding Party has not yet had an opportunity to complete its
investigation and discovery in this matter, and reserves the right to
supplement and/or amend these responses in the future.” (Horwitz Decl., ¶ 7.)  
 
Response to Form Interrogatory 15.1: “Defendant further
objects on the ground that this interrogatory is premature as this lawsuit has
just commenced and discovery is ongoing.” Without waiving those objections,
Velvet responded, in part: “(b) Requesting and Responding Parties, requesting
party’s parents, siblings, friends and family, all employees at Velvet, whom
may be contacted via defense counsel.”; and (several times) “Requesting and
Responding Parties, all employees at Velvet, whom may be contacted via defense
counsel.” (Horwitz Decl., ¶ 8.) 
 
            Response to
Form Interrogatory 17.1: “Defendant objects to this interrogatory on the ground
that it is premature as this lawsuit has just commenced, and discovery is
ongoing. Defendant's investigation and discovery in preparation for trial has
not been completed.”; “Henry Hirschowitz, Claudia Gonzalez, Debbie Kirkland.”;
and “Responding party, Debbie Kirkland, Janine Glick”.  (Horwitz Decl., ¶ 9.)
 
            Further,
Velvet Apparel points out, and Plaintiff does not dispute, that (1) no meet and
confer regarding Velvet Apparel’s discovery responses was made, (2) no motion
to compel was filed, (3) no informal discovery conference was requested, and
(4) no request for supplemental responses was served.  (Horwitz Decl., ¶¶ 10-13, emphasis added.)
 
            Based on
the foregoing, the court cannot find that Velvet Apparel’s omissions were
willful.  Further, because Plaintiff did
not seek an order compelling Velvet Apparel to provide a supplemental or
further response to the Form Interrogatories, there is no evidence that Velvet
Apparel violated a court order which would justify exclusion of the Proposed
Witnesses.
 
            Nevertheless,
the court (as was previously mentioned by the court) is inclined to permit
Plaintiff to depose the Proposed Witnesses. 
The court will discuss this issue with the parties.
 
C.    
Conclusion                                    
 
Plaintiff’s Motion in Limine No. 1 is DENIED.  The court will discuss with the parties a
trial continuance to allow Plaintiff to depose the Proposed Witnesses.
 
IV.       DISPOSITIONS
 
1.     
Plaintiff’s Motion to Strike Costs 
 
The court is inclined to continue the Motion to Strike
Costs.  The court will hear from the
parties.
 
2.     
Plaintiff’s Motion in Limine No. 1
 
The motion is DENIED. 
The court is inclined to allow Plaintiff to depose the Proposed
Witnesses.  The court will hear from the
parties.
 
            The clerk
of the court to give notice.
 
            
Dated:   August 9, 2024                                             




 


   




 


  Kerry Bensinger  
  Judge of the Superior Court 




 
 
            


