  Case Number:  21STCV11739    Hearing Date:   November 25, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     November 25, 2024               TRIAL DATE: March
25, 2025
                                                           
CASE:                         Avraham Bibi v. Roey Burg, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 21STCV11739            
 
MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO INTERROGATORIES
(x2)

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendants Revital Agi and Eydan Berger
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S):  Plaintiff Avraham Bibi in pro per
 
CASE
HISTORY:
·        
03/26/21: Complaint filed
·        
08/01/22: Cross-Complaint filed by Roey Burg and
ADB Group Inc. as to Avraham Bibi
·        
01/06/23: Cross-Complaint filed by Eydan Berger
as to Avraham Bibi.
·        
03/13/23: First Amended Complaint filed. 
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is an action for breach of contract, breach of fiduciary duty, and
fraud arising from the breakdown of a joint venture between the parties in the
beauty supply and spa business. Plaintiff alleges that Defendants entered into unauthorized
partnership agreements and misappropriated company assets.
 
Defendants Revital Agi and Eydan
Berger move to compel further responses to special interrogatories propounded
to Plaintiff. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
            Defendant
Revital Agi’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Special Interrogatories is
DENIED for lack of jurisdiction.
 
            Defendant
Eydan Berger’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Special Interrogatories is
DENIED for lack of jurisdiction.
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Defendants Revital Agi and Eydan
Berger move to compel further responses to special interrogatories propounded
to Plaintiff. As the motions pertain to virtually identical discovery requests
and concern identical issues, the Court will address the motions jointly in the
interest of brevity. 
 
Legal Standard
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure section 2030.300, subdivision (a), a court
may order a party to serve a further response to an interrogatory when the
court finds that: “(1) An answer to a particular interrogatory is evasive or
incomplete[;] (2) An exercise of the option to produce documents under Section
2030.230 is unwarranted or the required specification of those documents is
inadequate[; or] (3) An objection to an interrogatory is without merit or too
general.”
 
The burden is on the responding party to justify any objection or failure
to fully answer the interrogatories. (Fairmont Ins. Co. v. Superior Court
(2000) 22 Cal.4th 245, 255.)
 
Timing:
 
            A motion to
compel further responses to interrogatories must be served “within 45 days of
the service of the verified response, or any supplemental verified response, or
on or before any specific later date to which the propounding party and the
responding party have agreed in writing.” (Code Civ. Proc. §
2030.300(c).) The 45-day requirement is mandatory and jurisdictional. (Sexton
v. Superior Court¿(1997) 58 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1410.)
 
Defendants served their Special
Interrogatories on Plaintiff on October 27, 2023. (Declaration of Ryan Davis
ISO Mot. ¶ 2.) Plaintiff served responses on November 28, 2023, and
supplemented responses on January 31, 2024. (Id. ¶¶ 3, 5; Exhs. 2-3.) The
parties repeatedly agreed, in writing, to extend the time to move to compel
further responses, with the final deadline set for October 18, 2024. (Id.
Exhs. 4-5.) These motions were served and filed on that date. (See Proof of
Service.) However, Defendants’ papers were served on Plaintiff, who has been
self-represented since September 30, by electronic service. Code of Civil
Procedure section 1010.6 authorizes electronic service on unrepresented persons
in civil actions only when the person to be served has consented to electronic
service. (Code Civ. Proc. § 1010.6(c)(1)-(2).) Consent to electronic service is
made by either (1) serving notice on all parties and filing notice with the
Court; or (2) manifesting affirmative consent through electronic means with the
Court or the Court’s e-filing service provider and concurrently
providing the party’s email for receiving service. (Code Civ. Proc. §
1010.6(c)(3).) The act of electronic filing is not express consent. (Id.)
Here, no manifestation of affirmative consent was ever filed, thus rendering
Defendants’ service of these motions improper. 
 
Because Defendants served Plaintiff
only by electronic service, and because they did so on the last agreed-upon date
where proper notice of these motions could be given, Defendants have failed to serve
notice of these motions in the statutorily prescribed time and manner. Defendants’
motions therefore failed to comply with Code of Civil Procedure section
2030.300 subdivision (c), and the Court lacks jurisdiction to hear these
motions. 
 
CONCLUSION:

 
            Accordingly, Defendant
Revital Agi’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Special Interrogatories is
DENIED for lack of jurisdiction.
 
            Defendant Eydan
Berger’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Special Interrogatories is
DENIED for lack of jurisdiction.
 
            Moving
Parties to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated: November 25, 2024                             ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 