 Case Number:  23PSCV01225    Hearing Date:   September 19, 2023    Dept:  K Defendant Davis Wire Corporation’s Application for
Admission Pro Hac Vice of Jeffrey E. Elkins is GRANTED. 
Background   
Plaintiff Deeanna Wagner
(“Plaintiff”) alleges as follows:
On February
14, 2023, Plaintiff was picking up some steel frames from Davis Wire
Corporation (“DWC”) in Irwindale, California. Doe Employee and Doe Manager
loaded six steel frames into Plaintiff’s truck trailer but left no room inside
the trailer to strap in the frames. Plaintiff asked Doe Employee and Doe
Manager to strap in the frames, but they refused to do so. When Plaintiff
subsequently attempted to strap in the frames herself she slipped, hit her head
on a steel frame and fell, sustaining injuries.
On April 25, 2023, Plaintiff filed a complaint, asserting
causes of action against DWC, Doe Employee, Doe Manager and Does 1-50 for:
1.                 
Negligence
2.                 
Negligent Hiring
A Case Management Conference is set for September 19, 2023.
Legal Standard
“A person who is not a licensee of the State Bar of
California but who is an attorney in good standing of and eligible to practice
before the bar of any United States court or the highest court in any state,
territory, or insular possession of the United States, and who has been
retained to appear in a particular cause pending in a court of this state, may
in the discretion of such court be permitted upon written application to appear
as counsel pro hac vice, provided that an
active licensee of the State Bar of California is associated as attorney of
record. No person is eligible to appear as counsel pro hac vice under this rule if the person is:
(1) A resident of the State of California; (2) Regularly employed in the State
of California; or (3) Regularly engaged in substantial business, professional,
or other activities in the State of California.” (Cal. Rules of Court (“CRC”)
Rule 9.40, subd. (a).)
“A person desiring to appear as counsel pro hac vice in a superior court must file with
the court a verified application together with proof of service by mail in
accordance with Code of Civil Procedure section 1013a of a copy of the
application and of the notice of hearing of the application on all parties who have
appeared in the cause and on the State Bar of California at its San Francisco
office. The notice of hearing must be given at the time prescribed in Code of
Civil Procedure section 1005 unless the court has prescribed a shorter period.”
(CRC Rule 9.40, subd.
(c)(1).)
“The
application must state: (1) The applicant's residence and office address; (2)
The courts to which the applicant has been admitted to practice and the dates
of admission; (3) That the applicant is a licensee in good standing in those
courts; (4) That the applicant is not currently suspended or disbarred in any
court; (5) The title of each court and cause in which the applicant has filed
an application to appear as counsel pro hac vice in
this state in the preceding two years, the date of each application, and
whether or not it was granted; and (6) The name, address, and telephone number
of the active licensee of the State Bar of California who is attorney of
record.” (CRC Rule 9.40,
subd. (d).)
“An applicant for
permission to appear as counsel pro hac vice under
this rule must pay a reasonable fee not exceeding $50 to the State Bar of
California with the copy of the application and the notice of hearing that is
served on the State Bar. . .” (CRC Rule 9.40,
subd. (e).)
Discussion
DWC moves, pursuant
to California Rules of Court Rule 9.40, for an order allowing the pro hac vice
admission of Jeffrey E. Elkins.
The application complies
with the requirements of California Rules of Court Rule 9.40; accordingly, the application is granted.