  Case Number:  22STCV32439    Hearing Date:   January 19, 2024    Dept:  34 SUBJECT:        Motion for Summary Judgment
 
Moving Party: Defendant Martin Luther King Jr. – Los Angeles (MLK-LA)
Healthcare Corporation
Resp. Party: 
  None
 
 
The Motion
for Summary Judgment is GRANTED. 
 
Summary
judgment is GRANTED in favor of Defendant and against Plaintiff (in her
individual capacity) on all causes of action in the First Amended
Complaint.  
 
PRELIMINARY COMMENTS:
 
        It appears to the Court that Plaintiff has
abandoned her case. Although originally represented by counsel, the Court granted
then-counsel’s unopposed motion to be relieved on August 4, 2023.  Plaintiff did not oppose Defendant’s two
discovery motions that were granted on September 11, 2023.  She also failed to appear at the hearing on
these motions.  Plaintiff did not oppose Defendant’s
motion to compel discovery that was granted on September 12, 2023, nor did she
appear at the hearing on the motion.  Plaintiff
did not oppose Defendant’s Motion for Terminating Sanctions or Defendant’s two
other discovery motions that were granted on December 18, 2023. She also failed
to appear at the hearing on these motions. 
Lastly, she has failed to oppose this Motion for Summary Judgment.
 
        As
the Court stated in both its September 11, 2023 and September 12, 2023 Minute Orders:
 
This Court
understands that, to the pro per litigant, “interrogatories, requests for
admissions, law and motion proceedings, and the like” are “baffling
devices.”  (Bruno v. Superior Court
(1990) 219 Cal.App.3d 1359, 1363, quoting Burley v. Stein (1974) 40
Cal.App.3d 752, 755, fn. 3.)  The Court
is also understands that “Providing access to justice for self-represented
litigants is a priority for California courts.” 
(California Rules of Court, rule 10.960, subdivision (b).)
 
Nonetheless, “A party
proceeding in propria persona ‘is to
be treated like any other party and is entitled to the same, but no greater[,]
consideration than other litigants and attorneys.’” (Rappleyea v. Campbell (1994) 8 Cal.4th 975, 985.) Indeed, “‘the in propria persona litigant is held to
the same restrictive rules of procedure as an attorney.’” [Citation.]” (First American Title Co. v. Mirzaian
(2003) 108 Cal.App.4th 956, 958, fn. 1; see also Nwosu v. Uba (2004) 122 Cal.App.4th 1229, 1246-1247.)
 
 
BACKGROUND:
 
On October 4, 2022,
Plaintiff Fatimah Muhammad filed her Complaint against Defendant Martin Luther
King Jr. Healthcare Corporation, as well as against Nominal Defendants Hakimah
Muhammad and Habeeb Muhammad. The causes of action sound in elder abuse,
negligence, negligent hiring and supervision, fraud, and wrongful death.
Plaintiff Fatimah Muhammad concurrently filed her Declaration as successor in
interest pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 377.32.
 
On December
29, 2022, Plaintiff filed her First Amended Complaint (FAC). 
 
On January
31, 2023, Defendant Martin Luther King Jr. Healthcare Corporation (“Defendant”)
filed its Answer to the FAC.
 
On February
7, 2023, by request of Plaintiff, the Clerk’s Office dismissed without
prejudice the fourth cause of action for fraud from the FAC.
 
On August 4,
2023, the Court granted Plaintiff’s Counsel’s motion to be relieved as counsel.
 
On September
11 and 12, 2023, the Court granted Defendant’s discovery motions, in which the
Court deemed admitted certain requests for admission and compelled Plaintiff to
provide initial responses to form interrogatories, special interrogatories, and
requests for production of documents. 
 
On October
31, 2023, Defendant filed its Motion for Summary Judgment. In support of its
Motion for Summary Judgment, Defendant concurrently filed: (1) Separate
Statement; (2) Proposed Order; (3) Proposed Judgment; and (4) Proof of Service.

 
On December
18, 2023, the Court dismissed Plaintiff (in her capacity as
successor-in-interest on behalf of Tauheedah Salaam) from the FAC. The Court
also granted two unopposed discovery motions and kept on calendar the Motion
for Summary Judgment as to Plaintiff (in her individual capacity).  
 
No
oppositions or other responses have been filed to the Motion for Summary
Judgment.  
 
ANALYSIS:
 
I.         
Legal
Standard
 
“A party may move for summary judgment in an
action or proceeding if it is contended that the action has no merit or that
there is no defense to the action or proceeding. The motion may be made at any
time after 60 days have elapsed since the general appearance in the action or
proceeding of each party against whom the motion is directed or at any earlier
time after the general appearance that the court, with or without notice and
upon good cause shown, may direct.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (1)(a).)
 
“[T]he party moving for summary judgment
bears the burden of persuasion that there is no triable issue of fact and that
he is entitled to judgment as a matter of law. That is because of the general
principle that a party who seeks a court’s action in his favor bears the burden
of persuasion thereon. There is a triable issue of material fact if, and only
if, the evidence would allow a reasonable trier of fact to find the underlying
fact in favor of the party opposing the motion in accordance with the
applicable standard of proof.” (Aguilar v. Atl. Richfield Co. (2001) 25
Cal.4th 826, 850, citation omitted.) 
 
“[T]he party moving for summary judgment
bears an initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing of the
nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact; if he carries his burden of
production, he causes a shift, and the opposing party is then subjected to a
burden of production of his own to make a prima facie showing of the existence
of a triable issue of material fact.” (Aguilar, supra, at p. 850; Smith v. Wells Fargo
Bank, N.A. (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 1463, 1474, [applying the summary
judgment standards in Aguilar to motions for summary adjudication].) 
 
“On a summary judgment motion, the court must
therefore consider what inferences favoring the opposing party a factfinder
could reasonably draw from the evidence. While viewing the evidence in this
manner, the court must bear in mind that its primary function is to identify
issues rather than to determine issues. Only when the inferences are
indisputable may the court decide the issues as a matter of law. If the
evidence is in conflict, the factual issues must be resolved by trial.” (Binder
v. Aetna Life Ins. Co. (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832, 839, citation omitted.) 
 
“The trial court may not weigh the evidence
in the manner of a fact finder to determine whose version is more likely true.
Nor may the trial court grant summary judgment based on the court's evaluation
of credibility.” (Binder, supra, at p. 840, citations omitted; see
also Weiss v. People ex rel. Dep’t of Transp. (2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864
[“Courts deciding motions for summary judgment or summary adjudication may not
weigh the evidence but must instead view it in the light most favorable to the
opposing party and draw all reasonable inferences in favor of that party”].) 
 
“On a motion for summary adjudication, the
trial court has no discretion to exercise. If a triable issue of material fact exists
as to the challenged causes of action, the motion must be denied. If there is
no triable issue of fact, the motion must be granted.” (Fisherman's Wharf
Bay Cruise Corp. v. Super. Ct. (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 309, 320, citation
omitted.) 
 
II.      
Discussion
 
Defendant moves the Court for
summary judgment against Plaintiff, who remains in this matter in her
individual capacity. (Motion for Summary Judgment, p. 12:3–4.)
 
Defendant argues: (1) that the care
and treatment provided by Defendant’s medical and nursing personnel complied
with the standard of care and did not substantially cause Plaintiff’s alleged
damages; and (2) that the undisputed expert evidence conclusively refutes any
allegation of neglect or abuse of Plaintiff by Defendant. (Motion for Summary Judgment,
p. 11:1–3, 11:18–19.)
 
 Plaintiff, who is litigating this matter in
propria persona, has not opposed or otherwise responded to the Motion for
Summary Judgment. Thus, it appears Plaintiff is not contesting the arguments in
the Motion for Summary Judgment. 
 
        Upon
considering the evidence submitted, the Court determines that Defendant has met
its initial burden on summary judgment to show that there are no triable issues
of material fact. Plaintiff has not met her subsequent burden. Therefore,
summary judgment is appropriate here. 
 
III.     Conclusion
 
The Motion
for Summary Judgment is GRANTED. 
 
Summary
judgment is GRANTED in favor of Defendant and against Plaintiff (in her individual
capacity) on all causes of action in the First Amended Complaint.  
 
    