  Case Number:  22PSCV01755    Hearing Date:   January 4, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE NAME:  Joy Yin, et  al. v. Nicholas Simmons, et al. 1.       Defendants  Genitrix Georges and Prager Metis CPAs’ Demurrer to Plaintiffs’ Second Amended  Complaint; and 2.       Defendants  Genitrix Georges and Prager Metis CPAs’ Motion to Strike Portions of Plaintiffs’  Second Amended Complaint  TENTATIVE RULING The Court SUSTAINS  Defendants Genitrix Georges and Prager Metis CPAs’ demurrer to the Third Cause  of Action for Intentional Misrepresentation/Fraud with 30 days leave to amend and  OVERRULES the demurrer to the Fourth Cause of Action for Breach of Contract.  The Court GRANTS  Defendants Genitrix Georges and Prager Metis CPAs’ motion to strike portions of  Plaintiffs’ Second Amended Complaint with leave to amend and strikes Item Number 4 from the Prayer for Relief of the  SAC, located on page 13. For the sake of clarity, the stricken language  is granted only as to Defendants Genitrix Georges and Prager Metis CPAs.                Plaintiffs  are ordered to give notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of  this order.  BACKGROUND This  is a real property dispute. On November 9, 2022, plaintiffs Joy Yin and Ho  Seong Lee (collectively, Plaintiffs) filed this action against defendants  Nicholas Simmons (Nicholas), Cathy Simmons (Cathy), Prager Metis, CPAs (Prager),  Genitrix Georges (Georges) (collectively, Defendants), and Does 1 to 10. On September  29, 2023, Plaintiffs filed the operative Second Amended Complaint (SAC), alleging  causes of action for injury to real property, breach of contract (Nicholas and  Cathy Simmons), intentional misrepresentation/fraud, breach of contract  (Georges/Prager Metis), and trespass.  On  December 6, 2023, Georges and Prager (Moving Parties) filed a demurrer to and  motion to strike portions of the SAC. On December 19, 2023, Plaintiffs filed  oppositions.  LEGAL  STANDARD – Demurrer A  demurrer is a pleading used to test the legal sufficiency of other  pleadings. It raises issues of law, not fact, regarding the form or  content of the opposing party's pleading (complaint, answer or  cross-complaint). (Code Civ. Proc., § 422.10; see Donabedian v.  Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) It is not the function  of the demurrer to challenge the truthfulness of the complaint; and for  purposes of ruling on the demurrer, all facts pleaded in the complaint are  assumed to be true. (Id.)   A  demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the  pleading under attack; or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially  noticeable. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318; Donabedian,  supra, 116 Cal.App.4th at p. 994.) No other extrinsic evidence can be  considered. (Ion Equip. Corp. v. Nelson (1980) 110 Cal.App.3d 868,  881 [error for court to consider facts asserted in memorandum supporting  demurrer]; see also Afuso v. United States Fid. & Guar. Co. (1985) 169 Cal.App.3d 859, 862, disapproved on other grounds in Moradi-Shalal  v. Fireman’s Fund Ins. Cos. (1988) 46 Cal.3d 287 [error to consider  contents of release not part of court record].)   A  demurrer can be utilized where the “face of the complaint” itself is incomplete  or discloses some defense that would bar recovery. (Guardian North Bay, Inc.  v. Superior Court (2001) 94 Cal.App.4th 963, 971-972.) The “face of  the complaint” includes material contained in attached exhibits that are  incorporated by reference into the complaint, or in a superseded complaint in the same action. (Frantz v.  Blackwell (1987) 189 Cal.App.3d 91, 94; see also Barnett v. Fireman’s  Fund Ins. Co. (2001) 90 Cal.App.4th 500, 505 [“[W]e rely on and accept as true the contents of the exhibits and treat as  surplusage the pleader’s allegations as to the legal effect of the exhibits.”])   A demurrer  can only be sustained when it disposes of an entire cause of action. (Poizner  v. Fremont General Corp. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97, 119; Kong v. City of  Hawaiian Gardens Redev. Agency (2003) 108  Cal.App.4th 1028, 1046.)   DISCUSSION – Demurrer Meet and Confer             Per Code of Civil Procedure section  430.41, subdivision (a), Moving Parties were required to meet and confer in  person or by telephone before bringing a demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41,  subd. (a).) The Court finds Defendants’ meet-and-confer efforts to be  insufficient because they were not conducted in person or by telephone. (Caranikas  Decl., ¶¶ 4-5.) Nevertheless, the Court may not overrule a demurrer due to  inadequate meeting and conferring. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a)(4).)  The Court admonishes Moving Parties to comply with the requirements of the Code  of Civil Procedure going forward.  Analysis Moving Parties demur to the entire SAC on the  grounds that it fails to state causes of action and is uncertain. Moving  Parties also demur to the Third Cause of Action for Intentional  Misrepresentation/Fraud on the grounds that it fails to state facts sufficient  to constitute a cause of action. Moving Parties also demur to the Fourth Cause  of Action for Breach of Contract on the grounds that it fails to state facts  sufficient to constitute a cause of action and is uncertain, ambiguous, and  unintelligible.              Third Cause of Action  – Intentional Misrepresentation/Fraud             To state a cause of action for intentional  misrepresentation, the plaintiff must allege facts demonstrating: “(1) a misrepresentation,  (2) knowledge  of falsity, (3) intent to induce reliance, (4) actual and justifiable reliance, and (5) resulting damage.  [Citation.]” (Aton Ctr., Inc. v. United Healthcare Ins. Co. (2023) 93  Cal.App.5th 1214, 1245.) “In California, fraud must be pled specifically;  general and conclusory allegations do not suffice. [Citations.] ‘Thus ‘ “the  policy of liberal construction of the pleadings ... will not ordinarily be  invoked to sustain a pleading defective in any material respect.’ ‘ [Citation.]  [¶] This particularity requirement necessitates pleading facts which show  how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the representations were tendered.’  [Citation.] A plaintiff's burden in asserting a fraud claim against a corporate  employer is even greater. In such a case, the plaintiff must ‘allege the names  of the persons who made the allegedly fraudulent representations, their  authority to speak, to whom they spoke, what they said or wrote, and when it  was said or written.’ [Citation.]” (Lazar v. Superior Ct.  (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.)              Moving Parties contend the SAC fails to allege facts  sufficient to state a cause of action for intentional misrepresentation/fraud.  Moving Parties contend the allegations in the SAC are conclusory and contain no  facts alleging a contractual agreement between Plaintiffs and Moving Parties  wherein Moving Parties agreed to act as property manager. Moving Parties  further contend the SAC does not allege facts as to the compensation Moving  Defendants would receive as property manager or that they were compensated for  acting as property manager. Moving Parties also contend there are no facts  alleged as to what specific representations were made that induced Plaintiffs  to believe that Moving Parties had agreed to act as property managers. While  the Court finds that the existence of a contractual agreement is not required  to state a claim for fraud, the Court agrees that the SAC fails to allege  sufficient facts to state a cause of action for intentional  misrepresentation/fraud.              The Court finds the SAC fails to allege facts demonstrating  that Moving Parties knew their alleged misrepresentation was false. At most,  the SAC alleges Georges promised Plaintiffs that Moving Parties would cover  repairs relating to the subject property, but the SAC does not contain any  allegations demonstrating that Moving Parties knew that what they were saying then  was false. (See SAC, ¶ 13.) Moving Parties’ alleged failure to perform as  promised following Nicholas and Cathy’s vacating of the subject property is  insufficient to show that they knew their representation was false and never  intended to perform as promised. (SAC, ¶ 24.) “’The mere failure to perform a  promise made in good faith does not constitute fraud.’ [Citation.]” (Building  Permit Consultants, Inc. v. Mazur (2004) 122 Cal.App.4th 1400, 1414.)              Plaintiffs contend in opposition that the SAC alleges  facts demonstrating constructive fraud. However, the SAC does not allege that  Plaintiffs were clients of Moving Parties or any other facts showing that  Moving Parties owed Plaintiffs a fiduciary duty, which relationship is  necessary for a constructive fraud claim. (See Civ. Code § 2079.24; Michel  v. Moore & Associates, Inc. (2007) 156 Cal.App.4th 756, 762 [“A broker  has a fiduciary duty to its client. [Citations.]”]; Younan v. Equifax, Inc.  (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 498, 489 [a fiduciary relationship is a necessary element  for a constructive fraud claim].) The SAC only alleges that Nicholas was Moving  Parties’ client. (SAC ¶ 13.) Therefore, this argument fails too.              Based on the foregoing, the Court SUSTAINS the demurrer  with leave to amend as to the Third Cause of Action.              Fourth Cause of Action – Breach of Contract  (Georges/Prager Metis)             “A cause of action for breach of  contract requires pleading of a contract, plaintiff's performance or excuse for  failure to perform, defendant's breach and damage to plaintiff resulting  therefrom. [Citation.] A written contract may be pleaded either by its  terms—set out verbatim in the complaint or a copy of the contract attached to  the complaint and incorporated therein by reference—or by its legal effect. [Citation.]”  (McKell v. Washington Mutual, Inc. (2006) 142 Cal.App.4th 1457, 1489.)              Moving Parties demur to the Fourth Cause of Action for  Breach of Contract on the grounds that it fails to allege sufficient facts to  state a cause of action. Moving Parties contend the SAC fails to allege the  existence of a contract between themselves and Plaintiffs, as the only parties  to the contracts attached to the SAC are Plaintiffs and Nicholas. Moving  Parties further contend the SAC fails to allege any facts regarding how Moving  Parties allegedly breached the contract or how Plaintiffs were damaged as a  result. The Court disagrees.              In considering a demurrer, the facts alleged in the SAC  are taken as true. The SAC alleges that on or about May 24, 2019, the same date  as the residential lease agreement, there was an oral agreement between  Plaintiffs and Moving Parties, wherein Moving Parties agreed to act as property  managers, keeping the subject property in good condition, advising of repairs  needed, inspecting, and protecting the subject property, as well as maintaining  a fund to cover and repair any damage to the subject property. (SAC, ¶¶ 10, 11-13,  48.) The SAC alleges that the separate oral agreement was reflected in the  residential lease agreements and in an email from Defendant Georges on October  16, 2019. (SAC, ¶¶ 11, 48.) The SAC further alleges that Moving Parties breached  the agreement by failing to maintain the funds and/or use such funds to repair  the subject property, and by failing to perform the duties they were paid for  in that they did not monitor, inspect, maintain, or repair the subject property  as agreed. (SAC, ¶¶ 13, 14, 22-24, 49.) The SAC alleges that as a result of  Moving Parties’ breach, Plaintiffs suffered extensive property damage and no funds  were provided to pay for the needed repairs to the subject property. (SAC, ¶ 50.)  The Court finds these allegations sufficient to state a cause of action for  breach of contract.              Based on the foregoing, the Court OVERRULES the demurrer to  the Fourth Cause of Action for Breach of Contract.  LEGAL STANDARD – Motion to Strike “Any party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading may  serve and file a notice of motion to strike the whole or any part thereof, but this  time limitation shall not apply to motions specified in subdivision (e).”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(2).) “The court may, upon a motion made  pursuant to Section 435, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it  deems proper: (a) Strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted  in any  pleading. (b) Strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed  in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the  court.” (Id., § 436.)  DISCUSSION – Motion to Strike Meet and Confer Per Code of Civil Procedure section  435.5, subdivision (a), Defendants were required to meet and confer  telephonically or in person before bringing this motion to strike. (Code Civ.  Proc., § 435.5, subd. (a).) The Court finds Defendants’ efforts to meet and  confer insufficient, as there is no evidence they met and conferred  telephonically or in person. (Caranikas Decl., ¶¶ 4-5.)  Nevertheless, the Court may not deny the motion to strike for failure to  adequately meet and confer. (Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5, subd. (a)(4).) The Court  admonishes Defendants to comply with these requirements going forward.  Analysis A claim for punitive damages is subject  to a motion to strike when the allegations fail to rise to the level of malice,  oppression or fraud necessary under Civil Code section 3294. (Turman v.  Turning Point of Central California, Inc. (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 53, 64.)  In light of the Court sustaining the  demurrer to the Third Cause of Action for Intentional Misrepresentation/Fraud, Plaintiffs  have failed to allege any causes of action that form the basis for a claim for  punitive damages as to Moving Parties. (See Benson v. Southern California  Auto Sales, Inc. (2015) 239 Cal.App.4th 1198, 1208-1209 [“If the deception  was intentional, punitive damages are available. [Citation.]”]) This means then  that the SAC also fails to allege facts to support Plaintiffs’ request for  punitive damages. Therefore, the Court GRANTS Moving Parties’ motion to strike  Plaintiffs’ claim for punitive damages and hereby strikes Item Number 4 from  the Prayer for Relief of the SAC, located on page 13 as to Moving Parties with  leave to amend. (SAC, Prayer for Relief, pg. 13, Item No. 4.)  CONCLUSION The Court SUSTAINS  Defendants Genitrix Georges and Prager Metis CPAs’ demurrer to the Third Cause  of Action for Intentional Misrepresentation/Fraud with 30 days leave to amend and  OVERRULES the demurrer to the Fourth Cause of Action for Breach of Contract.  The Court GRANTS  Defendants Genitrix Georges and Prager Metis CPAs’ motion to strike portions of  Plaintiffs’ Second Amended Complaint with leave to amend and strikes Item Number 4 from the Prayer for Relief of the  SAC, located on page 13. For the sake of clarity, the stricken language  is granted only as to Defendants Genitrix Georges and Prager Metis CPAs.                Plaintiffs  are ordered to give notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of  this order.