 Case Number:  22PSCV02862    Hearing Date:   January 4, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE  NAME:  Lightking  America Technology (L.A.) LTD. v. Arbor CPA, APC, et al. Motion to Quash Subpoenas, and/or for Protective Orders  TENTATIVE  RULING The Court DENIES the motion to quash subpoenas, and/or for  protective orders.               Plaintiffs are ordered to give  notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.  BACKGROUND This is a breach of contract action. On December 13, 2022, plaintiff  Lightking America Technology (LA), LTD filed this action against defendants  Arbor CPA, APC, Hui Heidi Liu, CPA, (collectively, Defendants) and Does 1  through 50. On May 9, 2023, Lightking America Technology (L.A.) LTD. And  Lightking American (L.A.), LTD (collectively, Plaintiffs) filed the operative  First Amended Complaint against Defendants, alleging causes of action for  breach of contract, breach of fiduciary duty, and aiding and abetting breach of  fiduciary duty.  On December 7, 2023, non-party Zeming Qi (Qi) filed a motion to  quash subpoenas, and/or for protective orders. On December 20, 2023, Plaintiffs  opposed the motion. No reply was filed.  LEGAL  STANDARD If a subpoena requires the attendance of a witness or  the production of books, documents, electronically  stored information, or other things before a court, or at the trial of  an issue therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the court, upon motion  reasonably made by any person described in subdivision (b), or upon the court's  own motion after giving counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard, may make  an order quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance  with it upon those terms or conditions as the court shall declare, including  protective orders. In addition, the court may make any other order as may be  appropriate to protect the person from unreasonable or oppressive demands,  including unreasonable violations of the right of privacy of the person.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1,  subd. (a).)  PRELIMINARY  ISSUES             The Court notes that Qi filed the  instant motion to quash with the Court on December 7, 2023. Qi mail served the  motion to quash on December 1, 2023, which added five calendar days to the  filing deadline. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1005, subd. (b); Id., § 1013, subd. (a).) It  is not enough that Qi timely served the motion; it needed to have been timely  filed as well. Thus, Qi should have filed the motion with the Court no  later than December 6, 2023, and it is therefore untimely. Nevertheless, the  Court exercises its discretion to still consider the motion to quash. (See Cal.  Rules of Court, rule 3.1300, subd. (d); Juarez v. Wash Depot Holdings, Inc. (2018)  24 Cal.App.5th 1197, 1202.)  DISCUSSION             Meet and Confer             Although a meet-and-confer  declaration is not required for a motion to quash a subpoena, the Court  appreciates Qi’s efforts to meet and confer before bringing this motion. (See  Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1; Gross Decl., ¶ 4.)                        Analysis Courts  look to the following factors to determine whether good cause has been shown to  enforce a subpoena: (1) if the defendant satisfied  the burden of showing a plausible justification for acquiring documents from a  third party, (2) whether the material sought is adequately described and not  overly broad, (3) whether the material is reasonably available to the entity  from which it is sought and not readily available to defendant from other  sources, (4) whether production of the requested materials would violate a  third party's confidentiality or privacy rights or intrude upon any protected  governmental interest, (5) whether defendant's request is timely, (6) whether  time required to produce the requested information would necessitate an  unreasonable delay of defendant's trial, and (7) whether production of records  containing the requested information would place an unreasonable burden on a  third party. (See Facebook, Inc. v. Superior Court of San Diego County (2020)  10 Cal.5th 329, 345-347; 50A Cal. Jur. 3d Process, Notices, and Subpoenas §  102.)              Here, non-party Qi seeks to quash three subpoenas served  on different banks, namely JP Morgan Chase, New Omni Bank, and First General  Bank. (Gross Decl., Exs. A, B, C.) The subpoenas seek various banking records  and documents as they relate to Lightking America Technology (L.A.) LTD from  the time period of September 27, 2016 to the present. (Id.) Qi contends  these subpoenas should be quashed because the scope of requested documents may  include personal records of Qi, who is purportedly the sole shareholder of  Lightking America Technology (L.A.) LTD and otherwise did not authorize this  lawsuit. The Court finds Qi’s arguments unpersuasive.              “The party asserting a privacy right must establish a  legally protected privacy interest, an objectively reasonable expectation of  privacy in the given circumstances, and a threatened intrusion that is  serious.” (Williams v. Superior Ct. (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 552.) Qi’s motion to quash is  speculative, as it only contends that the subpoenas “seek records which may include  personal records of Mr. Qi.” (Memorandum of Points and Authorities, 4:22-23,  italics added.) Qi presents no evidence that such subpoenas will include  Qi’s personal records and thereby violate Qi’s privacy rights. As Plaintiffs  correctly argue, Qi did not provide a declaration with personal knowledge that  Qi is the sole shareholder of Lightking America Technology (L.A.) LTD; instead,  that information was provided by Qi’s attorney. (See Gross Decl., ¶ 3.) The Court  doubts Qi’s attorney has the personal knowledge necessary to state such a fact.  (Evid. Code § 702.)  Moreover, even if Qi had presented a proper declaration,  Qi’s status as the sole shareholder of Lightking America Technology (L.A.) LTD would  be insufficient because it does not confer upon Qi a reasonable expectation of  privacy. It does not follow that the sole shareholder has a reasonable  expectation of privacy for personal records contained within bank records of a  corporation, which is treated as a separate person under the eyes of the law, (see  Curci Investments, LLC v. Baldwin (2017) 14 Cal.App.5th 214, 220), and  where third-party banks possess those records, (see Hill v. National Collegiate Athletic Assn. (1994) 7 Cal.4th 1, 36-37 [plaintiff must have had a reasonable  expectation of privacy under the circumstances, which includes the customs,  practices and physical settings surrounding the particular activity.])                Based on the foregoing, the Court DENIES the motion to  quash subpoenas, and/or for protective orders.  CONCLUSION The Court DENIES the motion to quash subpoenas, and/or for  protective orders.               Plaintiffs are ordered to give  notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.