  Case Number:  21VECV01391    Hearing Date:   January 7, 2025    Dept:  T [TENTATIVE]
ORDER:  Plaintiff Gregory Rovenger’s Motion
to Temporarily Lift the Stay and Compel Gregory Geiser to Arbitration is GRANTED
in Part. Plaintiff Gregory Rovenger’s request to lift the stay is GRANTED so
that Plaintiff Gregory Rovenger can file a Doe Amendment to add Gregory Geiser
to the action.  Plaintiff Gregory
Rovenger’s request to compel Gregory Geiser to arbitrate the matter is NOT
CONSIDERED because it is premature.
            The Court sets an Order to Show
Cause re: Why pleadings filed on October 11, 2024 in violation of the November
5, 2021 Stay Order should not be stricken. 
The Order to Show Cause is set for ____________, 2025.  
Introduction

            Plaintiff Gregory
Rovenger (Plaintiff) moved to temporarily lift the stay ordered on November 5,
2021 and requested the Court to compel Gregory Geiser (Geiser) to arbitration
that is currently pending between Plaintiff and Defendants Martingale
Investments, LLC and Wedgewood REO 1, LLC (collectively, Defendants).
               Discussion
            Plaintiff’s request to lift the stay
of the action is not supported by any legal authority.  Plaintiff’s points and authorities overlooked
their own request to lift the stay and skipped to asserting legal authority relevant
to their request to compel Geiser to arbitration.  However, the Court reviews the issue as a
matter of proper course.
This
action was ordered stayed pursuant a Stipulation and Order entered between
Plaintiff and Defendants on November 5, 2021. 
Because the action was stayed, the Court only has vestigial powers over
the matters submitted to arbitration as between Plaintiff and Defendants.  (Titan/Value Equities Group, Inc. v.
Superior Court (1994) 29 Cal.App.4th 482, 486; Finley v. Saturn of
Roseville (2004) 117 Cal.App.4th 1253, 1258; MKJA, Inc. v. 123 Fit
Franchising, LLC (2011) 191 Cal.App.4th 643, 662.)  Some of the vestigial powers include the
power to: appoint arbitrators if the method selected by the parties fails;
grant provisional remedies if the arbitration award would be rendered ineffectual;
determine whether a plaintiff is financially unable to pay their share of
arbitration costs; and to confirm, correct, or vacate the award.  None of these vestigial powers are at issue
because Plaintiff is not seeking relief regarding any issue between Plaintiff
and Defendants.  Plaintiff is seeking to
add Geiser, who Plaintiff submits is not a party to the California Residential
Purchase Agreement and Joint Escrow Instructions (Purchase Agreement), which
includes the Arbitration Agreement.  Because
Geiser is a non-signatory to the Purchase Agreement/Arbitration Agreement, it
must be first determined whether Geiser can be compelled to arbitration.  The issue of whether a non-signatory to an
Arbitration Agreement can be compelled to arbitrate is an issue for the Court
in the first instance.  (American
Builder’s Association v. Au-Yang (1990) 226 Cal.App.3d 170, 179; Matthau
v. Superior Court (2007) 151 Cal.App.4th 593, 598; City of Hope v. Bryan
Cave, L.L.P. (2002) 102 Cal.App.4th 1356, 1359; Benaroya v. Willis (2018)
23 Cal.App.5th 462, 469-470.)  Because it
is the power of the Court to determine whether a non-signatory can be compelled
to arbitration, good cause is presented to lift the stay of the action for this
limited purpose.  
            Plaintiff’s request to lift the stay
of the action to determine whether Geiser can be compelled to arbitration is
GRANTED.
            In order to determine if the Court
can compel Geiser to arbitration, the Court must have jurisdiction over Geiser.
 However, Geiser is not a party to the
instant action[1].  The Court, as of yet, does not have
jurisdiction over Geiser.  Geiser’s
opposition to the instant motion was filed by way of “special appearance” and
Geiser objected to the Court’s jurisdiction over Geiser.  The Court agrees with Geiser’s contention
that Geiser is not yet a party to this action. 
Because Geiser is not a party to this action, the Court lacks
jurisdiction over Geiser and the motion’s request to compel arbitration is
premature.
            Plaintiff’s request to compel Gesier
to arbitration is NOT CONSIDERED because it is premature.  
            Geiser argued that any Doe Amendment
to add him as a party defendant is untimely pursuant the three year deadline
for service of process.  (Code Civ.
Proc., sec. 583.210.)  The Court finds Geiser’s
contention to also be premature.  As it
stands, Geiser has not yet been added as a Doe Defendant because no Doe
Amendment has been filed.  Further,
Geiser’s attempt to invalidate/strike/dismiss a future Doe Amendment is
improper because Plaintiff was not given proper notice and opportunity to be
heard on the issue.  The
striking/dismissal of a party from an action pursuant the three year deadline
for process of service requires a noticed motion.  (Code Civ. Proc., sec. 583.250(a)(2).)
            Geiser’s arguments as to violation
of Code of Civil Procedure, section 583.210 is NOT CONSIDERED because it is
premature.
            The Court notes that the lifting of
the stay to determine whether Geiser can be compelled to arbitration
necessarily includes the lifting of the stay to add Geiser as a Doe Defendant.  The lifting of the stay of the action
includes permission to Plaintiff to file a Doe Amendment as to Geiser.
            As a separate issue, the Court noted
that Plaintiff again filed Doe Amendments (i.e., two filed on October 11, 2024)
after the Court’s August 7, 2024 order striking the pleadings filed in
violation of the November 5, 2021 order to stay the action.  The Court again sets an Order to Show Cause
re: striking the two October 11, 2024 Doe Amendments in light of the stay
order.  
             IT IS SO ORDERED, CLERK TO GIVE NOTICE.


