 Case Number:  23AHCV02452    Hearing Date:   May 16, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



ALEJANDRA MORENO, et al., 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
TESLA,
   INC., et al.,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  23AHCV02452
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEFENDANT TESLA, INC.’S MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
May 16,
  2024




 


)


 



 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
On October 23, 2023, plaintiffs
Alejandra Moreno and Sergio Fernando Moreno (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) filed
this action against defendant Tesla, Inc. (“Defendant”) asserting violations of
the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act (“SBA”). 
On November 29, 2023, Defendant filed
this motion to compel Plaintiffs to arbitrate their claims and to stay the
action pending the outcome of arbitration. 
The motion is unopposed. 
II.         
LEGAL
STANDARD
When seeking to compel arbitration, the
initial burden lies with the moving party to demonstrate the existence of a
valid arbitration agreement by a preponderance of evidence.¿ (Ruiz v. Moss Bros. Auto Group
(2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 836, 841-42; Gamboa v. Northeast Community Clinic
(2021), 72 Cal.App.5th 158, 164-65.)¿ It is sufficient for the moving party
to produce a copy of the arbitration agreement or set forth the agreement’s
provisions.¿
(Gamboa, 72 Cal.App.5th at 165.)¿ The burden then shifts to the opposing
party to prove by a preponderance of evidence any defense to enforcement of the
contract or the arbitration clause.¿ (Ruiz, 232 Cal.App.4th at 842; Gamboa,
72 Cal.App.5th at 165.) The trial court then weighs all the evidence submitted
and uses its discretion to make a final determination.¿ (Id.)¿ “California law, like [federal law],
reflects a strong policy favoring arbitration agreements[.]”¿ (Wagner Const. Co. v. Pacific
Mechanical Corp. (2007) 41 Cal.4th 19, 31 (internal quotations
omitted).)  
III.       
DISCUSSION
In ruling on a motion to compel
arbitration, the Court must first determine whether the parties actually agreed
to arbitrate the dispute. Defendant submits a Motor Vehicle Order Agreement
(“MVOA”) entered into between Plaintiffs and Defendant to purchase a new 2022
Tesla Model X. (Kim Decl., ¶ 3.) The MVOA includes an agreement to arbitrate
which “applies to any dispute between [Plaintiffs] and [Defendant] and its
affiliates.” (Kim Decl. Ex. 1, p. 4.) Th arbitration agreement includes an
opt-out provision which allows the buyer to opt out of arbitration within 30
days of signing the agreement by sending a letter to Defendant stating their
name, vehicle identification number, and intent to opt out of the arbitration
provision. (Ibid.) Raymond Kim states that he is “a Manager, Business
Resolution at Tesla, Inc.” and familiar with the service and sales of Tesla
vehicles, including the related creation and record-keeping procedures.” (Kim
Decl., ¶ 2.) He states that Plaintiffs placed an order for the Vehicle by
clicking a “Place Order” button on Defendant’s website and that prior to
placing the order, Plaintiffs would have been advised of Defendant’s terms and
conditions and provided a hyperlink to the MVOA that Plaintiffs could click on
in order to view the terms and conditions. (Kim Decl. ¶ 4.) Mr. Kim also
declares that if the MVOA had not been executed, it would not have been
downloaded into Defendant’s electronic document storage system. (Kim Decl., ¶
4.) In addition, Mr. Kim states that Defendant maintains letters in which its
customers opted out of the arbitration agreement but Defendant did not receive
any such letter from Plaintiffs. 
Based on the foregoing, the Court
concludes that Defendant has met its initial burden to show that an agreement
to arbitrate exists between Plaintiffs and Defendant. Since the agreement
encompasses “any dispute”, Plaintiffs’ claims under the SBA are subject to
arbitration. Plaintiffs did not oppose this motion, challenge the existence of
the arbitration agreement, or raise any defense to its enforceability.
Accordingly, the motion is granted and Plaintiffs are ordered to arbitrate
their claims. The Court additionally stays the action pending the outcome of
the arbitration pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.4. 
IV.       
CONCLUSION
Defendant’s motion is GRANTED. The
Court STAYS the action and sets a status conference for November 19, 2024, at
8:30 a.m. in Department 3 of the Alhambra Courthouse. The parties are ordered
to file a joint report informing the Court of the status of the arbitration
proceedings no later than 5 court days before the date of the hearing. 
 
Dated
this 16th
day of May, 2024
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 