  Case Number:  23AHCV01973    Hearing Date:   May 16, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



OKE POKE, INC., 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
FORTUNE
   EMPIRE GROUP, INC., et al.,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 23AHCV01973
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEFENDANTS FORTUNE EMPIRE GROUP, INC. AND HENRY TANG’S
   DEMURRER 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
May 16,
   2024



 
I.      INTRODUCTION
         On August 28, 2023, plaintiff Oke Poke,
Inc. (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against defendants Fortune Empire Group,
Inc. (“Fortune Empire”) and Henry Tang (“Tang”) (collectively, “Defendants”) asserting
causes of action for conversion, intentional and negligent interference with
prospective economic relations, violation of Business & Professions Code
section 17200 (“UCL”), intentional and negligent misrepresentation,
misappropriation of trade secrets, and common law trademark infringement. Plaintiff
alleges it is the owner of the “Oke Poke” brand, which has stores throughout
California and sells poke bowls, and owns other trademarks, service marks,
copyrights, and intellectual property related to the Oke Poke brand, including
menu items, their recipes, and preparation processes (collectively referred to
as its “Intellectual Property”). (Compl., ¶ 6.) Plaintiff alleges that
Defendants are illegally operating a restaurant using the Oke Poke trademarks
to sell poke bowls in a manner which is damaging to Plaintiff’s name, brand,
and reputation. (Compl. ¶ 7.) Although Defendants originally opened their store
as a licensee of the Oke Poke brand through Plaintiff’s former owner, Plaintiff’s
new owners have since revoked their permission to use its brand and intellectual
property. (Compl., ¶ 8.) 
          On
November 13, 2023, Defendants filed this demurrer to Plaintiff’s complaint. 
          On
March 14, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition brief. 
          On
March 19, 2024, Defendants filed their reply brief. 
II.     LEGAL
STANDARDS
A demurrer may be brought if
insufficient facts are stated to support the cause of action asserted. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e).) A demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of the
pleadings and will be sustained only where the pleading is defective on its
face. (City of Atascadero v. Merrill
Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith, Inc. (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 445, 459.)
“We treat the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded but not
contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law. We accept the factual
allegations of the complaint as true and also consider matters which may be
judicially noticed. [Citation.]” (Mitchell
v. California Department of Public Health (2016) 1 Cal.App.5th 1000, 1007; Del E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials
Co. (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 593, 604 [“the facts alleged in the pleading are
deemed to be true, however improbable they may be”].) Allegations are to be
liberally construed. (Code Civ. Proc., § 452.) In construing the allegations,
the court is to give effect to specific factual allegations that may modify or
limit inconsistent general or conclusory allegations. (Financial Corporation of America v. Wilburn (1987) 189 Cal.App.3rd 764,
769.) 
III.    DISCUSSION
A.  
First
Cause of Action: Conversion
To plead a cause of action for
conversion, one must allege (1) the plaintiff’s ownership or right to
possession of personal property; (2) defendant’s disposition of the property
inconsistent with plaintiff’s rights; and (3) resulting damages. (Fremont
Indemnity Co. v. Fremont General Corp. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97, 119.) 
Plaintiff alleges that Defendants have
“knowingly and intentionally interfered with [its] Intellectual Property by taking
possession of it for Defendants’ own uses and continuing to use and profit from
it without permission.” (Compl., ¶ 10.) Defendants argue that Plaintiff’s definition
of Intellectual Property includes trade secrets. The California Uniform Trade
Secrets Act (“CUTSA”) thus displaces its conversion claim. 
CUTSA is codified in Civil Code
sections 3426 through 3426.11 and occupies common law trade secret
misappropriation claims. (See K.C. Multimedia, Inc. v. Bank of America
Technology & Operations, Inc. (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 939, 954.) Civil
Code section 3426.7 concerns displacement and provides that CUTSA “does not
affect (1) contractual remedies, whether or not based upon misappropriation of
a trade secret, (2) other civil remedies that are not based upon
misappropriation of a trade secret, or (3) criminal remedies, whether or not
based upon misappropriation of a trade secret.” (Civ. Code, § 3426.7(b).) CUTSA
thus displaces noncontract claims based on the same nucleus of facts as trade
secret misappropriation. (See Silvaco Data Systems v. Intel Corp. (2010)
184 Cal.App.4th 210, 232 (“Silvaco”); K.C. Multimedia, Inc., supra,
171 Cal.App.4th at 962.) 
Plaintiff opposes the demurrer on the
grounds that its conversion claim is premised on the use of “non-trade secrets
which are still proprietary and confidential.” (Opp., p. 4.) But “‘information’
cannot be ‘stolen’ unless it constitutes property. And information is not
property unless some law makes it so.” (Silvaco, supra, 184
Cal.App.4th at p. 239.) Therefore, because Plaintiff identifies no property
right outside of trade secrets law, its conversion claim is superseded by
CUTSA. 
Additionally, Defendants demur to
Plaintiff’s conversion claims on the ground that intangible items cannot be
converted. Plaintiff argues that its conversion claim is sufficiently stated
because Defendants allegedly stole tangible property such as “menu items
embodied in Plaintiff’ recipes, [in order] to continue to run a franchise for
which its license had been revoked.” (Opp., p. 4.) Plaintiff also cites to Fremont
Indemnity Co. v. Fremont General Corp. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97, 103, in
which the court of appeal held that intangible property may be the
subject of a conversion claim. However, the court of appeal in Fremont
Indemnity Co. only held that a conversion claim could be stated for a net
operating loss recorded in tax and accounting records because it was “sufficiently
definite and certain” as to be comparable to the misappropriation of tangible
personal property or shares of stock. In contrast, Plaintiff’s references to recipes
are ideas or information (as opposed to physical documents) and Plaintiff does
not cite to any law which transforms the ideas into property. 
Accordingly, the demurrer is sustained
to the First Cause of Action. 
B.  
Second
and Third Causes of Action: Intentional and Negligent Interference with
Prospective Economic Relations
Next, Defendants demur to Plaintiff’s
claims for intentional and negligent interference with prospective economic
relations on the grounds that they are displaced by CUTSA. Plaintiff alleges
that Defendants “engaged in wrongful conduct by misrepresenting to Plaintiff’s
customers that they have the right to use the Oke Poke name, sell Oke Poke
products, and use the Intellectual Property for their own personal profit” and
that Defendants disrupted “the relationship between Plaintiff and its
customers.” (Compl., ¶¶ 14-15, 19-20.) The alleged wrongful conduct includes
misrepresentations about the right to use Plaintiff’s name and brand, which are
not trade secrets. Therefore, the tortious interference claims are not
displaced by CUTSA insofar as they are based on Defendants’ unauthorized use of
Plaintiff’s name and brand. (Angelica Textile Services, Inc. v. Park
(2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 495, 506 [CUTSA “does not displace noncontract claims
that, although related to a trade secret misappropriation, are independent and
based on facts distinct from the facts that support the misappropriation
claim.”]) 
Nevertheless, Defendants’ demurrer has
merit because Plaintiff fails to identify any specific customer, third party,
or economic relationship with which Defendants allegedly interfered. Although
Plaintiff does not need to identify a particular customer by name, the claim
for tortious business interference must be directed to Plaintiff’s prospective
economic expectation from a specific person. (See Ramona Manor Convalescent
Hospital v. Care Enterprises (1986) 177 Cal.App.3d 1120, 1133.) Accordingly,
the demurrer to the Second and Third Causes of Action is sustained. 
C.  
Fourth
Cause of Action: Violation of UCL 
The UCL permits claims for “unlawful,
unfair or fraudulent” business practices. (Bus. & Prof.Code, § 17200.) UCL
claims may be displaced by CUTSA if they are premised on factual allegations of
trade secret misappropriation. Here, Plaintiff alleges that Defendants’
“unlawful use of the Intellectual Property to sell Plaintiff’s products,
without permission, constitutes an unfair business practice.” (Compl., ¶ 23.) 
Defendants argue that Plaintiff’s UCL
claim is preempted by CUSTSA. In opposition, Plaintiff argues that its UCL
claim is based on its conversion and tortious interference claims. However,
Plaintiff’s conversion claim is preempted by CUTSA; therefore, to the extent
that the UCL claim is based on conversion, the claim is displaced. Also, Plaintiff
fails to allege sufficient facts to state a cause of action for tortious
interference. Therefore, the tortious interference claims cannot serve as a
predicate for an unfair competition claim.  
Accordingly, the demurrer to the Fourth
Cause of Action is sustained. 
D.  Fifth and Sixth Causes of Action:
Intentional and Negligent Misrepresentation
The elements of fraud are: “(a)
misrepresentation (false representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (b)
knowledge of falsity (or ‘scienter’); (c) intent to defraud, i.e., to induce
reliance; (d) justifiable reliance; and (e) resulting damage.” (Charnay v.
Cobert (2006) 145 Cal.App.4th 170, 184.) In California, fraud, including
negligent misrepresentation, must be pled with specificity. (Small v. Fritz
Companies, Inc. (2003) 30 Cal.4th 167, 184.) “The particularity demands
that a plaintiff plead facts which show how, when, where, to whom, and by what
means the representations were tendered.” (Cansino v. Bank of America
(2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 1462, 1469.)  
Defendants demur to Plaintiff’s
misrepresentation claims on the grounds that they are not pleaded with
specificity and are preempted by CUTSA. However, the Court notes (and
Defendants belatedly argue in their reply brief) that Plaintiff’s
misrepresentation claims fail because Plaintiff does not allege that it relied
on Defendants’ misrepresentations in any way. Instead, Plaintiff alleges that
Defendants have made misrepresentations to the public. Therefore, the demurrer
to the Fifth and Sixth Causes of Action is SUSTAINED. 
IV.    CONCLUSION
In light of the foregoing, Defendants’
demurrer to the First, Second, Third, Fourth, Fifth, and Sixth Causes of Action
is SUSTAINED. Plaintiff requests leave to amend the complaint by specifically
labelling intellectual property which are not trade secrets. Therefore, the
demurrer is sustained with 20 days’ leave to amend. 
Moving party to give notice.
Dated
this 16th
day of May
2024
 




 


 




 


William A. Crowfoot 
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 