 Case Number:  23STCV00717    Hearing Date:   May 6, 2024    Dept:  26 Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles Department 26        JOYCELYNE LEW,    an individual                           Plaintiff,             vs.   WARREN PLAYER, an individual, and DOES 1 through 25 inclusive                           Defendants.      Case No.: 23STCV00717    Hearing Date: May 06, 2024   [TENTATIVE] order RE: PLAINTIFF’s Motions to Set Aside    Judgment and Grant judgment For plaintiff          Background             On  January 12, 2023, Plaintiff Joycelyne Lew filed an unlawful detainer action  against Defendant Warren Player.              Defendant filed his Answer to the  Complaint on January 23, 2023.              A bench trial took place between September  18, 2023 and September 26, 2023. At the conclusion of the Plaintiff’s case, Defendant  moved for entry of judgment under CCP § 631.8.             The Court granted the motion for  judgment and issued its oral statement of decision at the conclusion of the  trial explaining why the Court was granting Defendant’s motion for judgment.      This  Court does not have a transcript of the proceedings and Plaintiff did not  present a transcript. However, in an October 18, 2023 Minute Order relating to  Plaintiff’s request for a written statement of decision, the Court explained the  grounds for granting judgment to Defendant at trial.  “. . .As the Court noted on September 26,  2023, Plaintiff did not bring this action as one for trespass. Instead,  Plaintiff brought the instant action as one for unlawful detainer, which formed  the basis for Plaintiff[‘s] request for and the court granting priority in  trial setting. For the numerous reasons that the Court orally stated on the  record in the parties[’] presence on September 26, 2023, Plaintiff’s three-day  notice was defective, and Plaintiff failed as a matter of law to meet her burden  to demonstrate compliance with the strict procedural mandates of an unlawful  detainer action.” (See 10/18/23 Minute Order.)              On October 24, 2023, the Court formally  entered judgment in favor of Defendant and on the same day the Clerk issued a “Notice  of Entry of Judgment” which was duly mailed to counsel for both parties. (See  10/245/23 Minute Order, and Certificate of Mailing.)             On November 15, 2023, Plaintiff  filed the instant motion to set aside judgment and for  judgment in her favor. No opposition  or reply has been filed.  Evidentiary  Motions Plaintiff’s  request for the Court to take judicial notice of the document entitled Trial  Exhibit “1” is DENIED as Plaintiff fails to provide the authority for  the Court to take judicial notice under Evidence Code 452(d). In so far as  Plaintiff seeks to have the Court take judicial notice under Evidence Code  452(d), the Court notes that not every page was a part of the initial Complaint  filed on January 12, 2023.             Discussion              Upon receipt of  the Notice of Judgment, Plaintiff had two options. Plaintiff could have filed a  motion for new trial or taken a direct appeal from the judgment. She did neither. “A  notice of intention to move for a new trial is deemed to be a motion for new  trial on all grounds stated in the notice. [CCP § 659 (last para.)]. The notice  must state the party's intent to move for new trial and designate: — the  grounds upon which the motion will be made; and — whether it will be made upon  affidavits or the minutes of the court, or both. [CCP § 659].” Wegner,  Fairbank, Epstein & Chernow, CAL. PRAC. GUIDE: CIVIL TRIALS & EVIDENCE  (The Rutter Group 2019) ¶ 18:237-238 (emphasis theirs). “The  grounds for new trial are entirely statutory. Thus, a new trial motion must be  based on one or more of the following statutory grounds (Fomco, Inc. v. Joe  Maggio, Inc. (1961) 55 C2d 162, 166).” Id. at ¶ 18:131. “A new trial may be  granted for: ‘1. Irregularity in the proceedings of the court, jury or adverse  party, or any order of the court or abuse of discretion by which either party  was prevented from having a fair trial.’ [CCP § 657(1) (emphasis added)]…’irregularity’  is broadly interpreted to encompass many forms of misconduct and error that  would also be ground for mistrial or reversal on appeal.” Id. at ¶ 18:132  (emphasis theirs). Without citing any  statutory basis in the motion, Plaintiff prays for the Court to issue an order  setting aside the judgment entered against Plaintiff and to instead enter  judgment against the Defendant and in her favor. She argues the judgment is  void since the Court lacked authority to invalidate the Landlord’s Notice to  Quit/Vacate under the Unlawful Detainer Act. Plaintiff additionally argues that  under CCP §§ 438 and 1177, the notices served on Defendant and attached to the  complaint support an unlawful detainer action and a summary order for eviction.  Plaintiff does explain how or why the  Court lacks either personal jurisdiction over the parties or how the Court lacks  subject matter jurisdiction over the action.  Plaintiff  appears to be arguing for a new trial in which the Court would reconsider its  application of law to the admitted evidence at trial. Even if this Court were to construe Plaintiff’s  motion as one for a new trial, such a motion is untimely because, under CCP § 659(a)(2), Plaintiff’s notice of  intention to move for a new trial must have been filed within fifteen days of  notice of entry of judgment. (Code Civ. Proc., § 659(a)(2).) Here, judgment was  entered on October 24, 2023, the same day the Clerk issued notice of entry of  judgment. (See.10/24/23 Minute Order.) Plaintiff did not file a notice of  intention to seek a new trial within 15 days from the notice of judgment. Even  if the instant motion could be construed as a notice of intent to move for a  new trial, the motion was not filed until November 15, 2023, too late to qualify  as the required notice of intention. The other vehicle Plaintiff could have pursued to attack the final  judgment in this case was to take a direct appeal from the judgment in favor of  Defendant. Under CRC rule 8.104, a notice of appeal must have been filed within 60 days of  the clerk's service of the notice of entry of judgment. (Cal. Rules of Court,  8.104(a)(1)(A).) As stated, the Clerk served notice of entry of judgment on  October 24, 2023, meaning that notice of an appeal must have been filed no  later than December 26, 2023. (See 10/24/23 Certificate of Mailing.) No notice  of appeal was filed in this matter based on the record before the Court.  At one point in  the motion, Plaintiff cites CCP § 438 as grounds upon which the Court should  enter judgment in her favor and against Defendant. That statute governs motions  for judgment on the pleadings but nothing in CCP § 438 permits a motion for  judgment on the pleadings to be filed after a final judgment has been rendered.  Plaintiff cites to no authority for seeking the extraordinary relief she seeks  here – the vacating of a judgment entered after Plaintiff presented her case in  chief at trial upon the Court finding she did not carry her burden of proof.  Conclusion and ORDER             Plaintiff’s Motions to Set Aside the  Judgment and Enter Judgment for the Plaintiff is DENIED.              Moving Party to give notice.    DATED:                                                                                                                                   ___________________________                                                                                           Teresa  Sanchez-Gordon                                                                                           Judge  of the Superior Court            