 Case Number:  23AHCV00811    Hearing Date:   March 18, 2024    Dept:  X    Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Joel L. Lofton,
Department X
 
 
HEARING DATE:      March 18, 2024                                   TRIAL
DATE: May 14, 2024 
                                                           
CASE:                         STEVEN JACKSON v.
GENERAL MOTORS, LLC,  a Delaware limited
liability company, and DOES 1 through 10, inclusive.   
 
CASE NO.:                23AHCV00811
 
            
 
MOTION
TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES

 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff Steven Jackson
 
RESPONDING PARTY:      Defendant
General Motors LLC
 
SERVICE:                              Filed December 12, 2023
 
OPPOSITION:                       Filed March 8, 2024
 
REPLY:                                  Filed March 11, 2024
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED 
 
             Plaintiff moves for an order
compelling the deposition of Defendant’s person most knowledgeable. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
             This case arises out of Plaintiff Steven
Jackson’s (“Plaintiff”) lemon law claim involving a 2020 Chevrolet Silverado
1500, Vehicle Identification Number 3GCPWCED6LG410800 (“Subject
Vehicle”). Plaintiffs filed their complaint on April 11, 2024, alleging two
causes of action for (1) violation of Song-Beverly Act – Breach of Express
Warranty and (2) violation of Song-Beverly Act – Breach of Implied Warranty. 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Plaintiff’s motion to compel the deposition testimony of
Defendant’s person most knowledge is GRANTED. The parties are ordered to meet
and confer regarding the deposition date for Defendant’s person most knowledge.

 
            Plaintiff’s
motion to compel further responses to its requests for production of documents
is DENIED.
 
            Plaintiff’s
requests for sanctions are denied. 
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.450, subdivision (a), provides: “If, after service
of a deposition notice, a party to the action or an officer, director, managing
agent, or employee of a party, or a person designated by an organization that
is a party under Section 2025.230, without having served a valid objection under
Section 2025.410, fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to
produce for inspection any document, electronically stored information, or
tangible thing described in the deposition notice, the party giving the notice
may move for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and
the production for inspection of any document, electronically stored
information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice.”
 
            Code of
Civil Procedure section 2025.450 subdivision (b) requires that any motion under
subdivision (a) set forth specific facts showing good cause and a meet and
confer declaration or, when a deponent fails to attend the deposition, a
declaration stating the moving party contacted the deponent to inquire about
the nonappearance. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Plaintiff moves for an order compelling Defendant to
produce its person most knowledge for deposition and for an order compelling
requiring Defendant to produce further responses to its request for the
production of documents. Plaintiff provides that he served Defendant with a
notice of Deposition on November 9, 2023. (Thomas Decl. ¶ 3.) The deposition was scheduled for
November 30, 2023. (Id. ¶ 4.) On November 22, 2023, Defendant objected
to the notice of deposition. (Id. ¶ 5.) Plaintiff provides that
Defendant failed to appear for the deposition. (Id. ¶ 8.) In opposition, Defendant argues that it has agreed to
produce its PMQ for deposition and that Plaintiff seeks irrelevant testimony. 
 
Here, because Plaintiff has demonstrated that it served a
notice of deposition and Defendant’s witness did not appear for it, Plaintiff’s
motion to compel deposition testimony is granted. However, the court does not
rule on the specific categories of topics to be discussed at the deposition or
the time frame under which the deposition must take place. The court notes that
“[c]ivil discovery is intended to operate with a minimum of judicial
intervention. ‘[I]t is a “central precept” of the Civil Discovery Act ... that
discovery ‘be essentially self-executing[.]’ ” (Sinaiko Healthcare
Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th
390, 402.)
 
Further, Plaintiff’s motion to compel further responses
to its requests for the production of documents is denied. California Rules of
Court, Rule 3.1345 requires a separate statement to include “[a] statement of
the factual and legal reasons for compelling further responses, answers, or
production as to each matter in dispute”. Plaintiff’s separate statement fails
to address the specific discovery request at issue and only contains
copy-pasted language generally arguing against Defendant’s objections. Thus,
Plaintiff’s separate statement is deficient. 
 
CONCLUSION
 
Plaintiff’s motion to compel the deposition testimony of
Defendant’s person most knowledge is GRANTED. The parties are ordered to meet
and confer regarding the deposition date for Defendant’s person most knowledge.

 
            Plaintiff’s
motion to compel further responses to its requests for production of documents
is DENIED.
 
            Plaintiff’s
requests for sanctions are denied. 
 
 
 
 
 
            
Dated:   March 18, 2024                                             ___________________________________
                                                                                    Joel
L. Lofton
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court




Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the court
indicating their 
intention
to submit.  alhdeptx@lacourt.org 