 Case Number:  23STCV17866    Hearing Date:   October 1, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27 
 
MOTION FOR DETERMINATION OF GOOD FAITH
SETTLEMENT 
Hearing Date: 10/1/24¿ 
CASE NO./NAME: 23STCV17866 EUN SHIM vs
JACOB UNRUH, et al.
Moving Party: Defendants Jacob and Christopher
Unruh 
Responding Party: Defendants Falck Mobile Health Care Co and Youstina Galy
Notice: Sufficient
 
Ruling: MOTION FOR DETERMINATION OF GOOD FAITH
SETTLEMENT IS GRANTED
 
Background
On July 31, 2023,
Plaintiff Eun Shim filed the present multi-vehicle accident case. Plaintiff
alleges that a Falck ambulance driven by Defendant Youstina Ghaly collided with
a Toyota Camary driven by Defendant Jacob Unruh while he was making a left
turn. The ambulance then struck Plaintiff’s vehicle, causing her injuries.
Plaintiff alleges causes of action for general negligence and motor vehicle
negligence against 1) Defendant Youstina Ghaly, the driver of the Falck
ambulance; 2) Falck Mobile Health Care Co. (“Falck”),
the ambulance owner and operator; 3) Jacob Unruh, the driver of the Camry; and
4) Christopher Unruh, the owner of the Camry.
On August 22, 2024,
Plaintiff and Defendants Jacob Unruh and Christopher Unruh (the “Unruh
Defendants”) signed a settlement agreement whereby the Unruh Defendants were to
tender their insurance policy limit of $50,000 for a release of all claims
arising from the incident. Unruh Defendants now move the Court for a
determination of good faith settlement.
Defendants Ghaly and Falck
(the “Falck Defendants”) oppose the motion. They argue that the settlement
amount is significantly disproportionate to the Unruh Defendants’ share of the
liability.
Legal Standard 
 
In an action involving two or more
joint tortfeasors or co-obligors, when one tortfeasor or obligor enters into a
settlement with the plaintiff, the other tortfeasors or obligors are entitled
to a hearing on the issue of whether the settlement was entered into in good
faith. (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6(a).) Where a plaintiff settles with one of
several joint tortfeasors or co-obligors without releasing the others, a
determination of “good faith” discharges the settling defendant from liability
to the other defendants for equitable contribution or comparative indemnity.
(CCP § 877(a)-(b).) The amount paid by the settling defendant reduces the claim
against the others (CCP § 877(a)), but a risk of prejudice remains because an
unreasonably low settlement (i.e., with the “most culpable” tortfeasor)
exposes the remaining defendants to a judgment exceeding their fair share of
the liability. (See Bay Development, Ltd. v. Superior Court (1990) 50
Cal. 3d 1012, 1019-1020.)  
¿ 
There is no precise yardstick for measuring the “good
faith” of a settlement with one of several tortfeasors, but it must harmonize
the public policy favoring settlements with the competing public policy
favoring equitable sharing of costs among tortfeasors. (See Tech-Bilt, Inc.
v. Woodward-Clyde & Associates (1985) 38 Cal.3d 488, 499.) 
 
“A
more appropriate definition of ‘good faith,’ in keeping with the policies of American
Motorcycle and the statute, would enable the trial court to inquire, among
other things, whether the amount of the settlement is within the reasonable
range of the settling tortfeasor's proportional share of comparative liability
for the plaintiff's injuries. This is not to say that bad faith is ‘established
by a showing that a settling defendant paid less than his theoretical
proportionate or fair share.’ [Citation.] Such a rule would unduly discourage
settlements. ‘For the damages are often speculative, and the probability of
legal liability therefor is often uncertain or remote. And even where the
claimant's damages are obviously great, and the liability therefor certain, a
disproportionately low settlement figure is often reasonable in the case of a
relatively insolvent, and uninsured, or underinsured, joint tortfeasor.’
[Citation.] Moreover, such a rule would tend to convert the pretrial settlement
approval procedure into a full-scale mini trial [citation]. 
 
But these
considerations do not lead to  
the conclusion that
the amount of the settlement is irrelevant in determining good faith. Rather,
the intent and policies underlying section 877.6 require that a number of
factors be taken into account including a rough approximation of plaintiffs'
total recovery and the settlor's proportionate liability, the amount paid in
settlement, the allocation of settlement proceeds among plaintiffs, and a
recognition that a settlor should pay less in settlement than he would if he
were found liable after a trial. Other relevant considerations include the
financial conditions and insurance policy limits of settling defendants, as
well as the existence of collusion, fraud, or tortious conduct aimed to injure
the interests of nonsettling defendants. [Citation.] 
¿ 
Finally, practical
considerations obviously require that the evaluation be made on the basis of
information available at the time of settlement. ‘[A] defendant's settlement
figure must not be grossly disproportionate to what a reasonable person, at the
time of the settlement, would estimate the settling defendant's liability to
be.’ [Citation.] The party asserting the lack of good faith, who has the burden
of proof on that issue (§877.6(d)), should be permitted to demonstrate, if he
can, that the settlement is so far ‘out of the ballpark’ in relation to these
factors as to be inconsistent with the equitable objectives of the statute.
Such a demonstration would establish that the proposed settlement was not a
‘settlement made in good faith’ within the terms of section 877.6.” 
 
(Tech-Bilt, Inc.,
38 Cal.3d at 499-500.)      
 
Thus, courts routinely consider the following Tech-Bilt
facts in assessing the good faith of a settlement: (1) a rough approximation of
plaintiff’s total recovery and the settlor’s proportionate liability; (2) the
amount paid in settlement; (3) the allocation of settlement proceeds among plaintiffs;
(4) a recognition that a settlor should pay less in settlement than he would if
he were found liable after a trial; (5) the financial condition and insurance
policy limits of the settling defendant; and (6) whether there is the existence
of collusion, fraud, or tortious conduct aimed to injure the interests of
non-settling defendants. Id. 
 
Discussion
The settled facts for
the present motion are as follows: The Unruh Defendants settled the case with
Plaintiff for $50,000. Jacob Unruh was driving the Camry at the time of the
incident, while Christopher Unruh, the owner of the vehicle, was not involved in
the incident. The Unruh Defendants have an insurance policy covering the
incident with a policy limit of $50,000. Jacob Unruh submitted a declaration
regarding his financial condition, stating that he has no assets and a bank
account balance of less than $5,000.
The major contention
between the parties is the Unruh Defendants' liability versus the Falck
Defendants' liability, as well as the amount of Plaintiff’s estimated recovery.
Regarding the estimated
recovery, Plaintiff, in response to her form interrogatories, claims $335,357
in special damages. No specific amount is provided for Plaintiff's general
damages.  The $335,357 in special damages
was asserted by Plaintiff, and the Unruh Defendants have pointed to Plaintiff’s
prior automobile collision, which occurred three months earlier and caused
injuries to her neck and lower back, as well as her conduct immediately following
this accident purportedly demonstrating limited (if any) injury, as bases for
reducing these damages. The Unruh Defendants also contend any general damages would
be uncertain because Plaintiff was having marital issues and refused to obtain
professional assistance in addressing those issues. The range of potential
damages appears to be fairly broad, but keeping in mind that general damages are
usually between 2 and 3 times special damages, and taking into account the prior
accident and Plaintiff’s conduct immediately after the accident, an estimate of
$600,000 in damages appears reasoanable. 

As to each party’s
liability, the evidence submitted does not establish that either the Unruh
Defendants or the Falck Defendants are 100 percent at fault. Video footage from
inside the ambulance shows Ghaly, the driver for Falck, appearing to be somewhat
distracted before hitting Unruh’s car. The video depicts Ghaly taking a sip of
her drink, looking toward her co-worker Abraham Mendez, touching his arm,
laughing, and then placing her hand on the siren control while making a repeated
motion with her tongue. Both Plaintiff and Unruh testified that they did not
hear any sirens. At the same time, it is also undisputed that Defendant Jacob
Unruh was making a left turn into the path of the ambulance.  It is reasonable that any defendant could be
found to bear 30-70 percent of the liability for the accident.
Given the Court’s
aforementioned findings on the estimated value of this case and each party’s
proportionate liability, the Court finds the present settlement to be within
the ballpark. It should be emphasized that the standard is not whether the
settlement amount is exactly proportionate to each party’s liability, but
whether the amount is so disproportionate that it falls outside the ballpark. “[D]amages
are often speculative, and the probability of legal liability therefor is often
uncertain or remote. A settlor should pay less in settlement than he would if
found liable at trial" (Tech-Bilt, supra, 38 Cal.3d at 499; Abbott
Ford, Inc. v. Superior Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d 858, 874 ["In order to
encourage settlements, it is quite proper for a settling defendant to pay less
than his proportional share."]).
Moreover, this amount
represents Unruh Defendants’ policy limit pertaining to this incident, and
Jacob Unruh, the driver of the Camry, filed a declaration stating that he has
no assets. In cases where a defendant tenders their policy limit and has no
additional assets, courts have found settlements to be in good faith even when
the settlement-to-value ratio was lower than in the present case. See, e.g., Bay
Development, Ltd. v. Superior Court (1990) 50 Cal.3d 1012, 1028 (finding a
$30,000 settlement reasonable in a litigation involving a claim for $1 million
in damages); Cahill v. San Diego Gas & Electric Co. (2011) 194
Cal.App.4th 939, 969-970 ($25,000 settlement on a $40 million estimated value).

The Falck Defendants
argue that Christopher Unruh, owner of the Camry, has not submitted a
declaration regarding his assets; however, Christopher Unruh was not involved
in the accident in any manner, and his liability is solely as the vehicle's
owner, which is capped at $15,000 under California Vehicle Code § 17151(a). This
amount is covered by the $50,000 settlement, so there is no need for further
discovery into Christopher’s financial condition.
Allocation
The Falck Defendants
argue that the Unruh Defendants have not provided an allocation of the
settlement funds, which is one of the Tech-Bilt factors that needs to be
discussed. However, allocation is not required in a “typical one-plaintiff,
multiple-defendants, personal injury action where each tortfeasor is
potentially liable for the same injury to the plaintiff. Therefore, the full
settlement by one defendant will offset a judgment against other tortfeasors,
and no allocation of the settlement is required.” (Alcal Roofing &
Insulation v. Superior Court (1992) 8 Cal.App.4th 1121, 1124.)
A discussion of
allocation is necessary in non-typical cases, where the amount of the offset is
uncertain because one settlement covers multiple plaintiffs or causes of action
with different damages, involves non-cash consideration, or pertains to only a
specific injury. (Id.)
That is not the case
here. Plaintiff filed a complaint alleging motor vehicle negligence and general
negligence arising from the subject car accident. The Defendants and Plaintiff
have settled the claims related to the accident, which encompass both causes of
action. There is only one Plaintiff, and the settlement is not restricted to a
specific type of injury. This is a typical one-plaintiff, multiple-defendant
case, where a settlement by one defendant will offset any judgment against the
other tortfeasors, and therefore no allocation is required.
Conclusion
A settlement of
$50,000, representing the Unruh Defendants' policy limit, is in good faith.
Thus, the present motion is granted.
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:
 
If a party
intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party must send an email to
the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.  The body of
the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact
information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless all parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.  You should
assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.
 
If the
parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off
calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion
without leave.
 