 Case Number:  22STCV32424    Hearing Date:   October 1, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27
 
MOTIONS TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES AND
REQUESTS FOR SANCTIONS 
Hearing Date: 10/1/24 
CASE NO./NAME: 22STCV32424 NARCISA GUZMAN
OSORIO vs ALISA MARGARET GABAY, et al.
Moving Party: Plaintiff
Responding Party: Defendant Alisa Gabay
Notice: Sufficient
 
Ruling: MOTIONS TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES IS
GRANTED; COURT WILL HEAR FROM PARTIES RE REQUEST FOR SANCTIONS
 
Background
On September 17, 2024,
the court heard Plaintiff’s motion to compel further responses from Defendant
Alisa Gabay as to Plaintiff’s RFA, Set Two, and Form Interrogatory, Set Two.
The court ordered supplemental briefing as to the responses still at issue.
Plaintiff filed a supplemental brief informing the Court that, despite
Defendant serving further responses to the two sets of discovery responses, a
majority of the responses remain non-responsive and requested the court to
compel additional further responses.
Plaintiff takes issue with Defendant’s responses to
the following RFAs:
·       
Request for Admission No. 18: Admit you
have no evidence of Defendant Ignac Ezequiel Barrios Orozco’s negligence in
causing the incident.
·       
Request for Admission No. 19: Admit that
Defendant Ignac Ezequiel Barrios Orozco was not responsible for causing the
incident
·       
Request for Admission No. 20: Admit that
Defendant Ignac Ezequiel Barrios Orozco was not at fault for causing the
incident.
·       
Request for Admission No. 21: Admit
there is no evidence of Defendant Nicole Ann Innocenti’s negligence in causing
the incident.
·       
Request for Admission no. 22: Admit
Defendant Nicole Ann Innocenti was not responsible for causing the incident.
·       
Request for Admission no. 23: Admit
Defendant Nicole Ann Innocenti was not at fault for causing the incident.
·       
Request for Admission No. 24: Admit that
you contend that Defendant Alisa Margaret Gabay caused the incident.
·       
Request For Admission No. 25: Admit that
you have no evidence that Plaintiff Narcisa Guzman Osorio caused the incident.
Defendant Gaby’s further responses to RFAs 18-25:
·       
“Responding Party admits to being
negligent in causing the subject motor vehicle accident. To the extent that the
request encompasses causation of injuries, Responding Party denies that her
negligence was the substantial cause to Plaintiff’s alleged injuries.”
Defendant Gabay’s further responses to Form
Interrogatories 17.1:
·       
“Responding Party admits to being
negligent in causing the subject motor vehicle accident. To the extent that the
request encompasses causation of injuries, Responding Party denies that her
negligence was the substantial cause to Plaintiff’s alleged injuries. Plaintiff
has had multiple previous accidents including a head-on collision which
required hospitalization as well as a recent previous automobile accident in
2019. Further, the subject impact to Plaintiff’s vehicle was not substantial as
it was the fourth and final vehicle involved. The mechanism of the subject
accident establishes that plaintiff’s injuries are likely pre-existing and
Plaintiff’s repeated failures to report to her medical providers her previous
accidents challenges the veracity of the diagnoses with which Plaintiff was
assessed, including Plaintiff’s neurological symptoms which Plaintiff appears
to have first reported one year after the subject incident.”
Discussion
RFA No. 24, which asks,
"Admit that you contend that Defendant Alisa Margaret Gabay caused the
incident," directly relates to Defendant Gabay's role in the incident. Therefore,
Gabay's response that "Responding Party admits to being negligent in
causing the subject motor vehicle accident" is responsive.
RFA Nos. 18-23 and 25,
and Form Interrogatory 17.1 do not directly relate to Defendant Alisa Gabay
herself. Therefore, her admission of negligence in causing the accident is not
responsive to these particular requests. Defendant pled comparative negligence
in her eighth affirmative defense, thus making RFAs asking about other
defendants' roles in causing the accident relevant and likely to lead to
admissible evidence. Additionally, RFAs that ask for legal conclusions or
contentions are permissible under CCP 2033.010, where a party may request any
party to the action to admit an "opinion relating to fact, or application
of law to fact." A request for admission may relate to a matter that is in
controversy between the parties.
Defendant Gabay is
required to provide code-compliant responses within 20 days from today.
The court finds that
Defendant did not act with substantial justification in responding to the RFAs
and Form Interrogatories. These requests specifically targeted the roles of
other defendants in causing the incident, yet Defendant's replies solely acknowledged
her own involvement. This situation extends beyond a mere difference in
interpretation, as suggested by the Defendant. The RFAs were explicitly
designed to elicit specific admissions about the contributions of other parties
to the incident, a point that was clearly communicated to the Defendant in the
original motion to compel further responses and during the parties' meet and
confer attempts. Furthermore, despite being informed of the issue, Defendant's
subsequent responses remained non-responsive regarding the roles of the other
defendants. That said, the Court expressed its concerns about the discovery
regarding other defendants during the IDC process.  As a result, the Court will discuss the issue
of sanctions with the parties.