 Case Number:  22STCV19485    Hearing Date:   October 1, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27 
 
MOTION FOR LEAVE TO AMEND
Hearing Date: 10/1/24¿ 
CASE NO./NAME: 22STCV19485 VANNESSA RAMOS,
AN INDIVIDUAL vs COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION
Moving Party: Plaintiff 
Responding Party: Defendant Del Monte
Foods
Notice: Sufficient¿ 
Ruling: MOTION FOR LEAVE TO AMEND IS GRANTED.
 
Background
On June 15, 2022,
Plaintiff filed the present complaint alleging causes of action for negligence
and premises liability against Costco Wholesale Corporation, Susan Doe, and
Does 1-25. Plaintiff alleges that on February 6, 2022, Plaintiff was lawfully
on Defendants' premises for the purpose of purchasing items. While attempting
to grab an item from a shelf or display within the store, Plaintiff was cut by
an unmarked and/or unsecured broken jar or similar item, causing severe injury
and pain. Plaintiff alleges that she recently discovered that Del Monte Foods was
the producer of the jars and moves the Court for leave to amend the complaint
to substitute Del Monte as one of the Doe defendants and assert additional
causes of action for strict product liability, negligent product liability,
breach of implied warranty of merchantability, and breach of implied warranty
of fitness against Del Monte.
Discussion
The parties do not
dispute that the incident occurred on February 6, 2022, and the new causes of
action all have a 2-year statute of limitations as they relate to personal
injury. Therefore, if the new causes of action against Del Monte do not relate
back to the original complaint, they would be untimely. The central dispute
between the parties is whether Plaintiff should be allowed to substitute Del
Monte as a Doe defendant in the original complaint.
When a Doe amendment is
sought after the statute of limitations has expired, the amended complaint will
be deemed filed as of the date of the original complaint if the following
conditions are met: (1) the original complaint stated a valid cause of action
against the now-identified Doe defendant; (2) Plaintiff was genuinely ignorant
of the defendant’s identity; and (3) the amended complaint is based on the same
general set of facts and refers to the same accident and injuries as set forth
in the original complaint. (Austin v. Massachusetts Bonding & Ins. Co.
(1961) 56 Cal.2d 596, 600-601.)
The parties agree that Austin
governs the issue. In its opposition, Defendant does not challenge the second
and third Austin factors. Defendant's argument centers on the first Austin
factor, arguing that the original complaint in this instant case failed to
state a valid cause of action against the now-identified Doe defendant, Del
Monte.
In Austin, the
plaintiffs filed a lawsuit against Pacific States Securities Corporation, its
officers, and Doe defendants, seeking recovery of securities and money. The
complaint alleged that the defendants, including the Doe defendants, acted as
brokers and agents for the plaintiffs and had wrongfully withheld securities
and money received on their behalf. In a later amendment, the plaintiffs sought
to substitute Massachusetts Bonding as one of the Doe defendants.
Although the character
of Massachusetts Bonding’s legal obligation differed from the original
allegations, the Court in Austin looked at the underlying facts of the
case in making its determination. The original complaint alleged that the
defendants (including Doe defendants) were acting as brokers who refused to
deliver property. The complaint alleged that, in connection with the licensing
application on behalf of Pacific, the defendants "filed a surety bond in
the sum of $5,000 for the faithful performance of their duties as licensed
brokers.”  However, there was no direct
allegation that any of the defendants executed the surety bond, nor that they
were being sued as sureties rather than principals. Thus, the original claim
against the Doe defendant in the original complaint was one based on refusal to
deliver property as a principal. The amended complaint, however, sought to hold
Massachusetts Bonding liable as a surety on the bond. Despite the change in
legal theory and the causes of action asserted, the Court found that both
pleadings were based on the same general set of facts. Specifically, the
existence of the bond for the faithful performance of Pacific’s duties as a
broker had been alleged from the outset.
The Austin court
concluded that since the underlying facts remained consistent and the original
complaint had put the defendants on notice of the relevant transaction, the
amendment to substitute Massachusetts Bonding as a Doe defendant related back
to the filing of the original complaint. The court focused on the underlying
factual framework, rather than just the legal theory and the alleged causes of
action in determining whether an amendment relates back.
Subsequent courts have
considered similar factors when determining whether an amended complaint
alleges facts sufficiently similar to those in the original complaint. The
critical inquiry is whether the defendant had adequate notice of the claim
based on the original pleading. “The policy behind statutes of limitations is
to put defendants on notice of the need to defend against a claim in time to
prepare a fair defense on the merits. This policy is satisfied when
recovery under an amended complaint is sought on the same basic set of facts as
the original pleading.” (Garrison v. Board of Directors (1995) 36
Cal.App.4th 1670, 1678.) Additionally, in applying the relation-back analysis,
courts should consider the “strong policy in this state that cases should be
decided on their merits.” (Idding v. North Bay Construction Co. (1995)
39 Cal. App. 4th 1111, 1114.)
Here, the Court
acknowledges Defendant’s argument that the First Amended Complaint introduces
new causes of action based on product liability, deviating from the original
complaint’s focus on premises liability. However, as held in Austin,
even where an amended complaint alleges new causes of action and a new theory
of recovery, relation back may still be allowed if the same general set of
facts is alleged in both the original and amended complaints.
In the original
complaint, Plaintiff alleges that she was injured by an unmarked and/or
unsecured broken jar while attempting to grab an item from a shelf. The
premises liability and negligence claims against Costco stem from the presence
of broken jars and Costco’s failure to maintain a safe environment, free from
hazards such as broken jars. Plaintiff’s product liability claims against Del
Monte also arise from the presence of the broken jars, but instead focus on Del
Monte’s failure to provide products that are free from defects, specifically
broken jars.
Although the legal
theories differ, premises liability versus product liability, the underlying
facts that form the basis for both sets of claims are the same: the broken
jars. Similarly, in Austin, the Court allowed relation back even though
the legal theory shifted from principal liability to surety liability, because
the factual foundation for both claims remained the same.
Based on the foregoing
analysis, and in light of California's liberal policy on amendments and strong
preference for deciding cases on their merits, the Court grants the present
motion.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:
 
If a party
intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party
must send an email to the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the
Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.  The body of
the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact
information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless all parties
submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear
remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.  You should
assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.
 
If the
parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off
calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  After the
Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of
the subject motion without leave.
 