 Case Number:  22STCV25901    Hearing Date:   October 1, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27 
 
MOTION TO CONTINUE 
Hearing Date: 10/1/24¿ 
CASE NO./NAME: 22STCV25901 ESTHER YEON KOOK vs. CITY OF LOS ANGELES et al.
Moving Party: Defendant SoCal Gas Company 
Responding Party: Unopposed
Notice: Sufficient
 
Ruling: MOTION TO CONTINUE IS GRANTED. 
 
On August 11, 2022,
Plaintiff filed her Complaint against the City of Los Angeles, County of Los
Angeles, Los Angeles Department of Water and Power, California Department of
Transportation, Southern California Edison Company, Southern California Gas
Company, and Casitas RE Holdings, LLC, alleging that she tripped and fell on an
unsecured manhole near 3191 Casitas Ave., Los Angeles, CA 90039. The County of
Los Angeles, California Department of Transportation, and Southern California
Edison have all been dismissed. City of Los Angeles, Southern California Gas
Company, and Casitas RE Holdings, the only parties to respond, filed their
answers in early 2024. Trial is set for February 10, 2025.
Southern California Gas
Company now moves the Court to continue the trial to June 19, 2025, to allow
more time for discovery and potential mediation. No opposition was filed. 
In light of the fact
that the parties have had less than a year to conduct discovery, Defendant's
request for a trial continuance and to reopen discovery is reasonable.
Additionally, there has only been one prior continuance, the motion was filed
well in advance of the trial date, and no parties have alleged any prejudice.
There is good cause to continue the trial, and the Court grants the present
motion and continues trial to June 19, 2025, at 8:30 a.m.  The FSC is continued to June 5, 2025, at
10:00 a.m.  Discovery/pre-trial dates are
to align with the new trial date.
The parties should
consider the June 2025 trial date to be firm.
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:
 
If a party
intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party
must send an email to the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the
Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.  The body of
the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact
information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless all parties
submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear
remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.  You should
assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.
 
If the
parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off
calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  After the
Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of
the subject motion without leave.
 
 
 