 Case Number:  24STCV13872    Hearing Date:   September 25, 2024    Dept:  73 09/25/2024
Dept. 73
Hon. Rolf Treu, Judge presiding
 
AISPURO, et al. v. BEVERLY COMMUNITY
HOSPITAL ASSOCIATION (24STCV13872)
 
Counsel for
Plaintiffs/opposing party:  Stephen
Garcia (Garcia & Artigliere) 
Counsel for
Defendant/moving party: Rima Badawiya (Lewis Brisbois Bisgaard & Smith, LLP)
 
Demurrer AND MOTION TO STRIKE PORTIONS OF
THE complaint (filed on 08/14/2024)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Defendant’s
demurrer to the Complaint’s first cause of action is OVERRULED. Defendant’s motion
to strike portions of the Complaint is DENIED.
 
BACKGROUND
 
On June 4,
2024, Plaintiffs Gloria
Aispuro, by and through her successor in interest, Jesse Aispuro; Jesse
Aispuro; Peter Aispuro; Martha Aispuro and Priscilla Ortiz filed this action against Defendant Beverly Community
Hospital Association (“Hospital”) and Does 1-250.
 
The Complaint
alleges the following causes of action:
1.     
Elder Abuse
2.     
Negligence
3.     
Wrongful
Death
 
The Complaint
alleges that Defendant Hospital neglected decedent Gloria Aispuro while she was
a patient in Defendant’s care and she suffered from an avoidable aspiration event when provided solid
foods in direct contravention of physician’s orders. 
 
On August 14, 2024, Defendant Hospital filed
the instant Demurrer and Motion to Strike portions of the Complaint, arguing:
·      
Plaintiff’s First Cause of Action for
Statutory Elder Abuse/Neglect of a Dependent Adult (Wel. & Instit. Code
§15600 et seq.) fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action
against Defendant.
·      
Plaintiff’s First Cause of Action for
Statutory Elder Abuse/Neglect of a Dependent Adult (Wel. & Instit. Code
§15600 et seq.) is uncertain as alleged Defendant.
·      
Plaintiff Gloria Aispuro, by and through
her Successor in Interest, Jesse Aispuro’s cause of action for Elder Abuse as
written in the Complaint filed on June 4, 2024 conflicts with the terms of the
Stipulation entered into between Plaintiffs’ counsel and the Bankruptcy Trustee
on April 17, 2024, with regard to the grant of relief from the bankruptcy stay.
·      
Defendant moves to strike portions Plaintiffs’ prayer for damages
regarding, “3.… punitive and exemplary damages (as to First Cause of Action
only); 4. … treble damages pursuant to Civil Code §3345 (as to First Cause of
Action only).” Defendant asserts it conflicts with the terms of the
Stipulation.
Plaintiffs filed an opposition, arguing:
·      
Restrictions on the enforcement of any
final judgment by the Bankruptcy Court has no bearing on the sufficiency of
pleading causes of action no does it render the pleadings uncertain in the
matter at hand
·      
The entirety of this Demurrer is based
upon the following provisions set forth in a Stipulation filed in a Bankruptcy
Court proceeding which acted to lift the stay for Plaintiff to pursue this
civil matter.
·      
The Stipulation permits Plaintiff to
proceed in the civil forum to final judgment, and appeal if necessary, in
accordance with the applicable civil laws with no restrictions placed thereon
and then, if there is a judgment, any collection thereof is restricted to any
available insurance of the Defendant. No remedies available thereunder were modified
whatsoever. All that was modified and restricted by the Bankruptcy Court is the
means of collecting said remedies, if and when they are awarded.
·      
Regardless of orders pertaining to
post-judgment matters, facts were set forth in the Complaint sufficient to
support a cause for an elder abuse action.
·      
Defendant completely failed to address
its claims of uncertainty in its Demurrer. The Order in the Bankruptcy Court
does not impair Defendant’s ability to understand the allegations against it
and does not prevent Defendant from responding to same.
·      
Defendant’s motion to strike should be
denied. Plaintiffs’ claims for enhanced remedies and treble damages in this
matter does not exceed the terms of a Stipulation filed with a Bankruptcy Court
in a separate proceeding.
Defendants filed a reply, maintaining
that:
·      
Plaintiffs’ must abide by the terms of
the Stipulation and the Complaint as it stands now violates the agreed upon
terms of the Stipulation. Here, the remedies regularly available for an elder abuse/neglect cause
of action have been voluntarily limited via stipulation between Plaintiffs and
the Bankruptcy Trustee in exchange for relief from the automatic bankruptcy
stay.
·      
The Stipulation on its face does not
contemplate punitive damages, exemplary damages, treble damages per Civil Code
section 3345, and attorney’s fees for Elder Abuse/Neglect, as such damages are
usually not covered in a standard insurance policy. 
ANALYSIS
 
A.      Legal
Standard for Demurrer
 
A demurrer tests the sufficiency of whether the
complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When
considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in context—any
defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial
notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968,
994.) “A demurrer tests the pleading alone, and not the evidence or facts
alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc. v. Accountants, Inc. Servs. (2007) 153
Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) As such, the court assumes the truth of the
complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual allegations. (Id.) The
only issue a demurrer is concerned with is whether the complaint, as it stands,
states a cause of action. (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at p.
747.) 
 
B.      Meet and
Confer Requirement 
 
“Before filing a demurrer pursuant to
this chapter, the demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by
telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for
the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would
resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.41, subd. (a).)  
 
Here, counsel for Defendant submitted a declaration stating the
parties sent multiple meet and confer letters regarding the issues discussed
instant motions. (Aziz Decl., ¶¶ 4-6.) While the parties did not meet and confer in person or by
telephone, the failure to meet and confer is not grounds to overrule or sustain
a demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 430.41, subd. (a)(4); 435.5 subd. (a)(4).) Thus, the Court
proceeds on the merits.
 
C.      Request for
Judicial Notice
 
Defendant
requests the Court take judicial notice of the following:
1.      The Court
Docket in case, Beverly Community Hospital Association, dba Beverly Hospital
(Debtor), Case #: 2:23-bk-12359-SK
2.      Stipulation
Resolving Motion for Relief from Automatic Stay, signed by counsel for
Plaintiffs and attorneys for Bankruptcy Trustee, Howard M. Ehrenberg, Chapter
11 Trustee, on April 17, 2024
 
Plaintiffs
request the Court take judicial notice of the following:
1.      The signed
Order Granting Motion for Relief from the Automatic Stay issued in the United
States Bankruptcy Court, Central District Court, Chapter 11 Bankruptcy (USBC,
Case #: 2:23-bk-12359-SK) dated April 17, 2024
 
The court may take judicial notice of
“official acts of the legislative, executive, and judicial departments of the
United States and of any state of the United States,” “[r]ecords of (1) any
court of this state or (2) any court of record of the United States or of any
state of the United States,” and “[f]acts and propositions that are not
reasonably subject to dispute and are capable of immediate and accurate
determination by resort to sources of reasonably indisputable accuracy.” (Evid.
Code § 452, subds. (c), (d), and (h).)
 
The Court grants Defendant’s and
Plaintiffs’ requests for judicial notice. 
 
D.     First Cause
of Action: Elder Abuse/Neglect of Dependent Adult
 
Defendant
argues Plaintiffs’ First Cause of Action for Statutory Elder Abuse/Neglect of a
Dependent Adult (Wel. & Instit. Code §15600 et seq.) fails to state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action against Defendant and is uncertain, as
per the terms of the Stipulation entered into between Plaintiffs’ counsel and
the Bankruptcy Trustee on April 17, 2024.
 
To state a cause of action for elder abuse and neglect,
Plaintiff must allege “[p]hysical abuse, neglect, abandonment, isolation,
abduction, or other treatment with resulting physical harm or pain or mental
suffering.”  (Welf. & Inst. Code §
15610.07(a)(1).)  Acts which are
prohibited under the Elder Abuse Act provisions of the Welfare and Institute
Code “do not include acts of simple professional negligence[] but refer to
forms of abuse or neglect performed with some state of culpability greater than
mere negligence.”  (Covenant Care,
Inc. v. Superior Court (2004) 32 Cal.4th 771, 781.)  To constitute abuse and neglect within the
meaning of the Elder Abuse Act, thereby triggering the enhanced remedies
available under the Act, a plaintiff “must demonstrate by clear and convincing
evidence that defendant is guilty of something more than negligence; he or she
must show reckless, oppressive, fraudulent, or malicious conduct,” with
recklessness referring “to a subjective state of culpability greater than
simple negligence, which has been described as a “deliberate disregard” of the
“high degree of probability” that an injury will occur,” and “[o]ppression,
fraud and malice [involving] intentional or conscious wrongdoing of a
despicable or injurious nature.”  (Sababin
v. Superior Court (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 81, 88-89, cleaned up.)
 
On April 19, 2023, Defendant filed for
Chapter 11 Bankruptcy (USBC, Case #: 2:23-bk-12359-SK; Def’s RJN, Exh. 1).
Defendant has been in Chapter 11 Bankruptcy protection as of April 19, 2023 and
the case is still being actively litigated. (Aziz Decl., ¶ 2.) On August 4, 2023, Plaintiffs filed the 2023 Complaint in superior court
against Defendant alleging Elder Abuse, Negligence, and Wrongful Death, which
was dismissed without prejudice as it violated the bankruptcy stay. Thereafter,
Plaintiffs entered into a stipulation with the Bankruptcy Trustee on April 17,
2024, wherein the Trustee granted relief from the bankruptcy stay contingent on
Plaintiffs agreeing to, “prosecute the action pursuant for the purpose of
collecting upon available insurance if any in accordance with applicable
non-bankruptcy law.” (Def’s RJN, Exh. 2.) Plaintiff subsequently filed the
operative Complaint on June
4, 2024.
Defendant
argues that Plaintiffs’ cause
of action for Elder Abuse/ Neglect in the operative Complaint violates the
Stipulation. In support, Defendant
relies on the terms of the Stipulation. The Stipulation states, in relevant
part: 
“Movants are granted relief from stay to re-file their complaint as a new
action, and to prosecute the action pursuant for the purpose of collecting upon
available insurance if any in accordance with applicable non-bankruptcy law. 
Movant may proceed in the non-bankruptcy forum with respect to the matter
described in the Motion to final judgment (including any appeals) in accordance
with applicable non-bankruptcy law. Movant is permitted to enforce its final
judgment only by collecting upon any available insurance in accordance with
applicable non-bankruptcy law.” 
(Def’s RJN, Exh. 2, page 4, §1, b and c [emphasis
added.]) 
The
Court disagrees that Plaintiffs’ first cause of action violates the Stipulation.
The terms of the Stipulation appear to only restrict how any potential judgment
obtained in the matter will be collected. The Stipulation goes on to state, in
relevant part: 
 
“5. Limitations on Enforcement of
Judgment: Movant may proceed in the nonbankruptcy forum to final judgment
(including any appeals) in accordance with applicable nonbankruptcy law. Movant
is permitted to enforce its final judgment only by (specify all that apply): 
 
a. ¿Collecting upon
any available insurance in accordance with applicable nonbankruptcy law. b. ¿Proceeding against
the Debtor as to property or earnings that are not property of this bankruptcy
estate.”
 
(Pltfs’ RJN, Exh. 1.) Therefore, based
on the terms of the Stipulation, Plaintiffs are permitted to proceed in the
civil forum to final judgment in accordance with the applicable civil laws with
no restrictions placed thereon and then, if there is a judgment, any collection
thereof is restricted to any available insurance of the Defendant. The Court
does not find Defendant’s argument that the Stipulation modified the statutory
and regularly available remedies persuasive, nor does Defendant provide any
authority in support. 
 
While Defendant also asserts in the
Notice of Motion that Plaintiffs’ first cause of action is uncertain, Defendant
fails to present any argument in support in the motion. CCP section 430.10(f)
provides that a pleading is uncertain if it is ambiguous and unintelligible.
(See Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10(f).) “A demurrer for uncertainty is strictly
construed, even where a complaint is in some respects uncertain, because
ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery procedures.” (Khoury v. Maly’s of California, Inc.
(1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.) “A demurrer for uncertainty will be sustained
only where the complaint is so bad that defendant cannot reasonably respond—i.e., he or she cannot reasonably
determine what issues must be admitted or denied, or what counts or claims are
directed against him or her.” (Weil & Brown, Civil Procedure Before Trial
(The Rutter Group) § 7:85 (emphasis in original).) “The objection of
uncertainty does not go to the failure to allege sufficient facts.” (Brea v. McGlashan (1934) 3 Cal.App.2d
454, 459.) “It goes to the doubt as to what the pleader means by the facts
alleged.” (Id.) “Such a demurrer
should not be sustained where the allegations of the complaint are sufficiently
clear to apprise the defendant of the issues which he is to meet.” (People
v. Lim (1941) 18 Cal.2d 872, 882.) Here, the Court does not find
Plaintiffs’ first cause of action is uncertain. 
 
The
Court notes that Defendant does not argue in its Motion that Plaintiffs fail to
allege the requisite elements of its Statutory Elder Abuse/Neglect of a
Dependent Adult cause of action. Therefore, the Court will not address this. Instead,
the basis of Defendant’s demurrer is that Plaintiffs’ first cause of action conflicts with the terms of the
Stipulation entered into between Plaintiffs’ counsel and the Bankruptcy
Trustee. As discussed above, the Court does not find Plaintiffs’ first cause of
action conflicts with the terms of the Stipulation. 
Accordingly, Defendant’s demurrer to
Plaintiffs’ first cause of action is OVERRULED.   
E.      Motion to
Strike
 
Any party,
within the time allowed to respond to a pleading may serve and file a notice of
motion to strike a pleading or any part thereof.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 435,
subd. (b)(1).)¿ The court¿may, upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion,
and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper
matter inserted in any pleading.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a).)¿ The
court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with California law, a court rule, or an order of the court.¿ (Code
Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (b).)¿ An immaterial or irrelevant allegation is one
that is not essential to the statement of a claim or defense; is neither
pertinent to nor supported by an otherwise sufficient claim or defense; or a
demand for judgment requesting relief not supported by the allegations of the
complaint.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., 431.10, subd. (b).)¿ The grounds for moving to
strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice.¿
(Code Civ. Proc., § 437.)¿¿¿ 
 
Defendant
moves to strike Plaintiff Gloria Aispuro, by and through her Successor in
Interest, Jesse Aispuro’s prayer for damages as to the cause of action for
Elder Abuse, specifically portions of Plaintiffs’ prayer for damages regarding,
“3.… punitive and exemplary damages (as to First Cause of Action only); 4. …
treble damages pursuant to Civil Code §3345 (as to First Cause of Action only).”
(Complaint, p. 14.)
 
Defendant
argues the prayer for damages as to the cause of action for Elder Abuse as
written in the Complaint filed on June 4, 2024 conflicts with the terms of the
Stipulation entered into between Plaintiffs’ counsel and the Bankruptcy Trustee
on April 17, 2024, with regard to the grant of relief from the bankruptcy stay.
 
However, as discussed above, the Court does not find Plaintiffs’ first cause of action conflicts with
the terms of the Stipulation. The terms of the
Stipulation appear to only restrict how any potential judgment obtained in the
matter will be collected and does not modify the statutory and regularly available remedies.
Based on the
foregoing, the motion to strike is DENIED. 
 
F.      
Conclusion

 
Defendant’s
demurrer to the Complaint’s first cause of action is OVERRULED.  Defendant’s motion to strike portions of the
Complaint is DENIED.
 