 Case Number:  23STCV19508    Hearing Date:   September 25, 2024    Dept:  73 09/25/2024
Dept. 73
Hon. Rolf Treu, Judge presiding
 
RIVAS v. LOU SOBH CERRITOS SATURN,
INC. (23STCV19508)
 
Counsel
for Plaintiff:  Brandon Brouillette (Crosner
Legal, PC)
Counsel
for Defendant:  Craig Roeb (Chapman
Glucksman)
 
(1)   PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO
SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES, SET ONE, AND REQUEST FOR MONETARY SANCTIONS (filed 03/01/2024)
(2)   PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO COMPEL RESPONSES
REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS, SET ONE, AND REQUEST FOR MONETARY
SANCTIONS (filed 03/01/2024)
(3)   PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER
RESPONSES TO PLAINTIFF’S REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS, SET ONE, AND REQUEST
FOR MONETARY SANCTIONS (filed 06/03/2024)
 
TENTATIVE
RULING 
 
The Court DENIES Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Defendant’s responses to Special
Interrogatories, Set One and Motion to Compel Defendant’s responses to Request
for Production of Documents, Set One. 
 
The Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Defendant’s further responses to Request for Production
of Documents, Set One. Plaintiff’s request for sanctions in the amount
of $3,060.00 is GRANTED, to be paid within 30 days.  
Defendant shall provide code-compliant
responses to Plaintiff’s Request for Production of Documents, Set
One within 20 days.
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
On
August 15, 2023, Plaintiff Wilber Jimenez Rivas, on behalf of the State of
California, and others similarly situated and aggrieved, filed this action
against Defendant Lou Sobh Cerritos Saturn, Inc. for violation of the Private
Attorneys General Act, Cal. Labor Code Sections 2698, et seq.
 
The
Complaint alleges the following.
Plaintiff is
a former employee of Defendant. Plaintiff worked for Defendant as a non-exempt
employee with a job title of automotive technician, automotive service
technician, piece-rate technician or a similar title from in or around May 2022
through in or around at least July 17, 2022 or later. This is a representative action filed by Plaintiff on behalf of Plaintiff,
all Aggrieved Employees and the State of California against Defendant, pursuant
to California’s Private Attorney General Act, Labor Code section 2698 et. seq.
(“PAGA”), to recover civil penalties (75% payable to the Labor and Workforce
Development Agency and 25% payable to Aggrieved Employees) for Defendant’s violations
of the California Labor Code
 
On March 1, 2024, Plaintiff filed a Motion to Compel responses to Special
Interrogatories, Set One, and request for monetary sanctions. Plaintiff argues
that at the time of filing this motion, Defendant has failed to timely serve
Code-Compliant responses. No opposition was filed. 
 
 On March 1, 2024, Plaintiff filed
a Motion to Compel responses to Request for Production of Documents, Set One,
and request for monetary sanctions. Plaintiff argues that at the time of filing
this motion, Defendant has failed to timely serve Code-Compliant responses. No
opposition was filed.
 
On June 3, 2024, Plaintiff filed a Motion to Compel further responses to
Request for Production of Documents, Set One, and request for monetary
sanctions, arguing:
·      
Defendant served the Supplemental Responses at issue, on April 15,
2024
·      
Defendant responded to the Requests with boilerplate objections
and evasive responses that fail to satisfy Code requirements. Plaintiff
therefore seeks an order striking Defendant’s objections and compelling further
responses and the production of all responsive documents, including electronically
stored information
·      
Defendant failed to serve timely Code-compliant responses, and
Plaintiff submits that this failure constitutes the waiver of any objection.
·      
As discussed in detail in Plaintiff’s Separate Statement,
Defendant’s objections are almost uniformly without merit.
o  
For example, Defendant objects that “Plaintiff lacks standing to
pursue a representative PAGA claim as he was not an aggrieved employee for
Defendant while employed with the company…[and that Defendant] does not and did
not during any relevant time that Plaintiff was employed have any aggrieved
employee as defined by the California labor code.” (Wallace Decl. ¶ 25)
However, Defendant’s contention is an affirmative defense, not a valid
discovery objection.
·      
Good cause exists for compelling further responses.
·      
Plaintiff requests monetary sanctions in the amount of $3,360
 
In opposition, Defendant argues that:
·       Plaintiff waived his right to compel a further response to the demand by
not timely moving to compel production of additional responses nor obtain an
extension to the 45-day deadline set forth in California Code of Civil
Procedure Section 2031.310. Therefore the instant motion to compel should not
have been filed
·       Nevertheless, Defendant provided code compliant responses
·       Sanctions are not warranted and should be denied
In reply, Plaintiff maintains that the Court should compel Defendant
to provide responses/further responses.
 
II.
ANALYSIS
 
A.     
Meet and Confer 
 
Before bringing a motion to compel further responses
to any discovery request, the moving party is required to make efforts to meet
and confer in good faith and must submit a declaration attesting to those
efforts. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2031.310(b)(2), 2030.300(b), 2033.290(b).) “A
meet and confer declaration in support of a motion shall state facts showing a
reasonable and good faith attempt at an informal resolution of each issue
presented by the motion.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2016.040.)
 
Here, counsel for Defendant submitted a declaration stating
that she sent Plaintiff’s counsel a meet and confer letter regarding the
supplemental responses. The parties also attended an Informal Discovery
Conference. (Wallace Decl. ¶¶ 26-31.) The Court finds the moving party has satisfied the
preliminary meet and confer requirement.
 
A.     
Plaintiff’s Motion to
Compel Defendant’s responses to Special Interrogatories, Set One and Motion to
Compel Defendant’s responses to Request for Production of Documents, Set One
 
Plaintiff is
seeking responses to Special Interrogatories, Set One and
Request for Production of Documents, Set One. 
 
Plaintiff propounded Special
Interrogatories, Set One, and Request for Production of Documents, Set One, on
Defendant on September 14, 2023. (Wallace Decl. ¶ 3, Ex. A.) Responses to the requests
were due on October 16, 2023, and Defendant’s counsel served objections without
substantive responses on the ground, inter alia, that the discovery requests
were premature, given that “Responding Party’s motion to compel arbitration and
stay proceedings is pending (Wallace Decl. ¶ 4, Ex. C.) Defendant’s motion to compel arbitration was subsequently withdrawn.
(Wallace Decl. ¶ 5, Ex. D.) On January 4, 2024, Defendant agreed to
supplement its objections-only responses to Plaintiff’s written discovery.
(Wallace Decl. ¶ 8.) However, at the time of the filing of the instant motion
to compel, Plaintiff asserts that Defendant has not provided its supplemental
responses. (Wallace Decl. ¶ 8.)
 
First, the Court notes that after the
filing of Plaintiff’s motion to compel on March 1, 2024, Defendant subsequently
served supplemental responses to Plaintiff’s Request for Production of
Documents, Set One on April 15, 2024. Therefore,
the instant motion to compel responses is moot. When
respondents serve untimely discovery responses after parties have filed motions
to compel initial responses, courts have broad discretion as to the ruling and
may hold that the motion is moot. (Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting, Inc., v.
Klugman (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390, 409.) 
 
However, the Court also notes that although Plaintiff’s motions are styled as motions to compel initial
responses, they would in fact be motions to compel further responses because Defendant
had served responses to the initial discovery requests. Motions to compel
further responses must be accompanied by a separate statement. (Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 3.1345(a)(3).) A properly-prepared Separate Statement enables both
the parties and the Court to accurately analyze relevance and objections. The
substantial rights of the parties are affected when there is no separate statement. Here,
Plaintiff did not file separate statements.
 
Due
to these procedural deficiencies, the Court DENIES Plaintiff’s
Motion to Compel Defendant’s responses to Special
Interrogatories, Set One and Motion to Compel Defendant’s responses to Request
for Production of Documents, Set One. Plaintiff’s request for sanctions is
DENIED. 
 
 
A.     
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Defendant’s
further responses to Request for Production of Documents, Set One
 
                                                              
i.     
Legal Standard
 
A motion to compel further responses to a demand for inspection or
production of documents (“RFP”) may be brought based on: (1) incomplete
statements of compliance; (2) inadequate, evasive or incomplete claims of
inability to comply; or (3) unmerited or overly generalized objections. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310(c).) 
 
A motion to compel further production must set forth specific
facts showing good cause justifying the discovery sought by the inspection
demand. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310(b)(1).) It is not necessary for the
motion to show that the material sought will be admissible in evidence. “Good
cause” may be found to justify discovery where specific facts show that the
discovery is necessary for effective trial preparation or to prevent surprise
at trial. (See Associated Brewers Dist. Co. v. Superior Court (1967) 65
Cal.2d 583, 586-588; see also CCP §§ 2017.010, 2019.030(a)(1) (Information is
discoverable if it is itself admissible in evidence or appears reasonably
calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence and it is not
unreasonably cumulative or duplicative, or is obtainable from some other source
that is more convenient, less burdensome, or less expensive.); Lipton v.
Superior Court (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 1599, 1611-1612 (noting a party may
obtain discovery regarding any matter, not privileged, that is relevant to the
subject matter involved in the pending action, if the matter either is itself
admissible in evidence or appears reasonably calculated to lead to the
discovery of admissible evidence).) 
  
If a timely motion to compel has been filed, the¿burden is on the
responding party¿to justify any objection or failure fully to answer.¿(Coy
v. Superior Court¿(1962) 58 Cal.2d 210, 220–221 [addressing a motion to
compel further responses to interrogatories]; see also¿Fairmont Ins. Co. v.
Superior Court¿(2000) 22 Cal.4th 245, 255.) 
 
                                                            
ii.     
Timeliness
 
First, Defendant opposes this motion to compel further responses to Plaintiff’s
First Set of Request for Production of Documents on the grounds that
procedurally Plaintiff waived his right to compel a further response to the
demand by not timely moving to compel production of additional responses.
 
The notice of motion must be served within 45 days after service
of the responses in question (extended if served by mail, overnight delivery,
or fax (see Code Civ. Proc., § 1013)); otherwise, the demanding party waives
the right to compel any further response. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.300(c),
2031.310(c), 2033.290(c), 2016.050; see Sperber v. Robinson (1994) 26
Cal.App.4th 736, 745.) The 45day time limit is mandatory and jurisdictional. (Sexton
v. Superior Court (1997) 58 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1410.) However, the parties
can also agree in writing on a specific later date by which to file the motion
to compel. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.300(c), 2033.290(c).) 
 
Plaintiff propounded its First Set of Request for Production of
Documents on October 16, 2023. Defendant asserts that December 2, 2023 was the
statutory deadline for Plaintiff to compel production of further responses. 
 
However, the Court disagrees. Section 2031.310 (c) states: “Unless
notice of this motion is given within 45 days of the service of the verified
response, or any supplemental verified responses, or on or before any
specific later date to which the demanding party and responding party have
agreed in writing, the demanding party waives any right to compel a further
response to the demand.” (emphasis added.) Therefore, Plaintiff can move to
compel within 45 days of the service of any supplemental responses. Here,
Defendant served its supplemental responses on April 15, 2024. Plaintiff timely brought this motion within 45
days of the service of the supplemental responses, on June 3, 2024. 
 
Therefore, the Court does not deny Plaintiff’s motion on this
ground. 
 
                                                          
iii.     
Discussion 
 
Plaintiff moves to compel further responses to his Request for
Production of Documents, Set One, nos. 1-28. Plaintiff asserts that Defendant’s
supplemental responses are not code compliant and that Defendant had waived objections.

 
First, it appears Defendant failed to provide verified responses
by the parties agreed upon deadline of February 18, 2024, to serve supplemental
responses and thus, waived objections. (Wallace Decl., Ex. H.) Additionally upon
review of Plaintiff’s requests and Defendant’s supplemental responses, the
Court finds that further response is warranted. 
 
Defendant’s supplemental responses fail to provide a statement of
compliance, indicating whether production is in full or in part, as required by
Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.220. Even where a responding party cannot comply with a request for
production, a “representation of inability to comply with the particular demand
for inspection shall affirm that a diligent search and a reasonable inquiry has
been made in an effort to comply with that demand.” Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.230.
The statement shall include the reason why the responding party is unable to
comply and “set forth the name and address of any natural person or
organization known or believed by that party to have possession, custody, or
control of that item or category of item.” (Ibid.)
 
Further, to the extent that Defendant claims to withhold documents
based on privilege, the responding party must produce a “privilege log that
adequately identifies each document [that party] claims is privileged and the
factual basis for the privilege claim.” (Catalina Island Yacht Club v. Sup.
Ct. (2015) 242 Cal.App.4th 1116, 1127; Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.240(c)(1) (a
claim of privilege in a discovery response “shall provide sufficient factual
information for other parties to evaluate the merits of that claim, including,
if necessary, a privilege log.”). Here, Defendant has not provided a privilege
log. 
 
In addition, Defendant’s objection based on lack of standing does
not appear to be a valid discovery objection. Defendant asserts “that Plaintiff
lacks standing to pursue a representative PAGA claim as he was not an aggrieved
employee for Defendant while employed with the company. Moreover, Responding
Party asserts that it does not and did not during any relevant time that
Plaintiff was employed have any aggrieved employee as defined by the California
labor code.” However, “the way to raise lack of standing is to plead it as an
affirmative defense, and thereafter to bring a motion for summary adjudication
or summary judgment, not to resist discovery until a plaintiff proves he or she
has standing.” (Williams v. Superior Ct. (2017) 3 Cal. 5th 531, 558–59.)
 
Based on the foregoing, the Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Defendant’s further
responses to Request for Production of Documents, Set One.
 
                                                          
iv.     
Sanctions
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure § 2031.310(h), monetary sanctions
shall be imposed where a party unsuccessfully opposes a motion to compel
further responses unless the Court finds the party acted with substantial
justification or other circumstances make the imposition of sanctions unjust.
 
Plaintiff seeks sanctions against Defendant. Plaintiff’s counsel
states she spent at least 8 hours on this Motion and the filing fee for this
motion is $60.00. (Wallace Decl. ¶ 33.) Plaintiff submits that sanctions should
be awarded to Plaintiff against Defendant and Defense Counsel of record in the
amount of $3,060.00
 
Since Plaintiff’s motion to compel further responses is granted, the
Court finds sanctions are warranted. Thus, Plaintiff’s request for sanctions in
the amount of $3,060.00 is GRANTED.  
 
III. DISPOSITION
 
The Court DENIES Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Defendant’s responses to Special
Interrogatories, Set One and Motion to Compel Defendant’s responses to Request
for Production of Documents, Set One. 
 
The Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Defendant’s further responses to Request for Production
of Documents, Set One. Plaintiff’s request for sanctions in the amount
of $3,060.00 is GRANTED, to be paid within 30 days.  
Defendant shall provide code-compliant
responses to Plaintiff’s Request for Production of Documents, Set
One within 20 days.