 Case Number:  23STCV21142    Hearing Date:   September 25, 2024    Dept:  73 09/25/24
Dept. 73
Hon. Rolf
Treu, Judge presiding 
 
CALDERON, et al. v. FCA US LLC (23STCV21142)
 
Counsel
for Plaintiffs/moving party:  Nadia
Yashar (Yashar Law, APLC)
Counsel
for Defendant/opposing party:  Gregory
Brezovec (Clark Hill LLP)
 
PLAINTIFFS’ MOTION TO DEEM REQUESTS FOR ADMISSION, SET ONE, ADMITTED
AND REQUEST FOR SANCTIONS AGAINST DEFENDANT FC US LLC (filed 06/17/2024)
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 
Plaintiffs’
Motion to Deem Request for Admissions, Set One, Admitted against Defendant FC
US LLC is DENIED.
 
The
Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s request for monetary sanctions against Defendant FC US
LLC and counsel of record, in the reduced amount of $981.65. Said monetary sanctions are to be paid to
counsel for Plaintiff within 30 days of the date of this order. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On August 31, 2023, Plaintiffs Oscar Calderon and Pabell Emilio de
Leon Altun filed the instant action against Defendant FC US LLC alleging the
following causes of action:
1.      Violation of
the Song-Beverly Act - Breach of Express Warranty
2.      Violation of the
Song-Beverly Act -Breach of Implied Warranty
3.      Violation of the
Song-Beverly Act Section 1793.2
4.      Violation of the
Song-Beverly Act Section 1793.22-Tanner Consumer Protection Act
Plaintiffs
allege this action arises out of the warranty obligations of Defendant in
connection with a vehicle purchased by Plaintiffs and for which Defendant
issued a written warranty. (Complaint, ¶ 4.)
On June 17, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a Motion to Deem Requests for
Admission Admitted against Defendant, arguing:
·      
Plaintiff moves the Court for an Order
that the truth of each matter specified in Plaintiffs’ Requests for Admission,
Set One to Defendant, served on November 9, 2023, be deemed admitted and
established for all purposes in this action. The
responses to the Request for Admissions were due on or about December 14, 2023.
The Defendant did not provide any responses and did not request an extension.
·      
Plaintiffs request sanctions against Defendant and its counsel in
the amount of $1,681.65.
 
Defendant filed an opposition, arguing:
·       Despite an inadvertent delay, verified responses to Plaintiffs’ Request
for Admissions, Set One, were properly served on July 16, 2024. Thus, Defendant
requests the Court deny Plaintiffs’ motion.
·       The oversight was due to FCA US counsel’s mistake, inadvertence, and
excusable neglect, which allows FCA US to seek relief. FCA US has substantially
complied and provided responses to the discovery including appropriate
objections. Plaintiffs have not been prejudiced by any delay, especially since
the responses have now been served in substantial compliance with Code.
·       Sanctions should not be granted given good faith efforts to address its
mistake by counsel.
 
Plaintiffs did not file a reply.
 
ANALYSIS
 
A.      Legal
Standard 
 
If a party fails to timely respond to requests for admission, the
propounding party may move for a Court order deeming the Requests for Admission
admitted. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2033.280.) An untimely responding party waives all
objections, including privilege, unless they subsequently serve responses in
substantial compliance with the Civil Discovery Act and demonstrate that their
failure is the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (a); § 2033.280, subd. (a).) The Court shall
impose monetary sanctions for failure to timely respond to requests for
admission unless the party acted with substantial justification or the
circumstances render imposition of sanctions unjust. (Code Civ. Proc., §
2033.280, subd. (c).) For untimely responses to Requests for Admission, the
Court shall deem the Requests for Admission admitted unless the responding
party serves a code compliant response prior to the hearing. (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2033.280, subd. (c).) The Court must impose a monetary sanction on the party
or attorney whose failure to serve timely Requests for Admission responses
necessitated the motion. (Ibid.) 
 
B.     
Discussion
 
Plaintiffs
served Request for Admissions, Set One on Defendant
on November 9, 2023. (Yashar Decl. ¶ 2, Exh. 1.) Defendant’s response
was due on or before December 14, 2023, however, at the time of the filing of
Plaintiffs’ instant motion, no response has been served. (Id., ¶¶ 3-4.)  Plaintiff
requests that the Court order the genuineness of any document and the truth of
any matter specified in Plaintiff’s Request for Admissions, Set One be deemed
admitted.
 
According
to Defendant’s opposition, Defendant’s counsel did not serve timely responses
to the Requests for Admission due to a mistake regarding the status of the
discovery responses. (Brezovec Decl., ¶ 4.) Defendant’s counsel states that amidst
the exponential increase in Song-Beverly matters, a substantial increase in
emails contributed to the oversight and as a result, the error in failing to
provide timely responses went unnoticed and the deadline lapsed. (Ibid.)
Courts recognize the need to grant relief where the requesting party shows
reasonable efforts to resolve the error and a reasonable basis for the error. (Mannino
v. Super (1983) 142 Cal.App.3d 776) Courts have defined “inadvertence” as
the “lack of heedfulness, or attentiveness, inattention, fault from
negligence.” (Alderman v. Jacobs (1954) 128 Cal.App.2d 273, 276; Baratti
v. Baratti (1952) 109 Cal.App.2d 917, 921). “Excusable neglect” is defined
as “neglect which might have been an act of a reasonably prudent person under
the same circumstances.” (Id.) Here, Defendant’s mistake falls within
the scope of “mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect.” Defendant served
its untimely responses on July 16, 2024. (Brezovec Decl., ¶ 3.) 
Defendant’s responses are in substantial compliance with the
Code of Civil Procedure. (Brezovec Decl., ¶ 3, Exh. A.)  The substantial
compliance doctrine is “commonly understood to mean ‘compliance with the
substantial or essential requirements of something (as a statute or contract)
that satisfies its purpose or objective even though its formal requirements are
not complied with.’” (In Re A.V. (2017) 11 Cal.App.5th 697, 709.) After
review of Defendant’s responses, the Court finds that Defendant’s responses to
Plaintiff’s Requests for Admission, Set One, are in substantial compliance with
Code of Civil Procedure § 2030.290 et seq. (Brezovec Decl., ¶ 3,
Exh. A.) 
As such, the Court DENIES Plaintiffs’ motion for an order
that the truth of the requests for admission be deemed admitted.  
C.     
Sanctions
Plaintiffs have requested that this Court impose
monetary sanctions against Defendant and its counsel. 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.030,
subdivision (a) provides, in pertinent part, that the court may impose a
monetary sanction on a party engaging in the misuse of the discovery process to
pay the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a
result of that conduct. A misuse of the discovery process includes failing to
respond or submit to an authorized method of discovery. (Code Civ. Proc., §
2023.010, subd.(d).)¿¿Sanctions are mandatory for a party making or opposing a motion,
except when the party making or opposing the motion is determined by the Court
to have been acting with substantial justification, or that other circumstances
would render the imposition of sanctions unjust. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300,
subd. (c).) Under the Civil Discovery Act, the Court is only entitled to impose
monetary sanctions in the amount of “reasonable expenses, including attorney’s
fees, incurred by anyone as a result of” the misuse of discovery. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2023.030, subd. (a).) The purpose of discovery sanctions is “not to
provide a weapon for punishment, forfeiture and the avoidance of a trial on the
merits, but to prevent abuse of the discovery process and correct the problem
presented.” (Parker v. Wolters Kluwer U.S., Inc. (2007) 149 Cal. App.
4th 285, 301.) Consequently, “[t]he trial court cannot impose sanctions for
misuse of the discovery process as a punishment.” (Doppes v. Bentley Motors,
Inc. (2009) 174 Cal. App. 4th 967, 992.)¿ 
Here, Plaintiffs request sanctions against
Defendant and Defendant’s counsel in the sum of $1,681.65. Plaintiffs assert
that this amount is comprised of counsel’s time filing this motion, anticipated
time to review the opposition, file a reply, appear at the hearing for this
motion and filing costs. Plaintiff’s counsels’ hourly rate is $350 an hour. 
The Court finds sanctions are warranted. However,
since no reply was filed, the Court reduces the total award by $700.00, which
represents two hours of Plaintiff counsel’s hourly rate that Plaintiff had
anticipated counsel would spend on reviewing the opposition and drafting a
reply. Therefore, the Court awards sanctions in the total amount of $981.65. 
 
DISPOSITION
 
Plaintiffs’
Motion to Deem Request for Admissions, Set One, Admitted against Defendant FC
US LLC is DENIED.
 
The
Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s request for monetary sanctions against Defendant FC US
LLC and counsel of record, in the reduced amount of $981.65. Said monetary sanctions are to be paid to
counsel for Plaintiff within 30 days of the date of this order. 