  Case Number:  23VECV01240    Hearing Date:   March 12, 2024    Dept:  T SOTO V PURETEK 22VECV01240
TENTATIVE RULING - PLAINTIFF’S
MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER ANSWERS TO SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES
1.      Grant. 
Defendant is ordered to provide Ana Ponce's last known address, phone
number and email address.  This is not a
class action.
3, 4, 5, 6, AND 9 Grant.
Defendant is ordered to provide last known address, phone number, job title,
and email address for Teresa Sandoval, Aurora Cruz, Jesus Hernandez, Ana Ponce,
Christian Lopez, Amador Amas, Natalie Nunez, Raymundo Flores, and Sabino (also
include last name for Sabino.)  This is
not a class action.
Monetary sanctions in the sum of
$1,260 are awarded in favor of plaintiff Adriana Soto against defendant Puretek
Corporation and its lawyers, Mohajerian APLC, jointly and severally, for
advising it to not further respond, pursuant to Section 2030.300(d) and
2023.010, discovery abuse without substantial justification, payable by
4/12/2024 to the Client Trust Account of Eghbali Firm, 5455 Wilshire Blvd.,
Suite 1210, Los Angeles, CA 90036.  The
court finds this amount to be reasonable for the type of motion and the
reasonable time involved including the filing fee.

Clerk to
give notice.
 

 
TENTATIVE RULING – PLAINTIFF’S
MOTION FOR EVIDENCE SANCTIONS
Continue.  The court needs to see the documents produced
and the deposition testimony of Jeff Pressman. 
While defendant has the right to select those persons it considered most
qualified, plaintiff has the right to seek court intervention if there is
someone else more qualified who was not produced.  The court is considering granting some or all
of the motion because of the testimony of Jeff Pressman that the former HR person
Natalie Nunez’ direct supervisor was Barry Pressman and he was not produced for
the deposition.  
Alternatively, if defendant produces
Barry Pressman to answer questions concerning issues in the deposition order,
the court would consider the matter moot.

 

 
TENTATIVE RULING – MOTION FOR
GOOD FAITH SETTLEMENT - GRANT
Defendant Partnership Staffing
Solutions, LLC’s Motion for a Determination of Good Faith Settlement is
GRANTED.
Defendant Partnership Staffing
Solutions, LLC’s request for an in camera review of the Settlement Agreement is
GRANTED.  
Defendant Partnership Staffing
Solutions, LLC’s request to strike the Opposition is DENIED.
Introduction 
Defendant Partnership Staffing
Solutions, LLC (PSS) moved for a determination of good faith on the settlement
entered with Plaintiff Adriana Soto (Plaintiff).  Co-Defendant Puretek Corporation (Puretek)
opposed the motion.  PSS filed a reply.
Procedure
Due to the confidentiality
provision in the settlement agreement, PSS requested an in camera review of the
settlement agreement, inclusive of the settlement amount.  Puretek did not object to the request.  The Court does not find any prejudice to any
party if the Court reviewed the settlement agreement in camera.  The request for in camera review is GRANTED.  
This matter was originally set to
be heard on February 20, 2024 and the parties submitted an unredacted copy of
the settlement agreement.  The matter was
continued to this hearing date so the Court could review the settlement
agreement in camera.
PSS objected to the untimely
service of the opposition and requested it stricken.  PSS argued that despite the proof of service
showing electronic service on January 30, 2024, PSS asserted that they did not
receive the opposition until February 2, 2024. 
However, the Court noted that PSS filed/served a reply timely and
addressed the merits of the opposition. 
Because PSS addressed the merits of the opposition, the Court does not
find prejudice to PSS and considered the opposition.
Discussion  
The Tech-Bilt factors are:  1) A rough approximation of plaintiffs' total
recovery and the settlor's proportionate liability; 2) The amount paid in
settlement; 3) A recognition that a settlor should pay less in settlement than
if found liable after a trial; 4) The allocation of the settlement proceeds
among plaintiffs; 5) The settlor's financial condition and insurance policy
limits, if any; and 6) Evidence of any collusion, fraud, or tortious conduct
between the settlor and the plaintiffs aimed at making the nonsettling parties
pay more than their fair share.  
(Tech-Bilt, Inc. v. Woodward-Clyde & Associates (1985) 38 Cal.3d
488, 499 (Tech-Bilt).)  
After in camera review of the
settlement agreement, the Court finds that PSS sufficiently provided the rough
approximation of Plaintiff’s recovery to be at zero and thus the settlement
amount is within the ballpark of Plaintiff’s recovery.  PSS asserted that there was no fraud or
collusion in reaching the settlement because negotiations firs started with a
third party neutral and continued between the parties where ultimately PSS and
Plaintiff came to a settlement.  It is
further noted that Plaintiff is the only plaintiff and there is no allocation
of the proceeds.  PSS asserted that they
are not claiming to be in financial distress. 
For these facts, PSS sufficiently presented that the settlement was
entered in good faith.  
Parties challenging the good
faith nature of a settlement agreement have the burden to demonstrate that it
lies so far “out of the ballpark” of the Tech-Bilt factors that it is
inconsistent with the equitable objectives of the statute.  (Tech-Bilt, supra, 38 Cal.3d at p. 499-500;
Code Civ. Proc., sec 877.6(d).)  Puretek
argued that the motion is premature because issues remain to be resolved over
alleged fraudulent evidence (i.e., a report supporting Plaintiff’s
damages).  However, as argued by PSS, the
status of discovery is irrelevant. 
Puretek provided no legal authority requiring all discovery issues to be
resolved in order to determine if a settlement is made in good faith.  In determining good faith, “practical
considerations obviously require that the evaluation be made on the basis of
information available at the time of settlement.”  (Id. at p. 499.)  The fact that it has not yet been determined
whether Plaintiff’s evidence is truthful or not is insufficient to prevent
determination of good faith.  The
argument is not persuasive.
Even if Plaintiff’s alleged lack
of evidence as to damages is considered as being fraudulent, the allegation
only goes to support PSS’s request. If Plaintiff’s evidence in support of her
damages is found to be fraudulent, as alleged by Puretek, then Plaintiff’s
approximate recovery is zero, which is PSS’s original contention.  PSS’s payment of the settlement amount would
be in good faith because PSS would be essentially over-paying Plaintiff.  In any event, it is recognized that PSS’s
settlement is an effort to buy their peace. 

Puretek then argued that PSS had
a higher portion of liability (at least, 50%) based upon evidence showing that
Plaintiff was employed by PSS and PSS had knowledge of the harasser before
Puretek had knowledge of the harasser but failed to remedy the situation.  (Al Mohajerian Decl. pars. 3-4, Exhs. B and
C.)  However, it is recognized for this
motion that a settlor should pay less in settlement than if found liable after
a trial.  Assuming PSS is 50% liable, the
amount of settlement is seen to be less than the amount PSS would have to pay
if found fully liable.  The fact that PSS
is paying less than their full liability is not sufficient to deny the motion.
The motion for determination of
good faith settlement is GRANTED.  
IT IS SO ORDERED, CLERK TO GIVE NOTICE.