 Case Number:  23VECV02400    Hearing Date:   March 12, 2024    Dept:  T 23VECV02400 MYRIAM GISELA  FLORES, et al. vs ZINA T TEHRANI [TENTATIVE] ORDER:  Defendants Zina Tehrani, Reza Tehrani-Tak,  and Tak & Associates’ Unopposed Motion for Leave to file a Cross-Complaint  is GRANTED.  Proposed Cross-Complaint  shall be filed within 10 days. The Court set an OSC re:  Dismissal of Plaintiffs Myriam Gisela Flores and Jacob Santiago Danel’s  Complaint as to the eight cause of action for breach of contract alleged solely  against Defendant Zak & Associates.   The OSC is set for _____________, 2024. Introduction Defendants Zina Tehrani, Reza  Tehrani-Tak, and Tak & Associates (collectively, Defendants) moved for  leave to file the Proposed Cross-Complaint (PXC) against two of the four  Plaintiffs – Myriam Gisela Flores and Jacob Santiago Danel (collectively, Plaintiffs).  Plaintiffs’ opposition was due on February  28, 2024 and none was filed.  Defendants  filed a reply re-asserting the arguments in the motion and stating that no  opposition was filed. Procedure As clarification to Defendants’  contentions found in the “Procedural Posture” section of the motion’s Points  and Authorities, the Court did not order the filing of an answer by Defendant  Tak & Associates at the December 18, 2023 hearing on Defendant Tak &  Associates’ demurrer.  The Court’s Order  sustained Defendant Tak & Associates’ demurrer solely as to the eighth  cause of action for breach of contract.   The other causes of action placed into issue by Defendant Tak &  Associates’ demurrer were overruled.  Plaintiffs  were granted 20 days leave to amend.  As  of this hearing, Plaintiffs have not filed a First Amended Complaint curing the  pleading defect on the breach of contract cause of action solely against  Defendant Tak & Associates.  For  Plaintiffs’ failure to cure the pleading defect within 20 days, the Court sets  an OSC re Dismissal of the eighth cause of action for breach of contract solely  against Defendant Tak & Associates.  Discussion Defendants argued that the PXC is  compulsory and they moved in good faith to file the instant motion.  If the proposed cross-complaint is compulsory  (i.e., related to the subject matter of the complaint or arises out of the  plaintiff’s claimed transaction, occurrence, or series of transactions or  occurrences), a motion for leave to file a cross-complaint can be made at “any  time during the course of the action” and must be granted so long as defendant  acted in good faith.  (Code Civ. Proc.,  sec. 426.50; Silver Organizations Ltd. v. Frank (1990) 217 Cal.App.3d 94, 98-99  (Silver Organizations).)  The PXC alleged  breach of contract, negligence, intentional infliction of emotional distress,  negligent infliction of emotional distress, and private nuisance against  Plaintiffs based upon the same lease agreement and tenancy alleged in the  Complaint by Plaintiffs.  Because the  claims are based upon the same tenancy, Defendants sufficiently showed that the  claims are related to the subject matter of the Complaint.  Because the subject matters are related, the  PXC is a compulsory cross-complaint.    Defendants explained that the PXC  was not filed with Tak & Associates January 11, 2024 Answer because the  Court rejected the filing due to an improper caption page.  There is no showing of bad faith. Defendants have shown  sufficiently good cause for the mandatory filing of the PXC.  The motion for leave to file the PXC is  GRANTED.        [TENTATIVE] ORDER:  Defendant Reza Tehrani-Tak’s Motion to Compel  Responses to Form Interrogatories Set One is MOOT.  Defendant Reza Tehrani-Tak’s Request for  Monetary Sanctions is GRANTED in the amount of $300 and against Dorenfeld Law,  Inc. only. Defendant Reza Tehrani-Tak’s  Motion to Compel Responses to Special Interrogatories Set One is MOOT.  Defendant Reza Tehrani-Tak’s Request for  Monetary Sanctions is GRANTED in the amount of $300 and against Dorenfeld Law,  Inc. only. Defendant Reza Tehrani-Tak’s  Motion to Compel Responses to Request for Production of Documents Set One is  MOOT.  Defendant Reza Tehrani-Tak’s  Request for Monetary Sanctions is GRANTED in the amount of $300 and against  Dorenfeld Law, Inc. only.  Sanctions to  be paid by 5/8/2024 to the Client Trust Account of  Charlston, Revich, Harris & Hoffman LLP,  1925 Century Park East, Suite 320, Los Angeles, CA 90067. Introduction Defendant Reza Tehrani-Tak  (Defendant) moved to compel Plaintiff Myriam Gisela Flores (plaintiff) to  initially respond to the Form Interrogatories Set One (FI), Special  Interrogatories Sets One (SI) and Request for Production of Documents Set One  (RFP).  Defendant further requested  monetary sanctions from Plaintiff in the amount of $300.00 for the FI Motion,  $700 for the SI Motion, and $400.00 for the RFP Motion.  The total amount in sanctions requested is  $1,400.00. Discussion Plaintiff’s opposition provided  that responses without objections would be served within several days of  February 27, 2024.  To the extent  Plaintiff served the responses without objections prior to this hearing date,  the three motions’ request for responses is MOOT. Remaining at issue is the amount  in monetary sanctions.  Plaintiff offered  to pay for the costs Defendant incurred in filing the three motions, which  totaled to $180.00 (i.e., $60 filing fee per motion).  However, Defendant asserted that they would  accept $1,250.00.  The Court finds that  paying only for the costs in filing the motions is unreasonable because  attorneys’ fees were incurred by Defendant.   The Court finds that a reasonable amount in attorneys’ fees is $240.00  per motion plus $60 in filing fees per motion (i.e., $300/motion).  The total amount in monetary sanctions is  $900.00.  For the fact that Plaintiff  submitted that the failure to serve timely responses was due to staffing issues  at Plaintiff Counsel’s firm, the sanctions are levied against Dorenfeld Law,  Inc. only. CLERK TO GIVE NOTICE.