 Case Number:  23VECV04618    Hearing Date:   March 12, 2024    Dept:  T 23VECV04618 VIRTUE V MCGARRY
[TENTATIVE] ORDER:  Defendant David McGarry’s Demurrer to the
First Amended Complaint is SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND as to the sixth
cause of action and otherwise OVERRULED as to the other causes of action.  Defendant David McGarry is ORDERED to file an
Answer to the First Amended Complaint within 20 days.
Introduction 
Defendant David McGarry
(Defendant) demurred to Plaintiff Virtue at the Pointe, LLC’s (Plaintiff) First
Amended Complaint (FAC).  The demurrer
placed into issue all six causes of action (COA) for business disparagement,
interference with contract, libel, breach of contract, breach of implied
covenant of good faith and fair dealing, and unjust enrichment.
Defendant’s Reply was due March
5, 2024 but none was filed.
Discussion 
Defendant argued that the first
COA for business disparagement and the third COA for libel failed to plead a
false/misleading statement specifically referring to Plaintiff’s product or
business and clearly derogating the product or business.  (FAC pars. 10 and 22.)  (Hartford Casualty Ins. Co. v. Swift
Distribution, Inc., (2014) 59 Cal.4th 277, 284.)  However, Defendant’s argument is based upon a
narrow reading of the allegations. 
Plaintiff alleged that it “renders its drug and alcohol addiction
services to the public, including individuals referred by the Department of
Veterans Affairs (“V.A.”) at its Centers.” 
(FAC par. 6.)  Plaintiff expressly
alleged the business service they provide and Plaintiff expressly alleged that
Defendant disparaged/libeled their business service by informing “V.A. Centers
that Plaintiff does not properly render its services to its clients, its
personnel are incompetent and there is a chaos and confusion existing at each
Center causing detriment to its clients.” 
(FAC pars. 10 and 22.)  These
factual allegations are sufficient to specifically plead that Defendant
derogated Plaintiff’s business product/service. 
The demurrer argument is unpersuasive.
The demurrer to the first and
third COA is OVERRULED.
As to the second COA for
interference, the fourth COA for breach of contract, and the fifth COA for
breach of the implied covenant, Defendant argued that Plaintiff failed to
allege the existence of a contract and its terms.  However, the argument is not persuasive
because Defendant’s argument is again based upon a narrow reading of the
allegations.  For the interference COA,
Plaintiff expressly alleged the existence of a contract as between Plaintiff
and the V.A.  (FAC par. 19.)  Plaintiff has complied with the pleading
requirement.  As to the breach of
contract and breach of the implied covenant COAs, Plaintiff expressly alleged
that the contract at issue was the Non-Disclosure Agreement between Plaintiff
and Defendant.  (FAC pars. 29 and
33-34.)  Despite Defendant’s argument
otherwise, Plaintiff Interference COA sufficiently alleged a contract with a
third party and the breach of contract and breach of implied covenant COAs
sufficiently alleged a contract between Plaintiff and Defendant.  Defendant’s arguments are not persuasive.
The Demurrer to the second,
fourth, and fifth COAs is OVERRULED.  
As to the sixth COA for unjust
enrichment, there is no COA for unjust enrichment.  (Melchior v. New Line Productions, Inc.
(2003) 106 Cal.App.4th 779, 793.)  The
claim is a remedy.  Plaintiff did not
present opposing argument as to this issue. 
The demurrer argument is persuasive.  

The demurrer to the sixth COA is
SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND.  
IT IS SO ORDERED, CLERK TO GIVE
NOTICE.