  Case Number:  22AHCV01015    Hearing Date:   June 11, 2024    Dept:  P [TENTATIVE]  ORDER GRANTING DEFENDANT’S MOTION TO COMPEL RESPONSE TO REQUESTS FOR PRODUCTION  I.        INTRODUCTION            This is an action for breach of construction  contract, enforcement of mechanic’s lien, and common counts. Plaintiff Bruce  Wayne Miller, doing business as Glowtex Builders, alleged it performed work for  Defendants Georgi Stefanov Kazachki and Stefan Kazachki on certain real  property. The real property is located at 325 Camino Verde in South Pasadena.  Defendant Green Earth Building, LLC, was later added as Doe 1.            Defendant Stefan Kazachki filed this  motion to compel on March 6, 2024. It is unopposed.           Before the Court is Kazachki’s motion  for an order compelling response to Requests for Production of Documents, Set  One. Because Plaintiff Bruce Wayne Miller failed to respond, the motion is granted.   II.      LEGAL  STANDARD “Any  party may obtain discovery by inspecting, copying, testing, or sampling  documents, tangible things, land or other property, and electronically stored  information in the possession, custody, or control of any other party to the  action.” (CCP § 2031.010.) “If a  deponent fails to answer any question or to produce any document,  electronically stored information, or tangible thing under the deponent’s  control that is specified in the deposition notice or a deposition subpoena,  the party seeking discovery may move the court for an order compelling that  answer or production.” (CCP §  2025.480(a).) “The court may impose a monetary sanction ordering  that one engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or any attorney  advising that conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses, including  attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct.” (CCP §  2023.030(a).) Misuse of the discovery process includes: “(d) failing to respond  or to submit to an authorized method of discovery.” (CCP § 2023.010(d).)  Reasonable expenses under CCP section 2023.030(a) include the time spent in  researching and preparing the motion, as well as court time and travel time  spent in connection with the motion. (Ghanooni  v. Super Shuttle (1993) 20  Cal.App.4th 256, 262.) “The court shall impose a monetary sanction under  Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or  attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel an answer or  production, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with  substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of  the sanction unjust. (CCP § 2025.480(j).) III.     ANALYSIS           Kazachki served Miller with Requests for Production of  Documents, Set One on June 26, 2023 via email. Responses were due July 26, 2023.  Defendant’s counsel, David P. King, reminded Plaintiff of the deadline on  November 17, 2023 (King Decl. ¶ 3). King also declares that he reminded  Plaintiff of his discovery responsibilities several times prior. (King Decl. ¶  3).  As of the date of the filing of this  motion, no responsive documents have been received. (King Decl. ¶ 3.)            Defendant’s  counsel, Katharine A. Miller, submitted an additional declaration in support of  the motion on June 3, 2024, detailing her further attempts at meet and confer.           The motion to compel responses to Requests for Production,  Set One is granted.            B. Sanctions Defendant  requests $3,600.00 in sanctions against Miller for necessitating this motion.  This request is supported by the declaration of Defendant’s attorney, who  declares that his hourly rate is $450, and he spent 4 hours on this motion,  expects to spend 2 hours reviewing and answering opposition and 2 hours on the  hearing. (King Decl. ¶ 4.) The  Court finds the hourly rate reasonable. However, the Court awards only 1 hour for  the hearing. The Court also declines to award time not spent, as this motion is  unopposed. The Court assesses $2,250.00 in sanctions.  IV.     CONCLUSION  AND ORDER           Defendant’s motion for an order compelling response to  Requests for Production of Documents, Set One is granted.            Plaintiff Bruce Wayne Miller is ordered to pay monetary  sanctions of $2,250 to Kazachki within 30 days’ notice of this order.            Counsel for Defendant Stefan Kazachki to give notice.              Dated:  June 10, 2024                                                                                                                                                                                                       _______________________________                                                                                    JARED D. MOSES                                                                      JUDGE  OF THE SUPERIOR COURT[TENTATIVE]
ORDER SUSTAINING DEMURRER TO THE FIRST, SECOND AND THIRD CAUSES OF ACTION WITH
LEAVE TO AMEND; TO THE FOURTH CAUSE OF ACTION WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMENDI.        INTRODUCTIONThis is an action for breach of construction
contract, enforcement of mechanic’s lien, and common counts. Plaintiff Bruce
Wayne Miller, doing business as Glowtex Builders, alleged he performed work for
Defendants Georgi Stefanov Kazachki (“Georgi”) and Stefan Kazachki (“Stefan”)[1]
on property located at 325 Camino Verde in South Pasadena. Defendant Green
Earth Building, LLC, (“Green Earth”) was later added as Doe 1.           Defendants filed this demurrer on December 4, 2023. It is
unopposed.Before the Court are Defendants’
challenges to the complaint. They allege that all causes of action fail to
state sufficient facts. II.      DEMURRERA. Legal StandardCode
Civ. Proc. Section 430.10(e) provides for a demurrer on the basis that a
complaint fails to state a cause of action. (CCP § 430.10(e).) A demurrer tests
the legal sufficiency of a complaint. (Donabedian
v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)  A demurrer is treated as “admitting all
material facts properly pleaded,” but not the truth of “contentions, deductions
or conclusions of law.” (Aubry v. Tri-Defendants Hospital Dist. (1992) 2
Cal.4th 962, 966-967.) The general rule on demurrer is that the pleadings are
“deemed to be true, however improbable they may be.” (Del E. Webb Corp. v.
Structural Materials Co. (1981) 123 Cal.App.4th 593, 604.) Questions
of plaintiff’s ability to prove unlikely allegations are of no concern. (Committee
on Children’s Television, Inc. v. General Foods Corp. (1983) 35 Cal.3d 197,
213-214.)Allegations
need not be accepted as true if they are contradicted by judicially noticeable
facts. (Cansino v. Bank of America (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 1462,
1474.) “We
treat the demurrer as admitting all the properly pleaded material facts and
consider matters which may be judicially noticed, but we do not treat as
admitted contentions, deductions, or conclusions of fact or law. (Align
Technology, Inc. v. Tran (2009) 179 Cal.App.4th 949, 958 [102 Cal.Rptr.3d
343].) Further, ‘ “ ‘we give the complaint a reasonable interpretation, reading
it as a whole and its parts in their context.’ ”’ (Ibid.) Because a
demurrer tests only the legal sufficiency of the pleading, we accept as true
even the most improbable alleged facts, and we do not concern ourselves with
the plaintiff's ability to prove its factual allegations. (Ibid.)
‘“Facts appearing in exhibits attached to the first amended complaint also are
accepted as true and are given precedence, to the extent they contradict the
allegations.”’ (Paul v. Patton (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 1088, 1091.)
Although a demurrer does not ordinarily reach affirmative defenses, it ‘“will
lie where the complaint ‘has included allegations that clearly disclose some
defense or bar to recovery.’ ”’ (Casterson v. Superior Court (2002) 101
Cal.App.4th 177, 183, Nolte v. Cedars-Sinai Medical Center (2015) 236
Cal.App.4th 1401, 1406. )          B. Meet and Confer Requirement Met          The Declaration of Katherine A. Miller is offered in
support of Defendants’ compliance with the meet and confer requirement. Miller
declares that she sent an email to Plaintiff’s counsel on November 17, 2023,
but did not receive a response. (Miller Decl. ¶ 2.)Consequently,
the meet and confer requirement has been met.           C. Analysis          1. Breach of ContractThe Court must confess
some confusion about the demurrer on this cause of action. In their demurrer, defendants
state: “The first cause of action for “Breach of Contract” fails to state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action against Georgi Kazachki, Stefan
Kazachki, and Green Earth Building, LLC.” 
However, the FAC specifically states: “FIRST CAUSE OF ACTION (Breach of
Contract Against Stefan Kazachki)” (emphasis added).  Plaintiff does not appear to allege a cause
of action for breach of contract against Georgi or Green Earth.  However, Plaintiff later inserts language in
this cause of action that could arguably be construed as alleging breach of
contract against the other parties.“The standard elements of
a claim for breach of contract are: ‘(1) the contract, (2) plaintiff’s
performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3) defendant’s breach, and (4)
damage to plaintiff therefrom.’” (Wall Street Network, Ltd. v. New York
Times Co. (2008) 164 Cal.App.4th 1171, 1178.) Here, the First
Amended Complaint only alleges a contract with Stefan. (FAC ¶ 4.)  Plaintiff has not alleged that a contract existed
between Glowtex and Georgi or Glowtex and Green Earth. Therefore, these
defendants can’t be in breach of a contract they are not a party to.  The demurrer is sustained as to these two
defendants with leave to amend. As to Stefan, Defendants
allege that the contract is incomplete and thus the cause of action fails
against him as well. As noted in the Court’s ruling on the previous demurrer, pleadings are to be broadly construed on a demurrer.
Exhibit A is signed and dated by both Stefan Kazachki and Bruce Miller. The FAC
states that Glowtex fully performed under the contract. (FAC ¶ 14.) Then, the
complaint alleges breach due to failure to pay and resulting damages. (FAC ¶ 15-16.)
 These allegations are enough to plead a
breach of contract cause of action as to Stefan. Defendants further argues that the FAC
recites the elements of breach without stating the facts of the alleged breach.  However, on page 4 of the FAC, Plaintiff
specifically alleges that Stefan failed to pay invoices upon receipt of invoices and failed to pay
the balance due under the Contract. The Court overrules the demurrer on this
cause of action as to Stefan.          2. Enforcement of a Mechanic’s Lien“A
mechanic’s lien only exists by virtue of compliance with the statute that
creates it.” (Morris v. Wilson (1893) 97 Cal. 644, 646.) Civil Code
section 8416 provides the requirements for enforcement of a mechanic’s lien.
(CC § 8416.) Before recording a lien claim, a claimant shall give preliminary
notice to (a) the owner or reputed owner, (b) the direct contractor or reputed
direct contractor and (c) the construction lender or reputed construction
lender. (CC § 8200(a).) In addition, the notice shall comply with Civil Code
Section 8100 et seq. (CC § 8200(b), CC § 8410.)Defendants
argue that “The second cause of action for ‘Enforcement of Mechanic’s Lien’
fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action against Georgi Kazachki,
Stefan Kazachki, and Green Earth Building.” However, as to the second cause of
action, the FAC states: “Enforcement of Mechanics' Lien Against Georgi Stefanov
Kazachki and Stefan Kazachki.” Nonetheless, the complaint does not allege
compliance as to Stefan or Green Earth. Exhibit B to the FAC shows that Georgi
was allegedly served with notice of the lien.  Green Earth and Stefan were not served notice.
Therefore, the demurrer is overruled as to Georgi and sustained as to Stefan
and Green Earth for failure to comply with Civil Code Section 8200, with leave
to amend.          3. Common Counts“A cause of action for
money had and received is stated if it is alleged [that] the defendant is
indebted to the plaintiff in a certain sum for money had and received by the
defendant for the use of the plaintiff. . . .  The claim is
viable wherever one person has received money which belongs to another, and
which in equity and good conscience should be paid over to the latter.”  (Farmers
Insurance Exchange v. Zerin (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 445, 460.) The
complaint alleges that defendants became indebted to plaintiffs in the amount
of $620,751.88. This number includes the reasonable value for work, labor,
services, and materials rendered, yet unpaid, plus prejudgment interest
according to proof at the rate of ten percent per year. (FAC ¶ 28-29.)Defendants
cite Orloff v. Metropolitan Trust Co. for the proposition that an action
for common counts fails if the cause of action upon which common counts is
based fails. (Orloff v. Metropolitan Trust Co. (1941) 17 Cal.2d 484,
489.) Orloff states that if a plaintiff is not entitled to recovery
under one count, it is “proper to sustain a demurrer to a common count set
forth in the complaint.” (Id.) As the earlier causes of action for breach
of contract and enforcement of a mechanic’s lien failed to state a cause of
action against Green Earth, the
Court sustains the demurrer to the third cause of action as to that party with
leave to amend.  However, the Court
overruled the demurrer on the breach of contract claim as to Stefan and on the
mechanic’s lien claim as to Georgi. Therefore, the demurrer on the third cause
of action as to those two parties is overruled on the same basis.          4. Unjust Enrichment          Here, the First Amended Complaint was filed due to
Defendants’ demurrer to the complaint. In the order sustaining the previous
demurrer, the Court granted leave to amend with respect to the original three
cause of action only. The FAC added the fourth cause of action without leave of
the Court.          As this purported cause of action was added without leave
of Court and the FAC was filed due to the ruling on the previous demurrer, the
Court sustains the demurrer to this cause of action without leave to amend. (Harris
v. Wachovia Mortg., FSB (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 1018, 1023 [demurrer to
cause of action added without leave to amend properly sustained].) Of perhaps
greater significance, as Defendants point out, unjust enrichment is not a cause
of action. McBride v. Boughton (2004) 23 Cal. App. 4th 379.III.     CONCLUSION
AND ORDER As explained above, Defendants’ demurrer is sustained
with leave to amend as to the first, second and third causes of action. The
demurrer is sustained without leave to amend as to the fourth cause of action.Plaintiff
Bruce Wayne is given thirty (30) days from notice of this order to amend and
file a Second Amended Complaint.           Counsel for Defendants to give notice of this order.         Dated:  June 10, 2024                                                                                                                                                                  _______________________________                                                                                  JARED D. MOSES                                                                     JUDGE
OF THE SUPERIOR COURT











































































