 Case Number:  23STCV13001    Hearing Date:   May 21, 2024    Dept:  45 Superior Court of California
County
 of Los Angeles
 



 
JEFF STEVEN
  EUSTICE;
 
                             Plaintiff,
 
                              vs.
 
AMERICAN HONDA
  MOTOR CO., INC.;
 
                              Defendant.
 


Case No.:  23STCV13001
DEPARTMENT
  45
 
 
 
[TENTATIVE] RULING
 
 
 
Action
  Filed:  06/07/23
Trial
  Date:  04/28/25
 
 



 
Hearing date:              May 21, 2024
Moving Parties:           Plaintiff
Jeff Steven Eustice
Responding Parties:    None
 
Motion to Compel Deposition of Defendant’s Person Most
Qualified
 
The court has
considered the moving papers. No opposition has been received.
The court GRANTS Plaintiff Jeff Steven Eustice’s motion to compel deposition
of Defendant’s Person Most Qualified. The deposition of Defendant’s Person Most
Qualified shall take place on _________________ at _________________ a.m./p.m. remotely
via Zoom conference.
 
Background
            This
is a “lemon law” case. On June 7, 2023, plaintiff Jeff Steven Eustice
(“Plaintiff”) initiated this action against defendant American Honda Motor Co.
Inc. (“Defendant”), alleged the following causes of action: (1) Violation of
Subdivision (d) of Civil Code § 1793.2; (2) Violation of Subdivision (b) of
Civil Code § 1793.2; (3) Violation of Subdivision (a)(3) of Civil Code §
1793.2; (4) Breach of Express Written Warranty; and (5) Breach of Implied
Warranty of Merchantability. Plaintiff alleges various defects to his 2022
Honda Accord 4D, which he purchased on March 20, 2022. (Compl. ¶¶ 5, 10-11.)
On March 8, 2023, the court denied
Defendant’s motion to compel arbitration.
On November 7, 2023, Plaintiff filed the
instant motion to compel the deposition of Defendant’s Person Most Qualified (“PMQ”).
As of May 17, 2024, no opposition has been received.  
            
Legal
Standard
Code of Civil Procedure § 2025.450(a)
states: “If, after service of a deposition notice, a party to the action or an
officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a party, or a person
designated by an organization that is a party under Section 2025.230, without
having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails to appear for
examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for inspection any document,
electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the
deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move for an order compelling
the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the production for inspection of
any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in
the deposition notice.”
The motion must be accompanied by a
declaration showing a reasonable and good faith attempt to informally resolve
each issue presented or, when the deponent fails to attend the deposition and
produce the requested documents or things, the motion must be accompanied by a
declaration stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire
about the nonappearance. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.450(b)(2).)
 
Discussion
Plaintiff moves
to compel Defendant to produce its PMQ and to produce all documents requested
in the notice.
On August 16, 2023
via email, Plaintiff noticed the deposition of Defendant’s PMK and a demand for
production for September 19, 2023. (Panhwar Decl., ¶ 11, Exh. 2.) Defendant
objected to this notice on September 8, 2023 on the grounds that the deposition
was unilaterally set and provided boilerplate objections that the requested
discovery is overbroad, vague, burdensome, irrelevant, not reasonably
particular, etc. (Id. Decl. ¶ 12, Exh. 3.)  Plaintiff subsequently contacted Defendant on September
27, 2023 to find another date to schedule the deposition. (Id. at ¶ 13,
Exh. 4.) Defendant did not respond to Plaintiff’s correspondence. (Id.
at ¶ 14.) Thereafter, Plaintiff attempted to follow up on his initial meet and
confer attempt on November 6, 2023, but as of the filing of this motion, no
response was ever provided. (Id. at ¶¶ 14-15, Exh. 5.) 
The court finds
these facts are sufficient to establish that Defendant failed to produce its PMQ,
which Plaintiff properly noticed, and that Plaintiff met and conferred
regarding the deposition. It appears that Plaintiff provided Defendant with
opportunities to set a date for deposition, and Defendant failed to respond.
As to
Plaintiff’s request for production, the court finds Plaintiff establishes facts
showing good cause for his document production request. (Code of Civil
Procedure § 2025.450(b)(1).) Plaintiff’s counsel sets forth facts in his
declaration regarding Plaintiff’s experience with the subject vehicle, which
include Plaintiff’s purchase of the vehicle and that he began experiencing
issues with the vehicle shortly thereafter, the vehicle’s express and implied
warranties, and Plaintiff presenting the vehicle to authorized repair
facilities numerous times. (Panhwar Decl., ¶¶ 3-9, Exh. 1.) Plaintiff’s counsel
attests that Defendant has been unable to conform the vehicle to the applicable
warranties and failed to abide by its statutory duties. (Id. at ¶ 10.)
Accordingly, Plaintiff satisfies the requirements of Code of Civil Procedure §
2025.450(b)(1).
With regard to
Defendant’s objections, they are improper under Code of Civil Procedure §
2025.450(a) because they do not go to the form of the notice. Defendant does
not show that Article 2 (commencing with Code of Civil Procedure § 2025.210)
includes deposition topics among its requirements and that Defendant may object
to the deposition notice on this ground. Such objections are properly raised at
the deposition itself, where Defendant may also move for a protective order
pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure § 2025.420. Because no opposition has been
filed, Defendant does not establish that the substance of Plaintiff’s
deposition topics are a proper subject for this motion. The court finds that
the deposition topics raised in the deposition notice are relevant and that
they are not a ground to deny this motion.
Similarly, with
regard to Defendant’s objections to the request for production of documents for
the deposition, Defendant fails to establish that they are proper objections at
this time. Code of Civil Procedure § 2025.220(a)(4) requires that a notice of
deposition to include “[t]he with reasonable particularity of any materials or
category of materials, including any electronically stored information, to be
produced by the deponent.” Because no opposition has been filed, Defendant
fails to show that Plaintiff does not state his requests for production with
reasonable particularity. In review of the objections submitted in response to
the notice, Defendant’s objects to the scope and the substance of Plaintiff’s
request for production. However, the proper procedure is to make such
objections at the deposition or move for a protective order under Code of Civil
Procedure § 2025.420. Consequently, Defendant fails to establish that any
objections to Plaintiff’s request for production of documents can be properly
decided in this motion.
Therefore, the court GRANTS the instant
motion. 
 
Based on the foregoing reasons, the court
therefore GRANTS Plaintiff Jeff
Steven Eustice’s motion to compel deposition of Defendant’s PMQ. The deposition
of Defendant’s PMQ shall take place on at the above date, time, and location.
 
            It
is so ordered.
 
Dated:
May 21, 2024
 
_______________________
MEL RED RECANA
Judge of the
Superior Court