 Case Number:  24STCV06065    Hearing Date:   May 21, 2024    Dept:  45 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 



 
ABODU,
  INC.,
 
                             Plaintiff,
 
                              vs.
 
COCO
  AND BLUE COLLECTIVE LLC, et al.,
 
                              Defendants.
 


Case
  No.:  24STCV06065
DEPARTMENT
  45
 
 
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER
 
 
 
Action
  Filed:  03/11/24
Trial
  Date:  None Set
 
 



 
Hearing Date:             May 21, 2024
Applicant:                   (1) Attorney Sean F.
Gallagher
                                    (2) Attorney
Joshua A. Romero
                        
Responding
Party:       None
 
(1)   Application for Pro Hac Vice Admission of Sean F.
Gallagher to Appear as Counsel for Plaintiff
 
(2)   Application for Pro Hac Vice Admission of Joshua A.
Romero to Appear as Counsel for Plaintiff
 
The court has
considered the verified applications and accompanying declarations. No
opposition was received.
The court CONTINUES
Sean F. Gallagher’s application to appear as counsel pro hac vice.
The court CONTINUES
Joshua A. Romero’s application to appear as counsel pro hac vice.
 
Discussion
            Sean
F. Gallagher and Joshua A. Romero each apply for pro hac vice admission to appear as counsel for plaintiff Abodu,
Inc. (“Plaintiff”).
CRC, Rule 9.40
provides that an attorney in good standing in another jurisdiction may apply to
appear pro hac vice in this State by
way of written application upon due notice to all interested parties, as well
as service on the State Bar in San Francisco with payment of a $50 fee,
provided that the attorney (a) is not a California resident, (b) does not work
in California, and (c) does not perform regular or substantial business,
professional or other activities in California.
An application
for pro hac vice admission must set
forth: (1) the applicant attorney’s residence and office addresses; (2) the
courts to which the applicant attorney has been admitted and dates of
admission; (3) a representation that the attorney applicant is a member in good
standing in the courts of admission and is not currently suspended or disbarred
in any court; (4) the title of each court and action in which the applicant
attorney has appeared pro hac vice in
this State in the prior two years; and (5) the name, address and phone number
of the active California State Bar member with whom the applicant is
associated. (CRC, Rule 9.40(d).)
Under CRC, Rule
9.40(b), “[a]bsent special circumstances, repeated appearances by any person
under this rule is a cause for denial of an application.”
 
a.      
Sean F.
Gallagher’s Application
            As
to Sean F. Gallagher’s pro hac vice
application, Nary Kim, counsel for Plaintiff, declares that a payment of $50
for Mr. Gallagher’s application was submitted. (Kim Decl., ¶ 3, Exh. 1.) Mr.
Gallegher attests that he is a member of good standing in the State Bar of Texas
and all the courts he has been admitted, is a Texas resident and not a resident
of California, is not regularly employed in California, and is not regularly
engaged in practice or other business in California. (Gallagher Decl., ¶¶ 1-3.)
Mr. Gallagher submits the name, address and phone number of the active
California State Bar member with whom the applicant is associated. (Id. at ¶ 7.) Mr. Gallagher attests that,
in the preceding two years, he has not submitted an application, to appear pro hac vice in California. (Id.,
¶ 6.) The court finds this is sufficient to establish that Mr. Gallagher has
not made repeated appearances under CRC, Rule 9.40(b). However, while Ms. Kim
attests that she will cause a copy of Mr. Gallagher’s verified motion to appear
pro hac vice to be served by mail on the State Bar of California at its
San Francisco office (Kim Decl., ¶ 4), no proof of service has been filed
showing this has been done. CRC,
Rule 9.40(c)(1) states that proof of service by
mail of a copy of the application and of the notice of hearing of the
application on the State Bar of California at its San Francisco office is
required. 
            Based
on the foregoing, the hearing on this application is continued to allow
Plaintiff’s counsel to file proof of service that the application and notice of
the hearing have been served by mail on the State Bar California at its San
Francisco office.
 
b.     
Joshua A. Romero’s Application
As to Joshua A.
Romero’s pro hac vice application, Nary
Kim declares that a payment of $50 for Mr. Romero’s application was submitted.
(Kim Decl., ¶ 3, Exh. 1.) Joshua Romero attests that he is a member of good
standing in the State Bar of Texas and all the courts he has been admitted, is
a Texas resident and not a resident of California, and is not regularly engaged
in practice or other business in California. (Romero Decl., ¶¶ 1-3.) Mr. Romero
submits the name, address and phone number of the active California State Bar
member with whom the applicant is associated. (Id. at ¶ 7.) Mr. Romero attests that, in the preceding two years,
he has not filed an application to appear pro hac vice in California. (Id.,
¶ 6.) The court finds this is sufficient to establish that Mr. Romero has not
made repeated appearances under CRC, Rule 9.40(b). However, while Ms. Kim
attests that she will cause a copy of Mr. Romero’s verified motion to appear pro
hac vice to be served by mail on the State Bar of California at its San
Francisco office (Kim Decl., ¶ 4), no proof of service has been filed showing this has been done. CRC, Rule
9.40(c)(1) states that proof of service by mail
of a copy of the application and of the notice of hearing of the application on
the State Bar of California at its San Francisco office is required.
Based on the
foregoing, the hearing on this application is continued to allow Plaintiff’s
counsel to file proof of service that the application and notice of the hearing
have been served by mail on the State Bar California at its San Francisco
office.
            It
is so ordered.
 
Dated:
May 21, 2024
 
_______________________
MEL RED RECANA
Judge of the
Superior Court
 