  Case Number:  23PSCV01816    Hearing Date:   December 9, 2024    Dept:  G Defendant Novolex Holdings, LLC’s Demurrer to
Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint
 
Respondent: Plaintiff Andes Harvest, Inc.
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 
Defendant Novolex Holdings, LLC’s Demurrer to
Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint is
CONTINUED to a date to be determined at the hearing in Department G (Pomona).
 
Defendant Novolex Holdings, LLC’s Counsel is also
ordered to meet and confer with Plaintiff Andes Harvest, Inc.’s Counsel regarding
the Demurrer and to file a supplemental declaration describing such meet and
confer efforts, including whether the attempts were made by telephone, video
conference, or in person, at least nine (9) court days before the next
scheduled hearing on the Demurrer.
 
BACKGROUND
 
This is a breach of contract action arising from a series
of sublease agreements. Defendants Cups (DE) LP (Cups) and Wadd-II (TN) LP
(Wadd) are alleged to be the owners of a commercial property in the City of
Industry. Since 2001, Defendant Novolex Holdings, LLC (Novolex) allegedly
rented the City of Industry property from Cups and Wadd and had been subleasing
the property to Defendant Oceanus Decor & Flooring, Inc. (Oceanus) since
2022. In May 2023, Plaintiff Andes Harvest, Inc. (Andes) agreed to sublease the
City of Industry property from Oceanus. After Andes made a payment of
$182,420.08 which included the first month’s rent and a security deposit, Andes
discovered the electrical system for the City of Industry property had been
removed. When Andes demanded return of first months’ rent and security deposit
in June 2023, Oceanus only offered to return the payment in installments,
Novolex denied liability, and Cups and Wadd both ignored Andes’s demand.
 
On June 20, 2023, Andes filed a complaint against Cups,
Wadd, Novolex, Oceanus, Zhigang Cui, CBRE, Inc. (CBRE), and Does 1-25, alleging
the following causes of action: (1) breach of contract, (2) breach of implied
covenant of good faith and fair dealing, (3) concealment, (4) conversion, (5)
restitution, and (6) breach of the duty of disclosure.
 
On January 16, 2024, Oceanus and Cui filed a
cross-complaint against Andes and Does 1-10, alleging a single cause of action
for breach of contract.
 
On October 10, 2024, Andes filed a First Amended Complaint
(FAC) against the same defendants alleging the same causes of action.
 
On November 13, 2024, Novolex filed the present demurrer. A
hearing on the present demurrer is set for December 9, 2024, along with a post-mediation
status conference/trial setting conference on December 11, 2024.
 
ANALYSIS
 
Novolex demurs to Andes’s first cause of
action (breach of contract), second cause of action (breach of implied covenant
of good faith and fair dealing), third cause of action (concealment), fourth
cause of action (conversion), and fifth cause of action (restitution). For the following reasons, the court finds parties did not
adequately meet and confer.
 
Legal Standard
 
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41,
subdivision (a), prior to filing a demurrer, “the demurring party shall meet
and confer in person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that
is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can
be reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.”
This section further provides that “the demurring party shall identify all of
the specific causes of action that it believes are subject to demurrer and
identify with legal support the basis of the deficiencies.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.41, subd. (a)(1).)
 
While Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41, subdivision
(a)(4) makes clear failing to meet and confer is not grounds to overrule a
demurrer, courts “are not required to ignore defects in the meet and confer
process” and if the court determines “no meet and confer has taken place, or
concludes further conferences between counsel would likely be productive, it
retains discretion to order counsel to meaningfully discuss the pleadings with
an eye toward reducing the number of issues or eliminating the need for a
demurrer, and to continue the hearing date to facilitate that effort.” (Dumas
v. Los Angeles County Bd. of Supervisors (2020) 45 Cal.App.5th 348, 355
& fn. 3.)
 
Discussion
 
Here,
counsel for Novolex provided a declaration stating counsel met and conferred
with Andes’s counsel on November 8, 2024. 
The declaration fails to specify, however, if the meet and confer
efforts occurred in-person, by telephone, or by videoconference as required by
the code. (Prince Decl., ¶ 3.) Thus, the court has no basis upon which to
assess whether the parties met and conferred in a code-compliant manner.  Therefore, a continuance of the hearing on
the demurrer is appropriate so that counsel for Novolex may file a supplemental,
code-compliant declaration.
 
CONCLUSION
 
Based on the foregoing, Novolex’s demurrer is CONTINUED to a date to be determined at the
hearing in Department G (Pomona).
 
Novolex’s counsel is
also ordered to meet and confer with Andes’s counsel regarding the demurrer and
to file a supplemental declaration describing such meet and confer efforts, including
whether the attempts were made by telephone, video conference, or in person,
at least nine (9) court days before the next scheduled hearing on the demurrer.