 Case Number:  23PSCV02008    Hearing Date:   December 9, 2024    Dept:  G Defendant Sunlight Financial LLC’s Motion to Compel  Arbitration and Dismiss, or Alternatively, Stay the Action   Respondent: Plaintiffs Rosalia Franco and Henry Franco   Defendant Best Solar Power Inc.’s Motion to Compel  Arbitration and Request to Stay Proceedings   Respondent: Plaintiffs Rosalia Franco and Henry Franco   TENTATIVE  RULING   Defendant Sunlight Financial LLC’s Motion to Compel  Arbitration and Stay the Action is GRANTED.   Defendant Best Solar Power Inc.’s Motion to Compel  Arbitration and Request to Stay Proceedings is  GRANTED.   BACKGROUND   This is an action for breach of contract and credit  reporting violations. In February 2021, Plaintiffs Rosalia Franco and Henry  Franco entered into a written construction agreement with Defendant Best Solar  Power Inc. (Best Solar) in which Best Solar agreed to provide construction  services for various home improvement projects on the Francos’s property in  West Covina. In June 2021, the Francos financed the projects with a series of  loans, including a $53,460 loan for solar panels and $49,968 loan for roofing  work. The Francos obtained the solar panel and roofing work loans from  Defendant Sunlight Financial LLC (Sunlight Financial), who was advertised as  one of Best Solar’s “finance partners.” At the time, the Francos allege their  loan transactions were handled by San Martin Escrow.   On December 27, 2021, the Francos allege San Martin Escrow  paid off their loans from Sunlight Financial by transmitting checks to Sunlight  Financial in the amount of $53,460 and $49,968. On January 3, 2022, the Francos  allege Sunlight Financial received, cashed, or otherwise negotiated these  checks. Subsequently, the Francos allege Sunlight Financial denied receiving  the $49,968 check and reported the nonpayment to consumer credit reporting  agencies which resulted in significant damage to Rosalia Franco’s credit score.  The Francos also allege the error prevented them from applying for a permanent  loan at the interest rate that Best Solar had represented they could obtain and  resulted in Best Solar cancelling work for the West Covina property. On October  8, Sunlight Financial sent Rosalia Franco a written notice that admitted  Sunlight Financial had made an error and promised to update their records to  reflect the payment as well as inform credit reporting agencies of the update.   On July 5, 2023, the Francos filed a complaint against Best  Solar, Sunlight Financial, and Does 1-40, alleging the following causes of  action: (1) breach of contract, (2) willful violation of the California  Consumer Credit Reporting Agencies Act (CCRAA), and (3) negligent violation of  the CCRAA.   On October 6, 2023, Sunlight Financial filed one of the  present motions to compel arbitration. From December 8, 2023, to February 13,  2024, the present action was subject to a bankruptcy stay. On April 10, 2024,  the court continued the hearing on Sunlight Financial’s motion for the parties  to submit supplemental briefing.   On September 13, 2024, Best Solar also filed one of the  present motions to compel arbitration. On October 8, 2024, the court continued  the hearing on Best Solar’s motion for the parties to submit supplemental  briefing.   A hearing on the present motions is set for December 9,  2024, along with a post-mediation status conference setting/case management  conference.   ANALYSIS  Sunlight Financial and Best Solar both move  to compel arbitration of the present action pursuant to separate arbitration provisions.  For the following reasons, the court GRANTS their motions.   Legal Standard   “A written agreement to submit to arbitration an existing  controversy or a controversy thereafter arising is valid, enforceable and  irrevocable, save upon such grounds as exist for the revocation of any  contract.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.)  The court must grant a petition to  compel arbitration unless it finds no written agreement to arbitrate exists,  the right to compel arbitration has been waived, grounds exist for revocation  of the agreement, or litigation is pending that may render the arbitration  unnecessary or create conflicting rulings on common issues.  (Code Civ. Proc.,  § 1281.2.) A petition to compel arbitration functions as a motion. (Code Civ.  Proc., § 1290.2.)   In a motion or petition to compel arbitration, “the moving  party bears the burden of producing ‘prima facie evidence of a written  agreement to arbitrate the controversy.’” (Gamboa v. Northeast Community  Clinic (2021) 72 Cal.App.5th 158, 165 (Gamboa).) Once the court  finds an arbitration agreement exists, the party opposing arbitration bears the  burden of establishing a defense to enforcement by preponderance of the  evidence. (Rosenthal v. Great Western Fin. Securities Corp. (1996) 14  Cal.4th 394, 413.) In interpreting an arbitration agreement, courts apply the  same principles used to interpret contractual provisions with the fundamental  goal of giving effect to the parties’ mutual intentions and applying  contractual language if clear and explicit. (Valencia v. Smyth (2010)  185 Cal.App.4th 153, 177.) Because public policy strongly favors arbitration,  “any doubts regarding the arbitrability of a dispute are resolved in favor of  arbitration.” (Coast Plaza Doctors Hosp. v. Blue Cross of California (2000)  83 Cal.App.4th 677, 686.)   The Federal Arbitration Act (FAA) applies to contracts that  involve interstate commerce (9 U.S.C. §§ 1, 2), but since arbitration is a  matter of contract, the FAA also applies if stated in the agreement.  (See Victrola  89, LLC v. Jaman Properties 8 LLC (2020) 46 Cal.App.5th 337, 355.) Pursuant  to the FAA, the court’s role “is limited to determining (1) whether a valid  agreement to arbitrate exists and, if it does, (2) whether the agreement  encompasses the dispute at issue.” (Philadelphia Indemnity Ins. Co. v. SMG  Holdings, Inc. (2019) 44 Cal.App.5th 834, 840, quoting U.S. ex rel.  Welch v. My Left Foot Children’s Therapy, LLC (9th Cir. 2017) 871 F.3d 791,  796.)   Sunlight Financial   In this case, Sunlight Financial argues the present action  is subject to an arbitration provision in a loan agreement between the Francos  and Sunlight Financial. According to Sunlight Financial, the Francos entered  into the loan agreement on February 8, 2021, for $50,000. (Carpenter Decl., ¶  3, Ex. A, p. 4.) Paragraph twenty-six of the loan agreement includes an  arbitration provision that states “[a]ny Claim shall be resolved, upon the  election of either Lender or Borrower, by binding arbitration administered by  the American Arbitration Association or JAMS, under the applicable arbitration  rules of the administrator in effect at the time a Claim is filed (‘Rules’).”  (Carpenter Decl., Ex. A, ¶ 26(b).) The provision defines “claim” to “mean any  dispute, claim, or controversy . . .  arising from or relating to this  Note or the relationship between Lender and Borrower . . . , and includes  claims that are brought as counterclaims, cross claims, third party claims or  otherwise, as well as disputes about the validity or enforceability of this  Note or the validity or enforceability of this Section.” (Carpenter Decl., Ex.  A, ¶ 26(a).) The provision states it is governed by the FAA. (Carpenter Decl.,  Ex. A, ¶ 26(j).) It also allows the Francos to reject the arbitration provision  by submitting a written notice within thirty days from the date the loan  agreement was made. (Carpenter Decl., Ex. A, ¶ 26(i).)   In a supplemental opposition, the Francos argue Sunlight  Financial lacks standing to enforce the arbitration provision in the loan  agreement because Sunlight Financial does not qualify as a Lender. The  arbitration provision defines “lender” as follows:   “‘Lender’  means Cross River Bank, any person servicing this Note for Cross River Bank,  any subsequent holders of this Note or any interest in this Note, any person  servicing this Note for such subsequent holder of this note, and each of their  respective parents, subsidiaries, affiliates, predecessors, successors, and  assigns, as well as the officers, directors, and employees of each of them . .  . .” (Carpenter Suppl. Decl., Ex. A, ¶ 26(a)(ii).)   Sunlight Financial’s motion argues they qualify as a  “lender” for the purposes of this arbitration provision because they were the  “administrator” of the loan. In support of this argument, Sunlight Financial’s  counsel provided a declaration stating Sunlight Financial “is an administrator  for the relevant loans” and “provided administrative services on behalf  of Cross River Bank between February 2, 2021 and June 24, 2021, and has  provided administrative services on behalf of the subsequent holder of the loan  since June 24, 2021.” (Carpenter Decl., ¶ 6.) In opposition, the Francos argue Sunlight  Financial admitted they were not servicers of the loan in their mandatory  settlement conference brief. (Brilliant Suppl. Decl., Ex. B.) But “[s]tatements  of counsel in argument (or otherwise) are not evidence and, unless in the form  of a stipulation or admission, are not binding on the client.” (Haynes v.  Hunt (1962) 208 Cal.App.2d 331, 335.) The Francos fail to explain how  arguments in a mandatory settlement conference brief have any evidentiary value.  Thus, the court does not find this argument persuasive.   Because Sunlight Financial adequately established the  existence of an applicable arbitration provision that is governed by the FAA, the  burden now shifts to the Francos to establish any defenses to the enforcement  of this provision. In opposition, the Francos argue arbitration should be  denied based on the possibility of conflicting rulings pursuant to Code of  Civil Procedure section 1281.2, subdivision (c) and because the arbitration  provision is unconscionable.   Possibility of Conflicting Rulings   Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.2,  subdivision (c), the court must deny a petition to compel arbitration if the  following applies:   “A party to  the arbitration agreement is also a party to a pending court action or special proceeding  with a third party, arising out of the same transaction or series of related  transactions and there is a possibility of conflicting rulings on a common  issue of law or fact. For purposes of this section, a pending court action or  special proceeding includes an action or proceeding initiated by the party  refusing to arbitrate after the petition to compel arbitration has been filed,  but on or before the date of the hearing on the petition. This subdivision  shall not be applicable to an agreement to arbitrate disputes as to the  professional negligence of a health care provider made pursuant to Section  1295.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2, subd. (c).)   But “[w]hen the FAA applies, it preempts any contrary state  law and is binding on state as well as federal courts.” (Mastick v. TD  Ameritrade, Inc. (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th 1258, 1263.) The FAA “does not  authorize courts to stay arbitration pending resolution of litigation, or to  refuse to enforce a valid arbitration provision to avoid duplicative  proceedings or conflicting rulings.” (Ibid.)    Here, the arbitration provision at issue explicitly states  it is governed by the FAA. (Carpenter Decl., Ex. A, ¶ 26(j).) Thus, the court  finds the exception in Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.2, subdivision (c)  is inapplicable here as it is not appropriate grounds for refusing to enforce  an arbitration provision pursuant to the FAA.   In opposition, the Francos argue the FAA does not preempt  California law as held in Cronus Investments, Inc. v. Concierge Services (2005)  35 Cal.4th 376 (Cronus) and Los Angeles Unified School Dist. v.  Safety National Casualty Corp. (2017) 13 Cal.App.5th 471 (LAUSD). Both  cases, however, are inapposite here. In Cronus, the court held the FAA  does not preempt California arbitration procedure “where the parties have  agreed that their arbitration agreement would be governed by the law of  California.” (Cronus, supra, 35 Cal.4th at p. 380.) And in LAUSD,  the court held California procedures applied when the arbitration provision had  “no provision stating the FAA’s procedural provisions govern the arbitration.”  (LAUSD, supra, 13 Cal.App.5th at p. 476.) Unlike these two cases,  the arbitration provision at issue here specifically states it is governed by  the FAA.   In  an attempt to avoid the FAA’s preemptive application, the Francos’ supplemental  briefing claims the arbitration provision is silent on whether the FAA or  California procedural law applies to motions to compel arbitration. Such  silence only exists, however, if one ignores the actual language of the  arbitration provision. Specifically, the provision states the following in  relevant part:   “Borrower and Lender  acknowledge and agree that the Arbitration Provision is made pursuant to a  transaction involving interstate commerce, and thus the Federal Arbitration Act  shall govern the interpretation and enforcement of this Arbitration  Provision. . . .” Carpenter Suppl. Decl., Ex.  A, ¶ 26(j) (emphasis added).)   By  not only applying the FAA to the interpretation of this provision but also to  the enforcement of this provision, the parties explicitly incorporated FAA  procedural law. After all, the present motion is a direct attempt to enforce  this arbitration provision. The Francos also  argue that Sunlight Financial expressly agreed to the applicability of  California arbitration procedures by filing its motion in a California court. The  Francos fail to point to any authority, however, in their initial or  supplemental briefing that supports this proposition. Accordingly, the court  finds Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.2, subdivision (c) is inapplicable.   Unconscionability   Pursuant to both federal and state law, arbitration  agreements are valid and enforceable, unless they are revocable for reasons  under state law that would render any contract revocable” including “fraud,  duress, and unconscionability.” (Tiri v. Lucky Chances, Inc. (2014) 226  Cal.App.4th 231, 239.) “‘[U]nconscionability has both a procedural and a  substantive element,’ the former focusing on ‘oppression’ or ‘surprise’ due to  unequal bargaining power, the latter on ‘overly harsh’ or ‘one-sided’ results.”  (Armendariz v. Foundation Health Psychcare Services, Inc. (2000) 24  Cal.4th 83, 114, quoting A & M Produce Co. v. FMC Corp. (1982) 135  Cal.App.3d 473, 486-487.) While both elements must be present to prevent  enforcement, courts evaluate them as a sliding scale in that “the more substantively  oppressive the contract term, the less evidence of procedural unconscionability  is required to come to the conclusion that the term is unenforceable, and vice  versa.” (Ibid.)   Procedural Unconscionability   The Francos contend the arbitration provision in this case  was an adhesion contract as they had no reasonable opportunity to negotiate  with Sunlight Financial and no reasonable market alternatives because Best  Solar was partnered with Sunlight Financial. But the plain text of the  arbitration provision contradicts their contention.    In paragraph 26(i) of the arbitration provision, the  Francos had the option to reject the arbitration provision within thirty (30) days  of the making of the loan agreement. (Carpenter Decl., Ex. A, ¶ 26(i).) Thus,  the arbitration provision was not an adhesion contract as they had the ability  to reject it without rejecting the entire loan agreement.   The Francos also contend the arbitration provision was  “hidden” in a 23-page document and inconspicuous. In Fisher v. MoneyGram  Intern., Inc. (2021) 66 Cal.App.5th 1084, the court held an arbitration  provision was procedurally unconscionable where it did not “stand out  distinctively from the surrounding text” and a small six-point font. (Id.,  at p. 1104.)    Here, the arbitration provision is standard font size. And  while the other paragraph headings are bolded, this provision’s heading is  stated in all caps in addition to being bolded. Last, while the entire  provision is not bolded and in all caps, the specific provision noting that the  Francos have waived their rights to a jury trial is bolded and in all caps.  (Carpenter Decl., Ex. A, ¶ 26(h).) Based on the formatting of the arbitration  provision at issue, the court finds it is not inconspicuous and any procedural  unconscionability is minimal at best.   Next, the Francos contend Sunlight Financial failed to  provide a Spanish translation of the loan agreement and arbitration provision.  But “a party may not avoid enforcement of an arbitration provision because the  party has limited proficiency in the English language. If a party does not  speak or understand English sufficiently to comprehend a contract in English,  it is incumbent upon the party to have it read or explained to him or her.” (Caballero  v. Premier Care Simi Valley LLC (2021) 69 Cal.App.5th 512, 518.) Here,  Rosalia Franco’s declaration does not state Rosalia Franco asked for a Spanish  translation of the loan agreement. Thus, the Francos cannot establish  procedural unconscionability on this ground.   Last, to the extent the Francos suggest Rosalia Franco did  not sign the loan agreement containing the arbitration provision, they failed  to establish this contention by a preponderance of the evidence. At the end of  the loan agreement, there is a page signifying that Rosalia Franco  electronically signed the agreement. (Carpenter Decl., Ex. A, p. 36.) In  Rosalia Franco’s declaration, Rosalia Franco does not admit to or deny signing  the document. (Franco Decl., ¶ 5.) Thus, Rosalia Franco’s uncertainty fails to  rebut the electronic evidence that Rosalia Franco signed the loan documents.   Substantive Unconscionability  In asserting the arbitration provision is substantively  unconscionable, the Francos maintain the provision requires arbitration that is  more expensive than consumer arbitration pursuant to JAMS or AAA rules. But  this argument also ignores the actual language of the arbitration provision,  which states Sunlight Financial “will temporarily advance to Borrower any  filing, administrative, and hearing fees for the arbitration of Borrower’s  claim against Lender” that are in excess of the fees that would be required for  filing a claim in federal or state court. (Carpenter Decl., Ex. A, ¶ 26(d).)   The Francos also briefly maintain this provision is  substantively unconscionable because it limits their right to conduct full  discovery. But they fail to develop this one-sentence argument with any  citations to statutes or case law. Because any procedural unconscionability is  slight and the Francos failed to establish any grounds for substantive  unconscionability, the court finds the Francos failed to establish the  arbitration provision is unconscionable.   Accordingly, because the Francos fail to establish a  defense to the enforcement of the arbitration provision at issue, the court GRANTS  Sunlight Financial’s motion.   Best Solar   In this case, Best Solar argues the present action is  subject to an arbitration provision in a home improvement contract between the  Francos and Best Solar. According to Best Solar, the Francos entered into the  contract on February 1, 2021. (Yehoshua Decl., ¶ 2.) On what appears to be the  third page of the contract, there is an arbitration provision that states, in  relevant part:   “. . . any  controversy or claim arising out of or related to this contract, or breach  thereof, shall be settled by binding arbitration in accordance with the  Construction Industry Arbitration Rules of the American Arbitration  Association.” (Yehoshua Decl., Ex. A, p. 3.)    Because the Francos’ first cause of action for breach of  contract against Best Solar is based on Best Solar’s alleged breach of the home  improvement contract (Complaint, ¶ 7, 31), the court finds Best Solar adequately  established the applicability of this arbitration provision since the Francos’  cause of action arises out of the home improvement contract. In opposition, the  Francos argue Best Solar waived the right to compel arbitration.   In determining whether waiver has occurred, courts consider  “(1) whether the party’s actions are inconsistent with the right to arbitrate;  (2) whether the litigation machinery has been substantially invoked and the  parties were well into preparation of a lawsuit’ before the party notified the  opposing party of an intent to arbitrate; (3) whether a party either requested  arbitration enforcement close to the trial date or delayed for a long period  before seeking a stay; (4) whether a defendant seeking arbitration filed a  counterclaim without asking for a stay of the proceedings; (5) whether  important intervening steps [e.g., taking advantage of judicial discovery  procedures not available in arbitration] had taken place; and (6) whether the  delay affected, misled, or prejudiced the opposing party.” (Davis v. Shiekh  Shoes, LLC (2022) 84 Cal.App.5th 956, 964 (Davis), quoting Peterson  v. Shearson/American Express, Inc. (10th Cir. 1988) 849 F.2d 464, 467-468.)  But in light of the U.S. Supreme Court’s decision in Morgan v. Sundance,  Inc. (2022) 142 S.Ct. 1708 (Morgan), courts no longer consider the  sixth factor looking at prejudice. (Davis, supra, 84 Cal.App.5th  at p. 966.)   In this case, the Francos argue Best Solar’s actions were  inconsistent with the right to arbitrate for the following reasons. First, the  Francos attack Best Solar’s motion as “weak” because it failed to provide a  procedural history of the present action. It is unclear to the court, however,  how the formatting of Best Solar’s motion has any bearing on the substantive  issue of whether Best Solar acted in a manner inconsistent with the right to  arbitrate. Second, the Francos note their Complaint references the arbitration  provision in the home improvement contract. As with their first argument, the  court finds this argument also has no relevance since the Complaint was not a  pleading filed by Best Solar. Third, the Francos claim Best Solar waived the  right to arbitrate by failing to include it as an affirmative defense in their  answer. Unlike the first two arguments, the court finds this claim has merit as  “the failure to plead arbitration as an affirmative defense is an act  inconsistent with the later assertion of a right to arbitrate.” (Guess?,  Inc. v. Superior Court (2000) 79 Cal.App.4th 553, 558.)   Fourth, the Francos point out that when Best Solar filed a  joint case management statement on November 28, 2023, with the Francos, the  parties agreed to participate in mediation and a settlement conference while  noting dates for depositions. (Brilliant Decl., Ex. C.) The court also notes  that binding private mediation was not selected by the parties. (Brilliant  Decl., Ex. C.) But the court does not find the absence of arbitration  significant as this was a joint document and selecting arbitration would have required  the Francos consent or agreement.   Fifth, the Francos note that Best Solar’s opposition to  Sunlight Financial’s motion to compel arbitration expressly opposes arbitration  of their claims. (Brilliant Decl., Ex. D.) Specifically, Best Solar argued they  opposed arbitration because they did not agree to arbitration and “reserve  their right to have the matter litigated.” (Brilliant Decl., Ex. D, p.  2:18-20.) They also argued “the Court is the most appropriate forum for a  thorough and just examination of the issues. Arbitration, which was neither agreed  to nor compelled, would unduly limit the scrutiny of these questionable claims  and compromise the pursuit of justice.” (Brilliant Decl., Ex. D, p. 3:13-16.)  The court does note that Sunlight’s motion to compel arbitration was not  brought pursuant to the present arbitration provision and was instead brought  pursuant to a provision in a separate lending agreement. Nonetheless, the court  notes Best Solar’s broad objections to the fairness and appropriateness of  arbitration do appear inconsistent with a party who later attempts to compel  arbitration.   Sixth and last, the Francos point out that in Best Solar’s  most recent case management statement filed on September 23, 2024, Best Solar  requested a jury trial, noted deadlines for completion of discovery, and stated  agreeability to mediation and settlement conference. (Brilliant Decl., Ex. E.) The  court notes, however, this is not entirely inconsistent since the case  management statement also mentioned private binding medication. Furthermore,  the court interprets Best Solar’s request for a jury trial as a means to avoid  the waiver of a jury trial should the court deny Best Solar’s instant motion. To the extent the Francos’ supplemental briefing suggests this  was an attempt to substantially invoke litigation machinery by stating an  intention to conduct discovery and engage in nonbinding judicial arbitration, the  court finds these statements do not constitute a substantial invocation  of litigation machinery, especially when there is no evidence the parties actually  engaged in trial or discovery.   When the court takes into account Best Solar’s failure to  raise arbitration as an affirmative defense in their answer and their  opposition to Sunlight Financial’s motion to compel arbitration, the court  finds Best Solar’s actions are inconsistent with the right to arbitrate. But  this is not the only factor the court considers.  As established in Davis, supra,  84 Cal.App.5th at p. 964, the second factor which looks at “whether the  litigation machinery has been substantially invoked and the parties were well  into preparation of a lawsuit before the party notified the opposing party of  an intent to arbitrate” (Ibid), the Francos do not specifically address  this factor beyond noting Best Solar is utilizing the present motion as a  litigation tactic following an unsuccessful mandatory settlement conference. The  court categorically rejects that participation in a mandatory settlement  conference constitutes a substantial invocation of litigation machinery.  It does not, especially when Best Solar has  not filed any other motions.   Third, the court considers “whether a party either  requested arbitration enforcement close to the trial date or delayed for a long  period before seeking a stay.” (Ibid.) The first issue is inapplicable  here since the court has not yet set the matter for trial.  As to the issue of delay, the Francos do not  explicitly address this issue beyond noting Best Solar waited to compel  arbitration for fourteen months. But, from the time Best Solar filed an answer  on August 17, 2023, to the filing of the present motion on September 13, 2024,  this action was stayed for nearly three and one-half months due to Sunshine  Financial’s initiation of bankruptcy proceedings. Thus, Best Solar only delayed  for ten and one-half months.   Fourth and last, the court considers “whether important  intervening steps [e.g., taking advantage of judicial discovery procedures not  available in arbitration] had taken place.” (Ibid.) The Francos do not  address this ground and do not provide any evidence of Best Solar taking such  important intervening steps. Thus, the only factors suggesting waiver has  occurred are Best Solar’s inconsistent actions and a ten-and one-half-month  delay in bringing the present motion. Because the Francos fail to establish how  Best Solar has also substantially invoked the machinery of litigation and taken  important intervening steps prior to the filing of the present motion, the  court does not find Best Solar waived its right to compel arbitration.   Finally,  to the extent the Francos also argue there is a possibility of conflicting  rules pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.2, this argument fails since  the court has also granted Sunlight Financial’s motion to compel arbitration.   Accordingly, the court GRANTS Best Solar’s motion to  compel arbitration.   CONCLUSION  Based on the foregoing,  Sunlight Financial and Best Solar’s motions to compel arbitration are GRANTED.