 Case Number:  22STCV00757    Hearing Date:   December 6, 2023    Dept:  28 


Having considered the moving papers, the Court rules
  as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On February 10, 2021, Plaintiff Lisa Graham
  (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendants Costco Wholesale
  Corporation, Costco Wholesale Membership, Inc., and Does 1-100 for premises
  liability. Plaintiff later amended the complaint to include Defendants Robert
  Gayton as Doe 1 and Russell Lee as Doe 2. 
On January 7, 2022, Defendants Costco Wholesale
  Corporation, Costco Wholesale Membership, Inc., and Russell Lee filed an answer. 
On October 12, 2023, Plaintiff’s counsel Stacey R.
  Cutting and Bish & Cutting, APC, filed a motion to be relieved as counsel
  to be heard on December 6, 2023. 
Trial is currently scheduled for February 28, 2024. 
COUNSEL’S REQUEST 
Plaintiff’s counsel Stacey R. Cutting and Bish &
  Cutting, APC, request to be relieved as counsel. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
California Rules of Court, rule 3.1362 (Motion to Be
  Relieved as Counsel) requires (1) notice of motion and motion to be directed
  to the client (made on the Notice of Motion and Motion to be Relieved as Counsel—Civil
  form (MC-051)); (2) a declaration stating in general terms and without compromising
  the confidentiality of the attorney-client relationship why a motion under
  Code of Civil Procedure section 284(2) is brought instead of filing a consent
  under Code of Civil Procedure section 284(1) (made on the Declaration in
  Support of Attorney's Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel—Civil form (MC-052)); (3)
  service of the notice of motion and motion, declaration, and proposed order
  on the client and all other parties who have appeared in the case; and (4) the
  proposed order relieving counsel (prepared on the Order Granting Attorney’s Motion
  to Be Relieved as Counsel—Civil form (MC-053)). 
The court has discretion to allow an attorney to withdraw.  The motion should be granted if there is no
  prejudice to the client and it does not disrupt the orderly process of justice.
  (Ramirez v. Sturdevant (1994) 21 Cal.App.4th 904, 915.) 
DISCUSSION 
Counsel submitted completed MC-051, MC-052 and
  MC-053 forms. Counsel has provided a declaration stating in part: “The
  attorney-client relationship has been undermined by differences between my
  firm and the Plaintiff, and I am unable to fulfill my duties as an officer of
  the Court as a representative of Plaintiff in this case in light of these
  differences and resultant deterioration of the attorney-client relationship.”
  Counsel served Plaintiff at Plaintiff’s last known address via mail,
  confirmed by e-mail. Counsel submitted proof of service on all parties who have
  appeared including Plaintiff. The Court grants the motion. 
CONCLUSION 
The Court GRANTS the motion of Plaintiff’s counsel Stacey
  R. Cutting and Bish & Cutting, APC, to be relieved as counsel.  Counsel will be relieved upon filing proof
  of service on the client of the Order Granting Attorney’s Motion to Be
  Relieved as Counsel--Civil (Judicial Council form MC-053). 
Counsel is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Counsel is ordered to file the proof of service of
  this ruling with the Court within five days.