 Case Number:  23STCV01939    Hearing Date:   December 6, 2023    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
January 30, 2023, Plaintiff Maria Del Carmen Gonzalez (“Plaintiff”) filed this
action against Defendants City of Los Angeles (“City”), County of Los Angeles (“County”),
Los Angeles Department of Water and Power (“Department”), Broadway Jewelry
Mart, LLC (“Broadway”), and Does 1-100 for (1)
creation of, failure to warn of, and/or negligent failure to correct dangerous
condition of public property and (2) premises liability and negligence. 
On
May 8, 2023, the City and the Department filed an answer and a cross-complaint
against Cross-Defendants Roes 1-10 for indemnification, apportionment of fault,
and declaratory relief. 
On
May 17, 2023, Broadway filed an answer to Plaintiff’s complaint. 
On
July 24, 2023, the County filed an answer and a cross-complaint against
Cross-Defendants Broadway and Moes 1-20 for negligence, comparative indemnity,
declaratory relief, equitable apportionment of fault, and contribution. On
October 11, 2023, the Court dismissed the County without prejudice at
Plaintiff’s request. On October 20, 2023, the Court dismissed the County’s cross-complaint
with prejudice at the County’s request. 
On
August 23, 2023, Broadway filed a motion for leave to file a cross-complaint,
to be heard on December 6, 2023.  No party
has filed an opposition. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for July 29, 2024. 
PARTY’S REQUEST 
Broadway
requests leave to file a cross-complaint against the City, the County, and Zoes
1-10 for equitable indemnity, contribution, and declaratory relief. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
          Code of Civil Procedure section 426.30 provides: 
“(a) Except as otherwise provided by statute, if a
party against whom a complaint has been filed and served fails to allege in a
cross-complaint any related cause of action which (at the time of serving his
answer to the complaint) he has against the plaintiff, such party may not thereafter
in any other action assert against the plaintiff the related cause of action
not pleaded. 
“(b) This section does not apply if either of the
following are established: 
“(1) The court in which the action is pending does not
have jurisdiction to render a personal judgment against the person who failed
to plead the related cause of action. 
“(2) The person who failed to plead the related cause
of action did not file an answer to the complaint against him.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 426.30.) 
          Code of Civil Procedure section 426.50 provides:           
“A party who fails to plead a cause of action subject
to the requirements of this article, whether through oversight, inadvertence,
mistake, neglect, or other cause, may apply to the court for leave to amend his
pleading, or to file a cross-complaint, to assert such cause at any time during
the course of the action. The court, after notice to the adverse party, shall grant,
upon such terms as may be just to the parties, leave to amend the pleading, or
to file the cross-complaint, to assert such cause if the party who failed to
plead the cause acted in good faith. This subdivision shall be liberally construed
to avoid forfeiture of causes of action.” 
(Code
Civ. Proc., § 426.50.) 
          Code of
Civil Procedure section 428.10 provides: 
          “A
party against whom a cause of action has been asserted in a complaint or
cross-complaint may file a cross-complaint setting forth either or both of the
following: 
“(a) Any
cause of action he has against any of the parties who filed the complaint or
cross-complaint against him. Nothing in this subdivision authorizes the filing
of a cross-complaint against the plaintiff in an action commenced under Title 7
(commencing with Section 1230.010) of Part 3. 
“(b) Any
cause of action he has against a person alleged to be liable thereon, whether
or not such person is already a party to the action, if the cause of action
asserted in his cross-complaint (1) arises out of the same transaction,
occurrence, or series of transactions or occurrences as the cause brought
against him or (2) asserts a claim, right, or interest in the property or
controversy which is the subject of the cause brought against him.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 428.10.) 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 428.50 provides: 
“(a) A party shall file a cross-complaint against any
of the parties who filed the complaint or cross-complaint against him or her
before or at the same time as the answer to the complaint or cross-complaint. 
“(b) Any other cross-complaint may be filed at any
time before the court has set a date for trial. 
“(c) A party shall obtain leave of court to file any cross-complaint
except one filed within the time specified in subdivision (a) or (b). Leave may
be granted in the interest of justice at any time during the course of the
action.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 428.50.) 
DISCUSSION 
In
her complaint, Plaintiff alleges that she slipped and fell on a sidewalk which Defendants
owned, controlled, or possessed.  The
sidewalk allegedly was not level, it had a hole, and it had a jagged and uneven
surface which created a risk of tripping and falling.  The complaint alleges that Defendants negligently
created and failed to correct or warn about this dangerous condition. 
Broadway
filed an answer to Plaintiff’s complaint but needed to comply with the Government
Claims Act notice requirements before filing a cross-complaint against the
City.  On July 6, 2023, the City denied Broadway’s
claim.  Broadway then had six months to
file a cross-complaint against the City.  Broadway’s cross-complaint
is based on the same alleged facts that support Plaintiff’s claims against
Defendants. 
Broadway
asserts that it is entitled to file a cross-complaint against the County
because the County filed a cross-complaint against Broadway.  Broadway argues that, if and
when the County serves its cross-complaint on Broadway, Broadway is entitled to
file a cross-complaint against the County when Broadway answers the County’s cross-complaint.  However, the Court dismissed the County from
Plaintiff’s complaint and dismissed the County’s cross-complaint after Broadway
filed its motion. 
The
Court finds that Broadway has acted in good faith.  The Court grants Broadway leave to file a
cross-complaint against the City and Zoes 1-10 in the interest of justice. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court GRANTS IN PART Defendant Broadway Jewelry Mart, LLC’s motion for leave to
file a cross-complaint.  Defendant
Broadway Jewelry Mart, LLC is granted leave to file a cross-complaint against the
City of Los Angeles and Zoes 1-10.  Defendant
Broadway Jewelry Mart, LLC and is ordered to file and serve the cross-complaint
within 30 days of the hearing on this motion. In all other respects, the Court DENIES the motion. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.