 Case Number:  22STCV26472    Hearing Date:   December 6, 2023    Dept:  28 Having
reviewed the motions to compel discovery responses, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On August
16, 2022, Plaintiff Ruben Estrada, Jr. (“Plaintiff”)
filed this action against Defendants The Lube Center, Inc., Jars Holdings, LLC,
and Does 1- 100 for negligence. 
On October
24, 2022, Defendant Jars Holdings, LLC dba The Lube Center, Inc. (“Defendant”)
filed an answer. 
On
November 2, 2022, Defendant filed a cross-complaint against Cross-Defendants Airdraulics,
Inc. and Does 1-25 for equitable indemnity, partial equitable indemnity,
implied indemnity, and declaratory relief. 
On July
7, 2023, Defendant filed motions to compel Plaintiff’s responses to special interrogatories,
set one, and form interrogatories, set one.  Defendant also requested monetary sanctions.
The motions were set for hearing on December 6, 2023.  Plaintiff did not file oppositions.     
PARTY’S REQUESTS 
          Defendant asks the Court to compel Plaintiff to provide verified code-compliant
responses, without objections, to Defendant’s special interrogatories, set one, and form, interrogatories, set one, and to award sanctions. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
A.   Interrogatories 
“If a party to whom interrogatories are directed fails
to serve a timely response, the following rules apply: 
“(a) The party to whom the interrogatories are
directed waives any right to exercise the option to produce writings under
Section 2030.230, as well as any objection to the interrogatories, including
one based on privilege or on the protection for work product under Chapter 4
(commencing with Section 2018.010). The court, on motion, may relieve that
party from this waiver on its determination that both of the following
conditions are satisfied: 
“(1) The party has subsequently served a response that
is in substantial compliance with Sections 2030.210, 2030.220, 2030.230, and 2030.240. 
“(2) The party’s failure to serve a timely response
was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect. 
“(b) The party propounding the interrogatories may
move for an order compelling response to the interrogatories. 
“(c) The court shall impose a monetary sanction under
Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or
attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to
interrogatories, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted
with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition
of the sanction unjust. If a party then fails to obey an order compelling
answers, the court may make those orders that are just, including the imposition
of an issue sanction, an evidence sanction, or a terminating sanction under
Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010). In lieu of or in addition to that
sanction, the court may impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing
with Section 2023.010).” 
(Code Civ. Proc., §
2030.290.) 
B.       Discovery sanctions 
“The court may impose a monetary sanction ordering
that one engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or any attorney
advising that conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses, including
attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct. The court may
also impose this sanction on one unsuccessfully asserting that another has
engaged in the misuse of the discovery process, or on any attorney who advised
that assertion, or on both. If a monetary sanction is authorized by any
provision of this title, the court shall impose that sanction unless it finds
that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or
that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.030, subd. (a).) 
“Misuses of the discovery process include, but are not
limited to, the following: 
* * * 
“(d) Failing to respond or to submit to an authorized
method of discovery.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010,
subd. (d).) 
DISCUSSION 
On
March 29, 2023, Defendant served Special Interrogatories, Set No. One, and Form
Interrogatories, Set No. One, on Plaintiff. 
Responses were due May 2, 2023.  Plaintiff
did not provide timely responses and had not provided responses by the time
Defendant filed these motions. 
          The Court grants the motions and orders Plaintiff to provide
verified, code-compliant  responses to
the special and form interrogatories without objections by January 5, 2024.         
Defendant
requests $1,060.00 in sanctions for each motion based on four hours of
attorney’s work at a rate of $250.00 per hour and one $60.00 filing fee.  Counsel anticipated spending two hours to
draft each motion and respond to any opposition and two hours to attend the
hearing.  The motions are unopposed, they
are substantially similar, and they are set to be heard together. The Court
awards $870.00 in sanctions for both motions based on three hours of attorney’s
work and two filing fees. 
CONCLUSION 
          The Court GRANTS Defendant Jars Holdings, LLC dba The Lube
Center, Inc.’s motion to compel Plaintiff Ruben Estrada, Jr.’s responses to special
interrogatories, set one.  The Court
orders Plaintiff Ruben Estrada, Jr. to provide verified, code-compliant
responses to the special interrogatories without objections by January 5, 2024.         
The
Court GRANTS Defendant Jars Holdings, LLC dba The Lube Center, Inc.’s motion to
compel Plaintiff Ruben Estrada, Jr.’s responses to form
interrogatories, set one.  The Court
orders Plaintiff Ruben Estrada, Jr. to provide verified, code-compliant
responses to the form interrogatories without objections by January 5, 2024. 
The
Court GRANTS Defendant Jars Holdings, LLC dba The Lube Center, Inc.’s request
for sanctions and orders Plaintiff Ruben Estrada, Jr. and his counsel to pay
Defendant Jars Holdings, LLC dba The Lube Center, Inc. $870.00 by January 5,
2024. 
Moving
party is to give notice of this ruling.