 Case Number:  23STCV14492    Hearing Date:   December 6, 2023    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposing and reply papers, the Court rules as
follows.  
BACKGROUND 
On
June 21, 2023, Plaintiff Justin Ybarra (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against
Defendants Greystar California, Inc. (“Greystar”), SBDTLA 1, LLC, SBDTLA 2, LLC,
SBDTLA 3, LLC, SBDTLA 4, LLC, Defense International Corporation, Inc., and Does 1-50 for assault, battery, intentional infliction of emotional distress, false
imprisonment, and negligence. 
On
September 21, 2023, Greystar filed a demurrer to be heard on November 8, 2023.  On September 27, 2023, Greystar filed a motion
to strike to be heard on November 8, 2023.  On October 26, 2023, Plaintiff filed
oppositions. On November 1, 2023, Greystar filed replies. The Court continued
the hearing on the motions to December 6, 2023. 
Trial
is scheduled for December 18, 2024. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Greystar
requests that the Court sustain the demurrer to the complaint. Greystar also
requests that the Court strike from the complaint paragraphs 28, 33, 40, 45,
and the request for punitive damages in the prayer for relief. 
Plaintiff
requests that the Court overrule the demurrer and deny the motion to strike. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
A.   Demurrer 
“The party against whom a complaint or cross-complaint
has been filed may object, by demurrer or answer as provided in Section 430.30,
to the pleading on any one or more of the following grounds: 
* * * 
“(e) The pleading does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action. 
“(f) The pleading is uncertain. As used in this
subdivision, ‘uncertain’ includes ambiguous and unintelligible. . . .” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10,
subds. (e), (f).) 
In a
demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading
or by judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd. (a) [“When any ground
for objection to a complaint, cross-complaint, or answer appears on the face
thereof, or from any matter of which the court is required to or may take judicial
notice, the objection on that ground may be taken by a demurrer to the
pleading”].) 
“For
the purpose of testing the sufficiency of the cause of action, the demurrer
admits the truth of all material facts properly pleaded (i.e., all ultimate
facts alleged, but not conclusions, deductions, or conclusions of facts or
law).”  (L. Edmon
and C. Karnow, Cal. Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (Rutter 2023)
¶ 7:43, p. 7(l)-25, emphasis omitted (Cal. Practice Guide).) 
The general rule is that the plaintiff need only
allege ultimate facts, not evidentiary facts. (Doe v. City of Los Angeles
(2007) 42 Cal.4th 531, 550 (Doe).) “All that is required of a plaintiff,
as a matter of pleading, even as against a special demurrer, is that his
complaint set forth the essential facts of the case with reasonable precision
and with sufficient particularity to acquaint the defendant with the nature,
source and extent of his cause of action.” (Rannard v. Lockheed Aircraft
Corp. (1945) 26 Cal.2d 149, 156-157.) “[D]emurrers for uncertainty are
disfavored, and are granted only if the pleading is so incomprehensible that a
defendant cannot reasonably respond.” (Mahan v. Charles W. Chan Ins. Agency,
Inc. (2017) 14 Cal.App.5th 841, 848, fn. 3, citing Lickiss v. Fin.
Indus. Regulatory Auth. (2012) 208 Cal.App.4th 1125, 1135 (Lickiss).)
In addition, even where a complaint is in some respects uncertain, courts
strictly construe a demurrer for uncertainty “because ambiguities can be
clarified under modern discovery procedures.” (Lickiss, supra,
208 Cal.App.4th at p. 1135, citing Khoury v. Maly’s of California, Inc.
(1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.) 
B.       Motion to strike 
“Any
party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading may serve and file a
notice of motion to strike the whole or any part thereof . . . .”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(1).)  The Court may “[s]trike out any irrelevant,
false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a).)  “The
grounds for a motion to strike shall appear on the face of the challenged
pleading of from any matter of which the court is required to take judicial
notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437, subd. (a).) 
“Where the motion to strike is based on matter of which the court may
take judicial notice pursuant to Section 452 or 453 of the Evidence Code, such
matter shall be specified in the notice of motion, or in the supporting points
and authorities, except as the court may otherwise permit.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437, subd. (b).) 
“In order to survive a motion to strike an allegation
of punitive damages, the ultimate facts showing an entitlement to such relief
must be pled by a plaintiff.” (Clauson v. Superior Court (1998) 67
Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255 (Clauson).) 
“In passing on the correctness of a ruling on a motion to strike, judges
read allegations of a pleading subject to a motion to strike as a whole, all
parts in their context, and assume their truth.”  (Ibid.)  “In ruling on a motion to strike, courts do
not read allegations in isolation.”  (Ibid.) 
C.      Punitive
damages 
          Civil
Code section 3294 provides in part: 
“(a) In an
action for the breach of an obligation not arising from contract, where it is
proven by clear and convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of
oppression, fraud, or malice, the plaintiff, in addition to the actual damages,
may recover damages for the sake of example and by way of punishing the
defendant. 
“(b) An employer shall not be liable for damages
pursuant to subdivision (a), based upon acts of an employee of the employer,
unless the employer had advance knowledge of the unfitness of the employee and
employed him or her with a conscious disregard of the rights or safety of
others or authorized or ratified the wrongful conduct for which the damages are
awarded or was personally guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice. With respect
to a corporate employer, the advance knowledge and conscious disregard, authorization,
ratification or act of oppression, fraud, or malice must be on the part of an
officer, director, or managing agent of the corporation. 
“(c) As used
in this section, the following definitions shall apply: 
“(1) “Malice”
means conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the
plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a
willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others. 
“(2)
“Oppression” means despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and
unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person’s rights. 
“(3) “Fraud”
means an intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material
fact known to the defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of
thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing
injury. . . .” 
(Civ. Code, § 3294, subds. (a), (b), (c).) 
DISCUSSION 
A.   The complaint 
The complaint
alleges the following:         
          Defendants owned,
operated, maintained, supervised, leased, managed and/or controlled the property
at 548 Spring Street, Los Angeles, California
90013 (“Property”).  Defendant Defense
International Corporation, Inc. provided security services for the Property. 
On
or about June 21, 2022, while Plaintiff was legally on the Property, an
unidentified employee of Defendants (“Doe Defendant 1”) aggressively approached
Plaintiff, deprived him of freedom of movement through physical force and
threats, and physically attacked and injured Plaintiff.  When Doe Defendant 1 physically attacked
Plaintiff, he was acting within the course and scope of his employment with
Defendants.  In particular, Doe Defendant
1 was hired to be a security guard for the Property, and, at the time of the
attack on June 21, 2022, was providing security services at the Property,
including monitoring the Property for security incidents and intervening in
such incidents if necessary. 
In
doing these acts, Defendants, and in particular Doe Defendant 1, intended to
place Plaintiff in apprehension of a harmful and offensive contact with his
person. Plaintiff in fact was placed in great apprehension of a harmful and
offensive contact with his person. Plaintiff did not consent to any of Defendants' acts. 
In
doing these acts, Defendants, and in particular DOE Defendant 1, acted with
the intent to make contact with and did contact Plaintiff. 
Defendants’
acts and conduct were extreme and outrageous in that Defendants were aware and
knew that the acts and conduct were wrongful and improper and would and did cause Plaintiff
mental torment, grief, and other serious injuries to his mind and well-being. Defendants’
acts and conduct were intentional (not accidental), deliberate, willful, or
done in reckless disregard of the likelihood they would cause Plaintiff serious
emotional distress.  In doing the acts
alleged above, Defendants, and in particular Doe Defendant 1, inflicted severe
emotional distress on Plaintiff. 
In
doing these acts, Defendants, and in particular Doe Defendant 1, acted with the
intent to deprive Plaintiff of his freedom of movement by use of physical
barriers and/or force, threats of force, menace, fraud, deceit, or unreasonable
duress. The confinement compelled Plaintiff to stay and/or go between Defendants,
and in particular Doe Defendant 1, and the elevator wall behind him for an
appreciable time during the attack. 
Defendants
so carelessly and negligently owned, operated, maintained, supervised, leased,
managed, controlled the Property and/or so carelessly and negligently provided
security guard services for the Property that they, among other things,
negligently failed to take adequate and sufficient measures to prevent,
control, or deter the harmful and injurious hazards of owning, operating,
maintaining, leasing, managing, controlling the Property and/or providing
security guard services for the Property.   
Defendants
negligently hired, trained, and/or supervised Doe Defendant 1, who was
incompetent and unfit to work as security guard and/or otherwise perform his
duties as a security guard for the employment for which he was hired or
contracted to perform. 
“Defendants
committed, allowed, encouraged, tolerated, and ratified the above described
acts and conduct deliberately, oppressively, fraudulently and maliciously, in
conscious disregard for Plaintiff’s rights and safety, and with the intent to
vex, injure, and annoy Plaintiff. As such, Defendants have caused Plaintiff to
suffer cruel and unjust hardship needlessly, and Defendants’ acts and conduct
warrant an award of punitive and exemplary damages in an amount sufficient to
punish and deter Defendants from ever engaging in such conduct again in the
future.”  (Complaint ¶¶ 28, 33, 40, 45.) 
The
prayer for relief includes a request for punitive damages. 
B.   The demurrer 
         Greystar argues that Plaintiff’s complaint is uncertain and
ambiguous for purposes of Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10, subdivision (f).  Greystar also asserts that the complaint
fails to allege material facts supporting its claims for purposes of Code of
Civil Procedure section 430.10, subdivision (e).  Plaintiff argues the complaint sufficiently
alleges claims against Greystar. 
          The Court finds that the complaint sets forth the essential
facts of the case with reasonable precision and with sufficient particularity
to acquaint Greystar with the nature, source and extent of the claims asserted
against it.  In alleging that
“Defendants” employed the security guard who allegedly attacked Plaintiff while acting within the course and scope of his employment, the complaint alleges
material facts supporting a claim for respondeat superior liability.  The Court overrules the demurrer. 
C.   Motion to strike 
"In
addition to the requirement that the complaint set forth the elements as stated
in [Civil Code] section 3294, it must include specific factual allegations
showing that defendant's conduct was oppressive, fraudulent, or malicious to
support a claim for punitive damages.” (Today's IV, Inc. v. Los Angeles
County Metropolitan Transportation Authority (2022) 83 Cal.App.5th 1137,
1193, citing Brousseau v. Jarrett (1977) 73 Cal.App.3d 864, 872 (Brousseau).)
“Punitive damages may not be pleaded generally.”  (Ibid., citing Brousseau, supra,
73 Cal.App.3d at p. 872.) 
Greystone
cannot be liable for punitive damages based on the actions of Doe Defendant 1
(or any other employee of Greystone) “unless [Greystone] had advance knowledge
of the unfitness of the employee and employed him or her with a conscious
disregard of the rights or safety of others or authorized or ratified the
wrongful conduct for which the damages are awarded or was personally guilty of
oppression, fraud, or malice. . . . [T]he advance knowledge and conscious
disregard, authorization, ratification or act of oppression, fraud, or malice
must be on the part of an officer, director, or managing agent of [Greystone].”  (See Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (b).) 
Plaintiff’s
complaint alleges: “To the extent a Defendant is a distinct legal entity, it is
believed that any such Defendant’s officers, directors, principals, and/or
partners ratified and approved any wrongful conduct alleged in this Complaint,
or were directly responsible for perpetrating such conduct.”  (Complaint ¶ 11.) 
In
general, to survive a motion to strike an allegation of punitive damages, a
plaintiff must plead the ultimate facts showing an entitlement to such relief.
(See Clauson, supra, 67 Cal.App.4th at p. 1255; Grieves v.
Superior Court (1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 159, 166 (Grieves).) 
Under
this standard the allegations in paragraph 11 of the complaint that Defendants’
officers, directors, principals, and/or partners ratified and approved any
wrongful conduct alleged in the complaint or were directly responsible for
perpetrating such conduct, consisting solely of the legal conclusion required
by Civil Code section 3294, subdivision (b), rather than any facts supporting
that conclusion, are insufficient. (See Grieves, supra, 157
Cal.App.3d at p. 168 [when punitive damages sought against corporate employer,
facts must be alleged to show advance knowledge, authorization or
ratification]; see also G.D. Searle & Co. v. Superior Court (1975)
49 Cal.App.3d 22, 29 [pleading must contain facts to support claim of
oppression, fraud or malice].) 
Therefore,
the Court grants the motion to strike the punitive damage claim and related
allegations. 
CONCLUSION 
The Court OVERRULES Defendant Greystar
California, Inc.’s demurrer to Plaintiff Justin Ybarra’s complaint.  The Court orders Defendant Greystar California, Inc. to file a responsive pleading within 10 days after Plaintiff files an amended complaint. 
The Court GRANTS Defendant Greystar California, Inc.’s
motion to strike portions of Plaintiff Justin Ybarra’s complaint.  The Court strikes paragraphs 28, 33, 40, and 45, and the request for
punitive damages in the prayer for relief.  The Court grants Plaintiff Justin Ybarra 30
days leave to amend. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days of the date of the hearing.