 Case Number:  21STCV32038    Hearing Date:   April 18, 2024    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  DANIEL JAHREN, Plaintiff(s),  vs.  HAWTHORNE REGENCY, ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 21STCV32038  [TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING WITHOUT PREJUDICE MOTION TO BE RELIEVED AS COUNSEL   Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  April 18, 2024  I. BACKGROUND Plaintiff Daniel Jahren’s (“Plaintiff”) attorney of record, David Yerkanyan, Esq. of Mgdesyan Law Firm (“Counsel”), filed the instant motion to be relieved as counsel, contending relief is necessary because Plaintiff has stopped responding to Counsel’s calls and correspondences. Counsel declares he sent several contact letters, called, and texted Plaintiff numerous times. Counsel has conducted searches for new phone numbers or addresses for Plaintiff to no avail.  Defendant Hawthorn Regency Apartments, LLC, erroneously sued as Hawthorne Regency, (“Defendant”) opposes the motion. Defendant contends they were not served with the motion, and that there is no proof of service demonstrating that the motion was served on it and on Plaintiff. Further, Defendant contends Plaintiff’s counsel owes outstanding monetary sanctions, and requests the motion be denied until the payments are rendered.  As of April 11, 2024, no reply was filed.  II. DISCUSSION Defendant requests the motion be denied until monetary sanctions are paid. However, Plaintiff’s counsel not paying monetary sanctions is not a proper ground to deny Counsel’s relief from representation. Sanctions orders are enforceable as money judgments unless the court orders otherwise; thus, the remedy to enforce payment of monetary sanctions is to obtain and levy a writ of execution on assets of the debtor. (Newland v. Superior Court (1995) 40 Cal.App.4th 608, 615.) Defendant does not properly explain how Counsel no longer representing Plaintiff would preclude Defendant from pursuing this remedy.     Nonetheless, the motion to be relieved as counsel is denied for two reasons. First, Defendant is correct that there is a procedural deficiency regarding the lack of proof of service. No proof of service was provided to demonstrate that the notice of motion and motion, declaration, and order were served on Plaintiff and all parties who have appeared in this action. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362(d).) Second, Counsel declares he has been unable to confirm Plaintiff’s current address after mailing the motion, calling, and conducting a search through LexisNexis public records search. If Counsel is unable to serve Plaintiff at a confirmed address, Counsel must also serve the moving papers on the Clerk of the Court pursuant to CCP §1011 and California Rules Court, rule 3.1362(d).  III. CONCLUSION Based on the foregoing, the motion to be relieved as counsel is DENIED without prejudice.  Counsel is ordered to give notice.    PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 17th day of April 2024      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court    