  Case Number:  23AVCV01230    Hearing Date:   October 15, 2024    Dept:  A14 Background
 
This is a breach of contract
and/or warranty action. Plaintiff Falesha Skiffer Brown (“Plaintiff”) alleges that
on or about January 04, 2023, she acquired a 2022 Forest River RF3 32DS with
VIN Number: 1F66F5DN4N0A07300 (the “Subject Vehicle”) and (1) Defendant Forest
River, Inc. (“Forest River”) as a warrantor, Defendant Ford Motor Company, Inc.
(“FMC”) as a warrantor, and Defendant Beaumont RV, Inc. DBA Bobby Waynes RV (“Beaumont
RV”) as a manufacturer and distributor violated the Song-Beverly Consumer
Warranty Act by failing to conform the Subject Vehicle to express written
warranties within a reasonable number of repair attempts or within the warranty
periods, and by failing to promptly replace the vehicle or make restitution to
Plaintiff when the defects, malfunctions, and nonconformities were presented to
an unnamed defendant’s authorized repair facilities multiple times; (2) all
defendants, including Defendant Lippert Components Inc. (“Lippert” and with
Forest River, FMC, and Beaumont RV, “Defendants”) breached the implied warranty
of merchantability as the Subject Vehicle has malfunctions and nonconformities
that render it unfit for the ordinary purposes for which it is used and would
not pass without objection in the trade; (3) Defendants engaged in violations
of Cal. Bus. & Proc. Code §17200 as Beaumont RV was aware of the defective
components within the Subject Vehicle and intentionally failed to properly
diagnose the issues in the Subject Vehicle and installed components that were
remanufactured or reconditioned, Libbert intentionally distributed and
manufactured defective components which were installed into the Subject Vehicle,
Defendants engaged in unfair competition, Defendants deceived consumers through
their actions and oral misrepresentations; and (4) Beaumont RV was negligent in
repair of the Subject Vehicle.
 
On October 27, 2023, Plaintiff
filed her Complaint.
On December 04, 2023, Forest
River filed its Answer.
 
On December 07, 2023, Plaintiff
filed her First Amended Complaint (“FAC”).
 
On January 08, 2024, Forest River
filed its Answer to the FAC.
 
On January 10, 2024, Lippert
filed its Answer to the FAC.
 
On March 28, 2024, Forest River
filed this Motion to Stay the Action Pursuant to C.C.P. § 410.30 (“Motion to
Stay”). Beaumont RV, represented by the same attorney as Forest River, filed a
Notice of Joinder regarding the Motion to Stay on the same date.
 
On April 03, 2024, Lippert filed
a Notice of Joinder regarding the Motion to Stay.
 
From April 05, 2024 to the
present, there were various continuations to the hearing on the Motion to Stay,
including Ex Parte Applications and one Stipulation.
 
On May 23, 2024, the parties
entered a Stipulation to File an Amended Complaint, granted on May 24, 2024.
 
On May 24, 2024, Plaintiff filed
her Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”). The SAC is the operative pleading and
alleges four causes of action for: (1) Violation of the Song-Beverly Consumer
Warranty Act Breach of Express Warranty; (2) Violation of the Song-Beverly
Consumer Warranty Act Breach of Implied Warranty; (3) Violation of Business and
Professions Code § 17200; and (4) Negligent Repair against Beaumont RV, only. 
 
On July 01, 2024, FMC filed its
Answer to the SAC.
 
On October 02, 2024, FMC filed a
Notice of Joinder regarding the Motion to Stay. 
 
On October 02, 2024, Plaintiff
filed her Opposition.
 
On October 08, 2024, Forest River
filed its Reply. 
 
-----
 
Legal Standard
 
Standard for Forum Non Conveniens/Forum
Selection Clauses – “Forum
non conveniens is an equitable doctrine, codified in Code of Civil Procedure
section 410.30, under which a trial court has discretion to stay or dismiss a
transitory cause of action that it believes may be more appropriately and
justly tried elsewhere. [citation] The inquiry is whether ‘in the interest of
substantial justice an action should be heard in a forum outside this state.’
(Code Civ. Proc., § 410.30, subd. (a).” (Animal Film, LLC v. D.E.J.
Productions, Inc. (2011) 193 Cal.App.4th 466, 471 (“Animal Film”).) 
 
Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 410.30 provides that
“[w]hen a court upon motion of a party or its own motion finds that in the
interest of substantial justice an action should be heard in a forum outside
this state, the court shall stay or dismiss the action in whole or in part on
any conditions that may be just.” (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 410.30(a).) This
action may be served by a defendant on or before the last day of his time to
plead or within any further time that the court may for good cause allow. (Cal.
Code Civ. Proc. § 418.10(a)(2).) However, the provisions of Cal. Code Civ.
Proc. § 418.10 do not apply to a motion to stay an action by a defendant who
has made a general appearance. (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 410.30(b).) Rather, as
Section 410.30 does not state a limit, a reasonableness standard is necessarily
inferred. (Trident Labs, Inc. v. Merrill Lynch Commercial Finance Corp.
(2011) 200 Cal. App.4th 147, 155.) 
 
Ordinarily, a court must (1) determine
whether the alternate forum is a “suitable” place for trial; if it is, the
court must next (2) consider the private interests of the litigants and the
interests in the public in retaining the action for trial in California. (Stangik
v. Shiley (1991) 54 Cal.3d 744, 751.) Such private interests include those
that make trial and enforceability of the ensuring judgment expeditious and
relatively inexpensive, such as the ease of access to sources of proof; the
cost of obtaining attendance of witnesses and the availability of a compulsory
process for attendance of unwilling witnesses. (Id.) As to the public
interest, relevant factors include avoidance of overburdening local courts with
congested calendars; protecting the interests of potential jurors so they are
not called upon to decide cases in which the local community has little concern;
and weighing the interests of California and the alternate jurisdiction in the
litigation. (Id.) 
 
“In a contract dispute in which the parties'
agreement contains a forum selection clause, a threshold issue in a forum non
conveniens motion is whether the forum selection clause is mandatory or
permissive. A mandatory clause ordinarily is ‘given effect without any analysis
of convenience; the only question is whether enforcement of the clause would be
unreasonable.’ But, if ‘the clause merely provides for submission to
jurisdiction and does not expressly mandate litigation exclusively in a
particular forum, then the traditional forum non conveniens analysis applies.’”
(Animal Film, supra, at 471.) 
 
The burden is typically on the party seeking
to avoid enforcement of a forum selection clause to show that its enforcement
would be unreasonable. (Drulias v. 1st Century Bancshares, Inc. (2018)
30 Cal.App.5th 696, 703.) However, the burden is reversed when the claims at
issue are based on unwaivable rights created by California statutes; in those
circumstances, the party seeking to enforce the forum selection clause bears
the burden to show that litigating the claims in the contractually designated
forum will not diminish in any way substantive rights afforded under California
law. (Id.; see also Verdugo v. Alliantgroup L.P.
(2015) 237 Cal.App.4th 141, 147-48 (“Verdugo”).)  
 
-----
 
Discussion
 
Application – The
Court notes that Forest River has made a general appearance in this action.
 
Forest River presents that plaintiff
signed a document titled, “Forest River, Inc. Customer
Delivery and Warranty
Registration Form” (“the Warranty Registration”) which acknowledged, among
other items, that any suit be filed in Indiana. Forest River emphasizes that it
has filed this motion only a few months after the FAC was filed and, at the
time of filing, the only pending hearing in the case was a Case Management
Conference on February 21, 2024. Forest River argues that the forum selection
clause in this case is mandatory based on case precedent, and the Court must
apply the test in Berg v. MTC Electronics Technologies (1998) 61
Cal.App.4th 349 (“Berg”) – whether the application of the forum
selection clause is unfair or unreasonable – to determine whether to enforce
the forum selection clause in this action. Forest River contends that
Plaintiff’s rights under the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act (“Song-Beverly”)
will be preserved if the case goes forward in Indiana as Forest River will
stipulate that Song-Beverly will apply to Plaintiff’s warranty claims in Indian
and Defendants Beaumont RV and Lippert will do the same. As such, Forest River
believes it has eliminated any doubt or uncertainty as to which law an Indiana
court will apply to Plaintiff’s allegations. Forest River requests that the
Court stay the action in order to allow Plaintiff to return to this court if an
Indiana court declines to apply Song-Beverly to their claims as in Berg.

 
Plaintiff argues that enforcement
of the forum selection clause will violate Plaintiff’s substantive rights as
Forest River’s Limited Motorized Warranty (“Warranty”) mandates that: (1) all
warranty claims must be filed in the state courts of Indiana, (2) all warranty
claims will be governed by Indiana state law; and (3) Indiana does not provide
statutory protections to allow Plaintiff to return to this court if an Indiana
court declines to apply Song-Beverly to their claims, citing Indiana Civ. Code
§ 24-5-13-5. Plaintiff directs the Court to Exhibit C in the Declaration of
Brewer. Plaintiff highlights that Song-Beverly contains an anti-waiver
provision and argues that Forest River has failed to show that the Court’s
enforcement of the forum selection clause will not violate Plaintiff’s
substantive rights under California law. Plaintiff emphasizes that the burden
of proof for this motion is on Forest River. Plaintiff reiterates that her
substantive rights under Song-Beverly will be extinguished if the Court grants
this motion as: (1) Plaintiffs cannot waive their Song-Beverly rights under
Cal. Civ. Code § 1790.1; (2) California public policy is aligned with keeping
Plaintiff’s warranty claims in California state courts; and (3) Indiana courts
lack jurisdiction under Cal. Bus. & Prof. Code § 17200 as to Beaumont RV
and Lippert as Beaumont was not a signatory nor included in Forest River’s
Forum selection clause and only retails in Los Angeles County. As to the
stipulation proposed by the moving papers, Plaintiff presents that it is silent
as to the Cal. Bus. & Prof. Code § 17200 claim; Lippert does not have a
forum selection clause of its own and is not related to Forest River; and
neither Forest River, Lippert, or Beaumont RV have offered analysis as to why
the Court should exercise its broad discretion to grant the motion to stay in
the face of Forest River’s failure to meet its burden to show that pursuing the
matter in Indiana will not diminish Plaintiff’s substantive California rights
under the Song-Beverly Act and Business & Professions Code section 17200 et
seq.
 
First, the Court looks to the
relevant language provided in the warranty:
 
THIS LIMITED
WARRANTY SHALL BE INTERPRETED AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE
STATE OF INDIANA. 
 
EXHAUSTION OF REMEDY
AND LEGAL ACTION: THE WRITTEN NOTICE AND REPAIR REMEDY DESCRIBED ABOVE MUST BE
COMPLETED PRIOR TO INITIATING ANY ACTION TO SEEK LEGAL OR EQUITABLE REMEDIES
FOR BREACH OF THIS LIMITED WARRANTY OR ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES. 
 
ANY ACTION FOR
BREACH OF THIS LIMITED WARRANTY OR ANY IMPLIED WARRANTY OR REVOCATION OF
ACCEPTANCE OR ANY ACTION TO ENFORCE ANY PORTION OF THIS LIMITED WARRANTY MUST
BE COMMENCED WITHIN NINETY (90) DAYS OF THE EXPIRATION OF THE WARRANTY PERIOD.
SOME STATES DO NOT PERMIT REDUCTION OF THE STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS, SO THE
LIMITATION MAY NOT APPLY TO YOU. 
 
EXCLUSIVE
JURISDICTION FOR DECIDING LEGAL DISPUTES RELATING TO THIS LIMITED WARRANTY, AN
ALLEGED BREACH OF WARRANTY, BREACH OF IMPLIED WARRANTIES, OR REPRESENTATIONS OF
ANY KIND MUST BE FILED IN THE COURTS WITHIN THE STATE OF INDIANA. 
 
ANY AND ALL CLAIMS
OR CAUSES OF ACTION ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS LIMITED WARRANTY OR
IMPLIED WARRANTY SHALL BE GOVERNED BY THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF INDIANA, WHETHER
SUCH CLAIMS SOUND IN CONTRACT, TORT, OR STATUTE (INCLUDING THE STATUTE OF
LIMITATIONS), WITHOUT GIVING EFFECT TO ANY CONFLICT OF LAW RULE THAT WOULD
RESULT IN THE APPLICATION OF THE LAWS OF A DIFFERENT JURISDICTION. 
 
Note: Any
authorization or performance of repairs, attempt to resolve a complaint, or
request for warranty service shall not constitute a waiver of Forest River's
rights and shall not extend the warranty coverage period or when you must
commence an action to enforce any breach of warranty claim, unless prohibited
by state law. 
 
THE ABOVE LIMITED
WARRANTY GIVES YOU SPECIFIC LEGAL RIGHTS YOU MAY ALSO HAVE OTHER RIGHTS, WHICH
VARY FROM STATE TO STATE AND PROVINCE TO PROVINCE.
 
(Decl. Dan Evans, Exh. C
[emphasis added.) 
 
Language that has been found to indicate a
permissive clause include: “Berg, supra, 61 Cal.App.4th at p. 357 [‘ “
‘The company … has expressly¿submitted to the jurisdiction¿of the State
of California and United States Federal courts sitting in the City of Los
Angeles, California, for the purpose of any suit … arising out of this
Offering.’ ” ’ (italics added)];¿Southwest Intelecom, Inc. v. Hotel Networks
Corp. (Tex.Ct.App. 1999) 997 S.W.2d 322, 323, 325–326¿[‘ “ ‘The Parties¿stipulate
to jurisdiction and venue¿in Ramsey County, Minnesota, as if this Agreement
were executed in Minnesota.’ ” ’ (italics added)].)” (Animal Film, supra,
193 Cal. App.4th 466, 472.) Language that has been found to indicate a
mandatory clause include: ¿Cal-State
Business Products¿& Services, Inc. v. Ricoh¿(1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 1666, 1672, fn. 4
[16 Cal. Rptr. 2d 417] [‘ “
‘[A]ny appropriate state or¿federal district court located in the Borough of
Manhattan, New York City, New York¿shall have exclusive jurisdiction¿over
any case of controversy arising under or in connection with this Agreement … .’
” ’ (italics added)]; see also¿Smith, Valentino & Smith, Inc. v. Superior Court¿(1976) 17 Cal.3d 491, 494 [131 Cal. Rptr.
374, 551 P.2d 1206]¿[plaintiff
agreed to bring all actions arising out of agency agreement only in
Philadelphia];¿Furda v.
Superior Court¿(1984) 161
Cal.App.3d 418, 422, fn. 1 [207 Cal. Rptr. 646]¿[“ ‘Any controversy or claim arising out of or relating to
this Agreement …¿shall be litigated¿either in a state court for Ingham
County, Michigan, or in the U.S. District Court for the Western District of
Michigan.’ ” (italics added)].)¿(Id.) 
 
Though not the same as the
examples above, the Court believes that the language is more akin to the
examples for a mandatory clause in Animal Film. Thus, the Court finds that the language
in the warranty clause at hand includes language that courts have held to be
mandatory.
 
This is a contract of adhesion. In an
adhesion contract, a forum selection clause will be enforced “ ‘absent a
showing that it was outside the reasonable expectations of the weaker or
adhering party or that enforcement would be unduly oppressive or
unconscionable.’ [Citation.]” (Drulias v. 1st Century Bancshares, Inc.
(2018) 30 Cal.App.5th 696, 708 [corporate forum selection bylaw, adopted by
Delaware corporation without stockholder consent, designating Delaware as
exclusive litigation forum held reasonable and enforceable]. See also Carnival
Cruise Lines, Inc. v. Shute (1991) 499 US 585 [forum selection clause in
cruise ship ticket upheld]; Korman v. Princess Cruise Lines, Ltd. (2019)
32 Cal.App.5th 206, 219 [forum selection clause in cruise ship ticket upheld]; Animal
Film, supra, 193 Cal.App.4th 466, 471.) “A clause is reasonable if
it has a logical connection with at least one of the parties or their
transaction. [Citation.]” (Verdugo, supra, 237 Cal.App.4th 141,
147.) Indiana is presented to be the state of manufacture of the Subject
Vehicle. (See Motion for Stay 2:8-10.) The Court finds that, under case law, it
has been established that forum enforcement would be reasonable.
 
Forest River provides that Plaintiffs’
rights under the Song-Beverly Act will be preserved if the case goes forward in
Indiana pursuant to a stipulation. Forest River cites to Verdugo.
Indeed, Verdugo held that (1) “[a defendant] must show enforcing the
forum selection clause “will not diminish in any way” [a plaintiff’s] statutory
rights and (2) a defendant could have eliminated any uncertainty on which law a
court designated by the forum selection clause would apply by stipulating to
have that court apply California law in deciding the claims. (Verdugo, supra,
237 Cal.App.4th 141, 158.) Defendant offers to stipulate, by this motion, that
Song-Beverly will apply to plaintiffs’ warranty claims pursued in an action in
Indiana and that it will not oppose a request that the Indiana court utilize
Song-Beverly to adjudicate those allegations. (Motion to Stay the Action, 10:13-16;
Decl. Thomas M. Murphy, ¶ 4.) 
 
The Court notes, however, that a stipulation
is not the only element to be considered. The Verdugo Court took notice
of a previous case in which Nevada law included an antiwaiver provision
comparable to California's that would have rendered any stipulation by the
parties to apply California law unenforceable in a Nevada court. (Id.
[citing Hall v. Superior Court (1983) 150 Cal.App.3d at pp. 418–419.].)
The Verdugo case was distinguished from Hall as Texas law, in
which the forum selection clause court resided, did not include an antiwaiver
provision that would prevent the parties from preserving Verdugo's unwaivable
Labor Code rights by stipulating to have a Texas court apply California law. (Id.)  
 
Here, Forest River seeks to
stipulate that Song Beverly will be applied in Indiana, the state in which the
forum selection clause court resides. However, no information is given as to
whether Indiana has an antiwaver provision. This information is necessary to
determine whether Plaintiffs’ statutory rights under California’s Song-Beverly
Act will be diminished if the forum selection clause is enforced. Forest River
has provided Ind. Code 24-5-13-5 which shows that motor homes such as the
Subject Vehicle are not covered under the definition of “motor vehicle” in
Indiana’s Motor Vehicle Protection statutes. (See Decl. Thomas Murphy, Exh. F.)
In a footnote, Forest River presents that there are no statutes that would make
rights under the forum state’s laws unwaivable such as in Verdugo, and,
as such, the stipulation to Song-Beverly’s application will be available under
Indiana law.
 
However, Forest River’s proposed
stipulation leaves Plaintiff’s rights as to the Cal. Bus. & Proc. Code
§17200 and the Negligent Repair claims unaddressed. The Court inquires as to
whether the parties would be amenable to stipulating that California law will
be applied as to all of Plaintiff’s claims.
 
The Court notes that this case
does not only include Forest River, Beaumont RV, and Lippert. FMC remains a
defendant and was not addressed in the moving papers. The Court believes that
FMC’s Notice of Joinder indicates that it is willing to stipulate to apply
California law, specifically Song-Beverly, in an India court. The Court
inquires out of caution. 
 
Without addressing whether
Plaintiff’s the Cal. Bus. & Proc. Code §17200 and the Negligent Repair
claims, Forest River has not met its burden to show that litigating the claims in Indiana will not
diminish in any way substantive rights afforded under California law.
 
-----
 
Reply
 
Forest River’s Reply argues that
(1) Forest River has met its burden as Plaintiff’s Song-Beverly rights are
unwaivable and Forest River is willing to stipulate to use California
substantive law; (2) a stipulation such as the one proposed by Forest River is
allowed under Verdugo; (3) the elements needed for the enforcement of a
mandatory selection clause are met as Forest River is located in Indiana and
has a logical connection to the forum and there is nothing unreasonable or
unfair about enforcement as Forest River and other defendants offered a
stipulation; (4) the warranty selection clause does not violate Plaintiff’s
substantive rights as it does not exclusively require the application of
Indiana law as it includes language that acknowledges that consumers’ legal
rights vary from state to state (see Mtn. to Stay, Decl. Dan Evans at Exh. C);
(5) any problematic contract term of clause is severable from the warranty; and
(6) if for any reason an Indiana court declines to accept Plaintiff’s claims
based on California law, the Court may lift the stay and the action can proceed
here. 
 
The Court notes that the Reply
states that Forest River is willing to apply “California law” (Reply at 5:26,
6:22, 7:18, 7:21, 8:15); “California substantive law” (3:5, 3:13, 5:15, 6:2),
and California’s “Business & Professions Code” (2:22-23, 3:6, 6:3). This is
distinct from the moving papers which mention only an application of
Song-Beverly. The Court further notes that despite these terms, Forest River
appears to believe that Plaintiff’s causes of action are only based on
Song-Beverly. (See Reply 2:23-25 [“. Regardless, it cannot go without mention,
that nowhere in the California Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act (CA Civil
Code section 1790, et seq) - the sole basis for Plaintiffs’ causes of action -
is Plaintiffs’ choice of venue a substantive right.”].) As such, the Court
seeks clarity at the hearing. 
 
The issue regarding FMC’s
willingness to stipulate is unaddressed by the Reply. The Court inquires at the
hearing out of caution. 
 
-----
 
Conclusion
 
The Court is inclined to DENY the Motion to Stay
without prejudice due to the deficiencies as to Plaintiff’s Cal. Bus. &
Proc. Code §17200 and the Negligent Repair causes of action.