  Case Number:  21STCV22872    Hearing Date:   April 18, 2024    Dept:  78  Superior Court of CaliforniaCounty of Los AngelesDepartment 78SHANNON CLARK;  Plaintiff,  vs.  REGUS MANAGEMENT GROUP, et al.;   Defendants. 1 Case No.:  21STCV22872 Hearing Date:  April 18, 2024      [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:   MOTION TO BIFURCATE FILED BY DEFENDANTS REGUS MANAGEMENT GROUP, LLC, IWG PLC, MAILE GILLERES, AND MARK SORUM The motion to bifurcate trial filed by Defendants Regus Management Group, LLC, IWG PLC, Maile Gilleres, and Mark Sorum is DENIED as to compensatory damages and GRANTED as to punitive damages.Moving party to provide notice.FACTUAL BACKGROUNDThis is an action for violations of the FEHA, retaliation, wrongful termination, intentional infliction of emotional distress, and Labor Code violations. Plaintiff alleges she was employed by Regus Management Group, LLC between January 2018 and December 2019. Plaintiff alleges that members of Defendants’ executive team treated her poorly based on her race, ancestry, color, sexual orientation, and disability. As a result of the hostile work environment, Plaintiff suffered serious stress, anxiety, and physical disability. After Plaintiff’s immediate supervisor resigned and Defendants failed to end the ongoing harassment, discrimination, and retaliation, Plaintiff resigned.PROCEDURAL HISTORYOn June 18, 2021, Plaintiff Shannon Clark filed her Complaint against Defendants Regus Management Group, LLC, Regus Management Group, Regus Management Group US, International Workplace Group, IWG PLC, Regus IWGPLC, Regus IWG PLC, Regus PLC, Spaces Culver City, Spaces Hollywood, Maile Gilleres, and Mark Sorum.On September 10, 2021, Regus Management Group, LLC, IWG PLC, and Maile Gilleres answered.On February 14, 2022, Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”).On December 21, 2023, Defendants filed this motion to bifurcate trial. The motion is unopposed.DISCUSSIONDefendants move to bifurcate liability and damages at trial. Specifically, Defendants move to bifurcate the issues of punitive and compensatory damages from liability. “The court may, when the convenience of witnesses, the ends of justice, or the economy and efficiency of handling the litigation would be promoted thereby…make an order…that the trial of any issue or any part thereof shall precede the trial of any other issue or any part thereof in the case…The court, on its own motion, may make such an order at any time.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., section 598, portions omitted.) “The court, in furtherance of convenience or to avoid prejudice, or when separate trials will be conducive to expedition and economy, may order a separate trial of any cause of action, including a cause of action asserted in a cross-complaint, or of any separate issue or of any number of causes of action or issues, preserving the right of trial by jury required by the Constitution or a statute of this state or of the United States.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., section 1048(b).) Here, Defendants argue that bifurcation will promote judicial economy because there are questions as to the validity of Plaintiff’s claims. Because Plaintiff cannot demonstrate that a punitive damages award is justified, the issue of punitive damages should be bifurcated until liability is determined. Additionally, Defendants allege that presenting evidence of liability and damages has the natural tendency to suggest liability, which would prejudice Defendants. In trials where punitive damages are claimed, bifurcation is mandatory on defendant’s motion: No evidence of defendant's wealth (e.g., assets, income, financial condition, etc.) is admissible “until after the trier of fact returns a verdict for plaintiff awarding actual damages and finding the defendant guilty of malice, oppression or fraud in accordance with Section 3294” (requiring clear and convincing evidence). Civ. Code, section 3295(d); see CACI 3948, 3949; see also BAJI 14.72.1, 14.72.2. This avoids the risk that defendant's financial condition might taint the jury's determination of the underlying liability case and the issues of “oppression, fraud or malice.” (Raymark Industries, Inc. (1988) 205 Cal.App.3d 64, 67–68.)Here, the Court agrees that bifurcation as to the issue of punitive damages is mandatory and Defendants’ financial information may be admitted only after the factfinder determines whether Defendants were guilty of malice, oppression, or fraud. As for the remaining issues over compensatory damages, the Court finds that it would not further judicial economy to allow bifurcation of compensatory damages and liability. Defendants will not be significantly prejudiced if evidence of liability is presented at the same time as evidence of compensatory damages.DATED:  April 18, 2024______________________________Hon. Jill FeeneyJudge of the Superior Court