  Case Number:  19AVCV00574    Hearing Date:   February 20, 2024    Dept:  A14 Background
 
This is an insurance subrogation action.
Plaintiff Interinsurance Exchange of the Automobile Club, an interinsurance
exchange (“Plaintiff”), alleges that on or about March 28, 2018, (1) its
insured, Tina Trevino (“Trevino”), was the owner of a motor vehicle which was
insured under a policy of casualty insurance issued by Plaintiff and which
policy was in full force and effect which included insurance against the risk
of loss or damage to said motor vehicle; and (2) said vehicle was being
lawfully operated or parked along and upon certain public streets and highways
within the County of Los Angeles Central Judicial District when Defendant Susan
Diane Blackburn (“Susan”)[1]
negligently operated an uninsured vehicle that was owned by Susan and Defendant
Guy Paul Blackburn, III (“Guy” and collectively “Defendants”), causing a
collision that resulted in damage to Trevino in the amount of $31,260.68. The
Court notes that page 5 of the Complaint indicates that the incident occurred
on “E Ave T and Pearblossom highway, Palmdale 93552” despite the allegations
that the incident occurred within the County of Los Angeles Central Judicial
District.
 
On August 08, 2019, Plaintiff
filed its Complaint against Defendants for Subrogation Recovery.
 
On November 26, 2019, Defendants
were placed in default.
 
On March 03, 2021, the Court
entered a joint and several Judgment by default against Defendants.
On December 10, 2021, Plaintiff
filed an Affidavit of Identity and Order. 
 
On December 22, 2023, Guy filed
an Ex Parte Application to Vacate and Set Aside, Quash, Estoppel.
 
On December 22, 2023, the Court
held a hearing on the Ex Parte Application. The Court denied the Ex Parte
Application and set the matter for a regularly scheduled hearing.
 
On January 05, 2024, Guy filed a
Motion to Set Aside/Vacate Default.
 
On January 19, 2024, Plaintiff
filed its Opposition. 
 
No Reply has been filed. “. .
.[A]ll reply papers [shall be filed with the court and a copy served on each
party] at least five court days before the hearing.” (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §
1005(b).) “Section 1013, which extends the time within which a right may be
exercised or an act may be done, does not apply to a notice of motion, papers
opposing a motion, or reply papers governed by this section.” (Ibid.) The
hearing is set for February 20, 2024. February 12, 2024 and February 19, 2024
are court holidays. Accordingly, a Reply was due by February 09, 2024. Should a
Reply be filed, it is now untimely.
 
-----
 
Legal Standard
 
Standard to Set
Aside/Vacate Default and Default Judgment – “ ‘ A motion for relief
under section 473 is addressed to the sound discretion of the trial court and
an appellate court will not interfere unless there is a clear showing of an
abuse.’ ” (Burnete¿v. La Casa Dana Apartments¿(2007) 148 Cal.App.4th
1262, 1266.)¿ “Although a trial court has discretion to vacate the entry of a
default or subsequent judgment, this discretion may be exercised only after the
party seeking relief has shown that there is a proper ground for relief, and
that the party has raised that ground in a procedurally proper manner, within
any applicable time limits.” (Cruz v.¿Fagor¿America, Inc.¿(2007) 146
Cal.App.4th 488, 495.)¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿¿ 
Additionally, the California
Supreme Court has held the following:¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿¿ 
Section 473 is
often applied liberally where the party in default moves promptly to seek
relief, and the party opposing the motion will not suffer prejudice if relief
is granted. [Citations.] In such situations “very slight evidence will be
required to justify a court in setting aside the default.” [Citations.] [¶]
Moreover, because the law strongly favors trial and disposition on the merits,
any doubts in applying section 473 must be resolved in favor of the party
seeking relief from default. [Citations.] Therefore, a trial court order
denying relief is scrutinized more carefully than an order permitting trial on
the merits. [Citations.]¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿¿ 
(Elston¿v. City of Turlock¿(1985)
38 Cal.3d 227, 233-34.)¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿¿ 
Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 473(b)
permits the Court to “relieve a party or his or her legal representative from a
judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken against him or through
his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise or excusable neglect.”¿(Cal. Code
Civ. Proc. § 473(b).) “Application for this relief shall be accompanied by a
copy of the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed therein, otherwise
the application shall not be granted, and shall be made within a reasonable
time, in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment, dismissal, order, or
proceeding was taken.” (Id.)¿ 
 
-----
 
Discussion
 
Application – The
Court takes into consideration the moving papers filed for the Ex Parte
Application as well as Plaintiff’s new filing as the hearing set for February
20, 2024 resulted in scheduling the Ex Parte Application as a regularly
scheduled hearing. 
 
The first set of moving papers
(i.e., the Ex Parte Application) states that: (1) in January 2015, Guy released
liability as the vehicle and debt was not his at the time of the incident; and (2)
Guy presents that the California Department of Motor Vehicles (“DMV”) released
his license one month after suspending it due to the fact that the car was not
his and he had no responsibility. Guy attaches a transmission from the DMV
showing that on February 14, 2022, his driving was suspended due to this
action. The second page of the attachment, titled the Order of Reinstatement
and dated March 03, 2022, states: “The action taken against your driving
privilege under section(s) 16370 of the Vehicle Code (V.C.) has been set
aside under section 13551 effective February 18, 2022. You may keep your
present license. Department of Motor Vehicles” Guy further attaches the
Abstract of Judgment – Civil and Small Claims filing; a second copy of the DMV
Order of Reinstatement; and correspondence from GCC, a debt collector,
regarding the debt resulting from the default judgment.
 
The second set of moving papers
(i.e., January 05, 2024 filing) states that the car at issue is either a 2001
or 2007 Chevrolet Tahoe which has not been in Guy’s possession or registered in
Guy’s name since December 2014. Guy states that, to the best of his knowledge,
it has not been registered in anyone’s name since it was junked in February
2015 and that he has not had financial responsibility for the vehicle in over
nine years. Guy argues that the default judgment is inappropriate as Plaintiff
did not provide evidence such as photos, police reports, citations, witness
statements, proof of liability, etc. Guy requests the Court vacate and set
aside this default judgment. Guy attaches a copy of the Order of Reinstatement,
the Minute Order from December 22, 2023, the Abstract of Judgment – Civil and
Small Claims, and the Order of Suspension. 
 
Plaintiff presents that the
moving papers lack supporting documentation to show that the vehicle in
question was not registered to Guy and highlights that it received a
registration reporting indicating that the vehicle in question was registered
to Guy. Further, Plaintiff presents that (1) it complied with the statutory
requirement by personally serving Guy on September 08, 2019 at his residence;
(2) that mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect is not
applicable as Guy was aware of the action against him; (3) that this motion is
untimely as it has been brought 33 months after the entry of the default
judgment; and (4) alternatively, if this motion is brought under Cal. Code Civ.
Proc. § 473(d), there has been no showing of clerical error. 
 
Guy does not provide which
statute he is moving under. However, the Court is aware of the legal standard
set under Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 473. 
 
Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 473(a)
discusses amendment of the pleadings and is inapplicable.
 
Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 473(b)
provides:
 
The court may, upon
any terms as may be just, relieve a party or his or her legal representative
from a judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken against him or her
through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. Application
for this relief shall be accompanied by a copy of the answer or other pleading
proposed to be filed therein, otherwise the application shall not be granted,
and shall be made within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months,
after the judgment, dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken. However, in the
case of a judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding determining the
ownership or right to possession of real or personal property, without
extending the six-month period, when a notice in writing is personally served
within the State of California both upon the party against whom the judgment,
dismissal, order, or other proceeding has been taken, and upon his or her
attorney of record, if any, notifying that party and his or her attorney of
record, if any, that the order, judgment, dismissal, or other proceeding was
taken against him or her and that any rights the party has to apply for relief
under the provisions of Section 473 of the Code of Civil Procedure shall expire
90 days after service of the notice, then the application shall be made within
90 days after service of the notice upon the defaulting party or his or her
attorney of record, if any, whichever service shall be later. No affidavit or
declaration of merits shall be required of the moving party. Notwithstanding
any other requirements of this section, the court shall, whenever an
application for relief is made no more than six months after entry of judgment,
is in proper form, and is accompanied by an attorney’s sworn affidavit
attesting to his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect, vacate any
(1) resulting default entered by the clerk against his or her client, and which
will result in entry of a default judgment, or (2) resulting default judgment
or dismissal entered against his or her client, unless the court finds that the
default or dismissal was not in fact caused by the attorney’s mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or neglect. The court shall, whenever relief is granted
based on an attorney’s affidavit of fault, direct the attorney to pay
reasonable compensatory legal fees and costs to opposing counsel or parties.
However, this section shall not lengthen the time within which an action shall
be brought to trial pursuant to Section 583.310.
 
There has been no showing by Guy
of mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect as required by Cal.
Code Civ. Proc. § 473(b). Further, the documents filed by Guy do not include a
proposed pleading and do not fall within the six-month timeline provided by
statute as the judgment by default was entered approximately two years and 11
months ago on March 03, 2021. 
 
Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 473
provides for relief in another form in subdivision (d): 
 
The court may, upon
motion of the injured party, or its own motion, correct clerical mistakes in
its judgment or orders as entered, so as to conform to the judgment or order
directed, and may, on motion of either party after notice to the other party,
set aside any void judgment or order.
 
The judgment by default was not
entered due to a clerical error, but rather because Defendants did not answer
the Complaint. “ ‘A judgment or order is said to be void on its face when the
invalidity is apparent upon an inspection of the judgment-roll.’ ” (Dill v.
Berquist Construction Co. (1994) 24 Cal.App.4th 1426, 1441 [internal
citation omitted].) While Guy attempts to provide evidence that the judgement
is void in the form of the DMV’s Order of Reinstatement, there is no discussion
of the vehicle within the order of the reinstatement. Rather, the Order of
Reinstatement directs the parties to Cal. Veh. Code § 13551, which provides:
 
(a) Whenever the
department revokes or suspends the privilege of any person to operate a motor
vehicle, the revocation or suspension shall apply to all driver's licenses held
by that person, and, unless previously surrendered to the court, all of those licenses
shall be surrendered to the department, or, pursuant to Section 13388, 23612,
or 13382, to a peace officer on behalf of the department. Whenever the
department cancels a driver's license, the license shall be surrendered to the
department. All suspended licenses shall be retained by the department. The
department shall return the license to the licensee, or may issue the person a
new license upon the expiration of the period of suspension or revocation, if
the person is otherwise eligible for a driver's license.
 
(b) The department
shall return the license to the licensee, or may issue the person a new
license, whenever the department determines that the grounds for suspension,
revocation, or cancellation did not exist at the time the action was taken, if
the person is otherwise eligible for a driver's license.
 
The DMV has determined that some
basis exists for the determination that “the grounds for suspension,
revocation, or cancellation did not exist at the time the action was taken, if
the person is otherwise eligible for a driver's license.” (Id. at (b).)
However, it is not articulated by the DMV. Additionally, the Affidavit of
Identity and Order filed by Plaintiff shows that a 2007 Chevrolet, model
unknown, body type model utility was registered to Guy as recent as January 10,
2016. This contrasts with Guy’s moving papers which cite a 2015 date as the
last date of registration. There has also been no showing that the vehicle,
despite being potentially unregistered and junked could not have been driven or
involved in the alleged incident. 
 
The Court notes for clarity that
the judgment by default was supported by affidavits filed by Trevino, the
insured, which indicated under the penalty of perjury that Susan identified
herself at the scene and provided the registration for the vehicle and the
Custodian of Records for Plaintiff which includes the same vehicle registration
as presented in the Affidavit of Identity and Order filed by Plaintiff for
proof of ownership of the vehicle and the amount requested by the Complaint. 
 
Thus, the judgment by default is
not void on its face. 
 
Alternatively, to the extent that
Guy is moving under the equitable powers of the Court, the California Supreme
Court has held: 
 
·        
Equitable relief may be grounds for vacating a
default even if statutory relief is unavailable;
·        
While there is strong public policy favoring the
grating of relief and allowing the requesting party his or her day in court,
there is also strong public policy in favoring the finality of judgments and
only in exceptional circumstances should relief be granted; and
·        
The test for equitable relief is that the party
seeking relief must show (1) a meritorious defense; (2) a satisfactory excuse
for not presenting a defense to the original action; and (3) diligence in
seeking to set aside the default once it was discovered.
 
(Rappleyea v. Campbell
(1994) 8 Cal.4th 975, 981-82.) 
 
Guy has not shown a meritorious
defense, a satisfactory excuse for not presenting a defense to the original action,
and diligence in seeking to set aside the default once it was discovered.
 
Accordingly, the Motion to Set
Aside/Vacate is DENIED. 
 
-----
 
 
Conclusion
 
Defendant Guy Paul Blackburn
III’s Motion to Set Aside/Vacate is DENIED.


