 Case Number:  23AVCV01297    Hearing Date:   February 20, 2024    Dept:  A14 Background
 
This is a wrongful death action. Plaintiff
Lotus Marie Lim-Bardin, by and through her guardian ad litem, Angelina
Herrington, as successor in interest Tyler Bardin (“Plaintiff”), alleges that
on or about June 11, 2022, Tyler Barden (“Decedent”) was suffering from a
psychotic episode and showed up to his friends’ house unannounced, knocked at
their door, wandered around the property talking to himself, and told his friend
that his chest was bothering him. As a result of this, Decedent’s friend
allegedly called for an ambulance and Defendant Hall Ambulance Services, Inc.
(“Hall Ambulance”) responded. Plaintiff further alleges that Hall Ambulance’s
employees (1) notated that Decedent was walking around the property talking to
himself, had dilated pupils, appeared to be deranged, had a bounding radial
pulse, was in tachycardia, and had pale, warm, and dry skin; (2) was informed
that Decedent had recently taken fentanyl and it “messed with his head;” (3)
placed Decedent onto a gurney and secured him with straps, provided supportive
care, and set out for transport to Defendant Antelope Valley Healthcare
District, erroneously sued as Antelope Valley Medical Center (“AVHD”)’s
hospital; and (4) during transport Hall Ambulance’s employees asked Decedent if
he had any weapons and failed to vet Decedent’s response and/or search Decedent
or his effects for weapons. Plaintiff contends that AVHD failed to secure
decedent, conduct an assessment of Decedent’s mental state, and placed Decedent’s
bag, containing a gun, or allowed the bag to be placed on Decedent’s chest. Plaintiff
presents that Decedent took the fun from his bag and shot himself in the chest,
ultimately, dying from the incident. 
 
On February 16, 2023, Plaintiff
filed her Complaint alleging five causes of action for: (1) Medical Negligence,
(2) Negligence, (3) Dependent Adult Neglect/Abuse, (4) Survival Action, and (5)
Wrongful Death.
 
On May 02, 2023, Plaintiff filed
her First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) alleging five causes of action for: (1)
Medical Negligence; (2) Negligent Hiring, Retention, and Supervision; (3)
Dependent Adult Neglect/Abuse; (4) Survival Action; and (5) Wrongful Death. 
 
On August 04, 2023, the parties
entered into a stipulation for the Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”). Judge T.
Mark Smith signed the stipulation and ordered that the SAC was deemed filed as
of the date of this Order. The SAC alleges the same causes of action as the
FAC.
 
On September 01, 2023, AVHD filed
its Demurrer. 
 
On September 05, 2023, Hall
Ambulance filed its Demurrer with Motion to Strike.
 
On September 09, 2023, the action
was transferred, after a scheduled motion, to Superior Court of the State of
California, County of Los Angeles. 
 
On September 19, 2023, Plaintiff
filed her Opposition to Hall Ambulance’s Demurrer and Motion to Strike.
 
On September 25, 2023, Plaintiff
filed her Opposition to AVHD’s Demurrer.
 
On September 28, 2023, Hall
Ambulance filed its Reply to the Opposition to its Motion to Strike.
 
On October 02, 2023, AVHD filed
its Reply to the Opposition to its Demurrer. 
 
No Reply has been filed for Hall
Ambulance’s Demurrer. 
 
-----
 
Legal Standard
 
Standard for Demurrer – A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of
action.¿ (Hahn v.¿Mirda¿(2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) ¿When considering
demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in context.¿ (Taylor v.
City of Los Angeles Dept. of Water and Power¿(2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1216,
1228.)¿ In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of
the pleading or by proper judicial notice.¿ (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §
430.30(a).)¿A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic
matters.¿ (SKF Farms v. Superior Court¿(1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902,
905.)¿Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the
pleading or are judicially noticed.¿¿(Ibid.)¿¿The only issue involved in
a demurrer hearing is¿whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with
extraneous matters, states a cause of action.¿ (Hahn,¿supra,¿147
Cal.App.4th at 747.)¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
A general demurrer admits the truth of all
factual, material allegations properly pled in the challenged pleading,
regardless of possible difficulties of proof.¿¿(Blank v. Kirwan (1985)
39 Cal.3d 311, 318.)¿ Thus, no matter how unlikely or improbable, plaintiff’s
allegations must be accepted as true for the purpose of ruling on the
demurrer.¿¿(Del E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials Co.¿(1981) 123
Cal.App.3d 593, 604.)¿ Nevertheless, this rule does not apply to allegations
expressing mere conclusions of law, or allegations contradicted by the exhibits
to the complaint or by matters of which judicial notice may be taken.¿¿(Vance
v. Villa Park¿Mobilehome¿Estates¿(1995) 36 Cal.App.4th 698, 709.)¿A general
demurrer does not admit contentions, deductions, or conclusions of fact or law
alleged in the complaint; facts impossible in law; or allegations contrary to
facts of which a court may take judicial notice.¿¿(Blank,¿supra,
39 Cal.3d at p. 318.)¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
Pursuant to¿Code Civ. Proc.¿§430.10(e), the
party against whom a complaint has been filed may object by demurrer to the
pleading on the grounds that the pleading does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action.¿ It is an abuse of discretion to sustain a
demurrer without leave to amend if there is a reasonable probability that the
defect can be cured by amendment.¿¿(Schifando¿v. City of Los Angeles¿(2003)
31 Cal.4th 1074, 1082,¿as modified Dec. 23, 2003.)¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
-----¿ 
¿ 
Standard for a Motion to Strike – The court may, upon a motion, or at any time
in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant,
false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading. (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §
436(a).) The court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or
filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of
the court. (Id., § 436(b).) The grounds for a motion to strike are that
the pleading has irrelevant, false, or improper matter, or has not been drawn
or filed in conformity with laws. (Id. § 436.) The grounds for moving to
strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice. (Id.
§ 437.)¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
-----¿¿¿ 
 
Meet and Confer Requirement – Before filing a demurrer or a motion to strike, the demurring or moving
party is required to meet and confer with the party who filed the pleading
demurred to or the pleading that is subject to the motion to strike for the
purposes of determining whether an agreement can be reached through a filing of
an amended pleading that would resolve the objections to be raised in the
demurrer. (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §§ 430.41 and 435.5.) The Court notes that this
requirement has been met. (See Demurrer by AVHD, Decl. Ryan S. Riddles ¶¶ 3-5;
Demurrer by Hall Ambulance, Decl. Deborah S. Trop ¶¶ 3; Motion to Strike by
Hall Ambulance, Decl. Deborah S. Tropp ¶ 3.)
 
-----
 
Discussion
 
Application – 
 
i.       
AVHD’s Demurrer
 
Evidentiary Objections
– 
 
AVHD’s Objection No. 1 [Decl.
D.L. Rencher ¶ 5 (“Attached hereto as Exhibit 1 is Hall Ambulance Service,
Inc.’s Incident Report #22-00058501, with regards to Decedent TYLER BARDIN.”);
Exh. 1] – SUSTAINED. See Legal Standard, ante, for reasoning. 
 
AVHD’s Objection No. 2 [Decl.
D.L. Rencher ¶ 6 (“Attached here to as Exh. 2 is the Declaration of Angelina
Herrington on behalf of Lotus Marie Lim-Bardin, Successor-In-Interest to Tyler
Bardin, in Support of Plaintiff’s Second Amended Complaint.”); Exh. 2] – MOOT.
See Judicial Notice Section, infra. 
 
Judicial Notice – In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must
be apparent on the face of the pleading or by proper judicial notice.¿ (Cal.
Code Civ. Proc. § 430.30(a).) Plaintiff has not requested judicial notice of
the Declaration of Angelina Herrington on behalf of Lotus Marie Lim-Bardin,
Successor-In-Interest to Tyler Bardin. However, the Court itself may take
judicial notice of its records on its own volition. (See Cal. Evid. Code §§
452, 455.) The Court directs the parties to said filing with this tentative to
“afford each party reasonable opportunity to meet such information before
judicial notice of the matter may be taken.” (See Id. at § 455.) To the extent
necessary, the Court takes judicial notice of the Declaration of Angelina
Herrington on behalf of Lotus Marie Lim-Bardin, Successor-In-Interest to Tyler
Bardin, filed on September 19, 2023. The Court notes that Plaintiff’s
presentation of a September 18, 2023 filing date in the Memorandum of Points
and Authorities in Opposition to AVHD’s Demurrer is incorrect. (Compare Pl.’s
Opp. to AVHD’s Demurrer 9:4-6 to Declaration of Angelina Herrington on behalf
of Lotus Marie Lim-Bardin, Successor-In-Interest to Tyler Bardin p. 1 [filing
date and time of “9/19/2023 4:42 PM”].) The Declaration of Angelina Herrington
on behalf of Lotus Marie Lim-Bardin, Successor-In-Interest to Tyler Bardin does
not satisfy the requirements set out by Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 377.32 as it is
missing: (1) the date and place of Decedent’s death (see Cal. Code Civ. Proc.
§377.32(a)(2)), and (2) a certified copy of the decedent’s death certificate
(see id. at (c)). 
 
Discussion – 
 
a.      First Cause of Action (Medical Negligence)
 
AVHD argues that it did not have a duty to prevent Decedent’s suicide as
(1) a hospital’s duty to depends on whether a hospital has accepted the
responsibility to care for and attend to the needs of the suicidal patient, and
the physicians must be aware of the patient’s unstable condition; and (2) the
SAC is devoid of allegations that Decedent was admitted into AVHD’s hospital,
that a hospital-patient relationship existed, that care had been transferred to
AVHD, and that Decedent’s suicide was foreseeable. AVHD presents that, assuming
duty was adequately alleged, the SAC lacks allegations of conduct that would
fall below the standard of care and that AVHD had some indication that Decedent
would harm himself. AVHD also notes that the Complaint is uncertain because it
is unclear as to which allegations pertain to which defendant. Finally, AVHD
presents that it has statutory immunity under Cal. Gov. Code § 855.6.
 
Plaintiff argues that the scope of medical negligence is more general
that AVHD’s characterization. Plaintiff presents California case precedent holds
that hospitals have a duty to: (1) use reasonable care and diligence not only
in operating upon and treating but also in safeguarding him, and such care and
diligence is measured by the capacity of the patient to care for himself (citing
to Valentin v. La Societe Francaise de Bienfaisance Mutuelle (1946) 76
Cal.App.2d 1, 4) and (2) to observe and know the condition of a patient
as a hospital’s business is caring for patients and a hospital’s conduct must
be in accordance with that of a person of ordinary prudence under the
circumstances, a vital part of those circumstances being the illness of the
patient and incidents thereof (citing to Rice v. California Lutheran
Hospital (l945) 27 Cal.2d 296, 302.) Plaintiff argues that a liberal
construction of the SAC sufficiently pleads that Decedent was transported to
AVHD’s hospital and was being admitted as Hall Ambulance’s employees were
completing the intake process. Plaintiff further argues that (1) the demurrer
raises factual contentions that should go to the jury; (2) Cal. Gov. Code
§855.6 does not apply as commentary states it is for public health examinations;
(3) Cal. Gov. Code § 955.8 has exceptions and this action falls under an
exception.
 
AVHD, in its Reply, argues that
the SAC does not contain any allegations that AVHD undertook treatment of
Decedent, there is no support for the duty cited by Plaintiff within the SAC,
Plaintiff downplays the distinction between intake and admission, and Plaintiff
concedes that only intake was occurring at page 5 lines 9 through 12 of the
Opposition. Thus, the SAC fails to adequately allege that AVHD had a duty to
Decedent. AVHD reiterates that it has governmental immunity under Cal. Gov.
Code §§855.6 and 855.8.
 
“The elements of a cause of action for medical malpractice are: (1) a
duty to use such skill, prudence, and diligence as other members of the
profession commonly possess and exercise; (2) a breach of the duty; (3) a
proximate causal connection between the negligent conduct and the injury; and
(4) resulting loss or damage.” (Lattimore v. Dickey (2015) 239
Cal.App.4th 959, 968.) Whether a duty of care exists is a question of law for the
court. (Jones v. Grewe (1987), 189 Cal.App.3d 950, 954 [citing Wilson
v. All Service Ins. Corp. (1979) 91 Cal.App.3d 793, 796 and Raymond v.
Paradise Unified School Dist. (1963), 218 Cal. App. 2d 1,
8-9].)  
 
The SAC clearly outlines what alleged actions AVHD undertook that Plaintiff
believes constitutes a breach of duty in the Factual Allegations section. However,
in the First Cause of Action, it appears that all allegations are directed to
both AVHD and Hall Ambulance. It is unclear which alleged actions, or lack
thereof, pertain to which defendant. The two forms of duty that Plaintiff cites
are not integrated within the SAC. The issue of intake versus admission, which
establishes a hospital-patient relationship is a question of fact and, as such,
would be in the purview of the jury. However, this a demurrer and the
determination of triable issues of material fact are not at issue. The Court
directs the parties to its legal standard, ante, and highlights that a
demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action.
Assuming duty was adequately pled and a liberal construction of Paragraph 34
would encompass admission, statutory immunity remains a barrier to Plaintiff’s
claim. Cal. Gov. Code § 855.6 provides:
 
Except for an examination or diagnosis for
the purpose of treatment, neither a public entity nor a public employee acting
within the scope of his employment is liable for injury caused by the failure
to make a physical or mental examination, or to make an adequate physical or
mental examination, of any person for the purpose of determining whether such
person has a disease or physical or mental condition that would constitute a
hazard to the health or safety of himself or others.
 
The SAC alleges that the lack of examination occurred, lack of
assessment of Decedent’s psychological state, and a failure to search Decedent
during the intake and admission process, not for determining a course of
treatment. (See SAC ¶¶ 34, 48). 
 
Plaintiff focuses on only one segment of the Law Revision Commission
Comments in her argument; however; the full commentary reads: 
 
This section declares an immunity that has
been recognized by the New York courts in the absence of statute. It grants an
immunity for failure to perform adequately public health examinations, such as
public tuberculosis examinations, physical examinations to determine the
qualifications of boxers and other athletes, and eye examinations for vehicle
operator applicants. It does not apply to examinations for the purpose of
treatment such as are made in doctors’ offices and public hospitals. In those
situations, the ordinary rules of liability would apply.
 
The immunity provided by this section
relates only to failure to make any examination or, if an examination is
made, to the “adequacy” of the examination; the section does not provide
immunity, for example, where a public employee negligently injures a person
while making an examination.
 
(Cal. Gov. Code § 855.6 (Deering, Lexis Advance through the 2023 Extra
Session Ch 1, 2023 Regular Session Ch. 890) [emphasis added].)
 
Further, binding case precedent has discussed the legislative intent
behind the statute. Kravitz v. State of California (1970) 8 Cal.App.3d
301, 306-07 (“Kravitz”) holds that Cal. Gov Code § 855.6 was designed to
cover a situation in which, as a result of a faulty diagnosis, a
mentally-defective person was either not placed in custody or was released
therefrom and thereafter causes harm to another or to himself. (Kravitz, supra,
8 Cal.App.3d at 306-07.) Thus, in Kravitz, the statute created immunity
for the state and members of the medical staffs of two state hospitals named as
defendants in a wrongful death action brought by the parents of the victim of a
deadly assault by a man released by court order under former Cal. Pen. Code
§ 1026a, now Cal. Pen. Code § 1026.2 (which governed the release of criminals
committed for insanity), on the basis of defendants’ medical opinions that he
had recovered his sanity. (Id. [generally].) Accordingly, the immunity
would apply to this action as the SAC alleges that “[AVHD] failed to conduct an
assessment of Mr. Bardin’s mental state. . .As a result of the negligence of
DEFENDANTS, Mr. Bardin drew a pistol from his backpack and shot himself in the
chest, resulting in his death.” (SAC ¶¶ 35-36, 52.) 
 
Cal. Gov. Code § 855.8 provides:
 
(a) Neither a public entity nor a public
employee acting within the scope of his employment is liable for injury
resulting from diagnosing or failing to diagnose that a person is afflicted
with mental illness or addiction or from failing to prescribe for mental
illness or addiction.
(b) A public employee acting within the
scope of his employment is not liable for administering with due care the
treatment prescribed for mental illness or addiction.
(c) Nothing in this section exonerates a
public employee who has undertaken to prescribe for mental illness or addiction
from liability for injury proximately caused by his negligence or by his
wrongful act in so prescribing.
(d) Nothing in this section exonerates a
public employee from liability for injury proximately caused by his negligent
or wrongful act or omission in administering any treatment prescribed for
mental illness or addiction.
 
Alternatively, had the intake and admission encompassed diagnosis
Decedent, Cal. Gov. Code § 855.8 applies. The SAC makes clear that (1) no
public employee had undertaken to prescribe for mental illness, and (2) no
public employee had administered any treatment prescribed for mental illness as
the events unfolded during the intake and admission process (i.e., when
Decedent was being transferred from Hall Ambulance’s care to AVHD’s hospital). 
 
Accordingly, AVHD’s Demurrer to
the First Cause of Action (Medical Negligence) is SUSTAINED.
 
b.     
Third Cause of Action (Dependent Adult
Neglect/Abuse)
 
AVHD argues that the elements of
a cause of action for elder abuse are statutory and (1) Decedent is not a
dependent adult as defined by Cal. Welf. & Inst. Code §15610.23; (2) the
California Supreme Court made clear that the Elder Abuse Act requires a
substantial caretaking or custodial relationship involving ongoing
responsibility for one or more basic needs, with the elder patient and that
this standard applies to dependent adults and such a relationship is absent as
Decedent was still in Hall Ambulance’s care; and (3) the SAC lacks
particularized allegations to illustrate wrongful conduct on behalf of AVHD as
it uses conclusory language. 
 
Plaintiff argues that the SAC has
sufficiently pled dependent Adult Neglect/Abuse as: (1) the statute defines
neglect as failure to provide medical care for physical and mental health
needs, failure to protect from health and safety hazards, and failure of an
elder or dependent adult to satisfy any of the needs specified in paragraphs
(1) to (5) of Cal. Welf. & Inst. Code § 15610.57, inclusive, for themselves
as a result of poor cognitive functioning, mental limitation, substance abuse,
or chronic poor health; (2) the SAC pleads that Decedent was in AVHD’s
custodial care; (3) AVHD assumed a significant measure of responsibility in
order to tend to Decedent basic needs, and Decedent depended on Defendant to
meet those needs; (4) Decedent’s classification is an issue of material fact
and must be left to the jury; and (5) under Sababin v. Superior Court
(2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 81 (“Sababin”) a jury could find that AVHD’s
conduct, ignoring prior statements of Decedent’s derangement and failing to
implement safety measures for a person suffering a psychotic episode, shows
deliberate disregard of the high degree of probability that Decedent would
suffer injury and/or was reckless. 
 
In its Reply, AVHD argues that
the SAC does not contain any allegations that AVHD undertook treatment of
Decedent, there is no support for the duty cited by Plaintiff within the SAC,
Plaintiff downplays the distinction between intake and admission, and Plaintiff
concedes that only intake was occurring at page 5 lines 9 through 12 of the
Opposition. AVHD further argues that Sababin is readily distinguishable as
the decedent in Sababin was admitted to Covina Care Center; Covina Care Cetner
developed a care plan; and, regarding a motion for summary adjudication, the appellate
court held that a trier of fact must determine whether there is a significant
pattern of withholding portions or types of care. AVHD emphasizes that there
cannot be a significant pattern of withholding care as Decedent was not
admitted to AVHD at the time he shot himself.
 
Statutory interpretation is a
matter of law for the Court to decide. (See Christensen v. Lightbourne (2017)
15 Cal.App.5th 1239, 1251 [“'On questions of law arising in mandate
proceedings, [the court] exercise[s] independent judgment.' …. Interpretation
of a statute or regulation is a question of law.”]; In re J. W. (2002)
29 Cal.4th 200, 209 [“If there is no ambiguity in the language of the statute,
‘then the Legislature is presumed to have meant what it said, and the plain
meaning of the language governs.’ [Citation.] ‘Where the statute is clear,
courts will not “interpret away clear language in favor of an ambiguity that
does not exist.” [Citation.]’ [Citation.]”]; Hernandez v. Modesto Portuguese
Pentecost Assn. (1995) 40 Cal.App.4th 1274, 1280 [“Because liability in
this case turns upon a question of statutory interpretation, it is a question
of law for the court to decide in a summary judgment motion.”].)
 
Cal. Welf. & Inst. Code §
15610.23 provides:
 
(a) “Dependent
adult” means a person, regardless of whether the person lives independently,
between the ages of 18 and 64 years who resides in this state and who has
physical or mental limitations that restrict his or her ability to carry out
normal activities or to protect his or her rights, including, but not limited
to, persons who have physical or developmental disabilities, or whose physical
or mental abilities have diminished because of age.
 
(b) “Dependent
adult” includes any person between the ages of 18 and 64 years who is admitted
as an inpatient to a 24-hour health facility, as defined in Sections 1250,
1250.2, and 1250.3 of the Health and Safety Code.
 
The Complaint alleges that
Decedent’s symptoms were connected to fentanyl use, not a physical or mental
limitation that restricted his ability to carry out normal activities or to
protect his rights. (See SAC ¶¶ 31.) As such, Decedent does not fall under Cal.
Welf. & Inst. Code § 15610.23(a). The following definitions are applicable
to Cal. Welf. & Inst. Code § 15610.23(b) and this action:
 
·        
“ ‘General acute care hospital’ means a health
facility having a duly constituted governing body with overall administrative
and professional responsibility and an organized medical staff that provides
24-hour inpatient care, including the following basic services: medical,
nursing, surgical, anesthesia, laboratory, radiology, pharmacy, and dietary
services. A general acute care hospital may include more than one physical
plant maintained and operated on separate premises as provided in Section
1250.8. A general acute care hospital that exclusively provides acute medical
rehabilitation center services, including at least physical therapy,
occupational therapy, and speech therapy, may provide for the required surgical
and anesthesia services through a contract with another acute care hospital. In
addition, a general acute care hospital that, on July 1, 1983, provided
required surgical and anesthesia services through a contract or agreement with
another acute care hospital may continue to provide these surgical and
anesthesia services through a contract or agreement with an acute care
hospital. The general acute care hospital operated by the State Department of
Developmental Services at Agnews Developmental Center may, until June 30, 2007,
provide surgery and anesthesia services through a contract or agreement with
another acute care hospital. Notwithstanding the requirements of this
subdivision, a general acute care hospital operated by the Department of
Corrections and Rehabilitation or the Department of Veterans Affairs may
provide surgery and anesthesia services during normal weekday working hours,
and not provide these services during other hours of the weekday or on weekends
or holidays, if the general acute care hospital otherwise meets the
requirements of this section. . .” (Cal. Health & Saf. Code § 1250(a).) 
·        
"Inpatient" means a person who has
been admitted to a hospital, skilled nursing facility, or intermediate care
facility for bed occupancy for purposes of receiving inpatient services. A
person is considered an inpatient when he is formally admitted as an inpatient
with the expectation that he will remain at least overnight and occupy a bed,
even though it later develops that he can be discharged or that he is
transferred to another facility and does not actually use a bed overnight.
(Cal. Code Regs., tit. 22, § 51108 (Lexis Advance through Register 2024, No. 3,
January 19, 2024).)
 
Assuming a liberal construction of Paragraph 34 would encompass admission,
the SAC does not allow for a reasonable inference that Decedent was admitted
“with the expectation that he will remain at least overnight and occupy a bed,
even though it later develops that he can be discharged or that he is
transferred to another facility and does not actually use a bed overnight.” (Id.)
 
Under the facts alleged, Decedent
does not qualify as a dependent adult under Cal. Welf. & Inst. Code §
15610.23.
 
Accordingly, AVHD’s Demurrer to
the Third Cause of Action (Dependent Adult Neglect/Abuse) is SUSTAINED.
 
c.      
Fourth Cause of Action (Survivor Action)
 
AVHD presents that the survival
statutes do not create a cause of action, but rather prevent the abatement of a
decedent’s cause of action and provide for the enforcement of a cause
of action by the decedent’s
personal representative or successor in interest, citing San Diego Gas &
Elec. Co. v. Superior Court (2007) 146 Cal.App.4th 1545, 1553. AVHD argues
that the SAC fails as a whole and Plaintiff has not filed the requisite affidavit
or declaration under Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 377.32.
Plaintiff argues that she has
provided such a declaration and that her causes of action are sufficiently
pled.
 
The Reply does not appear to have
a direct argument tied to the Fourth Cause of Action (Survivor Action), but
rather addresses the SAC as a whole.
 
In a survival action, the damages
recoverable by a decedent's representative or successor in interest on the
decedent's Cause of Action are limited to the loss or damage that the decedent
sustained or incurred before death. Code of Civil Procedure Section 377.34. “The
survival statutes do not create a cause of action. Rather, ‘[t]hey merely
prevent the abatement of the cause of action of the injured person, and provide
for its enforcement by or against the personal representative of the deceased.’
(Quiroz v. Seventh Ave. Center (2006) 140 Cal.App.4th 1256, 1264.)
 
The Court directs the parties to
the Request for Judicial Notice section, ante. Plaintiff’s filed
declaration does not adhere to the requirements set out in Cal. Code Civ. Proc.
§ 377.32. Further, this cause of action is derivative of the Medical
Negligence, Dependent Adult Neglect/Abuse, and Wrongful Death actions which
fell to demurrer. (See analysis of First and Third Causes of Action, ante,
and analysis of Fifth Cause of Action, infra.)
 
Accordingly, AVHD’s Demurrer to
the Fourth Cause of Action is SUSTAINED.
 
d.     
Fifth Cause of Action (Wrongful Death)
 
AVHD presents that a wrongful
death action based on negligence must contain allegations as to all elements of
actionable negligence and that the alleged wrongful act was a contributing
factor to a decedent’s death. AVHD argues that the Complaint: (1) does not
state any facts that suggest a duty of care was owed to Decedent by AVHD, and (2)
that any act or admission directly attributable to AVHD would constitute a
wrongful act. 
 
Plaintiff applies her argument
for the Survivor Claim of Action as to the Wrongful Death action.
 
The Reply does not appear to have
a direct argument tied to the Fourth Cause of Action (Survivor Action), but
rather addresses the SAC as a whole.
 
The elements of the cause of
action for wrongful death are the tort (negligence or other wrongful act), the
resulting death, and the damages, consisting of the pecuniary loss suffered by
the heirs.” (Lattimore v. Dickey, supra, 239 Cal.App.4th 959, 968.)
“In any action for wrongful death resulting from negligence, the complaint must
contain allegations as to all the elements of actionable negligence.” (Novak
v. Continental Tire North America (2018) 22 Cal.App.5th 189, 195.) 
 
The SAC bases the Fifth Cause of
Action (Wrongful Death) on the negligence claim. (See SAC ¶ 83.) The SAC fails
to contain allegations as to all the elements of actionable negligence. (See ante.)
 
Accordingly, the Demurrer to the
Fifth Cause of Action (Wrongful Death) is SUSTAINED.
 
e.      
Leave to Amend
 
Leave to amend must be allowed
where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v.
Kennedy¿(1976), 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.)¿While under California law¿leave¿to
amend¿is liberally granted, “leave¿to amend¿should not be granted¿where, in all
probability, amendment would be futile.”¿(Vaillette¿v. Fireman's Fund Ins.
Co.¿(1993),¿18 Cal. App. 4th 680, 685).¿“A trial court does not abuse its
discretion when it sustains a demurrer without¿leave to amend¿if either (a) the
facts and the nature of the claims are clear and no liability exists, or (b) it
is probable from the nature of the defects and previous unsuccessful attempts
to plead that the plaintiff cannot state a claim.” (Cantu v. Resolution
Trust Corp.¿(1992)¿4 Cal.App.4th 857, 889.)¿¿¿
 
The First Cause of Action
(Medical Negligence) cannot be amended with a reasonable possibility of
successful amendment as the statute provides AVHD with immunity.
 
It is unclear whether Third Cause
of Action (Dependent Adult Neglect/Abuse) may be rectified. The Court has held
that, the SAC, currently, does not allow for a reasonable inference that
Decedent was admitted as an inpatient. (See ante.) To err on the side of
caution, the Court allows amendment. 
 
As to the Fifth Cause of Action
(Wrongful Death), it is currently based on the Negligence claim; however, a
wrongful death cause of action may be based on a wrongful act. Due to the
ability to amend the Third Cause of Action (Dependent Adult Neglect/Abuse), the
Court allows leave to amend for the Fifth Cause of Action (Wrongful Death).
 
The Fourth Cause of Action
(Survival Action) is a derivative claim. As two causes of action may be
amended, so too may the derivative claim be amended.
 
Accordingly, leave to amend is
given as to the Third Cause of Action (Dependent Adult Neglect/Abuse), Fourth
Cause of Action (Survival Action), and Fifth Cause of Action (Wrongful Death).
 
ii.     
Hall Ambulance’s Demurrer
 
a.      First
Cause of Action (Medical Negligence)
 
Hall Ambulance presents that the
existence of duty is to be determined by the Court and one of the Rowland
[v. Christian (1968) 69 Cal.2d 108] factors is foreseeability of harm to
the plaintiff and, here, it was entirely unforeseeable that Decedent would pull
a gun out of his backpack and shot himself. Hall Ambulance contends that the
SAC’s use of alleging that Decedent was deranged and that Decedent’s friend
claimed Decedent had recently taken fentanyl which messed with his head is not
enough to make it foreseeable to Hall Ambulance that Decedent had a weapon or
that he was inclined to harm himself or others with it. Hall ambulance presents
that a duty cannot be imposed on every paramedic and emergency medical
technician (“EMT”) in light of the fact that paramedics and EMTs are tasked
with responding promptly to medical emergencies and to search the contents of
an individual’s personal belongings would violate privacy rights. Hall
Ambulance concedes that the SAC contains a statement regarding duty in
Paragraph 37, but argues that this statement is conclusory as Plaintiff has not
alleged any facts to support the contention that Hall Ambulance reasonably
anticipated that Decedent had a firearm. Hall Ambulance further argues that
there is an issue with causation as Decedent’s actions are considered an
unforeseeable intervening act that severs the chain of causation between any
alleged negligence on behalf of Hall Ambulance and Decedent’s self-inflicted
injuries and subsequent death. 
 
Plaintiff emphasizes that she is
only required to set forth essential facts of her case with particularity
sufficient to acquaint a defendant with the nature, source, and extent of a
cause of action. Plaintiff argues the Hall Ambulance erroneously misconstrues
her burden, that she has supported her allegation of duty with the allegations
regarding Decedent’s psychotic episode and recent drug use, and whether the
incident was foreseeable is a question of fact that must be left to the jury to
decide. Plaintiff further emphasizes that Hall Ambulance failed to assess
Decedent’s mental state after being notified that he was “deranged” and had
possible homicidal or suicidal thoughts. Plaintiff presents that Hall Ambulance
should have conducted primary and secondary assessments of Decedent and/or
placed him on a 51/50 hold and whether Decedent followed the applicable
standard of care and whether Decedent was experiencing homicidal or suicidal
thoughts are questions for the jury. 
 
The Court does not consider the
arguments regarding whether there are triable issues of fact that should be
left to the jury and Plaintiff believes Hall Ambulance should have done as it
they are not within the scope of this Demurrer. Likewise, the application of
factors from Rowland v. Christian (1968) 69 Cal.2d 108 and a
determination of foreseeability is inappropriate as the issue on demurrer is whether the complaint states a cause of
action.¿The Court directs the parties to applicable legal standard, ante.
 
“The elements of a cause of action for medical malpractice are: (1) a
duty to use such skill, prudence, and diligence as other members of the
profession commonly possess and exercise; (2) a breach of the duty; (3) a
proximate causal connection between the negligent conduct and the injury; and
(4) resulting loss or damage.” (Lattimore, supra, 239
Cal.App.4th 959, 968.) Whether a duty of care exists is a question of law for the
court. (Jones v. Grewe (1987), 189 Cal.App.3d 950, 954 [citing Wilson
v. All Service Ins. Corp. (1979) 91 Cal.App.3d 793, 796 and Raymond v.
Paradise Unified School Dist. (1963), 218 Cal. App. 2d 1,
8-9].)  
 
In Canister v. Emergency
Ambulance Service (2008) 160 Cal.App.4th 388 (“Canister”), the Court
of Appeal held: “[a]s previously noted, courts have broadly construed
'professional negligence' to mean negligence occurring during the rendering of
services for which the health care provider is licensed.” (Canister, supra,
160 Cal.App.4th at 406 [questioned by Second District Court of Appeals regarding
duty as applied to the EMT driving an ambulance in Aldana v. Stillwagon (2016)
2 Cal.App.5th 1 in light of Flores v. Presbyterian Intercommunity Hospital
(2016) 63 Cal.4th 75 holding].) Canister held:
 
·        
“An EMT's operation of an ambulance qualifies as
professional negligence when the EMT is rendering services for which he or she
is licensed or when a claim for damages is directly related to the provision of
ambulance services by the EMT.” (Id. at 407.) 
·        
“An EMT similarly performs a number of tasks in
transporting a patient to a hospital, any one of which might result in a claim
of negligence.” (Id.) 
 
Here, the action is slightly
distinguished. At hand is not whether driving of the ambulance qualifies as
professional negligence, but rather failing to (1) assess Decedent’s mental
status, and (2) search Decedent’s belongings for weapons constitutes
professional negligence (labeled medical negligence in the SAC). The first is
clear – assessment of Decedent’s mental status, as alleged in the SAC, is
directly related to the provision of ambulance services rendered by EMTs. This
duty is also supported by the allegations in the SAC that Decedent was noted as
deranged because he was talking to himself and Hall Ambulance agents were
informed that Decedent had taken fentanyl. (See SAC ¶¶ 30, 31.) Thus, the
allegations support a reasonable inference that the duty to assess Decedent’s
mental state, as alleged in Paragraph 48, existed. The second, search of
Decedent’s personal belongings, is less clear. (See SAC ¶¶ 33, 48.) However, on
its face, this duty appears supported by the following allegations:
 
·        
“DEFENDANT HALL AMBULANCE placed MR. BARDIN onto
a gurney and secured him with straps, provided supportive care, and set out for
transport to DEFENDANT ANTELOPE VALLEY’S hospital, located at 1600 W. Avenue J,
Lancaster, CA 93534.” (SAC ¶ 32.)
·        
“While in transport, DEFENDANT HALL AMBULANCE,
through its EMTs allegedly asked MR. BARDIN if he had any weapons on him but
DEFENDANT HALL AMBULANCE failed to vet his response and/or search MR. BARDIN or
his effects for weapons before, during, and/or after transportation to ANTELOPE
VALLEY in the ambulance bay.” (SAC ¶ 33.) 
 
A reasonable inference of the
allegations supports that Hall Ambulance’s EMTs believed Decedent to pose some
level of danger to himself and others as (1) they strapped Decedent onto a
gurney when Decedent was able to walk on his own, and (2) they inquired as to
whether Decedent had a weapon. Thus, the allegations support some sort of duty
with regards to weapons as to Hall Ambulance’s EMTs. As pled, Plaintiff has
alleged a duty to check Decedent and his belongings for weapons and has
supported the allegation with alleged facts that show that Hall Ambulance’s
EMTs were concerned about Decedent’s safety to himself and others. 
 
Regarding causation, Hall
Ambulance’s arguments are, once again, outside the scope of this Demurrer. Whether
Decedent’s actions broke the chain of causation is more suited to a motion for
summary judgment as it attempts to argue the allegations. No matter how unlikely or improbable,
plaintiff’s allegations must be accepted as true for the purpose of ruling on
the demurrer.¿¿(Del E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials Co., supra,
123 Cal.App.3d 593, 604.)¿The allegations of causation are not unsupported
conclusions. Rather they are supported by the allegations discussed ante.
Thus, Plaintiff has pled (1) a duty to use such skill, prudence, and diligence
as other members of the EMT/paramedic profession commonly possess and exercise;
(2) a breach of the duty (lack of mental assessment and lack of searching for
weapons); (3) a proximate causal connection between the negligent conduct and
the injury (breach of duty caused injury); and (4) resulting loss or damage
(Decedent’s death).
 
Accordingly, Hall Ambulance’s Demurrer to the First Cause of Action
(Medical Negligence) is OVERRULED.
 
b.     
Second
Cause of Action (Negligent Hiring, Retention, and Supervision)
 
Hall Ambulance presents that its employees were not negligent and,
assuming they were, that Plaintiff has not established that such negligence
caused Decedent’s death, reiterating that the causal chain is broken by
Decedent’s suicide.
 
Plaintiff presents the same argument as in the First Cause of Action. Plaintiff
further highlights the legal standard of a demurrer and presents that she has
adequately pled the Second Cause of Action. 
 
As the First Cause of Action did not fall to demurrer, Hall Ambulance’s
first argument fails. The second argument concerns causation. The Court
reiterates that whether Decedent’s actions broke the chain of causation
is outside of the scope of this Demurrer and is more suited to a motion for
summary judgment as it attempts to argue the allegations of the SAC.
 
Accordingly, Hall Ambulance’s Demurrer to the Second Cause of Action
(Negligent Hiring, Retention, Supervision) is OVERRULED.
 
c.      
Third
Cause of Action (Dependent Adult Neglect/Abuse)
 
Hall Ambulance argues that it does not have the requisite custodial
relationship with Decedent to support a claim for dependent adult abuse; that
Plaintiff has failed to establish that Decedent qualified as a dependent adult
under the Elder Abuse and Dependent Adult Civil Protection Act (the “Act”);
that Plaintiff must demonstrate by clear and convincing evidence that a
defendant is guilty of something more than negligence (i.e., reckless,
oppressive, fraudulent, or malicious conduct), and the alleged actions do not
rise to the level of recklessness as required by the Act.
 
Plaintiff argues that the SAC has
sufficiently pled dependent Adult Neglect/Abuse as: (1) the statute defines
neglect as failure to provide medical care for physical and mental health
needs, failure to protect from health and safety hazards, and failure of an
elder or dependent adult to satisfy any of the needs specified in paragraphs
(1) to (5) of Cal. Welf. & Inst. Code § 15610.57, inclusive, for themselves
as a result of poor cognitive functioning, mental limitation, substance abuse,
or chronic poor health; (2) the SAC pleads that Decedent was in Hall
Ambulance’s custodial care; (3) Hall Ambulance assumed a significant measure of
responsibility in order to tend to Decedent’s basic needs, and Decedent
depended on Defendant to meet those needs; (4) Decedent’s classification is an
issue of fact that must be left to a jury; and (5) under Sababin v. Superior
Court (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 81 (“Sababin”) a jury could find that Hall
Ambulance’s conduct, ignoring prior statements of Decedent’s derangement and
failing to implement safety measures for a person suffering a psychotic
episode, shows deliberate disregard of the high degree of probability that
Decedent would suffer injury and/or was reckless. 
 
Statutory interpretation is a
matter of law for the Court to decide. (See Christensen v. Lightbourne (2017)
15 Cal.App.5th 1239, 1251 [“'On questions of law arising in mandate
proceedings, [the court] exercise[s] independent judgment.' …. Interpretation
of a statute or regulation is a question of law.”]; In re J. W. (2002)
29 Cal.4th 200, 209 [“If there is no ambiguity in the language of the statute,
‘then the Legislature is presumed to have meant what it said, and the plain
meaning of the language governs.’ [Citation.] ‘Where the statute is clear,
courts will not “interpret away clear language in favor of an ambiguity that
does not exist.” [Citation.]’ [Citation.]”]; Hernandez v. Modesto Portuguese
Pentecost Assn. (1995) 40 Cal.App.4th 1274, 1280 [“Because liability in
this case turns upon a question of statutory interpretation, it is a question
of law for the court to decide in a summary judgment motion.”].)
 
Cal. Welf. & Inst. Code §
15610.23 provides:
 
(a) “Dependent
adult” means a person, regardless of whether the person lives independently,
between the ages of 18 and 64 years who resides in this state and who has
physical or mental limitations that restrict his or her ability to carry out
normal activities or to protect his or her rights, including, but not limited
to, persons who have physical or developmental disabilities, or whose physical
or mental abilities have diminished because of age.
 
(b) “Dependent
adult” includes any person between the ages of 18 and 64 years who is admitted
as an inpatient to a 24-hour health facility, as defined in Sections 1250,
1250.2, and 1250.3 of the Health and Safety Code.
 
The Complaint alleges that
Decedent’s symptoms were connected to fentanyl use, not a physical or mental
limitation that restricted his ability to carry out normal activities or to
protect his rights. (See SAC ¶¶ 31.) As such, Decedent does not fall under Cal.
Welf. & Inst. Code § 15610.23(a). Regarding Cal. Welf. & Inst. Code §
15610.23(b), "inpatient" means a person who has been admitted to a
hospital, skilled nursing facility, or intermediate care facility for bed
occupancy for purposes of receiving inpatient services. A person is considered
an inpatient when he is formally admitted as an inpatient with the expectation
that he will remain at least overnight and occupy a bed, even though it later
develops that he can be discharged or that he is transferred to another
facility and does not actually use a bed overnight. (Cal. Code Regs., tit. 22,
§ 51108 (Lexis Advance through Register 2024, No. 3, January 19, 2024).)
Decedent is not an inpatient as to his time in Hall Ambulance’s care. Further, Hall
Ambulance does not qualify as a 24-hour health facility, as defined in Sections
1250, 1250.2, and 1250.3 of the Health and Safety Code as it is not a general
acute care hospital (Cal. Health & Saf. Code § 1250(a)), an acute
psychiatric hospital (id. at § 1250(b)), a skilled nursing facility (id.
at § 1250(c)), an intermediate care facility (id. at § 1250(d)), an
intermediate care facility/developmentally disabled habilitative (id. at
§ 1250(e)), a special hospital (id. at § 1250(f)), an intermediate care
facility/developmentally disabled (id. at § 1250(g)), an intermediate
care facility/developmentally disabled nursing (id. at § 1250(f)), a
congregate living health facility (id. at § 1250(i)), a correctional
treatment center (id. at § 1250(j)), a nursing facility (id. at §
1250(k)), a intermediate care facility/developmentally disabled-continuous
nursing (ICF/DD-CN) (id. at § 1250(m)), a hospice facility (id.
at § 1250(n)), a psychiatric health facility (id. at § 1250.2(a)), or a
chemical dependency recovery hospital (id. at § 1250.3(a)). 
 
Decedent does not qualify as a
dependent adult in light of Hall Ambulance’s position as an ambulance service.
 
Accordingly, the Demurrer to the
Third Cause of Action (Dependent Adult Neglect/Abuse) is SUSTAINED.
 
d.      Fourth
Cause of Action (Survivor Action) and Fifth Cause of Action (Wrongful Death)
 
Hall Ambulance presents that
these causes of action must fail as the other causes of action fell to
demurrer. 
Plaintiff provides that she has
standing, directing the parties to the Declaration of Angelina Herrington.[1]
Plaintiff argues that she had pled sufficient facts as to each cause of action.

 
In a survival action, the damages
recoverable by a decedent's representative or successor in interest on the
decedent's Cause of Action are limited to the loss or damage that the decedent
sustained or incurred before death. Code of Civil Procedure Section 377.34.
“The survival statutes do not create a cause of action. Rather, ‘[t]hey merely
prevent the abatement of the cause of action of the injured person, and provide
for its enforcement by or against the personal representative of the deceased.’
(Quiroz v. Seventh Ave. Center (2006) 140 Cal.App.4th 1256, 1264.)
 
The elements of the cause of
action for wrongful death are the tort (negligence or other wrongful act), the
resulting death, and the damages, consisting of the pecuniary loss suffered by
the heirs.” (Lattimore v. Dickey, supra, 239 Cal.App.4th 959, 968.)
“In any action for wrongful death resulting from negligence, the complaint must
contain allegations as to all the elements of actionable negligence.” (Novak
v. Continental Tire North America (2018) 22 Cal.App.5th 189, 195.) The SAC
bases the Fifth Cause of Action (Wrongful Death) on the negligence claim. (See
SAC ¶ 83.) 
 
As the Court stated, ante,
Plaintiff’s filed declaration does not adhere to the requirements set out in
Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 377.32. (See Judicial Notice section.) However, the
Survivor Cause of Action was not demurred by Hall Ambulance on that basis. As
is, the First Cause of Action (Negligence) has not fallen to demurrer and, as
it is properly pled, so too are the Fourth and Fifth Causes of Action.
 
Accordingly, Hall Ambulance’s
Demurrer to the Fourth (Survivor Action) and Fifth (Wrongful Death) Causes of
Action is OVERRULED.
 
e.       Leave
to Amend
 
Leave to amend must be allowed
where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v.
Kennedy¿(1976), 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.)¿While under California law¿leave¿to
amend¿is liberally granted, “leave¿to amend¿should not be granted¿where, in all
probability, amendment would be futile.”¿(Vaillette¿v. Fireman's Fund Ins.
Co.¿(1993),¿18 Cal. App. 4th 680, 685).¿“A trial court does not abuse its
discretion when it sustains a demurrer without¿leave to amend¿if either (a) the
facts and the nature of the claims are clear and no liability exists, or (b) it
is probable from the nature of the defects and previous unsuccessful attempts
to plead that the plaintiff cannot state a claim.” (Cantu v. Resolution
Trust Corp.¿(1992)¿4 Cal.App.4th 857, 889.)¿¿¿
 
As to Hall Ambulance’s Demurrer,
the only cause of action at issue for leave to amend is the Third Cause of
Action (Dependent Adult Neglect/Abuse). This cause of action cannot be
rectified by amendment as (1) Decedent does not qualify as a dependent adult
under Cal. Welf. & Inst. Code § 15610.23(a), and (2) Decedent does not
qualify as a dependent adult under Cal. Welf. & Inst. Code § 15610.23(b) as
he is not an inpatient and Hall Ambulance is not a 24-hour health facility, as
defined in Sections 1250, 1250.2, and 1250.3 of the Health and Safety Code.
 
Accordingly, leave to amend is
not given.
 
iii.    Hall
Ambulance’s Motion to Strike
 
Hall Ambulance seeks to strike
the following:
 
·        
“reckless” from Paragraph 69 of the SAC; and
·        
Plaintiff’s prayer for punitive damages; 
 
Hall Ambulance argues that
punitive damages are governed by Cal. Civ. Code § 3294, which requires a
showing of malice, oppression, or fraud, and Plaintiff has pled no facts that
support such a finding. Hall Ambulance highlights that Plaintiff has used
conclusory allegations and, as such, it is not enough to entitle Plaintiff to
punitive damages in this action. 
 
Plaintiff argues that the word
reckless is necessary to emphasize the nature of neglect that defendants administered
during their time with Decedent. Plaintiff further argues that she has properly
pled her Third Cause of Action (Dependent Adult Neglect/Abuse.) Plaintiff
further argues that this is an attempt to attack the SAC for insufficient
allegations as it claims the SAC is conclusory.
 
In Reply, Hall Ambulance
reiterates that the SAC’s language is conclusory, improper as to the SAC’s
Prayer for Relief, and should be stricken. 
 
Hall Ambulance’s Motion to Strike
is MOOT as (1) Hall Ambulance’s Demurrer to the Third Cause of Action has been
sustained, and (2) the basis for the punitive damages appears to be the Third
Cause of Action. (See SAC ¶ 69.)
 
-----
 
Conclusion
 
Defendant Antelope Valley
Healthcare District’s Demurrer is SUSTAINED in part without leave to amend as
to the First Cause of Action (Medical Negligence); SUSTAINED in part with leave
to amend as to the Third Cause of Action (Dependent Adult Neglect/Abuse),
Fourth Cause of Action (Survivor Action), and Fifth Cause of Action (Wrongful
Death). 
 
Defendant Hall Ambulance
Services, Inc.’s Demurrer is SUSTAINED in part without leave to amend as to the
Third Cause of Action (Dependent Adult Neglect/Abuse); and OVERRULED as to the
First Cause of Action (Medical Negligence), Second Cause of Action (Negligent
Hiring, Retention, and Supervision), Fourth Cause of Action (Survivor Action),
and Fifth Cause of Action (Wrongful Death).
 
Defendant Hall Ambulance
Services, Inc.’s Motion to Strike is MOOT.
 
Should Plaintiff Lotus Marie
Lim-Bardin, by and through her guardian ad litem, Angelina Herrington, as
successor in interest to Decedent Tyler Bardin, seek to pursue her causes of
action as successor in interest, a declaration that adheres to Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 377.32 must be filed.
 
Plaintiff Lotus Marie Lim-Bardin, by and through her
guardian ad litem, Angelina Herrington, as successor in interest to Decedent
Tyler Bardin must filed (1) an amended pleading, and (2) a declaration that
adheres to Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 377.32 within 30 days of
this Court Order.


