 Case Number:  23AVCV01232    Hearing Date:   February 20, 2024    Dept:  A14 Background This is a civil rights/discrimination action. Plaintiff David Greenstein (“Plaintiff”) alleges that on August 28, 2023, he was at the Arco AM/PM located at 41923 Sierra Highway in Palmdale, California, owned by Guar Enterprise, Inc. (“Guar”), when he sought to use the restroom and was told by an agent named Maggie that there was no public restroom available. Plaintiff further alleges he returned twice and (1) was told from an unknown source that the restroom was not available, but was being worked on; and (2) was told by some bikers that someone had overdosed on drugs in the restroom and the restroom had been welded shut. Plaintiff presents that, on the third time, after talking to the bikers, he returned inside the Arco AM/PM and confirmed the information with Maggie who informed him that the restroom door was welded shut several months ago. Plaintiff contends that lack of access to a restroom violates California law. Plaintiff alleges that Defendants Sanjay Guar, Seema Guar, and Sunny Guar are stockholders for Guar. On October 27, 2023, Plaintiff filed his Complaint alleging one cause of action for Violation of Unruh Civil Rights Act and the Americans with Disabilities (“ADA”) Act, Title III against B.P. America, Inc.; Guar; Sanjay Guar; Seema Guar; and Sunny Guar. On November 29, 2023, Defendants Guar; Sanjay “Sunny” Guar, erroneously sued as Sanjay Guar and Sunny Guar (“Sanjay”)[1]; and Seema Guar (“Seema” and collectively “Defendants”) filed their Demurrer. On December 06, 2023 and December 11, 2023, Plaintiff filed Oppositions. It appears that the first filing included a proposed First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) that had an unfinished header. Plaintiff’s Opposition requested leave to amend to file the FAC. On December 20, 2023, the Court held a Non-Appearance case review. Because a party may amend its pleading once without leave of court any time before an answer, demurrer, or motion to strike is filed, or after a demurrer or motion to strike is filed but before the demurrer or motion to strike is heard if the amended pleading is filed and served no later than the date for filing an opposition to the demurrer or motion to strike, and the Opposition with the proposed FAC was filed on the date the Opposition was due, the Court advanced and vacated the Demurrer. (See Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 427(a).) The Court ordered Plaintiff to separately file the Amended Complaint by January 01, 2024. On December 22, 2023, Plaintiff filed his FAC alleging one cause of action for Violation of Civil Rights against Guar, Sanjay[2], and Seema[3]. On January 25, 2023, Defendants filed their Demurrer. On February 05, 2024, Plaintiff filed his Opposition. No Reply has been filed. “. . .[A]ll reply papers [shall be filed with the court and a copy served on each party] at least five court days before the hearing.” (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 1005(b).) “Section 1013, which extends the time within which a right may be exercised or an act may be done, does not apply to a notice of motion, papers opposing a motion, or reply papers governed by this section.” (Ibid.) The hearing is set for February 20, 2024. February 12, 2024 and February 19, 2024 are court holidays. Accordingly, a Reply was due by February 09, 2024. Should a Reply be filed, it is now untimely. ----- Legal Standard Standard for Demurrer – A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action.¿ (Hahn v.¿Mirda¿(2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) ¿When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in context.¿ (Taylor v. City of Los Angeles Dept. of Water and Power¿(2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1228.)¿ In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or by proper judicial notice.¿ (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 430.30(a).)¿A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters.¿ (SKF Farms v. Superior Court¿(1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.)¿Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed.¿¿(Ibid.)¿¿The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is¿whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.¿ (Hahn,¿supra,¿147 Cal.App.4th at 747.)¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ A general demurrer admits the truth of all factual, material allegations properly pled in the challenged pleading, regardless of possible difficulties of proof.¿¿(Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.)¿ Thus, no matter how unlikely or improbable, plaintiff’s allegations must be accepted as true for the purpose of ruling on the demurrer.¿¿(Del E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials Co.¿(1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 593, 604.)¿ Nevertheless, this rule does not apply to allegations expressing mere conclusions of law, or allegations contradicted by the exhibits to the complaint or by matters of which judicial notice may be taken.¿¿(Vance v. Villa Park¿Mobilehome¿Estates¿(1995) 36 Cal.App.4th 698, 709.)¿A general demurrer does not admit contentions, deductions, or conclusions of fact or law alleged in the complaint; facts impossible in law; or allegations contrary to facts of which a court may take judicial notice.¿¿(Blank,¿supra, 39 Cal.3d at p. 318.)¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ Pursuant to¿Code Civ. Proc.¿§430.10(e), the party against whom a complaint has been filed may object by demurrer to the pleading on the grounds that the pleading does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.¿ It is an abuse of discretion to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if there is a reasonable probability that the defect can be cured by amendment.¿¿(Schifando¿v. City of Los Angeles¿(2003) 31 Cal.4th 1074, 1082,¿as modified Dec. 23, 2003.)¿¿ ----- Meet and Confer Requirement – Before filing a demurrer or a motion to strike, the demurring or moving party is required to meet and confer with the party who filed the pleading demurred to or the pleading that is subject to the motion to strike for the purposes of determining whether an agreement can be reached through a filing of an amended pleading that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer. (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §§ 430.41 and 435.5.) The Court notes that this requirement has been met. (See Decl. Elisa J. Stewart ¶¶ 4-5.)¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿----- Discussion Application – As an initial matter, the Court notes Defendants’ Demurrer requests “that this Court set aside the default and default judgment as void for lack of service.” (Demurrer 9:4-5.) No party is in default in this action. Defendants argue that there is a defect on the face of the FAC as Plaintiff does not allege a violation of the Unruh Act (“Unruh”) or ADA and cannot based on these facts. Defendants highlight that Plaintiff has alleged that nobody could access the restroom, therefore there was no discrimination. Defendants then cite case precedent holding that (1) a restroom that is closed off is not a public accommodation, and (2) a restroom that affects both disabled and non-disabled persons alike is not an ADA violation. Defendants further present that Sanjay and Seema cannot be sued at this time because Plaintiff’s claims are conclusory, so Plaintiff has not met his burden to set forth facts sufficient to establish a basis for piercing the corporate veil. Plaintiff highlights that a demurrer questions only the legal sufficiency of the allegations and not a plaintiff’s ability to prove them, thus, defendant must state ways in which the complaint is legally insufficient. Plaintiff argues that he is a prolific litigator and, if he sees a wrong, he will take action and is entitled to relief. Defendants present an argument regarding the names of Sanjay and Seema and piercing the corporate veil. A demurrer tests whether the complaint states a cause of action. Defendants, through their argument, request the Court sustain the Demurrer without leave to amend. However, this is not a basis for sustaining the Demurrer as it is distinct and separate from whether the FAC states a viable cause of action. It appears what Defendants are seeking is to strike the names of Sanjay and Seema as an improper matter or matter not drawn or filed in conformity of the laws of this state (see Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 436); however, no such request was made. As so no such request was made, no action will be taken by the Court. The allegations are such that: ·         Plaintiff is disabled (FAC ¶ 5),·         Plaintiff alleges that he was not allowed to use the restroom (FAC ¶¶ 10), and·         The restroom door was welded shut (FAC ¶ 14). As such, Plaintiff does not allege a discrimination action as the inability to use the restroom is alleged to have affected everyone at the Arco AM/PM. Thus, as alleged, there was no discrimination based on disability under 28 CFR § 36.105. (See also 28 CFR 36.101 [“The purpose of this part is to implement subtitle A of title III of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12181–12189), as amended by the ADA Amendments Act of 2008 (ADA Amendments Act) (Pub. L. 110–325, 122 Stat. 3553 (2008)), which prohibits discrimination on the basis of disability by covered public accommodations and requires places of public accommodation and commercial facilities to be designed, constructed, and altered in compliance with the accessibility standards established by this part.”][emphasis added].) Further, as to violations of law, the FAC reads: ·         “At all times herein mentioned, California law required that said AMPM ARCO provide public restrooms for the use of customers of said business.” (FAC ¶ 8.)·         “The welding of the bathroom door was an intentional act that violated the law since it deprived plaintiff and other customers of the right to use a bathroom as required by California law.” (FAC ¶ 13.)·         “The California Unruh Civil Rights Act provides that any violation of the ADA constitutes a violation of the Unruh and each instance of violation shall incur a penalty of at least $4,000.00 for each time he encountered said violation, which in this instance was three times, payable to plaintiff[].” (FAC ¶ 18.) There are no allegations that connect the violation of California law to the violation of the Unruh Act and/or the ADA. -----        I.            Leave to Amend Leave to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy¿(1976), 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.)¿While under California law¿leave¿to amend¿is liberally granted, “leave¿to amend¿should not be granted¿where, in all probability, amendment would be futile.”¿(Vaillette¿v. Fireman's Fund Ins. Co.¿(1993),¿18 Cal. App. 4th 680, 685).¿“A trial court does not abuse its discretion when it sustains a demurrer without¿leave to amend¿if either (a) the facts and the nature of the claims are clear and no liability exists, or (b) it is probable from the nature of the defects and previous unsuccessful attempts to plead that the plaintiff cannot state a claim.” (Cantu v. Resolution Trust Corp.¿(1992)¿4 Cal.App.4th 857, 889.)¿¿¿ The law favors substance over form. (See Cal. Civ. Code § 3528.) While Plaintiff has titled his FAC a complaint “for violation of civil rights,” the FAC includes allegations of violations of California law. Due to the sham pleading doctrine and Plaintiff’s current allegations, there is no viable way to amend the FAC with regards to the discrimination allegation as all persons could not use the restroom at the Arco AM/PM; however, there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment with regards to the alleged violation of California law. Accordingly, the Court allows leave to amend. ----- Conclusion Defendants Guar Enterprise, Inc., Sanjay Guar, Seema Gaur’s Demurrer is SUSTAINED with leave to amend as to the violations of California law. The Court directs the parties to its Statement of Decision for reasoning. Plaintiff David Greenstein is to file an amended pleading within 30 days of this Court Order.