 Case Number:  24STCV08365    Hearing Date:   November 13, 2024    Dept:  76 The following
tentative ruling is issued pursuant to Rule of Court 3.1308 at 12:41 p.m. on November 12, 2024.  
Notice of intent
to appear is REQUIRED pursuant to California Rule of Court 3.1308(a)(1).  The Court does not desire oral argument on
the motion addressed herein.  
As required by
Rule 3.1308(a)(1), any party seeking oral argument must notify ALL OTHER
PARTIES and the staff of Department 76 by 4:00 p.m. on November 12, 2024.
Notice to
Department 76 may be sent by email to smcdept76@lacourt.org or telephonically
at 213-830-0776. 
Per Rule of Court
3.1308, if notice of intention to appear is not given, oral argument will not
be permitted.            Defendants sell a product which exposes consumer to bisphenol
a (BPA) when they use Defendant’s case products, without a warning that
complies with Proposition 65, Health & Safety Code § 25249.5, et seq.
            Plaintiff
now moves for approval and entry of the consent judgment agreed upon by between
Plaintiff and Defendant Adir International, LLC.
TENTATIVE RULING
Plaintiff
Gabriel Espinoza’s motion to approve entry of the Consent Judgment is
GRANTED.
ANALYSIS
Motion To Approve Entry
of Stipulated Consent Judgment
Plaintiff moves for approval and
entry of the consent judgment entered into between Plaintiff and Defendant Adir International, LLC.
Health & Safety Code §
25249.7(f)(4) states:
 
(4) If there is a settlement of an
action brought by a person in the public interest under subdivision (d), the
plaintiff shall submit the settlement, other
than a voluntary dismissal in which no consideration is received from the
defendant, to the court for approval upon noticed motion, and the court
may approve the settlement only if the court makes all of the following
findings:
 
   (A) The warning that is required by the settlement complies
with this chapter.
 
   (B) Any award of attorney's fees is reasonable under
California law.
 
   (C) The penalty amount is reasonable based on the criteria
set forth in paragraph (2) of subdivision (b). 
 
(Health & Safety Code §
25249.7(f)(4).)
 
 
Health & Safety Code §
25249.7(b)(2) provides:
 (2) In assessing the amount of a civil penalty for a
violation of this chapter, the court shall consider all of the following:
   (A) The nature and extent of the
violation.
   (B) The number of, and severity
of, the violations.
   (C) The economic effect of the
penalty on the violator.
   (D) Whether the violator took
good faith measures to comply with this chapter and the time these measures
were taken.
   (E) The willfulness of the
violator's misconduct.
   (F) The deterrent effect that the
imposition of the penalty would have on both the violator and the regulated
community as a whole.
   (G) Any other factor that justice
may require.
(Health & Safety Code §
25249.7(b)(2).)
1.         Re: Any
warning that is required by the settlement complies with this chapter.

            A copy of
the Consent Judgment was presented to the Court. Pursuant to § 3.1 of  the Consent Judgment, beginning 90 days after
the Effective Date, Settling Defendant shall provide a clear and reasonable
exposure warning as set forth in §§ 3.1 and 3.2 as to all Covered Products
(defined in § 2.1) that Defendant manufacturers ,imports, distributes, sells,
or offers for sale in California.
The foregoing satisfies the warning
requirement set forth in Health and Safety Code § 25249.6[1]. As
such, this requirement is satisfied.
2.         Re: Any
award of attorney's fees is reasonable under California law.

            Health and
Safety Code, § 25249.7(f)(4)(B), at least implicitly, authorizes recovery of reasonable
attorney’s fees if there is a settlement. Plaintiff seeks to recover $38,000 as
reimbursement of attorney’s fees, expert and investigation fees and related
costs, to which Defendant has agreed. 
Consent Judgment, ¶ 4.2. Plaintiff indicates that approximately $87,000
in attorneys’ fees and costs were incurred, as set forth in the Declaration of
Evan J. Smith, ¶¶ 15 – 18; Exh. C thereto. The Court finds that the amount of
attorney’s fees is reasonable.
            This
requirement is satisfied.
3.         Re: Any
penalty amount is reasonable based on the following criteria.
Pursuant
to Health & Safety Code § 25249.7(b), Defendant will pay $4,000 to the
State of California Office of Environmental Health Hazard Assessment (“OEHHA”)
and Plaintiff as civil penalties. 75% will be paid to OEHHA and 25% will be
paid to Plaintiff. (Consent Judgment, § 4.1.)
Cal.
Health & Safety Code § 25249.7(b) sets forth the following factors to be
considered in assessing the amount of civil penalty:
a.         The
nature and extent of the violation and the number of, and severity of, the
violations.
            Plaintiff
indicates that users will be exposed to BPA by dermal exposure through direct
skin contact with the products. Per the Smith Declaration, ¶ 14, Defendant
reviewed its sales records and has advised Plaintiff that during the relevant
time period Adir sold fewer than one thousand units of the Products in
California sans an exposure warning. The retail sales  price of the Axessorize ProShield Plus iPhone
cases was $ 19.97; the Torras Upro Clear iPhone cases was $28.99; the Hover-1™
helmets with detachable visors was $59.99; the S/rech Matrix iPhone cases was $
19.97; the NimbusVapor Air 2 clear cases was $7.97; and the Incase hardshell
cases for MacBooks was $29.97.
            Given
the low per unit price and relatively low number of units sold, these factors
would suggest that a lower penalty amount would be reasonable. 
B.        The
economic effect of the penalty on the violator.
It
does not appear that $4,000 would have a detrimental effect on defendant. Given
the low per unit sale price, the $4,000 penalty should give Defendant an
incentive to comply with Proposition 65 in the future.
            This
suggests that the penalty amount is appropriate.
d.         Whether
the violator took good faith measures to comply with this chapter and the time
these measures were taken. 
Plaintiff
does not indicate whether Defendant took good faith measures and when. It
appears such measure only occurred after the Consent Judgment was entered into. 
e.         The
willfulness of the violator's misconduct.
Plaintiff
indicates that Defendant maintains that it did not intentionally ignore,
disregard, or violate Proposition 65. Once Adir was apprised of Plaintiff's
claims, it immediately took action to resolve the claims and make sure that,
going forward, there is no question that it complies with Proposition 65. There
is no indication that Defendant acted willfully in violating Proposition 65.
This
does not weigh for or against changing the penalty amount.
f.          The
deterrent effect that the imposition of the penalty would have on both the
violator and the regulated community as a whole.
The
$4,000 penalty is probably significant enough to deter both Defendant and the
regulated community as a whole. The Consent Judgment, if approved, will become a
matter of public record, which may serve as incentive for other companies to
comply with Proposition 65 to avoid payment of penalties.
g.         Any other factor that justice may require.           
            11 CCR §
3203 provides:
   Penalties will be evaluated
based on the factors set forth in the Health and Safety Code section
25249.7(b)(2). The following factors are "[other factors] which justice
may require" to be considered within the meaning of Health and Safety Code
section 25249.7(b)(2)(G):
 
(a) A settlement with little or no penalty may
be entirely appropriate. Civil penalties, however (75% of which must be
provided to the Department of Toxic Substances Control) should not be
"traded" for payments of attorney's fees.
            There does
not appear to be other factors which justice may require the Court to take into
consideration.
4.         Payments
to entity as “offset” to the civil penalty.
            The Consent Judgment does not call for any payments to an entity as
“offset” to the civil penalty. (11 CCR § 3203(d).)
Conclusion
            Given the
foregoing, the Court approves the amount of civil penalty.
Release Provisions
            Here, the public release is
specifically limited to Defendant’s Covered Products, and Plaintiff
individually released claims regarding the Covered Products. The scope of this
release is proper. (Consent Judgment, § 5.)
            In light of
the foregoing, the motion to approve entry of the Consent Judgment is GRANTED. 


