  Case Number:  22STCV29401    Hearing Date:   March 13, 2024    Dept:  74 Daryn Glenn v. City of Redondo Beach
 
Plaintiff’s Pitchess Motion.
 
BACKGROUND
            This action arises from an
employment dispute.
            On
October 21, 2022, Plaintiff Daryn Glenn (Plaintiff) filed a first amended
complaint (FAC) against Defendant City of Redondo Beach (Defendant). The FAC
alleges discrimination, harassment, retaliation, and failure to prevent
discrimination, harassment, and retaliation—all in violation of the Fair
Employment and Housing Act (FEHA).
            On
January 5, 2024, Plaintiff filed this motion for discovery of peace officer
personnel records and other documents (Pitchess Motion).
LEGAL STANDARD
            Information contained in a peace
officer’s personnel file is generally protected from discovery or disclosure.
(Pen. Code, § 832.7.) There is a two-step procedure for securing disclosure of
most peace officer personnel records. (Warrick v.
Sup. Ct. (City of Los Angeles Police Dept.) (2005) 35 Cal.4th 1011, 1019.) 

            First,
the party seeking disclosure must file a motion that identifies the peace
officer, the agency in possession of the records, a description of the records,
and who is seeking the records, as well as the time and place of the hearing.
(Evid. Code, § 1043, subd. (b)(1).) The motion must include a declaration
showing good cause for disclosure of the records, setting forth the materiality
of the records, and stating upon reasonable belief that the governmental agency
has the requested documents. (Evid. Code, § 1043, subd. (b)(3).) To that end,
the party seeking the records must demonstrate “a plausible factual foundation”
for how the records are material to the subject matter of the pending
litigation. (Warrick v. Sup. Ct. (City of Los Angeles Police Dept.), supra, 35
Cal.4th at p. 1025.) In this context, materiality means the records sought are
admissible or may lead to discovery of admissible evidence. (Richardson v.
Superior Court (2008) 43 Cal.4th 1040, 1048-1049.) 
            Second,
if the court finds good cause, an in-camera hearing must be held. (Slayton
v. Sup.Ct. (Slayton) (2006) 146 Cal.App.4th 55, 61.) After personally
examining the records in-camera, the trial court shall order disclosure of
peace officer personnel records that are relevant to the subject matter
involved in the pending litigation. (People v. Mooc, supra, 26 Cal.4th
at p. 1226.) If disclosure is ordered, the court must also order that the
disclosed information may not be used for any purpose other than a court
proceeding under applicable law. (Alford v. Sup.Ct. (People) (2003)
Cal.4th 1033, 1039-1040.) The court may also issue a protective order. (Evid.
Code, § 1045, subd. (d).) 
DISCUSSION
            Plaintiff seeks disclosure of peace
officer personnel records concerning two of Defendant’s employees (The
Employees) who allegedly harassed and discriminated against Plaintiff based on
her sex, gender, and disability. As a preliminary matter, the court finds that
Plaintiff has satisfied the applicable procedural requirements for this motion.
In addition, Plaintiff has stated upon reasonable belief that Defendant has the
requested documents. (Oliver Decl., ¶ 23; Evid. Code, § 1043, subd. (b)(3).)
Accrordingly, the court will address whether Plaintiff has demonstrated good
cause for disclosure, such that an in-camera hearing is warranted.
            Request
Nos. 1 & 2
            Plaintiff’s first request seeks
documents related to Defendant’s internal investigation resulting from
Plaintiff’s pursuit of this action. The second request seeks documents related
to Defendant’s internal investigation resulting from Plaintiff’s claim filed
with the Department of Fair Employment and Housing (now known as the California
Civil Rights Department). In Plaintiff’s supporting declaration, Plaintiff
alleges in part that two of Defendant’s employees harassed and discriminated
against Plaintiff based on her sex, gender, and disability. (Oliver Decl., ¶¶
7, 10, 11.) According to Plaintiff, documents related to Defendant’s internal
investigations are material because they will help Plaintiff prove her claim
that Defendant condoned and ratified the discrimination and harassment by
failing to implement sufficient corrective measures. (Oliver Decl., ¶¶ 17, 18.)
Defendant has agreed to disclose three relevant internal investigations.
(Opposition, pp. 7:11-16, 11:22-26, 11:28-12:4.) 
            However,
Defendant objects that some of the documents sought are protected by the
attorney-client privilege and attorney work-product doctrine. If so, these
documents would not be admissible or lead to the discovery of admissible
evidence, as required for a showing of materiality in this context. (Richardson
v. Superior Court, supra, 43 Cal.4th at pp. 1048-1049.) Plaintiff in turn
argues Defendant waived these privileges by placing the adequacy of internal
investigations at issue in its fourteenth, fifteenth, twenty-second, and twenty
third affirmative defenses. (See Wellpoint Health Networks, Inc. v. Superior
Court (1997) 59 Cal.App.4th 110, 128.) None of the affirmative defenses
expressly state Defendant’s internal investigations were adequate, though.
(Answer, pp. 4-5, 6.) Thus, Plaintiff has demonstrated
good cause for an in-camera review of documents related to the internal
investigations, but only those documents not protected by the attorney-client
privilege and attorney work-product doctrine.[1]
            Request
No. 3
            Plaintiff’s third request seeks
documents related to internal investigations Defendant conducted due to citizen
complaints that Defendant’s employees engaged in gender or sex-based
harassment, discrimination, or retaliation from October 2016 until October 2021.
Importantly, this request pertains to the same employees who allegedly wronged Plaintiff.
In her supporting declaration, Plaintiff alleges in part that two of
Defendant’s employees harassed and discriminated against Plaintiff based on her
sex, gender, and disability. (Oliver Decl., ¶¶ 7, 10, 11.) According to
Plaintiff, documents related to these internal investigations are material
because they will help Plaintiff prove that Defendant condoned and ratified the
discrimination and harassment by failing to implement sufficient corrective
measures. (Oliver Decl., ¶¶ 17, 18.) This is more
likely if Defendant had a pattern or practice of such conduct. That is, Defendant
failed on multiple occasions to sufficiently investigate the employees at issue
for similar FEHA violations against people other than Plaintiff. (Oliver Decl.,
¶ 18.) 
            For
its part, Defendant has agreed to track down any relevant investigations to the
extent they exist. (Opposition, p. 8:5-12.) But the court finds that Defendant’s
objection on the grounds of attorney-client privilege and attorney work-product
doctrine applies to this request as well. Moreover, Defendant has not waived
these privileges. Defendant also objects that the documents related to these
investigations are immaterial because they concern misconduct by Defendant’s
employees, not Defendant itself. In addition, Defendant objects that Plaintiff
has failed to demonstrate why investigations resulting from citizen complaints
from October 2016 until October 2021 are material. The court disagrees, as the
records sought could establish Defendant’s practice of condoning or ratifying
the employees’ misconduct. Thus, Plaintiff has demonstrated good cause for an
in-camera review of documents related to the internal investigations, but only
those documents not protected by the attorney-client privilege and attorney
work-product doctrine.
            Request
No. 4
            This request seeks documents related
to Defendant’s internal investigation resulting from Plaintiff’s complaint that
the employees discriminated, harassed, or retaliated against her based on her
sex or gender and disability. In Plaintiff’s supporting declaration, Plaintiff
alleges in part that Defendant’s employees harassed and discriminated against
Plaintiff based on her sex, gender, and disability. (Oliver Decl., ¶¶ 7, 10,
11.) According to Plaintiff, documents related to Defendant’s internal
investigation are material because they will help Plaintiff prove her claim
that Defendant condoned and ratified the discrimination and harassment by
failing to implement sufficient corrective measures. (Oliver Decl., ¶¶ 17, 18.)
       
            Defendant
in turn objects that this request duplicates Request Nos. 1 and 2. The court
disagrees, as Defendant could have conducted this investigation before
Plaintiff filed her claim with the California Civil Rights Department and
initiated this action. Defendant also objects that the documents related to
these investigations are immaterial because they concern misconduct by
Defendant’s employees, not Defendant itself. But Plaintiff aims to prove
Defendant condoned and ratified the employees’ alleged misconduct. The court
finds that Defendant’s objection on the grounds of
attorney-client privilege and attorney work-product doctrine applies to this
request, though. Moreover, Defendant has not waived these privileges. Thus,
Plaintiff has demonstrated good cause for an in-camera review of documents
related to this internal investigation, but only those documents not protected
by the attorney-client privilege and attorney work-product doctrine.
            Request
Nos. 5 & 6
            These requests seek documents related
to citizen and non-citizen complaints that the employees engaged in
discrimination, harassment, or retaliation from October 2016 until October 2021.
In her supporting declaration, Plaintiff alleges in part that Defendant’s
employees harassed and discriminated against Plaintiff based on her sex or
gender and disability. (Oliver Decl., ¶¶ 7, 10, 11.) According to Plaintiff,
documents related to these complaints are material because they will help
Plaintiff prove her claims that Defendant condoned and ratified the
discrimination and harassment by failing to implement sufficient corrective
measures. (Oliver Decl., ¶¶ 17, 18.) This is more likely if Defendant had a
pattern or practice of such conduct. That is, Defendant failed on multiple
occasions to sufficiently investigate the employees at issue for similar FEHA violations
against other people. (Oliver Decl., ¶ 18.) For example, the employees’
continued employment despite numerous citizen and non-citizen complaints could
suggest a pattern or practice on Defendant’s part.
            In
response, Defendant raises several improper boilerplate objections. (Korea
Data Systems Co. v. Superior Court (1997) 51 Cal.App.4th 1513, 1516.) But
Defendant clarifies that these requests are irrelevant and overbroad because
they are not limited to complaints against the employees about discrimination,
harassment, and retaliation based on sex or gender and disability, as Plaintiff
alleges in this action. Even so, the citizen and non-citizen complaints could
help Plaintiff prove that Defendant engaged in a practice of condoning the
employees’ FEHA violations against people other than Plaintiff. This in turn
could bolster Plaintiff’s contention that Defendant condoned sufficiently
similar FEHA violations against her.
            Additionally,
Defendant objects that the citizen and non-citizen complaints are immaterial
because they concern misconduct by Defendant’s employees, not Defendant itself.
Defendant also objects that Plaintiff has failed to demonstrate why complaints
from October 2016 until October 2021 are material. But the court has already
found these objections unavailing. The court notes, though, that Defendant’s
objection on the grounds of attorney-client privilege and attorney work-product
doctrine may apply to this request. Moreover, Defendant has not waived these
privileges. Thus, Plaintiff has demonstrated good cause for an in-camera review
of documents related to the complaints by citizens and non-citizens, but only
those documents not protected by the attorney-client privilege and attorney
work-product doctrine.
            Request
Nos. 7 & 8
            Plaintiff’s seventh request seeks
documents related to citizen complaints and resulting investigations that
pertain to the employees’ dishonesty, lack of credibility, or use of excessive
force from October 2016 until October 2021. The eighth request seeks documents
related to non-citizen complaints and resulting investigations that pertain to
the employees’ dishonesty, lack of credibility, or use of excessive force from
October 2016 until October 2021. However, Plaintiff has not persuaded the court
that the information sought is material to Plaintiff’s claims for
discrimination, harassment, and retaliation. In her supporting declaration,
though, Plaintiff also claims this information could help her attack the
credibility of the employees if they are witnesses at trial. (Oliver Decl., ¶
19.) But “[m]aterials from an officer’s personnel file reflecting dishonesty or
nonfelony acts of moral turpitude do not become discoverable simply because a
[party] argues that the officer will testify and might testify falsely.” (Eulloqui
v. Superior Court (2010) 181 Cal.App.4th 1055, 1064.) Thus, Plaintiff has
not demonstrated good cause for an in-camera review of these documents.
CONCLUSION
                The court grants Plaintiff’s motion
in part. At the hearing, the court shall set a date for the court’s in
camera review.
            Plaintiff
shall give notice.


