  Case Number:  23STCV02602    Hearing Date:   March 13, 2024    Dept:  50  
 
Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 50
 



CENTRAL METAL, INC.,
  et al.
 
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
HOPE YS KIM, et
  al.
 
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


 
  23STCV02602




Hearing Date:


March 13, 2024




Hearing Time:


10 a.m.




[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE:  
 
CENTRAL METAL,
  INC.’S DEMURRER TO SECOND AMENDED CROSS-COMPLAINT FOR DAMAGES FILED BY J
  & I CONSULTING, INC.




AND RELATED CROSS-ACTION


 



            
Background
Plaintiffs Central Metal, Inc. (“CMI”) and Jong Uk Byun
(“Byun”) (jointly, “Plaintiffs”) filed this action on February 6, 2023 against
Defendants Hope YS Kim, Jason Kim, Young M. Kim, J&I Consulting,
Inc. (“J&I Consulting”), and SA Recycling LLC. The Complaint alleges causes
of action for (1) breach of fiduciary duty, (2) fraud, (3) constructive fraud, 
(4) professional negligence, (5) violation of Business and Professions Code section 17200, 
(6) financial elder abuse, (7) civil
conspiracy, (8) conversion, (9) violation of Penal Code
section 496, and (10) aiding and abetting. 
On April 10, 2023,
J&I Consulting filed a Cross-Complaint against CMI and Byun. J&I
Consulting filed a First Amended Cross-Complaint (“FACC”) on June 2, 2023,
alleging causes of action for (1) breach of contract and (2) fraud – promise
with no intent to perform. 
CMI demurred to both of
the causes of action of the FACC. On November 1, 2023 the Court issued a minute
order providing, inter alia, that “The CENTRAL METAL, INC.’S NOTICE OF
DEMURRER AND DEMURRER TO FIRST AMENDED CROSS-COMPLAINT FOR DAMAGES FILED BY J
& I CONSULTING, INC. [Hrg: 11/1/2023; Res. ID: 311493182073] filed by Jong
Uk Byun, Central Metal, Inc. on 07/19/2023 is Sustained in Part.” 
On November 27, 2023,
J&I Consulting filed the operative Second Amended Cross-Complaint (“SACC”),
alleging causes of action for (1) breach of contract, and (2) fraud – promise
with no intent to perform. On December 6, 2023, J&I Consulting filed a
Notice of Errata stating that “[t]hough Defendant/Cross-Complainant’s Second
Amended Cross-Complaint filed on November 27, 2023 (‘Cross-Complaint’) makes
references to Exhibit ‘A,’ the said exhibit was erroneously left out when
filing. The correct document for Exhibit ‘A’ is the ‘Consulting Agreement’ and
should have been attached to the Cross-Complaint. The attached Exhibit ‘A’
entitled the ‘Consulting Agreement’ dated December 21, 2019 should serve as
Exhibit ‘A’ to the Cross-Complaint.” (J&I Consulting’s December 6, 2023
Notice of Errata, p. 2:4-9.) 
CMI now demurs to both
causes of action of the SACC. J&I Consulting opposes. 
Request for Judicial
Notice 
The Court grants CMI’s request for judicial
notice. 
Discussion
A.    Legal Standard
A demurrer can be used
only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack
or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. ((Blank
v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311,
318.) “To survive a demurrer, the
complaint need only allege facts sufficient to state a cause of action; each
evidentiary fact that might eventually form part of the plaintiff’s proof need
not be alleged.” ((C.A. v. William S. Hart
Union High School Dist. (2012) 53
Cal.4th 861, 872.) For the purpose of testing the
sufficiency of the cause of action, the demurrer admits the truth of all material facts properly pleaded. ((Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 966-967.) A demurrer “does not admit contentions, deductions or conclusions
of fact or law.” ((Daar v. Yellow Cab Co. (1967) 67 Cal.2d 695, 713.) 
B.    Allegations of the SACC  
In the SACC, J&I Consulting alleges that “Byun was the owner of
the real property located at 8201 Santa Fe Avenue, Huntington Park, CA (‘Property’).”
(SACC, ¶ 9.) Byun was the owner of a company known as Central Metal, Inc.
(SACC, ¶ 10.) 
“On or about December 21, 2019, Cross-Complainant and Cross-Defendants
entered into a written Consulting Agreement (“Agreement”) wherein
Cross-Complainant agreed to provide consulting services concerning the sale of
real estate, business entity and equipment located at 8201 Santa Fe Avenue,
Huntington Park, CA.” (SACC, ¶ 11.) “[T]he Agreement provided that ‘[i]n the
event that the sale of real estate, business entity, and equipment, etc.
specified in this Agreement is successfully completed, President Byun shall pay
4% of the total sales price to J&I through the escrow company at the close
of escrow in return for J&I’s consulting services.’” (SACC, ¶ 13.) J&I
Consulting alleges that “[a]t all times relevant herein, Cross-Complainant
never acted as Cross-Defendant’s real estate broker or salesperson other than
in consulting capacity.” (SACC, ¶ 12.) 
J&I Consulting alleges that “[o]n or about December 31, 2021, the
Property was sold by Cross-Defendant Jong Uk Byun to a third party, and the
sales price was $35,150,000.00.” (SACC, ¶ 14.) J&I consulting alleges that
“[o]n or about December 31, 2021, Cross-Defendant Byun breached the Agreement
by failing to pay the 4% consulting fee to Cross-Complainant.” (SACC, ¶ 15.) 
J&I Consulting further alleges that “[o]n or about December 21,
2019, Cross-Defendant Byun made the promise that in the event that Property was
sold by Cross-Defendant Byun, Cross-Defendant Byun would pay 4% of the sales
price of the Property in the event that the Property was sold,” and that “[t]he
aforesaid promises of Cross-Defendant Byun were false and Cross-Defendant Byun,
at the time the promises were made, had no intention of fulfilling his promise.”
(SACC, ¶¶ 20, 23.) J&I Consulting alleges that “the true intent behind the
promise was to obtain as much consulting services of Cross-Complainant as
possible, to sell the Property using the information and services received from
Cross-Complainant and not pay Cross-Complainant once the Property was sold.”  (SACC, ¶ 24.) 
C.    First and Second
Causes of Action 
CMI asserts that its demurrer should be sustained as to both causes of
action of the SACC because J&I lacks standing. More specifically, CMI
asserts that “[t]he SACC pleads two causes of action, both of which arise out
of one alleged wrong: J&I’s alleged entitlement to a real estate commission
payment left unpaid by Cross-Defendant, pursuant to an Agreement attached as
Exhibit A…J&I is not a California licensed real estate broker and thus has
no standing to assert the claims pled…This deficiency has not been cured and
the action must therefore be dismissed.” (Demurrer at p. 6:3-8.) 
CMI cites to Phillippe v. Shapell Indus. (1987) 43 Cal.3d 1247,
1267, where the
California Supreme Court noted that “[o]nly those persons licensed by the California Department of
Real Estate may lawfully act as real estate brokers in this state. ((Bus. & Prof. Code, § 10130.) To bring an action to
recover a real estate commission, a broker must plead and prove that he was
duly licensed at the time his cause of action arose. (Bus.
& Prof. Code, § 10136.) The effect of these laws is obvious -- only a
person duly licensed may earn and recover compensation as a real estate broker.” Pursuant to Business and
Professions Code section 10136, “[n]o person engaged in the business or acting in
the capacity of a real estate broker or a real estate salesperson within this
state shall bring or maintain any action in the courts of this state for the
collection of compensation for the performance of any of the acts mentioned in
this article without alleging and proving that he or she was a duly licensed
real estate broker or real estate salesperson at the time the alleged cause of
action arose.” 
CMI asserts that here, “absent from
J&I’s pleading is any allegation that they were a duly licensed real estate
broker at the time of the sale of the Property.” (Demurrer at p. 7:1-2,
emphasis omitted) In addition, Exhibit “E” to CMI’s request for judicial notice
is the results of a search on the California Department of Real Estate website
for “Public License Information.” (CMI’s RJN, Ex. E.) CMI’s Exhibit “E” states,
inter alia, that “[n]o matching public record was found for Licensee: J
& I CONSULTING, INC…” (Ibid.) 
CMI also asserts that the causes of action are “barred as the
commission agreement that serves as the basis for both claims was not made in
the name of a licensed broker.” (Demurrer at p. 7:8-9.) CMI notes that the SACC
alleges that “Cross-Complainant entered into the Agreement with Cross-Defendant
Byun and spent hundreds of hours performing Cross-Complainant’s obligations
under the Agreement.” (SACC, ¶ 21.) 
CMI further notes that the “Consulting Agreement” attached to the SACC
provides, inter alia, that “[t]he scope and contents of consulting to be
provided by J&I to President Byun are as follows…b. Negotiations with
buyers who will purchase real estate, business entity, equipment, etc.
specified in this Agreement…” (SACC, ¶ 11, Ex. A; See Notice of Errata,
Ex. A.) CMI asserts that “[t]his category of service falls squarely within
those listed…under Business and Professions Code
section 10131(a), requiring a real estate broker’s license.” (Demurrer at
p. 8:12-13.) Business and Professions Code section
10131, subdivision (a) provides that “[a] real
estate broker within the meaning of this part is a person who, for a
compensation or in expectation of a compensation, regardless of the form or
time of payment, does or negotiates to do one or more of the following acts for
another or others: (a) Sells or offers to sell, buys or offers to buy, solicits
prospective sellers or buyers of, solicits or obtains listings of, or negotiates
the purchase, sale, or exchange of real property or a business
opportunity.” (Emphasis added.) 
            CMI also notes that the SACC now
alleges that “[a]t all times relevant herein, Cross-Defendant maintained a
separate listing broker who represented Cross-Defendant during the
above-referenced sale. Accordingly, Cross-Complainant was not contracted as a
real estate broker or a salesperson. Rather, Cross-Complainant’s services were
to consult Cross-Defendant during the sale of the property so that the property
would be in a saleable condition. At all times relevant herein,
Cross-Complainant never acted as Cross-Defendant’s real estate broker or
salesperson other than in consulting capacity.” (SACC, ¶ 12.) CMI asserts that
these allegations contradict the language in the Agreement attached as Exhibit
A to the SACC. CMI notes that the alleged Consulting Agreement provides as
follows: 
 
 “2. Scope of consulting 
The scope and
contents of consulting to be provided by J&I to President Byun are as
follows. 
a. The main
purpose of this Agreement is to prevent Hyundai Steel or Prime Metals’ Trustee
attorney from proceeding with the foreclosure of the real estate specified in
this Agreement and to extinguish the bonds held by Hyundai Steel or Prime
Metals’ Trustee attorney by setting the amount to be negotiated and selling
the real estate, business entity, equipment, etc. 
b. Negotiations
with buyers who will purchase real estate, business entity, equipment, etc.
specified in this Agreement 
c. Adjust the
amount of bonds on the real estate, business, and equipment specified in this
Agreement through negotiations with other creditors, including Hyundai Steel or
Prime Metals’ Trustee attorney, so that it may be sold. 
d. The bonds of
the Trustee attorney of Hyundai Steel or Prime Metals and the bonds of Toni Ko,
the secondary creditor, shall be extinguished only with the Santa Fe real
estate. e. In the case of other Junior creditors, the amount of bonds remaining
after the adjustment of the bond amount shall be set to the amount changed to
other real estate that has already been set as collateral. 
f. A real estate
company shall be appointed and controlled to sell the real estate, business
entity, equipment, etc. specified in this Agreement.” (SACC, ¶ 11, Ex. A; See
Notice of Errata, Ex. A, ¶ 2, emphasis added.)[1]
CMI
asserts that “J&I’s attempt to introduce new allegations to alter the scope
of services that the parties agreed to in the contract executed years ago is
improper, and such allegations may not save the pleading from demurrer…”
(Demurrer at p. 10:9-11.) “For purposes of a demurrer, [the court] accept[s] as
true both facts alleged in the text of the complaint and facts appearing in
exhibits attached to it. If the facts appearing in the attached exhibit
contradict those expressly pleaded, those in the exhibit are given
precedence.” ((Mead v. Sanwa Bank California (1998) 61 Cal.App.4th 561, 567-568.)

In the opposition, J&I Consulting asserts
that it did not provide any services that require a broker license. J&I
Consulting notes that the alleged Consulting Agreement provides, as set forth
above, that “[t]he
main purpose of this Agreement is to prevent Hyundai Steel or Prime Metals’
Trustee attorney from proceeding with the foreclosure of the real estate
specified in this Agreement and to extinguish the bonds held by Hyundai Steel
or Prime Metals’ Trustee attorney by setting the amount to be negotiated and
selling the real estate, business entity, equipment, etc.” (SACC, ¶ 11, Ex. A; See
Notice of Errata, Ex. A, ¶ 2(a).) J&I
Consulting contends that accordingly, “the primary goal of the
agreement between the parties was to prevent foreclosure and extinguish bonds,
not for the real estate transaction.” (Opp’n at p. 2:13-14.) 
J&I Consulting notes that the Consulting
Agreement provides, as set forth above, that “[a] real estate company shall be
appointed and controlled to sell the real estate, business entity, equipment,
etc. specified in this Agreement.” (SACC, ¶ 11, Ex. A; See Notice of
Errata, Ex. A, ¶ 2(f).) J&I
Consulting contends that “[i]f it were truly the intentions of
J&I to render any kind of services for real estate transactions, there
would have been no need to put this specific language in the contract.” (Opp’n
at p. 2:22-24.) CMI counters that “[t]his argument fails to defeat demurrer
because the language in the Agreement cannot be read selectively…” (Reply at p.
3:14-15.) Indeed, as discussed, alleged Consulting Agreement also provides that
“[t]he scope and contents of consulting to be provided by J&I to
President Byun are as follows…Negotiations with buyers who will purchase
real estate, business entity, equipment, etc. specified in this
Agreement…”  (SACC, ¶ 11, Ex. A; See
Notice of Errata, Ex. A, ¶ 2(b), emphasis added.) In addition, the Consulting
Agreement provides that “[t]he scope and contents of consulting to be
provided by J&I to President Byun are as follows… “[t]he main purpose
of this Agreement is to prevent Hyundai Steel or Prime Metals’ Trustee attorney
from proceeding with the foreclosure of the real estate specified in this
Agreement and to extinguish the bonds held by Hyundai Steel or Prime Metals’
Trustee attorney by setting the amount to be negotiated and selling the real
estate, business entity, equipment, etc.” (Ibid.,
¶ 2(a), emphasis added.) 
As discussed, Business and
Professions Code section 10131,
subdivision (a) provides that

“[a] real estate broker within the meaning of this part is a person
who, for a compensation or in expectation of a compensation, regardless of the
form or time of payment, does or negotiates to do one or more of the following
acts for another or others: (a) Sells
or offers to sell,
buys or offers to buy, solicits prospective sellers or buyers of, solicits or
obtains listings of, or negotiates the purchase, sale, or exchange of real
property or a business opportunity.” (Emphasis added.) Further as discussed, “[n]o
person engaged in the business or acting in the capacity of a real estate
broker or a real estate salesperson within this state shall bring or maintain
any action in the courts of this state for the collection of compensation for
the performance of any of the acts mentioned in this article without alleging
and proving that he or she was a duly licensed real estate broker or real
estate salesperson at the time the alleged cause of action arose.” (Bus.
& Prof. Code, § 10136.) CMI cites to Rees v.
Department of Real Estate (1977) 76 Cal.App.3d 286, 295, where the Court of Appeal noted that “[i]f the broker takes any part in the negotiations, no
matter how slight, he is not a middleman but a broker.”  
In addition, as discussed, Exhibit “A” to the SACC is
“given precedence” over the allegations in the SACC that “Cross-Complainant
never acted as Cross-Defendant’s real estate broker or salesperson other than
in consulting capacity.” (Mead v. Sanwa Bank California, supra, 61 Cal.App.4th at p. 568; SACC, ¶ 12.)

Based on the foregoing, the Court sustains CMI’s
demurrer to the first and second causes of action of the SACC, without leave to
amend. J&I Consulting was provided the opportunity to amend its prior
pleading, the FACC. In addition, in their opposition to the instant demurrer,
J&I Consulting has not proffered any basis for any amendment to
cure the deficiencies in its SACC. ((See Rakestraw v. California Physicians'
Service (2000) 81 Cal.App.4th 39, 44, “[t]he burden of showing that a reasonable possibility
exists that amendment can cure the defects remains with the plaintiff…”) 
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, the Court sustains CMI’s demurrer to the first
and second causes of action of the SACC, without leave to amend. 
The the Court orders CMI to file and serve a proposed judgment of dismissal within 10
days of the date of this order.¿ 
CMI is ordered to give notice of this
order.¿ 
 
DATED:  March 13, 2024                              ________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court


