  Case Number:  22CHCV01386    Hearing Date:   October 30, 2023    Dept:  F51 Dept. F-51¿¿ 
Date: 10/30/23¿ 
Case #22CHCV01386
 
LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH VALLEY DISTRICT
DEPARTMENT F-51
 

OCTOBER 27, 2023
 

DEMURRER

Los Angeles Superior Court Case
# 22CHCV01386

¿ 
Demurrer Filed: 7/31/23
¿ 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant Open Bible Standard Churches,
Inc. (sued as “Doe 3, an Iowa non-profit corporation”) (“Moving Defendant”)
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff
R.W., an individual (“Plaintiff”)
NOTICE: OK
¿ 
RELIEF REQUESTED: Moving
Defendant demurs to the third and fourth causes of action in Plaintiff’s
complaint.
¿ 
TENTATIVE RULING: The demurrer is overruled. Moving Defendant to file and serve
its answer to Plaintiff’s complaint within 30 days.
 
BACKGROUND¿ 
 
This is a
childhood sexual assault action in which Plaintiff alleges that in 1994, when
he was 15 years old, he was sexually assaulted by nonmoving defendant Doe 4,
who was Plaintiff’s youth group leader at his church. (Compl. ¶¶ 3, 12.) Moving
Defendant, sued as “Doe 3, an Iowa non-profit corporation,” is an association
of churches and ministers which oversees Plaintiff’s church. (Id. at ¶
8.)
 
On 12/14/22,
Plaintiff filed his complaint against Defendants, alleging the following causes
of action: (1) Sexual Assault of a Minor; (2) Intentional Infliction of
Emotional Distress; (3) Negligent Hiring, Supervision, and Retention; (4) Negligent
Supervision of a Minor; and (5) Negligence. Only the third and fourth causes of
action are alleged against Moving Defendant.
 
On 7/31/23,
Moving Defendant filed the instant demurrer. On 10/17/23, Plaintiff filed his
opposition. On 10/20/23, Moving Defendant filed its reply.
 
ANALYSIS
 
As a general matter, a party may respond to a pleading
against it by demurrer based on any single or combination of eight enumerated
grounds, including that “the pleading does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e).) In a
demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading
or via proper judicial notice.¿(Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004)
116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)
 
“A demurrer tests the pleading alone, and not the evidence
or facts alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc. v. Accountants, Inc. Servs. (2007) 153
Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) As such, the court assumes the truth of the
complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual allegations. (Ibid.) The
only issue a demurrer is concerned with is whether the complaint, as it stands,
states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th
740, 747.) 
 
Here, Defendant
demurs to Plaintiff’s third and fourth causes of action, arguing that Plaintiff
fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action for Negligent
Hiring, Supervision, and Retention or Negligent Supervision of a Minor.
 
A.    Meet
and Confer
 
Before filing its demurrer, “the demurring party shall meet
and confer in person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that
is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can
be reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.”
(Code Civ. Proc. § 430.41, subd. (a).) The demurring party must file and
serve a meet and confer declaration stating either: “(A) The means by which the
demurring party met and conferred with the party who filed the pleading subject
to demurrer, and that the parties did not reach an agreement resolving the
objections raised in the demurrer;” or “(B) That the party who filed the
pleading subject to demurrer failed to respond to the meet and confer request
of the demurring party or otherwise failed to meet and confer in good faith.” (Id.
at subd. (a)(3).)
 
Here, Moving Defendant’s counsel declares that on 7/24/23, she
sent Plaintiff’s attorney a meet and confer letter regarding the issues raised
in the instant demurrer. (Decl. of Olesya Mikhaylova ¶ 2.) Accordingly, the
Court finds that counsel has satisfied the preliminary meet and confer
requirements of Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41, subdivision (a).
 
B.     Negligent
Hiring, Supervision, and Retention
 
Plaintiff’s third cause of action
alleges against Moving Defendant Negligent Hiring, Supervision, and Retention. The
elements of a cause of action for negligent hiring, retention, or supervision
are: (1) the employer’s hiring, retaining, or supervising an employee; (2) the
employee was incompetent or unfit; (3) the employer had reason to believe undue
risk of harm would exist because of the employment; and (4) harm occurs. (Evan F. v. Hughson United Methodist Church
(1992) 8 Cal.App.4th 828, 836–837.)
 
Here,
Plaintiff alleges that “Doe 4 was assigned by Entity Defendants to conduct
youth group service at their church in Santa Clarita while Plaintiff was a
member;” “Doe 4 isolated minor boys, including Plaintiff, to be alone with them
for the purpose of grooming and sexually assaulting them;” and “prior to the
date that Plaintiff was sexually assaulted and/or abused, Entity Defendants
knew or should have known that Doe 4’s conduct towards several male minors was
inappropriate and criminal in nature, that Doe 4 was unfit to work with and be
around minor males, and that Doe 4 posed a serious threat to the mental health,
physical health, and safety of minors.” (Compl. ¶¶ 12, 30, 32.) “As a result of
the negligence of Entity Defendants, acting through their administrators,
supervisory employees, and staff, Doe 4 was able to, and did, commit sexual
assault, sexual harassment, and other misconduct against Plaintiff on multiple
occasions.” (Id. at ¶ 38.)
 
On
demurrer, Moving Defendant argues that “Plaintiff has failed to plead
sufficient facts showing either that Open Bible knew or should have known its
employee presented a particular risk of sexual abuse, or that Open Bible knew
or should have known of the employee’s alleged misconduct and did not act in a
reasonable manner.” (Dem. 5:22–25.) Moving Defendant further asserts that “the
complaint alleges no facts demonstrating that Doe 4’s conduct was reasonably
foreseeable or that Open Bible had reason to believe Doe 4 presented a
particular risk of abuse.” (Id. at 5:26–28.)
 
Plaintiff
argues in opposition that at the demurrer stage, the factual allegations made
in his complaint sufficiently state a cause of action for Negligent Hiring,
Supervision, and Retention, because they allege that “Defendant’s negligence in
hiring, supervising, and retaining Perpetrator enabled Perpetrator to spend
inordinate amounts of time, alone, for no rational reason, with Plaintiff –
thereby enabling a relationship to develop and ultimately – multiple sexual
assaults to occur.” (Pl.’s Opp. 4:27–5:2.)
 
The Court
agrees, and finds that at the demurrer stage, the Court is satisfied that
Plaintiff has alleged facts to support each element of a cause of action for
Negligent Hiring, Supervision, and Retention. Accordingly, the demurrer is
overruled as to Plaintiff’s third cause of action.
 
C.    Negligent
Supervision of a Minor
 
Plaintiff’s
third cause of action alleges against Moving Defendant Negligent Supervision of
a Minor. “To establish a cause of action for negligence, the plaintiff must
show that the defendant had a duty to use due care, that he breached that duty,
and that the breach was the proximate or legal cause of the resulting injury.
Recovery for negligence depends as a threshold matter on the existence of a
legal duty of care.” (Doe v. Roman Catholic Archbishop of Los Angeles (2021)
70 Cal.App.5th 657, 669 [internal quotations and citations omitted].) “Under
some circumstances, a defendant may have an affirmative duty to protect the
plaintiff from harm at the hands of a third party, even though the risk of harm
is not of the defendant's own making.” (Id. at 670.) 
 
Here,
Plaintiff alleges that “Entity Defendants had a duty to adequately and properly
supervise, monitor, and protect Plaintiff from known and knowable dangers, such
as those posed by Doe 4;” and “breached their duty to properly and adequately
supervise, monitor, and protect Plaintiff, in part because their officers,
agents, administrators, employees, and staff knew or should have known that Doe
4 was engaged in inappropriate conduct with minors at church including but not
limited to publicly touching children in a sexual manner, soliciting
unsupervised access to children at church, and forcing Plaintiff to perform
sexual acts.” (Compl. ¶¶ 76, 77.) Plaintiff further alleges that “had Entity
Defendants, and each of them, adequately and properly supervised, monitored,
and protected Plaintiff, Plaintiff would not have been harmed, or would not
have been harmed to the extent that he was.” (Id. at ¶ 81.) “As a direct
and legal result of the acts and omissions of Entity Defendants, inclusive, and
each of them, Plaintiff has been severely damaged emotionally and physically,
and otherwise.” (Id. at ¶ 84.)
 
On demurrer,
Moving Defendant argues that “there is no special relationship alleged between
Open Bible and Plaintiff” “giving rise to the inference that Plaintiff had a ‘right
to expect’ protection from Open Bible.” (Dem. 7:5–7.) “A special relationship
between the defendant and the victim is one that gives the victim a right to
expect protection from the defendant, while a special relationship between the
defendant and the dangerous third party is one that entails an ability to control
[the third party's] conduct. … The common features of a special relationship
include an aspect of dependency in which one party relies to some degree on the
other for protection and the other party has superior control over the means of
protection.” (Doe, 70 Cal.App.5th at 670 [internal quotations and
citations omitted].)
 
In
opposition, Plaintiff argues that he has alleged that he “was a child member of
Defendant’s church organization and had the expectation of being kept safe.
Defendant, as a church organization, held itself out as a safe haven, where its
agents were placed in a position of leadership, guidance, and trust.” (Pl.’s
Opp. 6:19–22.) The “special relationship” between Plaintiff and Moving
Defendant is specifically alleged in Paragraphs 33 and 57 of Plaintiffs’
Complaint.
 
Based on
the foregoing, the Court finds that Plaintiff has adequately alleged facts
sufficient to support each element in a Negligent Supervision of a Minor cause
of action. Accordingly, the demurrer to Plaintiff’s fourth cause of action is
overruled.
 
CONCLUSION¿ 
 
The demurrer is
overruled. Moving Defendant to file and serve its answer to Plaintiff’s
complaint within 30 days.