 Case Number:  23VECV03369    Hearing Date:   November 13, 2023    Dept:  W CARLOS AGUILAR v. P.F. CHANG'S III, LLC
 
defendant’s demurrer with motion to strike the complaint

 
Date
of Hearing:        November 13, 2023                          Trial
Date:       None Set  
Department:              W                                                        Case
No.:        23VECV03369
 
Moving Party:            Defendant P.F. Chang’s China Bistro,
Inc. (erroneously sued and served as P.F. Chant’s III, LLC)
Responding Party:     Plaintiff Carlos Aguilar   
Meet and Confer:      Yes. (Tsao Decl. ¶¶3-4.) 
 
BACKGROUND
 
This is a
product liability action. Plaintiff alleges on August 4, 2021, Plaintiff
purchased and consumed fried rice from a P.F. Chang’s restaurant located in
Sherman Oaks and while consuming the fried rice, he bit into a metal object
resulting in injuries. On August 2, 2023, Plaintiff filed a complaint against Defendants P.F.
Chang’s China Bistro, Inc. (erroneously sued and served as P.F. Chant’s III,
LLC) (“P.F. Chang’s”) and Christine Doe for strict liability, negligence, breach of the implied warranty
of merchantability, breach of the implied warranty of fitness for intended
purpose, negligent misrepresentation, and breach of express warranty. Defendant
Christine Doe is allegedly the supervisor and/or manager of the Restaurant at
the time of the incident. 
 
Defendant
P.F. Chang’s now demurs to the complaint as well as moves to strike portions of
the complaint. 
 
[Tentative]
Ruling
 
Defendant
P.F. Chang’s China Bristo, Inc.’s Demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND;
Defendant P.F. Chang’s China Bistro, Inc.’s Motion to Strike is GRANTED WITH
LEAVE TO AMEND, in PART. 
 
EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
 
In opposition, Plaintiff submits objections to portions
of evidence submitted by Defendant P.F. Chang's China Bistro, Inc.’s in support
of its Demurrer and Motion to Strike. The court OVERRULES Plaintiff’s
objections nos. 1 and 2. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Defendant. P.F.
Chang’s demurs to the fifth cause of action for negligent misrepresentation on
the grounds Plaintiff fails to allege sufficient facts to constitute a cause of
action against Defendant. Defendant also moves to strike Plaintiff’s prayer for
attorney fees each and every mention of “Defendant CHRISTINE DOE” in the complaint.
 
Fifth Cause
of Action
 
Defendant demurs to
the fifth cause of action for negligent misrepresentation on the grounds the
Complaint fails to contain the requisite specificity by failing to allege the
elements of misrepresentation or any specifics regarding the purported
misrepresentation. 
 
“The elements of
negligent misrepresentation are: (1) the defendant made a false representation
as to a past or present material fact; (2) the defendant made the
representation without reasonable ground for believing it to be true; (3) the
defendant intended to deceive the plaintiff by making the representation; ‘(4)
the plaintiff justifiably relied on the representation; and (5) the plaintiff
suffered resulting damages.’  [Citation.]  (Hot Rods, LLC v.
Northrop Grumman Sys. Corp. (2015) 242 Cal.App.4th 1166,
1185.)  “The specificity requirement means a plaintiff must allege
facts showing how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the representations
were made, and, in the case of a corporate defendant, the plaintiff must allege
the names of the persons who made the representations, their authority to speak
on behalf of the corporation, to whom they spoke, what they said or wrote, and
when the representation was made.” (West v. JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.¿(2013)
214 Cal.App.4th 780, 793, citing Lazar v. Superior Court¿(1996) 12
Cal.4th 631, 645.) 
 
In their cause of
action for negligent misrepresentation, Plaintiff alleges Defendants made a
representation of a material fact relating to the production, distribution, manufacturing,
condition, sale, and representation of the fried rice; the representation was
false, misleading, inaccurate, and the Defendants making the misrepresentation
knew or should have known that the representation was in fact false,
misleading, and inaccurate; Defendants made misrepresentation with the intent to
induce the Plaintiff to enter into the transaction or otherwise detrimentally
change Plaintiff’s position regarding the  decision to purchase the fried rice; and
Plaintiff was injured as a result of Defendant’s misrepresentation. (Compl.
¶¶31-36.) 
 
The court finds
these allegations insufficient to support a negligent misrepresentation claim.
The complaint fails to allege what the misrepresentation regarding rice was.
Assuming it was that P.F. Chang’s represented that their food was safe for its
intended use and free of metal objects, the complaint still fails to allege
when the misrepresentations were made, by who, where it was made, and so forth.
The complaint is factually devoid of allegations regarding intent, reliance,
and causation as well. 
 
In opposition,
Plaintiff argues they have sufficiently alleged he was harmed because of
Defendant’s negligent misrepresentations that the fried rice ordered and consumed
by Plaintiff was safe for human consumption. However, none of these contentions
appear in the face of the complaint. Moreover, the court notes several of
Plaintiff’s arguments in their opposition to the demurrer appear to be
irrelevant and not pertaining to the action at hand. 
 
Accordingly,
Defendant’s demurrer to the fifth cause of action is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO
AMEND. 
 
Motion to
Strike
 
Defendant moves to
strike Plaintiff’s prayer for attorney fees and allegations against Defendant
Christine Doe on the grounds there is no basis alleged for the attorney fees
and moreover, Christine Doe cannot, as a matter of law, be personally liable.  .
 
First, the court
agrees neither the complaint nor Plaintiff’s opposition provide any basis for
attorney fees. “Unless authorized by either statute or agreement, attorney’s
fees ordinarily are not recoverable as costs.” (Myers Building Industries,
Ltd. v. Interface Technology, Inc. (1993) 13 Cal.App.4th 949, 968.)
Consequently, attorneys’ fees may only be recovered if an authorizing statute,
law, or contract is identified or pled and proven. (CCP § 1033.5(a)(10); Bear
Creek Planning Committee v. Ferwerda (2011) 193
Cal.App.4th 1178, 1185.) However, unsupported attorneys fee allegations need
not be stricken pursuant to a motion to strike, since later discovery may
reveal a basis for their recovery.¿ (Camenisch v. Superior Court (1996)
44 Cal.App.4th 1689, 1699.) Although no basis has been provided yet,
discovery into Plaintiff’s breach of express warranty may reveal a basis for
attorney fees. 
 
Accordingly, the
court denies Defendant’s motion to strike Plaintiff’s prayer for attorney fees
at this time. 
 
Next, the court finds
Plaintiff’s allegations insufficient to support a claim against Defendant
Christine Doe. The general rule is that “[w]hen agents and employees are acting
in their official capacities on behalf of their principals and not as individuals
for their own advantage, their acts are generally privileged and do not give
rise to liability in tort or under statutes which impose duties on their
principals.” (Thornburg v. Superior Court (2006) 138 Cal.App.4th 43,
52.)  Upon review of the complaint, there are no facts to suggest
that Christine Doe acted outside of her official capacity as a manager and/or
supervisor on behalf of P.F. Chang’s. 
 
In opposition,
Plaintiff argues Defendant P.F. Chang’s does not have standing to make this
argument. However, as noted by P.F. Chang’s, it is not a stranger to the claims
against Defendant Christine Doe. (U.S. Western Falun Dafa Assn. v. Chinese
Chamber of Commerce (2008) 163 Cal.App.4th 590, fn. 3.) Each cause of
action is brought against All Defendants. 
 
Accordingly, the
court grants Defendants’ motion to strike Defendant Christine Doe with leave to
amend. 
 