 Case Number:  23STCV17413    Hearing Date:   February 6, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of
  California
County of Los
  Angeles




 
Yi Ping Lu,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23STCV17413




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
Lin Yang, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.


 


 




 


 


 


 



 
Hearing Date: February 6, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
(2) Motions to Set Aside Default 
Moving Party: Defendants Lin Yang and Kundi Li
Responding Party: Plaintiff Yi Ping Lu
 
T/R:     DEFENDANTS’ MOTIONS TO SET ASIDE
DEFAULT ARE GRANTED. DEFENDANTS MUST RESPOND TO THE COMPLAINT WITHIN 30 DAYS.
 
DEFENDANTS TO NOTICE.
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please
email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing. 
 
The Court considers the moving papers,
oppositions, and replies.
 
CCP § 473(d) provides that “[t]he court
may . . . on motion of either party after notice to the other party, set aside
any void judgment or order.” A default judgment is void against a defendant who
was not served with a summons in the manner prescribed by statute. (See Sakaguchi v. Sakaguchi (2009)
173 Cal.App.4th 852, 858.) Relief pursuant to section 473(d) may be made at any
time. (See Manson, Iver & York v. Black (2009)
176 Cal.App.4th 36, 42.)
Defendants Lin Yang and Kundi Li move to set
aside entry of default on the ground that they were not properly served with
the summons and complaint. The proofs of service show that both Defendants were
served on August 7, 2023 at an address on Woods Drive in Los Angeles. Defendant
Li purportedly was served via substitute service on a co-tenant named Lin Yang,
described as a 5’6” 130lb female. Defendant Yang purportedly was personally
served at the same time. 
Defendants challenge these proofs of service
on the grounds that a female named Lin Yang does not live at the premises with
Defendants and Defendant Lin Yang is male who is 5’11” and 150lbs. Defendant
Yang also declares that he was at a Starbucks at the time of service.
In opposition, Plaintiff asserts that the
proofs of service and declaration of the registered process server create a
presumption of proper service. Plaintiff does not address the discrepancy in the
physical description of Defendant Yang.
Defendants have rebutted the presumption
created by the proofs of service. The process server could not have personally
served Defendant Yang, as Yang is not a 5’6” 130lb female. This, in combination
with Defendant Li’s declaration that no female as described in the proof of
service lives at the property, and Yang’s declaration that he was not present
at the home, defeats any presumption of valid service.
Defendants’ motions are GRANTED.


 