  Case Number:  24SMCP00064    Hearing Date:   November 25, 2024    Dept:  205 


HEARING
  DATE:  November 25, 2024


JUDGE/DEPT:  Moreton/Beverly Hills, 205




CASE
  NAME: Paymentus Corporation v. City of Santa Monica
CASE
  NUMBER: 24SMCP00064 
 


COMP.
  FILED:  January 30, 2024
 



PROCEEDINGS:                      REQUEST FOR ENTRY OF DEFAULT JUDGMENT
MOVING PARTY:               Paymentus Corporation  
RESPONDING PARTY:      City of Santa Monica
BACKGROUND
This is a public records request case.  Petitioner Paymentus Corporation seeks to
enjoin Respondent City of Santa Monica (the “City”) from disclosing its trade
secrets to a competitor who filed a public records request for the information,
Todd Brehe.  
 
On January 30, 2024, Paymentus filed a
petition for writ of mandate and for declaratory and injunctive relief.  Paymentus personally served the petition on
the City on February 8, 2024 and on Brehe on February 18, 2024.  
 
After filing its petition, Paymentus moved
for preliminary injunction to enjoin the City from disclosing Paymentus’s trade
secrets to requestor Brehe or to any other third parties.  There as no opposition to the Motion for Preliminary
injunction.  Following a hearing on May
7, 2024, this Court granted the Motion for Preliminary injunction.  Paymentus served a copy of the Court’s order
on the City and Brehe.  
 
On June 4, 2024, Paymentus filed a Request
for Entry of Default by the Clerk, which was properly served on the City as
well as Brehe.  Default was entered by
the Clerk on June 4, 2024. Neither City nor Brehe have filed a response to the
Petition, Motion for Preliminary Injunction, or otherwise appeared in the case.
 Additionally, Paymentus represents that Deputy
City Attorney for the City of Santa Monica confirmed that the City is neutral
on Paymentus’s request for an injunction preventing disclosure of its trade secrets
and that City would not actively participate in this matter. 
RELIEF REQUESTED
 
Paymentus seeks default judgment in favor of
Paymentus, for the issuance of a writ of mandate and declaration permanently
enjoining the disclosure of Paymentus’s trade secret information by the City to
Brehe or to any third parties, pursuant to a California Public Records Act
request or otherwise. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
Code Civ. Proc. § 585 sets forth the two options for obtaining
a default judgment. First, where the plaintiff’s complaint seeks
compensatory damages only, in a sum certain which is readily ascertainable from
the allegations of the complaint or statement of damages, the clerk may enter
the default judgment for that amount. However, if the relief requested in the
complaint is more complicated, consisting of either nonmonetary relief, or
monetary relief in amounts which require either an accounting, additional
evidence, or the exercise of judgment to ascertain, the plaintiff must request
entry of judgment by the court. In such cases, the plaintiff must affirmatively
establish his entitlement to the specific judgment requested.  (Kim v.
Westmoore Partners, Inc. (2011) 201 Cal.App.4th 267, 287.)  Section 585 also allows for interest, costs
and attorney fees, where otherwise allowed by law. (Code Civ. Proc. § 585(a).)
 
Multiple specific documents
are required, such as:
(1) form CIV 100, (2) a brief summary of the case; (3) declarations or other
admissible evidence in support of the judgment requested; (4) interest
computations as necessary; (5) a memorandum of costs and disbursements; (6) a
proposed form of judgment; (7) a dismissal of all parties against whom judgment
is not sought or an application for separate judgment under Code Civ. Proc. §
579, supported by a showing of grounds for each judgment; (8) exhibits as
necessary; and (9) a request for attorneys’ fees if allowed by statute or by
the agreement of the parties.  (CRC Rule
3.1800.) 
Here, Petitioner has complied
with the requirements for a default judgment. 
Petitioner has properly completed a CIV 100 form and a JUD 100 form, and
submitted a statement of the case and supporting declarations.  
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER 
 
For the foregoing reasons, Petitioner
Paymentus Corporation’s request for default is GRANTED against
Respondent the City of Santa Monica.  