

 
BACKGROUND
 
On December
29, 2023, Petitioner Boulders At The Lake (“Petitioner”)
filed the instant Petition to Declare Mobilehome Abandoned against Respondent Robert
Leggett (“Respondent”) and DOES 1 through 10. 
 
On March
19, 2024, the Court dismissed the Doe Defendants without prejudice. 
 
On March
22, 2024, the Court entered default against Respondent. 
 
MOVING PARTY
POSITION
 
            Petitioner
argues the Mobilehome located at 1030 E Ave S Space 149, Palmdale, CA 93550 and
described as a 1987 Sandelwood, Decal Number LAK5232, Serial Numbers CAFLHO8A09435SW/CAFLHO8B09435SW
is unoccupied. Furthermore, Petitioner contends a reasonable person would
believe the Mobilehome to be abandoned. Moreover, Petitioner contends the
management reasonably believes the Mobilehome to be abandoned. Finally,
Petitioner argues the Mobilehome is located in a mobilehome park on a site for
which no rent has been paid to the management for 60 days preceding the date a
30-day notice was posted on the Mobilehome, and sent by certified mail. 
 
OPPOSITION
 
None filed as of
4/40/24.
 
REPLY
 
None filed as of 4/40/24.
 
ANALYSIS
 
 
I. Petition to Declare Mobilehome Abandoned 
A.   
Legal Standard
Pursuant to Civil Code section
798.61, subdivision (a)(1), a mobilehome is abandoned if all of the following
conditions are met: 
 
 (A) It is located in a mobilehome park on
a site for which no rent has been paid to the management for the preceding 60
days.
 
  (B) It is unoccupied.
 
  (C) A reasonable person would believe it
to be abandoned.
 
  (D) It is not permanently affixed to the
land.
 
(Civ. Code, § 798.61, subd.
(a)(1).)
 
“After determining a mobilehome
in a mobilehome park to be an abandoned mobilehome, the management shall post a
notice of belief of abandonment on the mobilehome for not less than 30 days,
and shall deposit copies of the notice in the United States mail, postage
prepaid, addressed to the homeowner at the last known address and to any known
registered owner, if different from the homeowner, and to any known holder of a
security interest in the abandoned mobilehome. This notice shall be mailed by
registered or certified mail with a return receipt requested.” (Civ. Code, §
798.61, subd. (b).)
 
“Thirty or more days following
posting pursuant to subdivision (b), the management may file a petition in the
superior court in the county in which the mobilehome park is located, for a
judicial declaration of abandonment of the mobilehome. A proceeding under this
subdivision is a limited civil case. Copies of the petition shall be served
upon the homeowner, any known registered owner, and any known person having a
lien or security interest of record in the mobilehome by posting a copy on the
mobilehome and mailing copies to those persons at their last known addresses by
registered or certified mail with a return receipt requested in the United
States mail, postage prepaid.” (Civ. Code, § 798.61, subd. (c)(1).)
 
B.  Discussion
Petitioner seeks a judgment (1)
declaring that the mobilehome occupying space 149 at Boulders At The Lake is an
abandoned mobilehome; (2) awarding Petitioner the total amount of rent and
other applicable charges due on the mobilehome site as of the date of judgment;
(3) awarding Petitioner storage costs equal to the rent due and other
applicable charges from date of judgment to date of sale of the mobilehome or
other disposition; (4) awarding Petitioner court costs; (5) awarding such other
and further relief as the court shall deem just and proper; and (6) attorney’s
fees pursuant to Civil Code section 798.61. 
Here, Petitioner advances the
declaration of Klarisa Aivazian, the property manager for Boulders At The Lake,
attesting to the status of mobilehome. Aivazian declares Respondent is the
registered owner of the mobilehome located at 1030 E Ave S Space 149,
Palmdale, CA 93550 and described as a 1987 Sandelwood, Decal Number LAK5232,
Serial Numbers CAFLHO8A09435SW/CAFLHO8B09435SW. (Aivazian Decl. ¶ 5, Ex. 2:
Title Search.) Furthermore, Aivazian avers the mobilehome is currently
unoccupied and has been unoccupied prior to the 30-Day Notice of Belief of
Abandonment and Lien that was posted on the mobilehome on November 21, 2023. (Id.
at ¶ 6, Ex. 1.) Aivazian declares Respondent has not been seen at the premises
by her and is purportedly deceased. (Aivazian Supp. Decl. ¶ 5.) Aivazian avers
the other residents likewise have not reported seeing anyone else at the
mobilehome and the utility usage reflects minimum base charges. (Id.)
Additionally, Aivazian declares the management office has performed basic yard
maintenance and upkeep and noticed the mobilehome has been unattended since
July 2023. (Id. at ¶ 6.) Moreover, Aivazian avers the mobilehome is
located on a site for which no space rent or storage has been paid to the
management since March 2022. (Aivazian Decl. ¶ 7.) Aivazian also states the
mobilehome is not permanently affixed to the space, i.e., it is not attached to
any permanent footings or foundation at space 149 and the 30-Day notice was
sent via certified mail on the same day it was posted on the mobilehome. (Id.;
Aivazian Suppl. Decl. ¶ 7.) 
Therefore, the Court finds that
Petitioner has sufficiently demonstrated that the subject property at issue in
this matter is an “abandoned mobilehome” as defined in Civil Code section
798.61, subdivision (a)(1). Petitioner provided evidence that other residents
and property manager have not seen anyone let alone Respondent at the
mobilehome. Further, Petitioner provided evidence that Respondent owns the
mobilehome, has not paid rent or storage for the mobilehome since March 2022,
and the utility charges suggest the mobilehome is unoccupied. Moreover,
Petitioner has shown that the mobilehome is not permanently affixed to the
mobilehome park site and a reasonable person could believe that the mobilehome
is unoccupied. Petitioner also provided evidence demonstrating that it posted a
30-Day notice of belief of abandonment on the mobilehome and sent the notice
via certified mail prior to filing this instant petition but did not receive a
response from Respondent or anyone else. 
II.        Conclusion 
            
            Accordingly, Petitioner Boulders At The Lake’s Petition
to Declare Mobilehome Abandoned is GRANTED. 
 
            Petitioner is awarded $9,600 for
storage fees.  Petitioner may file a Motion
for Attorney’s fees and court costs according to proof.  
 
Counsel for
Petitioner is ordered to electronically submit to the Court a Proposed form
of  Judgment for Abandonment of
Mobilehome - consistent with this Court’s Order - within 10-
            
            Moving party of ordered to give
notice.  
 
 