  Case Number:  22STCV20750    Hearing Date:   October 31, 2024    Dept:  73 10/31/2024 
Dept. 73 
Hon. Rolf
Treu, Judge presiding 
 
FULLER, et al. v. SKETCHBOX LLC, et
al. (22STCV20750)
 
Counsel for Plaintiffs/opposing
party:  Virginia Ksadzhikyan (B B Law
Group LLP)
Counsel for
Defendants/moving party: Alton Burkhalter (Burkhalter Kessler Clement &
George LLP)
 
DEFENDANTS’ MOTION TO COMPEL DEPOSITION
OF PLAINTIFF TORIE FULLER AND REQUEST FOR SANCTIONS (filed on 09/25/2024)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Defendants’ Motion to Compel Deposition of Plaintiff
Torie Fuller is GRANTED. Plaintiff Fuller is ordered to attend and testify at an
in-person deposition to take place on or before February 1, 2025.
 
The Court
further GRANTS Defendants’ request for monetary sanctions. Plaintiff is ordered
to pay sanctions to Defendants, by and through counsel of record, in the total
amount of $3,390, within thirty (30) days. 
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
On June 24, 2022, Plaintiffs Torie Fuller (“Fuller”) and Shady
Peach Solutions, LLC brought this action against Defendants Sketchbox LLC
(“Sketchbox”) and Jon Gougeon (“Gougeon”). 
 
On July 13, 2023, Plaintiffs filed a Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”)
asserting 7 causes of action for: (1) breach of oral contract; (2) breach of
implied contract; (3) breach of written contract; (4) breach of the implied
duty of good faith and fair dealing; (5) fraudulent inducement by
misrepresentation; (6) accounting and (7) declaratory relief. 
 
The SAC alleges the following. Defendant Gougeon formed Sketchbox
on or about May 2015, as a single member Limited Liability Company, with Gougeon
being its only member. Shortly after the company was formed, Fuller began
assisting Gougeon in operating and managing Sketchbox. On or around September
2015, Gougeon represented to Fuller that he intended to sell Sketchbox when it
reached 100,000 subscribes, and promised to pay Plaintiff 10% of the profits
from the sale in exchange for Plaintiff’s services, which included assisting
managing Sketchbox to make it operational and functional, including but not
limited, to assisting in customer services, billing, operations, and later
supervision of employees. On or about 2016, Gougen and Fuller modified their
oral agreement and agreed that Fuller would be given a 10% profit share
interest in Sketchbox, which she would receive through periodic profit share
distributions. However, Fuller alleges that Defendants made periodic profit
share distributions to Fuller, but they rarely included the full amount owed to
Plaintiffs. Plaintiffs allege that Defendants promised to pay the remainder of
Plaintiffs’ payments at a later time when additional funds came in. On or about
April 11, 2022, Defendants terminated Plaintiffs’ services with Defendants and
have refused to pay any of the debt owed to Plaintiff. 
 
On September 25, 2024, Defendants filed the Motion to Compel Deposition
of Plaintiff Torie Fuller and sanctions, arguing:
·      
During discovery, Defendants Sketchbox, LLC and Jon Gourgeon
(collectively “Defendants”) have been trying to depose Fuller since November
2023. Defendants initially sent e-mails to counsel for Fuller requesting dates
when Fuller was available for her deposition. E-mails were ignored by Fuller
initially. Thereafter, Fuller provided dates for her availability only to later
object to the deposition notice and refuse to sit for the deposition. Overall,
Defendants sent approximately twelve (12) emails attempting to set up Fuller’s
deposition and served three (3) notices of deposition on Fuller. Each time,
however, Fuller ignored and dodged the emails, served objections to the
deposition notices, and has refused to sit for her deposition. Defendants made
one final “meet and confer” attempt on September 10, 2024 only to once again be
ignored by Fuller. 
·      
Defendants also seek sanctions against Fuller and her counsel in
the amount of $3,390.00 
 
On October 25, 2024, Plaintiff Fuller filed
an opposition, arguing:
·      
The opposition was filed late as a result of a miscommunication
between attorney and staff. (Guevara Decl., ¶ 12.)
·      
Plaintiff is not willfully refusing to
attend deposition; rather her inability to attend deposition is due to her
counsel being absent on maternity leave that has been unexpectedly extended due
to unforeseen medical complications. Notwithstanding her personal hardships,
counsel for Plaintiff repeatedly attempted to make Plaintiff available for
remote deposition, and communicated to counsel for Defendants that Plaintiff
was available for remote deposition, but counsel for Defendants insisted upon
in-person deposition, regardless of Plaintiff’s counsel’s medical difficulties.
·      
The Motion requests that Plaintiff sit
for deposition in person within 7 days of hearing on the Motion (see
Defendants’ Motion, 7:4), but, because she remains on medical leave,
Plaintiff’s counsel simply will not be available to attend a deposition at that
time.
·      
Moreover, because Ms. Ksadzhikyan has
handled Plaintiff’s case from inception, no other attorneys at her firm are
sufficiently familiar with the issues of the case to properly defend a
deposition in her place, especially on short notice. (See Ksadzhikyan Decl., ¶
10.)
·      
Defendants’ request for sanctions should
be denied and instead sanctions should be imposed against Defendants in the
amount of $6,800.  
 
Defendants filed a reply, arguing:
·      
Plaintiffs’ Opposition was due to be
filed on October 18, 2024, but was not. Instead, Plaintiffs filed its untimely
Opposition nearly one week later, on or about October 24, 2024. The Court
should not consider Plaintiffs’ untimely Opposition because it severely
prejudices Sketchbox by significantly reducing Sketchbox’s time to review the
Opposition, research the statutory and case law cited, and prepare its Reply in
Support of its Motion to Compel Deposition 
·      
Since filing the subject Motion, Trial
has been continued to July 7, 2025. Accordingly, Sketchbox no longer requires
an Order Compelling Plaintiffs’ inperson deposition within 7 days of the Order.
·      
Sketchbox is agreeable so that any Order
Compelling Plaintiffs’ in-person Deposition take place on or before February 1,
2025, which should allow sufficient time for Plaintiffs’ lead counsel to
return. (See Declaration of Virginia Ksadzhikyan, Esq. In Support of
Plaintiffs’ Opposition, ¶¶ 11 – 12.)
II. ANALYSIS
 
A.      Legal
Standard 
 
Any
party may obtain discovery, subject to restrictions, by taking the oral
deposition of any person, including any party to the action. (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2025.010.) A party desiring to take an oral deposition shall give a notice in
writing which states the specification of reasonably particularly of any
materials to be produced by the deponent. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.220, subd.
(a)(4).) A properly served deposition notice is effective to require a party to
attend and to testify, as well as to produce documents for inspection and
copying. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.280, subd. (a).) The party served with a
deposition notice waives any error or irregularity unless that party promptly
serves a written objection at least three calendar days prior to the date for
which the deposition is scheduled. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.410, subd.
(a).)  
 
“If,
after service of a deposition notice, a party to the action … without having
served a valid objection … fails to appear for examination, … or to produce for
inspection any document, … described in the deposition notice, the party giving
the notice may move for an order compelling the deponent's attendance and
testimony, and the production for inspection of any document … described in the
deposition notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (a).)   
 
A
motion brought to compel a deposition “shall be accompanied by a meet and
confer declaration under Section 2016.040, or, when the deponent fails to
attend the deposition … by a declaration stating that the petitioner has
contacted the deponent to inquire about the nonappearance.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2025.450, subd. (b)(2).)  
 
B.      Untimely
Opposition
 
As an initial
matter, the Court notes that Plaintiff failed to timely file her opposition.
 
Opposition papers are required to be filed and
served at least nine court days prior to the hearing under California Code
of Civil Procedure (“CCP”) section 1005, subdivision (b). 
 
Here, the
hearing in this matter is set for October 31, 2024. Plaintiff’s opposition was
due by October 18, 2024. However, Plaintiff did not file and serve its opposition
until October 24, 2024. 
 
Nevertheless, a court may properly
consider papers that are not timely filed pursuant to CCP section 1005(b)
unless “substantial rights” are affected.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1300(d); Code Civ. Proc., § 475.)  The appearance of a party at the
hearing of a motion and his or her opposition to the motion on the merits is a
waiver of any procedural defects or irregularities in a motion.  (Carlton v. Quint (2000) 77 Cal.App.4th 690, 697.)
 
The Court
elects to exercise its discretion to consider the untimely opposition. (CRC
3.1300(d).) 
 
C.      Meet and
Confer
 
Defendants filed their counsel’s, Mr. Joshua
Matler’s, declaration in support of the motion. Mr. Malter’s declaration shows
that he made multiple good faith attempts to resolve the deposition issue prior
to filing this motion. Despite those efforts, Plaintiff failed to provide a
date to schedule her deposition. (Malter Decl., ¶ 9.)
Accordingly, the Court finds that Defendants satisfied the meet and confer
requirements of Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.450, subdivision (d)(2).
 
D.     Discussion
 
Defendants have presented evidence that they made
multiple efforts to schedule the deposition of Plaintiff Torie Fuller.
Defendants contend that Fuller has refused to sit for her deposition that was first
scheduled for January 25, 2024. (Malter Decl., ¶ 4.) Defendants
further contend Fuller also refused to sit for her deposition when scheduled on
alternative dates including April 23, 2024, and June 10, 2024. (Malter Decl., ¶
11.) Defendants assert that Fuller
has continued to refuse to provide dates for her deposition. (Malter Decl., ¶
14.)
 
In opposition, Fuller argues she is not refusing to attend
deposition, but her inability to attend deposition is due to her counsel, Ms.
Virginia Ksadzhikyan, being absent on maternity leave that has been
unexpectedly extended due to unforeseen medical complications. The Court notes
that Plaintiff’s opposition references a declaration by her counsel, Ms. Ksadzhikyan,
in support. However, it appears Plaintiff failed to file a copy of Ms. Ksadzhikyan’s
declaration with the Court.
 
In Defendants’ reply, they note that since filing the subject
Motion, trial in this matter has been continued to July 7, 2025.  Defendants request that any Order Compelling Plaintiffs’
in-person Deposition take place on or before February 1, 2025, which should
allow sufficient time for Plaintiffs’ lead counsel to return from her leave.
 
Based on the foregoing, the Court grants Defendants’
request for an order compelling Plaintiff Fuller to attend and testify at an
in-person deposition to take place on or before February 1, 2025.
 
E.      Sanctions
 
Defendant
requests monetary sanctions in the amount of $3,390.00 in connection with this
motion. This includes 6 hours of work and anticipated work on the motion at an
hourly rate of $565.00. 
 
California Code of Civil Procedure §2025.450(g)(1) states,
“[i]f a motion under subdivision (a) is granted, the court shall impose a
monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with¿Section 2023.010) in favor
of the party who noticed the deposition and against the deponent or the party
with whom the deponent is affiliated, unless the court finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Cal. Code Civ. Pro.
§2025.450(g)(1).) 
 
Here, the Court grants Defendants’ request for sanctions. Plaintiff is ordered
to pay sanctions to Defendants, by and through counsel of record, in the total
amount of $3,390, within thirty (30) days. 
 
III. DISPOSITION

 
Defendants’ Motion to Compel Deposition of Plaintiff Torie
Fuller is GRANTED. Plaintiff Fuller is ordered to attend and testify at an
in-person deposition to take place on or before February 1,
2025.
 
The
Court further GRANTS Defendants’ request for monetary sanctions. Plaintiff is ordered
to pay sanctions to Defendants, by and through counsel of record, in the total
amount of $3,390, within thirty (30) days. 