 Case Number:  22STCV23460    Hearing Date:   October 31, 2024    Dept:  73 10/31/2024 
Dept. 73 
Hon. Rolf
Treu, Judge presiding 
 
ERIC KAUFMAN v. LOCKTON COMPANIES, LLC, et al. (22STCV23460) 
 
Counsel for Plaintiff:
Steven
Brennan (St. John, Wallace, Brennan & Folan LLP); Debra Fischer (Morgan, Lewis & Bockius
LLP)
Counsel for
Defendants:  Russell Falconer, James Tsouvalas (Gibson, Dunn &
Crutcher LLP) 
 
PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO CONDITIONALLY SEAL DOCUMENTS
SUBMITTED IN PLAINTIFF’S REPLY ISO OF MOTION TO LIFT STAY AND FOR LEAVE TO FILE
AMENDED COMPLAINT (filed 9/25/2024) 
 
TENTATIVE RULING 
 
The
Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s Motion to Conditionally Seal Documents Submitted in
Plaintiff’s Reply ISO of Motion to Lift Stay and for Leave to File Amended
Complaint. 
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
Plaintiff
Eric Kaufman brings this action for declaratory relief against Defendants
Lockton Investment Advisors, LLC ("LIA"), Lockton Investment
Securities, LLC, f/k/a Lockton Financial Advisors, LLC ("LIS"), and
Lockton Companies, LLC - Pacific Series ("Pacific Series",
collectively "Lockton").
 
LIA provides investment advisory and
related services, LIS buys and sells securities as a registered broker dealer,
and Pacific Series provides insurance and risk management services. (FAC, ¶
10.) Kaufman became a producer member of LIA in approximately July 2007 and a
producer member in LIS and Pacific Series in approximately July 2008. (FAC, ¶
23.) To become a producer member of LIA, LIS, and Pacific Services, Kaufman
paid a $200 capital contribution for a single "Producer Unit" in each
entity. (FAC, ¶ 23.) As of May 1, 2016, Plaintiff entered into an “Amended and
Restated Member Agreement" with Pacific Series and with LIS and, as of May
1, 2016, a "Second Amended and Restated Member Agreement” with LIA
(collectively the "Member Agreements"). (FAC, ¶ 16.)
 
The Member
Agreements include nonsolicitation covenants. (FAC, ¶ 20.) The
Member Agreements include Missouri choice of law and Missouri forum selection
clauses. The Member Agreements require Kaufman to adjudicate disputes in the
federal court in Kansas City, Missouri or in the Circuit Court of Jackson
County, Missouri. (FAC, ¶ 18.) he Member Agreements for LIA, LIS, and Pacific
Series require Plaintiff to provide thirty days written notice of termination.
(FAC, ¶ 22.)
 
Kaufman
withdrew from and terminated his membership in LIA, LIS, and Pacific Series on
July 18, 2022. (FAC, ¶ 27.) Kaufman subsequently accepted employment with
Alliant, a California-based competitor of Lockton. (FAC, ¶ 28.) At Alliant,
Kaufman will provide products and services that are directly competitive with
the products or services of Lockton. (Ibid.) 
In the first amended complaint, Kaufman asserts a single cause of
action for declaratory relief, seeking a judicial declaration that the
nonsolicitation covenants, Missouri choice of law and forum selection clauses,
and notice requirements are void and unenforceable as a violation of Business
and Professions Code Sections 16600 and California public policy. Kaufman
alleges: Plaintiff desires a judicial declaration that the enforcement of the
Missouri Choice of Law and Missouri Forum Section Provisions would violate
California's fundamental public policy in favor of workplace mobility and
competition. Plaintiff also desires a judicial declaration that the Notice
Provision, Member Agreements Non-Competition Covenants and the December 2021
Non-Competition Covenants are facially void under Business and Professions Code
Section 16600 and California public policy in favor of workplace mobility and
open competition are thereby unenforceable as to Plaintiff. (FAC, ¶ 40.) 
 
On
September 25, 2024, Plaintiff filed the instant Motion to Conditionally Seal
Documents Submitted in Plaintiff’s Reply ISO of Motion to Lift Stay and for
Leave to File Amended Complaint. 
 
No oppositions have been filed.
 
II.
DISCUSSION
 
“Unless
confidentiality is required by law, court records are presumed to be open.”
(Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 2.550(c).) However, a party may move to seal records
pursuant to California Rules of Court, rules 2.550-2.551. “A party requesting
that a record be filed under seal must file a motion or an application for an
order sealing the record. The motion or application must be accompanied by a
memorandum and a declaration containing facts sufficient to justify the
sealing.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.551(b).) To grant an order pursuant to
California Rules of Court, rules 2.550 and 2.551, the Court must expressly find
facts that establish:  
 
(1)
There exists an overriding interest that overcomes the right of public access
to the record; 
(2)
The overriding interest supports sealing the record; 
(3)
A substantial probability exists that the overriding interest will be
prejudiced if the record is not sealed; 
(4)
The proposed sealing is narrowly tailored; and 
(5)
No less restrictive means exist to achieve the overriding interest. 
 
(Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 2.550(d).)  
 
On
September 25, 2024, Plaintiff filed the instant Motion to Conditionally Seal
Documents Submitted in Plaintiff’s Reply ISO of Motion to Lift Stay and for
Leave to File Amended Complaint. 
 
Plaintiff
requests the Court seal these documents pursuant to the April 19, 2023
Protective Order entered by the court in Lockton Cos., LLC, et al. v.
Kaufman, Case No. 4:22- cv-00461-SRB (W.D. Mo.). (Declaration of Seth
Gerber, ¶ 2.). The April 19, 2023 Protective Order provides that “[a] Party
seeking to make a Confidential Filing must comply with the provisions of . . .
the presiding California Court[] in filing a document under seal.” (Gerber
Decl., Ex. A.) Under Rule 2.551(b)(3), a “party that files or intends to file
with the court, for the purposes of adjudication or to use at trial, records
produced in discovery that are subject to a confidentiality agreement or
protective order, and does not intend to request to have the records sealed,
must: 
 
(i) Lodge the
unredacted records subject to the confidentiality agreement or protective order
and any pleadings, memorandums, declarations, and other documents that disclose
the contents of the records, in the manner stated in (d) [below]; 
(ii) File
copies of the documents in (i) that are redacted so that they do not disclose
the contents of the records that are subject to the confidentiality agreement
or protective order; and 
(iii) Give
written notice to the party that produced the records that the records and the
other documents lodged under (i) will be placed in the public court file unless
that party files a timely motion or application to seal the records under this
rule.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.551(b)(3).)
 
Subdivision
(d) of Rule 2.551 provides in pertinent part that a record that may be filed
under seal “must be put in an envelope or other appropriate container, sealed
in the envelope or container,” marked “CONDITIONALLY UNDER SEAL” and lodged
with the Court. (Cal. Rules of Ct., rule 2.551(d).) Further, the party
submitting the lodged record must affix to the envelope or container a cover
sheet that contains “all the information required on a caption page under rule
2.111;” and “[s]tates that the enclosed record is subject to a motion or an
application to file the record under seal.” (Ibid.)
 
Plaintiff is submitting
under seal “Plaintiff’s Reply In Support of Motion to Lift Stay and for Leave
to File Second Amended Complaint” and the supporting Declaration of Seth M.
Gerber (Exhibits 1 through 7). Plaintiff asserts the documents at issue cite to or contain information
designated by Lockton as “Confidential.” The federal Protective Order directs
the parties to file any document subject to the Protective Order under seal in
this California state court action. No opposition
has been filed disputing that the documents should not be sealed. 
 
Based
on the foregoing, the Court grants Plaintiff’s
Motion to Conditionally Seal Documents Submitted in Plaintiff’s Reply ISO of
Motion to Lift Stay and for Leave to File Amended Complaint.
 
CONCLUSION 
 
The
Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s Motion to Conditionally Seal Documents Submitted in
Plaintiff’s Reply ISO of Motion to Lift Stay and for Leave to File Amended
Complaint. 