 Case Number:  24CMCV00225    Hearing Date:   December 10, 2024    Dept:  A  
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES – SOUTH CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



YAKELIN HINJOSA GOMEZ,
                    Plaintiff, 
          vs.
 
LOS
   ANGELES COUNTY METROPOLITAN TRANSIT AUTHORITY,
 
                    Defendant.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO: 24CMCV00225
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER GRANTING DEFENDANT’S MOTION TO ESTABLISH ADMISSIONS AND TO COMPEL
  INITIAL RESPONSES TO FORM INTERROGATORIES, SET ONE; SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES,
  SET ONE; AND REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS, SET ONE
 
Dept.
  A
 
DATE:
  December 10, 2024
TIME:
  8:30 A.M. 
 
COMPLAINT
  FILED: 02/15/2024
TRIAL:
  None set
 



 
1.    
Background
This is an action arising from a motor vehicle
collision. The complaint alleges that a bus operated by Los Angeles County Metropolitan
Transit Authority (Defendant) crossed a solid white line on the roadway and
collided with plaintiff Yakelin Hinjosa Gomez’s (Plaintiff) parked car, causing
property damage and personal injury. The complaint alleges a cause of action
for negligence.
On June 7, 2024, the day Defendant filed its answer to
Plaintiff’s complaint, it also served Plaintiff with Form Interrogatories – Set
One, Request for Production of Documents, Set One (including 15 requests),
Requests for Admission, Set One (including 9 requests), Special Interrogatories,
Set One (including 16 interrogatories), and Form Interrogatories, Set One.  After obtaining a lengthy extension of time
to respond to these reasonable discovery requests, Plaintiff failed to
respond.  
On October 17, 2024, Defendant filed motions to compel
responses to the foregoing special interrogatories, requests for production and
form interrogatories.  It also filed a
motion to deem the requests for admission admitted.  Plaintiff failed to oppose the motions. 
2.    
Motion
to Compel Initial Responses standards
A party must respond to interrogatories, requests for
production of documents, or requests for admission within 30 days of service.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.260, subd. (a); Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.260, subd.
(a); Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.250, subd. (a).) However, these time limits are
extended if served by mail, overnight delivery, fax, or electronically. (See
Code Civ. Proc., §1010.6, subd. (a)(4); see also Code Civ. Proc.,
§1013.) “If the last day for the performance of any act provided or required by
law to be performed within a specified period of time is a holiday, then that
period is hereby extended to and including the next day that is not a holiday.”
(Code Civ. Proc., §12a, subd. (a).) Failure to timely respond waives all
objections including privilege or on the protection of work product. (See
Code Civ. Proc., §2031.300, subd. (a); see also Code Civ. Proc.,
§2030.290, subd. (a).)  
Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.030 provides
that, “[t]o the extent authorized by the chapter governing any particular
discovery method . . . , the court, after notice to any affected party, person,
or attorney, and after opportunity for hearing, may impose . . . [monetary,
issue, evidence, or terminating] sanctions against anyone engaging in conduct
that is a misuse of the discovery process . . . .” Code of Civil Procedure
section 2023.010 provides that misuse of the discovery process includes, but is
not limited to, failing to respond or to submit to an authorized method of
discovery.
3.     Discussion
          a. Motion to Compel Initial Responses
Defendant’s
Form Interrogatories (Set One), Special Interrogatories (Set One), Requests for
Production (Set One), and Requests for Admission (Set One) were served on
Plaintiff on June 7, 2024. Plaintiff requested an extension to provide
responses, which was granted for August 8, 2024. (Preciado Decl., ¶ 7.)
Defendant’s
motions were filed on October 17, 2024, substantially past the response
deadline. Plaintiff had not provided discovery responses as of the date of
filing of the motions, and has apparently failed to serve responses even to Defendants’
Requests for Admission, Set One, even after being served with the motion.
          b. Sanctions
Defendant requests $1,125 in attorney’s fees
per motion against Plaintiff and her counsel of record, TRIMAX LAW FIRM,
jointly and severally. This amount is based on counsel Arthur C. Preciado’s
hourly rate of $250 and a time breakdown of 2 hours spent researching and
drafting each motion, 1.5 hours spent drafting each reply, and one hour
attending the hearing on this matter. This sums to 18 hours at $250 per hour,
for a total of $4,500 in sanctions. The court finds Counsel Preciado’s hourly
rate to be reasonable.  However, the
amount sought is unreasonable in light of the duplicative nature of each motion,
coupled with Plaintiff’s failure to oppose the motion, rendering reply briefs
unnecessary.  Additionally, because these
motions will be heard together, one hour for the hearing is reasonable. 
In sum, the court will grant sanctions for $750
per motion (3 hours at $250 per hour), for a total of $3,000 in sanctions.

4.     Conclusion 
Based on the
foregoing, the court GRANTS Defendant’s motion to deem Defendant’s Requests for
Admissions, Set One, admitted. The court GRANTS Defendant’s motion to compel
Plaintiff to respond to Requests for Production (Set One). The court GRANTS
Defendant’s motion to compel Plaintiff to respond to Form Interrogatories (Set
One). The court GRANTS Defendant’s motion to compel Plaintiff to respond to
Special Interrogatories (Set One).
Based on the
foregoing, the court also GRANTS Defendant’s request for sanctions in the
amount of $3,000 against Plaintiff and TRIMAX LAW FIRM, jointly and severally.
Plaintiff is
ordered to serve code-compliant responses, without objection, to Defendant’s
Form Interrogatories (Set One), Request for Production of Documents (Set One)
and Special Interrogatories (Set One) within fourteen (14) days from service of
this order.

Defendant is ordered to give notice. 
 
 
DATED: December 10, 2024
 
 
 

 

Hon. Elizabeth L. Bradley
Judge of the Superior Court