 Case Number:  23CMCV00725    Hearing Date:   December 10, 2024    Dept:  A SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES – SOUTH CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



YESENIA FLORES,
                    Plaintiff, 
          vs.
 
ALFREDO
   ARCEO, et al.,
 
                    Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO: 23CMCV00725
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER DENYING PLAINTIFF’S MOTION FOR ORDER PERMITTING DISCOVERY OF FINANCIAL
  CONDITIONS OF DEFENDANT
 
Dept.
  A
 
DATE:
  December 10, 2024
TIME:
  8:30 A.M. 
 
COMPLAINT
  FILED: 05/18/2023
FIRST
  AMENDED COMPLAINT FILED: 08/22/2024
TRIAL:
  None set
 



 
1.    
Background
This is a dog bite case. The complaint alleges that a
German Shepard owned by defendant Alfredo Arceo (Defendant) bit plaintiff
Yesenia Flores (Plaintiff) while Plaintiff was walking on the sidewalk near
Defendant’s home. The complaint alleges causes of action for negligence,
premises liability, strict liability and punitive damages.
2.    
Motion
for Order Permitting Discovery of Financial Conditions of Defendant
Plaintiff moves for an order allowing her to conduct
discovery on Defendant’s financial conditions on the grounds that there is a
substantial probability that Plaintiff will prevail on her punitive damages
claim, pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 3295, subdivision (c).
Defendant contends that the motion should be denied
because there is not a substantial probability that Plaintiff will prevail on
her punitive damages claim because she cannot show malice, oppression, or
fraud.  Plaintiff argues that Defendant’s
conduct, before and after the dog bite incident, shows malice because Defendant
did not train his dogs and videotaped Plaintiff after the incident. 
3.    
Discovery
of Financial Conditions standards
Pretrial discovery of the financial condition of a
defendant is generally not permitted unless the court finds, on the basis of
supporting and opposing affidavits presented, that the plaintiff has
established a substantial probability that they will prevail on their claim.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 3295, subdiv. (c).)
Punitive damages are allowable upon a showing that the
defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud or malice. (Civ. Code, § 3294,
subd. (a).)  Clear and convincing
evidence of malice, oppression or fraud is required.  (Civ. Code, §§ 3294, subdiv. (a).)¿  The court may enter an order permitting
discovery of a defendant’s financial condition if, after weighing the evidence
submitted in favor of and in opposition to the motion for discovery, it finds
that it is very likely that the plaintiff will prevail on their claim for
punitive damages.  (Jabro v. Superior
Court (2002) 95 Cal.App.4th 754, 758.)¿¿ 
“Malice is defined in the statute as conduct intended
by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which
is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the
rights or safety of others.” (College Hospital, Inc. v. Superior
Court (Crowell) (1994) 8 Cal.4th 710, 725 [examining Civ. Code, § 3294,
subd. (c)(1)].) “A conscious disregard of the safety of others may constitute
malice within the meaning of section 3294 of the Civil Code. In order to
justify an award of punitive damages on this basis, the plaintiff must
establish that the defendant was aware of the probable dangerous consequences
of his conduct, and that he willfully and deliberately failed to avoid those
consequences.”¿(Taylor v. Superior Court (1979) 24 Cal.3d 890,
895-896.)¿ 
“As amended to include [despicable], the statute
plainly indicates that absent an intent to injure the plaintiff, ‘malice’
requires more than a ‘willful and conscious’ disregard of the plaintiffs’
interests.¿The additional component of ‘despicable conduct’ must be found.”¿(College
Hospital, supra, 8 Cal.4th at p. 725.)¿The statute’s reference to
despicable conduct represents a “new substantive limitation on punitive damage
awards.” (Ibid.)¿Despicable conduct is “conduct which is so vile, base,
contemptible, miserable, wretched or loathsome that it would be looked down
upon and despised by ordinary decent people.¿Such conduct has been described as
‘having the character of outrage frequently associated with crime.’ ”¿(Tomaselli
v. Transamerica Ins. Co. (1994) 25 Cal.App.4th 1269, 1287 (Tomaselli).)
Factors in assessing the degree of reprehensibility of a defendant’s conduct
are (1) whether the harm caused was physical or merely economic; (2) whether
the conduct demonstrated indifference or reckless disregard for the health or
safety of others; (3) the financial vulnerability of the target; (4) whether
the conduct occurred repeatedly or only once; and (5) whether the harm was the
result of intentional malice, trickery, or deceit, or was a mere accident. (Pfeifer
v. John Crane, Inc. (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 1270, 1311, fn 12.)
4.    
Discussion
          a. Substantial Probability of Success
The
court finds that Plaintiff has not demonstrated a substantial probability of
success on her punitive damages claim, as would be required to seek discovery
of Defendant’s financial condition.
Plaintiff
has argued malice, but not oppression or fraud, supports an order granting the
motion. Plaintiff’s argument that Defendant acted with malice rests on her
contention that Defendant did not train his dogs and that Defendant disregarded
an advisement from Animal Control. This conduct does not have “the character of
outrage frequently associated with crime.” (Tomaselli,
supra, 25 Cal.App.4th at p.
1287.) In particular, Defendant has testified in deposition that, although
Marley had barked at people and animals passing by, Marley had not shown
aggression towards other dogs or people in the past, indicating that Defendant may
not have had knowledge of the risk of a dog bite incident; in other words, awareness
of the probable dangerous consequences of his conduct. There is no indication
that the dog bite incident occurred because of any intentional malice. In sum, Defendant’s
conduct lacked the character of being “so
vile, base, contemptible, miserable, wretched or loathsome that it would be
looked down upon and despised by ordinary decent people.” (Ibid.) It
does not reach the level of despicability found in cases where punitive damages
were found to be proper.  Plaintiff also
contends that Defendant acted with malice because his deposition testimony does
not match the deposition testimony of others, and he videotaped Plaintiff at
her home at the direction of his insurance company.  
Defendant
contends Plaintiff cannot show malice because Defendant purchased his dogs for
the protection of his home and family; that he increased the height of his
fence in compliance with Animal Control’s recommendations for the safety of
others; and that he testified that Marley, the dog that allegedly bit
Plaintiff, has never been aggressive towards another person or dog. Defendant
also argues that the lack of formal dog training does not show malice and that
there is no published dog bite case in which punitive damages have been awarded.
The court has also been unable to find any published dog bite case in which
punitive damages were awarded.
Plaintiff has not brought forth evidence that Defendant
acted with malice, whether clear and convincing evidence or otherwise.  After weighing the evidence submitted in
favor of and in opposition to the motion for discovery, the court finds that
plaintiff has not established a substantial probability that she will prevail
on her claim for punitive damages.  Thus,
she has failed to meet her burden under Code Civ. Proc., § 3295, subdiv. (c).
5.    
Conclusion

Based on the foregoing, the court DENIES Plaintiff’s
motion for an order permitting discovery of Defendant’s financial condition.
Moving party is ordered to give notice. 
 
DATED: December 10, 2024
 
 
 

 

Hon. Elizabeth L. Bradley
Judge of the Superior Court


 