  Case Number:  23CMCP00205    Hearing Date:   December 10, 2024    Dept:  A 


MATTHEW
   KASHINSKY,
                    Plaintiff, 
          vs.
 
COMPTON
   UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT, et al.,
 
                    Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO: 23CMCP00205
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER GRANTING PLAINTIFF’S PETITION FOR ORDER FOR RELIEF FROM CLAIM STATUTE
 
Dept.
  A
 
DATE:
  December 10, 2024
TIME:
  8:30 A.M. 
 
PETITION
  FILED: 11/09/2023
TRIAL:
  None set
 



 
1.    
Background
This is a personal injury case. The petition alleges
that petitioner Matthew Kashinsky (Petititoner), a minor, was injured while
playing soccer at Rosecrans Elementary School within the Compton Unified School
District.
2.    
Petition
for Order For Relief from Claim Statute
          a.  Petition filed 11/09/23 
Petitioner requests relief from the requirements of
the Government Claims Statute, Government Code section 945.4 (the “Petition”),
as Petitioner failed to file a government claim by the six-month deadline and
his application for leave to file a late claim was denied.
Oppositions were filed by respondents County of Los
Angeles (County) and Compton Unified School District (CUSD) (collectively,
Respondents). Respondents contend that Petitioner’s failure to file a timely
government claim did not arise from excusable neglect and Respondents would be
prejudiced by the requested relief.
In reply, Petitioner argues that Government Code
section 946.6, the code section providing for a petition for relief from
Section 945.4 requirements, is a remedial statute intended to provide relief
from technical rules and must be construed liberally. Petitioner contends that
his claim was presented in a reasonable time, was late due to mistake or
excusable neglect, and there was no showing of prejudice by Respondents.
3.  Petition for
Order for Relief from Claim Statute standards
Generally, no suit for money or damages may be brought
against a public entity until a written claim is presented to and rejected by
that entity. (Gov. Code § 945.4; see also Munoz v. State of
California (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 1767, 1776.) The failure to timely file a
proper government claim is fatal to the maintenance of a civil action against a
public entity. (Hernandez v. City of Stockton (2023) 90 Cal.App.5th
1222, 1230–31.) Claims for personal injury must be presented “not later than
six months after the accrual of the cause of action.” (Gov. Code, §911.2.)
If an application for leave to present a claim is
denied, a petition may be made to the court for an order relieving the
petitioner from the requirements of Government Code section 945.4. (Gov. Code §
946.6.) The court shall grant the petition if the court finds that the
application for leave was made within a reasonable time and was denied or
deemed denied and that any of a number of circumstances apply, including but
not limited to (1) that the failure to present the claim was through mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect and the public entity would not be
prejudiced in defense of the claim by granting of relief; or (2) that the
person who sustained the alleged injury, loss, or damage was a minor throughout
the required claims presentation period.
3.    
Discussion
          a. Relief from Claim Statute
The court grants petitioner’s request for
relief from the claim statute.
Under Government Code section 946.6, relief
from the requirements of the Government Claims Act is mandatory if the
petitioner filed an application within a reasonable time that was denied and
the person who sustained the alleged injury was a minor during the claim
presentation period. A reasonable time is not to exceed one year after the
accrual of the cause of action. Petitioner was injured on May 14, 2022. The
deadline for presenting a government claim was November 14, 2022.  Petitioner applied for leave to present a
late claim on May 11, 2023. The application was made within one year of the
injury. Petitioner states that application was made as soon as it was
discovered that he had not filed a government claim prior to retaining counsel,
and the delay occurred because Petitioner miscalendared the date for filing a
government claim and because of a COVID-19 outbreak in the office of
Petitioner’s counsel. 
The court finds that Petitioner’s failure to
file the Petition timely was the result of mistake, inadvertence and/or
excusable neglect.  Petitioner filed his
application for leave within a reasonable time. This application was denied.  In addition, Petitioner’s date of birth is
August 1, 2014. Petitioner was therefore a minor throughout the entire claim
presentation period from May 14, 2022 to November 14, 2022.
Because the requirements of Government Code
section 946.6 have been fulfilled, the court will grant Petitioner’s request
for an order for relief from the claim statute.
4.    
Conclusion

Based on the
foregoing, the court GRANTS the Petition. 

//

Moving party is ordered to give notice. 
 
DATED: December 10, 2024
 
 
 

 

                                                                      Hon. Elizabeth L. Bradley
                                                                     Judge of the Superior Court