 Case Number:  22TRCV01600    Hearing Date:   June 27, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿ 
¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 June 27, 2024 
¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                  22TRCV01600
¿ 
CASE NAME:                         Jane Doe T.B. v. DOE #1, et al. 
¿¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                Defendant, Centinela Valley Union High
School District
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiff, Jane Doe T.B.
¿¿ 
TRIAL DATE:                        August
11, 2025 
 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Motion to Stay Proceedings 
                                                
Tentative Rulings:                  (1) DENIED 
 
            
 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿ 
¿¿ 
A. Factual¿¿ 
¿¿ 
On December
27, 2022, Plaintiff, Jane Doe T.B. (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against
Defendants, Doe #1, a public entity. The Complaint alleges personal injuries
and damages from Childhood Sexual Abuse. Plaintiff alleges that Defendant’s
former employee, Doe #2, sexually assaulted and abused Plaintiff in Lawndale,
California while employed at the school Jane Doe T.B. attended when Plaintiff
was approximately 14 to 17 years old. 
 
Now,
Defendant Doe #1, Centinela Vally Union High School District (“District”) seeks
an order from this Court staying proceedings on this matter pending resolution
of one or both of the pending writs: (1) West Contra Costa USD
v. Superior Court (First District Case No. A16934); and/or (2) Roe #2 v.
Superior Court (Second Appellate District, Div. 6, Case No. B334707)
 
B. Procedural¿¿ 
¿ 
On May 13, 2024, Defendant District filed this
Motion to Stay Proceedings Pending Resolution of Writs. On June 13, 2024,
Plaintiff filed an opposition. On June 18, 2024, Defendant District filed a
reply brief.  
 
II. REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE 
 
            Concurrently
filed with District’s moving papers, it has requested this Court judicially
notice the filed documents relating to the two writs in the other pending cases
bearing on the issue of the Gifts Clause potentially barring Section 340.1
revived claims against public agencies. This Court GRANTS this request and
takes judicial notice. 
 
            Further,
Plaintiff also requested this Court take judicial notice of numerous superior
court rulings. The Court also GRANTS this request and takes judicial notice of
those documents, OVERRULING District’s objections. 
 
III. ANALYSIS  
 

A.   
Legal Standard 
 
The Court has inherent
authority to stay proceedings to promote judicial efficiency or if the ends of
justice so require. (Freiberg v. City of Mission Viejo (1995) 33 Cal.
App. 4th 1484, 1489.) In determining whether an action should be stayed, the
court should generally consider “the following factors: (1) the interest of the
[party opposing the stay] in proceeding expeditiously with this litigation or
any particular aspect of it, and the potential prejudice to [the party opposing
the stay] of a delay; (2) the burden which any particular aspect of the
proceedings may impose on [the party seeking the stay]; (3) the convenience of
the court in the management of its cases, and the efficient use of judicial
resources; (4) the interests of persons not parties to the civil litigation;
and (5) the interest of the public in the pending civil and criminal litigation.”
(Bains v. Moores (2009) 172 Cal. App. 4th 445, 483.) 
Further, a party can ask the court to stay an action or proceeding
based on the court's inherent power to stay in the interest of justice and to
promote judicial efficiency. See Cal. Const., art. VI, § 1 (vesting courts with
judicial power); CCP § 128 (giving court power in proceedings before it); Adams
v. Paul (1995) 11 Cal.4th 583, 593 (court has inherent power to stay
related actions); Smith v. Jones (1900) 128 Cal. 14, 15 (court has right
to postpone case); Koch-Ash v. Superior Ct. (2d Dist.1986) 180 Cal.App.3d
689, 696 (court has inherent authority to stay trial); see also Walker v.
Superior Ct. (1991) 53 Cal.3d 257, 266–67 (California Supreme Court has
repeatedly recognized inherent power of courts, derived from both statute and
Constitution, to ensure orderly administration of justice). (§ 3. Stay,
O'Connor's California Practice * Civil Pretrial Ch. 5-I § 3 (2024 ed.))  
B.    
Discussion  
                 
Here, Defendant District makes this motion on the grounds that it argues
AB 218 is unconstitutional as applied to governmental entities and that
Plaintiff did not comply with the claims presentation requirements in effect at
the time, they have no enforceable claim against the District. As noted by
Defendant District, two cases involving the constitutionality of AB 218
currently have pending writs in the Court of Appeals: (1)
West Contra Costa USD v. Superior Court (First District
Case No. A16934); and (2) Roe #2 v. Superior Court (Second Appellate
District, Div. 6, Case No. B334707). Defendant argues that staying the
proceedings in this case pending resolution of one or both of the pending writ
is in the interest of: (1) judicial and fiscal economy and, in the event the
appellate courts disagree with the District’s position regarding the
constitutionality of AB218, (2) the District’s ability to engage in meaningful
settlement negotiations without fear that its boards will be asked to violate
the law in order to authorize the payments called for in any settlement
agreement.
Government Claim Presentation 
 
            Per the Government Claims Act, a party
with a claim for damages against a public entity must first file claim directly
with that entity. The party may file a lawsuit only if the public entity denies
or rejects the claim. (Gov. Code §§ 905, 945.4; City of Ontario v. Superior
Court (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 894.) Further, an action against a public
employee is barred if an action against the employing public entity would be
barred by the failure to satisfy the entity claims requirements. (Gov. Code, §
950.2.) The claims presentation requirement provides the public entity with an
opportunity to evaluate the claim and decide whether to pay on the claim. (Roberts
v. County of Los Angeles (2009) 175 Cal.App.4th 474.) Failure to allege
facts demonstrating compliance with the claims presentation requirement
subjects the complaint to a general demurrer. (State of Cal. v. Superior
Court (2004) 32 Cal.4th 1234, 1239.) However, claims based on childhood
sexual assault are exempt from the claims presentation requirement under the
Government Claims Act. (See Coats v. New Haven Unified School Dist.
(2020) 46 Cal.App.5th 415, 428; Gov. Code, § 905, subd. (m).)
 
Defendant argues that Plaintiff has not complied
with the Government Claims Act. But Plaintiff alleges that she is a victim of
childhood sexual assault, and thus, the claims presentation requirement does
not apply. Defendant argues that prior to the passage of AB 218, Plaintiff did
not have an enforceable claim against the District. Defendant notes that
Plaintiff alleges that the misconduct occurred between 1988 and 1992, and at
the time, the Government Code expressly provided that “no suit for money
damages may be brought against a public entity on a cause of action for which a
claims is required to be presented ... until a written claim therefor has been
presented to the public entity.” (Gov. Code § 945.4.) Defendant urges that
because Plaintiff never presented government claims to the District, there was
never a time in this case prior to 2020 that all of the elements of a cause of
action against the District were satisfied. Defendant argues also that the
appropriation of public funds for allegedly unenforceable claims serves no
public purpose as a matter of law, concluding that the Legislature cannot
retroactively impose liability on a public entity where, prior to passage of
the law, the plaintiff had no enforceable claims.
 
This Court
notes that many of the precedents cited to in the writs pre-date the 2019
Legislative amendment to Code of Civil Procedure § 340.1, which expanded the
reach of the statute. Additionally, the Court notes that the constitutionality
of Code of Civil Procedure § 340.1 with respect to the claims presentation
requirement was addressed by the Court of Appeal in Coats v. New Haven
Unified School District (2020) 46 Cal.App.5th 415. In Coats, the
appellants sued a school district alleging childhood sexual abuse by one of the
school’s teachers. (Id. at 418.) There, the trial court dismissed the
appellants’ claim because they failed to comply with the school district’s
claim-presentation requirement. (Id. at 418-19.) However, the Court of
Appeal reversed based on the 2019 amendment to Code of Civil Procedure § 340.1,
and found “[i]n the face of a revival provision expressly and unequivocally
encompassing claims of childhood sexual abuse previously barred for failure to
present a timely government claim, it is clear we must revers the trial court’s
judgment.” (Id. at 430-31.) The Court of Appeal there also noted the
Legislatures consistent work to expand the ability of victims of childhood
sexual abuse to seek compensation. (Id. at 430.) 
Under the
current law the express language of Government Code section 905, subdivision
(m) makes clear that the claims presentation requirement would no longer be
required for childhood sexual assault claims brought under Code of Civil
Procedure section 340.1, which is the basis for Plaintiff’s claims here. (Gov.
Code § 905, subd. (m).) Government Code section 905, subdivision (p) also
expressly states that it applies retroactively to the date the California
Government Tort Claims Act was enacted. (Id., § 905, subd. (p).) Code of Civil
Procedure section 340.1, subdivision (q) further makes clear that any prior
limitations due to the claims presentation requirement would not bar claims
like Plaintiff’s if filed within the three-year timeframe provided thereunder.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 340.1, subd. (q).) Plaintiff filed this action on November
14, 2022, and is therefore within the relevant timeframe.
 
While the
Court agrees that Coats does not address the Gift Clause, Coats
is authority for the proposition that the Legislature has the power to revive
claims previously barred by a claim presentation requirement. (46 Cal.App.5th
at p. 428.) Coats addresses Code of Civil Procedure section 340.1,
subdivision (q), which, as noted above, expressly provides that satisfaction of
the claims presentation requirement is not mandated for a childhood sexual
assault claim under section 340.1. (Id.; Code Civ. Proc., § 340.1, subd. (q).) 
 
Defendant
moves to stay this action based on two unrelated cases that are currently
pending before the First and Second Districts of the Court of Appeal, i.e., West
Contra Costa USD v. Superior Court (First District Case No. A16934) and Roe
#2 v. Superior Court (Second Appellate District, Div. 6, Case No. B334707),
respectively. Both of these cases involve the question of whether AB 218
violates the Gift Clause of the California Constitution, an issue underlying
this current litigation. Defendant contends that judicial economy mandates the
Court exercise its inherent power to stay these proceedings pending the
outcomes of these two other cases in the Court of Appeal. The Court considers
and weighs those points in exercising its discretion to deny the stay motion
here. 
 
Defendant
contends that if the Gift Clause argument is embraced in the pending writ
petition cases, a hypothetical verdict for the Plaintiff here would be reversed
on appeal, which would render all work performed before then wasteful.
Defendant also contends it cannot settle this case while those two cases are
before the Court of Appeal. Defendant cites the case of Farmland Irrigation
Co. v. Dopplmaier (1957) 48 Cal.2d 208 (Farmland Irrigation), as the
standard for determining whether to grant a stay.
 
In opposition,
Plaintiff contends Defendant District cannot cite to any cases that mandate a
stay in similar contexts, and distinguishes the cases relied upon by
Defendant.  Plaintiff also argues that
District’s request for a stay lacks legal reasoning. For example, District
argued that “should the case be permitted to go forward, the parties will be
cause to expend substantial time and funds to prepare for trial, and for trial
of this matter.” However, Plaintiff notes that the case currently has an August
2025 trial date, and an appellate court decision may come out prior to trial.
Plaintiff also contends that District’s argument that with the appellate court
decision pending, it would be unable to effectuate settlement is disingenuous
as Plaintiff’s counsel has settled several cases with school districts despite
the appellate court decision pending. This Court also notes that if the First
and Second District Courts of Appeal provide conflicting rulings, then the
trial courts will be in the same position they are already in and rely on the
precedent they choose to follow, and then the California Supreme Court would
have to step in, which could take years.  During that time, memories would continue to
fade, witnesses who are still alive may become incapacitated or pass away, all to
the prejudice of the plaintiff who is a member of a class of persons the
Legislature determined to benefit by passing AB 218.
Based
on the foregoing, the Court DENIES Defendant District’s motion to stay
proceedings. 
 
IV.
CONCLUSION¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
For the foregoing reasons,
Defendant District’s Motion to Stay Proceedings is DENIED. 
 
Plaintiff is ordered to serve and file notice of this ruling. ¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 

 
 
 
 
 