 Case Number:  22TRCV00563    Hearing Date:   June 27, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling
 
HEARING DATE:                 June 27, 2024 
 
CASE NUMBER:                   22TRCV00563
 
CASE NAME:                        Ocean Recovery, LLC v. Sullivan Curtis
Monroe Insurance Services, LLC and Scottsdale Indemnity Company                .  
 
MOVING PARTY:                 Defendant, SullivanCurtisMonroe Insurance Services, LLC
 
RESPONDING PARTY:        Ocean Recovery, LLC (Late
filed Opposition.)
 
TRIAL DATE:                        None set.
 
MOTION:                               Defendant, SullivanCurtisMonroe Insurance Services, LLC’s Demurrer
to the 3rd cause of action for professional negligence
            
Tentative Rulings:                  ARGUE
 
 
 
I. BACKGROUND 
 
A. Factual 
 
On July 8, 2022, Plaintiff,
Ocean Recovery, LLC (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Sullivan Curtis
Monroe Insurance Services, LLC (“SCM”), and Scottsdale Indemnity Company
(collectively “Defendants”). On July 13, 2022, Plaintiff filed an amended
complaint. On February 22, 2023, Plaintiff filed a Second Amended Complaint. On
July 31, 2023, Plaintiff filed a Third Amended Complaint (“TAC”). On February
21, 2024, Plaintiff filed a Fourth Amended Complaint (“4AC”) alleging causes of
action for: (1) Breach of Contract; (2) Breach of the Implied Covenant of Good
Faith and Fair Dealing; and (3) Professional Negligence. 
 
This Court has previously and
patiently sustained a number of demurrers from a number of different
Defendants. Most recently, this Court sustained SCM’s demurrer to the fourth
amended complaint as to the cause of action for professional negligence, with
leave to amend, expressly stating that this would be the last time it would granted
leave to amend given the number of times the same or very similar issues had
been presented to the Court for decision. 
 
On April 18, 2024, Plaintiff
filed a Fifth Amended Complaint (“5AC”) alleging causes of action for: (1)
Breach of Contract; (2) Breach of the Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair
Dealing; and (3) Professional Negligence. 
 
Defendant, SCM now files
another demurrer to cause of action for professional negligence. 
 
            B. Procedural 
 
On May 21, 2024, Defendant
SCM filed this demurrer. On June 13, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition brief.
On June 20, 2023, SCM filed a reply brief. 
 
 II. REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE: 
 
            With its moving papers and reply
papers, SCM has requested this Court take judicial notice of the sixteen (16)
exhibits. The Court GRANTS these requests and takes judicial notice of each. 
 
III.
ANALYSIS 
 
A.    Legal Standard 
 
The Court has previously detailed the applicable
legal standards for a demurrer on several prior occasions, so they need not be
reiterated here.
 
B.   
Defendant, SullivanCurtisMonroe Insurance Services, LLC’s Demurrer

 
Preliminarily, SCM notes that
Plaintiff’s filing of the 5AC was a day late. On March 28, 2024, this Court
sustained the previous demurrer and allowed twenty (20) days leave to amend,
requiring plaintiff to amend its complaint by April 17, 2024. Nonetheless,
Plaintiff’s 5AC was not e-filed until 12:26 am on April 18, 2024, twenty-one
(21) days after this Court’s order.  The
Court will nonetheless address the tardy amended pleading.
 
SMC once again demurs to the cause
of action for professional negligence on the grounds it fails to state
sufficient facts to constitute a cause of action. That cause of action is now the
3rd of 3 claims alleged in this multiply-amended pleading.
 
Professional Negligence 
 
            As with previous demurrers,
SCM argues that Plaintiff fails to state a cause of action for professional
negligence against it, and that its cause of action remains fatally uncertain. As
the Court has previously noted, “[t]he elements of a cause of action for professional
negligence are (1) the existence of the duty of the professional to use such
skill, prudence, and diligence as other members of the profession commonly
possess and exercise; (2) breach of that duty; (3) a causal connection between the
negligent conduct and the resulting injury; and (4) actual loss or damage
resulting from the professional negligence.” (Oasis West Realty, LLC v. Goldman (2011) 51 Cal.4th 811, 821.) 
 
            SCM contends that
since the original complaint was filed, the factual background pleaded in the now
5th amended complaint alleges facts and circumstances surrounding an
insurance claim being wrongfully denied under an alleged EPLI Policy. (Declaration
of Katie L. Coy Galvin (“Coy Galvin Decl.”), ¶ 2, Exhibit A.) Correspondingly,
SCM contends that the third cause of action for professional negligence here
relies on the alleged non-existent EPLI Policy and the alleged duties arising
and surrounding allegations in prior pleadings. 
 
            Plaintiff’s 5AC contends that
Defendant, Maja Peci is licensed by the California Department of Insurance,
license number 0M50620, but contends that at the time of the incident, Peci
worked under license number OE83670, which Plaintiff contends is the same
license number assigned to Defendant SCM and its DBA. (5AC, ¶ 15.) Plaintiff
also contends that Peci was transacting the business of insurance under the
direct control of SCM and was as such, an SCM agent, doing business under SCM’s
authority. (5AC, ¶ 15.) 
 
The
Court notes that Plaintiff’s allegations against Defendant Peci are essentially
the same as those against SCM. Plaintiff alleges SCM and Peci “held themselves
out and continue to hold themselves out, as experts and insurance agents with
vast and superior knowledge in their recommendations for purchasing and
upgrading insurance policies.” (5AC, ¶ 35.) Plaintiff asserts that both SCM and
Defendant Peci owed Plaintiff the following duties: (a.) To accurately
represent and not misrepresent the nature, extent or scope of EPLI Policy
coverage being offered or provided during discussions of that type of coverage
with Plaintiff; (b.) To meet the standard of care of a professional
agent practicing in this jurisdiction when responding to a specific inquiry or
request by Plaintiff as to what is appropriate or adequate coverage. In this
regard, a professional agent practicing in this jurisdiction, faced with such
an inquiry from Plaintiff would meet that duty by: (c.) Explaining
accurately the nature of coverage. (d.) explaining the benefits of
carrying EPLI coverage. (e.) explaining the risks of carrying EPLI
Coverage. (f.) explaining the right to coverage equal to their liability
coverages if the carrier offers it. (Ins. Code 11580.2(m)&(n)). (g.)
pricing and recommending to Plaintiff EPLI coverage in the same amount as the
EPLI coverage that Plaintiff had purchased prior; and (h.) Having
assumed special or greater duties to Plaintiff and Defendant MAJA PECI, by
holding herself out as an expert, to accurately and comprehensively advise Plaintiff
as to Plaintiff’s EPLI coverage, particularly where such needs have been
brought to the agent’s attention.” (5AC, ¶ 37(a)-(h).)
 
Plaintiff
alleges that Defendants SCM and Peci breached these duties because: (1) Plaintiff
inquired whether EPLI coverage was adequate and comprehensive and was assured
by SCM’s account manager Peci, that Plaintiff presumed was an expert, that
Plaintiff purchased EPLI coverage; (2) Plaintiff had been advised that EPLI
coverage was added to Plaintiff’s policies because it was confirmed by SCM’s
account manager Peci; and (3) SCM’s and Peci’s negligence in procuring
Plaintiffs’ insurance coverage fell below the standard of care when it failed
to reasonably notice plaintiff’s absence of longstanding EPLI coverage. (5AC, ¶
38(a)-(c).)  Plaintiff nebulously alleges
that as a result of Peci failing to recommend EPLI coverage or as a result of
her alleged failure to fulfil her alleged representation that Plaintiff did
purchase EPLI coverage, Plaintiff wound up paying a quarter of a million
dollars to defend a lawsuit that he allegedly believed he had coverage for.  
 
As noted by SCM’s moving papers on page 16, “a
broker’s duty –whether or not phrased as a fiduciary duty—is no greater than the
duty to use reasonable care and diligence . . . .  (Mark Tanner Constr. v. Hub Internat. Ins.
Servs. (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 574, 586.”  The 5AC does not in its captions or headings allege
a claim for breach of fiduciary duty, but it does allege professional negligence,
i.e., the duty of a professional to use reasonable care.  The 5AC alleges that Plaintiff had “employment
practice liability coverage” or EPLI coverage in 2020 (5AC ¶16.)  Paragraph 36 alleges that an insurance producer/agent/
broker has fiduciary duties, an allegation SCM correctly describes as being
vague and ambiguous because of the differing duties of agent, brokers, and
producers.  Plaintiff purports to clarify
this ambiguity by listing 8 duties it alleges SCM owed to Plaintiff in
Paragraph 37, subparagraphs a through h, and in Paragraph 38 where Plaintiff
alleges that SCM’s alleged account manager Peci allegedly assured Plaintiff
that it had in fact purchased EPLI coverage, but failed to do so.  SCM points out that in a prior pleading,
Plaintiff attached a copy of a D&O policy, which on its face is not an EPLI
policy.  
 
The Court will take oral argument as to whether
these allegations are sufficient to state a cause of action for negligence by a
producer or brokerage whose alleged account manager is claimed to have made a representation
to Plaintiff that he purchased EPLI insurance as opposed to the D&O policy
he did purchase.  The Court once again
finds the now 5th amended complaint to be vague, nebulous, difficult
to understand, and uncertain.  But before
the Court sustains the demurrer without leave to amend (given the prior opportunities
for plaintiff to do so), the Court will take argument as to whether hidden
among the murky reeds there is a kernel of a cause of action pleaded within the
contemplation of the Mark Tanner Construction case cited by SCM on page
16 of the moving papers:
 
 
“Insurance
brokers owe a limited duty to their clients, which is only ‘to use reasonable
care, diligence, and judgment in procuring the insurance requested by an
insured.’ [Citations.] Accordingly, an insurance broker does not breach its
duty to clients to procure the requested insurance policy unless ‘(a) the
[broker] misrepresents the nature, extent or scope of the coverage being
offered or provided ... , (b) there is a request or inquiry by the insured for
a particular type or extent of coverage ... , or (c) the [broker] assumes an
additional duty by either express agreement or by “holding himself out” as
having expertise in a given field of insurance being sought by the insured.’
[Citation.]” (Pacific Rim Mechanical Contractors, Inc. v. Aon Risk Ins.
Services West, Inc. (2012) 203 Cal.App.4th 1278, 1283, 138 Cal.Rptr.3d 294
(Pacific Rim ).) “California law is well settled as to this limited duty
on the part of insurance brokers. [Citations.]” (Ibid.)


(Mark Tanner Constr. v. Hub Internat. Ins.
Servs. (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 574, 584.) 
Plaintiff appears to allege that SCM breached this limited duty by
having its alleged account manager do each of these three things.  At oral argument, the Court will seek input from
SCM why such allegations in Paragraph 38 of the 5AC are insufficient at the pleading
stage to survive a demurrer for uncertainty or for failing to state a viable
cause of action.   
 
The Mark Tanner Const. case was decided
on a motion for summary judgment, not on a demurrer, where the Third District found
that the plaintiffs failed to carry their burden to demonstrate error by the trial
court.  Here, there is no evidence before
the Court as there was on a summary judgment motion, nor does the Court
consider on demurrer anything but the allegations of the pleading plus any
matters as to which the Court has granted request for judicial notice.  The moving and reply papers tend to argue
that Plaintiff could not reasonably rely on what he claims Peci advised him, and
that Plaintiff must have known the different between an EPLI policy and a
D&O policy, but the Court cannot consider such inferences or credibility determinations
on a demurrer.   