 Case Number:  24TRCV00980    Hearing Date:   June 27, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿ 
¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                    June 27, 2024¿¿ 
¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                   24TRCV00980
¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Rigali
v. Pelican Products
¿¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                Defendant Pelican Products
¿¿ 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiff Monica Rigali
 
TRIAL DATE:                           None
Set  
¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                                  (1) Motion to Compel Arbitration
¿ 
Tentative Ruling:                       (1) Argue

                                                 

 
 
 
 
Defendant
Pelican Products brings this motion to compel arbitration of Plaintiff’s 11-count
case arising out of her relatively short-term employment as an executive with
Defendant.  Plaintiff has sued not only
her former employer but also several of her co-workers for a variety of claimed
misconduct, including but not limited to hostile work environment, harassment, retaliation,
discrimination, and other tort causes of action.  While Plaintiff does not recall agreeing to
arbitrate suits concerning her employment, Defendant’s evidence (objected to by
Plaintiff) demonstrates that Plaintiff remotely or digitally executed an
arbitration agreement during her on-boarding process.  But the primary thrust of Plaintiff’s
opposition to the arbitration motion is that it is claimed to be barred by a
recent federal statute, the Ending Forced Arbitration of Sexual Assault and
Sexual Harassment Act of 2021 (“EFAA”).  The
EFAA amended the Federal Arbitration Act (“FAA”), a statute that generally
favors the arbitration of disputes between parties, where the plaintiff has
brought a case under that “relate[] to” a “sexual assault dispute or sexual
harassment dispute, i.e., “a dispute relating to conduct that is alleged to
constitute sexual harassment under applicable Federal, Tribal, or State law.”
(9 U.S.C. § 401(4), 402(a).)
Plaintiff’s
First Amended Complaint contains a range of employment-related allegations, not
all of which relate to a sexual harassment suit.  For example, she alleges that Pelican had a
history of unequal pay between male and female employees, an allegation of
sex-based discrimination, not sexual harassment.  She alleges that other executives “refused to
accept a female counterpart” as co-equals, again an allegation of
discrimination rather than sexual assault or sexual harassment.  She alleges that Defendant MINIARD “undermined
Plaintiff’s input, talked down to her, and . . . routinely cancelled the
meetings set by Plaintiff,” none of which constitutes sexual harassment.  However, other allegations in the FAC do relate
to dispute over sexual harassment.  FAC
paragraph 27 alleges that Defendant GYORI shared “sexually explicit content”
from an Instagram page that “features women in revealing clothing” as part of
another company’s marketing of their products, touting the posing of scantily
clad women as “good marketing” that Plaintiff should consider Pelican using in
her marketing role with Pelican and projecting that image or those images
during a meeting in Pelican’s main conference room in Plaintiff’s presence.  FAC paragraph 29 alleges that several months
later, “Plaintiff became informed of a sexual relationship between one of
PELICAN’s male executives and his female subordinate,” a relationship Plaintiff
alleges to have been known among other executives.  This is an allegation potentially bearing on
a hostile work environment claim, which would be relating to a dispute over
sexual harassment.
FAC
paragraph 30 alleges that in November of 2023, while on a work-related trip to
Asia. Defendant Goldberg “made numerous highly inappropriate and explicit
comments” to Plaintiff that suggested male executives, like Genghis Khan or
other “kings,” could have a sexual relationship with any female employees of
their choosing with impunity.  The FAC
further alleges Goldberg used vulgar and offensive language to and when
speaking about Plaintiff, the only female executive, to other executives.  The FAC also alleges that Pelican terminated Goldberg’s
employment a month later, after Plaintiff and other employees had reported his misconduct
to the Human Resources department at Pelican. 
Paragraph 30 of the FAC alleges that after Goldberg was terminated, Defendant
Curleigh “began placing unwarranted scrutiny on Plaintiff’s work product and
repeatedly questioned Plaintiff about her time as a female Nike employee during
the “Me Too” Movement.”  The Court would like
oral argument from Plaintiff as to how questions posed to an executive about
how another company handled “me too” issues constitutes sexual harassment.
Pelican
argues that Plaintiff’s sexual harassment and hostile environment claims are
not plausible because the alleged conduct was not sufficiently severe or
pervasive.  At the pleading phase of a
suit, it is a challenge for the court to consider all the circumstances that
the trier of fact typically has, including the frequency of the discriminatory
conduct; its severity, whether it is physically threatening or humiliating, etc.,
so on an arbitration motion or demurrer the Court must look to the allegations
of the complaint to assess those circumstances, whether the misconduct alleges
rises to the level of unreasonably interfering with an employee’s work
performance, and the sliding scale of severity or seriousness that varies with
the pervasiveness or frequency of the clamed misconduct.
The
parties dispute whether these allegations are sufficient to characterize the
FAC as a case relating to sexual harassment. 
Certainly some of these allegations appear to relate to sexual harassment,
and clearly others do not.  Given the
dearth of caselaw under EFAA, and given the 11 counts alleged in the FAC, it is
not clear to the Court whether the sexual harassment nature of a portion of a
suit’s allegations are sufficient to bar the parties from arbitrating all of multitude
of allegations; whether the Court can or should send some of the claims to
arbitration and retain others; whether clams against non-signatories to the
arbitration agreement should be sent to arbitration; and whether non-arbitrable
claims should be stayed or should proceed in court while arbitrable claims move
in a separate arbitration track.
The
Court will take oral argument on these issues, consider the cited precedents, and
will likely take the case under submission before issuing a final decision on this
motion.