 Case Number:  23TRCV03890    Hearing Date:   June 27, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿ 
¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 June 27, 2024¿¿ 
¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                  23TRCV03890
¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Omni
Manhattan Towers Limited Partnership v. Matern Law Group, PC, et al. 
¿¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                Defendants, Matern Law Group, PC and
Matthew J. Matern 
¿¿ 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiff, 
Omni Manhattan Towers Limited Partnership
¿¿ 
DEFAULT ENTRY DATE:   Matern
Law Group, PC – February 8, 2024
                                                Matthew
J. Matern – April 26, 2024 
¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Motion to Set Aside
Default
 
Tentative Rulings:                  (1) ARGUE. See the issues
identified in the Court’s analysis. 
 
¿¿ 
¿ 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿ 
¿¿ 
A.    Factual¿¿ 
 
On
November 21, 2023, Plaintiff, Omni Manhattan Towers Limited Partnership
(“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Defendants, Matern Law Group, PC,
Matthew J. Matern, and DOES 1 through 10. The complaint alleges causes of
action for: (1) Breach of Contract; (2) Breach of Guaranty; (3) Breach of the
Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing; (4) Declaratory Relief RE
Lease; and (5) Declaratory Relief RE Guaranty. 
 
On
February 8, 2024, Default was entered against Defendant, Matern Law Group, PC.
On April 25, 2024, Default was entered against Defendant, Matthew J. Matern. 
 
Now,
Defendants, Matern Law Group, PC and Matthew J. Matern (collectively “Matern
Defendants”) file a Motion to Set Aside Entry of Default and Request for Order
to Show Cause why Sanctions should not be imposed against Plaintiff’s counsel
of record in the amount of $3,734.50. 
 
B.    
Procedural 
 
On May 28, 2024, Matern
Defendants filed this Motion to Set Aside Default and Request for Order to Show
Cause why Sanctions should not be imposed on Plaintiff. On June 10, 2024,
Plaintiff filed an opposition and Request for Fees and Sanctions pursuant to
Code of Civil procedure sections 473 and 128.7 in the amount of $4,828. On June
20, 2024, Defendants filed a reply brief. 
 
II. ANALYSIS¿ 
¿ 
A.   
 Legal Standard
¿ 
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure §473(b), both
discretionary and mandatory relief is available to parties from a judgment,
dismissal, order, or other proceeding.  Discretionary relief is available
under the statute as “the court may, upon any terms as may be just, relieve a
party or his or her legal representative from judgment, dismissal, order, or
other proceeding taken against him or her through his or her mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect.  (Code of Civ. Proc.
§¿473(b).)  Alternatively, mandatory relief is available when “accompanied
by an attorney’s sworn affidavit attesting to his or her mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or neglect.”  (Ibid.)  Under this statute, an application for
discretionary or mandatory relief must be made no more than six months after
entry of the judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding from which relief
is sought.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 473(b); English v. IKON Business
Solutions (2001) 94 Cal.App.4th 130, 143.) 
 
“‘[W]hen relief under section
473¿is¿available, there is a strong¿public¿policy¿in¿favor¿of granting relief
and allowing the requesting party his or her day in court…[Citation.]” (Rappleyea
v. Campbell¿(1994) 8 Cal. 4th 975, 981-82.) 
 
B.    
Discussion 
 
Preliminarily,
this Court notes that Matern Defendants have indicated that counsel for
Plaintiff, Maria Kao (“Kao”) has, and continues to, engage in violations of California
Professional Rules of Responsibility, Rule 2-100(A), which prohibits attorneys
from directly or indirectly communicating about the subject of the
representation with a party known to be represented by a lawyer. Specifically,
Mater Defendants assert that Kao has repeatedly directly served Defendant,
Matern Law Group, PC with case-related documents and pleadings and has
intentionally failed to serve Defendants’ counsel. Matern Defendants also
contend that Kao’s office also submitted an erroneous proof of service to this
Court indicating that Defendant, Matern Law Group, PC was “in pro per”
(Declaration of Scott J. Kalter (“Kalter Decl.”), ¶6.)
 
On
January 17, 2024, counsel for Matern Defendants sent a letter of representation
to Kao informing her that the Matern Defendants are represented (Kalter Decl.,
¶ 3.)  However, Matern Defendants assert
that even after receiving this letter, Kao has caused two Requests for Entry of
Default and Case Management Conference Statement to be served directly to
Defendant, Matern Law Group, PC and has failed to serve these three documents
on counsel for Defendants. Moreover, Defendant, Matthew J. Matern has asserted
that he did not ever receive actual notice of the Summons and Complaint being
served on him (Kalter Decl., ¶ 9.) Matern Defendants note that the proof of
service for Defendant, Matthew J. Matern indicates that service by substituted
service, despite Defense counsel making multiple offers to accept service on
behalf of Matthew J. Matern, and Plaintiff’s counsel not complying. (Kalter
Decl., ¶ 7.) 
 
            Further, on February 6, 2024,
counsel for Defendants notes that he informed counsel for Plaintiff of the
Matern Defendants’ intentions to file a demurrer and that for the sake of
judicial economy, Defendants wanted to file one responsive pleading on behalf
of both Defendants – however, Plaintiff had not yet served Defendant, Matthew
J. Matern. (Kalter Decl., ¶ 5.) Defendant’s counsel notes that he offered to
accept service on behalf on behalf of Matthew J. Matern both via email and via
telephone. (Kalter Decl., ¶ 7.) Defense counsel notes that Plaintiff’s counsel
indicated that she would check with her client, but that Plaintiff’s counsel
never responded. (Kalter Decl., ¶ 7.) 
 
            Matern Defendants contend that
Plaintiff’s counsel has met and conferred with Defendant’s counsel previously
concerning Defendants’ demurrer, so they argue that there is absolutely no
excuse, mistake, surprise, inadvertence, or excusable neglect to justify her
failure to meet and confer before requesting to enter default against
Defendants. (Kalter Decl., ¶ 7.) 
 
            Defense counsel notes that he
requested Plaintiff stipulate to set aside the default, but that Plaintiff’s
counsel refused. (Kalter Decl., ¶ 11.) 
As such, Matern Defendants have filed this Motion to Set Aside Default
and have also requested sanctions in the amount of $3,734.50 as against counsel
for Plaintiff for alleged improper conduct. 
 
Mistake,
Inadvertence, Surprise, or Excusable Neglect 
 
            Here, Matern
Defendants’ counsel indicates that this Court should set aside the default
judgment due to the “surprise” of Plaintiff’s counsel failing to meet or confer
with Defense counsel prior to the filing of the Request for Entry of Default,
because Plaintiff’s counsel failed to serve Defense counsel or inform him that
she planned to serve Defendant, Matthew J. Matern personally. (Kalter Decl., ¶
8.) Defense counsel notes that the only reason the Matern Defendants
have not yet filed a responsive pleading is due to confusion caused by
Plaintiff’s counsel’s lack of communication. Based on
this, Defendants contend that their motion to set aside is based on his
counsel’s surprise. This Court also notes that Matern Defendants’ counsel has
complied with the requirements of Code of Civil Procedure § 473(b), as this
motion has been made within six months, and his declaration attests to his claimed
excusable neglect and surprise. 
 
            In
opposition, Plaintiff notes that prior to Plaintiff’s counsel ever being
notified of Stone & Salter LLP’s involvement and on December 12, 2023, an attorney
at Matern Law Group, PC named Dahlia Khalili called Plaintiff asking for an
extension to respond to the pleading. (Declaration of Maria Kao (“Kao Decl.”),
¶ 2.) During that same call Plaintiff notes that Khalili confirmed that service
on both Defendants was completed on December 6, 2024. Given that  the responsive pleading was not yet due and
because Plaintiff wanted to see about resolving the matter, Plaintiff’s counsel
notes that she declined to discuss the extension until a call with Defendant,
Matern could be had. (Kao Decl., ¶ 3.) On January 4, 2024, Plaintiff’s
counsel notes that Khalili again asked for an extension to file a responsive
pleading, and Plaintiff again asked to speak with Matthew Matern. 
 
            Plaintiff’s counsel notes that even
though service was confirmed to be completed on December 6, 2023 against both
Defendants, on January 23, 2024, the clerk rejected the proof of service on
Defendant, Matthew J. Matern because the attorney service for Plaintiff had
completed the form incorrectly and would not correct the proof of service. (Kao
Decl., ¶ 5.)  On January 31, 2024,
Plaintiff notes that the clerk accepted, and the Clerk entered, the default of
Defendant, Matern Law Group, PC. (Kao Decl., ¶ 7.) Given the issues with the
attorney service and the clerk’s rejection, Plaintiff notes that she caused
process servers to complete again the personal service against individual,
Matthew Matern. (Kao Decl., ¶ 8.) Plaintiff notes that Defendant, Matthew J.
Matern was served via substituted service on March 11, 2024. Subsequently, on
April 23, 2024, the clerk entered default. 
 
            Plaintiff argues that this motion
should be denied because Defense counsel has failed to comply with section 473
as his declaration fails to attest to his own mistake, inadvertence, surprise,
or neglect. Plaintiff’s counsel also notes that she agreed to set aside the
defaults on the condition that Defendants file an Answer, however, they refused
(Kao Decl., ¶12-13.) 
 
            This Court identifies numerous
problems of miscommunication in this case. First, Plaintiff had a reasonable
ground for believing that Matern Defendants were representing themselves in pro
per since an attorney in their law office was emailing counsel for Plaintiff
and seeking a pleading extension.  Second, that reasonable ground appears to have
ended when Plaintiff’s counsel received Defense counsel’s Letter of
Representation on January 16, 2024.  The
Court is curious why Plaintiff’s counsel continued to contact Matern Defendants
directly and to refrain from notifying Stone & Sallus thereafter. 
 
            Third, the Court notes that Matern
Defendants’ counsel indicated that the only reason that a responsive pleading
was not filed was because Matthew J. Matern did not receive actual notice. A
motion to quash allegedly invalid service might have been an option at that
point, up until the time the clerk accepted the service of summons filed on
March 21, 2024. Fourth, the assertion that counsel for Defendants wanted to
serve a responsive pleading jointly, does not appear to create a valid excuse
for the failure to timely file a responsive pleading on behalf of Matern Law
Group, PC for an indefinite period of time. 

 
            The Court will take oral argument
from both sides on these points, in an effort to re-introduce both sides to the
concept of civility among litigation counsel even when appearing on opposing
sides in a lawsuit.  At this time, the
Court is DENYING both parties’ requests for sanctions and/or fees and costs as
neither party has a compelling reason for requesting said sanctions when
neither side conducted themselves in a fashion the Court would expect of
competent litigation counsel to avoid the need for a contested motion and a
hearing on a motion that routinely would be unopposed or stipulated to upon
payment of the costs of applying for the defaults.  The majority of the requested sanctions
amounts appear to be, in the Court’s view, self-inflicted wounds.  
 
            Finally, while there may be a
service issue or disagreement as to proper service on Defendant Matthew J.
Matern, there is not an issue raised as to the actual service on Matern Law
Group, PC. As such, the parties are to argue as to whether this Court should
GRANT this motion as to both Defendants or just Matthew J. Matern.
 
            The Court is inclined to grant the
motions as to both defendants, and since the motions failed to attach the
proposed responsive pleading, to condition the granting of the motion on the
defendants filing a joint answer rather than any other form of responsive
pleading within 15 days, but to deny any monetary sanctions.  