 Case Number:  23STCV10067    Hearing Date:   March 6, 2024    Dept:  71 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 71
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



DANIEL
  VILLALTA, 
  
         vs.
 
BRAKE
  PARTS INC LLC, et al.


 Case No.: 
  23STCV10067
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  March 6, 2024



 
Defendants CWD, LLC’s, Brake Parts
LLC’s, and Modern HR, Inc.’s motion to compel arbitration of Plaintiff Daniel
Villalta’s claims in this action is granted. This case is stayed pending
arbitration.
The Court sets a non-appearance case review for March 6, 2025, at 8:30
a.m.  The parties are directed to submit
a joint statement five calendar days in advance, apprising the Court of the
status of the arbitration.
 
Defendants CWD, LLC (“CWD”), Brake Parts LLC (“Brake Parts”), and
Modern HR, Inc. (“Modern HR”) (collectively, “Defendants”) move for an order
compelling arbitration of all claims asserted by Plaintiff Daniel Villalta (“Villalta”)
(“Plaintiff”) and staying the instant action during the pendency of arbitration.  (Notice of Motion, pg. 2; 9 U.S.C. §3; C.C.P.
§§1280 et seq.; C.C.P. §1281.4.)  
 
Evidentiary Objections
Plaintiff’s 2/22/24 evidentiary objections to the Declaration of Dipika
Gyanani (“Gyanani”) are overruled as to Nos. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, and 7.
Defendants’ 2/28/24 evidentiary objections to the Declaration of
Villalta are overruled as to Nos. 1, 2, and 3.
 
Request for Judicial Notice
Defendants’ 12/6/23 request for judicial notice of (1) The
American Arbitration Association (“AAA”) Employment Arbitration Rules and Mediation
Procedures, Amended and Effective November 1, 2009, Rule 38 - Serving of
Notice, Revised January 1, 2023, available at https://www.adr.org/sites/default/files/EmploymentRules-Web.pdf
(D-RJN, Exh. F); and (2) AAA Employment/Workplace Fee Schedule, Amended and
Effective January 1, 2023, available at
https://www.adr.org/sites/default/files/Employment_ Workplace_Fee_Schedule.pdf (D-RJN,
Exh. G), is granted.
 
Background
On May 4, 2023, Plaintiff filed the instant action for retaliation
in violation of the Labor Code, FEHA discrimination, failure to provide a
reasonable accommodation, failure to engage in a good faith interactive
process, FEHA retaliation, failure to prevent discrimination or retaliation in violation
of FEHA, violation of CFRA, and wrongful discharge in violation of public
policy against Defendants in connection with Plaintiff’s termination around May
13, 2022.  (See Complaint ¶8.)  Defendants filed the instant motion on December
6, 2023.  Plaintiff filed his opposition
on February 22, 2024.  On February 28,
2024, Defendants filed their reply.
 
Motion to Compel Arbitration
A.  Arbitration Agreement
1.    
The Arbitration
Agreement is enforceable
Federal
law provides for enforcement of this Arbitration Agreement. The Federal
Arbitration Act, 9 U.S.C. §1, et seq. (“FAA”), establishes a strong
federal policy in favor of arbitration of disputes where a written arbitration
agreement exists. Section 2 of the FAA provides, in pertinent part that “[a]
written provision . . . to settle by arbitration a controversy thereafter
arising out of such contract . . .  shall
be valid, irrevocable, and enforceable.”  (9 U.S.C. §2.) 
The purpose of the FAA is to “reverse the longstanding judicial
hostility to arbitration agreements.” (Gilmer v. Interstate/Johnson Lane
Corp. (1991) 500 U.S. 20, 24.)  The
FAA places arbitration agreements “on an equal footing with other contracts and
[requires courts] to enforce them according to their terms.”  (AT&T Mobility, LLC v. Concepcion (2011)
563 U.S. 333, 339; see also Rent-A-Center West, Inc. v. Jackson (2010)
561 U.S. 63, 67 [“The FAA reflects the fundamental principle that arbitration
is a matter of contract.”].)  The FAA will
preempt not only a state law that “discriminat[es] on its face against
arbitration,” but also a state law that “covertly accomplishes the same
objective by disfavoring contracts that (oh so coincidentally) have the
defining features of arbitration agreements.”  (Kindred Nursing Centers Limited
Partnership v. Clark (2017) 137 S.Ct. 1421, 1426.)
The
United States Supreme Court has specifically held that the FAA applies to
employment contracts: “[A]s a matter of law the answer is clear.  In the Federal Arbitration Act, Congress has
instructed federal courts to enforce arbitration agreements according to their
terms.”  (Epic Systems Corp. v. Lewis (2018)
138 S.Ct. 1612, 1619 [holding that employees must submit to arbitration
agreements including those with collective action waivers].)  
The
FAA restricts a court’s inquiry related to compelling arbitration to two
threshold questions: (1) whether there was an agreement to arbitrate between
the parties; and (2) whether the agreement covers the dispute.  (Howsam v. Dean Witter Reynolds, Inc. (2002)
537 U.S. 79, 84.)  Here, both criteria
are satisfied. First, Plaintiff agreed to arbitration when he entered into the Alternative
Dispute Resolution Policy (“ADR Policy”) and executed the Agreement to be Bound
by the ADR Policy (“Arbitration Agreement”) that contained the relevant
arbitration clause.  (Decl. of Gyanani ¶¶5-6, Exhs. A, B.)  Second, the Arbitration Agreement expressly covers “all disputes relating to [Plaintiff’s]
employment, the terms and conditions of [his] employment, including but not
limited to [his] compensation, wages, . . . discipline, performance
evaluations, promotions, transfers, and the termination of [his] employment, as
defined in the ADR Policy materials” between Plaintiff and CWD.  (Decl. of Gyanani ¶5, Exh. A at pg. 1.)  
California
law also favors arbitration for dispute resolution. The California Arbitration
Act (“CAA”), codified at C.C.P. §1281 et seq., provides, “A written
agreement to submit to arbitration an existing controversy or a controversy
thereafter arising is valid, enforceable and irrevocable, save upon such
grounds as exist for the revocation of any contract.”  (C.C.P. §1281; see also Grafton Partners
L.P. v. Superior Court (2005) 36 Cal.4th 944, 955 [“[U]nlike predispute
jury waivers, predispute arbitration agreements are specifically authorized by
statute.”].)  
“California
law, like federal law, favors enforcement of valid arbitration agreements.”  (Armendariz v. Foundation Health Psychcare
Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 97, 99.)  The public policy in favor of arbitration is
so strong that California courts have held that an employee is “bound by the
provisions of the [arbitration] agreement regardless of whether [he] read it or
[was] aware of the arbitration clause when [he] signed the document.”  (Brookwood v. Bank of America (1996)
45 Cal.App.4th 1667, citing Macaulay v. Norlander (1992) 12 Cal.App.4th
1.)  The only prerequisite for a court to
order arbitration is a determination that the parties have entered into an
agreement to arbitrate the dispute.  (United
Transportation Union v. Southern California Rapid Transit District (1992) 7
Cal.App.4th 804, 808.)  Thus, arbitration
must be ordered “unless the agreement clearly does not apply to the dispute in
question.”  (Vianna v. Doctors’
Management Co. (1994) 27 Cal.App.4th 1186, 1189.)
Defendants
proved the existence of an arbitration agreement with Plaintiff.  Defendants submitted evidence that on August
7, 2019, Plaintiff signed the Arbitration Agreement and a second document
entitled “Employee Acknowledgement” where Plaintiff confirmed he received the
ADR Policy and Arbitration Agreement.  (Decl. of Gyanani ¶¶5-6, Exhs. A, B.)  Plaintiff argues he does not recall reviewing
or signing the Arbitration Agreement but does not argue that it is not his
signature on the Arbitration Agreement. 
(See Opposition, pg. 2; Decl. of Villalta ¶¶6-7.)  Therefore, Plaintiff did not meet his burden
to produce evidence to challenge the authenticity of the agreement.  (Gamboa v. Northeast Community Clinic (2021)
72 Cal.App.5th 158, 165.)  Further, Defendants
submitted evidence regarding the authentication of the Arbitration Agreement,
including a declaration by CWD’s Human Resources Manager stating that the
Arbitration Agreement was a part of Plaintiff’s personnel file, which
Defendants maintain in the regular course of business.  (Decl. of Gyanani ¶¶4-5.)  
Additionally,
one’s failure to read or understand an arbitration agreement is no bar to enforcement.
 (Harris v. Tap Worldwide LLC (2016)
248 Cal.App.4th 373, 383 [“The fact that [plaintiff] either chose not to read
or take time to understand these [arbitration] provisions is legally irrelevant.”];
Stewart v. Preston Pipeline Inc. (2005) 134 Cal.App.4th 1565, 1589 [“Generally,
one who assents to a writing is presumed to know its contents and cannot escape
being bound by its terms merely by contending that he did not read them.”], internal
citations omitted.)
Based
on the foregoing, Defendants proved the existence of a valid Arbitration
Agreement that is enforceable by Defendants. [stopped here]
2.    
Covered Claims
The
Arbitration agreement that it applies to “employment disputes arising out of or
related to [Plaintiff’s] employment, the terms and conditions of [his]
employment, and the termination of [his] employment, all of which are also
subject to the ADR Policy . . ..”  (Decl.
of Gyanani ¶5, Exh. A at pg. 1.)  This
includes “(a) alleged violation of federal, state and/or local constitutions,
statutes or regulations, (including but not limited to claims under Title VII
of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, the Americans with Disabilities Act, the Age
Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967, the Equal Pay Act, and any other statutory
scheme encompassing claims of discrimination and harassment on the basis of
race, color, age, religious creed, national origin, ancestry, disability,
sexual orientation, gender identity, sex or any other characteristic protected
by law . . ..”  (Decl. of Gyanani ¶5, Exh.
A at pg. 1.)  Plaintiff’s claims arise
from his employment relationship with Defendants and are therefore governed by
the Arbitration Agreement.  Based on the
foregoing, Defendants met their burden of establishing the Arbitration
Agreement covers the causes of action asserted in Plaintiff’s complaint.
 
B.
Unconscionability
“[P]rocedural
and substantive unconscionability must both be present in order for a court to
exercise its discretion to refuse to enforce a contract or clause under the
doctrine of unconscionability.”  (Armendariz,
24 Cal.4th at pg. 102.)  Courts invoke a
sliding scale which disregards the regularity of the procedural process of the
contract formation, that creates the terms, in proportion to the greater
harshness or unreasonableness of the substantive terms themselves, i.e., the
more substantively oppressive the contract term, the less evidence of
procedural unconscionability is required to conclude that the term is
unenforceable, and vice versa.  (Id.,
at pg. 114.)  Plaintiff bears the burden
of proving that the provision at issue is both procedurally and substantively
unconscionable.  
 
1.    
Procedural
Unconscionability
Plaintiff
argues the Arbitration Agreement is procedurally unconscionable because (1) he
had no opportunity to negotiate the terms of the Arbitration Agreement or have
a meaningful choice in the matter; (2) he does not recall the Arbitration
Agreement or agreeing with the terms within the Arbitration Agreement; (3) he
was not provided with opportunity to opt out therefrom or continue his
employment with Defendants if he decided not to sign the Arbitration Agreement;
(4) Defendants merely inserted the website of AAA in the Arbitration Agreement
for Plaintiff to independently find the rules for arbitration; and (5) Defendants
provided Plaintiff with a stack of documents in English that he was pressured
to sign and return the same day. 
(Opposition, pgs. 2-6; Decl. of Villalta ¶¶4-7.)
“Procedural
unconscionability focuses on the elements of oppression and surprise.
[Citations] ‘Oppression arises from an inequality of bargaining power which
results in no real negotiation and an absence of meaningful choice . . .
Surprise involves the extent to which the terms of the bargain are hidden in a
‘prolix printed form’ drafted by a party in a superior bargaining position.’
[Citations.]”  (Roman v. Superior
Court (2009) 172 Cal.App.4th 1462, 1469.)
Procedural
unconscionability “focuses on the unequal bargaining positions and hidden terms
common in the context of adhesion contracts.” 
(24 Hour Fitness, Inc. v. Superior Court (1998) 66 Cal.App.4th
1199, 1212-1213.)  Although standard
employment agreements offered on a “take it or leave it” basis are generally
considered contracts of adhesion, this alone is not enough to equate to
unconscionability.  (See Graham
v. Scissor-Tail, Inc. (1981) 28 Cal.3d 807, 817-819 [“To describe a
contract as adhesive in character is not to indicate its legal effect. It is,
rather, ‘the beginning and not the end of the analysis insofar as
enforceability of its terms are concerned.’”].) 
Adhesion contracts are “fully enforceable . . . unless certain other
factors are present which under established legal rules—legislative or
judicial—operate to render it otherwise.”  (Id. at pgs. 819-820; Harper v.
Ultimo (2003) 113 Cal.App.4th 1402, 1409 [adhesion alone does not render
arbitration agreements unconscionable]; see also Armendariz, 24
Cal.4th at 114; Lagatree v. Luce, Forward, Hamilton & Scripps, LLP
(1999) 74 Cal.App.4th 1105 [discussing many authorities upholding
arbitration agreements contained in adhesion contracts].) 
Plaintiff’s
argument in opposition that his requirement to sign the Arbitration Agreement
as a condition of his employment is unavailing and is unsupported by case law.
The adhesive nature of arbitration agreements in the employment context does
not render an agreement unenforceable.  (Lagatree,
74 Cal.App.4th at pg. 1127 [“[C]ases uniformly agree that a compulsory
predispute arbitration agreement is not rendered unenforceable just because it
is required as a condition of employment or offered on a ‘take it or leave it’
basis.”]; Armendariz, 24 Cal. 4th at pg. 113 [holding that the
requirement that the employee sign an arbitration agreement may contain some
elements of procedural unconscionability, but that, in itself, does not
invalidate the arbitration agreement]; Ajamian v. CantorCO2e, LP (2012)
203 Cal.App.4th 771, 796 [“Where there is no other indication of oppression or
surprise, the degree of procedural unconscionability of an adhesion agreement
is low[.]”].)  
It
is well-established that the AAA rules comply with Armendariz and,
incorporating the rules into an arbitration agreement, as here, is permissible.
 (See Roman, 172 Cal.App.4th at
pg. 1476 [holding that arbitration agreement incorporating AAA Rules complies
with Armendariz]; Lagatree, 74 Cal.App. at pg. 1127 [“The rules
of the [AAA] specified by the clause as governing the resolution of disputes
are generally regarded to be neutral and fair”].)
Plaintiff’s
reliance on Zullo v. Superior Court (2011) 197 Cal.App.4th 477, 486, to
support his claim that incorporation of the AAA rules is unconscionable is
misplaced.  Zullo held that the failure
to attach the AAA rules only “adds a bit” to the procedural unconscionability
and does not create complete procedural unconscionability.  (See Id.)
With
regard to Plaintiff’s argument that his limited understanding of English renders
the Arbitration Agreement unconscionable, such a situation does not excuse his
performance under the Arbitration Agreement. 
(See Madden v. Kaiser Foundation Hospitals (1976) 17 Cal.3d 699,
710 [“[O]ne who assents to a contract is bound by its provisions and cannot
complain of unfamiliarity with the language of the instrument.”); Randas v.
YMCA of Metropolitan Los Angeles (1993) 17 Cal.App.4th 158, 163 [“Ordinarily,
one who accepts or signs an instrument, which on its face is a contract, is
deemed to assent to all its terms, and cannot escape liability on the ground
that he has not read it. If he cannot read, he should have it read or explained
to him.”].)
Based
on the foregoing, the Court finds the Arbitration Agreement is, at most,
minimally procedurally unconscionable. 
However, as discussed below, the Court finds the arbitration agreement
is not substantively unconscionable.  
 
2.    
Substantive
Unconscionability
Plaintiff
argues the Arbitration Agreement is substantively unconscionable because fails
to comply with the Armendariz requirements of fairness.  (Opposition, pgs. 6-7; Armendariz, 24
Cal.4th at pg. 102.)
“Substantive
unconscionability focuses on the actual terms of the agreement and evaluates
whether they create ‘overly harsh’ or ‘‘one-sided’ results’ [Citations] that
is, whether contractual provisions reallocate risks in an objectively
unreasonable or unexpected manner. 
[Citation] Substantive unconscionability ‘may take various forms,’ but
typically is found in the employment context when the arbitration agreement is
‘one-sided’ in favor of the employer without sufficient justification, for
example, when ‘the employee’s claims against the employer, but not the
employer’s claims against the employee, are subject to arbitration.’
[Citations].”  (Roman, 172
Cal.App.4th at pgs. 1469-1470.)  In
determining whether an arbitration agreement is unconscionable, the Court
considers whether the agreement: (1) provides for a neutral arbitrator; (2)
provides for reasonable discovery; (3) requires a written award; (4) provides
for the same remedies that otherwise would be available in court; and (5) does
not require employees to bear costs unique to arbitration.  (See Armendariz, 24 Cal.4th at pgs.
102-103.)
First,
Plaintiff argues the Arbitration Agreement does not provide for a neutral
arbitrator because it states, “The dispute will be decided by a single
decision-maker, called the arbitrator. The arbitrator will be mutually selected
by the Company and the Employee. If the parties cannot mutually agree on an
arbitrator, then a list of arbitrators will be obtained from the American Arbitration
Association’s (AAA) Employment Panel.”  (Opposition,
pg. 6; Decl. of Gyanani, Exh. A.) 
Plaintiff’s argument is unavailing. AAA Employment Rule 12 provides for
a neutral arbitrator selection process that allows the Parties to each strike
and rank neutral arbitrators from a proposed list.  (See D-RJN, Ex. F at pg. 15.)  This method has been deemed to provide for a
neutral arbitrator compliant with Armendariz.
Second,
Plaintiff’s argument that the discovery permitted under the Arbitration Agreement
is inadequate because Plaintiff does not know how many depositions or how much
written discovery will be allowed during the arbitration is also unavailing. Armendariz
does not require that Plaintiff “know how much discovery” he will be entitled
to.  Rather, the California Supreme Court
has explained that the parties to arbitration need only be permitted discovery
sufficient to adequately arbitrate their claims, not unfettered discovery.  (Armendariz, 24 Cal.4th at pg. 106.)  
Here,
under the Arbitration Agreement, the parties have the right to “take
depositions and to obtain discovery regarding the subject matter of the action
and to use and exercise all of the same rights, remedies and procedures, and be
subject to all of the same duties, liabilities and objections as provided for
in the civil discovery statutes of the statue in which you provide services.”  (Decl. of Gyanani ¶5, Exh. A at pg. 3.)  The Arbitration Agreement also provides that
“[t]he arbitrator shall have the authority to rule on motions (including the
power to issue orders and determine appropriate remedies) regarding discovery
and to issue any protective orders necessary to protect the privacy and/or
rights of parties and/or witnesses.” (Decl. of Gyanani ¶5, Exh. A at pg. 3.)
Under even the most restrictive of standards, this provides for “more than minimal”
discovery.  It does not limit discovery
in any way.
Third,
Plaintiff argues that the agreement is unconscionable because it fails to state
that “all” types of relief are available. Plaintiff’s argument is unavailing.
The plain language of the Arbitration Agreement states: “[t]he arbitrator shall
have the same authority to award remedies and damages on the merits of the
dispute as provided to a judge and/or jury under parallel circumstances.”
(Decl. of Gyanani ¶5, Exh. A.)  Additionally,
AAA Employment Rule 39 provides that “[t]he arbitrator may grant any remedy or relief
that would have been available to the parties had the matter been heard in
court including awards of attorney’s fees and costs, in accordance with
applicable law.”  (D-RJN, Exh. F at pg.
23.)
Finally,
Plaintiff argues that the Arbitration Agreement does not provide for a written
award.  This argument is also unavailing.
The Arbitration Agreement states that “the arbitrator shall issue a written
opinion and award . . . Following the issuance of the arbitrator’s decision,
any party may petition a court to confirm, enforce, correct or vacate the
arbitrator’s opinion and award under the Federal Arbitration Act, 9 U.S.C. §§
1-16, if applicable, and/or applicable state law.” (Decl. of Gyanani ¶5, Exh. A
at pg. 3.)  There is no discretion
provided for pursuant to terms of the agreement. Thus, a written award is
required.  Similarly, AAA Employment Rule
39, which is incorporated into the agreement, provides that the arbitrator
shall issue a written award that provides the reasons for the award unless the
Parties agree otherwise.  (D- RJN, Exh. F
at pg. 23.) 
Based
on the evidence before the Court, the terms of the Arbitration Agreement do not
create overly harsh or one-sided results, satisfying the requirements for a
substantively conscionable agreement.
Based
on the foregoing, the Court finds the Arbitration Agreement is not substantively unconscionable.  
 
C.   
Stay of Current
Action
Pursuant
to C.C.P. §1281.4, if an application has been made to a court involving order
to arbitrate a controversy and such application is undetermined, the court
where the application is pending shall, upon motion of a party to the action,
stay the action until the application for an order to arbitrate is determined.  (C.C.P. §1281.4.)
Accordingly,
this case is stayed pending arbitration.
 
D.  
Conclusion
Defendants’
motion to compel arbitration is granted. 

The case is
stayed pending arbitration. The Court sets a non-appearance case review for March
6, 2025, at 8:30 a.m.  The parties are
directed to submit a joint statement five calendar days in advance, apprising
the Court of the status of the arbitration.
Moving Party to
give notice.

 
Dated:  March _____, 2024
                                                                             





  