 Case Number:  20STCV38140    Hearing Date:   December 6, 2023    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     December 6, 2023                  TRIAL
DATE: April 9, 2024
                                                           
CASE:                         Gladys Navarro v. South Bay Safety Inc.,
et al
 
CASE NO.:                 20STCV38140            
 
(1)
MOTION TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO REQUESTS FOR PRODUCTION (SET ONE); REQUEST FOR
SANCTIONS
(2) MOTION TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO FORM
INTERROGATORIES – EMPLOYMENT; REQUEST FOR SANCTIONS
(3) MOTION TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO FORM
INTERROGATORIES – GENERAL; REQUEST FOR SANCTIONS

 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff Gladys Navarro
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): No response on
eCourt as of 12/1/23
 
CASE
HISTORY:
·        
10/05/20: Complaint filed.
·        
10/06/20: First Amended Complaint Filed.
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is an action for wrongful termination. Plaintiff alleges that
Defendants terminated her employment in retaliation for taking sick days.
 
Plaintiff moves to compel responses
to requests for production and form interrogatories propounded to Defendant
South Bay Safety, Inc. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel
Responses to Requests for Production (Set One) is GRANTED. 
 
            Plaintiff’s
Motion to Compel Responses to Form Interrogatories – General is GRANTED.
 
            Plaintiff’s
Motion to Compel Responses to Form Interrogatories – Employment is GRANTED. 
 
            Defendant
South Bay Safety Inc. is ordered to provide verified, code-compliant responses
without objections within 30 days of this order.
 
            Plaintiff’s
request for sanctions is GRANTED in the amount of $1,530 against
Defendant and its counsel, jointly and severally. Payment is to be made within 20
days of this order. 
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Plaintiff moves to compel responses
to requests for production and both general and employment form interrogatories
propounded to Defendant South Bay Safety, Inc. In the interest of brevity, the
Court will address all three motions together.
 
Legal Standard
 
When a party to whom an inspection
demand or interrogatories are directed fails to respond, a party making the
demand may move for an order compelling a response to the discovery propounded.
(Code Civ. Proc. §§ 2030.290(b); 2031.300(b).) A party who fails to provide
timely responses waives any objection, including one based on privilege or work
product. (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 2030.290(a); 2031.300(a).) For a motion to compel
initial responses, no meet and confer is required. All that must be shown is
that a set of requests for production was properly served on the opposing
party, that the time to respond has expired, and that no response has been
served. (Leach v. Sup. Ct. (1980) 111
Cal.App.3d 902, 905-06.) 
 
Entitlement to Order Compelling Response
 
            Plaintiff
propounded the discovery at issue on these motions via U.S. mail on Defendants
on July 31, 2023. (See, e.g., Declaration of Melanie Rodriguez ISO Mot. Compel Response
to RFPs ¶ 7, Exh. 1.) Defendant’s counsel requested and received two discovery
extensions, with the final deadline being September 15, 2023. (Id. ¶¶ 13-19,
Exhs. 3-6.) However, no responses were ever provided. (Id. ¶ 27.) As
Defendant has not responded to these motions, the Court finds that Plaintiff is
entitled to an order compelling responses to this discovery. 
 
Entitlement to Sanctions
 
            Plaintiff
also requests sanctions in the amount of $2,310 on each of the three motions
against Defendant and its counsel, jointly and severally, for failure to
respond to discovery.
 
            Failing to respond or to submit to
an authorized method of discovery is a misuse of the discovery process.  (Code of Civ. Proc. § 2023.010.) Under
California Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.030, subd. (a), “[t]he court
may impose a monetary sanction ordering that one engaging in the misuse of the
discovery process, or any attorney advising that conduct, or both pay the
reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result
of that conduct. . . . If a monetary sanction is authorized by any provision of
this title, the court shall impose that sanction unless it finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”
 
            Sanctions are mandatory in
connection with motions to compel responses to interrogatories or requests for
production of documents against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel. (Code Civ. Proc. §§
2030.290 (c), 2030.300(d); 2031.300 (c); 2031.310(h).) However, sanctions are
not mandatory if the court “finds that the one subject to the sanction acted
with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition
of the sanction unjust.”  (Id.)
 
California Rules
of Court, rule 3.1348, subdivision (a) states: “The court may award sanctions
under the Discovery Act in favor of a party who files a motion to compel
discovery, even though no opposition to the motion was filed, or opposition to
the motion was withdrawn, or the requested discovery was provided to the moving
party after the motion was filed.”
 
Here, Plaintiff requests sanctions
in the amount of $2,310 on each of the three motions, for a total of $6,930,
representing 2 hours of attorney time preparing each motion, plus 3 anticipated
hours plus $60 in filing fees for each motion at a rate of $450 per hour. (Rodriguez
Decl. ¶ 29.) The Court is not inclined to award anticipated hours which were
not actually billed. Moreover, the Court finds that awarding Plaintiff’s
counsel for six hours of attorney time on three substantially identical motions
would be inappropriately duplicative. The Court will therefore award reduced
sanctions in the total amount of $1,530, representing 3 total hours of
attorney time at $450 per hour, plus $180 in filing fees for the three motions.

 
CONCLUSION:

 
            Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Responses to Requests for Production (Set One) is
GRANTED. 
 
            Plaintiff’s
Motion to Compel Responses to Form Interrogatories – General is GRANTED.
 
            Plaintiff’s
Motion to Compel Responses to Form Interrogatories – Employment is GRANTED. 
 
            Defendant
South Bay Safety Inc. is ordered to provide verified, code-compliant responses
without objections within 30 days of this order.
 
            Plaintiff’s
request for sanctions is GRANTED in the amount of $1,530 against
Defendant and its counsel, jointly and severally. Payment is to be made within 20
days of this order. 
 
            Moving
Party to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  December 6,
2023                              ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 