 Case Number:  22STCV39646    Hearing Date:   December 6, 2023    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     December 6, 2023                  TRIAL
DATE: NOT SET
                                                           
CASE:                         3BTech Inc. v. Liberty Mutual Ins. Co.
et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 22STCV39646            
 
DEMURRER
TO COMPLAINT

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant West American Ins. Co.
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiff 3BTech,
Inc.
 
CASE
HISTORY:
·        
12/21/22: Complaint filed.
·        
05/19/23: First Amended Complaint filed. 
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
This is a breach of contract
action. Plaintiff seeks coverage for the loss of inventory destroyed by a fire
while in the care of the insured non-party Pro-Com Products, Inc.
 
Defendant West American Insurance
Co. demurs to the First Amended Complaint in its entirety. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
            Defendant
West American Insurance Co.’s Demurrer to the First Complaint is SUSTAINED without
leave to amend. 
DISCUSSION:
 
Defendant West American Insurance
Co. demurs to the First Amended Complaint in its entirety. 
 
//
 
//
Legal Standard
 
A demurrer tests whether the
complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147
Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations
liberally and in context. (Taylor v. City of Los Angeles Dept. of Water and
Power (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1228.) In a demurrer proceeding, the
defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial
notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968,
994.) “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other
extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face
of the pleading or are judicially noticed.” (SKF Farms v. Superior Court
(1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) “The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing
is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters,
states a cause of action.” (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at p. 747.) The
ultimate facts alleged in the complaint must be deemed true, as well as all
facts that may be implied or inferred from those expressly alleged. (Marshall
v. Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1397, 1403; see also Shields
v. County of San Diego (1984) 155 Cal.App.3d 103, 133 [stating, “[o]n
demurrer, pleadings are read liberally and allegations contained therein are
assumed to be true”].) “This rule of liberal construction means that the
reviewing court draws inferences favorable to the plaintiff, not the
defendant.” (Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist. (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th
1228, 1238.) 
 
Meet and Confer
 
Before filing a demurrer, the
demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party
who has filed the pleading subject to the demurrer and file a declaration
detailing their meet and confer efforts.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41(a).)
However, an insufficient meet and confer process is not grounds
to overrule or sustain a demurrer.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.41(a)(4).)
 
The Declaration of Attorney
Patricia A. Daza-Luu states that the parties met and conferred telephonically
and by email on June 6, 2023 to attempt to informally resolve the issues
presented in this demurrer. (Declaration of Patricia A. Daza-Luu ISO Demurrer ¶
3.) The Court therefore finds Defendant has satisfied its statutory
meet-and-confer obligations. 
 
Request for Judicial Notice
 
            Defendant
requests judicial notice of (1) the pertinent portions of the Insurance Policy
issued by West American to Pro-Com, Policy No. BKW (21) 59288577, effective
from January 11, 2020 to January 11, 2021; (2) the transcript from the April
19, 2023 hearing on the Demurrer to the Complaint; (3) the Court’s April 19,
2023 Minute Order sustaining the demurrer with leave to amend; (4) Plaintiff’s
First Amended Complaint; and (5) the March 14, 2023 Letter from West American
to 3BTech referenced in the First Amended Complaint.  With respect to the Policy in Request No. 1
Defendant’s request is GRANTED as a legally operative document referenced in
and relied upon in the pleadings. (FAC ¶ 3, Scott v. JPMorgan Chase Bank,
N.A. (2013) 214 Cal.App.4th 743, 754; Salvaty v. Falcon Cable Television
(1985) 165 Cal.App.3d 798, 800 n.1.) With respect to the materials referenced
in Requests Nos. 2 through 4, those requests are GRANTED pursuant to Evidence
Code section 452(d) (court records). Finally, with respect to Request No. 5,
Defendant’s request is GRANTED as a document referenced in and relied on in the
pleadings. (FAC ¶¶ 39-40, Ingram v. Flippo (1999) 74 Cal. App. 4th 1280,
1285 n.3.)
 
Standing
 
            Defendants
demur to each of the three causes of action asserted in the First Amended Complaint
on the grounds that Plaintiff does not have standing under the insurance policy
purchased by non-party Pro-Com Products Inc from Defendant West American
Insurance Company. The parties agree that each of the three causes of action
survive or fail together. 
 
            A person
who is not insured under an insurance policy generally does not have standing
to bring an action for breach of the policy. (Republic Indemnity Company of
America v. Schofield (1996) 47 Cal.App.4th 220, 227; see also Harper v.
Wasau Ins. Co. (1997) 56 Cal.App.4th 1079, 1086.) That said, a third party
may bring an action against an insurer as an intended third-party beneficiary
if “an intent to make an obligation inure to the benefit of a third party . . .
clearly appear[s].” (Rupley v. Huntsman (1958) 159 Cal.App.2d 307, 312.)
“[T]hird party beneficiary status is a matter of contract interpretation.” (Schauer
v. Mandarin Gems of Cal., Inc. (2005) 125 Cal.App.4th 949, 957.) 
 
            “When a
dispute arises over the meaning of contract language, the first question to be
decided is whether the language is ‘reasonably susceptible’ to the
interpretation urged by the party. If it is not, the case is over.” (S. Cal.
Edison Co. v. Super. Ct., (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 839, 847-48.) “If the court decides the language is
reasonably susceptible to the interpretation urged, the court moves to the
second question: what did the parties intend the language to mean? ... Thus,
where contract language is clear and explicit and does not lead to absurd
results, we ascertain intent from the written terms and go no further. If the contract is capable of more than one reasonable
interpretation, it is ambiguous.”  (Department
of Forestry & Fire Protection v. Lawrence Livermore National Security, LLC (2015)
239 Cal.App.4th 1060, 1066 [internal quotation marks, ellipses, and citations
omitted].) Interpretation of an ambiguous contract requires the consideration
of extrinsic evidence, and is therefore not well-suited to resolution via
demurrer. (See Brown v. Goldstein (2019) 34 Cal.App.5th 418, 432-33
[describing evidentiary considerations necessary for determination of the legal
question of the meaning of a contract via motion for summary judgment].)
 
            The parties agree the
relevant provision in the Policy is the “Personal Property of Others” provision
within Policy’s Commercial Property Coverage. This provision states:
 
Personal
Property of Others that is:
 
            (1) in your care, custody, or
control; and
 
(2) Located in or on the building or structure described in the
Declarations or in the open (or in a vehicle) within 100 feet of the building
or structure or within 100 feet of the premises described in the Declarations,
whichever distance is greater.
 
However,
our payment for loss of or damage to personal property of others will only be
for the account of the owner of the property. 
 
(FAC ¶ 3, RJN Exh. A
p. 2 § A.1.c.) It is alleged that this language “required that some or
all of the [$7 million Defendant paid for the loss here] be paid to 3BTech,” so
as to comply with the clause requirement any “payment for loss” of the property
of others “will only be for the account of the owner of the property.” (Id.,
¶ 6.)
 
            Although Plaintiff states in the
Complaint that it brings this action as a party “directly entitled to benefits
under the policy” and “as a third party beneficiary of the policy issued by
Defendants to PROCOM” (FAC ¶ 36), the thrust of Plaintiff’s legal theory
advanced in the pleadings and in its opposition is not that it is a party to
the policy, but that it is an intended third-party beneficiary to the policy
under the provision for Personal Property of Others. (See generally
Opposition.) Thus, the question raised by the demurrer is, as before, whether
the referenced policy language makes Plaintiff a third-party beneficiary of the
insurance policy, such that it has standing to sue the insurer for a perceived
breach of the Policy’s terms. 
 
            Defendant previously demurred
to the Complaint on the same basis asserted here arguing Plaintiff does not
have standing under the insurance policy to bring its claims. (See February 7,
2023 Demurrer.) The Court concluded that, under the language of the Policy,
Plaintiff was not an intended third-party beneficiary, but rather an incidental
beneficiary, and therefore sustained the demurrer for lack of standing. (April
19, 2023 Minute Order.) The Court granted Plaintiff leave to allege additional
extrinsic facts which might support Plaintiff’s interpretation of the relevant
provisions in the insurance policy. (Id.) Plaintiff filed its First
Amended Complaint on May 19, 2023, incorporating new factual allegations. (See
FAC.) Defendant contends that these new allegations still do not suffice to
establish standing as an intended third-party beneficiary. 
 
            The new
allegations added in the First Amended Complaint, as Defendant describes, can
be separated into three general categories: (1) allegations regarding the
structure of the Insurance Policy (FAC ¶¶ 2-4); (2) references to out-of-state
authorities supporting Plaintiff’s position (FAC ¶ 5); and (3) allegations pertaining
to the parties’ discussion of Plaintiff’s claims. (FAC ¶¶ 28-30, 38-40, 52,
58-60, 84-86.) 
 
            The California Supreme Court
addressed the circumstances when a nonsignatory has standing to assert rights
under a contract as a third-party beneficiary in Goonewardene
v. ADP, LLC (2019) 6 Cal.5th 817. 
Under Goonewardene, a non-party to a contract is a third party
beneficiary if it demonstrates “not only (1) that it is likely to benefit from
the contract, but also (2) that a motivating purpose of the contracting parties
is to provide a benefit to the third party, and further (3) that permitting the
third party to [assert rights under the contract] against a contracting party
is consistent with the objectives of the contract and the reasonable
expectations of the contracting parties.” 
(Id., at p. 821.)
 
Defendant contends, as it did previously, that Plaintiff does not have
standing under the Policy to bring this action because Plaintiff is neither a
party to the Policy nor an intended third-party beneficiary of the Policy.
Instead, Defendant argues, Plaintiff is merely an incidental beneficiary of the
Policy. Plaintiff, in opposition, again argues that the plain meaning of the
phrase “for the account of the owner of the property” means that payment on
claims for damage to the personal property of others are payable not to the
policy holder, but to the injured third party directly, thereby creating
standing to pursue this action. Defendant again analogizes this case to LaBarbera
v. Security National Ins. Co., a recent appellate opinion concerning a
similar “insured contract” benefit in which the Court of Appeal held that the
benefit, which provided coverage to the insured for defense of a third party
indemnified by the insured in a contract arising from the insured party’s
business, did not confer standing on the named insured’s contractual
indemnitee. (LaBarbera v. Security National Ins. Co. (2022) 86
Cal.App.5th 1329, 1345.) In LaBarbera, the Court of Appeal concluded
that an indemnitee defense clause was principally for the benefit of the
contracting parties, even though it also conferred an incidental benefit on the
indemnitee. (Id. at 1343-44.) Specifically, the LaBarbera Court
found that that it was in the insured party’s interest to have the insurance
company pay for the defense of the indemnitee in litigation arising out of the
underlying construction contract without reducing the insured party’s policy
limits, and that it was in the interest of the insurer to minimize its
obligation with the efficiency of a combined defense where feasible. (Id.)
Thus, the Court of Appeal concluded that the plaintiff was not the intended
beneficiary on the insurance policy and therefore did not have standing to sue
the insurance company. (Id. at 1345.) 
 
            Here, Defendant argues that the
purpose of the Personal Property of Others benefit is similar to the benefit at
issue in LaBarbera, in that, as evidenced by the phrase “for the account
of the owner of the property,” the purpose of the provision was to protect
Pro-Com from harm by providing Pro-Com with funds to settle any account with a
third party for loss of the personal property of others. Defendant also argues
that this case is factually analogous to LaBarbera in that this
provision, like the insured contract provision, only provides coverage when
certain conditions are satisfied, and does not provide general coverage of the
property of others. (See FAC ¶ 3, LaBarbera, supra, 86
Cal.App.5th at 1334-35.) 
 
            In opposition, Plaintiff reasserts
the argument that the plain meaning of the phrase “for the account of the owner
of the property” means that payment on claims for damage to the personal
property of others are payable not to the policy holder, but to the injured
third party directly, thereby creating standing to pursue this action.
Plaintiff cites the out-of-state authorities previously referenced in support
of its position on the Demurrer to the original Complaint. (See United Natl’
Ins. Co. v. Mundell Terminal Servs. (5th Cir. 2014) 740 F.3d 1022,
1030; Peters v. Employers Mut. Cas. Co. (Mo. 1993) 853 S.W.2d 300.) The
Court found these authorities to have little persuasive force in its previous
ruling because they concerned different policy language, addressed different
legal questions, or were simply devoid of legal reasoning. (See April 19, 2023
Minute Order.) Plaintiff’s arguments in opposition to this demurrer offer no
justification for the Court to depart from those conclusions. 
 
Plaintiff also argues that LaBarbera
is distinguishable because that opinion concerned indemnification for
coverage based on liability, rather than the fault-free property coverage at
issue here, which Plaintiff contends creates a right for Plaintiff to
recover under the Policy. The Court agrees with Plaintiff that the coverage
offered in the Policy for the property of others is not predicated on legal
liability to any party, as the indemnification at issue in LaBarbera
was. (See LaBarbera, supra, 86 Cal.App.5th at 1335.) Indeed, Defendant
freely concedes both in the moving papers and in the reply that coverage for
liability of Pro-Com to Plaintiff is not at issue in this case. (See, e.g., Reply
pp. 6:26-7:1.) However, the factual differences from LaBarbera
identified by Plaintiff do not defeat the structural similarity between the two
policies described above. Defendant did not contend that LaBarbera was
identical to this case, merely analogous in that both policies had coverage
provisions that were concerned principally with mitigating the risk to the
policy-holder from losses suffered by others. (See FAC ¶ 3, LaBarbera, supra, 86 Cal.App.5th at 1334-35.)
Moreover, Plaintiff’s position is based on the circular argument that it has a
right to recover under the Policy because it is entitled to coverage, and that
if it does not have standing under the Policy to sue Defendant, then there is
no mechanism to enforce the benefit. Indeed, that is precisely Defendant’s
position, which the Court had previously adopted based on its interpretation of
the policy language and the absence of allegations of extrinsic evidence that
might support an alternative construction. 
 
            Plaintiff asserted new factual
allegations in the First Amended Complaint in response to the Court’s ruling
granting leave to add allegations of extrinsic facts which might bear on the
interpretation of the Policy. Defendant contends that the new factual
allegations in the First Amended Complaint do not support the interpretation of
the contract advanced by Plaintiff in its pleadings and opposition papers.
Plaintiff’s principal allegations pertaining to the interpretation of the
Policy concern the correspondence between the parties after the loss regarding
the effect of the insurance policy. (FAC ¶¶ 28-30, 38-40, 52, 58-60,
84-86.) As Defendant correctly observes, the allegation which directly
addresses the interpretation of the policy is contained in paragraphs 39 and
40, wherein Plaintiff alleges:
 
39. More than a year after formal
written request by Plaintiff for the disclosure of all policies and potentially
available limits of coverage, and more than five months after Defendant wrote a
letter denying any coverage existed under the policy for 3BTECH’s losses, on
March 14, 2023, Defendant wrote a letter to Plaintiff 3BTECH stating that it
conducted a review of its policy for benefits available to 3BTECH under the
Policy’s Property Coverage and confirmed that coverage was available for
3BTECH’s losses.
 
40. 
After the filing of this lawsuit, by letter dated March 14, 2023,
Defendant admitted to Plaintiff, contrary to pre-litigation denials, that
property coverage purchased by PROCOM does provide coverage to 3BTECH’s losses
in the subject fire.
 
(FAC ¶¶ 39-40
[emphasis in original].) If true, these allegations would certainly support the
interpretation advanced by Plaintiff. However, as Defendant states, the
documents themselves, which are subject to judicial notice, do not show that Plaintiff
is entitled to coverage under the Policy. Defendant’s letter dated March 14,
2023, states that coverage is available for the property under the
Coverage Extension for Personal Property of Others as described in section
A.5.b of the Policy but does not concede that Plaintiff is entitled to
coverage under that provision, and expressly denies that Plaintiff is entitled
to any benefits under the policy. (RJN Exh. E. p.5.) Defendant does not
dispute, for the purpose of this demurrer, that Plaintiff’s property would fall
within the Policy’s definitions of “Property of Others,” but denies that
Plaintiff has standing to sue under the policy as a third-party beneficiary.
Plaintiff does not address this argument in opposition. The Court thus
concludes that these allegations offer no insight as to the interpretation of
the relevant policy language. 
 
As there are no other factual
allegations which appear to pertain to the interpretation of the policy, such
as custom and practice in interpreting the relevant provisions, or trade usage
distinct from common parlance or legal meaning, the Court concludes that there
is no basis to depart from its previous ruling that Plaintiff lacks standing to
sue under the Policy.
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s Demurrer
to the First Amended Complaint is SUSTAINED. 
 
Leave to Amend
 
When a demurrer is sustained, the
Court determines whether there is a reasonable possibility that the defect can
be cured by amendment. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311,
318).  When a plaintiff “has pleaded the general set of facts upon
which his cause of action is based,” the court should give the plaintiff an
opportunity to amend his complaint, since plaintiff should not “be deprived of his
right to maintain his action on the ground that his pleadings were defective
for lack of particulars.” (Reed v. Norman (1957) 152 Cal.App.2d 892,
900.) Accordingly, California law imposes the burden on the plaintiffs to
demonstrate the manner in which they can amend their pleadings to state their
claims against a defendant.  (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18
Cal.3d 335, 349.) “Denial of leave to amend constitutes an abuse of discretion
unless the complaint shows on its face it is incapable of amendment. 
[Citation.]  Liberality in permitting amendment is the rule, if a fair
opportunity to correct any defect has not been given." (Angie M. v.
Superior Court (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1217, 1227.)
 
            The Court has
already provided Plaintiff an opportunity to amend the pleadings to offer
allegations of extrinsic evidence that would support its interpretation of the
Policy. (April 19, 2023 Minute Order.) Although Plaintiff certainly attempted
to meet that objective, the new allegations are not sufficient to cure the
defects identified in both demurrers brought by Defendant. The Court is
therefore forced to conclude that extending further leave to amend would be
futile.
 
CONCLUSION:

            Accordingly,
Defendant West American Insurance Co.’s Demurrer to the First Complaint is
SUSTAINED without leave to amend. 
            Moving
Party to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated: December 6, 2023                               ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 