 Case Number:  21STCV25656    Hearing Date:   October 18, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


October
  18, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV25656




MOTIONS:  


Petition
  for Minors Compromise 




MOVING PARTY:


Petitioner Arturo Encinas 




OPPOSING PARTY:


Unopposed
  



 
 
The Court has reviewed the
petition filed on September 25, 2024 by Petitioner Arturo Encinas (Petitioner)
on behalf of Claimant Arthur Encinas, age 8. The Court denies the petition without prejudice for the
following reasons: 
 
Petitioner states that Claimant suffered anxiety and back
pain following a rear-end motor vehicle accident. However, the records provided
in attachment 8 do not confirm that Claimant is fully recovered. Petitioner
must provide further medical records/reports, or other evidence of Claimant’s
recovery. 
 
Claimant’s settlement should not be included in 11b(5)
since that section pertains to “persons other than claimant.”
 
Petitioner requests $1,875 in attorney fees which represents
25% of the gross settlement. The Court finds this to be reasonable. 
 
In item 14, Petitioner asserts he paid medical expenses
and attorney fees, and seeks reimbursement. However, Petitioner provides no
proof of the payments in attachment 14. If these expenses will be paid after
the settlement and directly to the recipients, then Petitioner should select
14a instead. 
 
In the Proposed Order (MC-351), if the medical provider
liens described in item 12b(5) of the petition need to be paid, item 8a(3) of
the proposed order should be completed.  
 
 
Accordingly, the Court denies the petition without
prejudice.
 
Petitioner shall give notice and file a
proof of service of such.
 