  Case Number:  20STCV15459    Hearing Date:   October 18, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



DEPARTMENT


32




HEARING DATE


October 18, 2024




CASE NUMBER


20STCV15459




MOTION


Motion for a Court Order Sealing the Settlement Amounts
  Referenced in the Petitioner for Approval of Compromise




MOVING PARTY


Plaintiffs Rafael Reyna and Christel Reyna




OPPOSING PARTY


None



 
MOTION
 
              Plaintiffs
Rafael Reyna and Christel Reyna (“Plaintiffs”) move to seal Rafael Reyna’s Petition
to Approve Settlement of a Disabled Adult. No opposition has been filed.  
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
To grant a motion to seal, the court must expressly find
that: (1) an overriding interest exists that overcomes the right of public
access to the record; (2) the overriding interest supports sealing the records;
(3) a substantial probability exists that the overriding interest will be
prejudiced if the record is not sealed; (4) the proposed sealing is narrowly
tailored; and (5) no less restrictive means exist to achieve the
overriding interest.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.550(d); see¿McGuan v.
Endovascular Technologies, Inc.¿(2010) 182 Cal.App.4th 974, 988.)  
 
Unless confidentiality is required by law, court records
are presumed to be open to the public, pursuant to a potent “open court” policy
undergirded by the First Amendment and favoring the public nature of court
proceedings.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.550(c); see NBC
Subsidiary (KNBC-TV), Inc. v. Superior Court (1999) 20
Cal.4th 1178, 1199-10.)  Consequently, pleadings, motions, discovery
documents, and other papers may not be filed under seal merely by stipulation
of the parties; filing under seal requires a court order.  (Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 2.551(a); see H.B. Fuller Co. v. Doe¿(2007) 151
Cal.App.4th 879, 888.) “Policy reasons to restrict access are ‘anything which
tends to undermine that sense of security for individual rights, whether of
personal liberty or private property, which any citizen ought to feel has a
tendency to be injurious to the public or the public good.’ [Citation.]” (Copley
Press, Inc. v. Superior Court (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 367, 373.)
 
In Hinshaw v.
Superior Court (1996) 51 Cal.App.4th 233, 242, the court found that
private, non-governmental parties have a privacy interest in maintaining
confidentiality of settlement agreements that contain personal financial
information. The court has also found that the public at large may have an
interest in knowing settlement terms when a public entity settles a lawsuit,
especially when it involves how public funds are spent. (See Copley Press,
Inc. v. Superior Court (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 367, 376.) 
 
A sealing order must be sought by means of a motion (or
application) and accompanied by a memorandum of points and authorities, as well
as evidence and testimony containing facts sufficient to justify the mandatory
findings required to support a sealing order.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rules
2.550(d) and 2.551(b).)  The proponent of the sealing order must also
conditionally lodge the unredacted matter to be sealed with the
court.  (Id., rule 2.551(b)(4).) 
 
DISCUSSION
 
             Here, Plaintiffs advance the Declaration of David
R. Lira, who declares that Plaintiff Rafael Reyna is disabled with permanent
cognitive deficits and is subject to a conservatorship. (Lira Decl. ¶ 3-4.) This
case settled at mediation; Defendant demanded that the settlement amounts be
kept confidential. (Id. ¶ 5.) However, because Plaintiff is disabled,
the settlement must be approved by the Court, which will invariably involve
disclosing the settlement amounts to the public. In order to preserve the
conditions of the settlement, Plaintiffs ask the Court for an order to seal the
settlement amounts in the petition that will be filed. Plaintiffs also assert
plaintiff Rafael Reyna’s privacy interest in his financial affairs.
 
The Court finds that there exists an overriding interest that
overcomes the right of public access to the records, the overriding interest
supports sealing the records, and a substantial probability exists that the
overriding interest will be prejudiced if the records are not sealed. 
 
The proposed sealing is narrowly tailored because this motion only
concerns the values in a petition to approve a compromise. Because Plaintiffs
must file the petition to proceed with settlement, there are no less
restrictive means available.  
 
However, Plaintiffs have not lodged unredacted copies with the Court. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.551(b)(4).)  
 
Therefore, the motion to seal is conditionally granted pending
Plaintiffs lodging the unredacted petition with the Court. 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court conditionally GRANTS Plaintiffs’ motion to seal
pending receipt of the lodged unredacted petition. 
 
Plaintiffs shall give notice of the Court’s order, and file proof of
service of such.
 