 Case Number:  21STCV11356    Hearing Date:   October 18, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


October
  18, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV11356




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  for Terminating Sanctions and for Monetary Sanctions 




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant City of Los Angeles 




OPPOSING PARTY:


Plaintiff
  Christina Almeida



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
Defendant City of Los Angeles (“City”) moves for terminating
sanctions and monetary sanctions against Plaintiff Christina Almeida (“Plaintiff”) for failure to
comply with the Court’s August 12, 2024 discovery order. Plaintiff opposes. No
reply brief has been filed.  
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
“A trial court may impose sanctions,
including terminating sanctions, for a party’s misuse of the discovery process,
which includes disobedience of a court order.” (Sole Energy Co. v. Hodges
(2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 199, 207.) A misuse of the discovery process includes
“[f]ailing to respond or to submit to an authorized method of discovery.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2023.010, subd. (d).) A misuse of the discovery process also
includes disobeying a court order to provide discovery. (Code Civ. Proc., §
2023.010, subd. (g).) “If [a] party or party-affiliated deponent . . . fails to
obey an order compelling attendance, testimony, and production, the court may
make those orders that are just, including the imposition of an issue sanction,
an evidence sanction, or a terminating sanction . . . against that party
deponent or against the party with whom the deponent is affiliated.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (h).) 
 
“The discovery statutes
evince an incremental approach to discovery sanctions, starting with monetary
sanctions and ending with the ultimate sanction of termination.” (Doppes v. Bentley
Motors, Inc. (2009) 174
Cal.App.4th 967, 992.) “Discovery sanctions should be appropriate to
the dereliction, and should not exceed that which is required to protect the
interests of the party entitled to but denied discovery.” (Ibid.) “[C]ontinuing misuses of the discovery process warrant
incrementally harsher sanctions until the sanction is reached that will curb
the abuse.” Ibid. Where discovery violations are
“willful, preceded by a history of abuse, and the evidence shows that less
severe sanctions would not produce compliance with discovery rules, the trial
court is justified in imposing the ultimate sanction.” (Ibid.) “Although
not expressly required by statute, courts have noted that, absent unusual
circumstances, nonmonetary sanctions are warranted only if a party willfully
fails to comply with a court order.” (Aghaian v. Minassian (2021) 64
Cal.App.5th 603, 618-19.)  
 
¿ 
 
DISCUSSION
 
On August 12, 2024, after
hearing oral argument, the Court granted Defendant City’s motion to compel the
deposition of Plaintiff. Plaintiff was ordered to “appear for a remote
deposition on August 22, 2024 at 10:30 a.m., or on a different date/time
stipulated by the parties.” (08/12/24 Minute Order at p. 3.) The Court also
granted Defendant City’s “request for monetary sanctions in the reduced amount
of $287.50 against Plaintiff.” (08/12/24 Minute Order at p. 3.) The Court
ordered Plaintiff to pay monetary sanctions to Defendant City’s counsel within
30 days of the Court’s order. (08/12/24 Minute Order at p. 3.) 
 
            Defendant City filed the instant
motion on September 23, 2024, arguing that Plaintiff failed to appear for
deposition on August 22, 2024, and failed to make other arrangements to appear
for deposition. If terminating sanctions are not imposed, Defendant City seeks
an order compelling Plaintiff to appear for deposition and for monetary sanctions
against Plaintiff and her counsel of record in the amount of $575.00. 
 
            In opposition, counsel for Plaintiff
argues that given Plaintiff’s failure to respond or interact with counsel,
counsel has filed a motion to be relieved, scheduled to be heard on October 29,
2024.
 
            Although Plaintiff has misused the
discovery process by failing to maintain contact with counsel in order to
participate in discovery, the Court finds that terminating sanctions at this
time are too drastic a remedy. However, the Court finds that monetary sanctions
are warranted for Plaintiff’s continued failure to submit to her deposition.
Monetary sanctions are awarded as to Plaintiff only, as it does not appear that
her attorney counseled the discovery abuse.
 
CONCLUSION
 
Therefore, the Motion for Terminating Sanctions and Monetary Sanctions
is granted in part. Plaintiff is ordered to pay monetary sanctions to counsel
for Defendant in the amount of $575 within 30 days of the date of notice of
this order.
 
Defendant City shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a
proof of service of such. 
 