 Case Number:  23STCV12584    Hearing Date:   October 18, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


October
  18, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


23STCV12584




MOTIONS:  


Compel
  Further Responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant Fredis Eredia 




OPPOSING PARTY:


None
  



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
Defendant Fredis Eredia (“Defendant”) moves to compel further
responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One, numbers 6.4, 6.5, 6.6, 6.7, 7.1,
7.2, 7.3, and 20.2, from Plaintiff Bertha Ulloa (“Plaintiff”). No opposition
has been filed. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
The
Court’s Eighth Amended Standing Order for Procedures in the Personal Injury Hub
requires counsel to participate in an Informal Discovery Conference (“IDC”)
before the Court will hear any motion to compel further responses to discovery,
and provides that PI Hub Courts may deny or continue any motion if parties fail
to schedule and complete an IDC before the scheduled hearing. There is no
indication in the record that Defendant filed an IDC statement with the Court
or scheduled an IDC for this motion. 
 
Furthermore,
it appears that insufficient notice was provided for this motion. Under Code of
Civil Procedure section 1005(b), moving papers must be served and filed at
least 16 court days before the hearing. Applying this, 16 court days before the
current hearing was September 25, 2024. Additionally, if notice is served
electronically, the 16-day notice period is increased by two-court days. (Code
Civ. Proc. § 1010.6(a).) Therefore, notice of this motion was due September 23,
2024 (two court days before September 25, 2024). According to the proof of
service, Defendant served this motion electronically on September 25, 2024. 
 
The
Court therefore continues the motion. 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court continues the motion to December 9, 2024 at 1:30
p.m. in Department 32 of the Spring Street Courthouse. Defendant shall schedule
and complete an IDC promptly in order for the motion to be heard. 
 
Defendant is ordered to provide notice of the Court’s orders and file
a proof of service of such.