 Case Number:  23STCV30182    Hearing Date:   October 18, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


October
  18, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


23STCV30182




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Compel Arbitration and Stay Litigation  




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant Osvaldo M. Gonzalez Cisneros  




OPPOSING PARTY:


Plaintiff
  Jane Doe 



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On December 11, 2023, Plaintiff Jane Doe (“Plaintiff”) filed a
complaint against Defendants Uber Technologies, Inc. (“Uber”), Rasier, LLC,
Raiser-CA, LLC, Oswaldo Gonzalez, and Does 1 to 51 (collectively, “Defendants”)
based on injuries from an alleged motor vehicle accident that occurred on
December 14, 2021. The complaint alleges the following causes of action: (1)
negligence; (2) negligent entrustment; (3) negligent hiring, supervision, and
retention; and (4) battery. 
 
On May 10, 2024, Defendants Uber, Rasier, LLC, and Raiser-CA, LLC
(collectively, the “Uber Parties”) moved to compel arbitration of Plaintiff’s
claims and to dismiss or stay the action pending the completion of arbitration,
which Plaintiff opposed, and the Uber Parties replied. 
 
On June 28, 2024, pursuant to a request for dismissal filed by
Plaintiff, the fourth cause of action for battery was dismissed against
Defendant Oswaldo Gonzalez. 
 
On August 14, 2024, the Court granted the motion to compel arbitration
filed by the Uber Parties. The Court entered an order compelling arbitration of
only the claims asserted against the Uber Parties and stayed judicial
proceedings related to such defendants. (08/14/24 Minute Order at p. 4.) The
Court’s order did not apply to Defendant Oswaldo Gonzalez. (08/14/24 Minute
Order at p. 4.)  
 
Defendant Osvaldo M. Gonzalez Cisneros (erroneously sued as Oswaldo
Gonzalez) (“Gonzalez”) now moves to compel arbitration and stay litigation.
Plaintiff opposes the motion. Defendant Gonzalez filed a reply brief. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
“[T]here is no policy
compelling persons to accept arbitration of controversies which they have not
agreed to arbitrate.” (DMS Services, LLC v. Superior Court (2012) 205
Cal.App.4th 1346, 1352.) “[G]enerally one must be a party to an arbitration
agreement to be bound by it or invoke it.” (Ibid.) “However, both
California and federal courts have recognized limited exceptions to this rule,
allowing nonsignatories to an agreement containing an arbitration clause to
compel arbitration of, or be compelled to, arbitrate a dispute arising within
the scope of that agreement.” (Id. at p. 1353.) “Even the strong public
policy in favor of arbitration does not extend to those who are not parties to
an arbitration agreement or who have not authorized anyone to act for them in
executing such an agreement.” (Suh v. Superior Court (2010) 181
Cal.App.4th 1504, 1512.) “A nonsignatory can be compelled to arbitrate when a
preexisting relationship existed between the nonsignatory and one of the
parties to the arbitration agreement, making it equitable to compel the
nonsignatory to arbitrate as well.” (JSM Tuscany, LLC v. Superior Court
(2011) 193 Cal.App.4th 1222, 1240.) “Additionally, a nonsignatory can be
compelled to arbitrate when it is suing as a third-party beneficiary of the
contract containing the arbitration clause.” (Ibid.)  
 
“[T]here are circumstances
under which persons who have not signed an agreement to arbitrate are bound to
do so.” (Jensen v. U-Haul Co. of California (2017) 18 Cal.App.5th 295,
300.) “[T]here ae six theories by which a nonsignatory may be bound to
arbitrate: (1) incorporation by reference; (b) assumption; (c) agency; (d)
veil-piercing or alter ego; (e) estoppel; and (f) third-party beneficiary.” (Ibid.,
citations omitted, internal quotations omitted.) ¿ 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Defendant contends that,
although he is not a party to the arbitration agreement at issue, the Court
must compel arbitration of Plaintiff’s claims as to Defendant: (1) as a
third-party beneficiary; (2) as an agent of Defendant Uber; and (3) under the
theory of equitable estoppel. Alternatively, if arbitration is not compelled,
Defendant requests a stay until Plaintiff completes arbitration of her claims
against Defendant Uber. 
 
In opposition to the
motion, Plaintiff raises the following arguments: (1) the Court has exclusive
authority to decide whether Defendant Gonzalez may compel arbitration; (2) the
arbitration provision was not made expressly for the benefit of Defendant Gonzalez
and therefore he cannot compel arbitration as a third-party beneficiary; (3)
Defendant Gonzalez may not compel arbitration as an agent of the Uber Parties;
(4) Defendant Gonzalez’s equitable estoppel argument fails since Plaintiff’s
claims are not intimately found in and intertwined with the Terms of Use; and
(5) no basis exists to stay this litigation pending Plaintiff’s arbitration
with the Uber Parties.   
 
In reply, Defendant argues
that: (1) the Court has authority to compel arbitration and a delegation clause
extends authority to the arbitrator; (2) Defendant Gonzalez was a third-party
beneficiary to the arbitration agreement; (3) he relies on good precedent for
his argument that he can invoke the agency exception; (4) Plaintiff’s
allegations against Defendant Uber are inherently inseparable from Defendant
Gonzalez; and (5) there is a basis to stay this litigation pending Plaintiff’s
arbitration with the Uber Parties.     
 
A.    Scope
of the Terms of Use 
 
            Defendant moves to compel
arbitration of Plaintiff’s claims against him pursuant to the 2021 U.S. Terms
of Use executed between Plaintiff and Defendant Uber. (Aminian Decl., ¶ 4; Ex.
B.) The agreement reads in pertinent part:
 
“Except as expressly provided below in Section 2(b), you and Uber
agree that any dispute, claim or controversy in any way arising out of or
relating to (i) these Terms and prior versions of these Terms, or the
existence, breach, termination, enforcement, interpretation, scope, waiver, or
validity thereof, (ii) your access to or use of the Services at any time, (iii)
incidents or accidents resulting in personal injury that you allege occurred in
connection with your use of the Services, whether the dispute, claim or
controversy occurred or accrued before or after the date you agreed to the
Terms, or (iv) your relationship with Uber, will be settled by binding
arbitration between you and Uber, and not in a court of law. This Agreement
survives after your relationship with Uber ends. You acknowledge and agree that
you and Uber are each waiving the right to a trial by jury or to bring or to
participate as a plaintiff or class member in any class, purported class,
collective, coordinated, consolidated, or representative proceeding. This
Arbitration Agreement shall be binding upon, and shall include any claims
brought by or against any third-parties, including but not limited to your
spouses, heirs, third-party beneficiaries and assigns, where their underlying
claims are in relation to your use of the Services. To the extent that any
third-party beneficiary to this agreement brings claims against the Parties;
those claims shall also be subject to this Arbitration Agreement.” 
 
…
 
“Notwithstanding any choice of law or other provision in the Terms,
the parties agree and acknowledge that this Arbitration Agreement evidences a
transaction involving interstate commerce and that the Federal Arbitration Act,
9 U.S.C. § 1 et seq. (“FAA”), will govern its interpretation and enforcement
and proceedings pursuant thereto.”
 
(Aminian
Decl., Ex. B, April 14, 2021 Agreement (“Agreement”) at 2(a), (c).) 
 
The Terms of Use state that such terms govern Plaintiff’s “access or
use, from within the United States . . . of the multi-sided digital marketplace
platform (“Uber Marketplace Platform”) and any related content or services
(collectively, the “Services,” as more fully defined below in Section 3) made
available in the United States . . . by Uber Technologies, Inc. and its
subsidiaries, representatives, affiliates, officers, and directors
(collectively, “Uber”).” (Id., Agreement at 1.) 
 
The Terms of Use provide that “[t]he parties agree that the arbitrator
(“Arbitrator”), and not any federal, state, or local court or agency, shall
have exclusive authority to resolve any disputes relating to the
interpretation, applicability, enforceability or formation of this Arbitration
Agreement, including any claim that all or any part of this Arbitration
Agreement is void or voidable. The Arbitrator shall also be responsible for
determining all threshold arbitrability issues, including issues to whether the
Terms are applicable, unconscionable or illusory and any defense to
arbitration, including waiver, delay, laches, or estoppel. If there is a
dispute about whether this Arbitration Agreement can be enforced or applies to
a dispute, you and Uber agree that the arbitrator will decide that issue.”
(Aminian Decl., Ex. B at 2(c).) 
 
B.    Delegation
of Authority to the Arbitrator 
 
Initially, Defendant contends that any threshold issue concerning
whether a non-signatory to the Terms of Use may compel arbitration has been
delegated to the arbitrator pursuant to the Terms of Use. Defendant Gonzalez
concedes that he is not a signatory to the arbitration agreement and is a third
party. (Mot. at p. 6:21-26.) In Reply, Defendant argues that the Court may
decide whether the delegation clause is conscionable. (Reply at p. 3.) 
 
However, “California case law is clear that an arbitrator has no power
to determine the rights and obligations of one who is not a party to the
arbitration agreement.” (Benaroya v. Willis (2018) 23 Cal.App.5th 462,
469, citation omitted.) “The question of whether a nonsignatory is a party to
an arbitration agreement is one for the trial court in the first instance.” (Ibid.)

 
C.    Defendant
Gonzalez is not a Third-Party Beneficiary 
 
“A third party beneficiary is someone who may enforce a contract
because the contract is made expressly for his benefit.” (Jensen v. U-Haul
Co. of California, supra, 18 Cal.App.5th 295, 301.) “The test for
determining whether a contract was made for the benefit of a third person is
whether an intent to benefit a third person appears from the terms of the
contract.” (Ibid., internal quotations omitted.) “[T]he mere fact that a
contract results in benefits to a third party does not render that party a
third party beneficiary.” (Montemayor v. Ford Motor Co. (2023) 92
Cal.App.5th 958, 973, internal quotations and citations omitted.) “[I]n
considering third party beneficiary contract claims, a court should carefully
examine[] the express provisions of the contract at issue, as well as all of
the relevant circumstances under which the contract was agreed to, in order to
determine not only (1) whether the third party would in fact benefit from the
contract, but also (2) whether a motivating purpose of the contracting parties
was to provide a benefit to the third party, and (3) whether permitting a third
party to bring its own breach of contract action against a contracting party is
consistent with the objectives of the contract and the reasonable expectations
of the contracting parties.” (Ibid.) “All three elements must be
satisfied to permit the third party action to go forward.” (Ibid.) 
 
The Court finds that the arbitration agreement was not made for the
benefit of Defendant Gonzalez. “A third party beneficiary may enforce a
contract expressly made for his benefit.” (Fuentes v. TMCSF, Inc. (2018)
26 Cal.App.5th 541, 551, citation omitted.) “And although the contract may not
be have been made to benefit him alone, he may enforce those promises directly
made for him.” (Ibid., citations omitted.) However, a third party
“should not be permitted to enforce covenants not made for his benefit, but
rather for others” as “[h]e is not a contracting party; his right to
performance is predicated on the contracting parties’ intent to benefit him.” (Ibid.,
citations omitted.) “As to any provision made not for his benefit but for the
benefit of the contracting parties or for other third parties, he becomes an
intermeddler.” (Ibid.) “[A] third party beneficiary of an arbitration
agreement may enforce it.” (Id. at p. 552, citations omitted.) “[T]o
invoke the third party beneficiary exception, [a third party beneficiary] ha[s]
to show that the arbitration clause . . . was made expressly for [its]
benefit.” (Ibid., emphasis in original.) 
 
Defendant argues that the motivating purpose of the Terms of Use was
to benefit him. (Mot. at p. 8:3-14.) However, Defendant makes no argument as to
whether the arbitration agreement was made for his benefit. The arbitration
agreement states that “you and Uber agree” that any claims “will be settled by
binding arbitration between you and Uber” that it is “binding upon, and shall
include any claims brought by or against any third-parties, including but not
limited to [Plaintiff’s] spouses, heirs, third-party beneficiaries and assigns,
where their underlying claims are in relation to your use of the Services.”
(Aminian Decl., Ex. B at 2(a).) The clause relating to third party
beneficiaries relates to “your”, i.e., Plaintiff’s, third party beneficiaries.
The arbitration agreement relates to claims between Plaintiff and her related
parties and Uber.
 
Therefore, the Court finds that Defendant Gonzalez is not an intended
beneficiary of the arbitration agreement. Accordingly, the Court does not
address the other two factors.
 
D.    Defendant
Gonzalez Cannot Invoke the Agency Exception
 
“Facts established by pleadings as judicial admissions are conclusive
concessions of the truth of those matters, are effectively removed as issues
from the litigation, and may not be contradicted, by the party whose pleadings
are used against him or her.” (Barsegian v. Kessler & Kessler (2013)
215 Cal.App.4th 446, 451, citations omitted, internal quotations omitted.)
“[I]f a factual allegation is treated as a judicial admission, then neither
party may attempt to contradict it—the admitted fact is effectively conceded by
both sides.” (Ibid., emphasis in original.) The agency exception
applies “when a plaintiff alleges a defendant acted as an agent of a party to
an arbitration agreement.” (Garica v. Pexco, LLC (2017) 11 Cal.App.5th
782, 788.) “[B]oilerplate allegations that all defendants were all agents of
one another [do] not constitute a judicial admission . . . .” (Ibid.) 
 
The complaint alleges that Defendant Gonzalez was an agent, employee,
servant, and/or partner of the other named defendants. (Complaint, ¶¶ 9, 12.)
The Court finds that such allegations are mere boilerplate language and do not
constitute judicial admissions that Defendant Gonzalez was an agent of
Defendant Uber. Defendant argues that the agency exception applies while also
arguing that the allegations are disputed that “[Defendant] Uber is vicariously
liable based on the allegation that [Defendant] [Gonzalez] is [Defendant]
Uber’s agent.” (Mot. at p. 9:20-21.) As such, it would be unfair for the Court
to allow Defendant Gonzalez “to invoke agency principles when it is to
[Defendant Gonzalez’s] advantage to do so, but to disavow those same principles
when it is not.” (Barsegian v. Kessler & Kessler, supra, 215
Cal.App.4th 446, 453.) 
 
Thus, the Court finds that the agency exception does not require that
Plaintiff’s claims as to Defendant be arbitrated.  
 
E.    Defendant
Gonzalez Cannot Invoke the Doctrine of Equitable Estoppel 
 
“Under the doctrine of equitable estoppel . . . a nonsignatory
defendant may invoke an arbitration clause to compel a signatory plaintiff to arbitrate
his claims when the causes of action against the nonsignatory are intimately
founded in and intertwined with the underlying contract obligations.” (Felisilda
v. FCA US LLC (2020) 53 Cal.App.5th 486, 495, internal quotations omitted.)
“By relying on contract terms in a claim against a nonsignatory defendant, even
if not exclusively, a plaintiff may be equitably estopped from repudiating the
arbitration clause contained in that agreement.” (Ibid., internal
quotations omitted.) “[E]ven if a plaintiff’s claims ‘touch matters’ relating
to the arbitration agreement, ‘the claims are not arbitrable unless the
plaintiff relies on the agreement to establish its cause of action.’” (Jensen
v. U-Haul Co. of California, supra, 18 Cal.App.5th 295, 306.) 
 
Here, only the first cause of action for negligence is asserted
against Defendant Gonzalez as he is not named as a defendant in the second or
third causes of action. The first cause of action, however, is not premised on
the Terms of Use but rather from the purported negligence of all defendants.
Plaintiff does not rely on the Terms of Use to establish a cause of action
against Defendant Gonzalez. 
 
Therefore, the Court finds that the doctrine of equitable estoppel
does not apply to compel Plaintiff’s claims against Defendant Gonzalez to
arbitration. 
 
F.     A
Mandatory Stay is Not Warranted 
 
Defendant contends that if his motion is denied, the Court must stay
this action until Plaintiff completes arbitration of her claims against
Defendant Uber. 
 
However, as discussed above, Defendant Gonzalez is not a signatory to
the agreement and the Court has determined that it does not otherwise apply to
Defendant Gonzalez. Accordingly, the FAA does not apply here. Defendant’s
motion only sought a stay pursuant to the FAA. 
In reply, Defendant raised additional arguments that there would be
“indelible financial hardship” on Defendant and Uber “if it was unknown what
coverage could be afforded prior to judgment.” (Reply at p. 5.) Defendant
further argues that “a determination of liability in one proceeding would
surely impact the other. As matter of efficiency and financial responsibility,
Defendant asks for a stay of litigation to prevent conflicting results.” (Id.)
The Court finds these arguments raised for the first time in reply to be
speculative and insufficient to warrant a stay of the proceedings.
 
CONCLUSION
 
Therefore, the Court DENIES the Motion to Compel Arbitration and Stay
Litigation filed by Defendant Osvaldo M. Gonzalez Cisneros. 
 
Defendant Osvaldo M. Gonzalez Cisneros shall provide notice of the
Court’s ruling and file a proof of service of such. 