 Case Number:  24STCV00262    Hearing Date:   October 18, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


October
  18, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


24STCV00262




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Compel Plaintiff to Respond to Defendant Phoebe Kwan’s Discovery Requests,
  Set One, and for Monetary Sanctions and/or Evidentiary Sanctions 




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant Phoebe Kwan 




OPPOSING PARTY:


UNOPPOSED



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
Defendant Phoebe Kwan (“Kwan”) moves for an order compelling Plaintiff
to respond to set one of Defendant Kwan’s discovery requests and for monetary
sanctions of $1,170.00. Alternatively, Defendant Kwan requests evidentiary
sanctions. No opposition to the motion has been filed. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
Within
30 days after service of interrogatories, the party to whom the interrogatories
are propounded shall serve the original of the response to them on the
propounding party, unless on motion of the propounding party the court has
shortened the time for response, or unless on motion of the responding party
the court has extended the time for response.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.260,
subd. (a).) If the party to whom interrogatories are directed fails to serve a
timely response, “[t]he party to whom the interrogatories are directed waives
any right to exercise the option to produce writings under Section 2030.230, as
well as any objection to the interrogatories, including one based on privilege
or on the protection for work product.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd.
(a).) “The party propounding interrogatories may move for an order compelling
response to the interrogatories.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd.
(b).)  
 
Any
party may obtain discovery . . . by inspecting, copying, testing, or sampling
documents, tangible things, land or other property, and electronically stored
information in the possession, custody, or control of any other party to the
action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.010, subd. (a).) Where a party fails to
timely respond to demand for inspection, copying, testing or sampling “[t]he
party to whom the demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling is
directed waives any objection to the demand, including one based on privilege
or on the protection for work product.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300, subd.
(a).) Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.300(b) provides that “[t]he party making the
demand may move for an order compelling response to the demand.”
 
“A notice of motion must state in the opening paragraph the nature of
the order being sought and the grounds for the issuance of the order.” (Cal. R.
Ct., rule 3.1110(a).) “[D]ue process requires a party to be fully advised of
the issues to be addressed and be given adequate notice of what facts it must
rebut in order to prevail.” (Fenn v. Sherriff (2003) 109 Cal.App.4th
1466, 1481.)
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Defendant Kwan filed the instant
motion on September 23, 2024, arguing that Plaintiff failed to respond to set
one of her form interrogatories and request for production of documents. Defendant
Kwan’s counsel indicates that Plaintiff failed to respond to set one of
Defendant Kwan’s form interrogatories and request for production of documents.
(Ciarametaro Decl., ¶¶ 4, 5; Ex. A.) 
 
            The caption of Defendant Kwan’s
notice of motion indicates that she seeks to compel Plaintiff’s responses to
discovery. (Not. of Mot. at p. 1:11-16.) However, the notice of motion itself
argues that Defendant is moving “for an order establishing the truth of each
matter specified in her Form Interrogatories – Set One and the Request for
Production of Documents – Set One served on plaintiff Mac Caprini on April 18,
2024.” (Not. of Mot. at p. 2:1-2.) Further, the notice of motion indicates that
it is “made on the grounds [that] the requests for admission at issue are
relevant to the subject matter of this action and do not relate to privileged
matters, and plaintiff Mac Caprini has failed to serve verified responses to
the subject requests for admission.” (Not. of Mot. at p. 2:5-7.) Additionally,
the notice of motion is silent on the evidentiary sanctions that Defendant Kwan
seeks to be imposed against Plaintiff. 
 
The Court finds that the notice of motion is defective as Defendant
Kwan does not state that she is seeking to compel Plaintiff’s responses to
discovery in the first paragraph therein. Rather, Defendant Kwan indicates that
she seeks to establish the truth of matters specified in her form
interrogatories and request for production of documents. Defendant cites to no
statutory provision that permits such relief. (Compare Code Civ. Proc., §
2033.280, subd. (b).) Moreover, the motion is brought pursuant to CCP §§
2023.010, 2033.010, 2033.240, and 2030.280 (Not. of Mot. at p. 2:4-5), none of
which involve compelling responses to interrogatories or to a request for
production of documents. 
 
Finally, the Court notes that Defendant appears to have combined
several discovery motions into one motion. Each discovery motion pertaining to
each discovery request must be filed separately.
 
CONCLUSION
 
Therefore, the Motion to Compel Plaintiff Mac Caprini to Respond to
Defendant Phoebe Kwan’s Discovery Requests, Set One, and for Monetary Sanctions
and/or Evidentiary Sanctions is DENIED. 
 
Defendant shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof
of service of such. 
 