 Case Number:  21STCV29428    Hearing Date:   October 18, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are encouraged to meet and confer
concerning this tentative ruling to determine if a resolution may be
reached.  If the parties are unable to
reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the
party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to
submit.  The email shall include the case
number, date and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if
applicable), and the identity of the party submitting on this tentative
ruling.  If the Court does not receive an
email indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there
are no appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar
or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court. 

 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


October
  18, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV29428




MOTIONS:  


Compel
  Further Responses to Special Interrogatories, Set Two




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiff
  Mikhael Dean  




OPPOSING PARTY:


Defendants
  Moda Apartments, Moda at Monrovia Station and Legacy Partners, LLC



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On
August 10, 2021, Plaintiff Mikhael Dean, a minor (“Plaintiff”)
filed a complaint against Defendants Moda Apartments, Moda at Monrovia Station
and Legacy Partners, LLC (“Defendants”) alleging he was attacked by a dog at
228 W. Pomona Avenue #410 in Monrovia. (Complaint ¶ 9.) 
 
On July 11, 2024, Plaintiff propounded Special Interrogatories, Set
Two, against Defendant Legacy Partners, LLC. (Burns Decl., Exh. A.) Defendant
served responses on August 19, 2024. (Id., Exh. B.) 
 
            On September 12, 2024, Plaintiff
filed the instant motion to compel further responses to Special
Interrogatories, Set Two, numbers 34 and 35. Defendants oppose and Plaintiff
replies. 
 
MEET
AND CONFER
 
According to the Declaration of Thomas R. Burns, Plaintiff’s counsel, Plaintiff
sent a meet and confer correspondence to Defendants on August 23, 2024 and
August 29, 2024. (Burns Decl. ¶ 6-8.) On September 6, 2024, Defendants
responded and refused to provide further responses. (Id. ¶ 9.) 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2030.300(a) provides that
“on receipt of a response to interrogatories, the propounding party may move
for an order compelling a further response if the propounding party deems that
any of the following apply:¿ 
¿ 
(1) An answer to a particular interrogatory is evasive or
incomplete.¿ 
(2) An
exercise of the option to produce documents under Section 2030.230 is
unwarranted or the required specification of those documents is inadequate.¿ 
(3) An objection to an interrogatory is without merit or
too general.”¿ 
 
The motion must be accompanied by a meet and confer
declaration. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.300(b)(1).) “Unless notice of this motion
is given within 45 days of the service of the verified response, or any
supplemental verified response, or on or before any specific later date to
which the propounding party and the responding party have agreed in writing,
the propounding party waives any right to compel a further response to the
interrogatories.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.300(c).)¿¿ 
¿ 
“The court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7
(commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a further response to
interrogatories, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted
with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition
of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.300(d).)¿¿¿
 
DISCUSSION
 
Here,
Plaintiff seeks to compel further responses to Special Interrogatories, Set Two,
numbers 34 and 35. 
 
Number
34 asks: “IDENTIFY all persons that lived on the fourth floor of the
PREMISES from August 5, 2019 to August 4, 2020.”
 
Number
35 asks: “IDENTIFY all persons that lived in apartment units neighboring
unit #410 at the PREMISES from August 5, 2019 to August 4, 2020.” 
 
Defendant
responded as follows to both: “Objection, overbroad, seeks confidential
information of third party’s not involved in the litigation and invades their
privacy, the interrogatory seeks information that is irrelevant and/or not
calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.” 
 
Here,
Plaintiff asserts the subject dog was housed in unit 410. Plaintiff seeks the
identity and contact information of past tenants on the fourth floor and
neighboring unit 410 to determine if these tenants witnessed the dog’s
dangerous behavior. 
 
Defendants
primarily oppose based on the right of privacy. 
 
“The state Constitution expressly grants Californians a
right of privacy. (Cal. Const., art. I, § 1.) Protection of informational
privacy is the provision's central concern. [Citation omitted.] In Hill,
[the California Supreme Court] established a framework for evaluating potential
invasions of privacy. The party asserting a privacy right must establish a
legally protected privacy interest, an objectively reasonable expectation of
privacy in the given circumstances, and a threatened intrusion that is serious.
[Citation omitted.] The party seeking information may raise in response
whatever legitimate and important countervailing interests disclosure serves,
while the party seeking protection may identify feasible alternatives that
serve the same interests or protective measures that would diminish the loss of
privacy. A court must then balance these competing considerations. [citation
omitted].” (Williams v. Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 533 (citing
Hill v. National Collegiate Athletic Assn. (1994) 7 Cal.4th 1,
35.)  
 
“[Prior] cases correctly recognize that when a discovery
request seeks information implicating the constitutional right of privacy, to
order discovery simply upon a showing that the Code of Civil Procedure section
2017.010 test for relevance has been met is an abuse of discretion. [Citation
omitted.] But they also stand for the proposition that whenever discovery of
facially private information is sought, the party seeking discovery must
demonstrate a “ ‘compelling state interest’ ” [citation omitted] or “compelling
need” [citation omitted]. Although in this they are not alone [citation
omitted], they nevertheless are incorrect.” (Williams, supra, 3 Cal.5th
at 556.) “To the extent prior cases require a party seeking discovery of
private information to always establish a compelling interest or compelling
need, without regard to the other considerations articulated in Hill v.
National Collegiate Athletic Assn., [citation omitted], they are
disapproved.” (Id. at 557.) 
 
Applying these
factors, individuals have an interest in the privacy of their home, which can
include personal addresses and telephone numbers. (Puerto v. Superior Court¿(2008)
158 Cal.App.4th 1242, 1252.) Therefore, there is a privacy right in the
tenants’ contact information. The reasonable expectation of privacy is based on
widely accepted community norms and as such, depends on the surrounding
context. “Customs, practices, and physical settings surrounding particular
activities may create or inhibit reasonable expectations of privacy.” (Hill
v. National Collegiate Athletic Assn.¿(1994) 7 Cal.4th 1, 36.) Unlike in Puerto,
where the contact information was sought for employees similarly situated to
the plaintiffs, who may reasonably “want their information disclosed”, here,
the tenants are not similarly situated.  (See Puerto, supra, 158
Cal.App.4th at 1253.) Accordingly, it does not appear they would reasonably
expect or want their contact information to be disclosed. Moreover, in Puerto,
the individuals were identified by name as potential witnesses by Defendant.
Defendant here does not appear to assert that tenants are potential witnesses. Defendants
argue that releasing the information could risk damaging its reputation and
good will with its tenants. (Opp., 8.) 
 
Balancing
the competing interests involved here, the Court notes that Plaintiff has provided
no facts to suggest that any of these tenants witnessed the dog’s dangerous
propensities and provided notice to Defendants. The exhibits attached in reply demonstrate
that the residents were seen multiple times (by staff) with the dog “today” and
“earlier that day,” contrary to Plaintiff’s assertion that “Defendant’s own
incident report reveals that other residents had observed the dog before the
attack, and other information obtained indicates that the animal had been
present since the beginning of Denniston’s tenancy in August 2019, about six
months before the attack.” (Exh. B, Exh. C.) The exhibits do not suggest that
other residents witnessed the dog’s dangerous propensities and provided notice
to Defendants.
 
Therefore,
the motion to compel further is denied. 
 
Neither
party sought sanctions; regardless, the Court finds Plaintiff acted with
substantial justification and declines to award sanctions.
 
Lastly,
the Court notes that the motion is procedurally defective since the parties did
not participate in an informal discovery conference pursuant to the Court’s
Eighth Amended Standing Order. Nevertheless, given the reasons above, the
motion is denied on the merits.  
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
The Court DENIES Plaintiff’s motion to compel further responses to Special
Interrogatories, Set Two.
 
Plaintiff
to provide notice and file a proof of service of such. 
 