 Case Number:  24STCV08775    Hearing Date:   September 20, 2024    Dept:  39 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


39




HEARING DATE


September 20, 2024




CASE NUMBER


24STCV08775




MOTIONS


Special Motion to Strike




MOVING PARTY


Defendants Mark
  Skvarna, Capitol Advisors Group, LLC, Norma Copado, Alvarez-Glasman &
  Colvin, Jeff Marderosian, and Elizabeth Cabrera




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiffs Personnel Commission of the Montebello Unified
  School District and Law Office of Willoughby & Associates, Inc.



 
MOTION
Plaintiffs
Personnel Commission of the Montebello Unified School District (“Commission”) and
Law Office of Willoughby & Associates, Inc. (collectively, “Plaintiffs”)
sued Defendants Mark Skvarna (“Skvarna”), Capitol Advisors Group, LLC (“Capitol
Advisors”), Norma Copado (“Copado”), Alvarez-Glasman & Colvin, Jeff
Marderosian (“Marderosian”), and Elizabeth Cabrera (“Cabrera,” collectively, “Defendants”)
  
ANALYSIS
In ruling on a
defendant's special motion to strike, the trial court uses a two-step process.
First, the defendant must show the act or acts of which the plaintiff complains
were taken in furtherance of the defendant's right of petition or free speech
under the United States or California Constitutions in connection with a public
issue. (Code Civ. Proc., § 425.16, subd. (b)(1).)  If the defendant carries that burden, the
burden shifts to the plaintiff to demonstrate a probability of prevailing on
the claim. (Code Civ. Proc., § 425.16, subd. (b)(3).)
Plaintiffs allege general
counsel for the Montebello Unified School District (“MUSD”) resigned in a Board
of Education (“Board”) meeting on February 5, 2021 (First Amended Complaint, ¶
42); the Board of Education appointed Copado as its legal counsel in a closed
session at that meeting, without conducting interviews or opening the position
for public applications, thereby preventing the Commission from reviewing the
contract between MUSD and Copado (id., ¶¶ 43-44); on February 15, 2021,
the Board appointed Alvarez-Glasman & Colvin as general counsel for MUSD
without presenting the contract to the Commission for review (id., ¶ 45-46);
on March 30, 2021, the Board appointed Skvarna as interim superintendent of
MUSD, even though Skvarna did not have a valid teaching credential or valid
administrative credential as required (id., ¶¶ 47-48);  Copado performed the background investigation
of Skvarna, knew Skvarna lacked the appropriate qualifications, and misrepresented
Skvarna’s qualifications to the Board (id., ¶¶ 51-54); the Board hired
Capitol Advisors as an independent contractor without presenting the contract
to the Commission for review (id., ¶¶ 55-56); the Commission sought to
retain independent legal counsel, but Marderosian told the Commission MUSD
would refuse to pay for independent legal counsel, and Cabrera also indicated MUSD
would refuse to pay for independent legal counsel for the Commission (id.,
¶¶ 57-61); and Copado and Marderosian sought to force the Commission to use
their services as legal counsel (id., ¶ 65.)   
Defendants move to
strike Plaintiffs’ first cause of action for intentional interference with
contractual relations.  In support of
this claim, Plaintiffs allege the Commission declared a conflict of interest
between the Commission and MUSD and hired outside counsel (Complaint, ¶¶ 67-70);
Plaintiffs gave notice to MUSD of the agreement by which the Commission hired
outside counsel and requested ratification of the contract be placed on the
agenda for the Board’s public meeting on December 7, 2022 (id., ¶¶ 73-75);
Skvarna, Copado, and Marderosian refused to place the contract on the agenda,
thereby precluding the Board from ratifying the agreement (id., ¶¶ 76-77);
the Commission has requested approval of the invoices on the contract for legal
services be placed on the agenda for Board meetings, but Skvarna, Copado,
Marderosian, and Cabrera have refused (id., ¶¶ 79-82); and because approval
of the invoices has not been on the agenda for the Board meetings, MUSD has not
paid those invoices (id., ¶¶ 83-85.) 
 
Defendants have the
burden of making a prima facie showing that a cause of action arises from an
act in furtherance of their constitutional rights of petition or free speech in
connection with a public issue.  (Equilon
Enterprises, LLC v. Consumer Cause, Inc. (2002) 29 Cal.4th 53, 67.)  Defendants argue the allegations detailed
above fall within Code of Civil Procedure section 425.16, subdivision (e)(1),
which protects statements and writings made before a legislative, executive, or
judicial proceeding, “or any other official proceeding authorized by law.”  “Under the plain terms of [section 425.16] it
is the context or setting itself that makes the issue a public issue: all that
matters is that the First Amendment activity take place in an official
proceeding or be made in connection with an issue being reviewed by an official
proceeding.”  (Briggs v. Eden Council
for Hope & Opportunity (1999) 19 Cal. 4th 1106, 1116.)  
In the instant
case, given Plaintiffs’ allegations, among other things, Defendants failed to
bring approval of the invoices before the Board meetings, which are official
proceedings authorized by law.  (See Olaes
v. Nationwide Mutual Insurance Co. (2006) 135 Cal.App.4th 1501, 1506 [section
425.16 is to be construed broadly as it “codifies the Legislature’s desire to
encourage continued participation in matters of public significance, a
participation that should not be chilled through abuse of the judicial process”].)  As such, Plaintiffs’ claim falls within the
scope of the special motion to strike.  
However, “where a
defendant brings a motion to strike under section 425.16 based on a claim that
the plaintiff's action arises from activity by the defendant in furtherance of
the defendant's exercise of protected speech or petition rights, but either the
defendant concedes, or the evidence conclusively establishes, that the
assertedly protected speech or petition activity was illegal as a matter of
law, the defendant is precluded from using the anti-SLAPP statute to strike the
plaintiff's action.”  (Flatley v.
Mauro (2006) 39 Cal.4th 299, 320.)  In
the instant case, Plaintiffs allege Defendants’ actions violated Education Code
section 45313, subdivision (c), which provides the legal counsel for the
governing board of a school district must represent the district’s personnel
commission unless there is a conflict of interest between the commission and
the governing board, in which case the commission may employ its own counsel.  If a conflict of interest existed between the
Commission and the Board, then MUSD was required to pay for counsel for the
Commission, and the refusal of Defendants to seek approval of these payments
was unlawful.  
While Defendants
argue, “there is no identifiable conflict of interest on any particular legal
matter that has been identified by the [Commission]” (Special Motion to Strike,
p. 20),  Defendants fail to advance any
evidence or argument to show their interpretation of what constitutes a
conflict of interest is correct.  Defendants
submitted, for example, Marderosian’s declaration in which he states the
Commission “had not identified an actual conflict of interest that would
justify the employment of its own legal counsel.”  (Declaration of Jeff C. Marderosian, ¶ 7; see
also Declaration of Mark Skvarna, ¶ 6.) 
This bare conclusion lacks evidentiary value.  Pursuant to Education Code section 45313, a
conflict of interest exists between the district’s personnel commission and the
governing board if the Commission finds a conflict by a majority vote of its
members.  (Educ. Code, § 45313, subd.
(b)(2).)  Defendants do not dispute a
majority of the Commissions’ members found a conflict.  (See, e.g., Exhibit List in Support of
Special Motion to Strike, Exhibit 16.)  
While Defendants
apparently contend the Commission was required to identify a specific legal
matter as to which a conflict of interest exists between the Commission and the
Board, that is contrary to the language of Education Code section 45313.  That statute states the personnel commission
need only declare “that a conflict exists between the interests of the
commission and the interests of the governing board . . . .”  (Educ. Code, § 45313, subd. (b)(2).)   “When the language is clear and unambiguous,
there is no need for construction.”  (People
v. Woodhead (1987) 43 Cal.3d 1002, 1007-1008.)  As such, the evidence before the Court shows Defendants
were required to pay for outside counsel for the Commission, and their refusal
to do so violated Education Code section 45313. 
Defendants are, therefore, not entitled to invoke the protections of the
special motion to strike, and their motion in that regard is denied.
Defendants are to
give notice of this order and to file proof of service of same.