  Case Number:  23STCV28088    Hearing Date:   September 20, 2024    Dept:  39  TENTATIVE RULING
 



DEPT:


39




May 20


September 20, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


23STCV28088




MOTION:  


Motion for Attorneys’ Fees




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant LA-Fig Parking Lot Lessee, LLC




OPPOSING PARTIES:


Plaintiffs Mohill Holdings, LP and MO Foundation Holdings,
  LLC



 
MOTIONS
            Plaintiffs
Mohill Holdings, LP and MO Foundation Holdings, LLC (“Plaintiffs”) dismissed
their claims against Defendant LA-Fig Parking Lot Lessee, LLC (“Defendant”).  Now, Defendant seeks attorneys’ fees.  Plaintiff opposes
the motion.  
ANALYSIS
The parties
disagree as to whether this case is a contract action or a tort action.  In a contract action, “[w]here an action has
been voluntarily dismissed . . . , there shall be no prevailing party . . .
.”  (Civ. Code, § 1717, subd. (b)(2).)  Plaintiffs’ complaint in this action is for
unlawful detainer.  Plaintiffs voluntarily
dismissed their complaint on February 21, 2024. 
As such, Plaintiffs argue Defendant is not the prevailing party, and is
not entitled to attorneys’ fees.
However, Plaintiffs’
claims do not constitute an action on the contract.  Pursuant to Drybread v. Chipain
Chiropractic Corp. (2007) 151 Cal.App.4th 1063 (Drybread), “the
unlawful detainer statute encompasses breach of lease (arguably contract-type
matters) and holdover possession after expiration of the lease (arguably a
noncontract issue).”  (Id., at p. 1074.)  In the instant case,  Plaintiffs claim Defendant failed to surrender
the premises after Plaintiffs served Defendant with a notice to quit.  The form complaint specifies Plaintiff
requested possession of the premises, reasonable attorney fees, forfeiture of
the lease, and damages (Complaint, filed November 13, 2023, ¶ 19), and the 30-day
notice to quit attached to the complaint does not identify any breach of the
lease, for example, such as breach of the lease for failure to pay past-due
rent (Id., Exhibit 2).  
Plaintiffs’ claims
are based on Defendant’s holdover possession and are, therefore, noncontractual.  As such, Plaintiffs’ claims “did not sound in
contract,” and the Court determines Defendant is a prevailing party under Code
of Civil Procedure section 1032, subdivision (a)(4).  (Drybread, supra, 151 Cal.App.4th at
p.  1077.)
The prevailing
party must seek an award of attorney fees by a noticed motion and bears the
burden of proof to justify the amount sought. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1033.5, subd. (c)(5)(A).)  
Defendant seeks an
attorney fee award of $50,000.  At first,
it had not, however, presented any billing records to support this amount.  The Court determines a request for attorney
fees based on a “careful compilation of the time spent and reasonable hourly
compensation of each attorney involved.” 
(Serrano v. Unruh (1982) 32 Cal.3d 621, 626, fn. 6, internal
quotations and citations omitted.) 
Without such evidence, the Court cannot grant Defendant’s request for
attorney fees.  
Defendant cited Steiny
& Co., Inc. v. California Electric Supply Co. (2000) 79 Cal.App.4th 285,
which is not on point.  In that case, the
Court of Appeal stated, “An attorney's testimony as to the number of hours
worked is sufficient evidence to support an award of attorney fees, even in the
absence of detailed time records.”  (Id.,
at p. 293.)  In this case, Defendant has
not provided a declaration that includes information concerning the number of
hours Defendant’s attorneys worked or the nature of the work Defendant’s
attorneys performed.  Instead, in
connection with its moving papers, Defendant submitted a declaration of its
attorney, Navi Signh Dhillon (“Dhillon”) in which Dhillon states, “I reviewed
the billing records for this matter and I am confident that the number of hours
billed are commensurate with the tasks performed.”  (Declaration of Navi Singh Dhillon, ¶
7.)  Dillon did not state the number of
hours he worked on this case or the number of hours other attorneys and/or individuals
supporting the attorneys worked on this case. 
Dillon also did not describe the nature and extent of the work
Defendant’s attorneys performed.  
Defendant then filed
a supplemental declaration of Dhillon in which Dhillon provided detailed
billing records.  (Supplemental Declaration
of Navi Singh Dhillon, Exhibit K.)  The
Court continued the matter to this date to provide Plaintiff with the
opportunity to respond to that submission. 
In the supplemental opposition, Plaintiff argues Defendant’s attorneys
billed excessive hours at excessive hourly rates.  However, although Defendant has provided billing
records that reflect $270,335 in fees incurred, Defendant requests an award of
$50,000 in attorney fees.  The Court
concludes this reduction adequately addresses any issues concerning an  excessive amount of attorney fees.  The Court finds Plaintiff’s suggested
reductions in Defendant’s requested fees unduly restrictive and concludes $50,000
is a reasonable fee award in light of “the nature of the litigation, its
difficulty, the amount involved, and the skill required and success of the
attorney's efforts, his or her learning, age and experience in the particular
type of work demanded, the intricacies and importance of the litigation, the
labor and necessity for skilled legal training and ability in trying the cause,
and the time consumed.”  (Contractors
Labor Pool, Inc. v. Westway Contractors, Inc. (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 152,
168.)  As such, the Court awards
Defendant’s motion for attorneys’ fees in the amount sought of $60,000, which
includes $10,000 incurred with respect to litigating this motion for attorney fees.

Defendant is ordered to provide notice of this order and to
file proof of service of same.
 