 Case Number:  20STCV30863    Hearing Date:   January 24, 2024    Dept:  27  
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF
THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF
LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



YADIRA CARMEN ROJAS, et al.,
                        Plaintiff(s),
            vs.
 
SVETLANA PALYAN, et al., 
 

                        Defendant(s).
 
 
 



)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
 


      CASE NO.: 20STCV30863
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: DEFENDANT
  UBER TECHNOLOGIES, INC.’S MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION AND TO DISMISS OR STAY
  THE ACTION PENDING COMPLETION OF ARBITRATION
 
Dept. 27
1:30 p.m.
January 24, 2024



 
I.         BACKGROUND
On
August 14, 2020, Plaintiffs Yadira Carmen Rojas (“Rojas”) and Yadira Rodriguez
Montenegro (“Montenegro”) (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) filed this motor vehicle
negligence action against Defendants Svetlana Palyan, Alvaro Ovieda Herrera, Rasier-CA, LLC, and Uber Technologies, Inc.
(“Defendants”).
On
November 22, 2023, Defendants Rasier-CA, LLC and Uber Technologies, Inc.
(collectively, “Uber”) filed the instant motion to compel Plaintiff Rojas to
submit to arbitration. The motion is unopposed. 
II.        LEGAL STANDARD
California law incorporates many of the basic policy
objectives contained in the Federal Arbitration Act, including a presumption in
favor of arbitrability. (Engalla v.
Permanente Medical Group, Inc. (1997) 15 Cal.4th 951, 971-972.) The
petitioner bears the burden of proving the existence of a valid arbitration
agreement by the preponderance of the evidence, the party opposing the petition
then bears the burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence any fact
necessary to demonstrate that there should be no enforcement of the agreement,
and the trial court sits as a trier of fact to reach a final determination on
the issue. (Rosenthal v. Great Western
Financial Securities Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 413.) The Court is
empowered by Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.2 to compel parties to
arbitrate disputes pursuant to an agreement to do so.  
Code of Civil Procedure § 1281.2 states that:
“The court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate the
controversy if it determines that an agreement to arbitrate the controversy
exists, unless it determines that:
 
(a) The right to compel arbitration has been waived by the petitioner; or

 
(b) Grounds exist for the revocation of the agreement.
           
(c) A party to the arbitration agreement is also a party to a pending
court action or special proceeding with a third party, arising out of the same
transaction or series of related transactions and there is a possibility of
conflicting rulings on a common issue of law or fact. For purposes of this
section, a pending court action or special proceeding includes an action or
proceeding initiated by the party refusing to arbitrate after the petition to
compel arbitration has been filed, but on or before the date of the hearing on
the petition. This subdivision shall not be applicable to an agreement to
arbitrate disputes as to the professional negligence of a health care provider
made pursuant to Section 1295.” 
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2.)
The party petitioning to compel arbitration under
written arbitration agreement bears the burden of proving the existence of a
valid arbitration agreement by a preponderance of the evidence, and party
opposing petition must meet the same evidentiary burden to prove any facts
necessary to its defense. The trial court acts as the trier of fact, weighing
all the affidavits, declarations, and other documentary evidence. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 1281.2; Provencio v. WMA
Securities, Inc., 125 Cal.App.4th 1028, 1031.)  
IV.     DISCUSSION
A.  
Existence of an Agreement
Under
the California law, arbitration agreements are valid, irrevocable, and
enforceable, except on such grounds that exist at law or equity for voiding a
contract. (Winter v. Window Fashions Professions, Inc. (2008) 166
Cal.App.4th 943, 947.) The party moving to compel arbitration must establish
the existence of a written arbitration agreement between the parties. (Code of
Civ. Proc. § 1281.2.) In ruling on a motion to compel arbitration, the court
must first determine whether the parties actually agreed to arbitrate the
dispute, and general principles of California contract law help guide the court
in making this determination. (Mendez v. Mid-Wilshire Health Care Center
(2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 534, 541.)
Once
petitioners allege that an arbitration agreement exists, the burden shifts to
respondents to prove the falsity of the purported agreement, and no evidence or
authentication is required to find the arbitration agreement exists. (See
Condee v. Longwood Mgt. Corp. (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 215, 219.) However, if
the existence of the agreement is challenged, “petitioner bears the burden of
proving [the arbitration agreement's] existence by a preponderance of the
evidence.” (Rosenthal v. Great Western Fin. Securities Corp. (1996) 14
Cal.4th 394, 413. See also Espejo v. Southern California Permanente Medical
Group (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th 1047, 1058-1060.)  
“With
respect to the moving party's burden to provide evidence of the existence of an
agreement to arbitrate, it is generally sufficient for that party to present a
copy of the contract to the court. (See Condee, supra, 88 Cal.App.4th at
218; see also Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1330 [“A petition to compel
arbitration or to stay proceedings pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure sections
1281.2 and 1281.4 must state, in addition to other required allegations, the
provisions of the written agreement and the paragraph that provides for
arbitration. The provisions must be stated verbatim or a copy must be
physically or electronically attached to the petition and incorporated by
reference”].) Once such a document is presented to the court, the burden shifts
to the party opposing the motion to compel, who may present any challenges to
the enforcement of the agreement and evidence in support of those challenges.
[Citation]” (Baker v. Italian Maple Holdings, LLC (2017) 13 Cal.App.5th
1152, 1160.)
Here,
Uber has met its initial burden of showing that an arbitration agreement exists
between the parties. On June 2, 2021, Rojas was presented with an in-app
pop-up, indicating that Uber has updated its Terms of Use, and Plaintiff
consented to the updated April 2021 terms by clicking the checkbox. (Gaddis
Decl. ¶¶ 12-16, Exhs. A, F-G.) As found in the Uber’s April 2021 Terms, the
arbitration agreement states in pertinent part:
"(a)
Agreement to Binding Arbitration Between You and Uber. 
 
Except as
expressly provided below in Section 2(b), you and Uber agree that any dispute,
claim or controversy in any way arising out of or relating to (i) these Terms
and prior versions of these Terms, or the existence, breach, termination,
enforcement, interpretation, scope, waiver, or validity thereof, (ii) your
access to or use of the Services at any time, (iii) incidents or accidents
resulting in personal injury that you allege occurred in connection with your
use of the Services, whether the dispute, claim or controversy occurred or
accrued before or after the date you agreed to the Terms, or (iv) your
relationship with Uber, will be settled by binding arbitration between you and
Uber, and not in a court of law. This Agreement survives after your
relationship with Uber ends.”  
 
(Gaddis Decl. Exh.
G, ¶2, emphasis added.) Consequently, this arbitration agreement would also
encompass Plaintiffs’ injuries resulting from the August 16, 2018 incident.
     Based on the foregoing, the Court finds
that Uber has proven the existence of the arbitration agreement to which Rojas
assented to.
V.        CONCLUSION
            Defendants’
Motion to Compel Arbitration is GRANTED. 
The action is stayed during the pendency of arbitration.
 
Moving
party to give notice.  
            Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit
on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided on the court’s
website at www.lacourt.org.  Please be
advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to appear at the
hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue
the matter.  Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue.  If
the Court does not receive emails from the parties indicating submission on
this tentative ruling and there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court
may, at its discretion, adopt the tentative as the final order or place the
motion off calendar.
 
           Dated
this 24th day of January 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Lee S. Arian
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 