 Case Number:  22STCV09405    Hearing Date:   January 24, 2024    Dept:  27  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL
DISTRICT
 



EDUARDO SALUMBIDES VERAN, 
                   Plaintiff,
          vs.
 
MARCOS
  TOSCANO, et al.,
 
                   Defendants.
 


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 22STCV09405
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTIONS TO COMPEL RESPONSES; MOTION TO DEEM RFAs AS ADMITTED; REQUEST
  FOR MONETARY SANCTIONS


 
Dept.
  27
1:30
  p.m.
January
  24, 2024



 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff Eduardo Salumbides Veran
(“Plaintiff”) 
RESPONDING PARTY: Unopposed 
 
 
 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
This
is an action arising from a motor vehicle accident which occurred on December
13, 2020. On March 17, 2022, Plaintiff Eduardo Salumbides Veran (“Plaintiff”)
filed a complaint against Defendants Marcos Toscano (“Defendant”) and Does 1
through 25, alleging a single cause of action for negligence. 
On
March 30, 2022, Plaintiff filed a proof of service of summons indicating that
service of the summons and complaint on Defendant occurred on March 28, 2022,
by personal service. 
On
June 3, 2022, Defendant filed and served an answer to the complaint. The answer
identifies Defendant’s attorney as Evan K. Guetter, Esq. of Chavez Legal Group.[1]

On
June 14, 2022, Plaintiff filed a Declaration of Non-Service indicating unsuccessful
attempts to serve Defendant with service of process in April, May, and June of
2022.[2]

On
May 16, 2023, Plaintiff filed and served a motion for an order to compel
Defendant’s responses to Set One of Plaintiff’s Form Interrogatories, Special
Interrogatories, and Request for Production of Documents (the “Compel Responses
Motion”). The Compel Responses Motion seeks monetary sanctions against
Defendant’s and Defendant’s attorney of record in the amount of $1,600.00. 
Also,
on May 16, 2023, Plaintiff filed and served a motion for an order deeming
admitted the truth of facts and genuineness of documents in Set One of
Plaintiff’s Request for Admissions and for monetary sanctions against Defendant
and Defendant’s attorney of record in the amount of $1,600.00 (the “RFA
Motion”) (collectively, the “Motions”). 
Although
seeking three separate forms of relief pursuant to the Compel Responses Motion,
Plaintiff filed a combined motion to compel responses to form interrogatories,
special interrogatories, and requests for production of documents and thus only
paid one filing fee. The Court will still assess the Compel Responses Motion.
The
Court notes that the Motions are unopposed. On July 18, 2023, a Notice of
Change of Lead Counsel was filed and served by Lauren Diane Fierro, Esq., indicating
that Lauren Dianne Fierro, Esq. of Martinez, Dieterich & Zarcone Legal
Group is designated as lead counsel in this matter. Such notice states “that
effective immediately, all notices, pleadings, settings, and other matter . . .
should be directed to Lauren Diane Fierro, Esq.” 
On
July 20, 2023, the Court entered a stipulation and order continuing trial in
this action from September 14, 2023 to March 6, 2024. The stipulation and order
provides that all discovery and motion cut-off dates will be based upon the new
trial date. 
 
Service of the Motions
The
Motions were filed prior to the filing of the Notice of Change of Lead Counsel.
According to the proofs of service as to the Motions, Hooman Hemati, Esq. of
the Chavez Legal Group was served with the Motions via mail and electronic
service. Also, service of the Motions was electronically served upon
“legal-mail@fredloya.com,” which the answer of Defendant identifies as the
electronic service address for Chavez Legal Group. (See Answer, 1:1-4.)
While there is a new lead counsel, Chavez Legal Group has neither disassociated
nor substituted out of this action, and the Court finds that service of the
Motions was provided to Defendant’s counsel as Chavez Legal Group is still
counsel for Defendant in this action. Thus, the Court finds that the Motions
were properly served on Defendant. 
 
II.         
THE
COMPEL RESPONSES MOTION
Applicable Legal Standard
“Within 30 days after service of interrogatories,
the party to whom the interrogatories are propounded shall serve the original
of the response to them on the propounding party, unless on motion of the
propounding party the court has shortened the time for response, or unless on
motion of the responding party the court has extended the time for response.” (Code
Civ. Proc. § 2030.260, subd. (a).) “If the party to whom interrogatories are
directed fails to serve a timely response . . . [t]he party to whom the
interrogatories are directed waives any right to exercise the option to produce
writings under Section 2030.230, as well as any objection to the
interrogatories, including one based on privilege or on the protection for work
product.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (a).) “The party propounding
interrogatories may move for an order compelling response to the
interrogatories.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (b).)  
“Within 30 days after service of a
demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling, the party to whom the
demand is directed shall serve the original of the response to it on the party
making the demand, and a copy of the response on all other parties who have
appeared in the action.”  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2031.260, subd. (a).) The party making the demand may move for an
order compelling response to the demand if a party to whom a demand for
inspection, copying, testing, or sampling is directed fails to serve a timely
response to it. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300, subd. (b).)
Code Civ. Proc. § 2023.010(d) provides
that a misuse of the discovery process is failing to respond or to submit to an
authorized method of discovery.  Code
Civ. Proc. § 2023.010(h) states that a misuse of the discovery process includes
making or opposing, unsuccessfully and without substantial justification, a
motion to compel or limit discovery. A court may impose a monetary sanction
against a party engaging in the misuse of the discovery process or any attorney
advising such conduct under Code Civ. Proc. § 2023.030(a). A court has
discretion to fix the amount of reasonable monetary sanctions. (Cornerstone
Realty Advisors, LLC v. Summit Healthcare Reit, Inc. (2020) 56 Cal.App.5th
771.)
 
Analysis
Plaintiff’s counsel, Angela Lee (“Lee”),
in support of the Compel Responses Motion, declares that: (1) Form
Interrogatories, Set One; (2) Request for Production of Documents, Set One; (3)
Special Interrogatories, Set One; and (4) Request for Admissions, Set One, were
served on Defendant on December 16, 2022, and no responses have been received
to any of the propounded discovery. (Lee Decl., ¶¶ 3-6 and Exhibits 1-4.) 
As to monetary sanctions, counsel
declares that she has spent 2 hours drafting the Compel Responses Motion and
expects to spend 1 hour preparing a reply, as well as appearing at the hearing
on the Compel Responses Motion. (Lee Decl., ¶ 8.) Counsel’s office bills at
$400.00 per hour and Plaintiff requests monetary sanctions in the amount of
$1,400.00 against Defendant and Defendant’s attorney of record. (Lee Decl., ¶
8.)  
Initially, the Court notes that the
declarations in support of the Motions are essentially identical and the
exhibits attached to counsel’s declarations in support of each of the Motions overlap.
Plaintiff requests the same amount of monetary sanctions pursuant to each of
the Motions. 
The Court, however, finds that the
Motions request for monetary sanctions against Defendant’s counsel of record is
improper as Plaintiff has failed to identify against which attorney the
sanction is sought. (Sole Energy Co. v. Hodges (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th
199, 207 [“A request for a sanction shall, in the notice of motion, identify
every person, party, and attorney against whom the sanction is sought”].) Thus,
the Court will impose sanctions solely against Defendant as he is the only
properly identified party against whom sanctions are requested in the notice of
motion. 
The Court
GRANTS the Compel Responses Motion as it is unopposed. (Sexton v. Superior
Court (1997) 58 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1410.) 
Since
the Compel Responses Motion is unopposed, the Court awards Plaintiff sanctions
in the reasonable amount of $800.00 against Defendant as to the Compel
Responses Motion. 
 
III.    THE RFA MOTION

“Within 30
days after service of a demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling,
the party to whom the demand is directed shall serve the original of the
response to it on the party making the demand, and a copy of the response on
all other parties who have appeared in the action.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.260, subd. (a).) The
party making the demand may move for an order compelling response to the demand
if a party to whom a demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling is
directed fails to serve a timely response to it. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300,
subd. (b).)
          The
Court references its discussion from above as to the Compel Responses Motion
and incorporates it herein.
          The
Court GRANTS the RFA Motion as it is unopposed. (Sexton v. Superior Court,
supra, 58 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1410.) 
Since the RFA Motion is unopposed and given
the relative brevity of the motion, the Court awards Plaintiff monetary sanctions
in the reasonable amount of $200.00 against Defendant as to the RFA Motion.
Such an amount represents 0.5 hours of work on such motion. The Court reduces
the hours given the straightforward nature of the RFA Motion. 

 

IV.     CONCLUSION
         Accordingly, the Court GRANTS the Motions. 
Defendant
is ordered to serve verified, complete, and code-compliant responses, without
objections, to Set One of Plaintiff’s Form Interrogatories, Special
Interrogatories, and Request for Production of Documents within 30 days of the
date of notice of this order.
Plaintiff’s
request for monetary sanctions is GRANTED IN PART. Defendant is ORDERED to pay
monetary sanctions to Plaintiff in the total amount of $1000.00 within 30 days
of the date of notice of this order. This amount represents total monetary
sanctions as to the Compel Responses Motion and the RFA Motion. 
 

Moving party is ordered to give notice.

 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. 
Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to
appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the
hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you
receive a submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume
that others might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive emails from the
parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
      Dated this 24th day of January 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon.
  Lee S. Arian 
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 


