 Case Number:  22STCV15937    Hearing Date:   January 24, 2024    Dept:  27  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL
DISTRICT
 



MIREYA B. DE LA ROSA GALLEGOS, individually, and as
  successor in interest to decedent, JOSE HUMBERTO DE LA ROSA MORENO, 
                   Plaintiff,
          vs.
 
TRUKMAN
  ENTERPRISES, INC., et al.,
 
                   Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 22STCV15937
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEFENDANTS’ MOTION TO SET ASIDE/VACATE CLERK’S ENTRY OF DEFAULT AND
  REQUEST FOR LEAVE TO DEFEND ACTION


 
Dept.
  27
1:30
  p.m.
January
  24, 2024



 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
This is a wrongful death action arising
out of a motor vehicle/pedestrian accident on May 22, 2020.  On May 13, 2022, Plaintiff Mireya B. De La
Rosa Gallegos, individually, and as successor in interest to decedent, Jose
Humberto De La Rosa Moreno (“Plaintiff”), filed this action against Defendants
Trukman Enterprises, Inc. (“Trukman”), Ultimate Express Moving (“Ultimate”),
Jose Antonio Cabrera (“Cabrera”), Joshua B. Quijano (“Quijano”) (collectively,
“Defendants”), and Does 1 to 100, alleging causes of action for negligence and
survival action.  Default was entered
against Defendants Trukman Enterprises, Inc., Ultimate Express Moving, and Jose
Antonio Cabrera on October 26, 2023.  Default
was entered against Defendant Joshua B. Quijano on October 27, 2023.
On December 29, 2023, Defendants filed
a motion to set aside/vacate clerk’s entry of default and request for leave to
defend action.  On January 10, 2024, Plaintiff
filed an opposition. 
II.         
LEGAL
STANDARD
When service of a
summons has not resulted in actual notice to a party in time to defend the
action and a default or default judgment has been entered against him or her in the
action, he or she may serve and file a notice of
motion to set aside the default or default
judgment and for leave to defend the action. The
notice of motion shall be served and filed within a reasonable time, but in no
event exceeding the earlier of: (i) two years after entry of a default judgment
against him or her; or (ii) 180 days after service on
him or her of a written notice that the default or default judgment has been
entered.
 
(Code Civ. Proc., §
473.5, subd. (a).)
 
          The meaning of “actual notice” is strictly construed and means
“genuine knowledge of the party litigant…”  (2. [§ 219] Strict Construction., 8 Witkin,
Cal. Proc. 6th Attack § 219 (2023) citing Rosenthal v. Garner (1983) 142
Cal.App.3d 891, 895.)  “The law favors
judgments based on the merits, not procedural missteps.”  (Lasalle v. Vogel (2019) 36
Cal.App.5th 127, 134.) “[I]f a defendant promptly seeks relief…
and there is no showing of prejudice to [the plaintiff], very slight evidence
will be required to justify a court in setting aside the default.  [Citation.]” (Fasuyi v. Permatex, Inc.
(2008) 167 Cal.App.4th 681, 696, internal quotation marks omitted.)
III.       
DISCUSSION
Defendants move to set aside the
entries of default against them on the grounds that Plaintiff failed to attempt
personal service before effectuating substitute service, the address used to
serve Defendant Cabrera is a postal store and the owner of the store is not
authorized to accept service on behalf of Cabrera, Plaintiff did not include a
declaration of due diligence with the proofs of service for Quijano, Trukman,
and Ultimate, and attorney’s fees and punitive damages are not warranted.
The Court finds Defendants are entitled
to have the defaults set aside. Defendants Quijano and Cabrera both state in
their declarations that they were not personally served and do not recall receiving
the summons and complaint.  (Quijano
Decl., ¶12; Cabrera Decl., ¶7.)  While
Plaintiff indicates in the opposition that Plaintiff’s attorney spoke directly
with Defendant Quijano about the lawsuit, Plaintiff’s counsel does not state
having served Quijano with the summons and complaint.  (See Leonardo Decl., ¶¶ 6-7.)  Even assuming for the sake of argument that at
least Defendant Quijano was on actual notice of the lawsuit, it still does not
necessarily mean the other Defendants received actual notice.  Considering that Plaintiff is suing all of the
Defendants based on the same causes of action and issues, (Compl., ¶¶ 13-31), it
would not make sense to deny setting aside the default only as to Quijano since
there would be an issue with obtaining a several and separate judgment, (see
Code Civ. Proc., § 579.)
Most
importantly, the law favors dispositions of cases on their merits.  (Lasalle, supra, 36 Cal.App.5th at p.
134.)  Defendants moved quickly to set
aside the defaults, i.e., within two months of their entries, and Plaintiff has
not provided any evidence of prejudice to Plaintiff if the defaults are set
aside.  (See Fasuyi, supra, 167
Cal.App.4th at p. 696.)  Based on the
foregoing, the Court GRANTS the motion to set aside/vacate clerk’s entry of
default and request for leave to defend action.
The
Court notes, however, that Defendants have submitted conflicting proposed
pleadings with their motion, i.e., an answer and a motion to strike.  (Maurice Decl., Exs. 1, 2.)  A motion to strike attacks the pleading in
question whereas the answer does not.  (See
Code Civ. Proc., § 431.30; compare Id. § 435.5.)  Defendants must either proceed with an answer
or with a motion to strike.  The Court
will allow Defendants to decide at the hearing on this motion as to which
pleading they intend to proceed on.
IV.        
CONCLUSION
The Court GRANTS the motion to set
aside/vacate clerk’s entry of default and request for leave to defend action
Moving party to give notice.
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. 
Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to
appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the
hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you
receive a submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume
that others might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive emails from the
parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
Dated
this 24th day of January 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon.
  Lee S. Arian 
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 