

TENTATIVE
            Defendant Caroline Ngo’s Motion for Summary
Judgment is GRANTED in part
and DENIED in part. The Motion
is granted as to the first cause of action for negligence but denied as to the
second cause of action for premises liability.
 

Background
            This
case stems from an incident that occurred on May 31, 2020, when Alex Guerrero (“Plaintiff”)
was an invited guest to a property located at 24669 Moon Avenue, Lomita, CA
90717 (hereinafter, the “Premises”). (First Amended Complaint, hereinafter, “FAC”,
¶ 13.) While there, Craig Finley (“Finley”) was allegedly intoxicated and was
toting around his collection of firearms, when one of the firearms discharged
and struck Plaintiff in the shoulder. (Id.) Plaintiff then commenced
this action with his initial Complaint which was filed on August 18, 2021. The
initial Complaint was followed by a FAC filed on February 16, 2022, which
alleged four causes of action against four defendants: Caroline Ngo, Craig
Finley, Richard Pranada, and Denise Pranada. The causes of action launched
against their correlating defendants are as follows:
 
1.      Negligence (as to all defendants)
2.      Premises Liability (as to all defendants
3.      Battery (as to defendant Craig Finley)
4.      Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress
(as to defendant Craig Finley)
 
            Defendant
Caroline Ngo (“Ngo”), who was a co-tenant with her fiancé Finley and resided at
the Premises at the time, now files the motion before the Court, a Motion for
Summary Judgment (“Motion”). Plaintiff opposes this Motion. 
 
Evidentiary Objections
            Upon
opposition, Plaintiff files three objections. The Court rules as follows:
 



 


Material
  Objected To


Ruling




1


“The alleged weapon was not
  my property or the property of any other tenant of the residence.” 
(Declaration of Caroline Ngo, paragraph 8 at page 1,
  lines 16-17.) 


Sustained




2


“Upon information and belief,
  the alleged weapon was the property of a guest, and I had no knowledge of its
  presence until after the incident. 
(Declaration of Caroline Ngo, paragraph 9 at page 1,
  lines 18-19). 


Sustained




3


“I am not aware of the
  identity or contact information of the owner of the alleged weapon. 
(Declaration of Caroline Ngo, paragraph 10 at page
  1, lines 20-21.) 


Sustained



 
 
Discussion
 
Legal Standard
            The
function of a motion for summary judgment or adjudication is to allow a determination
as to whether an opposing party cannot show evidentiary support for a pleading
or claim and to enable an order of summary dismissal without the need for
trial. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.
(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) CCP Section 437c(c) “requires the trial judge
to grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences
reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences
or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and
that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.”  (Adler
v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)  
 
            “The
function of the pleadings in a motion for summary judgment is to delimit the
scope of the issues; the function of the affidavits or declarations is to
disclose whether there is any triable issue of fact within the issues delimited
by the pleadings.” (Juge v. County of
Sacramento (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67, citing FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal. App. 3d 367,
381-382.)
 
            As to each
claim as framed by the complaint, the defendant moving for summary judgment
must satisfy the initial burden of proof by presenting facts to negate an
essential element, or to establish a defense. (CCP § 437c(p)(2); Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005)
128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.) Courts “liberally construe the evidence in support
of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the
evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore
v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.) Once the
defendant has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that
a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action
or a defense thereto. To establish a triable issue of material fact, the party
opposing the motion must produce substantial responsive evidence. (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68
Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)
 
Analysis
 
            Civil
Code § 1714(c) Does Not Apply
            Before
commencing the main analysis, it is worth noting one of Ngo’s contentions – that
liability for the injuries that Plaintiff allegedly suffered in her home cannot
be premised upon the furnishing of alcohol to any person – is not relevant
here. Civil Code § 1714(c) (CIV § 1714(c)) reads in pertinent part that “no
social host who furnishes alcoholic beverages to any person may be held legally
accountable for damages suffered by that person…resulting from the consumption
of those beverages.” The injury suffered was committed by Ngo’s fiancé Finley
when he allegedly fired a gun at Plaintiff. Simply because Finley was also drinking
at the home Ngo and Finley leased does not immunize Ngo from causes of action
based on negligence and premises liability. CIV § 1714 does not apply here.  
 
            First
Cause of Action: Negligence
            The first cause of action that is
charged against Ngo is negligence. In order to state a claim for
negligence, Plaintiff must allege the elements of (1) “the existence of a legal
duty of care,” (2) “breach of that duty,” and (3) “proximate cause resulting in
an injury.” (McIntyre v.
Colonies-Pacific, LLC (2014) 228 Cal.App.4th 664, 671.) 
 
            In Ngo’s
Motion, Ngo appears to conflate the application of duty for the first cause of
action of negligence, with duty for the second cause of action of premises
liability. Although the elements are the same, they are applied differently.
Here, in the first cause of action for negligence, upon pleadings Plaintiff is
charged with demonstrating that Ngo had a duty to Plaintiff. In the instant
Motion, Defendant is charged with demonstrating that no duty existed. 
            
            When
analyzing duty in the context of third party acts, courts distinguish between
“misfeasance” and “nonfeasance.” “Misfeasance exists when the defendant is
responsible for making the plaintiff's position worse, i.e., defendant has
created a risk. Conversely, nonfeasance is found when the defendant has failed
to aid plaintiff through beneficial intervention. (Citation.)” (Melton v.
Boustred (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 521, 532.) A legal duty may
arise from affirmative acts “where the defendant, through his or her own action
(misfeasance) has made the plaintiff's position worse and has created a
foreseeable risk of harm from the third person. In such cases the question of
duty is governed by the standards of ordinary care…By contrast, nonfeasance
generally does not give rise to a legal duty.” (Id.)
 
            Here, it is
undisputed that Finley fired the shot that injured Plaintiff, not Ngo. “Everyone
is responsible, not only for the result of his or her willful acts, but also
for an injury occasioned to another by his or her want of ordinary care or
skill in the management of his or her property or person… (CIV § 1714.) It is
clear that the lack of ordinary care or skill was shown by Finley, not Ngo. Ngo
had the duty to not injure Plaintiff, and no evidence suggests she did.
Therefore, based on the general rule, duty cannot be imposed upon Ngo. However,
Plaintiff argues that there are exceptions to this general rule. One such
exception is a special relationship. 
 
a.     
No special relationship exists between Ngo and
Plaintiff
 
            Plaintiff
contends that there was a special relationship between Ngo as the lessee of the
property, and Plaintiff as a social guest upon the property. In Rowland v.
Christian (1968) 69 Cal.2d 108, 113, the Court held that the
liability of an occupier of land for negligence should not be dependent on the
status of the plaintiff as a trespasser, licensee or invitee, but instead
should be determined by the balancing of (1) the foreseeability of harm, (2) certainty
that plaintiff suffered injury, (3) connection between defendant's conduct and
injury, (4) moral blame attached to defendant's conduct, (5) policy of
preventing future harm, (6) extent of burden to defendant and consequences to
community of imposing duty to exercise care with resulting liability for
breach, and (7) availability, cost and prevalence of insurance for risk
involved. Courts have agreed that foreseeability is the most important of these
factors. (T.L. v. City of Ambulance of Eureka, Inc. (2022) 83 Cal.App.5th
864, 887.) 
 
            Plaintiff
argues that these factors weigh in favor of finding a special relationship here.  The Court disagrees. First, there appears to
have been no manner in which Ngo would have been able to foresee that her
fiancé would have fired upon someone in their own home. There are no details in
the parties’ papers that would indicate that Ngo was aware of prior incidences
of this happening before nor that Ngo was aware of any propensity Finley had
for doing so. Second, although there is debate as to what object actually hit
Plaintiff, neither party disputes that Plaintiff suffered harm from Finley’s act.
Third, no connection exists between Ngo’s conduct and Plaintiff’s injury. As
aforementioned it was Finley that pulled the trigger, not Ngo. Likewise, no moral
blame that would attach to Ngo; Ngo did not commit the act. The fifth, sixth,
and seventh factors are primarily public policy factors. Focusing on the fifth
of preventing future harm, imposing any liability on Ngo would potentially
prevent Finley from such conduct in the future, but it is certainly a tenuous
means of deterrence. In evaluating the sixth factor, Plaintiff implores the
Court to acknowledge that Ngo has already illustrated that she can store guns
safely in a combination locked gun safe. (Opposition Papers, 18: 14-17.)
However, Plaintiff fails to explain how Ngo’s ability to safely store guns in a
safe prevents Finley from accidentally discharging his own firearm. Finally,
although Ngo has homeowner’s insurance, that seems irrelevant to Finley’s
breach of duty. Hence, the Court finds that these factors do not weigh in favor
of finding a special relationship between Ngo and Finley in relation to duty. Accordingly,
the element of duty cannot be proven by Plaintiff and Ngo is, therefore,
entitled to summary judgment on the first cause of action.               
 
            Second
Cause of Action: Premises Liability
            “The
elements of a cause of action for premises liability are the same as those for negligence:
duty, breach, causation, and damages.” (Castellon
v. U.S. Bancorp (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 994, 998.) “Premises liability is
grounded in the possession of the premises and the attendant right to control
and manage the premises.” (Kesner v.
Superior Court (2016) 1 Cal.5th 1132, 1158, quotation marks omitted.)
 
            Although
Ngo is not liable as a matter of law for the negligence of her fiancé, she can
be held responsible for her own negligence under premises liability. Plaintiff
has created a triable issue of material fact as to whether Ngo maintained her Premises
in a safe manner. There is no dispute that Ngo lived at and had control of the
Premises. However, there is dispute as to (1) whether Ngo knew there were
weapons on the Premises (Plaintiff’s Separate Statement of Disputed Material
Facts, No. 7), (2) whether the weapon discharged was owned by a tenant of the
Premises (Plaintiff’s Separate Statement of Disputed Material Facts, No. 11),
(3) and whether Ngo should have been aware of a weapon on the premises
(Plaintiff’s Separate Statement of Disputed Material Facts, No. 13.) 
 
            The
parties agree that Ngo regularly inspected her home. (Plaintiff’s Separate
Statement of Disputed Material Facts, No. 12.) However, Plaintiff
contends both in his Motion and deposition that the firearms were located in a
shared closet (Declaration of Nicole Lahmani, Exh. C, p. 42, line 1), which Ngo
should have discovered upon inspection. Finley states in his deposition that
the firearms were located in a duffle bag inside a room within the home (Declaration
of Nicole Lahmani, Exh. B, p. 35, line 5). Either way, both Finley and
Plaintiff agree that the firearms were in the home, whereas Ngo declares that
she had no knowledge of the presence of any weapons on the Premises
(Declaration of Caroline Ngo, ¶ 4.) This is a material fact that is clearly
disputed, and therefore counsels this Court to deny summary judgment as to
premises liability. 
 
            Plaintiff
cites one final case arguing that duty should be found for both causes of
action. Plaintiff argues that Hernandez v. Jensen (2021) 61 Cal.App.5th
1056 (“Hernandez”) supports hia contention that Ngo cannot be
excused from negligence because the circumstances of the weapons discharge were
foreseeable. As explained above, the Court disagrees, and will use Hernandez
to highlight the distinction between duty for negligence and duty for premises
liability. Hernandez articulates that premises liability is grounded in
possession or right to control the conditions on the premises which confers an
affirmative duty to act. (Hernandez, supra, at 1070.) In Hernandez
a home healthcare worker brought an action against several parties, including
the primary caregiver who did not own or control the home, after the healthcare
worker was accidentally shot by an unsecured, loaded firearm that fell to the
floor. Because of the lack of possession or control of the home, the caregiver
who was aware of the unsecure, loaded firearm could not be charged with
premises liability, however, she was charged with negligence for not informing
the caregiver of the danger. Here, the opposite is true. Ngo cannot be charged
with her fiancé’s negligence; however, she does exercise control of the home
that is alleged to have contained unsecured, loaded firearms. Because the
Motion fails to eliminate triable issues of material facts as to this second
cause of action for premises liability, specifically as to the fact of whether
loaded, unsecured firearms were present, the Motion must be denied as to the
second cause of action.    
             
Conclusion
            Accordingly,
Defendant Caroline Ngo’s Motion for Summary Judgment is GRANTED in part and DENIED in part. The Motion is granted as to the first cause
of action for negligence but denied as to the second cause of action for
premises liability.
 
 
 
Moving party is ordered to give notice.  
 
 
 