

 
TENTATIVE
            Plaintiff
Victor Manuel Benites Olazabal’s Motion to Compel the Attendance and Testimony
of Morad Dayan, Defendant’s Person Most Knowledgeable is GRANTED
and sanctions are imposed upon Defendant and its counsel and awarded to
Plaintiff in the total amount of $5,834.65. Additionally, this Court
orders that Morad Elyaoudayan, the PMK designated by Defendant Hashem 26, LLC
(“Defendant”), to reappear and give testimony until the PMK deposition is
concluded by Plaintiff’s counsel.
 
Background
            This
matter stems from the damage sustained to the property of Victor Manuel Benites
Olazabal (“Victor”) and Joselyn Olazabal (“Joselyn”) (collectively,
“Plaintiffs”) after the commercial property Plaintiffs rented burned down. On
October 16, 2021, an electrical fire ignited from an electrical panel at the
back wall of 5821 ½ W. Pico Blvd., Los Angeles, CA 90019. (Complaint, ¶ GN-1.)
The fire completely destroyed inventory and equipment for Joselyn’s business
located at 5821 ½ W. Pico Blvd., and Victor’s business located next door at
5821 W. Pico Blvd.
 
            Plaintiffs
file suit against the landlord Hashem 26, LLC (“Defendant”) for general
negligence, premises liability, and negligence per se. The motion before the
Court now is Plaintiff Victor Manuel Benites Olazabal’s Motion to Compel the
Attendance and Testimony of Morad Dayan, Defendant’s Person Most Knowledgeable
(“Motion”). Additionally, Victor requests sanction in the amount of $6,534.65.  
 
Discussion
 
Legal Standard
            A
motion lies to compel deposition attendance and document production, after
service of a deposition notice, where a deponent fails to appear at, or proceed
with, a deposition, without having served a valid objection. (CCP
§2025.450(a).) No meet and confer is required to compel initial deposition
attendance, but instead there must be a declaration showing that moving party
inquired about the nonappearance. (CCP §2025.450(b)(2).)   
 
            “Implicit
in the requirement that counsel contact the deponent to inquire about the
nonappearance is a requirement that counsel listen to the reasons offered and
make a good faith attempt to resolve the issue,” including by rescheduling. (Leko
v. Cornerstone Bldg. Inspection Serv. (2001) 86 Cal. App. 4th
1109, 1124. See also L.A.S.C.L.R.
3.26, Appendix 3.A(e) (reasonable consideration should be given to
accommodating schedules in setting depositions).)  
 
Analysis
 
            Summary
of August 10, 2023 Deposition of Morad Dayan –
            On
June 23, 2023 Plaintiffs served a Notice of Taking Deposition of Person Most Knowledgeable
for Defendant (“Notice”). (Declaration of Sylvia V. Karlan, hereinafter,
“Karlan Dec.”, ¶ 3.) After the parties conferred on Defendant’s objections to
the Notice, the parties settled on an August 10, 2023 date, agreed to having a
Farsi interpreter, and confirmed the topics for questioning. (Karlan Dec., ¶
10.) On August 8, 2023 in response to Plaintiff asking to confirm that the PMK
deposition was going forward, Defense counsel noted that David Dayan would be
the PMK and that they would like the deposition to start at 11:00 a.m., instead
of the agreed upon 10:00 a.m (Id. at ¶ 14.) The next day – one day
before the deposition was to take place – Defense counsel changed the PMK from
David Dayan to Morad Dayan. (Id. at ¶ 15.)
 
            On
the day of the deposition, Plaintiff’s counsel, the stenographer, and the
interpreter were all present at 11:00 a.m. as previously agreed, however,
Defense counsel did not show up with the client until 11:30 a.m., and the
deposition did not start until 11:45 a.m. (Id. at ¶ 18.) 
 
            From
the start of the deposition until its early termination, Defense counsel
engaged in dilatory tactics:
 
·        
As
Plaintiff’s counsel was giving instructions for the deposition, Defense counsel
objected. For example: 
o  
Plaintiff’s
Counsel: “Before we start the questions about the case, I just have to ask you
a few things to make sure that you’re able to give correct answers today.
o  
Defense
Counsel: “I will object to the term – you’re gonna let me object please and
thank you. I object to the term ‘correct answers’.” (Motion, Exh. L, pg. 7,
line 25 through pg. 8 lines 1-7.)
·        
Defense
counsel then instructed the designated PMK not to answer who he was employed
by, even though he was deemed the PMK by Defendant. (Karlan Dec., ¶ 21.) 
·        
Defense
counsel at one point requested that Plaintiff’s counsel not have direct
communications with the deponent on the record, however, that is the exact
purpose of a deposition. (Motion, Exh. L, pg. 18, lines 18-19.)
·        
After
the deposition began at 11:45 a.m. a five-minute break was requested at 12:11
p.m. (Motion, Exh. L, pg. 18, lines 14-17.)  
·        
Then two
consecutive recesses followed, one from 12:35-1:05 p.m. and another from 1:05
p.m. to 1:47 p.m. (Motion, Exh. L, pg. 27, lines 10-14.) It is unclear why
these recesses occurred.
·        
Then,
upon returning at 1:47 p.m., and after several objections by Defense counsel on
topics previously agreed upon, Defense counsel inexplicably ended the
deposition at 2:07 p.m. It appears that at least one of the reasons for the
early termination may have been that Defense counsel had a doctor’s appointment
scheduled at 2:30 p.m.
 
            From
the transcript, it appears that Defense counsel had no basis for the objections
as all questions asked by Plaintiff’s counsel were questions directly related
to the six agreed upon topics in the Notice. Because of the objections,
Plaintiff’s counsel had only 50 minutes of time to question the deponent.
(Karlan Dec., ¶ 21.) Additionally, Defense counsel did not file any opposition
papers to explain the objections nor the early termination of the deposition.
The deposition was scheduled well in advance of the August 10, 2023 date, with
topics deliberated and agreed upon prior. There seems to be no reason why the
deposition could not have gone forward at the agreed upon time, and been
completed in full, other than Defense counsel’s actions during the deposition. 
 
            Although
no meet and confer is required under CCP §2025.450, the parties were requested to meet and confer per
instructions during an informal discovery conference (IDC) held on August 24,
2023. Plaintiff’s counsel demonstrates good faith meet and confer efforts, that
were met with Defense counsel stating, “I am not as ready as you are to meet
and confer”. (Motion, Exh. P.) No further explanation nor response was provided
by Defense counsel. 
 
            Here,
the Court deems it necessary to remind the parties that “The court may
impose a monetary sanction ordering that one engaging in the misuse of the
discovery process, or any attorney advising that conduct, or both pay the
reasonable expenses, including attorney's fees, incurred by anyone as a result
of that conduct.” (CCP § 2023.030(a).) Misuse of the discovery process includes
employing a discovery method in a manner or to an extent that causes
unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment, or oppression, or undue burden and
expense. (CCP § 2023.010(c).) Plaintiff’s counsel has made clear from their
filings that misuse of the discovery process is exactly what took place, and
sanctions are warranted. 
 
            Sanctions
            Through their declaration,
Plaintiff’s counsel provides the following calculations:
 
·        
Counsel’s hourly rate is $350.00
·        
Counsel spent 11 hours drafting the Motion
·        
Counsel incurred a $60.00 filing fee
·        
Counsel anticipated 2 hours reviewing opposition
papers and responding with a reply
·        
Counsel anticipates a 1-hour hearing on the
matter
·        
Additionally, counsel requests that the Court
order the Defendant to pay $1,574.65 that Defense counsel had previously agreed
to pay. 
·        
The total being requested $6,534.65 
 
            Considering that no opposition nor
reply was filed, the Court will award sanctions to Plaintiff, and impose them
on Defendant and their counsel in the total amount of $5,834.65.
 
Conclusion
            Accordingly, Plaintiff Victor Manuel
Benites Olazabal’s Motion to Compel the Attendance and Testimony of Morad
Dayan, Defendant’s Person Most Knowledgeable is GRANTED and
sanctions are imposed upon Defendant and their counsel and awarded to Plaintiff
in the total amount of $5,834.65. Additionally, this Court orders
that Morad Elyaoudayan, the PMK designated by Defendant Hashem 26, LLC
(“Defendant”), to reappear and give testimony until the PMK deposition is
concluded by Plaintiff’s counsel.
 
 
 
Moving party is ordered to give notice.  
 
 
 
 
 
Moving party is ordered to give notice.  
 
 
 


