  Case Number:  23STCV13001    Hearing Date:   October 4, 2024    Dept:  45 Superior Court of California
County
 of Los Angeles
 



 
JEFF
  STEVEN EUSTICE, an individual, 
 
                             Plaintiff,
 
                              vs.
 
AMERICAN
  HONDA MOTOR CO., INC., and DOES 1 through 10, inclusive, 
 
                              Defendants.
 


Case No.: 23STCV13001
DEPARTMENT
  45
 
 
 
[TENTATIVE] RULING
 
 
 
Action
  Filed: 6/07/2023
Trial
  Date: 4/28/2025
 
 



 
Hearing date:              10/4/2024        
Moving Party:             JEFF STEVEN EUSTICE, AN INDIVIDUAL
(Plaintiff)
Responding
Party:      AMERICAN HONDA MOTOR CO., INC.
(Defendant)
 
 
Motion to Compel Further Responses to Request for
Production, Set One
The court has considered
the moving papers, opposition, and reply.  
The motion is GRANTED.
Defendant American Hondo Motor Co Inc. is ordered to provide further responses
to plaintiff Jeff Steven Eustice’s Request for Production, Set One Number 16,
17, 18, 29, 20, and 21 within twenty (20) days’ notice of this order. Moving
party is ordered to give notice. 
Background
On June 7, 2023,
plaintiff Jeff Steven Eustice (plaintiff) filed suit against defendant American
Honda Motor Co., Inc. (defendant) for violations of statutory obligation s
under the Song Beverly Consumer Warranty Act. Plaintiff alleged he purchased a
2022 Honda Accord (subject vehicle). The subject vehicle came with an express
warranty. Upon delivery the subject vehicle presented with certain
non-conformities including, but not limited to, defective body, powertrain,
safety, electrical, braking and noise systems. Defendant failed to repair the
subject vehicle within a reasonable number of attempts.   
Legal Standard 
            In California, discovery statutes “must be construed liberally in
favor of disclosure unless the request is clearly improper.” (Williams v.
Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 541.) “Under the discovery statutes,
information is discoverable if it is unprivileged and is either relevant to the
subject matter of the action or reasonably calculated to reveal admissible
evidence.” (John B. v. Superior Court (2006) 38 Cal.4th 1177, 1186.) “Discovery
may relate to the claim or defense of the party seeking discovery or of any
other party to the action.” (Ibid.) “The court shall limit discovery if it
determines that the burden, expense, or intrusiveness of that discovery clearly
outweighs the likelihood that the information sought will lead to the discovery
of admissible evidence. The court may make this determination pursuant to a
motion for protective order by a party or other affected person.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2017.020, subd. (a).)
            In responding to a request for
production, a party shall respond in one of the following way: (1) provide a
statement that they will comply, (2) provide a representation that they lack
the ability to comply, or (3) object to a particular demand. (Code Civ. Proc.,
§2031.210, subd. (a).) “A representation of inability to comply with the
particular demand. . .shall affirm that a diligent search and a reasonable
inquiry has been made in an effort to comply with that demand. This statement
shall also specify whether the inability to comply is because the particular
item or category has never existed, has been destroyed, has been lost,
misplaced, or stolen, or has never been, or is no longer, in the possession,
custody, or control of the responding party. The statement shall set forth the
name and address of any natural person or organization known or believed by
that party to have possession, custody, or control of that item or category of
item.” (Code Civ. Proc., §2031.230.)
Discussion
            Meet
and Confer
            “The
Discovery Act requires that, prior to the initiation of a motion to compel, the
moving party declare that he or she has made a serious attempt to obtain an
informal resolution of each issue.” (Stewart v. Colonial Western Agency, Inc.
(2001) 87 Cal.App.4th 1006, 1016.) “A meet and confer declaration in support of
a motion shall state facts showing a reasonable and good faith attempt at an
informal resolution of each issue presented by the motion.” (Code Civ. Proc. §
2016.040.)
            The
court finds plaintiff has satisfied the meet and confer requirements.
Plaintiff’s counsel Noreelie Panhwar declares that she sent a meet and confer and
email on October 5, 2023, she sent another meet and confer meet and confer
letter on November 14, 2023. She declares defendant did not respond to either
email. This is sufficient. 
            Responses
Plaintiff takes issue with defendant’s
responses to Request for Production Nos. 16-21. In each case, plaintiff is
requesting documents regarding the electrical defect in vehicles of the same
year, make and model of the subject vehicle. The documents requested are
document pertaining to fixes; failure rates; customer complaints, claims and
reported failures; decisions to issue notices to consumers; communications; and
internal analysis or investigation about the electrical defect in the 2022
Honda Accord. In each case defendant objected entirely to the request and
refused to respond. (Panhwar Decl., ¶17, Ex. 4.)
With respect to RFP No. 16-18 and 21,
defendant argues it has provided code-compliant responses, either that such
documents do not exist or that it will produce responsive documents. (Opp., at
pp. 4:16-24.) These could be code compliant responses, but in both cases, the
court’s review the responses provided were that defendant only objected. (Panhwar
Decl., ¶17, Ex. 4.)  Defendant does not
attach documentation showing its supplemented its original response to provide
these responses. Since defendant has conceded that further responses are
appropriate by virtue of supplying what the responses would be, the court
grants the request as to these numbers. 
With respect to RFP No. 19 and 20, the
requests are for the consumer complaints and/or failure rates of other
consumers’ cars. 
1.     
Grouds
for Discovery 
Plaintiff argues that defendant has issued
numerous Technical Service Bulletins (TSBs) regarding the Electrical Defect of
the 2022 Honda Accord, which necessarily would have been the product of
monitoring efforts, internal investigations, analysis, and consumer complaints.  As such, plaintiff seeks this discovery to
obtain information from defendant regarding how it dealt with this specific
defect and the ramifications of its actions (e.g., whether Defendant provided
its repair facilities with sufficient literature to complete repairs etc.).
Here, the court agrees that the proffered reasons support that discovery of
this information is appropriate. 
2.     
Objections
Defendant argues that it need not provide
information because the requests pertain to the private information of other
consumers. This argument is unconvincing since the request is not for
consumer’s identifying information. However, it is not apparent why this
information would need to have consumer identifying information such that its
discovery is barred. Instead, defendant can refrain from disclosing customer
identifying information. 
Defendant argues the discovery is overly
broad and not reasonably calculated to lead to discoverable evidence since
plaintiff does not need to find the source of the problem, but only establish
that the subject vehicle did not conform to the warranty. However, the standard
for discovery is broad. Discovery statutes “must be construed liberally
in favor of disclosure unless the request is clearly improper.” (Williams,
supra, 3 Cal.5th at p. 541.) The court agrees with plaintiff that information
surrounding how or whether defendant dealt with complaints could support
plaintiff’s argument that defendant willfully failed to repair or address the
electrical defect. Defendant’s citation to Ibrahim v. Ford Motor Co (1989) 214
Cal.App.3d 878 is inapt. It does not stand for the principle that a willfulness
determination is only based on the repair history of the plaintiff’s vehicle. Ibrahim
specifically states that willful means simply that “[defendant] knew of its
obligations but intentionally declined to fulfill them.” (Id. at p. 894.) Thus
the evidence may support plaintiff’s suit.
Defendant
objects that the term electrical defect is unclear, however, the court finds
the definition sufficient. Plaintiff defined electrical defect  “to mean such defects which result in
symptoms including, but not limited to: premature failure of battery;
dead/faulty battery; battery deeply discharged; vehicle not starting; TSB
#22-060; TSB #22-059; TSB #89-003; and any other concern identified in the
repair history for the subject 2022 Honda Accord; Vehicle Identification Number
1HGCV1F40NA034781”. (Panhwar Decl., ¶17, Ex. 4.)  The term is sufficiently clear regarding the
scope of the defect and the definition provides details to defendant to
appropriate narrow its searches. 
Defendant also raise objections that the documents requested are confidential,
commercially sensitive, and proprietary or trade secret. A trade secret means
“information, including a formula, pattern, compilation, program, device,
method, technique or process that: (1) Derives independent economic value. . .from
not being generally known to the public. . .; and (2) is the subject of efforts
that are reasonable under the circumstances to maintain its secrecy.” (Civ.
Code, §3426.`, subd. (d).) A party that is claiming the trade secret privilege
under Evidence Code section 1060 has the burden of proving the party’s
entitlement to that privilege. (Amgen Inc v. California Correctional Health
Care Servs. (2020) 47 Cal.App.5th 716, 733.) It is unclear why document
surrounding an electrical defect are subject to a trade secret privilege. Further
to the extent defendant is withholding information on this basis, defendant has
failed to sufficiently prove entitlement to the privilege. Defendant offers no
justification for the claim of privilege. 
Finally,
to the extent defendant argues production would be an undue burden, defendant
has failed to provide evidence supporting the claim of burden. Presently, they
claim it could be a burden, but do not explain why it would be a burden. This
is insufficient. (See Code Civ. Proc., §2031., subd. (e) [stating a party who
claims an undue burden or expense, has the “burden of demonstrating that the
information is from a source that is not reasonably accessible because of undue
burden or expense”].) 
The motion
is granted. 
Moving
party is directed to give notice.          
 
Dated:
October 4, 2024
 
_______________________
MEL RED RECANA
Judge of the
Superior Court