 Case Number:  23STCV25160    Hearing Date:   November 12, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27
 
MOTION TO COMPEL DEPOSITION AND PRODUCITON OF
DOCUMENTS 
Hearing Date: 10/29/24 
CASE NO./NAME: 23STCV25160 ADAM SCHADE vs
KYLE BRADLEY
Moving Party: Plaintiff
Responding Party: Defendant Trevor Geraghty
and Non-Party Stephanie Wallace
Notice: Sufficient 
Ruling: MOTION TO COMPEL DEPOSITION AND PRODUCTION
OF DOCUMENTS IS
GRANTED IN PART AND DENIED IN PART; SANCTIONS REQUESTS ARE DENIED
 
Background
On October 16, 2023,
Plaintiff William Schade filed the instant action against Defendants Kyle
Bradley and Trevor Geraghty, arising from a motor vehicle accident on January
9, 2022. Plaintiff was a passenger in a vehicle driven by Geraghty, which was
insured by State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Company (“State Farm”).
Plaintiff is also insured by State Farm. Alongside this lawsuit, Plaintiff
submitted a claim to State Farm under his own policy for Uninsured/Underinsured
Motorist Benefits.
Stephanie Wallace, a
Claims Specialist at State Farm, was the adjuster on Plaintiff’s Underinsured
Motorist Claim. On January 3, 2024, Wallace sent an email to Plaintiff stating
that Defendant Geraghty admitted fault and was intoxicated at the time of the
accident. On August 20, 2024, Plaintiff subpoenaed Wallace for deposition, to which
Defendants objected. Despite meeting and conferring, the parties could not
reach an agreement. Plaintiff now moves the Court to compel Wallace’s
deposition and the following requests for production:
REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION NO. 1: Any and all DOCUMENTS
and/or WRITINGS which in any way relate to the incident giving rise to this
litigation.
 REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION NO. 2: Any and all
communications and/or correspondence which in any way relate to the incident
giving rise to this litigation.
REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION NO. 3: Any and all audio
recordings between YOU and TREVOR GERAGHTY.
REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION NO.4: Any and all audio
recordings which in any way discuss or relate to TREVOR GERAGHTY.
REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION NO.5: Any and all audio
recordings which in any way discuss or relate to the car accident giving rise
to this litigation
REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION NO. 6: YOUR full, complete,
and entire file for claim number 22-29L4-83X.
REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION NO.7: All DOCUMENTS relating
to TREVOR GERAGHTY being intoxicated during the car accident.
REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION NO. 8: Any and all reports
created by STATE FARM INSURANCE COMPANY employees, agents, and/or
representatives, which relates to the INCIDENT giving rise to this litigation.
REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION NO. 9: All DOCUMENTS which in
any way reference, detail, and/or relate to the INCIDENT giving rise to this
litigation.
REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION NO. 10: Any and all reports
which relate to the INCIDENT giving rise to this litigation.
REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION NO. 11: All DOCUMENTS,
E-MAILS, correspondence, and/or communications which in any way relate to
TREVOR GERAGHTY being at fault for the car accident giving rise to this
litigation.
Legal Standard
Non-Party Deposition
CCP § 2020.010 permits
discovery of non-party witnesses through oral and written depositions. (See CCP
§ 2020.010(a)(1), (2); Hawkins v. TACA International Airlines, S.A. (2014)
223 Cal.App.4th 466, 476.) A deposition subpoena may command the attendance and
testimony of the deponent, the production of business records, or both. (CCP §
2020.020.) 
Attorney-Client
Privilege
In Bank of America,
N.A. v. Superior Court (2013) 212 Cal.App.4th 1076, recognized the
tripartite attorney-client relationship that exists between defense counsel, an
insured and an insurer. The court found that the insurer’s retention of defense
counsel to represent the insured is sufficient to establish a tripartite
attorney-client relationship between the insurer, the insured and defense
counsel, citing multiple cases for the proposition that counsel retained by an
insurer to defend the insured has an attorney-client relationship with the
insurer as well. Id. at 1090. Here, then, State Farm, Defendant, and the
counsel State Farm has hired to represent Defendant are part of an attorney-client
relationship. 
The attorney-client
privilege authorizes a client to refuse to disclose, and to prevent others from
disclosing, confidential communications between attorney and client. (Mitchell
v. Superior Court (1984) 37 Cal. 3d 591, 599.) The evidentiary
privilege, while not constitutionally based, is the oldest recognized
confidential communication privilege. (Sullivan v. Superior Court (1972)
29 Cal.App.3d 64, 71.) The privilege applies not only to communications made in
anticipation of litigation, but also to legal advice when no litigation is
threatened. (Roberts v. City of Palmdale (1993) 5 Cal.4th 363,
371.) The term “confidential communication” is broadly construed and defined as
either information transmitted between a client and his lawyer or advice given
by the lawyer. The privilege does not protect independent facts related to a
communication, that a communication took place, and the time, date and
participants in the communication. Further, the privilege does not protect
disclosure of underlying facts which may be referenced within a qualifying
communication, and it does not extend to independent witnesses. (State Farm
Fire & Casualty Co. v. Superior Court (1997) 54 Cal.App.4th 625,
639-640.) 
When a party asserts
the attorney-client privilege, it is incumbent upon that party to prove the
preliminary fact that a privilege exists. Once the foundational facts have been
presented - i.e., that a communication has been made in confidence in
the course of the lawyer-client relationship - the communication is presumed to
have been made in confidence and the opponent of the claim of privilege has the
burden of proof to establish that the communication was not confidential or
that an exception exists. (Evid. Code §917; State Farm Fire &
Casualty Co., supra, at 639.) 
“An analysis of the
attorney-client privilege in a particular case must begin with an
identification of the attorney, the client, and the communication sought to be
protected. (See Evid. Code, §§ 950–952.)” (Chubb & Son v. Superior Court (2014)
228 Cal.App.4th 1094, 1104.) 
“Besides having to
claim the attorney-client privilege on a client's behalf, an attorney must
maintain the confidential information of present and former clients. (Bus.
& Prof. Code, § 6068, subd. (e)(1) [“It is the duty of an attorney ... ¶
... ¶ [t]o maintain inviolate the confidence, and at every peril to himself or
herself to preserve the secrets, of his or her client”]; Rules of Prof.
Conduct, rule 3–100; Dietz v. Meisenheimer & Herron (2009)
177 Cal.App.4th 771, 786; see City and County of San Francisco v. Cobra
Solutions, Inc. (2006) 38 Cal.4th 839, 846 [duty of confidentiality
survives termination of attorney's representation].) These confidences may or
may not be subject to the attorney-client privilege, but must nonetheless be
kept confidential by the attorney so as not to cause the client or former
client embarrassment or harm. (See, e.g., Dixon v. State Bar (1982)
32 Cal.3d 728, 735 [attorney violated Bus. & Prof. Code, § 6068, subd. (e),
by including in a declaration gratuitous and embarrassing information about his
former client and her sister].)” (Chubb & Son v. Superior Court,
supra, 228 Cal.App.4th at p. 1104.) 
Where a report, such as
an accident or incident report, has a dual purpose, it is privileged if its
dominant purpose is transmittal to the attorney in the course of professional
employment. (Holm v. Superior Court (1954) 42 Cal.2d 500.) Even
though a report has been prepared in the regular course of business, because it
was forwarded to an attorney for use in possible litigation, the
attorney-client privilege applies. (Id.) In Holm, the court held that,
where a report has a dual purpose, it is privileged if its dominant
purpose is the transmittal to the attorney in the course of professional
employment. The question is one of fact for the trial judge, but whose
determination is subject to review for abuse of discretion. 
Discussion
No real debate exists
as to whether Plaintiff can depose Wallace. 
The issues raised by Plaintiff’s motion instead focus on the impact of
the attorney client privilege on that deposition and the documents to be
produced at it.
Plaintiff’s requests
for production are broad, seeking an expansive range of documents, as evidenced
by REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION NO. 1: "Any and all DOCUMENTS and/or WRITINGS
which in any way relate to the incident giving rise to this litigation"
and REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION NO. 2: "Any and all communications and/or
correspondence which in any way relate to the incident giving rise to this
litigation." Defendant asserts various privileges, including
attorney-client, work product, privacy, and trade secret protections, yet has
not provided a privilege log to specify which documents fall under each
asserted privilege. Consequently, while some requested documents may indeed be
privileged, others may not. Without a privilege log or clearer description of
the types of documents in Defendant’s possession, the Court cannot meaningfully
determine the applicability of these privileges, given the scope of Plaintiff's
requests.
Defendant argues that
communications with Wallace concerning his UIM claim are protected by
attorney-client privilege, relying on a tripartite relationship and citing Bank
of America, N.A. v. Superior Court (2013) 212 Cal.App.4th 1076. In Bank
of America, the tripartite relationship arose where the insurer, Fidelity,
retained counsel to defend or prosecute on behalf of the insured. This type of
relationship typically applies in liability cases where the insurer assumes a
defense role as required by policy obligations, uniting the insurer, insured,
and attorney in a shared "defense team" effort. Plaintiff contends
the relationship at issue, however, is his relationship with Wallace because
Wallace was the claims representative for his UIM claim with State Farm.  For that claim, State Farm acted as the
insurer assessing Plaintiff’s claim for UIM benefits, not as an entity
defending him in litigation against a third party.  Plaintiff thus contends the attorney-client
privilege is not applicable here.
        The
Court is not persuaded by Plaintiff’s argument. 
The alleged communication in this instance between Defendant and his
insurer, State Farm, is privileged.  It
does not lose its privileged character simply because a different State Farm
employee revealed the communication.  Wallace
is not in a position to appropriately waive the privilege. 
Although the specific
communication Wallace made appears to be protected by the attorney client
privilege (albeit, the Court is not informed how Wallace knew the information
she provided), the Court is not persuaded that all of the documents and
communication covered by Plaintiff’s request is covered by attorney client
privilege.  Defendant argues that some
documents contain information protected by attorney work product, privacy, and
proprietary information. The issue is the same: it is possible that some
documents may reveal "impressions, conclusions, opinions, or legal
research," while others only disclose factual information relevant to this
case. Without a privilege log or a detailed description of the responsive
documents, it is impossible to make that determination. Based on the
information provided, work product doctrine does not apply to all requested
documents, as Plaintiff’s request also includes communications that are
unlikely to involve privileged or work product-protected content, such as
correspondence directly related to the claims process or factual summaries. The
same goes for trade secret and privacy claims, where Defendant argues that
handling codes, reference numbers, or private information (e.g., Plaintiff’s
personal identifiers or State Farm’s internal procedures) may warrant
protection. While such information may merit protection, it only covers a small
portion of documents and could be redacted accordingly.
Overall, the Court
overlooks minor procedural deficiencies in the moving papers, as both Defendant
Geraghty and non-party Wallace filed oppositions, and finds the deposition is
subject to being compelled, but the apparent subject matter that counsel seeks
to explore is likely subject to the attorney client privilege. The deposition,
to the extent Defendant still wants to move forward with it after this ruling, is
to occur within 20 days.  
As to the requested
documents, the request seeks relevant information, some of which is not
protected by any applicable privilege. However, Defendant may withhold
documents and decline to answer specific deposition questions based on the
aforementioned privileges, provided it produces a privilege log for the
withheld documents. Accordingly, Wallace is to produce non-privileged documents
under her control responsive to the requests. 
To the extent Wallace does not have control over these documents and State
Farm requires the documents to be produced by a custodian of records, Defendant
may delay the deposition of Wallace until such time as the Custodian of Records
has responded. 
The Court denies
the requests for sanctions, finding a legitimate dispute regarding the
applicability of attorney-client privilege, work product, and other asserted
protections. The disagreement over these issues does not constitute bad faith
or an abuse of the discovery process, and, thus, sanctions are not warranted
sanctions.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿The body of the email must include the hearing date and
time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿You should assume that others may appear at the hearing
to argue.
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion.
 
 