 Case Number:  21STCV37594    Hearing Date:   November 12, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27  MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT¿OR SUMMARY ADJUDICATION Hearing Date: 11/12/24¿ CASE NO./NAME: 21STCV37594 ANNA VASERFIRER, et al. vs UBER TECHNOLOGIES, INC et al. Moving Party: Defendant Uber Responding Party: Plaintiff¿ Notice: Sufficient¿ Ruling: MOTIONS FOR SUMMARY ADJUDICATION ARE GRANTED; LEAVE TO AMEND IS DENIED AT THIS TIME BUT A SEPARATE MOTION MAY BE FILED  Background This action arises from a vehicle-on-pedestrian collision on August 2, 2021 (the "Incident"). Defendant Oscar Moquete ("Moquete") who was driving the vehicle rented from Avis, was alleged to be in the scope of his employment with Uber. Plaintiffs are Anna Vaserfirer, the pedestrian struck by Moquete, and her son, Arkady Vaserfirer, who witnessed the collision. Plaintiffs bring four causes of action: motor vehicle negligence, general negligence, negligent supervision, and negligent entrustment. Uber now moves the Court for Summary Judgment; alternatively, it moves for Summary Adjudication on each cause of action, as well as on the issue of punitive damages, as follows:  Issue No. 1: Plaintiffs cannot establish that Moquete was acting as Uber’s agent, employee, or joint venturer at the time of the Incident; thus, Plaintiffs cannot demonstrate any basis to hold Uber vicariously liable for Moquete’s alleged actions. Accordingly, Plaintiff’s first and second causes of action for “Motor Vehicle Negligence” and “General Negligence” fail as a matter of law.  Issue No. 2: Plaintiffs cannot establish that Uber owed them a duty to prevent the harm Moquete allegedly caused when Moquete was engaged in a purely personal activity. Accordingly, Plaintiffs’ third cause of action for “Negligent Hiring, Supervision, and Retention” fails as a matter of law. Issue No. 3: Plaintiffs cannot establish that Uber’s conduct was a legal cause of the harm Moquete allegedly caused when Moquete was engaged in a purely personal activity. Accordingly, Plaintiffs’ third cause of action for “Negligent Hiring, Supervision, and Retention” fails as a matter of law.  Issue No. 4: Plaintiffs cannot establish that Uber owned or possessed the vehicle involved in the Incident. Accordingly, Plaintiffs’ fourth cause of action for “Negligent Entrustment” fails as a matter of law.  Issue No. 5: Plaintiffs cannot establish that Uber’s conduct was a legal cause of the harm Moquete allegedly caused at the time of the Incident. Accordingly, Plaintiffs’ fourth cause of action for “Negligent Entrustment” fails as a matter of law. Issue No. 6: Plaintiffs cannot establish by clear and convincing evidence that an officer, director, or managing agent of Uber had advance knowledge of Moquete’s alleged unfitness or consciously disregarded, authorized, or ratified Moquete’s alleged wrongful conduct, or personally engaged in an act of malice or oppression. Accordingly, Plaintiffs’ request for punitive damages against Uber based on Moquete’s alleged acts fails as a matter of law.  Issue No. 7: Plaintiffs cannot establish by clear and convincing evidence that an officer, director, or managing agent of Uber personally engaged in an act of malice or oppression. Accordingly, Plaintiffs’ request for punitive damages against Uber based on Uber’s alleged conduct fails as a matter of law. Issue No. 8: Plaintiffs cannot establish by clear and convincing evidence that the conduct of an officer, director, or managing agent of Uber was a legal cause of the harm Moquete allegedly caused at the time of the Incident. Accordingly, Plaintiffs’ request for punitive damages against Uber based either on Moquete’s alleged unfitness or Uber’s alleged conduct fails as a matter of law. Legal Standard¿ In reviewing a motion for summary judgment or adjudication, courts must apply a three-step analysis: “(1) identify the issues framed by the pleadings; (2) determine whether the moving party has negated the opponent’s claims; and (3) determine whether the opposition has demonstrated the existence of a triable, material factual issue.”¿(Hinesley v. Oakshade Town Center (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.)¿ “[T]he initial burden is always on the moving party to make a prima facia showing that there are no triable issues of material fact.”¿(Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.)¿A defendant moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication “has met his or her burden of showing that a cause of action has no merit if the party has shown that one or more elements of the cause of action . . . cannot be established, or that there is a complete defense to the cause of action.”¿(Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).)¿If the moving party fails to carry its burden, the inquiry is over, and the motion must be denied. (See Id.; see also Consumer Cause, Inc. v. SmileCare (2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 454, 468.)¿Even if the moving party does carry its burden, the non-moving party will still defeat the motion by presenting evidence of a triable issue of material fact. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 849-50.)¿ ¿ To meet this burden of showing a cause of action cannot be established, a defendant must show not only “that the plaintiff does not possess needed evidence” but also that “the plaintiff cannot reasonably obtain needed evidence.”¿(Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 854.)¿It is insufficient for the defendant to merely point out the absence of evidence.¿(Gaggero v. Yura (2003) 108 Cal.App.4th 884, 891.)¿The defendant “must also produce evidence that the plaintiff cannot reasonably obtain evidence to support his or her claim.”¿(Ibid.)¿The supporting evidence can be in the form of affidavits, declarations, admissions, depositions, answers to interrogatories, and matters of which judicial notice may be taken.¿(Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 855.)¿ ¿ “Once the defendant … has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff … to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) The plaintiff may not merely rely on allegations or denials of its pleadings to show that a triable issue of material fact exists, but instead, “shall set forth the specific facts showing that a triable issue of material fact exists as to the cause of action.”¿(Ibid.)¿“If the plaintiff cannot do so, summary judgment should be granted.”¿(Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.)¿ ¿ The court must “liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve all doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party,” including “all inferences reasonably drawn therefrom.”¿(Yanowitz v. L’Oreal USA, Inc. (2005) 36 Cal.4th 1028, 1037; Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at pp. 844-45.) “On a summary judgment motion, the court must therefore consider what inferences favoring the opposing party a factfinder could reasonably draw from the evidence.¿While viewing the evidence in this manner, the court must bear in mind that its primary function is to identify issues rather than to determine issues.¿[Citation.]¿Only when the inferences are indisputable may the court decide the issues as a matter of law.¿ If the evidence is in conflict, the factual issues must be resolved by trial.”¿(Binder v. Aetna Life Ins. Co. (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832, 839.)¿Further, “the trial court may not weigh the evidence in the manner of a factfinder to determine whose version is more likely true.¿[Citation.]¿Nor may the trial court grant summary judgment based on the court’s evaluation of credibility. [Citation.]” (Id. at p. 840; see also Weiss v. People ex rel. Department of Transportation (2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts deciding motions for summary judgment or summary adjudication may not weigh the evidence but must instead view it in the light most favorable to the opposing party and draw all reasonable inferences in favor of that party”].)¿ Evidentiary Ruling Plaintiff’s Objection No. 1 is overruled. Defendant’s Objections Nos. 8, 10, 11, 13, and 14 are overruled; Defendant’s Objection No. 24 is sustained, for the reason further discussed below. The Parties did not make any other objections to evidence that were material to the Court’s ruling. (CCP § 437c(q).)¿ Undisputed Facts Drivers’ ability to receive, accept, and provide rides through the Uber Driver App is shown by the data transmitted through the Driver App. Drivers can only receive trip requests for transportation services after they log into the Driver App and go “online,” at which point they are in “open” status. While a driver is utilizing the Driver App to connect with riders, data is electronically captured, recorded, maintained and stored in the ordinary course of Uber’s business at the time of the events being recorded. The Driver App data shows a driver’s GPS location at a particular moment in time and shows when a driver is in:  • “open” status (online and available to receive a ride request)  • “en route” status (en route to pick up a rider after trip request was accepted) • “on trip” status (transporting a rider after pick up); or  • “offline” status (not online within the Driver App and not available to receive a ride request in the Driver App). At all relevant times herein, Uber retained Checkr, Inc. (“Checkr”) to conduct local and national background checks on independent drivers in California before they could gain access to any Uber platform in compliance with the California Public Utility Commission. As part of this process, Checkr conducted background checks on prospective app-based independent drivers to determine if they have ever been convicted of certain enumerated felonies, as set forth in California Penal Code section 667.5. Checkr is accredited by the Professional Background Screening Association (PBSA) On April 28, 2021, Checkr completed a background check on Moquete. The background check completed by Checkr and received by Uber revealed only one traffic-related offense for Moquete: a misdemeanor conviction for driving without a license from September 2002. Moquete’s background check did not reveal to Uber that Moquete had been convicted of carjacking in 2005. The background check did not indicate anything in Moquete’s driving record or criminal history that would preclude him from accessing Uber’s platforms. Uber did not learn of Moquete’s 2005 felony conviction until after the Incident when this instant litigation was filed. Uber does not require drivers to rent vehicles from rental car companies.   Uber has a program that may make it less expensive for a driver to rent vehicles.  When drivers rent vehicles via this program, they may use those vehicles for transporting riders on the Uber platform for a profit. Drivers may also, and do, use the rental vehicles for personal reasons as well. There are no restrictions around a driver using the vehicle for personal use. On the Incident date, Moquete provided transportation services utilizing the Uber Rides platform. Plaintiffs allege they were injured by Moquete while walking across Fairfax Avenue on Waring Avenue in Los Angeles when Moquete drove the Toyota Corolla into the intersection at or after 6:35 p.m. Uber never owned or possessed the Corolla driven by Moquete at the time of the Incident. The Corolla had no malfunction or defect that caused the Incident or Plaintiffs’ alleged injuries Vicarious Liability On the date of the Incident, Moquete provided transportation services utilizing the Uber Rides platform. (Tate Decl. ¶ 4, Ex. 3, Gaddis Decl. ¶¶ 9-10, Ex. A.) At approximately 6:03 p.m. on that date, Moquete went offline at GPS coordinates 34.096382 latitude and -118.36299 longitude. (Tate Decl. ¶ 4, Ex. 3, Gaddis Decl. ¶ 10, Ex. A.) Moquete did not become “open” in the Driver App again until approximately 10:22 p.m. at GPS coordinates 33.978016 latitude and -118.44375 longitude. (Tate Decl. ¶ 4, Ex. 3, Gaddis Decl. ¶ 10, Ex. A.) Plaintiffs allege they were injured while walking across Fairfax Avenue on Waring Avenue in Los Angeles when Moquete drove the Toyota Corolla into the intersection at or soon after 6:35 p.m. At the time of the Incident, Moquete was alone in a rented Toyota Corolla, was not using the Driver App, was offline, and was unavailable to receive trip requests. (Ex. 3, Gaddis Decl. ¶ 11, Ex. 12, Deposition of Officer Tilakmonkul, 25:21-24; 26:4-7; 43:2-24; 51:8-22; Ex. 10, Deposition of Arkady Vaserfirer, 76:13-77:3; 78:5-17; 272:3-273:6.) When questioned by the police, Moquete told investigating officers he was driving to see his father at the time of the Incident. (Tate Decl. ¶ 13, Ex. 12, Deposition of Officer Tilakmonkul, 25:21-24; 42:7-14.) Moreover, Plaintiff’s June 18, 2024, responses to Defendant’s Requests for Admission Nos. 62-64 (Ex. 5), concerning whether Moquete was en route to see his father at the time of the accident, were factually devoid and sufficient to shift the burden on this issue. Overall, Defendant has presented sufficient evidence showing that he was offline, unavailable to receive trips, and on a personal errand to shift the initial burden, similar to Marez v. Lyft, Inc. (2020) 48 Cal.App.5th 569, where purely personal activities unrelated to Lyft’s business did not create a "nexus" sufficient to impose vicarious liability against Defendant. (Id. at pp. 582-583.) Triable Issue of Fact Plaintiffs raises two arguments against Defendant’s motion for summary judgment as to vicarious liability. First, Plaintiffs argue that Defendant Moquete’s discovery responses serve as an admission that he was acting within the scope of his employment when he struck Plaintiff Anna Vaserfirer. (PCOE 766–771; PUMF #39.) Specifically, Moquete admitted he was acting within the course and scope of his employment at the time of the Incident. (PCOE 767–768.) However, these discovery responses can only raise a triable issue of fact against the responding party—Moquete—and are not binding on Uber. Notably, Plaintiffs does not contest this point. Plaintiffs rely on Inzunza v. Naranjo, which does not address summary judgment and does not support Plaintiffs’ contention that a defendant’s admissions can automatically raise a triable issue of fact regarding vicarious liability for another party. Furthermore, Moquete’s admission that he was acting within the scope of employment is conclusory and lacks factual support. When offered in a declaration opposing summary judgment, legal conclusions are insufficient to establish triable issues of fact. C. L. Smith Co. v. Roger Ducharme, Inc. (1977) 65 Cal.App.3d 735, 743. The court finds that Plaintiff did not raise a triable issue of fact based on Defendant’s Moquete’s RFA responses. Second, Plaintiff argues that there is evidence that, under Uber’s definitions, the collision occurred during Moquete’s “shift.” (PCOE 337; PUMF #40.) Uber drivers can log in and out of the app between successive rides, and Uber employees have testified under oath elsewhere that a “shift” is defined as “a period during which the Driver made themselves available to accept ride requests, not interrupted by an offline period exceeding eight hours.” (Ibid.) Under this definition, Plaintiff contends that Moquete was still on his “shift” at the time of the collision. However, Uber’s use of the term “shift” in the provided document is a data construct intended for tracking driver availability patterns, not to establish legal scope of employment. The data scientist defined "shift" to encompass all trips within a continuous availability period without an eight-hour break. Uber’s analysis captures operational patterns but does not address whether specific actions were within the scope of employment or served Uber’s business interests. Thus, “shift” in this context is a statistical convenience rather than a measure of employer control or intent, and it does not establish that all driver behavior within this period falls under Uber’s legal scope of employment.  Furthermore, case law makes clear that an employer is not strictly liable for all actions of its employees during working hours. As noted in Farmers Ins. Group v. County of Santa Clara (1995) 11 Cal.4th 992, 1004, “if the misconduct is not an ‘outgrowth’ of the employment, the employee is not acting within the scope of employment” (11 Cal.4th at 1005). Courts have consistently exempted purely personal conduct from the scope of employment. As stated in Sunderland v. Lockheed Martin Aeronautical Systems Support Co. (2005) 130 Cal.App.4th 1, 11, “where an employee’s activity does not come within the scope of employment, it is not part of the special employer-employee relationship. If an employee’s act is purely personal, it is not ‘typical of or broadly incidental to the employer’s enterprise.’ … If the main purpose of the injury-producing activity ‘was the pursuit of the employee’s personal ends, the employer is not liable.’” Even if Plaintiff’s argument regarding the definition of “shift” were accepted, Plaintiff would still need to show that Moquete was not engaged in purely personal conduct and that Uber somehow benefited from Moquete’s actions. Defendant has shifted the burden by presenting evidence that Moquete was engaged in a personal activity unrelated to Uber’s business at the time of the incident, was offline, and was not accepting any ride requests from 6 p.m. to 10 p.m. Plaintiff has presented no evidence to raise a triable issue of fact regarding this purely personal conduct exemption or to show how Moquete’s conduct provided any incidental benefit to Uber while he was offline. Accordingly, summary adjudication as to motor vehicle negligence and general negligence based on vicarious liability is GRANTED. Negligent Hiring, Retention and Supervision Defendant relies on the same facts analyzed in the vicarious liability section to meet its initial burden regarding negligent hiring, retention and supervision (PUMP 98-103), asserting that the incident arose from a personal matter unrelated to the scope of employment. Defendant argues, consistent with Mendoza v. City of Los Angeles (1998) 66 Cal.App.4th 1333, 1341, that a demonstrable connection between employment and the injured party is required for claims of negligent hiring, retention, or supervision. Defendant has shifted the initial burden by showing that Moquete was en route to pick up his father at the time of the incident, was off-duty and unable to receive ride requests from Uber. Plaintiff’s opposition fails to address Defendant’s argument relating to this cause of action, which may be construed as a concession that no meritorious arguments exist. (See Southern California Gas Co. v. Flannery (2016) 5 Cal.App.5th 476, 483, fn. 7 [lack of opposition waives arguments]; Sexton v. Superior Court (1997) 58 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1410.) Accordingly, the Court finds that Plaintiff fails to raise a triable issue of fact on this cause of action, and summary adjudication is granted. Negligent Entrustment The elements of a negligent entrustment claim are: (1) the driver was negligent in operating the vehicle; (2) the defendant was the owner of the vehicle; (3) the defendant knew or should have known the driver was incompetent or unfit to drive the vehicle; (4) the defendant permitted the driver to use the vehicle; and (5) the driver’s incompetence was a substantial factor in causing harm to the plaintiff. (Jeld–Wen, Inc. v. Superior Ct. (2005) 131 Cal.App.4th 853, 863, citing CACI No. 724.) The element in dispute here is whether Defendant was the owner of the vehicle. Defendant has shown that Moquete rented the Toyota Corolla directly from Avis, making all payments to Avis. (UMF 151-159, 182-190.) Uber neither owned nor possessed the Corolla. (UMF 160, 198.) Defendant has therefore met its initial burden, presenting sufficient evidence that it is not the vehicle’s owner.  Plaintiff concedes that Uber does not own the vehicle but argues that Uber controls access to it. A claim for negligent entrustment requires a showing that the defendant either owned or controlled the vehicle. (Safeco Ins. Co. v. Gilstrap (1983) 141 Cal.App.3d 524, 532; see also Jeld-Wen, Inc. at 864, fn. 8 [noting that negligent entrustment may apply where an employer does not own the vehicle but exercises control over it].) Plaintiff argues that “a reasonable jury could find that Uber controlled whether Moquete could rent a vehicle from the rental program, as the rental agreement between Uber and Avis positions Uber—not Avis—as the gatekeeper. Specifically, only individuals who are “approved by Uber as an Uber driver” and are in “good standing” with Uber can be referred to the program. (PCOE 352.) Thus, according to Plaintiff, Moquete could not simply walk into Avis and rent a car under this program without Uber’s referral, as his eligibility was contingent on being an Uber-approved driver. (PCOE 432.)” (Opp. at pp. 17-18.) However, there is a distinction between controlling access to the discounted rate and controlling access to the vehicle itself. Participation in Uber’s program allows eligible drivers a discounted rental rate but does not guarantee access to a vehicle. The contract between Uber and Avis (PCOE 352) specifies that Uber may refer approved drivers for consideration, but Avis retains “sole discretion” over rental decisions for any Uber driver at any time. This provision indicates that while Uber may approve drivers for the program, Avis independently decides whether to rent to any Uber driver. Additionally, Avis imposes standard rental criteria, including a valid driver’s license, being at least 25 years old, a valid credit card, and signing Avis’s rental agreement. Under California law, rental agencies must verify only that the driver has a valid license before renting a vehicle. (Veh. Code § 14604.) Even under the Uber program, Avis requires compliance with these conditions before renting a vehicle. Plaintiff is correct that Moquete could not access the Uber-specific discount program without Uber’s approval; however, Plaintiff has not shown that Moquete would have been unable to rent from Avis outside of this program, albeit without the Uber discount. Accordingly, Plaintiff has demonstrated that Uber controls access to the program discount, not that Uber controls Moquete’s general ability to rent from Avis. The Court agrees with Defendant’s analogy comparing Uber’s role to that of AAA, which provides discounts to members at certain rental agencies but does not control car availability. Similarly, while Uber’s program provides a discount, rental eligibility remains subject to Avis’s requirements, including presenting a valid license, credit card, and signing a rental agreement. Plaintiff’s argument that Uber’s approval automatically entitles a driver to rent a vehicle from Avis is not substantiated by the evidence presented. The record and rental agreement indicate that eligibility for rental under Uber’s program requires additional criteria beyond Uber’s approval, such as a valid driver’s license, a credit card, and compliance with Avis’s standard rental requirements. Furthermore, Plaintiff has not provided evidence showing that the background check was a standard procedure for renting a vehicle from Avis independently of the Uber program. Without such evidence, Plaintiff has not established that Uber played a role in Moquete’s access to the rental vehicle. Thus, Plaintiff failed to raise a triable issue of fact to establish that Uber exercises the level of control necessary to support a negligent entrustment claim.  Punitive Damage “Punitive damages are merely incidental to a cause of action, and can never constitute the basis thereof.” (Today's IV, Inc. v. Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority (2022) 83 Cal.App.5th 1137, 1193.) Therefore, if judgment is entered against Plaintiff on the substantive causes of action, any claim for punitive damages also fails, as there is no independent foundation upon which to base punitive relief. Here, the Court grants summary judgment against all four of Plaintiff’s causes of action and therefore there is no independent foundation for Plaintiff’s punitive damages claim. Leave to Amend Plaintiff's argument regarding the potential for ratification is reasonable, and the Court recognizes that, under California law, ratification can provide a possible basis for vicarious liability even where the employee’s conduct occurred outside the scope of direct employment duties. See Ratcliff v. Roman Catholic Archbishop of Los Angeles (2022) 79 Cal.App.5th 982. Given the evidence suggesting Uber’s potential awareness of Moquete’s conduct and its alleged failure to act, the Court concludes that Plaintiff has presented a potentially plausible theory of ratification that may warrant further exploration. While Defendant argues that the present case is distinguishable from Ratcliff, which involved an intentional tort and a special relationship, the Court finds that this issue would benefit from more comprehensive briefing and analysis. Accordingly, the Court grants summary adjudication as to the four causes of action but will allow Plaintiff to file a motion for leave to amend the complaint within 20 days as to the issue of ratification, to be fully briefed at a later time. PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:¿  If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.  Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.  If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion.  