  Case Number:  23STCV06935    Hearing Date:   August 2, 2024    Dept:  37 HEARING DATE:                 Friday, August 2, 2024
CASE NUMBER:                   23STCV06935
CASE NAME:                        Omar Penny v. County of Los Angeles, et al.
MOVING PARTY:                  Defendants Jorge Fuentes,
Philip Hyden
OPPOSING PARTY:             Plaintiff Omar Penny
TRIAL DATE:                        10 December 2024
PROOF OF SERVICE:           OK

                                                                                                                                                            

PROCEEDING:                      Motion for Judgment on the
Pleadings
OPPOSITION:                        14 June 2024
SUPP. OPPOSITION:             19 July 2024
 
REPLY:                                  20
June 2024
SUPP. REPLY:                       26 July 2024
 
TENTATIVE:                         Moving
Defendants’ MJOP is granted in part and denied in part. As to Defendant Hyden,
the Court GRANTS the MJOP on the first, second, and fourteenth causes of action
with leave to amend. As to Defendant Fuentes, the Court DENIES the MJOP on the
first cause of action for sex and gender discrimination and the fourteenth
cause of action for IIED and GRANTS the MJOP on the second and third causes of
action for harassment with leave to amend. As to both Defendants Fuentes and
Hyden, the Court GRANTS the MJOP on the twelfth cause of action for aiding and
abetting discrimination without leave to amend.  Moving Defendants to give notice. 

                                                                                                                                                            

 
Background
 
On March 29, 2023, Omar Penny
(“Plaintiff”) filed this FEHA action against the County of Los Angeles; Los
Angeles County Department of Health Services; LAC+USC Medical Center; The Los
Angeles County – USC Medical Auxiliary (the “County Defendants”); Jorge
Fuentes; Philip Hyden; Theresa Saracho; 
Rosario Tanphanich; Melissa Valenzuela; Nune Abraamyan; Antony Meza; and
Does 1 to 25. 
 
The Complaint alleges fourteen
causes of action: 
 
1)    
Harassment Based on Sex and Gender in Violation
of the Fair Employment and Housing Act [Cal. Gov’t Code § 12940(j)];
2)    
Harassment Based on Religion in Violation of the
Fair Employment and Housing Act [Cal. Gov’t Code § 12940(j)];
3)    
Harassment Based on Disability in Violation of
the Fair Employment and Housing Act [Cal. Gov’t Code § 12940(j)];
4)    
Discrimination in Violation of the Fair
Employment and Housing Act [Cal. Gov’t §§ 12940(a)];
5)    
Retaliation in Violation of the Fair Employment
and Housing Act [Cal. Gov't Code §12940(h)];
6)    
Violation of Labor Code § 1102.5;
7)    
Violation of Labor Code § 6310;
8)    
Violation of Health and Safety Code § 1278.5;
9)    
Defamation; 
10) Wrongful
Termination in Violation of Public Policy;
11) Failure
to Prevent Harassment and Discrimination from Occurring in Violation of the
Fair Employment and Housing Act [Cal. Gov’t Code §§12940(k)]; 
12) Aiding
and Abetting Discrimination in violation of the Fair Employment and Housing Act
[ Cal. Gov’t Code §12940(i)]; 
13) Negligent
Hiring and Retention; and
14) Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress (“IIED”).
 
On May 31, 2024, Defendants Jorge
Fuentes (“Fuentes”) and Philip Hyden (“Hyden”) (collectively “Moving
Defendants”) filed a motion for judgment on the pleadings (“MJOP”). Plaintiff
opposes the Motion. After hearing argument on July 12, 2024, the Court
requested supplemental briefing.  The
matter is now before the court. 
 
motion for
judgment on the pleadings[1]
 
I.         Legal Standard
 
“A motion for judgment on the
pleadings performs the same function as a general demurrer, and hence attacks
only defects disclosed on the face of the pleadings or by matters that can be
judicially noticed.” (Burnett v. Chimney Sweep (2004) 123 Cal.App.4th
1057, 1064.) “In deciding or reviewing a judgment on the pleadings, all
properly pleaded material facts are deemed to be true, as well as all facts
that may be implied or inferred from those expressly alleged.” (Fire Ins.
Exchange v. Superior Court (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 446, 452.) When
considering demurrers and judgment on the pleadings, courts read the
allegations liberally and in context. (Wilson v. Transit Authority of City
of Sacramento (1962) 199 Cal.App.2d 716, 720-21.) 
A motion for judgment on the
pleadings does not lie as to a portion of a cause of action. (Id.) “In
the case of either a demurrer or a motion for judgment on the pleadings, leave
to amend should be granted if there is any reasonable possibility that the
plaintiff can state a good cause of action.” (Gami v. Mullikin Medical Ctr.
(1993) 18 Cal.App.4th 870, 876.) A non-statutory motion for judgment on the
pleadings may be made any time before or during trial. (Stoops v. Abbassi
(2002) 100 Cal.App.4th 644, 650.)¿¿
 
II.        Request for Judicial Notice
 
The court may take judicial notice
of “official acts of the legislative, executive, and judicial departments of
the United States and of any state of the United States,” “[r]ecords of (1) any
court of this state or (2) any court of record of the United States or of any
state of the United States,” and “[f]acts and propositions that are not
reasonably subject to dispute and are capable of immediate and accurate
determination by resort to sources of reasonably indisputable accuracy.” (Evid.
Code, § 452, subds. (c), (d), and (h).) “Taking judicial notice of
a document is not the same as accepting the truth of its contents or accepting
a particular interpretation of its meaning.” (Joslin v. H.A.S. Ins.
Brokerage (1986) 184 Cal.App.3d 369, 374.)
 
Moving
Defendants request judicial notice of the following:      
 
1)    
Exhibit A: A true and correct copy of
Plaintiff Omar Penny's Charge of Discrimination, dated August 6, 2021, filed
with the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (hereinafter "EEOC")
naming LAC + USC Medical Center as his employer, with an address of 1200 N.
State Street, Los Angeles, CA 90033, bearing the Agency Charge Number
480-2021-03579, along with its attachment. 
 
2)    
Exhibit B: A true and correct copy of
Plaintiff Omar Penney's Amended Charge of Discrimination dated December 3,
2021, filed with the EEOC, naming LAC+USC Medical Center as his employer,
bearing the Agency Charge Number 480-2021-03579, along with its attachment. 
 
3)    
Exhibit C: A true and correct copy of
Plaintiff Omar Penney's Amended Charge of Discrimination dated December 3,
2021, filed with the EEOC, naming LAC+USC Medical Center as his employer,
bearing the Agency Charge Number 480-2021-03579, along with its attachment. 
 
4)    
Exhibit D: A true and correct copy of
Plaintiff Omar Penney's Charge of Discrimination, dated August 6, 2021, filed
with the EEOC, naming Los Angeles County as his employer, with an address of
500 W. Temple Street, Room 358, Los Angeles CA 90012, bearing the Agency Charge
Number 480-2021-0358, along with its attachment. 
 
Moving Defendants’
request for judicial notice is granted. 
 
Plaintiff requests judicial
notice of the following: 
 
1)    
A true and correct copy of Plaintiff Omar
Penny’s Right to Sue Package, dated April 7, 2023, filed with the Department of
Fair Employment and Housing (hereinafter “DFEH”) naming Defendants County of
Los Angeles, LAC+USC Medical Center, The Los Angeles County – USC Medical
Center Auxiliary, Theresa Saracho, Jorge Fuentes, Philip Hyden, Rosario
Tanphanich, Melissa Valenzuela, Nune Abraamyan, and Anthony Meza as
Co-Respondents, bearing the Civil Rights Department Matter Number:
202304-20205507, stating Plaintiff was harassed because of his religious creed,
sex/gender, gender identity or expression, sexual orientation, and sexual
harassment – hostile work environment, along with its attachment, attached
hereto as Exhibit A.
 
Moving Defendants’ object to the
request for judicial notice because Plaintiff did not attach or provide
Defendants with a copy of Exhibit A. Cal. Evid. Code § 453(b) requires the
moving party to “[f]urnish the court with sufficient information o enable [the
court] to take judicial notice of the matter.” As Plaintiff failed to attach Exhibit
A to the request for judicial notice or the opposing papers, the court
denies Plaintiff’s request for judicial notice. 
 
In their
supplemental brief, Plaintiff requests judicial notice of the following: 
 
1)    
Exhibit A: A true and correct copy of a
NOTICE OF RIGHT TO SUE, bearing Agency Charge Number 480-2021-03579, provided
to Plaintiff on December 29, 2022, by Kristen Clark, Assistant Attorney
General, Civil Rights Division, and Karen L. Fergeson, Supervisory Civil Rights
Analyst, Employment Litigation Section of the U.S. Department of Justice. 
 
2)    
Exhibit B: A true and correct copy of a
NOTICE OF RIGHT TO SUE, bearing Agency Charge Number 480-2021-03580, provided
to Plaintiff on December 29, 2022, by Kristen Clark, Assistant Attorney
General, Civil Rights Division, and Karen L. Fergeson, Supervisory Civil Rights
Analyst, Employment Litigation Section of the U.S. Department of Justice. 
 
3)    
Exhibit C: A true and correct copy of a
NOTICE OF RIGHT TO SUE, bearing Agency Charge Number 480-2021-03581, provided
to Plaintiff on December 29, 2022, by Kristen Clark, Assistant Attorney
General, Civil Rights Division, and Karen L. Fergeson, Supervisory Civil Rights
Analyst, Employment Litigation Section of the U.S. Department of Justice. 
 
Plaintiff’s
request for judicial notice is granted. 
 
III.      Discussion
 
A.        Failure to Exhaust Administrative
Remedies Under FEHA
 
“Under FEHA, the employee must exhaust the administrative
remedy provided by the statute by filing a complaint with the Department of
Fair Employment and Housing (Department) and must obtain from the Department a
notice of right to sue in order to be entitled to file a civil action in court
based on violations of the FEHA.” (Romano v. Rockwell Internat., Inc.
(1996) 14 Cal.4th 479, 492; see also Gov. Code, §§ 12960, 12965(b).) “The
timely filing of an administrative complaint is a prerequisite to the bringing
of a civil action for damages under FEHA.” (Romano, at p. 492.) 
 
Moving Defendants assert plaintiff failed to exhaust his
administrative remedies with respect to the harassment claims in his Equal
Employment Opportunity Commission (“EEOC”) charges. (Defendants’ RJN, Ex. A,
B.) plaintiff asserts that his
administrative charges with the EEOC, filed on August 1, 2022, and December 3,
2021, properly named Moving Defendants as respondents. Plaintiff’s opposition adds
that “Plaintiff filed a further administrative charge with DFEH on April 7,
2023. And obtained a right-to sue letter[.]” (Opposition, at p.  4:28-5:1.) 
 
            B.        Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings as
to Defendant Hyden
 
The court gave the Parties an opportunity
to file supplemental briefs related to whether Plaintiff’s had exhausted his
administrative remedies with the DFEH. Plaintiff’s supplemental request for
judicial notice reflects the fact Plaintiff filed three charges before the
EEOC, but Plaintiff failed to attach the right-to-sue letter from the DFEH.
Plaintiff can only point to Defendants RJN Ex. C wherein the DFEH issued a
right-to-sue in relation to the EEOC Complaint Number 480-2021-03580C. (Defendants’
RJN Ex. C at p. 61.) Complaint Number 480-2021-035C only alleged claims of
harassment, discrimination, and IIED, NIED, and relation as to Defendant
Fuentes and did not name Defendant Hyden as Defendant. (Defendants RJN Ex. C.) 
 
Therefore, the Court grants the motion
for judgment on the pleadings as to Defendant Hyden. Plaintiff asserts he
requested all EEOC charges be cross-filed with the DFEH, but there is no
evidence that all EEOC charges were in fact cross-filed with the DFEH. The
court grants the motion for judgment on the pleadings as to Defendant Hyden
with leave to amend as Plaintiff may be able to amend the Complaint to show
that the DFEH did in fact issue a right-to-sue letter for all three EEOC
charges. Copies of the DFEH’s right-to-sue letters should be attached to any
amended pleading. 
 
C.        First,
Second, and Third Causes of Action based on Harassment by Defendant Fuentes
 
To establish a claim for
harassment, an employee must show that he was: (1) subjected to verbal or
physical conduct because of the employee’s protected status; (2) the conduct
was unwelcome; and (3) the conduct was sufficiently severe or pervasive to alter
the conditions of the employee’s employment and create an abusive work
environment. (Fisher v. San Pedro Peninsula Hospital (1989) 214
Cal.App.3d 590, 609.)
 
As to Defendant Fuentes, the
Complaint alleges that Fuente was a Senior Physician and Medical Director for
County Defendants. (Compl., ¶ 6.) Fuentes routinely held meetings to delegate
tasks to Plaintiff, but Plaintiff was not present during these meetings.
(Compl.,¶ 25.) At the meetings, co-workers assigned Plaintiff to conduct all
sexual assault examinations of male prison inmates and all male patients
considered violent, aggressive, hostile, or medically complicated. (Compl, ¶
25.) Defendant Fuentes always assigned a female nurse as the Charge Nurse,
depriving Plaintiff of participating in Charge Nurse pay. (Compl., ¶ 27.)
Plaintiff was also the only male nurse practitioner in his Department. (Compl,
¶ 27.) Defendant Fuentes refused to give Plaintiff overtime opportunities
despite giving the same opportunity to female co-workers and failed to address
Plaintiff’s complaints. (Compl, ¶¶ 37, 40.) 
 
In August 2020, Fuentes gave a
female co-worker a day shift despite Plaintiff’s seniority and the fact he had
placed his name for a day shift on the waitlist in 2018. (Compl., ¶ 42.) When
Plaintiff complained to Fuentes about gendered comments made to him, Fuentes
told Plaintiff to be “the bigger man’ and suggested that Plaintiff transfer to
another location. (Compl., ¶ 48.) When Plaintiff applied for a vaccine
exemption, Fuentes told Plaintiff that he would be fired. (Compl., ¶ 76) The
Complaint also alleges other offensive conduct by Defendant Fuentes after
August 6, 2021, but because the DFEH right-to-sue letter pertains to EEOC Complaint Number 480-2021-03580C
filed on August 13, 2021, such conduct is not at issue until Plaintiff can show
he has exhausted his administrative remedies as to those claims. 
 
Defendants
assert that the harassment-based causes of action fail because Plaintiff does
not allege sufficient facts to support the harassment claims as many of the
claims relate to personnel decisions made by Fuentes: 
 
[T]he Legislature intended that commonly necessary
personnel management actions such as hiring and firing, job or project
assignments, office or work station assignments, promotion or demotion,
performance evaluations, the provision of support, the assignment or
non-assignment of supervisory functions, deciding who will and who will not
attend meetings, deciding who will be laid off, and the like, do not come
within the meaning of harassment. . . These actions may retrospectively be found
discriminatory if based on improper motives, but in that event the remedies
provided by the FEHA are those for discrimination, not harassment. Harassment,
by contrast, consists of actions outside the scope of job duties which are not
of a type necessary to business and personnel management. This significant
distinction underlies the differential treatment of harassment and
discrimination in the FEHA.
 
(Janken v. GM Hughes Electronics
(1996) 46 Cal.App.4th 55, 65 (Janken).) 
 
In Roby v. McKesson Corp.
(2009) 47 Cal.4th 686 (Roby), the California Supreme Court explained
that “[a]lthough discrimination and harassment are separate wrongs, they are sometimes closely interrelated, and even overlapping,
particularly with regard to proof.” (Id. at p. 707.) The Court explained
that “harassment focuses on situations in which the social
environment of the workplace becomes intolerable because the harassment
(whether verbal, physical, or visual) communicates an offensive message to the
harassed employee.” (Id. at p. 706 [italics original].) Accordingly,
“official employment actions [can] constitute[] the evidentiary basis of
the harassment cause of action, because the supervisor used those official
actions as his means of conveying his offensive message.” (Id. at p. 708
[italics original].) “[I]n some cases the hostile message
that constitutes the harassment is conveyed through official employment
actions, and therefore evidence that would otherwise be associated with a
discrimination claim can form the basis of a harassment claim.” (Ibid.)


Roby supports the conclusion “that some official
employment actions done in furtherance of a supervisor's managerial role can
also have a secondary effect of communicating a hostile message. This
occurs when the actions establish a widespread pattern of
bias.” (Roby, supra, 47 Cal.4th at p. 709.) In Miller v. Department of Corrections (2005) 36 Cal.4th
446 (Miller), the California Supreme Court found that evidence of
widespread sexual favoritism could support a claim for sexual harassment when
the  “demeaning message is conveyed to
female employees that they are viewed by management as ‘sexual playthings’ or
that the way required for women to get ahead in the workplace is to engage in
sexual conduct with their supervisors or the management.” (Id. at p.
451.) 
 
The demeaning message in Miller
was conveyed through the supervisor’s “sexual favoritism” of female employees
who welcomed his sexual advances. (Miller, supra, 36 Cal.4th at
p. 467.) The supervisor blocked the merit-based advancement of female
plaintiffs who did not welcome his sexual advances and favored the advancement
of those who did. (Ibid.) The supervisor “refused or failed to control”
retaliatory harassing conduct instigated by favored female employees against
other female employees and “[t]his harassment,
apparently retaliatory, included loss of work responsibilities, demeaning
comments in the presence of other employees, loss of
entitlement to a pay enhancement and to disability accommodation[.]” (Id.
at p. 468.) The California Supreme Court concluded that such conduct raised
triable issues of fact as whether the supervisor’s “conduct constituted sexual
favoritism widespread enough to constitute a hostile work environment” and was
sufficiently severe or pervasive to alter the conditions of the employment due
to the female employee’s gender. (Id. at p. 468.) 
 
The court finds that the Complaint
alleges that Fuentes gave Plaintiff less favorable job assignments because he
was male. (Compl., ¶¶ 25.) Plaintiff also alleges he was never given the duties
of a Charge Nurse and was denied the higher pay rate by Fuentes. (Compl, ¶ 27.)
Fuentes dismissed Plaintiff’s request to work overtime, denied his request for
a day shift despite having senior priority, and continually ignored Plaintiff’s
complaints regarding degrading comments made by other workers related to
Plaintiff’s gender. (Compl, ¶¶ 40, 45, 47, 54.) Such facts are sufficient to
allege harassment based on gender that was severe or pervasive enough to alter
the terms and conditions of employment. 
 
In sum, as to Defendant Fuentes, the
Court denies the motion for judgment on the pleadings as to the first cause of
action for harassment based on sex and gender. 
Because the Complaint fails to allege sufficient facts to support a
claim for harassment based on disability and religious creed, the Court grants
the motion for judgment on the pleadings as to the second and third causes of
action for harassment with leave to amend. 
 
D.        Twelfth Cause
of Action- Aiding and Abetting Discrimination
 
“FEHA prohibits ‘any person’ from aiding or abetting
workplace discrimination. (Gov. Code, § 12940, subd.
(i).) For that reason, individuals and entities who are not the plaintiff's
employer may be liable under FEHA for aiding
and abetting the plaintiff's employer's
violation of FEHA.” (Smith v. BP Lubricants USA Inc.
(2021) 64 Cal.App.5th 138, 145–146.) 
Defendant maintains that the Legislature
never intended to impose personal liability upon supervisory employees because
an employer acts through its employees, so the element of “concert” is missing
to satisfy the cause of action or aiding and abetting. “ ‘The common basis for
liability for both conspiracy and aiding
and abetting ... is concerted
wrongful action.’ [Citation.]  Aiding and abetting
thus ‘involves two separate persons, one helping the
other.’ ” (Smith v. BP Lubricants USA Inc.
(2021) 64 Cal.App.5th 138, 146 citing Janken, supra, Cal.App.4th 55 at pp. 77-78.) “A corporate
employee cannot conspire with his or her corporate employer; that would be
tantamount to a person conspiring with himself. Thus, when a corporate employee
acts in his or her authorized capacity on behalf of his or her corporate
employer, there can be no claim of conspiracy between the corporate employer
and the corporate employee.” (Janken, at p. 78.) “[A]iding and abetting
involves two separate people, one who helps the other. Thus, a supervisor
cannot likely aid and abet
his or her employer because the employer can only act through its individual
employees.” (Haligowski v. Superior Court (2011) 200 Cal.App.4th
983, 996.) 
 
Plaintiff’s opposition states Janken stands
for the proposition that when “a claim of aiding and abetting cannot be
brought against an individual defendant, they mean that the claim cannot be
brought against an individual as in singular defendant.” (Opposition, at p.
9:26-27.) Plaintiff fails to cite any case law supporting Plaintiff’s reading
of Janken. As the California Supreme Court made clear in Reno v. Baird (1998) 18 Cal.4th 640, “individuals who
do not themselves qualify as employers may not be sued under the FEHA for alleged discriminatory acts.” (Id.
at p. 663.) “We concluded that the agent-inclusive language of section 12926,
subdivision (d) does not impose liability on all agents,
including individual employees of the same employer, and adopting that
interpretation of section 12926, subdivision (d) would be inconsistent with the
provision's express exemption for employers with fewer than five employees.” (Raines v. U.S. Healthworks Medical Group (2023) 15
Cal.5th 268, 276 [italics original].) Therefore, “[managerial and/or
supervisory personnel cannot be individually or personally liable to an
employee under FEHA, even under an aiding and abetting theory.” (Peterson v. State of California Dept. of Corrections and
Rehabilitation (E.D. Cal. 2006) 451 F.Supp.2d 1092, 1113.) 
 
The motion for judgment on the pleadings
as to the twelfth cause of action is granted without leave to amend. 
 
E.        Fourteenth
Cause of Action- Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress (IIED) 
 
“A cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional
distress requires: (1) extreme and outrageous conduct by appellants with the
intention of causing, or reckless disregard of the probability of causing,
emotional distress; (2) severe or extreme emotional distress; and (3) actual
and proximate causation of the emotional distress by the appellants’ outrageous
conduct. [Citation.]  Conduct is
considered outrageous when it is ‘so extreme as to exceed all bounds of that
usually tolerated in a civilized community.’ [Citation.]” (Belen v. Ryan
Seacrest Productions, LLC(2021) 65 Cal.App.5th 1145, 1164.) Whether the defendant’s
conduct was outrageous, oppressive or malicious is a question of fact for the
jury. (Alcorn v. Anbro Engineering, Inc. (1970) 2 Cal.3d 493, 499.)
 
Defendants assert that Plaintiff’s IIED claim against
Defendant Fuentes fails because no extreme or outrageous conduct is alleged. The
Complaint states: “By engaging in the above-described conduct, Defendants
engaged in extreme and outrageous conduct with the intention of causing, or
reckless disregard of the probability of causing, emotional distress.” (Compl.,
¶ 236.) The court finds that because Plaintiff has stated a viable sex and
gender harassment claim against Defendant Fuentes and has alleged that Fuentes
acted intentionally, the IIED claim is sufficiently pled. The motion for judgment on the pleadings
is denied as to the fourteenth cause of action. 
 
Conclusion
 
Moving
Defendants’ MJOP is granted in part and denied in part. As to Defendant Hyden,
the 
Court
GRANTS the MJOP on the first, second, and fourteenth causes of action with
leave to 
amend.
As to Defendant Fuentes, the Court DENIES the MJOP on the first cause of action
for 
sex
and gender discrimination and the fourteenth cause of action for IIED and
GRANTS the 
MJOP
on the second and third causes of action for harassment with leave to amend. As
to both 
Defendants
Fuentes and Hyden, the Court GRANTS the MJOP on the twelfth cause of action for

aiding
and abetting discrimination without leave to amend.  Moving Defendants to give notice. 


