 Case Number:  22STCV36308    Hearing Date:   October 26, 2023    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



MARKUS PINON,
  et al.  
 
                                  Plaintiffs,
  
         v.
 
 
GENERAL
  MOTORS LLC, et al.
 
                                  Defendants.
 


 Case No:  22STCV36308 
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  October 26, 2023
 Calendar
  Number:  4



 
          Plaintiff
Markus Pinon (“Plaintiff”) moves to and to compel further responses to
Plaintiff’s Request for Production of Documents (Set One) Nos. 16-21 propounded
to Defendant General Motors LLC (“Defendant”). 

          
          Plaintiff’s
Motion to Compel Further Responses to RFP Nos. 16-21 is GRANTED as set forth
below.  Defendant shall produce within 30
days further written responses and documents in accordance with the Court’s
guidelines for production set forth below.
 
          Plaintiff
shall give notice.
 
Background
 
          Plaintiffs
purchased a 2021 GMC Sierra 1500 AT4 on October 15, 2021.  Plaintiff alleges the car suffered from a
defective engine system, safety system, transmission system, braking system,
electrical system.  Plaintiff filed a
complaint on November 16, 2022 pursuant to the Song Beverly Act alleging (1) violation
of Civil Code §1793.2(d); (2) violation of Civil Code §1793.2(b); (3) violation
of Civil Code §1793.2(a)(3); (4) breach of express warranty Civil Code
§1791.2(a), 1794; (5) breach of the implied warranty of merchantability Civil
Code §1791.1, 1794
 
Legal Standard
 
Song-Beverly Act
 
          The Song Beverly Act “is a remedial measure
intended for protection of consumers and should be given a construction
consistent with that purpose.”  (Id.)  To
succeed on a claim brought under the Act, the
plaintiff bears the burden of proving, by a
preponderance of the evidence, several elements,
including nonconformity of a vehicle that substantially impaired its use, value
or safety; presentation of vehicle to manufacturer or authorized representative
for repair; and failure to repair the defect after a reasonable number of
attempts.  (Ibrahim v. Ford Motor Co.
(1989) 214 Cal.App.3d 878, 886-887.)  A
buyer may also be entitled to a civil penalty of up to two times the actual
damages upon a showing that the manufacturer willfully failed to abide by any
of its obligations under the Act.  (Civ.
C. §1794(c).)
 
          Scope
of Discovery and Discovery Obligations in Song-Beverly Act litigation 
 
CCP § 2017.010 
 
Unless otherwise limited by order of the court
in accordance with this title, any party may obtain discovery regarding any
matter, not privileged, that is relevant to the subject matter involved in the
pending action or to the determination of any motion made in that action, if
the matter either is itself admissible in evidence or appears reasonably
calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. Discovery may
relate to the claim or defense of the party seeking discovery or of any other
party to the action.
 
CCP §2031.220
 
A statement that the party to whom a demand for
inspection, copying, testing, or sampling has been directed will comply with
the particular demand shall state that the production, inspection, copying,
testing, or sampling, and related activity demanded, will be allowed either in
whole or in part, and that all documents or things in the demanded category
that are in the possession, custody, or control of that party and to which no
objection is being made will be included in the production.
 
CCP §2031.230
 
A representation of inability to comply with the
particular demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling shall affirm
that a diligent search and a reasonable inquiry has been made in an effort to
comply with that demand. This statement shall also specify whether the
inability to comply is because the particular item or category has never
existed, has been destroyed, has been lost, misplaced, or stolen, or has never
been, or is no longer, in the possession, custody, or control of the responding
party. The statement shall set forth the name and address of any natural person
or organization known or believed by that party to have possession, custody, or
control of that item or category of item.
 
CCP § 2031.310
 
(a) On receipt of a response to a demand for
inspection, copying, testing, or sampling, the demanding party may move for an
order compelling further response to the demand if the demanding party deems
that any of the following apply:
          (1)
A statement of compliance with the demand is incomplete.
          (2)
A representation of inability to comply is inadequate, incomplete, or evasive.
          (3)
An objection in the response is without merit or too general.
 
(b) A motion under subdivision (a) shall comply
with each of the following:
          (1)
The motion shall set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the
discovery sought by the demand.
          (2)
The motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section
2016.040.
          (3)
In lieu of a separate statement required under the California Rules of Court,
the court may allow the moving party to submit a concise outline of the
discovery request and each response in dispute.
 
(c) Unless notice of this motion is given within
45 days of the service of the verified response, or any supplemental verified
response, or on or before any specific later date to which the demanding party
and the responding party have agreed in writing, the demanding party waives any
right to compel a further response to the demand.
 
… (h) Except as provided in subdivision (j), the court shall impose
a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against
any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to
compel further response to a demand, unless it finds that the one subject to
the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances
make the imposition of the sanction unjust.
 
          The
burden is on the moving party to show both relevance to the subject matter and
specific facts justifying discovery.  (Glenfed
Develop. Corp. v. Superior Court (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 1113, 1117.)  Once good cause is established by the moving
party, the burden then shifts to the responding party to justify any objections
made to document disclosure.  (Hartbrodt
v. Burke (1996, 2nd Dist.) 42 Cal.App.4th 168, 172-174.)          
 
          “Relevant
evidence is defined in Evidence Code section 210 as evidence ‘having any
tendency in reason to prove or disprove any disputed fact that is of
consequence to the determination of the action.’ The test of relevance is
whether the evidence tends logically, naturally, and by reasonable inference to
establish material facts.  The trial
court has broad discretion in determining the relevance of evidence, but lacks
discretion to admit irrelevant evidence.” 
(Donlen v. Ford Motor Co. (2013) 217 Cal.App.4th 138,
148 (evidence of post-warranty repairs relevant to action based on warranty
repairs because they could demonstrate that vehicle was not repaired to conform
to warranty during warranty period.) 
 
          In
Doppes v. Bentley Motors, Inc. (2009) 174 Cal.App.4th 967, plaintiff
alleged violation of the Song Beverly Act based on the defendants’ failure to
repair, repurchase, or replace a Bentley that had an obnoxious odor in the
interior.  (Doppes, supra, 174 Cal.App.4th
at 971.).  The following discovery
requests were deemed “highly relevant” and failure to readily produce them
prior to trial should have resulted in terminating sanctions:  
 
“all documents relating to (1)
customer complaints concerning the rust inhibitor used on the 2002 Bentley
Arnage; (2) all notices to Bentley dealers for the period 2001 to date
concerning the rust inhibitor used on the Bentley Arnage; (3) all warranty repairs
during the period of January 2002 to date of the Bentley Arnage related to the
rust inhibitor used on the  vehicle; (4)
all customer complaints of a wax oil smell caused by the rust inhibitor on the
2002 Bentley Arnage; and (5) vehicle tests conducted on the 2002 model year
Arnage to confirm whether there was a wax oil smell arising from the vehicle's
rust inhibitor.”
          
Discussion
          Plaintiff has demonstrated
good cause for production.  The RFPs
pertain to the Engine Defect, which was allegedly present in Plaintiff’s
vehicle, and seek documents (1) relating to internal investigations into the
Engine Defect in cars of the same year, make and model as Plaintiff’s; (2) relating
to communications regarding the Engine Defect in vehicles of the same year,
make and model as Plaintiff’s; (3) relating to any decision to issue any
notices, letters, campaigns, warranty extensions technical service bulletins
and recalls concerning the Engine Defect in vehicles of the same year, make and
model as Plaintiff’s; (4) concerning customer complaints, claims, reported
failures, and warranty claims relating to the Engine Defect in vehicles of the
same year, make and model, including databases; (5) concerning failure rates of
vehicles of the same year, make and model as Plaintiff’s due to the Engine
Defect; and (6) concerning or relating to any fixes for the Engine Defect in vehicles
of the same year, make and model as Plaintiff’s.  
          The documents requested could
reasonably lead to admissible evidence regarding Defendant’s knowledge of the
Engine Defect, any attempts to fix or address the defect, the nature of the
defect.  As Plaintiff argues, the Song
Beverly Act allows for a civil penalty of up to two times the actual damage
upon showing that the manufacturer willfully failed to abide by its obligations
thereunder.  The Act requires a
manufacturer to replace a vehicle or make restitution to the buyer.  (Lukather v. General Motors, LLC (2010)
181 Cal.App.4th 1041, 1050.)  Plaintiff
argues the RFPs could produce information demonstrating Defendant’s knowledge of
the defect, the inability to fix that defect and Defendant’s willful failure to
repurchase Plaintiff’s vehicle despite knowledge that the defect was ongoing in
vehicles of the same year, model and make as Plaintiff’s car.
          On the other hand, as the
requests are currently phrased, they do impose an unnecessary and undue burden
on Defendant.  This problem, however, is
a narrow one.  The burden problem may be
remedied by limiting the scope of the requests as follows:  
Request for Production No. 16:  Defendant shall produce responsive documents
including recall notices and technical services bulletins.  Defendant shall not be required to search for
emails.
Request for Production No. 17:  Defendant shall produce responsive documents
including recall notices and technical services bulletins.  Defendant shall not be required to search for
emails.
Request for Production No. 18:  Defendant shall produce responsive documents
including recall notices and technical services bulletins.  Defendant shall not be required to search for
emails.
Request for Production No. 19:  Defendant shall produce responsive documents
limited to complaints within the state of California.
Request No. 20: 
Defendant shall produce responsive documents except that Defendant shall
not be required to search for emails.
Request No. 21: 
Defendant shall produce responsive documents except that Defendant shall
not be required to search for emails.  
          Finally, any concerns
regarding trade secrets and confidential information involving third parties
would be sufficiently addressed by a standard protective order. Plaintiff
executed the protective order proposed by Defendant during the parties’ meet
and confer efforts.  (Sue Dec., ¶¶18-19,
Ex 9.)  Based on the evidence, the
protective order is fully executed, and Defendant need only file the protective
order with the Court.  
          Plaintiff’s Motion to
Compel Further Responses to RFP Nos. 16-21 (Set One) is GRANTED within the
limitations described above.  Defendant shall
file the protective order executed on June 7, 2023 by Plaintiff’s counsel and
attached as Exhibit 9 to the Sue declaration. 
