  Case Number:  21STCV29695    Hearing Date:   October 26, 2023    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



JONATHAN DORTCH, et al.  
 
                                  Plaintiffs,
  
         v.
 
 
JOSHUA GOLSEN,
  et al.
 
                                  Defendants.
 


 Case No:  21STCV29695
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  October 26, 2023
 Calendar
  Number:  5



 
          Plaintiffs
and Cross-Defendants Jonathan Dortch (“Dortch”) and Sly Spectrum LLC (“Sly
Spectrum”) (collectively, “Cross-Defendants”) demur to the cross-complaint of Defendant
and Cross-Complainant Part Four, LLC (“Part Four”).  Cross-Defendants also move to strike the
punitive damages claim from the cross-complaint.
 
          Cross-Defendants’
Demurrer is OVERRULED and the Motion to Strike is DENIED.  Cross-Defendants shall file an answer in 20
days.
 
Background
 
          The operative Second Amended Complaint in this
action involves claims by Dortch and Sly Spectrum as plaintiffs against Joshua
Golsen, Barry Golsen, Rebel Bass, LLC, GOL Capital LLC and Part Four as
defendants.  The claims in the Second
Amended Complaint generally involve issues of fraud, breach of fiduciary and
other matters concerning the formation and operation of Part Four.
 
          Dortch and Sly Spectrum assert that Part Four was a company
formed by Plaintiff Dortch and one of the other defendants, Joshua Golsen.  Plaintiff Sly Spectrum is a member of Part
Four.  Plaintiff Dortch is the sole
member and manager of Sly Spectrum.
 
          On
May 31, 2023, the defendants filed answers to Dortch’s and Sly Spectrum’s Second
Amended Complaint.  On May 31, 2023, defendant
Part Four also filed a cross-complaint (the “Cross-Complaint”) against Dortch
and Sly Spectrum alleging a single claim for Violation of the
Anti-Cybersquatting Consumer Protection Act (15 U.S.C. §1125(d).  
 
          On
June 30, 2023, Cross-Defendants filed this demurrer and motion to strike.   Part Four opposed on October 13, 2023 and Cross-Defendants
replied on October 19, 2023.
 
Legal Standard
 
          A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the
complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147
Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the
evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, the defects must be apparent on
the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., §§
430.30, 430.70; Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th
968, 994.) At the pleading stage, a plaintiff need only allege ultimate facts
sufficient to apprise the defendant of the factual basis for the claim against
him. (Semole v. Sansoucie (1972) 28 Cal. App. 3d 714, 721.) The court
assumes the truth of the complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual
allegations. (E-Fab, Inc. v. Accountants, Inc. Servs. (2007) 153
Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) A “demurrer does not, however, admit contentions,
deductions or conclusions of fact or law alleged in the pleading, or the
construction of instruments pleaded, or facts impossible in law.” (S. Shore
Land Co. v. Petersen (1964) 226 Cal.App.2d 725, 732.)
 
Discussion
 
          An individual may be held
liable under the Anti-Cybersquatting Consumer Protection Act if the person (1)
registers, traffics in, or uses a domain name identical or confusingly similar
to a distinctive mark, and (2) has a bad faith intent to profit from use of the
mark as a domain name. (See 15 U.S.C. § 1125(d); Bosley Medical Institute v.
Kremer (2005) 403 F.3d 672, 680.)  “[C]ybersquatting
occurs when a person other than the trademark holder registers the domain name
of a well known trademark and then attempts to profit from this by either
ransoming the domain name back to the trademark holder or by using the domain
name to divert business from the trademark holder to the domain name holder.”  (Bosley Medical Institute, Inc.,
supra, 403 F.3d at 680.
Cross-Defendants demur to Part
Four’s sole claim for violation of the Anti-Cybersquatting Consumer Protection
Act.  Cross-Defendants make the following
arguments.  The only potential
cybersquatting alleged is Cross-Defendants’ registration of certain domain
names.  The allegations of the Cross-Complaint
establish that Cross-Defendants registered the protectible domain names for the
benefit of Part Four and at its behest. The Cross-Complaint alleges that Sly Spectrum
was a member of Part Four and pursuant to the articles of organization, Sly Spectrum
had the authority to enter into contracts based on its status as a member.  There are assertedly no allegations of bad
faith intent to profit from the acquisition of these protectible trademarks.
          Cross-Defendants’ arguments
on demurrer do not track or take account the actual allegations in the
Cross-Complaint.  Part Four alleges the
following.  Part Four registered multiple
distinct trademarks.  (Cross-Complaint,
¶35.).  Dortch registered infringing
domains and withheld other domain names while he was an employee of Part Four
but after he realized he would be terminated. 
(Id. at ¶37.)  Dortch and
Sly Spectrum’s conduct in registering the domain names was done without Part Four’s
explicit or implicit authorization, consent, approval, or knowledge. (Id.
at ¶38.)  Dortch and Sly Spectrum’s
registrations of the domains was done with the bad faith intent to profit from
the registration.  (Id. at ¶40.)  Dortch and Sly Spectrum used the
misappropriated domains and registered the infringing domains to hold them
maliciously for ransom from Part Four.  (Id.
at ¶42.)  Dortch demanded $4 million for
the domain names after he was terminated. 
(Id. at ¶1.)  These are
sufficient facts to state a claim for violation of 15 U.S.C. 1125(d).  
          Contrary to Cross-Defendants’
position, Part Four does not allege that their acquisition of the domain names
was done at the instruction and with the permission of Part Four.  Part Four’s Cross-Complaint alleges the exact
opposite. (Id. at ¶38.)  The mere
fact that Dortch was an employee when he acquired the domain names does not
establish that he acquired them with Part Four’s permission.  Likewise, it is not clear from the face of
the Cross-Complaint that Sly Spectrum had authority to purchase the domain
names, that Dortch was doing so on behalf of Sly Spectrum as a member of Part
Four or that Sly Spectrum did not purchase the domain names for the bad faith
purpose of holding them hostage.  Cross-Defendants
challenge the truth of the Cross-Complaint’s allegations, which is not grounds
for demurrer.
Cross-Defendants’ arguments also improperly
conflate various allegations by Part Four. 
Specifically, Cross-Defendants conflate allegations about what the
Cross-Complaint refers to as the “Misappropriated Domains”—four domains that
Dortch obtained at Part Four’s direction but then wrongfully withheld from Part
Four (Cross-Complaint at ¶¶16-19)—with allegations about what the
Cross-Complaint refers to as the “Infringing Domains”—eighteen domains that
Dortch obtained without authority for his own benefit when he realized his time
at Part Four was coming to an end.  (Id.
at ¶¶20-26.)  The Court considers all
allegations in the Cross-Complaint when making its rulings.
          Cross-Defendants also move
to strike the punitive damages from the Cross-Complaint. Cross-Defendants argue
there are no allegations to support a finding of malice, oppression, or
fraud.  Cross-Defendants argue there are
also no allegations that would support imposition of punitive damages against
Sly Spectrum based on the conduct of its employee, Dortch.  
The Court denies the motion to
strike for reasons similar to its denial of the demurrer.  Part Four’s  allegations support a finding of malice based
on Cross-Defendants’ purchase of the domain names with the bad faith intent of
ransoming them to Part Four.  Sly Spectrum
is liable for punitive damages based on the acts of Dortch, its sole member and
manager, on its behalf.  (Hartman v.
Shell Oil Co. (1977) 68 Cal.App.3d 240, 248.)  
           