 Case Number:  23TRCV03114    Hearing Date:   May 13, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
LILIA
  MARTINEZ, et al., 


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:  
 


 
23TRCV03114




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
MEMORIAL
  HOSPITAL OF GARDENA, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          May
13, 2024
 
Moving
Parties:                      Defendant Memorial Hospital of Gardena
Responding
Party:                  Plaintiffs Lilia Martinez and Jesus Martinez
Motion
for Summary Judgment
 
            The court considered the moving
papers and plaintiffs’ notice of non-opposition.
RULING
            The motion for summary judgment is
GRANTED.
BACKGROUND
            On September 20, 2023, plaintiffs
Lilia Martinez and Jesus Martinez filed a complaint for wrongful death against
Memorial Hospital of Gardena, Ashok Kumar, M.D., and Gurtejbir Bilkhu, M.D.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
The
purpose of a motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication “is to provide
courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties’ pleadings in order to
determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in fact necessary to
resolve their dispute.”  Aguilar v.
Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal. 4th 826, 843.  “Code of Civil Procedure section 437c,
subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the
evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’
and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no
triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law.”  Adler v.
Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal. App. 4th 1110, 1119. 
“On a
motion for summary judgment, the initial burden is always on the moving party
to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues of material
fact.”  Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc.
(2005) 128 Cal. App. 4th 1510, 1519.  A
defendant moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication “has met his or
her burden of showing that a cause of action has no merit if the party has
shown that one or more elements of the cause of action . . . cannot be
established, or that there is a complete defense to the cause of action.”  CCP § 437c(p)(2).  “Once the defendant . . . has met that
burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff . . . to show that a triable issue
of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense
thereto.” CCP § 437c(p)(2).  “If the
plaintiff cannot do so, summary judgment should be granted.” Avivi v. Centro
Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal. App. 4th 463, 467. 
            “When
deciding whether to grant summary judgment, the court must consider all of the
evidence set forth in the papers (except evidence to which the court has
sustained an objection), as well as all reasonable inferences that may be drawn
from that evidence, in the light most favorable to the party opposing summary
judgment.” Avivi, 159 Cal. App. 4th at 467; CCP §437c(c). 
DISCUSSION 
            Defendant
Memorial Hospital of Gardena requests that the Court enter summary judgment in its
favor and against plaintiffs pursuant to CCP §437c on the ground that there is
no triable issue of material fact and defendant is entitled to judgment as a
matter of law. 
            In
the complaint, plaintiffs allege that plaintiffs’ decedent Jose Martinez died
on May 8, 2023.  Decedent was the father
of plaintiffs.  Complaint, ¶1.  Decedent presented to the Emergency
Department of defendant Memorial Hospital of Gardena on May 8, 2023 for
complaints of vomiting blood.  An
endotracheal tube was placed at approximately 20:48.  At approximately 20:52 decedent
arrested.  A Code Blue was called and was
concluded at approximately 21:08 when plaintiffs’ decedent expired.  Defendants breached the standard of care in
the positioning and/or placement of the endotracheal tube.  To a reasonable degree of medical
probability, had such breach in the standard of care not occurred, plaintiffs’
decedent would not have died on May 8, 2023. 
Id., ¶8.  Had defendants complied
with the standard of care, they would have recognized that plaintiffs’ decedent
was suffering from a lack of oxygen and treated the same uneventfully.  Defendants’ negligence was a substantial
factor in causing plaintiffs’ decedent’s death. 
Id., ¶9.
            The
elements of medical malpractice are: 
“(1) the duty of the professional to use such skill, prudence, and
diligence as other members of his profession commonly possess and exercise; (2)
a breach of that duty; (3) a proximate causal connection between the negligent
conduct and the resulting injury; and (4) actual loss or damage resulting from
the professional's negligence.”  Simmons
v. West Covina Medical Clinic (1989) 212 Cal. App. 3d 696, 701-02
(citations omitted).  “Both the standard
of care and defendants’ breach must normally be established by expert testimony
in a medical malpractice case.”  Avivi,
159 Cal. App. 4th at 467.  
            Thus,
in a medical malpractice case, “[w]hen a defendant moves for summary judgment
and supports his motion with expert declarations that his conduct fell within
the community standard of care, he is entitled to summary judgment unless the
plaintiff comes forward with conflicting expert evidence.”  Munro v. Regents of University of
California (1989) 215 Cal. App. 3d 977, 984-985 (citations omitted).  An expert declaration, if uncontradicted, is
conclusive proof as to the prevailing standard of care and the propriety of the
particular conduct of the health care provider. 
Starr v. Mooslin (1971) 14 Cal. App. 3d 988, 999. 
            Defendant
argues that the hospital, its agents and employees’ care and treatment of
plaintiffs’ decedent at all times conformed with the standard of care for
hospital staff under similar circumstances.
            The
parties do not dispute that on May 8, 2023, at 1138 Jesus Martinez Estrada aka
Jose Martinez (DOB 06/20/1951) was brought in by ambulance to the emergency
department at Memorial Hospital of Gardena for nausea and vomiting.  Defendant’s Separate Statement of Undisputed
Material Facts (“DUMF”) 1.  Martinez had
vomited bright red blood a couple times at home.  DUMF 2. 
He was seen by John Anderson, M.D., who ordered laboratory tests, and CT
scan of the abdomen and pelvis.  DUMF 3.  Dr. Henderson asked that the patient be
admitted to the telemetry floor, and consulted with internal medicine
consultant Ashok Kumar, M.D. and gastrointestinal consultant, Dr. Amin.  DUMF 5. 
Dr. Henderson went off shift and the patient’s care was taken over in
the ED by Gurtejbir Bilkhu, D.O.  DUMF 6.  At 2040, the patient vomited bright red
blood, and the ED nurse alerted Dr. Bilkhu. 
DUMF 7.  The nurse suctioned the
patient and elevated the head of bed. 
DUMF 8.  Dr. Bilkhu made the
decision to intubate the patent to protect the airway.  DUMF 9. 
At 2044, etomidate was given. 
DUMF 10.  At 2048, succinylcholine
was given.  DUMF 11.  At 2048, the intubation was completed.  DUMF 12. 
Dr. Bilkhu heard bilateral breath sounds and capnography showed
appropriate CO2 detection.  DUMF 13.  The patient was initially having 100% oxygen
saturation after the intubation.  DUMF
14.  However, the patient became
bradycardic and had deep and acute tracheal suction.  DUMF 15. 
The endotracheal suction showed hematemesis/hemoptysis.  DUMF 16. 
The patient continued to be bradycardic, and then subsequently coded at
2052.  DUMF 17.  Despite resuscitative efforts, the patient
was pronounced dead at 2108.  DUMF 18.
Defendant
presents the declaration of Sandra Chavez, R.N., who opines based on her review
of the pertinent records, as well as her education, training, and substantial
experience proving nursing care in an emergency department at a general acute
care hospital, the nursing care of plaintiffs’ decedent was at all times
commensurate with the degree of care and skill ordinarily exercised by nurses
in the same or similar locality, in like cases, and under similar
circumstances.  Sandra Chavez, R.N.
decl., ¶7.  The outcome Martinez
experienced was not the result of negligence on the part of the hospital.  Id., ¶8.
            Further,
defendant presents evidence that Dr. Bilkhu is neither an actual nor ostensible
agent of the hospital.  Defendant asserts
that Dr. Bilkhu is not an employee; rather, he is and was an independent
contracting physician who enjoys staff privileges at the hospital and that the
hospital has no right or power to control his activities.  See Victor Carrasco (CEO of defendant) decl.  At 1916, the patient signed a hospital form
acknowledging his understanding the doctors were not employees or agents of the
hospital.  Chavez decl., ¶6, Exh. B (at
pages 8-9).
The Court
finds that defendant hospital has met its burden of showing that plaintiffs’
cause of action for wrongful death has no merit by showing that plaintiffs
cannot establish the elements of breach of duty and causation for medical
malpractice.  CCP §437c(p)(2). 
The
burden shifts to plaintiffs who filed a notice of non-opposition.  Therefore, plaintiffs have not met their
burden to show a triable issue of material fact.   
            The
motion for summary judgment is therefore GRANTED. 
 
ORDER
            The
motion for summary judgment is GRANTED.
Moving
party is ordered to give notice.