  Case Number:  19TRCV00434    Hearing Date:   May 13, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
JEFF
  WIDMANN, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
19TRCV00434




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
EDWARD
  LEUNG,


 
 
 
Defendant.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          May 13, 2024
 
Moving
Parties:                      Defendant Coreology 2.0, LLC
Responding
Party:                  None
Motion
for Good Faith Settlement
 
            The Court considered the moving papers.  No opposition was filed.
RULING
            The motion for good faith settlement
is GRANTED.  The Court ORDERS that in
this action and all related actions, all present claims and cross-complaints of
any kind for implied indemnity, equitable comparative contribution and
apportionment or partial or comparative indemnity and apportionment based on
comparative negligence or comparative fault against Coreology 2.0, LLC be and
are dismissed with prejudice.  Any and
all present and future claims against it by or on behalf of joint tortfeasors
or co-obligors are barred.
BACKGROUND
On May 16, 2019, plaintiff Jeff
Widmann filed a complaint against Edward Leung, ind. and as trustee for Leung
Edward T. Trust for (1) breach of contract, (2) breach of implied covenant of
quiet enjoyment, (3) breach of covenant of good faith and fair dealing, (4)
nuisance, (5) negligence, and (6) unfair business practices in violation of
Bus. & Prof. Code §17200. 
 
On August 7, 2019, plaintiff filed
a FAC.  Plaintiff alleges that in 2017,
plaintiff and defendants entered into a commercial lease agreement whereby
plaintiff would lease from defendants the premises located at 2405 N. Sepulveda
Blvd., Manhattan Beach.  FAC, ¶7.  The lease was to commence on October 1, 2017
for a five year term.  Id., ¶8.  Plaintiff would pay defendants rent starting
at $4,725 per month for the first year, and increasing incrementally each year
with the rent of $5,740 per month on the fifth year.  Id., ¶9. 
After executing the lease, plaintiff began construction on the premise
to convert it to a spa operating as Blossom Spa Manhattan Beach.  Id., ¶12. 
Plaintiff spent approximately two or more years obtaining the necessary
licenses and permits to operate the spa and over $200,000 in construction on
the premises in reliance that he would be able to possess quiet enjoyment of
the premises in order to operate his spa without hindrance from defendants,
pursuant to the lease.  Id., ¶13. 
Plaintiff further alleges that he
intended to open his spa early 2019 upon completion of construction at the
premises; however, it was very clear that due to the lack of soundproofing of
the structure of the premises, it would be impossible for plaintiff to operate
his business at the premises.  The noise
and vibrations emanating onto the premises completely diminished its value and
rendered it impossible to operate any type of commercial enterprise, let alone
plaintiff’s spa.  Id., ¶14.  On either side of the premises were two
fitness studios, which during classes throughout the day, played extremely loud
music, with a loud bass causing immense vibrations through the walls, and with
the fitness instructors yelling through a microphone.  Id., ¶15. 
Although plaintiff notified defendants of the loud noise and vibrations
numerous times, defendants failed to act or even respond to plaintiff.  Id., ¶16. 
Since defendants failed to respond and plaintiff was incurring costs and
losing profits everyday that he was unable to operate his business, plaintiff
immediately retained acoustic engineers for help.  They recorded the noise entering the premises
at over 100 decibels.  By reference, according
to OSHA, 100 decibels is equivalent to a construction site.  ¶Id., 18. 
Plaintiff further alleges that he
spent over $10,000 to add over six inches of noise reducing barrier to the
premises, which consequently diminished the overall square footage of the
premises.  Plaintiff took other measures,
such as setting up a stereo system to drown the noise emanating onto the
premise.  After exhausting all efforts,
the noise levels were still over 80 decibels. 
Id., ¶20.  Plaintiff attempted a
soft opening around March 25, 2019, but due to the deafening noise from the
tenants and lack of soundproofing at the premises, plaintiff was unable to
operate whatsoever.  After a few days,
plaintiff closed his business until this issue can be resolved, and plaintiff
is not operating his spa at the premises. 
Id., ¶21. 
On January 13, 2020, plaintiff
filed amendments designating Fit on Studios, Inc. as Doe 1, Coreology, Inc. as
Doe 2, and Coreology 2.0 LLC as Doe 3. 
On July 9, 2020, the court granted
plaintiff’s motion for leave to file a SAC. 
On July 10, 2020, plaintiff filed a
SAC. 
On June 15, 2021, the court denied
defendant Edward Leung’s motion to compel plaintiff to deposit unpaid rent. 
On August 25, 2022, the court
denied defendant Edward Leung’s motion for leave to file a cross-complaint
without prejudice. 
On September 22, 2022, the court
denied defendant Coreology 2.0, LLC’s motion for summary judgment.
On January 31, 2023, Edward Leung,
ind. and as trustee for Leung, Edward T. Trust, filed a cross-complaint for
breach of lease agreement.
LEGAL
AUTHORITY
Under CCP §877.6(a)(2), “In the
alternative, a settling party may give notice of settlement to all parties and
to the court, together with an application for determination of good faith
settlement and a proposed order. The application shall indicate the settling
parties, and the basis, terms, and amount of the settlement. The notice,
application, and proposed order shall be given by certified mail, return
receipt requested, or by personal service. Proof of service shall be filed with
the court. Within 25 days of the mailing of the notice, application, and
proposed order, or within 20 days of personal service, a nonsettling party may
file a notice of motion to contest the good faith of the settlement. If none of
the nonsettling parties files a motion within 25 days of mailing of the notice,
application, and proposed order, or within 20 days of personal service, the
court may approve the settlement. The notice by a nonsettling party shall be
given in the manner provided in subdivision (b) of Section 1005. . . .”
            Under CCP §877.6(b), “The issue of
the good faith of a settlement may be determined by the court on the basis of
affidavits served with the notice of hearing, and any counteraffidavits filed
in response, or the court may, in its discretion, receive other evidence at the
hearing.”
Under CCP §877.6(c), “A
determination by the court that the settlement was made in good faith shall bar
any other joint tortfeasor or co-obligor from any further claims against the
settling tortfeasor or co-obligor for equitable comparative contribution, or
partial or comparative indemnity, based on comparative negligence or
comparative fault.”
“The party asserting the lack of
good faith shall have the burden of proof on that issue.”  CCP § 877.6(d).
DISCUSSION
            Under CCP §877.6(a)(2), defendant Coreology
2.0, LLC requests that the Court determine that the settlement entered into
between moving defendant and plaintiff is in good faith. 
In City of Grand View Terrace v. Superior Court (1987) 192 Cal. App.
3d 1251, 1261, the court provided the following guidance regarding a motion for
a good faith settlement determination:
This court notes that of the
hundreds of motions for good faith determination presented for trial court
approval each year, the overwhelming majority are unopposed and granted
summarily by the trial court.  At the time
of filing in many cases, the moving party does not know if a contest will
develop.  If each motion required a full
recital by declaration or affidavit setting forth a complete factual response
to all of the Tech-Bilt factors,
literally thousands of attorney hours would be consumed and inch-thick motions
would have to be read and considered by trial courts in an exercise which would
waste valuable judicial and legal time and clients’ resources. . . . That is to
say, when no one objects, the barebones motion which sets forth the ground of
good faith, accompanied by a declaration which sets forth a brief background of
the case is sufficient.
 
If the good faith settlement is
contested, section 877.6, subdivision (d), sets forth a workable ground rule
for the hearing by placing the burden of proving the lack of good faith on the
contesting party.  Once there is a
showing made by the settlor of the settlement, the burden of proof on the issue
of good faith shifts to the nonsettlor who asserts that the settlement was not
made in good faith.  If contested,
declarations by the nonsettlor should be filed which in many cases could
require the moving party to file responsive counterdeclarations to negate the
lack of good faith asserted by the nonsettling contesting party.  
 
192 Cal. App. 3d 1251, 1260-1261
(citation omitted).
“[Code of Civil Procedure] Section
877.6 was enacted by the Legislature in 1980 to establish a statutory procedure
for determining if a settlement by an alleged joint tortfeasor has been entered
into in good faith and to provide a bar to claims of other alleged joint
tortfeasors for equitable contribution or partial or comparative indemnity when
good faith is shown.”  IRM Corp. v. Carlson (1986) 179 Cal.
App. 3d 94, 104.
In Tech-Bilt, Inc. v. Woodward-Clyde & Associates (1985) 38 Cal.3d
488, 499, the California Supreme Court identified the following nonexclusive
factors courts are to consider in determining if a settlement is in good faith
under section 877.6:  “a rough
approximation of plaintiffs' total recovery and the settlor's proportionate
liability, the amount paid in settlement, the allocation of settlement proceeds
among plaintiffs, and a recognition that a settlor should pay less in
settlement than he would if he were found liable after a trial.  Other relevant considerations include the
financial conditions and insurance policy limits of settling defendants, as
well as the existence of collusion, fraud, or tortious conduct aimed to injure
the interests of nonsettling defendants.” 

The evaluation of whether a
settlement was made in good faith is required to “be made on the basis of
information available at the time of settlement.”  Tech-Bilt,
38 Cal.3d at 499.  “‘[A] defendant’s
settlement figure must not be grossly disproportionate to what a reasonable
person, at the time of the settlement, would estimate the settling defendant’s
liability to be.’ [Citation.]”  Id. at 499.  
“The party asserting the lack of
good faith, who has the burden of proof on that issue (§ 877.6, subd. (d)),
should be permitted to demonstrate, if he can, that the settlement is so far
‘out of the ballpark’ in relation to these factors as to be inconsistent with
the equitable objectives of the statute. 
Such a demonstration would establish that the proposed settlement was
not a ‘settlement made in good faith’ within the terms of section 877.6.”  Tech-Bilt,
38 Cal.3d at 499-500.  
 “Thus, Tech-Bilt
held that in determining whether a settlement was made in good faith for
purposes of section 877.6, a key factor a trial court should consider is
whether the amount paid in settlement bears a reasonable relationship to the
settlor’s proportionate share of liability. (Tech-Bilt, supra, 38 Cal.3d at pp. 499–500 . . . .)  This is because one of the main goals of
section 877.6 is ‘allocating costs equitably among multiple tortfeasors.’  (Tech-Bilt,
supra, 38 Cal.3d at p. 502 . . . .).”  TSI Seismic Tenant Space, Inc. v. Superior
Court (2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 159, 166.  “Accordingly, a court not only looks at the
alleged tortfeasor's potential liability to the plaintiff, but it must also
consider the culpability of the tortfeasor vis-à-vis other parties alleged to
be responsible for the same injury. 
Potential liability for indemnity to a nonsettling defendant is an
important consideration for the trial court in determining whether to approve a
settlement by an alleged tortfeasor. 
[Citation.]”  Id. at 166.
Although unopposed, the Court
considered the Tech-Bilt factors as
applied to the settlement between settling defendant and plaintiff.
Plaintiff alleges that in 2017,
plaintiff and defendants entered into a commercial lease agreement whereby
plaintiff would lease from defendants the premises located at 2405 N. Sepulveda
Blvd., Manhattan Beach.  The lease was to
commence on October 1, 2017 for a five year term.  SAC, ¶9. 
Coreology defendants were located adjacent to plaintiff’s premises at
2403 N. Sepulveda Blvd.  Id., 10.  Defendant Fit On was located adjacent to
plaintiff’s premises, at 2407 N. Sepulveda Blvd.  Id., 11. 
Coreology and Fit On were tenants of defendants Leung as well.  Id., 12. 
Pursuant to the lease, plaintiff would pay defendant Leung rent starting
at $4,725 per month for the first year, and increasing incrementally each year
with the rent of $5,740 per month on the fifth year.  Id., ¶14. 
Leung agreed in the lease that upon payment of the required rents by
tenant, tenant shall have possession of the premises “without hindrance from
Landlord or any person or persons lawfully claiming the Leased Premises by,
through or under Landlord.”  Id., 16.
The SAC further alleges that after
executing the lease, plaintiff began construction on the premises to convert it
to a spa operating as Blossom Spa Manhattan Beach.  Id., ¶18. 
Plaintiff spent approximately two or more years obtaining the necessary
licenses and permits to operate the spa and over $200,000 in construction on
the premises in reliance that he would be able to possess quiet enjoyment of
the premises in order to operate his spa without hindrance from defendants,
pursuant to the lease.  Id., ¶19.  Plaintiff intended to open his spa early 2019
upon completion of construction at the premises; however, it was very clear
that due to the lack of soundproofing of the structure of the premises, it
would be impossible for plaintiff to operate his business at the premises.  The noise and vibrations emanating onto the
premises completely diminished its value and rendered it impossible to operate
any type of commercial enterprise, let alone plaintiff’s spa.  Id., ¶20. 
On either side of the premises were two fitness studios, Coreology and
Fit On, which, during classes throughout the day, played extremely loud music,
with a loud bass causing immense vibrations through the walls, and with the
fitness instructors yelling through a microphone.  Id., ¶21. 
Although plaintiff notified defendants of the loud noise and vibrations
numerous times, defendants failed to act or even respond to plaintiff.  Id., ¶22. 
Since defendants failed to respond and plaintiff was incurring costs and
losing profits everyday that he was unable to operate his business, plaintiff
immediately retained acoustic engineers for help.  They recorded the noise entering the premises
at over 100 decibels.  By reference, according
to OSHA, 100 decibels is equivalent to a construction site.  Id., ¶24. 
The SAC further alleges that plaintiff
spent over $10,000 to add over six inches of noise reducing barrier to the
premises, which consequently diminished the overall square footage of the
premises.  Plaintiff took other measures,
such as setting up a stereo system to drown the noise emanating onto the
premise.  After exhausting all efforts,
the noise levels were still over 80 decibels and the noise and vibrations from
Coreology and Fit One caused substantial interference with the use of the
premises such that plaintiff could not operate his spa.  Id., ¶26. 
In an effort to mitigate damages and minimize losses until the issue was
resolved, plaintiff attempted a soft opening around March 25, 2019, but due to
the deafening noise from defendants and lack of soundproofing at the premises,
plaintiff was unable to operate whatsoever. 
After a few days, plaintiff closed his business until this issue can be
resolved, and plaintiff is not operating his spa at the premises.  Id., ¶27. 
As against settling defendant,
plaintiff is asserting a cause of action for nuisance and one for
negligence.  Defendant Leung filed a
cross-complaint against plaintiff for breach of the lease agreement to recover
money damages owed for unpaid rent.  There
are no cross-complaints against moving defendant.
First, as to a rough approximation
of plaintiff’s total recovery, it is unclear as to the amount plaintiff seeks
to recover.  The SAC alleges that he
incurred over $200,000 in construction related expenses and $10,000 for further
soundproofing.  He was also unable to
operate his business.
Second, as to settling defendant’s
proportionate liability, plaintiff is alleging that Leung is at fault as the
landlord, and that Coreology and Fit On are liable as neighboring tenants who
created the excessive noise and vibrations. 
Moving defendant asserts that it is highly unlikely that it would have
been found liable because plaintiff was aware that the space was situated
between two pre-existing fitness studios and had knowledge of the noise prior
to entering the lease.  See Exh. A email
from plaintiff to his architect on October 16, 2017, stating, “In addition, we
will need a soundproof (ish) presence wall on the north side.  That Fit On place blasts right through the
wall.”  
Third, as to the amount paid in
settlement, the parties settled for $90,000. 

Fourth, as to the allocation of
settlement proceeds, there is only one plaintiff.
Fifth, the Court recognizes that
settling defendant should pay less in settlement than if it were found liable
after a trial.
Sixth, as to financial condition
and insurance policy limits, the settling defendant asserts that the settlement
will be funded by insurance proceeds and that the remaining defendants is well
insured.  
Seventh, as to whether there is
evidence of collusion, fraud, or tortious conduct aimed to injure the interests
of the other defendants or cross-defendants, settling defendant states that the
parties had previously made multiple attempts to resolve this matter,
participating in three mediation session with ADR Services.  On February 16, 2024, during the third
mediation session, the parties settled.  
After considering the Tech-Bilt factors, the Court finds and
determines that the settlement entered into between settling defendant Coreology
2.0, LLC and plaintiff was made in good faith within the meaning of CCP
§877.6.  Therefore, the motion is
GRANTED.
 
ORDER
The motion for good faith
settlement is GRANTED.  The Court ORDERS
that in this action and all related actions, all present claims and
cross-complaints of any kind for implied indemnity, equitable comparative
contribution and apportionment or partial or comparative indemnity and
apportionment based on comparative negligence or comparative fault against Coreology
2.0, LLC (sued as Doe 3) be and are dismissed with prejudice.  Any and all present and future claims against
it by or on behalf of joint tortfeasors or co-obligors are barred.
Settling defendant is ordered to
give notice of the ruling.