 Case Number:  23TRCV03828    Hearing Date:   May 13, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
ALICIA
  CAMARENA MILLAN, et al.,


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23TRCV03828




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
AMERICAN
  HONDA MOTOR COMPANY,


 
 
 
Defendant.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          May
13, 2024
 
Moving
Parties:                      Defendant American Honda Motor Company
Responding
Party:                  Plaintiffs Alicia Camarena Millan and Arturo Camarena
Sibrian
Motion
to Transfer Venue
 
            The court considered the moving and opposition
papers.
RULING
            The motion is DENIED.
BACKGROUND
            On November 21, 2023, plaintiffs
Alicia Camarena Millan and Arturo Camarena Sibrian filed a complaint against
American Honda Motor Company, Inc. for violations of Song Beverly Act and
fraudulent inducement – concealment.
            On January 10, 2024, defendant filed
a demurrer.
            On January 26, 2024, defendant filed
a motion to strike portions of complaint.
            On April 16, 2024, defendant filed
the herein motion to transfer venue.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
            “Venue, the county in which an
action takes place, is statutorily governed by the type or form of the
particular action.  [Citation
omitted.]  ‘Venue is determined based on
the complaint on file at the time the motion to change venue is made.’  [Citations.] 
(Brown v. Superior Court (1984) 37 Cal. 3d 477, 482 . . .
.).”  Lebastchi v. Superior Court
(1995) 33 Cal. App. 4th 1465, 1469.  
CCP § 395(a) provides, in relevant
part, “[e]xcept as otherwise provided by law and subject to the power of the
court to transfer actions or proceedings as provided in this title, the
superior court in the county where the defendants or some of them reside at the
commencement of the action is the proper court for the trial of the
action.  If the action is for injury to
person or personal property or for death from wrongful act or negligence, the
superior court in either the county where the injury occurs or the injury
causing death occurs or the county where the defendants, or some of them reside
at the commencement of the action, is a proper court for the trial of the
action. . . .”  
CCP § 396b(a) provides, in relevant
part, “[i]f an action . . . is commenced in a court having jurisdiction of the
subject matter thereof, other than the court designated as the proper court for
trial thereof, . . . the action may, notwithstanding, be tried in the court
where commenced, unless the defendant, at the time he or she answers, demurs,
or moves to strike, or at his or her option, without answering, demurring, or
moving to strike and within the time otherwise allowed to respond to the
complaint, files with the clerk, a notice of motion for an order transferring
the action . . . to the proper court. . . .” 
See Van Gaalen v. Superior Court (1978) 80 Cal. App. 3d 371, 378
(“the time limit for filing a notice of motion for change of venue prescribed
by section 396b is not jurisdictional in the sense that a trial court is
without power to entertain an untimely motion.”). 
CCP § 395.5 states, “[a]
corporation . . . may be sued in the county where the contract is made or is to
be performed, or where the obligation or liability arises, or the breach
occurs; or in the county where the principal place of business of such
corporation is situated, subject to the power of the court to change the place
of trial as in other cases.”
CCP § 397 states, in relevant part,
that, “[t]he court may, on motion, change the place of trial in the following
cases:  (a) When the court designated in
the complaint is not the proper court. . . .”  

DISCUSSION
            Defendant
requests that the Court transfer venue to San Bernardino County.
            The
complaint alleges that on August 2, 2020, plaintiffs entered into a warranty
contract with defendant, regarding a 2020 Honda Civic.  Plaintiffs allege that the vehicle contains a
defective computerized driver-assisting safety system, called Honda Sensing.
            Defendant
contends that the subject vehicle was purchased in Fontana and primarily
repaired in San Bernardino County, and the majority of the witnesses reside in
San Bernardino County.  Defendant asserts
that on February 27, 2024, plaintiffs served their written responses and
produced documents wherein defendant learned where the vehicle was purchased
and repaired.
            In
opposition, plaintiffs argue that Los Angeles County is a proper venue because
defendant’s principal place of business is located in Torrance, California.  See Request for Judicial Notice, Exh. 1
(Statement of Information Corporation form).
            The
Court finds that the motion is untimely to the extent that defendant did not
file it with either the demurrer or the answer. 
Rather, defendant filed it three months later.  The Court, however, will consider the motion
as the face of the complaint did not reveal where the vehicle was purchased and
where it was repaired.  The Court finds
that Los Angeles County is a proper venue because that is where defendant’s
principal place of business is located. 
See CCP §395.5.
            The
motion is DENIED.
 
ORDER
            The
motion is DENIED.
Plaintiffs
are ordered to give notice of ruling. 