 Case Number:  23SMCV01139    Hearing Date:   December 6, 2023    Dept:  I This is a troubling motion. 
Defendant moves to quash service of process as against Donald Sterling
and Rochelle Sterling in her individual capacity.  There is no such motion brought against
Rochelle Sterling in her capacity as trustee of the pertinent trust and in fact
she has answered in that capacity.  As a
preliminary matter, the objections are OVERRULED and border on the frivolous
(perhaps crossing the border).  
This is a slip and fall case in which plaintiff claims she
slipped due to the negligence of the building’s owner.  She has sued for damages.  The complaint alleges various flavors of
negligence; there is no allegation of intentional misconduct.
Normally, the court has no patience for motions to quash
based on something other than personal jurisdiction.  By definition, the defendant has notice of
the case and there is no doubt but that when service is perfected the defendant
will have to appear.  The court far
prefers the parties to work things like this out amongst themselves and if a
defendant needs more time to answer or respond, it ought to be granted.  Here, though, defendant suggests that the
suit (other than against the owner) is in bad faith.  That might or might not be, and it is not
really before the court.  More troubling
is the allegation that the proofs of service are perjurious.  As to the agent, the POS states that the
agent for BHP LLC, Schields, was served on August 24, 2023 at an address on
Wilshire.  But Mr. Schields states (for
the first time on reply) that he had moved to Idaho earlier that month and was
in Idaho on the day of the purported service. 
As to the individuals, the POS suggests that they were served at a
particular address.  The address was an
office building and the POS suggests that the information was left with the
receptionist.  But the receptionist
declared (on reply) that she had no recollection of the event that the building
was such that one could not just walk in and see the receptionist.  One had to be “buzzed up” to the
receptionist, who was on the penthouse floor. 
The POS also says that the receptionist indicated that the Sterlings
lived at that address.  But the address
is an office building, not a residence. 
Defendants claim (on reply) that they actually live in a residence, not
the office.
The gist is that defendants have made a strong showing that
the POS was perjurious.  On the other
hand, they waited until the reply to do so—perhaps largely because some of the
evidence they attack first surfaced in the opposition papers rather than in
contemporaneous court filings.
Defendants suggest that the motivation for suing them as
individuals is illegitimate.  They do not
own the property personally; it is owned and operated through an entity and the
trust has appeared (through the trustee). 
The court does have to agree that it is puzzling as to plaintiff’s
justification for suing the individuals. 
Nothing in the complaint suggests any individual personal malevolent
hand in what is obviously an accident (and the complaint does not allege
anything to the contrary).  But that issue
is better dealt with on demurrer, not a motion to quash.
The court will leave it to the parties, then.  Right now, the court would allow plaintiff to
file a sur-reply to address the reply evidence. 
However, the court warns that the price of poker has gone up.  Defendants contend that the proofs of service
are perjurious.  If the court finds that
is true, the court will need to take some action as to the server and possibly
counsel (if counsel was complicit) to ensure that the proper authorities are
notified so that action can be taken.  If
the declarations are false, then the same is true of the declarants and defense
counsel (if counsel is complicit).  That
is a messy process and people’s livelihoods are all at risk.  At the end of the day procedurally, though,
defendants can assume that service will ultimately be perfected and that they
will have to answer.  Even if defendants
win the motion, service will not be quashed “with prejudice.”  It seems like a poor choice.
Alternatively, the parties can work out the service
issue.  The court, as stated above, has
little patience for service questions. 
If there is no basis to sue the individuals, then the parties ought to
talk about it and see if they can come to terms.  If they cannot, then defendants are free to
demur, which is the proper way to bring this up.  Marching through the Code of Civil Procedure
strikes the court as an expensive alternative that serves no purpose.  On the other hand, it could be that plaintiff
will not give the defense more time to answer. 
Of course, defendant can (essentially) self-extend if defendant intends
to demur, but again, one would hope that the battle lines are not drawn in such
a manner.  And finally, if defendants
want to insist on playing hide and seek, the court (after the hearing if it
rules in defendants’ favor) might force plaintiffs to engage in that game.  Or the court might just allow service by
publication and defendants can read the Daily Journal every day to see
when their response is due.  They are
advised not to miss the deadline because any delay would likely be viewed by
the court as a tactical decision made by the client for which no relief will be
given. 
As is probably obvious, the court far prefers the defense to
stipulate that service is complete as of today and that they will answer or
otherwise respond within 30 days so that we can be done with this waste of
everyone’s time.  The court has other,
and better, things to do than to referee these sorts of needless procedural
squabbles.
