  Case Number:  20SMCP00231    Hearing Date:   December 6, 2023    Dept:  I The matter is here for two purposes.  The first is a non-appearance regarding
objections to the courts Proposed Statement of Decision.  The second is plaintiff’s motion to amend according
to proof.   
The court turns first to the objections.  As a general matter, plaintiff relies heavily
on the order denying the motion for summary judgment.  However, as plaintiff knows, such an order is
not binding on the court.  After hearing
all of the evidence at trial, the court is not bound by stare decisis,
law of the case, or any other doctrine by its discussion in the order.  Plaintiff also claims to have relied on a
statement by Judge Karlin long ago, but again, that statement is hardly the law
of the case (and those statements were made in the context of the petition for
a writ of mandate).  The court’s logic is
set forth in its Proposed Statement of Decision, and the court still believes
it is sound.  In any event, the court
believes, based on all of the evidence at trial, that plaintiff well understood
that the value of “goodwill” was not going to be based on some actual going
concern calculation done by some expert, but rather was a number set by the
Board of Directors that could well not be based on the actual going concern
value.  Plaintiff knew that he was
supposed to be on the Board (and therefore could have had a hand in setting the
number), but for years did nothing about it. 
He knew he was a shareholder and he knew that there were never any
shareholder meetings where directors were elected (which would have helped
ensure a properly functioning corporate structure), but he never
complained.  He cannot be heard now to
claim shock that there was no operating Board of Directors.  The court believes now, as it believed then,
that the number was not meant to be an actual going concern valuation of the
company, but rather a number to be set based on the Board’s discretion that it
believed would be appropriate. 
Plaintiff also claims that the court’s conclusion that he
was treated like other departing shareholders is in error.  According to plaintiff, he claims he was
treated differently from those who left after him because they knew that APA
was on the market and he did not.  But
there is no evidence that anyone who left at any time was treated differently
in terms of how the clause at issue was interpreted.  True, plaintiff did not know APA was in
play.  And, as the court stated, had APA
actually been sold and plaintiff had therefore lost out on a liquidation event
the court believes plaintiff would have had a virtual lay down case for
fraud.  But it was not sold.  As a result, there was no liquidating event
at the relevant time.  In the parlance of
the tort, plaintiff suffered no damage attributable to the purported fraud, and
there still remains no evidence of disparate treatment.  At least insofar as the evidence shows, the
$1 million valuation was uniformly used for departing shareholders.  To explain a bit more, a liquidation event is
one where an illiquid stock suddenly becomes liquid.  Here, the APA stock was not liquid.  It could not be sold, it could not be traded,
it could not really be used as collateral. 
It had no ready cash value.  BUT
it did have a substantial potential value if APA went public or if it was
sold.  The reason is because if APA was
sold, the buyer would buy the stock and the shareholders would be paid in
proportion to their ownership.  (Even if
only assets were bought, the same result would follow, albeit in a multi-step
process.)  So had the APA sale actually
gone forward, the stock would suddenly have been worth (at least potentially) a
measurable and meaningful sum.  That is
the kind of thing that, the court agrees, plaintiff should have been told.  After all, he was a shareholder and possibly
a director and he was in negotiations with the company for the company to buy
back the stock (as a function of the potential non-renewal of his employment
contract).  However, the event never occurred.  APA was not sold, though, and there was no
liquidation event.  Avoiding the fraud
suit was more luck than skill on defendants’ part, but the ultimate fact is
that because APA was not sold (and there was no immediate cash infusion either,
which also would have increased the stock’s value on a book level), there is in
fact no tort and no damage.  As such
plaintiff’s theory devolves into the realm of speculation.  Plaintiff might have stayed on at the lower
salary because he thought the company would be sold; when that fell through, he
might have stayed anyway; he might have, fortuitously, been in a position to
benefit later when the corporate form changed. 
On the other hand, when the sale fell through, plaintiff might well have
left (given that he did not want to stay under the terms offered anyway).  But plaintiff’s logic is a more tenuous a
chain of reasoning than that of poor Mrs. Palsgraf.  He might have stayed in the hope of getting a
big cash out, but not because he wanted to keep working at APA—it would be for
the cash out.  He might have stayed after
the sale fell through, but given that such would have been the only reason he
was staying, he might well have quit at that point.  He might have benefitted from the change in
corporate form from the corporate form to an LLC, but the court does not have
good evidence as to exactly how that would have worked, whether that would have
resulted in a cash payment, or anything else. 
Critically, that theory of the case was just not tried.  In short, the chain of reasoning and
causation is too attenuated to support a recovery.
With regard to the specific objections, they are
overruled.  The court does clarify,
though, that some time after plaintiff left, APA did become an LLC rather than
a corporation.  Beyond that, the court
believes plaintiff’s objections are not well taken.
Defendant had three objections.  They are also overruled.  The court believes that the Proposed
Statement of Decision was correct (or materially so) as written.  To clarify, though, the court did not mean to
imply that plaintiff was entitled to 100% of the goodwill as determined; he was
only entitled to his pro rata share of it.  Interest runs on the amount that plaintiff
should have been given unconditionally but that he was not given, not on 100%
of the goodwill.
In short, all of the objections are OVERRULED.  The Proposed Statement of Decision will be
the Court’s Final Statement of Decision.
That brings the court to plaintiff’s motion to amend the
pleadings according to proof. 
Specifically, plaintiff wants to allege that he was in fact an owner of
the new entity formed in 2019, after he left. 
He claims, therefore, that he is entitled to an independent valuation
under the Stephenson case.  He
claims that he was under the impression that he would get all or nothing at the
trial; that is, either he would simply lose or he would get what the court
believed was APA’s fair market value as a going concern (or, to be more
precise, 19% of it).  As a result, he
argues that he did not amend earlier because it was unnecessary.  In part he claims that he so believed due to
an order by Judge Karlin.  The court has
reviewed that order and it lends no support to plaintiff’s position.
Generally, motions to amend are liberally granted.  (Atkinson v. Elk Corp. (2003) 109
Cal.App.4th 739.)  But they are denied
where there would be prejudice to the other side, such as a delay in the trial,
loss of critical evidence, or other problems. 
(Magpali v. Farmers Group, Inc. (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 471.)  Where the amendment is post-trial to conform
to proof, the rule is that the amended pleadings must be based on the same
general set of facts as those of the original pleading.  And the court is guided by two key concerns:
(1) whether the facts or legal theories are being changed, and (2) whether the
other side will suffer prejudice.  (Garcia
v. Roberts (2009) 173 Cal.App.4th 900.) 
The later the motion, the more likely there is prejudice.  In other words, if the motion is made early
in the case, it is at least possible for defendant to re-tool the defense to
meet the new theory.  Once the trial is
over, of course, that opportunity is lost.
Often, but not always, such motions are brought based on
facts that come up during the trial that really cannot be met.  For example, if during the trial the
plaintiff admits that it learned of the wrongdoing at a time well before the
statute of limitations, the defendant might well seek to amend the answer to
assert that defense.  If done early
enough, the motion might be granted because plaintiff could then explain why it
is that there was some form of tolling that allows the case to survive.  And if the matter is really not subject to
dispute, then leave would generally be granted. 
It is less frequently granted when done after the trial and when the
entire nature of the defense would change.
And that is the problem here.  Plaintiff is not asserting some minor fact,
such as a claim that he really owned 19.5% of APA not 19%.  He is asserting an entirely new theory of liability
and damages.  He claims that the problem
is not that he was offered an inadequate sum for his shares, or that the Board
failed to quantify goodwill after he bought the shares, or that goodwill had to
mean what it means in formal accounting. 
Those theories were in fact pled and tried.  Also fairly at issue during the trial was
what ought to be done given that APA was a corporation that was run like a sole
proprietorship, and what effect, if any, the Board’s pre-stock sale valuation
had on plaintiff’s rights.  All parties
were aware of the Solomon evidence—not only was it discussed at length during
the trial, it was also a part of the summary judgment proceedings.  But the theory plaintiff now espouses—that he
was and remains a shareholder until his shares are actually bought back and
therefore he is entitled to a new valuation—was never properly articulated and
the consequences were never properly established at trial.  As defendant notes, were the court to allow
that theory, it would be extremely unjust and prejudicial not to re-open the
entire trial.  Defendant tried the case
on the theories that had been articulated and pressed.  But what is now articulated is the notion
that, because the shares had not properly been sold, plaintiff remained (and,
one supposes, remains) an APA shareholder. 
He claims that when APA changed corporate forms from a corporation to an
LLC, that would have triggered a right for an accounting because he might have
voted against it, and that accounting would have given him some different
percentage or value of the company.  In
the court’s view, it is far too late in the day for plaintiff to try and wildly
change his theory of the case.  The
defense never addressed those issues at trial because they were not properly
raised during plaintiff’s case.  (Leader
v. Health Industries of America, Inc. (2001) 89 Cal.App.4th 603.)  To allow plaintiff to articulate that now
would be unfair.  In the court’s mind, it
would require essentially a whole new trial, and worse, in front of a whole new
jury.  That is prejudice, pure and
simple.  The motion to conform the
pleadings to proof is DENIED. 
As an aside, the court understands plaintiff’s Stephenson
argument; it is just that the court understands the import of that case
differently and re-tooling everything at this late date is improper even were
the court to read Stephenson as does plaintiff.
The upshot of all of this is that the court’s Proposed
Statement of Decision is now the Final Statement of Decision.  Defendant is to prepare a proposed judgment
and submit it to plaintiff for approval as to form only.  If approved, it will be submitted to the
court.  If plaintiff objects, the parties
will meet and confer and, if the parties cannot agree, defendant will submit
the judgment along with the correspondence from each party pertaining to
it, as well as plaintiff’s proposed judgment. 
The court reiterates that the judgment is to conform to the Statement of
Decision.  By approving it as to form,
plaintiff in no way waives his right to challenge the substance of the court’s
ruling on appeal (and neither does defendant). 
Timing is set forth by the Rules of Court but the court expects the form
of judgment to be submitted within 30 days. 
The court will set an OSC re: Entry of Judgment for January 24, 2024, at
8:30 am.