 Case Number:  21SMCV01968    Hearing Date:   December 6, 2023    Dept:  I The motion for leave to amend is GRANTED IN PART AND DENIED
IN PART.  As the court has hinted for a
while now, the court is inclined to allow Ramirez to bring back into the case
the individual defendants he had previously defaulted.  After obtaining the default, Ramirez filed an
amended cross-complaint.  Those
individuals were named throughout the cross-complaint, but they were not
actually parties to it.  Ramirez was
under the view that their default survived the substantively amended pleading
such that he could obtain a judgment without actually claiming liability
against them in the amended pleading. 
The court disagrees.  The
substantively amended pleading essentially vitiates the prior default (which
had not resulted in a judgment).  Upon
learning that such was the court’s view, Ramirez seeks to add them back into
the complaint.  The court tends to side
with Ramirez on that.  They were excluded
not because he believed they were blameless but rather because he believed
procedurally that he did not need to do so. 
They have been following the case from a distance and the court sees no
prejudice to allowing Ramirez to correct that error.  The court is aware that the individual defendants
claim that they are not liable to Ramirez for anything, but that is better
decided on demurrer.
Ramirez also seeks to add new parties.  Ramirez, who has been complaining of the
snail’s pace of this case, cannot do so now. 
Every time a new entity is added, we go back to square one in terms of
getting this case on the trial track. 
Unlike the mistake relating to the individuals, Ramirez provides no
explanation as to why these entities were not named long ago.  The court believes that the prejudice of
further delay of this case—already three years old—very greatly prejudices the
remaining parties and the interests of justice, and the unexplained delay
itself warrants denying that aspect of the motion.
Ramirez also seeks injunctive relief.  There is no basis for such relief and
allowing the complaint to be amended to add it would be futile.
As to the individual defendants, adding them back is best
accomplished through an amendment to the cross-complaint rather than an
entirely new amended cross-complaint. 
Thus, Ramirez may, within 20 days, file an Amendment to the Second
Amended Cross Complaint (which is what the court thinks is the currently
operative pleading, though it is hard to tell). 
The amendment can delete footnotes 4-8. 
It can also add the individuals as defendants in causes of action eight
through twelve by adding them to the parentheticals at the start of those
causes of action.  The amendment may NOT
amend the cross-complaint in any other way. 
The court notes that their roles are generally spelled out in the
complaint as it reads.  The newly added
individual defendants will have 30 days to answer or otherwise respond to the
cross-complaint once Ramirez properly serves them according to the Code of
Civil Procedure.  These defendants ought
to think carefully about demurrers on technical grounds.  Ramirez will be given leave to cure a mere
technical error, so such a demurrer likely only delays matters another month or
so.  On the other hand, a substantive
demurrer is different.  If the demurrer
is well taken, then leave to amend will not likely be granted.  On the other hand, if the demurrer is not
well taken, then it will be overruled and the case can move forward.  Counsel for the individual defendants might
also want to consider agreeing to accept service of process so that we do not
have unnecessary complications on that front. 
That is not an order; only a suggestion. 
No other cross-defendant need respond to the cross-complaint and the
court will not entertain a demurrer by any other cross-defendant.  If Ramirez fails to file an amendment
conforming to this order in the time allotted, the court will conclusively deem
that to be a waiver on his part of the right to amend as allowed by the court
(but not a waiver of the argument that he should be allowed to amend in any
other matter), in which case the current cross-complaint will remain the
operative cross-complaint and the individual defendants will not be parties to
the case.
The court will set a CMC approximately 90 days from
now.  It is the court’s intention to set
a trial date at that time as to any parties who remain in the case.
As to the ex parte, it is DENIED.  The court will not hear argument.  However, the court does note that it had
stated that it would look at Mayendia’s amended complaint to see whether it met
the requirements given by the court.  It
does not.  The amended complaint was to
be limited to one property and one property only because Ramirez had obtained
summary adjudication on the other. 
However, the complaint states that Mayendia and Ramirez entered into a
contract in which Ramirez “was to pay all rent and past due rent on one or more
rental locations that Defendant resided in.” 
(FAC par. 4.)  The amended
complaint goes on to allege that “Defendant agreed to pay $3,000/month to live
in Plaintiffs property at both locations for a rental in Marina Del Rey, and
Gardena.”  Defendant promised to pay past
due rent and arrears from previous property.” 
(Id., at par. 5.)
The court brought this up before and gave Mayendia an
opportunity to explain why it is that he in fact did comply, but Mayendia has
filed nothing.  The court will issue its
ruling one week from today.  If Mayendia
wants to file something, he ought to do so. 
Right now, the court would strike the amended complaint, leaving
Mayendia a cross-defendant only.
 