 Case Number:  21STCV04325    Hearing Date:   December 6, 2023    Dept:  I The court is concerned about this motion.  Defendant had filed an earlier motion for
summary judgment on the issue of liability claiming that defendant’s conduct
did not fall below the applicable standard of care and did not cause the
injury.  That motion was denied.  Defendant is now trying again arguing that
summary judgment on the same issues, asserting that defendant’s conduct did not
fall below the applicable standard of care and that it did not cause
plaintiff’s injury.  Plaintiff did not
file a timely opposition.  The moving
papers were served personally, but plaintiff’s counsel had earlier requested
that all materials be served electronically (in addition to whatever other
method of service defendant chose).  The
moving papers were not served electronically and plaintiff’s counsel claims
that the first counsel learned of the motion was receipt (electronically) of
the notice of non-opposition. 
Interestingly, a few days earlier, plaintiff’s ex parte
application to continue the trial was heard, but the motion was not mentioned
at the hearing by either party.
The court views defendant’s motion as a serial motion barred
by the CCP.  The court will, therefore,
decline to hear it.  The Code speaks of
the same motion for the same “issue.” 
That term has a specific meaning for purposes of summary judgment and
summary adjudication.  The motion for
summary adjudication of “issues” means that there is what used to be called
“partial” summary judgment on a particular issue.  But an issue is not a theory; it is something
different.  It is a cause of action, an
affirmative defense, the existence or a duty, or punitive damages.  Defendant’s motion is on the same issue as
the earlier motion.  True, the logical
reasoning is different, but the issue is the same.  The court will not entertain the motion.  The court is also concerned at defense
counsel’s conduct here.  The court will
not ascribe ill-motive to the decision to serve the papers personally and not
also electronically.  And the court will
assume that personal service was accomplished and that the fault lies with
plaintiff’s office for not forwarding the document.  But plaintiff did specifically request
electronic service of all documents and the parties had been doing so
generally.  At a minimum, the court would
have expected defense counsel to pick up the phone (old fashioned as that might
be) the day after the opposition was due and call plaintiff to see why there
was no opposition.  At the ex parte
hearing, defendant certainly knew of the motion and the time for opposition had
come and gone.  Yet defendant chose to sandbag.  That is not unethical, but it is a sharp
practice nonetheless.  Given that
defendant was already skirting the line by bringing a serial motion precluded
by the CCP, the court would not have expected that kind of conduct. 
Plaintiff is not without fault.  Plaintiff has an obligation to tell its staff
to forward documents to counsel.  It is a
dangerous game to assume that everything served personally is also being served
electronically.  The Code imposes no such
duty and absent a formal stipulation or order, no such duty exists. 
But the long and short of it is that the motion is
improper.  While the court has discretion
to consider it anyway, defendant’s sharp practice has precluded plaintiff from
having an opportunity to oppose the motion and the court therefore declines to
exercise its discretion in defendant’s favor in this instance.  The court has considered continuing the
motion to allow an opposition to be filed, but has elected not to follow that
path.
The MSJ is therefore DENIED AND STRICKEN.