 Case Number:  22STCV36183    Hearing Date:   May 3, 2024    Dept:  50  
 
Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 50
            



TAMAR KALOUSTIAN,
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
baker’s breakfast
  cookies, inc., et al.,
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


22STCV36183




Hearing Date:


May 3, 2024




Hearing Time:


10:00 a.m.




[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE:
 
AMENDED
  MOTION FOR ENTRY OF STIPULATED CONSENT JUDGMENT



 
Background 
Plaintiff Tamar
Kaloustian (“Plaintiff”) filed this
Proposition 65 action on 
November 16, 2022 against Defendants
Baker’s Breakfast Cookies, Inc. (“Baker’s) and Sprouts Farmers Market, Inc. The
Complaint alleges one cause of action for violations of Health
and Safety Code section 25249.6.

            In the Complaint, Plaintiff alleges
that “[t]his Complaint seeks to remedy Defendants’ continuing failure to
adequately warn individuals in California that they are being exposed to lead,
a chemical known to the State of California to cause birth defects and other
reproductive harm. Such exposures have occurred, and continue to occur, through
the manufacture, distribution, sale and consumption of Defendants’ Erin Baker’s
- Grain-Free Better Cookie - Salted Chocolate Cashew; UPC 7 08875 00601 0 (the ‘Product’).
The Product is available to consumers in California through a multitude of
retail channels including, without limitation (a) third-party traditional
brick-and-mortar retail locations; (b) via the internet through Defendants’
website; and (c) via the internet through third-party retail websites.
Consumers are exposed to lead when they consume the Product.” (Compl., ¶ 1.)
Plaintiff further alleges that “Defendants have failed, and continue to fail,
to provide clear and reasonable warnings regarding the reproductive toxicity of
lead to users of the Products.” (Compl., ¶ 33.)
In his supporting declaration, Plaintiff’s counsel states that “the
parties have agreed to terms of a settlement, embodied within a stipulated form
of [Proposed] Consent Judgment, true and correct copy of which is attached
hereto as Exhibit C.” (Amended Krikorian Decl., ¶ 10.) The [Proposed] Consent
Judgment (herein, “Proposed Consent Judgment”) attached as Exhibit C to
Plaintiff’s counsel’s declaration is entered into between Baker’s and
Plaintiff. (Amended Krikorian Decl., ¶ 10, Ex. C.)[1] 
Plaintiff previously moved “for an order to enter judgment pursuant to
the terms of the stipulated settlement of this case executed by all parties on
or about January 24, 2024.” On March 11, 2024, the Court issued an Order
denying Plaintiff’s previous motion without prejudice. The Court’s March 11,
2024 Order provides, inter alia, that “it does not appear that the ‘[t]he warning that is required by the settlement complies
with this chapter.’ (Health and Safety Code
section 25249.7, subdivision (f)(4)(A).) Thus, the Court denies Plaintiff’s
motion without prejudice.” (March 11, 2024 Order at p. 7:6-8.)
Plaintiff now
moves again for “an order to enter judgment pursuant to the terms
of the stipulated settlement of this case executed by all parties on or about
January 24, 2024.” The motion is unopposed.
Discussion 
Under Health and Safety Code section 25249.6,
“[n]o person in the course of doing business shall knowingly and intentionally
expose any individual to a chemical known to the state to cause cancer or
reproductive toxicity without first giving clear and reasonable warning to such
individual, except as provided in Section 25249.10.”
 “If there is a settlement of an
action brought by a person in the public interest under subdivision (d), the
plaintiff shall submit the settlement, other than a voluntary dismissal in
which no consideration is received from the defendant, to the court for
approval upon noticed motion, and the court may approve the settlement only if
the court makes all of the following findings: (A) The warning that is
required by the settlement complies with this chapter. (B) The award of
attorney’s fees is reasonable under California law. (C) The penalty amount
is reasonable based on the criteria set forth in paragraph (2) of subdivision
(b).” (Health & Saf. Code, § 25249.7, subd. (f)(4).)
The plaintiff “has the burden of producing evidence sufficient to sustain each
required finding. The plaintiff shall serve the motion and all supporting
papers on the Attorney General, who may appear and participate in a proceeding
without intervening in the case.” (Health & Saf.
Code, § 25249.7, subd. (f)(5).)
Here, the proof of service attached to the Amended
Declaration of Tro Krikorian states that the amended moving papers were served
on Defendants’ counsel and “Office of the Attorney General” on March 18, 2024. 
The Warning’s Compliance
Health and Safety Code section 25249.6 provides, “[n]o person in the course
of doing business shall knowingly and intentionally expose any individual to a
chemical known to the state to cause cancer or reproductive toxicity without
first giving clear and reasonable warning to such individual, except as provided
in Section 25249.10.” Pursuant to California Code of Regulations, title
27, section 25601, subdivision
(a), “[a] warning is ‘clear and reasonable’
within the meaning of Section 25249.6 of the Act if
the warning complies with all applicable requirements of this article.” 
Under the Proposed Consent Judgment, Baker’s agrees to discontinue
“Distributing into the State of California” the “Covered Product,” which is
defined as “Erin Baker’s - Grain-Free Better Cookie - Salted Chocolate Cashew;
UPC 7 08875 00601 0.” (Amended Krikorian Decl., ¶ 10, Ex. C., ¶¶ 1.3, 3.1.)
Such injunctive relief does not apply to any “Covered Product” that “was
manufactured, distributed or supplied, contracted to be distributed or
supplied, or sold prior to the Effective Date…” (Id.,
¶ 3.1.)[2] 
The Proposed Consent Judgment further provides that “[i]n the event
Baker’s decides to sell the Covered Product in the Stale of California again in
the future, any Covered Product sold in the State of California shall not
expose a person to a ‘Daily Lead Exposure Level’ of more than 0.5 micrograms of
lead per day unless it meets the warning requirements under Section 3.2.” (Amended Krikorian Decl., ¶ 10, Ex. C.,
¶ 3.1.) Paragraph 3.2.1 of the Proposed Consent Judgment provides that “[i]f
Baker’s is required to provide a warning pursuant to Section
3.1, one of the following warnings must be utilized (‘Warning’):
Option 1: 
 
WARNING: Consuming
this product can expose you to chemicals, including lead, 
which is known to the
State of California to cause [cancer and], birth defects or other reproductive
harm. For more information go to www.P65Warnings.ca.gov/food.
Option
2: 
WARNING:
[Cancer and] Reproductive Harm – www.P65Warnings.ca.gov/food.” (Amended Krikorian Decl., ¶ 10, Ex. C., ¶ 3.2.1.)
In the instant amended motion, Plaintiff
states that “Option 1” warning is “[p]ursuant to California
Code of Regulations title 27, Sections 25602(a)(3).” (Mot. at p. 5:23.) 
California Code of
Regulations title 27, section 25602, subdivision (a)(3)
provides that “[u]nless otherwise
specified in Section 25607 et seq, a consumer
product exposure warning meets the requirements of this subarticle if it
complies with the content requirements in Section 25603
and is provided using one or more of the following methods:…(3) A warning on the label that complies with the content requirements
in Section 25603(a).” 
California Code of
Regulations title 27, section 25603, subdivision (a)
provides in part that “[u]nless
otherwise specified in Section 25607.1 et seq., a
warning meets the requirements of this subarticle if it is provided using one
or more of the methods required in Section 25602
and includes all the following elements:
(1) A symbol consisting of a black exclamation point in a yellow
equilateral triangle with a bold black outline. Where the sign, label or shelf
tag for the product is not printed using the color yellow, the symbol may be
printed in black and white. The symbol shall be placed to the left of the text
of the warning, in a size no smaller than the height of the word ‘WARNING’.
(2) The word ‘WARNING:’ in all capital letters and bold print, and:…
(C) For exposures to both listed carcinogens and reproductive
toxicants, the words, ‘This product can expose you to chemicals including [name
of one or more chemicals], which is [are§ known to the State of California to
cause cancer, and [name of one or more chemicals], which is [are§ known to the
State of California to cause birth defects or other reproductive harm. For more
information go to www.P65Warnings.ca.gov.’
(D) For exposures to a chemical that is listed as both a carcinogen
and a reproductive toxicant, the words, ‘This product can expose you to
chemicals including [name of one or more chemicals], which is [are§ known to
the State of California to cause cancer and birth defects or other reproductive
harm. For more information go to www.P65Warnings.ca.gov.’
(E) Where a warning is being provided for an exposure to a single
chemical the words ‘chemicals including’ may be deleted from the warning
content set out in subsections (A), (B) and (D).”                         
Here, the “Option 1” warning in the Proposed Consent Judgment does not
appear to contain the symbol required by California
Code of Regulations title 27, section 25603, subdivision (a)(1).
(Amended Krikorian Decl., ¶ 10, Ex. C., ¶ 3.2.1.)
In the amended motion, Plaintiff states that “Option 2” warning is
“[p]ursuant to California Code of Regulations title 27,
Sections 25602(a)(4).” (Mot. at p. 5:27.) California
Code of Regulations title 27, section 25602, subdivision (a)(4)
provides that “[u]nless otherwise
specified in Section 25607 et seq, a consumer
product exposure warning meets the requirements of this subarticle if it
complies with the content requirements in Section 25603
and is provided using one or more of the following methods:…(4) A short-form warning on the
label that complies with the content requirements in Section
25603(b). The entire warning must be in a type size no smaller than the
largest type size used for other consumer information on the product. In no
case shall the warning appear in a type size smaller than 6-point type.” 
California Code of Regulations title 27, section
25603, subdivision (b) provides in pertinent part, “[a]
short-form warning may be provided on the product label using all the following
elements: (1) The symbol required in subsection (a)(1). (2) The word ‘WARNING:’ in all capital letters, in
bold print…(C) For exposures to both
listed carcinogens and reproductive toxicants, the words, ‘Cancer and
Reproductive Harm -- www.P65Warnings.ca.gov.’” Here, the “Option 2”
warning in the Proposed Consent Judgment also does not appear to contain the
symbol required by California Code of Regulations title
27, section
25603, subdivision (a)(1). (Amended Krikorian
Decl., ¶ 10, Ex. C., ¶ 3.2.1.)
   Based on the
foregoing, the Court still does not find that Plaintiff has shown that the “[t]he warning that is required by the settlement complies
with this chapter.” (Health & Saf. Code,
§ 25249.7, subd. (f)(4)(A).)
Reasonableness of Award of Attorneys’ Fees and Costs 
The Proposed Consent
Judgment requires Baker’s to
pay Plaintiff’s counsel $55,500.00 for all attorneys’ fees, expert and
investigation fees, and related costs associated with this matter and the
Notice. (Amended Krikorian
Decl., ¶ 10, Ex. C, ¶ 5.) 
The Court finds that
Plaintiff’s counsel’s supporting declaration justifies the fee award. Plaintiff’s
counsel sets forth the experience and background of each of the attorneys who
worked on this case, as well as the requested hourly rate for each attorney. (Amended
Krikorian Decl., ¶¶ 1-5, pp. 4-5.) Mr. Krikorian’s hourly rate is
$450/hour, Mr. Thomassian’s hourly rate is $550/hour, and Mr. Jivalagian’s
hourly rate is $550/hour. (Amended
Krikorian Decl., ¶¶ 1, 4, 5, pp. 4-5.) The Court finds that these
requested hourly rates are reasonable. 
            Plaintiff’s counsel attests to the fact that “a total lodestar
of $55,500” has been expended on this case. (Amended Krikorian Decl., ¶ 6, pp. 5-6.) No time records are included, but
Plaintiff’s counsel does provide a detailed review of the work performed by the
attorneys. (Ibid.) In addition,
Plaintiff’s counsel states that his firm has advanced approximately $4,000.00
in unreimbursed expenses in this matter. (Amended Krikorian Decl., ¶ 6, p. 6.) 
The Court finds that the
amount allocated for attorney’s fees and costs in the Proposed Consent Judgment
is reasonable. 
Reasonableness of Penalty Amount
Under Health and Safety Code section 25249.7,
subdivision (b)(2), the Court shall consider the following factors in
assessing the amount of the civil penalty: “(A) The nature and extent of
the violation. (B) The number of, and severity of, the violations.
(C) The economic effect of the penalty on the violator. (D) Whether
the violator took good faith measures to comply with this chapter and the time
these measures were taken. (E) The willfulness of the violator’s
misconduct. (F) The deterrent effect that the imposition of the penalty
would have on both the violator and the regulated community as a whole.
(G) Any other factor that justice may require.”
The Proposed Consent
Judgment provides that Baker’s will pay a civil penalty in the amount of $7,000.00.
(Amended Krikorian Decl., ¶ 10, Ex. C., ¶ 4.) In compliance with Health and Safety Code
section 25249.12, the Proposed Consent Judgment provides that 75% ($5,250.00)
of the civil penalty shall be disbursed to the California Office of
Environmental Health Hazard Assessment, and the remaining 25% ($1,750.00) shall
be paid to Plaintiff. (Ibid.) Plaintiff’s
counsel asserts that the “penalty is appropriate given a number of
mitigating factors, including, without limitation: (1) Defendant’s willingness
to agree, pursuant to the terms of the Consent Judgment, to discontinue the
manufacturing of the Covered Product, or to maintain an appropriate warning to
consumers directly on the label of the packaging or container of the Covered
Product that it contains Lead, and to warn of its reproductive toxicity and
carcinogenic potential; (2) the relatively low lead levels contained in the Subject
Product which, while well in excess of the safe harbor Maximum Allowable Dosage
Level of 0.5 micrograms per grams of product, were nonetheless well below the
thousand-fold level known to cause reproductive toxicity.” (Amended Krikorian
Decl., ¶ 14, pp. 3-4.)
Plaintiff asserts that “the nature and severity of the subject
violation is best described as moderate,” and that “Defendant has been very
cooperative in providing Plaintiff with any information requested, and,
consistent with the aims of the Act, has been amenable to crafting an
appropriate resolution.” (Mot. at pp. 9:17; 9:22-10:1.) 
The Court finds that the
civil penalty amount provided for in the Proposed Consent Judgment is
reasonable.
Conclusion 
Based
on the foregoing, Plaintiff still does not appear to show that the “[t]he warning that is required by the settlement complies
with this chapter.” (Health & Saf. Code,
§ 25249.7, subd. (f)(4)(A).) Thus, the Court denies Plaintiff’s motion
without prejudice. 
Plaintiff
is ordered to provide notice of this ruling. 
 
DATED:  May 3, 2024                                   ________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court 


