 Case Number:  23STCV08473    Hearing Date:   May 3, 2024    Dept:  50  
Superior Court of
California
County of Los
Angeles
Department 50
 




LAWRENCE ADAMS,

 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
NEUTRAL GROUND, et
  al.,
 
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


 23STCV08473




Hearing Date:


May 3, 2024




Hearing
  Time:   2:00 p.m. 
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER
  RE:  
 
COREY SIMS’S
  DEMURRER WITH MOTION TO STRIKE FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT
 




 
Background
On April 17, 2023,
Plaintiff Lawrence Adams (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendants
Neutral Ground, Corey Sims (“Sims”), City of Los Angeles, and Los Angeles
Housing Department. 
On December 15, 2023, Plaintiff filed the operative First Amended
Complaint (“FAC”), alleging causes of action for (1) declaratory relief, (2)
breach of contract, (3) breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair
dealing, and (4) common counts-account stated. The first, second, and third
causes of action of the FAC are alleged against Sims.
Sims now demurs to the FAC. Alternatively, Sims “asks the Court to
strike the Complaint and order the plaintiff to re-commence the action.” Sims’s
demurrer and motion to strike are unopposed. 
 
Demurrer 
A.    Legal Standard 
A demurrer can be used
only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack
or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. ((Blank
v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311,
318.) “To survive a demurrer, the
complaint need only allege facts sufficient to state a cause of action; each
evidentiary fact that might eventually form part of the plaintiff’s proof need
not be alleged.” ((C.A. v. William S. Hart
Union High School Dist. (2012) 53
Cal.4th 861, 872.) For the purpose of testing the
sufficiency of the cause of action, the demurrer admits the truth of all material facts properly pleaded. ((Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 966-967.) A demurrer “does not admit contentions, deductions or conclusions
of fact or law.” ((Daar v. Yellow Cab Co. (1967) 67 Cal.2d 695, 713.) 
B.    Allegations of the
FAC 
In the FAC, Plaintiff alleges, inter alia, that on or about
November 18, 2005, Neutral Ground, Inc. was granted title to real property
known as 5972 S. Normandie Avenue, Los Angeles, CA 90044 (herein, the “Normandie
Property”). (FAC, ¶ 7.) On or about June 12, 2012, Neutral Ground “conveyed
title to Corey Sims to the [Normandie Property]…” (FAC, ¶ 8.) “On or about
February 19, 2016 Corey Sims conveyed title to [Plaintiff] to the [Normandie Property]…”
(FAC, ¶ 9.) Plaintiff further alleges that “[o]n or about November 17, 2021 a
grant deed conveyed title to [Plaintiff] to the [Normandie Property]…” (FAC, ¶ 10.)

            Plaintiff alleges that “[d]ue to
certain building deficiencies the subject property was placed in the REAP
program with the City of Los Angeles Housing Department. All rent now would be
paid directly into a REAP Account and would not be disbursed back to the
landlord until the repairs were made and approved upon review by various
agencies of the City of Los Angeles.” (FAC, ¶ 15.) Plaintiff alleges that “this
REAP money is his money as it was collected during his period of ownership.” (FAC,
¶ 16.) 
            Plaintiff further alleges that
“Neutral Ground and Sims and [Plaintiff] agreed to settle and resolve the
controversies between them as to the Normandie Property in exchange for a total
payment of $30,000 by Defendants Neutral Ground and execution of reconveyance
or deed revesting title in Sims as to the Normandie Property by [Plaintiff].” (FAC,
¶ 19.) Plaintiff alleges that he “is entitled to this money collected by REAP
because all parties signed the settlement agreement permitting and assenting to
[Plaintiff] receiving all back rent.” (FAC, ¶ 21.) 
Plaintiff alleges that “all defendants are refusing to distribute
these funds to Plaintiff Adams.” (FAC, ¶ 22.) Plaintiff further alleges that he
“seeks an injunctive order that the City of Los Angeles REAP program office
send the payment to his address and should not be split up to any other party.”
(FAC, ¶ 24.) 
C.    Asserted
Misjoinder of Parties 
In the demurrer, Sims first asserts that “there remains a defect or
misjoinder of parties.” (Demurrer at p. 4:10.) Pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10, subdivision
(d), “[t]he party against whom a complaint or cross-complaint has
been filed may object, by demurrer or answer as provided in Section 430.30, to the pleading on any one or more of
the following grounds:…There is a defect or misjoinder of parties.”  
Pursuant to Code of
Civil Procedure section 389, subdivision (a), cited by Sims, “[a] person who is subject to service of
process and whose joinder will not deprive the court of jurisdiction over the
subject matter of the action shall be joined as a party in the action if (1) in
his absence complete relief cannot be accorded among those already parties or
(2) he claims an interest relating to the subject of the action and is so
situated that the disposition of the action in his absence may (i) as a
practical matter impair or impede his ability to protect that interest or (ii)
leave any of the persons already parties subject to a substantial risk of
incurring double, multiple, or otherwise inconsistent obligations by reason of
his claimed interest. If he has not been so joined, the court shall order that
he be made a party.”¿¿ 
Sims argues that “[a]
party, specifically Tracy Pugh, is purported to have an interest in the
controversy but he is not named and has not appeared…If Plaintiff’s case as
currently pled is allowed to proceed against Responding Party, all defendants
could be subjected to an additional suit by Pugh arguing the same claims
resulting in ‘double, multiple or otherwise inconsistent
obligations’…preventing complete relief to be afforded to the parties in this
lawsuit.” (Demurrer at p. 4:11-16.) 
The Court notes that pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 389, subdivision (b), “[i]f a person as described in paragraph
(1) or (2) of subdivision (a) cannot be made a party, the court shall
determine whether in equity and good conscience the action should proceed among
the parties before it, or should be dismissed without prejudice, the absent
person being thus regarded as indispensable. The factors to be considered by
the court include: (1) to what extent a judgment rendered in the person’s
absence might be prejudicial to him or those already parties; (2) the extent to
which, by protective provisions in the judgment, by the shaping of relief, or
other measures, the prejudice can be lessened or avoided; (3) whether a
judgment rendered in the person’s absence will be adequate; (4) whether the
plaintiff or cross-complainant will have an adequate remedy if the action is
dismissed for nonjoinder.”¿(Emphasis added.) 
Here, the Court does not find that the Sims has
demonstrated that “Tracy Pugh” cannot be made a party to this action.
Accordingly, the Court does not find that Sims has demonstrated in his demurrer
that this action should be dismissed for Plaintiff’s failure to join a
necessary party. 
D.    First Cause of
Action for Declaratory Relief 
As to Plaintiff’s first cause of action for declaratory relief, Sims
argues that “Responding Party, demurs on the grounds that this cause of action
fails to state any cause of action upon which relief may be granted.” (See
Demurrer at p. 5:19-20.) However, Sims does not provide any further argument or
analysis as to why the declaratory relief cause of action purportedly fails. 
Based on the foregoing, the Court does not find that Sims has shown
that the first cause of action “does not state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action.” ((Id.,
§ 430.10, subd. (e).) Thus, the Court overrules Sims’s demurrer to the
first cause of action of the FAC. 
E.     Second Cause of
Action for Breach of Contract 
Sims first states that he demurs to the second cause of action “on the
grounds that this cause of action fails to state any cause of action upon which
relief may be granted.” (Demurrer 
at
p. 5:22-23.) However, Sims does not provide any further argument to support
this assertion.  
Sims also demurs to the second cause of action on the grounds that “it cannot be ascertained from the pleading whether the
contract is written, is oral, or is implied by conduct.” ((Id., § 430.10, subd. (g).) The Court notes that Sims’s demurrer
does not contain any further argument on this point. Sims does not discuss the
allegations of the FAC. (See Demurrer at p. 5:24-26.)  
The Court notes that in the
second cause of action for breach of contract, Plaintiff alleges that “in view
of a imminent sale by foreclosure trustees, Defendants Neutral Ground and Sims
and Plaintiff Adams agreed to settle and resolve the controversies between them
as to the Normandie Property in exchange for a total payment of $30,000 to
Plaintiff by Defendants Neutral Ground and execution of reconveyance or deed
revesting title in Sims as to the Normandie Property by Adams.” (FAC, ¶ 35.)
The FAC alleges that “[a]dditionally, these parties had settled their
differences as set forth in the attached settlement agreement (See Exhibit 1 –
Settlement Agreement and General Release Dated 5 December 2022, a true and
correct copy is provided herein and incorporated by reference). This Agreement
essentially gives Plaintiff Adams all of the REAP rents currently held by the
City of Los Angeles.” (FAC, ¶ 36, emphasis omitted.) Plaintiff alleges that
“[s]aid Defendant’s conduct now repudiates this settlement agreement by seeking
to take the REAP funds counter to this agreement. This constitutes a breach of
contract and has substantially resulted in damages to Plaintiff the extent to
be proved at trial.” (FAC, ¶ 37.) 
The Court does not find that
Sims has shown that “it cannot be ascertained
from the pleading whether the contract is written, is oral, or is implied by
conduct.” (Ibid.) As set forth above, the second cause of action alleges a
breach of the settlement agreement attached to the FAC. (FAC, ¶¶ 36-37.) 
Lastly, Sims states that he
demurs to the second cause of action “because, to the extent a contract
is identified, it makes no reference to the funds Plaintiff seeks to acquire.”
(Demurrer at p. 5:27-28.) However, Sims does not cite any legal authority
demonstrating that Plaintiff must allege “the funds Plaintiff seeks to acquire”
in order to state a cause of action for breach of contract. To the extent Sims
is referring to the element of damages[1],
the FAC alleges (as set forth above) that “[s]aid
Defendant’s conduct now repudiates this settlement agreement by seeking to take
the REAP funds counter to this agreement. This constitutes a breach of contract
and has substantially resulted in damages to Plaintiff the extent to be proved
at trial.” (FAC, ¶ 37.) 
Based on the foregoing, the Court overrules Sims’s demurrer to the
second cause of action of the FAC. 
 
F.    
Third Cause of Action for Breach of Implied Covenant
of Good Faith and Fair Dealing 
Sims first states that he demurs to the third cause of action “on the
grounds that this cause of action fails to state any cause of action upon which
relief may be granted.” (Demurrer at p. 6:5-6.) However, Sims does not provide
any further argument on this point.  
Sims also demurs to the third cause of action on the grounds that “it cannot be ascertained from the pleading whether the
contract is written, is oral, or is implied by conduct.” (Code Civ. Proc., section
430.10, subd. (g).) However, in the third cause of action, Plaintiff
alleges, inter alia, that “[s]aid Defendant’s conduct now repudiates
this settlement agreement by seeking to take the REAP funds counter this
agreement This constitutes a breach of contract…” (FAC, ¶ 41.) Plaintiff
further alleges that “Sims breached his duty to act fairly and in good faith by
seeking the REAP funds despite knowing that Plaintiff is entitled to all of
these funds.” (FAC, ¶ 43.) The Court does not find that Sims has shown that “it
cannot be ascertained from the pleading whether the contract is written, is
oral, or is implied by conduct.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (g).)
Lastly, Sims asserts that “to the extent a contract is identified, it
makes no reference to the funds Plaintiff seeks to acquire.” (Demurrer at p.
6:9-10.) This argument is addressed above in connection with the second cause
of action. Sims does not cite and legal authority demonstrating that Plaintiff
must allege “the funds Plaintiff seeks to acquire” in order to state a cause of
action for breach of implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing. 
Based on the foregoing, the Court overrules Sims’s demurrer to the
third cause of action of the FAC. 
G.    Fourth Cause of
Action – Common Counts – Account Stated 
As an initial matter, the Court notes that Sims’s instant demurrer
contains arguments concerning the fourth cause of action for common counts –
account stated. However, the FAC alleges that the fourth cause of action is “By
Lawrence Adams vs., City of Los Angeles, a Municipality, Los Angeles Housing
Department, a Public Housing Agency and Does 1 to 100, inclusive…” (FAC, p.
13.)  
To the extent the fourth cause of action is alleged against Sims, Sims
argues that this cause of action fails. Sims cites to Professional Collection Consultants v. Lauron (2017) 8 Cal.App.5th
958, 968, where the
Court of Appeal noted that “[a]n account
stated is an agreement, based on prior transactions between the parties, that
the items of an account are true and that the balance struck is due and owing.”
(Internal quotations omitted.) Sims argues that “[t]his cause of action
requires some agreement or relationship entitling Plaintiff to money not on
account or in possession of Responding Party but from Municipal Parties…more
specifically the City of Los Angeles and REAP.” (Demurrer at p. 6:17-20.)
However, Sims does not appear to explain why the fourth cause of action may not
be stated against him. Sims does not provide any analysis of the allegations of
the FAC. (See Demurrer at p. 6:12-25.) 
Based on the foregoing, the Court overrules Sims’s demurrer to the
fourth cause of action of the FAC, to the extent this cause of action is even
alleged against Sims. As discussed, Plaintiff alleges that the fourth cause of
action is by Plaintiff “vs” the City of Los Angeles and Los Angeles Housing
Department. (FAC, p. 13.)  
Motion to Strike 
A
court may strike any “irrelevant, false, or improper matter¿inserted in any
pleading” or any part of a pleading “not drawn or filed in conformity with the
laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 436.) “The grounds for a motion to
strike shall appear on the face of the challenged pleading or from any matter
of which the court is required to take judicial notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437.)  
As set
forth above, Sims states that “[a]lternatively, for the reasons
cited herein, Defendant asks the Court to strike the Complaint and order the
plaintiff to re-commence the action.” (Demurrer at p. 2:7-8.) Sims does not
appear to provide any further argument or analysis as to why the Court should
strike the FAC and order Plaintiff to re-commence the action. Thus, the Court
denies such request. 
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing,
the Court overrules Sims’s demurrer to the FAC in its entirety. The Court
denies Sims’s motion to strike the FAC.  
The
Court orders Sims to file and serve an answer to the FAC within 10 days of the
date of this Order.¿¿
Sims is ordered to give notice of this
Order.
 
DATED:  May 3, 2024           
                        ________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los Angeles Superior Court


