 Case Number:  23STCP03468    Hearing Date:   May 3, 2024    Dept:  50  
 
Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 50
 







KEN-LAR, LLC,
                        Petitioner,
            vs.
 
CHESTNUT HOLDINGS, INC., 
                        Respondent.


Case No.:


23STCP03468




Hearing Date:


May 3, 2024




Hearing Time:


10:00 a.m.




[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE:
 
PETITION TO CORRECT CONTRACTUAL ARBITRATION AWARD 
 
 



 
Background
            On
September 19, 2023, Petitioner Ken-Lar, LLC (“Petitioner”) filed the
instant Petition to Correct Contractual Arbitration Award (“Petition”) against
Respondent Chestnut Holdings, Inc. On June 14, 2023, an arbitration award was
made requiring Petitioner to pay $1,438,218.64. (Pet., ¶ 8.) 
            Petitioner seeks to correct the
arbitration award made on June 14, 2023. On October 16, 2023, Respondent
Chestnut Holdings of New York, Inc. (“Respondent”) filed a response to the Petition.  
Discussion 
“Any party to an arbitration in which an award has been made may
petition the court to
confirm,
correct or vacate the award. The petition shall name as respondents all parties
to the arbitration and may name as respondents any other persons bound by the
arbitration award.”
((Code Civ. Proc., § 1285.) “A
response to a petition under this chapter may request the court to dismiss the
petition or to confirm, correct or vacate the award.” ((Id., § 1285.2.) 
“A petition under this chapter shall: (a) Set forth the substance of
or have attached a copy of the agreement to arbitrate unless the petitioner
denies the existence of such an agreement. (b) Set forth the names of the
arbitrators. (c) Set forth or have attached a copy of the award and the written
opinion of the arbitrators, if any.” ((Id., § 1285.4.) Code of Civil Procedure section 1286.6 provides as
follows:
 
“Subject to Section 1286.8, the court,
unless it vacates the award pursuant to Section 1286.2,
shall correct the award and confirm it as corrected if the court determines
that:
 
(a) There was an evident miscalculation of figures or an
evident mistake in the description of any person, thing or property referred to
in the award;
 
(b) The arbitrators exceeded their powers but the award may
be corrected without affecting the merits of the decision upon the controversy
submitted; or
 
(c) The award is imperfect in a matter of form, not affecting
the merits of the controversy.” 
Code of Civil Procedure section 1286.8 provides that
“[t]he court may not correct an award unless:
 
(a) A petition or response requesting that the
award be corrected has been duly served and filed; or
 
(b) A petition or response requesting that the
award be vacated has been duly served and filed and;
 
(1) All petitioners and respondents are before the court; or
 
(2) All petitioners and respondents have been
given reasonable notice that the court will be requested at the hearing to
correct the award or that the court on its own motion has determined to correct
the award and all petitioners and respondents have been given an opportunity to
show why the award should not be corrected.”
Discussion 
Petitioner
and Respondent entered into a written agreement to arbitrate on
or about September 2, 2021. (Pet, ¶ 4(a).) 
The instant petition attaches a copy of the underlying agreement to
arbitrate. (Pet., ¶ 4, Attachment 4(b)).[1]
The
Petition alleges that “[t]he dispute arises from an agreement to
purchase a mixed-use residential/commercial building. Buyer and Respondent
Chestnut Holdings, Inc. alleges that Seller and Petitioner Ken-Lar, LLC kept a
$1 million security deposit made by Respondent on the property after the deal
fell through, in violation of the agreement.” (Pet, ¶ 5.) 
The Honorable Richard A. Stone (Ret.) of Signature Resolution was
appointed as arbitrator, and the arbitration hearing was conducted on June
20-24, 2022. (Pet, ¶¶ 6-7.) The arbitration award was made on June 14, 2023, and
requires Petitioner to pay $1,438,218.64. (Pet., ¶ 8.) The Petition attaches a copy of the
arbitration award. (Pet, ¶ 8(c), Attachment 8(c).) 
In
the Petition, Petitioner asserts that the Court should correct
the arbitration award and enter judgment according to the corrected award,
because the arbitrator exceeded his authority. (Pet, ¶ 10.) The Petition
indicates that the facts supporting the grounds for correcting the award are
included in Attachment 10b(2). (Pet, ¶ 10(b)(2).) 
The subject arbitration award provides, inter alia, as follows:

 
“Based upon the
testimony of the parties and witnesses, the documentary evidence and the
arguments of counsel, the Arbitrator finds in favor of the Claimant and against
the Respondent. The Arbitrator will award Claimant the $1,000,000.00 security
deposit (see ¶3.A.) plus interest (counsel stipulated to the interest which has
been paid). In addition, the Arbitrator finds Claimant to be the prevailing
party in this action and pursuant to the Agreement (¶34), the Claimant is
entitled to reasonable costs and fees which were both the subject of an
additional ruling. 
 
In that ruling,
the Arbitrator awarded attorney’s fees of $247,500.00 and costs of $190,718.64.
The Arbitrator specifically ruled that fees (and costs) incurred in the Kansas
Action would be properly before the Johnson County District Court. 
 
Therefore, the
total award to the Claimant (without interest which I have been advised has
already been paid) is $1,438,218.64.” (Pet, ¶ 8(c), Attachment 8(c).)
Petitioner
asserts that here, the arbitrator exceeded his powers by
including certain “Disputed Fees” in the arbitration award. (Petition,
Attachment 10(b)(2)[2], p.
7:6-7.) 
Exhibit “D” to Petitioner’s Appendix of Evidence is Chestnut Holdings,
Inc.’s Memorandum of Costs. (Petitioner’s Ex. D.) The Memorandum of Costs
claims a total of $190,718.64 in costs. (Petitioner’s Ex. D, p. 87.) The
Memorandum of Costs claims $40,950.00 in “Witness Fees” paid to Cojito Realty
Partners. (Petitioner’s Ex. D, p. 87, Item 8; p. 91.) The Memorandum Costs also
claims $124,213.45 in “Other” costs. (Petitioner’s Ex. D, p. 87, Item 16.) The
“Other” costs include $116,450.00 paid for “Signature Resolution Charges.”
(Petitioner’s Ex. D, p. 94.) 
Petitioner refers to the $40,950.00 in “Witness Fees” and $116,450.00
paid for “Signature Resolution Charges” jointly as the “Disputed Fees.” 
Petitioner notes that the Memorandum of Costs states, “Expert fees
(per Code of Civil Procedure section 998),” in
connection with the claimed $40,950.00 in costs for Cojito Realty Partners.
(Petitioner’s Ex. D, p. 91.) Petitioner asserts that “Respondent included that
line item with full knowledge that Chestnut never served a 998 offer.”
(Petition, Attachment 10(b)(2), p. 5:19-20.) Petitioner also cites to Code of Civil Procedure section 1033.5, subdivision (b)(1), which provides that “[t]he following items are not
allowable as costs, except when expressly authorized by law: (1) Fees of experts not ordered by the court.” 
As
to the claimed $116,450.00 in costs for “Signature Resolution
Charges,” Petitioner asserts that “there was nothing in the agreement of the
parties allowing for an award of the arbitration fees.” (Petition, Attachment
10(b)(2), p. 6:14-15.) Petitioner cites to, inter alia, Code of Civil Procedure section 1284.2, which provides that “[u]nless the arbitration agreement otherwise provides or
the parties to the arbitration otherwise agree, each party to the arbitration
shall pay his pro rata share of the expenses and fees of the neutral
arbitrator, together with other expenses of the arbitration incurred or
approved by the neutral arbitrator, not including counsel fees or witness fees
or other expenses incurred by a party for his own benefit.” 
Respondent asserts in its response to the Petition that the
arbitrator’s award of costs is not reviewable. In Cohen v. TNP 2008
Participating Notes Program, LLC (2019) 31 Cal.App.5th 840, 868-869, cited by Respondent, the
Court of Appeal noted that “[a]rbitrators may exceed their
powers when they act in a manner not authorized by the contract or by law, act
without subject matter jurisdiction, decide an issue that was not submitted to
arbitration, arbitrarily remake the contract, uphold an illegal contract, issue
an award that violates a well-defined public policy, issue an award that
violates a statutory right, fashion a remedy that is not rationally related to
the contract, or select a remedy not authorized by law. However, [a]rbitrators
do not ordinarily exceed their contractually created powers simply by reaching
an erroneous conclusion on a contested issue of law or fact, and arbitral
awards may not ordinarily be vacated because of such error.” (Internal
quotations and citations omitted.) 
The Cohen Court further noted that “a court may correct or vacate an
arbitration award where the arbitrator exceeds his or her authority under the
arbitration agreement or a submission to arbitration. Thus, [a]n exception
to the general rule assigning broad powers to the arbitrator[] arises when the
parties have, in either the contract or an agreed submission to arbitration,
explicitly and unambiguously limited those powers.” (Cohen v. TNP 2008
Participating Notes Program, LLC, supra, 31 Cal.App.5th at p. 873 [internal quotations
and citations omitted].) The Cohen Court noted that “[a]s the Supreme Court in Moore explained, ‘Where the entitlement of a party to attorney
fees under Civil Code section 1717 is within the
scope of the issues submitted for binding arbitration, the arbitrators do not
‘exceed[ ] their powers’ [citations], as we have understood that narrow
limitation on arbitral finality, by denying the party’s request for fees, even
where such a denial order would be reversible legal error if made by a court in
civil litigation.’…Similarly, where a party submits the issue of attorneys’
fees to the arbitrator, the party cannot argue the arbitrator exceeded his
powers within the meaning of section 1286.6,
subdivision (b), by deciding the issue, even if the arbitrator decided it
incorrectly…Thus, ‘where an arbitrator’s denial of fees to a prevailing party
rests on the arbitrator’s interpretation of a contractual provision within the
scope of the issues submitted for binding arbitration, the arbitrator has not
‘exceeded [his or her] powers.’…” (Id. at p. 876.) 
Respondent provides a copy of the contract underlying the dispute in
this action, and notes that Section 34 of the
agreement provides, “ATTORNEY FEES: In any action, proceeding, or arbitration
between Buyer and Seller arising out of this Agreement, the prevailing Buyer or
Seller shall be entitled to reasonable attorneys fees and costs from the
non-prevailing Buyer or Seller, except as provided in paragraph 31A.”
(Steinberg Decl., ¶ 2, Ex. A.) Respondent asserts that this fee provision
“contains nothing that could be construed as an ‘express and unambiguous’
limitation on the Arbitrator’s remedial authority.” (Response at p. 5:20-21.)
Respondent asserts that “[w]ith no definition of ‘costs’ and no express
limitation on the Arbitrator’s power to award costs, the Arbitrator was within
his authority to make such findings, and those findings are not reviewable.”
(Response at pp. 5:28-6:2.) 
In the reply, Petitioner asserts that “Respondent argues…that in this
case the parties did not expressly and unambiguously limit the arbitrator’s
authority. But that is exactly what the parties did when they expressly agreed
to be bound by Signature’s rules. Those rules unequivocally provide that absent
an agreement to the contrary or as otherwise required by law, each party shall
be responsible for its pro rata share of the fees.” (Reply at p. 2:13-17,
emphasis omitted.) The Court notes that Petitioner does not appear to provide
evidence of Signature Resolution’s rules in connection with the Petition.
Rather, Petitioner cites to the attachment to the Petition, which states, inter
alia, “Signature Rule 6(a) provides: ‘Absent an
agreement to the contrary, or as otherwise required by law, each Pary [sic] and
their counsel shall be responsible for its pro rata share of Signature’s fees,
costs and changes in the most current schedule.’” (Petition, Attachment
10(b)(2), p. 6:7-10.) But in any event, Petitioner does not appear to address Section 34 of the parties’ agreement, which, as
discussed, states, “[i]n any action, proceeding, or arbitration between Buyer
and Seller arising out of this Agreement, the prevailing Buyer or Seller shall
be entitled to reasonable attorneys fees and costs from the non-prevailing Buyer
or Seller, except as provided in paragraph 31A.” (Steinberg Decl., ¶ 2, Ex. A.)
The Court agrees with Respondent that Section 34 of
the agreement “does not define ‘costs’ in any manner,” or “in a manner that
expressly and unambiguously precluded the Arbitrator from awarding expert fees
and arbitration fees to the prevailing party.” (Response at p. 5:23-25.) 
In addition, Respondent assert that “the Arbitrator’s non-reviewable
legal decision is also correct.” (Response at p. 6:7.) As set forth above, with
respect to the claimed $40,950.00 in costs for Cojito Realty Partners,
Petitioner cites to Code of Civil Procedure section 1033.5,
subdivision (b)(1), which provides that “[t]he following items are not allowable as
costs, except when expressly authorized by law: (1) Fees of experts not ordered by the court.” In
the response, Respondent cites to the arbitrator’s March 6, 2023
Order on Motion for Attorney’s Fees. (Steinberg Decl., ¶ 4, Ex. C.) The March
6, 2023 Order cites to Knight, et al., Cal. Prac. Guide Alt. Disp. Res.
Ch. 5-I (The Rutter Group 2023) ¶ 5:434.2,
which provides, inter alia, “CCP costs provisions not applicable: Allocation of costs
in arbitration proceedings
is governed by the parties’
agreement or the rules
governing the arbitration
proceeding. The provisions
of the Code of Civil
Procedure for allocation
of costs of suit
(CCP § 1032
et seq.)
do not
control arbitration
awards. [See Britz, Inc. v. Alfa-Laval Food & Dairy Co. (1995)
34 CA4th 1085, 1106, 40 CR2d 700, 712, fn. 9; Austin v. Allstate Ins. Co. (1993) 16 CA4th 1812,
1815, 21 CR2d 56, 57 (uninsured motorist arbitration)].” 
In addition, as set forth above, as to the claimed $116,450.00
in costs for “Signature Resolution Charges,” Petitioner asserts that “there was
nothing in the agreement of the parties allowing for an award of the
arbitration fees.” (Petition, Attachment 10(b)(2), p. 6:14-15.)[3]
Respondent counters that “[t]he Fee Provision imposed no limit on the
Arbitrator’s authority to award ‘costs’ to Chestnut.” (Response at p. 2:26-27.)
As discussed, Section 34 of the parties’ underlying
agreement provides, “ATTORNEY FEES: In any action, proceeding, or arbitration
between Buyer and Seller arising out of this Agreement, the prevailing Buyer or
Seller shall be entitled to reasonable attorneys fees and costs from the
non-prevailing Buyer or Seller, except as provided in paragraph 31A.” (Steinberg
Decl., ¶ 2, Ex. A.) 
In light of the foregoing, the Court does not find that Petitioner has
shown that the arbitrator “exceeded their powers.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1286.6, subd. (b).) 
Lastly, Respondent argues that it should be awarded additional fees. Respondent’s
counsel states that “[t]he Final Award granted Chestnut its fees incurred in
Los Angeles Superior Court and arbitration through January 26, 2023. Since
then, Chestnut has incurred approximately $19,160 in additional fees, including
in responding to Ken-Lar’s Petition to Correct.” (Steinberg Decl., ¶ 6.)
Respondent states that “[w]hen the Court rules on Ken-Lar’s Petition, and
Chestnut asserts the Court should deny the relief requested, Chestnut will
request all to [sic] be reimbursed all fees incurred from the date of the Final
Award forward that are compensable under the Fee Provision.” (Response at p.
7:4-7.) However, Respondent does not appear to cite any legal authority
supporting such request for fees. (See Response at p. 7:1-7.) Thus, the
Court denies Respondent’s request for “additional fees.”  
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, Petitioner’s
petition to correct contractual arbitration award is denied. 
Respondent is ordered to
give notice of this ruling.
 
DATED:  May 3, 2024                                   ________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court


