  Case Number:  19STCV35570    Hearing Date:   May 3, 2024    Dept:  50  
 
Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 50
 



PAULA SALVADOR,
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
GHEORGHE FIRESCU, et al., 
                        Defendants.
 


Case No.:


19STCV35570




Hearing Date:


May 3, 2024




Hearing Time:


10:00 a.m.




[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: 
 
PLAINTIFF
  PAULA SALVADOR’S MOTION FOR EVIDENTIARY, ISSUE, AND/OR TERMINATING SANCTIONS;
  REQUEST FOR ORDER AWARDING ATTORNEY FEES
 



 
Background
On October 4, 2019, Plaintiff Paula Salvador (“Plaintiff”) filed this action
against Defendants Gheorghe Firescu and
Gabriela Firescu. 
On May 14, 2021, Plaintiff
filed the operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”), alleging causes of action
for (1)¿failure to pay
minimum wage (Labor Code section 1197),¿(2)¿failure
to compensate for all hours worked (Lab.¿Code, § 1198),
(3)¿failure to pay overtime compensation (Lab.¿Code,
§ 1198),¿(4)¿failure to pay meal period compensation (Lab.¿Code, § 226.7), (5)¿failure to pay rest period
compensation (Lab.¿Code § 226.7), (6)¿failure to
furnish accurate wage and hour statements (Lab.¿Code¿§
226), (7)¿failure to pay wages upon discharge (Lab.¿Code,
§ 201), (8)¿statutory penalties (Lab.¿Code, §§ 203
and 558), (9)¿violation of the Private Attorneys General Act of 2004,¿Labor¿Code¿§ 2698 et seq., and¿(10)¿unfair competition (Business
and Professions Code¿§¿17200).¿ 
 On June 21, 2022, Plaintiff filed a request
for dismissal of all causes of action as to Gheorghe Firescu only. Gabriela
Firescu is referred to herein as “Defendant.” 
Plaintiff now moves for an order imposing evidentiary, issue, and/or
terminating sanctions against Defendant “for failure to comply with this
Court’s May 26, 2023[1]
discovery order to serve supplemental discovery responses to Plaintiff’s
Request for Production of Documents (‘RFP’), Set One, and Special
Interrogatories, Set One.” Plaintiff also seeks monetary sanctions. Defendant
filed a document captioned “Objections to Plaintiff’s Motion for Evidentiary,
Terminating Sanctions.” 
Discussion 
Misuses
of the discovery process include failing to respond or to submit to an
authorized method of discovery and disobeying a court order to provide
discovery. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010, subds.
(d), (g).) There are a broad range of sanctions available against anyone
engaging in conduct that is a misuse of the discovery process, including the
issuance of monetary, evidentiary, issue, and terminating sanctions. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.030.)  
“The court may impose an issue sanction
ordering that designated facts shall be taken as established in the action in
accordance with the claim of the party adversely affected by the misuse of the
discovery process. The court may also impose an issue sanction by an order
prohibiting any party engaging in the misuse of the discovery process from
supporting or opposing designated claims or defenses.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2023.030, subd. (b).) “The court may impose an evidence sanction by an order prohibiting any
party engaging in the misuse of the discovery process from introducing
designated matters in evidence.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.030, subd. (c).) 
“The court
may impose a terminating sanction by one of the following orders: (1) An order striking out the pleadings or parts of the pleadings of
any party engaging in the misuse of the discovery process. (2) An order staying further
proceedings by that party until an order for discovery is obeyed. (3) An order dismissing the action,
or any part of the action, of that party.
(4) An order rendering a judgment
by default against that party.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.030,
subd. (d).) 
Plaintiff notes that on
March 1, 2022, an Informal Discovery Conference (“IDC”) was held in this
matter. The Court’s March 1, 2022 minute order provides, inter alia, as
follows:
 
“The parties participated in an
IDC, and they agreed and the Court ordered as follows: 
The four written discovery
responses attached as Exhibit A to the IDC statement filed by Defendants on
2/1/22, are deemed served on Plaintiff as of today, 3/1/22; Plaintiff has until
45 days hereafter to bring a motion to compel further, but only after meeting
and conferring with counsel for Defendants in person or by telephone and, if
unsuccessful, participating in an IDC regarding those responses. Counsel for
Defendants must participate in the meet and confer and the IDC if one becomes
necessary. If more time is needed to complete the meet and confer or the IDC
process, Plaintiff may request, via an ex parte application, additional time to
bring the motion to compel.”
On May 26, 2022, another
IDC was held in this matter. The Court’s May 26, 2022 minute order provides, inter
alia, that “[t]he parties participated in an IDC. The parties agreed and
the Court ordered as follows: 1. On or before 6/9/22, Defendants will serve
Plaintiff via email with substantive verified supplemental responses to the
four sets of written discovery propounded to them by Plaintiff as referenced in
the minute order dated 3/1/22. 2. The deposition of Plaintiff will take place
on 6/20/22 at 10 a.m. in person at the office of attorney Aghaballa in Encino.”
In his declaration in support of the instant motion, Plaintiff’s
counsel indicates that on June 10, 2022, Plaintiff’s counsel sent an email to
Defendant’s counsel indicating, inter alia, “Defendants have blown their
6/9/22 deadline to serve verified substantive responses. Please advise ASAP
when I may expect them, but by no later than Monday 6/13/22.” (Sirmabekian
Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. 5.) Plaintiff’s counsel indicates that on June 14, 2022,
Defendant’s counsel sent an email stating, inter alia, “[t]hanks for the
reminder. Defendants on their oral depositions stated under penalty of perjury,
they did not have any documents to give. That makes judge’s order moot. I don’t
know what part of we don’t have anything to give in response to your more than one-year
discovery demands, you don’t get. Why don’t you attempt to milk a Bull and if
successful, get me his name. Review defendants’ responses from their oral
depositions. You are just hoping this case will payoff your mortgages, aren't
you, counsels. Good luck!” (Sirmabekian Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. 6.)[2] In
his supporting declaration, Plaintiff’s counsel states that “[t]o date no
supplemental responses have been received.” (Sirmabekian Decl., ¶ 3.) 
As discussed, Plaintiff states that the instant motion is made “on the
grounds that Defendant failed to comply with this Court’s May 26, 2022 IDC
Discovery Order to serve substantive supplemental responses to Plaintiff’s
Request for Production of Documents…Set One and Special Interrogatories, Set
One, without justification.” (Notice of Mot. at p. 2:10-13.) 
Plaintiff
argues that Defendant has disobeyed the “Court’s orders to provide supplemental
discovery responses and evidentiary, issue and/or terminating sanctions are
appropriate under CCP §2023.030(d)…” (Mot. at pp.
3:26-4:1.) 
            In Defendant’s “Objections,” to
Plaintiff’s motion, Defendant argues that the motion “is untimely and
defective, because (i) Plaintiff did not file a notice motion asking to reopen
discovery; (ii) Plaintiff did not attach a declaration of meet and confer to
such motion; and (3) the initial trial has passed and no discovery can proceed
beyond the initial discovery deadline.” (Objections at p. 1:16-19.) 
            In support of this assertion, Defendant
cites to Code of Civil Procedure section 2024.020, subdivision (a), which provides that “[e]xcept as otherwise provided
in this chapter, any party shall be entitled as a matter of right to complete
discovery proceedings on or before the 30th day, and to have motions concerning
discovery heard on or before the 15th day, before the date initially set for
the trial of the action.” Pursuant to Code
of Civil Procedure section 2024.020, subdivision (b), “[e]xcept
as provided in Section 2024.050, a continuance or
postponement of the trial date does not operate to reopen discovery
proceedings.” Code of Civil Procedure section 2024.050, subdivision (a) provides that “[o]n motion of any
party, the court may grant leave to complete discovery proceedings, or to have
a motion concerning discovery heard, closer to the initial trial date, or to
reopen discovery after a new trial date has been set. This motion shall be accompanied
by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.”

            However,
Defendant does not appear to cite any legal authority demonstrating that a
motion for sanctions constitutes a “motion[] concerning discovery” for purposes
of Code of Civil Procedure section 2024.020. (Code Civ. Proc., §
2024.020, subd. (a).) As noted by Plaintiff, the instant motion does not
seek to compel discovery. Rather, Plaintiff seeks an order imposing evidentiary,
issue, and/or terminating sanctions against Defendant, as well as monetary
sanctions. 
            Defendant also appears to argue that
the Court’s March 1, 2022 and May
26, 2022 minute orders are “void.” In support of this assertion, Defendant
appears to cite Code of Civil Procedure section
2016.080. The Court notes that this statute is repealed. (Code Civ. Proc., §
2016.080.) 
            Defendant also cites to Code of
Civil Procedure section 2016.040, which provides that “[a] meet and confer declaration in support of
a motion shall state facts showing a reasonable and good faith attempt at an
informal resolution of each issue presented by the motion.” Defendant asserts,
without providing any supporting evidence, that “Plaintiff did
not engage in meet and confer in support of her motions.” (Objections at p.
7:11.) It is unclear what motions Defendant is referring to, and in any event,
it is unclear how this makes the March
1, 2022 and May 26, 2022 minute orders “void.” 
            Defendant also argues that
“Plaintiff did not give notice to compel further responses within 45 days and
defendant did not receive such notice, much less adequate notice, more than 390
days after responses and objections were served on Plaintiff. Yet the court
entered void orders and sanctions of more than $8,000.” (Objections at p.
11:6-8.) This argument is confusing, and it is unclear how it relates to the
instant motion for sanctions or shows that the Court’s March 1, 2022 and May 26, 2022 minute orders were purportedly
void. Moreover, as noted by Plaintiff, Defendant’s arguments do not have any
evidentiary support. The Declaration of Motaz M. Gerges filed in support of the
“Objections” only concerns Defendant’s request for sanctions. (See
Gerges Declaration.) 
            As set forth above, the Court’s May
26, 2022 minute order provides, inter alia, that “[t]he parties agreed
and the Court ordered as follows: 1. On or before 6/9/22, Defendants will serve
Plaintiff via email with substantive verified supplemental responses to the
four sets of written discovery propounded to them by Plaintiff as referenced in
the minute order dated 3/1/22.” Defendant does not appear to provide any
evidence demonstrating that she served Plaintiff with substantive verified
supplemental responses in accordance with the May 26, 2022 order. Plaintiff
also does not appear to argue that she complied with the May 26, 2022 order. 
            However, the Court does not find that the
circumstances warrant the imposition of terminating sanctions at this time. Other than the May 26,
2022 order, Plaintiff does not appear to assert that Defendant has disobeyed
any previous court order to
provide discovery. The Court
notes that “[t]he sanctioned party’s history as a repeat offender is not only relevant,
but also significant, in deciding whether to impose terminating sanctions.” (Liberty Mutual Fire Ins. Co. v. LcL Administrators,
Inc. (2008) 163 Cal.App.4th 1093,
1106.) “A decision to order terminating sanctions should not be made
lightly. But where a violation is willful, preceded by a history of abuse, and
the evidence shows that less severe sanctions would not produce compliance with
the discovery rules, the trial court is justified in imposing the ultimate
sanction.” (Mileikowsky v. Tenet Healthsystem (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 262, 279-280.)  
            As
to Plaintiff’s request for evidentiary and/or issue sanctions, Plaintiff states
in the memorandum of points and authorities in support of the motion that “[b]ased
on the analysis in the separate statement, Plaintiff is seeking terminating
sanctions against Defendant, or, in the alternative, issue and evidence
sanctions.” (Mot. at p. 4:10-12.) The Court notes that on August 28, 2023,
Plaintiff filed a document captioned “Plaintiff Paula Salvador’s Separate
Statement in Support of Motion for Evidentiary, Issue, and/or Terminating
Sanctions.” However, the Court is unable to locate any specific document
captioned “Separate Statement” within this document.
The
Court notes that below Exhibit 11, starting at page 15 of the foregoing August
28, 2023 document, Plaintiff includes certain arguments concerning “Issue and
Evidentiary Sanctions.” Plaintiff argues that “for each Cause of Action, the
Court should order that it is established that Firescu is liable in an amount
to be proven at trial. Defendant should be limited in the evidence she may
produce at trial. Her evidence should be limited to the testimony and documents
she provided on May 12, 2022 deposition transcript. Any other decision would
unfairly prejudice Plaintiff, whom Defendant has deprived of PAGA members’
identity, contact information, timesheets, paystubs, personnel records and
applicable wage and hour policies.” These requested “issue and evidentiary
sanctions” are repeated at page 33 of the document.[3] 
            The Court does not find that
Plaintiff has shown that it is warranted for the Court to issue the sanction
that “for each Cause of Action…it is established that Firescu is liable in an
amount to be proven at trial.” Plaintiff does not appear to cite to legal
authority to support such requested sanction. As set forth above, Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.030, subdivision (b), cited by Plaintiff,
provides that “[t]he court may impose
an issue sanction ordering that designated facts shall be taken as established
in the action in accordance with the claim of the party adversely affected by
the misuse of the discovery process. The court may also impose an issue
sanction by an order prohibiting any party engaging in the misuse of the
discovery process from supporting or opposing designated claims or defenses.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.030, subd. (b).) Plaintiff
does not appear to seek any such sanctions. 
            In addition, as discussed, “[t]he court may impose an evidence sanction
by an order prohibiting any party engaging in the misuse of the discovery
process from introducing designated matters in evidence.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.030, subd.
(c).) As set forth above, Plaintiff asserts that Defendant’s “evidence
should be limited to the testimony and documents she provided on May 12, 2022
deposition transcript.” Plaintiff does not appear to provide any further argument,
evidence, or explanation as to why the evidence should be so limited. Plaintiff
does not appear to identify “designated matters” that Defendant should be
prohibited from introducing. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2023.030, subd. (c).)
            Based on
the foregoing, the Court does not find that Plaintiff has demonstrated good
cause for the requested evidentiary and issue sanctions.  
            Plaintiff
also seeks an order “requiring Defendant and Defendant’s attorney of
record Motaz M. Gerges, Esq. of the Law Offices of Motaz M. Gerges to pay
additional monetary sanctions to Plaintiff in the amount of $6,000.” (Notice of
Mot. at p. 2:8-10.) Plaintiff cites to, inter alia, Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.030, which
provides in part that “[t]he court may impose a
monetary sanction ordering that one engaging in the misuse of the discovery
process, or any attorney advising that conduct, or both pay the reasonable
expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that
conduct.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.030, subd. (a).)[4] 
As discussed, the Court’s May 26, 2022 minute order provides, inter
alia, “[o]n or before 6/9/22, Defendants will serve Plaintiff via email
with substantive verified supplemental responses to the four sets of written
discovery propounded to them by Plaintiff as referenced in the minute order
dated 3/1/22.” As discussed, Plaintiff provides evidence that “[t]o date no
supplemental responses have been received.” (Sirmabekian Decl., ¶ 3.) This does
not appear to be refuted by Defendant. Accordingly, the Court finds that
Plaintiff has demonstrated good cause for the requested monetary sanctions. The
Court finds that the requested amount of $6,000.00 in sanctions is reasonable.
(Sirmabekian Decl., ¶ 5.) 
Lastly, Defendant argues that “[p]ursuant to Code
of Civil Procedure § 2023.010 Defendant is entitled to receive her
attorney’s fees and cost for defending a defective, late and frivolous
discovery motion…” (Objections at p. 14:25-26.) The Court notes that Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.010 does not
discuss sanctions. In addition, the Court does not find that Defendant has
shown that Plaintiff filed a defective, late, or frivolous motion such that
sanctions should be awarded against Plaintiff. 
Defendant also cites to Code of Civil
Procedure section 2023.020, which provides that “[n]otwithstanding the outcome of the particular discovery
motion, the court shall impose a monetary sanction ordering that any party or
attorney who fails to confer as required pay the reasonable expenses, including
attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct.” The
Court does not find that Defendant has shown that Plaintiff failed to confer as
required in connection with the instant motion. 

Based on the foregoing, the Court denies
Defendant’s request for sanctions.  
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s
motion is granted in part and denied in part. Plaintiff’s motion for evidentiary,
issue, and/or terminating sanctions is denied. 
Plaintiff’s motion for monetary sanctions is granted. Defendant and
Defendant’s attorney of record Motaz M. Gerges, Esq. of the Law Offices of
Motaz M. Gerges are ordered to pay monetary sanctions in the amount
of $6,000.00 to Plaintiff within 30 days of the date of this Order.  
Plaintiff is ordered to provide notice of this Order.
 
DATED:  May 3, 2024                                   
________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court
 


