 Case Number:  22STCV34738    Hearing Date:   May 7, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




amosun akala

   , et al.;
 


   Plaintiffs,
 
 
vs.
 
 
los angeles unified school district

   , et al.,
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


22STCV34738




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


May
   7, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[Tentative]
  Order RE:
 
defendant’s motion for summary judgment or,
  in the alternative, summary adjudication
 



 
MOVING PARTY:                Defendant Los Angeles Unified
School District
 
RESPONDING PARTIES:     Plaintiffs Amosun Akala, Daniel P. Stelzer,
and Stacy Hayes
Motion for Summary Judgment or, in the Alternative, Summary
Adjudication
The court
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers filed in connection with
this motion. 
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS  
The court rules on defendant Los Angeles Unified School District’s
evidentiary objections, filed on May 2, 2024, as follows:
The court sustains Objections Nos. 9, 33, 41, and 52.
The court overrules Objections Nos. 1-8, 10-32, 34-40, 41-51, and
53-54.[1]
 
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
The court grants defendant
Los Angeles Unified School District’s request for judicial notice, filed on
February 20, 2024.  (Evid. Code,
§ 452, subds. (c), (h).) 
The court denies defendant Los Angeles Unified School District’s
supplemental request for judicial notice, filed on May 2, 2024, because the
document to be judicially noticed is not relevant to a material issue presented
by this motion.  (Malek Media Group LLC v. AXQG Corp. (2020) 58 Cal.App.5th 817, 825 [“Any matter
to be judicially noticed must be relevant to a material issue”].) 
LEGAL STANDARD
The purpose of a motion for summary judgment or summary
adjudication “is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties’
pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in
fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” 
(Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.
(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.)  “Code
of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to
grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences
reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences
or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and
that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.”  (Adler
v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)
“On a motion for summary judgment, the initial burden is always on
the moving party to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues
of material fact.”  (Scalf v. D.B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510,
1519.)  A defendant or cross-defendant
moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication “has met his or her burden
of showing that a cause of action has no merit if the party has shown that one
or more elements of the cause of action . . . cannot be established, or that
there is a complete defense to the cause of action.”  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 437c, subd. (p)(2).)  “Once the
defendant or cross-defendant has met that burden, the burden shifts to the
plaintiff or cross-complainant to show that a triable issue of one or more
material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).)  “If the plaintiff cannot do so, summary
judgment should be granted.”  (Avivi v. Centro
Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.)  “When deciding whether to grant summary
judgment, the court must consider all of the evidence set forth in the papers
(except evidence to which the court has sustained an objection), as well as all
reasonable inferences that may be drawn from that evidence, in the light most
favorable to the party opposing summary judgment.”  (Id. at
p. 467; Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).)
DISCUSSION
Defendant Los Angeles Unified School
District (“Defendant”) moves the court for an order granting summary judgment
in its favor and against plaintiffs Amosun Akala (“Akala”), Daniel P. Stelzer
(“Stelzer”), and Stacy Hayes (“Hayes”) (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) on
Plaintiffs’ Complaint or, in the alternative, granting summary judgment in its
favor and against Plaintiffs on the causes of action alleged in the Complaint.  
The court notes that, in its moving papers, Defendant
has addressed the discrimination and retaliation causes of action (i.e., the
second, fourth, and sixth causes of action) first.  (Mot., pp. 16:5-7 [heading B addressing
discrimination claims], 20:12 [addressing retaliation claim].)  The court has addressed Plaintiffs’ causes of
action in numerical order in ruling on Defendant’s motion.   

1.     First
Cause of Action for Failure to Accommodate Religious Belief or Observance
(Issue Nos. 1-6)
It is an unlawful employment practice for an employer “to
discriminate against a person   . . . in
terms, conditions, or privileges of employment because of a conflict between
the person’s religious beliefs or observance and any employment requirement,
unless the employer . . . demonstrates that it has explored any available
reasonable alternative means of accommodating the religious belief or
observance, including the possibilities of excusing the person from those
duties that conflict with the person’s religious belief or observance or
permitting those duties to be performed at another time or by another person,
but is unable to reasonably accommodate the religious belief or observance
without undue hardship, as defined in subdivision (u) of Section 12926, on the
conduct of the business of the employer . . . .”  (Gov. Code, § 12940, subd. (l)(1).)

“There are three elements to a prima facie case under section
12940, subdivision (l): the employee held a religious belief; the
employer was aware of that belief; and the belief conflicted with an employment
requirement.  [Citation.]  Once the employee establishes a prima facie
case with sufficient evidence of the three elements, the burden shifts to the
employer to establish that ‘it initiated good faith efforts to accommodate or
no accommodation was possible without producing undue hardship.  [Citations.]’ 
[Citation.]”  (California Fair
Employment and Housing Com. v. Gemini Aluminum Corp. (2004) 122 Cal.App.4th
1004, 1011 (“Gemini”) [internal citations omitted].)  “‘Undue hardship’ means an action requiring
significant difficulty or expense, when considered in light of” five factors
set forth by statute, including the nature and cost of the accommodation
needed, the overall financial resources of the facilities involved in the
provision of the reasonable accommodations, the type of operations and
functions of the facility, and the geographic separateness or administrative or
fiscal relationship of the facility or facilities.  (Gov. Code, § 12926, subd. (u).)
The court finds that Defendant has met its burden of showing that
the first cause of action for failure to accommodate religious belief or
observance has no merit because Defendant has shown that “no accommodation was
possible without producing undue hardship.” 
(Gemini, supra, 122 Cal.App.4th at p. 1011 [internal
quotations and citations omitted].)
Defendant has submitted evidence showing that Plaintiffs each
sought to abstain from Defendant’s COVID-19 vaccination policy, adopted by
Defendant on August 31, 2021, in full, while still attending work
in-person.  (Undisputed Material Fact
(“UMF”) Nos. 24, 42-43; Def. Compendium of Evidence (“Def. COE”) Ex. G-1, Pl.
Akala Dep., Ex. B; Def. COE Ex. G-2, Pl. Hayes Dep., Ex. A; Def. COE Ex. G-3,
Pl. Stelzer Dep., Ex. A.)  Plaintiffs
proposed the following accommodations to allow them to decline to obtain the
vaccine pursuant to Defendant’s policy: (1) changing the hours of their shifts
so that Plaintiffs would not be around other coworkers or students; (2)
allowing plaintiff Hayes to retire instead of being terminated; and (3)
allowing plaintiff Stelzer to work as a supervisor and perform virtual work
(which would have required Stelzer to have been promoted).  (Def. COE Ex. G-1, Pl. Akala Dep., p. 41:1-24
[“it was implied at some point by one of us that an accommodation could be met
by changing our shifts when no one is on campus so we wouldn’t be around
anybody”]; Def. COE Ex. G-2, Pl. Hayes Dep., pp. 38:12-39:16 [testifying as to
his desire to retire so that he could reserve his lifetime benefits]; Def. COE
Ex. G-3, Stelzer Dep., pp. 41:11-19 [testifying as to his offer to work
nights], 42:22-43:8 [testifying about willingness to work as a supervisor],
43:9-11.)  
Defendant has also argued, in its moving papers, that Plaintiffs
suggested social distancing, masking, and weekly testing as accommodations,
citing material fact number 40.  (Mot.,
p. 14:19-21.)  The deposition testimony
cited in support of Defendant’s contention and material fact number 40 does not
appear to show that Plaintiffs requested masking, social distancing, and weekly
testing as accommodations.  However,
Plaintiffs do not appear to dispute that they requested these accommodations.  The court therefore evaluates whether
Defendant has shown that granting these accommodations would have presented an
undue hardship. 
As set forth above, it is undisputed that Plaintiffs sought an
exemption from Defendant’s vaccination policy, i.e., Plaintiffs declined to
obtain the COVID-19 vaccine because of their religious beliefs.  (UMF No. 43.) 
Defendant’s Chief Medical Director, Dr. Smita Malhotra (“Dr. Malhotra”),
has explained in her declaration that (1) Defendant’s COVID-19 mitigation
measures were meant to address the threat that COVID-19 posed to the safety of
its students and staff; (2) non-pharmaceutical interventions (e.g., masking and
distancing) were insufficient safety measures to protect against COVID-19; (3)
Defendant “was experiencing a heavy financial burden with its weekly COVID-19
testing program[,]” which required it to administer approximately 500,000 tests
weekly; (4) Defendant “felt that a vaccination policy would decrease overall
rates of COVID-19 infection and eventually significantly reduce the costs
associated with this program[;]” and (5) Defendant made the decision to
implement its COVID-19 vaccination policy upon representations and
recommendations from, inter alia, physicians and scientists from UCLA,
the Los Angeles County Department of Public Health, and Dr. Malhotra “that the
benefits of vaccination outweighed the risks associated with not being
vaccinated.”  (Def. COE Ex. 1, Dr.
Malhotra Decl., ¶¶ 8, 15-17.)  Dr.
Malhotra further states that, “to maintain its business operations without
significant disruption arising from student, teacher, and worker COVID-19
infections, and in order to reduce the overwhelming expense of testing
initiates, [Defendant] needed a primarily vaccinated workforce.”  (Def. COE Ex. 1, Dr. Malhotra Decl., ¶
17.)  
            The court finds that this evidence
is sufficient to show that, in order to accommodate Plaintiffs in the manner that
they requested, it would have imposed on Defendant significant difficulty or
expenses and therefore produced an undue hardship on it because (1) the
non-pharmaceutical interventions, including masking and distancing, were not
sufficient to protect against COVID-19, (2) Defendant’s weekly testing program
was costly, and Defendant saved “millions of dollars as a result” of
implementing its vaccination policy, and (3) allowing Plaintiffs to perform
their work on Defendant’s premises could have resulted in the further spreading
of COVID-19, could have endangered the health and safety of its employees,
students, and surrounding community, and could have resulted in disruptions to
its workforce.  (Def. COE Ex. 1, Dr.
Malhotra Decl., ¶¶ 15, 17; Gov. Code, § 12926, subds. (u) [setting forth
factors for undue hardship], (u)(1) [nature and cost of accommodations], (u)(2)
[financial resources of the facilities involved in the provision of reasonable
accommodations], (u)(3) [overall financial resources of the entity]; Doe v.
San Diego Unified School District (9th Cir. 2021) 19 F.4th 1173, 1180
[acknowledging that the EEOC released guidance explaining that, although Title
VII prohibits employment discrimination based on religion, an employee’s
request for an exemption from a COVID-19 vaccination mandate can be denied on
the ground that it would pose an undue hardship “by burdening ‘the conduct of
the employer’s business’ through increasing ‘the risk of the spread of COVID-19
to other employees or to the public’”]; O’Hailpin v. Hawaiian Airlines, Inc.
(D. Hawai’i 2022) 583 F.Supp.3d 1294, 1309-1310 [finding that plaintiffs
did not demonstrate a likelihood of success on Title VII religious
discrimination claim because “the increased risk that unvaccinated employees in
close quarters pose to other employees” showed an undue hardship].)
The court finds that Plaintiffs have not met their burden to show
that a triable issue of material fact exists as to the existence of undue
hardship on Defendant.   
As a threshold matter, the court notes that Plaintiffs do not
appear to have addressed each cause of action separately, and instead have set
forth various arguments that may be applicable to several causes of
action.  The only specific argument set
forth in connection with their claim that Defendant did not offer them an
accommodation is that they were not offered in-person work with testing in lieu
of vaccination, remote work, or after-school hour shifts.  (Opp., p. 13:3-6.)  Plaintiffs have submitted their declarations,
in which they have each stated that (1) he was not offered unpaid leave of
absence, and (2) he was not offered testing as an alternative to
vaccination.  (Akala Decl., ¶¶  14;
Hayes Decl., ¶ 14; Stelzer Decl., ¶ 14.)  Plaintiffs Akala and Stelzer also stated that
their requests for an after-hours shift were denied.  (Akala Decl., ¶ 23; Stelzer Decl.,
¶ 11.)  The court finds that this
evidence is not sufficient to show that a triable issue of material fact exists
as to whether granting their requested accommodations would not have imposed an
undue hardship on Defendant.  Plaintiffs
did not, for example, submit evidence showing a triable issue of material fact exists
as to whether it would have imposed an undue hardship on Defendant to permit Plaintiffs
to take unpaid leaves of absences, to test for COVID-19 instead of obtaining
the vaccine, or that they could have switched to an already-existing night
shift without requiring Defendant to create a night shift to accommodate them.  
The court notes that, in their opposition papers, Plaintiffs have
also asserted that (1) most of Defendant’s population was not required to
vaccinate because Defendant did not impose a vaccination requirement on its
students, (2) vaccines do not stop the transmission of COVID-19, and instead
only decrease the rate of transmission, (3) individual testing was comparable
or superior to vaccines, (4) Defendant did not examine the “continued or
increased PCR testing of” Plaintiffs, and (5) Plaintiffs could work outside the
presence of other people.  To the extent
that Plaintiffs contend that these arguments show the existence of a triable
issue of material fact as to whether granting these accommodations would have
presented an undue hardship on Defendant (which is unclear), the court
disagrees. 
First, the court finds that Defendant’s decision not to impose a
vaccination policy regarding its students does not show that a triable issue of
material fact exists as to whether accommodating Plaintiffs—its employees, and
not students—in the manner requested (i.e., allowing them to remain
unvaccinated and work in person) would impose an undue hardship on Defendant. 
Second, the court finds that Plaintiffs have not shown that the
effectiveness of the vaccines in reducing transmission of COVID-19 shows that a
triable issue of material fact exists as to whether accommodating Plaintiffs in
the manner requested would impose an undue hardship on Defendant.  The court acknowledges that Plaintiffs’ Chief
Medical Director testified that there is a 90 percent reduction in a vaccinated
individual’s chances of contracting COVID-19. 
(Kim Decl., Ex. 1, Dr. Malhotra Dep., pp. 25:25-26:12.)  However, that the COVID-19 vaccination does
not fully “stop transmission” of COVID-19 does not show that (1) Defendant’s
decision in implementing the vaccination policy in an effort to reduce
contraction of COVID-19 was discriminatory or unlawful, or (2) it would not
have imposed an undue hardship on Defendant if it had accommodated Plaintiffs
as requested (i.e., by permitting them to work in person while remaining
unvaccinated).  
Third, the court finds that Plaintiffs’ argument that individual
testing was comparable to or superior to vaccines does not show that a triable
issue of material fact exists as to whether accommodating Plaintiffs in the
manner requested would impose an undue hardship on Defendant.  The court acknowledges that Plaintiffs have
cited the deposition testimony of Dr. Reingold in which (1) Dr. Reingold was
asked if, “in terms of transmission of infection, that testing [of an
unvaccinated employee] done the right way would be comparable to
vaccination[,]” and (2) Dr. Reingold testified (i) that he did not “know of any
study that has been done, or frankly could be done, to directly compare the two
in the real world” but that (ii) “taking these estimates from two different
studies, they’re in the same ballpark.” 
(Kim Decl., Ex. 4, Dr. Reingold Dep., pp. 41:8-42:10.)  
However, this evidence does not (1) rebut Defendant’s evidence
that it, at the time that it instituted the policy, was advised that the
vaccine was the best strategy for fighting COVID-19, or (2) show that
permitting Plaintiffs to undergo daily testing would not impose an undue
hardship on Defendant, since Plaintiffs did not submit evidence showing that a
triable issue of material fact exists as to (i) the financial burden imposed on
Defendant in administering these tests,[2]
or (ii) the risk that Defendant would face if its unvaccinated employees
contracted COVID-19 and could not work, thereby resulting in a disruption in
the workforce.  (Dr. Malhotra Decl.,
¶¶ 16, 17 [“by not issuing the vaccine mandate, it would have posed an
additional burden on [Defendant] because it made work disruptions more
likely”].) 
Fourth, Plaintiffs contend that Defendant’s Reasonable
Accommodation Committee did not examine whether the continued or increased PCR
testing of Plaintiffs could constitute a safe alternative.  (Opp., pp. 9:20-10:9.)  Plaintiffs have cited the deposition
testimony of Dr. Malhotra in support of this contention.  However, Dr. Malhotra expressly stated that she
was not involved in or consulted about the reasonable accommodations that could
be provided to an employee with a religious-based or disability-based objection
to the COVID-19 vaccine.  (Kim Decl., Ex.
1, Dr. Malhotra Dep., pp. 48:12-20, 50:13-17.) 
Thus, her testimony explaining that she was not asked whether an
employee could be accommodated by allowing them to test for COVID-19 instead of
obtaining the vaccine does not support Plaintiffs’ assertion that the
Reasonable Accommodation Committee did not examine Plaintiffs’ request for continued
or increased testing.  (Id., pp.
48:21-49:4.)  
Finally, the court notes that Plaintiffs have submitted their own
declarations, in which they state that they worked outside the presence of
students and teachers.  (Akala Decl., ¶¶
5-6; Hayes Decl., ¶ 5; Stelzer Decl., ¶¶ 4-5.)  It appears that Plaintiffs have presented
this evidence to show that it would not have imposed an undue hardship on
Defendant to allow them to work after-school hours.  However, as set forth above, Plaintiffs did
not submit evidence showing that rearranging their schedules in such a manner
would not have imposed an undue hardship on Defendant (e.g., Plaintiffs did not
show that other locksmiths and construction engineers for Defendant (i) worked
primarily after hours, or (ii) were able to work remotely).  
Thus, the court finds that Plaintiffs have not met their burden to
show that a triable issue of material fact exists as to whether Defendant could
have accommodated their requests (1) to not be vaccinated against COVID-19 but
(2) to allow them to work for Defendant on premises, without imposing an undue
hardship on Defendant.
The court therefore grants Defendant’s motion for summary
adjudication as to the first cause of action for failure to accommodate
religious belief or observance.
2.     Second
Cause of Action for Discrimination Based on Religion (Issue Nos. 7-21)
It is an unlawful employment
practice “[f]or an employer, because of the . . . religious creed . . . of any
person, . . .  to discriminate against the person in compensation or in
terms, conditions, or privileges of employment.”  (Gov. Code, §¿12940,
subd. (a).)  “The specific elements of a prima facie
case [for discrimination] ‘may vary depending on the particular facts,’ but
generally include evidence that the plaintiff: (1) was a member of a protected
class; (2) was qualified for the position he or she sought or was performing
competently in the position he or she held; (3) suffered an adverse employment
action; and (4) was subject to some other circumstance suggesting
discriminatory motive.”  (Diego v. City of Los Angeles (2017) 15
Cal.App.5th 338, 350.) 
The court finds that Defendant has met its burden of showing that
the second cause of action for discrimination based on religion has no merit
because Defendant has shown that Defendant’s termination of Plaintiffs was
taken for a legitimate, nondiscriminatory reason.  (Zamora v. Security Industry Specialists,
Inc. (2021) 71 Cal.App.5th 1, 32 [on summary judgment motion, the burdens
established by McDonnell Douglas Corp. v. Green (1973) 411 U.S. 792 are
reversed, and the employer has the burden to show that either one or more
elements of the plaintiff’s prima facie case is lacking or that the adverse
employment action was based upon legitimate, nondiscriminatory factors].) 
            Defendant has submitted evidence
showing that (1) on September 8, 2021, Defendant communicated to its employees
that being fully vaccinated against COVID-19 was an essential job function, and
(2) Defendant implemented its COVID-19 vaccination policy and terminated any
employee(s) that did not comply with the policy and could not work remotely (i)
to better protect its students, employees, and the individuals that it serves,
(ii) to decrease overall rates of COVID-19 infection, and (iii) to reduce the
costs associated with Defendant’s COVID-19 testing program.  (UMF No. 31; Def. COE Ex. 1, Dr. Malhotra
Decl., ¶¶ 15-17; Def. COE Ex. E.)  Defendant
has also presented evidence establishing that “all employees who had not
[as of October 2021] submitted verifications of their having been vaccinated,
regardless of the reason, were suspended. 
Thereafter, those employees who did not submit such verifications in
October 2021 were processed for termination.” 
(Def. COE Ex. 2, Garza Decl., ¶ 10 [emphasis added].) 
The
court finds that this evidence establishes that Defendant terminated Plaintiffs
for a legitimate, nondiscriminatory reason, i.e., because they did not comply
with its vaccination policy and their request for an exemption from that policy
could not be reasonably accommodated.  (Ibid.;
Hodges v. Cedars-Sinai Medical Center (2023) 91 Cal.App.5th 894, 910,
912 [Cedars-Sinai’s facially nondiscriminatory policy requiring employees to
obtain flu vaccine, which plaintiff violated, was objective and objectively
applied].) 
The court finds that Plaintiffs have not met their burden to show
that a triable issue of material fact exists as to whether Defendant’s
proffered reason for terminating them based on their failure to comply with its
COVID-19 vaccination was pretextual. 
Plaintiffs did not specifically address their second cause of action for
discrimination in their opposition papers, and therefore have not met their
burden to show that a triable issue of material fact exists as to whether
Defendant discriminated against Plaintiffs on the basis of their religions.
The court therefore grants Defendant’s motion for summary
adjudication as to the second cause of action for discrimination based on
religion. 
3.     Third
Cause of Action for Harassment Based on Religion (Issue Nos. 22-27)
It is an unlawful employment practice “[f]or an employer . . . ,
because of . . . religious creed . . . , to harass an employee . . . .”  (Gov. Code, § 12940, subd. (j).)  “To establish a prima facie case of
harassment, [a plaintiff] must show that (1) [he or] she is a member of a
protected class; (2) [he or] she was subjected to unwelcome harassment; (3) the
harassment was based on [his or] her protected status; (4) the harassment
unreasonably interfered with her work performance by creating an intimidating,
hostile, or offensive work environment; and (5) [the] defendants are liable for
the harassment.”  (Galvan v. Dameron
Hospital Assn. (2019) 37 Cal.App.5th 549, 563.) 
The court finds that Defendant has met its burden of showing that
the third cause of action for harassment based on religion has no merit because
Defendant has shown that (1) as to plaintiff Akala, an element of the cause of
action (the harassment unreasonably interfered with his work by creating an
intimidating, hostile, or offensive work environment) cannot be established,
and (2) as to plaintiffs Stelzer and Hayes, the conduct that they have
described to be harassment on the basis of religion cannot constitute
harassment as a matter of law.
First, as to plaintiff Akala, he testified that (1) there was a
sense of animosity toward him, which he believed “was 90 percent COVID related,
maybe ten percent ethnicity[,]” including that he was spoken to
authoritatively, and (2) nobody directed comments to him that were particularity
offensive that upset him.  (Def. COE Ex.
G-1, Pl. Akala Dep., pp. 48:16-49:1, 49:10-14; UMF No. 52.)  Defendant contends that this conduct is not
severe or pervasive.  (Mot., p.
9:2.)  The court agrees.  “‘[A]n employee claiming harassment based
upon a hostile work environment must demonstrate that the conduct complained of
was severe enough or sufficiently pervasive to alter the conditions of
employment and create a work environment that qualifies as hostile or abusive
to employees because of their [protected status].’”  (Galvan, supra, 37 Cal.App.5th
at p. 564.)  The conduct described by
plaintiff Akala in his deposition (i.e., a general feeling of animosity) does
not constitute severe or pervasive conduct.[3]  
Second, as to plaintiff Stelzer, he testified that Kristen Murphy
harassed him “through this whole process[,]” including because she informed him
that he was required to comply with Defendant’s vaccination policy, reversed
his sick and vacation time, and denied his request for unemployment
benefits.  (Def. COE Ex. G-3, Pl. Stelzer
Dep., pp. 78:10-80:16; UMF Nos. 53-58.) 
Defendant contends that this conduct cannot constitute harassment as a
matter of law because the conduct was carried out by Defendant in its
management of its employees.  (Mot., p.
24:11-12.)  The court agrees.  Harassment—as opposed to discrimination, if
based on improper motives—“‘consists of actions outside the scope of job duties
which are not of a type necessary to business and personnel management.’”  (Serri v. Santa Clara University (2014)
226 Cal.App.4th 830, 870; Id. at p. 869 [“‘Harassment claims are based
on a type of conduct that is avoidable and unnecessary to job
performance’”].)  Here, the conduct that
plaintiff Stelzer complains of concerns Defendant’s actions that were
“necessary to [its] business and personnel management” and therefore cannot
form the basis of his cause of action for harassment.[4]  (Id. at p. 870 [internal quotations
and citations omitted].) 
Third, plaintiff Hayes also testified that he was harassed because
Defendant’s management team used “strong-arm tactics of forcing the mandate and
not giving any reasonable accommodations[.]” 
(Def. COE Ex. G-2, pp. 31:25-32:8.) 
However, Defendant’s conduct in denying the accommodations requested by
plaintiff Hayes concerns Defendant’s business and personnel management of its
staff, and therefore cannot constitute harassment for the same reasons
explained in connection with plaintiff Stelzer’s cause of action for
harassment.[5]  (Serri, supra, 226 Cal.App.4th
at p. 870.)  
The court finds that Plaintiffs have not met their burden to show
that a triable issue of material fact exists as to the element of acts of
severe and pervasive harassment of Plaintiffs.
First, plaintiff Hayes did not identify any harassing comments
directed to him in his declaration, and therefore has not met his burden to
show that a triable issue of material fact exists as to whether he was
subjected to harassment on the basis of his religion. 
Second, the court finds that plaintiff Akala has not met his
burden to show that a triable issue of material fact exists as to whether he
experienced severe and pervasive harassment on the basis of his religion.   
Akala states, in his declaration, that Defendant “allowed hostile
comments and attitudes about unvaccinated persons to permeate in [his] work
environment even though [Defendant] knew that unvaccinated persons like [Akala]
were unvaccinated due to [their] religious beliefs.”  (Akala Decl., ¶ 20.)  Akala further states that he received “more
than a half dozen hostile comments” when he checked into facilities, including
that he was endangering other people.  (Ibid.)  The court finds that this does not constitute
“substantial responsive evidence sufficient to establish a triable issue of
material fact on the merits of [Defendant’s] showing” because (1) the comments
appear to have been made not because of Akala’s religious affiliation, but
because of his status as an unvaccinated person; (2) Akala has not described
the subject comments with sufficient particularity so as to enable the court to
find that they were sufficiently severe or pervasive to create an intimidating,
hostile, or offensive work environment; and (3) the content of the comments
that was described (i.e., that unvaccinated persons were endangering other
people) was not severe or sufficiently pervasive as to alter the conditions of
employment and create a hostile or abusive work environment.  (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68
Cal.App.4th 151, 162-163; Galvan, supra, 37 Cal.App.5th at pp.
563, 564.) 
Third, the court finds that plaintiff Stelzer has not met his
burden to show that a triable issue of material fact exists as to whether he
experienced severe and pervasive treatment on the basis of his religion.   
Stelzer has similarly stated that Defendant “allowed hostile
comments and attitudes about unvaccinated persons to permeate in [his] work
environment even though [Defendant] knew that unvaccinated persons like
[Stelzer] were unvaccinated due to [their] religious beliefs.”  (Stelzer Decl., ¶ 20.)  Stelzer has also asserted that (1) he watched
a video on Defendant’s website, in which a board member expressed fear and
hostility toward unvaccinated persons, and (2) during a phone call with an
interim supervisor, the supervisor laughed at Defendant for seeking religious
accommodation.  (Stelzer Decl.,
¶ 20.) 
The court finds that this evidence does not constitute
“substantial responsive evidence sufficient to establish a triable issue of
material fact on the merits of [Defendant’s] showing” because (1) the comments,
fear, and hostility communicated toward unvaccinated persons such as Stelzer
were made not because of Stelzer’s religion, but because of his status as an
unvaccinated person, and (2) the singular incident regarding Defendant’s
interim supervisor laughing at Stelzer for seeking a religious accommodation is
not severe or sufficiently pervasive as to create a hostile or abusive work
environment.  (Sangster, supra,
68 Cal.App.4th at pp. 162-163; Galvan, supra, 37 Cal.App.5th at
pp. 563, 564.)
The court therefore grants Defendant’s motion for summary
adjudication as to the third cause of action for harassment based on religion.
4.     Fourth
Cause of Action for Discrimination Based on National Origin (Issue Nos. 28-42)
It is an unlawful employment
practice “[f]or an employer, because of the . . . national origin . . . of any
person, . . .  to discriminate against the person in compensation or in
terms, conditions, or privileges of employment.”  (Gov. Code, §¿12940,
subd. (a).)  “The specific elements of a prima facie
case [for discrimination] ‘may vary depending on the particular facts,’ but
generally include evidence that the plaintiff: (1) was a member of a protected
class; (2) was qualified for the position he or she sought or was performing
competently in the position he or she held; (3) suffered an adverse employment
action; and (4) was subject to some other circumstance suggesting
discriminatory motive.”  (Diego, supra, 15 Cal.App.5th at p.
350.)
The court finds that Defendant has met its burden of showing that
the fourth cause of action for discrimination based on national origin has no
merit because Defendant has shown that Defendant’s termination of Plaintiffs
was taken for a legitimate, nondiscriminatory reason for the same reasons as
set forth in connection with the court’s ruling on Plaintiffs’ second cause of
action for discrimination based on religion (i.e., that Defendant terminated
Plaintiffs because they did not comply with Defendant’s COVID-19 vaccination
policy—an essential job function—and could not perform their duties
remotely).  (Zamora, supra,
71 Cal.App.5th at p. 32; Def. COE Ex. 1, Dr. Malhotra Decl., ¶¶
15-17; Def. COE Ex. E; Garza Decl., ¶ 10.) 

The court finds that Plaintiffs have not met their burden to show
that a triable issue of material fact exists as to whether Defendant’s
proffered reason for terminating them based on their failure to comply with its
COVID-19 vaccination was pretextual. 
Plaintiffs did not specifically address their fourth cause of action for
discrimination in their opposition papers, and therefore have not met their
burden to show that a triable issue of material fact exists as to whether
Defendant discriminated against Plaintiffs on the basis of their national
origins. 
The court therefore grants Defendant’s motion for summary
adjudication as to the fourth cause of action for discrimination based on
national origin.
5.     Fifth
Cause of Action for Harassment Based on National Origin (Issue Nos. 43-48)
It is an unlawful employment practice “[f]or an employer . . . ,
because of . . . national origin . . . , to harass an employee . . . .”  (Gov. Code, § 12940, subd. (j).)  “To establish a prima facie case of
harassment, [a plaintiff] must show that (1) [he or] she is a member of a
protected class; (2) [he or] she was subjected to unwelcome harassment; (3) the
harassment was based on [his or] her protected status; (4) the harassment
unreasonably interfered with her work performance by creating an intimidating,
hostile, or offensive work environment; and (5) [the] defendants are liable for
the harassment.”  (Galvan, supra,
37 Cal.App.5th at p. 563.) 
The court finds that Defendant has met its burden of showing that
the fifth cause of action for harassment based on national origin has no merit
because Defendant has shown that (1) as to plaintiff Akala, an element of the
cause of action (the harassment unreasonably interfered with his work by
creating an intimidating, hostile, or offensive work environment) cannot be
established, and (2) as to plaintiffs Stelzer and Hayes, the conduct that they
have described to be harassment on the basis of national origin cannot
constitute harassment as a matter of law. 
First, as set forth above, the conduct identified by plaintiff
Akala was the sense that certain of Defendant’s staff had “some type of
animosity” toward him, including speaking to him authoritatively, which he felt
was “90 percent COVID related, maybe ten percent ethnicity.”  (Def. COE Ex. G-1, pp. 48:3-49:3.)  The court finds that the conduct described in
plaintiff Akala’s deposition does not rise to the level of severity or pervasiveness
required.  (Galvan, supra,
37 Cal.App.5th at p. 564.) 
Second, plaintiff Hayes testified, as to his claim for harassment
on the basis of his national origin, that (1) nobody working for Defendant made
a comment to him about his national origin directly, (2) he did not hear of
anyone working for Defendant making a comment about his national origin, and
(3) the harassment that he is asserting is based on the “preferential treatment
of students who were not legal, who were given a pass to not be vaccinated in
order to be able to attend school.” 
(Def. COE Ex. G-2, pp. 32:20-33:14.) 
Thus, the only conduct that Hayes identified as harassing related to
Defendant’s allegedly discriminatory enforcement of its vaccination
policy.  This conduct, which relates to
actions necessary to Defendant’s business and personnel management, does not
constitute harassment as a matter of law. 
(Serri, supra, 226 Cal.App.4th at p. 870.) 
Third, as set forth above, the conduct identified by plaintiff
Stelzer consists of Kristen Murphy’s conduct in enforcing Defendant’s
vaccination policy, reversing his sick and vacation time, and denying his
request for unemployment benefits.  (Def.
COE Ex. G-3, Pl. Stelzer Dep., pp. 78:10-80:16.)  This conduct concerns actions taken by
Defendant in connection with its business and personnel management decisions
and therefore does not constitute harassment as a matter of law.  (Serri, supra, 226 Cal.App.4th at
p. 870.) 
The court finds that Plaintiffs have not met their burden to show
that a triable issue of material fact exists as to the element of severe or
pervasive harassment of Plaintiffs based on their national origin. 
First, plaintiff Hayes did not identify any harassing comments
directed to him in his declaration, and therefore has not met his burden to
show that a triable issue of material fact exists as to whether he was
subjected to harassment on the basis of his national origin. 
Second, plaintiffs Akala and Stelzer did not assert that they were
subjected to harassing statements or conduct on the basis of their national
origins.  Instead, as set forth above,
they stated in their declarations that they were subjected to comments and
attitudes “about unvaccinated persons[,]” not about persons of their national
origins.  (Akala Decl., ¶ 20;
Stelzer Decl., ¶ 20.)  Similarly,
Stelzer’s statement that Defendant’s interim supervisor laughed at him for
seeking a religious accommodation does not show that Defendant engaged in
harassing conduct based on his national origin. 
(Stelzer Decl., ¶ 20.)
The court therefore grants Defendant’s motion for summary
adjudication as to the fifth cause of action for harassment based on national
origin.
 
6.     Sixth
Cause of Action for Retaliation in Violation of FEHA (Issue Nos. 49-57)
It is an unlawful employment practice “[f]or any employer . . . to
discharge, expel, or otherwise discriminate against any person because the
person has opposed any practices forbidden under this part or because the
person has filed a complaint, testified, or assisted in any proceeding under
this part.”  (Gov. Code, § 12940,
subd. (h).)  “‘[T]o establish a prima
facie case of retaliation under the FEHA, a plaintiff must show (1) he or she
engaged in a “protected activity”, (2) the employer subjected the employee to
an adverse employment action, and (3) a causal link existed between the
protected activity and the employer’s action.’” 
(Meeks v. Autozone, Inc. (2018) 24 Cal.App.5th 855, 878-879.) 
The court finds that Defendant has met its burden of showing that
the sixth cause of action for retaliation has no merit because Defendant has
shown that Defendant’s termination of Plaintiffs was taken for a legitimate,
nonretaliatory reason for the same reasons as set forth in connection with the
court’s ruling on Plaintiffs’ second and fourth causes of action for
discrimination (i.e., Defendant has shown that it terminated Plaintiffs because
they did not comply with Defendant’s COVID-19 vaccination policy—an essential
job function—and could not perform their duties remotely).  (Light v. Department of Parks &
Recreation (2017) 14 Cal.App.5th 75, 91 [after an employee establishes a
prima facie case of retaliation, employer must offer a legitimate,
nonretaliatory reason for the adverse employment action]; Def. COE Ex. 1, Dr.
Malhotra Decl., ¶¶ 15-17; Def. COE Ex. E; Garza Decl., ¶ 10.)  
The court finds that Plaintiffs have not met their burden to show
that a triable issue of material fact exists as to whether Defendant’s
proffered reason for terminating them based on their failure to comply with its
COVID-19 vaccination was pretextual.  (Light,
supra, 14 Cal.App.5th at p. 94 [plaintiff must offer evidence sufficient
to allow a trier of fact to find that the defendant’s stated reasons were
pretextual or support a reasoned inference that the challenged action was the
product of discriminatory or retaliatory animus].)  Plaintiffs did not specifically address the
sixth cause of action for retaliation in their opposition papers, and therefore
have not met their burden to show that a triable issue of material fact exists as
to whether Defendant retaliated against Plaintiffs by terminating them.  
The court therefore grants Defendant’s motion for summary
adjudication as to the sixth cause of action for retaliation.
7.     Seventh
Cause of Action for Failure to Prevent Discrimination, Harassment, and
Retaliation (Issue Nos. 58-66)
It
is an unlawful employment practice “[f]or an employer . . . to fail to take all
reasonable steps necessary to prevent discrimination and harassment from
occurring.”  (Gov. Code, § 12940, subd. (k).)  “‘[C]ourts have
required a finding of actual discrimination or harassment under FEHA
before a plaintiff may prevail under section 12940, subdivision (k).’”  (Dickson
v. Burke Williams, Inc. (2015) 234 Cal.App.4th 1307, 1314.)  
The court finds that Defendant has met its burden of showing that
the seventh cause of action for failure to prevent discrimination, harassment,
and retaliation has no merit because Defendant has shown that an element of the
cause of action (valid, underlying claims for discrimination, harassment, and
retaliation) cannot be established for the reasons set forth in connection with
the court’s ruling on the first through sixth causes of action. 
The court finds that Plaintiffs have not met their burden to show
that a triable issue of material fact exists as to the element of valid,
underlying claims for discrimination, harassment, or retaliation for the
reasons set forth in connection with the court’s ruling on the first through
sixth causes of action.
The court therefore grants Defendant’s motion for summary
adjudication as to the seventh cause of action for failure to prevent
discrimination, harassment, and retaliation.
8.     Defendant
is Entitled to Summary Judgment
Because the court has granted summary adjudication on all of the
causes of action alleged in Plaintiffs’ Complaint, the court finds that all of
the papers submitted show that there is no triable issue as to any material
fact and that Defendant is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd.
(c).)  The court therefore grants
Defendant’s motion for summary judgment on Plaintiffs’ Complaint. 
 
 
ORDER
            The court grants defendant Los
Angeles Unified School District’s motion for summary judgment on plaintiffs
Amosun Akala, and Daniel P. Stelzer, and Stacy Hayes’s Complaint. 
            The court orders defendant Los
Angeles Unified School District to prepare, serve, and lodge a proposed
judgment no later than 10 days from the date of this order. 
            The court sets an Order to Show
Cause re entry of judgment for hearing on July 2, 2024, at 8:30 a.m., in
Department 53. 
The court orders defendant Los Angeles Unified School District to give
notice of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  May 7, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court


