


[1] The
court notes that defendant Los Angeles Unified School District has objected to
various deposition transcripts of individuals taken in other actions on the
ground that the plaintiffs did not request judicial notice of those
documents.  However, defendant did not
cite authority requiring them to have requested that the court take judicial
notice of those documents. 


[2] The
court notes that Plaintiffs have stated that they were willing to pay the costs
associated with daily testing.  (Akala
Decl., ¶ 18; Hayes Decl., ¶ 18; Stelzer Decl., ¶ 18.)  However, Plaintiffs did not point to any
authority establishing that they would be legally permitted to do so.  In reply, Defendant has asserted that such
actions may have been unlawful pursuant to Labor Code section 2802, subdivision
(a), which requires an employer to indemnify an employee “for all necessary
expenditures or losses incurred by the employee in the direct consequence of
the discharge of his or her duties, or of his or her obedience to the
directions of the employer . . . .” 
Moreover, Plaintiffs did not submit evidence showing that they suggested
that they pay the daily testing costs as a reasonable accommodation. 


[3] Moreover,
the court notes that plaintiff Akala did not testify that he believed he was
harassed on the basis of his religion, but instead because of his status as an
unvaccinated person and his ethnicity. 
(Def. COE Ex. G-1, Pl. Akala Dep., pp. 48:16-49:1.)


[4] The
court notes that the deposition testimony submitted by Defendant shows that
plaintiff Stelzer agreed that it was “fair to say that any harassment [he]
fe[lt] he suffered is due to the COVID-19 vaccination and [his] decision not to
get vaccinated[,]” and therefore appeared to testify that he was harassed on
the basis that he was unvaccinated, and not because of his religious creed.  (Def. COE Ex. G-3, p. 81:20-23.) 


[5] The
court also notes that the deposition testimony submitted by Defendant shows
that plaintiff Hayes testified that nobody at work made a comment to him that
he took as negative or offensive about his religion.  (Def. COE Ex. G-2, Hayes Dep., p. 31:17-24.)

