  Case Number:  21STCV23853    Hearing Date:   May 7, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




jose garcia

   ;
 


   Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
lance camper mfg. corp.

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


21STCV23853




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


May
   7, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[tentative]
  Order RE:
 
defendant’s motion to trifurcate
 



 
MOVING PARTY:                 Defendant Lance Camper Mfg.
Corp.            
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiff Jose Garcia
Motion to Trifurcate 
The court
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers filed in connection with
this motion. 
DISCUSSION
Defendant Lance Mfg. Corp. (“Defendant”) moves the court for an order
trifurcating trial in this action, filed by plaintiff Jose Garcia (“Plaintiff”)
on June 28, 2021, in the following three phases: (1) liability, (2) damages,
and (3) punitive damages. 
First, the court denies Defendant’s request to separate the stages of
trial on the issues of liability and damages. 

“[T]rial
courts have broad discretion to determine the order of proof in the interests
of judicial economy.”¿ (Grappo v. Country Financial Corp. (1991) 235
Cal.App.3d 496, 504.)¿ Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 1048, “[t]he
court, in furtherance of convenience or to avoid prejudice . . . may order a
separate trial . . . of any separate issue or of any number of causes of action
or issues . . . .”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 1048, subd. (b).)¿ Similarly, Code of
Civil Procedure section 598 provides that “[t]he court may, when the
convenience of witnesses, the ends of justice, or the economy and efficiency of
handling the litigation would be promoted thereby . . . make an order . . .
that the trial of any issue or any part thereof shall precede the trial of any
other issue or any part thereof in the case . . . .”¿ (Code Civ. Proc.,
§¿598.)¿¿¿ 
The court
finds that it is not in furtherance of convenience, the ends of justice, or
judicial economy and efficiency to separate the phases of trial so that the
issues of liability and damages are tried separately.  (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 598, 1048, subd.
(b).)  Separating these issues may lead
to duplicative testimony from witnesses, which may lengthen trial, and may
confuse the jury.  Moreover, the court
finds that Defendant has not shown that it will be unduly prejudiced by
Plaintiff’s testimony regarding his alleged emotional stressors to prove the
amount of damages to which Plaintiff contends he is entitled. 
Second, the
court grants Defendant’s request to separate the stages of trial
on the issues of (1) liability and damages, and (2) punitive damages. 
“The
court shall, on application of any defendant, preclude the admission of
evidence of that defendant’s profits or financial condition until after the
trier of fact returns a verdict for plaintiff awarding actual damages and finds
that a defendant is guilty of malice, oppression, or fraud in accordance with
Section 3294.¿ Evidence of profit and financial condition shall be admissible
only as to the defendant or defendants found to be liable to the plaintiff and
to be guilty of malice, oppression, or fraud.¿ Evidence of profit and financial
condition shall be presented to the same trier of fact that found for the
plaintiff and found one or more defendants guilty of malice, oppression, or
fraud.”¿  (Civ. Code, § 3295, subd. (d).)  “While the statute refers only to evidence
of the defendant’s financial condition, in practice bifurcation under this
section means that all evidence relating to the amount of punitive
damages is to be offered in the second phase, while the determination whether
plaintiff is entitled to punitive damages (i.e., whether the defendant
is guilty of malice, fraud or oppression) is decided in the first phase along
with compensatory damages.”¿ (Holdgrafer v. Unocal Corp. (2008) 160
Cal.App.4th 907, 919.)¿¿¿ 
The court
finds that Defendant is entitled to an order bifurcating trial pursuant to
Civil Code section 3295, and therefore grants Defendant’s request to do so as
set forth below.  (Civ. Code,
§ 3295, subd. (d).)
ORDER
The court grants in part defendant Lance Camper Mfg. Corp.’s motion to
trifurcate as follows. 
The
court orders trial of this action will be bifurcated as follows: (1) the jury
will first decide the issues of whether to impose liability for compensatory
damages and, if so, the amount of compensatory damages and whether defendant
Lance Camper Mfg. Corp. is guilty of malice, oppression, or fraud, and (2) only after
making findings in plaintiff Jose Garcia’s favor on all of those issues, the
jury will then decide the issue of whether to impose punitive damages against defendant
Lance Camper Mfg. Corp.
The
court denies all other relief requested in defendant Lance Camper
Mfg. Corp.’s motion. 
            The court orders defendant Lance
Camper Mfg. Corp.to give notice of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  May 7, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court