  Case Number:  22TRCV00563    Hearing Date:   November 15, 2023    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling
 
HEARING DATE:                 November 15, 2023 
 
CASE NUMBER:                   22TRCV00563
 
CASE NAME:                        Ocean
Recovery, LLC v. Sullivan Curtis Monroe Insurance Services, LLC and Scottsdale
Indemnity Company                     .  
 
MOVING PARTY:                (1)
Defendant, SullivanCurtisMonroe
Insurance Services, LLC 
                                                (2)
Defendant, SullivanCurtisMonroe Insurance Services, LLC
                                                (3)
Defendants, Nationwide Mutual Insurance Company and Scottsdale Insurance
Company
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       (1)
Ocean Recovery, LLC (Late filed
Declaration in Opposition.)
                                                (2)
Ocean Recovery, LLC
(Late filed Declaration in Opposition.)
                                                (3)
Ocean Recovery, LLC (Late filed Declaration in Opposition.)
 
TRIAL DATE:                       None set
 
MOTION:                               (1)
Defendant,
SullivanCurtisMonroe Insurance Services, LLC’s Demurrer
                                                (2)
Defendant, SullivanCurtisMonroe Insurance Services, LLC’s Motion to Strike
                                                (3)
Defendants, Nationwide Mutual Insurance Company and Scottsdale Insurance
Company’s Demurrer
 
 
                                                            
Tentative Rulings:                  (1) SCMIS’ Demurrer is SUSTAINED as to the 4th
cause of action for professional negligence contained in the July 31, 2023 TAC,
without leave to amend
                                                (2)
SCIMS’ Motion to Strike the August 7, 2023 TAC is GRANTED
                                                (3)
Nationwide and Scottsdale’s Demurrer is SUSTAINED without leave to amend
 
I. BACKGROUND 
 
A. Factual 
 
On July 8, 2022, Plaintiff, Ocean
Recovery, LLC (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Sullivan Curtis Monroe
Insurance Services, LLC, and Scottsdale Indemnity Company (collectively
“Defendants”). On July 13, 2022, Plaintiff filed an amended complaint. On February
22, 2023, Plaintiff filed a Second Amended Complaint. On July 31, 2023,
Plaintiff filed a Third Amended Complaint (“TAC”). The TAC alleges causes of
action for: (1) Breach of Contract; (2) Breach of the Implied Covenant of Good
Faith and Fair Dealing; and (3) Professional Negligence. 
 
Defendant, Sullivan Curtis Monroe
Insurance Services, LLC, files a Demurrer as well as a Motion to Strike
portions of the TAC. 
 
Further, Defendants, Nationwide
Mutual Insurance Company, and Scottsdale Insurance Company filed a Demurrer and
a notice of joinder as to the Motion to Strike the Third Amended Complaint. 
 
            B.
Procedural 
 
On August 23, 2023, Defendant,
Sullivan Curtis Monroe Insurance Services, LLC filed a Demurrer and Motion to
Strike. On October 17, 2023, Sullivan Curtis Monroe filed a notice of
non-opposition. On November 2, 2023, Counsel for Plaintiff filed a declaration in
response to the demurrer. 
 
            On
September 8, 2023, Defendants, Nationwide Mutual Insurance Company, and
Scottsdale Insurance Company filed a Demurrer and notice of joinder to the
above Motion to Strike. On October 25, 2023, Nationwide and Scottsdale filed a
notice of non-opposition. On November 2, 2023, counsel for Plaintiff filed a
declaration in response to the demurrer. 
 
 II. REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL
NOTICE 
 
¿  SCMIS
requested this Court take Judicial notice of the following documents:
 
1.    
Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint and its
attached Exhibit A: Business and Management Indemnity Policy, No. EKS3333787,
for the policy period of June 1, 2020 to June 1, 2021 issued to Plaintiff by
Scottsdale Insurance Company filed on or about July 13, 2022. 
2.    
SCM Services’ Articles of Organization filed
with the California Secretary of State filed on or about December 31, 2004. 
3.    
Scottsdale Indemnity Company’s Notice of the
Court’s Ruling on its Demurrer to Plaintiff’s FAC. 
4.    
Plaintiff’s Second Amended Complaint filed on
February 22, 2023 (hereinafter “SAC”). 
5.    
Plaintiff’s Second Ex Parte Application filed on
July 20, 2022. 
6.    
Declaration of Michael R. Dufour in support of
Plaintiff’s Second Ex Parte Application with its attached Exhibit A:
Plaintiff’s proposed Third Amended Complaint filed on July 20, 2022. 
7.    
SCM Services’ Notice of the Court’s Ruling on
Plaintiff’s Second Ex Parte Application. 
8.    
Plaintiff’s Third Amended Complaint filed on
July 31, 2023 (hereinafter original TAC”). 
9.    
Plaintiff’s Third Amended Complaint filed on
August 7, 2023 (hereinafter new TAC”). 
 
The Court GRANTS
Defendant’s request and takes judicial notice of the above documents. 
 
Additionally, Defendants,
Nationwide Mutual Insurance Company, and Scottsdale Insurance Company request
this Court take Judicial Notice of the following document: 
 
1.     Exhibit
A: Business and Management Indemnity Policy, No. EKS3333787, for the policy
period of June 1, 2020 to June 1, 2021 issued to Plaintiff by Scottsdale
Insurance Company that is attached to Plaintiff’s original Complaint in this
action filed on July 13, 2022.
 
 
The Court GRANTS
Defendants’ Request and takes judicial notice of the above document. 
 
III.
ANALYSIS
 
            Before
proceeding with this latest round of pleading motions in this matter, the Court
must address what Plaintiff’s counsel refers to as the “updated” Third Amended
Complaint, i.e., a document served and filed on August 7, 2023 without
obtaining leave of court but which contains “material” changes from the TAC
approved for filing by the Court.  After the
July 21, 2023 ex parte application for leave to file the TAC, Plaintiff first on
July 31, 2023 filed the stand-alone TAC, but several days later filed a “Notice
of Errata” on August 3 and then on August 7, 2023 filed a second document entitled
“Third Amended Complaint” which per plaintiff’s counsel was the corrected and
updated version of what he had attached to his declaration in support of the ex
parte application two weeks earlier.  The
Notice of Errata does not list the pages or lines of the changes made to “update”
the TAC that was presented at the July 21, 2023 ex parte application.  Defendants have predicated their demurrers to
the FAC on the July 31 version of the FAC, no doubt because (a) the Court indicated
at the ex parte hearing that it would not likely be allowing a fourth amended
complaint and (b) the “updated” TAC was in fact an amended version of what the Court
reviewed and approved for filing during the ex parte application.  The Court had stated at the ex parte hearing
that Plaintiff needed to file a stand-alone TAC, not an attachment to a
declaration, that was the approved third amended complaint to make the document
more readily locatable in the digital court file.  Plaintiff’s counsel did so on July 31, 2023, but
then also filed a later document on August 7, 2023 also entitled “third amended
complaint,” making these pleading motions more difficult to manage.  
 
The Court’s tentative ruling here
is predicated on the TAC that was filed July 31, 2023, not the so-called
updated one that was filed without leave of court a week later.  If plaintiff’s counsel intends for the Court
to consider the unapproved “updated” TAC, the Court would be willing to
consider a Section 473(b) motion, but such a motion would implicate the statute’s
conditions such as paying the reasonable attorneys’ fees caused to defendants’
counsel because of a claimed attorney error.  The Court is mindful that Plaintiff did not
file written opposition to the demurrers to the Second Amended Complaint, and
did not file timely opposition to the demurrers or motions to strike the Third
Amended Complaint.
 
A.    Legal Standard 
 
A demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that
appear on the face of the pleading under attack or from matters outside the
pleading that are judicially noticeable. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39
Cal.3d 311, 318.) “To survive a demurrer, the complaint need only allege facts
sufficient to state a cause of action; each evidentiary fact that might
eventually form part of the plaintiff’s proof need not be alleged.” (C.A. v.
William S. Hart Union High School Dist. (2012) 53 Cal.4th 861, 872.) For
the purpose of testing the sufficiency of the cause of action, the demurrer
admits the truth of all material facts properly pleaded. (Aubry v. Tri-City
Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 966-967.) A demurrer “does not admit
contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.” (Daar v. Yellow Cab
Co. (1967) 67 Cal.2d 695, 713.)¿ 
 
A pleading is uncertain if it is ambiguous or unintelligible.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (f).) A demurrer for uncertainty may lie if
the failure to label the parties and claims renders the complaint so confusing
defendant cannot tell what he or she is supposed to respond to.¿ (Williams
v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 135, 139, fn. 2.)
However, “[a] demurrer for uncertainty is strictly construed, even where a
complaint is in some respects uncertain, because ambiguities can be clarified
under modern discovery procedures.” (Khoury v. Maly's of California, Inc.
(1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)¿
 
B.   
Defendant, SullivanCurtisMonroe Insurance Services, LLC’s
Demurrer 
 
SMC demurs to the fourth cause of
action for professional negligence on the grounds it fails to state sufficient
facts to constitute a cause of action. Defendants note that the original TAC filed
on July 31, 2023 is the operative complaint since the August 7, 2023 “updated” TAC
was filed without leave and arguably in violation of the Court’s order at the
ex parte application hearing. The Court does not understand Plaintiff’s
argument as to why they had to file an updated TAC. The Court’s analysis in this
tentative ruling is based on the July 31, 2023 TAC, the one as to which leave
of court was granted on hearing the ex parte application. 
 
Professional Negligence 
 
              “The
elements of a cause of action for professional negligence are (1) the existence
of the duty of the professional to use such skill, prudence, and diligence as
other members of the profession commonly possess and exercise; (2) breach of
that duty; (3) a causal connection between the negligent conduct and the
resulting injury; and (4) actual loss or damage resulting from the professional
negligence.” (Oasis West Realty, LLC v.
Goldman (2011) 51 Cal.4th 811, 821.) Previously, this Court noted in July
21, 2023, minute order as to the demurrer to the Second Amended Complaint that the
SAC was uncertain because of its general use of  the deliberately non-specific term “Defendants.”
Further, this Court noted that Plaintiff’s generalized allegations that
Defendant SMC held itself out as an expert, with nothing more, was not enough
to satisfy the pleading requirements for a professional negligence cause of action
here. Lastly, this Court noted that all of the causes of action, including
Professional Negligence, relied on a contract not between Plaintiff and SMC.
Here, the TAC does not do a better job of explaining how SMC is related to the
alleged policy between Plaintiff and Scottsdale Insurance Company. The Court
does not believe that Plaintiff is able to maintain this cause of action as alleged
against SMC, and as such, the Court SUSTAINS SMC’s demurrer to this cause of
action without leave to amend. 
 
C.   
Defendants, SullivanCurtisMonroe Insurance Services, LLC’s
Motion to Strike  
 
The court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion,
and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper
matter inserted in any pleading.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 436(a).)¿ The court may
also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity
with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.¿ (Id.,
§ 436(b).)¿ The grounds for a motion to strike are that the pleading has
irrelevant, false improper matter, or has not been drawn or filed in conformity
with laws.¿ (Id., § 436.)¿ The grounds for moving to strike must appear
on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice.¿ (Id., §
437.)¿ “When the defect which justifies striking a complaint is capable of
cure, the court should allow leave to amend.”¿ (Vaccaro v. Kaiman (1998)
63 Cal.App.4th 761, 768.)
 
            Here,
Defendant SCM seeks to strike the August 7, 2023 TAC. As noted above, the Court
only analyzed the properly filed TAC from July, not the new TAC. The August 7,
2023 document was filed without leave of court. 
As such, the Motion to Strike is granted. 
 
D.   
Defendants, Nationwide Mutual Insurance Company, and
Scottsdale Insurance Company’s Demurrer
 
Defendants Nationwide and
Scottsdale argue that Nationwide should be dismissed from this action as there
is no privity of contract between Nationwide and Plaintiff. Previously, this
Court held that nothing in Plaintiff’s SAC specified liability as to
Nationwide, and that the only paragraph tying them to any sort of allegation
was an overbroad paragraph asserting that all defendants were agents,
conspirators, ostensible agents, etc. Based on the pleadings of the TAC, Plaintiff
does not specify liability as to Nationwide either. Instead, Plaintiff again groups
all allegations against Nationwide in with allegations made against Scottsdale
Indemnity Company (which has since been dismissed) and Scottsdale Insurance
Company. Because Plaintiff has shown this Court it is unable to allege any
specific facts against Nationwide, the Court SUSTAINS the demurrer without
leave to amend. 
 
 