 Case Number:  23TRCV00381    Hearing Date:   November 15, 2023    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿ 
¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 November 15, 2023¿ 
¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                  23TRCV00381
¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Juanita
Canche Pech v. Lucila Parra; et al. 
¿¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                (1)
Defendant, Antonio Trujillo 
                                                (2)
Defendant, Lucila Parra 
¿¿ 
RESPONDING PARTY:       (1)
Plaintiff, Juanita Canche Pech
                                                (2)
Plaintiff, Juanita Canche Pech
¿¿ 
TRIAL DATE:                        None
set.  
¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Antonio Trujillo’s Demurrer¿ 
(2) Lucila Parra’s Demurrer
(3) Ex parte Application to shorten hearing on motion to
consolidate
¿ 
Tentative Rulings:                  (1) Antonio Trujillo’s Demurrer¿ is Sustained, with leae to amend to
be discussed
(2) Lucila Parra’s Demurrer is Overruled as tot eh
financial elder abuse cause of action, but Sustained as to all other
claims.  Leave to amend to be discussed.
(3) Depending on the outcome of the demurrer, there may or
may not be a basis for relating this case with the pending UD and/or whether to
consolidate the cases.  But it appears
the UD is “related” to the quiet title case and the success of the UD may be dependent
on the determination as to whether there is or is not a bona fide purchaser for
value currently on title.  The Court may need to be educated as to the
timing of the UD matter and which parties overlap the UD and quiet title cases 
¿ 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿ 
¿¿ 
A. Factual¿¿ 
¿ 
On
February 10, 2023, Plaintiff, Juanita Canche Pech (“Plaintiff”) filed a
Complaint against Defendants, Lucila Parra, Antonio Trujillo, and DOES 1
through 20. On June 20, 2023, Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”)
alleging causes of action for: (1) Quiet Title; (2) Financial Elder Abuse; (3)
Fraud; (4) Violation of Penal code § 496; and (5) Intentional Infliction of
Emotional Distress. 
 
Both
Defendants Antonio Trujillo and Lucila Parra have separately filed Demurrers to
the FAC. 
 
B. Procedural¿¿ 
¿ 
On July 21, 2023, Defendant,
Antonio Trujillo filed his demurrer against the FAC. On November 2, 2023,
Plaintiff filed an opposition. On November 7, 2023, Defendant Trujillo filed a
reply brief.
 
On August 17, 2023, Defendant,
Lucila Parra, filed her demurrer against the FAC. On November 2, 2023,
Plaintiff filed an opposition. On November 6, Defendant Parra filed a reply
brief.
II. REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL
NOTICE 
 
            With
Antonio Trujillo’s demurrer, he requested this Court take judicial notice of
the following documents: 
 
1.     
Grant Deed recorded on October 14, 2016 (Torres
Grant Deed) 
2.     
Deed of Trust recorded on October 14, 2016
(Broker Solutions Deed of Trust) 
3.     
Deed of Trust recorded on December 13, 2022
(Skyline Deed of Trust) 
4.     
Full reconveyance of the Broker Solutions Deed
of Trust, recorded on December 16, 2022
 
The Court GRANTS this request and
takes judicial notice of the above documents. 
 
Additionally,
with Lucila Parra’s demurrer, she requested this Court take judicial notice of
the following documents: 
 
1.      Exhibit
1: Grant Deed recorded on October 14, 2016 
2.      Exhibit
2: Deed of Trust recorded on October 14, 2016 (Broker Solutions DOT) 
3.      Exhibit
3: Deed of Trust recorded on December 13, 2022 (Skyline DOT) 
4.      Exhibit
4: Full reconveyance of Broker Solutions DOT, recorded on December 16, 2022. 
 
The Court also GRANTS this request
and takes judicial notice of the above documents. 
 
III. ANALYSIS¿ 
¿ 
A. Legal Standard 
¿ 
A demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that
appear on the face of the pleading under attack or from matters outside the
pleading that are judicially noticeable. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39
Cal.3d 311, 318.) “To survive a demurrer, the complaint need only allege facts
sufficient to state a cause of action; each evidentiary fact that might
eventually form part of the plaintiff’s proof need not be alleged.” (C.A. v.
William S. Hart Union High School Dist. (2012) 53 Cal.4th 861, 872.) For
the purpose of testing the sufficiency of the cause of action, the demurrer
admits the truth of all material facts properly pleaded. (Aubry v. Tri-City
Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 966-967.) A demurrer “does not admit
contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.” (Daar v. Yellow Cab
Co. (1967) 67 Cal.2d 695, 713.)¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
A pleading is uncertain if it is ambiguous or
unintelligible. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (f).) A demurrer for
uncertainty may lie if the failure to label the parties and claims renders the
complaint so confusing defendant cannot tell what he or she is supposed to
respond to.¿ (Williams v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d
135, 139, fn. 2.) However, “[a] demurrer for uncertainty is strictly construed,
even where a complaint is in some respects uncertain, because ambiguities can
be clarified under modern discovery procedures.” (Khoury v. Maly's of
California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)¿¿ 
 
 
 
B. Antonio Trujillo’s Demurrer
 
 
Trujillo demurs to the FAC on the grounds that he argues each cause
of action fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action and they
are uncertain. 
 
Quiet
Title 
 
Trujillo
argues that Plaintiff’s first cause of action for Quiet Title fails because the
FAC does not allege a sufficient basis of title. An action for quiet title
seeks “to establish title against adverse claims to real or personal property
or any interest therein.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 760.020, subd. (a).) In an action
for quiet title, Plaintiff must plead (1) “[a] description of the property that
is the subject of the action,” specifically the location of tangible personal
property and the legal description and street address or common designation of
real property, (2) “[t]he title of the plaintiff as to which a determination
under this chapter is sought and the basis of the title,” (3) “[t]he adverse
claims to the title of the plaintiff against which a determination is sought,”
(4) “[t]he date as of which the determination is sought,” and (5) “[a] prayer
for the determination of the title of the plaintiff against the adverse
claims.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 761.020.) 
First,
Defendant Trujillo argues that the FAC fails to allege sufficient facts to
establish the Quitclaim deed is voidable based on fraud. While fraud may be an
exception to void a contract, Trujillo argues that this is not the case when the
signer of the contract failed to understand the nature of the instrument being
signed. Defendant Trujillo argues that the FAC alleges that Plaintiff’s
daughter told her that an unspecified document was not signed at the time of
their purchase, and that they needed to return to the escrow office to sign an unspecified
document. Trujillo contends the FAC made no mention of whether Plaintiff asked
what the document to be signed was, or what its effect was. Defendant Trujillo
argues that these facts do not constitute fraud, especially in light of the
heightened standard of pleading specificity required to state a cause of action
for fraud. The Court agrees. 
Next,
Defendant Trujillo also argues that he is a bona fide purchaser who acquired
title to the subject property free and clear of any fraud claim of Plaintiff. This
Court notes that a bona fide purchaser is not chargeable with the fraud of his
predecessors and takes a title purged of any antecedent fraud affecting it and
free from any equities existing between the original parties.  (Marlenee v. Brown (1943) 21 Cal.2d
668, 675.) The Court is confused by Plaintiff’s argument in her opposition to
Trujillo’s demurrer that the quitclaim deed is void ab initio, thus depriving
the subsequent buyer from relying on the equitable doctrine of bona fide
purchaser. This argument is not only lacking case law or precedent, but it is
not supported by the facts in the FAC. Here the Court does not believe that
Plaintiff can maintain a cause of action for quiet title against Defendant
Trujillo as he appears to be a bona fide purchaser and the title of the home
does not appear to be in question. As such, the demurrer is SUSTAINED but the
Court will entertain argument as to whether leave to amend should be granted to
cure the issues discussed in this tentative ruling.            
Financial
Elder Abuse; Violation of Penal Code § 496; and Intentional Infliction of
Emotional Distress 
 
 
Here,
instead of opposing Defendant Trujillo’s demurrer as to the second, fourth, and
fifth causes of action, Plaintiff instead contends that she will amend her
complaint to rectify any perceived weaknesses in these causes of action. The requires
oral argument from Plaintiff on how she plans to do so. 
As
such, Defendant Trujillo’s Demurrer is SUSTAINED, except with the specified
causes of action, Plaintiff will have twenty (20) days leave to amend. 
C. Lucila Parra’s Demurrer 
 
Parra demurs to the FAC on the grounds that she argues the entire FAC
fails to state facts sufficient to constitute causes of action and is uncertain

 
Quiet
Title
 
            For similar reasons listed above, the
quiet title claim is SUSTAINED. Here, Plaintiff is unable to establish a right
to the subject property as it has already been sold to a bona fide purchaser
for value. But if there are facts which can be alleged to resolve this pleading
defect, the Court will entertain leave to amend.
 
Financial
Elder Abuse 
Defendant Parra also demurs to the FAC on the grounds she argues the
cause of action for financial elder abuse fails. “[F]inancial abuse of
an elder . . . occurs when a person or entity does the following:
(1) Takes,
secretes, appropriates, obtains, or retains real or personal property of an
elder or dependent adult for a wrongful use or with intent to defraud, or both.
(2) Assists
in taking, secreting, appropriating, obtaining, or retaining real or personal
property of an elder or dependent adult for a wrongful use or with intent to
defraud, or both.
(3) Takes,
secretes, appropriates, obtains, or retains, or assists in taking, secreting,
appropriating, obtaining, or retaining, real or personal property of an elder
or dependent adult by undue influence, as defined in Section 15610.70.
(Welf. & Inst. Code, §
15610.30, subd. (a).)
            Here, Parra’s demurrer is OVERRULED as to this cause of
action. The FAC alleges that Defendant Parra’s intentional misconduct defrauded
her mother of her rightful interest in the Property. (FAC, ¶ 17.) Although Plaintiff
alleges misconduct on the parts of both Defendant Trujilo and Parra, the FAC
alleges sufficient facts to maintain a cause of action for financial elder
abuse against Defendant Parra as the facts are specific as to how Defendant
Parra allegedly conducted herself in order to defraud her mother (Plaintiff.)
As such, the demurrer as this cause of action is OVERRULED. 
Fraud

            Here, Defendant Parra argues that
Plaintiff’s fraud claims are deficient. The elements of fraud are (a) a
misrepresentation (false representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (b)
scienter or knowledge of its falsity; (c) intent to induce reliance; (d)
justifiable reliance; and (e) resulting damage.” (Hinesley v. Oakshade Town Ctr. (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.)
The facts constituting the alleged fraud must be alleged factually and
specifically as to every element of fraud, as the policy of “liberal
construction” of the pleadings will not ordinarily be invoked. (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12
Cal.4th 631, 645.) To properly allege fraud against a corporation, the
plaintiffs must plead the names of the persons allegedly making the false
representations, their authority to speak, to whom they spoke, what they said
or wrote, and when it was said or written. (Tarmann
v. State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co. (1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 153, 157.)
            The FAC alleges that Defendant Parra intentionally
misrepresented the nature of the quitclaim deed she gave to her mother to sign.
(FAC, ¶ 25.) Plaintiff also argues that she relied on her daughter in whom she
reposed her ultimate trust and confidence, when Parra asked her to sign the
quitclaim deed. (FAC, ¶ 26.) Plaintiff contends that had she known the true
nature and consequences of signing the quitclaim deed, she would not have done
so, and is subsequently damaged because of it. (FAC, ¶¶ 26-28.) Generally,
fraud requires heightened specificity requirements. Not only does the FAC lack
the required specificity, but it also fails to plead many of the required
elements of fraud such as scienter or knowledge of its falsity, or intent to
induce reliance. Without more specific facts, and facts meeting the required
elements to allege a cause of action for fraud, this Court SUSTAINS the
demurrer as to this cause of action, with leave to amend.
Violation
of Penal Code § 496
 
            Defendant Parra
argues that Plaintiff has not stated sufficient facts to state a cause of
action for violation of Penal Code § 496. Penal Code section 496 provides, in pertinent part:  
 
“(a) Every person who buys or receives any property that
has been stolen or that has been obtained in any manner constituting theft or
extortion, knowing the property to be so stolen or obtained, or who conceals,
sells, withholds, or aids in concealing, selling, or withholding any property
from the owner, knowing the property to be so stolen or obtained, shall be
punished by imprisonment in a county jail for not more than one year, or
imprisonment pursuant to subdivision (h) of Section 1170. However, if the value
of the property does not exceed nine hundred fifty dollars ($950), the offense
shall be a misdemeanor, punishable only by imprisonment in a county jail not
exceeding one year, if such person has no prior convictions for an offense
specified in clause (iv) of subparagraph (C) of paragraph (2) of subdivision
(e) of Section 667 or for an offense requiring registration pursuant to
subdivision (c) of Section 290. 
 
… 
 
(c) Any person who has been injured by a violation of
subdivision (a) or (b) may bring an action for three times the amount of actual damages, if any,
sustained by the plaintiff, costs of suit, and reasonable attorney's
fees.”  
 
(Emphasis added.) (Capitalization
added.)  “Theft” is
defined as follows: “Every person who shall feloniously steal, take, carry,
lead, or drive away the personal property of another, or who shall fraudulently
appropriate property which has been entrusted or him or her, or who shall
knowingly and designedly, by any false or fraudulent representation or
pretense, defraud any other person of money, labor, or real or personal property,… is guilty of theft.” (Pen. Code, § 484,
subd. (a).)  
 
Here, the FAC alleges that
Defendant Parra wrongfully and by fraud, artifice and trickery obtained
possession of Plaintiff’s 50% portion of the property. (FAC, ¶ 30.) The FAC
further alleges that Defendant Parra illegally obtained Plaintiff’s 50%
interest in the property by theft of the same as alleged. (FAC, ¶ 31.) The
demurrer argues that the FAC fails because of the lacking in the fraud claim
and because there is no claim of extortion by Plaintiff against Parra. Here,
because the fraud claim above fails, the Court SUSTAINS demurrer as to this
cause of action as well. 
 
Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress
            Lastly, Defendant Parra contends
that Plaintiff fails to state a cause of action for intentional infliction of
emotional distress. “The elements of a prima facie case for the tort of
intentional infliction of emotional distress are: (1) extreme and outrageous
conduct by the defendant with the intention of causing, or reckless disregard
of the probability of causing, emotional distress; (2) the plaintiff’s
suffering severe or extreme emotional distress; and (3) actual and proximate
causation of the emotional distress by the defendant’s outrageous conduct.
Conduct to be outrageous must be so extreme as to exceed all bounds of that
usually tolerated in a civilized community.” (Wilson v. Hynek (2012) 207 Cal.App.4th 999, 1009, citation and
ellipses omitted.)
            Here, the FAC does not allege extreme or outrageous
conduct as required for the cause of action. Instead, the FAC merely alleges
IIED in a conclusory fashion arguing that 
Defendants’ outrageous conduct intended to cause her emotional distress.
(FAC, ¶ 34.) This is not enough. As such, the demurrer as to this cause of
action is SUSTAINED with twenty days leave to amend. 