  Case Number:  23STCV29273    Hearing Date:   June 27, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




dulce garcia

   ;
 


   Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
mercedes-benz usa, llc

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


23STCV29273




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


June
   27, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[tentative]
  Order RE:
 
plaintiff’s motion for order deeming truth
  of matters admitted in requests for admission
 



 
MOVING PARTY:                 Plaintiff Dulce Garcia 
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Defendant Mercedes-Benz USA, LLC
Motion for Order Deeming Truth of Matters Admitted in Requests for
Admission
The court
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers filed in connection with
this motion. 
DISCUSSION
Plaintiff Dulce Garcia (“Plaintiff”) moves the court for an order (1)
deeming the truth of the matters set forth in Plaintiff’s Requests for
Admission, served on defendant Mercedes-Benz USA, LLC (“Defendant”), admitted,
and (2) awarding monetary sanctions in favor of Plaintiff and against Defendant
in the amount of $2,904. 
If
a party to whom requests for admission are directed fails to serve a timely
response, the court shall, upon motion by the propounding party, order that the
matters specified in the requests be deemed admitted, unless the court finds
that the party to whom the requests for admission have been directed has
served, before the hearing on the motion, a proposed response that is in
substantial compliance with Code of Civil Procedure section 2033.220.¿ (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subds. (b), (c).)¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
As a
threshold matter, the court notes that the parties dispute whether the subject
discovery was served on Defendant at the correct email address.  The court finds that Plaintiff has not shown
that they served the subject Requests for Admission at the correct electronic
service address and therefore denies Plaintiff’s motion. 
Plaintiff has submitted evidence establishing that they served counsel
for Defendant with their Requests for Admission, Set One, by electronic service
at the email addresses associated with individual attorneys Brian Hom, C. Brian
Wagner, and Vanessa Dao.  (Serrano Decl.,
Ex. 1, Requests for Admission, pp. 7-8 [proof of service].)  Defendant has opposed this motion, asserting
that service on these email addresses was improper.  (Opp., p. 4:3-4.)
In reply, Plaintiff argues that Defendant consented to electronic
service at the email addresses for attorneys Brian Hom, C. Brian Wagner, and
Vanessa Dao pursuant to California Rules of Court, rule 2.251 since Defendant’s
answer manifested consent to receive service at those email addresses.  Specifically, Plaintiff contends that service
was proper because (1) rule 2.251 provides that a party may indicate that the
party agrees to accept electronic service by, inter alia, manifesting
affirmative consent through electronic means with the court or the court’s
electronic filing service provider, and concurrently providing the party’s
electronic service address with that consent for the purpose of receiving
electronic service, and (2) Defendant, in filing its answer electronically,
affirmatively consented to electronic service at the email addresses listed on
its answer.  The court disagrees. 
 First, the court acknowledges,
as Plaintiff points out, that Code of Civil Procedure section 1010.6,
subdivision (b)(2) states that “[a] person represented by counsel, who has
appeared in an action or proceeding, shall accept electronic service of a
notice or document that may be served by mail, express mail, overnight
delivery, or facsimile transaction.” 
However, subdivision (b) of that statute states that it “applies to
mandatory electronic service.”  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 1010.6, subd. (b)(1) [emphasis added].)  Plaintiff has not presented evidence or
authority establishing that service of their Requests for Admission was
required to be served by electronic service within the meaning of section
1010.6, subdivision (b).  (Ibid.)  Further, although the court notes that
Plaintiff states that section 1010.6 provides that documents filed by
represented parties in all limited, unlimited, and complex civil actions “must
be filed electronically and [must] allow for service electronically,” Plaintiff
did not cite the specific provision of that statute containing that language,
and the court has not located that provision of section 1010.6.  (Reply, p. 4:25-26 [emphasis omitted].) 
Second, the court finds that Plaintiff has not shown that Defendant
manifested affirmative consent to service at the email addresses listed on
Defendant’s answer pursuant to California Rules of Court, rule 2.251,
subdivision (b)(1)(B).  (Reply, p. 5:17-28.)
“A party or other person indicates that the party or other person
agrees to accept electronic service by: [¶¶] (B) Manifesting affirmative
consent through electronic means with the court or the court’s electronic
filing service provider, and concurrently providing the party’s electronic
service address with that consent for the purpose of receiving electronic
service.  A party or other person may
manifest affirmative consent by serving notice of consent to all parties and
other persons and either: [¶] (i) Agreeing to the terms of service with an
electronic filing provider, which clearly states that agreement constitutes
consent to receive electronic service; or [¶] (ii) Filing Consent to Electronic
Service and Notice of Electronic Service Address (form EFS-005-CV).”  (Cal. Rules of Ct., rule 2.251, subd.
(b)(1)(B).) 
The court acknowledges that Defendant electronically filed its answer
on December 19, 2023, on which Defendant listed the email addresses of its
counsel.  (Answer filed Dec. 19, 2023, p.
1:1-6.)  However, Plaintiff has not cited
authority establishing that Defendant, by electronically filing its answer, manifested
affirmative consent to receive electronic service at those email
addresses.  As set forth above, a party
may manifest affirmative consent “by serving notice of consent to all parties
and other persons and either” taking one of two actions.  (Cal. Rules of Ct., rule 2.551, subd.
(b)(1)(B) [emphasis added].)  Plaintiff
did not submit evidence showing that Defendant (1) “serv[ed] [a] notice of
consent” on Plaintiff, and (2) either (i) agreed to the terms of service with
an electronic filing service provider clearly stating that agreement thereto constitutes
consent to receive electronic service (rule 2.251, subdivision (b)(1)(B)(i)),
or (ii) filed a Consent to Electronic Service and Notice of Electronic Service
Address on form EFS-005-CV (rule 2.251, subdivision (b)(1)(B)(ii)).  Moreover, there does not appear to be such a
notice of consent filed with the court. 
Thus, the court finds that Plaintiff has not shown that they properly
served Defendant with the subject Requests for Admission on Defendant at the
correct email address for electronic service. 
The court therefore denies Plaintiff’s motion. 
ORDER
            The court denies plaintiff Dulce
Garcia’s motion for order deeming truth of matters admitted in requests for
admission.
            The court orders defendant
Mercedes-Benza USA, LLC to give notice of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  June 27, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court