 Case Number:  BC652028    Hearing Date:   June 27, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




justin cato

   ;
 


   Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
county of los angeles

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


BC652028




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


June
   27, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[tentative]
  Order RE:
 
defendant’s demurrer to first amended
  complaint
 



 
MOVING PARTY:                 Defendant Michael Waldinger
 
RESPONDING PARTY:        Plaintiff Justin Cato
Demurrer to First Amended Complaint
The court
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers filed in connection with
this demurrer. 
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
The court grants defendant
Michael Waldinger’s requests for judicial notice.  (Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (d).) 
DISCUSSION
Plaintiff Justin Cato (“Plaintiff”) filed the operative First Amended
Complaint in this action on January 16, 2024, against, inter alia,
defendant Michael Waldinger, Deputy Alternate Public Defender
(“Defendant”).  
Defendant now moves the court for an order sustaining his demurrer to
each cause of action alleged against him in Plaintiff’s First Amended
Complaint.
The court sustains Defendant’s demurrer to the first, third, fourth,
and fifth causes of action because they do not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action because Plaintiff has not alleged facts
establishing the element of actual innocence. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e); Genis v. Schainbaum (2021)
66 Cal.App.5th 1007, 1015 [“In any action for legal malpractice against
criminal defense counsel, the plaintiff, as the former criminal defendant, must
necessarily allege and prove actual innocence of the criminal charges”].) 
First, as a threshold matter, the court finds that the first, third,
fourth, and fifth causes of action are all based on the alleged legal
malpractice of Defendant in representing Plaintiff in the underlying criminal
matter, such that Plaintiff must plead the element of actual innocence.  (Genis, supra, 66 Cal.App.5th at
p. 1015 [“The actual innocence requirement applies to any legal malpractice in
the course of defending a client accused of a crime [citation] or, put another
way, arising out of a criminal proceeding”] [internal quotations and citation
omitted].)
The first cause of action for legal malpractice alleges that Defendant
breached his duties to use such skill, prudence, and diligence as members of
the legal profession by, inter alia, failing to share discovery with
Plaintiff, failing to interview and question percipient witnesses, failing to make
important evidentiary objections during witness testimony, and failing to
object to prosecutorial misconduct.  (FAC
¶¶ 119, 56-57, 59.)  The third cause of
action for restitution is based on Plaintiff’s allegations that (1) Defendant’s
legal work in the underlying criminal matter was deficient, thereby causing
Plaintiff to retain private successor counsel to bring a motion for new trial
(FAC ¶ 149), such that (2) Defendant has benefited from Plaintiff’s obtaining
of the post-trial services of private counsel (FAC ¶ 150) and therefore is
liable to Plaintiff for restitution (FAC ¶ 155).  Thus, Plaintiff’s claim for restitution is,
as pleaded, based on the alleged tort of legal malpractice and the damages that
resulted from Defendant’s wrongful acts or omissions.  
Similarly, the fourth cause of action for prima facie tort seeks
damages based on the alleged malpractice committed by Defendant in failing to
obtain Plaintiff’s written waiver of the existing conflict of interest (FAC ¶¶
159, 162, 99-100).  The fifth cause of
action for common counts – work and labor done is also based on the allegations
that (1) Defendant’s malpractice in the underlying criminal matter required
Plaintiff to obtain private counsel to preserve his rights (FAC ¶ 165), such
that (2) Defendant has become indebted to Plaintiff for the amounts paid by him
to private counsel (FAC ¶¶ 165-166). 
            Thus, the court finds that each
cause of action alleged against Defendant is based on his alleged legal
malpractice in the underlying criminal matter. 
Second, the court finds that Plaintiff has not alleged facts
establishing actual innocence. 
“‘When a former criminal defendant sues his or her attorney for legal
malpractice resulting in conviction, the former defendant’s actual innocence of
the underlying criminal charges is a necessary element of the cause of action.  [Citation.] 
Moreover, the “plaintiff must obtain postconviction relief in the form
of a final disposition of the underlying criminal case—for example, by
acquittal after retrial, reversal on appeal with directions to dismiss the
charges, reversal followed by the People’s refusal to continue the prosecution,
or a grant of habeas corpus relief—as a prerequisite to proving actual
innocence in a malpractice action against former criminal defense
counsel.”  [Citation.]’”  (Jones v. Whisenand (2017) 8
Cal.App.5th 543, 550-551 [internal citations omitted]; Coscia v. McKenna
& Cuneo (2001) 25 Cal.4th 1194, 1201 [“an individual convicted of a
criminal offense must obtain reversal of his or her conviction, or other
exoneration by postconviction relief, in order to establish actual innocence in
a criminal malpractice action”].) 
The court acknowledges that Plaintiff has alleged that he “is innocent
of all charged offenses” and that he “did not commit any of the charged
offenses” (FAC ¶ 38).  But (1) Plaintiff
has also alleged that the prosecution offered him a plea bargain for a plea to
manslaughter, rather than the homicide charges for which he was originally
convicted (FAC ¶¶ 104-105), and (2) the court has taken judicial notice of the docket
in the underlying criminal action, which establishes that (i) Plaintiff was
found guilty in connection with charges 3 and 5 (i.e., violations of Penal Code
sections 246 and 192, subdivision (a)) after pleading nolo contendere to those
charges,       (ii) Plaintiff admitted
the gun allegation pursuant to Penal Code section 12022.5(A), and (iii) on
October 24, 2023, Plaintiff was sentenced to 21 years in prison.  (RJN Ex. 1, Docket in People v. Cato
(Case No. BA432098) pp. 65, 67.)
Thus, the court finds, based on the allegations of the First Amended
Complaint and the court docket in the underlying criminal matter, that
Plaintiff (1) was convicted in the underlying matter, (2) has not obtained
reversal of his conviction or other exoneration by postconviction relief, and
therefore (3) has not alleged facts sufficient to plead the element of actual
innocence.  (Coscia, supra,
25 Cal.4th at p. 1201; Jones, supra, 8 Cal.App.5th at p. 551; Wilkinson
v. Zelen (2008) 167 Cal.App.4th 37, 46 [finding that the plaintiff could
not allege factual innocence because “she entered no contest pleas to two
misdemeanors in order to compromise the charges which resulted in her
conviction by jury, a result inconsistent with factual innocence in that
‘defendant has in fact committed a crime’”].) 
            Third, the court notes that
Plaintiff has argued, in his opposition, that “there is a disputed factual
issue regarding the probative value of a plea bargain by a defendant (Mr. Cato)
who was represented by an attorney (Mr. Waldinger) with whom he had an unwaived
actual conflict of interest.”  (Opp., p.
7:21-24; FAC ¶ 106 [alleging that the case law presupposes that criminal
defendants are represented by successor counsel in retrial proceedings].)  However, Plaintiff has not cited authority
establishing that he is relieved of the requirement to plead facts establishing
the element of actual innocence under such circumstances. 
            Fourth, the court finds that
Plaintiff has not shown that Defendant is equitably estopped from asserting Plaintiff’s
failure to comply with the actual innocence requirement.  Plaintiff has neither (1) cited authority
establishing that the doctrine of equitable estoppel may be applied to relieve
him of pleading the element of actual innocence, nor (2) alleged facts
satisfying the elements of equitable estoppel, including because (i) for
equitable estoppel to apply, the asserting party “must be ignorant of the true
state of facts[,]” but (ii) Plaintiff has alleged that he was aware of the
alleged conflict of interest, and lacked confidence in Defendant because of
that conflict (FAC ¶ 102), but chose not to protest because he felt it would be
futile (FAC ¶ 103).  (Krolikowski v.
San Diego City Employees’ Retirement System (2018) 24 Cal.App.5th 537,
564-565 [elements of equitable estoppel]; FAC ¶ 112 [alleging that Defendant is
equitably estopped from asserting the absence of acquittal or dismissal of
criminal charges as a result of Defendant’s wrongful acts and omissions,
including the “purposeful failure to address the actual conflict of
interests”].) 
            Thus, for the reasons set forth
above, the court finds that Plaintiff has not alleged facts sufficient to plead
the element of actual innocence in support of each cause of action alleged
against Defendant. 
The
burden is on the plaintiff “to articulate how it could amend its pleading to
render it sufficient.”¿ (Palm Springs Villas II Homeowners Assn., Inc. v.
Parth (2016) 248 Cal.App.4th 268, 290.)¿ To satisfy that burden, a
plaintiff “must show in what manner he can amend his complaint and how that
amendment will change the legal effect of his pleading.”¿ (Goodman v.
Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349.)  In his opposition, Plaintiff did
not set forth facts that he may allege to establish the element of actual innocence.  Thus, the court finds that Plaintiff has not
met his burden to articulate how he can amend his pleading to render it
sufficient and therefore sustains Defendant’s demurrer to the First Amended
Complaint without leave to amend.  (Genis,
supra, 66 Cal.App.5th at p. 1015 [“When it is clear the plaintiff cannot
in good faith plead factual innocence or exoneration, leave to amend the
complaint should not be granted”].)
ORDER
            The court sustains defendant Michael
Waldinger’s demurrer to plaintiff Justin Cato’s First Amended Complaint without
leave to amend. 
The court orders defendant Michael Waldinger to prepare, serve, and
lodge a proposed judgment of dismissal within 10 days of the date of this
order.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 581, subd.
(f)(1).)
The court vacates (1) the trial set for January 22, 2025, and (2) the
Final Status Conference set for January 10, 2025.
The court sets an Order to Show Cause re entry of judgment of
dismissal (after sustaining demurrers without leave to amend) for hearing on
September 4, 2024, at 8:30 a.m.  
 
   
            The court orders defendant Michael
Waldinger to give notice of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
DATED:  June 27, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court