  Case Number:  23AHCV00691    Hearing Date:   March 28, 2024    Dept:  X    Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Joel L. Lofton,
Department X
 
 
HEARING DATE:      March 28, 2024                                               TRIAL DATE: May 28, 2024
                                                           
CASE:                         ANGEL MARTINEZ
RAMIREZ & GERMAN ZEA v. GENERAL MOTORS LLC, a Delaware limited liability
company, and DOES 1 through 10, inclusive. 
 
CASE NO.:                 23AHCV00691
 
 
 
MOTION
TO COMPEL DEPOSITION

 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiffs Angel Martinez Ramirez
and German Zea
 
RESPONDING PARTY:      Defendant
General Motors LLC
 
SERVICE:                              Filed December 19, 2023
 
OPPOSITION:                       Filed March 15, 2024
 
REPLY:                                   Filed March 21, 2024
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED 
 
             Plaintiffs move for an order
compelling Defendant to produce its person most qualified for deposition. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
             This case arises out of Plaintiffs lemon law
claim for a 2019 Chevrolet Colorado with Vehicle Identification Number
1GCGTEEN4k1159124 (“Subject Vehicle”). Plaintiff filed this complaint on March
29, 2023. 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Plaintiffs’ motion to compel the deposition of
Defendant’s person most qualified is GRANTED, in part.
 
            Plaintiffs’ request for sanctions is DENIED.
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.450, subdivision (a), provides: “If, after service
of a deposition notice, a party to the action or an officer, director, managing
agent, or employee of a party, or a person designated by an organization that
is a party under Section 2025.230, without having served a valid objection under
Section 2025.410, fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to
produce for inspection any document, electronically stored information, or
tangible thing described in the deposition notice, the party giving the notice
may move for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and
the production for inspection of any document, electronically stored
information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice.”
 
            Code of
Civil Procedure section 2025.450 subdivision (b) requires that any motion under
subdivision (a) set forth specific facts showing good cause and a meet and
confer declaration or, when a deponent fails to attend the deposition, a
declaration stating the moving party contacted the deponent to inquire about
the nonappearance. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Plaintiffs
move for an order compelling the deposition testimony of Defendant’s person
most qualified. Plaintiffs provide that on November 16, 2023, they served
Defendant with a notice of deposition for its person most qualified for four
matters for examination and six requests for the production of documents.
(Thomas Decl. ¶ 3.) The deposition was noticed for
December 14, 2023. (Id. ¶ 4.) On December 5, 2023, Defendant objected to
Plaintiffs’ notice of deposition. (Id. ¶ 5.) On December 14, 2023,
Plaintiff proceeded with the deposition but Defendant’s representatives did not
appear. (Id. ¶ 8.) 
 
Plaintiffs have demonstrated that
they served Defendant with a notice of deposition but Defendant refused to
provide its witness for deposition. Plaintiffs’ motion to compel deposition is
granted. However, the court declines to rule whether the deponent must answer
questions related to specific categories. 
 
If a
deponent fails to answer any question or to produce any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing
under the deponent's control that is specified in the deposition notice or a
deposition subpoena, the party seeking discovery may move the court for an
order compelling that answer or production.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.480, subd.
(a).) “If the court determines that the answer or production sought
is subject to discovery, it shall order that the answer be given or the
production be made on the resumption of the deposition.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.480, subd. (i).)
 
            Because no
deposition has occurred yet, an order on the specific categories are premature.
Additionally, the court notes that although Plaintiffs filed a notice of
withdrawal for their motion to compel further responses to their requests for
the production of documents, Plaintiffs’ motion to compel deposition also seeks
an order compelling the production of documents. Plaintiffs’ motion to compel
the production of documents in conjunction with the present motion is denied
for failure to provide a separate statement in compliance with the requirements
of California Rules of
Court, Rule 3.1345.
 
CONCLUSION
 
Plaintiffs’ motion to compel the deposition of Defendant’s person
most qualified is GRANTED, in part. 
Deposition shall be conducted within 30 days’ notice of this order or other
date stipulated by the parties.
 
            Plaintiffs’ request for sanctions is DENIED.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
            
Dated:   March 28, 2024                                             ___________________________________
                                                                                    Joel
L. Lofton
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court


Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the court
indicating their 
intention to submit.  alhdeptx@lacourt.org
