 Case Number:  23STLC03839    Hearing Date:   June 11, 2024    Dept:  26  
Blue Moon Service Corp. v. Wallis Annenberg Center
for the Performing Arts, et al.LEAVE
TO AMEND PLEADING(CCP §§ 473(a), 576; CRC Rule 3.1324)
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Plaintiff Blue Moon Service
Corporation’s Motion for Leave to File an Amended Complaint is GRANTED.
PLAINTIFF IS TO FILE AND SERVE THE FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT WITHIN 20 DAYS OF
THIS ORDER.
 
 
 
 
ANALYSIS:
 
Plaintiff Blue
Moon Service Corporation (“Plaintiff”) filed the instant action against
Defendant Wallis Annenberg Center for the Performing Arts (“Defendant”) on June
20, 2023. On August 17, 2023, Defendant filed an answer and cross-complaint.
Plaintiff answered the cross-complaint on November 21, 2023. 
 
Plaintiff filed
the instant Motion for Leave to File an Amended Complaint on February 1, 2024.
At the initial hearing on April 30, 2024, the Court continued the matter to
allow Plaintiff to file a declaration in compliance with Rule 3.1324. (Minute
Order, 04/30/24.) Plaintiff filed a supplemental declaration on May 16, 2024. No
opposition has been filed to date. 
 
Discussion
 
The Complaint alleges causes of action for breach of contract, common
counts, and unjust enrichment with respect to cleaning and restoration services
Plaintiff provided Defendant. (Compl., ¶¶9-15.) 
Plaintiff now moves for leave to file a First Amended Complaint
under Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (a) and section 576. Specifically, following the filing of
Defendant’s cross-complaint, Plaintiff seeks to allege that those cross-claims are
barred by the settlement and release agreement previously reached by the
parties regarding Defendant’s property damage claims against Plaintiff.
(Motion, Le Decl., ¶¶3-5 and Exh. A.)
 
A motion for leave to amend a
pleading must comply with the procedural requirements of California Rules of Court, Rule
3.1324, which requires a supporting declaration to set forth explicitly what
allegations are to be added and where, and explicitly stating what new evidence
was discovered warranting the amendment and why the amendment was not made
earlier. The motion must also include (1) a copy of the proposed and numbered
amendment, (2) specifications by reference to pages and lines of the
allegations that would be deleted and added, and (3) a declaration specifying
the effect, necessity and propriety of the amendments, date of discovery and
reasons for delay. (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1324, subds. (a), (b).)
 
As noted above, Plaintiff’s Motion was supported by a
declaration explaining what new evidence was discovered warranting the
amendment and why the amendment was not made earlier. A copy of the proposed First Amended Complaint is
attached to the Motion. (Id. at Exh. B.) However, neither the Motion nor
initial supporting declaration “set forth explicitly what allegations
are to be added and where” with “specifications by reference to pages and lines
of the allegations that would be deleted and added” as required by CRC Rule
3.1324. The supplemental declaration filed on May 16, 2024 now corrects this
omission. (Supp. Le Decl., filed 05/16/24, ¶¶8-9.) 
 
The policy favoring amendment and
resolving all matters in the same dispute is “so strong that it is a rare case
in which denial of leave to amend can be justified. . . .” (Magpali v.
Farmers Group (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 471, 487.) However, “[a] different
result is indicated ‘where inexcusable delay and probable prejudice to the
opposing party’ is shown. [Citation].” (Ibid.) Here, Plaintiff seeks
leave to amend the Complaint to address Defendant’s filing of the
cross-complaint There is no indication of excusable delay nor prejudice to
Defendant. 
 
Conclusion
 
Based on the foregoing, Plaintiff
Blue Moon Service Corporation’s Motion for Leave to File an Amended Complaint
is GRANTED. PLAINTIFF IS TO FILE AND SERVE THE FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT WITHIN
20 DAYS OF THIS ORDER.
 
 
Moving party to give notice. 
 
 
 
 