 Case Number:  23AHCV01644    Hearing Date:   July 15, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



SARAH LOPEZ, 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
GLEN
   JOHN APRAMIAN, M.D., INC., et al.,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  23AHCV01644
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER DISCOVERY RESPONSES TO PLAINTIFF’S
   FORM INTERROGATORIES – EMPLOYMENT LAW 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
July 15,
  2024




 


)


 



 
This motion was filed on March 7, 2024,
by plaintiff Sarah Lopez (“Plaintiff”). Plaintiff seeks an order compelling
defendant Glen John Apramian, M.D., Inc. (“Defendant”) to serve further
responses to the following from Form Interrogatories – Employment Law (Set One):
Form Interrogatory (“FROG”) Nos. 200.1, 200.3, 200.4, 204.3, 204.6, 204.7,
214.1, 214.2, 217.1. This set of discovery requests was served on August 8,
2023. Defendant served objections on October 2, 2023, before serving
supplemental responses on December 20, 2023. Plaintiff argues that further
responses are necessary because the supplemental responses are not complete and
do not address each subpart. Plaintiff requests that the Court sanction
Defendant and defense counsel in the amount of $2,400. 
Defendant filed an opposition brief on
July 1, 2024. Defendant states that by the time of the hearing, Plaintiff will
have received its second supplemental response. Defendant argues that the
motion should be denied as moot because of its intent to serve further
responses. This prospect of compliance is insufficient to moot Defendant’s
motion and the Court notes that Defendant does not contend that further
responses are not warranted. Defendant only claims that it was unable to serve
further supplemental responses due to “further development in the case”,
including the filing of an amended complaint and answer, and the deposition of
defendant Glen John Apramian, M.D. These events took place in December 2023 and
January 2024, and are insufficient excuses for Defendant’s failure to comply
with its discovery obligations or, at the very least, meaningfully engage with
Plaintiff’s counsel regarding the valid deficiencies of these responses in the
following months. There is certainly no reason for why responses have not yet
been served before the hearing date, which is nearly 11 months after the
interrogatories were served. 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s motion for
further responses is GRANTED.  
 
With respect to Plaintiff’s request for
sanctions, Defendant argues sanctions are not only barred by case law
interpreting the Civil Discovery Act, but that the amount demanded by Plaintiff
is excessive. The Court disagrees with both points. 
First, Defendant argues that the
decision in City of Los Angeles v. PricewaterhouseCoopers, LLC (2022) 84
Cal.App.5th 466, 504 prevents any sanctions award pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure sections 2023.030 and 2023.010. However, the court in PWC held
that those sections do not independently authorize the court to impose
sanctions and specifically noted that the party requesting sanctions relied on
no other underlying discovery statute authorizing sanctions. (Id., p.
504.) 
In contrast, Plaintiff makes this
motion pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 2030.300 and identifies an
underlying statute which authorizes the court to impose sanctions “against any
party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to
compel a further response to interrogatories, unless it finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2030.300, subd. (d).) In light of this statute, the Court concludes it is
authorized to impose sanctions in connection with this motion. 
However, Plaintiff’s request for
sanctions is excessive in amount. Plaintiff’s counsel states that her
reasonable hourly rate is $300 and that she has spent 2 hours meeting and
conferring with counsel over emails, four hours preparing the motion and
declaration, and anticipates spending three hours preparing for and attending
the hearing on this motion, for a total of 8 hours. The Court declines to award
any sanctions in connection with Plaintiff’s attempts to meet and confer. Also,
Plaintiff’s reply brief and supporting declaration is nearly identical to the five
other discovery motions which remain pending. Therefore, the Court reduces the
request for sanctions to $900, consisting of 3 hours at an hourly rate of $300.
The Court does not impose sanctions against “Defendant’s counsel”, who was not identified
by name in the notice of motion. No filing fees were requested.
In conclusion, Plaintiff’s motion for
further responses is GRANTED and Defendant is ordered to serve further
supplemental responses within 10 days of the date of this order. Plaintiff’s
request for sanctions is GRANTED and imposed against Defendant in the reduced
amount of $900, to be paid within 10 days of the date of this Order. 
Dated
this 15th
day of July, 2024
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 