  Case Number:  22STCV15352    Hearing Date:   October 23, 2023    Dept:  34 SUBJECT:        Motion for Leave to File Second Amended
Complaint
 
Moving Party: Plaintiff
Rochelle Sterling Defendant 
Resp. Party:    Mohammad Fawaz
                                      
SUBJECT:        Motion for a Global Stay of Proceedings 
 
Moving Party: Plaintiff
Rochelle Sterling
Resp. Party:    Mohammad Fawaz
 
 
The Motion for a Global Stay of Proceedings is GRANTED. This case is
STAYED IN ITS ENTIRETY, pending resolution of the criminal matter or waiver of
Defendant’s Fifth Amendment right against self-incrimination. Defendant’s
Request for Sanctions is DENIED. A status hearing is set for October 23, 2024 regarding
the stay.   The parties are to file a
Joint Status Conference Report 5 court days prior to the status conference
hearing. 
 
Since Plaintiff’s request for a stay is being granted, her Motion for
Leave to File Second
Amended Complaint is DENIED without prejudice to her refiling such a motion
when the stay is lifted.
 
BACKGROUND:
 
On May 9, 2022,
Plaintiff Rochelle Sterling, filed her Complaint against Defendant Mohammad M.
Fawaz.
 
On December 30, 2022,
Plaintiff filed her First Amended Complaint. 
 
On May 31, 2023, the
Court stayed this matter in its entirety as to Defendant, including motions for
sanctions against Defendant and motions for summary judgment. Such discovery is
stayed until such time as the criminal proceeding against Defendant is concluded.
The case is not stayed as to amending pleadings, discovery on third parties,
and to other actions that do not affect Defendant’s Fifth Amendment rights. 
 
On August 8, 2023,
Defendant filed his Answer to the First Amended Complaint. 
 
On September 14,
2023, pursuant to the Parties’ Stipulation, the Court entered vacated the trial
date and final status conference date, and the Court reset those dates for
February 18, 2025 and February 7, 2025, respectively. All discovery and other
deadlines were reset to the new dates. 
 
On September 15,
2023, Plaintiff filed her Motion for a Global Stay of Proceedings. Plaintiff
concurrently filed two Proposed Orders, one on Judicial Council Form EFS-020
and one specially prepared by Plaintiff. 
 
On September 18, 2023,
Plaintiff filed her Motion for Leave to File Second Amended Complaint.
Plaintiff concurrently filed: (1) Declaration of Linda Toutant; and (2)
Proposed Order. 
 
On October 9, 2023,
Defendant filed: (1) Opposition to Motion to Reconsider Scope of Stay; and (2)
Statement of Non-Opposition to Motion for Leave to Amend Complaint. Defendant’s
Opposition includes a Request for Sanctions. 
 
On October 16, 2023,
Plaintiff filed her Reply Supporting Motion for a Global Stay of Proceedings. 
 
ANALYSIS:
 
I.         
Motion for a Global Stay of
Proceedings
 
A. 
    Legal
Standard
 
“Every court shall have the power to do all of the following:
. . . To amend and control its process and orders so as to make them conform to
law and justice. . . .” (Code Civ. Proc., § 128, subd. (a)(8).)
 
“When an application for an order has been made to a judge,
or to a court, and refused in whole or in part, or granted, or granted
conditionally, or on terms, any party affected by the order may, within 10 days
after service upon the party of written notice of entry of the order and based
upon new or different facts, circumstances, or law, make application to the
same judge or court that made the order, to reconsider the matter and modify,
amend, or revoke the prior order. The party making the application shall state
by affidavit what application was made before, when and to what judge, what
order or decisions were made, and what new or different facts, circumstances,
or law are claimed to be shown.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1008, subd. (a).)
 
B. 
    Discussion
 
1. 
    The
Parties’ Arguments
 
Plaintiff
moves the Court to impose a global stay of proceedings in this matter. (Motion
for a Global Stay of Proceedings, p. 6:25–27.) Plaintiff argues: (1) that the
Court issued a “clarified (surprise) order”; (2) that the Court should
reconsider or amend its stay to be extended globally; (3) that a global stay is
fair and equitable; (4) that a one-sided stay is abusive and a misuse of the
Fifth Amendment; and (5) that one-sided discovery is burdensome and
inefficient. (Id. at pp. 3:2, 4:7, 4:27, 5:22, 6:9.)
 
Defendant
disagrees, arguing: (1) that the motion should be denied based on judicial
estoppel; (2) that reconsideration is precluded because the motion was not
timely filed; (3) that reconsideration is precluded because there are no new
facts, law, or circumstances; (4) that reconsideration is precluded because the
statutory standard is jurisdictional; (5) that sanctions are appropriate here;
and (6) that there is nothing unfair about the status quo. (Opposition to
Motion for a Global Stay of Proceedings, pp. 4:10, 5:17, 5:25, 6:4, 6:13, 7:4,
7:14.)
 
In
her Reply, Plaintiff argues: (1) that judicial estoppel does not apply; (2)
that reconsideration is appropriate and timely; and (3) that fairness and
judicial economy support a global stay. (Reply, pp. 2:12, 2:24, 3:16.)
 
2. 
    Reconsideration
 
The
Court considers whether it is appropriate to reconsider its prior orders. 
 
        Defendant twice applied for a stay. The first time Defendant
applied for a stay, insufficient evidence was submitted to indicate that his
Fifth Amendment rights would be at issue, and thus the Court denied any stay. Defendant
had been indicted before he applied a second time for a stay. On May 31, 2023,
upon considering the matter, as well as the Parties’ arguments, the Court
granted a limited stay in the case.
 
Plaintiff
argues that the 10-day period has not begun because Plaintiff did not receive
notice of the order. (Motion for a Global Stay of Proceedings, p. 4:14–19.) The
Court disagrees. Plaintiff appeared at the hearing on that motion, opposed any
stay, and argued in the alternative that any stay should be limited. The Court
issued its ruling at the hearing, with the modifications listed in its Minute
Order dated May 31, 2023. Thus, there is no issue with service upon Plaintiff. 
 
More
than 10 days have passed since the issuance of the Minute Order dated May 31,
2023. Thus, Plaintiff cannot seek reconsideration of the Minute Order dated May
31, 2023 pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 1008, subdivision
(a).  
 
        To the extent that Plaintiff seeks reconsideration of the
Minute Order dated September 6, 2023, the Court agrees with Defendant that such
a motion should be denied because there are no new facts, circumstances, or law
at hand. 
 
Further,
the Court disagrees with the notion that the Court issued a “surprise order” on
September 6, 2023. Rather, the Court merely clarified what should have already
been clear: that the stay was limited so that Defendant’s Fifth Amendment right
could be protected. As stated before, “Defendant is now acting in accordance
with Plaintiff’s requested relief.” (Minute Order dated September 6, 2023, p.
7.) It strikes the Court as ironic that Plaintiff, who twice opposed any stay,
and in the alternative argued that any stay should be limited — presumably so
that Plaintiff could continue to use discovery as a sword against Defendant by
conducting discovery through third parties — now argues that it is unfair that Defendant
can still use discovery as a sword against Plaintiff. (Motion for a Global Stay
of Proceedings, pp. 5:24–26, 6:25; Reply, p. 3:17–19.)
 
3. 
    Judicial
Estoppel
 
“Judicial
estoppel is an equitable doctrine that
applies when ‘(1) the same party has taken two positions; (2) the positions
were taken in judicial or quasi-judicial administrative proceedings; (3) the
party was successful in asserting the first position (i.e., the tribunal
adopted the position or accepted it as true); (4) the two positions are totally
inconsistent; and (5) the first position was not taken as a result of
ignorance, fraud, or mistake.’ The application of judicial estoppel, even when
all necessary elements are present, is discretionary.” (Brown v. Ralphs
Grocery Co. (2018) 28 Cal.App.5th 824, 842, quoting Aguilar v. Lerner (2004)
32 Cal.4th 974, 986–987, also citing MW Erectors, Inc. v. Niederhauser
Ornamental & Metal Works Co., Inc. (2005) 36 Cal.4th 412, 422.) 
 
        The Court need not, and does not, consider whether all of the
factors for judicial estoppel are present here. This is because, given the
ongoing criminal matter, bringing this action to trial any sooner than the
February 18, 2025 trial date appears to be impossible, impracticable, or
futile. (See, for example, Code Civ. Proc., § 583.340, subd. (c).) Put
differently, it matters not whether the Court judicially estops Plaintiff from
arguing for a global stay because, at present, it appears that the criminal
matter is impeding the ultimate resolution of this civil matter. 
 
        Thus, the Court declines to exercise its discretion to judicially
estop Plaintiff from arguing for a global stay. 
 
4. 
    Expanding
the Limited Stay to a Global Stay
 
Upon
consideration of the Parties’ respective arguments, the Court agrees with
Plaintiff’s argument that the Court has the power to issue a stay pursuant to
Code of Civil Procedure section 128. 
 
Further,
the Court agrees with Plaintiff’s argument that a global stay of all
proceedings in this matter would be appropriate. Neither Plaintiff nor
Defendant should be able to obtain an advantage against the other in discovery
or by other procedural mechanisms until the criminal matter is resolved or
Defendant has chosen to waive his Fifth Amendment right against
self-incrimination in this matter. Until that point, allowing the civil matter
to proceed would be inefficient and unjust. 
 
Further,
the Court is aware that Plaintiff filed this case.  If Plaintiff wishes to stay the case, there
is less of an issue of “gaming the system” or “delaying for the purpose of
delay.”
 
As
the Court is expanding the limited stay to a global stay, it would be
inappropriate to grant Defendant’s Request for Sanctions. 
 
C. 
    Conclusion
 
The Motion for a Global Stay of Proceedings is GRANTED. This case is
STAYED IN ITS ENTIRETY, pending resolution of the criminal matter or waiver of
Defendant’s Fifth Amendment right against self-incrimination. Defendant’s
Request for Sanctions is DENIED. A status hearing is set for October 23, 2024 regarding
the stay.   The parties are to file a
Joint Status Conference Report 5 court days prior to the status conference
hearing. 
 
 
 
 
II.      
Motion
for Leave to File Second Amended Complaint
 
A.      Discussion
 
Plaintiff moves
for leave to file her proposed Second Amended Complaint. (Motion for Leave to
File Second Amended Complaint, p. 8:7–9.) Plaintiff meets all of the procedural
requirements required by California Rules of Court, rule 3.1324. (See Decl.
Toutant, ¶¶ 2–6 and Exhs. A–B.)
 
Defendant does
not oppose this relief; he only asks for 30 days to respond to the amended
complaint. (Statement of Non-Opposition to Motion for Leave to Amend Complaint,
p. 1:20–21.)
 
However, since
the Court is granting Plaintiff’s motion for a stay, it cannot grant leave to
file a FAC.
 
B.      Conclusion

 
The Motion for
Leave to File Second Amended Complaint is DENIED without prejudice to it being
refiled after the stay is lifted.