  Case Number:  23STLC07504    Hearing Date:   June 12, 2024    Dept:  82 Toyota
Motor Credit Corporation v. Naomi M. Benavidez, et al.
Case No. 23STLC07504
[Tentative] Order Denying Application for Writ
of Possession against Naomi M. Benavidez
 
 
INTRODUCTION
 
Plaintiff Toyota Motor Credit
Corporation dba Toyota Lease Trust (“Plaintiff”) moves for writs of
possession against Defendants Naomi M.
Benavidez (“Benavidez”) and Gamlet Zograbian (“Zograbian”), individually and doing
business as “A&E Auto Body” (“A&E”) over the following property:
2022
Toyota Camry, motor vehicle, Vehicle Identification Number 4T1C11AKXNU714259 (the “Vehicle”).  Plaintiff dismissed
the case against Zograbian, leaving only the application for a writ of
possession against Defendant Benavidez. 
The application is denied.  
 
LEGAL STANDARD  
 
“Upon the filing of the complaint or at any time thereafter, the
plaintiff may apply pursuant to this chapter for a writ of possession by filing
a written application for the writ with the court in which the action is
brought.”  (Code Civ. Proc. §
512.010(a).)  The application must be
submitted under oath and include:
 
(1) A showing of the
basis of the plaintiff's claim and that the plaintiff is entitled to possession
of the property claimed. If the basis of the plaintiff's claim is a written
instrument, a copy of the instrument shall be attached.
 
(2) A showing that the
property is wrongfully detained by the defendant, of the manner in which the
defendant came into possession of the property, and, according to the best
knowledge, information, and belief of the plaintiff, of the reason for the
detention.
 
(3) A particular
description of the property and a statement of its value.
 
(4) A statement,
according to the best knowledge, information, and belief of the plaintiff, of
the location of the property and, if the property, or some part of it, is
within a private place which may have to be entered to take possession, a
showing that there is probable cause to believe that such property is located
there.
 
(5) A statement that the
property has not been taken for a tax, assessment, or fine, pursuant to a
statute; or seized under an execution against the property of the plaintiff;
or, if so seized, that it is by statute exempt from such seizure.
 
(Code Civ. Proc. § 512.010(b).)  
 
Before the hearing on the Writ of Possession, the Defendant must be
served with (1) a copy of the summons and complaint; (2) a Notice of
Application and Hearing; and (3) a copy of the application and any affidavit in
support thereof.  (Code Civ. Proc. §
512.030.)  “The writ
will be issued if the court finds that the plaintiff's claim is probably valid
and the other requirements for issuing the writ are established.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 512.040(b).)  “A claim has ‘probable validity’ where it is
more likely than not that the plaintiff will obtain a judgment against the
defendant on that claim.”  (Code Civ.
Proc. § 511.090.)  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
            A.        Probable Validity of the Claim 
 
Plaintiff seeks a writ of possession based on its claims for money due
on a contract, conversion, and claim and delivery.  On or about August 1, 2022, Defendant Benavidez
executed a Motor Vehicle Lease Agreement (the “Contract”) under which Benavidez
leased the Vehicle from Hamer Toyota. 
Subsequently, Hamer Toyota assigned the Contract to Plaintiff, dba
Toyota Lease Trust.  (See Crawford Decl.
¶¶ 1, 7 & Exhs. A, B.)  Defendant
Benavidez defaulted on the Contract by failing to make monthly payments
starting in or about December 2023, and there is presently a balance due of
$21,720.45.  (Id. ¶ 8 & Exh. C.)  
 
B.        Wrongful Detention
 
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 512.010(b)(2), the
application must include “a showing that the property is wrongfully detained by
the defendant, of the manner in which the defendant came into possession of the
property, and, according to the best knowledge, information, and belief of the
plaintiff, of the reason for the detention.” 
Under the Contract, Plaintiff has the right to repossess the Vehicle in
the event of default.  (Crawford Decl.,
Exh. A.)  
 
Plaintiff submits
evidence that Defendant Benavidez transferred the
Vehicle to A&E, which performed repairs in or about March 2023.  (Id. ¶ 11.) 
The Vehicle was then transferred to a dealership, Toyota of Glendale,
for mechanical repairs before being returned to the body shop.  (Id. ¶¶ 12-13.)  A&E applied to the DMV for approval to
conduct a lien sale, but Plaintiff opposes the sale.  (Id. ¶ 14 & Exh. D.)  Prior to commencement of this action,
Plaintiff contacted A&E, which confirmed that it still has possession of
the Vehicle.  (Id. ¶ 15.)  Therefore, Plaintiff has not demonstrated that
Defendant Benavidez has wrongful possession of the vehicle or that there is
probable cause to believe that the vehicle is at her residence (13041 Macneil
Street in Sylmar, California 91342).  
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
            Based upon the foregoing, the court
orders as follows:
 
            1.         The
court denies the application for writ of possession against Naomi M.
Benavidez.  This order is without
prejudice to Plaintiff seeking a new writ of possession if it develops evidence
that the Vehicle is in the possession of Benavidez and/or located at the
Macneil Street address.
 
            2.         Plaintiff’s
request for attorneys’ fees is denied. 
This order is without prejudice to Plaintiff seeking attorneys’ fees
from the home court at the conclusion of the case, assuming it is the
prevailing party.
 
            3.         Plaintiff’s
counsel shall provide notice and file proof of service with the court.  
 