


[1]On July 12, 2016,
the Court issued an Order granting Defendants’ motion for summary adjudication
as to the first through fourth causes of action, and denying the motion as to
the fifth cause of action. 


[2]The Court notes
that Plaintiffs’ objections filed on January 22, 2024 also include additional
arguments and discussion of legal authority in support of Plaintiffs’
opposition to the instant motion. Plaintiffs do not show that they were
authorized to file additional briefing, and the Court accordingly declines to
consider it. 


[3]The Court notes
that Code of Civil Procedure section 583.350 provides that “[i]f the time
within which an action must be brought to trial pursuant to this article is
tolled or otherwise extended pursuant to statute with the result that at the
end of the period of tolling or extension less than six months remains within
which the action must be brought to trial, the action shall not be dismissed
pursuant to this article if the action is brought to trial within six months
after the end of the period of tolling or extension.” 


[4]The Court notes
that in their objections to Defendants’ reply, Plaintiffs also assert that
“Defendants introduce two new issues for the first time in their Reply: (1)
that the matter was not brought to trial because one of the Plaintiffs was not
included in Defendants’ offer of compromise under Code
Civ. Proc., § 998, and (2) the ‘stipulated judgment’ was not a trial for
purposes of the five-year rule.” (Plaintiffs’ Objections at p. 2:14-17.) But
Defendants’ arguments on these points are in response to Plaintiffs’ assertion
in the opposition that “[t]he matter has been brought to trial for the purpose
of the five-year period when the judgment was entered against Defendants.” (Opp’n
at p. 3:27). The Cout does not find that Plaintiffs have shown that such
arguments by Defendants were raised for the first time in the reply or that
they are improper. 


[5]The Court notes
that although the instant motion does not concern Code
of Civil Procedure section 473, the Court of Appeal in Jimenez v.
Chavez (2023)
97 Cal.App.5th 50, 54 concluded that “the six-month limitations
period of the mandatory and discretionary relief provisions of section 473(b) is either 182 days or six calendar
months, whichever period is longer. (Gonzales v. County of Los Angeles (1988)
199 Cal.App.3d 601, 604 [245 Cal. Rptr. 112] (Gonzales) [‘six-months’ limitations period
of Gov. Code, § 945.6 means the longer of 182 days or six calendar months].) Gov. Code, section 6804 states that ‘[m]onth’
means a calendar month, unless otherwise expressed,” and the number of days in
six calendar months varies from 181 to 184 days….” 
 


[6]Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 583.340, subdivision (c), “[i]n computing the time within which an action must be
brought to trial pursuant to this article, there shall be excluded the time
during which any of the following conditions existed:…(c) Bringing the action to trial, for any other
reason, was impossible, impracticable, or futile.” 
 

