 Case Number:  22STCV25483    Hearing Date:   January 26, 2024    Dept:  D TENTATIVE RULINGCalendar:     6 Date:           1/26/2024   Case No: 22 STCV25483  Trial Date: None Set Case Name: Torossian v. Pack Rats Portable Mini Storage LLC, et al.  DEMURRERMOTION TO STRIKE  Moving Party:             Defendants 1-800-Pack-Rat, LLC and Zippy Shell, Inc.      Responding Party: Plaintiff Raya Torossian      RELIEF REQUESTED:   Sustain demurrer to fourth and fifth causes of action of First Amended Complaint   Strike punitive damages   CAUSES OF ACTION:  from First Amended Complaint 1) Negligence  2) Conversion 3) Breach of Contract 4) NIED 5) IIEDSUMMARY OF FACTS: Plaintiff Raya Torossian alleges that in March of 2020, plaintiff contracted with defendant Zippy Shell, Inc. (Zippy Shell) to have personal belongings moved, in a closed storage container, to North Carolina.  In April of 2020, defendant Pack Rats Portable Mini Storage, LLC (Pack Rats), on behalf of Zippy Shell, met with plaintiff to pick up her belongings, and took plaintiff’s belongings into their custody and care. Plaintiff alleges that at the time Pack Rats took plaintiff’s belongings, the items were free and clear of vermin.  The FAC alleges that due the Covid-19 outbreak, plaintiff was forced to keep her container at Pack Rat’s facility for ten months.  In February of 2021, plaintiff requested that her belongings be returned to her in California.  The following day, Pack Rats showed up with plaintiff’s personal property in an open container, and plaintiff noticed her property was covered in rat feces. The delivery men admitted to their facility being infested with rats and explained that their supervisor had nevertheless forced them to deliver the property.  The delivery men attempted to place some of the property inside plaintiff’s home, but plaintiff refused to accept the property which was covered in fecal matter, and plaintiff and her husband were then forced to go through their now hazardous belongings at defendants’ facility, or otherwise be charged a storage fee.  The FAC alleges that as plaintiff and her husband were going through their property, actual mice were crawling through their belongings.  In the midst of going through their damaged property, plaintiff was given a form to list the items damaged and the monetary amount for the damage, but that without being able to think straight, and through plaintiff’s frustration, she was not able to list all her items.  Plaintiff alleges that the items included clothing, furniture, electronics, kitchen appliances, strollers, children’s toys and jewelry, and her autistic son’s favorite stuffed animal and learning devices. The FAC alleges that with tears in her eyes and suffering from the traumatic event, plaintiff pleaded for payment, as well as the additional protection coverage she had requested when entering into the subject contract, but defendants denied all requests. ANALYSIS:Substantive Fourth Cause of Action—Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress  Defendants Pack Rats and Zippy Shell argue that plaintiff has failed to sufficiently show that the emotional distress alleged was serious.  Negligent infliction of emotional distress requires negligence and severe emotional disturbance.  Marlene F. v. Psychiatric Medical Clinic, Inc. (1989) 48 Cal.3d 583, 588.  Defendants argue that the plaintiff has failed to show the emotional distress was serious, as plaintiff alleges that defendants tried to place items covered with rat feces inside her home, that plaintiff went to defendants’ facility to dig through her personal property, which was covered in rat feces, and that she was instantly traumatized when and devasted when she saw her personal items destroyed.  Defendants argue that although these allegations would elicit an adverse reaction from any reasonable person, the allegations alone do not amount to serious emotional distress, which has been defined as causing the inability of a reasonable person to “adequately cope with the mental stress engendered by the circumstances of the case.”   Wong v. Tai Jing (2010) 189 Cal.App.4th 1354, 1377-1378, citations omitted.  The cause of action alleges that defendants’ acts of placing plaintiffs belongings in a facility they were aware had rat infestation, attempting to place items covered with rat feces inside plaintiff’s home, and forcing plaintiff to go to defendant’s facility and dig through her personal property “which was covered in fecal matter and rats,” would have caused any reasonable person “to experience a trauma response and thereby suffer emotional distress.”  [FAC, paras. 77-81].  The pleading further alleges:“82. There was an instant shock by Plaintiff as she saw her belongings covered in rat feces. She saw rats running out of her children’s stroller. Excrement inside drawers, kitchen appliances, clothes, and everything she owedf [sic]. It was impossible to save any of her belongings as they were now a risk for her and her family’s health. 83. Plaintiff was instantly traumatized and devasted as she saw gifts, family items, pictures, and many more private and emotionally valued items destroyed. 84. Defendants recklessly, without regard for the serious emotional consequences of their actions, subjected Plaintiff to the traumatic experience of not only the destruction of her irreplicable belongings but also the act of searching through rat feces.”[FAC, paras. 82-84].  These paragraphs of the FAC allege a trauma reaction and instant shock which is detailed and supports plaintiff’s general allegation that she “suffered serious and severe emotional distress.”  [FAC, para. 85].  The descriptions would support an argument that defendants caused distress at the level that a reasonable person would be unable to adequately cope with it, the standard upon which defendants rely.  The Wong case, in fact, was determined on a special motion to strike, based on an evidentiary showing, so was not a pleading case.   The allegations are sufficient to withstand demurrer on this ground, and the demurrer as to this cause of action is overruled.  Fifth Cause of Action—Intentional Infliction of Emotional DistressTo state a cause of action for Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress, plaintiff must plead the following essential elements: Extreme and outrageous conduct with the intention of causing, or reckless disregard of the probability of causing, emotional distress; plaintiff suffered severe or extreme emotional distress; defendant’s outrageous conduct actually and proximately caused emotional distress; the conduct was directed to plaintiff.  Christensen v. Superior Court (1991) 54 Cal.3d 868, 903; KOVR-TV, Inc. v. Superior Court (1995) 31 Cal.App.4th 1023, 1028.It is held that conduct to be outrageous must be “so extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized community,” and be “of a nature which is especially calculated to cause, and does cause, mental distress…”  Christensen, 54 Cal.3d at 903, 905.    Defendants argue that the cause of action does not sufficiently allege outrageous conduct and does not sufficiently allege severe emotional distress.  The cause of action makes similar allegations to those set forth above concerning the suffering of severe emotional distress.  [FAC, paras. 87-95].  The allegations are similarly sufficient to allege facts and severe distress beyond mere conclusory allegations of suffering such distress.  The demurrer to this cause of action is also overruled with respect to this argument. With respect to outrageous conduct, the cause of action alleges that defendants placed plaintiff’s belongings “in a facility which they were fully aware had a rat infestation,” “intentionally tried to place items covered with rat feces in plaintiff’s home, and then forced plaintiff to dig through her personal property which was covered with fecal matter and rats themselves.  [FAC, paras. 87, 89, 90].   These allegations are sufficiently outrageous to withstand demurrer on this ground. Plaintiff in opposition relies on Gonzales v. Personal Storage, Inc. (1997) 56 Cal.App.4th 464, 477, in which the court of appeal found that a jury had not erred in permitting an award of emotional distress damages in favor of a plaintiff against a storage facility which had been found liable to plaintiff for negligence, violation of the California Self-Storage Facility Act, and conversion, in connection with the storage of household goods, including rare furniture, family keepsakes, heirlooms and personal belongings plaintiff had stored with defendant following a divorce, which were wrongly handled.  The court of appeal specifically dealt with the cause of action for conversion, and the nature of the responsibility of the self-storage facility. The court of appeal observed:“where a converter takes possession and disposes of household goods or family heirlooms on the basis of a reasonable but erroneous belief as to title, the converter may legitimately contend that he acted without knowledge as to rightful ownership. However, the converter cannot claim he was unaware of the potential emotional harm his interference would cause.  In contrast, the negligent destroyer of personal property—the defendant who fails to properly secure the bulldozer or the warehouseman who leaves paint rags next to a gas burner—has considerably less direct knowledge of the emotional consequences of his conduct. (See Thing v. La Chusa (1989) 48 Cal.3d 644, 647 [257 Cal.Rptr. 865, 771 P.2d 814]; Cooper, supra, 153 Cal.App.3d at p. 1012.) Thus, in the context of a conversion claim there is far less likelihood that allowing recovery for emotional distress damages will create liability which is out of proportion to the nature of the defendant's act.Gonzales, at 477.Although not cited by the parties, the court of appeal in Windeler v. Scheers Jewelers (1970) 8 Cal.App.3d 844, similarly found the trial court appropriately awarded personal injury emotional distress damages to plaintiff based on a jury verdict, where a jeweler had negligently lost plaintiff’s property, consisting of rings which she had informed the jeweler were of great sentimental value.   In Windeler, the court of appeal found that despite the fact that the case involved only property damage, emotional distress damages were nonetheless recoverable:“Whenever the terms of a contract relate to matters which concern directly the comfort, happiness or personal welfare of one of the parties, or the subject matter of which is such as directly to affect or move the affection, self-esteem or tender feelings of that party, he may recover damages for physical suffering or illness proximately caused by its breach.  In its application, this rule permits recovery of damages for mental suffering.”Windeler, at 851, quotation, citations omitted. In this case, it is alleged that storage defendants took possession of personal property from plaintiff’s home, to be moved to another state, promising the property would be stored in a closed container, but intentionally stored it in an open container in a facility which defendants knew was infested with rats which would have direct access to the personal property.   The facts are sufficient to support a reasonable inference that defendants were aware of the emotional attachment which would arise from any harm or damage to or conversion of the subject property.  The cause of action is sufficiently alleged to withstand demurrer, and the demurrer on this ground is overruled. Motion to Strike Defendants seek to strike the prayer for punitive damages. Civil Code § 3294 authorizes recovery of punitive damages on the basis of findings that “the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud or malice.”  “Oppression” is defined to mean “despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of the person’s rights.”  “Malice” is defined to mean “despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.”   “Despicable” has been defined as a powerful term that refers to circumstances that are “base,” “vile,” or “contemptible”.  Civil Code § 3294 (c); See also, College Hospital, Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 709. “Despicable conduct” is defined as  “conduct which is so vile, base, contemptible, miserable, wretched or loathsome that it would be looked down upon and despised by ordinary, decent people.”   Mock v. Michigan Millers Mutual Ins. Co. (1990)  4 Cal. App. 4th 306, 331;  See also CACI 3940-3948, defining despicable conduct as “conduct that is so vile, base, or contemptible that it would be looked down on and despised by reasonable people.”  Such conduct has been described as “[having] the character of outrage frequently associated with crime.”  Taylor v. Superior Court (1979) 24 Cal. 3d 890, 894.Defendants argue that this is merely a contractual dispute concerning the storage of plaintiff’s property and does not give rise to a claim for punitive damages.  As discussed above, the conduct alleged includes allegations sufficient to support a claim that defendants engaged in outrageous conduct to support their claim for IIED.   This result means that the conduct was sufficiently despicable to support a punitive damages claim. Plaintiff in opposition argues that these actions also included forcing plaintiff and her husband to put their safety at risk by sifting through hazardous materials covering their belongings under threat of exacting additional fees and extorting plaintiff to act under threat of being charged additional fees for items defendant had destroyed. [FAC, para. 26).   These facts further support the claim that defendants acted despicably.   In addition, the FAC alleges a cause of action for conversion.  Defendants have not demurred to that cause of action or challenged its sufficiency.  Conversion is considered a cause of action in the nature of a criminal act, theft, such that such a claim ordinarily supports a claim for punitive damages.  See Witkin, Summary of Cal. Law (11th Ed.)  6 Witkin, Torts section 1760 (2023) (“Conversion is a tort that often justifies an award of punitive damages,” citing multiple authorities, including Haigler v. Donnelly (1941) 18 Cal.2d 674, 681). The pleading alleges sufficient facts to support the general prayer for punitive damages as to one or more of the stated causes of action, and the motion to strike accordingly is denied. RULING:Demurrer to Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint is OVERRULED. Defendant’s Motion to Strike Plaintiff’s Request for Punitive Damages is DENIED. Ten days to answer. DEPARTMENT D IS CONTINUING TO CONDUCT AND ENCOURAGE AUDIO OR VIDEO APPEARANCESPlease make arrangement in advance if you wish to appear via LACourtConnect by visiting www.lacourt.org to schedule a remote appearance.  Please note that LACourtConnect offers free audio and video appearances.  However, ADVANCE REGISTRATION IS REQUIRED. If no appearance is set up through LACourtConnect, or no appearance is otherwise made, then the Court will assume the parties are submitting on the tentative. 