 Case Number:  23GDCV00744    Hearing Date:   January 26, 2024    Dept:  D TENTATIVE RULINGCalendar:     7 Date:           1/26/2024   Case No: 23 GDCV00744  Trial Date: None Set Case Name: Golamirians v. General Motors, LLC  DEMURRERMOTION TO STRIKE  Moving Party:             Defendant General Motors LLC       Responding Party: Plaintiff Grigor Golamirians      RELIEF REQUESTED:   Sustain demurrer to fifth cause of action of First Amended Complaint   Strike punitive damages   CAUSES OF ACTION:  from First Amended Complaint  1) Violation of Subdivision (d) of Civil Code Section 1793.2 2) Violation of Subdivision (b) of Civil Code Section 1793.23) Violation of Subdivision (a)(3) of Civil Code Section 1793.24) Breach of the Implied Warranty of Merchantability 5) Fraudulent Inducement—Concealment SUMMARY OF FACTS:Plaintiff Grigor Golamirians alleges that in September of 2020 plaintiff entered into a warranty contract with defendant General Motors, LLC (GM) regarding a 2020 Chevrolet Bolt vehicle which was manufactured and or distributed by defendant GM.Plaintiff alleges that defects and nonconformities to warranty manifested themselves within the express warranty period, including the battery and electrical system, and that such defects and nonconformities to warranty substantially impair the use, value, or safety of the vehicle.  Plaintiff alleges that defendant GM had an affirmative duty to promptly offer to repurchase or replace the subject vehicle if it failed to conform the vehicle to the terms of the express warranty after a reasonable number or repair attempts, but defendant has failed to either promptly replace the vehicle or to promptly make restitution in accordance with the Song-Beverly Act.  The FAC alleges that prior to entering the lease on the subject vehicle, plaintiff saw GM’s TV commercials advertising the vehicle, went on GM’s website to learn about its features, components, and driving range, and reviewed the Monroney label affixed to the vehicle, and that none of these marketing materials/product disclosures disclosed the battery defect.  Plaintiff also interacted with GM’s authorized sales representatives, who told him about the vehicle, and did not disclose that the vehicle had a battery defect.  Plaintiff alleges that GM knew since 2016 that the model year 2017 or newer Chevrolet Bolt EV vehicles contained design or manufacturing defects in the battery that causes the battery to overheat when charged to full capacity and results in overheating, losses of propulsion driving power while driving, catastrophic fire, no crank, reduced range, thermal runaway, and/or spontaneous combustion.   Plaintiff alleges that had he known about the battery defect, he would not have leased the vehicle. ANALYSIS:DemurrerFifth Cause of Action—Fraudulent Inducement—Concealment To state a cause of action for fraud, plaintiff must plead the following elements: A false representation, actual or implied, or concealment of a matter-of-fact material to the transaction which defendant had a duty to disclose, or defendant’s promise made without intention to perform; defendant’s knowledge of the falsity; defendant’s intent to deceive; plaintiff’s justifiable reliance thereon; and resulting damage to plaintiff.  Pearson v. Norton (1964) 230 Cal.App.2d 1; Judicial Council Form 982.1 (23).Generally, in a fraud cause of action, a plaintiff must allege specifically how, what, where, to whom and by what means a defendant made a misrepresentation.  Stansfield v. Starkey (1990) 220 Cal.App.3d 59, 73. Defendant GM argues that plaintiff has failed to allege the cause of action for fraudulent concealment with the requisite specificity.  The FAC alleges in some detail that defendant GM allowed the vehicle to be sold to plaintiff without disclosing that the vehicle and its lithium-ion battery were defective and susceptible to sudden and premature failure and describes GM obtaining knowledge of the defect as far back as 2016 through pre-production and post-production testing data and consumer complaints and issuing internal technical bulletins to its dealers.  [FAC, paras. 23-40, 82-89].  The FAC alleges that facts were concealed from plaintiff in connection with defendant’s advertising and marketing, as well during repair visits to GM’s authorized dealerships.   [FAC, paras. 8, 9, 35-37,87]. As argued in the opposition, with respect to fraudulent concealment claims it is held that a plaintiff is not required to allege with the usual detail required in connection with fraud claims based on affirmative representations.   In Vega v. Jones, Day, Reavis & Pogue (2004) 121 Cal. App.4th 282, the Second District found that the trial court had improperly sustained a demurrer to a concealment cause of action on the ground the cause of action on the ground plaintiff had failed to allege the cause of action “with the requisite degree of specificity,” noting “The pertinent question in a concealment case is not who said what to whom…”  Vega, at 296. Plaintiff cites to Alfaro v. Community Housing Improvement System & Planning Association, Inc. (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1356, 1384, in which the court of appeal observed:“As restated by Robinson Helicopter Co., Inc. v. Dana Corp. (2004) 34 Cal.4th 979, 993 [22 Cal. Rptr. 3d 352, 102 P.3d 268], “‘[i]n California, fraud must be pled specifically; general and conclusory allegations do not suffice. [Citations.] “Thus ‘“the policy of liberal construction of the pleadings … will not ordinarily be invoked to sustain a pleading defective in any material respect.”’ [Citation.] [¶] This particularity requirement necessitates pleading facts which ‘show how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the representations were tendered.’ ” ’ ” (Cf. Blickman Turkus, LP v. MF Downtown Sunnyvale, LLC, supra, 162 Cal.App.4th 858, 878.)This statement of the rule reveals that it is intended to apply to affirmative misrepresentations. If the duty to disclose arises from the making of representations that were misleading or false, then those allegations should be described. (Blickman Turkus, LP v. MF Downtown Sunnyvale, LLC, supra, 162 Cal.App.4th 858, 877–878.) However, as noted above (see fn. 18, ante, at p. 1381), plaintiffs have apparently abandoned their earlier claims of intentional and negligent misrepresentations. As plaintiffs accurately respond, it is harder to apply this rule to a case of simple nondisclosure. “How does one show ‘how’ and ‘by what means’ something didn't happen, or ‘when’ it never happened, or ‘where’ it never happened?”Alfaro, at 1384. Plaintiff also points out that it is held that if the defendant is in a better position to know the facts concerning the alleged fraud, the requirement of specificity is relaxed.  Committee on Children’s Television, Inc. v. General Foods Corp. (1983) 35 Cal.3d 197, 216. The FAC here sets forth detailed allegations concerning what was concealed and defendant’s knowledge of the concealed facts, and multiple occasions of failure to disclose.  The demurrer on this ground accordingly is overruled.  Defendant also argues that the cause of action is insufficient because the pleading fails to allege that transactional relationship involving direct dealings between plaintiff and defendant.    The FAC clearly alleges that there was a direct relationship between plaintiff and defendant by virtue of the warranty extended with the lease of the vehicle, and, as noted above, alleges that plaintiff relied on marketing materials generated directly by GM, including television commercials and representations on GM’s website before leasing the vehicle.  [FAC, paras. 6-9].  It is also alleged that prior to entering the lease, plaintiff interacted with “GM’s authorized sales representatives” at the dealership, who failed to make the requisite disclosures.  [FAC, para. 9].  It is also alleged that concealment occurred throughout plaintiff’s recall and repair experiences with GM’s “authorized dealership.”  [FAC, para. 87].  These allegations must be accepted as true for purposes of demurrer.  See Serrano v. Priest (1971) 5 Cal.3d 584, 591; Del E. Webb Corp. v.  Structural Materials Co. (1981, 2nd Dist.) 123 Cal.App.3d 593, 604  Moreover, plaintiff, in opposition, cites Dhital v. Nissan North America, Inc. (2022) 84 Cal.App. 5th 828, review granted, Dhital v. Nissan North America (2023) 523 P.3d 392.   Although review has been granted by the California Supreme Court, the Court in its granting of the petition for review denied a request for an order directing depublication of the opinion.  Dhital is a case in which vehicle buyers brought an action against the manufacturer of the vehicle including a claim for fraudulent inducement by concealment arising from the manufacturer’s alleged intentional concealment of known defects in the vehicle’s transmission.  The court of appeal in Dhital held that the trial court had improperly sustained a demurrer without leave to amend to the cause of action, finding that claim was sufficiently specifically stated given the relaxed standard applied to concealment claims, and also rejecting an argument that there was an insufficiently direct relationship between the parties:“Nissan argues plaintiffs did not adequately plead the existence of a buyer-seller relationship between the parties, because plaintiffs bought the car from a Nissan dealership (not from Nissan itself). At the pleading stage (and in the absence of a more developed argument by Nissan on this point), we conclude plaintiffs’ allegations are sufficient. Plaintiffs alleged that they bought the car from a Nissan dealership, that Nissan backed the car with an express warranty, and that Nissan’s authorized dealerships are its agents for purposes of the sale of Nissan vehicles to consumers. In light of these allegations, we decline to hold plaintiffs’ claim is barred on the ground there was no relationship requiring Nissan to disclose known defects.”Dhital, at 844.  Defendant in the reply does not address this authority, which appears to be directly on point.  In any case, the FAC alleges additional facts here, and sufficiently alleges a relationship between plaintiff and defendant upon which the cause of action is based. The demurrer on this ground will also be overruled. Motion to Strike  Defendant seeks to strike plaintiff’s prayer for punitive damages, arguing that punitive damages are not available in connection with the first four causes of action of the FAC, and that the fifth cause of action for fraudulent concealment is not sufficiently alleged, as discussed in the demurrer. As discussed above, the fraudulent concealment cause of action is sufficiently stated.  Civil Code § 3294 authorizes recovery of punitive damages on the basis of findings that “the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud or malice.” In this case, since there is a properly alleged claim for fraudulent concealment, so punitive damages are appropriately stated based on “fraud.”  A properly pleaded fraud claim will itself support recovery of punitive damages; no allegations of malice or intent to injure are required.   Stevens v. Superior Court (1986, 2nd Dist.) 180 Cal.App.3d 605, 610-611.    The motion to strike will accordingly be denied. RULING:Defendant General Motors LLC’s Demurrer to Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint is OVERRULED. Defendant General Motors LLC’s Motion to Strike Punitive Damages from Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint is DENIED. Ten days to answer.    DEPARTMENT D IS CONTINUING TO CONDUCT AND ENCOURAGE AUDIO OR VIDEO APPEARANCESPlease make arrangement in advance if you wish to appear via LACourtConnect by visiting www.lacourt.org to schedule a remote appearance.  Please note that LACourtConnect offers free audio and video appearances.  However, ADVANCE REGISTRATION IS REQUIRED. If no appearance is set up through LACourtConnect, or no appearance is otherwise made, then the Court will assume the parties are submitting on the tentative. 