 Case Number:  23GDCV01864    Hearing Date:   January 26, 2024    Dept:  D TENTATIVE RULINGCalendar: 8 Date: 1/26/2024Case No.: 23 GDCV01864 Trial Date: None Set Case Name: Ally Bank v. BDR Marketing Inc., et al. WRIT OF POSSESSIONRequired Documents:__X__ Summons and Complaint  __X__ Notice of Application & Hearing _____ Application for Writ and all declarations or affidavits in support of motion NO__X__ Memo of Points & Authorities _____ Proof of Service    NO POSGROUNDS FOR MOTIONShowing of the basis of the plaintiff’s claim and that entitled to possession?No declaration or documentary evidence submitted. If based on written instrument, copy attached?No.   Showing that property wrongfully detained by defendant, manner in which came into possession and reason for detention?No showing Particular description of property and statement of its value?No showing, application Statement of location of the propertyNo showing, application Property not taken for a tax, assessment, fine or seizure?No showing, application              OPPOSITION: NO OPPOSITION ANALYSIS:ProceduralNo Proof of ServiceUnder CCP § 512.020, “no writ shall be issued under this chapter except after a hearing on a noticed motion.”  CCP § 512.030 provides, in pertinent part:“(a) Prior to the hearing required by subdivision (a) of Section 512.020, the defendant shall be served with all of the following:(1) A copy of the summons and complaint.(2) A Notice of Application and Hearing.(3) A copy of the application and any affidavit in support thereof.”There is no proof of service attached to these documents or anywhere in the file.  The file shows that there is outstanding an Order to Show Cause re Failure to File Proof of Service, which is set for a hearing on March 7, 2024.  Without proof of service of all required documents, the application cannot be granted. No Application, AffidavitThe paperwork filed by the moving party consists of a Notice of Application for Writ of Possession and Hearing, and a Memorandum of Points and Authorities.  No other documents have been filed. As set forth above, the documents required to be served include, “a copy of the application and any affidavit in support thereof.”  CCP § 512.030 (a)(3).  Without the application and an affidavit providing an evidentiary showing of the basis for the claim to possession, the court is without appropriate information to consider the application.   Under CCP § 512.010“(a) Upon the filing of the complaint or at any time thereafter, the plaintiff may apply pursuant to this chapter for a writ of possession by filing a written application for the writ with the court in which the action is brought. (b) The application shall be executed under oath and shall include all of the following:  (1) A showing of the basis of the plaintiff's claim and that the plaintiff is entitled to  possession of the property claimed. If the basis of the plaintiff's claim is a written instrument, a copy of the instrument shall be attached.  (2) A showing that the property is wrongfully detained by the defendant, of the manner in which the defendant came into possession of the property, and, according to the best knowledge, information, and belief of the plaintiff, of the reason for the detention.  (3) A particular description of the property and a statement of its value. (4) A statement, according to the best knowledge, information, and belief of the plaintiff,  of the location of the property and, if the property, or some part of it, is within a private place which may have to be entered to take possession, a showing that there is probable cause to believe that such property is located there.  (5) A statement that the property has not been taken for a tax, assessment, or fine, pursuant to a statute; or seized under an execution against the property of the plaintiff; or, If so seized, that it is by statute exempt from such seizure. (c) The requirements of subdivision (b) may be satisfied by one or more affidavits filed with the  application. Here, there is no application executed under oath, no affidavits filed with the application to provide an evidentiary showing under oath, and critical information, such as a copy of the contract, and statements of the value and location of the subject property to enable the court to fix a bond and to issue an appropriate writ for execution.    The application must accordingly be denied for failure to submit the required information with the notice and memorandum. Substantive Under CCP § 512.060:“(a) At the hearing, a writ of possession shall issue if both of the following are found: (1) The plaintiff has established the probable validity of the plaintiff’s claim to possession of the property.(2) The undertaking requirements of Section 515.010 are satisfied.”Under CCP § 511.090:“A claim has "probable validity" where it is more likely than not that the plaintiff will obtain a judgment against the defendant on that claim.”The Official Comments to CCP § 512.060 note:“The burden of proof rests on the plaintiff to establish the probable validity of his claim.”As noted above, the application is not in fact supported by an application, or any affidavits by which plaintiff has met its burden to establish the probability of its claim. Due to the extraordinary nature of pretrial statutory writ remedies, their requirements are ordinarily subject to strict construction.  See Pacific Decision Sciences Corp. v. Superior Court (2004) 121 Cal.App.4th 1100, 1106.   The application accordingly will be denied, as numerous requirements have not been satisfied. RULING:[No opposition].Application for writ of possession is DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE.  Defendant has not been served as required under CCP §512.030.  The application is also not supported by an application under oath or affidavits, and the required contents of such an application under statute.  CCP § 512.010The moving documents accordingly fail to establish to the satisfaction of the court the probable validity of defendant’s claim to possession of the property. DEPARTMENT D IS CONTINUING TO CONDUCT AND ENCOURAGE AUDIO OR VIDEO APPEARANCESPlease make arrangement in advance if you wish to appear via LACourtConnect by visiting www.lacourt.org to schedule a remote appearance.  Please note that LACourtConnect offers free audio and video appearances.  However, ADVANCE REGISTRATION IS REQUIRED. If no appearance is set up through LACourtConnect, or no appearance is otherwise made, then the Court will assume the parties are submitting on the tentative. 