  Case Number:  22STCV02890    Hearing Date:   September 25, 2024    Dept:  57  
 
In his operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”), Plaintiff George Luk (“Luk”)
alleges that Defendant Sigal Redfield (“Redfield) breached a lease agreement that
obligated Redfield to pay monthly rent for residential property located at 201
21st Place in Santa Monica, California (“the Property”).  The FAC did not attach any lease any
agreement between Luk and Redfield, but set forth the alleged terms of that
agreement.  At this juncture of the case,
it is clear that the agreement on which Luk rests his claim is a lease that was
executed in 2010 (“the 2010 Lease”) between Redfield and her now deceased husband
John Redfield on the one hand, and an entity called ACI International LLC (“ACI”),
on the other hand. Redfield has moved for summary judgment on Luk’s claim for
breach of the 2010 Lease on the ground that the undisputed evidence
demonstrates that Luk lacks standing to enforce the 2010 Lease.[1]
 The Court agrees with Redfield and his
granting her motion for summary judgment. 
In light of that decision, the Court is vacating all future hearing
dates in this action, including the scheduled trial. 
 
It is undisputed that (1) the 2010 Lease identifies the Redfields (Sigal
and John) as the tenants and ACI as the landlord; (2) Luk is nowhere mentioned
as the landlord or as having rights under the 2010 Lease; and (3) Luk executed
the 2010 Lease on behalf of ACI, not on behalf of himself individually.  In short, based on the face of the 2010 Lease,
Luk is not a party to that agreement.  
 
In his opposition to Redfield’s motion for judgment on the pleadings
based on Luk’s lack of standing to enforce the 2010 Lease, Luk asserted that,
in 2011, ACI assigned its rights under the 2010 Lease to Luk, which gave Luk
standing to enforce the 2010 Lease.  The
Court denied Redfield’s motion for judgment on pleadings.  The Court did so based on two points.  First, the operative pleading, the FAC, did
not refer to the 2010 Lease or any particular lease agreement.  Second, while the FAC did not allege that Luk
was an assignee under any particular lease agreement, it did allege that Luk
had a contractual right to enforce Redfield’s obligation to pay rent for the Property
and that this allegation could reflect an assignment of ACI’s rights.  Both points, in the Court’s view, were sufficient
to fend off Redfield’s motion for judgment on the pleadings.
 
Now we are beyond the pleading stage, however.  And in support of her motion for summary
judgment, Redfield presented evidence in the form of Luk’s own discovery
responses and deposition testimony that contradicts the notion Luk advanced at
the pleading stage that ACI assigned its rights under the 2010 Lease to Luk
individually.  That evidence actually lines
up with the FAC itself.   There, Luk did not check the box on the
Judicial Council Form on which the FAC was set forth that would indicate that
Luk is suing under an assignment of rights from ACI or anyone for that matter to
enforce Redfield’s obligation to pay rent for the Property.  And, as Redfield points out in her motion, Luk
failed to provide in discovery a copy of a written assignment of ACI’s rights
under the 2010 Lease to Luk individually.  
 
The evidence that Luk presented in opposition to Redfield’s summary
judgment fails to create a disputed issue of material fact for trial as to Luk’s
right via an assignment from ACI to enforce Redfield’s obligation to pay rent
for the Property under the 2010 Lease.[2]

 
One piece of evidence on which Luk relies is his declaration submitted
along with the opposition to Redfield’s summary judgment motion.  In the declaration, Luk asserts that  ACI’s rights under the 2010 Lease were
assigned to him.  But that assertion is
contracted by Luk’s deposition testimony and discovery responses and thus
cannot serve to create a disputed issue of material fact to stave off summary judgment.  (D’Amico v. Board of Med. Examiners (1974)
11 Cal.3d 1, 20-22.)  In particular, Luk
testified in his deposition that he always operated under a business name
instead of his own and disclaimed knowing what assignment means in relation to his
complaint against Redfield. (Brandt Decl., ¶ 9, Ex. H, 16:3-21, 35:21-37:15.)  Further, Luk’s verified response to the
interrogatory asking him to identify each document that is part of the
agreement alleged in the FAC was simply “[t]he lease and subsequent
modifications thereto.” (Id., ¶¶ 7-8, Exs. F-G.)  Luk stated that the modifications were “[d]ocuments
including agreements evidencing rent increases.” (Ibid.)  The discovery responses did not mention an
assignment.  And critically, Luk concedes
in his declaration  “a copy of the
Assignment has not yet been provided to [Redfield],” and  that he “has been unable to locate [it].” (Luk
Decl., ¶ 14.) 
 
The other evidence that Luk put forward in opposition to Redfield’s
summary judgment motion and in support of the proposition that ACI assigned its
rights under the 2010 Lease to Luk are the declarations of three individuals,
Christina Fung, Thomas Fung, and Anthony Fung (collectively, “the Fungs”).  It is undisputed that the Fungs are the owners
of the Property.  The Fungs’ declarations
are identical.  Each of the Fungs states
in his/her declaration that Luk told him/her in 2011 that the 2010 Lease would
be assigned by ACI to Luk.  One problem
is that the statement in the Fungs’ declarations as to what Luk said to them
about an assignment is inadmissible hearsay. 
Another problem is that Fungs lack personal knowledge to confirm the
existence of the purported assignment.  And
yet another problem is that, in Luk’s verified discovery responses served after
Redfield filed her summary judgment motion, Luk identified only himself as the
person with knowledge of the facts upon which Luk bases his contention that the
2010 Lease was assigned to him. (Butler Decl., ¶ 7, Ex. Q-2.) Luk did not
identify the Fungs as persons with such knowledge.  
 
All told, the undisputed evidence before the Court demonstrates that Luk
is not an assignee of ACI’s rights under the 2010 Lease.  Therefore, Luk lacks standing to enforce Redfield’s
obligation under the 2010 Lease to pay rent for the Property. 


