 Case Number:  24STCV02230    Hearing Date:   September 25, 2024    Dept:  57 Plaintiffs Carolyn Comick, Ebony Franklin and Fred Stewart (collectively, “the Plaintiffs”) were tenants at a residential property located at 649 Wall St., Los Angeles, CA 90014 (“the Subject Property”). Contesting the habitability of the Subject Property, the Plaintiffs sued Defendants Joshua House Health Center (“Joshua House”), 649 Lofts LP (“649 Lofts”), and SRHT Property Management Company (“SRHT”) (collectively, “Defendants”). As alleged in the Plaintiffs’ Complaint, at all relevant times, 649 Lofts and Joshua House co-owned and operated the Subject Property, and SRHT was the property manager for Joshua House and 649 Lofts.Pending before the Court is the motion of Joshua House to strike Paragraphs 51 and 67 from the Plaintiffs’ complaint, which are there to support Plaintiffs’ request for an award of exemplary and punitive damages against 649 Lofts and Joshua House.  Joshua House also moves to strike Paragraph 4 of the Complaint’s Prayer for Relief,  which is the portion of the Complaint  in which the Plaintiffs request an award of exemplary and punitive damages against  Joshua House and 649 Lofts. Joshua House contends that the Court should strike these Paragraphs because the Complaint contains insufficient allegations to support an award of exemplary and punitive damages against Joshua House as a corporation, which is what the Complaint asserts Joshua House is.  Joshua House is correct.  The Court is therefore granting Joshua House's motion to strike, albeit with leave for the Plaintiffs to amend the Complaint.  Civil Code Section 3294 provides that the actions on which a prayer for an award of punitive or exemplary damages against a corporation rests must have been taken by an officer, director, or managing agent of the corporation.  In the Court's view, the Complaint fails to allege that the actions in question that the Complaint attributes to Joshua House were taken by any such individuals. Thus, based on the allegations in the Complaint, Joshua House could not be liable to Plaintiffs for punitive or exemplary damages. The Court previously denied a motion to strike Paragraphs 51 and 67 and Paragraph 4 of the Complaint's Prayer for Relief filed by SHRT and 649 Lofts.  That motion to strike was not based on Civil Code Section 3294, however.  