  Case Number:  21STCV23350    Hearing Date:   March 11, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
JANE
  DOE, 


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:
 


 
21STCV23350
  




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING RE: MOTION TO COMPEL MENTAL EXAMINATION OF PLAINTIFF 
 




 
MANHATTAN
  BEACH UNIFIED SCHOOL DISRICT, ET AL.


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          March 11, 2024
 
Moving
Parties:                      Defendant Manhattan Beach Unified School District 
Responding
Party:                  Plaintiff Jane Doe 
Motion
to Compel Mental Examination of Plaintiff 
            The court considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers.
RULING
            Defendant’s Motion to Compel IME is GRANTED.  However, the IME shall be limited to 4 hours
and Defendant is ordered to provide results from the testing within 48
hours.  Plaintiff is ordered to appear
for IME on March 14, 2024 at 9:00 am within 75 miles of San Marcos, CA.  BACKGROUND
            During the 2004-2005 school year, Plaintiff
was sexually assaulted by Thomas Wallace while she was a student and a member
of the track team at Mira Costa High School, which is within Defendant
Manhattan Beach Unified School District. 
On June 23, 2021, Plaintiff filed a complaint alleging (1) negligence of
district employees (GC §815.2); (2) negligent supervision; (3) negligence per
se (Penal Code §11164, et seq.).  
LEGAL AUTHORITY
            “If any party desires to obtain
discovery by a physical examination other than that described in Article 2
(commencing with Section 2032.210), or by a mental examination, the party shall
obtain leave of court.”  (CCP
§2032.310(a).)  “A motion for an
examination under subdivision (a) shall specify the time, place, manner,
conditions, scope, and nature of the examination, as well as the identity and
the specialty, if any, of the person or persons who will perform the
examination. The motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration
under Section 2016.040.”  (CCP
§2032.310(b).)  
            A defendant in a personal injury
case has the right to one physical examination of the plaintiff, without leave
of court, simply by serving a written demand on plaintiff.  (CCP §2032.220(a).)  An additional physical examination may be
ordered upon a finding of good cause.  (CCP
§§2032.310 and 2032.320.)  A request for
IME under CCP §2032.310 may only be granted upon good cause show.  (CCP §2032.320(a).)  This generally requires a showing both of:
(1) “Relevancy to the subject matter”; and (2) specific facts justifying
discovery: i.e., allegations showing the need for the information sought and
lack of means for obtaining it elsewhere. 
(Vinson v. Sup.Ct. (Peralta Comm. College Dist.) (1987) 43
Cal.3d 833, 840.)
DISCUSSION
            Defendant
moves to compel Plaintiff’s IME, because Plaintiff has placed her mental and
emotional health at issue by claiming emotional distress damages.  Defendant argues Plaintiff’s mental and
emotional health are therefore directly relevant to the subject matter and good
cause exists to compel the examination.  
            Defendant
also argues the terms of the examination are reasonable.  Defendant identifies the examiner as Praveen
Kambam, a physician and MD and a board-certified child and adolescent
psychiatrist.  Defendant argues its
physician will examine Plaintiff within 75 miles of her city of residence, San
Marcos, CA.  Defendant argues the exam
will be no more than 8 hours, excluding breaks, and it will not involve any
invasive physical procedures. 
            Defendant
maintains it attempted to meet and confer in good faith.  Defendant has been attempting to obtain the
exam since January 2, 2024 but parties were unable to reach an agreement.  
            In
opposition, Plaintiff argues Defendant’s request for an IME was unduly delayed
and will prejudice Plaintiff.  Plaintiff
argues the trial date is less than a month away and the expert cutoff is on
March 19, 2024.  Plaintiff argues the
examiner, Dr. Kambam, will be deposed only eight days before trial.  Plaintiff argues this will severely prejudice
her given that she has abided by all cutoffs and deadlines.  Plaintiff argues she will be timely producing
all of her experts before the March 19, 2024 deadline.  
            Plaintiff
also argues the examination fails to comport with CCP §2032.310.  Plaintiff argues the CCP requires that
Defendant identify those tests that will be performed, not those that may be
performed.  Plaintiff argues Defendant
only identifies tests that may be performed. 
Plaintiff argues a number of the tests are also irrelevant to her mental
and emotion distress damages.  
            Plaintiff
also argues Defendant is improperly seeking to redepose her through this
IME.  Plaintiff argues there is no
reasonable basis for the expert to inquire as to her developmental history,
education, employment, social history, legal history, general medical history,
family history, prenatal history and the alleged conduct of Defendant,
culminating in a review of current psychiatric and physical complaints.  Plaintiff argues these areas were already
covered by her deposition.  
            Plaintiff
asks that the Court limit testing to four hours if the Court grants this
motion.  Plaintiff also asks that
Defendant be ordered to produce the testing results within 48 hours of
examination, so that she can properly prepare for Defendant’s expert
deposition.  Plaintiff also asks that the
testing be limited to the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale-IV; Minnesota
Mulitphasic Personality Inventory-2 or 3; ACE Questionnaire for Adults; Trauma
Symptom Inventory-2; Clinician Administered PTSD Scale for DSM-5 (CAPs-5); and
Test of Memory Malingering; Personality Assessment Inventory.  Plaintiff asks that the topics of the
clinical interview be limited to basic background information, reported
instances of onset of the alleged emotional injury and how the symptoms
unfolded over time to the present.  
            Defendant
establishes good cause to compel the IME. 
Plaintiff does not dispute that she has placed her emotional and mental
health at issue and the IME is directly relevant to her claims.  An IME is necessary to obtain information
regarding Plaintiff’s injuries and damages.
            The
only objection Plaintiff raises is (1) delay and (2) the scope and length of
the exam.  Defendant initiated meet and
confer efforts to obtain an IME in January 2024, approximately 3 months before
the discovery cutoff.  Defendant filed
this motion before the discovery cutoff in February 2024 and before the
discovery motion hearing cutoff.  Although
Defendant could have acted sooner, Defendant was within the cutoffs and delay
is not grounds to deny the request for an essential IME.  And the history shows efforts to arrange the
IME by agreement, which unfortunately failed after an extended period of time.
If
the delay in the IME results in any prejudice to Plaintiff, Plaintiff should be
prepared at the hearing to address scheduling, including a trial continuance so
that any claimed prejudice may be eliminated. 
Such modifications may include the exchange of expert information,
depositions, and trial.
            As
to Plaintiff’s objections to Defendant’s IME protocol, the Court disagrees that
the testing protocol identified improperly identifies possible tests that may
be administered.  Defendant states that “the
examiner may use the following test/exams” and then proceeds to list the
specific tests and exams that may be used. 
“An order granting a physical or mental examination shall specify the
person or persons who may perform the examination, as well as the time, place,
manner, diagnostic tests and procedures, conditions, scope, and nature of the
examination.”  (CCP §2032.230(d).)  Defendant sufficiently specifies the tests
that will be used by the examiner.  The
examiner may perform fewer than all of those identified but the examiner may
not go outside the enumerated tests. 
This is sufficient.  The trial
court order in Carpenter v. Supr. Ct. (2006) 141 Cal.App.4th
249, 257 is distinguishable, because the court did not identify any tests and
merely stated “examination shall test emotional and cognitive functioning” and
referenced “standardized written psychological tests.”  (Carpenter, supra, 141
Cal.App.4th at 257.)  
            Plaintiff’s
request that the test results be provided to her within 48 hours is reasonable
in light of the delay and impending cutoffs. 
Plaintiff’s request that the testing be limited to 4 hours is also
granted.  
ORDER
Defendant’s Motion to Compel IME is GRANTED.  The IME shall be limited to 4 hours and
Defendant is ordered to provide results from the testing within 48 hours.  Plaintiff is ordered to appear for IME on
March 14, 2024 at 9:00 am within 75 miles of San Marcos, CA.
Moving party is ordered to give notice of ruling.