 Case Number:  22BBCV00461    Hearing Date:   October 12, 2023    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
OCTOBER 12,
2023
Continued
from October 6, 2023

MOTIONS
TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 22BBCV00461

 



MP:  


Krikor
  Bardakjian (Defendant/Cross-Complainant) 




RP:  


Mikayel Israyelyan (Plaintiff) &
  Liana Sahakyan (Cross-Defendant) 



 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Plaintiff
Mikayel Israyelyan (“Israyelyan”) brings this action against Krikor Bardakjian (“Bardakjian”).
Plaintiff also names as defendants Krikor Bardakjian, DDS, Inc., Noho Dental
Group by Bardakjian DDS, Inc., Sherman Oaks Dental Group by Krikor Bardakjian
DDS, Inc. (collectively “BDP”) and 485 Cliff Dr. LLC. The Complaint alleges
nine causes of action and seeking compensatory damages in excess of
$3,000,000.00, general damages, punitive and exemplary damages, attorney’s fees
and costs of suit.
Defendant
and BDP subsequently filed a Cross Complaint against Plaintiff, Alina Bagasian
(“Bagasian”), Liana Sahakyan (“Sahakyan”), Suren Minasyan (“Minasyan”), Irnes
Okanovich (“Okanovich”), Muse Lifestyle Group, LLC (“Muse”), Laureate
Aesthetics Management (“Laureate”). The Cross-Complaint alleges 15 causes of
action and seeking a jury trial as to various damages.
Before
the Court are two motions brought by Bardakjian to compel further discovery
responses. The first seeks to compel Israyelyan’s further responses to
Bardakjian’s Request for Production (“RFPD”) Nos. 125 through 135. The second
seeks to compel Sahakyan’s further response to Bardakjian’s RFPD No. 126.
Israyelyan and Sahakyan oppose the motions and Bardakjian replies. 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.         
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
A motion
to compel further responses to RFPD may be brought based on: (1) incomplete
statements of compliance; (2) inadequate, evasive, or incomplete claims of
inability to comply; or (3) unmerited or overly generalized objections.  (C.C.P.
§ 2031.310(c).) 
 
A motion
to compel further production must set forth specific facts showing good cause
justifying the discovery sought by the inspection demand. (See C.C.P. §
2031.310(b)(1).) In Digital Music News LLC v Superior Court (2014) 226
Cal.App.4th 216 at 224, the Court defined “good cause” as a showing that there
“a disputed fact that is of consequence in the action and the discovery sought
will tend in reason to prove or disprove that fact or lead to other evidence
that will tend to prove or disprove the fact.”  
 
If the
moving party has shown good cause for the requests for production, the burden
is on the objecting party to justify the objections. (Kirkland v. Sup.Ct
(2002) 95 Cal. App.4th 92, 98.) 
 
II.         
MERITS (AS
TO ISRAYELYAN)
 
Each of Bardakjian’s RFPD Nos. 125
through 135 request the production of Israyelyan’s personal tax returns across
several years. Israyelyan argues the requests are overbroad and that his tax
returns are subject to privilege. The Court will first analyze whether the
documents are privileged, as privilege would prohibit even a heavily modified
order for production. 
 
Generally, both federal and state tax
returns are privileged from disclosure. (Webb v. Standard Oil Co. of Cal.
(1957) 49 Cal.2d 509, 513-514; Weingarten v. Superior Court (2002) 102
Cal.App.4th 268, 274.) The purpose of the privilege is to encourage voluntary
filing of tax returns and truthful reporting of income, and thus to facilitate
tax collection. (Id.) The privilege applies to all information integral
to a tax return, not just the tax returns themselves. (Brown v. Superior
Court (1977) 71 Cal.App.3d 141, 144; see Siri v. Sutter Home Winery, Inc.
(2019) 31 Cal. App. 5th 598, 605 [the privilege “precludes the forced
disclosure of tax returns and of the information contained in those returns”].)
For example, a party may not propound an interrogatory seeking information
concerning specific entries in the return such as “what specific deductions or
adjustments [were] made in respect to sales tax returns.” (Sav-On Drugs,
Inc. v. Superior Court (1975) 15 Cal.3d 1, 4.) However, the tax return
privilege is not absolute. (Id.; Schnabel v. Superior Court (1993)
5 Cal.4th 704, 721.) 
 
There are three situations when a tax
return must be produced: 
 
(1)  
there is an
intentional relinquishment;
 
(2)  
the gravamen of
the lawsuit is so inconsistent with the continued assertion of the taxpayer’s
privilege as to compel the conclusion that the privilege has in fact been
waived; or
 
(3)  
a public policy
greater than that of confidentiality of tax returns is involved
 
(Id.) 
 
Here it is clear there was no
intentional relinquishment of the returns. As such, production can only be
compelled if the gravamen of this suit is inconsistent with the assertion of
the taxpayer privilege, or the privilege is outweighed by public policy
considerations. 
 
Gravamen of Claims
 
The Court finds the gravamen of the suit
is not inconsistent with the assertion of the privilege. First, Israyelyan has
done nothing to place his tax returns at direct issue in this matter, the
instance in which this exception most readily applies. (See Wilson v.
Superior Court (1976) 63 Cal.App.3d 825 [holding there was no tax return
privilege where an accountant was sued for negligently advising a client].) 
 
Bardakjian argues the tax returns are
directly relevant to Israyelyan’s claims for fraud and conversion, as they must
be compared to distributions Israyelyan took from Bardakjian Dental Practices.
The gravamen of Israyelyan’s claim is that Bardakjian misappropriated business
funds for his personal use, a claim to which Israyelyan’s tax returns are at
best tangential.   The gravamen of
Bardakjian’s claims are much the same, that Israyelyan misappropriated funds. Generally,
the court is skeptical that one accused of embezzlement or fraud would disclose
the theft on their tax returns.  
Likewise, if income is reported it does not also hold true that it was
illegitimate. Bardakjian has made it clear that he already has “substantial
evidence” Israyelyan misreported his personal income as business income,
rendering his later argument that the returns are the only source of
this information to be invalid. If Bardakjian is correct, any plaintiff who sues
for financial fraud would be subject to having their tax returns discovered.
This is clearly not the law and Bardakjian fails to cite authority to the
contrary. 
 
Public Policy 
 
To establish the public policy
exception, the party seeking the tax records must show that a compelling,
legislatively declared public policy warrants disclosure of the records. (Schnabel
v. Superior Court (1993) 5 Cal.4th 704). 
 
Courts have rarely found a public policy
exception to the privilege and their holdings are usually limited to specific
factual circumstances. In Miller v. Superior Court (1977) 71 Cal.App.3d
145, the Second District Court of Appeal found the strong public policy
rationale in promoting payment of child support outweighed the privilege
against disclosure. The Miller court relied on specific child support
related statues to find a strong legislative intent that disclosure be allowed
in such cases. (Id. at 148.) 
 
In Schnabel v. Superior Court,
the California Supreme Court found the exception applied in a marital
dissolution proceeding. (Schnabel supra (1993) 5 Cal.4th at 722.) In Schnable,
one spouse sought disclosure of tax records to determine the value of a
corporation in which the marital estate held 30% share of stock and the other
spouse held the remainder. (Id. at 722.) The Supreme Court held that a
public policy exception applied because the marital community and the
corporation were so closely related and because one spouse controlled the rest
of the company stock. (Id.) 
 
Here, Bardakjian has made no showing
that any of the rationale present in Miller and Schnabel should
apply to this case. Bardakjian has not identified any clearly articulated
legislative policy and instead submits that prevention of fraud is a general
legislative goal. The Court concedes that prevention of fraud is always a
public policy, however Bardakjian’s arguments fall short of the requirements
that the policy be compelling and legislatively declared. Further, the Court
notes the exemption of tax returns from discovery production was similarly
enacted with the purpose of preventing fraud. The legislature felt that
exempting tax returns from discovery would encourage the filing of more
accurate returns. (Miller supra, 71 Cal.App.3d at 149.) In short,
Bardakjian’s argument that general disfavor of fraud constitutes a public
policy exception is insufficient. 
 
Punitive Damages 
 
Tax returns can also be required to be
produced where they are offered in support of a punitive damages award.
However, production of tax returns in support of punitive damages first
requires that punitive damages have actually been found. (Weingarten supra,
102 Cal.App.4th at 276.) If punitive damages have been found, a party seeking
compulsion must show that the tax returns are the only source of relevant
financial records to show the damages. (Id.) Here, there has been no
finding of punitive damages and thus disclosure cannot be ordered for this
purpose. As such the Court need not evaluate at this juncture whether Israyelyan
has refused to produce other relevant financial records. 
 
Sanctions 
 
The court shall impose a monetary sanction
against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a
motion to compel a further response, unless it finds that the one subject to
the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances
make the imposition of the sanction unjust. (C.C.P. § 2033.290(d), C.C.P. §¿2030.300(d).) 
 
As to Israyelyan, the Court finds Bardakjian’s motion was
not without substantial justification. While Bardakjian ultimately failed to
show any exception to the tax return privilege, his arguments do not appear
without merit and reasoning. As such, the Court finds the motion was
substantially justified and declines to issue sanctions. 
 
Conclusion 
 
The Court finds Israyelyan’s tax returns
are exempt from disclosure as a matter of privilege. Bardakjian has not shown
the privilege to be inconsistent with the gravamen of this suit nor has he
shown a compelling and declared public policy exception. Accordingly,
Bardakjian’s motion to compel further production is DENIED. 
 
III.         
MERITS (AS
TO SAHAKYAN)
 
Liana Sahakyan is a cross defendant in
this action. Bardakjian alleges Sahakyan conspired with Israyelyan to sabotage
his business while simultaneously serving as a nurse at Bardakjian Dental
Practices. (Samson Decl. ¶ 11.) Bardakjian further alleges Sahakyan was not a
licensed nurse at the time she provided nursing services from 2015 to 2022.
(Samson Decl. ¶ 4.) Bardakjian now seeks to compel further response to his RFPD
No. 126, which asks Sahakyan to “Please produce YOUR Nursing Degree.”  Bardakjian argues Sahakyan’s statement of
inability to comply is insufficient. 
 
A representation of inability to comply
under C.C.P. 2031.230 generally has two parts: the statement must 
 
(1)  
affirm that a
diligent search and reasonable inquiry has been made in an effort to comply,
and 
 
(2)  
the statement
shall specify whether the inability to comply is because “the particular item
or category has never existed, has been destroyed, has been lost, misplaced, or
stolen, or has never been, or is no longer, in the possession, custody, or
control of the responding party.”
 
A third part comes into play if the
responding party knows or believes someone else has possession of the
documents: if so, “[t]he statement shall set forth the name and address of any
natural person or organization known or believed by that party to have
possession, custody, or control of that item or category of item.”
 
Sahakyan argues she has already produced
all the responsive documents in her possession speaking to this request.
Sahakyan has produced a copy of her nursing license, a statement from the
California Board of Registered Nursing, and a copy of her certificate of a
Master of Science in Nursing degree from West Coast University. (Exh. B, Exh.
D.) Sahakyan argues that any nursing degree she obtained in the Republic of
Armenia is not in her possession because the documents have been lost or
misplaced. (Id.) Sahakyan also states she believes the documents might
actually be in Bardakjian’s possession. (Id.)  
 
Bardakjian argues Sahakyan could have
attempted to get a copy of the diploma from her school in the Republic of
Armenia, but she failed to do so. Bardakjian argues Sahakyan could have
obtained the documents when she recently visited the republic of Armenia or
could have sought them otherwise. Bardakjian also argues Sahakyan’s Armenian
nursing degree must be produced because it is relevant to Bardakjian’s
allegations that Sahakyan obtained her U.S. license by fraud and practiced
nursing services without a license. 
 
The Court finds Sahakyan’s response
under C.C.P. § 2031.230 was not inadequate, incomplete, or evasive.
Bardakjian’s argues Sahakyan conducted no “diligent search and reasonable
inquiry”, as evidenced by her failure to contact the university in the Republic
of Armenia. However, Sahakyan produced several responsive documents to this
request, indicating she did indeed search from responsive documents. Bardakjian
cites to no authority that a party who is not in possession of documents must
go so far as to contact a previous university to obtain them. 
 
Bardakjian also argues that Sahakyan
must have produced documents pertaining to her Armenian nursing degree to have
taken the exam with the Board of Registered Nursing, indicating she has access
to the documents. The Court finds this argument unconvincing. The documents
Sahakyan produced from the Board of Registered Nursing show her license was
issued in 2016. Several years have passed and Sahakyan now states the documents
she would have submitted are no longer in her possession because they are lost
or in Bardakjian’s possession. Bardakjian makes no showing as to his belief
that Board of Registered Nursing was defrauded. Bardakjian’s bare assertions
that Sahakyan submitted falsified documents to the Board of Registered Nursing
do not constitute good cause to compel further production. 
 
In summary, Sahakyan’s statement of
inability to comply is sufficient and Bardakjian’s has not shown good cause to
compel further responses. Accordingly, the motion to compel further responses
is DENIED. 
 
Sanctions 
 
The court shall impose a monetary sanction
against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a
motion to compel a further response, unless it finds that the one subject to
the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances
make the imposition of the sanction unjust. (C.C.P. § 2033.290(d), C.C.P. §¿2030.300(d).) 
 
As to Sahakyan, the Court finds the motion was without
substantial justification. Sahakyan informed Bardakjian that she was not in
possession of the Armenian documents. (Yacoubian Decl. ¶ 9, Exh. D.) Sahakyan
also produced substantial documentation in reply to the request. Bardakjian
persisted in filing this motion solely on his belief that Sahakyan defrauded
the California Registered Nursing Board and offered no facts in support.
Accordingly, the Court grants sanctions against Bardakjian and his counsel, jointly
and severally, in the amount of $1,455. This amount reflects three hours of
attorney work at the rate of $485 per hour. (Yacoubian Decl. ¶ 12.)   Sanctions are payable within 30 calendar
days.
 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Mikayel
Israyelyan’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Requests for Production of
Documents came on
regularly for hearing on October 12, 2023, with appearances/submissions as
noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the court, being fully advised
in the premises, did then and there rule as follows: 
 
THE
MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES AS TO ISRAYELYAN IS DENIED. 
 
THE
MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES AS TO SAHAKYAN IS DENIED. 
 
SANCTIONS
ARE GRANTED FOR SAHAKYAN AS AGAINST BARDAKJIAN AND HIS COUNSEL, JOINTLY AND
SEVERALLY, IN THE AMOUNT OF $1,455 PAYABLE WITHIN 30 CALENDAR DAYS.
 
ALL
EXISTING DATES REMAIN. 
 
UNLESS
ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, BARDAKJIAN TO GIVE NOTICE 
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED.  
 
DATE: October
12, 2023                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 