  Case Number:  20STCV11382    Hearing Date:   October 12, 2023    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
OCTOBER 12,
2023
(Continued from
OCTOBER 6, 2023)
 

MOTIONS
FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT 

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 20STCV11382

 
MP:    American
Honda Motor Company and Galpin Motors, Inc. (Defendants)
RP:     Monico
and Maria Ramirez (Plaintiffs)
 
NOTE:
 
The Court is not requesting oral
argument on this matter.  Pursuant to California Rules of Court, Rule
3.1308(a)(1) notice of intent to appear is required.  Unless the Court
directs argument in the Tentative Ruling, no argument will be permitted unless
a “party notifies all other parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day
before the hearing of the party’s intention to appear and argue.  “The
tentative ruling will become the ruling of the court if no notice of intent to
appear is received.”   
 
Notice may be given either by
email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412 
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Monico and Maria Ramirez
(“Plaintiffs”) bring this action against American Honda Motor Company (“Honda”)
and Galpin Motors, Inc. in connection with an incident involving Plaintiffs’
2003 Honda Accord (“Subject Vehicle”). Plaintiffs allege the Subject Vehicle
was defective and the defect caused unintended acceleration (“UA”) which
resulted in Plaintiffs’ injuries. The Complaint contains three causes of action
for (1) Negligence, (2) Strict Products Liability, and (3) Breach of Implied
Warranty of Merchantability. 
 
The Court notes Monico Ramirez
passed away in June 2020 before responding to any discovery in the matter. As
such, all discovery responses referred to in this ruling were made on behalf of
Maria Ramirez. 
 
Honda now moves for summary
judgement on grounds that Plaintiffs have produced no evidence of a defect in
the Subject Vehicle. Plaintiffs oppose the motion and Honda replies. 
 
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS: 
 
Honda’s Evidentiary Objections to the Declaration of Maria Ramirez are
OVERRULED.
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.               
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
The
function of a motion for summary judgment or adjudication is to allow a
determination as to whether an opposing party cannot show evidentiary support
for a pleading or claim and to enable an order of summary dismissal without the
need for trial. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.¿(2001) 25 Cal.4th
826, 843.) C.C.P.¿§ 437c(c) “requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment
if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from
the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that
there is no triable issue as to¿any material fact and that the moving party is
entitled to judgment as a matter of law.”¿ (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp.
(1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)¿ “The function of the pleadings in a motion
for summary judgment is to delimit the scope of the issues; the function of the
affidavits or declarations is to disclose whether there is any triable issue of
fact within the issues delimited by the pleadings.”¿ (Juge¿v. County of
Sacramento¿(1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67, citing¿FPI Development, Inc. v.
Nakashima¿(1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 367, 381-382.)¿ 
¿ 
As to
each claim as framed by the complaint, the defendant moving for summary
judgment must satisfy the initial burden of proof by presenting facts to negate
an essential element, or to establish a defense. (C.C.P.¿§437c(p)(2);¿Scalf v.
D. B. Log Homes, Inc.¿(2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.) Courts “liberally
construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and
resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore v.
Arnold Worldwide, Inc.¿(2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)¿ 
¿ 
Once the
defendant has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that
a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action
or a defense thereto. To establish a triable issue of material fact, the party
opposing the motion must produce substantial responsive evidence. (Sangster
v.¿Paetkau¿(1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)¿ 
 
II.             
MERITS 
 
Honda contends that each cause of
action turns on the existence of a defect in the Subject Vehicle. Honda argues
that there exists no triable issue of fact as to whether a defect existed and
whether it caused the incident which injured Plaintiffs. 
 
Plaintiffs’ Allegations 
 
Plaintiffs allege the defect in
the Subject Vehicle was caused in part by a defect in the Powertrain Control
Module (“PCM”) Programmed Fuel Injection (“PGM-FI”) software of the vehicle.
(Compl. ¶ 9.) Plaintiffs also allege Honda failed to implement measures
which would have prevented UA, including adequate computer and braking systems.
(Id.) Plaintiffs allege that the airbags in the Subject Vehicle were
defective in that the force with which they deployed was excessive. (Id.)
Lastly, Plaintiffs allege that Honda issued a service bulletin with respect to
the subject vehicle, showing they were aware of the potential for UA to occur.
(Id. ¶ 10.) 
 
Discovery Responses
 
Honda first argues that
Plaintiffs have made no evidentiary showings that the Subject Vehicle was
defective. Honda primarily argues that Plaintiffs’ factually devoid responses
to unambiguous discovery reveals they have nothing more than conjecture to
support their claims. Honda argues this inferred lack of evidence shifts the
burden of proof on summary judgment to Plaintiffs. 
 
When the plaintiff has had an
adequate opportunity for discovery, the plaintiff's factually devoid responses
to discovery may be relied on to show that one or more elements of the
plaintiff's claim cannot be established for summary judgment purposes. (Union
Bank v. Superior Court (1995) 31 Cal.App.4th 573, 592-593.) A moving party
may rely on factually devoid discovery to shift the burden of proof. (CCP §
437c(o)(2).) A party’s is presumed to have responded to interrogatories “fully
and truthfully” and to be as complete as the information available to the party
allows. (C.C.P. § 2030(f)(1).)  If a
party has rendered a factually devoid answer in response, the court may presume
an inability to acquire such evidence. (Union Bank supra, 31 Cal.App.4th
at 593.)  
 
The response which Honda claims
is devoid of fact is as follows: 
 
The Honda began to
accelerate without any pressure being applied to the gas pedal and continued to
accelerate and operate despite application of both the foot brake and the hand
brake for the Honda, said defective condition of the Honda shall hereinafter be
referred to as unintended acceleration. Plaintiffs are informed and believe,
and thereon allege that at said time and place, the Honda was further defective
in that the airbags deployed during the subject incident and the force of the
airbags was excessive and not reasonable, causing Plaintiffs to suffer personal
injuries, including cracked ribs, fracture of the patella, and head of the
fifth metatarsal.
 
This response is in reference to
Honda’s Form Interrogatories (“FROG”), specifically FROG No. 20.9. (Van Der
Lancken Decl. Exhs. D & E.) FROG No. 20.9 asks Plaintiffs to state identify
any information they have that a malfunction or defect in the vehicle
contributed to the injuries sustained. (Id.) The Court finds that this
information standing alone could show that Plaintiff has no factual information
as to a defect in the vehicle. Where responses to interrogatories consists of
boilerplate answers that restate the allegations “…the burden of production
will almost certainly be shifted.” (Andrews v. Foster Wheeler LLC (2006)
138 Cal.App.4th 96, 107.)
 
However, circumstances
surrounding the discovery lead to the opposite presumption. The burden on
summary judgement cannot shift without stringent review of the direct,
circumstantial, and inferential evidence. (Scheiding v. Dinwiddie Const. Co.
(1999) 69 Cal.App.4th 64, 83.) Courts have held that amended discovery
responses containing new facts can negate the factually devoid nature of
initial responses. (See Ganoe v. Metalclad Insulation Corp. (2014) 227
Cal.App.4th 1577 [holding that plaintiff’s amended responses identifying
exposures to a manufacturer’s product containing asbestos was not factually
devoid].) 
 
Plaintiffs argue Honda has
selectively picked discovery responses which support their argument and that
Plaintiffs have since served supplemental responses to the interrogatories.
Plaintiffs’ supplemental responses consist of a singular response to FROG 20.9
and were rendered on September 15, 2023. (Hoonian Decl., Exh. 11.) The response
is as follows: 
 
On information and
belief, the responding party believes that the Honda subject to this lawsuit
was defective, there is an issue with this vehicle in connection to the
unintended acceleration and the airbag recall with excessive deployment. After
the vehicle was for the first time after the incident on November 4, 2019, the
throttle blade was stuck partially open. The throttle cable end at the throttle
body was slack after the impact
 
Plaintiffs contend their
supplemental response cures the factually devoid nature of their initial
responses. The Court agrees that this supplemental response is not factually
devoid as to a defect in the subject vehicle. Plaintiffs specifically identify
a component of the Subject Vehicle they believe was defective. From the
supplemental responses, the Court cannot infer that Plaintiffs have no ability
to obtain further evidence as to a defect. It appears that a vehicle inspection
has occurred from which more information is forthcoming. As such, the burden
remains with Honda to show that no triable issue of fact exists as to
causation. 
 
Evidence of Defect
 
In support of its motion, Honda
offers the following evidence: Mrs. Ramirez stated at her deposition that she
could not see the footwell of the driver’s side during the incident and could
not attest to which pedal was being pressed. (Van Der Lancken Decl. ¶ 19, Exh.
P.) Mrs. Ramirez does not recall the moments when the airbags activated, and
she confirmed that no metal shards were produced by their deployment. (Id.)

 
The Court finds these facts are
unsatisfactory of Honda’s initial burden. Mrs. Ramirez testimony that she could
not see which pedal was being pressed and cannot remember the airbags deploying
does not serve to negate the essential element of causation present in each
cause of action. Mrs. Ramirez’s lack of ability to see the wheel well has no
bearing on the triable issue that the UA was caused by a defect in the Vehicle.
To carry its burden Honda must produce evidence indicating that there is no
triable issue of fact as to a defect in the vehicle. Honda has presented no
such evidence, instead arguing that Plaintiffs have not produced sufficient
evidence. Honda presents no inspection report and no expert witness testifying
as to the alleged UA defect.  
 
In its reply, Honda argues that
there is a presumption of driver negligence working against Plaintiffs. Honda cites
to Harris v. Irish Truck Lines, Inc. (1974) 11 Cal.3d 373 in stating
that a driver’s claim of defect is not evidence supporting an inference that
defect occurred. The Court finds Harris to be inapposite to this case in
several regards. First, Harris was concerned not with summary judgment,
but with an appeal of a jury verdict. (Harris supra, 11 Cal.3d. at 375.)
Second, the presumption of negligence concerned defendant’s claim that they
were not negligent in driving the vehicle because it was defective. The
defendants in Harris argued they were not required to rebut the
presumption of their own negligence with evidence of defect in the vehicle. (Id.
at 380.) Here, Honda’s burden is to show no triable issue of material fact.  Further, Honda is seeking to use the
presumption of negligence as a sword and not a shield, as it was used in Harris.
Nothing in the holding of Harris suggests that there is a blanket
presumption of user error or negligence in all cases involving automobile
accidents.
 
Conclusion
 
Honda as the moving party has not
shown that there is no triable issue of material fact.  
 
RULING:
 
In the event the parties submit on this
tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed order or the court in its
discretion elects to sign a formal order, the following form will be either
electronically signed or signed in hard copy and entered into the court’s
records.
 
ORDER
 
American Honda Motor Company and Galpin Motors,
Inc.’s Motion for Summary Judgment came on regularly for hearing on October 6,
2023, with appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order for said
hearing, and the court, being fully advised in the premises, did then and there
rule as follows:
 
THE
MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT IS DENIED.
 
ALL
EXISTING DATES REMAIN.
 
UNLESS
ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, PLAINTIFF IS TO GIVE NOTICE.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATE:  August
18, 2023                               
_______________________________
                                                                   
    F.M. TAVELMAN, Judge
                                                                        Superior
Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 