 Case Number:  22STCV02362    Hearing Date:   January 18, 2024    Dept:  O Case
Name:  Arghavan v. UCLA Health, et al.




Case No.:


22STCV02362


Complaint Filed:


1-20-22           




Hearing Date:


1-18-24 


Discovery C/O:


4-7-25




Calendar No.:


9


Discovery Motion C/O:


4-21-25




POS:


OK


 Trial Date:


5-5-25



SUBJECT:                 DEMURRER W/O MOTION TO STRIKE
MOVING
PARTY:   Defendant Azita Arghavan
RESP.
PARTY:         Plaintiff Maziar
Arghavan
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
            Defendant Azita
Arghavan’s Demurrer to the 1st, 4th, 5th, 6th,
7th, 8th, and 9th Causes of Action of the SAC are
OVERRULED. Plaintiff Maziar Arghavan has successfully pleaded all the elements
of the 1st, 4th, 5th, 6th, 7th,
8th, and 9th Causes of Action against Defendant Azita
Arghavan.. 
            
            As a
general matter, in a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the
face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice. (Donabedian v.
Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) “A demurrer tests
the pleading alone, and not the evidence or facts alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc.
v. Accountants, Inc. Servs. (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) As such,
the court assumes the truth of the complaint’s properly pleaded or implied
factual allegations. (Id.) The only issue a demurrer is concerned with is
whether the complaint, as it stands, states a cause of action. (Hahn v.
Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)
 
            Where a
demurrer is sustained, leave to amend must be allowed where there is a
reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy
(1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) The burden is on the plaintiff to show the court
that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.; Lewis v. YouTube, LLC
(2015) 244 Cal.App.4th 118, 226.) However, “[i]f there is any reasonable
possibility that the plaintiff can state a good cause of action, it is error to
sustain a demurrer without leave to amend.” (Youngman v. Nevada Irrigation
Dist. (1969) 70 Cal.2d 240, 245).
 
            Plaintiff
is only required to allege ultimate facts, not evidentiary facts. (See Committee
on Children's Television, Inc. v. General Foods Corp. (1983) 35 Cal.3d 197,
212 [“the complaint should set forth the ultimate facts constituting the cause
of action, not the evidence by which plaintiff proposes to prove those facts”);
1 Cal. Affirmative Def. § 10:2 (2d ed.) [allegations of agency, course and
scope of employment, etc. qualify as ultimate facts].) Plaintiff’s allegations
must be accepted as true on demurrer. (See Yvanova v. New Century Mortgage
Corp. (2016) 62 Cal.4th 919, 924 [“For purposes of reviewing a demurrer, we
accept the truth of material facts properly pleaded in the operative
complaint”].)
A.        Survival actions brought by
Plaintiff on decedent’s behalf
I.     
     1st
cause of action—fraud/misrepresentation- OVERRULED
 
            "A
complaint for fraud must allege the following elements: (1) a knowingly false
representation by the defendant; (2) an intent to deceive or induce reliance;
(3) justifiable reliance by the plaintiff; and (4) resulting damages. Every
element must be specifically pleaded. [citations omitted]" (Service by
Medallion, Inc. v. Clorox Co. (1996) 44 Cal.App.4th 1807, 1816.)
 
            Here, Plaintiff
Maziar Arghavan (“Maziar”) successfully pleaded all the elements of fraud with
specificity against Defendant Azita Arghavan (“Azita”) within the Second
Amended Complaint (“SAC”). 
 
(1)  
Maziar pleads the first element by stating
"Defendant Azita Arghavan convinced Decedent to move in with her anyways,
misrepresenting to Decedent that Ms. Arghavan would take care of her," and
"Defendant Azita Arghavan also represented to Decedent and Plaintiff,
Maziar Arghavan, that she would take care of Decedent." (SAC, ¶¶ 24, 47.)
Furthermore, Maziar pleads specific facts to show Azita knowingly made a false
representation by pleading “[w]hile living with Azita Arghavan, Decedent was
mistreated and left uncared for despite the fact that Defendant Azita Arghavan
was the Decedent's IHSS worker and she was paid to provide care for the
Decedent." (SAC, ¶ 25.)
(2)  
Maziar pleads intent to deceive by pleading facts alleging
Azita was paid to provide care for Decedent. (SAC, ¶¶ 24, 25.)
(3)  
Maziar pleads facts to allege justifiable reliance
through pleading that Decedent moved in with Azita thought the alleged
misrepresentation that Azita would take care of Decedent. (SAC, ¶¶ 24, 25.)
(4)  
Maziar pleads facts to show damages through stating Decedent
“was mistreated and left uncared for.” (SAC, ¶¶ 25, 61.)
            Thus, Azita’s Demurrer to the first cause of action for
fraud/misrepresentation is OVERRULED.
II.            
4th Cause of Action—Elder Abuse -
OVERRULED
            Under the Elder Abuse and Dependent Adult Civil
Protection Act, “[a]buse of an elder or a dependent adult means any of the
following: (1) physical abuse, neglect, abandonment, isolation, abduction, or
other treatment resulting in physical harm or pain or mental suffering; (2) the
deprivation by a care custodian of goods or services that are necessary to
avoid physical harm or mental suffering.” (Welf. & Inst. C. §
15610.07(a)(1)-(3).) 
            “Neglect” is defined as: “(1) The negligent failure of
any person having the care or custody of an elder or a dependent adult to
exercise that degree of care that a reasonable person in a like position would
exercise; (2) The negligent failure of an elder or dependent adult to exercise
that degree of self-care that a reasonable person in a like position would
exercise.” (Welf. & Inst. C. §15610.57(a).) 
            “‘Neglect includes, but is not limited to, the following:
(1) Failure to assist in personal hygiene, or in the provision of food,
clothing, or shelter; (2) Failure to provide medical care for physical and
mental health needs... (3) failure to protect from health and safety hazards;
and (4) failure to prevent malnutrition or dehydration...” (Welf. & Inst.
C. §15610.57(b)(1)-(4).) 
            “Thus, neglect within the meaning of former section
15610.57 appears to cover an area of misconduct distinct from ‘professional
negligence’ in section 15657.2: ‘neglect’ as defined in former section 15610.57
and used in section 15657 does not refer to the performance of medical services
in a manner inferior to the knowledge, skill and care ordinarily possessed and
employed by members of the profession in good standing, but rather to the
failure of those responsible for attending to the basic needs and comforts of
elderly or dependent adults, regardless of their professional standing, to
carry out their custodial obligations.” (Delaney v. Baker (1999) 20
Cal.4th 23, 34.)
            “As used in the Act, neglect refers not to the
substandard performance of medical services but, rather, to the failure of
those responsible for attending to the basic needs and comforts of elderly or
dependent adults, regardless of their professional standing, to carry out their
custodial obligations. Thus, the statutory definition of ‘neglect’ speaks not
of the undertaking of medical services, but of the failure to provide medical
care.” (Covenant Care, Inc. v. Supr. Ct. (2004) 32 Cal.4th 771, 783 [“statutory
elder abuse may include the egregious withholding of medical care for physical
and mental health needs.”].) 
            “The difficulty in distinguishing between ‘neglect’
and ‘professional negligence’ lies in the fact that some health care
institutions, such as nursing homes, perform custodial functions and provide
professional medical care.” (Delaney, supra, 20 Cal.4th at 34.)
“Section 15657 provides the way out of this ambiguity: if the neglect is
‘reckless,’ or done with ‘oppression, fraud or malice,’ then the action falls
within the scope of section 15657 and as such cannot be considered simply based
on professional negligence within the meaning of section 15657.2.” (Id. at 35; Carter
v. Prime Healthcare Paradise Valley LLC (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 396, 405 [recovery
of enhanced remedies under Elder Abuse Act requires plaintiff to prove “by
clear and convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of
recklessness, oppression, fraud, or malice in the commission of the neglect.”[.)
            “‘Recklessness’ refers to a subjective state of
culpability greater than simple negligence, which has been described as a
‘deliberate disregard’ of the ‘high degree of probability’ that an injury will
occur. Recklessness, unlike negligence, involves more than ‘inadvertence,
incompetence, unskillfulness, or a failure to take precautions’ but rather
rises to the level of a ‘conscious choice of a course of action ... with
knowledge of the serious danger to others involved in it.’” (Delaney, supra,
20 Cal.4th at 31–32.)
            Maziar alleges that Azita was responsible for the
basic needs of decedent, and responsibility of being the Decedent’s advocate. (SAC,
¶ 77.) Maziar alleges all Defendants, including Azita, failed to provide goods
and services to meet these basic needs, either knowingly or with conscious
disregard of the high probability of injury. (SAC, ¶ 81.). Maziar alleges Defendants,
including Azita, improperly pressured and coerced Decedent to participate in a
drug trial, coerced Decedent to sign forms in english that the Decedent could
not understand due to limited English language ability, and Azita mistreated
and left Decedent uncared for while Azita was a paid to provide care for
Decedent. (SAC, ¶¶ 25, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40.) 
            Maziar therefore alleges elder abuse and the requisite
mental state as to Azita. Demurrer is OVERRULED as to 4th cause of
action of elder abuse. 
III.       5th cause of action—intentional
infliction of emotional distress - OVERRULED
 
            The elements of a cause of action
for intentional infliction of emotional distress are (1) outrageous conduct by
the defendant, (2) intention to cause or reckless disregard of the probability
of causing emotional distress, (3) severe emotional suffering, and (4) actual
and proximate causation of the emotional distress. “Conduct is extreme and
outrageous when it exceeds all bounds of decency usually tolerated by a decent
society, and is of a nature which is especially calculated to cause, and does
cause, mental distress. Liability does not extend to mere insults, indignities,
threats, annoyances, petty oppressions, or other trivialities.” (Fisher v.
San Pedro Peninsula Hospital (1989) 214 Cal.App.3d 590, 618.)
            Maziar
alleged Azita coerced
decedent into participating in a drug trial that required her to undergo
painful procedures, including spinal biopsies, undergoing a stem cell
transplant and receiving “comfort care only,” and failed to obtain any consent
to these procedures. (SAC, ¶ 36.) Further, Maziar alleges that Azita mistreated
and left Decedent uncared for despite being a paid caretaker for the Decedent. (SAC,
¶ 25.) Azita was also Decedent’s caretaker and therefore in a position that
gave them the power to damage decedent’s interests. Azita’s alleged behavior
could be construed as outrageous conduct by a jury. A jury must determine
whether such conduct is outrageous for purposes of an IIED claim, particularly
given the relationship between the parties and Defendants’ power to damage
decedent’s interests. (See Agarwal v. Johnson (1979) 25 Cal.3d 932,
946.) Reasonable minds could differ as to whether this conduct is outrageous.
The question therefore cannot be determined by the court as an issue of law. (Berkley
v. Dowds (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 518, 534 [affirming order sustaining
demurrer to IIED cause of action without leave to amend based on failure to
allege outrageous conduct].)
            Maziar also alleges that Defendants, including Azita,
coerced decedent into participating in a drug trial intentionally, maliciously
and “with a reckless disregard of the probability of causing Plaintiff extreme
emotional distress.” (SAC, ¶ 89.) Maziar was not required to allege that Azita
acted with the specific intent to cause decedent emotional distress. IIED only
requires either the intention to cause or reckless disregard of the probability
of causing emotional distress. (See Fisher v. San Pedro Peninsula Hospital
(1989) 214 Cal.App.3d 590, 618.)
            Maziar alleges conduct as to Azita that could be deemed
outrageous by reasonable minds. Maziar also alleges reckless disregard for the
probability of emotional distress as a result of being forced into a drug
trial. Azita’s demurrer as to the 5th cause of action for IIED is OVERRULED.

IV.       6th cause of action—healthcare
provider negligence leading to injury or death, per CC § 3333.1
 
            Azita argues this cause of action fails because Maziar
fails to allege Azita owed Decedent a fiduciary duty. (Demurrer, p. 8.)  "The elements of a cause of action for
breach of fiduciary duty are: (I) existence of a fiduciary duty; (2) the breach
of that duty; and (3) damage proximately caused by that breach. (Mosier v.
Southern California Physicians Insurance Exchange (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th
1022, 1044.) "[B]efore a person can be charged with a fiduciary
obligation, he must either knowingly undertake to act on behalf and for the
benefit of another, or must enter into a relationship which imposes that
undertaking as a matter of law." (City of Hope National Medical Center
v. Genentech, Inc. (2008) 43 Cal.4th 375, 386.) "A fiduciary
relationship is created where a person reposes trust and confidence in another
and the person in whom such confidence is reposed obtains control over the
other person's affairs." (Lynch v. Cruttenden & Co. (1993) 18
Cal.App.4th 802, 809.)
 
            Maziar alleges Azita “assumed a a fiduciary duty when she
invited her elderly mother, the Decedent, to come live with her and by helping
the Decedent with medical care decisions.” (SAC, ¶ 108.) Further, Maziar
alleges "Defendant Azita Arghavan was the Decedent's IHSS worker and she
was paid to provide care for the Decedent." (SAC, ¶ 25.) Thus, Maziar
successfully alleges the existence of Azita’s fiduciary duty owed to the
Decedent as a caretaker. Maziar pleads breach of the duty (SAC, ¶ 109), and
damages proximately caused by the breach (SAC, ¶ 110.) Thus, all the
requisite elements of the 6th cause of action are properly plead.
 
            Azita’s demurrer to the 6th cause of action for
negligence or healthcare provider negligence leading to injury or death, per CC
§ 3333.1 is OVERRULED.
B.        Direct actions brought directly
by Maziar against Azita for his individual injury
I.     
      7th
cause of action—negligent infliction of emotional distress 
 
            Plaintiff argues the NIED claim is based on the bystander
theory of liability. Only bystanders who contemporaneously witness the injury
producing event and are contemporaneously aware that it is causing injury may
sue for NIED. (See Bird v. Saenz (2002) 28 Cal.4th 910, 915 [affirming
summary judgment of plaintiffs’ bystander NIED claim].)
 
            "Under the bystander theory, Plaintiffs can obtain
recovery by observing the negligently inflicted injury of a third person only
if the plaintiff (I) is closely related to the injury victim; (2) is present at
the scene of the injury-producing event at the time it occurs and is then aware
that it is causing injury to the victim; and (3) as a result, suffers serious
emotional distress, defined as a reaction beyond that which would be
anticipated in a disinterested witness and that is not an abnormal response to
the circumstances.” (Thing v. La Chusa (1989) 48 Cal.3d 644, 667–68.) 
 
            In Bird, the Supreme Court affirmed dismissal of
plaintiffs’ claim for NIED based on their mother suffering and injury due to
the improper transaction of their mother’s artery. The Supreme Court noted that
neither plaintiff had any sensory awareness of the transection when it
occurred, although they witnessed the consequences of the operation. (See Bird
¸ supra, 28 Cal.4th at 916.) The Supreme Court also found that, even if
the injury-producing event was redefined as the failure to diagnose and treat
the injury after the operation, plaintiffs did not possess the level of medical
knowledge necessary to have contemporaneous awareness that decedent was being
injured.
            However, Bird also acknowledged a distinction
between “the failure of custodial authorities to respond significantly to
symptoms obviously requiring immediate medical attention” and “misdiagnosis,
unsuccessful treatment, or treatment that turns out to have been inappropriate
only in retrospect.” (Id. at 934.) “Such a failure to provide medical
assistance, as opposed to as opposed to a misdiagnosis, unsuccessful treatment,
or treatment that turns out to have been inappropriate only in retrospect, is
not necessarily hidden from the understanding awareness of a layperson.” (Bird,
supra, 28 Cal.4th at 934 [distinguishing Ochoa v. Supr. Ct.
(1985) 39 Cal.3d 159); Morton v. Thousand Oaks Surgical Hospital (2010)
187 Cal.App.4th 926, 934 [plaintiffs could not state a claim for bystander NIED
based on defendants’ post-operative failure to diagnose and treat
decedent-mother for bowl-leak or perforation and post-surgical sepsis].)
            Here, Maziar pleads enough facts to identify the injury
producing event for this 7th cause of action for NIED. Maziar pleads
“[w]hile Decedent was at UC Health, Plaintiff Maziar Arghavan saw his
mother being denied basic services necessary for hygiene, nutrition, hydration,
and movement. He witnessed how the Defendants' failure to take care of her
basic needs caused his mother harm,” and incorporates previous allegations in
the alleged negligence occurring the bone marrow transplant, the drug trial,
and the time period where Decedent was given only comfort care. (SAC, ¶ 40, 41,
44–48, 112.) Maziar successfully pleads all other elements of NIED by pleading
he is the son of Decedent (SAC, ¶ 1), was present at the time each of the
injury producing events occurred (SAC, ¶112) and as a result suffered severe
emotional distress (SAC ¶ 114.) These allegations are distinguishable from Morton
since there were multiple negligent events alleged over a period of time.
Thus, Maziar has successfully plead the elements of a NIED cause of action. 
            Azita’s demurer to the 7th
cause of action for NIED as to Maziar as an individual is OVERRULED.
II.  
      8th
cause of action—wrongful death  and 9th
Cause of Action—Negligence – OVERRULED 
            Azita’s only argument on demurrer to the 8th cause
of action for wrongful death and 9th cause of action for negligence is that it
is duplicative.  Azita identifies the 6th
cause of action for negligence as the duplicative cause of action. However, the
6th cause of action was brought on decedent’s behalf as a survival action,
while the 8th and 9th causes of action are brought by Maziar on his
own behalf. Thus, the causes of action are not duplicative and the demurrer to
both 8th and 9th causes of action are OVERRULED. 
 