  Case Number:  21SMCV00784    Hearing Date:   January 18, 2024    Dept:  O Case
Name:  Richmond Plastering, Inc. v.
Brentwood School, et al.  



Case No.:


21SMCV00784 


Complaint Filed:


4-28-21           




Hearing Date:


1-18-24 


Discovery C/O:


9-25-23




Calendar No.:


2


Discovery Motion C/O:


10-9-23




POS:


OK


 Trial Date:


6-3-24



SUBJECT:                 MOTION FOR SUMMARY ADJUDICATION
MOVING
PARTY:   Cross-Defendant/Cross-Complainant
Richmond Plastering, Inc. 
RESP.
PARTY:         Cross-Defendant Dal Rae
Exteriors, Inc. 
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
            Cross-Defendant/Cross-Complainant
Richmond Plastering, Inc.’s motion for summary adjudication as to Cross-Defendant
Dal Rae Exteriors, Inc.’s Duty to Defend within the fifth cause of action for
breach of contract – duty to defend of the first amended cross-complaint is
GRANTED. The Court finds no triable issues of fact remain as to the duty issue within
the  5th c/a for
Breach of Contract - Duty to Defend. 
 
“A party may move for summary adjudication as to…one or
more issues of duty, if the party contends that…that one or more defendants
either owed or did not owe a duty to the plaintiff or plaintiffs. A motion for
summary adjudication shall be granted only if it completely disposes of a cause
of action, an affirmative defense, a claim for damages, or an issue of
duty.”  (CCP §437c(f)(1). )
 
A motion for summary adjudication of an issue of duty is
expressly allowed for by CCP §437c(f)(1), so long as it fully resolves an issue
of duty.  (CCP §437c(f)(1).)  “[T]he substantive areas which may be
challenged by motion for summary adjudication are stated in the disjunctive ‘a
cause of action, an affirmative defense, a claim for damages or an issue of
duty.’ We believe that the plain meaning of this language is that a motion for
summary adjudication may be granted or denied as to any one of these substantive
areas, standing alone, and without reference to the dispositive effect of such
ruling on any of the companion substantive areas.”  (Linden Partners v.
Wilshire Linden Associates (1998) 62 Cal.App.4th 508, 522.)
 
Thus, “on a motion for summary adjudication, the court may
rule whether a defendant owes or does not owe a duty to plaintiff without
regard for the dispositive effect of such ruling on other issues in the
litigation, except that the ruling must completely dispose of the issue of
duty.” Id.; cf. Regan Roofing v Supr. Ct. (1993) 24 Cal.App.4th
425, 433-434 (CCP §437c(f) should be interpreted to “prevent adjudication of
issues which fail to dispose completely of a particular cause of action or
defense, even where an ‘issue of duty’ is involved”)(disapproved of on other
grounds in Crawford v. Weather Shield Mfg., Inc. (2008) 44 Cal.4th 541); Lilienthal
& Fowler v. Superior Court (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 1848, 1853–1854 (“The
intent was made explicit in the Legislative Counsel's Digest to the amending
bill, which notes: ‘It is ... the intent of this legislation to stop the
practice of adjudication of facts or adjudication of issues that do not
completely dispose of a cause of action or a defense.’”)
 
 
The duty to defend is not a question of fact for the
jury.  (See Centex Homes v. R-Help Construction Co., Inc. (2019) 32
Cal.App.5th
1230, 1236. The trial court is compelled as a matter of law to determine
whether a lawsuit is embraced by an indemnification agreement.  (Id.)   
 
I.               
The undisputed facts support a finding
that a duty to defend exists as to Cross-Defendant Dal Rae
Exteriors, Inc.  
 
As explained in Crawford
v. Weather Shield Mfg. Inc. (2008) 44 Cal.4th 541, the duty to defend under
CC §2778(4) “arises immediately upon a proper tender of defense by the
indemnitee, and thus before the litigation to be defended has determined
whether indemnity is actually owed. This duty, as described in the statute,
therefore cannot depend on the outcome of that litigation.”  (Crawford,
supra, 44 Cal.4th at 558.)  Thus, under CC §2778(4),
“claims ‘embraced by the indemnity,’ as to which the duty to defend is owed,
include those which, at the time of tender, allege facts that would give
rise to a duty of indemnity.  Unless the indemnity agreement states
otherwise, the statutorily described duty ‘to defend’ the indemnitee upon
tender of the defense thus extends to all such claims.”  (Id.)
 
            It
is undisputed that Cross-Defendant/Cross-Complainant Richmond Plastering, Inc.
(“Richmond”) and Cross-Defendant Dal Rae Exteriors, Inc. (“Dal Rae”) entered
into a Master Subcontract Agreement (“Agreement”) where Dal Rae agreed to
provide work services which included the lath portion of the stucco system, and
also agreed to “defend, indemnify, and hold harmless CONTRACTOR [RICHMOND],” to
any and all claims “which arise out of or are in any way related (a) to this
AGREEMENT GENERAL CONTRACTOR. (SSUF, ¶¶ 6, 7, 8, 9; Lodgment Exhibit “E”,
Master Subcontract Agreement ¶ 6.1.)  It
is undisputed that Del Amo Construction filed a cross-complaint against
multiple sub-contractors including Richmond in relation to the work Richmond and
Dal Rae performed on the stucco system. (SSUF, ¶ 2; Lodgment Exh. B, X-Compl.,
¶¶ 25.) 
 
            Del Rae
argues Richmond does meet their burden that an undisputed duty exists as to the
duty to defend because “there is no specific claim noted in Richmond’s moving
papers that Dal Rae’s specific work is alleged to be defective by either
[Richmond] or Del Amo,” adding that “because the claim is defective “stucco”
and Richmond installed the stucco at the project, on its face, Del Amo’s claim
is solely against Richmond,” meaning Richmond’s motion must be denied. (Oppo, p.
5.) The Court disagrees. The indemnification agreement is broad enough to cover
work that arises “out of or are in any way related to” the claim. (SSUF, ¶ 7; Lodgment
Exhibit “E”, Master Subcontract Agreement ¶ 6.1.) Del Rae’s lath work
sufficiently arises out of and is related to the stucco work completed by
Richmond, which Richmond contracted with Del Rae to complete. (SSUF, ¶¶ 3,6.)
 
            Dal Rae
argues that the Master Subcontract Agreement explicitly states that the
indemnification and duty to defend obligations “shall not extend to any claims,
demands, damages, costs, or liabilities arising out of the sole negligence or
willful misconduct of [Richmond],” and therefore since there is still a
question of fact as to whether the claims against Richmond are the result of
Richmond’s sole negligence it would be improper to find a duty to defend exists
as a matter of law. (Oppo., p. 6; Ebner Decl., ¶5; Exh. “A”, Master Subcontract
Agreement ¶ 6.1.2.) Again the Court disagrees. 
As stated in Crawford, a duty to defend “as soon as a suit was
filed” and “regardless of whether it [is] ultimately determined” that Richmond
was solely or jointly negligent regarding the stucco system work. 
 
            Finally, the
Court notes Dal Rae did not file a separate statement of disputed facts to
their opposition as required under CCP § 437c. “The opposition papers shall
include a separate statement that responds to each of the material facts
contended by the moving party to be undisputed, indicating if the
opposing party agrees or disagrees that those facts are undisputed. The
statement also shall set forth plainly and concisely any other material facts
the opposing party contends are disputed.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c(b)(1)(3).) 
 
            The Court
finds no triable
issues of fact remain as to the duty issue within the  5th cause of action for Breach of Contract -
Duty to Defend.  Richmond’s Motion for Summary Adjudication at to the duty
element of the breach of contract – duty to defend cause of action is GRANTED.  


