  Case Number:  22SMCV02820    Hearing Date:   August 14, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:             Vardi v. Beischl, et al. 
CASE NO.:                   22SMCV02820
MOTION:                     Demurrer to the First Amended
Cross-Complaint  
HEARING DATE:   8/14/2024
 
LEGAL STANDARD 
 
A demurrer for
sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v.
Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When considering demurrers, courts
read the allegations liberally and in context. In a demurrer proceeding, the
defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial
notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968,
994.) A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other
extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face
of the pleading or are judicially noticed. (CCP §§ 430.30, 430.70.) At the
pleading stage, a plaintiff need only allege ultimate facts sufficient to
apprise the defendant of the factual basis for the claim against him. (Semole
v. Sansoucie (1972) 28 Cal. App. 3d 714, 721.) A “demurrer does not,
however, admit contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law alleged in
the pleading, or the construction of instruments pleaded, or facts impossible
in law.” (S. Shore Land Co. v. Petersen (1964) 226 Cal.App.2d 725, 732,
internal citations omitted.) 
  
“Liberality in
permitting amendment is the rule, if a fair opportunity to correct any defect
has not been given.” (Angie M. v. Superior Court (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th
1217, 1227.) It is an abuse of discretion for the court to deny leave to amend
where there is any reasonable possibility that plaintiff can state a good cause
of action. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349.) The burden is
on plaintiff to show¿in what manner¿plaintiff can amend the complaint,
and¿how¿that amendment will change the legal effect of the pleading.¿(Id.) 
  
ANALYSIS 
 
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant
Doron Vardi demurs to the First Amended Cross-Complaint (FACC).
 
First Cause of Action under Civil Code §
51.9
 
            Vardi
asserts that the first cause of action fails as a matter of law because there
is no qualifying relationship pled. A defendant is liable for sexual harassment under Civil Code
section 51.9 when (1) “[t]here is a business, service, or professional
relationship between the plaintiff and defendant”; (2) the defendant made
unwelcome and pervasive or severe sexual advances, solicitations, sexual
requests, demands for sexual compliance by the plaintiff, or engaged in other
conduct of a sexual or hostile nature based on gender; and (3) as a result, the
plaintiff suffered or will suffer economic loss or disadvantage or personal
injury. (Civ. Code, § 51.9(a).) The business, service, or professional
relationship may exist between the plaintiff and a person including, but not
limited to, physician, psychotherapist, dentist, attorney, social worker, real
estate agent, real estate appraiser, investor, accountant, banker, trust
officer, financial planner loan officer, collection service, contractor, escrow
loan officer, executor, trustee, administrator, landlord, property manager,
teacher, elected official, lobbyist, director, or producer, or in a
“relationship that is a substantially similar to any of the above.” (Civ. Code,
§ 51.9(a)(1).)
 
The Court previously sustained the
demurrer to the initial cross-complaint because it failed to state sufficient
facts to support a qualifying relationship under section 51.9. The identified
relationship between a contractor and a client of a contractor is not a
“substantially similar” relationship to the above categories. Upon review of
the pertinent caselaw, the Court found that the pled relationship was
insufficient without further facts showing that the unique relationship was
such that the client, Vardi, had inherent and coercive power over the construction manager, Beischl. (Judd v. Weinstein (9th Cir. 2020)
967 F.3d 952, 957; see Hughes v. Pair, (2009) 46 Cal. 4th 1035, 1044
[Cal. Supreme Court observed that § 51.9 was meant to “address ‘relationships
between providers of services and their clients… The statute sets out a
nonexclusive list of such providers[.]’”]; see also Civ. Code § 51.9(a)(1)(H)
[later amended to include “Director or producer” as a qualifying person].) 
 
Beischl identifies the following new allegations in support of such a
relationship. First, Beischl highlights that Vardi owed a substantial sum of
money—nearly $20,000 for work already done. (FACC ¶ 14.) With this context in
mind, the FACC alleges:
 
“Ms. Beischl’s business is dependent on regular cash
flow and payment from ongoing projects. Without this regular cash flow, Ms.
Beischl’s business operations cannot continue to operate as she is responsible
for disbursing the payments to numerous vendors and other workers involved in
the project. If these third parties do not get timely paid, then they will
cease working on the job and the entire project will grind to a halt. In the
course of Ms. Beischl’s work on Vardi’s project, Vardi had run up substantial
receivables with Ms. Beischl. Ms. Beischl reasonably feared that, if she were
to cease work on Vardi’s project, she either would never get paid for these
receivables or would have to file a lawsuit to get paid, which would delay
payment for a substantial time period.” 
 
(FACC ¶ 16.) 
 
“[D]ue to the extensive and incessant telephone calls,
text messages and emails and demands for communication from Vardi, Ms. Beischl
had to devote an inordinate share of her time to Vardi’s project. This caused
Ms. Beischl to have to forgo other projects in order to satisfy Vardi. As a
result, while his project was ongoing, Vardi became Ms. Beischl’s primary
client upon whom she relied to sustain her business operations until his
project was completed.” 
 
(FACC ¶ 17.) 
 
“[G]iven Vardi’s tempestuous, argumentative and
litigious nature, Ms. Beischl reasonably feared that, if she were to terminate
her client relationship with Vardi before the project was completed, Vardi
would wrongfully sue her for breach of contract and host of other potential
claims, which would devastate her business. The foregoing created a power
imbalance between Vardi and Beischl and, by virtue of this business, service or
professional relationship, Vardi was placed in a position where he was uniquely
situat[ed] to exercise coercion or leverage over Ms. Beischl.” 
 
(FACC ¶ 18.)
 
The above facts do not show an inherent
power imbalance where Vardi is uniquely situated to exercise coercion or
leverage over Beischl. The pled “leverage” is not unusual in business
transactions and would not translate to the levels of coercion that is
presented by caselaw. At best, the
pled facts show a typical contractor-client relationship with the same level of
coercion and leverage that is inherent in all business dealings: if someone
breaches their contract, others will be damaged and might have to resort to a
lawsuit. For instance, in Beichl’s cited case of Judd, supra, the
producer allegedly had control over the actress’s future career and
essentially acted as her gatekeeper as to a career in Hollywood. The $20,000.00
debt pled here is a far cry from the ability to control Beischl’s future
career. In fact, expanding protection to hirers of contractors in the pled
circumstances would create virtually unlimited protection in all business
relationships. Considering the limiting language of the section, such an
interpretation would not be consistent with the intent of section 51.9. 
 
Accordingly, the demurrer is SUSTAINED
without leave to amend as to the first cause of action.
 
Second Cause of Action under CCP § 527
 
Vardi argues that the CCP section
527.6 claim fails because there are no claimed damages and there is no ongoing
harm or harassment alleged because the harassment ended almost two years.
 
Vardi cites no authority that a claim
under section 527.6 must support a claim of damages, or must regard threats of
future harassment. The plain language of the statute shows no such requirement.
Subsection (a) provides that a “person who has suffered harassment as defined
in subdivision (b) may seek a temporary restraining order and an order after
hearing prohibiting harassment as provided in this section.”  “Harassment” is defined as “unlawful
violence, a credible threat of violence, or a knowing and willful course of
conduct directed at a specific person that seriously alarms, annoys, or
harasses the person, and that serves no legitimate purpose.” (Id., §
527.6(b)(3).) “Unlawful violence” is defined as “any assault or battery, or
stalking” not including lawful acts of self-defense or defense of others. (Id.,
§ 527.6(b)(7).)A plaintiff may therefore seek a restraining order when they
have “suffered” “assault or battery” without reference to future harassment. The
FACC alleges that Vardi engaged in harassment involving aggressive phone calls
and texts by Vardi to Beischl and intimidation by Vardi directed at Beischl,
including shouting in her face from inches away and looming over her in a
threatening and aggressive fashion. (FACC ¶¶ 9-15.) As will be discussed, this
alleges a claim of assault. Moreover, the FACC does not allege that the
construction has ended or that there is no ongoing threat of harm. Therefore,
Defendant’s demurrer to this cause of action cannot be sustained on the stated
grounds. 
 
Accordingly, the demurrer is OVERRULED
as to this cause of action.
 
Third cause of action for Assault
 
Vardi argues that the FACC fails to
allege sufficient facts showing an act that could or was intended to inflict
immediate injury. “The elements of a cause of action for assault are: (1) the
defendant acted with intent to cause harmful or offensive contact, or
threatened to touch the plaintiff in a harmful or offensive manner; (2) the
plaintiff reasonably believed he was about to be touched in a harmful or
offensive manner or it reasonably appeared to the plaintiff that the defendant
was about to carry out the threat; (3) the plaintiff did not consent to the
defendant’s conduct; (4) the plaintiff was harmed; and (5) the defendant’s
conduct was a substantial factor in causing the plaintiff’s harm.” (Carlsen
v. Koivumaki (2014) 227 Cal.App.4th 879, 890.) Physical injury is not
required; rather, the tort of assault is complete when anticipation of harm
occurs. (Kiseskey v. Carpenters’ Trust for Southern California (1983)
144 Cal.App.3d 222, 232.) 
 
The FACC alleges each element of
assault as a matter of fact. The FACC alleges that Vardi met Beischl inside his
home. (FACC ¶ 14.) He explained that he had the money to pay her outstanding
receivable, but that in order to get the money she would need to provide him
with an absolute date certain by which all work would be completed. (Id.) Beischl
explained to him that she could not provide a certain completion date due to
supply chain delays. (Id.) This enraged Vardi and he “angrily shouted, inches
from Ms. Beischl’s face and with a physical presence looming over her smaller,
female stature, that he would not pay her what she was owed and continued to
unreasonably demand a completion date that Ms. Beischl simply could not provide.”
(Id.) Since she feared for her safety and was fed up with Vardi’s abuse, “Beischl
told Vardi to keep the money and swiftly departed the premises.” (Id.) Vardi allegedly
acted with intent to cause harmful or offensive contact and threatened to touch
Beischl in a harmful manner. (¶ 37.) Beischl reasonably believed she was about
to be touched by Vardi in a harmful or offensive manner. (¶ 38.) Beischl did
not consent to Vardi’s conduct. (¶ 39.) This conduct was a substantial factor
in causing Beischl’s harm. (¶ 40.) 
 
With the above allegations, the FACC
establishes that Vardi acted with an intent to cause harmful or offensive
contact, and Beischl reasonably believed she was about to be touched in a
harmful or offensive manner. At the pleading stage, this is all that is
required.
 
Accordingly, the demurrer is OVERRULED
as to this cause of action.
 
Fourth Cause of Action for Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress
 
Vardi argues that the alleged conduct
simply does not rise to the level of outrageous conduct so extreme as to exceed
all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized community. 
 
The elements of an intentional
infliction of emotional distress (IIED) cause of action are: (1) extreme and
outrageous conduct by the defendant; (2) intention to cause or reckless
disregard of the probability of causing emotional distress; (3) severe
emotional suffering; and (4) actual and proximate causation of the emotional
distress. (Moncada v. West Coast Quartz Corp. (2013) 221 Cal.App.4th
768, 780.)  Liability for intentional infliction of emotional distress does not
extend to mere insults, indignities, threats, annoyances, petty oppressions, or
other trivialities. (Hughes v. Pair (2009) 46 Cal.4th 1035,
1051.) To satisfy the element of
extreme and outrageous conduct, defendant’s conduct “‘must be so extreme as to
exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized society.’” (Id.
at 780.) “Behavior may be considered outrageous if a defendant (1) abuses a
relation or position which gives him power to damage the plaintiff’s interest;
(2) knows the plaintiff is susceptible to injuries through mental distress; or
(3) acts intentionally or unreasonably with the recognition that the acts are
likely to result in illness through mental distress.” (McDaniel v. Gile
(1991) 230 Cal.App.3d 363, 372.)  
 
“[I]t is not enough that the defendant
has acted with an intent which is tortious or even criminal, or that he has
intended to inflict emotional distress, or even that his conduct has been
characterized by ‘malice,’ or a degree of aggravation which would entitle the
plaintiff to punitive damages for another tort.” (Cochran v. Cochran
(1998) 65 Cal.App.4th 488, 496.) “Liability has been found only where the
conduct has been so outrageous in character, and so extreme in degree, as to go
beyond all possible bounds of decency, and to be regarded as atrocious, and
utterly intolerable in a civilized community.” (Id.) While there is no
bright-line as to what constitutes outrageous conduct and thus this involves a
case-by-case analysis, courts can determine whether conduct was sufficiently
outrageous at the demurrer stage. (Id. at 494.)
 
Generally,
the question of whether the conduct is in fact outrageous is a question of fact
to be determined beyond the pleading stage. (So v. Shin (2013) 212
Cal.App.4th 652.) “While those cases say that it is ‘usually’ a question of fact, several
cases have dismissed intentional infliction of emotional distress claims on
demurrer, concluding that the facts alleged did not amount to outrageous
conduct as a matter of law.” (Barker v. Fox & Associates (2015) 240
Cal.App.4th 333, 355-356.) When reasonable persons may differ, it is for the
jury to determine whether the conduct has been sufficiently extreme and
outrageous to result in liability.¿(Alcorn v. Anbro Engineering, Inc.
(1970) 2 Cal.3d 493, 499.) 
 
The FACC alleges that Vardi
incessantly called and texted Plaintiff at all hours of the day over minor and
unnecessary issues, angrily threatened her on repeated occasions, and
physically threatened her at his home, screamed directly into her face from
inches away and physically intimidated her by looming over her. (FACC ¶¶ 9-14) The
Court concurs that these facts fail to allege “outrageous” conduct as a matter
of law. As discussed in case law, IIED liability does not extend to such annoyances,
indignities and threats.
 
Moreover, the FACC fails to allege
facts supporting the element of severe emotional distress. “Severe emotional
distress means emotional distress of such substantial quality or enduring
quality that no reasonable [person] in civilized society should be expected to
endure it.” (Potter v. Firestone Tire & Rubber Co. (1993) 6 Cal.4th
965, 1004.) Beischl only alleges conclusions that Vardi’s conduct caused Beischl
“severe emotional distress”, “anxiety” and “mental anguish”. (See, e.g., FACC
¶¶ 19, 23, 26, 44.) Such conclusory averments do not show Beischl suffered from
distress of a substantial or enduring quality. 
 
Accordingly, the demurrer is SUSTAINED.
Leave to amend will not be granted unless Beischl proffers sufficient facts
demonstrating a reasonable probability of successful amendment on the
outrageous conduct and emotional distress issues. Otherwise, Defendant is ordered
to file an answer within 20 days.