 Case Number:  23SMCV05037    Hearing Date:   August 14, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Doe v. Culver
City Unified School District, et al.
CASE NO.:                23SMCV05037
MOTION:                  Motion
to Quash Subpoenas
HEARING DATE:   8/14/2024

 
Legal
Standard
 
Code of Civil Procedure (CCP)
section 1987.1 states that “[i]f a subpoena requires the attendance of a
witness or the production of books, documents, electronically stored
information, or other things before a court, or at the trial of an issue
therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the court, upon motion reasonably
made by any person described in subdivision (b), or upon the court’s own motion
after giving counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard, may make an order
quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance with it
upon those terms or conditions as the court shall declare, including protective
orders.”  (CCP § 1987.1(a).)  “In addition, the court may make any
other order as may be appropriate to protect the person from unreasonable or
oppressive demands, including unreasonable violations of the right of privacy
of the person.”  (Id.)  
   
Generally, all unprivileged
information that is relevant to the subject matter of the action is
discoverable if it would itself be admissible evidence at trial or if it
appears reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.
(CCP § 2017.010; Schnabel v. Superior Court (1993) 5 Cal.4th 704,
711.) Information is relevant if it might reasonably assist a party in
evaluating the case, preparing for trial, or facilitating settlement. (Gonzalez
v. Superior Court (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 1539, 1546.)
 
ANALYSIS
 
Plaintiff John Doe moves for an
order quashing or modifying the deposition subpoenas for production of
confidential medical and psychological records issued by Defendant Culver City
Unified School District (“CCUSD”) to Augustus F. Hawkins Family Mental Health
Center, Kaiser Permanente Central Support Services, KFH/SCPMG, and SCPMG
Radiology (the “Subject Subpoenas”). Plaintiff argues that the subpoenas contain
numerous records which include private information of Plaintiff and third
parties, including identification of Plaintiff’s prior families and their
personal history, Plaintiff’s biological parents and their personal history,
potential criminal information of third parties, and medical and psychological
information of Plaintiff and third parties.
 
The party asserting a privacy right
must establish a legally protected privacy interest, an objectively reasonable
expectation of privacy in the given circumstances, and a threatened intrusion
that is serious. (Hill v. National Collegiate Athletic Assn.
(1994) 7 Cal.4th 1, 35-37.) The party seeking information may raise, in
response, whatever legitimate and important countervailing interests disclosure
serves, while the party seeking protection may identify feasible alternatives
that serve the same interests or protective measures that would diminish the
loss of privacy. (Id. at 37–40.) If there is a serious invasion of
a constitutional right to privacy, the party seeking the evidence must
establish that the information sought is not only essential and directly
relevant, but also that this information could not be discovered through less
intrusive means. (Williams v. Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 552.)
In considering a privacy objection, trial courts must carefully balance a right
of privacy against the interest in having just litigation. (Pioneer
Electronics (USA), Inc. v. Superior Court (2007) 40 Cal.4th 360, 371.); Allen
v. Superior Court (1984) 151 Cal.App.3d 447, 449; see, e.g., Valley Bank
of Nevada v. Superior Court (1975) 15 Cal.3d 652, 658 [this includes
balancing “the purpose of the information sought, the effect that disclosure
will have on the parties and on the trial, the nature of the objections urged
by the party resisting disclosure, and ability of the court to make an
alternative order which may grant partial disclosure, disclosure in another
form, or disclosure only in the event that the party seeking the information
undertakes certain specified burdens which appear just under the circumstances”].)
 
            It is
undisputed that the Subject Subpoenas seek Plaintiff’s medical and
psychological records. Such requests might include third parties’ medical and
criminal information within the records, such as information regarding Plaintiff’s
foster families or biological family. There is no reasonable dispute that Plaintiff
has a reasonable expectation of privacy in these medical records. Moreover, Defendant
seeks all such records. Defendant thereby threatens a serious intrusion
to Plaintiff and third parties’ medical privacy. Defendant therefore has the
burden to establish that the records are directly relevant and cannot be
discovered by less intrusive means.  
 
Defendant demonstrates that
Plaintiff’s medical and psychological records would be directly relevant to
Plaintiff’s claim of psychological and emotional damages. (Sampson Decl., ¶¶
2-12.) In the complaint, Plaintiff alleges during his second-grade school year
(2022-2023), he was relentlessly bullied, tormented, sexually harassed, and
assaulted at school, both during and after school hours, by Cross-Defendant
Riley Leach-Schoenecker. According to his responses to form interrogatories (FROGs),
Plaintiff suffered from “mental and emotional suffering, increased
aggression, higher levels of anxiety, loss of sleep, new
sexualized behaviors, unexplained crying, and age behavior regression
including bedwetting.” (Sampson Decl., Ex., A, FROG no. 6.2, emphasis added.)
These responses and allegations show that Plaintiff’s mental condition is
directly at issue, as Plaintiff’s mental health records would be directly
relevant to Plaintiff’s emotional distress claims. For example, the records would
tend to show whether Plaintiff suffered from pre-existing conditions and/or history
of unrelated trauma which could contribute or cause his current symptoms. The
records would allow Defendant to meaningfully assess whether post-incident
treatment was reasonable and necessary. Thus, the records are directly
relevant. 
 
Plaintiff argues that the subpoenas
could have been more narrowly tailored in scope. Indeed, the requests are
overbroad as currently formulated, since the requests seek Plaintiff’s entire
medical history. While Plaintiff is very young, the Court would not find
medical and mental health records from more than three years before the
incident to be directly relevant. Simply put, older records would be too
attenuated from Plaintiff’s medical condition at the time of the incident,
especially considering the age of Plaintiff and the privacy interests discussed
infra. A three-year period should provide an appropriate balance between
Defendant’s need for discovery of Plaintiff’s mental condition prior to the
alleged assault(s) and Plaintiff/third party privacy interests in the records. Therefore,
the Court would limit the subject subpoenas to request records from August 2019
to the present.
 
Plaintiff also argues that there is
an alternative source for the information. Plaintiff suggests that Defendant
should depose Plaintiff before seeking the medical and mental health records.
Given the circumstances, the Court would not find this a reasonable suggestion.
Plaintiff is a nine-year-old boy, and likely cannot give comprehensive and
informed testimony on his medical and psychological history. The Court does not
find this a reasonable alternative to the directly relevant records. 
 
In reply only, Plaintiff cites Code
of Civil Procedure section 2017.220. As an initial matter, “[p]oints raised in
the reply brief for the first time will not be considered, unless good reason
is shown for failure to present them before. To withhold a point until the
closing brief deprives the respondent of the opportunity to answer it or
requires the effort and delay of an additional brief by permission.” (Campos v. Anderson (1997) 57
Cal.App.4th 784, 794, fn. 3.)  Plaintiff does
not address the failure to raise this issue earlier.  This time, however, the Court will consider
this argument.  
 
Section 2017.220 provides that in “any
civil action alleging conduct that constitutes sexual harassment, sexual
assault, or sexual battery, any party seeking discovery concerning the
plaintiff's sexual conduct with individuals other than the alleged
perpetrator shall establish specific facts showing that there is good cause
for that discovery, and that the matter sought to be discovered is relevant to
the subject matter of the action and reasonably calculated to lead to the
discovery of admissible evidence.” (CCP §2017.220(a), emphasis added.) The
Court first observes that this discovery is not directly concerning Plaintiff’s
prior sexual conduct with individuals aside from Cross-Defendant Leach-Schoenecker.
The requests seek more general information on Plaintiff’s physical and mental
health. To the extent that the psychological records might disclose sexual
conduct with other individuals, the instant motion substantially comports with the
requirements of section 2017.220. Defendant demonstrates good cause for the
same reasons that the records are directly relevant. Past sexual trauma would
be directly relevant to Plaintiff’s mental condition, which is plainly at issue
in this sexual assault case. Requests seeking information on Plaintiff’s sexual
conduct with other individuals is reasonably calculated to lead to the
discovery of evidence concerning alternative causes of Plaintiff’s mental
distress. Thus, the Court would not quash the subpoenas on these grounds. 
 
The Court requires that the parties
enter into a standard stipulated protective order which will cover the
disclosure and handling of confidential information during discovery. 
 
            Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s motion is GRANTED in part. The Subject Subpoenas are modified as
discussed. Production on the subject subpoenas is limited to records from
August 2019 to the present.  Production
is ordered within 30 days.