 Case Number:  23SMCV03409    Hearing Date:   August 14, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Campoy v. Pritz,
et al.
CASE NO.:                23SMCV03409
MOTION:                  Motion
to Compel Initial Discovery Responses
HEARING DATE:   8/14/2024

 
Legal
Standard
 
 If a
party to whom interrogatories are directed fails to serve a timely response,
the propounding party may move for an order compelling responses and for a
monetary sanction. (CCP § 2030.290(b).) The statute contains no time limit for
a motion to compel where no responses have been served. All that need be shown
in the moving papers is that a set of interrogatories was properly served on
the opposing party, that the time to respond has expired, and that no response
of any kind has been served. (Leach v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal.
App. 3d 902, 905-906.) 
 
Where there has been no timely
response to a Code of Civil Procedure (CCP) section 2031.010 inspection demand,
the demanding party must seek an order compelling a response. (CCP § 2031.300.)
Failure to timely respond waives all objections, including privilege and work
product. Thus, unless the party to whom the demand was directed obtains relief
from waiver, he or she cannot raise objections to the documents demanded. There
is no deadline for a motion to compel responses. Likewise, for failure to
respond, the moving party need not attempt to resolve the matter outside court
before filing the motion. Where the motion seeks only a response to the
inspection demand, no showing of "good cause" is required. 
  
ANALYSIS 
 
Plaintiff William Campoy moves to compel
Defendant Steven Alan Pritz to provide initial discovery responses, without
objection, to Plaintiff’s first sets of discovery, including Requests for
Production of Documents, Form Interrogatories, and Special Interrogatories. Plaintiff
also requests sanctions of $860.00 per
motion for reasonable costs and attorneys’ fees in making each motion.
 
Plaintiff served the subject discovery via email on May 6,
2024. (Gotfredson Decls., Exs. A-B.) Defendant has not provided any
responses to the outstanding discovery requests. (Id., ¶6.) Plaintiff thereby
demonstrates that he is entitled to responses from Defendant.
 
Defendant
opposes, arguing that the motion should not be granted because there is a
pending notice of related case, that there are unspecified “jurisdictional
issues” with this action, and that there is a pending motion to stay the
proceedings. These points are irrelevant to the outcome of the motion. Defendant
does not contest that this action is currently pending, that this court has
jurisdiction over the parties, and that he failed to respond to properly served
discovery requests. As such, the motions must be granted.
 
Accordingly,
the motions are GRANTED. Defendant is ordered to respond within 10 days,
without objection, to the outstanding discovery identified above. Mandatory
sanctions are imposed in the noticed amount of $860.00 per motion (total
$2,580.00). Sanctions are to be paid to Plaintiff’s counsel within 30 days.