  Case Number:  22STCV13204    Hearing Date:   October 4, 2024    Dept:  49 Ganeva Carroll, et al. v. Marcia Frater, et al.CROSS-DEFENDANT SHERRI VANESSA WILLIAMS’ DEMURRER TO THE CROSS-COMPLAINT MOVING PARTY: Cross-Defendant Sherri Vanessa WilliamsRESPONDING PARTY(S): Cross-Complainant Marcia FraterSTATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS: Plaintiffs Ganeva Carroll, Karla Curry, Genesis Carroll, Edgar Pierce, and Lamar Edwards are residents of an apartment building owned by Defendant Marcia Frater. Plaintiffs allege Defendant failed to maintain the property in a habitable condition and retaliated against Plaintiffs for their complaints about the condition of the property. Plaintiffs assert causes of action for (1) breach of implied warranty of habitability, (2) breach of statutory warranty of habitability, (3) breach of covenant of quiet enjoyment, (4) negligence, (5) violation of Civil Code section 1942.4, (6) private nuisance, (7) violation of anti-harassment ordinance, and (8) violation of Civil Code section 1942.5.Defendant Frater has filed a Cross-Complaint against Sherri Vanessa Williams, Kay Wachuku, and WFG Title Company, asserting causes of action for (1) breach of lease agreements, (2) “failure to disclose the statutory warranty of habitability,” (3) “defective marketability, tenant rights, encumbrances and liens and lease hold interest,” and (4) negligence.Cross-Defendant Williams now demurrers to the Cross-Complaint. Cross-Complainant Frater opposed. TENTATIVE RULING:Cross-Defendant’s Demurrer to the Cross-Complaint is SUSTAINED IN ITS ENTIRETY, with thirty days leave to amend as to the First, Second and Third Causes of Action.As to whether leave to amend is allowed as to the Fourth Cause of Action will depend on whether Cross-Complainant can demonstrate a reasonable possibility of a successful amendment on that cause of action.Moving party is ordered to give notice., unless waived.DISCUSSION:DemurrerA. Meet and ConferThe Declaration of Attorney Tiffanie Q. Spivey reflects that the parties met and conferred. B. Cross-Complainant’s Untimely OppositionCross-Complainant submitted an untimely opposition on September 30, 2024, only four court days before the hearing. (See CCP § 1005(b) [“All papers opposing a motion so noticed shall be filed with the court and a copy served on each party at least nine court days…before the hearing.”].) The court exercises its discretion to consider the untimely opposition. To the extent she wishes to be heard, Cross-Defendant will be afforded the opportunity at the hearing to make any arguments she would have raised in reply and/or continue the hearing so that a formal reply may be filed.C. Legal StandardA demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action.  (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal. App. 4th 740, 747.)  When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in context.  (Taylor v. City of Los Angeles Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal. App. 4th 1216, 1228.)  In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or by proper judicial notice.  (CCP § 430.30(a).)  A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters.  (SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153 Cal. App. 3d 902, 905.)  Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed.  (Id.)  The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.  (Hahn, 147 Cal.App.4th at 747.)D. AnalysisCross-Defendant demurrers to all four causes of action in the Cross-Complaint. Each is addressed in turn.1. First Cause of Action for Breach of Lease AgreementsCross-Defendant demurrers to the First Cause of Action, arguing Plaintiff has failed to allege a breach of contract. The elements of breach of contract are: “(1) the existence of the contract, (2) the plaintiff's performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3) the defendant's breach, and (4) resulting damages.” (Maxwell v. Dolezal (2014) 231 Cal.App.4th 93, 97–98.) The rule in California is that “[a] written contract may be pleaded either by its terms—set out verbatim in the complaint or a copy of the contract attached to the complaint and incorporated therein by reference—or by its legal effect. [Citation.] In order to plead a contract by its legal effect, plaintiff must ‘allege the substance of its relevant terms. This is more difficult, for it requires a careful analysis of the instrument, comprehensiveness in statement, and avoidance of legal conclusions.’ [Citation.]”  (Heritage Pac. Fin., LLC v. Monroy, (2013) 215 Cal. App. 4th 972, 993.)Here, Cross-Complainant alleges that Cross-Defendant Williams was the seller of the property that Cross-Complainant purchased. (Cross-Complaint p. 7.) Frater alleges that Williams “did not provide [Frater] with valid contracts/leases when she purchased the property, resulting in her being named in the lawsuit filed by the Plaintiffs.” (Id.; see also pp. 8-9.)Cross-Complainant has not provided the contracts at issue. As to their legal effect, it is difficult to parse the substance of the contracts’ relevant terms.  Indeed, it is unclear which contracts exist and what they say, much less how any specific provisions have been breached. The court and Cross-Defendant are left to speculate.  Cross-Complainant has thus failed to intelligibly plead at least two elements of her claim, namely (1) the existence of a contract and (2) breach of the same.  Accordingly, Cross-Defendant’s Demurrer to the First Cause of Action is SUSTAINED, with leave to amend.  Plaintiff should amend to attach the relevant contract(s), or, clearly plead each parties’ obligations under the contracts, and plead how said obligations were breached.2. Second Cause of Action for “Failure to Disclose the Statutory Warranty of Habitability; Third Cause of Action for Marketability, Tenant Rights, Etc. Next, Cross-Defendant argues the causes of action are uncertain. In support of her second cause of action, Cross-Complainant alleges that Cross-Defendants “failed to disclose the statutory warranty of habitability to the Cross-Complainant.” (Cross-Complaint p. 10.) In support of the third cause of action, Cross-Complainant alleges that she has suffered damages as a result of Cross-Defendants failure to provide her marketable title, among other things. (Id. pp. 11-12.) In her opposition, Cross-Complainant concedes that while these causes of action “may not have been labeled in traditional terms,” they are “rooted in well-established legal principles regarding the implied warranty of habitability, nondisclosure of defects, and breach of contract.” (Opp. 3: 5-8.) She continues that “if necessary, [she] is willing to amend these claims to more clearly state causes of action such as breach of implied warranty of habitability and fraudulent concealment.” (Id. 3: 15-17.)As currently pled, these causes of action are uncertain. The court is mindful of the policy “emphasiz[ing] substance over form” when construing a pleading. (Ameron Internat. Corp. v. Insurance Co. of State of Pennsylvania (2010) 50 Cal.4th 1370, 1386.) However, in this case, Cross-Complainants’ legal theories cannot be discerned from the labels and allegations. Accordingly, Cross-Defendant’s Demurrer to the Second and Third Causes of Action is SUSTAINED, with leave to amend.3. Fourth Cause of Action for NegligenceFinally, Cross-Defendant argues the negligence cause of action fails because Cross-Complainant has not alleged any of the elements of the claim. “In order to state a cause of action for negligence, the complaint must allege facts sufficient to show a legal duty on the part of the defendant to use due care, a breach of such legal duty, and the breach as the proximate or legal cause of the resulting injury.” (Bellah v. Greenson (1978) 81 Cal.App.3d 614, 619.)Here, Cross-Complainant alleges only that Cross-Defendants “breached the contract by not providing property free and clear of all encumbrances, to have free and clear, equitable and marketable title.” (Cross-Complaint p. 12.) As currently pled, the cause of action appears duplicative of the breach of contract claim. Cross-complainant has not alleged the required elements for negligence. Accordingly, Cross-Defendant’s Demurrer to the Fourth Cause of Action is SUSTAINED.  Whether leave to amend is allowed will depend on whether Cross-Complainant can demonstrate a reasonable possibility of a successful amendment on this cause of action.IT IS SO ORDERED.Dated:   October 4, 2024 ___________________________________ Randolph M. Hammock Judge of the Superior Court