  Case Number:  21AVCV00419    Hearing Date:   February 6, 2024    Dept:  A14 Background
 
This is a premises liability
action. Plaintiff  Jason Bailey
(“Plaintiff”) alleges that on or about June 02, 2019, he was lawfully on the
premises of Defendant OMG Sports II Inc., dba Rockin’ Jump Trampoline Park,
Palmdale, erroneously sued as Rockin’ Jump, LLC (“Defendant”) at or near 1301 W
Rancho Vista Blvd., Unit B, Palmdale, CA 935513 (the “Premises”) and was
walking towards the cashier area when he stepped on water and/or a similar
substance on the floor causing him to slip and fall. Plaintiff further alleges
that the slip and fall caused him to endure severe injury and pain. 
 
On May 24, 2021, Plaintiff filed
his Complaint alleging two causes of action for Negligence and Premises
Liability. 
 
On February 02, 2023, Defendant
filed its Answer. The Court notes that the Answer states that Defendant is “OMG
SPORTS II INC., dba Rockin' Jump Trampoline Park, Palmdale (erroneously sued as
ROCKIN' JUMP, LLC, a California Corporation) SBK EXPERIENCES, LLC (hereinafter
"Rockin' Jump" or "Defendant"). The Court inquires at the
hearing as to the addition of SBK Experiences, LLC in the Answer. 
 
On July 07, 2023, the Court held
a hearing on Defendant’s Ex Parte Application for an Order (1) Specially
Setting Defendant's Motion for Summary Judgment, or in the Alternative, Motion
for Summary Adjudication or (2) Alternatively Continuing Trial and all Related
Dates. The Court ultimately continued (1) the jury trial from October 13, 2023
to April 26, 2024, and (2) the Final Status Conference from October 04, 2023 to
April 17, 2024. The new trial date governs all law, motion, and discovery.
 
On July 03, 2023, Defendant filed
this Motion for Summary Judgment.
 
On January 23, 2024, Plaintiff
filed his Opposition.
 
On February 01, 2024, Defendant
filed its Reply. 
 
-----
 
Legal Standard
 
Standard for Summary Judgment – The function of a motion for summary
judgment or adjudication is to allow a determination as to whether an opposing
party cannot show evidentiary support for a pleading or claim and to enable an
order of summary dismissal without the need for trial. (Aguilar v. Atlantic
Richfield Co.¿(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) Cal. Code Civ. Proc.¿§437c(c)
“requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the evidence
submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and
uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable
issue as to¿any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment
as a matter of law.”¿ (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7
Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)¿ “The function of the pleadings in a motion for
summary judgment is to delimit the scope of the issues; the function of the
affidavits or declarations is to disclose whether there is any triable issue of
fact within the issues delimited by the pleadings.”¿ (Juge¿v. County of
Sacramento¿(1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67 (“Juge”), citing¿FPI
Development, Inc. v. Nakashima¿(1991) 231 Cal. App. 3d 367,
381-382.)¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
As to each claim as framed by the complaint,
the party moving for summary judgment must satisfy the initial burden of proof
by presenting facts to negate an essential element, or to establish a defense.
(Cal.¿Code Civ.¿Proc.¿§437c(p)(2);¿Scalf¿v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc.¿(2005)
128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.) Courts “liberally construe the evidence in support
of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the
evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc.¿(2006)
39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
Once the defendant has met that burden, the
burden shifts to the opposing party to show that a triable issue of one or more
material facts exists as to that cause of action or a defense thereto. To
establish a triable issue of material fact, the party opposing the motion must
produce substantial responsive evidence. (Sangster v.¿Paetkau¿(1998) 68
Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)¿¿¿¿¿ 
 
-----
 
Discussion
 
Issues Framed by the Pleadings – As an initial matter, the Court’s review
of the issues framed by the pleadings indicates that the entirety of the
complaint is predicated upon whether Defendant was negligent in maintaining the
Premises, ultimately causing a dangerous, defective, and/or unsafe condition in
the form of the wet floor leading to Plaintiff’s fall, causing him to suffer an
injury. (See Complaint.) While Plaintiff has alleged two causes of
action sounding in General Negligence and Premises Liability, the gravamen of
the complaint is one sounding entirely in premises liability, as the standard
of review of negligence and premises liability are identical.[1]  Accordingly, the Court will assess
the instant motion for summary judgment or adjudication on that basis.[2]
 
Application – Defendant
presents that, as a condition of accessing the Premises, Plaintiff mandated
that all customers sign a release agreement and Plaintiff filled and signed
release agreements for himself and his two sons. (See Decl. Daisy Diaz ¶¶
11-16; Exh. A; Decl. Paul Cooley ¶ 6; Exh. E and F at RFA No. 2.) Defendant
argues that, as Plaintiff signed the release agreements, including an
assumption of the risks clause, Defendant owed no duty to Plaintiff. Defendant
also describes the risks as “open and obvious.” Defendant provides that: (1)
assumption of the risk removes any duties owed to Plaintiff; (2) a release will
be upheld so long as the exculpatory language clearly, explicitly, and
unambiguously expresses that contracting parties’ intent; (3) the release
agreement is valid, citing various cases; (4) courts have upheld releases of
negligent conduct, citing Westlye v. Look Sports, Inc. (1993) 17 Cal.App.4th
1715 (“Westlye”), Saenz v. Whitewater Voyages, Inc. (1990)
Cal.App.3d 760 (“Saenz”), Allan v. Snow Summit (1996) 51
Cal.App.4th 1358 (“Allan”), and Paralift, Inc. v. Superior Court
(1993) 23 Cal.App.4th 748 (“Paralift”); (5) knowledge of the risk is not
required to enforce a release; (6) a person who signs a release is demed to
have read and understood the release. 
 
The elements of¿a premises liability
and¿negligence¿cause of action are the same:¿duty, breach, causation and
damages. (Castellon v. U.S. Bancorp¿(2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 994, 998.)¿
“The owner of premises is under a duty to exercise ordinary care in the
management of such premises¿in order to¿avoid exposing persons to an
unreasonable risk of harm.¿ A failure to fulfill this duty is negligence.”¿(Brooks
v. Eugene Burger Management Corp.¿(1989) 215 Cal.App.3d 1611, 1619;¿Annocki¿v.
Peterson Enterprises, LLC¿(2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 32, 37.)¿¿While an¿owner
of premises is not an insurer of the safety of its patrons, the owner still
owes them a duty to exercise reasonable care in keeping the premises reasonably
safe.¿(Ortega v. Kmart Corp.¿(2001) 26 Cal.4th 1200, 1205.) “A store
owner exercises ordinary care by making reasonable inspections of the portions
of the premises open to customers, and the care required is commensurate with
the risks involved.”¿(Ibid.)¿¿ 
 
The release agreement reads, in relevant
part: 
 
I acknowledge and
agree that this Agreement covers and is intended to release OMG SPORTS II INC.
DBA ROCKIN' JUMP TRAMPOLINE PARK - PALMDALE and their respective end collective
agents, owners, officers, managers, shareholders, parent, subsidiaries,
franchises and franchisors, affiliates, volunteers, participants, employees,
and all other persons or entities acting in any capacity on their respective or
collective behalf (collectively referred to as "ROCKIN' JUMP")
 
In consideration of
being allowed to use and participate in ROCKIN’ JUMP's premises, equipment,
services and activities, including, but not limited to, trampoline park access,
trampoline dodge ball, trampoline basketball, aerial training, fitness classes,
trampoline courts, arcade games, lockers and café access, and any other
amusement or recreation activities (collectively "ACTIVITIES"), I, on
behalf of myself, and/or on behalf of my minor child(ren)/ward(s), hereby agree
and acknowledge ss follows:
 
1) ASSUMPTION OF
RISK: Participation in these ACTIVITIES is voluntary and engaged in after
full appreciation of the risks involved in the ACTIVITIES. These ACTIVITIES are
dangerous and entail both known and unknown risks, including the risk of injury
(including, but not limited to cuts, bruises, sprains and broken bones),
permanent disability (including but not limited to brain injury and paralysis),
or even death, deriving from, but not limited to, equipment malfunctions;
building malfunctions; lack of supervision and/or trained trampoline monitors;
lack of proper equipment, padding, netting, or other safety measures; slipping;
falling; landing or colliding with fixed objects or other people; as well as
the negligence and/or omissions committed by me, my child(ren)/ward(s), ROCKIN'
JUMP, and/or any other person and/or entity. I and my minor child(ren)/ward(s)
hereby voluntarily assume all such risks. I and my minor child(ren)/ward(s)
further understand and acknowledge that ROCKIN' JUMP does not manufacture the
trampolines or other equipment in its facilities, but purchases and/or leases
the trampolines and equipment and therefore ROCKIN' JUMP may not be held liable
for defective products.
 
2) RELEASE OF
LIABILITY: I hereby irrevocably and unconditionally release, waive,
relinquish, discharge from liability and covenant not to sue ROCKIN’ JUMP from any
and all claims, demands, rights, actions, suits, causes of action,
obligations, debts, costs, losses, charges, expenses, damages, judgments and
liabilities, of whatever kind or nature, in law, equity or otherwise, whether
now known or unknown, suspected or unsuspected, and whether or not concealed or
hidden, related to or arising, directly or indirectly, from my or my
child(ren)/ward(s) use of Rocking Jump premises, equipment, services and
activities, including without limitation any claim for negligence, failure to warn
or other omission property damage, personal injury, emotional injury, illness,
bodily harm or death to the maximum extent allowed by law. 
[. . .]
 
4) INDEMNIFICATION:
I hereby agree to indemnify and hold harmless ROCKIN' JUMP from and against
any and all losses, liabilities, claims, obligations, costs, damages, and/or
expenses whatsoever paid, incurred, and/or suffered by ROCKIN' JUMP, including,
but not limited to, any and all attorneys' fees, costs, damages, and/or
judgments ROCKIN' JUMP incurs in the event that I or my minor
child(ren)/ward(s) bring any claims against ROCKIN' JUMP based upon damages
caused or alleged to be caused in whole or in part by the negligent acts or
omissions of ROCKIN' JUMP, or in the event I or my minor child(ren)/ward(s)
cause any injury, damage and/or harm to ROCKIN' JUMP and/or any and all other
persons and entities acting in any capacity on behalf of ROCKIN' JUMP, or to
others while at ROCKIN' JUMP premises.
 
[. . .]
 
6) TERM OF
AGREEMENT: I understand that this agreement extends forever into the future
and will have full force and legal effect each and every time I or my
child(ren)/ward(s) visit ROCKIN' JUMP, whether at the current location or any
other location or facility.
 
By signing this
document, I understand that I and/or my minor child(ren)/ward(s) may be found
by a court of law to have forever waived any right I and/or my
child(ren)/ward(s) may have to maintain any action against ROCKIN' JUMP on the
basis of any claim from which I have released them herein. I have had a
reasonable and sufficient opportunity to read and understand this entire
document, or have voluntarily waived my right to do so. I knowingly and
voluntarily agree to be bound by all terms and conditions set forth herein. 
 
(Exh. A.) 
 
It is signed by Plaintiff and
lists two participants, Plaintiff’s minor children. It is unclear from the
document whether Plaintiff is signing on behalf of himself or solely on behalf
of his children.
 
Defendant’s argument hinges on
the release agreement as it believes the release agreement relieves it of any
duty owed to Plaintiff. Notably, the release agreement does not explicitly
describe the premises (i.e., whether it applies solely to the trampoline area
or the whole premises), attempts to include being on the “premises” as an
activity, and seeks to release Defendant from liability as to all negligent
conduct, including Defendant’s own negligence. 
Defendant’s argument related to
when a release agreement will be upheld and the validity of the agreement does
not incorporate the release agreement in this action. Rather, as to the
argument describing when a release agreement will be upheld, the argument
states only: “A release will generally be upheld so long as the exculpatory
language clearly, explicitly, and unambiguously expresses the contracting
parties’ intent. ‘It is the outward expression of the agreement, rather than a
parties' expressed intention, which the court will enforce.’ Paralift, supra,
23 Cal. App. 4th at 755.” (MSJ 9:16-19.) Notably, there is no discussion as to
why or how the release agreement in this action relates to the cited standard.
Next, as to the argument that the release agreement in this action is valid,
Defendant states only that “[m]any cases have demonstrated that release
agreements are valid as a matter of law[]” and provides a string cite. (MSJ 9:20-28.)
Again, there is no discussion of the release agreement at issue in this action.
 
As to the cases cited by
Defendant for upholding releases due to negligent conduct, several are
distinguished:
 
·        
Westlye, supra, 17 Cal.App.4th
1715: This case stems from an injury incurred by the plaintiff when he fell
while skiing at Sugar Bowl ski resort, and the left safety binding failed to
release the ski from the boot. (Westlye, supra, 17 Cal.App.4th
at 1723.) The plaintiff had rented the ski equipment from Klein's, which had
purchased the equipment from the distributors. (Id. at 1723-24.) The
interplay of express assumption of the risk and the release agreement in this
case was reviewed and the Westlye court held that “as a matter of public
policy, product suppliers cannot insulate themselves from strict liability in
tort for injuries caused by defects in products they place on the market by
obtaining a consumer's signature on an express assumption of risk.” (Id.
at 1747.) The Westlye court reviewed various factors through the lens of
contract law, products lability, and misrepresentation. This case does not
discuss assumption of the risk in the context of premises liability. 
·        
Saenz, supra, Cal.App.3d
760: Saenz is a wrongful death action that stemmed from decedent’s death
while whitewater rafting. (Saenz, supra, Cal.App.3d at
759-61.) A release agreement was signed prior to the whitewater rafting
expedition. (Id. at 760.) The Saenz court held that “[w]ithout
question the risk of death by drowning is a risk inherent in white water
rafting and apparent to anyone about to embark upon a three-day recreational
rafting trip[]” and  “[t]he release was
valid.” (Id. at 766.) This is patently different from Plaintiff signing
a release agreement for an indoor trampoline park and slipping and falling by a
register.
·        
Allan, supra, 51 Cal.App.4th 1358:
This case concerned Plaintiff’s injuries which resulted from falling while
skiing. (Allan, supra, 51 Cal.App.4th at 1363-64.) The release
agreement at issue was binding as the injuries Allan sustained were encompassed
by the release agreement which provided that plaintiff specifically agreed to
release defendant and its employees from any liability for injuries caused by
participating in the ski lesson. (Id. at 1366-1375.) As with Saenz,
the facts in Allan are patently different from Plaintiff signing a
release agreement for an indoor trampoline park and slipping and falling by a
register. 
·        
Paralift, supra, 23
Cal.App.4th 748: This case concerns a wrongful death action brought by heirs of
decedent, a highly qualified and licensed skydiver, who died due to the impact
of his body on the surface of water during a landing. (Paralift, supra,
23 Cal.App.4th at 751.) The Paralift court went through a variety of
elements and determined that the risks of the particular jump was in the
reasonable expectations of both parties; the risks of parachuting activity
stemmed from what defendant Paralift was to do according to the understanding
of both parties; any negligence on the part of Paralift was reasonably related
to the object or purpose for which the release was given;  the decedent's express release of any
negligence liability on the part of Paralift binds his heirs in this action and
provides Paralift with a complete defense; and the release was evidently the
intention of the parties that it have a broad and ongoing scope, unlimited to a
certain time period, a certain geographical vicinity, or certain weather
conditions. The agreement, its scope, and the nature of the injury in Paralift
are different from the action at hand. 
 
First, as mentioned ante,
there exists an issue as to whether Plaintiff signed for himself or solely his
two children. This is shown by the signer and participant designations. (See
Exh. A.) There appears to be another page which designates “signing party” and “included”
minors which states: “The Signing Party listed below digitally agreed to the
above agreements.) (Ibid.) This, too, provides no clarification as the
only signing party is Plaintiff, who has two included minors, and the
designation of individuals is distinct from the document signed (e.g.
participants to included minors). There exists a question of consent as the
contract is unclear as to who it applies to. (See Cal. Civ. Code § 1580.)
                                                                                                    
Unlike the cases cited above,
slipping on a wet floor on the way to a cash register is not an inherent risk
of going to a trampoline park which focuses on providing fun in the form of
trampolines, activities that involve trampolines, and other fitness-related
and/or recreational classes. However, the release agreement seemly tries to
include use of the “premises,” an undefined term in the release agreement, as
part of the definition of activities and attempts to release Defendant from all
liability due to injury. Defendant has provided the following legal standard: “A
release will generally be upheld so long as the exculpatory language clearly,
explicitly, and unambiguously expresses the contracting parties’ intent.” (MSJ
9:16-17.) Defendant has not analyzed its own release agreement. While the
instant release agreement attempts to release Defendant from liability as to
all claims, it fails to (1) clearly identify the contracting parties as it is
unclear whether Plaintiff signed on behalf of himself or his minor children
(see ante); and (2) it is ambiguous as to where the on the premises the
release agreement applies (see ante). For example, an individual who has
not signed the agreement can access the lobby that Plaintiff was in and, if
hurt, may sue. Further, Defendant has not provided case law showing that its
release agreement should be upheld as all the cases cited are substantially
different from the action at hand. The Court also notes that such a release
agreement also leads to a question of whether the full release for any and all
claims, including any of Defendant’s negligence, follows public policy. (See Hass
v. RhodyCo Productions (2018) 26 Cal.App.5th 11, 29 [citing Tunkl v.
Regents of University of California (1963) 60 Cal.2d 92 (“Tunkl”)];
see also Celli v. Sports Car Club, Inc. (1972) 29 Cal.App.3d 511 [discussion of
distinction between passive negligence and negligent omission and citation to Tunkl
regarding whether “public policy in this state would permit judicial
enforcement of a provision. . .designed to permit a tortfeasor to shift the
risk of the injury to the victim even where the release is sufficient to
encompass defendants' own negligence”].)
 
As to the open and obvious
argument that is contained in Defendant’s moving papers, it is not clear that a
reasonable person could be expected to observe the dangerous condition in this
situation. (See Jacobs v. Coldwell Banker Residential Brokerage Co.
(2017) 14 Cal,App.5th 438, 447.) First, the surveillance video shows (1) yellow
placards next to the door, identified in the video by a mat, and (2) two
stanchions supporting a yellow chain barrier. There is no warning placard that
indicates that the wet floor would extend from the doorway to the cashier nor
is there a placard by the stanchions to indicate that they were placed due to
the wet floor. In all likelihood, some reasonable people could be expected to
observe the stanchions with the yellow chain barrier and conclude that it has
been placed there as a divider rope for a queue or other purpose. Defendant has
conceded that the floors were mopped prior to Plaintiff’s fall. (See Decl. Diaz
¶ 4). Whether a verbal warning was given is immaterial to open and obvious
argument brought by Defendant. Therefore, there are issues of material fact as
to whether Plaintiff was actually aware of the wet condition prior to the
incident, which Defendant argues was open and obvious, and whether Defendant
sufficiently warned Plaintiff of the dangerous condition.
 
Accordingly, Defendant does not
meet the initial burden of proof by
presenting facts to negate an essential element, or to establish a defense.
Rather, Defendant’s arguments and presentations raise more questions that are
unaddressed by its moving papers. 
 
The Court need not address the Opposition as Defendant has not met its
initial burden.
 
For the same reason, the Court need not address the Reply. The Court
need not rule on the objections provided with the Reply as they are not
material to the disposition of the motion. (See Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §
437c(q)[“In granting or denying
a motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication, the court need rule only
on those objections to evidence that it deems material to its disposition of
the motion. Objections to evidence that are not ruled on for purposes of the
motion shall be preserved for appellate review.”].)
 
For the knowledge of the parties, the Court notes that it has reviewed
both the Opposition and Reply in their entirety. 
 
Accordingly, the Motion for Summary Judgment is DENIED.
 
-----
 
Conclusion
 
Defendant OMG Sports II Inc., dba
Rockin’ Jump Trampoline Park, Palmdale’s Motion for Summary Judgment is DENIED.


