 Case Number:  21AVCV00876    Hearing Date:   February 6, 2024    Dept:  A14 Background
 
This is a premises liability action. Plaintiff
Isabelle Hill (“Plaintiff”) brings this action against Defendants Best
Western International, Inc. (“Best Western”) and Bains Hospitality, LLC –
erroneously sued and served as Best Western Plus Desert Poppy Inn – (“Bains”
and collectively “Defendants”) alleging personal injury and monetary damages
resulting from alleged Cimex lectularius (commonly known as bedbug) bites
during Plaintiff’s stay at Defendants’ hotel on November 03, 2019. 
 
Plaintiff checked in to the hotel on
November 02, 2019. On November 03, 2019, Plaintiff states that she awoke at 2
a.m. with an “intense itching sensation.” (Compl. ¶ 15.) She alleges that when she
pulled back the covers, she discovered bedbugs which she reported to hotel staff.
Plaintiff contends that cleaning staff then came to inspect the room at which
time she presented a dead bedbug to them. Plaintiff checked out early – on or
about November 3, 2019 – due to her alleged injuries from the bedbugs. She states
that she called the manager to inform them of the issue and they apologized and
refunded her stay. When searching online, Plaintiff states that she found that there
had been a previous a bedbug problem. 
 
On November 4, 2019, Plaintiff sought
treatment at Antelope Valley Hospital Emergency Room due to worsening of
symptoms. There, she was diagnosed as having “bedbug bites and was prescribed
medication for her injuries.” (Compl. ¶ 19.) Plaintiff later sought further
medical attention due to the persistent itching and pain. Plaintiff alleges that
she suffered emotional scarring and incurred costs associated with medical
treatment, the hotel room, and replacing her belongings that had been exposed
to infestation at the hotel. 
 
On November 02, 2021, Plaintiff filed their
Complaint against Defendants alleging the following causes of action: (1) Battery,
(2) Negligence, (3) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress (“IIED”), (4) Fraudulent
Concealment, (5) Private Nuisance, (6) Public Nuisance, and (7) Breach of Contract.

                                      
On August 10, 2023, Plaintiff filed her Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”)
alleging the following causes of action: (1) Negligence, (2) IIED, (3)
Fraudulent Concealment, (4) Public Nuisance, and (5) Breach of Contract. 
. 
On September 11, 2023, Defendants filed
their Demurrer to the SAC, subsequently overruled in part as to the Third Cause
of Action (Fraudulent Concealment) and sustained with leave to amend in part as
to the Second Cause of Action (IIED), Fourth Cause of Action (Public Nuisance),
and Fifth Cause of Action (Breach of Contract). 
 
On November 20, 2023, Plaintiff filed her
Third Amended Complaint (“TAC”) alleging five causes of action for: (1)
Negligence, (2) IIED, (3) Fraudulent Concealment, (4) Public Nuisance, and (5)
Breach of Contract.
 
On December 26, 2023, Defendants filed their
Demurrer to the TAC. 
 
No Opposition has been filed. “All papers
opposing a motion so noticed shall be filed with the court and a copy served on
each party at least nine court days. . .before the hearing.” (Cal. Code Civ.
Proc. § 1005(b).) “Section 1013, which extends the time within which a right
may be exercised or an act may be done, does not apply to a notice of motion,
papers opposing a motion, or reply papers governed by this section.” (Ibid.)
The hearing on this matter is set for February 06, 2024. Accordingly, an
Opposition was due by January 24, 2024.
 
-----
 
Legal Standard
 
Standard for Demurrer – A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether
the complaint states a cause of action.¿ (Hahn v.¿Mirda¿(2007) 147 Cal.
App. 4th 740, 747.) ¿When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations
liberally and in context.¿ (Taylor v. City of Los Angeles Dept. of Water and
Power¿(2006) 144 Cal. App. 4th 1216, 1228.)¿ In a demurrer proceeding, the
defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or by proper judicial
notice.¿ (CCP § 430.30(a).)¿A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the
evidence or other extrinsic matters.¿ (SKF Farms v. Superior Court¿(1984)
153 Cal. App. 3d 902, 905.)¿ Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear
on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed.¿¿(Id.)¿¿The only
issue involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands,
unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.¿ (Hahn,¿supra,¿147
Cal.App.4th at 747.)¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
A general demurrer admits the truth of all
factual, material allegations properly pled in the challenged pleading,
regardless of possible difficulties of proof.¿¿(Blank,¿supra, 39
Cal.3d at p. 318.)¿ Thus, no matter how unlikely or improbable, plaintiff’s
allegations must be accepted as true for the purpose of ruling on the
demurrer.¿¿(Del E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials Co.¿(1981) 123
Cal.App.3d 593, 604.)¿ Nevertheless, this rule does not apply to allegations
expressing mere conclusions of law, or allegations contradicted by the exhibits
to the complaint or by matters of which judicial notice may be taken.¿¿(Vance
v. Villa Park¿Mobilehome¿Estates¿(1995) 36 Cal.App.4th 698, 709.)¿Stated
otherwise, a general demurrer does not admit contentions, deductions, or
conclusions of fact or law alleged in the complaint; facts impossible in law;
or allegations contrary to facts of which a court may take judicial notice.¿¿(Blank,¿supra,
39 Cal.3d at p. 318.)¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
Pursuant to¿Code Civ. Proc.¿§430.10(e), the
party against whom a complaint has been filed may object by demurrer to the
pleading on the grounds that the pleading does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action.¿ It is an abuse of discretion to sustain a
demurrer if there is a reasonable probability that the defect can be cured by
amendment.¿¿(Schifando¿v. City of Los Angeles¿(2003) 31 Cal.4th 1074,
1082,¿as modified (Dec. 23, 2003).)¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
-----
 
Meet and Confer Requirement
– Before filing a demurrer or a
motion to strike, the demurring or moving party is required to meet and confer
with the party who filed the pleading demurred to or the pleading that is
subject to the motion to strike for the purposes of determining whether an
agreement can be reached through a filing of an amended pleading that would
resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.  (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §§ 430.41 and
435.5.)  The Court notes that counsel for
Defendants, Tiffanie Q. Spivey (“Spivey”) has declared that she attempted to
meet and confer via email, but received no response. (See Decl. Spivey ¶ 3.) “A
determination by the court that the meet and confer process was insufficient
shall not be grounds to overrule or sustain a demurrer.” (Cal. Code Civ. Proc.
§ 430.31(a)(4).) The Court will address the Demurrer on its merits.
 
-----
 
Discussion
 
a.     
Demurrer
 
Defendants demur to the Second Cause of
Action (IIED), Fourth Cause of Action (Public Nuisance), and Fifth Cause of
Action (Breach of Contract).
 
 i.  Second
Cause of Action (IIED) 
 
As an initial matter, the difference between
this cause of action in the SAC and the TAC is:
 
The
above extreme and outrageous conduct by Defendants’, and DOES 2 through 20, was
done with the intention of causing, or reckless disregard of the probability of
causing, Plaintiffs’ severe emotional distress.
 
Defendants,
and DOES 1 through 20, inclusive, had knowledge and were on notice of the
existing bedbug infestation at the Subject Hotel as evidenced by the extensive
online reviews by other prior guests which indicates presence of said
infestation and conditions present at the Subject Hotel. Given this existing
knowledge of the unsanitary conditions and infestation, Defendants, and DOES 1
through 20, inclusive, intentionally failed to inform Plaintiffs of said
conditions existing in the room to which they were assigned. Defendants, and
DOES 1 through 20, inclusive, intentionally did not make any representations to
the Plaintiffs regarding this infestation present at the Subject Hotel. In
fact, Plaintiffs were unaware of the said conditions until after being after
being assigned to the room at the Subject Hotel.
 
(TAC ¶¶ 68-69.)
 
Defendants present that in order for conduct
to be outrageous, there must be a specific intent to injure, or a reckless
disregard of the substantial certainty of a severe emotional injury under Christensen
v. Superior Court (1991) 54 Cal.3d 868. Defendants argue that Plaintiff’s
allegations do not reflect that Defendants had a substantial certainty of a
severe harm or severe emotional reaction, that each individual has a different
reaction to bed bug bites, and the alleged wrongful conduct does not
rise to conduct so extreme and outrageous so as to exceed the bounds of decency
and is not regarded as atrocious and utterly intolerable in a civilized
community. Defendants emphasize that the Complaint alleges only that Defendants
had notice of a bed bug infestation based on some unknown time in the past and
are conclusory as to when and if Defendants knew of a current infestation.
Defendants also highlight that Plaintiff concedes in the TAC that she received
a refund, thus showing that Defendants attempted to remedy the situation and
showing that the behavior was not extreme, outrageous, went beyond all possible
bounds of decency, was atrocious, was utterly intolerable in a civilized
community, and/or would arouse the resentment of an average member of the
community against the Defendant, and lead to an exclamation of
"Outrageous!”
 
“A cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional
distress exists when there is ‘(1) extreme and outrageous conduct by the
defendant with the intention of causing, or reckless disregard of the
probability of causing, emotional distress; (2) the plaintiff’s suffering
severe or extreme emotional distress; and (3) actual and proximate causation of
the emotional distress by the defendant’s outrageous conduct.’ A defendant’s
conduct is ‘outrageous’ when it is so ‘extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually
tolerated in a civilized community.’ And the defendant’s conduct must be
‘intended to inflict injury or engaged in with the realization that injury will
result.’” (Hughes v. Pair (2009) 46 Cal.4th 1035,1050-1051.)
 
A general demurrer admits the truth of all factual, material allegations
properly pled in the challenged pleading, regardless of possible difficulties
of proof.¿¿(Blank,¿supra, 39 Cal.3d at p. 318.)¿ Thus, no matter
how unlikely or improbable, plaintiff’s allegations must be accepted as true
for the purpose of ruling on the demurrer.¿¿(Del E. Webb Corp. v. Structural
Materials Co.¿(1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 593, 604.)¿ Nevertheless, this rule
does not apply to allegations expressing mere conclusions of law, or
allegations contradicted by the exhibits to the complaint or by matters of
which judicial notice may be taken.¿¿(Vance v. Villa Park¿Mobilehome¿Estates¿(1995)
36 Cal.App.4th 698, 709.)
 
Taken alone, the statement, “[t]he above extreme and outrageous conduct
by Defendants’, and DOES 2 through 20, was done with the intention of causing,
or reckless disregard of the probability of causing, Plaintiffs’ severe
emotional distress[,]” would be conclusory; however, Plaintiff has included the
following statement – “Defendants, and DOES 1 through 20, inclusive, had
knowledge and were on notice of the existing bedbug infestation at the Subject
Hotel as evidenced by the extensive online reviews by other prior guests which
indicates presence of said infestation and conditions present at the Subject
Hotel. Given this existing knowledge of the unsanitary conditions and
infestation, Defendants, and DOES 1 through 20, inclusive, intentionally failed
to inform Plaintiffs of said conditions existing in the room to which they were
assigned. Defendants, and DOES 1 through 20, inclusive, intentionally did not
make any representations to the Plaintiffs regarding this infestation present
at the Subject Hotel. In fact, Plaintiffs were unaware of the said conditions
until after being after being assigned to the room at the Subject Hotel.” While
Defendants are correct that no time is specified for when the reviews are
posted, “[w]hen considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally
and in context.”¿ (Taylor v. City of Los Angeles Dept. of Water and Power¿(2006)
144 Cal. App. 4th 1216, 1228.)¿The Court believes that a liberal reading of the
TAC at this stage of the pleadings would allow for a reasonable inference that
the online reviews put Defendants on notice of the bed bug infestation. Thus,
the first element, extreme
and outrageous conduct by the defendant with the intention of causing, or
reckless disregard of the probability of causing, emotional distress is
satisfied. 
 
Plaintiff satisfied the second element by alleging damages as
to emotional injuries which include, but are not limited to, severe
embarrassment, annoyance, discomfort, pain, apprehension, tension, anxiety, and
emotional distress. (See TAC ¶ 45.) The Court notes that Plaintiff alleges
physical damages in the IIED cause of action as well; however, the physical
damages are not an element of IIED. 
 
As to the third element, Plaintiff has alleged that such
action was legal and proximate cause of her injuries and a liberal reading can
also support such an inference. (See Complaint ¶¶ 77-78.)
 
Accordingly, the Demurrer to the Second Cause of Action
(IIED) is OVERRULED.
 
 
ii.                 
Fourth Cause of Action (Public Nuisance)
 
There has been no change between this cause
of action from the FAC to the SAC or from the SAC to the TAC. 
 
Defendants present the same argument as in
the two previously filed demurrers – Plaintiff does not plead any instances
where the alleged bedbug issue affected a considerable amount of people. 
 
The Court incorporates its previous analysis
from the SAC as applied to this cause of action in the TAC:
 
"A public nuisance is one which affects
at the same time an entire community or neighborhood, or any considerable
number of persons, although the extent of the annoyance or damage inflicted
upon individuals may be unequal." (Civ. Code, § 3480.)
 
Defendants argue that Plaintiff does not
plead any instances where the alleged bedbug issue affected a considerable
amount of people, thus, affecting the community at large. Therefore, as
alleged, Defendants believe that the FAC fails to state a cause of action for
Public Nuisance. (Demurrer, Page 10, lines 23-25.)
 
Plaintiff alleges that the unsanitary and
uninhabitable conditions of bed bugs infestation caused injuries both to her
health and safety, and interfered substantially with Plaintiff’s comfortable
enjoyment of the room she rented. (FAC ¶¶101-102.) Plaintiff states that bed
bug infestation can spread from the Hotel room to the public and into their
residence which can affect the community at large (FAC ¶ 103). However, the FAC
does not allege that anyone other than Plaintiff was injured, and so fails to meet
the statutory requirements (Civ. Code, § 3480) for a public nuisance claim.
 
However, Plaintiff’s FAC does not prove how
the bed bugs affected the community at large since it does not state any facts
on how the bed bugs affected other individuals besides Plaintiff.
 
(10/25/2023 Statement of Decision at pp. 8-9.)
 
Accordingly, the Demurrer to the Fourth
Cause of Action (Public Nuisance) is SUSTAINED.
 
iii.               
Fifth Cause of Action (Breach of Contract)
 
The Fifth Cause of Action has not been
changed from the SAC.
 
Defendants’ argument remains the same as in
the previous demurrer – Plaintiff has neither attached a copy of the contract,
incorporated by reference, or recite it verbatim in the Complaint and that
Plaintiff has failed to allege facts demonstrating that she was damaged from
any breach of the contract alleged because she received a refund for her
night’s stay.
 
The Court incorporates its previous analysis
from the SAC as applied to this cause of action in the TAC:
 
“To prevail on a cause of action for breach of contract, the
plaintiff must prove (1) the contract, (2) the plaintiff’s performance of the
contract or excuse for nonperformance, (3) the defendant’s breach, and (4) the
resulting damage to the plaintiff.” (Richman v. Hartley (2014) 224
Cal.App.4th 1182, 1186.)
 
The addition in the SAC appears to be an
attempt to plead facts demonstrating that Plaintiff was damaged from a breach
of contract. However, the deficiency with regards to the allegations related to
the contract remains. That is, (a) “[t]o prevail on a cause of action for
breach of contract, the plaintiff must prove (1) the contract, (2) the
plaintiff’s performance of the contract or excuse for nonperformance, (3) the
defendant’s breach, and (4) the resulting damage to the plaintiff[]” (Richman
v. Hartley (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 1182, 1186); and (b) Plaintiff did not
attach the contract or recite the terms of the contract and “[o]rdinarily a
written contract is sufficiently pleaded if it is set out in full or its terms
alleged according to their legal effect . . . . But if the instrument is
ambiguous, the pleader must allege the meaning he ascribes to it[]” (Beck v.
American Health Group Internat., Inc. (1989) 211 Cal.App.3d 1555, 1561; see
also Otworth v. S. Oac.
Transp. Co. (1985) 166
Cal.App.3d 452, 459 [“[I]f the action is based on an alleged breach of a
written contract, the terms must be set out verbatim in the body of the
complaint or a copy of the written instrument must be attached and incorporated
by reference.”]). Here, no contract is attached nor are terms
provided. Plaintiff alleges only that a written contract was entered into “for
the rent of Plaintiff’s room in compliance with California Health & Safety
Code.” (SAC ¶ 112.) Plaintiff has not sufficiently pled each element of a
breach of contract claim.
 
(10/25/2023 Statement of Decision at p. 9.)
 
Accordingly, the Demurrer to the Fifth
Cause of Action (Breach of Contract) is SUSTAINED.
 
Leave to Amend
 
Leave to amend
must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment.
(Goodman v. Kennedy¿(1976), 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) While under California
law leave to amend is liberally granted, “leave to amend should not be granted where, in all probability, amendment would be futile.” (Vaillette
v. Fireman's Fund Ins. Co. (1993), 18 Cal. App. 4th 680, 685).¿ “A trial
court does not abuse its discretion when it sustains a demurrer without¿leave
to amend¿if either (a) the facts and the nature of the claims are clear and no
liability exists, or (b) it is probable from the nature of the defects and
previous unsuccessful attempts to plead that the plaintiff cannot state a
claim.” (Cantu v. Resolution Trust Corp.¿(1992)¿4 Cal.App.4th 857,
889.)¿¿ 
 
Defendants emphasize that this is their
fourth demurrer to the same causes of action and it is patent that Plaintiff
cannot cure her defects.
 
The defects in the Fourth Cause of Action
(Public Nuisance) and Fifth Cause of Action (Breach of Contract) have been
present since Plaintiff’s original Complaint. The Court has opined in all its
Statement of Decisions that (1) Plaintiff has failed to present that the bed
bug infestation affected the community at large (03/28/2023 Statement of
Decision at pp. 9-10, 07/11/2023 Statement of Decision at p. 6, 10/25/2023 Statement
of Decision at pp. 8-9), and (2) Plaintiff has not properly pled the alleged
contract at issue (03/28/2023 Statement of Decision at pp. 10-11, 07/11/2023
Statement of Decision at pp. 6-7, 10/25/2023 Statement of Decision at p. 9).
Further, Plaintiff has made no changes to the Fourth Cause of Action (Public
Nuisance) since the FAC and, regarding the Fifth Cause of Action (Breach of
Contract), Plaintiff has (1) added only one paragraph from the FAC to the SAC,
(2) made no changes from the SAC to the TAC, and (3) has never attached the
contract or recited the terms of the alleged contract. Finally, Plaintiff has
not opposed a filed demurrer since the Demurrer to the Complaint. Thus, it is probable
from the nature of the defects and previous unsuccessful attempts to plead that
the plaintiff cannot state a claim.
 
The Court
declines to allow leave to amend. 
 
-----
 
Conclusion
 
Defendants Best Western International, Inc. and Bains
Hospitality, LLC (erroneously sued and served as Best Western Plus Desert Poppy
Inn) Demurrer is OVERRULED in part as to the Second Cause of
Action (IIED) and SUSTAINED in part as to the Fourth Cause of Action (Public
Nuisance) and Fifth Cause of Action (Breach of Contract) without leave to
amend.