  Case Number:  21STCV10612    Hearing Date:   October 11, 2023    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




nancy del socorro diaz
   martinez

   ;
 


   Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
champion power equipment,
   inc.

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


21STCV10612




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


October
   11, 2023




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[Tentative]
  Order RE:
 
defendant’s motion for summary judgment or,
  in the alternative, summary adjudication
 



 
MOVING PARTY:                 Defendant Champion Power
Equipment, Inc.            
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiff Nancy Del Socorro Diaz Martinez
Motion for Summary Judgment or, in the
Alternative, Summary Adjudication
The court considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers filed in
connection with this motion. 
DISCUSSION
Defendant Champion Power Equipment, Inc. (“Defendant”) moves the court
for an order granting summary judgment in its favor and against plaintiff Nancy
Del Socorro Diaz Martinez (“Plaintiff”) or, in the alternative, summary
adjudication as to each cause of action alleged in Plaintiff’s complaint and
Plaintiff’s claim for punitive damages. 
In opposition, Plaintiff requests that the court grant a continuance so
that she may depose additional witnesses. 
(Opp., pp. 19:23-20:4.) 
“If it appears from the affidavits submitted in opposition to a motion
for summary judgment or summary adjudication, or both, that facts essential to
justify opposition may exist but cannot, for reasons stated, be presented, the
court shall deny the motion, order a continuance to permit affidavits to be
obtained or discovery to be had, or make any other order as may be just.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (h).) 
Continuances pursuant to this provision are “virtually mandated upon a
good faith showing by affidavit that a continuance is needed to obtain facts
essential to justify opposition to the motion.”  (Knapp v.
Doherty (2004) 123 Cal.App.4th 76, 100-101 [internal quotations
omitted].)  “To make the requisite good faith showing, an opposing party’s
declaration must show (1) the facts to be obtained are essential to opposing
the motion, (2) there is reason to believe such facts may exist, and (3) the
reasons why additional time is needed to obtain these facts.”  (Chavez
v. 24 Hour Fitness USA, Inc. (2015) 238 Cal.App.4th 632, 643.)
The court finds that Plaintiff has met her burden to make a
good faith showing that a continuance is warranted. 
Plaintiff argues that Defendant has strategically delayed Plaintiff’s
counsel from conducting discovery while filing this motion in the interim.  Plaintiff submits the declaration of her
counsel, in which counsel states the following. 
Plaintiff noticed the deposition of Defendant’s person most qualified in
July of 2022, to which Defendant objected. 
(Yoka Decl., ¶ 3.)  After
corresponding for months, the first part of the deposition occurred on January
26, 2023.  (Ibid.)  Plaintiff also set depositions for
Defendant’s employees for spring and early summer in 2023, but “[o]n June 26,
2023, without citing any authority, defense unilaterally cancelled the
depositions, taking the position that the actions of the Federal Government and
CPSC made it impossible for the witnesses to be deposed.”  (Yoka Decl., ¶ 4.)  Thereafter, on July 28, 2023, Defendant filed
its pending motion for summary judgment. 
Although Plaintiff’s opposition was due on September 27, 2023, “defense
refused to produce witnesses for deposition – and only recently provided dates
in late September and early October.” 
(Yoka Decl., ¶ 5.)  
Plaintiff’s counsel also asserts that, as of the date that the
opposition papers were filed, Plaintiff still needed to depose “at least a few
of [Defendant’s] employees that will be critical on issues of liability and
punitive damages[,]” including (1) Defendant’s Executive President, Joyce Ma,
and (2) Chris DeSpears, “an important testing engineer[.]”  (Yoka Decl., ¶ 5.)  Further, although Plaintiff was able to take
the deposition of Dennis Trine, Defendant’s CEO, Plaintiff was unable to
include that deposition in support of the opposition, which was required to be
filed by September 27, 2023.  (Ibid.)  The court notes that, in reply, Defendant
argues that Plaintiff was able to take a series of depositions beginning on
September 20, 2023.  (Reply, p.
11:17-20.)  However, as set forth above,
Plaintiff’s opposition was due on September 27, 2023, and therefore was likely
unable to include this evidence. 
The court finds that Plaintiff’s counsel’s declaration shows that (1)
facts to be obtained by the proposed deponents are essential to opposing the
motion since they “will be critical on issues of liability and punitive
damages[,]” (2) there is reason to believe that those facts exist, and (3)
additional time is needed, because Plaintiff was not able to depose those
individuals before filing her opposition papers.  (Chavez, supra, 238 Cal.App.4th at p. 643.)  Moreover, even if Plaintiff’s supporting
declaration were insufficient, the court finds that Plaintiff has shown good
cause for a continuance so that she may take the depositions of Defendant’s
employees.  (Ibid. [“Even absent a
sufficient declaration, ‘the court must determine whether the party requesting
the continuance has nonetheless established good cause therefor’”].) 
The court therefore grants Plaintiff’s request for a continuance of
the hearing on Defendant’s motion pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section
437c, subdivision (h).  
ORDER
The court orders that the hearing on defendant Champion Power
Equipment, Inc.’s motion for summary judgment or, in the alternative, summary
adjudication is continued to February 22, 2024, at 10:00 a.m., in Department
53. 
The court orders that trial is
continued from November 15, 2023, to May 29, 2024, at 11:00 a.m., in Department
53. 
The court orders that the
Final Status Conference is continued from November 2, 2023, to May 17, 2024, at
8:30 a.m., in Department 53.
The court orders that the
deadline to complete mediation is extended to March 28, 2024.   
All discovery cut-off and
discovery motion cut-off dates, and deadlines for the exchange of information
concerning expert trial witnesses shall be based on the new trial date.¿
 
The court orders plaintiff
Nany Del Socorro Diaz Martinez to give notice of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  October 11, 2023
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court