 Case Number:  22STCV33472    Hearing Date:   October 11, 2023    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




mac calva

   , et al.;
 


   Plaintiffs,
 
 
vs.
 
 
restore a floor

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


22STCV33472




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


October
   11, 2023




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[Tentative]
  Order RE:
 
defendant’s motion to set aside or vacate
  order
 



 
MOVING PARTY:                 Defendant Restore a Floor      
 
RESPONDING PARTIES:     Plaintiffs Mac Calva and Tatyana Nosenko    
Motion to Set Aside or Vacate Order
The court considered the moving and opposition papers filed in
connection with this motion.  No reply
papers were filed.
DISCUSSION
Defendant Restore a Floor (“Defendant”) moves the court for an order
setting aside its March 6, 2023 order granting the unopposed Petition for Order
Releasing Property from Claim of Mechanic’s Lien filed by plaintiffs Mac Calva
and Tatyana Nosenko (“Plaintiffs”) on the ground that the order was taken
against Defendant through mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable
neglect. 
“The
court may, upon any terms as may be just, relieve a party . . . from a
judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken against him or her
through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable
neglect.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §¿473, subd. (b).)  A motion requesting
this relief “shall be made within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six
months, after the judgment, dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken.”  (Ibid.) 
“The statute’s ‘broad remedial provisions’ [citation] are to be ‘liberally
applied to carry out the policy of permitting trial on the merits’
[citation].  The party seeking relief, however, bears the burden of proof
in establishing the right to relief.”  (Hopkins & Carley v. Gens (2011)
200 Cal.App.4th 1401, 1410 [internal citations omitted].)  
Defendant
contends that the court should set aside its order because (1) the lien at
issue was released on December 20, 2022, before the court ruled on Plaintiffs’
motion; (2) Defendant’s owner provided a copy of the release of lien to his
insurance company’s attorney, which was then sent to Plaintiff’s counsel the
morning of the hearing; and (3) “[t]here was no service of summons when the
Petition was served.”  (Abramson Decl.,
¶¶ 4, 9-10; Mot., p. 4:14-15.) 
The court
finds that Defendant has not met its burden to show that the March 6, 2023
order was taken against it through its mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
excusable neglect.  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 473, subd. (b); Hopkins, supra, 200 Cal.App.4th at p.
1410.) 
First,
although Defendant has shown that it recorded a Release of Mechanics Lien on
December 20, 2022, Defendant has not presented a satisfactory reason explaining
why it did not (1) file evidence of the release with the court, (2) appear at
the hearing on the petition to present this evidence, or (3) serve Plaintiffs
with the release once Defendant received notice of the petition.  (Abramson Decl., Ex. A, Dec. 20, 2022 Release
of Mechanics Lien.)  The court notes that
Defendant appears to contend that it was reasonable to believe that release of the
lien would, alone, resolve the petition in its favor, and that its failure to
file an opposition constitutes excusable neglect.  (Abramson Decl., ¶ 6.)  The court disagrees and finds that
Defendant’s failure to present evidence of the release of the lien to the court
in opposition to Plaintiff’s petition does not constitute excusable
neglect.  (Austin v. Los Angeles
Unified School Dist. (2016) 244 Cal.App.4th 918, 929 [“Within the context
of section 473(b) neglect is excusable if a reasonably prudent person under
similar circumstances might have made the same error”].)   
Second, the
court notes that Defendant’s owner has stated, in his declaration, that he sent
the release of lien to his insurance company’s attorney before March 6,
2023.  However, as set forth above,
Defendant did not take any steps to file this information with the court or to
serve Plaintiffs with the release upon being served with the petition.  Further, the court notes that, although
Defendant argues that Plaintiffs’ counsel should have disclosed that the lien
was released at the hearing, Plaintiffs’ counsel has stated, in his declaration,
that (1) he discovered the email forwarding the release – sent on March 6,
2023, at 8:19 a.m. – “after the hearing” on the petition, and (2) he did not
have an opportunity to review the release before the hearing, and therefore
could not withdraw the petition. 
(Julander Decl., ¶ 7; Abramson Decl., Ex. B, p. 2 [email sent to
Plaintiffs’ counsel on March 6, 2023, at 8:19 a.m.]) 
Finally,
the court notes that Defendant takes issue with service, arguing that
Plaintiffs improperly served Defendant because the petition must have been
served after, or with, a Summons.  (Opp.,
p. 5:10-11.)  However, Defendant does not
cite any authority in support of that position. 
Further, Plaintiffs (1) properly served Defendant with the petition and
supporting papers by certified mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested
on January 9, 2023, and (2) properly served Defendant with the petition, summons,
and other related documents by serving the California Secretary of State on
January 26, 2023.  (Civ. Code,
§ 8486, subd. (b) [petition must be served “in the same manner as service
of summons, or by certified or registered mail, postage prepaid, return receipt
requested, addressed to the claimant as provided in Section 8108”]; Proof of
Service filed Jan. 12, 2023; POS-010 filed Feb. 1, 2023.) 
Thus, the
court finds that Defendant has not met its burden to show that it is entitled
to relief pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 473 and therefore denies
Defendant’s motion. 
ORDER
The court denies defendant Restore a Floor’s motion to set aside or
vacate order. 
The court orders plaintiffs Mac Calva and Tatyana Nosenko to give
notice of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
DATED:  October 11, 2023
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court