

 
             This action arises from breach of contract. Plaintiff
Zizi Attia (Attia) alleges that he gave $50,000 to Defendant Ehab Khela (Khela)
to locate and purchase real property on Plaintiff’s behalf; Defendant failed to
perform. On May 12, 2023, Plaintiff Zizi Attia filed a Complaint for (1.)
breach of contract, (2.) fraud, (3.) breach of constructive trust, and (4.)
elder abuse. 
 
            On November
13, 2023, Defendant/Cross-Complainant Ehab Khela filed a Cross-Complaint for
(1.) breach of oral contract, (2.) fraud, and (3.) promissory estoppel. The
Cross-Complaint alleges that Khela purchased real property for Cross-Defendant Attia
in the amount of $85,000, contributing $36,500 of his own money to secure the
purchase of the property. Cross-Complainant Khela put title to the property in Cross-Defendant
Attia’s brother’s name. Cross-Defendant Attia now refuses to reimburse
Cross-Complainant Khela. 
 
Now, Defendant/Cross-Complainant Ehab
Khela’s counsel – Jason Stone – seeks to be relieved as counsel of record. No
opposition was filed.
 
            The motion
to be relieved as counsel is granted.    
 
Discussion
 
            An attorney is entitled to withdraw
upon the consent of the client, or without that consent if approved by the
court. (Code Civ. Proc., § 284; Ramirez v. Sturdevant (1994) 21
Cal.App.4th 904, 915.) In the latter case, counsel must make a motion to be
relieved as attorney of record.  The
motion must be made using mandatory forms: Notice of Motion and Motion to be
Relieved as Counsel – Civil (MC-051), Declaration (MC-052), and Proposed Order
(MC-053). (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362, subd. (a), (b), (e).) 
 
            The declaration accompanying the
motion to be relieved as counsel must state “in general terms and without
compromising the confidentiality of the attorney-client relationship why a
motion under Code of Civil Procedure section 284(2) is brought instead of
filing a consent under Code of Civil Procedure section 284(1).” (Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 3.1362, subd. (b).)
 
            The notice to the client must be
done by personal service, electronically, or mail. If it is done via mail under
Code of Civil Procedure section 1013, it must be accompanied by a declaration
confirming the service address to be the most current residence or that it is
the client’s last known address, and the attorney has been unable to locate a
more current address. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362, subd. (d)(1)(A)-(B).) 
 
            Here, Attorney Stone has complied with the Rules of Court by filing all the
appropriate forms (MC-051, MC-052, and MC-053). He has also submitted a
supporting declaration providing an adequate explanation for why he is moving
to be relieved as counsel; he asserts that there has been a breakdown in attorney client communication such that he can
no longer adequately represent his client.
 
Further, Form MC-052 indicates that notice was provided to Defendant
via mail and his client’s address was confirmed by conversation. 
 
Lastly, trial in this matter has not been set, and the next
hearing is a CMC for March 21, 2024. Thus, no prejudice will result from
granting this motion.      
 
The Court will grant the motion to be relieved as counsel.  
 