 Case Number:  21STCV38507    Hearing Date:   March 26, 2024    Dept:  29 Motion for Determination of Good Faith
Settlement filed by Defendant Susan Reichert.
 
Tentative
 
The motion is granted.
 
Background
On October 19, 2021, Plaintiff Anne-Marie
Kent (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Horst Kelterborn, Meri Kelterborn,
Susan Reichert, and Does 1 through 20, asserting causes of action for strict
liability and negligence arising from an alleged dog bite incident on October
20, 2019.
On February 16, 2022, Defendant Susan Reichert
(“Reichert”) filed her answer.
On March 15, 2022, Defendants Horst
Kelterborn and Meri Kelterborn (collectively, the “Kelterborns”) filed an answer
and a cross-complaint against Reichert and Roes 1 through 20 for indemnity,
declaratory relief, and contribution. On April 25, 2022, Reichert filed her
answer to the cross-complaint.
On March 4, 2024, Reichert filed this motion
for determination of good faith settlement. The Kelterborns filed an opposition
on March 13, 2024, along with one objection, and Reichert filed a reply on
March 19, 2024.
Evidentiary Objection
The Court SUSTAINS the objection of the Kelterborns
to paragraph 6 of counsel Stephanie L. Freismuth’s Declaration. 
Legal Standard
In a case involving two or more alleged joint
tortfeasors, a party may seek a court order under Code of Civil Procedure
section 877.6 determining that a settlement between the plaintiff and one or
more of the alleged tortfeasors is in good faith. A judicial determination of
good faith “bar[s] any other joint tortfeasor … from any further claims against
the settling tortfeasor … for equitable comparative contribution, or partial or
comparative indemnity, based on comparative negligence or comparative fault.”
(Code Civ. Proc. § 877.6(c).)
In evaluating whether a settlement has been
made in good faith, courts consider the following factors, as set forth by the
California Supreme Court in the landmark case Tech-Bilt, Inc. v. Woodward-Clyde & Associates (1985) 38 Cal.3d
488: 
             1) “a rough approximation of plaintiffs’
total recovery”;
             2) “the settlor’s proportionate
liability”;
            3)
“the amount paid in settlement”;
     
4) “the allocation of the settlement proceeds among plaintiffs”;
5) “a recognition that a settlor should pay less in settlement
than he would if he were found liable after a trial”;
             6) the settling party's “financial
conditions and insurance policy limits”;
7) any evidence of “collusion, fraud, or tortious conduct aimed to
injure the interests of nonsettling defendants.”
(Id. at 499.) “Practical
considerations obviously require that the evaluation be made on the basis of
information available at the time of settlement.” (Ibid.)
The “good faith” concept in Code of Civil
Procedure section 877.6 is a flexible principle imposing on reviewing courts
the obligation to guard against the numerous ways in which the interests of
nonsettling defendants may be unfairly prejudiced. (Rankin v. Curtis
(1986) 183 Cal. App. 3d 939, 945.) Accordingly, under Tech-Bilt, the party asserting the lack of “good faith” may meet
this burden by demonstrating that the settlement is so far "out of the
ballpark" as to be inconsistent with the equitable objectives of the
statute. (Tech-Bilt, supra, 38 Cal.3d at 499-500.) Such a demonstration
would establish that the proposed settlement was not a “settlement made in good
faith” within the terms of section 877.6. (Ibid.) 
The Supreme Court explained that Code of
Civil Procedure section 877.6 is designed to further two equitable policies: 
1)
encouragement of settlements; and 
2) equitable
allocation of costs among joint tortfeasors. 

(Ibid.)  
Those policies would not be served by an
approach which emphasizes one to the virtual exclusion of the other. (Ibid.)
Accordingly, a settlement will not be found in good faith unless the amount is
reasonable in light of the settling tortfeasor's proportionate share of
liability. (Std. Pac. of San Diego v. A. A. Baxter Corp. (1986) 176 Cal.
App. 3d 577, 589.) Or, as the California Supreme Court has stated, a
“defendant’s settlement figure must not be grossly disproportionate to what a
reasonable person, at the time of the settlement, would estimate the settling
defendant’s liability to be.” (Tech-Bilt, supra, 38 Cal.3d at 499.)
When a motion seeking a determination under
Code of Civil Procedure section 877.6 is not opposed, the burden on the moving
parties to show that the settlement was made in good faith is slight. (City
of Grand Terrace v. Superior Court (1987) 192 Cal.App.3d 1251, 1261
[holding that a “barebones motion” including a declaration setting forth “a
brief background of the case is sufficient”].) 
When a good faith motion is contested,
however, the moving parties have the initial burden of producing evidence in
support of the requested good faith determination. (Id. at pp. 1261-1262.)
“Section 877.6 and Tech-Bilt require an evidentiary showing, through expert
declarations or other means, that the proposed settlement is within the
reasonable range permitted by the criterion of good faith.” (Mattco Forge v.
Arthur Young & Co. (1995) 38 Cal.App.4th 1337, 1351.) “Substantial
evidence” is required. (Id. at p. 1352.) A declaration from a settling
defendant’s attorney that states, in conclusory fashion, that the client has little,
or no share of the liability may not be sufficient. (Greshko v. County of
Los Angeles (1987) 194 Cal.App.3d 822, 834-35; see also 3 Weil & Brown,
California Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (The Rutter Group 2023)
¶¶ 12:774, 12:872-873.)  
The ultimate burden of persuasion is on the
party opposing the good faith determination. 
The “party asserting a lack of good faith shall have the burden of proof
on that issue.”  (Code Civ. Proc. §
877.6(d); see also 3 Weil & Brown, supra, at ¶ 12:875.) 
Discussion
Reichert has agreed to pay Plaintiff $50,000, the full extent of
her policy limits, in exchange for a dismissal of Plaintiff’s claims. (Freismuth
Decl., ¶¶ 13-14.) Defendant Reichert, seeks a determination that her settlement
with Plaintiff is a good faith settlement under Code of Civil Procedure section
877.6. The other named defendants, the Kelterborns, oppose the motion. 
The Court will now consider each of the Tech-Bilt factors: 
1. Rough approximation of Plaintiff’s total recovery. Reichert
submits evidence that Plaintiff suffered a bite to her right arm/wrist,
resulting in scarring and nerve damage, and a non-displaced toe fracture. (Freismuth
Decl., ¶ 9.) Plaintiff’s treatment consisted of sutures, x-rays, orthopedic and
plastic surgery evaluations, and pain medication. (Ibid.) The incident
occurred in October 2019, and the most recent information is that Plaintiff’s
past medical special damages are approximately $3,013. (Id., ¶ 10.)
Plaintiff also alleges a need for future surgical intervention, but it is
unclear what that will cost or whether Plaintiff will proceed with this
treatment (the recommendation was provided almost two years ago). (Id.,
¶ 11.) Plaintiff has not received any further treatment since April 2022 and is
not making a lost earnings claim. (Id., ¶¶ 11-12.) Plaintiff does
apparently have a claim for property damage (to her clothing and watch) of an
additional $1,000. (Mem. at p. 8:1-3.)
The Kelterborns state in their opposition that the $50,000 payment
is “about 5% of the likely demand.” In their brief, the Kelterborns state that Plaintiff
recently had shoulder surgery; as a result, her medical special damages now will
likely exceed $250,000 and the total recovery may be in excess of $1 million. (Opp.
at p. 2:6-10.) No supporting evidence is provided. Moreover, the Kelterborns
concede that these additional damages claims “did not exist when [Plaintiff]
Kent and Reichert negotiated their settlement.” (Opp. at p. 2:7-8.)
The Court concludes that as of the time of the settlement, this was
not a case in which $1 million was a rough approximation of Plaintiff’s total
recovery. On the record before the Court, and based on the information available
at the time, a rough approximation of Plaintiff’s total recovery as of the time
of the settlement seems more likely to be under $100,000.
2. The settlor’s proportionate liability. This factor is
sharply disputed. The Kelterborns owned the dogs that attacked Plaintiff. Reichert
contends that she was walking the dogs on behalf of the Kelterborns with their
permission and had done so without incident on multiple prior occasions. The
evidence supplied in this motion, however, is only counsel’s declaration, the
objection to a portion of which has been sustained. 
The Kelterborns apparently contend that the accident occurred
while they were traveling and that they had specifically told Reichert that she
did not have permission to take the dogs off of their enclosed property. (This
is based on a statement in the Kelterborns’ brief, not any evidence.) When Reichert
was asked in deposition whether the Kelterborns told her not to take the dogs
off of the property, Reichert stated, “I don’t remember.” (Risbrough Decl.,
Exh. A [Reichert Deposition].)
Reichert was unquestionably in charge of the dogs at the time of
the incident and lost control of them. The Kelterborns were unquestionably the
owners of the dogs. Based on the limited evidence before the Court, and the
offerings from each side with regard to their contentions, it appears that Reichert
has a significant percentage of the proportionate liability in this matter,
likely more than 50 percent.
3. The amount paid in settlement. Reichert has agreed to
pay Plaintiff $50,000 to settle the claims against her. (Freismuth Decl., ¶ 13.)

4. The allocation of the settlement proceeds among plaintiffs.
As there is only one plaintiff, this factor does not apply here. 
5. A recognition that a settlor should pay less in settlement
than she would if she were found liable after a trial. This factor supports
the request for a good faith determination. 
6. The settling party’s financial conditions and insurance
policy limits. Reichert has agreed to pay the full amount of her policy
limits. (Freismuth Decl., ¶ 14.) No other evidence has been presented regarding
Reichert’s finances.
7. Any evidence of collusion, fraud, or tortious conduct aimed
to injure the interests of nonsettling defendants. There is no evidence of
any fraud or other tortious or improper conduct. (See Freismuth Decl., ¶¶ 14,
16-17.)
The Court has carefully considered the evidence and the argument
presented by both sides.  The Court finds
that Reichert has met her initial burden of producing evidence to support the
good faith determination and that the Kelterborns have not met their ultimate
burden of persuasion as to the good faith determination. Taking into account
all of the Tech-Bilt factors, the Court finds that as of the time of the
settlement, the agreement of Reichert to pay $50,000 in exchange for a release
and dismissal was in good faith under Code of Civil Procedure section 877.6 
Conclusion
The
Court GRANTS the motion of Defendant Reichert for a determination that her
settlement with Plaintiff is a good faith settlement under Code of Civil
Procedure section 877.6.
Moving
party is ordered to give notice.  
 