  Case Number:  20STCV11604    Hearing Date:   March 26, 2024    Dept:  29 Motion to Substitute Successor in Interest filed by Brenda
Wells.
 
Tentative
The motion is denied without prejudice.
Background
This case arises out of an alleged
slip and fall on March 25, 2018, at a Burger King location on Cherry Avenue in
Long Beach, California.  
On March 23, 2020, Plaintiff
Richard Wells (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against Defendants Burger King
Corporation, California Food Management, LLC (collectively “Defendants”), and
Does 1 through 25 asserting causes of action for general negligence and
premises liability.  Defendants filed an
Answer on January 25, 2021.
On August 22, 2022, Defendants filed a motion for summary
judgment. The motion was unopposed.  On
October 20, 2023, the Court granted Defendants’ motion for summary judgment.
The Court entered judgment in favor of Defendants, and
against Plaintiff, on January 3, 2024. 
On November 21, 2023, Defendants filed a
notice of Plaintiff’s death.  According
to Defendants, Plaintiff died on August 13, 2023.
On March 11, 2024, Petitioner Brenda Wells (“Petitioner”)
filed this Motion to Substitute Petitioner for the deceased Plaintiff as the plaintiff
in this action.  On Petitioner’s opposed
ex parte application, the Court shortened time and advanced the hearing date on
this motion to March 26.  Defendants
filed their opposition on March 19, 2024.
Legal Standard
“A cause of action that survives the death of
the person entitled to commence an action or proceeding passes to the
decedent’s successor in interest . . . and an action may be commenced by the
decedent’s personal representatives or, if none, by the decedent’s successor in
interest.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §
377.30.)  After the death of a plaintiff,
the court, on motion, shall allow a pending action that does not abate to be
continued by the decedent’s personal representative or
successor-in-interest.  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 377.31.)  
The person who seeks to commence or continue
a pending action as the decedent’s successor-in-interest shall execute and file
an affidavit or declaration that includes (1) the decedent’s name; (2) the date
and place of decedent’s death; (3) “No proceeding is now pending in California
for administration of the decedent’s estate”; (4) a copy of the final order
showing the distribution of the decedent’s cause of action to the
successor-in-interest, if the decedent’s estate was administered; (5) either
the declarant is the decedent’s successor in interest or the declarant is
authorized to act on behalf of the decedent’s successor in interest, with facts
in support thereof; (6) “No other person has a superior right to commence the
action or proceeding or to be substituted for the decedent in the pending
action or proceeding”; and (7) that the statements are true, under penalty of
perjury.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 377.32,
subd. (a).)  The affidavit or declaration
must attach a certified copy of the decedent’s death certificate.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 377.32, subd. (c).)
Discussion
Plaintiff died on August 13, 2023.  (B. Wells Decl., ¶ 3.)  Petitioner, Plaintiff’s widow, seeks an order
allowing her to substitute in as plaintiff in place of her deceased husband. 
The Declaration of Brenda Wells includes:
(1) the
decedent’s name, Richard Wells;
 (2) the date of Plaintiff’s death, August 13,
2023;
(3)  that Petitioner is the Plaintiff’s successor
in interest; 
(4) Petitioner’s
declaration that these statements are true under penalty of perjury. 
This satisfies some, but not all, all of the mandatory
requirements of Code of Civil Procedure section 377.32.  The declaration does not include the required
statement that “No proceeding is now pending in California for administration
of the decedent’s estate.”  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 377.32, subd. (a)(3).)  The
declaration does not include the required statement that “No other person has a
superior right to commence the action or proceeding or to be substituted for
the decedent in the pending action or proceeding.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 377.32, subd. (a)(6).)  And the declaration does not attach a
certified copy of Plaintiff’s death certificate, as required.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 377.32, subd. (c).) 
As such, Petitioner’s motion is incomplete
and is denied, without prejudice, on procedural grounds.
The Court notes also that Defendants argue
that the motion to substitute should be denied because judgment has already
been entered.  Here, however, judgment
was entered after Plaintiff’s death, and Plaintiff’s successor-in-interest, if properly
substituted into the case, may (or may not) have grounds to set aside the
judgment.  The merits of any such motion
are for another day, but the entry of judgment does not preclude a party (or a
party’s duly substituted successor-in-interest) from seeking to set aside the
judgment.
For the reasons stated above, the Court DENIES
Petitioner’s motion to substitute without prejudice.
Conclusion
The
Court DENIES Petitioner’s motion
to substitute without prejudice.
Moving
party is ORDERED to give notice.
 