  Case Number:  21STCV31999    Hearing Date:   November 30, 2023    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of
  California
County of Los
  Angeles




 
Jose Rivera, et al.,


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:
 


 
21STCV31999




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
Olympia Health Care LLC, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.


 


 




 


 


 


 



 
Hearing Date: November 30, 2023
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion for Summary Judgment
Moving Party: Defendant Mehrdad Vosoghi, M.D.
Responding Party: None
 
T/R:      DEFENDANT’S MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT
IS GRANTED.
 
DEFENDANT TO NOTICE.
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please
email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing.
The Cconsiders the moving papers. No
opposition has been received.
 
BACKGROUND
 
On August 30, 2021, Plaintiffs Jose
Rivera and Carol Rivera sued Defendants Olympia Health Care LLC, et al., for
wrongful death due to medical malpractice. Plaintiffs allege their child,
Manuel Jose Rivera, died because of Defendants’ negligent failure to promptly
diagnose and treat a gastrointestinal bleed.
 
ANALYSIS
 
In a medical malpractice action, a plaintiff
must establish the following elements: “(1) the duty of the professional to use
such skill, prudence, and diligence as other members of his profession commonly
possess and exercise; (2) a breach of that duty; (3) a proximate causal
connection between the negligent conduct and the resulting injury; and (4)
actual loss or damage resulting from the professional's negligence. 
[citations.]”  (Galvez v. Frields (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 1410,
1420.)  A defendant moving for summary judgment in a medical malpractice
action must “present evidence that would preclude a reasonable trier of fact
from finding it was more likely than not that their treatment fell below the
standard of care.”  (Johnson v. Superior Court (2006) 143
Cal.App.4th 297, 305.)  “When a defendant moves for summary judgment and
supports his motion with expert declarations that his conduct fell within the
community standard of care, he is entitled to summary judgment unless the
plaintiff comes forward with conflicting expert evidence.”  (Munro v.
Regents of University of California (1989) 215 Cal.3d 977, 984-985.) 
Defendant Vosoghi moves for summary judgment
on the ground that his conduct did not fall below the standard of care. Vosoghi
provides the declaration of expert Rudolph Bedford, M.D., who declares that
Vosoghi’s treatment of decedent did not fall below the standard of care. (Decl.
Bedford ¶ 6.) This is sufficient to meet Vosoghi’s burden on summary judgment.
The burden shifts to Plaintiffs to provide conflicting expert evidence.
Plaintiffs have failed to oppose this motion
to establish a triable issue of fact. Defendant’s motion for summary judgment
is GRANTED.


 