 Case Number:  23STCP03651    Hearing Date:   November 30, 2023    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Uber Technologies, Inc.,


 
 
 
Petitioner,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23STCP03651




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
Eric Ruiz, et al., 


 
 
 
Respondents.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date: November 30, 2023
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Petition to Compel Arbitration 
Moving Party: Petitioner Uber Technologies
Responding Party: None
 
T/R:     THE PETITION IS GRANTED. 
 
THE DLSE PROCEEDINGS ARE STAYED PENDING
ARBITRATION.
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please
email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing.
 
The Court considers the moving papers.
No opposition has been received.
 
“On petition of a party to an arbitration
agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement to arbitrate a
controversy and that a party thereto refuses to arbitrate a controversy, the
court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate the
controversy if it determines that an agreement to arbitrate the controversy
exists….”  (CCP § 1281.2.)  The right to compel arbitration exists unless
the court finds that the right has been waived by a party’s conduct, other
grounds exist for revocation of the agreement, or where a pending court action
arising out of the same transaction creates the possibility of conflicting
rulings on a common issue of law or fact.  
(CCP § 1281.2(a)-(c).)  “The party
seeking arbitration bears the burden of proving the existence of an arbitration
agreement, and the party opposing arbitration bears the burden of proving any
defense, such as unconscionability.”  (Pinnacle
Museum Tower Assn. v. Pinnacle Market Development (US), LLC (2012) 55
Cal.4th 223, 236.) 
 
Petitioner moves to compel arbitration
of Respondent Ruiz’s wage and hour claims brought before the Division of Labor Standards Enforcement (“DLSE”) based on the arbitration provision in the Platform
Access Agreement executed by Ruiz on January 6, 2020. (Decl. Sauerwein, Exh. F.)
The agreement requires arbitration of “any legal dispute, past, present
or future, arising out of or related to your relationship with [Uber] or
relationship with any of our agents, employees, executives, officers,
investors, shareholders, affiliates, successors, assigns, subsidiaries or parent
companies...” (Id.) The
agreement states that it is governed by the FAA.
 
Petitioner has met its burden to
establish an agreement to arbitrate. Plaintiff has failed to oppose this motion
to show any defenses to enforcement. 
 
Petitioner's motion is GRANTED. The
DLSE proceedings are STAYED pending arbitration.
