 Case Number:  BC637442    Hearing Date:   November 30, 2023    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of
  California
County of Los
  Angeles




 
Vanowen Real Estate Partners,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
BC637442




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
Global Alarm Protection, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date: November 30, 2023
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion to Compel Plaintiff to File a
Satisfaction of Judgment
Moving Party: Defendant Security Systems, Inc.
Responding Party: Plaintiff Vanowen Real Estate
Partners
 
T/R:     DEFENDANT’S MOTION IS DENIED.
 
DEFENDANT TO
NOTICE.
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please
email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing.
 
The Court considers the moving papers,
opposition, and reply.
Defendant SSI moves for an order compelling Plaintiff to file a full
satisfaction of judgment per CCP § 724.050. Defendant asserts it paid Plaintiff
the principal and prejudgment interest on the judgment, or $427,444.20, and therefore the judgment has been satisfied. Plaintiff
filed a partial satisfaction of judgment on August 29, 2023.
In opposition, Plaintiff
asserts Defendant has not satisfied the judgment in full because it did not pay
the accrued post-judgment interest. Defendant disputes that it is required to
pay post-judgment interest, pointing to an agreement executed by the parties on
December 7, 2022. Defendant contends that the purpose of this agreement was to
relieve Defendant of the obligation to pay post-judgment interest. 
The agreement, attached to
the motion as Exh. B, does not state that Defendant is fully relieved of the
obligation to pay post-judgment interest. It states that Defendant wishes to “limit
the accrual of post-judgment interest” and to pay the “Existing Judgment
Amount.” The next section provides that “Vanowen is willing to accept the
payment of the Existing Judgment Amount...” but does not state it is waiving any
right to any post-judgment interest. The agreement later states, “at any time
after execution of this Agreement, SSI may pay the Existing Judgment Amount and
PostJudgment Interest by wire transfer...” (Emphasis added.)
Defendant argues that the agreement
must be interpreted to relieve it of post-judgment interest because the
agreement is meaningless otherwise and Defendant would not have entered into
the agreement if that were not its purpose. Plaintiff disputes this, and asserts
that Defendant must pay the post-judgment interest up to the date of payment of
the judgment, December 14, 2022.
The language of the agreement
shows its purpose is to “limit” the accrual of post-judgment interest to the
amount that accrues as of the date the agreement was executed. The agreement
states that the “existing” judgment amount, including existing post-judgment
interest, may be paid at any point after the agreement is executed. The
agreement was fully executed on December 7, 2022; the Court finds that SSI must
pay any post-judgment interest that accrued up to December 7, 2022. 
Defendant is not entitled to
a full satisfaction of judgment under the agreement for paying the principal
and pre-judgment interest. Additionally, the Court cannot issue a full
satisfaction when Plaintiff, per the agreement, has retained the right to seek
additional costs and fees.
Defendant’s motion is DENIED.
 
 