 Case Number:  24STCV00480    Hearing Date:   August 12, 2024    Dept:  52 Plaintiff Edwin Chacon’s Motion to Compel
Deposition of Defendant’s Person Most Knowledgeable 
Plaintiff Edwin Chacon
moves to compel the deposition of defendant General Motors, LLC’s person most
knowledgeable.  One may move to compel the deposition of a party who fails to appear at
deposition “without having served a valid objection under Section
2025.410.”  (CCP § 2025.450(a).)  The
notice of defendant’s deposition includes 12 matters of examination and 8
document requests.  (Lara Decl., Ex. 1.)   
Matters
of Examination
Matter
No. 1 is, “All repairs to the Subject Vehicle … including all attempts to
diagnose its problems and the time spent diagnosing its problems.”  Defendant agreed to produce a witness to
testify about the vehicle’s repair history as shown by a “Global Warranty
History Report” and “any repair orders for the Subject Vehicle that GM may have
obtained from GM-authorized dealership(s).” 
Defendant thus proposed a reasonable limit to the matters of
examination.  Defendant’s objections to matter
No. 1 are sustained.
Matter
No. 2 is, “All Technical Service Bulletins applicable to the Subject Vehicle,
including those superseded.”  Defendant
agreed to produce a witness “to testify about any warranty repairs performed on
the Subject Vehicle pursuant to a TSB.”  Matter
No. 5 is, “All recalls applicable to the Subject Vehicle, including those
superseded.”  Defendant objected but
agreed to produce a witness “to testify about the SUBJECT VEHICLE’s repair
history, including the recall repairs performed.”  
Plaintiff
shows good cause to demand testimony about all TSBs and all recalls.  TSBs or recalls applicable to the vehicle
that were not reflected in the repair orders or warranty history.  That defendant issued a TSB or recall but did
not apply it to the vehicle would be probative as to whether defendant repaired
the vehicle to conform to warranty. 
Defendant’s objections to matter Nos. 2 and 5 are overruled.
Matter
No. 3 is, “Why these Technical Service Bulletins were issued.”  No. 4 is, “The process by which a Technical
Service Bulletin is issued including but not limited to all criteria, data, or
information relied upon.”  Nos. 6 is,
“Why these recalls were issued.”  
Defendant objected to these matters based on the
trade secret privilege.  “In
resolving a claim of trade secret privilege, the party claiming the privilege
has the initial burden of proving its existence.”  (Citizens of Humanity, LLC v. Costco
Wholesale Corp. (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1, 13, disapproved on other grounds
by Kwikset Corp. v. Superior Court (2011) 51 Cal.4th 310, 335.)  A trade secret is information “ ‘that: (1)
Derives independent economic value, actual or potential, from not being
generally known to the public or to other persons who can obtain economic value
from its disclosure or use; and (2) Is the subject of efforts that are
reasonable under the circumstances to maintain its secrecy.’ ”  (Ibid.)  
Defendant
meets its burden of showing the trade secret privilege applies.  Lu
testifies about the value of confidential information about GM’s vehicles,
their components, how GM evaluates its products, how GM investigates problems
in its products, and meeting minutes about the design, manufacture, and
performance of GM vehicles.  (Id.,
¶¶ 12-38.)  He states “GM LLC derives
value” from the confidentiality of its engineering information.  (Id., ¶ 11.)  “Knowing GM LLC’s confidential engineering
and business information would give a competitor the ability to readily compare
its processes and designs with those of GM LLC.”  (Id., ¶ 12.)  “[A] competitor could save substantial
developmental costs associated with evaluation and development without
compensating GM LLC for the expenses incurred through years in studying,
processing, testing, designing, and otherwise developing the components in GM
LLC vehicles.”  (Ibid.)  Lu further states, “GM LLC’s engineering and
business information can be used by others to quickly create and sell
counterfeit automotive components or to create competing vehicle lines.”  (Ibid.)  For the second element, Lu explains details
of GM’s security protocols in protecting its “confidential engineering and
business information,” including by limiting its own employees’ access to the
information.  (Id., ¶ 10.)
Defendant’s objections to matters Nos. 3, 4, and 6
are sustained.
Matter No. 7 is, “Defendant’s failure to repurchase
Plaintiff’s Vehicle.”  Defendant objected
on numerous grounds but agreed to produce a witness to testify about “the
relevant and nonprivileged aspects of this Category.”  Defendant does not justify its
objections.  Defendant’s objections to
No. 7 are overruled.
Matter Nos. 8 and 9 are policies and procedures for
investigating whether to repurchase a vehicle and warranty policies. Nos. 11
and 12 are repair procedures and diagnostic procedures consulted and following
regarding plaintiff’s vehicle.  These
matters are reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible
evidence.  Defendant’s objections are overruled.  
Defendant agreed to produce a witness for matter No.
10 and did not object.  
Document Requests
            Document
request Nos. 1 and 2 demand various documents related to the subject vehicle
and repairs made to it.  No. 5 demands
documents “reflecting Defendant’s investigation into whether Plaintiff’s
Vehicle should be repurchased.” 
Defendant agreed to produce specified documents.  Defendant proposed reasonable limits to the
requests.  Defendant’s objections to
request Nos. 1, 2, and 5 are sustained.  
            Request
Nos. 3 and 4 ask for all TSBs and recalls applicable to the subject
vehicle.  The same reasoning discussed
above regarding matter of examination Nos. 2 and 5 apply.  Defendant’s objections to Nos. 3 and 4 are overruled.
Request No. 6 demands documents corresponding to
matter of examination No. 8.  Request No.
7 demands documents corresponding to matter of examination No. 11.  Request No. 8 demands documents corresponding
to matter of examination No. 12.  These
requests are discoverable for the same reasons as the corresponding matters of
examination.  Defendant’s objections to
request Nos. 6, 7, and 8 are overruled.
Disposition
Plaintiff Edwin Chacon’s motion to compel the
deposition of General Motors, LLC’s person most knowledgeable is granted in part as to matters of examination Nos. 1, 2, 5, 7, 8, 9,
11, and 12 and document requests Nos. 3, 4, 6, 7, and 8.  
Defendant General Motors, LLC is ordered to produce its person(s) most knowledgeable to
testify about matters of examination Nos. 1, 2, 5, 7, 8, 9, 11, and 12 within
30 days.  Defendant is ordered to produce documents responsive to request Nos. 3,
4, 6, 7, and 8 at the deposition. 
Defendant must also produce a witness and documents for the other
categories in accordance with its responses.
 