 Case Number:  23STCV09293    Hearing Date:   August 12, 2024    Dept:  52 Plaintiff St. Andrews Second Home LLC’s
Motions to Deem Matters Admitted
Plaintiff St. Andrews Second Home LLC
moves for an order deeming admitted the truth of the matters specified in
requests for admissions propounded to defendant Second Home US Inc.  Plaintiff also moves for an order deeming
admitted the truth of the matters specified in requests for admissions
propounded to defendant Second Home Ltd. 
When
a party fails to serve a timely response to requests for admissions, the
requesting party may move for an order that the genuineness of any documents
and the truth of any matters specified in the requests be deemed admitted.  (CCP § 2033.280(b).)
Each
defendant failed to serve a timely response to requests for admission.  Plaintiff served requests for admission, set
one, on each defendant by mail on May 17, 2024. 
(Formaker Decls., ¶ 2, Ex. A.) 
Neither defendant had served any responses as of July 15, when plaintiff’s
counsel executed the declarations in support of these motions.  (Id., ¶ 6.)  Plaintiff is therefore entitled to an order deeming admitted the truth of the
matters specified in the requests to each defendant.
            In
each motion, plaintiff moves for $1,035 in sanctions against defendant.  “It is mandatory that the court impose a
monetary sanction … on the party or attorney, or both, whose failure to serve a
timely response to requests for admission necessitated [a] motion” to deem
matters admitted.  (CCP § 2033.280(c).)  Each defendant failed to serve a timely
response to requests for admission. 
Their failure to do so necessitated plaintiff’s motions.  Plaintiff reasonably incurred $1,035 in
expenses for each motion.
Disposition
Plaintiff St. Andrews Second Home LLC s motion to deem the truth of matters specified in request for admissions
to defendant Second Home US Inc. is granted.  The truth of the matters specified in
plaintiff’s request for admissions, set one, to defendant Second Home US
Inc. is hereby deemed
admitted.  Defendant Second
Home US Inc. is ordered to pay plaintiff St. Andrews Second Home LLC $1,035 in sanctions within 30 days.
Plaintiff St. Andrews Second Home LLC s motion to deem the truth of matters specified in request for admissions
to defendant Second Home Ltd. is granted.  The truth of the matters specified in
plaintiff’s request for admissions, set one, to defendant Second Home
Ltd. is hereby deemed
admitted.  Defendant Second
Home Ltd. is ordered to pay plaintiff St. Andrews Second Home LLC $1,035 in sanctions within 30 days.