 Case Number:  20SMCV00478    Hearing Date:   July 30, 2024    Dept:  N TENTATIVE RULINGDefendant David Loomstein’s Motion for Leave to Amend the Answer is GRANTED.Defendant David Loomstein’s First Amended Answer is deemed filed as of the date of entry of this order.Defendant David Loomstein to give notice. REASONINGThe court may grant leave to amend the pleadings at any stage of the action. (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (a).) A party may discover the need to amend after all pleadings are completed (the case is “at issue”) and new information requires a change in the nature of the claims or defenses previously pleaded. (See Dye v. Caterpillar, Inc. (2011) 195 Cal.App.4th 1366, 1380.)“The policy favoring amendment is so strong that it is a rare case in which denial of leave to amend can be justified. Leave to amend should be denied only where the facts are not in dispute, and the nature of the plaintiff’s claim is clear, but under substantive law, no liability exists and no amendment would change the result.” (Howard v. County of San Diego (2010) 184 Cal.App.4th 1422, 1428, internal quotation marks and citations omitted.) Courts apply a policy of great liberality in permitting amendments to the complaint “at any stage of the proceedings, up to and including trial,” absent prejudice to the adverse party. (Atkinson v. Elk Corp. (2003) 109 Cal.App.4th 739, 761.) Prejudice exists where the amendment would require delaying the trial, resulting in loss of critical evidence, added costs of preparation, or an increased burden of discovery. (See Magpali v. Farmers Group, Inc. (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 471, 486-488 [trial court’s denial of leave to amend was proper where those factors were present].) If the delay in seeking the amendment has not misled or prejudiced the other side, the liberal policy of allowing amendments prevails. (See Higgins v. Del Faro (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 558, 564-565 [describing same].)A motion for leave to amend must: (1) Include a copy of the proposed amendment or amended pleading, which must be serially numbered to differentiate it from previous pleadings or amendments;(2) State what allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to be deleted, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the deleted allegations are located; and(3) State what allegations are proposed to be added to the previous pleading, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the additional allegations are located.(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324(a).) Further, a separate declaration must accompany the motion and must specify the following:(1) The effect of the amendment;(2) Why the amendment is necessary and proper;(3) When the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered; and(4) The reasons why the request for amendment was not made earlier.(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324(b).)Defendant David Loomstein (“Defendant”) moves the Court for leave to file a First Amended Answer to allege additional affirmative defenses of First Amendment, Protected Opinion, Statements Were True, Communications Decency Act, Failure to State a Claim for Punitive Damages, No Malice, Oppression, or Fraud, and Punitive Damages Unconstitutional. Defense counsel states that this case has related to First Amendment rights since the inception of the case, and in May, counsel learned that the First Amendment defenses were inadvertently not included in the affirmative defenses in Defendant’s answer. (Mot., Katrinak Decl. ¶¶ 2-3.) Defendant has provided a copy of the First Amended Answer (Mot., Katrinak Decl. ¶ 4, Ex. A) and stated the proposed amendments (Mot., p. 4, ll. 10-21). While Defendant does not specifically identify the allegations proposed to be added by page, paragraph, and line number, the Court has reviewed the brief First Amended Answer to locate the amendments.The Court finds that amendment is proper here. Plaintiff The One Experience, LLC (“Plaintiff”) has not opposed the motion, and the affirmative defenses do not raise new issues that are new to Plaintiff at this juncture. While this case is relatively old, Defendant swiftly moved to amend once it became aware of the omission, and the Court favors trial on the merits and amendment where proper. Accordingly, Defendant David Loomstein’s Motion for Leave to Amend the Answer is GRANTED. Defendant David Loomstein’s First Amended Answer is deemed filed as of the date of entry of this order.