  Case Number:  21VECV00960    Hearing Date:   October 17, 2024    Dept:  W CATHERINE
ROCHERON, et al. v. MOSHE GABAY, et al.
 
defendantS
MOSHE AND ORIT GABAY’S MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT 
 
Date of Hearing:        October 17, 2024                              Trial
Date:       None
set. 
Department:              W                                                        Case No.:        21VECV00960
 
Moving Party:            
Defendants Moshe Gabay and Orit Gabay 
Responding Party:      Plaintiffs
James Cruce and Robert Borsuk
 
BACKGROUND
 
Plaintiffs are each owners of lots
within Tract 13564, located in Sherman Oaks, California. Plaintiffs allege each
acquired their properties in reliance on the restrictions contained in a
recorded Declaration of Restrictions governing Tract 13564, which include that
all garages be "detached." On January 13, 2021, defendants Moshe and
Orit Gabay purchased a lot within Tract 13564 located at 4512 Sunnyslope.
Plaintiffs further allege violated the restrictive covenant by obtaining a
permit with the intention to mansionize the property, construct a second story,
and/or eliminate the detached garage on the property.
 
On July 22, 2021, Plaintiffs Catherine
Rocheron, Guillaume Rocheron, James Cruce, Ruth Holzman, and Robert Borsuk
filed a complaint against Defendants Moshe Gabay and Orit Gabay asserting
causes of action for (1) Breach of Recorded Declaration of Restrictions; (2)
Injunctive Relief; and (3) Declaratory Relief. 
 
The instant action is related to Eileen
Duffy v. Eliran Levi (23VECV02343) and Ivor Brogger, et al. v. Michael
Shabtai, et al. (21VECV01006). 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Defendants Moshe Gabay and Orit Gabay’s
Motion for Summary Judgment is GRANTED. 
 
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
Plaintiffs
request this court take judicial notice of Exhibits A through J. Defendants
object to the request for judicial notice of certain excerpts of Exhibits E, F,
and G on the grounds the exhibits are irrelevant to interpretation of the
restrictive covenant. The court OVERRULES the objections and GRANTS Plaintiffs’
request for judicial notice.  
 
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS
 
In
opposition, Plaintiffs submit objections to the declaration of Yossi Noudel and
Moshe Gabay. 
 
The court
OVERRULES objections nos. 1 and 2. 
 
In reply,
Defendants submit objections to the declarations of Mark Savel, Tyle Hamil, Robert
Borsuk, James Cruce, Robert Jones, and Thomas M. Ware II. 
 
The court
SUSTAINS the objection to Mr. Savel’s and Mr. Hamil’s declaration in its
entirety. (See In re Tobacco Cases I (2010) 186 Cal.App.4th 42, 51.) The
court also SUSTAINS the objections to Mr. Borsuk, Mr. Jones’ and Mr. Cruce’s
declarations. 
 
The court
OVERRULES the objections to Mr. Ware’s declaration. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Defendants move for summary judgment,
or in the alternative, summary adjudication on the grounds the only reasonable interpretation
of the restrictive covenant at issue permits the use to which Defendants
intended to put the Subject Property. 
 
A party may move for summary judgment
“if it is contended that the action has no merit or that there is no defense to
the action or proceeding.”  (CCP § 437c(a).) “[I]f all the evidence
submitted, and all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence and
uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable
issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment
as a matter of law,” the moving party will be entitled to summary
judgment.  (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th
1110, 1119.) A motion for summary adjudication may be made by itself or as an
alternative to a motion for summary judgment and shall proceed in all procedural
respects as a motion for summary judgment. (CCP §
437c(f)(2).)    
 
The moving party bears an initial
burden of production to make a prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any
triable issue of material fact, and if the party does so, the burden shifts to
the opposing party to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a triable
issue of material fact.  (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001)
25 Cal.4th 826, 850; accord CCP § 437c(p)(2).) “Once the defendant . . . has
met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff . . . to show that a
triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or
a defense thereto.” (Ibid.) “If the plaintiff cannot do so, summary
judgment should be granted.” (Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Med. Ctr.
(2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.) 
 
“When deciding whether to grant summary
judgment, the court must consider all of the evidence set forth in the papers
(except evidence to which the court has sustained an objection), as well as all
reasonable inferences that may be drawn from that evidence, in the light most
favorable to the party opposing summary judgment.” (Avivi, supra, 0159
Cal.App.4th at p. 467; see also CCP § 437c(c).)
 
Timeliness
 
The court briefly notes Plaintiff
objects to the motion on the grounds Defendants failed to schedule the hearing
for the motion on summary judgment no later than 30 days before trial. The
motion is currently set for October 17, 2024 and trial is set for November 12,
2024. The court agrees Defendants failed to secure a hearing at least 30 days
ahead of trial. 
 
However, the court may allow the
hearing within 30 days of trial upon a finding of good cause. (CCP §437c(a)(3);
Robinson v. Woods (2008) 168 Cal.App.4th 1258, 1268.) While generally
the moving party should seek a determination of good cause prior to filing
their motion for summary judgment, “the appearance of a party at the hearing of
a motion and his or her opposition to the motion on its merits is a waiver of
any defects or irregularities in the notice of motion.” (Carlton v. Quint
(2000) 77 Cal.App.4th 690, 697; see also Beroiz v. Wahl (2000) 84
Cal.App.4th 485, fn. 7.) Here, Defendants have demonstrated good cause to hear
this action within 30 days of trial as October 17, 2024 was the earliest they
could reserve a hearing on the motion for summary judgment and the
interpretation of the restrictive covenant is dispositive of this action.
Plaintiffs also were able to fully brief their opposition.  As such, the court will address the rest of
the motion for summary judgment on the merits. 
 
Unambiguous Meaning
 
Defendants first argue the restrictive
covenant is clear and unambiguous. It mandates that “[t]he lots in said tract
shall be used for no purpose other than the erection and construction of a
detached, single family dwelling and private garage […].” The restrictive
covenant does not specify the location of the garage nor does it say the garage
must be detached. 
 
In opposition, Plaintiffs argue the
placement of a comma after the word “detached” demonstrates that the word
“detached” is intended to modify both the “single family dwelling” and the
“garage.” There would have been no need to add the word “detached” if it was
only intended to modify the phrase “single family dwelling.” Plaintiffs point
to Exhibit E, the 1945 Municipal Code, which provides a single family dwelling
as “a detached dwelling containing only one dwelling unit” and a “dwelling
unit” was further defined as “a group of two or more rooms, one of which is a
kitchen, designed for occupancy by one family for living and sleeping
purposes.” Moreover, Section A1 goes on to describe the “single family dwelling
and private garage” in the plural rather than as one unit, i.e., “which
structures shall not exceed one and one-half stories in height . . . .”
Therefore, the reference to the “single family dwelling and private garage” as
“structures” connotes an intent that they each would be separate structures, i.e.,
“detached” from one another. 
 
The court disagrees with Plaintiffs’
interpretation. In contract interpretation disputes, the analysis is
two-fold.¿¿First, the question of ambiguity is a question of law.¿¿(De Guere
v. Universal City Studios¿(1997) 56 Cal.App.4th 482, 501.)¿¿To determine
ambiguity, courts consider the face of the contract and any extrinsic evidence
that supports a reasonable interpretation.¿¿(Pacific Gas & E. v. G.W.
Thomas Drayage Etc. Co.¿(1968) 69 Cal.2d 33, 37, 39-40.)¿¿If the court
determines that a contract is unambiguous, the analysis is complete.¿¿If the
court determines that a contract is ambiguous, a party is entitled to introduce
extrinsic evidence to aid the interpretation of the contract.¿¿(Appleton v.
Waessil (1994) 27 Cal.App.4th 551, 554-555;¿Pacific Gas & Electric
Co. v. Zuckerman¿(1987) 189 Cal.App.3d 1113, 1140-1141.)
 
In the instant matter, the court
interprets “detached” as primarily modifying ‘single family dwelling’,
presumably to prevent the construction of duplexes or multi-family dwellings. If
the developers truly intended for garages to be ‘detached’, they would have put
the modifier immediately prior to the word “garage,” to clearly indicate that
it was the garage that had to be detached. Furthermore, as noted by Plaintiff,
the Los Angeles Municipal Code defined “one family dwelling” as “a detached
dwelling containing only one dwelling unit” and a “dwelling unit” defined as “a
group of two or more rooms, one of which is a kitchen, designed for occupancy
by one family for living and sleeping purposes.” This definition does not
preclude single-family homes from including an attached garage as part of their
dwelling unit. 
 
Even considering Plaintiffs’ extrinsic
evidence that nearly three years after defendants commenced construction of an
attached garage, only 18 (including the Gabay Property) of the 101 homes have
attached garages, the court finds this does not aid in its interpretation. The
fact that nearly 20% of the homes in the tract have attached homes does not
weigh in Plaintiff’s favor. Unlike Starlight Ridge South Homeowners Assn. v.
Hunter-Bloor (2009) 177 Cal.App.4th 440, 448 where the court found the
homeowner produced no evidence that the association ever inconsistently
enforced the CC&R provisions, there has been inconsistencies in the
enforcement of Plaintiff’s interpretation of the restrictive covenant.  
 
Lastly, even if the reading was
ambiguous, which the court finds it is not, “restrictive covenants are
construed strictly against the person seeking to enforce them, and any doubt
will be resolved in favor of the free use of land.” (Zabrucky v. McAdams
(2005) 129 Cal. App. 4th 618, 622.) As such, the interpretation of the
restrictions finds in favor of Defendants.
 
Accordingly, the court finds there is
no triable issue of material fact and GRANTS Defendants’ motion for summary
judgment. The court will briefly address Defendants’ remaining arguments. 
 
Presumption of Declaration of
Restrictions
 
Defendants argue it is Plaintiffs’ burden
to provide evidence sufficient to show the declaration of restrictions was duly
recorded and indexed, and not Defendants’ burden to disprove recordation. 
 
Plaintiff argues Civil Code section
1600 actually establishes the presumption that the Declaration is valid. 
 
The Declaration was duly recorded and
reflected in the chain of title for the Tract and, correspondingly, Defendants’
lot. Mr. Borsuk obtained a preliminary title report in 1978, which identified
the subject Declaration. (Borsuk Decl. ¶ 3-6; Exhs. 5, 6.) The Title Report
also contains the Declaration at issue. (RJN, Exh. H.)  The court finds this sufficient to establish
that the declaration of restrictions was duly recorded.  
 
Race Restrictions
 
Defendants argue the Declaration contains
a provision prohibiting persons “of any race other than the Caucasian,” other
than domestic servants, to use or occupy the
affected properties. Whether or not
racial, religious, or other prejudice is the actual motivation behind this
action, the Declaration is repugnant, against public policy, and should be
denied enforcement on this ground alone. 
 
While repugnant, the racial restriction
is severable and void but does not invalidate other use restrictions contained
in the same instrument. (See 34 Am. Jur. Proof of Facts 3d 339; and Government
Code Section 12956.1.) 
 
 