 Case Number:  22STCV11780    Hearing Date:   December 5, 2024    Dept:  X DEFENDANTS’ MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENTDefendants Daniel Leo Moon, M.D. and Daniel L. Moon M.D., PC move for summary judgment.This complaint arises out of Plaintiff’s sole cause of action for medical malpractice against Defendants Daniel Moon, M.D. (as well as his professional corporation) and Methodist Hospital.  The complaint alleges on or about May 12, 2012, moving Defendants negligently and carelessly performed a gall bladder removal (cholecystectomy), allowing a bile leak, and failed to properly detect and remedy the leak, which caused sepsis and multiple medical sequalae thereafter. Tentative RulingDefendants’ motion for summary judgment is denied.Discussion and AnalysisLegal Standard on Summary Judgment“The purpose of the law of summary judgment is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.”  (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.)  “A party may move for summary judgement in an action or proceeding if it is contended that the action has no merit or that there is no defense to the action or proceeding.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 473c subd. (a)(1).)  “The motion for summary judgment shall be granted if all the papers submitted show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to a judgment as a matter of law.”  (Id., at § 437c, subd. (c).) As the moving parties, Defendants bear the initial burden of proof to show that Plaintiff cannot establish one or more elements of her cause of action or to show that there is a complete defense. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).)  Only after the moving party has carried this burden of proof does the burden of proof shift to the other party to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists – and this must be shown via specific facts and not mere allegations.  (Id.) Where the moving party produces competent expert opinion declarations showing that there is no triable issue of fact on an essential element of the opposing party’s claim (e.g. that a medical defendant’s treatment fell within the applicable standard of care), the opposing party’s burden is to produce competent expert opinion declarations to the contrary.  (Weil & Brown, Cal. Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (The Rutter Group 2023) ¶ 10:205.5, citing Ochoa v. Pacific Gas & Elec. Co. (1998) 61 Cal.App.4th 1480, 1487.) Defendants Have Established the Absence of a Triable Issue as to Medical NegligenceThe elements of a cause of action for medical malpractice are: (1) a duty to use such skill, prudence, and diligence as other members of the profession commonly possess and exercise; (2) a breach of the duty; (3) a proximate causal connection between the negligent conduct and the injury; and (4) resulting loss or damage.  (Johnson v. Superior Court (2006) 143 Cal.App.4th 297, 305 citing Hanson v. Grode (1999) 76 Cal.App.4th 601, 606.)“The standard of care in a medical malpractice case requires that physicians exercise in diagnosis and treatment that reasonable degree of skill, knowledge and care ordinarily possessed and exercised by members of the medical profession under similar circumstances. ‘ “The standard of care against which the acts of a physician are to be measured is a matter peculiarly within the knowledge of experts; it presents the basic issue in a malpractice action and can only be proved by their testimony, unless the conduct required by the particular circumstances is within the common knowledge of the layman.” ’ ”  (Munro v. Regents of University of California (1989) 215 Cal.App.3d 977, 983–984, internal citations omitted.)California courts have incorporated the expert evidence requirement into their standard for summary judgment in medical malpractice cases.  When a defendant moves for summary judgment and supports his motion with expert declarations that his conduct fell within the community standard of care, he is entitled to summary judgment unless the plaintiff comes forward with conflicting expert evidence.  (Hanson, supra 76 Cal.App.4th at p. 607, citing Munro, supra, 215 Cal.App.3d at pp. 984–985.)The court does not weigh competing expert testimony.  (Mann v. Cracchiolo (1985) 38 Cal.3d 18, 39, overruled on other grounds by Perry v. Bakewell Hawthorne, LLC (2017) 2 Cal.5th 536, 543.)  Essentially, “the court cannot disregard [an expert] opinion solely because other, more qualified experts opine to the contrary.”  (Weil & Brown, Civil Procedure Before Trial, supra, 10:272, citing Mann, supra, 38 Cal.3d at p. 39.)Here, Defendants rely on the declaration of their expert Robert E. Cole, M.D., who has been a board-certified surgeon since 1988.  (Cole Decl., ¶ 2.)  Cole has testified Dr. Moon complied with the standard of care during his care and treatment of Plaintiff.  (Cole Decl., ¶ 5.)  Dr. Cole also declares that to a reasonable degree of medical probability, no purported negligent act or omission on the part of Dr. Moon caused or was a substantial factor in causing Ms. Paulas’ injuries.  (Ibid.)  Dr. Cole based his opinions upon his review of the Plaintiff’s medical records, imaging from the hospital, patient charts, and his education, training, and experience.  (Id. ¶ 3.)  Likewise, Dr. Cole states he is familiar with the standard of care for a provider such as Dr. Moon specializing in general surgery, based on Dr. Cole’s background, training, and experience.  (Ibid.)  Dr. Cole further opined that Plaintiff provided informed consent for the laparoscopic cholecystectomy procedure after discussion with Dr. Moon regarding potential risks and complications, including a possible bile leak and need to return to surgery.  (Id. ¶ 6.)Dr. Cole’s declaration is sufficient to shift the burden to Plaintiff as to the existence of a triable issue of fact regarding standard of care and causation. Plaintiff’s Opposition Evidence Creates a Triable IssuePlaintiff’s opposition relies on the declaration of board-certified surgeon Stephan Zweig, M.D.  Dr. Zweig is familiar with the standard of care applicable to general surgeons and medical staff in the performance of cholecystectomy.  (Zweig Decl., ¶¶ 1-3.)  Dr. Zweig has reviewed all the pertinent records of the Plaintiff, including all the same records Dr. Cole reviewed plus Dr. Cole’s declaration.  (Id. ¶ 4.)  Dr. Zweig opines Dr. Moon should have requested an interventional radiologist to place a drain when various radiographic studies indicated a bile leak, and that Dr. Moon’s failure to do so was beneath the standard of care.  (Id. ¶ 8.)Plaintiff presented in the emergency department on May 15, 2021 for extreme abdominal pain, and the next day, gastroenterologist Dr. Michael Chu performed an endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (“ERCP”) for a suspected bile leak.  (Id. ¶¶ 7, 9.)  On May 17, 2021, Plaintiff still had right upper quadrant pain and another CT scan was ordered and it showed more bile leakage, so Dr. Moon wanted to perform an exploratory laparoscopy to clean the bile leakage and finally place a drain.  (Id. ¶ 10.)  Due to her presentation, and that Dr. Moon knew there was continued leakage with no drain, Dr. Zweig attests the standard of care required the drain be placed as soon as possible, and not wait another day.  (Ibid.)  On May 18, 2021, the pain was severe and Plaintiff consented to the laparoscopic procedure, where Dr. Moon cleaned the bile, placed a drain, and washed the abdominal cavity.  (Id. ¶¶ 10-11.)  On May 28, 2021, Plaintiff was discharged to home despite a recommendation for a discharge to a rehabilitation facility.  (Id. ¶ 14.)  The same day, she passed out at home (a syncopal episode) and returned to the hospital, where she was diagnosed with low blood pressure.  (Ibid.)Based on a review of the records and his background, training, and experience, it is Dr. Zweig’s opinion that Dr. Moon failed to comply with the standard of care in the community for general surgeon in multiple respects: he (1) failed to have a drain placed upon learning of the bile leak and (2) delayed placing a drain by a day, when it should have been done as soon as possible.  (Id. ¶ 15.)  In Dr. Zweig’s opinion, because of the possibility of bile leakage, a drain should have been placed during the initial surgery, as it is a known complication of a cholecystectomy.  (Ibid.)  Dr. Zweig asserts Dr. Moon’s expert (Dr. Cole) agrees this is a known complication yet makes no mention of a simple drain placement being a prophylactic solution to the possible complication.  (Ibid.)  Dr. Zweig concludes that, to a reasonable degree of medical probability, the breaches in the standard of care led to Plaintiff suffering all her damages, including pain, diminished mental capacity, the need for a second surgery, and the syncopal episode.  (Id. ¶ 16.)In reply, Defendant objects to Dr. Zweig’s Declaration as conclusory and speculative.  The defense argues that an expert declaration must provide specific factual breaches of duty, not just assumptions or speculative opinions.  The defense further contends that Dr. Zweig’s contentions lack transparency because Dr. Zweig fails to note that Dr. Moon was not the treating physician on May 15-16, 2021 when the bile leak was discovered.  Instead, the patient was seen by other physicians, including Dr. Manchandia and Dr. Chu, who recommended the ERCP and considered, but did not perform, a laparoscopy with drainage.  Further, the defense argues, Dr. Zweig’s contention that Dr. Moon should have placed a drain prophylactically during the surgery is not sufficient to establish a breach of the standard of care, as Dr. Zweig does not state that this is the standard of care in the community, but rather argues that it should be the standard of care.Plaintiff has raised a genuine dispute through Dr. Zweig’s declaration, which asserts specific breaches of the standard of care and links those breaches to Plaintiff’s injuries and damages.  While Dr. Zweig has opined about his practice includes placing a drain during surgery, this is not sufficient where it does not reflect the standard within the community.  With that said, Dr. Zweig opines that Dr. Moon’s failure to place a drain upon learning of a bile leak and waiting a day to place such drain were breaches in the standard of care for the community causing Plaintiff’s harm.  (Id. ¶¶ 15, 16.)  Given the conflicting expert declarations regarding these issues and the Court’s inability to weigh or evaluate the credibility of testimony of either expert, a triable issue of fact exists as to whether Dr. Moon breached the standard of care. ConclusionDefendants’ motion for summary judgment is denied.