  Case Number:  22SMCV02190    Hearing Date:   December 20, 2024    Dept:  205  
 
 
Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles – West District 
Beverly Hills Courthouse / Department 205
 



KELSI BOHNEN,   
 
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
ESSEX PORTFOLIO, L.P., et al.,  
 
                        Defendants.


 
  Case No.: 
  22SMCV02190
 
  Hearing Date:  December 20, 2024
  [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
  DefendanTS’ MOTION TO CONTINUE 
  TRIAL DATE
 
 



 
BACKGROUND
This
case arises from a landlord tenant dispute. 
Plaintiff Kelsi Bohnen entered into a lease agreement with Defendant Essex
Management Corporation (“EMC”) for property located at 4750 Lincoln Blvd, Unit
#381, Marina Del Rey, California (the “Property”).  (Compl. ¶ 5.)  Defendant Essex
Portfolio L.P. (“Essex”) is the owner of the Property, and EMC is Essex’s property
manager.  (Id. ¶13.) 
  
Plaintiff
claims she constantly complained to Defendants about inadequate plumbing,
inadequate sanitation, dampness of habitable rooms, dilapidation and improper
maintenance, nuisance, inadequate mechanical equipment, failure to maintain
premises in a good and safe condition, and most significantly, mold exposure.  (Id. ¶16.)  Plaintiff
alleges Defendants had actual and/or constructive notice of the defects but
failed to take timely or reasonable steps to remedy the problems, all in an
effort to save money and increase Defendants’ cash flow and net income.  (Id. ¶17.)  
The operative complaint alleges claims for
(1) breach of contract/covenant of quiet enjoyment/warranty of habitability,
(2) tortious breach of warranty of habitability, (3) negligence, (4) private nuisance,
(5) violation of Cal. Civ. Code section 1950.5, (7) violation of unfair
business practices, and (7) constructive eviction.  
This hearing is on Defendants’ motion to
continue trial.  Defendants seek a four
month continuance from January 21, 2025 to May 19, 2025.  Defendants claim a continuance is warranted
because Plaintiff was only deposed on October 30, 2024 despite Defendants’
diligent attempts to timely complete her deposition for the last seven
months.  And Plaintiff testified to
additional damages that were not previously disclosed in her discovery
responses.  Defendants require additional
time to obtain discovery relating to these newly disclosed damages, including
Plaintiff’s medical and employment records. 
Defendants also argue that their trial counsel’s calendar is “extremely
impacted” from January 2025 through May 2025 including eight trials in January
2025.  Plaintiff does not object to a
trial continuance to May 19, 2025.   
LEGAL STANDARD
Trial dates are firm to ensure prompt
disposition of civil cases. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332, subd. (a).)  Continuances are thus generally
disfavored.  (See id., rule
3.1332, subd. (b).)  Nevertheless, the
trial court has discretion to continue trial dates.  (Hernandez v. Superior Court (2004)
115 Cal.App.4th 1242, 1246.)  Each
request for continuance must be considered on its own merits and is granted
upon an affirmative showing of good cause. 
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332, subd. (c); Hernandez, supra,
115 Cal.App.4th at p. 1246.)  
Circumstances that may indicate good cause
include: (1) the unavailability of an essential lay or expert witness due to
death, illness, or other excusable circumstances; (2) the unavailability of a
party due to death, illness, or other excusable circumstances; (3) the
unavailability of trial counsel due to death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances; (4) the substitution of trial counsel where there is an
affirmative showing that the substitution is required in the interests of
justice; (5) the addition of a new party if (A) the new party has not had a
reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for trial, or (B) the
other parties have not had a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and
prepare for trial in regard to the new party’s involvement in the case; (6) a
party’s excused inability to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other
material evidence despite diligent efforts; or (7) a significant, unanticipated
change in the status of the case as a result of which the case is not ready for
trial.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1332, subd. (c).) 
The court must also consider such relevant
factors as: (1) the proximity of the trial date; (2) whether there was any
previous continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial caused by any party;
(3) the length of the continuance requested; (4) the availability of
alternative means to address the problem that gave rise to the motion or
application for a continuance; (5) the prejudice that parties or witnesses will
suffer as a result of the continuance; (6) if the case is entitled to a
preferential trial setting, the reasons for that status and whether the need
for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay; (7) the court’s calendar
and the impact of granting a continuance on other pending trials; (8) whether
trial counsel is engaged in another trial; (9) whether all parties have
stipulated to a continuance; (10) whether the interests of justice are best
served by a continuance, by the trial of the matter, or by imposing conditions
on the continuance; and (11) any other fact or circumstance relevant to the
fair determination of the motion or application.  (Id., rule 3.1332, subd. (d).)
DISCUSSION
The Court concludes that a short two month
continuance is warranted.  Defendants were
not able to take Plaintiff’s deposition until October 30, 2024, despite
diligent efforts to do so.  Defendants
initially set Plaintiff’s deposition for January 9, 2024.  Plaintiff objected and provided dates in February.  (Ex. A to Solis Decl.)  Defendants noticed Plaintiff’s deposition for
February 22, 2024, but on February 19, Plaintiff’s counsel emailed stating
there was a calendar conflict.  (Exs. B,
C, D to Solis Decl.)  
Plaintiff’s counsel then provided dates for
April 2024.  (Ex. E to Solis Decl.)  Defendants noticed Plaintiff’s deposition for
April 24, 2024.  (Ex. F to Solis Decl.)  On April 16, Defendants requested an
extension to respond to discovery requests, and as a condition for granting the
extension, Plaintiff asked for the April deposition to be moved.  (Ex. G to Solis Decl.)    
On June 11, defense counsel requested
mutually agreeable dates for the deposition of Plaintiff.  Plaintiff’s counsel did not respond, so
defense counsel unilaterally set the deposition of Plaintiff for July 11,
2024.  (Exs. I, J to Solis Decl.)  Plaintiff’s counsel objected to the
deposition, and offered dates in August 2024. 
(Ex. K L to Solis Decl.)  The same
day, defense counsel served a new deposition notice for August 8, 2024.             (Ex. L to
Solis Decl.)  
On August 8, Plaintiff’s counsel canceled the
deposition because the handling attorney had the flu.  (Ex. M to Solis Decl.)  On August 20, defense counsel emailed
Plaintiff’s counsel for mutually convenient dates, and when counsel failed to
respond, Defendants noticed the deposition for October 8, 2024.  (Exs. N, O, P to Solis Decl.)  Plaintiff’s counsel objected and provided
October 30, 2024 as a mutually convenient date. 
(Ex. Q to Solis Decl.)  Plaintiff’s
deposition was finally taken on October 30, 2024.   
The moving papers represent that at her
deposition, Plaintiff testified she received additional medical treatment and
testing and also testified to working at additional companies which were not
previously disclosed in her discovery responses.  Counsel’s declaration does not attest to this
fact, nor does it attach the referenced discovery responses or deposition
testimony. The declaration also does not specify what additional records are
needed.  Notwithstanding, as Plaintiff
has not opposed the motion to continue, the Court accepts these representations
as true. 
Based on these facts, the Court concludes
that a short two month continuance is warranted for Defendants to obtain the
additional records they seek.  Should
this additional time prove insufficient, and if there is good cause, the
parties may file another motion to continue. 
    
CONCLUSION
Based on the foregoing, the Court GRANTS IN
PART and DENIES IN PART the motion to continue trial.  Trial is continued to March 24, 2025; the
final status conference is scheduled for March 14, 2025, and all trial related
dates are continued by two months.    
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED: December 20, 2024                                              ___________________________
Edward
B. Moreton, Jr.
Judge
of the Superior Court