..................... ..................... ..................... ......
The summary displayed below was created by an LLM named 'llama3-8b-8192':
Here is the summary of the judge's tentative ruling in YAML format:

```
Case Number: 21STCV11207
Plaintiff's Name: Adam Dolewski
Defendant's Name: Dollar Tree Stores, Inc., Berkshire Bakersfield, LLC, and Brentwood Group, LLC
People-Names: Adam Dolewski, Brentwood Group, LLC
Company-Names: Dollar Tree Stores, Inc., Berkshire Bakersfield, LLC, Brentwood Group, LLC
Places: Long Beach
Dates: November 19, 2024, February 14, 2023
Events: Incident at a Dollar Tree location, trial
Money: None mentioned
Intentions: Defendant seeks to bifurcate the trial into two phases, liability and damages
Facts: Plaintiff was confined in a freezer at a Dollar Tree location, causing injuries and damages
Disputes: Defendant's contention that bifurcation is necessary to avoid prejudice and potential settlement
Acts: Defendant filed a motion to bifurcate, Plaintiff opposed the motion
Agreements: None mentioned
Laws: California Code of Civil Procedure (CCP) ยง598, CCP ยง1048(b)
Case Citations: None mentioned
Statutes: California Code of Civil Procedure (CCP)
Roles:
  - Judge: Making the tentative ruling
  - Plaintiff: Opposing the motion to bifurcate
  - Defendant: Seeking to bifurcate the trial
Significant Statements:
  - "The Court finds the potential prejudice to Defendant if the damages are introduced during the liability phase outweighs the potential prejudice to Plaintiff if the jury knows it can go home by rendering a defense verdict."
  - "The motion is granted. Counsel should be prepared to proceed immediately to the damages phase of the trial if Plaintiff is successful in connection with the liability phase of the trial."
```

And here is a summary of the judge's tentative ruling in English text:

The judge has issued a tentative ruling on a motion to bifurcate the trial into two phases, liability and damages. The defendant, Dollar Tree Stores, Inc., Berkshire Bakersfield, LLC, and Brentwood Group, LLC, seeks to bifurcate the trial to avoid potential prejudice and to allow for potential settlement. The plaintiff, Adam Dolewski, opposes the motion, arguing that bifurcation is not necessary and would cause duplication of efforts.

The judge notes that bifurcation is a procedure that allows the court to order separate trials of issues in a single action, and that it is not limited to liability and damages. The judge also notes that the court has the inherent power to regulate the order of trial and can entertain a motion to bifurcate at any time.

After hearing the defendant's summary judgment motion and learning all the details of the case, the judge finds that the potential prejudice to the defendant if the damages are introduced during the liability phase outweighs the potential prejudice to the plaintiff if the jury knows it can go home by rendering a defense verdict. The judge also finds that, while some witnesses may need to be called twice, the liability phase of the trial will be very short and the damages phase will be very long.

The judge grants the motion, ordering that counsel should be prepared to proceed immediately to the damages phase of the trial if the plaintiff is successful in connection with the liability phase of the trial. The judge also orders that the defendant give notice of this ruling.
