 Case Number:  24LBCV00898    Hearing Date:   November 19, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Background Facts
Plaintiffs, Martin B. Carter and the Canter-Henderson Family Trust
filed this action against Defendants, City of Los Angeles, Bryon Brashear,
Jason Summers, and Osama Younan for negligence per se, unprofessionalism in job
performance, selective persecution and enforcement, and prohibitory injunctive
relief.  
 
2.     Demurrer

3.     Legal
Standard on Demurrer
A demurrer is a pleading used to
test the legal sufficiency of other pleadings. It raises issues of law, not
fact, regarding the form or content of the opposing party’s pleading.  It is not the function of the demurrer to
challenge the truthfulness of the complaint; and for purpose of the ruling on
the demurrer, all facts pleaded in the complaint are assumed to be true,
however improbable they may be.
 
A demurrer can be used only to
challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack; or from
matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. Blank v. Kirwan 39
Cal.3d 311 (1985). No other extrinsic evidence can be considered (i.e., no
“speaking demurrers”). A demurrer is brought under CCP § 430.10 [grounds], §
430.30 [as to any matter on its face or from which judicial notice may be
taken], and § 430.50(a) [can be taken to the entire complaint or any cause of
action within].  Specifically, a demurrer
may be brought per CCP § 430.10(e) if insufficient facts are stated to support
the cause of action asserted.  Per CCP
§430.10(a) a demurrer may be brought where the court has no jurisdiction of the
subject of the cause of action alleged in the pleading.  Furthermore, demurrer for uncertainty will be
sustained only where the complaint is so bad that the defendant cannot
reasonably respond.  CCP §
430.10(f).  
 
However, in construing the
allegations, the court is to give effect to specific factual allegations that
may modify or limit inconsistent general or conclusory allegations. Financial
Corporation of America v. Wilburn, 189 Cal.App.3rd 764, 769 (1987). And, if the
facts pled in the complaint are inconsistent with facts which are incorporated
by reference from exhibits attached to the complaint, the facts in the
incorporated exhibits control. Further, irrespective of the name or label given
to a cause of action by the plaintiff, a general demurrer must be overruled if
the facts as pled in the body of the complaint state some valid claim for
relief. Special demurrers are not allowed in limited jurisdiction courts. (CCP
§ 92(c).)
 
Leave to amend must be allowed
where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. Goodman v.
Kennedy, 18 Cal.3d 335, 348 (1976). The burden is on the complainant to show
the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.) 
Finally, CCP section 430.41
requires that “[b]efore filing a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the
demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party
who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining
whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be
raised in the demurrer.” (CCP §430.41(a).) The parties are to meet and confer
at least five days before the date the responsive pleading is due. (CCP
§430.41(a)(2).) Thereafter, the demurring party shall file and serve a
declaration detailing their meet and confer efforts. (CCP §430.41(a)(3).)
 

Meet and Confer

Defense Counsel, Kenneth T. Fong
filed a meet and confer declaration in support of the demurrer and motion to
strike.  The meet and confer requirement
is satisfied.  
 

Parties’ Positions

Defendants contend the complaint is
subject to demurrer because Plaintiff lacks standing as he has not suffered
injury, Plaintiff failed to exhaust administrative remedies, Plaintiff’s first,
second, and third causes of action are barred by governmental immunities,
Plaintiff’s third cause of action lacks merit because the government has broad
discretion to enforce its own policies and Plaintiff has not alleged membership
in a protected class.  
 
Plaintiff opposes the
demurrer.  He argues Defendants have
delayed the case for thirty months, Defendants have changed attorneys in a way
that is confusing, Defendants have changed dates in a way that is confusing, and
all defects in the pleadings can be cured. 

 

Plaintiff’s Opposing
     Arguments

Plaintiff does not meaningfully
challenge the demurrer in his opposition papers.  He argues Defendant is “acting like Trump”
and makes various accusations, but he does not address the substantive
arguments made.  He contends the case has
been pending for thirty months, but the case was filed on 5/02/24, so the Court
is not clear to what Plaintiff refers.  
 
Plaintiff asks if the Court is
confused by the changing hearing dates. 
Defendants originally set the demurrer and motion to strike for hearing
on 1/16/25.  On 10/03/24, the Court, on
its own motion, changed the hearing date from 1/16/25 to 11/19/24.  This is not confusing and is common
practice.  Notably, Plaintiff did not
appear at the hearing, which may have caused him to suffer confusion.  Defendant did, however, give notice of the
ruling on the same day.  
 
Plaintiff also complains of
Defendant “switching attorneys.”  The
City Attorney’s office has numerous attorneys in its litigation unit, and it is
common for more than one attorney to work on a case.  There is nothing improper about having
multiple attorneys assigned to the case. 
 
 

Analysis

Defendant adequately shows, in the
moving papers, that each of its grounds for demurrer is well-taken.  Defendant correctly notes that Plaintiff has
not alleged he suffered damages as a result of any of Defendant’s actions, as
required by Limon v. Circle K Stores, Inc. (2022) 84 Cal.App.5th
696-697.  Plaintiff, in opposition to the
demurrer, contends he will amend his complaint to allege a personal injury
cause of action.  Plaintiff fails,
however, to show how Defendant can be liable for his heart attack and/or
strokes, which are the injuries mentioned in the complaint.  
 
Defendant also adequately shows
that Plaintiff failed to plead exhaustion of administrative remedies and
compliance with the Government Tort Claims Act. 
Plaintiff concedes this failure in opposition to the demurrer, and
indicates he can amend his complaint to allege exhaustion of administrative
remedies and compliance with the Act.  
 
Defendant establishes various
immunities apply and bar it and its employees from being subject to suit.  Plaintiff, in opposition to the demurrer,
indicates he will drop any claim against the employee defendants.  Plaintiff fails, however, to address the
immunities that inure to the benefit of the City itself.
 
Finally, Defendant establishes no
claim for selective enforcement can be made absent a showing that the plaintiff
is a member of a protected class.  See
Wayte v. United States (1985) 470 U.S. 598, 608.  Plaintiff does not address this argument in
opposition to the demurrer.  
 

Conclusion

The demurrer is sustained on all
stated grounds.  Because this is the
first pleading challenge, and because leave to amend is liberally granted, the
Court grants leave to amend with respect to all issues except those expressly
conceded in opposition to the demurrer. 
If Plaintiff amends his complaint, and if there is a further pleading
challenge, Plaintiff must meaningfully articulate a legal argument in
opposition to each and every stated ground for demurrer in his opposition to
the demurrer.  
 
4.     Motion
to Strike
Defendant moves to strike the
co-plaintiff Trust’s complaint because a trust cannot be represented by a
non-attorney.  Plaintiff concedes the
issue in opposition to the motion.  When
Plaintiff amends his complaint, he must not include the Trust as a co-plaintiff
unless he retains an attorney.  
 
5.     Conclusion
Defendants’ demurrer is sustained
without leave to amend as to the individual defendants, because Plaintiff
concedes they have a complete defense to the claims pled against them.  The City’s demurrer is sustained with leave
to amend.  Plaintiff must amend within
twenty days.  Defendant must file a responsive
pleading within the statutory time thereafter. 
The Court strongly encourages Plaintiff to retain an attorney if he
wishes to maintain his claims successfully. 

 
Defendant’s motion to strike all
claims pled by the Trust is granted without leave to amend, as the issue is
conceded by Plaintiff in opposition to the motion.  
 
6.     Order
to Show Cause
There is an OSC on calendar
concurrently with the hearing on the demurrer and motion to strike today.  The Court asks the parties to make
arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing on the demurrer, motion to
strike, and OSC. 