 Case Number:  24LBCV00742    Hearing Date:   November 19, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Background
Facts
Plaintiff, Mirey A. Ramirez filed
this action against Defendant, General Motors LLC for violation of Song-Beverly,
breach of warranty, and fraud (fraudulent inducement and concealment).    
 
2.     Demurrer
a.     Opposition
Any opposition to the demurrer was
due on or before 11/06/24.  The Court has
not received timely opposition papers, and will not consider late-filed
opposition papers. 
 
b.     Legal
Standard on Demurrer
A demurrer is a pleading used to
test the legal sufficiency of other pleadings. It raises issues of law, not
fact, regarding the form or content of the opposing party’s pleading.  It is not the function of the demurrer to
challenge the truthfulness of the complaint; and for purpose of the ruling on
the demurrer, all facts pleaded in the complaint are assumed to be true,
however improbable they may be.
 
A demurrer can be used only to
challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack; or from
matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. Blank v. Kirwan 39
Cal.3d 311 (1985). No other extrinsic evidence can be considered (i.e., no
“speaking demurrers”). A demurrer is brought under CCP § 430.10 [grounds], §
430.30 [as to any matter on its face or from which judicial notice may be
taken], and § 430.50(a) [can be taken to the entire complaint or any cause of
action within].  Specifically, a demurrer
may be brought per CCP § 430.10(e) if insufficient facts are stated to support
the cause of action asserted.  Per CCP
§430.10(a) a demurrer may be brought where the court has no jurisdiction of the
subject of the cause of action alleged in the pleading.  Furthermore, demurrer for uncertainty will be
sustained only where the complaint is so bad that the defendant cannot
reasonably respond.  CCP §
430.10(f).  
 
However, in construing the
allegations, the court is to give effect to specific factual allegations that
may modify or limit inconsistent general or conclusory allegations. Financial
Corporation of America v. Wilburn, 189 Cal.App.3rd 764, 769 (1987). And, if the
facts pled in the complaint are inconsistent with facts which are incorporated
by reference from exhibits attached to the complaint, the facts in the
incorporated exhibits control. Further, irrespective of the name or label given
to a cause of action by the plaintiff, a general demurrer must be overruled if
the facts as pled in the body of the complaint state some valid claim for
relief. Special demurrers are not allowed in limited jurisdiction courts. (CCP
§ 92(c).)
 
Leave to amend must be allowed
where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. Goodman v.
Kennedy, 18 Cal.3d 335, 348 (1976). The burden is on the complainant to show
the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.) 
 
Finally, CCP section 430.41
requires that “[b]efore filing a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the
demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party
who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining
whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be
raised in the demurrer.” (CCP §430.41(a).) The parties are to meet and confer
at least five days before the date the responsive pleading is due. (CCP
§430.41(a)(2).) Thereafter, the demurring party shall file and serve a
declaration detailing their meet and confer efforts. (CCP §430.41(a)(3).)
 
c.     Meet
and Confer
Defense Counsel declares she
attempted to meet and confer telephonically with Plaintiff prior to filing the
demurrer, but was unsuccessful in her attempt. 
She does not declare whether meet and confer was unsuccessful because
the attorneys never actually spoke, or because they did speak and did not
resolve their issues.  The Court has
previously admonished the defense law firm to clarify in the future in
connection with all actions.  Counsel
must appear at the hearing and clarify what meet and confer attempts were
made.      
 
d.     Fifth
Cause of Action, Fraud 
Plaintiff’s fourth cause of action
is entitled Fraud – Fraudulent Inducement – Concealment.  The cause of action alleges Defendant,
through its agents, intentionally and knowingly falsely concealed, suppressed,
and/or omitted material facts relating to the transmission of the subject
vehicle.  
 
Defendant demurs to the complaint, contending
it lacks the requisite specificity and fails to allege a transactional
relationship between Plaintiff and Defendant that would give rise to a duty to
disclose.  
 
Defendant establishes the complaint
lacks specificity.  Defendant shows the
complaint fails to plead the who, what, where, when, and how that is required
when pleading fraud.  See Tarmann v.
State Farm Mut. Auto Ins. Co. (1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 153, 157.  The demurrer is sustained on this
ground.  In light of the lack of
opposition, leave to amend is denied.  
 
The Court need not rule on the
other issues presented, and therefore declines to do so.  
 
3.     Motion
to Strike
Defendant moves to strike the
prayer for punitive damages from the complaint. 
The prayer for punitive damages rises and falls with the fraud cause of
action, and therefore the motion is granted without leave to amend.  
 
4.     Conclusion
Defendant must appear at the
hearing and explain what meet and confer attempts were made prior to filing the
demurrer.  If the Court is satisfied with
the attempts, the demurrer will be sustained without leave to amend and the
motion to strike granted without leave to amend, as discussed above.  If the Court is not satisfied, the hearing on
the matter will be continued to require the parties to meet and confer in good
faith.  
 
The Court asks the parties to make
arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing on the demurrer and motion to
strike.
 