  Case Number:  21STCV11207    Hearing Date:   November 19, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Background
Facts
Plaintiff, Adam Dolewski filed this
action against Defendants, Dollar Tree Stores, Inc., Berkshire Bakersfield,
LLC, and Brentwood Group, LLC for premises liability and negligence arising out
of an incident that occurred at a Dollar Tree location in Long Beach.  Plaintiff alleges Defendants’ negligence
caused him to be confined in a freezer for a substantial period of time, which
caused him injuries and damages.  
 
2.    
Motion to Bifurcate
a.     Parties’
Positions
Dollar Tree moves to bifurcate the
issue of liability from the issue of damages at trial.  It contends the liability phase of the trial
will take only days, while the damages phase, if necessary, will take weeks.  It contends the damages phase will cause it
prejudice if heard concurrently with the liability phase.  Additionally, it contends settlement may be
possible at the conclusion of the liability phase if the jury finds liability
on the part of Defendant.  
 
Plaintiff opposes the motion.  He argues the motion is a restatement of a
prior motion that was denied and there is nothing new or different in the
motion.  He argues there is no reasonable
probability that Defendant will achieve a full defense verdict on the liability
phase of the trial.  He contends
duplication of efforts will be necessary if the case is bifurcated, as numerous
witnesses will need to be called during both phases of the trial.  He contends exceptional circumstances do not
exist that would justify bifurcation.  He
also notes that bifurcation orders are inherently unfair to the plaintiff, as
the jury knows it will be dismissed and go home after the first phase of the
trial if there is a defense verdict, but it will have to stay for an extended
period of time in the event it finds liability. 

 
b.     Law
Governing Bifurcation
Bifurcation is the procedure whereby the court may order separate trials
of issues of parties joined in a single action. 
The objective of bifurcation is to avoid wasting time and money on the
trial of damages issues if the liability issue is resolved against the
plaintiff.  Also, the procedure is not
limited to separate trials of liability and damages; nor is it limited to
dividing a case into only two parts.  A
party seeking bifurcation should request such relief as soon as the need
becomes apparent.  Delay may be a factor
affecting the court’s exercise of discretion. 
Generally, the court has the inherent power to regulate the order of
trial and, therefore, can entertain a motion to bifurcate at any time, even
during the trial.  However, where
bifurcation is sought pursuant to CCP §598 (e.g., to obtain bifurcation of
liability issue), the order must be made no later than 30 days before trial.  (I.e., the motion must be heard and order
made more than 30 days before trial.)
 
Pursuant to CCP §1048(b), “The court, in furtherance of convenience or
to avoid prejudice, or when separate trials will be conducive to expedition and
economy, may order a separate trial of any cause of action, including a cause
of action asserted in a cross-complaint, or of any separate issue or of any
number of causes of action or issues, preserving the right of trial by jury
required by the Constitution or a statute of the state or of the United
States.”
 
c.     Analysis
The Court, on 2/14/23, denied a similar motion to bifurcate without
prejudice.  The Court did so largely
because the decision as to whether or not to bifurcate was premature, and the
Court wished to rule on the motion closer to trial.  
 
As the Court noted in its prior order, motions to bifurcate always
involve a difficult balancing between prejudice to the defendant if the trial
is not bifurcated and the plaintiff’s injuries are very severe, prejudice to
the plaintiff if the trial is bifurcated and the jury knows it can go home in
the event of a defense liability verdict, and overall convenience to witnesses
and the court.  
 
In this case, after hearing Defendant’s summary judgment motion and
learning all the details of the case, the Court finds the potential prejudice
to Defendant if the damages are introduced during the liability phase outweighs
the potential prejudice to Plaintiff if the jury knows it can go home by
rendering a defense verdict. 
Additionally, the Court finds that, while some witnesses may need to be
called twice, the liability phase of the trial will be very short and the
damages phase will be very long; there will be no need to conduct the damages
phase of the trial if Defendant achieves a defense verdict after the liability
phase.  
 
On balance, the motion is granted. 
Counsel should be prepared to proceed immediately to the damages phase
of the trial if Plaintiff is successful in connection with the liability phase
of the trial.    
Defendant is ordered to give
notice.  
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If
the department does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting
on the tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be
placed off calendar.  If a party
submits on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and
must identify the party submitting on the tentative. If any party does not
submit on the tentative, the party should make arrangements to appear remotely
at the hearing on this matter.   