 Case Number:  22LBCV00884    Hearing Date:   November 19, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Background
Facts
Plaintiff, Debra Thompson Crowe
filed this action against Defendants, Walmart, Inc., Wal-Mart Associates, Inc.,
Sam’s West, Inc., and Maria Varela for age discrimination, disability
discrimination, failure to engage in the interactive process, failure to
provide reasonable accommodation, harassment, retaliation, failure to prevent
harassment/discrimination/retaliation, and wrongful termination.  Plaintiff’s original complaint, filed on
11/30/22, is her operative complaint.  
 
2.     Motion
to Augment Expert Designation

Procedural History

Defendants served a demand for
exchange of expert designations on 6/03/24, setting the exchange date for
6/24/24.  Plaintiff served a demand for
exchange of expert designations on 6/04/24, also setting the exchange date for
6/24/24.  Defendants served their
designation on 6/24/24; Plaintiff served her designation on 6/26/24.  
 
On 8/23/24, Dr. Hunter Vincent
issued a QME Report regarding Plaintiff. 
The report was issued in connection with Plaintiff’s workers’
compensation claim.  Plaintiff, after
reviewing the report, determined several doctors mentioned in the report are
both percipient witnesses and also potential expert witnesses.  Plaintiff therefore amended her expert
designation to list Drs. Culver, Chuang, Nick, Vincent, and Woods.  The parties met and conferred, and Defendants
did not agree to the amended designation.   

 

Law Governing Amendment
     of Expert Designation

Motions to augment or amend a
party’s expert designation are governed by CCP §2034.620, which provides:
The court shall grant leave to
augment or amend an expert witness list or declaration only if all of the
following conditions are satisfied:
(a) The court has taken into
account the extent to which the opposing party has relied on the list of expert
witnesses.
(b) The court has determined that
any party opposing the motion will not be prejudiced in maintaining that
party's action or defense on the merits.
(c) The court has determined either
of the following:
(1) The moving party would not in
the exercise of reasonable diligence have determined to call that expert
witness or have decided to offer the different or additional testimony of that
expert witness.
(2) The moving party failed to
determine to call that expert witness, or to offer the different or additional
testimony of that expert witness as a result of mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or excusable neglect, and the moving party has done both of the
following:
(A) Sought leave to augment or
amend promptly after deciding to call the expert witness or to offer the
different or additional testimony.
(B) Promptly thereafter served a
copy of the proposed expert witness information concerning the expert or the
testimony described in Section
2034.260 on all other parties who have appeared in the action.
(d) Leave to augment or amend is
conditioned on the moving party making the expert available immediately for a
deposition under Article 3 (commencing with Section
2034.410), and on any other terms as may be just, including, but not
limited to, leave to any party opposing the motion to designate additional
expert witnesses or to elicit additional opinions from those previously
designated, a continuance of the trial for a reasonable period of time, and the
awarding of costs and litigation expenses to any party opposing the motion.
 

Parties’ Arguments

Plaintiff contends she did not
realize she needed to include the proposed experts until after she received the
subject report, which is a sufficient showing of reasonable diligence and/or inadvertence.  She contends Defendants will not be
prejudiced by adding the new experts, and she is not obligated to make them
available for deposition because they are percipient witnesses.  
 
Defendants, in opposition to the
motion, argue Plaintiff cannot amend her designation because she did not timely
submit her designation in the first place. 
They contend Plaintiff failed to make a timely motion before the
discovery cut-off.  They contend
Plaintiff cannot transform fact witnesses into expert witnesses without
properly designating them.  They contend
they will be prejudiced because they do not have time to explore the expert
opinions of these witnesses prior to the trial date. 
 
Plaintiff, in reply, argues she has
standing to bring the motion because her original expert designation was
timely.  She contends any argument re:
the discovery cut-off is moot because the Court granted additional time to
depose experts.  She contends there will
be no prejudice because the parties have until 11/19/24 to conduct expert
depositions.  She contends Defendants
concede the subject witnesses are percipient witnesses, and the motion is only
brought to ensure there is no problem in the event they introduce expert
testimony.  
 

Standing

A threshold issue is whether
Plaintiff has standing to bring this motion. 
Defendants contend she does not because she did not timely designate
experts.  CCP §2034.610 provides, in
pertinent part:
(a) On motion of any party who has
engaged in a timely exchange of expert witness information, the court may grant
leave to do either or both of the following:
(1) Augment that party's expert
witness list and declaration by adding the name and address of any expert
witness whom that party has subsequently retained.
 
As noted above, both parties served
expert designation demands, and both parties scheduled the exchange for
6/24/24.  Defendants served their
designation on 6/24/24, but Plaintiff served hers on 6/26/24.  Plaintiff argues, in her reply papers, that
her designation was timely because Defendants served their demand by email,
which adds two days to the time in which she was required to respond.  
 
Plaintiff would be correct if only
Defendants had served a demand.  CCP
§2034.230(b) makes clear that the time to respond to the demand is extended by
two days if the demand is served by email, Plaintiff ignores the fact that she
also served a demand, and she also scheduled the exchange for 6/24/24.  Notably, §2034.210 makes clear that, to
prevent either party from taking advantage, the exchange must be
“simultaneous.”  
Plaintiff failed to comply with her
own exchange deadline, and therefore she is barred from seeking relief.  
 

Additional Analysis

The Court also notes that Plaintiff
failed to show she would not have reasonably listed these proposed experts in
her initial designation, or that any failure to do so was the result of
excusable neglect.  These proposed
experts are her own treating physicians. 
Plaintiff does not explain exactly what was in the subject report that
she did not anticipate or that caused her, for the first time, to realize these
percipient witnesses may also need to offer expert testimony.  
 
Notably, Plaintiff argues, in her
moving papers, that she is not obligated to comply with CCP §2034.620(d), which
requires her to make the experts immediately available for deposition, because
the experts are percipient witnesses. 
Plaintiff’s argument is confusing. 
The point of this motion is to designate the percipient witnesses as
expert witnesses, and if Plaintiff wishes to designate them as expert witnesses,
then she must comply with the statutory requirements for doing so.
 
Finally, the Court finds Defendants
will be prejudiced if Plaintiff is permitted to transform five of her
percipient witnesses into expert witnesses. 
The Court recently continued the trial date, but the continuance order
required the parties to conduct all expert witness depositions by 11/19/24, the
same date on which this motion is scheduled to be heard.  Trial is scheduled for 12/02/24, and
Defendants cannot reasonably be expected to add five additional expert witness
depositions to their schedule with sufficient time to prepare for trial.  
 

Conclusion

Plaintiff failed to timely serve
her initial designation and therefore lacks standing to bring this motion.  Additionally, she failed to meet the
statutory requirements for the relief she seeks.  The motion to amend/augment is denied.  
 
Plaintiff is ordered to give
notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative.  If
the parties do not submit on the tentative, they should arrange to appear
remotely.