 Case Number:  23AHCV02311    Hearing Date:   March 14, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



SOPHIA CHEUNG, 
                   Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
POTATO
   CONSTRUCTION, INC.,
 
                   Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 23AHCV02311
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION TO SET ASIDE DEFAULT  
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
March 14,
  2024



 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
On October 5, 2023, plaintiff Sophia
Cheung (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against defendant Potato Construction,
Inc. (“Defendant”) asserting causes of action for: (1) breach of contract, (2)
breach of implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing, (3) fraud, and (4)
violation of Business and Professions Code section 17200 et seq. 
On November 27, 2023, default was
entered against Defendant. 
On January 10, 2024, Defendant filed
this motion to set aside the entry of default on the grounds that it lacked
actual knowledge of the complaint due to a clerical error. 
On March 1, 2024, Plaintiff filed an
opposition brief. 
No reply brief is on file. 
II.         
LEGAL
STANDARD
Where a service of summons has not
resulted in actual notice to a party in time to defend the action, the party
may move the court to set aside default and default judgment. (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 473.5, subd. (a).) The motion must be made no later than two years after
entry of default or 180 days after service of a written notice that default or
default judgment has been entered. (Ibid.)
The party must act with diligence upon learning of the judgment. (Trackman v. Kenney (2010) 187
Cal.App.4th 175, 180; Code Civ. Proc., §473.5, subd. (a).)
The party seeking to set aside must
also submit a declaration that lack of actual notice was not caused by his or
her avoidance of service or inexcusable neglect and a copy of the proposed
answer, motion, or other pleading proposed to be filed in the action. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 473.5, subd. (b).) Upon a finding by the court that the
defendant’s lack of actual notice prevented him or her from defending the
action, “it may set aside the default or default judgment on whatever terms as
may be just and allow the party to defend the action.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 473.5,
subd. (d); Goya v. P.E.R.U. Enterprises
(1978) 87 Cal.App.3d 886, 893.)  
III.       
DISCUSSION
Defendant states that the complaint was
served on “Jessie S.” or Jing “Jessie” Sun (“Ms. Sun”) at its office located at
735 W. Duarte Road, Suite 301 in Arcadia, California. Ms. Sun is Defendant’s
office manager and receptionist who is responsible for receiving and opening
mail, filing, and general administrative and clerical tasks. Defendant states
that the statement of information filed with the California Secretary of State
identifies Boyu Zhang (“Mr. Zhang”) as its agent for service of process and
that Mr. Zhang was not aware of the lawsuit until December 1, 2023, when Ms.
Sun gave him a request for entry of default dated November 27, 2023. Ms. Sun
then looked through Defendant’s files for Plaintiff and found a summons and 30
pages of other documents. Prior to this search, Ms. Sun did not have any
recollection of seeing these documents or giving them to Mr. Zhang before
December 1, 2023. 
Defendant argues that serving Ms. Sun,
its receptionist, did not result in actual notice to its officer and director,
Mr. Zhang, therefore Defendant did not receive actual notice in time to defend
the action. (Motion, pp. 6-7.) Defendant argues that Ms. Sun was not an officer
or director and was not authorized to act on its behalf. Further, Defendant
claims that the failure to respond was due to a clerical error and not due to
any efforts to avoid service. Defendant also states that if the default is set
aside, it intends to file an answer and a cross-complaint. A copy of the
proposed answer is attached as an exhibit to defense counsel’s declaration. 
A corporate defendant is deemed to have
received actual notice for purposes of CCP § 473.5 if its board of directors,
president, or designated agent for service of process was served with the
summons and complaint on the defendant's behalf. (Pulte Homes Corp. v
Williams Mechanical, Inc. (2016) 2 CA5th 267, 273–275.) In Ramos v
Homeward Residential, Inc. (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 1434, 1445, a corporate
defendant was found not to have actual notice of the plaintiff's complaint
against it merely because the plaintiff's attorney informed some of the
defendant's employees of the litigation. Like the employees in Ramos,
Ms. Sun was not a person who could be served on the corporation's behalf under
Code of Civil Procedure section 416.10 and was not otherwise responsible for
responding to litigation. Furthermore, the fact that Plaintiff served a demand
letter on August 29, 2023, before this action was filed, does not impart actual
notice of the lawsuit (which was nonexistent at the time of the letter). Therefore,
Defendant’s motion is GRANTED and the default is set aside. 
The Court separately notes that on November
20, 2023, Plaintiff filed a request for entry of default which was denied
because the proof of service incorrectly stated that Mr. Zhang was “personally
served.” The notice of rejection informed Plaintiff that Mr. Zhang was served
by substituted service, not personal service, and that a corrected proof of
service was needed. Subsequently, On November 21, 2023, Plaintiff filed another
proof of service. While the title of the document states that it is a “proof of
service by substituted service”, the document was still defective because it
states that Mr. Zhang was “personally served.” Accordingly, the default was
entered incorrectly.   
IV.        
CONCLUSION
Defendant’s motion to set aside the
default is GRANTED. The Court sets a trial setting conference for __________ at
8:30 a.m. in Department 3 of the Alhambra Courthouse. 
Defendant is ordered to file its
proposed Answer within 10 days of the date of this order. 
Moving party to give notice.
 
Dated
this 14th
day of March
2024
 




 


 




 


William A. Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 
 