  Case Number:  22AHCV01376    Hearing Date:   March 14, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



YESENIA LOERA CASAS, et al., 
                   Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
MAZDA
   MOTOR OF AMERICA. INC.,
 
                   Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  22AHCV01376
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER DISCOVERY RESPONSES 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
March 14,
  2024




 


 


 



 
          On
November 9, 2023, plaintiffs Yesenia Loera Casas and Oscar Casas (“Plaintiffs”)
filed this motion to compel further responses from defendant Mazda Motor of
America, Inc. (“Defendant”) to their First Set of Requests for Production of
Documents. Plaintiffs also request sanctions in the amount of $5,597.50 against
Defendant and its counsel of record. 
          The
motion specifically addresses RFP Nos. 16, 18, and 33 through 43. 
On March 1, 2024, Defendant filed an
opposition brief requesting sanctions against Plaintiffs and their counsel of
record in the amount of $1,912.50 for filing this motion without substantial
justification and for failing to sufficiently meet and confer in good faith.
Defendant argues that Plaintiffs’ motion is also moot because it has already
provided further responses. 
          In
their reply brief filed on March 7, 2024, Plaintiffs argue that sanctions are
necessary because Defendant’s supplemental responses are not Code-Compliant and
Defendant is improperly conditioning production of the documents on an overly
broad protective order that “unnecessarily deviates from the Los Angeles County
Model Protective Order” proposed by Plaintiffs. (Reply, p. 1.) 
          On
March 8, 2024, Defendant filed a surreply clarifying that it recently agreed to
use Plaintiffs’ proposed protective order and sent a copy on March 1, 2024,
which has not been signed or returned. (Surreply, Ekblad Decl., Ex. A.) Therefore,
Plaintiffs’ complaints that any production is being conditioned on an overly
broad protective order is moot. 
Next,
Plaintiff argues that Defendant’s supplemental responses are not Code-compliant
because they do not identify “with particularity” any specific documents that
are allegedly objectionable. This argument is not persuasive because many of
Defendant’s supplemental responses merely state that the particular item
requested “has never existed.” Also, although Plaintiffs argue that Defendant’s
supplemental responses to RFP Nos. 16, 33, 34, 38, and 41 “unilaterally” limits
production, identifying the specific documents which Defendant is willing to
produce, by implication, identifies the responsive documents which Defendant
objects to producing. Plaintiffs also do not argue that a broad production is
necessary or appropriate. 
Accordingly,
the motion is DENIED. 
`         The
Court denies both parties’ requests for sanctions. Plaintiffs were
substantially justified in bringing this motion in response to Defendant’s
blanket objections. Furthermore, while defense counsel showed some willingness
to cooperate, they were not as forthcoming with providing their availability
for a time to meet and confer. (Mukai Reply Decl., Ex. 2.) 
 
 
Dated
this 14th
day of March, 2024
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 