  Case Number:  22PSCV01744    Hearing Date:   October 3, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE  NAME:  Frances  Gundlach v. Frank Flores, et al.  Defendant  Frank Flores’ Motion for Issue/Evidence Sanctions and/or Monetary Sanctions in  the Amount of $811.65  TENTATIVE  RULING  The Court DENIES Defendant Frank Flores’ motion for issue/evidence  sanctions and/or monetary sanctions in the amount of $811.65.               Defendant Frank Flores is ordered to  give notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.  BACKGROUND  This is a cat bite case. On November 9, 2022, plaintiff Frances  Gundlach (Plaintiff) filed this action against defendants Frank Flores (Frank),  Lydia Flores and Does 1 through 100 (collectively, Defendants). On October 18,  2023, Plaintiffs filed the operative First Amended Complaint (FAC) against the  same Defendants, alleging causes of action for strict liability, negligence,  premises liability, and negligence per se. On January 3, 2024, the Court  sustained Defendants’ demurrer to the Fourth Cause of Action for negligence per  se with leave to amend. Plaintiff did not amend the FAC.  On August 15, 2024, Frank moved for issue, evidentiary, and  monetary sanctions. The motion is unopposed.  LEGAL  STANDARD The court is authorized, after notice and an opportunity for  hearing, to impose the following sanctions against anyone engaging in conduct  that is a misuse of the discovery process: monetary sanctions, issue sanctions,  evidence sanctions, terminating sanctions, and contempt. (Code Civ. Proc.,  §¿2023.030, subds. (a)-(e).)             “Except as provided in (b), any motion involving the content of a discovery request  or the responses to such a request must be accompanied by a separate statement.  The motions that require a separate statement include a motion:… (7) For issue  or evidentiary sanctions.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1345, subd. (a)(7).)            DISCUSSION              Frank seeks for the Court to impose  issue and evidentiary sanctions against Plaintiff for Plaintiff’s failures to  comply with the Court’s April 30, 2024, order compelling document production  and the Court’s July 15, 2024, Informal Discovery Conference order. Frank  contends Plaintiff has not produced additional responsive documents or amended  verified responses.              The Court finds the motion procedurally defective. Frank  did not provide a separate statement as is required by Rule 3.1345, subdivision  (a)(7), of the California Rules of Court. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1345,  subd. (a)(7).) This by itself is sufficient grounds for denying the motion. (See  Mills v. U.S. Bank (2008) 166 Cal.App.4th 871, 893.)              Further, the Court finds that Frank has not established  that issue, evidence or additional monetary sanctions are warranted. On April 29,  2024, Plaintiff served responses to Frank’s request for production of documents,  set one, the day before the hearing on Frank’s motion to compel responses. (Kraft  Decl., ¶ 5, Ex. B.) On April 30, 2024, the Court ordered Plaintiff to serve all  responsive documents within 20 days of the Court’s order. In May, Plaintiff  produced documents to Frank. (Kraft Decl., ¶ 7, Ex. D.) On July 15, 2024, the  Court held an Informal Discovery Conference (IDC), and pursuant to the  agreement of the parties, ordered Plaintiff to serve, among other things, all  responsive documents and/or verified amended responses by August 13, 2024. The  Court further ordered that if Frank did not receive the documents or amended  responses by August 13, 2024, Frank could file the appropriate motion without a  further IDC.               Plaintiff served initial responses  and produced documents. If Frank believes the responses are incomplete or  improper, the appropriate motion would be a motion to compel further responses.  Frank filed such motions with respect to the responses to Form Interrogatories  and Special Interrogatories. It is unclear to the Court why Frank did not also  file a motion to compel further responses to the Request for Production of  Documents. Doppes v. Bentley Motors, Inc. (2009) 174  Cal.App.4th 967, 922 [“The discovery statutes evince an incremental approach to  discovery sanctions, starting with monetary sanctions and ending with the  ultimate sanction of termination”].) The Court does not find Plaintiff’s actions to be a misuse  of the discovery process.             For all of these reasons, the Court DENIES the motion.  CONCLUSION  The Court DENIES Defendant Frank Flores’ motion for issue/evidence  sanctions and/or monetary sanctions in the amount of $811.65.               Defendant Frank Flores is ordered to  give notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.