 Case Number:  24PSCV01648    Hearing Date:   October 3, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE  NAME:  KB  Encore LLC, a California Limited Liability Company, d/b/a “The Metro Sports and  Restobar” v. Toast, Inc., et al.  Defendants’  Amended Motion to Compel Arbitration and to Stay Action Pending Conclusion of  Arbitration Proceeds  TENTATIVE  RULING  The Court GRANTS the motion to compel arbitration. The Court STAYS  this action pending completion of arbitration.               Defendants are ordered to give  notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.  BACKGROUND  This is a business dispute. On May 21, 2024, plaintiff KB Encore  LLC, a California Limited Liability Company, d/b/a “The Metro Sports and  Restobar” (Plaintiff) filed this action against defendants Toast, Inc. (Toast),  Richard Castrejon (Castrejon), Michael Mulkey (Mulkey) (collectively,  Defendants), and Does 1 through 50, alleging causes of action for breach of  contract, fraud by concealment, negligent misrepresentation, breach of implied  covenant of good faith and fair dealing, intentional interference with  prospective economic advantage, negligent interference with prospective  economic advantage, negligence, and unfair business practices/violation of  Business and Professions Code § 17200.  On August 2, 2024, Defendants moved to compel arbitration. On August  14, 2024, Defendants filed an amended motion to compel arbitration. On August  27, 2024, Plaintiffs opposed the motion. On September 25, 2024, Defendants  replied.  LEGAL  STANDARD  Parties may be compelled to  arbitrate a dispute upon the court finding that: (1) there was a valid  agreement to arbitrate between the parties; and (2) said agreement covers the  controversy or controversies in the parties’ dispute.¿(Omar v. Ralphs  Grocery Co. (2004)¿118 Cal.App.4th 955, 961.) A party moving to compel  arbitration has the burden of establishing the existence of a valid agreement  to arbitrate and the party opposing the petition has the burden of proving, by  a preponderance of the evidence, any fact necessary to its defense. (Banner  Entertainment, Inc. v. Superior Court¿(1998) 62 Cal.App.4th 348, 356-357.)  A party seeking to compel arbitration meets their initial burden of  establishing the existence of a valid arbitration agreement by attaching a copy  to the motion or petition to compel arbitration. (Espejo v.  Southern California Permanente Medical Group (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th 1047,  1060 (Espejo).)  “California  has a strong public policy in favor of arbitration and any doubts regarding the  arbitrability of a dispute are resolved in favor of arbitration.” (Coast  Plaza Doctors Hospital v. Blue Cross of California (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th  677, 686.) “This strong policy has resulted in the general rule that  arbitration should be upheld unless it can be said with assurance that an  arbitration clause is not susceptible to an interpretation covering the  asserted dispute.” (Ibid., internal quotations omitted.) This  is in accord with the liberal federal policy favoring arbitration agreements  under the Federal Arbitration Act (“FAA”), which governs all agreements to  arbitrate in contracts involving interstate commerce. (9 U.S.C. § 2, et  seq.; Higgins v. Superior Court (2006) 140 Cal.App.4th 1238, 1247.)  DISCUSSION  FAA  v. CAA            “[T]he FAA's procedural provisions do not apply unless the contract  contains a choice-of-law clause expressly incorporating them. [T]he question is  not whether the parties adopted the CAA’s procedural provisions: The state's procedural  statutes apply by default because Congress intended the comparable FAA sections  to apply in federal court. The question, therefore, is whether the parties  expressly incorporated the FAA’s procedural provisions into their agreements.” (Victrola 89, LLC v. Jaman Properties 8 LLC (2020) 46  Cal.App.5th 337, 345, internal citations omitted and italics in original.) “[P]revious cases have held that when an arbitration  agreement provides that its ‘enforcement’ shall be governed by California law,  the [CAA] governs a party's motion to compel arbitration. It follows that when  an agreement provides that its ‘enforcement’ shall be governed by the FAA, the  FAA governs a party's motion to compel arbitration.” (Id. at p. 346.)  The arbitration provision at issue provides that the  FAA “governs the interpretation and enforcement of this Arbitration  Agreement.” (Notice of Errata (8/14/24), Ex. A.) Accordingly, the FAA  governs this motion to compel arbitration. (Victrola 89, LLC v. Jaman  Properties 8 LLC, supra, 46 Cal.App.5th at p. 345.)  Analysis  Defendants move to compel arbitration based on  section 14 of a document entitled, “Merchant Agreement.” (Notice of Errata  (8/14/24), Ex. A, § 14 [referred to hereinafter as the Arbitration Agreement].)  Defendants provided a copy of the Arbitration Agreement with their Notice of  Errata, and therefore have met their initial burden of establishing the  existence of an arbitration agreement between the parties. (Espejo, supra,  246 Cal.App.4th at p. 1060.) The burden now shifts to Plaintiff to challenge  the validity of the Arbitration Agreement.  Plaintiff contends Castrejon and Mulkey do not have  the right to enforce the Arbitration Agreement because they are not parties to  the agreements identified in the complaint, namely the Toast Merchant Agreement  Initial Order Form (the Initial Order Form)[1] and Commercial Equipment Lease Agreement (the Lease). (Compl., Exs. 1, 2,  respectively.) Plaintiff also contends it did not agree to arbitrate disputes  with Toast per the Initial Order Form or Lease on the grounds that neither of  those documents contained an arbitration provision. Plaintiff further contends  the link referenced in those documents is misleading and inconspicuous, fails  to provide notice of any purported additional terms, and fails to require  affirmative assent from the party signing them. Plaintiff also contends the  Arbitration Agreement is an unenforceable browsewrap agreement, is  unconscionable, and that, even if it is enforceable, Defendants have waited too  long to move to compel arbitration per the terms of the Arbitration Agreement.  The Court declines to address Plaintiff’s arguments  here because, as noted in the moving papers, this Arbitration Agreement  contains a delegation clause which delegates questions of validity,  enforceability, and arbitrability to the arbitrator. (Motion, 10:7-11:10;  Arbitration Agreement, § 14.4.) Plaintiff’s arguments all fall within the scope  of that clause. The issue then becomes whether the delegation clause itself is  enforceable, which the Court addresses more in depth below.  Arbitrability and Unconscionability of the Delegation  Clause  An arbitration clause that “clearly and unmistakably”  empowers the arbitrator to decide issues of arbitrability is enforceable,  provided the delegation is not revocable by a contractual defense, such as unconscionability,  fraud, or duress. (Rent-a-Center, Inc. v. Jackson (2010) 561 U.S. 63,  68-69 fn. 1 (Rent-a-Center).)  “[P]rocedural  and substantive unconscionability must both be present in order for a court to  exercise its discretion to refuse to enforce a contract or clause under the  doctrine of unconscionability.” (Armendariz v. Foundation Health Psychcare  Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 102.) The courts invoke a sliding  scale which disregards the regularity of the procedural process of the contract  formation, that creates the terms, in proportion to the greater harshness or  unreasonableness of the substantive terms themselves, i.e., the more  substantively oppressive the contract term, the less evidence of procedural  unconscionability is required to conclude that the term is unenforceable, and  vice versa. (Id., at p. 114.) Plaintiff bears the burden of proving that  the provision at issue is both procedurally and substantively  unconscionable.   “Procedural  unconscionability focuses on the elements of oppression and surprise.  [Citations] ‘Oppression arises from an inequality of bargaining power which  results in no real negotiation and an absence of meaningful choice … Surprise  involves the extent to which the terms of the bargain are hidden in a ‘prolix  printed form’ drafted by a party in a superior bargaining position.’  [Citations]” (Roman v. Superior Court (2009) 172 Cal.App.4th 1462,  1469.)  “Substantive  unconscionability focuses on the actual terms of the agreement and evaluates  whether they create ‘overly harsh’ or ‘‘one-sided’ results’ [Citations] that  is, whether contractual provisions reallocate risks in an objectively  unreasonable or unexpected manner.   [Citation] Substantive unconscionability ‘may take various forms,’ but  typically is found in the employment context when the arbitration agreement is  ‘one-sided’ in favor of the employer without sufficient justification, for  example, when ‘the employee’s claims against the employer, but not the employer’s  claims against the employee, are subject to arbitration.’ [Citations]” (Roman,  supra, 172 Cal.App.4th at pp. 1469-1470.)  Defendants contend the Arbitration Agreement clearly  and unmistakably delegates arbitration of “gateway” questions regarding  arbitrability to the arbitrator. In opposition, Plaintiff does not address this  argument, but instead generally contends that the Arbitration Agreement is  unconscionable because neither the Initial Order Form nor the Lease has any  purported arbitration agreement on its face, but instead references a link at  the bottom of the credit card processing rate section to a document consisting  of 45 pages in small print, with unagreed upon terms benefiting the drafting  party and no opt out provision. Plaintiff contends this provision is unfairly  unilateral, forces any merchant to subject themselves to arbitration, and requires  no acknowledgment or authorization from the merchant.  In reply, Defendants contend there is nothing  unconscionable about the Arbitration Agreement because its terms were clearly  incorporated by reference. Defendants contend the terms were not buried or  concealed, but instead appeared in multiple places on the Initial Order Form,  including prominently on the signature page, directly above where Plaintiff  signed it. Defendants contend incorporation by reference is permissible under  California law. Defendants contend the Arbitration Agreement is not unilateral  as Plaintiff argues, but rather is bilateral because it applies to both  parties.  The Court finds the delegation clause enforceable.  First, claims of unconscionability regarding delegation clauses must be  directed specifically to the delegation clause. (Rent-a-Center, supra, 561  U.S. at p. 73.) Plaintiff’s unconscionability argument was directed at the  Arbitration Agreement as a whole, not the delegation clause. (Opp., pp. 8-10.) Second,  even if Plaintiff had claimed the delegation clause was unconscionable, the  Court still finds the Arbitration Agreement clearly and unmistakably evidences  an intent to delegate issues of arbitrability to the arbitrator. “All issues are for the  arbitrator to decide, including, but not limited to, issues relating to the  scope, enforceability, and arbitrability of this Arbitration Agreement.”  (Arbitration Agreement, ¶ 14.4.)  Third, the Court does not  find the delegation clause to be unconscionable or otherwise revocable under a  contractual defense. Plaintiff has not presented much, if any, evidence of  procedural unconscionability here. The Court agrees with Defendants that the  link containing the terms of the Arbitration Agreement, which includes the  delegation clause, is not buried and can be found in multiple locations in the  Initial Order Form, one of which is located near a signature block. (Compl.,  Ex. 1, pp. 19, 25 of pdf.) Fourth, even assuming for the sake of argument that  Plaintiff has demonstrated some evidence of procedural unconscionability,  Plaintiff provided no evidence of substantive unconscionability. Defendants  correctly contend that the Arbitration Agreement is enforceable by both  parties, and is not unilateral as Plaintiff contends. (Arbitration Agreement, §  14.1.) Therefore, there is not enough evidence of unconscionability here to find  the delegation clause unenforceable.  Accordingly, all issues  regarding the enforceability of the Arbitration Agreement are to be decided by  the arbitrator.  CONCLUSION  The Court GRANTS the motion to compel arbitration. The Court STAYS  this action pending completion of arbitration.               Defendants are ordered to give  notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.     