 Case Number:  24PSCV01625    Hearing Date:   October 3, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE  NAME:  Ning  Sun v. Allied Physicians of California IPA (DBA Allied Pacific IPA)  1 – Defendant  Allied Physicians of California IPA’s Demurrer to Plaintiff’s Complaint; 2 – Defendant  Allied Physicians of California IPA Motion to Strike; and 3 – Plaintiff  Ning Sun’s Motion for Leave to Amend Complaint to Ratify Punitive Damages Claim  Against Defendant Allied Physicians of California IPA  TENTATIVE  RULING  The Court SUSTAINS Defendant Allied Physicians of California IPA’s  demurrer to Plaintiff’s complaint with 30 days’ leave to amend.  The Court GRANTS Defendant Allied Physicians of California IPA’s  motion to strike as to the following portions of the complaint, without prejudice  to Plaintiff seeking leave to amend:  1.      The following  language at Prayer for Relief, item a. 3, page 7, lines 6 to 7, in its  entirety: “Punitive damages for wrongfully delayed and denied cancer treatment  second times, but certainly in excess of $8.8 million.”; 2.      The following  references to “punitive damages” at page 1, line 25; page 5, line 18, and page  6, line 3; 3.      The following  language at page 4, line 24: “with deliberated malice.”; and 4.      The following  language at page 4, lines 25-26: “This not only shows a profound disregard for  human life but also constitutes torture with malice and intentional harm.”  The  Court DENIES Plaintiff Ning Sun’s motion for leave to amend regarding punitive  damages as moot, without prejudice.               Defendant is ordered to give notice  of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.  BACKGROUND  This is a bad faith insurance action. On May 20, 2024, plaintiff  Ning Sun (Plaintiff) filed this action against defendant Allied Physicians of  California IPA (DBA Allied Pacific IPA) (Defendant), alleging causes of action  for insurance bad faith – breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair  dealing, intentional infliction of emotional distress, and negligent infliction  of emotional distress.  On August 30, 2024, Defendant demurred to and moved to strike the  complaint. On September 18, 2024, Plaintiff opposed the demurrer and motion to  strike. On September 25, 2024, Defendant replied.  On September 12, 2024, Plaintiff moved for leave to amend the  complaint to ratify the punitive damages claim against Defendant. The motion is  unopposed.  LEGAL  STANDARD – Demurrer              A demurrer is a pleading used to test the legal sufficiency of  other pleadings. It raises issues of law, not fact, regarding the form or  content of the opposing party's pleading (complaint, answer or  cross-complaint). (Code Civ. Proc., § 422.10; see Donabedian v.  Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994 (Donabedian).) It  is not the function of the demurrer to challenge the truthfulness of the  complaint; and for purposes of ruling on the demurrer, all facts pleaded in the  complaint are assumed to be true. (Ibid.)  A  demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the  pleading under attack; or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially  noticeable. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318; Donabedian,  supra, 116 Cal.App.4th at p. 994.) No other extrinsic evidence can be  considered. (Ion Equip. Corp. v. Nelson (1980) 110 Cal.App.3d 868,  881 [error for court to consider facts asserted in memorandum supporting  demurrer]; see also Afuso v. United States Fid. & Guar. Co. (1985) 169 Cal.App.3d 859, 862, disapproved on other grounds in Moradi-Shalal  v. Fireman’s Fund Ins. Cos. (1988) 46 Cal.3d 287 [error to consider  contents of release not part of court record].)  A  demurrer can be utilized where the “face of the complaint” itself is incomplete  or discloses some defense that would bar recovery. (Guardian North Bay, Inc.  v. Superior Court (2001) 94 Cal.App.4th 963, 971-972.) The “face of  the complaint” includes material contained in attached exhibits that are  incorporated by reference into the complaint, or in a superseded complaint in the same action. (Frantz v.  Blackwell (1987) 189 Cal.App.3d 91, 94; see also Barnett v. Fireman’s  Fund Ins. Co. (2001) 90 Cal.App.4th 500, 505 [“[W]e rely on and accept as true the contents of the exhibits and treat as  surplusage the pleader’s allegations as to the legal effect of the exhibits.”])  A demurrer  can only be sustained when it disposes of an entire cause of action. (Poizner  v. Fremont General Corp. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97, 119; Kong v. City of  Hawaiian Gardens Redev. Agency (2003) 108  Cal.App.4th 1028, 1046.)   DISCUSSION  Meet and Confer  Per Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41, subdivision (a),  Defendant was required to meet and confer in person, by telephone, or by video  conference before bringing this demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd.  (a).) The Court finds Defendant’s efforts to meet and confer sufficient. (Pancer  Decl., ¶¶ 4-7.)  First Cause of Action – Insurance Bad Faith-Breach of the Implied  Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing  To allege a breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair  dealing, the plaintiff must allege, “something beyond breach of the contractual  duty itself and it has been held that [b]ad faith implies unfair dealing rather  than mistaken judgment .... [Citations.]” (Careau & Co. v. Sec. Pac.  Bus. Credit, Inc. (1990) 222 Cal.App.3d 1371, 1394.) “There is no  obligation to deal fairly or in good faith absent an existing contract.  [Citation.]” (Racine & Laramie, Ltd. v. Dep't of Parks & Recreation  (1992) 11 Cal.App.4th 1026, 1032.)  Defendant demurs to the First Cause of Action for insurance bad  faith-breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing on the  grounds that it fails to allege sufficient facts to state a cause of action  against Defendant because Plaintiff has not alleged the existence of any  contract between the parties. Defendant contends there is no obligation to deal  fairly or in good faith absent an existing contract. Defendant notes that the  complaint at most alleges Plaintiff was enrolled under Health Net’s Medi-Cal  health plan administered by Defendant, but contends this is insufficient to  establish any legal agreement between Plaintiff and Defendant. Defendant  further contends Plaintiff fails to allege the necessary elements of a  contract, such as offer, acceptance, and consideration, as well as the terms of  the purported contract between Plaintiff and Defendant.  In opposition, Plaintiff contends he is a third-party beneficiary  of the contract between Health Net and Defendant, which was made expressly for  the benefit of insured individuals like Plaintiff. Plaintiff contends he  benefits from that contract, as it is Defendant’s responsibility to locate  physicians or healthcare providers for Plaintiff, Plaintiff could show that a  motivating purpose was to benefit him because of Defendant’s assignment to  administer medical referral services for Plaintiff, and because enforcement of  this cause of action would fulfill the objectives of the insurance contract to  provide services to insured individuals like Plaintiff. Plaintiff contends he  has alleged that Defendant, as the entity responsible for managing Plaintiff’s  medical referrals, failed to act in good faith by wrongfully delaying and  denying necessary cancer treatment.  The Court agrees with Defendant. The complaint does  not allege the existence of a contract between Plaintiff and Defendant, which  is necessary for a claim for breach of the implied covenant of good faith and  fair dealing. (Racine & Laramie, Ltd. v. Dep't of Parks & Recreation,  supra, 11 Cal.App.4th at p. 1032.) “A written contract may be pleaded  either by its terms—set out verbatim in the complaint or a copy of the contract  attached to the complaint and incorporated therein by reference—or by its legal  effect. [Citation.]” (McKell v. Washington Mutual, Inc. (2006) 142  Cal.App.4th 1457, 1489.) The complaint did not attach a copy of a written  agreement, set out the terms verbatim, or plead their legal effect. The  complaint does not allege the terms of any contract between Plaintiff and  Defendant, or even Defendant and Health Net for that matter. The Complaint also  does not allege the terms of a contract between Plaintiff and Health Net. Nor does  it allege facts showing that Defendant was acting as the agent of Health Net as  the administrator of Plaintiff’s health plan with Health Net.  To the extent Plaintiff contends he is a third-party  beneficiary of an agreement between Defendant and Health Net, that argument is  unavailing because Plaintiff has not alleged what the terms of the purported agreement  between Health Net and Defendant are. The Court therefore is unable to  determine whether Plaintiff was an intended or incidental beneficiary of any  such agreement. (See Goonewardene v. ADP, LLC (2019) 6  Cal.5th 817, 830 [“our court has carefully examined the express provisions of  the contract at issue…”]; Lucas v. Hamm (1961) 56 Cal.2d 583, 590 [Civil  Code section 1559 excludes incidental beneficiaries from enforcing contracts as  third parties]; see also Moncada v. West Coast Corp. (2013) 221  Cal.App.4th 768, 777 [a contract is void if it the parties’ intent cannot be  ascertained].)  Based on the foregoing, the Court SUSTAINS the  demurrer to the First Cause of Action with 30 days’ leave to amend.  Second Cause of Action – Intentional Infliction of  Emotional Distress  To state a cause of action for intentional infliction  of emotional distress, the plaintiff must allege facts demonstrating, “(1)  defendant engaged in extreme and outrageous conduct (conduct so extreme as to  exceed all bounds of decency in a civilized community) with the intent to  cause, or with reckless disregard to the probability of causing, emotional  distress; and (2) as a result, plaintiff suffered extreme or severe emotional  distress.” (Berry v. Frazier (2023) 90 Cal.App.5th 1258, 1273 (Berry).)  “Whether a defendant's conduct can reasonably be found to be outrageous is a  question of law that must initially be determined by the court; if reasonable  persons may differ, it is for the jury to determine whether the conduct was, in  fact, outrageous. [Citation.]” (Berkley v. Dowds (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th  518, 534; but see Berry, supra, 90 Cal.App.5th at p. 1273 [“’[W]hether  conduct is ‘outrageous’ is usually a question of fact.’ [Citation]”)  Defendant demurs to the Second Cause of Action for  intentional infliction of emotional distress on the grounds that it fails to allege  facts demonstrating extreme and outrageous conduct or severe emotional  distress. Defendant contends that its alleged delay and denial of medical  treatment are conclusory allegations without factual support that demonstrate  conduct exceeding all bounds of decency. Defendant contends the mere delay or  denial of medical treatment, even if intentional, does not rise to the level of  extreme and outrageous conduct necessary to sustain a claim for intentional  infliction of emotional distress. Defendant further contends Plaintiff’s  allegations of extreme emotional distress, pain, and suffering are vague and  lack any concrete examples or medical evidence of emotional distress.  In opposition, Plaintiff contends he has sufficiently  alleged facts to state a cause of action for intentional infliction of  emotional distress. Plaintiff contends the allegations of the complaint  demonstrate extreme and outrageous conduct by Defendant deliberately  disregarding Plaintiff’s urgent medical needs for life preserving treatment.  Plaintiff also contends the complaint does not need to allege concrete examples  or medical evidence of emotional distress.  Under some circumstances, “a health care plan's  conduct in handling a claim may result in liability for intentional infliction  of emotional distress. However, courts have rejected liability where the  insurer ‘simply delayed or denied insurance benefits’.” (Mintz v. Blue Cross  of California (2009) 172 Cal.App.4th 1594, 1608.) Here, the Court agrees  with Defendant. The facts as presently alleged in the complaint do not rise to  the level of extreme and outrageous conduct necessary to state a cause of  action for intentional infliction of emotional distress. “Ordinarily, a medical  diagnosis and treatment advice will not be considered outrageous unless they  are false and given in bad faith. [Citation.]” (Berkley v. Dowds  (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 518, 534.) The most Plaintiff has alleged here is a  disagreement over referrals for Plaintiff’s cancer treatments, which is effectively  treatment advice from Defendant. (See Ibid.) Plaintiff also has  not alleged any facts demonstrating that Defendant’s denials of referrals were  made in bad faith.  Moreover, the Court also agrees with Defendant that  the complaint does not allege facts demonstrating Plaintiff suffered severe  emotional distress. It is not enough for Plaintiff to allege that he suffered extreme  emotional distress. (Compl., pp. 4-6.) That is a conclusory allegation which  the Court disregards on a demurrer. (Serrano v. Priest  (1971) 5 Cal.3d 584, 591.)  Accordingly, the Court SUSTAINS the demurrer to the  Second Cause of Action with 30 days’ leave to amend.  Third Cause of Action – Negligent Infliction of  Emotional Distress  To state a cause of action for negligent infliction  of emotional distress, the plaintiff must allege facts that would otherwise  support a claim for negligence, such as duty, breach, causation, and damages. (Eriksson  v. Nunnink (2015) 233 Cal.App.4th 708, 729.)  Defendant demurs to the Third Cause of Action for  negligent infliction of emotional distress on the grounds that it is not a  valid cause of action in California and Plaintiff has not alleged a claim under  general negligence principals. Defendant contends Plaintiff has not adequately  alleged that Defendant breached a specific duty owed to Plaintiff. Defendant  contends the allegations of the complaint are vague and fail to specify the  applicable standard of care to Defendant or how Defendant’s actions deviated  from that standard. Defendant contends Plaintiff has not alleged any special  relationship with Defendant that would give rise to a duty to avoid causing  emotional distress.  In opposition, Plaintiff acknowledges that negligent  infliction of emotional distress is not an independent tort, but contends that  it can be brought under negligence principles. Plaintiff contends Defendant  owed Plaintiff a duty of care as the entity responsible for managing his  healthcare referrals service, and that Defendant breached this duty by delaying  and denying necessary treatment.  The Court disagrees with Defendant regarding the  issue of duty because healthcare providers do owe a duty of care to patients. (Aguirre-Alvarez v. Regents of Univ. of California  (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1058, 1067.) Nevertheless, whether Defendant owes a duty  does not change the Court’s finding that the complaint fails to state a cause  of action for negligent infliction of emotional distress. First, the complaint  is devoid of facts demonstrating that Defendant breached any duty of care to  Plaintiff by not providing the referrals Plaintiff contend are necessary. Second,  as noted above, Plaintiff has not alleged facts demonstrating emotional  distress suffered as a result of Defendant’s alleged actions. It is not enough  to just allege that Plaintiff suffered significant emotional and physical  distress. (Compl., p. 6.) That is a conclusory allegation which the Court disregards  on a demurrer. (Serrano v. Priest, supra,  5 Cal.3d at p. 591.)  Based on the foregoing, the Court SUSTAINS the  demurrer to the Third Cause of Action with 30 days’ leave to amend.  Punitive Damages  “A demurrer does not lie to a portion of a cause of  action.” (Cnty. of El Dorado v. Superior Ct. (2019) 42  Cal.App.5th 620, 624, internal quotation marks and citation omitted.) The Court  declines to consider Defendant’s demurrer with respect to punitive damages in  the complaint, as punitive damages are not a cause of action. (See ibid.;  Grieves v. Superior Court (1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 159, 164 [punitive  damages are only incidental to a cause of action, not the basis for a cause of  action].)   LEGAL  STANDARD – Motion to Strike              “Any party, within the time allowed to  respond to a pleading may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the whole  or any part thereof, but this time limitation shall not apply to motions  specified in subdivision (e).” (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(2).)  “The court may, upon a motion made pursuant to Section 435, or at any time in  its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper: (a) Strike out any  irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading. (b) Strike out all or any  part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of  this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.” (Id., § 436.)  REQUESTS FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE –  Motion to Strike              The  Court GRANTS Defendant’s request for judicial notice. (Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (c); Friends of Shingle  Springs Interchange, Inc. v. County of El Dorado (2011) 200 Cal.App.4th  1470, 1483-1484 [court may take judicial notice of certificate of corporate  defendant's status from Secretary of State]; see Baldwin v. AAA N. California,  Nevada & Utah Ins. Exch. (2016) 1 Cal.App.5th 545, 553 [court  may take judicial notice of meaning of document where there is only one  reasonable interpretation]; Fremont Indem. Co. v. Fremont  Gen. Corp. (2007)148 Cal.App.4th 97, 114 [same].)  DISCUSSION –  Motion to Strike  Meet and Confer  Per Code of Civil Procedure section  435.5, subdivision (a), Defendant was required to meet and confer in person, by  telephone, or by video conference before bringing this motion to strike.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5, subd. (a).) The Court finds Defendant’s efforts to meet and confer sufficient.  (Pancer Decl., ¶¶ 4-7.)  Punitive Damages  A claim for punitive damages is subject to a motion to strike when  the allegations fail to rise to the level of malice, oppression, or fraud  necessary under Civil Code section 3294. (Turman v. Turning Point of Central  California, Inc. (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 53, 64.)  Defendant seeks to strike Plaintiff’s punitive damages requests  from the complaint on the grounds that the only allegations supporting  Plaintiff’s punitive damages claims are conclusory and devoid of factual  support. Defendant also seeks to strike Plaintiff’s punitive damages claims per  Code of Civil Procedure section 425.13, which prohibits punitive damages claims  against health care providers without prior leave of court. Defendant contends  it is a health care provider as it is a professional corporation of physicians  licensed to practice medicine in the State of California and its Articles of  Incorporation indicate its purpose is to engage in the profession of medicine.  Defendant contends Plaintiff’s claims arose out of the alleged professional  negligence of a health care provider because it is based on the exercise of  medical judgment conducted by medical professionals in administering Plaintiff’s  medical referral services.  In opposition, Plaintiff contends he has alleged specific  instances of intentional misconduct by Defendant that warrants the claim for  punitive damages, namely the substantial delays and denials in cancer  treatment. Plaintiff contends the complaint provides sufficient factual  allegations to meet the threshold for malice and oppression. Plaintiff further  contends that Defendant is a managed care facility under Civil Code section  3248 and is therefore not a health care provider for purposes of Code of Civil  Procedure section 425.13, as Defendant’s primary function is to manage and  administer health care referrals, and its involvement in patient care does not  extend to direct medical treatment.              The Court agrees with Defendant.  Given the Court’s sustaining of the demurrer to the First through Third Causes  of Action in the complaint, there are currently no causes of action of  remaining that would support a claim for punitive damages. The Court also  agrees the complaint is generally devoid of factual allegations demonstrating  any conduct on the part of Defendant that would justify a claim for punitive  damages. (Turman v. Turning Point of Central California, Inc., supra, 191  Cal.App.4th at p. 64.)              The Court further agrees that the punitive damages claims  are subject to a motion to strike under Code of Civil Procedure section 425.13.  Defendant’s Articles of Incorporation expressly state that its purpose is the  profession of medicine. (Request for Judicial Notice, Ex. 1.) The Complaint  does not clearly allege the services Defendant provides. The Court finds this  sufficient at this stage of the litigation to bring Defendant within the scope  of Code of Civil Procedure section 425.13. (Palmer v. Superior Ct.  (2002) 103 Cal.App.4th 953, 966-967 [medical group comprised of licensed medical  practitioners who provide direct medical services to patients found to be  “health care providers” for purposes of Code of Civil Procedure section 425.13,  even if the complaint characterized the medical group as a “subscriber  agreement administrator”].) As such, Plaintiff should have first requested  leave to amend to add a punitive damages claim before including them in the  complaint.              Based on the foregoing, the Court GRANTS  Defendant’s motion to strike the following portions of the complaint, without  prejudice to Plaintiff seeking leave to amend:  1.      The following  language at Prayer for Relief, item a. 3, page 7, lines 6 to 7, in its  entirety: “Punitive damages for wrongfully delayed and denied cancer treatment  second times, but certainly in excess of $8.8 million.”; 2.      The following  references to “punitive damages” at page 1, line 25; page 5, line 18, and page  6, line 3; 3.      The following  language at page 4, line 24: “with deliberated malice.”; and 4.      The following  language at page 4, lines 25-26: “This not only shows a profound disregard for  human life but also constitutes torture with malice and intentional harm.”  LEGAL  STANDARD – Motion for Leave to Amend re Punitive Damages The trial court has discretion to allow amendments to  pleadings in the furtherance of justice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd.  (a)(1).) “Any judge, at any time before or after commencement of trial, in the  furtherance of justice, and upon such terms as may be proper, may allow the  amendment of any pleading.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 576.) “There is a policy of  great liberality in permitting amendments to the pleadings at any stage of the  proceeding.” (Berman v. Bromberg (1997) 56 Cal.App.4th 936, 945,  citation omitted.) “An application to amend a pleading is addressed to the  trial judge’s sound discretion.” (Ibid., citation omitted.) “In any  action for damages arising out of the professional negligence of a health care  provider, no claim for punitive damages shall be included in a complaint or  other pleading unless the court enters an order allowing an amended pleading  that includes a claim for punitive damages to be filed. The court may allow the  filing of an amended pleading claiming punitive damages on a motion by the  party seeking the amended pleading and on the basis of the supporting and  opposing affidavits presented that the plaintiff has established that there is  a substantial probability that the plaintiff will prevail on the claim pursuant  to Section 3294 of the Civil Code.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 425.13, subd. (a).) A party seeking leave to amend must attach a copy of  the proposed pleading to the motion for leave to amend. (Cal. Rules of Court,  rule 3.1324, subd. (a)(1).) A motion for leave to amend must also state what  allegations are proposed to be added or deleted to the previous pleading, if  any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number the additional or deleted  allegations or located. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324, subd. (a)(2)-(3).)  Under Rule 3.1324, subdivision (b) of the California Rules of Court, a separate  declaration must accompany a motion for leave to amend and must specify: (1)  the effect of the amendment; (2) why the amendment is necessary and proper; (3)  when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered; and (4)  the reasons why the request for amendment was not made earlier. (Cal. Rules of  Court, rule 3.1324, subd. (b).) DISCUSSION – Motion for  Leave to Amend re Punitive Damages              Plaintiff seeks leave of the Court to  maintain his punitive damages claim against Defendant. In light of the Court  granting Defendant’s motion to strike Plaintiff’s punitive damages claims, the  Court finds this motion moot and will deny it as such, without prejudice. Even  if the Court were to consider the merits of the motion, the Court notes that the  motion has numerous defects, such as failing to attach a copy of the proposed  amended complaint, identifying the locations of the proposed changes, as well  as a declaration that satisfies the requirements of Rule 3.1324, subdivision (b).  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324.)              Based on the foregoing, the Court  DENIES the motion for leave to amend regarding punitive damages as moot,  without prejudice.  CONCLUSION  The Court SUSTAINS Defendant Allied Physicians of California IPA’s  demurrer to Plaintiff’s complaint with 30 days’ leave to amend.  The Court GRANTS Defendant Allied Physicians of California IPA’s  motion to strike as to the following portions of the complaint, without prejudice  to Plaintiff seeking leave to amend:  5.      The following  language at Prayer for Relief, item a. 3, page 7, lines 6 to 7, in its  entirety: “Punitive damages for wrongfully delayed and denied cancer treatment  second times, but certainly in excess of $8.8 million.”; 6.      The following  references to “punitive damages” at page 1, line 25; page 5, line 18, and page  6, line 3; 7.      The following  language at page 4, line 24: “with deliberated malice.”; and 8.      The following  language at page 4, lines 25-26: “This not only shows a profound disregard for  human life but also constitutes torture with malice and intentional harm.”  The  Court DENIES Plaintiff Ning Sun’s motion for leave to amend regarding punitive  damages as moot, without prejudice.               Defendant is ordered to give notice  of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.