 Case Number:  20BBCV00479    Hearing Date:   April 12, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
APRIL 12, 2024

MOTION FOR
RELIEF FROM WAIVER

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 20BBCV00479

 



MP:  


Erma L. Miller, TR, and L.B. Stites
  (Plaintiffs)




RP:  


State Farm General
  Insurance Company (Defendant)



 
NOTICE:
 
The Court is not requesting oral argument on this
matter.  The Court is guided by California Rules of Court, Rule
3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear is requested.  Unless the
Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling, no argument is requested and
any party seeking argument should notify all other parties and the court by
4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the party’s intention to
appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become the ruling of the
court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org
or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Procedure
Prior to Motion 
 
Erma L.
Miller (Miller), TR a minor through her guardian ad litem L.B. Stites (TR), and
L.B. Stites (Stites) (collectively Plaintiffs) bring this action against Matt
Flynn, Bill Gomez, Jerry Paredes, John Grubaugh, and State Farm General
Insurance Company (State Farm) (collectively Defendants). Plaintiffs claim
Defendants refused to issue assistance pursuant to an alleged homeowners
insurance policy issued by State Farm. Glen Murphy, Esq. (Murphy) serves as
counsel for Miller and TR in this action. Stites was in pro per prior to his death.

 
On April
27, 2023, the Court granted Miller’s application for appointment of a guardian
ad litem. Miller’s counsel represented that Miller has been hospitalized for an
extended period of time and her mental faculties have deteriorated to where she
can no longer understand these proceedings. Miller’s daughter, Tina Lee (Lee)
now serves as her guardian ad litem. 
 
On July 7, 2023, the Court
granted six motions brought by State Farm to compel discovery responses. The
Court entered an order which required subsequent production and issued monetary
sanctions against Plaintiffs for failure to respond. 
 
On January 12, 2024, the
Court granted Miller’s motion to substitute herself as plaintiff for Stites.
The Court found it was appropriate for Miller to substitute for the late Stites.

 
Thereafter, Miller, TR, and
Stites filed a motion asking the Court to relieve them from the July 7, 2023
order. State Farm opposed the motion and Plaintiffs replied.
 
Initial Hearing
 
The Court read and
considered the papers submitted by both parties and issued a tentative ruling. On
March 29, 2024, this motion came on for hearing and Plaintiffs’ counsel
requested oral argument. Plaintiffs’ counsel submitted on the Court’s tentative
ruling in most respects but asked that the Court reconsider its ruling
regarding Miller and TR’s waiver of objections. Plaintiffs argued that the
subsequent service of responses to the RFPD meant that they should be relieved
from the waiver of objections based on attorney client privilege and attorney
work product privilege. Counsel for State Farm argued that the responses
received were not substantially code compliant in that they contained general
objections which had been waived when Plaintiffs failed to timely respond. 
 
Having heard the arguments
of both parties, the Court proposed that the motion be continued for a brief
time. In the interim, Plaintiffs’ counsel was to file a declaration retracting
the general objections in the RFA responses and attesting to any documents
which were withheld on the basis of privilege. 
 
The Court, having reviewed
the subsequent submissions from Plaintiffs, now issues this final ruling. For
purposes of clarity, the following ruling incorporates the Court’s tentative
ruling except with respect to waiver of objections. Changes to the tentative
based on the declaration of Plaintiffs’ counsel will be explicitly stated.  
  
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
C.C.P. §
473
 
The court
notes that Plaintiffs first state their motion is brought pursuant to C.C.P. §
473. C.C.P. § 473(b) governs both mandatory relief from an order of the Court
upon a showing of mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect by a
party. The statute also governs discretionary relief from an order of the Court
upon a showing of mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect by a
party’s counsel. 
 
Under
this statute, an application for relief must be made no more than six months
after entry of the judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding from which
relief is sought and must be accompanied by an affidavit of fault attesting to
the mistake, inadvertence, surprise or neglect of the moving party or its
attorney. (C.C.P. § 473(b); English v. IKON Business Solutions (2001) 94
Cal.App.4th 130, 143.)
 
Here,
Plaintiff seeks relief from an order which was entered over six months from the
date this motion was filed (March 6, 2024). Plaintiffs’ motion on these grounds
is untimely and C.C.P. § 473 is not a means through which Plaintiffs may obtain
relief. 
 
C.C.P. §§
2033.280 & 2031.300 
 
Plaintiffs
also move pursuant to C.C.P. §§ 2033.280 & 2031.300, which govern Requests
for Production (RFPD) and Requests for Admissions (RFA) respectively. Each
statute provides that a failure to respond to an RFPD or RFA will result in the
waiver of any objections by the party to whom the requests are directed.   Both statutes provide that the Court, on
motion, may relieve that party from this waiver upon a finding both that: 
 
(1) The party has subsequently served a response
that is in substantial compliance with the relevant code sections; and 
 
(2) The party's failure to serve a timely
response was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect.
 
(C.C.P.
§§ 2033.280(a)(1)-(2) & 2031.300(a)(1)-(2).) 
 
Unlike
C.C.P. § 473, there is no time limit in which a party must seek this relief. 
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
Discovery Timeline
 
For clarity, the Court will
reproduce the brief timeline of discovery in this action prior to the July 7,
2023 order.  
 
On October 21, 2022, State
Farm propounded its RFPD (Set One) on Plaintiffs via mail and email to Murphy
and Stites. Responses to these RFPD were due on November 28, 2022, however
State Farm granted all Plaintiffs an extension to December 2, 2022. On November
7, 2022, State Farm propounded its RFPD (Set Two) on Plaintiffs via mail and
email to Plaintiffs’ counsel. 
 
On December 12, 2022,
Miller, TR, and Stites all served untimely responses to RFPD (Set One),
agreeing to produce the documents. Plaintiffs TR and Stites also served
untimely responses to the RFPD (Set Two) along the same lines. Miller did not
serve responses to RFPD (Set Two). 
 
On December 21, 2022, State
Farm requested production from Plaintiffs pursuant to their agreement. On
February 28, 2023, Murphy informed State Farm that Plaintiffs would not be
providing the documents because they could only be provided by Miller who was
currently incapacitated. State Farm also states Murphy threatened to file a
protective order to prevent production. 
 
State Farm states it agreed
to provide additional time to compile the documents based on Murphy’s
representations. State Farm met and conferred with Murphy in March of 2023 but
did not receive the documents. On April 24, 2023, State Farm provided Murphy
with an extended deadline of June 5, 2023. In response, Murphy reiterated the
inability to comply because of Miller’s incapacity. 
 
July 7, 2023 Order 
 
As previously stated, the
Court granted State Farm’s six discovery motions on July 7, 2023. The effect of
the Court’s order was as follows: 
 
·        
State
Farm’s motions to compel compliance with agreement to produce documents as to
Miller, TR, and Stites were GRANTED. 
·        
State
Farm’s motion to compel Miller’s responses to RFPD (Set Two) was GRANTED.
·        
State
Farm’s unopposed motion to deem RFA matters admitted was GRANTED.
·        
Sanctions
were imposed in the amount of $2,280 as follows: $760 respectively as to each
Plaintiff.
 
Subsequent Production 
 
Plaintiffs represent that
they have now served responses to all outstanding discovery. A summary of the
subsequent production relevant to this motion is as follows: 
 
·        
On
January 3, 2024, Miller served supplemental responses to RFPD (Set One) and
RFPD (Set Two). (Murphy Decl., Exhs. 4, 5.) 
·        
On
January 15, 2024, Stites served supplemental responses to RFPD (Set One) and
RFPD (Set Two). (Murphy Decl., Exhs. 6, 7.)
 
·        
On
January 18, 2024, Stites served responses to RFA (Set One). (Murphy Decl., Exh.
9.) 
·        
On
January 18, 2024, Stites served responses to the Form Interrogatories (Set
One). (Murphy Decl., Exh. 10.) 
·        
On
January 23, 2024, TR served supplemental responses to RFPD (Set One). (Murphy
Decl., Exh. 11.) 
 
Excusable Neglect as to
Miller/TR
 
In order to prevail on
their motion, Miller and TR must show that they have rendered responses in
substantial compliance and that their failure to respond was the result of
mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect. (C.C.P. §§ 2033.280(a)(1)-(2).)
The Court will address the arguments with respect to excusable neglect first. 
 
Plaintiff’s counsel, Glen
Murphy (Murphy), attests that he was on vacation in Costa Rica when State
Farm’s motions were served. (Murphy Decl. ¶ 5.) Murphy states he was
surprised by the motions because there was no call or letter from State Farm
informing them of the motions. (Id.) The Court finds this argument
unpersuasive. 
 
Murphy neglects to mention
that these motions followed a series of months long meet and confer efforts by
State Farm to confirm the availability of Miller and the status of her document
production. State Farm originally propounded these requests in December of 2022
and granted several extensions as the result of Miller’s health concerns. (Meno
Decl. ¶¶ 2-10.) That State Farm would file motions to compel responses
after no response were made after several extensions is not surprising. Nor is
State Farm required to meet and confer prior to filing a motion to compel. (See
C.C.P. § 2031.320(a) and § 2031.300.) 
 
Murphy also states that the
failure of Miller and Stites to produce responses was due to a “calendaring
error”. (Murphy Decl. ¶ 5.) Murphy does not aver what this calendar error
was, nor how it caused Miller and TR to miss several extended discovery
deadlines. Nor was this calendaring error mentioned in the papers opposing
State Farm’s motions to compel. 
 
Murphy’s explanation also
does not account for Miller’s primary argument made in opposition to State
Farm’s motions. Murphy represented to State Farm’s counsel for months that
Miller was the only person who could compile responsive documents, but that she
was unable to because she was hospitalized. (See Meno Decl. ¶ 8, Exh. 1.)
In her opposition, Miller argued the responsive documents were located at her
place of employment in Disneyland and she was the only person authorized to
retrieve them. Miller also argued that her guardian ad litem could not retrieve
them because she is not authorized to enter the employee only areas of
Disneyland. The Court found this explanation unpersuasive, as Miller had the
discovery requests well before her hospitalization. The Court also noted that
Miller provided no explanation of any effort to obtain the documents by her
guardian ad litem or with Court assistance. 
 
Murphy also generally avers
that he was suffering from a debilitating health condition from August through
October 2023 which required multiple hospitalizations and surgery. (Murphy
Decl. ¶ 10.) The Court finds this argument has no bearing on whether the
failure to reply to discovery was the result of excusable neglect. Murphy’s
condition occurred after the Court had issued the order for production. 
 
Outside of the calendaring
error, Murphy offers no explanation speaking to TR’s failure to comply with the
discovery demands.  
 
In short, the Court does
not find that Miller or TR’s failure to respond to discovery was the result of
excusable neglect on their behalf.  
 
Despite the above
conclusion, the Court finds that the failure to comply was at the very least
attributable to inadvertence or excusable neglect of Murphy. Having heard
argument from Murphy and having reviewed the supplemental declaration, the
Court finds relief is warranted despite its tentative ruling indicating
otherwise. 
 
“Inadvertence is defined as lack of
heedfulness or attentiveness, inattention, fault from negligence. [Citations.]”
(Baratti v. Baratti (1952) 109 Cal.App.2d 917, 921; see also Shearman
v. Jorgensen (1895) 106 Cal. 483, 485 [requiring that the reasons or cause
for the inadvertence be stated in order for default to be set aside.].)
Excusable neglect under “is that neglect which might have been the act of a
reasonably prudent person under the same circumstances. [Citation.]” (Barati
supra, 109 Cal.App.2d at 921.) 
 
“In deciding whether counsel's error is
excusable, courts look to (1) the nature of the mistake or neglect; and (2)
whether counsel was otherwise diligent in investigating and pursuing the
claim.” (Tackett v. City of Huntington Beach (1994) 22 Cal.App.4th 60,
65.)
 
It is clear to the Court
that the failure to comply with the agreement to produce documents resulted, at
least in some part, from the mismanagement by Murphy. As legal counsel for
Plaintiffs, Murphy was the one who received the discovery demands and was
responsible for sending responses. Although Plaintiffs bore the burden of
producing the documents, it is clear that Murphy was less than diligent in
ensuring they did so within a timely manner. Murphy oversaw the appointment of
a guardian ad litem for Miller on April 27, 2023, ostensibly to allow the litigation
to move forward despite Miller’s health concerns. Yet Murphy allowed the
requests to remain outstanding for several months thereafter. 
 
In his supplemental
Declaration, Murphy retracts the general objections that accompanied the
supplemental discovery responses. (Supp. Murphy Decl. ¶ 5) Murphy states
that Plaintiffs did not withhold any documents in their supplemental
production. (Supp. Murphy Decl. ¶ 6.) Murphy further states that the only
documents withheld from production were his notes, which are the only documents
subject to attorney-client privilege. (Id.)  Given the supplemental declaration of Murphy
and the showings accompanying the moving papers, the Court is satisfied that
Miller and TR are entitled to relief from waiver in their supplemental
responses. 
 
Accordingly, Miller and
TR’s motion for relief from waiver of objections pursuant to C.C.P. 2033.280
is GRANTED. The Court notes that relief from waiver does not relieve
Plaintiffs from sanctions granted as part of the Court’s July 7 order. Plaintiffs
remain responsible for the sanctions granted against them. 
 
Excusable Neglect as to Stites
 
Stites initially
represented himself in this action. On January 12, 2024 the Court granted
Miller’s motion to substitute in for Stites after his unfortunate passing. 
 
As to Stites’ failure to
respond to discovery, Murphy states this was due to Stites’ ailing health.
Murphy states that Stites’ health began to decline in April of 2023 and that he
was hospitalized in June 2023. (Murphy Decl. ¶ 6.) Indeed, Sites was
hospitalized at the time the July 7 order was made and thus did not oppose the
motion or appear at the hearing. (Murphy Decl. ¶ 9.) 
 
In opposition, State Farm
states that Stites was in communication with them regarding the RFA responses
on April 19, 2023. (Meno Decl. ¶ 25, Exh. 6.) It appears Stites emailed
State Farm’s counsel to ask for an extension as he had come down with the flu.
(Id.) State Farm appears to have granted the extension. (Id.) 
 
Given that Stites
represented himself throughout the discovery period, the Court finds his
incapacity constitutes a showing of excusable neglect. Although it is true that
the RFA were propounded on Stites months prior, it is also clear that State
Farm was regularly granting Stites extensions to reply. That Stites thereafter
failed to reply is explained by his subsequent hospitalization. Unlike Miller
and TR, Stites was not represented by counsel and any notice of his incapacity
would need to be self-provided. Also unlike Miller, Stites had no guardian ad
litem which could have addressed the discovery in his stead. 
 
As concerns Stites
subsequent production, the Court finds the responses to be in substantial
compliance. While it is true the responses are non-compliant in that they
contain objections, Stites has still rendered responses to each request. (See
Murphy Decl. Exh. 9.) 
 
The Court notes that
Plaintiffs’ request that Stites be relieved from his waiver of objections under
C.C.P. § 2031.300 does not also function to relieve Stites from the Court’s
order deeming RFA matter admitted. Such relief is instead governed by C.C.P. §
2033.300, which states:
 
(a) A party may withdraw or amend an admission made in response to
a request for admission only on leave of court granted after notice to all
parties.
 
(b) The court may permit withdrawal or amendment of an admission
only if it determines that the admission was the result of mistake,
inadvertence, or excusable neglect, and that the party who obtained the
admission will not be substantially prejudiced in maintaining that party's
action or defense on the merits.
 
(c) The court may impose conditions on the granting of the motion
that are just, including, but not limited to, the following:
 
(1) An order that the party who obtained the admission be
permitted to pursue additional discovery related to the matter involved in the
withdrawn or amended admission.
 
(2) An order that the costs of any additional discovery be borne
in whole or in part by the party withdrawing or amending the admission.
 
Although
Plaintiffs do not reference C.C.P. § 2033.300 as grounds for their motion, the
Court finds it applicable here. The Court finds Stites has shown excusable
neglect in satisfaction of C.C.P. § 2033.300(b). 
 
Lastly, relief from waiver
under C.C.P. §§ 2031.300 does not negate the mandatory nature of sanctions for
failure to timely respond to RFA imposed by C.C.P.
§ 2033.280(c). As such, while Stites is relieved from his waiver of
objections, he is not relieved from the order granting sanctions. 
 
Accordingly, the motion for
relief is GRANTED in part as to Plaintiff Stites. Stites has leave of the Court
to withdraw his admissions and is relieved from his waiver of objections. Sanctions
issued in connection with State Farm’s motion to deem RFA matters admitted
remain. 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the following
form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and entered
into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Erma L. Miller, TR,
and L.B. Stites’s Motion from Relief came on
regularly for hearing on April 12, 2024, with appearances/submissions as noted
in the minute order for said hearing, and the court, being fully advised in the
premises, did then and there rule as follows: 
 
THE MOTION FOR RELIEF FROM WAIVER OF OBJECTIONS
AS TO MILLER AND TR IS GRANTED. 
 
THE MOTION IS GRANTED IN PART AS TO PLAINTIFF
STITES. 
 
STITES
HAS LEAVE OF THE COURT TO WITHDRAW HIS ADMISSIONS AND IS RELIEVED FROM HIS
WAIVER OF OBJECTIONS. 
 
SANCTIONS
ISSUED AGAINST MILLER, TR, AND STITES REMAIN.
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
April 12, 2024                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 