 Case Number:  23BBCV00938    Hearing Date:   April 12, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
ARPIL 12,
2024

MOTION
TO QUASH SERVICE OF PROCESS

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23BBCV00938

 



MP:  


John Harvard (Defendant) 




RP:  


Bill Flores (Plaintiff) 



 
NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Bill Flores
(Plaintiff) brings this action against Hovhannes Hovhannisyan (Hovhannisyan), John
Harvard (Harvard), and Lyft, Inc. (Lyft). Plaintiff alleges that he was injured
while a passenger in a car operated as a rideshare by Hovhannisyan/Harvard. It
is Plaintiff’s contention that Hovhannisyan and Harvard are the same person,
and that Harvard is simply an alias. 
 
Harvard now moves to
quash service of the summons upon him. Plaintiff opposes and Harvard replies. 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
“Service
of process, under longstanding tradition in our system of justice, is
fundamental to any procedural imposition on a named defendant.”  (AO
Alfa-Bank v. Yakovlev (2018) 21¿Cal.App.5th 189, 202 [internal quotations
marks and citation omitted].)  “To establish personal jurisdiction,
compliance with statutory procedures for service of process is
essential.”  (Kremerman v. White (2021) 71 Cal.App.5th 358,
371.)  Defendant’s knowledge of the action does not dispense with
statutory requirements for service of summons.  (Kappel v. Bartlett
(1988) 200 Cal.App.3d 1457, 1466.) 
 
“A
defendant, on or before the last day of his or her time to plead or within any
further time that the court may for good cause allow” may move “to quash
service of summons on the ground of lack of jurisdiction of the court over him
or her” that results from lack of proper service.  (C.C.P. §
418.10(a)(1).  A defendant has 30 days after the service of the summons to
file a responsive pleading.  (C.C.P. § 412.20(a)(3).)  
 
“When a
defendant challenges the court’s personal jurisdiction on the ground of
improper service of process ‘the burden is on the plaintiff to prove the
existence of jurisdiction by proving, inter alia, the facts requisite to an
effective service.’” (Summers v. McClanahan¿(2006) 140 Cal.App.4th 403,
413.) 
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
“The
party seeking to establish jurisdiction over a nonresident defendant bears the
burden of demonstrating by a preponderance of the evidence that the exercise of
jurisdiction is appropriate.” (Bresler v. Stavros (1983) 141 Cal.App.3d
365, 367.) Specifically, “the plaintiff must provide specific evidentiary
facts, through affidavits and other authenticated documents, sufficient to
allow the court to independently conclude whether jurisdiction is appropriate
and cannot rely on allegations in an unverified complaint or vague and
conclusory assertions of ultimate facts.” (Swenberg v. Dmarcian, Inc.
(2021) 68 Cal.App.5th 280, 291 [internal quotation marks and citations
omitted].) 
 
“Evidence
Code section 647 provides that a registered process server’s declaration of
service establishes a presumption affecting the burden of producing evidence of
the facts stated in the declaration.” (American Express Centurion Bank v.
Zara (2011) 199¿Cal.App.4th 383, 390 [internal citation omitted]; Evid.
Code § 647.) 
 
Here,
Plaintiff has filed a proof of service showing that service was effectuated by
substitute service on October 7, 2023. The address for service was 14920
Parthenia St., Apt. #212 Panorama City, CA 91402. The process server stated he
left the papers with a “‘Jane Doe’, Mother” described as “Age: 70’s…Hair: Blonde…Sex:
Male.” Despite the obvious discrepancy in the physical description of the
person served, the Court finds the affidavit serves as rebuttable evidence of
proper service.
 
In
contravention of the process server’s affidavit, Harvard argues that he was not
a resident of the 14920 Parthenia St. address at the time of service. Harvard first
offers the declaration of his counsel Anna Sargsyan (Sargsyan). Sargsyan states
that her office has been unable to locate Harvard despite hiring an
investigator to do so and has neither his contact information nor his address.
(Sargsyan Decl. ¶ 9.) Sargsyan states she communicated with Plaintiff’s
counsel extensively to request extensions to file responsive pleadings on
Harvard’s behalf. (Sargsyan Decl. ¶ 5-8.) Sargsyan maintains that 14920 Parthenia
St. was not Harvard’s residence at the time of service. (Sargsyan Decl. ¶ 3.)

 
Harvard
also offers the declaration of private investigator Kurt Donham (Donham).
Donham states that his investigation has been unable to locate Harvard’s
current address or contact information. (Donham Decl. p. 1.) Donham states that
the residents of 14920 Parthenia St. are Sedrak and Julietta Shabazyan, both of
whom have never heard of Harvard. (Donham Decl. p.1.) Donham states that the
Shabazyans have resided at the address for three years and that Julietta’s
English comprehension is limited. (Id.) Donham further states that the
Shabazyans routinely receive mail for Harvard which is subsequently discarded.
(Id.) Donham states that Julietta discarded the summons and complaint
after a family member informed her that the papers did not pertain to her. (Id.
p. 2.) 
 
Plaintiff
counters that Harvard’s address was provided by Lyft in discovery. Plaintiff
attaches a copy of the drivers license for Harvard obtained from Lyft which lists
the 14920 Parthenia St. address, and an issuance date of September 29, 2020. (Conroy
Decl. Exh. B.) Plaintiff asserts that the name of the driver on the Lyft
receipt was “Hovhannes” (Conroy Decl. Exh. 2.) Putting these facts together,
Plaintiff asserts that Hovhannisyan and Harvard are the same person. Whether or
not Harvard and Hovhannisyan are the same person does not speak to the issue of
valid service. No proof of service has been submitted for Hovhannisyan in this matter
and it is clear that Plaintiff was attempting to serve the driver of the
vehicle, regardless of their name. 
 
As to the
validity of service, Plaintiff contends that a public records search for
Harvard shows 14920 Parthenia Street, Apt. #212 as his current address. (Conroy
Decl. Exh. E.) Plaintiff states the same address appears on the recent response
of the United States Postal Office to a Request for Change of Address for
Harvard. (Conroy Decl. Exh. F.) Lastly, Plaintiff further offers an affidavit
from process server Edgar Cusani stating that attempts to serve Harvard at 358 Riverdale
Dr, Glendale, CA 91204 were unsuccessful. (Conroy Decl. Exh. C.)
 
The Court
notes that Plaintiff’s public record search appears to yield conflicting
results. 14920 Parthenia St. Apt # 212 is listed as Harvard’s residence from 12/31/2020
to 02/01/2024. (Id. Exh. E.) A different Parthenia St. address, 17920
Parthenia St. Apt. # 212, is also listed as Harvard’s residence from 11/02/2022
to 11/02/2022. (Id.) This is important because the driver’s license
submitted by Plaintiff for Harvard was issued on September 9, 2020. (Conroy
Decl. Exh. B.) The address listed on the license is 14920 Parthenia Street, Apt.
# 212. (Id.) 
 
Plaintiff
makes no representation about attempted service at 17920 Parthenia St.;
however, a reasonable conclusion is that address is listed in error, with a
typo of a 7 versus a 4.   As the address
appears to be only for one day, November 2, 2022, the error likely was
corrected.  The Court recognizes that
Harvard’s counsel has provided no explanation for how Harvard became aware of
this action such that he could timely file this motion. “It is axiomatic that
strict compliance with the code's provisions for service of process is not
required. (Ramos v. Homeward Residential, Inc., 223 Cal. App. 4th 1434,
1443.) “[I]n deciding whether service was valid, the statutory provisions
regarding service of process should be liberally construed to effectuate
service and uphold the jurisdiction of the court if actual notice has been
received by the defendant.” (Gibble v. Car-Lene Research, Inc. (1998) 67
Cal.App.4th 295, 313.) In essence, substantial compliance with the code’s
requirements for service of process is sufficient. (Id.)  
 
Harvard’s
counsel makes no representation as to how Harvard became aware of the action, and
they do not offer any argument against receipt of notice. This silence is
compounded by the statement of Harvard’s counsel that they cannot locate their
client despite hiring a private investigator to do so. While Harvard is not
obligated to show a current alternative address, his counsel’s statement that
they are unable to find any address for him causes great concern. The
Court does not understand how Harvard retained counsel for this matter without
ever communicating with them or providing information regarding his contact or
address.  
 
In
considering all the evidence provided by the parties, the Court finds that
Plaintiff has demonstrated substantial compliance with the code requirements
such that notice was received by Harvard. Plaintiff has demonstrated an
exercise of due diligence in ascertaining Harvard’s address and attempts to
serve him there. Despite the potential existence of other addresses for service
(17920 Parthenia St.) the Court finds Plaintiff adequately exercised due
diligence in procuring the information for service and rendering service.
Further, it is clear that this due diligence was sufficient to apprise Harvard
of the action. In accordance with the liberal construction rule, the Court
finds Plaintiff’s service was sufficient to establish personal jurisdiction
over Harvard. 
 
Accordingly,
the motion to quash service of summons is DENIED.  
--- 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the following
form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and entered
into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
John Harvard’s Motion
to Quash Service of Summons came on regularly for
hearing on April 12, 2024, with appearances/submissions as noted in the minute
order for said hearing, and the court, being fully advised in the premises, did
then and there rule as follows: 
 
THE MOTION TO QUASH SERVICE OF SUMMONS IS DENIED.

 
DEFENDANT HARVARD SHALL FILE A RESPONSIVE
PLEADING WITHIN 10 CALENDAR DAYS.   
 
UNLESS
ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, PLAINTIFF TO GIVE NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: April
12, 2024                           _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M. TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 