 Case Number:  23BBCV02172    Hearing Date:   April 12, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
APRIL 12, 2024

DEMURRER
AND MOTION TO STRIKE 

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23BBCV02172

 



MP:  


The City of Los Angeles, Los Angeles
  Unified School District, & Jeffrey Daniel (Defendants)




RP:  


None



 
NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Marilyn R. Cortes Zapien (Marilyn) and
Maria Zapien (Maria) (collectively Plaintiffs) bring this action against the Los
Angeles Unified School District (LAUSD), the County of Los Angeles (the
County), the City Of Los Angeles (the City), the State Of California (the
State), Toluca Lake Elementary School (Toluca Lake Elementary), David Whaley (Whaley),
and Jeffrey Daniel (Daniel). Plaintiffs allege that Marilyn was sexually abused
by a Whaley while she was attending Toluca Lake Elementary.  
 
Plaintiffs’ Complaint contains eight
causes of action: (1) Sexual Abuse of A Minor (2) Intentional Infliction of
Emotional Distress (IIED), (3) Sexual Harassment, (4) General Negligence -
Negligent Hiring, Supervision and Retention of an Unfit Employee, (5) General
Negligence - Breach of Mandatory Duty, (6) Failure to Report suspected Child
Abuse, (7) General Negligence - Negligent Failure to Warn, Train or Educate,
(8) General Negligence - Negligent Supervision of a Minor. It appears that each
of the causes of action are stated as to all Defendants. 
 
The Court notes that Plaintiffs have
dismissed the County from this action voluntarily. 
 
The City now demurs to the entire
Complaint arguing that it is an improperly joined party. LAUSD also demurs on
grounds that each cause of action fails to allege sufficient facts establishing
their liability. Lastly, Daniel demurs on grounds that the Complaint is
uncertain as to his involvement such that he cannot adequately respond. LAUSD
and Daniel also move to strike Plaintiffs’ request for punitive damages.
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
The grounds for a demurrer must appear on the
face of the pleading or from judicially noticeable matters. (C.C.P. §
430.30(a); Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) A demurrer for
sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v.
Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) The only issue involved in a
demurrer hearing is whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Id.)
 
A demurrer assumes the truth of all factual,
material allegations properly pled in the challenged pleading. (Blank v.
Kirwan, supra, 39 Cal. 3d at 318.) No matter how unlikely or improbable,
the plaintiff’s allegations must be accepted as true for the purpose of ruling
on the demurrer. (Del E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials Co. (1981)
123 Cal.  App. 3d 593, 604.) But this does not include contentions;
deductions; conclusions of fact or law alleged in the complaint; facts
impossible in law; or allegations contrary to facts of which a court may take
judicial notice.  (Blank, supra, 39 Cal. 3d at 318.)
 
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure (“C.C.P.”)
§§ 430.10(e) and (f), the party against whom a complaint has been filed may
demur to the pleading on the grounds that the pleading does not state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action, or that the pleading is uncertain,
ambiguous and/or unintelligible. It is an abuse of discretion to sustain a
demurrer without leave to amend if there is a reasonable probability that the
defect can be cured by amendment. (Schifando v. City of Los Angeles
(2003) 31 Cal. 4th 1074, 1082.)
 
Motions to strike are used to reach defects or
objections to pleadings that are not challengeable by demurrer, such as words,
phrases, and prayers for damages. (See C.C.P. §§ 435, 436, and 437.) The proper
procedure to attack false allegations in a pleading is a motion to strike.
(C.C.P. § 436(a).) In granting a motion to strike made under C.C.P. § 435, “[t]he
court may, upon a motion made pursuant to Section 435 [notice of motion to
strike whole or part of complaint], or at any time in its discretion, and upon
terms it deems proper: (a) Strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter
inserted in any pleading.” (C.C.P. § 436(a).) Irrelevant matters include
immaterial allegations that are not essential to the claim or those not
pertinent to or supported by an otherwise sufficient claim. (C.C.P. § 431.10.) 
 
The court may also “[s]trike out all or any part
of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a
court rule, or an order of the court.” (C.C.P. § 436 (b).)
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
Meet and Confer 
 
C.C.P. §§ 430.41(a) and 435.5(a) requires that the moving
party meet and confer with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to
the demurrer and/or motion to strike. Upon review the Court finds the meet and
confer requirements were met. (Lewis Decl.) 
 
Request for Judicial Notice

 
The City requests judicial
notice be taken of the following documents: 
 
·        
Exhibit A
- Copy of a printout from Office of the City Administrative Officer of the City
of Los Angeles’ website. 
·        
Exhibit B
- Copy of an Organizational Chart printout from the official LAUSD website. 
·        
Exhibit C
- Copy of an excerpt from a “Budget Summary” from the website of the Office of
the City Administrative Officer. 
·        
Exhibit D
- Copy of an excerpt from the LAUSD Final Budget.
·        
Exhibit E
- Copy of the LAUSD directory showing Toluca Lake Elementary School.
·        
Exhibit F
– Copy of screenshots from the Toluca Lake Elementary website. 
 
The City requests notice of
these documents pursuant to Evid. Code § 452(h), stating that these documents
are “are not reasonably subject to dispute and are capable of immediate and
accurate determination by resort to sources of reasonably indisputable
accuracy.” Further, the City argues that the Court is entitled to take judicial
notice of facts which are within the common knowledge of the territorial
jurisdiction of the Court. (Evid. Code § 453(g).) The Court agrees, the
documents for which notice is requested appear to be official documents
generated by the Office of the City Administrative Officer or other municipal
authorities. The information presented in these documents is of such a type
that is not reasonably subject to dispute. Accordingly, the Court GRANTS the
City’s request.  
 
Failure to Oppose 
 
The Court notes that
Plaintiffs have provided no opposition to this demurrer. A plaintiff’s failure
to oppose the demurrer can be treated as an implied concession to the merits of
the same. (Herzberg v. County of Plumas (2005) 133 Cal.App.4th 1, 20.) 
 
City of Los Angeles
 
The City argues that
demurrer is appropriate on two fronts. First, the City argues there has been a
misjoinder of parties because it is apparent from judicially noticeable facts
that Toluca Lake Elementary School is not within the control of the City. 
 
As per C.C.P. § 430.10(d)
misjoinder of parties serves as valid grounds for demurrer. Misjoinder serves
as a grounds for demurrer only where the defect appears on the face of the
complaint or matters judicially noticed. (Royal Surplus Lines Ins. Co., Inc.
v. Ranger Ins. Co. (2002) 100 Cal.App.4th 193, 198.) Generally, a
demurrer on these grounds can only be successful where the demurring party has
shown that it was an improper defendant to the action. (Id.)
Additionally, a demurrer on these grounds is generally only successful where
the demurring party can show some prejudice suffered or some interest adversely
affected by the misjoinder. (Anaya v. Superior Court (1984) 160
Cal.App.3d 228, fn. 1.) A judge properly sustains a demurrer without leave to
amend when the plaintiffs have not demonstrated a reasonable possibility that
their misjoinder as plaintiffs can be cured by amendment. (Moe v. Anderson
(2012) 207 CA4th 826, 834.)
 
Here, the City argues that
they have been improperly joined in this action because they do not control
Toluca Lake Elementary School or employee any of the individuals named in the
Complaint. Plaintiff argues that the only basis for establishing tort liability
against it is Gov. Code § 815.2(a) which provides “A public entity is liable
for injury proximately caused by an act or omission of an employee of
the public entity within the scope of his employment if the act or omission
would, apart from this section, have given rise to a cause of action against
that employee or his personal representative.” The City argues that it does not
employee David Whaley or Jeffrey Daniel, as shown by the judicially noticed
facts. 
 
The Court agrees that the
judicially noticed facts support the City’s argument that they were improperly
joined to this action. The Court first notes that it is common knowledge within
the Court’s jurisdiction that public schools such as Toluca Lake Elementary
legally operate under the LAUSD and not the City of Los Angeles. Further,
judicial notice has been granted of several documents which evidence the
organization of Toluca Lake Elementary under the LAUSD. No facts are pleaded in
the Complaint which would indicate the City was otherwise properly joined.  
 
The Court also agrees that
the City has been prejudiced by their improper joinder to this action. The City
argues that is has been forced to expend legal resources in responding to this
action which could have been alternatively allocated. While the Court does not
view the preliminary engagement with the action to have resulted in severe
prejudice to the City, the case law only requires “prejudice” without any
further qualifier. The Court is satisfied that the City has been prejudiced by
their misjoinder to the action such that their demurrer should be sustained. 
 
Accordingly, the City’s
demurrer to the entire Complaint is SUSTAINED. Further, the Court finds that it
would be impossible for Plaintiffs to rectify the defect of misjoinder on
subsequent amendment. Accordingly, the demurrer is sustained without leave to amend.
As the Court has sustained the demurrer on grounds of misjoinder it need not
consider the City’s arguments as to the sufficiency of facts in the Complaint. 
 
LAUSD 
 
LAUSD demurrers to the
entire complaint as stated by Plaintiff Marilyn. LAUSD argues that Marilyn, as
a minor child, lacks the capacity to sue and must instead be represented by a
guardian ad litem. 
 
A special demurrer lies on
the ground that “[t]he person who filed the pleading does not have the legal
capacity to sue.” (C.C.P. § 430.10(b).) Minors and persons without legal
capacity to make decisions lack capacity to sue in their own names or to defend
an action brought against them. Instead, litigation must be conducted through a
guardian, conservator of the estate or guardian ad litem. (C.C.P. § 372(a).) If
a guardian or conservator has not previously been appointed for the minor or
person lacking decision-making capacity, a guardian ad litem must be appointed
unless one of the limited statutory exceptions applies. (Id.) 
 
Here, no guardian ad litem
has been appointed for Marilyn. From the facts of the Complaint, it has been
established that Marilyn is a five-year-old child and thus lacks the standing
to sue by operation of statute. (Compl. p. 5.) Despite this oversight, the
Court finds this defect could easily be cured upon amendment. Accordingly, the
demurrer to the entire complaint as to Marilyn is SUSTAINED with 20 days’ leave
to amend. 
 
The Court will also address
the LAUSD demurrer as to each cause of action brought by Plaintiff Maria for purposes
of efficiency should the complaint be amended. LAUSD argues that each of the
eight causes of action stated against it are subject to demurrer for failure to
allege sufficient facts. LAUSD argues that because each cause of action is
stated against a government entity, they must state statutory grounds for
liability. LAUSD argues that Plaintiffs’ Complaint proceeds entirely on the
logic of common law tort liability and references no statutory liability as to
any cause of action. 
 
Pursuant to Gov Code § 815,
all claims against a public entity must have a statutory basis. Further, all
claims against a public entity must be pled with particularity. (Searcy v.
Hemet Unified School Dist. (1986) 177 Cal.App.3d 792, 802). 
 
Here, a review of each
cause of action shows that Plaintiffs fail to state statutory grounds for
liability against LAUSD. Despite naming LAUSD as a defendant to the causes of
action for Sexual Abuse of a Minor, IIED, and Sexual Harassment, Plaintiffs
have pled no facts as to their liability under these claims.  The remaining causes of action do contain
allegations of LAUSD’s liability, albeit they are all based on common law tort
lability. The relevant allegations are as follows: 
 
·        
LAUSD
knew or should have known that Whaley was unfit to be a teacher before it hired
him. (Compl. p. 7.)
·        
LAUSD,
Toluca Lake Elementary, and all defendants named knew or should have known that
Whaley was engaging in sexual abuse and harassment of Plaintiff. (Compl. p. 7.)
·        
LAUSD,
Toluca Lake Elementary, and all named defendants failed to exercise any
reasonable care in supervising Whaley while he was on school grounds. (Compl.
p. 7.)
·        
LAUSD,
Toluca Lake Elementary, and all named defendants breached its duty to properly
and adequately investigate, hire, train and supervise Whaley. (Compl. p. 7.)
·        
LAUSD,
had or should have had a reasonable suspicion that Whaley was engaged in sexual
misconduct. (Compl. p. 8.)
·        
LAUSD,
Toluca Lake Elementary, and all defendants names, and DOES 1 to 50 breached
their duty to Plaintiff by failing to warn her of known and knowable dangers
posed by its faculty and staff. (Compl. p. 9.) 
 
The only reference to
statute in the Complaint is as follows: 
 
“Defendants’ employeses [sic] violated the Child Abuse and Neglect
Reporting Act, Penal Code section 11166, et seq. They were acting within the
course and scope of their employment when they violated the reporting
requirements, and therefore LAUSD, and all defendnats [sic] named is
vicariously liable for that negligence. 
 
(Compl. p. 8.) 
 
The Court finds this
allegation insufficient to allege civil liability for LAUSD. Penal Code § 11166
established the requirements for “mandatory reporters” of sexual abuse and
established criminal liability for failure to report. On its face, this codes
section does not create a private right of action or serve as the basis for
liability in a civil action. In the absence of contrary authority, the Court finds
this allegation insufficient. 
 
In short, none of Plaintiffs
allegations contain any aversion to statutory liability. As such, each cause of
action is subject to demurrer for failure to allege sufficient facts as to
LAUSD’s liability. Further, the Court finds that none of the causes of action
are pled with specificity. Each cause of action contains only conclusory
statements as to LAUSD’s foreknowledge of the sexual assault and of Whaley’s
alleged behavior. It is not sufficient for Plaintiffs to simply conclude that
LAUSD was liable, they must allege specific facts in support of that
conclusion. 
 
 
Daniel 
 
Like LAUSD, Daniel
demurrers to each cause of action as brought by Plaintiff Marilyn on grounds
that she lacks standing as a minor. As previously discussed, the Court finds a
special demurrer on these grounds to be appropriate. Accordingly, Daniel’s
demurrer to the entire Complaint brought by Plaintiff Marilyn is SUSTAINED with
20 days’ leave to amend. 
 
Daniel also demurs to the
entire Complaint on grounds that it is fatally uncertain. Daniel argues that
the Complaint contains no specific factual allegations concerning him. Daniel
further argues that the nature of the Complaint is so ambiguous that he cannot
ascertain which causes of action are leveled at him and which necessitate
response. 
 
A demurrer to a pleading
lies where the pleading is uncertain, ambiguous, or unintelligible. (C.C.P §
430.10 (f).) “A demurrer for uncertainty is strictly construed, even where a
complaint is in some respects uncertain, because ambiguities can be clarified
under modern discovery procedures.” (Khoury v. Maly’s of California, Inc.
(1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.) As a result, a special demurrer for
uncertainty is not intended to reach failure to incorporate sufficient facts in
the pleading but is directed only at uncertainty existing in the allegations
already made. (People v. Taliaferro (1957) 149 Cal.App.2d 822, 825.)
Where complaint is sufficient to state a cause of action and to apprise
defendant of issues he is to meet, it is not properly subject to a special
demurrer for uncertainty. (See Id.; see also Gressley v. Williams
(1961) 193 Cal.App.2d 636, 643 [“A special demurrer [for uncertainty] should be
overruled where the allegations of the complaint are sufficiently clear to
apprise the defendant of the issues which he is to meet”].)
 
Having reviewed the
Complaint, the Court finds that there is no mention of Daniel outside of his
being named a defendant. It is not clear from the formatting what causes of
action apply to Daniel. Unlike the causes of action involving the LAUSD and
Whaley, no context can be gleaned from the substance of the Complaint because
Daniel is never mentioned. Daniel appears to be an employee of LAUSD by virtue
of his representation by the same counsel. Regardless, this fact cannot be ascertained
from the Complaint as it is completely silent as to who Daniel is or why he was
included as a defendant. The Court finds that, in its current state, the
Complaint is insufficient to apprise Daniel as to the allegations leveled
against him such that he may respond. 
 
Conclusion 
 
·        
The City’s
demurrer to the entire Complaint is SUSTAINED without leave to amend. 
·        
LAUSD and
Daniel’s demurrer to the entire Complaint as brought by Plaintiff Marilyn is
SUSTAINED with 20 days’ leave to amend. 
·        
LAUSD’s
demurrer to each cause of action in the Complaint as brought by Plaintiff Maria
is moot as the Court has already sustained the demurrer with leave to amend for
other reasons. 
 

 
Motions to Strike 
 
Given that the Court has
sustained demurrers to the entire Complaint on various grounds, Plaintiffs
currently have no valid cause of action against LAUSD and Daniel. As such, the
motions to strike seeking the removal of punitive damages claims appear to be
moot. Should LAUSD and Daniel believe that subsequent pleadings contain
improper requests for damages, the Court welcomes renewed motions to strike. 
 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
The City of Los
Angeles, Los Angeles Unified School District, and Jeffrey Daniel’s Demurrers came on regularly for hearing on April 12, 2024, with
appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the
court, being fully advised in the premises, did then and there rule as
follows: 
 
THE CITY
OF LOS ANGELES’ DEMURRER TO THE ENTIRE COMPLAINT IS SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO
AMEND. 
 
LAUSD AND
DANIEL’S DEMURRER TO THE ENTIRE COMPLAINT AS BROUGHT BY PLAINTIFF MARILYN IS
SUSTAINED WITH 20 DAYS’ LEAVE TO AMEND. 
 
THE
MOTION TO STRIKE IS MOOT.
 
UNLESS
ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, LAUSD TO GIVE NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
April 12, 2024                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 