 Case Number:  23BBCV01098    Hearing Date:   April 12, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
APRIL 12, 2024

MOTION
TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23BBCV01098

 



MP:  


American Honda Motor Company, Inc.
  (Honda)




RP:  


Erika Gomez Sandoval
  & Francisco Salazar (Plaintiffs)



 
NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Erika
Gomez Sandoval (Sandoval) and Francisco Salazar (Salazar) (collectively
Plaintiffs) bring this action against American Honda Motor Company, Inc.
(Honda). Sandoval and Salazar allege that Honda sold them a defective 2019
Honda Odyssey (Subject Vehicle) and thereafter refused to repurchase the
vehicle in violation of the Song-Beverly Act. 
 
Before
the Court are six motions brought by Honda to compel further responses to
various discovery requests. Honda seeks further responses to its Form
Interrogatories, Special Interrogatories, and Requests for Admissions (RFA)
from both Sandoval and Salazar. Plaintiffs oppose each of these motions,
arguing that code compliant responses were served subsequent to Honda’s motions
being served/filed. Salazar and Sandoval ask that the Court deny each motion as
moot and deny Honda’s request for sanctions.  
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
Motion to
Compel Further Responses to Interrogatories 
 
On
receipt of a response to interrogatories, the propounding party may move for an
order compelling a further response if the propounding party deems that the
responses contain: (1) answers that are evasive or incomplete, (2)¿an
unwarranted or insufficiently specific exercise of an option to produce
documents in lieu of a substantive response, or (3) unmerited or overly
generalized objections.  (C.C.P.
§¿2030.300(a).) The responding party has the burden of justifying the
objections thereto. (Coy v. Sup.Ct. (1962) 58 Cal.2d 210, 220-21.)
  
Motion to
Compel Further Responses on RFA
 
On
receipt of a response to requests for admission, the party requesting
admissions may move for an order compelling a further response if that party
deems that either or both of the following apply: (1) an answer to a particular
request is evasive or incomplete or (2) an objection to a particular request is
without merit or too general. (C.C.P. § 2033.290(a).)
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
Discovery and Supplemental Responses
 
The facts concerning service of
discovery are the same for each motion and for each Plaintiff. Honda asserts
that it served all discovery on counsel for Plaintiffs on August 18, 2023.
(Sloas Decl. ¶ 4, Exh. B.) Plaintiffs both returned “objection only” responses
to Honda’s Form Interrogatories, Special Interrogatories, and RFA. (Sloas Decl.
¶ 6, Exh. C.) Honda thereafter attempted to meet and confer with counsel
for Plaintiffs but received no further responses prior to the filing of these
motions on January 12, 2024. (Sloas Decl. ¶¶ 8-10.) 
 
Plaintiffs now state they have rendered supplemental
responses to each request. (Grigoryan Decl. ¶ 8.) Plaintiffs’ counsel
explains that the failure to provide supplemental responses was the result of
the case changing managing attorneys. (Id.) Plaintiffs counsel states he
was unaware of any outstanding discovery until he was notified that an
opposition was due on the Court Docket. (Id.) It appears Plaintiffs
served supplemental responses on February 16, 2024. (See Exh. 1, p. 6 of each Grigoryan Decl.) 
 
Discussion 
 
The disagreement of the parties is
essentially over how the Court should rule on these motions in light of
supplemental responses having been received. Honda does not claim that the
supplemental responses are legally invalid or deficient in their reply papers. The
argument is essentially one over the imposition of sanctions. 
 
In cases where supplemental responses
have been made after a motion to compel further responses has been filed, the
Court has several options in how to resolve the motions. The Court finds the
following excerpt from Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific
Healthcare Consultants to be instructive: 
 
In many cases involving untimely responses, the propounding party will
take the motion off calendar or narrow its scope to the issue of sanctions. If
the propounding party proceeds with the motion, however, the trial court has
the discretion to rule on the motion. The trial court might compel responses
without objection if it finds no legally valid responses have been provided to
one or more interrogatories; it might deny the motion to compel responses as
essentially unnecessary, in whole or in part, and just impose sanctions; it
might treat the motion as one under section 2030.300 and either
determine that further answers are required, or order the propounding party to
“meet and confer” (§ 2030.300, subd. (b)) and file a separate statement (Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1020(a)(2), (c)); or it might take the motion off
calendar, thereby requiring the propounding party to file a motion
under section 2030.300.” 
 
(Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting, Inc.
v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390.)
 
The Court notes that
Plaintiffs’ oppositions all contain a quotation which they purport is from Sinaiko
but is not actually in the case text. Plaintiffs quote “[w]here a supplemental
discovery response is served before a motion to compel is heard, the court has
substantial discretion in deciding how to rule in light of the circumstances
presented, such as denying the motion as moot.” This quote does not appear
anywhere in Sinaiko.  In fact,
that quotation is from an unpublished Superior Court trial court order
from the Orange County Superior Court.  Allstate Ins. Co. v.
Invensys Climate Controls Am., 2021 Cal. Super. LEXIS 131405.  These actions can be tantamount to
professional misconduct for two reasons: (1) it falsely represents a quotation
from a published Court of Appeal Opinion and (2) quotes an unpublished Superior
Court trial court order that is generally not citable under CRC 8.1115,
especially when it is not identified as originating from a trial court order,
and not even from an Appellate Division of that trial court.  Furthermore, the trial court order originated
outside of Los Angeles County and was represented as originating from a court
that would have appellate jurisdiction over cases heard in Los Angeles – the
California Courts of Appeal, Second District. 
Ultimately, the
Court agrees that Sinaiko expresses the Court’s discretion in these
matters; nevertheless, the Court cautions that this erroneous quotation should be
removed from any future filings.  Further
violations will likely run afoul of the Rule of Professional Conduct 3.3.  The Court will presume that this was simply
an oversight by an inexperienced attorney and finds that no professional
misconduct has occurred.
 
The above being
established, the Court agrees with Plaintiffs that the motions, as filed, are moot.
The Court reiterates that Honda’s reply papers do not contend the supplemental
replies are insufficient. The Court sees no reason in issuing a ruling
compelling the production of answers which have already been given at this
point. 
 
The Court does not agree
with Plaintiff that sanctions should not issue. Despite Plaintiffs subsequently
serving supplemental responses, the fact remains that Honda was forced to file
these motions to receive those responses. However, in reviewing the amount of
sanctions Honda requests, the Court finds them to be excessive. Each of Honda’s
motions request $1,787.50 in sanctions. (Sloas Decl. ¶ 13.) Incorporated
into this amount is four hours of travel time to appear at the hearing for
these motions. (Id.) While the Court appreciates the in-person
attendance of attorneys at hearings, it does not mandate such an
appearance.  In fact, the vast majority
of all court appearances in this court are generally remote appearances, unless
for trial, evidentiary hearing, final status conference for trial, or some
other hearing in which the Court mandates an in-person appearance.  The Court does not find four hours of travel
to be a necessity in the modern setting of virtual hearings.  Furthermore, the Court has not requested
argument on this matter.
The Court does not find the
legal and factual issues of each motion were distinctive enough to warrant the
granting of the same amount sanctions for all six motions but looks to all the
motions together. 
 
As such, the Court grants
sanctions in the amount of $1,445 against Plaintiffs and their counsel, jointly
and severally calculated as four hours of attorney time, one hour of court time
and filing fees for two motions. (5 hours at $265 per hour plus $60 x 2). This
amount appears reasonable to the Court considering the nature of the work
performed and the relatively similar nature of each motion. 
 
The Trial Preparation Order
having previously been issued, the in-person 
Final Status Conference and the Jury Trial date remain.
 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
American Honda Motor
Company, Inc.’s Motions to Compel Further Responses
came on regularly for hearing on April 12, 2024, with appearances/submissions
as noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the court, being fully
advised in the premises, did then and there rule as follows: 
 
THE MOTIONS TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO
HONDA’S DISCOVERY DEMANDS ARE DENIED AS MOOT. 
 
SANCTIONS ARE ISSUED IN THE AMOUNT OF $1,445
AGAINST PLAINTIFFS AND THEIR COUNSEL, JOINTLY AND SEVERALLY. 
 
SANCTIONS TO BE PAID WITHIN 30 DAYS. 
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
April 12, 2024                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 