 Case Number:  23BBCV00833    Hearing Date:   April 12, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
APRIL 12, 2024

MOTION
TO VACATE DISMISSAL

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23BBCV00833

 



MP:  


Mercury Insurance Company
  (Plaintiff)




RP:  


None



 
NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
Mercury
Insurance Company (Plaintiff) brought this for subrogation action against Arthur
Melkonyan (Melkonyan) and Gregor Darakchyan (Darakchyan). 
 
On
September 25, 2023, Plaintiff’s counsel requested dismissal of this action,
with prejudice, in full. Dismissal was entered by the clerk that same day. Plaintiff
now seeks vacatur of the dismissal, stating that they did not intend to dismiss
the action as to Melkonyan.  
 
A
voluntary dismissal of an entire action deprives the court of both subject
matter and personal jurisdiction. (Paniagua v. Orange County Fire Auth.
(2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 83, 89 [“[W]here the plaintiff has filed a voluntary
dismissal of an action …, the court is without jurisdiction to act further …,
and any subsequent orders of the court are simply void.”].) Even so, the Court
has power under C.C.P § 473(b) to vacate a voluntary dismissal entered as a
result of mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. (Zamora v.
Clayborn Contracting Group, Inc. (2002) 28 Cal.4th 249, 254-255.) 
 
Per
C.C.P. § 473(b), a court “may, upon any terms as may be just, relieve a party
or his or her legal representative from a judgment, dismissal, order, or other
proceeding taken against him or her through his or her mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or excusable neglect.” In addition, a court must vacate a
default or dismissal when a motion for relief under C.C.P. § 473(b) is filed
timely and accompanied by an attorney’s sworn affidavit attesting to the
attorney’s mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect unless the court finds
that the default or dismissal was not in fact caused by the attorney’s mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or neglect.
 
Here,
Plaintiff provides the declaration of their counsel Brian Tapper (Tapper). Tapper
avers that he mistakenly requested the entirety of this action be dismissed after
his client settled the matter with Darakchyan. (Tapper Decl. ¶ 2.) Tapper
states that his request for dismissal as to the entire case was erroneous and
that Plaintiff intended only to dismiss Darakchyan. (Tapper Decl. ¶ 3.) Tapper
declares that this request was the result of an honest mistake and requests the
Court vacate the dismissal. (Tapper Decl. ¶ 3.) Tapper further indicates
that, should the dismissal be vacated, it is Plaintiff’s intent to dismiss as
to Darakchyan only thereafter. (Tapper Decl. ¶ 6.) 
 
A review
of the proof of service shows that notice of this motion was served on both Melkonyan
and Darakchyan. Neither party renders any opposition.
 
The Court
is satisfied that Plaintiff has demonstrated mistake of counsel such as to
entitle them to mandatory relief under C.C.P. § 473(b). The Court notes that
prior to dismissal, an OSC re: Failure to File Proof of Service was scheduled
for October 5, 2023. This OSC was continued from June 8, 2023 to allow
Plaintiff more time to locate and serve Melkonyan. The Court also notes that proof
of service on Melkonyan via substitute service was filed on August 16, 2023. 
 
Given the
foregoing, the motion to vacate dismissal is GRANTED. The Court sets a case
management conference for August 14, 2024 at 9:00 a.m. 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Mercury
Insurance Company’s Motion to Vacate
Dismissal came on regularly for hearing on April 12,
2024, with appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order for said
hearing, and the court, being fully advised in the premises, did then and there
rule as follows: 
 
THE MOTION TO VACATE DISMISSAL IS GRANTED. 
 
THE COURT SETS A CASE MANAGEMENT CONFERENCE FOR AUGUST
14, 2024 AT 9:00 A.M. 
 
PLAINTIFF IS TO PROVIDE NOTICE.  
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
April 12, 2024                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 