 Case Number:  22STCV09722    Hearing Date:   July 18, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27 
 
MOTION TO CONSOLIDATE¿ 
Hearing Date: 7/18/24¿ 
CASE NO./NAME: 22STCV09722 LAWRENCE EARL ADAMS
vs TESLA, INC; 24PSCV00397 ANDREW MARTINEZ, et al. vs TESLA MOTORS INC
Moving Party: Defendant Tesla Motors
Responding Party: Unopposed
Notice: Sufficient
Ruling: MOTION TO CONSOLIDATE¿IS GRANTED
 
Legal Standard
 
California Rules of Court, rule
3.350, subdivision (a) states in relevant part:
 
(1) A notice of motion to consolidate must:
(A) List all named parties in each case, the names of
those who have appeared, and the names of their respective attorneys of record;
(B) Contain the captions of all the cases sought to be
consolidated, with the lowest-numbered case shown first; and
(C) Be filed in each case sought
to be consolidated.
 
(2) The motion to consolidate:
(A) Is deemed a single motion for the purpose of
determining the appropriate filing fee, but memorandums, declarations, and
other supporting papers must be filed only in the lowest-numbered case;
(B) Must be served on all attorneys of record and all
non-represented parties in all of the cases sought to be consolidated; and
(C) Must have a proof of service filed as part of the
motion.
 
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.350,
subd. (a)). Also, the consolidation statute, Code of Civil Procedure section
1048, states in relevant part:
 
(a)¿ When actions involving a common question of law or
fact are pending before the court, it may order a joint hearing or trial of any
or all the matters in issue in the actions; it may order all the actions
consolidated and it may make such orders concerning proceedings therein as may
tend to avoid unnecessary costs or delay.
 
(b)¿ The court, in furtherance of convenience or to avoid
prejudice, or when separate trials will be conducive to expedition and economy,
may order a separate trial of any cause of action, including a cause of action
asserted in a cross-complaint, or of any separate issue or of any number of
causes of action or issues, preserving the right of trial by jury required by
the Constitution or a statute of this state or of the United States.
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1048, subd.
(a).)
 
The granting or denial of the
motion to consolidate rests in the sound discretion of the trial court and will
not be reversed except upon a clear showing of abuse of discretion. (See Fellner
v. Steinbaum (1955) 132 Cal.App.2d 509, 511.)
 
Los Angeles County Court Rules, Rule 3.3(g) states, “Cases may not
be consolidated unless they are in the same department. A motion to consolidate
two or more cases may be noticed and heard after the cases, initially filed in different
departments, have been related into a single department, or if the cases were
already assigned to that department.”
 
Discussion
 
On March 21, 2022,
Plaintiff Lawrence Adams filed the present action, case number 22STCV09722,
against Tesla. The claims involve a vehicular accident on State Road 57 (SR-57)
in Diamond Bar, County of Los Angeles. Adams alleges that he was driving his Mercedes-Benz
northbound on SR-57 when he struck a black Tesla Model X in the early hours of
February 11, 2022. Adams alleges that the Tesla vehicle was abandoned or
otherwise not operating, and he was unable to see the vehicle with enough
notice to avoid colliding with it. Following the collision between himself and
the Tesla, Plaintiff Andrew Martinez in the related case, 24PSCV00397, struck
the Tesla vehicle. According to reports generated by the California Highway
Patrol (CHP), the accidents occurred within minutes of each other. The Adams
accident resulted in the Tesla moving further into the middle of SR-57 and
blocking the travel lane. On February 7, 2024, Martinez filed his action, case
number 24PSCV00397, against Tesla and the driver, Karen Bacolod. Both
22STCV09722 and 24PSCV00397 are in Department 27 of the Spring
Street Courthouse. Defendant Tesla now moves the court to consolidate the two
cases.
Defendant has met all
the requirements under California Rules of Court, rule 3.350. The notice of
motion lists all named parties in each case, contains the captions of all the
cases sought to be consolidated, with the lowest-numbered case shown first, and
the notice of motion is filed in case number 24PSCV00397. The notice of motion
and motion and supporting papers have been properly served on all parties.
The court finds good
cause to consolidate the actions as they share common questions of fact or law.
Both Defendants Tesla and Karen MacLeod are defendants in each case.
Plaintiffs’ claims are based on accidents that allegedly occurred within
minutes of each other. The two accidents are related as the first accident
caused defendant's vehicle to travel further towards the middle of the highway,
blocking the travel lane, and leading to the second accident. Furthermore,
Tesla intends to rely on the same witnesses and experts. The parties will rely
on the same CHP personnel to testify at deposition and trial. No opposition was
filed alleging prejudice. Thus, the present motion is granted and the two cases
are to be consolidated with 22STCV09722 as the lead case.
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:¿ 
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date
and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party
submitting.
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the
hearing to argue.
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion.