 Case Number:  23STCV12222    Hearing Date:   July 18, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27
 
MOTION TO RECLASSIFY
Hearing Date: 7/18/24 
CASE NO./NAME: 23STCV12222 JERMAINE STERLING
vs DEROOSPRO LLC
Moving Party: Defendant DeroosPro and Bryon
Deroos
Responding Party: Plaintiff 
Notice: Sufficient 
Ruling: MOTION TO RECLASSIFY IS DENIED
 
Legal
Standard
Code of Civil Procedure section 403.040 allows the defendant or
cross-defendant to file a motion for reclassification within the time allowed
for that party to respond to the initial pleading. Defendant has 30 days to
file a responsive pleading. CCP § 430.40(a) and CCP § 412.20(a)(3)
(b) If a party files a motion for reclassification after the time
for that party to amend that party's initial pleading or to respond to a
complaint, cross-complaint, or other initial pleading, the court shall grant
the motion and enter an order for reclassification only if both of the
following conditions are satisfied: (1) The case is incorrectly classified and (2)
The moving party shows good cause for not seeking reclassification earlier.
In Walker v. Superior Court (1991) 53 Cal.3d 257, 262, the
California Supreme Court held that a matter may be reclassified from unlimited
to limited only if it appears to a legal certainty that the plaintiff's damages
will necessarily be less than $25,000. (Walker v. Superior Court (1991)
53 Cal.3d 257.) If there is a possibility that the damages will exceed
$25,000.00, the case cannot be transferred to limited. (Ibid.) This high
standard is appropriate in light of “the circumscribed procedures and recovery
available in the limited civil courts.” (Ytuarte v. Superior Court (2005)
129 Cal.App.4th 266, 278.)
 
In Ytuarte, the Court of Appeals examined the principles it
set forth in Walker and held that “the court should reject the
plaintiff's effort to reclassify the action as unlimited only when the
lack of jurisdiction as an “unlimited” case is certain and clear.” (Id.
at 279.) (Emphasis added.)
 
Discussion¿ 
On March 6, 2024, Defendants Deroospro LLC and Bryon Deroos were
served with the summons and complaint through substituted service. On March 27,
2024, Defendants filed their answer. On May 23, 2024, Defendants move the court
to reclassify the present case to limited civil court.
This motion is not timely as Defendants were served on March 6,
2024, and the present motion was filed on May 23, 2024, more than 30 days after
service. Furthermore, Defendant, in the moving papers, failed to show good
cause for not seeking reclassification earlier. In fact, Defendant was aware of
all the facts necessary to file the present motion in 2023 when Plaintiff sent
Defendants his demand letter (Exhibit A). It does not appear to the court that
there is good cause for the delay in filing the present motion.
Additionally, there exists a possibility that Plaintiff's recovery
could exceed $25,000. According to Plaintiff’s demand letter, Plaintiff has
been diagnosed with strain of the thoracic region, cervicalgia, lumbago,
radiculopathy to the lumbar and cervical region, pain and strain to the lumbar
and cervical spine, and protrusion of the lumbar disc. An MRI showed a
posterior disc bulge. As of September 21, 2022, Plaintiff has incurred $8,819
in medical expenses, anticipates incurring more than $63,000 in future medical
expenses and alleges general damages.
Although
Plaintiff has only produced medical records totaling $8,819 as of September 21,
2022, it is important to consider that more than two years have passed since
those records were produced. Given the extent of Plaintiff's alleged injuries,
which include strain of the thoracic region, cervicalgia, lumbago,
radiculopathy to the lumbar and cervical region, pain and strain to the lumbar
and cervical spine, and protrusion of the lumbar disc, it is possible that
Plaintiff may have incurred additional medical expenses since then. The nature
of Plaintiff’s alleged injuries also suggests ongoing treatment and potential
complications, which could possibility increase the total medical costs.
As to future
medical damages, the absence of current evidence regarding the actual cost of
future treatments does not preclude the possibility that such evidence will be
presented later during litigation. 
Furthermore,
courts typically consider general damages for pain and suffering calculated as
a multiple of special damages. The court is typically inclined to grant general
damages three times the amount of special damages. So even assuming Plaintiff’s
special damages are limited to $8,819, the total amount of damages, including
general damages, would exceed $25,000. Thus, the court finds that there is a
possibility for recovery over $25,000.00 and denies the present motion.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿The body of the email must include the hearing date and
time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿You should assume that others may appear at the hearing
to argue.
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion.
 