 Case Number:  23STCV28246    Hearing Date:   July 18, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27 
 
Demurrer and Motion to Strike
Hearing Date: 7/18/24 
CASE NO./NAME: 23STCV28246 JACKELINE
FERNANDEZ CALLES vs LOS ANGELES COUNTY METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY et
al.
Moving Party: Defendant LOS ANGELES COUNTY METROPOLITAN
TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY
Responding Party: Unopposed
Notice: Sufficient 
Ruling: 
Demurrers to Premises Liability and General Negligence sustained
with leave to amend. 
Demurrer to Motor Vehicle Negligence is sustained without leave to amend.
Request to strike No. 1 is overruled.
Requests to strike Nos. 2, 3, and 5 are
sustained without leave to amend.
Request to strike No. 4 is overruled.
Request to strike No. 6 is moot.
DEMURRER
 
Background
 
On November 17, 2023, Plaintiff filed the
present action against Defendants Los Angeles County Metropolitan
Transportation Authority (“Metro”), City of Los Angeles, County of Los Angeles,
State of California, and California Department of Transportation. Plaintiff
alleges three causes of action for dangerous condition of public property,
general negligence, and motor vehicle negligence. Plaintiff alleges that she
was injured when the train she was on was stopped in an unreasonable and unsafe
manner. On May 29, 2024, Defendant Metro admits that the individual operating
the train where Plaintiff was allegedly injured is an employee of Defendant
Metro. Defendant now demurs to the complaint on the following bases: (1) the
premises liability cause of action does not allege what constitutes the
dangerous condition; (2) the general negligence and motor vehicle negligence
causes of action are duplicative; and (3) no common law negligence causes of
action exist against a public entity.
 
Judicial Notice
 
The court takes
judicial notice of Exhibit A: Defendant’s Los Angeles County Metropolitan
Transportation Authority’s Admission Employee was Acting within the Course and
Scope of Employment at Time of Alleged Accident pursuant to Evidence Code §§
452(h) and 453.
 
Legal Standard
 
1.  Demurrer
 
A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a
cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When
considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in context. In
a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading
or via proper judicial notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004)
116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the
evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects
appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed. (CCP §§ 430.30,
430.70.) At the pleading stage, a plaintiff need only allege ultimate facts
sufficient to apprise the defendant of the factual basis for the claim against
him. (Semole v. Sansoucie (1972) 28 Cal. App. 3d 714, 721.) A “demurrer
does not, however, admit contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law
alleged in the pleading, or the construction of instruments pleaded, or facts
impossible in law.” (S. Shore Land Co. v. Petersen (1964) 226 Cal.App.2d
725, 732 [internal citations omitted].)
 
2.  Government Claims
 
Pursuant to the Tort Claims Act, Plaintiff
must allege a statutory basis for holding the government liable for trespass.
(See Govt. Code §815; Bates v. Franchise Tax Board (2004) 124
Cal.App.4th 367, 381.) 
 
A public entity is
not liable for an injury unless that liability is provided for by statute.
(Gov. Code, § 815(a).) “[T]o state a cause of action every fact essential to
the existence of statutory liability must be pleaded with particularity,
including the existence of a statutory duty. [Citation.]” (Searcy v. Hemet
Unified School Dist. (1986) 177 Cal.App.3d 792, 802.) “Since the duty of a
governmental agency can only be created by statute or ‘enactment,’ the statute
or ‘enactment’ claimed to establish the duty must at the very least be
identified.” (Ibid.) 
“[B]ecause under the Tort Claims Act all governmental tort
liability is based on statute, the general rule that statutory causes of action
must be pleaded with particularity is applicable.”  (Lopez v. Southern
Cal. Rapid Transit Dist. (1985) 40 Cal.3d 780, 795.)  “Thus, ‘to state
a cause of action against a public entity, every fact material to the existence
of its statutory liability must be pleaded with particularity.’” (Id.
(quoting Peter W. v. San Francisco Unified Sch. Dist. (1976) 60
Cal.App.3d 814, 819).)
 
Plaintiff’s
Claim for Dangerous Condition of Public Property
Under Government Code
§835 “a public entity may be liable for an injury caused by a dangerous
condition of its property if plaintiff establishes that the property was in a
dangerous condition at the time of the injury .... the injury was proximately
caused by the dangerous condition, the dangerous condition created a reasonably
foreseeable risk of the kind of injury, which was incurred, and .... [t]he
public entity had actual or constructive notice of the dangerous condition [in
time to prevent the injury].” (Ibid.)
“A claim alleging a
dangerous condition may not rely on generalized allegations [citation] but must
specify in what manner the condition constituted a dangerous condition.’
[Citation.] A plaintiff’s allegations, and ultimately the evidence, must
establish a physical deficiency in the property itself. [Citations.] A
dangerous condition exists when public property ‘is physically damaged,
deteriorated, or defective in such a way as to foreseeably endanger those using
the property itself,’ or possesses physical characteristics in its design,
location, features or relationship to its surroundings that endanger users.
[Citation.].” (Mixon v. Pacific Gas and Electric Company (2012) 207
Cal.App.4th 124, 131
The complaint does not
allege what constitutes the dangerous condition in this case. In the case of a
train, a physical feature or design of the train that was dangerous must be
specified, as every fact essential to the existence of statutory liability must
be pleaded with particularity. (See Searcy v. Hemet Unified School
Dist. (1986) 177 Cal.App.3d 792, 802.) Since Plaintiff failed to allege the
defect in question, the court sustains the demurrer with leave to amend,  as the Court finds a reasonable possibility of
successful amendment by alleging the dangerous condition with particularity.
Plaintiff’s
Claim for General Negligence
Defendants argue that Plaintiff’s second cause of action for
general negligence does not contain a statutory basis for recovery and is
therefore based on common law general negligence. Accordingly, Defendants
contend the cause of action cannot stand against a government entity. The Court
agrees in part. Plaintiff seeks recovery under a theory of negligent
entrustment, hiring, and supervision, alleging that Metro negligently
“entrusted the motor vehicle” to the train operator.  A governmental entity is not liable for
negligent hiring and supervision. (De Villers v. County of San Diego (2007) 156
Cal.App.4th 238, 253 [“there is no statutory basis for declaring a governmental
entity liable for negligence in its hiring and supervision practices”].)
Therefore, Plaintiff’s second cause of action based on negligent entrustment,
supervision, and hiring is groundless and cannot be maintained.
However, it appears that negligent hiring or entrustment may
not be Plaintiff’s only theory of recovery for negligence. Plaintiff explicitly
cites Government Code Section 815.2 and Vehicle Code Section 17001 as bases for
recovery (Complaint at pg. 10.) and alleges that “Defendant
JOHN DOE, suddenly and without warning, abruptly applied the brakes as the
train was in motion and Plaintiff fell off her seat, causing Plaintiff to
sustain serious injuries and damages.
The actions of the Defendants and/or its employees were below the
standard of care and was the cause of Plaintiff’s injuries”.
Government Code section 815.2 provides that a public entity is
vicariously liable for the torts of their employees committed within the scope
of employment if the employee is liable. (See Govt. Code § 815.2(a); Chambi
v. Regents of Univ. of Cal. (2002) 95 Cal.App.4th 822, 827; Hoff,
supra, 19 Cal.4th at 932; Lawson v. Superior Court
(2010) 180 C.A.4th 1372, 1388 [state
was vicariously liable for any negligence by jailers in failing to seek care
for infant's respiratory ailment].) In the Complaint, Plaintiff has alleged that John Doe,
the operator of the train whom Metro admits was its employee (RFJN Ex. A),
acted in a manner that fell below the standard of care by suddenly, without
warning, applying the brakes, causing Plaintiff’s injuries. Arguably, then Plaintiff
has alleged enough facts regarding John Doe’s negligence to make Defendant
liable under a theory of vicarious liability.  However, as presented, the Complaint is ambiguous
as to whether that is what is being pled. 
Accordingly, Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s cause of action for
general negligence is sustained, but with leave to amend.
Plaintiff’s Claim for Motor Vehicle
Negligence
Defendant argues that
Plaintiff’s causes of action for motor vehicle negligence and general
negligence are duplicative and contain the same allegations and therefore one
of the causes of action should be dismissed. The Court reviewed the complaint
and observed that they do indeed include identical allegations. A demurrer may
be sustained when a cause of action is duplicative of another cause of action
and “thus adds nothing to the complaint by way of fact or theory of recovery.”
(Rodrigues v. Campbell Industries (1978) 87 Cal.App.3d 494, 501; see Palm
Springs Villas II Homeowners Association, Inc. v. Parth (2016) 248
Cal.App.4th 268, 290.) The Court therefore sustains Defendant’s demurrer to
Plaintiff’s motor vehicle negligence cause of action without leave to amend.
MOTION TO STRIKE
Defendant also filed a
motion to strike along with the demurrer seeking to strike the following
allegations:
1. “Defendants
negligently, recklessly and/or wantonly owned, maintained, managed operated,
controlled and safeguarded the premises on a Line A train…” (Complaint, “Premises
Liability” Attachment, page 7.) 
2. “Defendants failed
to properly train their employees and/or supervise their staff and failed to
barricade the areas and/or to warn of the dangerous condition…” (Complaint, “Premises
Liability” Attachment, page 7.)
3. “The defendants who
entrusted the motor vehicle are…Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation
Authority.” (Complaint, “Motor Vehicle” Attachment, page 8, at MV-2d.)
4. “…the negligence
carelessness and/or recklessness of Defendants Los Angeles County Metropolitan
Transportation Authority.” (Complaint, “Motor Vehicle” Attachment, page 9 and
identical allegations in “General Negligence” Attachment, page 10.)
5. “…so negligently,
wantonly, carelessly, and/or recklessly entrusted, owned, operated a train in
an unreasonable and unsafe manner…” (Complaint, “Motor Vehicle” Attachment,
page 9 and identical allegations in “General Negligence” Attachment, page 10.)
6. Third cause of
action for General Negligence, in its entirety (Complaint, ¶ 10a, and “General
Negligence” Attachment, pages 10-11.)
Request 1
is
overruled because to prevail in a dangerous condition of public property claim,
Plaintiff must establish that: (1) the property was in a dangerous condition at
the time of the injury, (2) the injury was proximately caused by the dangerous
condition, (3) the dangerous condition created a reasonably foreseeable risk of
the kind of injury which was incurred, and (4) either:
(a) A negligent or
wrongful act or omission of an employee of the public entity within the scope
of their employment created the dangerous condition; or
(b) The public entity
had actual or constructive notice of the dangerous condition under Section
835.2 a sufficient time prior to the injury to have taken measures to protect
against the dangerous condition. (Cal. Gov. Code § 835.)
Plaintiff’s allegation
that Defendants negligently, recklessly, and/or wantonly owned, maintained,
managed, operated, controlled, and safeguarded the premises of a Line A train
is relevant to Cal. Gov. Code § 835(a) where a negligent or wrongful act or
omission of an employee of the public entity within the scope of their
employment created the dangerous condition.
Requests 2-3, and 5
are sustained without leave to amend as there is no cause of action or theory
of recovery for negligent entrustment, hiring, or supervision against a public
entity, as discussed in the foregoing analysis for the demurrer.
Request 4 is overruled because the allegation of
“negligence, carelessness, and/or recklessness of Defendants Los Angeles County
Metropolitan Transportation Authority” in the “General Negligence” Attachment,
page 10, is not baseless as Defendant Metro could, as discussed above, be found
vicariously liable for negligence based on the conduct of its employee who
Plaintiff alleges was negligent in operating the train.
Request 6 is moot as the Court has sustained the
demurrer to the motor vehicle negligence cause of action without leave to
amend. The Court believes that general negligence, instead of motor vehicle
negligence, is the more appropriate cause of action to maintain, though, as
noted, the Court believes that cause of action should be amended to make it
more clear.
Plaintiff
may amend consistent with this ruling within 20 days of today.
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿The body of the email must include the hearing date and
time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting. 
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿You should assume that others may appear at the hearing
to argue. 
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion.
 