  Case Number:  18SMCV00120    Hearing Date:   August 8, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Detamore, et al., v. Jain, et al.
CASE
NO.:                18SMCV00120
MOTION:                  Motion to be Relieved as
Counsel
HEARING
DATE:   8/8/2024
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
The court may order that an
attorney be changed or substituted at any time before or after judgment or
final determination upon request by either client or attorney and after notice
from one to the other. (CCP § 284(2).) The attorney seeking to withdraw must
take “reasonable steps to avoid reasonably foreseeable prejudice to the rights
of the client, including giving due notice to the client, allowing time for
employment of other counsel.” (Cal. Rules of Prof. Conduct, 3-700(A)(2). See,
e.g., Vann v. Shilleh (1975) [holding withdrawal prejudicial where
attorney withdraw from the representation of defendant on the Friday before
trial began the following Monday].) “The determination whether to grant or deny
a motion to withdraw as counsel lies within the sound discretion of the trial
court.” (Manfredi & Levine v. Superior Court (1998) 66 Cal.App.4th
1128, 1133.)  
 
An application to be relieved as
counsel must be made on Judicial Counsel Form MC-051 (Notice of Motion and
Motion), MC-052 (Declaration), and MC-053 (Proposed Order). (CRC 3.1362(a),
(c), (e).) The requisite forms must be served “on the client and on all parties
that have appeared in the case.” (CRC, 3.1362(d).) When a client is
served by mail, the attorney’s declaration must indicate that the client’s
address was confirmed within the last 30 days and how it was confirmed. (Id.)
If the attorney is unable to confirm the client’s current address, the
declaration must state the reasonable efforts made within the last 30 days to
obtain the client’s current address. (Id.) 
 
Additionally, the declaration “must
state in general terms and without compromising the confidentiality of the
attorney client relationship why” a motion is brought instead of filing a
substitution of attorney. (CRC, 3.1362(c).)
 
ANALYSIS
 
Counsel Fisher, Klein & Wolfe
LLP moves to be relieved as counsel for Plaintiff Advanced Pain Solutions Inc.
Counsel submits all the mandatory forms. Counsel states that an irreparable
breakdown in communication with the client has occurred. Counsel served his
client by mail at its last known address. Counsel has been unable to confirm
the address is current after making reasonable efforts, including mailing with
return receipt requested, calling Plaintiff’s last known telephone number,
conducting a Secretary of State search, and sending emails to addresses from
which their client had previously replied. The declaration notes the October
22, 2024, status conference. Given that trial is not set, the Court does not
find that the client will be prejudiced by the withdrawal. 
 
Accordingly, the motion is GRANTED.