 Case Number:  19SMCV01614    Hearing Date:   August 8, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Singer v. Related
California Urban Housing, et al.
CASE NO.:                19SMCV01614
MOTION:                  Motion
for Summary Judgment
HEARING DATE:   8/8/2024

 
Legal
Standard
 
A party may move for summary judgment in any action or
proceeding if it is contended the action has no merit or that there is no
defense to the action or proceeding. (CCP, § 437c(a).) “The purpose of the law
of summary judgment is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the
parties' pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations,
trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar v. Atlantic
Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.)  
 
“A party may move for summary adjudication as to one or
more causes of action within an action, one or more affirmative defenses, one
or more claims for damages, or one or more issues of duty, if the party
contends that the cause of action has no merit, that there is no affirmative
defense to the cause of action, that there is no merit to an affirmative
defense as to any cause of action, that there is no merit to a claim for
damages, as specified in¿Section 3294 of the Civil Code, or that one or more defendants
either owed or did not owe a duty to the plaintiff or plaintiffs.”¿(CCP,¿§
437c(f)(1).)¿If a party seeks summary adjudication as an alternative to a
request for summary judgment, the request must be clearly made in the notice of
the motion. (Gonzales v. Superior Court¿(1987) 189 Cal.App.3d 1542,
1544.)¿ “[A] party may move for summary adjudication of a legal issue or a
claim for damages other than punitive damages that does not completely
dispose of a cause of action, affirmative defense, or issue of duty
pursuant to” subdivision (t). (CCP,¿§ 437c(t).)¿ 
 
To prevail, the evidence submitted must show there is no
triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law.¿(CCP, §¿437c(c).)¿The motion cannot succeed unless
the evidence leaves no room for conflicting inferences as to material facts;
the court has no power to weigh one inference against another or against other
evidence. (Murillo v. Rite Stuff Food Inc. (1998) 65 Cal.App.4th
833, 841.) In determining whether the facts give rise to a triable issue of
material fact, “[a]ll doubts as to whether any material, triable, issues of
fact exist are to be resolved in favor of the party opposing summary judgment…”
(Gold v. Weissman (2004) 114 Cal.App.4th 1195, 1198-99.) “In other
words, the facts alleged in the evidence of the party opposing summary judgment
and the reasonable inferences there from must be accepted as true.” (Jackson
v. County of Los Angeles (1997) 60 Cal.App.4th 171, 179.) However, if
adjudication is otherwise proper the motion “may not be denied on grounds of
credibility,” except when¿a material fact is the witness’s¿state of mind and
“that fact is sought to be established solely by the [witness’s] affirmation
thereof.” (CCP, § 437c(e).)¿ 
 
Once the moving party has met their burden, the burden
shifts to the opposing party “to show that a triable issue of one or more
material facts exists as to that cause of action or a defense thereto.” (CCP §
437c(p)(1).) “[T]here¿is no
obligation on the opposing party... to establish anything by affidavit unless
and until the moving party has by affidavit stated facts establishing every
element... necessary to sustain a judgment in his favor.”¿(Consumer Cause,
Inc. v.¿SmileCare¿(2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 454, 468.)¿ 
¿ 
“The pleadings play a key role in a summary judgment
motion. The function of the pleadings in a motion for summary judgment is to
delimit the scope of the issues and to¿frame¿the outer measure of materiality
in a summary judgment proceeding.” (Hutton v. Fidelity National Title Co.¿(2013)
213 Cal.App.4th 486, 493, quotations and citations omitted.) “Accordingly, the
burden of a defendant moving for summary judgment only requires that he or she
negate plaintiff's theories of liability¿as alleged in the complaint;
that is, a moving party need not refute liability on some theoretical
possibility not included in the pleadings.” (Ibid.)¿ 
 
EVIDENTIARY ISSUES
 
Sealing
 
On July 26, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition and
supporting papers. On August 1, 2024, the Court granted Defendants’ ex parte
application to compel Plaintiff to comply with the parties’ Stipulation and
Protective Order dated August 20, 2020. The Court ordered Plaintiff to withdraw
the publicly filed opposition briefs and re-submit redacted and unredacted
versions with the Court. Plaintiff complied with the ex parte order and lodged new
opposition papers conditionally under seal. (See CRC Rule 2.551(b)(3).) On
August 2, 2024, Defendants filed a motion to seal the opposition and reply
papers. 
 
The sealing of trial court records is governed by California
Rules of Court, rules 2.550 and 2.551.¿The trial court must make the following
express factual findings¿in order to¿seal records: (1) an overriding interest
exists that overcomes the right of public access to the record; (2) the
overriding interest supports sealing the records; (3) a substantial probability
exists that the overriding interest will be prejudiced if the record is not
sealed; (4) the proposed sealing is narrowly tailored; and (5) no less
restrictive means exist to achieve the overriding interest.¿(CRC,¿Rule 2.550(d).)¿An
order sealing the record must specifically state the facts that support the
findings and direct the sealing of only those pages and documents or, if
reasonably practicable, portions of those documents and pages, that contain the
material that needs to be placed under seal, and all other portions must be
included in the public file.¿(CRC,¿rule 2.550(e).) The above findings embody
constitutional requirements for a request to seal court records, protecting the
First Amendment right of public access to civil trials. (NBC Subsidiary
(KNBC-TV), Inc. v. Superior Court (1999) 20 Cal.4th 1178, 1217-1218.) 
 
Defendants proffer the declaration of counsel, Michael A.
Zarconi, to provide a foundation for the sealing factors.  The Zarconi declaration provides that “[m]any
of these documents contain the sensitive confidential information of the
Defendants including, but not limited to, sensitive financial information,
trade secrets, private investor data, and confidential personnel records. A
considerable portion of this sensitive information includes excerpts from
balance sheets of various Defendants that is highly sensitive, and not
admissible unless or until there is a finding of punitive damages.” (Zarconi
Decl., ¶ 3.) Further, Defendants note that the parties entered into the Protective
Order and that “[s]ubstantial quantities of the documents produced by the
Defendants in this action through my office were produced under a ‘Confidential’
designation pursuant to the terms and conditions of the Protective Order.” (Id.,
¶ 4.) 
 
Defendants fail to meet their burden to show all of factors
set forth in rule 2.550. The declaration does not identify or provide any
foundation for an “overriding” privacy interest which might overcome the right
of public access. Defendants provide no information on whether there is a
substantial probability that their unspecified privacy interest would be
prejudiced if the record is not sealed. Defendants do not explain how the proposed
sealing is narrowly tailored or whether less restrictive means exist to achieve
the overriding interest. At best, Defendants cite the fact that the lodged
exhibits were produced in discovery under the stipulated Protective Order. Of
course, papers may not be filed under seal merely by stipulation of the
parties. (CRC Rule 2.551(a); H.B. Fuller Co. v. Doe (2007) 151
Cal.App.4th 879, 888.) 
 
Accordingly, the sealing motion is
DENIED. Defendants have the option to permit the documents to remain in the public
record or have the lodged documents returned/deleted. (CRC Rule 2.551(b)(6).) 
 
Evidentiary
Objections
 
As discussed below, Defendants have failed to meet their
initial burden of proof.  As such, the
evidentiary objections against Plaintiff’s evidence are immaterial. (CCP §
437c(q).)
 
Analysis
 
Defendants Nicholas Real Estate Investments LLC (NREI),
Cardone Real Estate Investments LLC (CREI), the Nicholas Company Inc. (NCI),
and the Related Companies of California LLC (RCC) separately move for summary
judgment. Each Defendant moves on the same grounds – that Plaintiff has no
evidence to support her alter ego and/or aiding and abetting theories of
liability. Plaintiff opposes each motion.
 
The third amended complaint (TAC) alleges two theories of
liability against the moving Defendants, NREI, CREI, NCI and RCC. The TAC alleges
that NREI, CREI, NCI and RCC are alter egos of SMUHA, which was the nominal
“owner/developer” of The Waverly. (TAC ¶¶ 26-32.) Defendants allegedly “dominated
and controlled SMUHA in such pervasive ways as to ignore SMUHA’s separateness
and to treat it as a mere shell and conduit” among other alter ego allegations.
(¶ 28.) The TAC also alleges that NREI, CREI, NCI and RCC aided and abetted the other defendants who
had direct duties to Plaintiff to disclose known material information. (¶¶
70-74.) Moving Defendants allegedly had actual knowledge of the alleged fraud,
including the true material facts regarding the water intrusion and fenestration
problems. (¶ 70.) Moving Defendants also provided substantial assistance in perpetrating
the fraud. (¶ 71.) Therefore, to meet their initial burden to show that they
are entitled to judgment as a matter of law, Defendants must negate both
theories.
 
Reviewing the allegations and the
submitted undisputed material facts (UMFs), Defendants met their burden of
proof on the alter ego issue, but not on the aiding and abetting issue. Since
Defendants have not shown entitlement to judgment as a matter of law,
the Court need not analyze the alter ego theory in any further detail.[1]  
 
Aiding and Abetting
 
Under an aiding and abetting
theory, a defendant must have actual knowledge of the “specific primary wrong”
being committed and gave substantial assistance to the wrongful conduct. (Goonewardene
v. ADP, LLC (2016) 5 Cal.App.5th 154, 188.) “Liability¿may ... be imposed
on one who¿aids¿and¿abets¿the commission of an intentional tort if the person
(a) knows the other's conduct constitutes a breach of duty and gives
substantial assistance or encouragement to the other to so act or (b) gives substantial
assistance to the other in accomplishing a tortious result and the person's own
conduct, separately considered, constitutes a breach of duty to the third
person. [Citation.] (Casey v. U.S. Bank National Association (2005) 127
Cal.App.4th 1138, 1144, quotations omitted.) To sum, a finder of fact may
determine a party aided and abetted a tort where: (1) the defendant knew a tort
was or would be committed by a primary tortfeasor; (2) the defendant
substantially assisted or encouraged the tortfeasor; and (3) the defendant’s
conduct was a substantial factor in causing harm to the plaintiff. (CACI No.
3610.) 
 
Defendants do not provide
affirmative evidence negating their alleged knowledge or substantial assistance.
Instead, Defendants rely on factually devoid discovery responses to shift their
burdens of proof. A defendant moving for summary judgment may rely on factually
devoid discovery responses to show that one or more elements of their claim
“cannot be established” and thereby shift the burden of proof. (Union Bank
v. Superior Court (1995) 31 Cal.App.4th 573, 59.) To
do so, a defendant must demonstrate: (1) plaintiff’s discovery responses fail
to set forth facts and identify evidence supporting the allegations; and (2)
the court can reasonably infer from the proffered discovery and responses that plaintiff
is unable to produce any additional evidence. (Andrews v. Foster Wheeler LLC
(2006) 138 Cal.App.4th 96, 102-103.) Defendant does not satisfy its burden of
proof by producing discovery responses that do not exclude the possibility that
Plaintiff may possess or may reasonably obtain evidence sufficient to establish
its claim. (Weber v. John Crane, Inc. (2006) 143 Cal.App.4th 1433,
1441-1442; see Scheiding v. Dinwiddie Const. Co. (1999) 69 Cal.App.4th
64 [failed to direct discovery at the defendant’s alleged presence at
construction site; the court could thus not infer that there was no evidence on
the disputed issue].) For example, “[i]f plaintiffs respond to
comprehensive interrogatories seeking all known facts with boilerplate answers
that restate their allegations, or simply provide laundry lists of people
and/or documents, the burden of production will almost certainly be shifted to
them once defendants move for summary judgment and properly present plaintiffs’
factually devoid discovery responses.” (Andrews, supra, 138
Cal.App.4th at 107; see Casey v. Perini¿(2012) 206 Cal.App.4th¿1222
[interrogatory answers failed to identify specific asbestos-containing products].)

 
On March 29, 2024, the moving
defendants separately propounded certain special interrogatories and requests
for production of documents to Plaintiff. (Newman Decls., Exs. C, E; see UMFs
12, 15.) In their respective interrogatories, Defendants requested that
Plaintiff provide factual support for the TAC’s aiding and abetting allegations.
(See id., Exs. D, F.) 
 
In its special interrogatory no. 17,
NREI asked Plaintiff to state all facts supporting her contention that NREI “aided
and abetted” SMUHA, as alleged in paragraph 70a of the TAC. Reviewing the full
response, the Court concludes that Plaintiff did not proffer a “boilerplate” answer
that merely restated the allegations of the complaint or merely provided a “laundry
list” of people and documents. In response, Plaintiff fully explained the
relationship between SMUHA and the other entities including NREI. This included
facts that SMUHA’s actions were controlled by the “California Development
Group” and “New York Development Group” of the Related Companies, and that the principals
of the California Group, William Witte and Frank Cardone, controlled SMUHA through
intermediary entities such as NREI, CREI, TNC and RCC. Plaintiff also proffered
specific facts regarding Witte’s and Cardone’s control of NREI, CREI, TNC and
RCC, and facts that suggest they had knowledge of the suppressed environmental
and fenestration issues. The same is true for CREI and TNC. (See, e.g., CREI’s special
interrogatories nos. 15, 36; TNC’s no. 21.) To substantially similar questions,
Plaintiff provided a substantially identical response. Therefore, the Court
cannot infer from Plaintiff’s response that she is unable to produce any
additional evidence.
 
Notably, RCC did not present a sufficiently
comprehensive “all facts” request seeking information in support of the aiding
and abetting allegations. The cited interrogatories request more specific
information. For example, special interrogatories nos. 36, 39 and 42 request “all
facts” in support of Plaintiff’s allegations that RCC made “decisions typically
made by a project’s owner,” “aggressively advertised The Waverly as ‘Related
Companies’ project” or “had a direct financial interest in selling condominium
units at the Waverly.” Unlike the other moving parties, RCC did not request all
facts in support of the aiding and abetting allegations. As such, RCC did
not meet its burden.
 
Defendants therefore fail to shift
their burden by presenting Plaintiff’s “factually devoid” discovery responses.  Accordingly, the four motions for summary
judgment are DENIED.
 


