 Case Number:  20SMCV00406    Hearing Date:   August 8, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Rosamond Ranch
LP v. South La Cienega Holdings LLC
CASE NO.:                20SMCV00406
MOTION:                  Motion
to Compel Compliance/Production
HEARING DATE:   8/8/2024

 
Legal
Standard
If a party permits inspection, copying, testing, or sampling of
documents in response to a request for production of documents, but thereafter
fails to permit the inspection, copying, testing, or sampling in accordance
with that party's statement of compliance, the demanding party may move for an
order compelling compliance. (CCP § 2031.320(a).) The court “shall” impose a
monetary sanction against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully
makes or opposes a motion to compel compliance with a demand, unless it finds
that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or
that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust. (CCP §
2031.320(b).)
 
ANALYSIS 
 
Defendant/Cross-Complainant
South La Cienega Holdings, LLC moves to compel Cross-Defendant Rosamond Ranch,
LP to produce documents in compliance with its written discovery responses and
representations. Cross-Complainant seeks monetary sanctions against
Cross-Defendants Rosamond and Elias Shokrian, and their counsel Gomez Law,
jointly and severally, in the amount of $4,830.00.
 
            Cross-Complainant propounded Requests
for Production (“RPDs”), set one, more than three years ago on April 12, 2021. (Knox
Decl., ¶ 5.) After numerous delays, Cross-Defendants produced roughly 80,000
pages of documents on March 17, 2023. (Id.) Cross-Defendants’ prior counsel
recognized that the type of document production was problematic and they agreed
to reproduce the documents in a usable electronic format. (Id., ¶ 8, Ex. F.) 
 
Cross-Complainant
also propounded RPDs, sets four and five. (Id., ¶11.) Cross-Defendant initially
responded to RPD Nos. 121-129 (Set Four) stating that it was “unclear as to
who/what [the identified individual or entity] is.” (Id., ¶ 9, Ex. B.) Counsel served
supplemental responses to set four, stating that it “previously produced all
communications it has had with third parties with regard to 3049 and 3051
properties during the relevant time period.” (Ex. I.) Cross-Defendant did not identify
where in the prior 80,000 plus page production such documents existed. (Id.)
 
Cross-Complainant
met and conferred regarding these issues. (Id., Ex. K.) As a result,
Cross-Defendant agreed to:
 
a.
re-produce the 80,000 plus page production of documents electronically in a
means suitable for use on an e-discovery platform (e.g., Relativity, DISCO,
etc.); 
b.
“include RFPs 121-129 as part of the scope of our review,” in order to produce
or identify in any prior production documents that are responsive to set four
RPDs; 
c.
produce documents responsive to the set five RPDs, subject to a Stipulated
Protective Order; and 
d.
produce “the Rosamond Ranch, L.P. partnership agreement in response to RFP No.
119,” among the Set Four RPDs (see Ex. L).
 
Cross-Defendant
agreed to complete their supplemental production of documents on a rolling
basis on or before June 10, 2024. (Id., ¶18.) By June 10, 2024, Cross-Defendant
did not produce any documents, and had not submitted the proposed Stipulated
Protective Order to the Court that was meant to facilitate some of the further
document production. (Id., ¶¶19-20, Ex. L-M.)  Of note, the protective order was filed on
June 14, 2024, and signed by the Court on June 14, 2024.
 
Rosamond
admits that it should have produced further documents pursuant to its
agreement. Rosamond represents that, just prior to submitting its opposition,
it finally provided some, but not all, production pertaining to RPD no
119. (Gomez Decl., ¶ 10, Ex. 3.) Otherwise, Rosamond explains that its
electronic discovery vendor has had an extraordinarily difficult time ironing
out compatibility issues between the vendor’s document review platform, its
software program, and the computer’s used by the attorneys assigned to this
document review and production project. (Id., ¶¶ 7-8, Ex. 2.) This included uploading
issues, system lockouts and freezes, and other problems. (Id.) Counsel
represents that “all the kinks have been worked out and the document review is
underway.” (Id.)
 
The
Court does not find this explanation a satisfactory excuse for its delay in
production. Rosamond only refers to vague, unsupported computer issues, which
would not explain the multiple month delay. For example, Rosamond does not
explain why it did not produce its insurance policy after the Court signed the protective
order on the same day it was submitted – June 14, 2024. 
 
Accordingly,
the motion to compel compliance is GRANTED. Cross-Defendant Rosamond is ordered
to comply with its production obligations as discussed above within 10 days. 
 
Cross-Complainant request for sanctions is GRANTED in the noticed
amount of $4,830.00. Sanctions are awarded against Cross-Defendant Rosamond,
its counsel of record Gomez Law, jointly and severally. Sanctions are to be
paid to Cross-Complainant’s counsel of record within 30 days.