..................... ..................... ..................... ......
The summary displayed below was created by an LLM named 'llama3-8b-8192':
Here is a summary of the judge's tentative ruling in YAML format:

```
Case Number: Not specified
Plaintiff's Name: Rhonda Rothstein
Defendant's Name: Various (including Metropolitan Life Insurance Company, MetLaw, County of Los Angeles Fire Museum Association, Winston Financial Services, Inc., Jeffrey Kaliher, Paul Oyler, and Paul Schneider)
People-Names: Rhonda Rothstein, Jeffrey Kaliher, Paul Oyler, Paul Schneider
Company-Names: Cal First Responders Insurance Agency, Inc., Metropolitan Life Insurance Company, MetLaw, MetLife, Winston Financial Services, Inc., Farmers Property and Casualty Insurance Company
Places: Los Angeles County
Dates: January 28, 2019, January/February 2019, May 16, 2019, June 10, 2019, July 2019, August 11, 2023, September 11, 2023, September 28, 2023, February 9, 2024
Events: Breach of contract, breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing, fraud, conversion, unfair business practices, promissory estoppel
Money: $533,611.62, $19,900
Intentions: To determine whether the plaintiff has stated a claim for conversion and unfair competition under the California Business and Professions Code
Facts: The plaintiff, Rhonda Rothstein, developed a group insurance plan for Los Angeles County firefighters and entered into contracts with various defendants to provide and administer the insurance. The plaintiff claims that the defendants breached their contracts and engaged in unfair business practices, resulting in the plaintiff being denied commissions and other benefits.
Disputes: The plaintiff claims that the defendants breached their contracts and engaged in unfair business practices, while the defendants argue that the plaintiff's claims are without merit.
Acts: The defendants demurred to the plaintiff's claims and moved to strike the request for punitive damages and attorney fees.
Laws: California Business and Professions Code, California Code of Civil Procedure
Case Citations: Various (including G.S. Rasmussen & Assocs. v. Kalitta Flying Servs., 958 F.2d 896; Farmers Ins. Exchange v. Zerin, 53 Cal.App.4th 445; Sanowicz v. Bacal, 234 Cal.App.4th 1027; Vu v. California Commerce Club, Inc., 58 Cal.App.4th 229)
Statutes: California Business and Professions Code section 17200
Roles: The plaintiff is Rhonda Rothstein, and the defendants are various insurance companies and individuals.
Significant Statements:
* The court previously sustained demurrers by defendant Farmers Insurance and defendant MetLife, finding that the plaintiff's claims for conversion and unfair competition were insufficiently alleged.
* The court granted the motion to strike the request for punitive damages and attorney fees.
* The court found that the plaintiff's claims for conversion and unfair competition failed to state a claim.
* The court granted the motion for judgment on the pleadings to the thirteenth and sixteenth causes of action.
```

Note that some of the information, such as the case number, is not specified in the text.
