

Hearing
Date:             March 28, 2024
Case
Name:                Parra v. The Cheesecake
Factory, Inc.
Case
No.:                    23STCV28419
Matter:                        Motion to Compel
Arbitration 
Moving Party:             Defendants The Cheesecake Factory
Inc., and The Cheesecake Factory Restaurant, Inc.

Responding
Party:      Plaintiff Lizbeth Parra

Tentative
Ruling:      The Motion to Compel
Arbitration is denied. 

 
In this
employment action, Plaintiff Lizbeth Parra (Plaintiff) filed a Complaint on November
20, 2023, alleging causes of action for FEHA violations and violations of the Labor
Code against her former employers, Defendants the Cheesecake Factory Inc., and the
Cheesecake Factory Restaurant, Inc. (collectively, Defendants).
 
            On
January 22, 2024, Defendants filed a motion to compel arbitration pursuant to the
parties’ arbitration agreement. Plaintiff opposed the motion. Defendants filed
a reply. 
 
            The motion to compel
arbitration is denied.
 
            Defendants’ request for
judicial notice of Exhs. A-B is granted. (Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (c).)
 
Legal
Standard 
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure
section 1281.2, a court may order arbitration of a controversy if it finds that
the parties have agreed to arbitrate that dispute. Because the obligation to
arbitrate arises from contract, the court may compel arbitration only if the
dispute in question is one in which the parties have agreed to arbitrate. (Weeks
v. Crow (1980) 113 Cal.App.3d 350, 352.) Since arbitration is a favored
method of dispute resolution, arbitration agreements should be liberally
interpreted, and arbitration should be ordered unless the agreement clearly
does not apply to the dispute in question. (Id. at p. 353; Segal v.
Silberstein (2007) 156 Cal.App.4th 627, 633.)
 
Analysis
 
            Defendants
move to compel arbitration of Plaintiff’s claims and stay the action while the
arbitration is pending.
 
I.              
Existence of a Valid Arbitration Agreement
 
            Defendants
seek to compel arbitration based on the parties’ arbitration agreement. In
support of the existence of an arbitration agreement, Defendants submit
evidence that Plaintiff began working for Defendants as a Server at Defendant Cheesecake’s
restaurant located in Temecula, California on July 1, 2021. (Lambert-Gaffney Decl., ¶ 5.)
In connection to her employment, Plaintiff executed an agreement titled “Mutual Agreement to
Arbitrate Claims.”  (Arbitration Agreement), obligating
her to arbitrate any employment-related disputes with Defendants. (Lambert-Gaffney
Decl., ¶ 5, Ex. A.)
 
The Agreement provides that
Plaintiff and Defendants mutually agreed “to arbitrate before a neutral arbitrator
any and all disputes or claims between the Company and me that arise out of or
relate to my recruitment, employment or separation from employment with the
Company (currently existing or which may arise in the future), including claims
involving and/or against any current or former . . . agent or employee of the
Company, . . . whether the disputes or claims arise under common law, in tort,
in contract, or pursuant to a statute, regulation, or ordinance now in
existence or which may in the future be enacted or recognized, . . . including,
but not limited to, the following claims: 
Claims for wrongful termination of employment, retaliation, violation of
public policy, constructive discharge, . . . discrimination, . . . , and any
other tort or tort-like causes of action relating to or arising from the
employment relationship or the formation or termination thereof; . . . Claims
under any and all federal, state, or municipal statutes, regulations, or
ordinances, including but not limited to laws that prohibit discrimination,
harassment, or retaliation in employment (for example, those related to or
based upon but not limited to, a person's race, sex, religion, national origin,
age, marital status, medical condition, disability or being in another protected
class) . . ..” (Lambert-Gaffney Decl., ¶ 5, Ex. A, 1-2.) 
 
            In
opposition, Plaintiff does not dispute the existence of this Arbitration
Agreement or otherwise contend that her claims do not fall within the scope of
this Arbitration Agreement. Thus, Defendants have met their burden of
demonstrating the existence of a valid arbitration agreement between the
parties. 


II.            
Enforceability of the Arbitration Agreement 
 
Instead, in opposition, Plaintiff
argues her claims cannot be compelled to arbitration based on the Ending the
Forced Arbitration of Sexual Assault and Sexual Harassment Act of 2021 (the Act
or EFAA). 
 
The EFAA amends the FAA.[1]
The EFAA
provides, “[A]t the election of the person alleging conduct constituting a
sexual harassment dispute ... no predispute arbitration agreement ... shall be
valid or enforceable with respect to a case which is filed under ... State law
and relates to ... the sexual harassment dispute.” (9 U.S.C. § 402(a).) “The
term ‘sexual harassment dispute’ means a dispute relating to conduct that is
alleged to constitute sexual harassment under applicable Federal, Tribal, or
State law.” (9 U.S.C. § 401(4).) “An issue as to whether this chapter applies
with respect to a dispute shall be determined under Federal law.” (9 U.S.C. §
402(b).)
 
As a
preliminary matter, Plaintiff argues that her Complaint is subject to the EFAA based
on her allegations of sexual assault and sexual harassment by Defendant Tang during her
employment with Defendants. (Compl., ¶¶ 10-14.)
 
Defendants challenge
the application EFAA to Plaintiff’s Complaint on multiple grounds.
 
First, Defendants argue that Plaintiff does
not allege facts showing that any alleged sexual harassment or sexual assault
occurred on or after March 3, 2022 – the effective date of the EFAA. 
 
“The EFAA
was enacted on March 3, 2022, and does not have
retroactive effect.” (Turner v. Tesla, Inc. (N.D. Cal., Aug. 11, 2023,
No. 23-CV-02451-WHO) 2023 WL 6150805, at *4.) Thus, the EFAA applies only to disputes
or claims that arise or accrue on or after its date of enactment, March 3,
2022. (Molchanoff v. SOLV Energy, LLC (S.D. Cal., Mar. 1, 2024, No.
23CV653-LL-DEB) 2024 WL 899384, at *2.)
 
Here, Plaintiff alleges the
purported “sexual advances” occurred “[d]uring her employment,” which began “in
or around July 1, 2021.” (Compl., ¶¶ 9-10.) Admittedly, the Complaint does not
identify any specific sexual harassment conduct that occurred after March 3,
2022.
 
However, Plaintiff relies on how
cases – specifically Kader v. Southern California Medical Center, Inc. (2024) 99
Cal.App.5th 214 – have defined “dispute” as opposed to “claim” for the purposes of whether
the Act applies to specific action.  
 
“The EFAA
defines two types of disputes: a “sexual assault dispute” which is “a dispute
involving a nonconsensual sexual act or sexual contact,” 9 U.S.C. § 401(3), and
a “sexual harassment dispute” which is “a dispute relating to conduct that is
alleged to constitute sexual harassment under applicable Federal, Tribal, or
State law,” 9 U.S.C. § 401(4).” (Molchanoff v. SOLV Energy, LLC (S.D.
Cal., Mar. 1, 2024, No. 23CV653-LL-DEB) 2024 WL 899384, at *2.) 
 
In Kader v. Southern California Medical
Center, Inc., the court held “the Act applies to ‘any dispute or
claim that arises or accrues on or after the date of enactment of this Act.’
(Pub.L. No. 117-90, § 3, reprinted in notes foll. 9 U.S.C. § 401.)” The court in
Kader further explained that a “dispute” is distinct from a claim (which
“arises for
the first time when the plaintiff suffers an injury”) and requires more than an
injury; a “dispute” in Kader did not rise until the plaintiff filed
charges with the DFEH. 
 
Here, Plaintiff argues there are no allegations
that any dispute existed until Plaintiff filed charges with the California
Civil Rights Department and her lawsuit on November 20, 2023. (Compl., ¶ 15.) Thus, for
similar reasons as stated in Kader, Plaintiff’s case was filed after the
effective date of the EFAA. 
 
In reply, Defendants
argue that Kader was wrongly decided. This argument is not well taken. This
Court is bound by this appellate decision. (Sarti v. Salt Creek Ltd.
(2008) 167 Cal.App.4th 1187, 1193 [“All trial courts are bound by all published
decisions of the Court of Appeal . . ..”].)
 
Secondly, Defendants
argue that the EFAA only applies to the sexual harassment related claims and Plaintiff’s
eight other claims must be compelled to arbitration.[2]

 
This argument is also not well
taken; the EFAA precludes arbitration of all the other claims of the Complaint,
as well. 
 
In Johnson
v. Everyrealm, Inc. (S.D.N.Y. 2023) 657 F.Supp.3d 535, 558-559, the
district court explained that the EFAA unambiguously applied to the entire
“case” relating to the sexual harassment dispute. “[T]he text of § 402(a) makes
clear that its invalidation of an arbitration agreement extends to the entirety
of the case relating to the sexual harassment dispute, not merely the discrete
claims in that case that themselves either allege such harassment or relate to
a sexual harassment dispute (for example, a claim of unlawful retaliation for a
report of sexual harassment).” In that case, plaintiff brought racial and pay
discrimination claims in addition to sexual harassment claims and, under the
court’s holding, those racial and pay discrimination claims were protected by
the EFAA because they were part of a case that plausibly alleged sexual
harassment claims. 
 
Similarly,
in Turner v. Tesla, Inc. (N.D. Cal., Aug. 11, 2023, No. 23-CV-02451-WHO)
2023 WL 6150805, the court found that the
plaintiff’s “workplace injury and wage claims relate only to her own experience
and employment at Tesla—and are intertwined with her sexual harassment claims.”
(Id. at p. *5.)
 
            Thus,
all of Plaintiff’s claims are subject to the EFAA and are non-arbitrable. 
 
Conclusion
 
            Accordingly,
Defendants’ motion to compel arbitration is denied. 


