

 
            Defendant Yapstone Holdings, Inc.’s
counsel – Theresa A. Kristovich of Kabat Chapman & Ozmer LLP – seeks to be
relieved as counsel of record. 
 
            The motion
to be relieved as counsel is granted.    
 
Discussion
 
            An attorney is entitled to withdraw
upon the consent of the client, or without that consent if approved by the
court. (Code Civ. Proc., § 284; Ramirez v. Sturdevant (1994) 21
Cal.App.4th 904, 915.) In the latter case, counsel must make a motion to be
relieved as attorney of record.  The
motion must be made using mandatory forms: Notice of Motion and Motion to be
Relieved as Counsel – Civil (MC-051), Declaration (MC-052), and Proposed Order
(MC-053). (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362, subd. (a), (b), (e).) 
 
            The declaration accompanying the
motion to be relieved as counsel must state “in general terms and without
compromising the confidentiality of the attorney-client relationship why a
motion under Code of Civil Procedure section 284(2) is brought instead of
filing a consent under Code of Civil Procedure section 284(1).” (Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 3.1362, subd. (b).)
 
            The notice to the client must be
done by personal service, electronically, or mail. If it is done via mail under
Code of Civil Procedure section 1013, it must be accompanied by a declaration
confirming the service address to be the most current residence or that it is
the client’s last known address, and the attorney has been unable to locate a
more current address. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362, subd. (d)(1)(A)-(B).) 
 
            Here, Attorney Kristovich has
complied with the Rules of Court by filing all the appropriate forms (MC-051,
MC-052, and MC-053). She has also submitted a supporting declaration providing
an adequate explanation for why she is moving to be relieved as counsel; she
asserts that there has been a
breakdown in the attorney-client relationship which interferes with her ability
to provide adequate representation and Defendant Yapstone has failed to adhere
to the material terms of its retainer agreement.
 
Further, Form MC-052 indicates that notice was provided to Defendant
via mail and her client’s address was confirmed by email. 
 
Additionally, trial in this matter is not set until August
12, 2024, and the next hearing is a Status Conference for June 6, 2024. Although
trial is less than six months away, Defendant Yapstone has not opposed the
motion asserting any prejudice will result from granting this motion; thus, the
Court may infer there is adequate time to retain new counsel. 
 
The Court grants the motion to be relieved as counsel.  
 