 Case Number:  21STCV18471    Hearing Date:   October 9, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPARTMENT 


32 




HEARING DATE 


October 9, 2024




CASE NUMBER 


21STCV18471




MOTION  


Motion to Compel Vehicle
  Inspection, and to Extend Discovery Cut-Off Dates, Request for Sanctions




MOVING PARTIES


Defendants Lillian Lugosi,
  and Jeff Lugosi 




OPPOSING PARTY 


None



 
MOTION 
 
            
Defendants Lillian Lugosi, and Jeff Lugosi (“Defendants”) move to compel
inspection of Plaintiff’s vehicle and for sanctions. No opposition has been
filed.
 
ANALYSIS 
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.010(d) allows a party
to inspect land or other property in the possession, custody, or control of any
other party to the action.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.010, subd. (d).) 
 
Where there has been no timely response to a demand for
inspection, the demanding party may seek an order compelling a
response.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.300(b).)  Failure to timely
respond waives all objections, including privilege and work product. 
(Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.300(a).)  Thus, unless the party to whom the
demand was directed obtains relief from waiver, he or she cannot raise
objections to the documents demanded.  There is no deadline for a motion
to compel responses.  Likewise, for failure to respond, the moving party
need not attempt to resolve the matter outside court before filing the motion. 
            On July 9, 2024, Defendants served
a Demand for Inspection of Plaintiff’s vehicle with the inspection to take
place on August 9, 2024. (Kramer Decl., Exh. A.) The purpose for this
inspection is so that Defendants’ experts can calculate the forces on
Plaintiff’s body in the accident, and to determine whether a mechanism for
Plaintiff’s claimed injuries exists. 
Plaintiff’s counsel confirmed the vehicle inspection
on July 15, 2024 via email. (Id.,Exh. B.) Plaintiff did not object or otherwise
respond to the Demand. However, on August 8, 2024, the day before the
inspection, Plaintiff’s counsel sent an email to Defense counsel indicating
that Plaintiff was no longer available for the inspection August 9, 2024. 
            As Plaintiff was properly served with a
demand for inspection, and failed to produce the vehicle for inspection,
Defendants’ motion is granted. 
 
The Court finds sanctions are warranted but the amount requested is
excessive in light of the nature of the motion, the lack of opposition, and because
counsel can appear remotely at the hearing on the motion.. Thus, the court imposes
sanctions against Plaintiff and counsel of record D. Hess Panah, jointly and
severally, in the amount of $469 ($200 per hour for 2 hours, plus $69 filing
fee), to be paid within 30 days of this order.

 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, the Court grants Defendants’ motion to compel
vehicle inspection. Plaintiff is ordered to produce the vehicle for inspection within 15
days of this order.  
 
Plaintiff and counsel of record D. Hess Panah are ordered to pay
sanctions in the amount of $469, jointly and severally, within 30 days of this
order.
 
Defendants
are ordered to provide notice of this Order and file
proof of service of such.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 