 Case Number:  21STCV47459    Hearing Date:   October 9, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


32




HEARING DATE


October
  9, 2024




CASE NUMBER


21STCV47459




MOTION


Motion to Continue Trial and All Related Dates and
  Deadlines




MOVING PARTIES


Cross-Defendant
  J & J Tree Service, Inc. 




OPPOSING PARTY


Unopposed
  



 
MOTION
 
Cross-Defendant J & J Tree Service, Inc. (“Cross-Defendant”) moves
to continue trial and all related dates. No opposition has been filed. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
            The complaint was filed on December
29, 2021 alleging that Plaintiff was injured after a tree branch fell on him. Trial
was initially set for June 28, 2023. 
 
            Defendants Richard J. Robin and
Nurit G. Robin (“Defendants”) filed their answer and cross-complaint against
Roes 1 to 100 on March 25, 2022. 
 
            On June 6, 2023, pursuant to
stipulation, the Court continued trial and related dates to January 30, 2024.
 
            On June 16, 2023, Defendants filed
an amendment to the cross-complaint, substituting Cross-Defendant as Roe 1. 
 
            Cross-Defendant filed its answer on
August 7, 2023. 
 
            On November 6, 2023, pursuant to
stipulation, the Court continued trial and related dates to July 15, 2024. 
 
            On May 13, 2024, pursuant to
stipulation, the Court continued trial and related dates to November 18, 2024
“to accommodate the parties’ completion of discovery and mediation.” (Order,
5/13/24.) The Order also stated, “No Further Continuance Absent Sufficient Good
Cause.” (Ibid.) 
 
 
ANALYSIS
 
Legal Standard
 
 “Continuances are
granted only on an affirmative showing of good cause requiring a
continuance.”  (In re Marriage of Falcone & Fyke (2008) 164
Cal.App.4th 814, 823.)  A trial court has broad discretion in considering
a request for a trial continuance.  (Pham v. Nguyen (1997) 54
Cal.App.4th 11, 13-18.)  California Rules of Court, rule 3.1332 sets forth
factors for the Court to consider in ruling on a motion to continue
trial. 
 
“To ensure the prompt disposition of civil cases, the
dates assigned for a trial are firm. All parties and their counsel must regard
the date set for trial as certain.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(a).) 
 
“A party seeking a continuance of the date set for trial,
whether contested or uncontested or stipulated to by the parties, must make the
request for a continuance by a noticed motion or an ex parte application under
the rules in chapter 4 of this division, with supporting declarations. The
party must make the motion or application as soon as reasonably practical once
the necessity for the continuance is discovered.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1332(b).)
 
“Although continuances of trials are disfavored, each
request for a continuance must be considered on its own merits. The court may
grant a continuance only on an affirmative showing of good cause requiring the
continuance. Circumstances that may indicate good cause include:
 
(1)   The unavailability of an essential lay
or expert witness because of death, illness, or other excusable circumstances;
(2)   The unavailability of a party because
of death, illness, or other excusable circumstances;
(3)   The unavailability of trial counsel
because of death, illness, or other excusable circumstances; 
(4)   The substitution of trial counsel, but
only where there is an affirmative showing that the substitution is required in
the interests of justice;
(5)   The addition of a new party if:
(A) The new party has not had a reasonable
opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for trial; or
(B) The other parties have not had a
reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for trial in regard to
the new party’s involvement in the case;
(6)   A party’s excused inability to obtain
essential testimony, documents, or other material evidence despite diligent
efforts; or
(7)   A significant, unanticipated change in
the status of the case as a result of which the case is not ready for trial.” 
(Cal. Rules
of Court, rule 3.1332(c).)
 
“In ruling on a motion or application for continuance,
the court must consider all the facts and circumstances that are relevant to
the determination. These may include:
 
(1)   The proximity of the trial date;
(2)   Whether there was any previous
continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial due to any party;
(3)   The length of the continuance
requested;
(4)   The availability of alternative means
to address the problem that gave rise to the motion or application for a
continuance;
(5)   The prejudice that parties or
witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance;
(6)   If the case is entitled to a
preferential trial setting, the reasons for that status and whether the need
for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay;
(7)   The court’s calendar and the impact of
granting a continuance on other pending trials;
(8)   Whether trial counsel is engaged in
another trial;
(9)   Whether all parties have stipulated to
a continuance;
(10)  Whether the interests of justice are
best served by a continuance, by the trial of the matter, or by imposing
conditions on the continuance; and
(11)  Any other fact or circumstance
relevant to the fair determination of the motion or application.
(Cal. Rules
of Court, rule 3.1332(d).)
 
Discussion
 
Cross-Defendant requests the Court continue trial and related dates to
June 16, 2025, or alternatively, vacate the current trial date and set a trial
setting conference in 60 days. 
 
Cross-Defendant argues it requires additional time to conduct
discovery. Cross-Defendant served initial discovery on Plaintiff on March 25,
2024. (Inniss Decl. ¶ 7.) Plaintiff was deposed in June 2024. Cross-Defendant
states it propounded its first set of discovery against
Defendants/Cross-Complainants on June 14, 2024; it received responses on August
15, 2024. (Inniss Decl. ¶ 12.) Cross-Defendant points to the looming discovery
cut-off and asserts the parties have scheduled a mediation on October 17, 2024.
 
 
Cross-Defendant argues that “a short continuance will allow J&J
the opportunity to conduct further discovery it is entitled to in this matter,
including but not limited to compelling responses from Cross-Complainants if
need be, and to evaluate the merits of the case and prepare its defense
accordingly. By way of example, at the time this motion was filed, no expert
witness depositions have been taken, let alone noticed.” (Motion at p. 2.)
 
Cross-Defendant does not set forth with specificity sufficient good
cause to justify the length of continuance requested. Trial is currently
scheduled for November 18, 2024. Cross-Defendant does not explain why the
expert witness depositions cannot be taken promptly. Moreover, no outstanding
fact discovery is set forth in the motion. Finally, no dispositive motion has
yet been filed. While the Court would consider a short two-week continuance to
allow for expert depositions to be taken after the mediation, there is no good
cause set forth for a continuance to June 2025.
 
Accordingly,
the Court denies the motion to continue trial and all related dates.
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
The Court DENIES Cross-Defendant’s motion to continue trial and all
related dates.
 
Moving party shall give notice of this order, and file a proof of
service of such.
 