  Case Number:  20STCV26256    Hearing Date:   October 9, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



DEPARTMENT 


32 




HEARING DATE 


October 9, 2024




CASE NUMBER 


20STCV26256




MOTION  


Motion to Set Aside 




MOVING PARTY 


Plaintiffs Federico Reyes
  Garcia, and Maria Rodriguez 




OPPOSING PARTY 


Defendant Oasis Pizza dba
  Domino’s Pizza



 
BACKGROUND 
 
On July 10, 2020, Plaintiffs Frederico Reyes Garcia and Maria
Rodriguez (“Plaintiffs”) filed a complaint against Oasis Pizza Inc, Zack
Roberts, and Does 1 to 50 for negligence, negligent entrustment, and negligent
hiring, supervision, and retention. The case revolves around an alleged motor
vehicle accident. 
 
On January 25, 2024, at an Order to Show Cause re: monetary sanctions
for failure to enter default judgments/ dismissal for failure to enter default
judgments,[1]
counsel for Plaintiffs did not appear. There was also no communication to the
Court as to why there were no appearances. The Court dismissed the action.
(Min. Order, 1/25/24.) 
 
On July 25, 2024, the last day to file such motion, Plaintiffs filed a
motion to set aside the dismissal under Code of Civil Procedure section 473(b),
arguing that counsel failed to appear due to a calendaring error. On August 20,
2024, the date of the hearing, counsel for Plaintiff did not appear and did not
make contact with the Court. Therefore, the Court took the motion off calendar.
Counsel now moves to set aside the order taking the motion off calendar. Defendant Oasis
Pizza dba Domino’s Pizza (“Defendant”) opposes the motion. 
 
ANALYSIS 
 
Under Code
of Civil Procedure section 473(b), the Court may relieve a party from a
dismissal taken against him through his mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
excusable neglect.  This application must
be filed no more than six months after entry of the order from which relief is
sought, and must contain an affidavit of fault demonstrating the moving party’s
mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. 
 
A mistake
is a basis for relief under section 473 when by reason of the mistake a party
failed to make a timely response.  Surprise occurs when a party is
unexpectedly placed in a position to his injury without any negligence of his
own. Excusable neglect is a basis for relief when the party has shown some
reasonable excuse for the default.  (Credit Managers Association of
California v. National Independent Business Alliance (1984) 162 Cal.App.3d
1166, 1173; Davis v. Thayer (1980) 113 Cal.App.3d 892, 905.)  Under
Code of Civil Procedure section 473, the moving party bears the burden of
demonstrating an excusable ground, such as fraud or mistake, justifying a
court’s vacating a judgment.  (Basinger v. Roger & Wells (1990)
220 Cal.App.3d 16, 23–24.)   
 
“ ‘A party
who seeks relief under section 473 on the basis of mistake or inadvertence of
counsel must demonstrate that such mistake, inadvertence, or general neglect
was excusable because the negligence of the attorney is imputed to his client
and may not be offered by the latter as a basis for relief.’ [Citation.] In
determining whether the attorney's mistake or inadvertence was excusable, ‘the
court inquires whether “a reasonably prudent person under the same or similar
circumstances” might have made the same error.’ [Citation.] In other words, the
discretionary relief provision of section 473 only permits relief from attorney
error ‘fairly imputable to the client, i.e., mistakes anyone could have made.’ [Citation.]
‘Conduct falling below the professional standard of care, such as failure to
timely object or to properly advance an argument, is not therefore excusable.
To hold otherwise would be to eliminate the express statutory requirement of
excusability and effectively eviscerate the concept of attorney malpractice.’”
(Zamora v. Clayborn Contracting Group, Inc. (2002) 28 Cal.4th 249, 258
[finding excusable mistake where counsel provided a settlement offer for
judgment “against” his client, as opposed to “in favor of”, since this was a
clerical mistake].) 
 
However,
mere neglect or negligence is not a sufficient ground for relief. (Cochran
v. Linn (1984) 159 Cal.App.3d 245, 251–52 [finding unexcused neglect where
party failed to provide evidence that it possessed months before, in opposition
to a summary judgment motion]; Martin v. Johnson (1979) 88 Cal.App.3d
595, 606–607 [no abuse of discretion in refusing to vacate summary judgment due
to attorney's error in submitting declarations not within the personal
knowledge of the declarant].)
 
Mandatory relief
is only available when a party fails to oppose a dismissal motion (“which are
procedurally equivalent to a default”). (Leader v. Health Industries of America, Inc. (2001) 89
Cal.App.4th 603, 620.) The mandatory relief provision
does not apply to dismissals for “failure to prosecute [citations omitted], dismissals
for failure to serve a complaint within three years [citations omitted],
dismissals based on running of the statute of limitations [citations omitted],
and voluntary dismissals entered pursuant to settlement [citations omitted]”,
as well as “discretionary dismissals based on the failure to file an amended
complaint after a demurrer has been sustained with leave to amend, at least
where, as here, the dismissal was entered after a hearing on noticed motions
which required the court to evaluate the reasons for delay in determining how
to exercise its discretion.” (Id.) 
DISCUSSION
            Plaintiff
has not established that mandatory relief is available here for the Court’s
order taking the motion off calendar. Accordingly, the Court reviews the motion
under the discretionary provision. Here, the declaration of counsel asserts
that “Plaintiffs’ counsel then had a last-minute calendar conflict and
requested that his staff contact an associate counsel to make the appearance.
The staff then failed to obtain a special appearance attorney to cover the
hearing.” (Hanassab Decl. ¶ 7.) Counsel provides no information regarding the “calendar
conflict” and therefore the Court cannot determine that counsel was unable to
appear for the hearing.[2]
Moreover, counsel does not explain why he did not contact the Court, why he
believed that the Court would permit a “special appearance” attorney to argue
the motion, or why his staff failed to contact another counsel. Accordingly,
counsel has not established sufficient grounds to set aside the order taking
the motion off calendar.
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, the Court denies Plaintiffs’ Motion to
Set Aside.
 
Plaintiff
is ordered to provide notice of this Order and file
proof of service of such.   
 
 
 
 
 
 


