 Case Number:  21STCV36211    Hearing Date:   October 9, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court. 

 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


October
  9, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV36211




MOTIONS:  


(1)
  Compel Responses to Demand for Production 
(2)
  Compel Responses to Form Interrogatories
(3)
  Deem Request for Admissions Admitted




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiff
  Xochitl Alvarez Espindola




OPPOSING PARTY:


Defendant
  Luke Mitchell



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
            This is a personal injury case
arising from an automobile accident that occurred between the parties on or
about January 15, 2021. 
            
            Plaintiff Xochitl Alvarez Espindola (“Plaintiff”)
moves to compel Defendant Luke Mitchell Crawford (“Defendant”) to serve verified
responses, without objections, to Demand for Production of Documents, Set One, Form
Interrogatories, Set One. Plaintiff also seeks an order deeming the Request for
Admissions Admitted. Plaintiff also seeks monetary sanctions. On August 29,
2024, Plaintiff filed a substitution of attorney and became self-represented. Oppositions
were filed on September 25, 2024. No replies were filed.
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Interrogatories
 
If a party to whom interrogatories are directed fails to serve a
timely response, the propounding party may move for an order compelling
responses. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.290 (b).) Failure to timely respond waives
all objections, including privilege and work product, unless “[t]he party has
subsequently served a response that is in substantial compliance” and “[t]he
party’s failure to serve a timely response was the result of mistake,
inadvertence, or excusable neglect.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290 (a)(1),
(a)(2).) The statute contains no time limit for a motion to compel where no
responses have been served and no meet and confer is required when a party does
not respond to discovery requests. All that need be shown in the moving papers
is that a set of interrogatories was properly served on the opposing party,
that the time to respond has expired, and that no response of any kind has been
served. (Leach v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 902, 905-906.) 
 
If a motion to compel responses is filed, the Court shall impose a
monetary sanction against the losing party “unless it finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., §§
2030.290 (c).) Further, “[t]he court may award sanctions under the Discovery
Act in favor of a party who files a motion to compel discovery, even though no
opposition to the motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn,
or the requested discovery was provided to the moving party after the motion
was filed.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1348(a).)
 
Requests
for Production
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure Section 2031.300, if a party fails to
serve a timely response to a demand for inspection, the party making the demand
may move for an order compelling response to the demand. (Code Civ. Pro §
2031.300 (b).) The party who fails to serve a timely response to a demand for
inspection waives any objection to the demand unless the court finds that the
party has subsequently served a response that is in substantial compliance or
party’s failure was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect.
(Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.300 (a)(1)- (2).) 
 
Courts shall impose a monetary sanction against any party who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to a demand for
inspection unless the party acted with substantial justification or other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust. (Code Civ. Proc. §
2031.300 (c).) Further, “[t]he court may award sanctions under the Discovery
Act in favor of a party who files a motion to compel discovery, even though no
opposition to the motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn,
or the requested discovery was provided to the moving party after the motion
was filed.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1348(a).)
 
Admissions
Deemed Admitted 
 
Where there has
been no timely response to a request for admission under Code of Civil
Procedure section 2033.010, the propounding party may move for an order that
the genuineness of any documents and the truth of any matters specified in the
requests be deemed admitted, as well as for a monetary sanction.¿ (Code of Civ.
Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (b).)¿ The party who failed to respond waives any
objections to the demand, unless the court grants that party relief from the
waiver, upon a showing that the party (1) has subsequently served a
substantially compliant response, and (2) that the party’s failure to respond
was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect.¿ (Code of Civ.
Proc., § 2033.280, subds. (a)(1)-(2).)¿ The court “shall” grant a motion to
deem admitted requests for admissions, “unless it finds that the party to whom
the requests for admission have been directed has served, before the hearing on
the motion, a proposed response to the requests for admission that is in
substantial compliance with Section 2033.220.”¿ (Code of Civ. Proc., §
2033.280, subd. (c).)¿¿ 
¿ 
Where a party
fails to provide a timely response to requests for admission, “[i]t is
mandatory that the court impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing
with Section 2023.010) on the party or attorney, or both, whose failure to
serve a timely response to requests for admission necessitated this motion.”¿
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (c).)¿ 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Here, Plaintiff served Demands for Production of Documents, Set One,
Form Interrogatories, Set One, and Requests for Admission on Defendant on
February 29, 2024. (Juhn Decl. ¶ 4, Exh. 1.) Responses were due March 30, 2024.
(Id. ¶ 5.) After defendant requested multiple extensions, which were
granted, on May 8, Defendant served an incomplete set of discovery responses. (Id.
¶ 6.) To date, Plaintiff has not received a complete set of responses to the
discovery. (Id. ¶ 9.) In opposition, Defendant argues that he served
verified responses to on May 8, 2024. (Opp. at p. 2.) 
 
Neither party provides the Court with copies of the responses, and
therefore the Court is unable to determine what is meant by a failure to
provide “a complete set of verified responses.” (Motion at p. 2.) As the motion
itself appears to assert that some responses were served, it appears that the
proper motion is a motion to compel further responses, which require a separate
statement and the parties to engage in an IDC. Accordingly, the motions are
denied.     
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, Defendants’ Motions to Compel Demands for Production of
Documents, Set One, and Form Interrogatories, Set One and Deem Admitted
Requests for Admissions, Set One are DENIED. 
 
Plaintiff
shall provide notice of the Court’s order and file a proof of service of such. 