 Case Number:  23STCV16974    Hearing Date:   October 9, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE
NOTE:   Parties are encouraged to meet and confer
concerning this tentative ruling to determine if a resolution may be
reached.  If the parties are unable to
reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the
party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the Court has posted/issued a
tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent authority to prohibit the
withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the tentative ruling as the order of
the Court.  
 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



DEPARTMENT


32




HEARING DATE


October 9, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23STCV16974




MOTIONS


Motion to Compel Deposition and Request for Sanctions




MOVING PARTY


Defendant County of Los Angeles




OPPOSING PARTY


None



 
MOTION TO COMPEL THE DEPOSITION OF
PLAINTIFF AND REQUEST FOR SANCTIONS
 
Plaintiff, Bryan Paige (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against
Defendants City of Los Angeles (“the City”) and County of Los Angeles (“the
County”) (collectively, “Defendants”) for injuries sustained when Plaintiff
fell into a utility hole on a pedestrian walkway. 
 
On February 6, 2024, the Court signed an order relieving Plaintiff’s
counsel, effective upon filing of the proof of service on Plaintiff. The proof
of service was filed on February 14, 2024. Plaintiff is currently
self-represented and has not appeared in this case since. 
 
The County moves to compel the deposition testimony of Plaintiff. Plaintiff
does not oppose the motion. 
   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
“If, after service of a deposition notice, a party to the
action . . . , without having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410,
fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for
inspection any document . . . described in the deposition notice, the party
giving the notice may move for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance
and testimony, and the production for inspection of any document . . .
described in the deposition notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (a).) 
 
“A motion under subdivision (a) [above] shall comply with
both of the following: 
 
1. The motion
shall set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the production for
inspection of any document, electronically stored information, or tangible
thing described in the deposition notice. 
2. The motion
shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040,
or, when the deponent fails to attend the deposition and produce the documents,
electronically stored information, or things described in the deposition
notice, by a declaration stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent
to inquire about the nonappearance.” 
 
(Code Civ.
Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (b).) 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Although counsel has not provided a meet and confer declaration, the
Court finds a sufficient basis to grant the motion. On March 5, 2024, the
County served a deposition notice by mail to Plaintiff’s address and
electronically, setting the deposition for April 4, 2024. (Gee Decl., ¶ 2;
Exh. A.) Plaintiff failed to appear for the deposition and did not serve an
objection. (Gee Decl., ¶ 4.) On August 26, 2024, the County served notice
of this motion by mail on Plaintiff’s address and electronically, but Plaintiff
filed no opposition. Accordingly, the Court grants the motion.
 
The County seeks sanctions of $1,913.25, comprised of a) 2 hours of
attorney time billed at $230.00 per hour for preparing the motion; b) 2 hours
of attorney time to attend the hearing[1]; and
c) $993.25 for a Certificate of Non-Appearance. (Gee Decl., ¶ 5-6.) The amount
sought is excessive given the nature of the motion, lack of opposition, and
that counsel can appear remotely at any hearing on this motion. Further, Michael
Gee, Esq.’s Declaration references an invoice from Veritext for the Certificate
of Non-Appearance attached to the declaration as Exhibit D, but no such exhibit
was attached. (Gee Decl., ¶ 6.) The Court finds $460.00, 2 hours of attorney
time total, to be reasonable. 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER 
 
Therefore, the Court GRANTS the
County’s motion to compel the deposition of Plaintiff, and orders Plaintiff to
appear for the deposition within 15 days of notice of the Court’s order, unless
the County stipulates otherwise. 
 
The County’s request for Sanctions is GRANTED in the amount of $460.00.
Sanctions shall be paid to counsel for Defendant within 30 days.
  
The County shall provide notice of
the Court’s order and file a proof of service of such.  
 
 


