 Case Number:  22STCV09010    Hearing Date:   October 9, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


October
  9, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV09010




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  for Summary Judgment, or alternatively, Summary Adjudication 




MOVING PARTY:


Cross-Defendant XPO Logistics Cartage, LLC




OPPOSING PARTY:


Cross-Complainant
  Veritiv Operating Company   



 
MOVING PAPERS
 
1.     Notice of Motion and Motion for Summary
Judgment, or alternatively, Summary Adjudication; Memorandum of Points and Authorities
2.     Separate Statement of Undisputed Material Facts
3.     Declaration of Tyler M. Gnesda in Support 
4.     Table of Contents and Exhibits in Support 
 
OPPOSITION PAPERS
1.     Veritiv’s Opposition to Motion for Summary Judgment
2.     Response to Cartage’s Separate Statement 
3.     Declaration of Carly J. English in Support 
4.     Appendix of Exhibits in Support 
 
REPLY PAPERS 
1.     Reply
2.     Reply Separate Statement
3.     Objections to Evidence
 
BACKGROUND
 
On March 14, 2022, Plaintiff
Hugo Salcedo (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Veritiv Operating Company
and Does 1 to 60, for premises liability and negligence. Plaintiff alleges that
on March 17, 2020, he tripped and fell on a pothole in Veritiv Operating
Company’s (“Veritiv”) parking lot. 
 
On February 6, 2023, Veritiv
filed the operative second amended cross-complaint (“SAXC”) asserting implied/equitable
indemnity, contribution, and apportionment of fault causes of action against
XPO Logistics Cartage, LLC (“Cartage”). Veritiv alleges that Cartage had
contracted with PDQ Manufacturing, Inc. (“PDQ”) to deliver goods on PDQ’s
behalf. (Id. ¶ 9.) Veritiv alleges that Plaintiff was a commercial truck
driver making said delivery when he was injured. Veritiv alleges Cartage breached
the following duties to Plaintiff: “(1) training, or ensuring training is
received, regarding hazards, safe work practices, and related matters; (2)
providing PPE, or ensuring possession of PPE, including at a minimum safety
vest and work boots; and (3) providing, and/or ensuring they have knowledge of
the rules on each of the premises they enter to load and/or unload goods. (Id.
¶ 13.) Veritiv alleges the breach of these duties contributed to the cause and
severity of Plaintiff’s injury. (Ibid.) 
 
Cartage now moves for summary
judgment, or alternatively, summary adjudication, against the three causes of
action, arguing that no act or omission of Cartage (or its agents, employees,
representatives, or subcontractors) caused Plaintiff’s injuries. 
 
Veritiv opposes and Cartage
replies. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
“A
party may move for summary adjudication as to one or more causes of action
within an action, one or more affirmative defenses, one or more claims for
damages, or one or more issues of duty, if the party contends that the cause of
action has no merit, that there is no affirmative defense to the cause of
action, that there is no merit to an affirmative defense as to any cause of
action, that there is no merit to a claim for damages, as specified in Section
3294 of the Civil Code, or that one or more defendants either owed or did not
owe a duty to the plaintiff or plaintiffs.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(1).)
“A motion for summary adjudication shall be granted only if it completely
disposes of a cause of action, an affirmative defense, a claim for damages, or
an issue of duty.” (Id.) 
 
“[T]he party moving for summary judgment bears the burden of persuasion
that there is no triable issue of material fact and that he is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law[.] There is a triable issue of material fact if,
and only if, the evidence would allow a reasonable trier of fact to find the
underlying fact in favor of the party opposing the motion in accordance with
the applicable standard of proof.” (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.
(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.)  “[T]he party moving for summary judgment
bears an initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing of the
nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact; if he carries his burden of
production, he causes a shift, and the opposing party is then subjected to a burden of production of his own to make a prima facie
showing of the existence of a triable issue of material fact.” (Ibid.;
Smith v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 1463, 1474
[summary judgment standards held by Aguilar apply to summary
adjudication motions].)  Further, in line
with Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co., “[o]n a motion for summary
adjudication, the trial court has no discretion to exercise.  If a triable issue of material fact exists as
to the challenged causes of action, the motion must be denied. If there is no triable
issue of fact, the motion must be granted.” (Fisherman's Wharf Bay Cruise
Corp. v. Superior Court (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 309, 320.)
 
“On a summary judgment motion, the court must therefore consider what
inferences favoring the opposing party a factfinder could reasonably draw from
the evidence. While viewing the evidence in this manner, the court must bear in
mind that its primary function is to identify issues rather than to determine
issues.  Only when the inferences are
indisputable may the court decide the issues as a matter of law. If the
evidence is in conflict, the factual issues must be resolved by trial.” (Binder
v. Aetna Life Ins. Co. (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832, 839 [cleaned up].)  Further, “the trial court may not weigh the
evidence in the manner of a factfinder to determine whose version is more
likely true.  Nor may the trial court
grant summary judgment based on the court's evaluation of credibility.” (Id.
at p. 840 [cleaned up]; see also Weiss v. People ex rel. Department of
Transportation (2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts deciding motions for
summary judgment or summary adjudication may not weigh the evidence but must
instead view it in the light most favorable to the opposing party and draw all
reasonable inferences in favor of that party”].)  
 
EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
 
The
Court declines to rule on Cartage’s objections to Veritiv’s evidence as they
have no effect on the ruling herein. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
I.               
Equitable/
Implied Indemnity
 
“The elements of a cause of action for indemnity are (1) a
showing of fault on the part of the indemnitor and (2) resulting damages to the
indemnitee for which the indemnitor is ... equitably responsible. [Citation.]”
(Bailey v. Safeway, Inc. (2011) 199 Cal.App.4th 206, 217 [internal
quotations omitted].) “There are two basic types of indemnity: express
indemnity, which relies on an express contract term providing for
indemnification, and equitable indemnity, which embraces ‘traditional equitable
indemnity’ and implied contractual indemnity.” (Jocer
Enterprises, Inc. v. Price¿(2010)
183 Cal.App.4th 559, 573.) 
 
“Traditional equitable indemnity and implied contractual
indemnity share a key feature that distinguishes them from express indemnity:
unlike express indemnity, neither traditional equitable indemnity nor implied
contractual indemnity is available ‘in the absence of a joint legal obligation
to the injured party.’ [Citation.] Under this principle, ‘there can be no
indemnity without liability,’ that is, the indemnitee and the indemnitor must
share liability for the injury. [citations omitted.].” (Jocer Enterprises, Inc.,
supra, 183 Cal.App.4th at 573
[internal quotations omitted].)¿¿“Thus, no indemnity may be obtained
from an entity that has no pertinent duty to the injured third party
[Citation], that is immune from liability [citation], or that has been found
not to be responsible for the injury.” (Id. at 573-74.)  
 
“It is not sufficient, for
purposes of indemnification, for a defendant simply to claim someone else
caused all or part of the plaintiff’s damages. To state a claim for
indemnification, a defendant must allege that the same harm for which he may be
held liable is properly attributable – at least in part – to the alleged
indemnitor.” (Molko v. Holy Spirit Ass’n (1988) 46 Cal.3d 1092, 1127
[superseded by statute on other grounds as stated in Aguilar v. Atlantic
Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826].) “If a defendant believes the
plaintiff’s injuries were the result of a different harm altogether, he may
argue the point to the jury and escape liability if successful. Absent some
claim of mutual liability for the same harm, however – under joint-and-several
or vicarious liability principles, for example – an indemnification action will
not lie.” (Id. at 1127-28 [citation omitted].) 
 
II.            
Contribution/ Apportionment of Fault
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure section 875, “[w]here a money judgment
has been rendered jointly against two or more defendants in a tort action there
shall be a right of contribution among them as hereinafter provided.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 875, subd. (a).) 
 
III.          
Privette
Doctrine
 
Ordinarily, the person hiring an independent contractor is
not liable to the contractor's employees for workplace injuries.¿ The
independent contractor's employer's liability for such injuries is limited by
workers' compensation, as is the liability of the party who hired the
contractor.¿ (Privette v. Superior Court (1993) 5 Cal.4th 689, 693,
700-02; Camargo v. Tjaarda Dairy (2001) 25 Cal.4th 1235, 1244-1245; Toland
v. Sunland Housing Group, Inc. (1998) 18 Cal.4th 253, 264-70.)¿ 
¿ 
The Supreme Court has held that it would be unfair to
impose liability on the hiring person when the liability of the contractor, the
one primarily responsible for its worker’s on-the-job injuries, is limited to
providing workers’ compensation coverage.¿ As such, even if there is evidence
that the hirer was directly liable for the plaintiff’s injuries, recovery is
not available under the peculiar risk doctrine.¿ (Privette, supra,
5 Cal.4th at 693, 700-02.)¿ 
¿ 
Workers’
compensation “ ‘is the exclusive remedy against an employer for injury or death
of an employee.’ [Citation.]” … In Privette, the Supreme Court held that
“an independent contractor’s employee should not be allowed to recover damages
from the contractor’s hirer, who ‘is indirectly paying for the cost of
[workers’ compensation] coverage, which the [hired] contractor presumably has
calculated into the contract price.’ [Citation.]” [Citation.]¿¿ 
¿ 
The
Privette holding was based on the principle that the hirer of an independent
contractor generally has “ ‘ “ ‘no right of control as to the mode of doing the
work contracted for.’ ” ’ ” [Citation.] Precisely because the hirer “has no
obligation to specify the precautions an independent hired contractor should
take for the safety of the contractor’s employees, ... [a]bsent an obligation,
there can be no liability in tort.” [Citation.]¿¿ 
¿ 
(Alvarez v. Seaside Transportation Services LLC
(2017) 13 Cal.App.5th 635, 640.)¿ Moreover, “[t]he Privette line of decisions
establishes a presumption that an independent contractor’s hirer ‘delegates to
that contractor its tort law duty to provide a safe workplace for the
contractor’s employees.’ [Citation.]”¿ (Id. at 642.)¿In SeaBright
Ins. Co. v. US Airways, Inc. (2011) 52 Cal.4th 590, “the Supreme Court
extended Privette to service contracts, [holding] that the duty to
provide a safe working environment is implicitly and presumptively delegated in
all independent contractor agreements.” (Vargas v. FMI, Inc. (2015) 233
Cal.App.4th 638, 645.) 
 
A.    Nondelegable Duty Doctrine
 
However, Privette, and its progeny do not hold that a hirer
can never be liable for injuries to its independent contractor. (See Vargas,
supra, 233 Cal.App.4th at 652.) One exception to the rule is the doctrine of
nondelegable duties. “As explained in Evard v. Southern California Edison
(2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 137, 146, 62 Cal.Rptr.3d 479: ‘ “A nondelegable duty is
a definite affirmative duty the law imposes on one by reason of his or her
relationship with others. One cannot escape this duty by entrusting it to an
independent contractor.” [Citation.]’” (J.L. v. Children's Institute, Inc.
(2009) 177 Cal.App.4th 388, 400.) 
 
A
carrier owes a nondelegable duty when it “undertakes an activity (1) which can
be lawfully carried on only under a public franchise or authority and (2) which
involves possible danger to the public.” (Serna v. Pettey Leach Trucking,
Inc. (2003) 110 Cal.App.4th 1475, 1486.) “Were the rule otherwise, a
carrier could escape liability for the negligence of its independent contractors,
thus reducing the incentive for careful supervision and depriving those who are
injured of the financial responsibility of those to whom the privilege was
granted.” (Ibid.) The nondelegable duty does not attach “only when the
carrier is ‘not regulated’” by a public franchise or authority. (Ibid.)
The rationale for this rule is “[i]f the duties imposed on a public licensee
could be delegated to a third party without any governmental oversight, a
public licensing scheme would be meaningless because a licensee could avoid the
responsibilities imposed by the license simply by engaging an independent
contractor.” (Vargas, supra, 233 Cal.App.4th
at 653.) 
 
“Although SeaBright holds that a hirer
presumptively delegates to an independent contractor any tort law duties it
owes to the contractor's employees to ensure workplace safety, it says that the
presumption may be overcome if ‘the relevant statutes or regulations
indicate an intent to limit the application of Privette . . . , or
preclude delegation of the tort law duty, if any, that the hirer owes to the
contractor's employees.’ [Citation.] Our task, thus, is not to apply the Privette
doctrine in every nondelegable duty case, but rather to review the pertinent
statutes and regulations to determine whether they preclude the applicability
of the Privette doctrine and prohibit delegation of the hirer's tort law
duty in the particular case before us.” (Vargas, supra,
233 Cal.App.4th at 654 [emphasis in original].)
 
B.   
Federal Motor Carrier Act
 
“Under
the [Federal Motor Carrier] Act, a person may provide transportation as a ‘motor
carrier’—i.e., ‘a person providing motor vehicle transportation for
compensation’ (49 U.S.C. § 13102(14))—only if ‘registered under this chapter to
provide such transportation or service.’ (49 U.S.C. § 13901(a).)” (Vargas, supra, 233 Cal.App.4th at 655.) The Court of
Appeal has recognized two purposes of the Act: “(1) ‘[T]o protect members of
the public from motor carriers' attempts to escape liability for the negligence
of drivers by claiming their drivers were independent contractors’ [citation]
and (2) ‘to provide “enhanced protection of the health of commercial motor
vehicle operators.” ’ [Citation.]” (Id. at 661 [quoting AmeriGas
Propane, L.P. v. Landstar Ranger, Inc. (2010) 184 Cal.App.4th 981, 997].)
 
After reviewing the relevant statutory and regulatory
provisions promulgated from the Act, the Vargas court concluded that “although
a motor carrier may act through an independent contractor driving a leased
vehicle, the motor carrier retains ultimate responsibility for the vehicle's
safe operation—and, in the event of an accident, for satisfying a judgment ‘for
bodily injury to, or death of, an individual resulting from the negligent
operation, maintenance, or use of motor vehicles, or for loss or damage to
property.’ [Citation.]”  (Id. at
662 [emphasis added].) 
 
IV.          
Analysis 
 
Here, the operative facts are not in dispute. At the time of the
Incident, Plaintiff was on the Premises delivering goods sold by PDQ to Veritiv.
(UMF 2.) Upon arrival to the Premises, Veritiv directs the drivers on which
door to park their vehicle. (UMF 3.) As Plaintiff was dismounting from his
vehicle, he fell due to a pothole on the Premises, causing him to sustain
injuries. (UMF 4.) Plaintiff does not allege any wrongdoing on behalf of
Cartage. (UMF 6.) Veritiv was the owner – or entity in control as the legal
occupier – of the Premises where the Incident occurred. (UMF 12.) Cartage was
hired by PDQ to deliver the goods sold by it to Veritiv. (UMF 14.) At the time
of the Incident, Plaintiff was an independent contractor hired by Cartage to
transport cargo. (UMF 15.) Plaintiff was not an employee of Cartage. (UMF 16.) 
 
Cartage argues that because Plaintiff was an independent contractor,
under the reasoning of Privette and Seabright, it owed no duty to
train or protect him in the workplace. As a result, since it is not liable for
Plaintiff’s injury, it is not a joint tortfeasor, and the equitable/implied
indemnity, contribution, and apportionment of fault causes of action fail. 
 
In opposition, Veritiv argues that because Cartage is a motor vehicle
carrier, it did not delegate its duty to Plaintiff, and is liable for the
injury. However, the Court notes that the SAXC does not allege that a duty
exists under the Act or that Cartage is operating under a license from a public
authority. Veritiv’s separate statement also does not provide evidence of this
fact.[1]

 
Moreover, Veritiv’s theory is that Plaintiff is negligent for failing “to
keep a proper lookout when stepping out of his truck” and failing to “wear
proper footwear.” (Opp. at p. 5.) Veritiv then argues that “[s]afety in
performing work duties and the use of personal protective equipment are both
issues that should be addressed in the training and supervision of employees
and – because of the specific nature of common carriers – should also apply to
XPO with respect to Plaintiff as an independent contractor.” (Id.)
Veritiv does not explain how Cartage is liable for the same harm, namely, a
fall due to a pothole on Veritiv’s premises, or a joint legal obligation to
Plaintiff.
 
Finally, Veritiv does not explain which statute or regulation prohibits a
motor vehicle carrier from delegating to independent contractors the
responsibility to safely step down from a vehicle or wear proper footwear. This
case does not involve an injury from the operation of a motor vehicle. (Compare
Vargas, supra, 233 Cal.App.4th at 655.)
 
Accordingly, the motion for summary judgment is granted. 
 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
            Based on the foregoing, Cross-Defendant
XPO Logistics Cartage, LLC’s Motion for Summary Judgment is GRANTED. Cross-Defendant
shall serve and file a proposed judgment within 10 days. 
 
            Moving party shall
provide notice of this ruling and file a proof of service of such.
 
 


