 Case Number:  22STCV35550    Hearing Date:   October 9, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


32




HEARING DATE


October 9, 2024




CASE NUMBER


22STCV35550




MOTIONS


Motion to Strike Portions of Defendant’s Supplemental
  Expert Witness Declaration




MOVING PARTY


Plaintiff Jose Espinosa Mena




OPPOSING PARTY


Defendant Tengyuan Ma 



 
MOTION
 
On November 9, 2022, Plaintiff Jose Espinosa Mena (“Plaintiff”) filed
a complaint against Defendant Tengyuan Ma (“Defendant”) for negligence based on
a motor vehicle collision. 
 
Plaintiff now moves to strike Dr. Dean Delis from Defendant’s
supplemental expert declaration and preclude Dr. Delis from testifying at
trial. Plaintiff also moves to strike from Defendant’s Supplemental Expert
Designation one of Defendant’s two supplementally designated forensic
economists (either Constantine Boukidis or Thomas Munson) and to only permit
one of these two duplicative supplemental experts to testify at trial.   
 
Defendant opposes and Plaintiff replies. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure, section 2034.300:¿ 
¿ 
Except as
provided in Section 2034.310 and in Articles 4 (commencing with Section
2034.610) and 5 (commencing with Section 2034.710), on objection¿of any party
who has made a complete and timely compliance with Section 2034.260, the trial
court shall exclude from evidence the expert opinion of any witness that is
offered by any party who has unreasonably failed to do any of the following:¿¿ 
¿ 
(a) List that witness as an expert under Section
2034.260.¿¿ ¿ 
(b) Submit an expert witness declaration.¿¿ 
(c) Produce
reports and writings of expert witnesses under Section 2034.270.¿¿ 
(d) Make
that expert available for a deposition under Article 3 (commencing with Section
2034.410).¿¿ 
¿ 
A supplemental expert witness may be used to designate
counter experts in response to a designated subject.  
 
(a) Within
20 days after the exchange described in Section 2034.260, any party who engaged
in the exchange may submit a supplemental expert witness list containing the
name and address of any experts who will express an opinion on a subject to be
covered by an expert designated by an adverse party to the exchange, if the
party supplementing an expert witness list has not previously retained an
expert to testify on that subject.
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2034.280)
 
The subject experts are rebuttal witnesses on a designated
subject. Supplemental lists cannot be used to designate experts on new
subjects. (Fairfax v. Lords (2006) 138 Cal.App.4th 1019, 1026-1027; Basham
v. Babcock (1996) 44 Cal.App.4th 1717, 1723.)  
 
A party’s
supplemental expert designation is proper where (1) the party seeking to
supplement its expert designation complied with its disclosure obligations; (2)
there is no indication it acted unreasonably or engaged in gamesmanship; and
(3) there is no prejudice to the other party.¿ (Du-All Safety, LLC v.
Superior Court (2019) 34 Cal.App.5th 485, 498.)¿ 
 
“The court, for good cause
shown, may make any order that justice requires to protect any party from
unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment, oppression, or undue burden and expense.
The protective order may include, but is not limited to, one or more of the
following directions: . . . That a party or a side reduce the list of employed
or retained experts designated by that party or side under subdivision (b) of
Section 2034.210.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2034.250, subd. (b)(6).) 
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Here,
Plaintiff claimed a traumatic brain injury in his initial responses to
discovery which were served in early 2023. On July 29, 2024, the parties
exchanged expert designations. Defendant designated three retained experts: (1)
Jesse L. Wobrock, an accident reconstructionist; (2) Tye J. Ouzounian, M.D., an
orthopedic physician; and (3) Peter Brian Andersson, MC, a neurologist. (Gelder
Decl., Exh. 1.) However, Plaintiff designated neuropsychologist Dr. Jeffrey Schaefer
as an expert witness. 
 
            On
a later date, Defendant added Dr. Delis as a supplemental expert witness. It is
unclear what day this occurred, but Plaintiff does not contend that the
supplemental designation was made beyond the 20-day period.[1] 
 
Instead, Plaintiff argues this
supplemental designation was improper due to language in Code of Civil
Procedure section 2034.280(a) which allows a supplemental designation if the
subject was covered by an expert from the adverse party to the exchange and, “if the party supplementing an expert witness list has not
previously retained an expert to testify on that subject.” 
 
Because
Defendant had previously retained Dr. Delis before the exchange, Plaintiff
argues Defendant cannot designate him as a supplemental expert. 
 
However,
Plaintiff provides no case authority for this limited reading of the statute. On
the contrary, the Court of Appeal in Du-All Safety, LLC v. Superior Court
(2019) 34 Cal.App.5th 485 disapproved granting a motion to strike supplemental expert
designations that were timely designated in the same fields as the adverse
party’s initial designation. It did not matter, as the trial court believed,
whether the party should have known that an expert in a certain field would be
designated by the adverse party. (See id. at 493, 498.) As the Court of
Appeal discussed, “[t]he trial court's ruling here reads into the statute
obligations that do not exist: that a party must not only initially disclose
every expert witness it expects to call at trial, but also every expert witness
it anticipates using to rebut the experts the other side might designate as an
expert. This interpretation is not supported by the plain language of section
2034.210, which requires only that a party designate the experts it expects to
call at trial. Indeed, if plaintiffs’ interpretation were correct, there would
be no need for section 2034.280.” (Id. at 498.) As a result, the Court
of Appeal found the order granting the motion to strike was in error especially
since the party complied with “its disclosure obligations, there is no
indication it acted unreasonably or engaged in gamesmanship, and there was no
prejudice to plaintiffs.” (Id.)[2]
 
Here, Defendant
argues he did not initially designate Dr. Delis because he believed that Plaintiff
was not pursuing his traumatic brain injury claim since he had disclosed no neuropsychological
testing or treatment. However, Defendant asserts this changed when the experts were
exchanged, and Plaintiff disclosed undergoing an MRI of his brain in October
2023. 
 
            Based
on the discussion above, Plaintiff has failed to show that Defendant did not
timely designate supplemental experts or that he should have anticipated that
Plaintiff would designate a neuropsychologist. Furthermore, it does not appear
that Plaintiff is prejudiced by the supplemental designation. As a result, the
motion to strike is denied.[3] 
 
Next,
Plaintiff requests the Court to strike one of Defendant’s two forensic
economists that were designated. Plaintiff provides little legal discussion on
this issue but cites to Code of Civil Procedure section 2034.250(b)(6). Plaintiff provides no
authority showing that designating two experts on the same topic are automatically
burdensome and provides no further evidence to show good cause for a protective
order.
 
In opposition, Defendant asserts he
designated both experts (Dr. Thomas Munson and Constantin Boukidi) because it
was unclear whether Boukidi would be available for trial. Defendant asserts he
will only call one expert at trial. 
 
Based on the above, Plaintiff fails to
meet his burden to show good cause for the protective order. 
 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
            Based on
the foregoing, the Court DENIES Plaintiff’s Motion to Strike Portions of
Defendant’s Supplemental Expert Witness Declaration.
 
Plaintiff shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof
of service of such. 
 
 


