  Case Number:  21STCV04353    Hearing Date:   July 17, 2024    Dept:  T Motion to compel further verified responses to no. 17.1 of
Defendants’ Form Interrogatories, Set Three.
Moving Party:                    Defendants 10121 Samoa, LLC and
Elit Property Management, Inc.
Responding Party:          None
Tentative Ruling:             Granted
Background
On March 25, 2024, Defendants filed the instant motion to
compel Plaintiff to provide further responses to their form interrogatories,
set three and for monetary sanctions.  No
opposition has been filed to date. 
Motion to Compel Further
“On receipt of a response to interrogatories, the
propounding party may move for an order compelling a further response if the
propounding party deems that any of the following apply: (1) An answer to a
particular interrogatory is evasive or incomplete. (2) An exercise of the
option to produce documents under Section 2030.230 is unwarranted or the
required specification of those documents is inadequate. (3) An objection to an
interrogatory is without merit or too general.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300, subd.
(a).)¿ “A motion under subdivision (a) shall be accompanied by a meet
and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (b).)¿
In addition, a separate statement is required.¿(Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1345, subd. (a)(2).)¿

“Unless notice of this motion is given within 45 days of the
service of the verified response, or any supplemental verified response, or on
or before any specific later date to which the propounding party and the
responding party have agreed in writing, the propounding party waives any right
to compel a further response to the interrogatories.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2030.300, subd. (c).) 
Discussion
Form Interrogatory No. 17.1
Form Interrogatory No. 17.1 asks for identification of each
response to Requests for Admissions that is not an unqualified admission, facts
on which the Responding Party bases his response, and the contact information
of all persons who have knowledge of the same facts.
Form Interrogatories Nos 17.1 is standard and unambiguous,
requiring a discussion of each response to RFAs that is “not an unqualified
admission.” Defendants argue that, regarding RFAs nos. 23-24, Plaintiff does
not provide a substantive response. Regarding RFAs nos. 25-28, Defendants argue
that Plaintiff merely repeats the allegation from Plaintiff’s Complaint and
asserts boilerplate objections. 
The Court agrees with Defendant and also notes that
Plaintiff has failed to present any opposition to the instant motion.
Therefore, the Court is inclined to grant the motion. 
Sanctions 
The court must impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7
(commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a further response to
interrogatories, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted
with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition
of the sanction unjust. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (d).) 
The court may award sanctions under the Discovery Act in
favor of a party who files a motion to compel discovery, even though no
opposition to the motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn,
or the requested discovery was provided to the moving party after the motion
was filed. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1348, subd. (a).) 
Defendants request monetary sanctions against Plaintiff and
Plaintiff’s attorney in the amount of $1,620, representing  8 hours of work incurred or anticipated at
the hourly rate of $195, plus $60 filing fee. (Sorkin Decl., ¶ 4.) In granting
the instant unopposed motion, the Court finds it reasonable to impose $840 (4
hours x $195 plus $60) in monetary sanctions against Plaintiff and Plaintiff’s
counsel. 
Conclusion 
The Court GRANTS Defendants’ motion to compel further
responses to Form Interrogatories, set three, No. 17.1. Plaintiff must provide
further code-compliant verified responses within 20 days of the Court’s order. 
The Court GRANTS Defendants’ request for monetary sanctions
in the reduced amount of $840. Plaintiff and Plaintiff’s counsel must pay said
monetary sanctions within 20 days of the Court’s order.