  Case Number:  21STCV02566    Hearing Date:   October 17, 2024    Dept:  I This is a motion to sever.
 
A bit of history is in order.  There are two plaintiffs, DOE 1 and DOE
2.  They each allege that they were
sexually assaulted by defendant, although the events did not occur at the same
place and time.  In other words, the
events are independent although many of the circumstances are allegedly
similar.  Due to the similarity, the
court related the two cases some time ago. 
(There was another related case as well, but it has been tried.)   
 
Although defendant Way originally had counsel, in March
2023, that counsel withdrew and Way represented himself.  After that, Way did not respond to any
discovery propounded by plaintiffs.  As a
result of his failure to respond or be deposed, plaintiffs brought motions to
compel, which were granted.  When Way did
not comply with those orders, the court eventually concluded that Way’s conduct
was deliberate and willful and issued terminating sanctions, thereby striking
the answer and entering default.  Plaintiffs
sought an eight figure default judgment, although no judgment was entered.
 
Some time after that, on April 8, 2024, Way retained new
counsel.  Way sought to vacate the
default, arguing that service of the discovery and other papers was made to an
address where he no longer lived.  As a
result, he claimed, he never got the discovery or the court orders and that is
why he did not comply.  In other words,
he contended that his conduct was not a deliberate effort to ignore discovery
and court orders but rather the result of an innocent mistake where he was just
unaware of the discovery and orders until a later date.  Plaintiffs did not buy that explanation,
noting that they also served Way electronically and had also served Way’s
business manager.  While serving the
business manager is not the same as serving Way, the argument is that Way was
indeed aware of the discovery and court orders.
 
Eventually, though, on May 20, 2024, the parties stipulated
to allow the default to be vacated and Way’s answer to be reinstated.  That stipulation included a number of
elements.  One was that Way pay the
outstanding monetary sanctions (which the court understands he has done),
another was that Way make himself available for deposition within 30 days
(which he did not do inasmuch as the deposition was not within 30 days, but
that he did do in the sense that he ultimately did provide a deposition date
and he was deposed), and, importantly for this motion, that the two cases be
not only related but consolidated for all purposes including trial.  The court approved the stipulation and it was
entered.  A trial date was set for
January 21, 2025.  Thereafter, on August
16, 2024, Way changed counsel and a number of motions were filed.  Plaintiffs have filed a motion for
sanctions.  Defendant has filed the
instant motion to sever, as well as a motion to re-open discovery (which has
been withdrawn) and a motion for partial judgment on the pleadings.
 
The gist of the motion to sever goes through the various
arguments that the court would consider in the regular course.  The court believes, over plaintiffs’
objection, that were the motion a normal motion to sever the answer would be
easy: the motion would be granted.  There
is a heightened risk that the jury will conflate the two cases, or determine
that if they believe one plaintiff then the other plaintiff must also have been
assaulted.  Or they might believe that if
two plaintiffs are making similar allegations, the allegations are more likely
to be true.  Of course, there are rules
about prior bad acts (or similar bad acts), and it is to those rules that the
court would turn if deciding whether to admit evidence.  But having the two cases heard together risks
undue prejudice to the defense and a benefit of very little judicial economy
because those rules would not come into play; rather, the court would have to
rely on a limiting instruction.  It is
not that limiting instructions are without their use.  They are the tried and true method of limiting
evidence to a particular purpose and we all (in the judiciary) indulge in the
belief that a jury will dutifully follow such an instruction.  But lingering in the back of every jurist’s
mind (and every litigant’s mind as well) is the sneaking hunch that asking a
jury to compartmentalize evidence that way is a bit of a fool’s errand, and the
more memorable the evidence, the harder the compartmentalization solution seems
to be.  In other words, we use limiting
instructions because at times we have to do so, and we hope that juries take
them to heart.  But they are no
substitute for excluding evidence in the first place if that evidence is not
admissible in a particular case.
 
The problem with defendant’s position is that this is not a
regular motion to sever.  It is really a
motion to withdraw from a stipulation, which is different.  Parties generally can agree on almost
anything, even things one might question. 
Parties can stipulate that a certain fact is true even if it is not
true.  Parties can stipulate to waive
rights.  They can stipulate to procedures
that are not consistent with the Code of Civil Procedure.  They can even stipulate to a process that,
were the court to order it outside of the stipulation, would violate due
process.  (At least in civil
matters.)  So here.  Whether consolidation or severance is
something the court would order were it raised by way of regular motion is not
the issue.  The issue is whether, having
stipulated to consolidation, Way can now withdraw from the stipulation.
 
A few preliminary matters. 
Way’s counsel who entered into the stipulation now claims that it was an
excusable tactical error on his part and also that he never got client approval
for the stipulation.  It might or might
not have been a tactical error, but counsel is a member of the bar.  The court will not allow a Mulligan on the
theory that a licensed attorney did not understand what consolidation
meant.  Nor is client approval
necessarily required, although that is a closer question.  Plainly, a lawyer cannot settle a case
without the client’s actual approval. 
But tactical and procedural decisions can be made by the attorney
without the client’s consent or knowledge. 
Some are trivial—giving an extension of time to respond to discovery,
for example.  That is something often
done by attorneys on their own authority. 
Of course, the more important the decision the more likely it is that
the client ought to be consulted.  And
some decisions are such that the lawyer has the power to make them, but making
them without client approval is an ethical violation.  And some are significant enough and they
affect substantial enough rights that the client must be consulted and
approve.  (Note that this is not a case
where the client rejected the consolidation condition.  Rather, this is a case where the client
allegedly had no knowledge of it before it happened.)  Further, plaintiffs have presented
circumstantial evidence that Way did in fact know of the issue.  There are emails between counsel where Way’s
counsel specifically says that he must consult Way before agreeing to the
stipulation.  Of course, Way’s counsel’s
statement does not mean that counsel was telling the truth or that counsel
followed through.  Counsel might have
said he needed to consult Way but in fact never did, as is now claimed.  And Way declares that he was in fact not
aware of the issue nor was he consulted. 
However, there is some reason to hold Way to his counsel’s affirmative
representation.  After all, Way chose
prior counsel; plaintiffs did not.  In
short, the court finds no role for CCP section 473 and will not relieve Way of
the stipulation because prior counsel claims not to have understood the
ramifications of the agreement or because prior counsel failed to consult with
his client even though he told plaintiffs that he had done so.  (This is not quite so bad a decision for
prior counsel as one might think.  Prior
counsel states that he is more of a transactional lawyer than a litigator, and
that he was really brought in to settle the case, not try it.  If there is a motivated defendant whose goal
is to settle, the trial ramifications are less crucial than if counsel is
brought in to try the case, as is the situation with current counsel.  But whatever the tactics, it raises serious
concern that counsel indicated to plaintiffs’ counsel that Way had been
consulted and approved of the stipulation but never bothered to disabuse
plaintiffs of that false representation when it became clear that Way was in
fact not consulted.  That, depending on
the outcome of this motion, may be an issue between Way and his former counsel,
however.  The court is not convinced that
plaintiffs’ ought to bear the burden of Way’s former counsel’s improper
behavior.)
 
So what the court is left with is the following.  The court is more than a little bit concerned
that there will be significant prejudice to Way by holding the two trials
together.  This is, after all, a public
court and justice must not only be done, but it must appear to be (and in fact
be) honestly done as well.  There is a
significant danger of failing to meet those goals here.  And the case is a pretty serious one.  Defendant is accused of some extremely bad
conduct.  If it happened, plaintiffs are
surely entitled to compensation.  If it
did not happen, Way is surely entitled to a fair trial vindicating him.  (Of course, it goes without saying that the
court is not suggesting where the truth lies in this case, having heard no
evidence.  We also all know that when one
says “it goes without saying,” that is always immediately followed by one
saying that which supposedly need not be said.) 
But there is another side. 
Plaintiffs relied to their detriment on Way’s promise.  They were sitting on a default and on the
verge of default judgments when the stipulation was entered, although Way had
moved to vacate.  The defaults have been
vacated and the matter is now going to trial. 
Plaintiffs have moved from a situation where all they needed to do was
prove up damages to one where they have to try the case to a jury.  It is also unfair to allow Way to obtain the
benefits of his agreement and then reject the burden.
 
Which leaves the court in a bit of a dilemma.  The court’s very strong view is that if the
court is going to preside over a trial, it ought to be a fair one.  The parties’ stipulation also implicates the
court’s integrity both as between the litigants and as to the public.  The court has trouble being a willing
participant in a trial that will likely be unfair to the point where if the
consolidation were not by stipulation, the court believes it would almost
surely be reversable error (at least if plaintiffs prevail) not to
sever.  But the court is also strongly of
the view that it is unfair and improper to allow Way to get the benefit of the
bargain and then deprive plaintiffs of the core consideration they gave.  And frankly the court is not comfortable with
either result.
 
One possibility, though, is to allow Way to withdraw from
the stipulation—but that means all of it (other than the payment of the
sanctions).  In other words, Way can
withdraw from the consolidation agreement, but plaintiffs can withdraw from
their agreement to vacate the default. 
Way will be placed in the same position he was in before the
stipulation: he was in default, but a motion to vacate was pending.  The court will then decide the motion to
vacate.  If the motion is granted, then
well and good for Way.  But if the motion
is denied, then Way will not have to worry about consolidation because he will
be in default and the only issue will be the prove up hearing.  Even that is somewhat fraught, though.  If the motion to vacate is granted,
plaintiffs might suffer some prejudice. 
Right now, the trial is set for January; that trial date could be hard to
hold if the motion to vacate is heard, although the court is not certain of
that and would try to hold the current date. 
To mitigate that potential prejudice, the court might allow the trial
date to stand until the motion is decided, and then deal with the fallout (if
any) thereafter.  The court also notes
that if the motion to vacate is granted, the court will do whatever it can to
hold the trial date.  It would seem
unfair to plaintiffs to have them lose the trial date by virtue of Way’s
withdrawal from a stipulation where he received the full benefit of the bargain
but plaintiffs did not.
 
The court will discuss the matter further with the parties.
 