 Case Number:  23SMCV05011    Hearing Date:   October 17, 2024    Dept:  I The court needs to know: is there one policy or two?  If there are two separate policies over which
plaintiff was asserting ownership, that is one thing.  If, on the other hand, there is really only
one policy, it is another.  It seems
there was one.
 
But first, a bit of background.  At issue is an insurance practice illegal in
some states, but not others.  An elderly
person buys a life insurance policy on her own life and names a beneficiary
(although this is all part of one agreed transaction, so the elderly person
does not go out of pocket).  The policy
is issued and then it is sold to a company like plaintiff here, which becomes
the beneficiary.  Essentially, entities
like plaintiff here pay for the premium and then some, essentially betting on
how long the insured will live.  The
insured gets cash out of the deal, since the purchase price by the company is
larger than the premium and the difference goes to the insured.  The original beneficiary gets nothing (unless
one counts the money the insured gets in the first place, which could become
part of an estate).  The company buying
the policy will get the benefit when the insured passes.  In Delaware, that is illegal.  The thinking in Delaware is that one must
have an insurable interest, and a company like plaintiff does not.  Accordingly, this procedure is not legal in
Delaware.  On the other hand, many states
do allow this to occur, including California.
 
That process occurred here. 
Plaintiff Vida Longevity Fund (VLF) and Olga Mellican entered into this
arrangement.  When Olga passed, though,
her heir brought a lawsuit in Delaware, asserting that VLF had been paid the
proceeds of the policy (or soon would be) but that under Delaware law it was
not entitled to those proceeds.  The
complaint did not attach the insurance policy, but alleged that it had been
delivered to a Delaware trust, which would mean it is subject to Delaware
law.  Counsel for VLF and Mellican
entered into discussions.  VLF’s position
was that it did not have any interest in any policy that was or had been
delivered to a Delaware trust and that Mellican was mistaken if the estate
thought that VLF had been paid the proceeds under any such policy or asserted
any interest in it.  Rather, VLF asserted
that it owned a policy that had been issued in California and it was asserting
rights as to that policy and that policy alone. 
Eventually, in the face of a motion by VLF, Mellican dismissed the Delaware
action but without prejudice.  At about
the same time, VLF brought the instant action in California.  The bulk of the action seeks a declaration
that it is entitled to the proceeds of the policy and asserts that there is a
dispute between it and Mellican to that effect, expressly based on the fact
that Mellican had sued in Delaware.  In
response, Mellican brought a motion for judgment on the pleadings and later a
special motion to strike asserting that this lawsuit is without merit because
there is no dispute and that the suit was brought in retaliation for the
Mellican suit in Delaware.  The hearings
are being held together by stipulation of the parties.
 
But there is confusion. 
Reading the briefs, one cannot tell whether there is one policy or
two.  And the answer to that question
resolves the motion(s).
 
Before turning to the merits, the court will address the
procedural issue posed by hearing two motions at the same time.  The Special Motion to Strike (SMS) is a
motion brought pursuant to what is often referred to as the anti-SLAPP
statute.  This is a statute passed by the
Legislature to tamp down on meritless lawsuits brought to impose a burden or
penalty on the legitimate exercise of a constitutional right.  For example, a group might picket a
construction site at which an unpopular building is being erected.  The developer, seeking to halt the protests
(which might be generating bad publicity), might bring a lawsuit for
defamation, asserting that the protesters are making false and defamatory
statements in their pickets.  The real
purpose of the suit is to stop the protests—it puts the protesters at risk of
an adverse judgment and at a minimum makes them defend the case while it winds
its way through the judicial process. 
Eventually, the protesters will win, but not before incurring lots of
attorneys’ fees, making it more likely that they will settle by ending the
picket in return for a dismissal.  The
SMS is a vehicle to stop such suits. 
Where the defendant can show that the suit was brought to challenge the
exercise of a constitutional right, the plaintiff must provide sufficient
evidence to show plaintiff might prevail. 
The quantum of evidence is the same as in a summary judgment motion:
enough evidence so that, if believed, a judgment would be entered in
plaintiff’s favor.  There is a lot more
to the statute than that, but this description will suffice for now.  The reason this is a powerful tool is
because, unlike a summary judgment motion, it is brought at the start of the
case, and not only that, it freezes discovery absent court order.  Further, if the defendant wins the motion,
the defendant is entitled to recover attorneys’ fees.  In contrast, if the motion is defeated, the
opposing party can only get fees if the motion was frivolous.  And, finally, the court’s ruling on the
motion is appealable immediately.  That
is powerful medicine.  One requirement,
though, is that the motion must be brought within 60 days of service of
process.  (That is the time to bring the
motion, not the time in which it must be heard.)  If a motion is brought after that, the court
may, in its discretion, elect not to hear it at all.  This case is such a case.  The motion was not timely.  It was filed more than 60 days after
service.  Defendant suggests that the
court ought to hear it anyway, but the court disagrees.  First, defendant engaged in discovery before
bringing the motion.  The court is not
happy with the notion that defendant engages in discovery and then files a
motion freezing discovery.  Although the
court understands why that was done (and it was not done for any nefarious
purpose), it is not great.  Second, given
the strange posture and facts of this case, the court believes that the matter
is better resolved in another way. 
Third, by bringing both an MJOP and an SMS, the court has discretion as
to the order of motions anyway (although if the MJOP is denied and the SMS were
proper, the court would have to proceed to the SMS).  Overall, the SMS is DENIED AS UNTIMELY.  Lest plaintiff think that the court would
find that the SMS was frivolous, the court states it would not so find.  Plaintiff should not consider bringing a
motion for fees.
 
And that brings the court to the MJOP.  The Delaware case involved a policy issued by
American General Life.  The Delaware
complaint and the documents related to it suggest that the policy in question
is U10033634L.  According to at least one
document, Exhibit 2 to the opposition (the Carroll Declaration), that policy
was sold to Silverpoint Settlements Trust, which is a Delaware trust.  That seems to be the basis for the Delaware
action, one would think.  That sale
occurred some months after the policy was originally purchased.  As the court sits here, no one has briefed
whether that later transfer is enough to trigger Delaware law if the policy was
originally not issued to the trust.  That
appears to be the same policy at issue in the instant case.  Given that there is but one policy, it is
hard for the court to see exactly how it is that there is no dispute here.  Unless Mellican is now prepared to disclaim
all right, title, and interest in any proceeds under this single policy, then
the parties do seem to have a disagreement. 
If so, the MJOP must be DENIED. 
(For the same reason, the court would deny the SMS were it to consider
the merits.)  On the other hand, if
Mellican is essentially conceding that the policy is a California policy and
not subject to Delaware law and that the Delaware action was just a mistake,
then the motion ought to be granted. 
However, the court cannot decide that on a pleading motion, and such a
position is a bit inconsistent with the allegations in Delaware and the fact
that the dismissal was without prejudice.
 
All of that said, the parties are acting (or at least
Mellican is acting) as if this is one strange mistake or oddity.  The court does not see it that way.  There is only one policy.  Mellican sued VLF (or a related entity) in
Delaware claiming that VLF had no interest in the policy with that unique
policy number.  Mellican dismissed the
action, but without prejudice.  VLF
asserts that it has no interest in any Delaware policy, but it is claiming in
interest in this single policy with the unique policy number.  That sounds suspiciously like a dispute.
 
In short, the MJOP is DENIED.  But it seems as if the parties ought to work
this out.