  Case Number:  22STLC05720    Hearing Date:   November 14, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT
17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



ANIMAL WELLNESS ACTION, et al. 
 
        
  vs.
 
SOCCER SHOP
  USA  
 


 Case
  No.:  22STLC05720   
 
 
 
 Hearing Date: November 14, 2024



 
Plaintiff’s
motion for an order directing that Defendant has waived any and all objections
in any responses to Plaintiffs’ Production of Documents (Set One) and
Plaintiffs’ General Form Interrogatories is GRANTED. Defendant is sanctioned,
jointly and severally with counsel, $2,800, due within 30 days of entry of this
order.
 
On 8/30/2022,
Animal Wellness Action and the Center for a Humane Economy (collectively,
Plaintiffs) filed suit against Ojogho American Enterprises, Inc. dba Soccer
Shop USA (Defendant), seeking injunctive relief. 
 
On 9/13/2024,
Plaintiffs moved for sanctions against Defendant. 
 
The motion is
unopposed. 
 
Discussion 
 
 
            Plaintiff
seeks sanctions based on Defendant’s failure to comply with this Court’s
4/18/2024 Order to provide responses to initial discovery within 30 days. To
date, no discovery responses have been provided, nor has any portion of the
monetary sanctions awarded been paid. 
 
            In
light of this failure, Plaintiff requests that Court impose a sanction
directing that Defendant has waived any and all objections in any responses to
Plaintiffs’ Production of Documents (Set One) and Plaintiffs’ General Form
Interrogatories. Plaintiff also requests additional and higher monetary
sanctions. 
 
            Defendant’s
failures, which include opposing this motion, indicate that Defendant is either
unwilling or unable to litigate this action. The Court takes Defendant’s
failure to oppose as a concession on the merits. 
 
Based on the
foregoing, Plaintiff’s motion for an order directing that Defendant has waived
any and all objections in any responses to Plaintiffs’ Production of Documents
(Set One) and Plaintiffs’ General Form Interrogatories is granted. Defendant is
sanctioned, jointly and severally with counsel, $2,800, due within 30 days of
entry of this order. 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  November   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 
 
 
            