 Case Number:  24SMCV03084    Hearing Date:   December 3, 2024    Dept:  205 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Beverly
Hills Courthouse | Department 205
 
 



NAZIFA WYSHAK,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
MAZIAR LALEZARY, M.D., et al.,
                        Defendants.


  Case No.: 24SMCV03084
  Hearing Date: 12/3/24
  Trial Date: N/A
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
DEMURRERS TO FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT 



 
Background
 
This action arises
from alleged injuries that Plaintiff Nazifa Wyshak (“Plaintiff”) sustained
during an eye surgery, as well from as an alleged assault that occurred during
an eye examination. 
On June 25, 2024,
Plaintiff filed a Complaint against Defendants Maziar Lalezary, M.D.
(“Lalezary”), Doctor Retina, PC (“DRP”), Regal Medical Group, and DOES 1 to 10,
inclusive, alleging causes of action for: (1) Professional Negligence; (2)
Assault; (3) Sexual Battery; and (4) Intentional Infliction of Emotional
Distress. 
On September 6,
2024, Defendants Lalezary and DRP filed a demurrer and motion to strike, which
was later withdrawn by Defendants Lalezary and DRP due to the filing of the
First Amended Complaint. 
On September 24,
2024, Plaintiff filed the operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) against
Defendants alleging causes of action for: (1) Professional Negligence; (2)
Assault; (3) Sexual Battery; and (4) Intentional Infliction of Emotional
Distress. 
On October 24,
2024, Defendants Lalezary and DRP (collectively, the “Lalezary Defendants”)
filed a demurrer to the second, third, and fourth causes of action in the FAC. 
On October 30,
2024, Defendant Regal Medical Group, Inc. (erroneously sued as Regal Medical
Group) (“Regal”) filed a demurrer to the second, third, and fourth causes of
action in the FAC.   
On October 30,
2024, Defendant Regal filed a Notice of Joinder indicating that it joins in the
demurrer filed by the Lalezary Defendants. 
On November 18,
2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition to the demurrers. 
On November 22,
2024, the Lalezary Defendants and Defendant Regal filed their respective reply
briefs. 
Given that the
demurrers are directed at the same causes of action in the FAC, the Court will
address both demurrers in this one ruling. 
Meet and Confer
            Per
Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41, subdivision (a), the parties were
required to meet and confer in person, by telephone, or by video conference
before bringing the demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a).) An
insufficient meet and confer process is not grounds to overrule or sustain a
demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a)(4).) 
Counsel for the
Lalezary Defendants, Hilliary B. Powell (“Powell”), states that she
telephonically spoke with Plaintiff’s counsel on October 16, 2024, in an
attempt to resolve the issues raised in the demurrer. (Powell Decl., ¶ 5.) 
Counsel for
Defendant Regal, Jeffrey A. Rector (“Rector”), declares that on October 29,
2024, he had a telephonic meet and confer with Plaintiff’s counsel in an
attempt to resolve the issues raised in the demurrer. (Rector Decl., ¶ 3.)  
The Court finds
that the meet and confer requirement has been met.
Demurrer Standard
 
            In reviewing the legal sufficiency of a
complaint against a demurrer, a court will treat the demurrer as admitting all
material facts properly pleaded. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311,
318; C & H Foods Co. v. Hartford Ins. Co. (1984) 163 Cal.App.3d
1055, 1062.) It is well settled that a “demurrer lies only for defects
appearing on the face of the complaint[.]” (Stevens v. Superior Court
(1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 594, 601.) “The rules by which the sufficiency
of a complaint is tested against a general demurrer are well settled. We not
only treat the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded, but
also give the complaint a reasonable interpretation, reading it as a whole and
its parts in their context.” (Guclimane Co. v. Stewart Title Guaranty Co. (1998)
19 Cal.4th 26, 38 (internal quotes omitted).) For purposes of ruling
on a demurrer, the complaint must be construed liberally by drawing reasonable
inferences from the facts pleaded. (Wilner v. Sunset Life Ins. Co.
(2000) 78 Cal.App.4th 952, 958.) A court, however, does not consider
“contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law” in assessing the
sufficiency of a complaint on demurrer. (Blank v. Kirwan, supra,
39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) 
            When
ruling on a demurrer, the Court may only consider the complaint’s
allegations or matters which may be
judicially noticed. (Blank, supra, 39 Cal.3d at p. 318.) The Court may
not consider any other extrinsic evidence or judge the credibility of the
allegations or the difficulty a plaintiff may have in proving his allegations.
(Ion Equip. Corp. v. Nelson (1980) 110 Cal.App.3d 868, 881.) A demurrer
is properly sustained only when the complaint, liberally construed, fails to
state facts sufficient to constitute any cause of action. (Kramer v. Intuit
Inc. (2004) 121 Cal.App.4th 574, 578.)
            Leave
to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful
amendment. (See Goodman v. Kennedy
(1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349 [court shall not “sustain a demurrer without leave to
amend if there is any reasonable possibility that the defect can be cured by
amendment”]; Kong v. City of Hawaiian
Gardens Redevelopment Agency (2002) 108 Cal.App.4th 1028, 1037
[“A demurrer should not be sustained without leave to amend if the complaint,
liberally construed, can state a cause of action under any theory or if there
is a reasonable possibility the defect can be cured by amendment.”]; Vaccaro v. Kaiman (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th
761, 768 [“When the defect which justifies striking a complaint is
capable of cure, the court should allow leave to amend.”].) The burden is on
the complainant to show the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully.
(Blank v. Kirwan, supra, 39
Cal.3d 311, 318.)
Analysis
 
Uncertainty
            Initially, the Court rejects the
arguments raised by Defendant Regal and the Lalezary Defendants that the FAC is
uncertain. The Court finds that the FAC is not uncertain because it is not so
unclear that Defendants are not apprised of the issues that must be met. (Bacon
v. Wahrhaftig, supra, 97 Cal.App.2d 599, 605 [“[a] special
demurrer should not be sustained when . . . [the pleading is] sufficiently
clear to apprise the [moving party] of the issues which he is to meet.”].)
Second
Cause of Action for Assault
            “The essential elements of a cause
of action for assault are: (1) defendant acted with intent to cause harmful or
offensive contact, or threatened to touch plaintiff in a harmful or offensive
manner; (2) plaintiff reasonably believed [he or] she was about to be touched
in a harmful or offensive manner or it reasonably appeared to plaintiff that
defendant was about to carry out the threat; (3) plaintiff did not consent to
defendant’s conduct; (4) plaintiff was harmed; and (5) defendant’s conduct was
a substantial factor in causing plaintiff’s harm.” (So v. Shin (2013) 212 Cal.App.4th 652, 668-669.)
            The FAC is set forth on a Judicial
Council PLD-PI-001 form. Plaintiff alleges that Defendants “and each of them,
were the agents and employees of their co-defendants, and in doing the things
alleged in this complaint were acting within the course and scope of that
agency and employment. Each defendant, when acting as a principal, was
negligent in the selection and hiring of each other defendant as agent or
employee.” (FAC, ¶ 4.) 
            As to the second cause of action for
assault, Plaintiff alleges the following: On September 13, 2023, Plaintiff went
to Defendants’ office for an eye examination following a retina surgery that
Defendant Lalezary had performed on her a few months earlier. (FAC, ¶ 10.) During
the examination, Defendant Lalezary made inappropriate and offensive advances
toward Plaintiff, by asking her if she participated in any kind of sports since
she had very nice legs. (FAC, ¶ 11.) Plaintiff alleges that, during the
examination of her right eye, Defendant Lalezary stood extremely close to her,
as though he was rubbing himself on Plaintiff. (FAC, ¶ 12.) At all times,
Defendant Lalezary’s groin was clearly touching Plaintiff’s body and such
conduct was very offensive to Plaintiff. (FAC, ¶ 12.) After the examination,
Defendant Lalezary did not move away from Plaintiff, and while still rubbing
against Plaintiff, would ask Plaintiff to read the letters on the wall to check
her vision. (FAC, ¶ 13.) Plaintiff did not consent to Defendant Lalezary
rubbing himself against her body. (FAC, ¶ 14.) The conduct of Defendant
Lalezary harmed Plaintiff and injured her person. (FAC, ¶ 15.) Plaintiff
alleges that Defendant Lalezary’s conduct in rubbing himself against her body
was the substantial cause of her injuries. (FAC, ¶ 16.)  
            The Court finds that the second
cause of action for assault is insufficiently alleged against the Lazelary
Defendants as Plaintiff has failed to allege that Defendant Lazelary intended
to cause a harmful or offensive contact with Plaintiff. The allegation of the
form complaint that “[b]y the following acts or omissions to act, defendant
intentionally caused the damage to plaintiff” is a conclusion and is not a
sufficient allegation to meet the requisite element of intent. (See FAC at
PLD-PI-001(3).) 
            As to Defendant Regal, the Court
finds that Plaintiff has not stated a cause of action for assault against
Defendant Regal under a respondeat superior theory of liability. “[A]n
intentional tort gives rise to respondeat superior liability only if it was engendered
by the employment . . . .” (Lisa M. v. Henry Mayo Newhall Memorial Hospital (1995)
12 Cal.4th 291, 298.) “Respondeat superior liability should apply only to the
types of injuries that as a practical matter are sure to occur in the conduct
of the employer’s enterprise.” (Id. at p. 299 (internal quotations
omitted).) Here, the second cause of action fails to state sufficient facts to
constitute an assault cause of action against the Lazelary Defendants and,
therefore, such cause of action fails as to Defendant Regal. Plaintiff has not
identified any specific conduct of Defendant Regal as to the second cause of
action. 
            Additionally, Plaintiff has failed
to allege facts to impute liability onto Defendant Regal for negligent hiring
because there are no allegations in the FAC that Defendant Regal “knew or had
reason to believe” that Defendant Lazelary would engage in the alleged wrongful
acts. (Lopez v. Watchtower Bible & Tract Society of New York, Inc. (2016)
246 Cal.App.4th 566, 591.) 
            Additionally, the Court finds that
Plaintiff’s allegation as to agency is much too conclusory. (FAC, ¶ 4.) 
            The Court therefore sustains the respective
demurrers to the second cause of action for assault with leave to amend. 
Third
Cause of Action for Sexual Battery
            Civil Code section 1708.5,
subdivision (a), states that “[a] person commits a sexual battery who does any
of the following: [¶] (1) Acts with the intent to cause a harmful or offensive
contact with an intimate part of another, and a sexually offensive contact with
that person directly or indirectly results. [¶] (2) Acts with the intent to
cause a harmful or offensive contact with another by use of his or her intimate
part, and a sexually offensive contact with that person directly or indirectly
results. [¶] (3) Acts to cause an imminent apprehension of the conduct
described in paragraph (1) or (2), and a sexually offensive contact with that
person directly or indirectly results.” Subdivision (b) of Civil Code section
1708.5 makes “[a] person who commits a sexual battery upon another [] liable to
that person for damages, including, but not limited to, general damages,
special damages, and punitive damages.” An “intimate part means the sexual
organ, anus, groin, or buttocks of any person, or the breast of a female.”
(Civ. Code, § 1708.5, subd. (d)(1).) “Offensive contact means contact that
offends a reasonable sense of personal dignity.” (Civ. Code, § 1708.5, subd.
(d)(2).) 
            Pursuant to the third cause of
action, Plaintiff alleges that Defendant Lalezary intended to cause a harmful
and offensive contact with her by rubbing his groin against her body. (FAC, ¶
18.) Defendant Lalezary’s conduct created a sexually offensive contact that was
directly made with Plaintiff. (FAC, ¶ 18.) Plaintiff did not consent to
Defendant Lalezary rubbing his groin against her body. (FAC, ¶ 19.) Defendant
Lalezary’s conduct was harmful to Plaintiff and injured her person. (FAC, ¶
20.) Defendant Lalezary’s conduct in rubbing himself against Plaintiff’s body
was the substantial cause of Plaintiff’s injuries. (FAC, ¶ 21.) 
            The Court finds that the third cause
of action states sufficient facts to constitute a cause of action for sexual
battery against the Lalezary Defendants. Here, Plaintiff has alleged that
Defendant Lalezary “intend[ed] to cause a ‘harmful or offensive’ contact and
[that] [Plaintiff] suffer[ed] a ‘sexually offensive contact’.” (Jacqueline
R. v. Household of Faith Family Church, Inc. (2002) 97 Cal.App.4th 198,
208.) 
            As to Defendant Regal, the Court
finds that the sexual battery allegations are insufficient to show the presence
of respondeat superior liability. “[A] sexual tort will not be considered
engendered by the employment unless its motivating emotions were fairly
attributable to work-related events or conditions.” (Lisa M. v. Henry Mayo
Newhall Memorial Hospital, supra, 12 Cal.4th 291, 301.) “[T]hat a
job involves physical contact, by itself, is an insufficient basis on which to
impose vicarious liability for a sexual assault.” (Id. at p. 302.) “To
hold medical care providers strictly liable for deliberate sexual assaults by
every employee whose duties include examining or touching patients[] . . .
would be virtually to remove the scope of employment as a limitation on a
providers’ vicarious liability.” (Ibid.) “[A] deliberate sexual assault
is fairly attributed not to any particular aspect of the health care
enterprise, but only to propinquity and lust.” (Ibid.) Where an incident
occurs that is “the independent product of [an] [employee’s] aberrant decision
to engage in conduct unrelated to his duties” no liability will be imposed
against an employer under a respondeat superior theory. (Id. at p. 303.)

            Here, as to Defendant Regal,
Defendant Lalezary is alleged to have engaged in a sexual battery against
Plaintiff. However, the Court finds that such act is an independent product of
Defendant Lalezary’s decision to engage in such conduct and is not related to
any particular aspect of Defendant Regal’s enterprise. Also, Plaintiff has
failed to allege any “emotional involvement, either mutual or unilateral,
arising from the medical relationship.” (Lisa M. v. Henry Mayo Newhall
Memorial Hospital, supra, 12 Cal.4th 291, 302.) Based on
the facts alleged in the FAC, Defenant Lalezary “simply took advantage of
solitude, [and] access” to commit the alleged sexual battery. (Id. at p.
303.) 
            The Court therefore overrules the
demurrer of the Lalezary Defendants to the third cause of action for sexual
battery. 
            The Court sustains the demurrer of
Defendant Regal to the third cause of action for sexual battery with leave to
amend. 
Fourth
Cause of Action for Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress 
            “The elements of a prima facie case
for the tort of intentional infliction of emotional distress are: (1) extreme
and outrageous conduct by the defendant with the intention of causing, or
reckless disregard of the probability of causing, emotional distress; (2) the
plaintiff’s suffering severe or extreme emotional distress; and (3) actual and
proximate causation of the emotional distress by the defendant’s outrageous
conduct. Conduct to be outrageous must be so extreme as to exceed all bounds of
that usually tolerated in a civilized community.” (Wilson v. Hynek (2012) 207 Cal.App.4th 999, 1009 (citation
and ellipses omitted).)
            Pursuant to the fourth cause of
action, Plaintiff alleges the following: Defendant Lalezary’s conduct was
intentional, outrageous, malicious and done with ill will and with the intent
to cause Plaintiff to suffer humiliation, mental anguish, and emotional
distress. (FAC, ¶ 24.) Defendant Lalezary’s conduct was so severe and
outrageous that, as a proximate result, Plaintiff suffered harm in the form of
humiliation, mental anguish, and emotional distress. (FAC, ¶ 24.) 
            The Court finds that Plaintiff’s
fourth cause of action for IIED is insufficiently alleged as it is much too
conclusory. Plaintiff has not alleged that she suffered severe or extreme
emotional distress. 
            The Court therefore sustains the
respective demurrers of Defendant Regal and the Lalezary Defendants to the
fourth cause of action in the FAC for IIED with leave to amend. 
Conclusion
Accordingly, the
Court SUSTAINS the respective demurrers of the Lalezary Defendants and
Defendant Regal to the second cause of action for assault with leave to amend. 
The Court
OVERRULES the demurrer of the Lalezary Defendants to the third cause of action
for sexual battery. 
The Court SUSTAINS
the demurrer of Defendant Regal to the third cause of action for sexual battery
with leave to amend. 
The Court SUSTAINS
the respective demurrers of the Lalezary Defendants and Defendant Regal to the
fourth cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional distress with
leave to amend. 
Dated: December 3, 2024
__________________________________________
Edward B. Moreton, Jr.
Judge of the Superior Court