 Case Number:  24SMCV04135    Hearing Date:   December 3, 2024    Dept:  205 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Beverly
Hills Courthouse | Department 205
 
 



1169 AMHERST LLC, and SHIMA
  HADIDCHI,
                        Plaintiffs,
            v.
DAVID BRIERLEY and MATT EMERY,
                        Defendants.


  Case No.: 24SMCV04135
  Hearing Date: December 3, 2024
  Trial Date: N/A
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
DEFENDANTS DAVID BRIERLY AND MATT EMERY’S SPECIAL MOTION TO STRIKE
  UNDER CALIFORNIA’S ANTI-SLAPP STATUTE 



 
Background
 
This case arises from alleged disparaging statements made by
Defendants David Brierley (Mr. Brierley) and Matt Emery (Mr. Emery) (together,
Defendants) about and against Plaintiffs Shima Hadidchi (Ms. Hadidchi) and her
company 1169 Amherst LLC (together, Plaintiffs). 
 
On August 26, 2024, Plaintiffs initiated the instant action.

 
On March 13, 2024, Plaintiffs filed the operative first
amended complaint (FAC) against Defendants David Brierly and Matt Emery
alleging causes of action for (1) slander, (2) trade libel, (3) tortious
interference with prospective economic advantage, (4) intentional infliction of
emotional distress, and (5) negligent infliction of emotional distress. 
 
On November 4, 2024, Defendants filed a special motion to
strike under California’s Anti-SLAPP statute. 
 
On November 19, 2024, Plaintiffs filed an opposition. 
 
On November 22, 2024, Defendants filed a reply. 
 
Judicial Notice
 
Defendants request that the Court take judicial notice of the
following pursuant to Evidence Code Section 452, subdivision (c):
 
1.    
Certified
copy of July 6, 2023 NOTICE AND ORDER TO COMPLY by the Los Angeles Housing
Department Code Enforcement Division, and
2.    
Los
Angeles Housing Department Code Enforcement Division’s Worklog for Case No.
861427.
Defendants’ request for judicial notice is granted. 
 
 
 
Evidentiary Objections
 
In support of their motion, Defendants advance the declarations of
Mr. Brierley, Mr. Emery, Erin Lynch and Roxsanna Mobley with accompanying
exhibits. Plaintiff objects to portions of these declarations and make general
objections. The Court rules as follows:
 
OVERRULED: objections 1, 2, 3 (effect on listener), 4 (effect on
listener), 5, 6, 7, 8 (effect on listener, opposing party admissions), 10, 11
(effect on listener), 12, 13, 14, 16, 17, 18, 19 (opposing party admissions),
20, 21, 22, 23 (opposing party admissions). 
 
SUSTAINED: objections 9, 15.
 
 
Legal Standard
 
“If a defendant brings a special motion under the anti-SLAPP
statute [Code of Civil Procedure Section 425.16] to strike a cause of action,
the trial court evaluates that motion using a two-step process: The first
examines the nature of the conduct that underlies the plaintiff's allegations
to determine whether the conduct is protected by section 425.16; the second
assesses the merits of the plaintiff’s claim. [Citation]” (Laker v. Board of
Trustees of California State University (2019) 32 Cal.App.5th 745, 759.) 
 
“The defendant’s first-step burden is to identify the activity
each challenged claim rests on and demonstrate that that activity is protected
by the anti-SLAPP statute. A ‘claim may be struck only if the speech or
petitioning activity¿itself¿is the wrong complained of, and not just
evidence of liability or a step leading to some different act for which
liability is asserted.’ [Citation.]  To determine whether a claim arises
from protected activity, courts must ‘consider the elements of the challenged
claim and what actions by the defendant supply those elements and consequently
form the basis for liability.’ [Citation.] Courts then must evaluate
whether the defendant has shown any of these actions fall within one or more of
the four categories of ‘act[s]’ protected by the anti-SLAPP statute.
[Citations.]”  (Wilson v. Cable News Network, Inc.¿(2019) 7 Cal.5th
871, 884 [italics in original].) 
 
“In the first step of the analysis, the trial court determines
whether the cause of action ‘arises from’ an ‘‘‘act in furtherance of a
person's right of petition or free speech under the United States or California
Constitution in connection with a public issue.’’’ [Citation] The first step of
the anti-SLAPP analysis ‘turns on two subsidiary questions: (1) What conduct
does the challenged cause of action ‘arise[] from’; and (2) is that conduct
‘protected activity’ under the anti-SLAPP statute?’ [Citation]” (Laker,
supra, 32 Cal.App.5th. at p.760.)  
 
“The Supreme Court has clarified that ‘arising from’ means ‘based
on.’ [Citation] This element of the first step of the anti-SLAPP analysis is
sometimes referred to as the ‘nexus’ requirement. [Citation] Conduct
constitutes ‘protected activity,’ if it falls within one of the categories set
out in section 425.16, subdivision (e). Section 425.16, subdivision (e), in
turn, applies to (1) ‘any written or oral statement or writing made before a
legislative, executive, or judicial proceeding, or any other official
proceeding authorized by law’; (2) ‘in connection with an issue under
consideration or review by a legislative, executive, or judicial body, or any
other official proceeding authorized by law’; (3) ‘in a place open to the
public or a public forum in connection with an issue of public interest’; or
(4) ‘any other conduct in furtherance of the exercise of the constitutional
right of petition or the constitutional right of free speech in connection with
a public issue or an issue of public interest.’ [Citation] The defendant
bringing the anti-SLAPP motion to strike must make a prima facie showing that
the allegations that form the basis of the plaintiff's claims arise from
conduct that falls under one of these categories. [Citation]” (Ibid.) 
 
“If the defendant prevails in this step of the analysis, the trial
court must then assess the merits of the plaintiff's claim. The Supreme Court
has described this second step of the SLAPP analysis as a
‘summary-judgment-like procedure.’ [Citation.]  The plaintiff carries the
burden of demonstrating that its claim has ‘at least ‘minimal merit.’’
[Citation.] If the plaintiff is unable to demonstrate that his or her claim has
at least minimal merit, then the trial court should deem the cause of action a
SLAPP and should strike it. [Citation.]” (Ibid.)   
 
At this “second stage of an anti-SLAPP hearing, the court may
consider affidavits, declarations, and their equivalents if it is reasonably
possible the proffered evidence set out in those statements will be admissible
at trial. Conversely, if the evidence relied upon cannot be admitted at trial,
because it is categorically barred or undisputed factual circumstances show
inadmissibility, the court may not consider it in the face of an objection. If
an evidentiary objection is made, the plaintiff may attempt to cure the asserted
defect or demonstrate the defect is curable.” (Sweetwater Union High School
Dist. v. Gilbane Building Co. (2019) 6 Cal.5th 931, 949.) 
 
The trial court properly considers the evidentiary submissions of
both the plaintiff and the defendant, but it may not weigh the credibility or
comparative strength of the evidence and must instead simply determine whether
the plaintiff’s evidence would, if believed by the trier of fact, be sufficient
to result in a judgment for plaintiff. (McGarry v. Univ. of San Diego
(2007) 154 Cal.App.4th 97, 108-09.) The court “accept[s] as true the evidence
favorable to the plaintiff [citation] and evaluate[s] the defendant’s evidence
only to determine if it has defeated that submitted by the plaintiff as a
matter of law.’ [Citations.]” (Flatley v. Mauro (2006) 39 Cal.4th 299,
326.) Further, whether the evidence is in conflict, in the context of a motion
to strike under the anti-SLAPP statute, if the plaintiff has presented a
sufficient pleading and has presented evidence showing that a prima facie case
will be established at trial, the plaintiff is entitled to proceed. (Moore
v. Shaw (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 182, 193.) Only a minimal showing of merit
is required. (Robinzine v. Vicory (2006) 143 Cal.App.4th 1416,
1421.) 
 
Analysis
 
First Prong: Protected Activity

 
“To prevail on an anti-SLAPP
motion, the movant must first make ‘a threshold showing the challenged cause of
action’ arises from an act in furtherance of the right of petition or free
speech in connection with a public issue.” (Varian Medical Systems, Inc. v.
Delfino (2005) 35 Cal.4th 180, 192.)  “[T]he focus is on determining
what ‘the defendant’s activity [is] that gives rise to his or her asserted
liability—and whether that activity constitutes protected speech or
petitioning.’ [Citation.]”  (Park v. Board of Trustees of California
State University (2017) 2 Cal.5th 1057, 1063.)  
 
In determining whether an entire
cause of action should be stricken from a complaint: “[T]the statutory phrase ‘cause
of action ... arising from’ means simply that the defendant's act underlying
the plaintiff's cause of action must itself have been an act in
furtherance of the right of petition or free speech.” (City of Cotati v.
Cashman (2002) 29 Cal.4th 69, 78.) “In the anti-SLAPP context, the critical
point is whether the plaintiff's cause of action itself was based on an
act in furtherance of the defendant's right of petition or free speech.” (Ibid.)
“In terms of whether relief is sought based on allegations of both protected
and unprotected activity, “the unprotected activity is disregarded at this
stage. If the court determines that relief is sought based on allegations
arising from activity protected by statute, the second step is reached. There,
the burden shifts to the plaintiff to demonstrate that each challenged claim
based on protected activity is legally sufficient and factually substantiated …
If not, the claim is stricken.” (Baral v. Schnitt¿(2016) 1 Cal.5th 376,
396.) 
 
“‘The only means specified in
section 425.16 by which a moving defendant can satisfy that [‘arising from’]
requirement is to demonstrate that the defendant’s conduct by which plaintiff
claims to have been injured falls within one of the four categories described
in subdivision (e) . . . .’ [Citation.]” (Ibid.)  
 
Code of Civil Procedure Section
425.16 subdivision (e), in pertinent part, defines protected acts to include
“(1) any written or oral statement or writing made before a legislative,
executive, or judicial proceeding, or any other official proceeding authorized
by law, (2) any written or oral statement or writing made in connection with an
issue under consideration or review by a legislative, executive, or judicial
body, or any other official proceeding authorized by law, (3) any written or
oral statement or writing made in a place open to the public or a public forum
in connection with an issue of public interest, or (4) any other conduct in
furtherance of the exercise of the constitutional right of petition or the
constitutional right of free speech in connection with a public issue or an
issue of public interest.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
425.16(e)(1-4).)   
 
Pursuant to Baral, supra, 1
Cal. 5th at p, 396, “[a]t the first step, the moving defendant bears the burden
of identifying all allegations of protected activity, and the claims for relief
supported by them.” Here, Defendants contend that each of Plaintiffs’ causes
of action for (1) slander, (2) trade libel, (3) tortious interference
with prospective economic advantage, (4) intentional infliction of emotional
distress, and (5) negligent infliction of emotional distress arise from
Defendants’ speech that is protected activity, and that Defendants’ protected
speech is the central issues of the complaint. (See, e.g., FAC ¶¶ 4–5, 11, 13,
20–21, 30, 38–39, 45.)
 
Defendants firstly contend that the entirety of Plaintiffs’
complaint arises from and are grounded within allegations that Defendants filed
“complaints to City Inspectors on three separate occasions regarding illegal
listings of the Subject Property for less than thirty (30) days” and made
“claims [about Plaintiffs] at multiple City of Los Angeles’s General Manager
hearings.” (FAC, ¶ 5.) To reiterate, subdivision (e)(1) of the Anti-SLAPP
statute protects “any written or oral statement or writing made before a
legislative, executive, or judicial proceeding, or any other official
proceeding authorized by law.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 425.16, subd. (e)(1).) Complaints
to executive officials of City government and claims made during City hearings
qualify as statements “made before a … executive … proceeding, or any other
official proceeding authorized by law.” (Ibid.) 
 
In ComputerXpress, Inc. v.
Jackson, (2001) 93 Cal.App.4th 993, 1009, the court held, in the context of
the defendants filing a complaint with the SEC, that a “communication to an
official administrative agency . . . designed to prompt action by that agency is
as much a part of the ‘official proceeding’ as a communication made after the
proceedings had commenced.” Similarly, Defendants filed their complaints with
City Government Housing officials in an effort to initiate prompt action by the
City Inspectors in ameliorating Plaintiffs’ alleged violations of the
short-term rental ordinance. (Emery Decl., ¶¶ 12-13; Brierley Decl., ¶¶ 5, 11,
13, 14.) 
 
Plaintiffs, in opposition, argue that while “in a difference
scenario . . . Defendants’ speech would be protected,” “that is not the case in
this instant scenario” because “false speech is not protected speech.”
(Opposition, page 4.) 
 
“Unlawful or criminal activities do not qualify as protected
speech or petition activities under the anti-SLAPP statute [Citation.] . . . But
when the defendant's assertedly protected activity may or may not be
unlawful, the defendant may invoke the anti-SLAPP statute unless the
activity is unlawful as a matter of law. [Citation.] An activity may be deemed
unlawful as a matter of law when the defendant does not dispute that the
activity was unlawful, or uncontroverted evidence conclusively shows the
activity was unlawful. [Citation.]” (Dwight R. v. Christy B. (2013) 212
Cal.App.4th 697, 711.) 
 
Here, Plaintiffs have not
proffered conclusive evidence to suggest that the complaints Defendants filed
with the Los Angeles City officials were false. Plaintiffs contend that the
reports of an appeal showed that there was no evidence to support that
Plaintiffs were violating the short-term rental ordinance. (Opposition, page
4.) However, on appeal, according to Ms. Hadidchi, the City Inspector stated
that “any information regarding [short-term rental activities] was
inconclusive.” (Hadidchi Decl., ¶ 10.) This is far from being “uncontroverted
evidence” that Defendants’ complaints were false. While following the appeal,
the Senior Housing Inspector may have found that Plaintiffs were no longer in
violation of the short-term rental ordinance, Defendants contend that
Plaintiffs were previously engaged in short-term rentals.  
 
Additionally, Defendants affirmatively
dispute that any of their alleged statements to City officials were false,
creating a “factual dispute . . . about the legitimacy of [Defendants’]
conduct.” (City of Montebello v. Vasquez (2016) 1 Cal.5th 409, 424; see
also Kenne v. Stennis, (2014) 230 Cal.App.4th 953, 967 [“when
allegations of making false reports are controverted, they are insufficient to
render that alleged conduct unlawful as a matter of law and outside the
protection of section 425.16.”].)
 
To conclude, The Court finds that Defendants sufficiently
demonstrated that each of Plaintiffs’ causes of action in the first amended
complaint arise from Defendants’ protected activity of filing complaints to Los
Angeles City Inspectors and managers. Additionally, because each cause of
action realleges and reincorporates every allegation contained in previous
paragraphs, the Court finds further support that each of Plaintiffs’ claims
arise from Defendants engaging in protected activity. As stated above, any
allegation of unprotected activity within Plaintiffs’ causes of action is
disregarded at this stage. (Baral, supra, 1
Cal.5th at p. 396.)
 
The burden now shifts to
Plaintiffs to show that they have a probability of success on their claims. 
 
Second Prong: Minimal Merit 
 
For the second prong of the
anti-SLAPP analysis, Plaintiff bears the burden of establishing a probability
of succeeding on the merits. (See Kyle v. Carmon (1999) 71
Cal.App.4th 901, 907.)  However, Plaintiff is “not required ‘to prove the
specified claim to the trial court;’ rather, so as to not deprive the plaintiff
of a jury trial, the appropriate inquiry is whether the plaintiff has stated
and substantiated a legally sufficient claim.”  (Whitehall v. County of
San Bernardino (2017) 17 Cal.App.5th 352, 364.) “Put another way, the
plaintiff must demonstrate that the complaint is both legally sufficient and
supported by a sufficient prima facie showing of facts to sustain a favorable judgment
if the evidence submitted by the plaintiff is credited.” [Citation.] (Navellier
v. Sletten (2002) 29 Cal. 4th 82, 88–89.)
 
“In opposing an anti-SLAPP motion,
the plaintiff cannot rely on the allegations of the complaint, but must produce
evidence that would be admissible at trial. [Citation.] Thus, declarations may
not be based upon ‘information and belief’ [Citation] and documents submitted
without the proper foundation will not be considered.” (HMS Capital, Inc. v. Lawyers Title Co. (2004) 118
Cal.App.4th 204, 212.) The complaint, even if verified, is insufficient to
carry the plaintiff’s shifted burden.  (Roberts v. Los Angeles County
Bar Association (2003) 105 Cal.App.4th 604, 614; Karnazes v. Ares
(2016) 244 Cal.App.4th 344, 354 [“pleadings do not constitute evidence”].) 
 
“The court considers the pleadings
and evidence submitted by both sides, but does not weigh credibility or compare
the weight of the evidence. Rather, the court's responsibility is to accept as
true the evidence favorable to the plaintiff [citation] and evaluate the
defendant's evidence only to determine if it has defeated that submitted by the
plaintiff as a matter of law. [Citation.] The trial court merely determines
whether a prima facie showing has been made that would warrant the claim going
forward.” (HMS Capital, Inc., supra, 118 Cal.App.4th at p. 212.) 
 
First through Fifth Causes of
Action: Litigation Privilege
 
Defendants contend that each of
Plaintiffs’ claims in the first amended complaint is barred by the litigation
privilege, and thus, Plaintiffs do not have a reasonable probability of success
on each of their claims. Defendants are correct, and Plaintiffs have not met
their burden in establishing that the privilege would be overcome. 
 
“‘The usual formulation is that
the [litigation] privilege applies to any communication (1) made in judicial or
quasi-judicial proceedings; (2) by litigants or other participants authorized
by law; (3) to achieve the objects of the litigation; and (4) that [has] some
connection or logical relation to the action.’¿[Citation.]  The privilege
“is not limited to statements made during a trial or other proceedings, but may
extend to steps taken prior thereto, or afterwards.’ [Citation.]”  (Action
Apartment Assn., Inc. v. City of Santa Monica¿(2007) 41 Cal.4th 1232,
1241.)  “[T]he litigation privilege was founded on defamation actions, and
has been applied primarily to provide absolute immunity from¿tort¿liability
for communications with ‘some relation’ to judicial proceedings.” (Feldman
v. 1100 Park Lane Associates¿(2008) 160 Cal.App.4th 1467, 1494.)  
 
Moreover, the Supreme Court noted
that it had previously “directed that¿section 47(b) be applied broadly to bar
tort actions based on privileged communications, excepting only the tort of
malicious prosecution.” (Hagberg v. California Fed. Bank (2004) 32 Cal.
4th 350, 358.) “The privilege applies to communications relative to the defense
of an action as well as those relative to its filing and prosecution.” (Cabral
v. Martins¿(2009) 177 Cal.App.4th 471, 485.) 
 
As discussed in connection with
the first prong, Defendants have established that the entire first amended
complaint arises from them allegedly filing complaints with Los Angeles City
officials, as well as speaking at City hearings, regarding Plaintiffs’ alleged
violations of the short-term rental ordinance. “The absolute privilege under
Civil Code section 47, subdivision (b), encompasses communications made to
instigate an official investigation and in connection with the investigation
once commenced.” (Lemke v. Sutter Roseville Med. Ctr. (2017) 8
Cal.App.5th 1292, 1299.) Because Defendants allegedly filed these complaints
with the City and engaged in City hearings in an effort to correct Plaintiffs’
purported wrongdoing related to the short-term rentals, their official communications
with City officials are privileged. The litigation privilege protects
individuals, such as Defendants, “from the threat of litigation for
communications to government agencies whose function it is to investigate and
remedy wrongdoing.” (McNair v. City & Cty. of S.F. (2016) 5
Cal.App.5th 1154, 1163.)
 
Additionally, Defendants correctly
contend that not only are their complaints and official communications with
City officials privileged, but also all communications logically related to Plaintiffs’
suit and were made to achieve the objects of the litigation. Plaintiffs allege
in the first amended complaint that Defendants’ statements were also “communicated
orally amongst neighbors within the surrounding Subject Property.” (FAC, ¶¶ 11,
20.) 
 
In Cayley v. Nunn (1987)
190 Cal.App.3d 300, the court dealt with the question as to whether the
litigation privilege applies to alleged slanderous statements made by the
defendants to potential petition signers, “where the remarks were made while
defendants were circulating a petition to be given to the City Council.” (Id.
at p. 303.) The court found it “clear” that “the alleged slanderous statements
were made during preliminary conversations while defendants were marshalling
evidence and preparing for their presentation at the City Council meeting,” and
that the statements “cannot be considered irrelevant to the proceedings and
they were directed toward the achievement of the objects of the proceeding.” (Id.
at p. 304.) Thus, the defendants’ communications with potential petition
signers were protected by the litigation privilege. (Ibid.)  
 
Similarly here, all Defendants’
communications, whether with other neighbors or with Plaintiffs themselves,
bear a logical connection to their effort to have City officials remedy
Plaintiffs’ alleged violations of the short-term rental ordinance. There is a
direct relation between Defendants’ actions of filing complaints with the City
and engaging in City hearings regarding Plaintiffs’ alleged misconduct and
Defendants’ purported statements with other tenants, or Plaintiffs themselves,
regarding Plaintiffs’ purported misconduct. Defendants’ statements made to
neighbors were part of a broader attempt in trying to have City officials cure
Plaintiffs’ alleged ordinance violations with the short-term rentals. 
 
Part of an attempt to satisfy
their burden, Plaintiffs argue that the litigation privilege does not apply
pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure, Section 47, subdivision (b)(5). The
section does provides that the litigation privilege does not cover “any
communication between a person and a law enforcement agency in which the person
makes a false report that another person has committed, or is in the act of
committing, a criminal act or is engaged in an activity requiring law
enforcement intervention, knowing that the report is false, or with reckless
disregard for the truth or falsity of the report.” (Civ. Code § 47(b)(5).) 
 
Plaintiffs state that “Plaintiffs
have alleged that the reports made by Defendants to LAHD were false with
reckless disregard for the truth.” (Opposition, page 6.) However, as stated
above, Defendants “must produce evidence that would be admissible at trial,”
and cannot rely solely on the allegations delineated in the first amended
complaint. (HMS Capital, Inc., supra, 118 Cal.App.4th at p. 212.) The
only evidence that Plaintiffs produced related to the falsity of Defendants’
complaints and general statements is Ms. Hadidchi’s declaration, which states
that on appeal, there were no short-term rental activities “after investigation
and any information regarding that was inconclusive.” (Hadidchi Decl., ¶ 10.)
Ms. Hadidchi’s declaration further states that a “a General Hearing Matter was
held and Senior Housing Inspector Jean-Claude Olivier found that there were no
violations of short-term rentals.” Looking at the declaration in the light most
favorable to Plaintiffs, this is still insufficient evidence to conclude that
Defendants’ statements were false because, as explained above in the first
prong, Defendants’ statements maintained that Plaintiffs were previously engaged
in invalid short-term rentals. 
 
However, even if the Court were to
conclude that Plaintiffs satisfied their burden in demonstrating that the
Defendants’ statements were false, Plaintiffs have failed to provide any evidence
that the statements were made with Defendants “knowing that the report is
false, or with reckless disregard for the truth or falsity of the report.”
(Civ. Code § 47, subd. (b)(1).) Plaintiffs have not provided any evidence
regarding the state of mind of Defendants when they made their alleged false
statements. The only piece of evidence that Plaintiffs proffer, Ms. Hadidchi’s
declaration, does not mention Defendants’ state of mind at all. 
 
Therefore, the litigation
privilege bars each cause of action alleged in Plaintiffs’ first amended
complaint, as Plaintiffs have failed to satisfy their burden in establishing
that the litigation privilege does not apply. Because the litigation privileges
bars each of Plaintiffs’ claims, the Court does not proceed to address other
potential reasons as to why Plaintiffs would not have a reasonable probability
in succeeding on their claims. 
 
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, Defendants David Brierley and Matt
Emery’s special motion to strike based on California’s Anti-SLAPP statute is
GRANTED. 
 
The entirety of Plaintiffs’ first amended complaint is hereby
stricken. When a court grants an Anti-SLAPP motion, the unsuccessful party is
not entitled to leave to amend. (Simmons v. Allstate Ins. Co. (2001) 92
Cal.App.4th 1068, 1074.)
 
 
 
Dated: December 3, 2024
__________________________________________
Edward B. Moreton, Jr.
Judge of the Superior Court