 Case Number:  24STCV20161    Hearing Date:   December 9, 2024    Dept:  55 NATURE OF PROCEEDINGS: Hearing on Defendants’ Motion
to Compel Arbitration
 
Defendants’ Motion
to Compel Arbitration is granted.
 
BACKGROUND
Plaintiff, The Windigo Film LLC,
filed this action against 2K4, Inc., and Shaun Hill (“Defendants”), alleging that Defendants failed to pay a minimum guaranteed
payment of $200,000.00 for the distribution rights to the film The Windigo.
The causes of action are: (1) Breach of Contract; (2) Unfair and Fraudulent
Business Practices; (3) Fraud – Intentional Misrepresentation; and (4)
Promissory Estoppel. 
 
Defendants filed a Motion to Compel Arbitration. Plaintiff filed
an opposition. 
 
LEGAL STANDARD
“On petition of a party to an arbitration agreement alleging
the existence of a written agreement to arbitrate a controversy and that a
party to the agreement refuses to arbitrate that controversy, the court shall
order the petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it
determines that an agreement to arbitrate the controversy exists….” Code Civ.
Proc. § 1281.2. “The party seeking arbitration bears the burden of proving the
existence of an arbitration agreement, and the party opposing arbitration bears
the burden of proving any defense, such as unconscionability.” Pinnacle
Museum Tower Assn. v. Pinnacle Market Development (US), LLC (2012)
55 Cal.4th 223, 236 (Pinnacle)
ANALYSIS
It is undisputed that the parties signed a Distribution
Agreement, which includes an arbitration provision. Declaration of Shaun Hill
(Hill Decl.) at ¶ 3, Ex. A ¶ 16; Opp. at p. 4. The agreement also contains a
forum selection clause that permits legal action relating to the agreement to be
brought in the courts of the State of California in Los Angeles County,
California. Hill Decl., Ex. A ¶ 14. Plaintiff requests that this Court
interpret the agreement to determine if arbitration is mandatory, or if the
forum selection clause authorizes it to proceed with its suit in court. Opp. at
p. 2:10. 
Before the Court reaches that issue, it must decide whether
the agreement places jurisdiction of this threshold question in the arbitrator.
“Under both federal and state law, courts presume that the parties intend
courts, not arbitrators, to decide … disputes about arbitrability, including whether
an arbitration clause in a concededly binding contract applies to a particular
type of controversy. The parties may agree to delegate authority to the
arbitrator to decide arbitrability, but given the contrary presumption,
evidence that the parties intended such a delegation must be ‘clear and
unmistakable’ before a court will enforce a delegation provision.” Mondragon
v. Sunrun Inc. (2024) 101 Cal.App.5th 592, 603 (Mondragon) (citations
omitted) (internal quotation marks omitted).
In Dream Theater, Inc. v. Dream Theater (2004)
124 Cal.App.4th 547, 557, the court held, “where the Contract provides for
arbitration in conformance with rules that specify the arbitrator will decide
the scope of his or her own jurisdiction, the parties’ intent is clear and
unmistakable, even without a recital in the contract that the arbitrator will
decide any dispute over arbitrability.” However, subsequent cases have
clarified that for unsophisticated parties like hourly employees and consumers,
merely incorporating the arbitration rules by reference is not a clear and
unmistakable agreement to delegate arbitrability decisions to the arbitrator. See
Mondragon, supra, 101 Cal.App.5th at p. 605; Gostev v. Skillz
Platform, Inc. (2023) 88 Cal.App.5th 1035, 1053. 
Here, the agreement is between a film production company and
its distributor and concerns a $200,000 distribution deal. See Compl. at
¶ 1. Therefore, the Court finds that the agreement is between sophisticated
parties, and issues of arbitrability may be delegated by incorporating the
arbitration rules through reference. 
The agreement provides that arbitration will be governed “under
the Independent Film & Television Alliance Rules for International
Arbitration in effect as of the date of this Agreement (‘IFTA Rules’).”  Hill Decl., Ex. A ¶ 16. Rule 21 of the IFTA
rules, then in effect, provides in relevant part, “The arbitrator shall have
the power to rule on their own jurisdiction, including any objections with
respect to arbitrability, to the existence, scope, or validity of the
arbitration agreement(s), or with respect to whether all of the claims,
counterclaims,  and setoffs made in the
arbitration may be determined in a single arbitration, without any need to
refer such matters first to a court.” Declaration of Michael A. Trauben, Ex. D.

In light of this provision, the Court finds that the parties
clearly and unmistakably delegated the threshold issue of enforceability to the
arbitrator. Therefore, the Court need not address the parties’ arguments
concerning the effect of the forum selection provision. 
 
CONCLUSION
Defendants’ Motion to Compel Arbitration is granted. The
case is ordered stayed pending resolution of the arbitration.