 Case Number:  23PSCV00303    Hearing Date:   January 29, 2024    Dept:  O Tentative Ruling
 
Defendant,
Cascade Drilling, L.P’S (“Cascade”) DEMURRER to Plaintiff Edison’s SAC is OVERRULED
in its entirety, notably as Cascade argues for the application of an
improper pleading standard (i.e., heightened pleading is not required) and
is attempting to make factual determinations on a demurrer.   
 
Background
 
This is a
negligence action. Plaintiff Edison alleges the following against Defendants
Cascade, STEARNS, CONRAD AND SCHMIDT, CONSULTING ENGINEERS, INC. (the “Engineers”);
UTILIQUEST, LLC (“Utiliquest”): In the performance of excavation work at or
near Plaintiff’s electric facilities, Defendants were negligent and caused
damage to Plaintiff’s electric facilities.
 
On January
31, 2023, SCE filed its complaint asserting the following causes of action
(COAs): 1.     Cost of Repair Pursuant to California
Public Utilities Code §7952 2.     Negligence 3.     Trespass to Chattels 4.     Violation of Government Code Section
4216, et seq. 5.     Breach of Contract 6.     Negligence
 
On February
28, 2023, the Engineers filed its answer and a cross-complaint against Cascade
and Utiliquest.
 
On March 9,
2023, Utiliquest filed its answer as to Plaintiff’s complaint and filed a
cross-complaint against Cascade and the Engineers. 
 
On June 1,
2023, Cascade a demurrer, which the court sustained with leave to amend on
7/17/23. 
 
On August 16,
2023, Plaintiff filed its FAC, realleging the same COAs against the same
Defendants. 
 
On September
15, 2023, Utiliquest filed its answer to the FAC. 
 
On October
30, 2023, the court sustained Cascade’s demurrer to the FAC with leave to
amend. 
 
On November
39, 2023, Plaintiff filed its SAC realleging the same 6 COAs against the same
Defendants. 
 
On December
22, 2023, Cascade filed the instant demurrer to the SAC.
 
On January
12, 2024, Plaintiff filed its opposition to Cascade’s demurrer to the SAC. 
 
On January
22, 2024, Cascade filed its reply. 
 
Discussion
 
Defendant
Cascade again demurs to the first four COAs asserted against it. 
 
On the
previous rulings the court sustained Cascade’s demurrer because the
original complaint and FAC improperly lumped allegations against the Defendants
creating ambiguiety as to what Defendant did what. Cascade again maintains that Edison fails to cure this problem.
(Demurrer p. 7:22-24.) Not so. 
 
Here, whereas the FAC made minimal reference to the Underground Service
Alert ticket (“ticket”) (4 allegations to be exact), the SAC largely focuses on
the ticket and how Cascade’s alleged failure to maintain an active ticket
caused Plaintiff’s damages. Moreover, whereas the FAC did not delineate the
roles of the Defendants, the SAC clarifies that the “Engineers retained CASCADE
to perform underground excavation/drilling work at or near the EDISON
SUBSURFACE FACILITIES.” (SAC ¶13.)
Overall, despite Cascade’s contention that Edison “refused to amend its
complaint” (Demurrer p. 5:27-28), the SAC is different than the FAC. 
 
Thus, as the SAC is now in conformity with certain pleading standards,
the court will turn to the demurrer. 
 
As the allegations comprising
each COA are nearly identical and as are the respective arguments raised in demurrer
as to each COA, rather than address each COA ad seriatim, the court will
provide a consolidated analysis for all 4 COAs. 
 
Plaintiff, in
relevant part, alleges the following: 
 
Defendant, CASCADE, was augering with mechanized equipment for
remediation injections . . . CASCADE owed a duty . . . to obtain and maintain
active [tickets] prior to commencement of any excavation so that Plaintiff
could field mark the approximate location of its subsurface facilities in order
to prevent damage to its subsurface facilities . . . CASCADE breached their
duty of reasonable care to Plaintiff when they proceeded to perform excavation
work at or near the EDISON SUBSURFACE FACILITIES after their Underground
Service Alert ticket had expired, in clear violation of California Government
Code Section 4216, et seq . . . As a direct result of the negligent, careless
and reckless breach of duty owed to Plaintiff by Defendants CASCADE . . . the
EDISON SUBSURFACE FACILITIES were damaged and Defendants CASCADE, and DOES 1
through 25, and each of them, are therefore liable to Plaintiff for the cost of
repairing the same pursuant to Public Utilities Code §7952. (Complaint pp.
4-5.) 
 
Defendant Cascade main grounds for is that Plaintiff must
allege sufficient facts to establish proximate causation because proximate
cause is required to establish liability as per the above authority. (Demurrer
p. 7.) That is not accurate.[1]
As noted in the court’s 10/30/23 tentative, negligence may be pleaded in general
terms.
 
To the extent that Cascade attempts to argue that an
expired ticket did not cause Plaintiff’s damages, that exceeds the scope
of a demurrer, which treats all allegations in a complaint as true. (See Sheehan
v. San Francisco 49ers, Ltd. (2009) 45 Cal.4th 992, 998; Thompson v.
loane (2017) 11 Cal.App.5th 1180, 1190.) 
 
To the extent that Cascade argues that Edison knew the
ticket expired (Demurrer p. 6:19-21), Cascade is making an argument outside the
four corners of the complaint, which is improper on a demurrer.[2]

 
To the extent that Cascade is seeking that Plaintiff
provide “full and complete” facts (Reply p. 3:12-13), that is unnecessary.[3]
A plaintiff need not provide all facts (even if critical) at the
pleading stage so long as the ultimate facts are pled to support each
COA.[4]
Whether Plaintiff made a mistake (failed to place marks or place them
properly); whether other parties made a mistake (failed to place marks or place
them properly); or whether Cascade made a mistake (failed to properly follow
the existing marks, if any) are all evidentiary findings to be
determined at a stage other than a demurrer.
 
Conclusion
 
With sufficient facts provided in the SAC to support each
COA, the entirety of the demurrer is overruled. 
 
 


