  Case Number:  24STCV18129    Hearing Date:   January 13, 2025    Dept:  40 
24STCV18129
 Auto Fraud Legal Center, LLP v. Knight Law Group, LLP
Monday,
 January 13, 2025
 
[TENTATIVE]
ORDER SUSTAINING DEMURRER TO THE CROSS-COMPLAINT 
 
I.       BACKGROUND
      This
action arises from a dispute over failure to pay for legal services allegedly
owed to Plaintiff, formerly known as Rosner, Barry & Babbit, LLP. Plaintiff
allegedly agreed to provide legal services in partnership with Defendant,
Knight Law Group, LLP (“Knight” or “Defendant”) with respect to seven different
cases. Knight received full payment for the services, but has not paid
Plaintiff for the services that Plaintiff performed (“Earned Fees”). Plaintiff
alleges claims for breach of contract, breach of implied contract, breach of
the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing, and for conversion. 

      Knight
filed an interpleader cross-complaint against Plaintiff and Hallen Rosner
(“Cross-Defendant” or “Rosner”), a former partner of the RBB. Cross-complainant
Knight alleges it is a stakeholder only and cannot resolve the conflicting
demands made by Plaintiff and Rosner to Earned Feeds, totaling $107,185.64. 
      On
November 19, 2024, the court denied Cross-Complainant’s motion to discharge Knight
from liability and for related orders.
II.     ARGUMENTS  
      Plaintiff
demurs to the Knight interpleader cross-complaint for Knight’s failure to
demonstrate that Knight is subject to conflicting claims by Cross-Defendants
(Plaintiff and Rosner). There is no allegation that Rosner has staked a claim in
the Earned Fees, but rather Plaintiff and Rosner seek different debts from
different obligors. Nor does the cross-complaint allege that Rosner demanded
the Earned Fees at issue in the complaint. 
      In
opposition, Cross-complainant Knight contends it has alleged sufficient facts
to support the interpleader cross-complaint. Cross-Defendant Rosner has some
interest in the Earned Fees allegedly owed to Plaintiff. The facts show that
Knight faces a reasonable probability of double vexation. While Rosner is suing
former partners in a different action that is presently being arbitrated, Plaintiff
would not represent to Knight that there was no dispute between Plaintiff and
Rosner over the Earned Fees. 
      In
reply, Plaintiff states the court has already ruled that the cross-complaint is
devoid of facts necessary to support an interpleader action, because the
cross-complaint is ambiguous as to whether Rosner has shown any interest in the
Earned Fees at issue in this action or that Rosner has made a completing claim
to the Earned Fees subjecting Knight to double vexation. 
III.    LEGAL
STANDARDS
      A demurrer tests the
sufficiency of a complaint as a matter of law and raises only questions of law.
(Schmidt
v. Foundation Health (1995) 35
Cal.App.4th 1702, 1706.) In testing the complaint’s sufficiency, the court must
assume the truth of the properly pleaded factual allegations as well as facts
that can be reasonably inferred from those expressly pleaded facts. The court
may also consider matters properly subject to judicial notice. (Blank
v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d
311, 318.)
      The court may not consider contentions,
deductions, or conclusions of fact or law. (Moore
v. Conliffe (1994) 7 Cal.4th
634, 638.) Plaintiff is required to allege facts sufficient to establish every
element of each cause of action. (Rakestraw
v. California Physicians Service (2000) 81 Cal.App.4th 39, 43.) Where the complaint
fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action, courts should
sustain the demurrer. (Zelig
v. County of Los Angeles
(2002) 27 Cal.4th 1112, 1126; Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10(e).)
      Sufficient facts are the essential facts
of the case stated, "with reasonable precision and with particularity that
is sufficiently specific to acquaint the defendant with the nature, source, and
extent of his cause of action.” (Gressley
v. Williams (1961) 193
Cal.App.2d 636, 643-644.)  Whether the
Plaintiff will be able to prove the pleaded facts is irrelevant. (Stevens
v. Superior Court (1986) 180
Cal.App.3d 605, 609–610.) 
      A demurrer may also be sustained if a
complaint is “uncertain.” Uncertainty exists where a complaint’s factual
allegations are so confusing, they do not sufficiently apprise a defendant of
the issues it is being asked to meet. (Williams
v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 135, 139, fn. 2; Code Civ.
Proc., § 430.10(f).)
      A pleading is required to assert general
allegations of ultimate fact. Evidentiary facts are not required. (Quelimane Co. v. Stewart Title
Guaranty Co. (1998) 19 Cal. 4th 26, 47; Lim
v. The.TV Corp. Internat. (2002) 99 Cal. App. 4th 684, 690.)
 
 
IV.  
DISCUSSION
      The court grants Plaintiff’s request for
judicial notice of the complaint in a San Diego case titled Hallen Rosner v.
Christopher Barry, Gregory Babbitt, Michael Klitzke, Rosner, Barry & Babbit
LLP (“the San Diego action”). (PRJN Ex. A.) (Evid. Code, § 452(d).) The court
denies Knight’s request for judicial notice of Hallen Rosner’s Notice of Change
of Statute of a Limited Liability Partnership, an application to register a
limited liability partnership filed with the Secretary of State, and
Plaintiff’s certificate of registration filed with the State Bar. None of the
documents are relevant to any issue raised by the demurrer.  
      A party “against whom double or multiple
claims are made,” that give rise to double or multiple liability, may bring an
action against the claimants to compel them to interplead and litigate their
claims. (Code Civ. Proc., § 386, subd. (b); Placer
Foreclosure, Inc. v. Aflalo (2018) 23
Cal.App.5th 1109, 1113.) The
complaint must show that defendants are making conflicting claims to the subject
matter, and that the plaintiff “cannot safely determine which claim is valid
and offers to deposit the money in court [citation omitted].” (Id.) An interpleader action may not be maintained upon
the “mere pretext or suspicion of double vexation.” (Id.) 
      The purpose of an interpleader is to
prevent a multiplicity of suits and double vexation. (City
of Morgan Hill v. Brown (1999) 71
Cal.App.4th 1114, 1122.) The right
to the remedy depends on the fact that the disinterested stakeholder “is
threatened with double vexation in respect to one liability, not on the
consideration that a person may be subject to double liability. (Id.) 
      On November 19, 2024, this court denied
Knight’s motion for an order discharging Knight from liability and related
orders because Knight failed to allege or establish that Knight was subject to
competing claims to the Earned Fees at issue in the complaint. (M.O. 11/19/24.) The basis for denying Knight’s motion is the same rationale that
supports sustaining Plaintiff’s demurrer to the cross-complaint. An
interpleader complaint must show that Cross-Defendants, Plaintiff and Rosen,
are making conflicting claims to the funds, and that the interpleader (Knight) cannot
safely determine which claim is valid. (Westamerica
Bank v. City of Berkeley (2011) 201 Cal.App.4th 598, 608.
      The cross-complaint alleges that Rosner
asserts a claim to the Earned Fees because Rosner filed an action in San Diego
against his former partners which is currently being arbitrated
(Cross-complaint, ¶ 9-11.) Knight also alleges that Plaintiff made a demand for
the Earned Fees on February 22, 2024. (Cross-complaint ¶ 12.) Knight alleges
that counsel for Plaintiff could not represent to Knight that there was no
dispute to the Earned Fees as between Plaintiff and Rosner. (Cross-complaint ¶
14.)
      In the San Diego action, Rosner seeks
damages against his former partners for their attempt to oust Rosner from the
partnership, to purchase Rosner’s share for a “pittance,” using the
partnership’s money, and attempting to fire Rosner as an employee all in breach
of the partner’s fiduciary duties owed to Rosner. (PRJN Ex. A, 5:2-11.) The San
Diego action does not mention the Earned Funds in this case nor is Knight a
defendant in that action. (Id.) Rosen alleges 13
causes of action for claims including fraud, emotional distress, violations
under the Fair Employment and Housing Act, wrongful termination, and claims
related to that alleged misconduct by the former partners. (Id.) 
      The Knight cross-complaint does not allege
that Rosner made a competing demand for the Earned Funds now held by Knight to
which Plaintiff also claims an interest which would otherwise establish an
actual conflict for the Earned Fees. The Rosner claims are unrelated to the
Earned Fees purportedly withheld by Knight as alleged by Plaintiff in this
action. 
      The interpleader cross-complaint
"must allege facts showing a reasonable probability of double vexation … or
a valid threat of double vexation.” (Westamerica
Bank at 608.) The cross-complaint is ambiguous. (Cross-complaint ¶ 20
[“yet Rosner also appears to have some right, claim or interest in the
funds.”].) Even if Rosner may have an interest in the Earned Fees, the
cross-complaint does not allege that Rosner has made a competing claim for
them. 
      Knight mischaracterizes the statute
governing interpleaders as permitting “potential adverse claims.” (Opp. 4:19.) However,
as the foregoing cases demonstrate, an interpleader action must demonstrate an
actual and valid threat of double vexation or a reasonable probability of
double vexation as the “mere pretext or suspicion of double vexation” is not
sufficient. (Placer
at
1113.)
      Knight requests leave to amend based on new
facts recently discovered showing that Plaintiff does not have the right to the
Earned Fees generated by its former entity, Rosner, Barry & Babbit,
LLP. Whether or not Plaintiff’s claim to the Earned Fees is valid does not bear
on the material issue: whether Knight is subject to conflicting claims for the
Earned Fees which is necessary to state an interpleader claim.
 
 
V.    
CONCLUSION
      Leave
to amend is ordinarily given if there is a reasonable possibility that the
defect can be cured. However, it is pleading party’s burden to demonstrate how
the complaint can be amended and how that amendment will change the legal
effect of the pleading. (Association
of Community Organizations for Reform Now v. Department of Industrial Relations
(1995) 41 Cal.App.4th 298, 302.) Knight’s offering of
newly discovered, immaterial facts does not meet that burden. Accordingly,
demurrer to the cross-complaint is SUSTAINED without leave to amend. 
 
 
 
 
      
 
 
 