  Case Number:  22STCV27463    Hearing Date:   April 9, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:      April 9, 2024                                  TRIAL DATE:  July 22,
2024
                                                           
CASE:                         Ian W. Brooks v. Russell
S. Balisok, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 22STCV27463
 





















 
MOTION
TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES 
TO
REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS



 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff
Ian W. Brooks
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Defendant Russell
S. Balisok
 
 
I.          INTRODUCTION
 
            On August 23, 2022, Plaintiff, Ian W. Brooks, filed this legal
malpractice action against Defendants, Russell S. Balisok (“Balisok”) and
Balisok & Associates, Inc., arising out of Defendants’ legal representation
of Plaintiff in an underlying elder abuse action.
 
            On
September 27, 2023, Plaintiff served Balisok with Set Two of basic discovery,
including Request for Production of Documents (“RFP”). 
 
            On December
27, 2023, Balisok served unverified responses to the RFPs.  Plaintiff took issue with the lack of
verification and with Balisok’s responses to RFP Nos. 17-20.  Thereafter, Plaintiff sought verifications
and further responses to Nos. 17-20 in meet and confer efforts.  On February 8, 2024, Balisok served Plaintiff
with verifications for the RFP responses, but did not provide further responses.

 
On February 27, 2024, Plaintiff filed this motion to compel Balisok
to provide further responses to RFP Nos. 17-20. 
Plaintiff requests sanctions against Balisok.
 
            On March
12, 2024, Balisok filed an opposition. 
He requests sanctions against Plaintiff.  
 
On March 25, 2024, Plaintiff replied.
 
                         
II.        LEGAL STANDARDS
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure
section 2031.310, parties may move for a further response to requests for
production of documents where an answer to the request is evasive or
incomplete or where an objection is without merit or too general.¿ A motion to
compel further response to requests for production “shall set forth specific
facts showing good cause justifying the discovery sought by the inspection
demand.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (b)(1).)¿¿¿
¿¿ 
Notice of the motions must be
given within 45 days of service of the verified response, otherwise, the
propounding party waives any right to compel a further response.¿ (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (c).)¿ The motions must also be accompanied by a meet
and confer declaration.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (b)(2).)¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
Finally, California Rules of
Court, Rule 3.1345 requires that all motions or responses involving further
discovery contain a separate statement with the text of each request, the
response, and a statement of factual and legal reasons for compelling further
responses.¿ (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1345(a)(3).)¿¿ 
 
Monetary Sanctions¿¿¿ 
¿ 
Code of Civil Procedure section
2023.030 is a general statute authorizing the Court to impose discovery
sanctions for “misuse of the discovery process,” which includes (without
limitation) a variety of conduct such as: making, without substantial
justification, an unmeritorious objection to discovery; making an evasive
response to discovery; and unsuccessfully and without substantial justification
making or opposing a motion to compel or limit discovery.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., §
2023.010.)¿¿¿¿ 
¿ 
If sanctions are sought, Code of
Civil Procedure section 2023.040 requires that the notice specify the identity
of the person against whom sanctions are sought and the type of sanction
requested, that the motion be supported in the points and authorities, and the
facts be set forth in a declaration supporting the amount of any monetary
sanction.¿¿¿ 
¿ 
If the court finds that a party
has unsuccessfully made or opposed a motion to compel responses to inspection
demands, the court “shall impose a monetary sanction . . . unless it finds that
the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that
other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”¿ (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (h).)¿¿¿¿¿ 
 
III.      DISCUSSION
 
1.      Procedural
Requirements  
 
Unless notice of the motion is
given within 45 days of the service of the verified response, or any
supplemental verified response, or any specific later date to which the
requesting party and the responding party have agreed in writing, the
requesting party waives any right to compel further response to the demand for
inspection.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.290, subd. (c).)¿ Here, Balisok served verifications
to the at-issue discovery requests on February 8, 2024.  This motion followed less than 45 days later. Accordingly,
the court finds that the motion is timely.¿ 
 
2.     
Requests for Production 
 
Plaintiff seeks an order
compelling a further response to RFP Nos. 17-20.  
 
RFP Nos. 17, 19, and 20 seek any
and all non-privileged communications that Balisok had concerning
Plaintiff.  RFP No. 18 seeks any and all
notes Balisok took in connection with the representation of Plaintiff in the
underlying action.
 
Balisok provided the following
blanket response to Nos. 17-20: “Defendant has already produced all documents
(with exceptions noted below) responsive to these requests informally by
copying his entire file at his own considerable expense at the informal request
of Mr. McGonigle.”
 
Plaintiff argues this is not a
code compliant response.  Balisok
contends otherwise.  The court agrees
with Plaintiff.  A demanding party may
move for an order compelling further response to a demand if a statement of
compliance with the demand is incomplete. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (a)(1).)  Here, Balisok’s response is incomplete.  It does not identify the documents which are
responsive to the request.  
 
In a sparsely worded opposition,[1]
Balisok argues the motion should be denied because Plaintiff’s Separate
Statement did not include definitions of capitalized terms within the requests.  The capitalized terms include “PLAINTIFF”,
“COMMUNICATIONS”, “YOU”, and “YOUR”.  The
argument is not well taken.  First, there
is no authority provided to support Balisok’s argument.  Second, the definitions for these terms are
unnecessary to understand the requests. 
 
Balisok next argues a further
response is not warranted because the discovery at issue relates to the issue
of Defendants’ negligence, which Defendants have conceded in responding to
Plaintiff’s Requests for Admission.  Again,
Balisok’s argument is unsupported.  Defendants’ responses to Plaintiff’s Requests
for Admission have not been submitted to the court.  Further, Plaintiff contends there is no
response admitting that Defendants were negligent.  
 
Balisok makes one last
argument.  He argues all responsive
documents have been produced and that it would be unduly burdensome to require
Defendants to cull through those documents to identify which is responsive to
the requests at issue.  The court is not
persuaded.  “The purpose of the discovery
statutes is to enable a party to obtain evidence under the control of his
adversary in order to further the efficient and economical disposition of a
lawsuit.”  (Deyo v. Kilbourne
(1978) 84 Cal.App.3d 771, 793.) 
Producing documents (which, according to Plaintiff, amounts to 6-8
boxes) without indicating which are responsive is out of compliance with the
code and cuts against the economical disposition of the action.  Balisok must provide a further response to
RFP Nos. 17-20.
IV.       CONCLUSION 
 
            The motion
is GRANTED.  Defendant is ordered to
provide further responses to Plaintiff’s Request for Production of Documents,
Set Two, Nos. 17-20, within 30 days of this order.  
 
Plaintiff to give notice, unless waived.  
 
 
Dated:   April 9, 2024                                 




 


   




 


  Kerry Bensinger  
  Judge of the Superior Court 




 
 
            
 


