 Case Number:  24CHCP00234    Hearing Date:   September 11, 2024    Dept:  F43 DRB Capital, LLC, vs. J.J.
Trial Date: N/A
 
PETITION FOR APPROVAL FOR TRANSFEER OF
STRUCTURED SETTLEMENT PAYMENT RIGHTS
 
MOVING PARTY: Petitioner DRB Capital, LLC
RESPONDING PARTY: No response has been filed.
 
RELIEF REQUESTED
Petitioner is requesting that the Court approve the
transfer of certain structured settlement payment rights to it.
 
RULING: Petition is denied.
 
SUMMARY OF ACTION AND ANALYSIS
The payee in this case, J.J., entered into an agreement for
the settlement of a claim for damages. Wilton Re Annuity Service Corporation is
the Structured Settlement Obligor and has a continuing periodic payment
obligation to J.J. Transamerica Life Insurance company has issued an insurance
contract used to fund the structured settlement payment obligations of the
Obligor.
 
J.J. now seeks to transfer the Periodic Payments in exchange
for a lump sum payment. J.J., as the transferor, seeks to transfer his payments
to Petitioner DRB Capital, LLC. 
 
Petitioner DRB Capital, LLC, and J.J., who is at least 18
years old, have entered into an agreement for J.J. to transfer certain payments
to DRB Capital. However, the amount of these payments is unknown because the
Agreement submitted to the Court is redacted. Furthermore, no Payee declaration
has been submitted, either.
 
The Petition and accompanying moving papers submitted by
Petitioner do not comply with the requirements of Cal. Insurance Code §§
10134-10139.5. The Petition does not include the required information and is not
accompanied by a Declaration from J.J., the Payee. Petitioner has submitted Disclosure
Notices (Insurance Code § 10136(b)), and the Purchase Contracts (Insurance Code
§§ 10136(c) and 10138), but it is impossible for the Court to discern if these
comply with their respective Code sections because of the redactions.
Additionally, Petitioner has not met the requirements for the petition because
there is no information regarding the Payee’s financial status, dependents,
etc., nor is there any statement that Petitioner contacted him to gather that
information. (See Insurance Code § 10139.5.) The separate proof of service
filed by Petitioner also does not have an address for J.J. It just says that
the Notice of Petition was mailed to Chatsworth 91311.
 
Accordingly, the Court denies the Petition for Transfer of
Structured Settlement Payment Rights because it does not meet the Insurance
Code requirements.
 
CONCLUSION
The Petitioner’s Petition for Approval for Transfer of
Structured Settlement Payment Rights is denied.