  Case Number:  22CHCV01487    Hearing Date:   September 11, 2024    Dept:  F43 Jason
Goldman vs. American Honda Motor Co., Inc.
Trial
Date: 4-8-25
 
MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER DISCOVERY RESPONSES
 
MOVING
PARTY: Plaintiff Jason Goldman
RESPONDING
PARTY: Defendant American Honda Motor Co., Inc.
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Further
Responses to Defendant’s Answers to Plaintiff’s Requests for Production
 
RULING:
Parties are ordered to conduct a meaningful meet and confer.
SUMMARY
OF ACTION AND ANALYSIS
On December 27, 2022, Plaintiff Jason Goldman (Plaintiff)
filed this lemon law case against Defendant American Honda Motor Co., Inc.
(Defendant). 
 
Plaintiff
propounded discovery on Defendant on November 1, 2023, including requests for
production. Defendant served responses to Plaintiff’s requests for production
on December 19, 2023. Plaintiff argues that the responses that Defendant served
asserted boilerplate objections that were not Code-compliant. Plaintiff also
argues that Defendant failed to produce many of the responsive documents
requested. Specifically, Plaintiff seeks further responses to Request Nos. 1-3,
7, 9, 12, 17, 18, 20, 22, 24, 26, 28, 31, 32, 39, 40, 41, 45, 49, 51, 54, 56,
57, 74, 75, 82, 83, 84, 85, and 86. Plaintiff also claims that his counsel sent
a detailed meet and confer letter to Defendant.
 
There
appears to be a dispute between the parties over the efforts of the parties to
meet and confer. Plaintiff claims that Defendant failed to respond, but
Defendant claims in its opposition that it did not receive the letter that
Plaintiff claims was sent on January 23, 2024. Defendant also claims that it expressed
its willingness to meet and confer in an email on February 6, 2024, but before
the parties could find an appropriate time to meet and confer, Plaintiff filed
this motion that same day, February 6. Plaintiff argues in his reply that
Defendant’s counsel never provided his availability to meet and confer, but
Defendant’s opposition indicated that Plaintiff filed this motion before
Defendant could respond with his availability.
 
The
Court has reviewed the documents related to this motion and will not decide the
motion on the merits at this time. The Court orders the parties to meet and
confer directly, not by email or letter. Additionally, the parties are ordered
to file a joint statement of remaining issues by a date to be set by the Court.
The joint statement should briefly describe the matters in dispute, followed by
Plaintiffs’ arguments, then Defendant’s arguments. 
 
Prior
to meeting and conferring, the parties should refer to the Court’s discovery
order for lemon law cases for this motion and any future discovery motions that
may be filed in this case. There is a section in that order for the production
of documents. The Court’s discovery order is posted online, along with this
Department’s courtroom information and Final Status Conference Order, all of
which the parties are ordered to review.
 
ORDER

1.
The parties are ordered to conduct a meaningful meet and confer.
 
2.
The parties shall submit a joint statement of the remaining issues as described
above. The format should be as follows: the parties should recite the specific discovery
request at issue, followed by the moving party’s statement of why it should be
compelled, followed by the opposing party’s statement of why it should not be
compelled. To the extent that an argument is repeated for a subsequent request,
the party shall simply refer to the section where the argument was previously
made.
 
3.
The dates for the status report and continued hearings will be set at the hearing
on this motion.
 
4.
Moving party to provide notice.