 Case Number:  21STCV39883    Hearing Date:   October 4, 2023    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  VICTORIA PLANCARTE, ET AL, Plaintiff(s), vs.  LYFT, INC., ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) Case No.: 21STCV39883  [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: MOTION FOR PROTECTIVE ORDER  Dept. 31 1:30 p.m. October 4, 2023  I. Background Plaintiffs, Victoria Brianna Plancarte and Natalie Priscilla Barr, by and through her guardian ad litem Marielu Barr (“Plaintiffs”) filed this action against Defendants Lyft, Inc. (“Lyft”), Ayalnesh Tessema (“Tessema”), Raquel Rosasarmijo (“Rosasarmijo”) for damages arising from an automobile incident. The operative Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”) allege Tessema was a Lyft driver, wherein Plaintiffs were passengers of Tessema’s vehicle at the time of the collision with Rosasarmijo’s vehicle.  At this time, Lyft moves for a Protective Order for the Deposition of Lyft’s Person Most Qualified (“PMQ”). Plaintiffs oppose the motion, and Lyft filed a reply.   Moving Argument Lyft contends the deposition of its PMQ is unnecessary because Lyft has a $1 million automobile insurance policy to compensate Plaintiffs for their alleged injuries, and therefore the deposition of Lyft’s PMQ has no purpose. Lyft also argues that the deposition notice seeking testimony on 43 topics is overly broad, and outside the scope of Plaintiffs’ claims against Lyft, and that of the categories and document requests that may be relevant have already been provide through Lyft’s responses to Plaintiff’s discovery requests.   Opposing Argument Plaintiffs contend that the 43 categories of testimony relate to issues of selection, supervision, and control of Lyft drivers generally and Tessema specifically. Plaintiffs argue that there are no less intrusive means to obtain the information because Lyft will not provide any information on driver selection, supervision, and control. Plaintiffs also argue that Lyft has not established oppression, because there is no showing of “ill intent” by Plaintiffs.  Reply Argument Lyft avers it has good cause for a protective order, and that the 43 deposition categories are overbroad and excessive because it is not tailored to the subject accident or any relevant issue. Lyft argues it responded to numerous discovery requests related to the accident, and produced the Terms of Service and Driver Addendum which governs the relationship between Tessema and Left, Tessema’s background check and driver profile, driver safety publications available to Tessema at the time of the incident, and Lyft’s communications with Tessema concerning the accident. Lyft also contends that Plaintiffs have not engaged in good faith efforts to meet and confer when Lyft’s counsel asked Plaintiffs to consider limiting the deposition categories to Tessema and to California.    II. Motion for Protective Order CCP § 2025.420(a) states that “Before, during, or after a deposition, any party, any deponent, or any other affected natural person or organization may promptly move for a protective order. The motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.” Preliminary, the Court finds that Lyft has not demonstrated good cause for its PMQ’s deposition to not be taken at all. Lyft’s $1 million automobile insurance policy, and any arguments related to its financial ability to pay, is irrelevant. Therefore, the only remaining issues are the PMQ deposition categories. In this case, Lyft, through counsel, asserts that they made good faith efforts to resolve this dispute.  (Mot. Villegas Decl. ¶¶ 5-7.)  However, the Court finds this insufficient to satisfy CCP § 2025.420(a). Lyft does not specifically identify all the categories which it seeks a protective order for in its Notice and moving papers. Instead, in a footnote, Lyft refers the Court generally to its attached exhibit and incorporates the objections made there by reference. The lack of specific identification makes it difficult for the Court to not only understand which particular categories the motion for protective order seeks to address, but is also questionable in terms of providing sufficient notice to Plaintiffs. Further complicating the issue is that Lyft’s arguments do not squarely coincide with Lyft’s objections to Plaintiffs’ deposition notice. Lyft argues in its moving papers that the categories are overly broad, vague, ambiguous, oppressive, burdensome, an undue expense, and that the categories are not described with reasonable particularity. However, many of Lyft’s objections to Plaintiffs only specify that the information sought can be obtained by less intrusive means; Lyft’s general reference and incorporation of its Preliminary Statement and General Objections is unclear due the number of categories involved. Further, Plaintiffs’ threadbare opposition does not appear to directly address Lyft’s arguments. Based on the foregoing, the Court finds that the parties have not reasonably met and conferred in good faith prior to bringing the instant motion. The motion is therefore DENIED without prejudice.  The parties are ordered to further meet and confer to resolve the outstanding issues. For any issues that remain unresolved, due to the number of categories involved, the parties must reserve and participate in an Informal Discovery Conference (“IDC”). The parties must submit a joint statement identifying the specific categories in dispute, and clearly state all the objections as to each category which remain in dispute.   Moving party is ordered to give notice.   PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 3rd day of October 2023      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court   