 Case Number:  20STCV08021    Hearing Date:   October 4, 2023    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  ADA MAZARIEGOS, ET AL., Plaintiff(s),  vs.  NANCY RODRIGUEZ, ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 20STCV08021  [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: DEFENDANT’S MOTIONS TO COMPEL   Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  October 4, 2023  I. Motions to Compel Defendant Nancy Rodriguez (“Rodriguez”) propounded form interrogatories, set two, on Plaintiff Joselin Barrios (“Barrios”) on March 31, 2023, and special interrogatories, set one, on Plaintiff Ada Mazariegos (“Mazariegos”) on March 28, 2023. Both Plaintiffs Barrios and Mazariegos (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) are represented by the same counsel. After granting Plaintiffs an extension to serve responses, Plaintiffs have not served any responses. Plaintiffs did not oppose the motions.  For a motion to compel discovery responses, all a propounding party must show is that it properly served its discovery requests, that the time to respond has expired, and that the party to whom the requests were directed failed to provide a timely response. (See Leach v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 902, 905 906.) Where a party fails to serve timely responses to discovery requests, the court may make an order compelling responses.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300; Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390, 403.)   A party that fails to serve timely responses waives any objections to the request, including ones based on privilege or the protection of attorney work product.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300, subd. (a).)   Therefore, because the evidence shows Plaintiffs were properly served with discovery and failed to respond, and Plaintiffs have not demonstrated responses were served prior to the hearing in substantial compliance with the Discovery Act, Defendant Rodriguez’s motions are GRANTED.  (1) Plaintiff Barrios is ordered to serve verified responses to Defendant Rodriguez’s form interrogatories, set two, without objections, within fifteen (15) days (CCP §§ 2030.290(a),(b); and (2) Plaintiff Mazariegos is ordered to serve verified responses to Defendant Rodriguez’s special interrogatories, set one, without objections, within fifteen (15) days. (CCP §§ 2030.290(a),(b).)  II. Sanctions Defendant Rodriguez requests sanctions in the amount of $374.25 for each motion to compel. However, requests for sanctions must be included in the Notice of motion and must (1) state the applicable rule that has been violated, (2) describe the specific conduct that is alleged to have violated the rule, and (3) identify the attorney, law firm, party, witness, or other person against whom sanctions are sought. Defendant Rodriguez’s Notice neither provides the applicable statute nor does she identify against whom sanctions are sought. The request for sanctions is DENIED.   Moving Defendant is ordered to give notice.    PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 3rd day of October 2023      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court   