 Case Number:  22STCV07376    Hearing Date:   October 4, 2023    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  DEMETRIO MONTANEZ, Plaintiff(s),  vs.  LOS ANGELES UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT, ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 22STCV07376  [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: PLAINTIFF’S MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT  Dept. 31 1:30 p.m. October 4, 2023   I. Background  Plaintiff Demetrio Montanez (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendants Los Angeles Unified School District and County of Los Angeles when a gate fell on Plaintiff. Trial is currently set for March 1, 2024. On April 21, 2022 and January 20, 2023, Plaintiff dismissed the County of Los Angeles and Los Angeles Unified School District. As relevant to the instant motion, on December 22, 2022, Plaintiff filed amendments to complaint naming A-1 Fencing as Doe 1 and Turner Construction as Doe 2. At this time, Plaintiff seek leave to file a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) to allege causes of action applicable to private entities, because the allegations in the operative complaint currently contain allegations pertinent to public property. No opposition has been filed.   II. Motion for Leave to File FAC  CCP § 473(a)(1) provides, in relevant part:  “The court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to amend any pleading or proceeding by adding or striking out the name of any party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any other respect; and may, upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or demurrer.  The court may likewise, in its discretion, after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an amendment to any pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may upon like terms allow an answer to be made after the time limited by this code.”  “This discretion should be exercised liberally in favor of amendments, for judicial policy favors resolution of all disputed matters in the same lawsuit.”  (Kittredge Sports Co. v. Superior Court (1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1047.)  Ordinarily, the court will not consider the validity of the proposed amended pleading in ruling on a motion for leave since grounds for a demurrer or motion to strike are premature.  The court, however, does have discretion to deny leave to amend where a proposed amendment fails to state a valid cause of action as a matter of law and the defect cannot be cured by further amendment.  (See California Casualty General Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (1985) 173 Cal.App.3d 274, 281, overruled on other grounds by Kransco v. American Empire Surplus Lines Ins. Co. (2000) 23 Cal.4th 390.) Under CRC Rule 3.1324(a), a motion to amend a pleading shall (1) include a copy of the proposed amendment or amended pleading, which must be serially numbered to differentiate it from previous pleadings or amendments; (2) state what allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to be deleted, if any, and where, by page, paragraph and line number, the deleted allegations are located; and (3) state what allegations are proposed to be added to the previous pleading, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the additional allegations are located.  Under CRC Rule 3.1324(b), a separate declaration must accompany the motion and must specify (1) the effect of the amendment; (2) why the amendment is necessary and proper; (3) when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered; and (4) the reasons why the request for amendment was not made earlier.  Even if a good amendment is proposed in proper form, a long, unwarranted and unexcused delay in presenting it may be a good reason for denial.  In most cases, the factors for timeliness are: (1) lack of diligence in discovering the facts or in offering the amendment after knowledge of them; and (2) the effect of the delay on the adverse party.  If the party seeking the amendment has been dilatory, and the delay has prejudiced the opposing party, the judge has discretion to deny leave to amend.  (Hirsa v. Superior Court (1981) 118 Cal.App.3d 486, 490.)  Prejudice exists where the amendment would require delaying the trial, resulting in loss of critical evidence, or added costs of preparation such as an increased burden of discovery.  (Magpali v. Farmers Group, Inc. (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 471, 486-488.) Plaintiff’s motion does not comply with California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1324. Plaintiff attaches the proposed FAC, but does not state where the proposed allegations are to be added, by page, paragraph, and line number. Furthermore, Plaintiff does not explain when he identified the correct parties to the action, only that after having identified the parties, Plaintiff filed amendments to complaint on December 22, 2022 to name A-1 Fencing as Doe 1 and Turner Construction as Doe 2. The Court notes Plaintiff filed the instant motion on July 21, 2023 after Plaintiff’s FAC was rejected on June 23, 2023. Plaintiff’s declaration fails to provide the reasons why the request for amendment was not made earlier, when it has been over six months since Plaintiff had Doed in these defendants.  Accordingly, Plaintiff’s motion is denied without prejudice.    Plaintiff is ordered to give notice.   PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 3rd day of October 2023      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court   