 Case Number:  20STCV20537    Hearing Date:   October 4, 2023    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  URI PEREZ, Plaintiff(s),  vs.  RUDY SARAVIA, ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 20STCV20537  [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: DEFENDANT’S MOTIONS TO COMPEL STATEMENT OF DAMAGES AND REQUEST FOR MONETARY SANCTIONS  Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  October 4, 2023  Defendants Rudy Saravia and Adan Soto (“Defendants”) served a request for Statement of Damages on Plaintiff on August 30, 2022. After having not received a response, defense counsel sent a meet and confer letter requesting a response to the Statement of Damages. Plaintiff has not served a response to date.      When a complaint is filed in an action to recover damages for personal injury or wrongful death, the defendant may at any time request a statement setting forth the nature and amount of damages being sought. The request shall be served upon the plaintiff, who shall serve a responsive statement as to the damages within 15 days. In the event that a response is not served, the defendant, on notice to the plaintiff, may petition the court in which the action is pending to order the plaintiff to serve a responsive statement. (CCP § 425.11(b).) Here, Defendants’ evidence shows that despite serving a request for statement of damages to Plaintiff, Plaintiff failed to serve his Statement of Damages on Defendants Rudy Saravia and Adan Soto as provided for within CCP § 425.11. Accordingly, the motion is GRANTED.  Plaintiff is ordered to serve Plaintiff’s Statement of Damages on Defendants Rudy Saravia and Adan Soto within twenty (20) days.       Moving party is ordered to give notice.    PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 3rd day of October 2023      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court   