 Case Number:  22STCV19168    Hearing Date:   October 4, 2023    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  LETTRICE LAWRENCE, Plaintiff(s),  vs.  DAVID COTTON, ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 22STCV19168  [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO COMPEL   Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  October 4, 2023  I. Motion to Compel Plaintiff Lettrice Lawrence (“Plaintiff”) propounded set one of form interrogatories, special interrogatories, and request for production of documents (“RPDs”) on Defendant David Cotton (“Cotton”) on April 24, 2023. At the time, Defendant Cotton was represented by Harry Kane, Esq. of Law Office of Arabelle Aportadera-Torres & Associates. On July 5, 2023, Defendant Cotton’s former counsel informed Plaintiff’s counsel that the matter was being transferred to Plain Legal, PC. On August 16, 2023, Defendant Cotton’s current defense counsel emailed Plaintiff’s counsel, averring that they had lost contact with Defendant Cotton because he is homeless. No responses have been served. Plaintiff therefore seeks an order compelling Defendant Cotton to respond, without objections, to the outstanding discovery and to pay sanctions.  For a motion to compel discovery responses, all a propounding party must show is that it properly served its discovery requests, that the time to respond has expired, and that the party to whom the requests were directed failed to provide a timely response. (See Leach v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 902, 905 906.) Where a party fails to serve timely responses to discovery requests, the court may make an order compelling responses.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300; Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390, 403.)  A party that fails to serve timely responses waives any objections to the request, including ones based on privilege or the protection of attorney work product.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300, subd. (a).)  In opposition, defense counsel contends they have been unsuccessful in establishing contact with Mr. Cotton, and that defense counsel expects the insurance carrier to intervene in this action. Defense counsel argues that Defendant Green Rodent Restoration, Inc. is able to provide verified discovery responses and provide the information sought by Plaintiff. Defense counsel further argues that Plaintiff’s motion is procedurally defective, because Plaintiff cites to CCP §§ 2023.010 and 2030.300 in the Notice, which pertains to compelling further responses, and also does not cite to authority concerning RPDs in violation of CCP § 1010, CRC, Rule 3.1110, and CRC, Rule 3.1112. Defense counsel argues that Plaintiff’s motion is defective and therefore must be denied. Defense counsel seeks sanctions for a defective motion. CCP § 1010 provides that Notices must be in writing and must state when, and the grounds, upon which it will be made, and the papers, if any, upon which it is to be based. CRC, Rule 3.1110(a) states, “A notice of motion must state in the opening paragraph the nature of the order being sought and the grounds for issuance of the order.” CRC, Rule 3.1112(d) provides that a motion identify the party bringing the motion, name the parties to whom it is addressed, and briefly state the basis for the motion and relief sought. The Notice of the motion clearly states that the grounds for the motion, which is to compel responses because Defendant Cotton failed to serve timely responses to set one of form interrogatories, special interrogatories, and requests for production. The purpose of the requirement that the notice of motion must state the grounds for the order being sought is to cause the moving party to sufficiently define the issues for the information and attention of the adverse party and the court. (Kinda v. Carpenter (App. 6 Dist. 2016) 203 Cal.Rptr.3d 183.) Defense counsel clearly was on notice of the defining issues, notwithstanding the erroneous citations to a motion to compel further as opposed to a motion to compel. Furthermore, defense counsel identifies no prejudice suffered, and was able to oppose the motion. Under the circumstances, the Court finds the defect inconsequential, and will consider the motion on the merits. Defense counsel admits that they are unable to locate Defendant Cotton. However, Defendant Cotton’s absence does not excuse the failure to respond to discovery. The potential information that may be elicited from Defendant Green Rodent Restoration, Inc. is not relevant for the purposes of this motion to compel responses from Defendant Cotton.  Therefore, because the evidence shows Defendant Cotton was properly served with discovery and failed to respond, Plaintiff’s motion is GRANTED.  Defendant Cotton is ordered to serve verified responses to Plaintiff’s set one of form interrogatories, special interrogatories, and RPDs, without objections, within twenty (20) days. (CCP §§ 2030.290(a),(b); 2031.300(a),(b).)  II. Sanctions Plaintiff requests sanctions in the amount of $1,260 for the motion to compel. A request for a sanction shall, in the notice of motion, identify every person, party, and attorney against whom the sanction is sought, and specify the type of sanction sought. The notice of motion shall be supported by a memorandum of points and authorities, and accompanied by a declaration setting forth facts supporting the amount of any monetary sanction sought. (CCP §2023.040.) Further, the request for sanctions in the Notice of motion must (1) state the applicable rule that has been violated, (2) describe the specific conduct that is alleged to have violated the rule, and (3) identify the attorney, law firm, party, witness, or other person against whom sanctions are sought. (CRC, Rule 2.30(c).) Because a request for sanctions must specifically identify the rule violated, and Plaintiff’s Notice does identify the applicable rule, Plaintiff’s request for sanctions is DENIED.  Defense counsel’s request for sanctions on the grounds of a defective motion is also DENIED.   III. Additional Filing Fees The Court notes that Plaintiff filed a single motion for what should have been three separate motions as to the motions to compel set one of form interrogatories, special interrogatories, and RPDs. Combining discovery motions allows the moving party to avoid paying the requisite filing fees. Filing fees are jurisdictional and it is mandatory for court clerks to demand and receive them. (See Duran v. St. Luke’s Hospital (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 457, 460.) Thus, Plaintiff is ordered to pay two additional filing fees. This ruling will only be final upon proof of payment of the filing fees.  Plaintiff is ordered to give notice.    PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 3rd day of October 2023      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court   