  Case Number:  20STCV11847    Hearing Date:   February 13, 2024    Dept:  27 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



SEAN
  CASEY,
                   Plaintiff,
          vs.
 
CVS
  PHARMACY, INC., et al.,
 
                   Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
) 
) 


     CASE NO.: 20STCV11847
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEFENDANTS’ MOTION TO CONTINUE TRIAL AND ALL DISCOVERY DATES
 
Dept.
  27
1:30
  p.m.
February
  13, 2024



 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
On March 25, 2020, plaintiff Sean Casey (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against defendant CVS
Pharmacy, Inc. (“CVS”) and Does
1 to 50, for premises liability and negligence. 
On July 23, 2020, Plaintiff filed an amendment to
the complaint to designate as Doe 1 defendant GRB Service Systems, Inc. (“GRB”)
(previously designated as Doe 1 under the incorrect name of Southwestern
Services).  On the same day, Plaintiff
filed an amendment to the complaint to designate as Does 2 defendant Central
Aire Heating & Air Conditioning Service, Inc.  
On August 16, 2020, Plaintiff filed an amendment
to the complaint to designate as Doe 3 defendant Garfield Beach CVS, LLC
(“Garfield Beach CVS”).
On January 26, 2023, Defendants CVS, Garfield
Beach CVS, and GRB (“Moving Defendants”) filed this motion seeking a 6-month
trial continuance and to set all discovery and cutoff dates upon the new trial
date.  Trial is currently scheduled for February
15, 2024, and has been continued three times. The motion is unopposed and the
parties have entered into a stipulation to continue trial.
II.         
LEGAL
STANDARDS
California Rules of Court, rule 3.1332,
subdivision (b) outlines that “a party seeking a continuance of the date set
for trial, whether contested or uncontested or stipulated to by the parties,
must make the request for a continuance by a noticed motion or an ex parte
application under the rules in chapter 4 of this division, with supporting
declarations.  The party must make the
motion or application as soon as reasonably practical once the necessity for
the continuance is discovered.”
Under California Rules of Court, rule 3.1332,
subd. (c), the Court may grant a continuance only on an affirmative showing of
good cause requiring the continuance.  Circumstances
that may indicate good cause include “a party’s excused inability to obtain
essential testimony, documents, or other material evidence despite diligent
efforts.”  The Court should consider all
facts and circumstances relevant to the determination, such as proximity of the
trial date, prior continuances, prejudice suffered, whether all parties have
stipulated to a continuance, and whether the interests of justice are
served.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1332, subd. (d).)
III.       
ANALYSIS
Moving Defendants argue good cause exists as Plaintiff
has been unable to secure deposition of Defendants’ personnel, the parties have
agreed to continue mediation efforts, and the parties desire to forestall
incurring expert costs and fees until after mediation to allow for efficient
settlement negotiations at mediation. (McKeon Decl. ¶ 5) The parties have also
stipulated to the continuance. (Ibid., Exh. A.)
At the end of the day, the basis for a
continuance appears to be that the parties agreed to mediate and delayed moving
forward with substantive work until the mediation was completed; the mediation
failed, and now the parties want more time because they paused work on the case
for mediation.  Further, the parties
indicate they still want to mediate, but they do not even provide the Court
with a date when mediation will occur.  The
parties simply want more time after this case has been active for 4 years and
after they already received three continuances. 
Suffice it to say, the Court is not convinced that constitutes good
cause.  
Nonetheless, as a reasonable accommodation to the
parties, the Court will continue the trial to the FATD 4/22/24, and, pursuant to the parties’
stipulation, continue pre-trial dates to follow the new trial date.  The Court will disfavor any further efforts
to continue trial.
CONCLUSION
Moving Defendants’ motion is GRANTED.
Trial is continued from February 15, 2024 to ____FATD 4/22/24_________ at 8:30 a.m. in Department
27. The final status conference is continued from February 14, 2024 to _____________
at 10:00 a.m. in Department 27. All pretrial deadlines including discovery and
motion cut-off dates are to be based on the new trial date. 
 
Moving party to give notice.
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. 
Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to
appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the
hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you
receive a submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume
that others might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive emails from the
parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
       Dated this 13th day
of February
2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Lee S. Arian
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 