 Case Number:  23STCV00820    Hearing Date:   February 13, 2024    Dept:  27  
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL
DISTRICT
 



DARIUS SQUIRE, 
                   Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
EXEL
  INC., et al.,
 
                   Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 23STCV00820 
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEFENDANT EXCEL, INC. DBA DHL SUPPLY CHAIN’S MOTION TO COMPEL
  ARBITRATION 
 
Dept.
  27
1:30
  p.m.
February
  13, 2024



 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
On January 17, 2023, plaintiff Darius
Squire (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against defendants Exel Inc (“Defendant”),
John Doe, Jane Doe, and Does 1-10 (collectively “Defendants”).  Plaintiff asserts a complaint alleging
violations of the California Fair Employment and Housing Act (racial
discrimination, medical condition, retaliation, harassment); wrongful
termination in violation of public policy; negligent hiring, supervision and
retention; intentional infliction of emotional distress; negligence per se;
slander; violation of the Unruh Civil Rights Act; and violation of Civil Code
section 51.5. 
Plaintiff alleges that he injured his
neck while working at Exel and gave John and Jane medical documentation from
his physician stating that Plaintiff needed to work less hours and work less
strenuous assignments, but John and Jane ignored these medical requests and
further assigned Plaintiff even more strenuous work assignments.  (Compl. ¶ 13-15.)  Plaintiff also claims that he was racially
discriminated against as an African American at Exel.  (Id. ¶¶ 16-24.)  Plaintiff asserts that Defendants failed to remedy
Plaintiff’s complaints and retaliatorily terminated Plaintiff because he was
suffering from a medical condition.  (Id.
¶¶ 16-36.) 
On January 17, 2024, Defendant filed
this motion to compel arbitration.  On
January 29, 2024, Plaintiff opposed.  On
February 5, 2024, Defendant replied. 
II.         
LEGAL
STANDARD
“On petition of a party to an
arbitration agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement to arbitrate
a controversy and that a party thereto refuses to arbitrate such controversy,
the court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate the
controversy if it determines that an agreement to arbitrate the controversy
exists, unless it determines that: (a) The right to compel arbitration has been
waived by the petitioner; or (b) Grounds exist for the revocation of the
agreement.”  (Code Civ. Proc. §1281.2,
subds. (a), (b).)
The party seeking to compel arbitration
bears the burden of proving the existence of a valid arbitration agreement by a
preponderance of the evidence.  (Fagelbaum & Heller LLP v. Smylie
(2009) 174 Cal.App.4th 1351, 1363.) 
Courts “use general principles of California contract law to
determine the enforceability of the arbitration agreement.”  (Mission
Viejo Emergency Medical Associates v. Beta Healthcare Group (2011) 197
Cal.App.4th 1146, 1153.)
Trial courts then determine the second gateway
issue of whether the claims are covered within the scope of the agreement. (Omar v. Ralphs Grocer Co. (2004) 118
Cal.App.4th 955, 961.) The initial burden is on the party petitioning to compel
arbitration to prove the existence of the agreement by a preponderance of that
evidence. (Villacreses v. Molinari
(2005) 132 Cal.App.4th 1223, 1230.) 
Once petitioners allege that an arbitration
agreement exists, the burden shifts to respondents to prove the falsity of the
purported agreement, and no evidence or authentication is required to find the
arbitration agreement exists.  (Condee v. Longwood Mgt. Corp. (2001) 88
Cal.App.4th 215, 219.)
III.       
DISCUSSION
Defendant argues that a valid
arbitration agreement exists because Plaintiff executed a binding mutual
arbitration agreement with Defendant, which requires the employee who signed it
to arbitrate all claims arising from that employee’s employment.  Defendant asserts that the claims agreed upon
to be arbitrated encompass the claims that Plaintiff alleges in this
action.  Defendant requests that the
Court order Plaintiff to refile his causes of action numbers 1-11 to binding
arbitration and dismiss the instant action in its entirety.  Defendant provides the arbitration agreement
which Plaintiff signed electronically on January 30, 2019, which provides in
relevant part: 
I further agree and acknowledge that the Company and I will
utilize final and binding individual arbitration as the sole and exclusive
means to resolve all disputes that may arise out of or be related in any way to
my employment, including but not limited to the termination of my employment
and my compensation.  I and the Company
each specifically waive and relinquish our respective rights to bring a claim
against the other in a court of law. 
Both I and the Company agree that any claim, dispute, and/or controversy
that I may have against the Company (or its owners, directors, officers,
managers, employees, or agents), or the Company may have against me, shall be
submitted to and determined exclusively by binding arbitration under the
Federal Arbitration Act (“FAA”), in conformity with the procedures of the
California Arbitration Act (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. Sec 1280 et seq. including
section 1283.05 and all of the Act’s other mandatory and permissive rights to
discovery.)
 
(Aguirre Decl. ¶ 4, Exhib. A, ¶ 2.)  Plaintiff does not dispute the existence of
the arbitration agreement, nor the validity of his signature.  Plaintiff also does not dispute that the
arbitration agreement covers the asserted claims.  Instead, Plaintiff argues that the
arbitration agreement is unconscionable and unenforceable for the following
reasons: (1) the signing of the agreement was a forcible condition of attaining
and continuing employment with Defendant; (2) Defendant did not attach the
American Association Arbitration Rules to the arbitration agreement; (3) the
discovery limitations are undefined in the agreement, so Plaintiff has no knowledge
if he can adequately present his claims.
          Plaintiff
argues the arbitration agreement is both procedurally and substantively
unconscionable such that it may not be enforced.  Unconscionability claims have both a
“‘procedural’” and “‘substantive’” element.  (Stirlen v. Supercuts, Inc. (1997) 51
Cal.App.4th 1519, 1531.) “‘Procedural unconscionability’” concerns the manner
in which the contract was negotiated and the circumstances of the parties at
that time.  (Kinney v. United
HealthCare Services, Inc. (1999) 70 Cal.App.4th 1322, 1329.)  “‘The procedural element focuses on two
factors: “oppression” and “surprise.”  “Oppression”
arises from an inequality of bargaining power which results in no real
negotiation and an absence of meaningful choice.  “Surprise” involves the extent to which the
supposedly agreed upon terms of the bargain are hidden in the prolix printed
form drafted by the party seeking to enforce the disputed terms.’”  (Stirlen v. Supercuts, Inc., supra,
51 Cal.App.4th at p. 1532.)  “Substantive
unconscionability” involves contracts leading to “‘“overly harsh”’” or
“‘“one-sided”’” results.’” … “[U]nconscionability turns … on an absence of
‘justification “for it…” [and therefore] must be evaluated as of the time the
contract was made.’”  (Id. at p.
1532.) 
“[T]he adhesive nature of the contract
is sufficient to establish some degree of procedural unconscionability.  Yet ‘a finding of procedural unconscionability
does not mean that a contract will not be enforced, but rather that courts will
scrutinize the substantive terms of the contract to ensure they are not
manifestly unfair or one-sided.’”  (Sanchez
v. Valencia Holding Co., LLC (2015) 61 Cal.4th 899, 915.)  
          Here,
Plaintiff presents evidence that the contracts were one of adhesion and that
Plaintiff was not given the rules for arbitration, and thus some mild
procedural unconscionability is present. 
However, the circumstances do not show any significant oppression or
surprise.  Defendant provides evidence
that when signing, Defendant did not provide employees with any limitation as
to how long they could take to consider and decide to accept or reject the
arbitration agreement.  (Aguirre Decl. ¶
4.)  Further, employees were free to
consider and review the agreement and sign it at their leisure and were not
asked to complete the agreement during work hours.  (Id.)  Plaintiff presents no evidence that he could
not have taken the time he needed to review the documents.  Since only mild procedural unconscionability
is shown, a high degree of substantive unconscionability would have to be shown
to establish the defense. 
Plaintiff asserts that the agreement is
substantively unconscionable because the arbitration agreement states: “…this
Agreement shall be controlled by the Federal Arbitration Act, in conformity
with the procedures of the California Arbitration Act (Cal. Code Civ. Proc.
Sec. 1280 et seq., including section 1283.05 and all of the Act’s other
mandatory and permissive rights to discovery.”  Plaintiff states that Defendant failed to
attach a copy of the AAA rules.  Plaintiff
provides that the discovery limitation states: “The arbitrator shall have the
authority to order such discovery, by way of deposition, interrogatory,
document production, or otherwise, as the arbitrator considers necessary…”  (see AAA National Rules for Employment
Arbitration)  Plaintiff argues these
unclear limitations makes it impossible for Plaintiff to adequately present his
claims and thus, the arbitration agreement should be found as substantively
unconscionable.  The Court disagrees as
the agreement also provides a provision which states: “If any term, provision
or portion of this Agreement is determined to be void or unenforceable it shall
be severed and the remainder of this Agreement shall be fully
enforceable.”  (Aguirre Decl. ¶ 4, Exhib.
A, ¶ 7.)  Other than a statement of
adhesion, the Court finds no one- sided unfairness in the contract itself given
the severance of the equitable/injunctive relief language.  Thus, Plaintiff fails to satisfy his burden of
showing unconscionability to render the agreement unenforceable.  
As to Defendant’s request to dismiss
the action, the Court DENIES this request. 
The FAA provides for a stay of proceedings if the issues therein are
referable to arbitration.  9 U.S.C. §
3.  In addition, Code of Civil Procedure
§ 1281.4 provides, in relevant part: 
If a court¿.¿.¿.¿has ordered arbitration of a controversy which is an issue
involved in an action or proceeding pending before a court of this State, the
court in which such action or proceeding is pending shall, upon motion of a
party to such action or proceeding, stay the action or proceeding until an
arbitration is had in accordance with the order to arbitrate or until such
earlier time as the court specifies. 
 
Because Plaintiff’s claims against
Defendant are referable to arbitration, the Court will stay the current action
pending the completion of arbitration pursuant to 9 U.S.C. § 3 and Code of
Civil Procedure § 1281.4.  Staying this
action in its entirety would also promote judicial efficiency and conserve the
parties’ resources.  The parties would
not be forced to litigate in parallel court and arbitral proceedings, and there
would be less risk of inconsistent rulings.
IV.        
CONCLUSION
Accordingly, Defendant’s motion to
compel arbitration is GRANTED.  The
action is stayed and the Court sets a status conference on ___________ at 8:30 a.m.
in Department 27 so that the parties may provide an update on the arbitration
proceedings.  
 
Moving party to give notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. 
Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to
appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the
hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you
receive a submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume
that others might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive emails from the
parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 
Dated
this 13th day of February 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon.
  Lee S. Arian
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 