 Case Number:  21STCV21291    Hearing Date:   February 13, 2024    Dept:  27  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL
DISTRICT
 



UMAR SAIFULLAHKHAN BABAR, 
                   Plaintiff,
          vs.
 
NU
  TO MACH, et al.,
 
                   Defendants.
 


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 21STCV21291
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO DEMANDS FOR PRODUCTION OF
  DOCUMENTS, SET THREE, AND REQUEST FOR MONETARY SANCTIONS
 
Dept.
  27
1:30
  p.m.
February
  13, 2024



 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff Umar Saifullahkhan Babar
(“Plaintiff”)
RESPONDING PARTY: Defendant Nu To Mach (“Defendant”)    
 
 
 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
This
action arises from a motor vehicle accident which occurred on August 6, 2019,
in which Plaintiff Umar Saifullahkahn Babar (“Plaintiff”) alleges he was
injured. On June 8, 2021, Plaintiff filed a complaint against Defendants Nu To
Mach (“Defendant”) and DOES 1 to 100, alleging causes of action for motor
vehicle, general negligence, and negligence per se.  
On
July 27, 2022, Defendant filed an answer to the complaint. 
On
December 11, 2023, the Court held an Informal Discovery Conference (“IDC”) and
the Court indicated that “[c]ounsel for Plaintiff may file their motions to
compel further if needed.” (12/11/23 Minute Order.) The Court’s minute order
also indicated that “the parties agreed to extend the deadline to file motions
to compel further for three (3) weeks.” (12/11/23 Minute Order.) 
On
January 11, 2024, Plaintiff filed and served the instant motion to compel
Defendant’s further verified responses to Plaintiff’s Demands for Production of
Documents, Nos.74-77 (the “Motion”). Pursuant to the Motion, Plaintiff seeks
monetary sanctions against Defendant and its counsel of record, Christopher
Babadjanian, jointly and severally, in the amount of $3,300.00. The Motion is
made on the grounds that Defendant has been intentionally suppressing a written
statement provided by Carlos Tobar (“Tobar”), who is a non-party witness. 
On
January 30, 2024, Defendant filed an opposition to the Motion indicating that
the Motion is moot because Defendant has provided the requested further
verified responses to Set Three of Plaintiff’s Demands for Production of
Documents. (Babadjanian Decl., ¶ 8; Exhibit F.) As such, Defendant requests
monetary sanctions against Plaintiff and Plaintiff’s counsel in the amount of
$600.63.
On
reply, Plaintiff contends that Defendant’s purported further responses are
insufficient as: (1) Defendant only produced portions of the witness statement;
and (2) Defendant’s purported further responses still contain meritless
objections and are not code compliant. 
II.         
LEGAL
STANDARD 
In California, discovery statutes “must
be construed liberally in favor of disclosure unless the request is clearly
improper.” (Williams v. Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 541.)
“Under the discovery statutes, information is discoverable if it is
unprivileged and is either relevant to the subject matter of the action or
reasonably calculated to reveal admissible evidence.” (John B. v. Superior
Court (2006) 38 Cal.4th 1177, 1186.) “Discovery may relate to the claim or
defense of the party seeking discovery or of any other party to the action.” (Ibid.)
“When discovery requests are grossly overbroad on their face, and hence do not
appear reasonably related to a legitimate discovery need, a reasonable
inference can be drawn of an intent to harass and improperly burden.” (Obregon
v. Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 424, 431.)
On receipt of a response to a demand
for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling, the demanding party may move for
an order compelling further response to the demand if the demanding party deems
that any of the following apply: (1) a statement of compliance with the demand
is incomplete; (2) a representation of inability to comply is inadequate,
incomplete, or evasive; or (3) an objection to the response is without merit or
too general. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.310(a)(1)-(3).) Where a party seeks to compel
further responses to requests for production of documents, a showing of good
cause must be established before production may be compelled. (Williams v.
Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 550.) 
To establish good cause, a discovery
proponent must identify a disputed fact that is of consequence in the action
and explain how the discovery sought will tend in reason to prove or disprove
that fact or lead to other evidence that will tend to prove or disprove the
fact. (Digital Music News LLC v. Superior Court (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th
216, 224.) 
III.       
DISCUSSION
Procedural Compliance 
          The Court
finds that Plaintiff has satisfied the meet and confer requirement. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2016.040.) Counsel for Plaintiff, Alister S. Wong, Esq. (“Wong”),
provides a declaration in support of the Motion setting forth efforts to obtain
Tobar’s statement and resolve the dispute at issue in the Motion. (Wong Decl., ¶¶
7-8; Exhibits 6 and 7.) 
As to timeliness, the Court finds that
the Motion is timely under Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.310 as the parties stipulated
during the IDC to extend Plaintiff’s deadline to file related motions to
January 11, 2024. (Wong Decl., ¶ 7; Exhibit 6.)  
 
The RFPs at Issue 
          RFP No.74
          RFP No. 74
requests that Defendant provide “Any and all DOCUMENT(S) in YOUR possession,
custody or control that relates to or constitutes STATEMENT(S) by Carlos
Tobar.”
          RFP No.75
          RFP No. 75
requests “Any and all DOCUMENT(S) in YOUR possession, custody or control that
relates to or constitutes STATEMENT(S) by Carlos Tobar that were obtained by
YOU.” 
          RFP No.76
          RFP No.76
requests “Any and all DOCUMENT(S) in YOUR possession, custody or control that
relates to or constitutes STATEMENT(S) by Carlos Tobar that were received by
YOU.”
          RFP No.77
          RFP No.77
requests “Any and all DOCUMENT(S) in YOUR possession, custody or control that
relates to or constitutes any correspondence, other than YOUR attorneys,
concerning any and all STATEMENT(S) by Carlos Tobar that were received by YOU.”

          Defendant’s
Response to RFP Nos. 74-77
          Defendant
provided an identical response to the RFPs at issue. Defendant stated
“Objection. Litigation work product. Plaintiff has not established good cause
for the production in that they could obtain their own statement. This demand
seeks documentation that is equally available to plaintiff and plaintiff has
failed to show any good faith attempts at obtaining said documentation on his
own.” Defendant also provided the phone number and email address at which Tobar
could be contacted.
Tobar’s Witness Statement 
Plaintiff propounded his third set of
discovery on September 19, 2023, which included Demands for Production and
Special Interrogatories. (Wong Decl., ¶ 3; Exhibit 2.) On October 9, 2023,
Defendant served verified responses to Plaintiff’s third set of discovery where
she revealed for the first time, in responses to special interrogatories, that
she received a written statement from Carlos Tobar (“Tobar”) concerning the
accident. (Id., ¶ 4; Exhibit 3.) Plaintiff has not been able to obtain
the deposition of Tobar. (Id., ¶ 7.) Tobar is the only eyewitness to the
collision between Plaintiff and Defendant and, to date, Plaintiff’s counsel has
been unsuccessful in locating Tobar. (Id., ¶ 9.)  
Issue No.1: Appropriateness of Compelling Further Responses 
          “[U]nlike
interview notes prepared by counsel, statements written or recorded
independently by witnesses neither reflect an attorney’s evaluation of the case
nor constitute derivative material, and therefore are neither absolute nor
qualified work product.” (Nacht & Lewis Architects, Inc. v. Superior
Court (1996) 47 Cal.App.4th 214, 218.) A party resisting disclosure of a
witness statement “must make a preliminary or foundational showing that
disclosure would reveal his or her impressions, conclusions, opinions, or legal
research theories.” (Coito v. Superior Court (2012) 54 Cal.4th 480, 500.)
A party cannot shield an independently prepared witness statement by merely
providing such statement to one’s attorney. (Nacht & Lewis Architects,
Inc. v. Superior Court, supra, 47 Cal.App.4th 214, 218, fn.2.) 
          Defendant’s
Purported Further Responses 
          Initially,
the Court will address Defendant’s argument that the Motion is moot because she
provided verified further responses on January 25, 2024. (Badadjanian Decl., ¶
8; Exhibit F.) The Court has reviewed such purported further responses and finds
that Defendant still asserts the same objections raised in her initial
responses. (Id.) The sole difference between the initial responses and
purported further responses is Defendant stating that “[w]ithout waiving the
foregoing objections, and while continuing to assert privilege and work product
objections to the broad scope of documents requested in this demand, attached
hereto is a copy of the unsolicited email received from an email address
purporting to belong to a person by the name of Carlos Tobar.” (Id.,
Exhibit F at 2:20-23.) 
          On reply,
Plaintiff asserts that the further response is insufficient because Defendant
did not produce the entirety of the e-mailed witness statement from Tobar. Plaintiff
asserts that the e-mail statement produced by Plaintiff does not contain
standard e-mail metadata and therefore Defendant’s purported further response
is insufficient. (Badadjanian Decl., ¶ 8; Exhibit F.) 
The Court has reviewed Defendant’s
further responses—which attach the purported witness statement at issue—and
finds that Defendant did not provide the entirety of Tobar’s emailed statement.
(Id.) It appears that Defendant provided a cropped screenshot of Tovar’s
emailed witness statement. (Id.)  As
a result of this limited response, the Motion is not moot, albeit, Defendant
has, in fact, provided a supplementary response.  When discovery responses are served after a motion to compel
is filed, the court has substantial discretion in deciding how to rule in light
of the particular circumstances presented. (See Sinaiko
Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007)
148 Cal.App.4th 390, 408-409).  Based on
this discretion, the court can and will determine if they are code-compliant. (Sinaiko, supra,
148 Cal.App.4th at p. 409.)
          The Court
finds that Defendant’s objections concerning litigation work product are
without merit. It is undisputed that in her responses to Plaintiff’s third set
of special interrogatories, Defendant stated that “State Farm representative
received a call from Carlos Tobar on November 8, 2019 advising that he
witnessed the accident. A written statement was received from Carlos Tobar on
November 9, 2019 via email.” (Wong Decl., Exhibit 3.) Thus, Tobar’s statement
is not attorney work product as it is, in fact, a statement from an independent
witness. Moreover, Defendant has not provided a sufficient response or
privilege log that provides “sufficient information to permit the court to
determine whether the asserted privilege protects specific documents from
disclosure” and, as such, the Court “may rule on the merits of the objection.”
(Catalina Island Yacht Club v. Superior Court (2015) 242 Cal.App.4th
1116, 1127.) Defendant has failed to substantiate her objections to the
discovery at issue. 
          Accordingly,
the Court finds that Defendant’s initial responses and purported further
responses are not code-compliant and further response is warranted containing
the e-mail metadata. 
          Good Cause
          The Court
finds that Plaintiff has shown good cause to compel further responses to
Plaintiff’s Demands for Production of Documents, Set Three. Plaintiff’s counsel
states that Tobar is the only eyewitness to the collision and the investigating
officer failed to obtain Tobar’s statement. (Wong Decl., ¶ 9.) Thus, obtaining
Tobar’s statement is relevant to Plaintiff’s claims in this action. 
Issue No.2: Monetary Sanctions 
          Code Civ.
Proc. § 2023.010(d) provides that a misuse of the discovery process is failing
to respond or to submit to an authorized method of discovery.  Code Civ. Proc. § 2023.010(h) states that a
misuse of the discovery process includes making or opposing, unsuccessfully and
without substantial justification, a motion to compel or limit discovery. A
court may impose a monetary sanction against a party engaging in the misuse of
the discovery process or any attorney advising such conduct under Code Civ.
Proc. § 2023.030(a). A court has discretion to fix the amount of reasonable
monetary sanctions. (Cornerstone Realty Advisors, LLC v. Summit Healthcare
Reit, Inc. (2020) 56 Cal.App.5th 771.) 

          Wong’s hourly
rate is $550.00 per hour, and Wong spent four (4) hours preparing the Motion
and separate statement and 0.25 hours preparing the proposed order, 0.25 hours
preparing the supporting declaration and its exhibits, anticipates spending one
(1) hour preparing a reply brief and 0.5 hours preparing and participating in
the hearing on the Motion (Wong Decl., ¶ 12.)  . (Id.) Wong also anticipates incurring
a $60.00 filing fee as to the Motion. (Id.)  Plaintiff thus seeks $3,300 in sanctions.
          The Court
GRANTS in part Plaintiff’s request for monetary sanctions, reducing the amount
slightly to reflect an amount the Court deems reasonable for this motion. The
Court awards Plaintiff reasonable monetary sanctions in the amount of $2500.00.
 (The Court denies Defendant’s request
for sanctions.)  Monetary sanctions are
to be paid to Plaintiff by Defendant and Defendant’s counsel of record,
Christopher Babadjanian, jointly and severally, within 30 days of the date of
notice of this order.
IV.    CONCLUSION 
The Court therefore GRANTS the Motion
and ORDERS Defendant to provide further verified, complete, and code-compliant
responses, without objections, to Plaintiff’s Demands for Production, Set
Three, Numbers 74-77 within 30 days of the date of notice of this order. 
The Court GRANTS IN PART Plaintiff’s
request for monetary sanctions and awards Plaintiff reasonable monetary
sanctions in the amount of $2500.00 to be paid by Defendant and Defendant’s
counsel of record, Christopher Babadjanian, jointly and severally, within 30
days of the date of notice of this order. 
 
Moving party is ordered to give notice.

 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. 
Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to
appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the
hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you
receive a submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume
that others might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive emails from the
parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
      Dated this 13th day of February 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon.
  Lee S. Arian 
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 