 Case Number:  21STCV23305    Hearing Date:   February 13, 2024    Dept:  27 Tentative Ruling
Judge Lee Arian, Department 27
 
HEARING DATE:     February
13, 2024                 TRIAL DATE:  February
29, 2024
CASE:                            Charlotte Jester v. Centimark Corporation, et al.
CASE NO.:                 21STCV23305





















MOTION TO COMPEL INDEPENDENT MENTAL
EXAMINATION OF PLAINTIFF AND MOTION TO CONINUE



MOVING PARTY:               Defendant
Centimark Corporation 
RESPONDING PARTY:      Plaintiff
Charlotte Jester
MOTION FOR IME
I.          INTRODUCTION
Plaintiff Charlotte
Jester (“Plaintiff”) initiated this action on June 22, 2021, against defendants
CentiMark Corporation (“Defendant”), GranCare Autumn Hills LLC and Does 1 to 50
(collectively “Defendant”) alleging causes of action for general negligence and
premises liability. Plaintiff alleges that a metal propane tank fell onto her
while Defendants performed repair work on a nearby roof, causing serious
injuries.
On November 15, 2023, Defendant
moved for an order requiring Plaintiff to submit to a mental examination.
Plaintiff opposed, and Defendant replied.
II.        LEGAL STANDARD
Mental examinations may
be obtained of a party whose mental condition is placed in controversy. (Code
Civ. Proc. § 2032.020(a).) 
A demand for a mental
examination shall specify the time, place, manner, conditions, scope, and
nature of the examination, as well as the identity and the specialty, if any,
of the physician who will perform the examination. (Code Civ. Proc. §
2032.220(c).)
Code of Civil Procedure
section 2032.230 provides that a plaintiff to whom a demand for a physical
examination is directed shall respond within 20 days after service with a
written statement that she will comply with the demand as stated, comply with
the demand as specifically modified by her, or refuse, for reasons specified in
the response, to submit to the demanded examination. The response must be
served on the defendant making the demand and all other parties who have
appeared in the action.
Code of Civil Procedure
section 2032.240 further provides:
(a) If a plaintiff to
whom a demand for a physical examination under this article is directed fails
to serve a timely response to it, that plaintiff waives any objection to the
demand. The court, on motion, may relieve that plaintiff from this waiver on its
determination that both of the following conditions are satisfied:
(1) The plaintiff has
subsequently served a response that is in substantial compliance with Section
2032.230.
(2) The plaintiff’s
failure to serve a timely response was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or
excusable neglect.
(b) The defendant may
move for an order compelling response and compliance with a demand for a
physical examination.
(c) The court shall
impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010)
against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a
motion to compel response and compliance with a demand for a physical examination,
unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust.
A motion for a mental
examination should only be granted for good cause shown. (Code Civ. Proc. §
2032.320(a).) An order granting a mental examination shall specify the person
or persons who may perform the examination, as well as the time, place, manner,
diagnostic tests and procedures, conditions, scope, and nature of the
examination. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2032.320(d).)
III.      DISCUSSION
A.    Separate
Statement Required
California Rules of Court
Rule 3.1345 states that “any motion involving the content of a discovery
request or the responses to such a request must be accompanied by a separate
statement. The motions that require a separate statement include a motion . . .
[f]or medical examination over objection.” (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule
3.1345(a).) A separate statement is not required when no response has been
provided to the request for discovery.” (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1345(b).)
Defendant did not provide
a separate statement.
B.    Meet
and Confer
Code of Civil Procedure
section 2016.040 provides that “[a] meet and confer declaration in support of a
motion shall state facts showing a reasonable and good faith attempt at an
informal resolution of each issue presented by the motion.”
Plaintiff argues in
opposition that Defendant failed to meet and confer in good faith before making
this motion. Plaintiff points to the fact that Defendant provided Plaintiff
with details about the requested examination the morning of November 15, and served
the instant motion that very afternoon. (Sed Decl., ¶4, Exh. 2.) 
Defendant provides
evidence that prior to that email exchange, Defendant had inquired multiple
times about Plaintiff’s willingness to stipulate to a mental examination,
including during telephone conversations on October 31 and November 8, but
never received a decisive answer. (Schannong Decl. in support of Motion, ¶3;
Shannong Decl. in Reply, ¶2, Exh. A.) 
Defendant claims that it never
served Plaintiff with a notice of mental examination because Code of Civil
Procedure § 2032.310 “requires a Court Order unless the parties stipulate.”
(Reply, 2:11-13.) Section 2032.310 provides that any party that “desires to
obtain discovery . . . by a mental examination . . . shall obtain leave of
court.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2032.310(a).) Presumably, Defendant is also
referring to Section 2016.030, which provides that “the parties may by written
stipulation modify the procedures provided by this title for any method of
discovery permitted under Section 2019.010,” which includes mental
examinations. (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 2016.030, 2019.010(d).) 
While not factually
wrong, Defendant’s statement of the rules is misleading and implies that mental
examinations are more often court ordered than arranged by stipulation between
counsel. This is incorrect. (The Rutter Group California Practice Guide: Civil
Procedure Before Trial, 1. [8:1512] Examinations by Stipulation.) Parties may
stipulate in writing for a physical or mental examination on whatever terms
and conditions they choose. (Id.) Defendant’s statement also does
not support the contention that Defendant did not have to make a formal request
for Plaintiff’s mental examination.  
C.    Discussion
Defendant argues that a
mental examination is proper because Plaintiff placed her mental condition in
controversy and Defendant cannot adequately prepare for trial without
information relating to the nature and extent of Plaintiff’s alleged mental
injuries.  
The mental examination
Defendant requests will be conducted by Nina T. Rodd, Ph.D. at her offices,
which is within 75 miles of Plaintiff’s residence. (Shannong Decl. in support
of the Motion, ¶ 4.) The examination will be conducted on January 17, 2024, at
10:00 a.m., and will consist of a three-hour morning session interview where Plaintiff
will be asked about her mental status, social, family, psychological, medical,
legal and occupational history, the subject incident, and symptoms related
thereto, as well as a two-hour afternoon session during which the following psychological
assessment tests will be performed: 
·       MMPI-2-RF
(Minnesota Multiphasic Personality Inventory-2-Restructured Form), 
·       PAI
(Personality Assessment Inventory), 
·       BDI-2
(Beck Depression Inventory), 
·       Beck
Anxiety Inventory,
·       MMSE-2
(Mini Mental Status Examination-2), and
·       TSI-2
(Trauma Symptom Inventory-2).
(Rodd Decl., ¶4.) None of these evaluations are
painful, protracted, or unduly invasive. (Id., ¶5.)
            Plaintiff
does not dispute that she placed her mental condition in controversy. Rather,
she argues that because Defendant did not provide Plaintiff with the requisite
information about the proposed examination required by Section 2032.020 until
just a few hours before the motion was filed, Plaintiff was unable to properly
meet and confer with Defendant. After the instant motion was filed, Plaintiff propounded
a proposed stipulation that Defendant had not yet addressed as of the date of
the Opposition. (Sed Decl., ¶5, Exh. 3.) 
Plaintiff argues that Defendant’s
motion should therefore be denied or continued with an order for the parties to
continue and complete good faith and reasonable meet and confer, or, in the
alternative, the Court should order the adoption of Plaintiff’s proposed
stipulation together with Plaintiff’s counsel’s proposed edits to the proposed
stipulation, which are laid out in counsel’s declaration.
The proposed stipulation
outlines pending issues between the subject parties and the subject mental
examination, including the following: (I) the Notice and subject Motion should
be on behalf of all Defendants, not just Centimark, because all the defendants
in this case are aligned; (2) Plaintiff’s deposition transcript should be made
available to Defendant’s expert and any questions about the incident should be
limited, unless the questions directly relate to damages; and (3) questions
that seek to invade the attorney-client privilege and/or attorney work product
privilege should be barred.
Defendant maintains in
reply that Plaintiff’s counsel did not agree to stipulate to a mental
examination prior to the filing of the instant motion. However, there is no
allegation or evidence that Defendant ever made a formal request for
stipulation. Defendant states that it did not provide the names of the tests
Dr. Rodd planned to administer because Plaintiff had not requested them.
(Reply, 2:3-7.) When Plaintiff asked, Defendant responded promptly. (Id.)
However, Defendant gave Plaintiff no time to consider its response because it
served this motion to compel that same afternoon. 
Defendant also argues
that it is unable to agree to the proposed stipulation because Plaintiff raises
unreasonable demands, including that the entire examination be “subject to
confirmation of her availability” which she may or may not provide at some
unspecified later time (see Plaintiff’s
proposed stipulation, ¶¶ 1, 16), that Dr. Rodd’s questions about the subject
incident be limited to “a question as to [Plaintiff’s] last memory prior to any
impact and her next memory thereafter” (id., ¶ 5), and
that
Defendant either provide Plaintiff with private transportation to and from the
examination or find another psychologist to conduct the examination (id,
¶ 2) even though Dr. Rodd’s office is within 75 miles of Plaintiff’s home and
Plaintiff drives to and from her workplace every day (Reply, Exh. B). Defendant
also opposes Plaintiff’s request that defendant GranCare Autumn Hills sign the
stipulation because Grancare did not request a mental examination. Counsel for
GranCare has indicated that they are not prepared to sign a stipulation with
which they have nothing to do. (Reply, 4:9-16.)
Further, Plaintiff denies
that good cause exists for Defendant’s request of a mental examination because
Plaintiff has provided Defendant all of Plaintiff’s medical information before
and after subpoena, and Defendant has already deposed Plaintiff. Plaintiff lists
several medical visits, including with neurologists Dr. Cherik, Dr. Franc and
Dr. Haider, and neurosurgeon Dr. Mortazavi. (Opp’n, 1:2-2:12.) Plaintiff does
not allege that she has submitted to any kind of mental evaluation.
Lastly, Plaintiff argues
that Defendant’s request is untimely because Defendant has been on notice of
Plaintiff’s emotional distress claims years ago. However, Defendant’s motion
was filed well within the discovery deadlines imposed by the Court.
            The Court
will order a mental examination of Plaintiff. 
However, it will discuss with the parties any continuing issues regarding
the examination.  To the extent the issues
noted above have not been resolved by the parties, the Court notes that it is
not inclined to (1) limit the mental examiner’s initial interview of Plaintiff,
but it agrees that the examiner cannot invade the attorney-client privilege;
and (2) require the examination be deemed the examination of all defendants,
though it will certainly weigh the necessity and appropriateness of any further
mental examination if any additional request for such examination is made.  
MOTION TO CONTINUE
I.          INTRODUCTION
On January 22, 2024, Defendant
moved for an order continuing the current February 29, 2024 trial date to May
9, 2024.
The motion is unopposed. 
II.        LEGAL STANDARD
California Rules
of Court, rule 3.1332, subdivision (b) outlines that “a party seeking a
continuance of the date set for trial, whether contested or uncontested or
stipulated to by the parties, must make the request for a continuance by a
noticed motion or an ex parte application under the rules in chapter 4 of this
division, with supporting declarations. 
The party must make the motion or application as soon as reasonably
practical once the necessity for the continuance is discovered.” 
Trial dates are
firm to ensure prompt disposition of civil cases. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1332, subd. (a).)  Continuances are
thus generally disfavored.  (Id., Rule
3.1332, subd. (c).) 
Under California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1332, subd. (c), the Court may grant a continuance only
on an affirmative showing of good cause requiring the continuance.  Circumstances that may indicate good cause
include “a party’s excused inability to obtain essential testimony, documents,
or other material evidence despite diligent efforts.”  The Court should consider all facts and
circumstances relevant to the determination, such as proximity of the trial
date, prior continuances, prejudice suffered, whether all parties have
stipulated to a continuance, and whether the interests of justice are
served.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1332, subd. (d).) 
III.      DISCUSSION
Defendant met and conferred with Plaintiff. (Lavigne Decl.,
¶¶3, 8.) Defendant requests continuance on the grounds that Plaintiff’s mental
examination has not yet taken place. Defendant’s motion to for Plaintiff’s
mental examination is scheduled to be heard on the same day as the instant
motion after a sua sponte continuance of the hearing. (Id., ¶4.) Defendant
also needs to depose witnesses revealed by co-defendant Grancare’s PMK on
January 5, 2024. (Id., ¶6.) The PMK’s deposition was rescheduled from December
8, 2023 because co-defendant’s counsel had a family medical emergency on that
date. (Id., ¶5.) The witnesses disclosed by the PMK were difficult to
locate and contact because the PMK refused to provide their contact information
on privacy grounds. (Id., ¶7.) Lastly, Defendant’s counsel had just
started a two-week trial when this motion was filed, and has another trial on
March 11, 2024. (Id., ¶9.) 
IV.       CONCLUSION
            Defendant Centimark
Corporation’s unopposed motion to continue trial is GRANTED. 
Moving party to give notice. 

 
 
 
Moving party to give notice. 

 
Dated:   February 13,
2024
                                                                                        ___________________________________
                                                                                    Lee S. Arian
                                                                                    Judge of the Superior Court
 
            Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an
email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on
the tentative as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at
www.lacourt.org.  Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative
and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless
appear at the hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive
emails from the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and
there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion,
adopt the tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar. 