 Case Number:  22STCV18908    Hearing Date:   April 11, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are  encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if  a resolution may be reached.  If the  parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this  tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date  and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the  identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email  indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no  appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or  adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this  tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the  Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent  authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the  tentative ruling as the order of the Court.     TENTATIVE  RULING      DEPT:   32     HEARING DATE:   April    11, 2024     CASE NUMBER:   22STCV18908     MOTIONS:     Motion    to Set Aside Dismissal     MOVING PARTY:   Plaintiffs Nazianna Milani Garcia,    Stephanie Araiza, and Tatiana Garcia     OPPOSING PARTY:   Unopposed      BACKGROUND   On June 9, 2022, Plaintiffs Nazianna Milani Garcia, Stephanie Araiza,  and Tatiana Garcia (“Plaintiffs”) filed a complaint against Defendants Timothy  T. Sato, Carol Y. Sato, and Does 1 to 25 for negligence related to a motor  vehicle accident.    On December 7, 2023, the case was called for trial and counsel for Plaintiffs  did not appear. The Court then dismissed the complaint without prejudice  pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 581(b)(3). (Min. Order, 12/7/23.)    On January 16, 2024, Plaintiffs filed the instant motion to set aside  the dismissal.    LEGAL  STANDARD   Under Code  of Civil Procedure section 473(b), the Court may relieve a party from a  dismissal taken against him through his mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or  excusable neglect.  This application must  be filed no more than six months after entry of the order from which relief is  sought, and must contain an affidavit of fault demonstrating the moving party’s  mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect.    A mistake  is a basis for relief under section 473 when by reason of the mistake a party  failed to make a timely response.  Surprise occurs when a party is  unexpectedly placed in a position to his injury without any negligence of his  own. Excusable neglect is a basis for relief when the party has shown some  reasonable excuse for the default.  (Credit Managers Association of  California v. National Independent Business Alliance (1984) 162 Cal.App.3d  1166, 1173; Davis v. Thayer (1980) 113 Cal.App.3d 892, 905.)  Under  Code of Civil Procedure section 473, the moving party bears the burden of  demonstrating an excusable ground, such as fraud or mistake, justifying a  court’s vacating a judgment.  (Basinger v. Roger & Wells (1990)  220 Cal.App.3d 16, 23–24.)      Relief under  this section is mandatory when based on an attorney affidavit of fault;  otherwise, it is discretionary. (Id.) However mandatory relief is only  available when a party fails to oppose a dismissal motion (“which are  procedurally equivalent to a default”). (Leader v. Health Industries of America, Inc. (2001) 89  Cal.App.4th 603, 620.) The mandatory relief provision  does not apply to dismissals for “failure to prosecute [citations omitted], dismissals  for failure to serve a complaint within three years [citations omitted],  dismissals based on running of the statute of limitations [citations omitted],  and voluntary dismissals entered pursuant to settlement [citations omitted].”  (Id.)    DISCUSSION                Procedurally,  the present motion is timely because it was filed within six months after the complaint  was dismissed. The Declaration of Lilit Elechyan, Plaintiffs’ counsel,  (Counsel) states that “[d]ue to my own mistake, inadvertence, surprise, and/or  excusable neglect, me and my team failed to properly calendar the trial-related dates.”  (Elechyan Decl. ¶ 7.) A calendaring error constitutes excusable neglect. (Nilsson  v. City of Los Angeles (1967) 249 Cal.App.2d 976, 980.)                Therefore,  the motion to set aside the dismissal entered on December 7, 2023 is granted.    CONCLUSION AND  ORDER   Therefore, the Court GRANTS Plaintiffs’ motion to set aside the dismissal of the complaint.     The matter is set for an Order to Show Cause re Dismissal and/or Monetary Sanctions for Failure to Enter Default on June 11, 2024 at 8:30 a.m. in Department 32  of the Spring Street Courthouse.   Plaintiffs to provide notice and file a proof of service of such.  