 Case Number:  21STCV37277    Hearing Date:   April 11, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


April
  11, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV37277




MOTIONS:  


Compel
  Responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant Justin Vonhecht




OPPOSING PARTY:


Unopposed



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
            Defendant Justin Vonhecht (Defendant)
moves to compel Plaintiff Ingrid Finicle’s (Plaintiff) response to Form
Interrogatories, Set One. Defendant also seeks monetary sanctions. No
opposition has been filed.  
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
If a party to whom interrogatories are directed fails to
serve a timely response, the propounding party may move for an order compelling
responses. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.290 (b).) Failure to timely respond waives
all objections, including privilege and work product, unless “[t]he party has
subsequently served a response that is in substantial compliance” and “[t]he
party’s failure to serve a timely response was the result of mistake,
inadvertence, or excusable neglect.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290 (a)(1),
(a)(2).) The statute contains no time limit for a motion to compel where no
responses have been served and no meet and confer is required when a party does
not respond to discovery requests. All that need be shown in the moving papers
is that a set of interrogatories was properly served on the opposing party,
that the time to respond has expired, and that no response of any kind has been
served. (Leach v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 902, 905-906.)  
 
If a motion to compel responses is filed, the Court shall
impose a monetary sanction against the losing party “unless it finds that the
one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., §§
2030.290 (c).) Further, “[t]he court may award sanctions under the Discovery
Act in favor of a party who files a motion to compel discovery, even though no
opposition to the motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn,
or the requested discovery was provided to the moving party after the motion
was filed.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1348(a).) 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Defendant asserts that on May 4, 2023, he served Form Interrogatories,
Set One, on Plaintiff. (Bell Decl. ¶ 5, Exh. C.) Defendant granted a three-week
extension on June 6, 2023. (Id. ¶ 6.) Plaintiff’s counsel then informed
Defendant’s counsel that responses would be sent on November 16, 2023. (Id. ¶
7, Exh. E.) To this date, Defendant has not received responses. (Id. ¶
10.) Therefore, since responses have not been served, the motion to compel is
granted.  

 
            Defendant requests sanctions against
Plaintiff and her counsel of record for $1,680. This amount represents an
hourly rate of $210. The Court finds sanctions are warranted since Plaintiff
has not responded. However, given the type of motion, the lack of an opposition,
and the fact counsel can appear remotely at the hearing, the Court finds this
amount is excessive and reduces it to $315 (1.5 hours of attorney time).
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s Motion to compel is GRANTED. Plaintiff shall
serve properly verified responses, without objections, to Form
Interrogatories, Set One, within 30 days.
 
The Court further GRANTS Defendant’s request for monetary sanctions
against Plaintiff and her counsel of record, jointly and severally, in the
reduced amount of $315.00. Said monetary sanctions are to be paid to counsel
for Defendant within 30 days of the date of this order.
 
Defendant
to provide notice and file a proof of service of such. 
 