

Hearing Date:             November 1, 2024
Case Name:                 Shatara Wright v. Michael Payne
Case
No.:                    22STCV28187
Motion:                       Motion
to Quash Service of Summons
Moving
Party:             Defendant Michael Payne

Responding Party:      Plaintiff Shatara Wright [NO OPPOSITION]


 

Tentative
Ruling:      The motion is granted.
 

 
Background
 
Plaintiff Shatara Wright (“Plaintiff”)
filed this action against defendant Michael Payne (“Defendant”) on August 29,
2022. She has yet to file a proof of service. 
 
On October 7, 2024, Defendant moved
to quash service of the summons on Plaintiff’s complaint for lack of personal
jurisdiction. Defendant filed a proof of service showing he timely served
Plaintiff with his moving papers via overnight express mail. Plaintiff filed no
opposition.
 
Legal Standard
 
“A defendant, on or before the last day of his or
her time to plead or within any further time that the court may for good cause
allow, may serve and file a notice of motion” to “quash service of summons on
the ground of lack of jurisdiction of the court over him or her,” or to
“dismiss the action on the ground of inconvenient forum.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
418.10, subd. (a).)
 
            Although
the defendant is the moving party, “[w]hen a defendant challenges personal
jurisdiction, the plaintiff has the burden to prove, by a preponderance of the
evidence, the factual basis for the exercise of jurisdiction.” (Shisler v.
Sanfer Sports Cars, Inc. (2006) 146 Cal.App.4th 1254, 1259.) “This may be
done through presentation of declarations, with opposing declarations received
in response.” (Aquila, Inc. v. Superior Court (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th
556, 568, citations omitted.)
 
Requests for Judicial Notice
 
            Defendant’s
requests for judicial notice are denied, as they are unnecessary for resolution
of the motion.
 
/ / /
/ / /
/ / /
 
Discussion
 
            a.
General and Specific Jurisdiction
 
            Defendant’s motion
and exhibits demonstrate the Court lacks personal jurisdiction for purposes of
this dispute. 
 
            “Personal
jurisdiction may be either general or specific. A nonresident defendant may be
subject to the general jurisdiction of the forum if his or her contacts in the
forum state are ‘substantial ... continuous and systematic.’ [Citations.].” (Vons
Cos., Inc. v. Seabest Foods, Inc. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 434, 445–446.)
 
“If the nonresident defendant does not have
substantial and systematic contacts in the forum sufficient to establish
general jurisdiction, he or she still may be subject to the specific
jurisdiction of the forum, if the defendant has purposefully availed himself or
herself of forum benefits [Citation] and the ‘controversy is related to or
“arises out of” a defendant's contacts with the forum.’” (Vons Cos., Inc. v.
Seabest Foods, Inc., supra, 14 Cal.4th at 446.)
 
            Defendant
resides in Arizona and has resided there since 2020, and he intends to remain
there. (Payne Decl., ¶ 3.) He has not lived in California since 2010. (Id.,
¶ 7.) He does no business in California. (Id., ¶ 5.) He maintains a
California medical license but does not practice medicine here. (Id., ¶
6.) He lacks continuous, systematic contacts with this jurisdiction.
 
            Plaintiff
filed no opposition that might establish specific jurisdiction. Her complaint
is unverified and largely devoid of facts. To the extent it raises facts
relevant to jurisdiction, it alleges Plaintiff “owns real property in
California” and “[the] property” (not Defendant) “engages in the business of
property rental.” (Compl., ¶ 2.) Similarly, Plaintiff’s allegations regarding
Defendant’s business license are unsworn and refuted. (See Compl., ¶ 8.)
Plaintiff does not specify what real property Defendant purportedly owns, and
Defendant states the parties had only one marital real property asset in
California, with title in Plaintiff’s name. (Payne Decl., ¶ 11.) Their marriage
is since dissolved. (Ibid.) 
 
Defendant’s declaration
demonstrates that, to the extent any dispute exists at all, it does not arise
from any of his contacts with this State, if any.
 
            Most
importantly: although Defendant’s papers show the Court lacks jurisdiction over
him in this dispute, he does not need to make this showing at all. Upon
Defendant’s challenge, it is Plaintiff’s burden to show the Court has
jurisdiction. Her complaint is unverified, and she filed no opposition. There
are no facts before the Court that might justify jurisdiction. She did not
carry her burden. Conclusion             Defendant's motion
motion to quash summons upon Frg granted.
 Conclusion
             Defendant's motion
motion to quash summons upon Defendant Michael Payne is granted.