 Case Number:  24STCV14270    Hearing Date:   January 21, 2025    Dept:  50 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department 50
 



MATTHEW SORENSEN,
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
PACIFIC SUNWEAR
  OF CALIFORNIA, LLC, et al.
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


24STCV14270




Hearing Date:


January 21, 2025




Hearing Time:


2:00 p.m.




[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE:
 
PLAINTIFF’S
  MOTION FOR PRELIMINARY INJUNCTION



 
Background
On June 6, 2024, Plaintiff Matthew
Sorensen (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendant Pacific Sunwear of
California, LLC (“Defendant”). The Complaint alleges one cause of action for
“Violations of the California Trap and Trace Law.” 
In the Complaint, Plaintiff alleges, inter
alia, that “Pacific Sunwear of California, LLC manufactures and sells men,
women, unisex, and kids apparel and accessories. Defendant operates
https://www.pacsun.com (the ‘Website’). Defendant has installed on its Website
software created by TikTok in order to identify website visitors (the ‘TikTok
Software’).” (Compl., ¶ 11.) Plaintiff alleges that “[t]he TikTok Software acts
via a process known as ‘fingerprinting.’…the TikTok Software collects as much
data as it can about an otherwise anonymous visitor to the Website and matches
it with existing data TikTok has acquired and accumulated about hundreds of
millions of Americans.” (Compl., ¶ 12.) Plaintiff alleges that “[t]he TikTok
Software runs on virtually every page of Pacific Sunwear’s website” and that “[t]he
Pacific Sunwear website instantly sends communications to TikTok when a user
lands, and every time a user clicks on a page.” (Compl., ¶¶ 16-17.)
Plaintiff now moves “for an order granting
preliminary injunction [sic] against [Defendant] to (1) enjoin Defendant from
using the TikTok Software, and (2) for an order that Defendant disgorge data
related to Plaintiff that Defendant provided to TikTok through its deployment
of the TikTok Software.” Defendant opposes. 
Evidentiary Objections
The Court rules on Defendant’s evidentiary
objections to the Declaration of Robert Tauler filed with the motion as
follows: 
Objection No. 1: sustained
Objection No. 2: sustained 
Objection No. 3: sustained 
Objection No. 4: sustained 
Objection No. 5: sustained. As noted by
Defendant, the “Expert Report of David Zagardo” is not signed. (See
Tauler Decl., ¶ 6, Ex. E.) “[Code of Civil Procedure] section
2015.5…defines a ‘declaration’ as a writing that is signed, dated, and
certified as true under penalty of perjury.” ((Kulshrestha v. First
Union Commercial Corp. (2004) 33
Cal.4th 601, 606.) 
Objection No. 6: sustained  
The Court rules on Defendant’s evidentiary
objection to the Declaration of Matthew Sorensen as follows: 
Objection No. 1: overruled
The Court rules on Defendant’s evidentiary
objections to the Declaration of Robert Tauler filed with the reply as follows:

Objection No. 1: sustained. As noted by
Defendant, “¿[t]he
general rule of motion practice…is that new evidence is not permitted with
reply papers.¿”¿(¿Jay¿v. Mahaffey¿(2013)
218 Cal.App.4th 1522, 1537.) 
In light of the foregoing, Defendant’s Objections Nos. 2-4
are moot. 
Discussion
“In determining whether to issue a preliminary
injunction, the trial court considers two related factors: (1) the likelihood
that the plaintiff will prevail on the merits of its case at trial, and (2) the
interim harm that the plaintiff is likely to sustain if the injunction is
denied as compared to the harm that the defendant is likely to suffer if the
court grants a preliminary injunction.” ((Donahue
Schriber Realty Group, Inc. v. Nu Creation Outreach (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th
1171, 1177 [internal quotations omitted].) “[A]n order
granting or denying a preliminary injunction does not amount to an adjudication
of the ultimate rights in controversy. Its purpose is to preserve the status
quo until the merits of the action can be determined.” ((White v. Davis (2003) 30 Cal.4th 528, 554
[emphasis omitted].)

“The trial court’s determination must be
guided by a ‘mix’ of the potential-merit and interim-harm factors; the greater
the plaintiff’s showing on one, the less must be shown on the other….” ((Church of Christ in Hollywood v. Superior
Court (2002) 99 Cal.App.4th 1244, 1251-1252.) “The
ultimate goal of any test to be used in deciding whether a preliminary
injunction should issue is to minimize the harm which an erroneous interim
decision may cause.” ((White v. Davis, supra, 30 Cal.4th at p. 554 [emphasis omitted].) The
burden is on the party seeking injunctive relief to show all elements necessary
to support issuance of a preliminary injunction. ((O'Connell v.
Superior Court (2006) 141 Cal.App.4th 1452, 1481.) 
A.    Likelihood of Success on the Merits
A preliminary injunction must not issue unless
it is “reasonably probable that the moving party will prevail on the merits.” ((San
Francisco Newspaper Printing Co. v. Superior Court (Miller) (1985) 170 Cal.App.3d 438,
442.) The “likelihood of success on the merits and the balance-of-harms
analysis are ordinarily ‘interrelated’ factors in the decision whether to issue
a preliminary injunction.” ((White v. Davis, supra, 30
Cal.4th at p. 561.) “The presence or absence of each factor is usually a
matter of degree, and if the party seeking the injunction can make a
sufficiently strong showing of likelihood of success on the merits, the trial
court has discretion to issue the injunction notwithstanding that party’s
inability to show that the balance of harms tips in his favor.” ((Ibid.) However, this does not mean that a
trial court may grant a preliminary injunction on the basis of the
likelihood-of-success factor alone when the balance of hardships dramatically
favors denial of a preliminary injunction. (Ibid.)  
As set forth above, the sole cause of action
alleged in the Complaint is for “Violations of the California Trap and
Trace Law… Cal. Penal Code § 638.51.” Penal Code section 638.50, subdivision (c) provides that
“trap and trace device” means “a device or process that captures the
incoming electronic or other impulses that identify the originating number or
other dialing, routing, addressing, or signaling information reasonably likely
to identify the source of a wire or electronic communication, but not the contents
of a communication.” Penal Code section 638.51,
subdivision (a) provides that “[e]xcept as provided in subdivision
(b), a person may not install or use a pen register or a trap and trace device
without first obtaining a court order pursuant to Section
638.52 or 638.53.” 
In
the first cause of action, Plaintiff alleges that “Defendant uses a trap and
trace process on its Website by deploying the TikTok Software on its Website,
because the software is designed to capture the phone number, email, routing,
addressing and other signaling information of website visitors. As such, the
TikTok Software is solely to identify [sic] the source of the incoming
electronic and wire communications to the Website…Defendant did not obtain
consent from Plaintiff before using trap and trace technology to identify users
of its Website, and has violated Section 638.51.”
(Compl., ¶¶ 28-29.) 
Plaintiff
cites to Penal Code section 637.2, subdivision (b), which
provides that “[a]ny person may, in accordance with Chapter 3
(commencing with Section 525) of Title 7 of Part 2
of the Code of Civil Procedure, bring an action to enjoin and restrain any
violation of this chapter, and may in the same action seek damages as provided
by subdivision (a).” Plaintiff asserts that he is “likely to
prevail on the merits of his claim against Defendant for violation of CIPA.”
(Mot. at p. 5:24-25.) First, Plaintiff argues that “it has already been
determined that the TikTok
Software can be a trap and trace device.” (Mot. at p. 5:26-27.) But in support
of this assertion, Plaintiff cites to Moody v. C2
Educ. Sys. (C.D.Cal. July 25, 2024, No. 2:24-cv-04249-RGK-SK) 2024
U.S.Dist.LEXIS 132614, a non-binding federal district court case. 
Next,
Plaintiff argues that “[a]s the Expert Report of David (Zagardo [sic] explains,
a step-by-step technical analysis demonstrates that the TikTok Software, as it
appears on the Website, is a ‘trap and trace device’ under Penal Code § 638.50(c)…” (Mot. at p. 6:10-12.)
However, as set forth above, the Court sustains Defendant’s evidentiary
objection to the “Expert Report of David Segardo.” (See Defendant’s
Evidentiary Objection No. 5.) The “Expert Report of David Zagardo” consists of,
inter alia, “testimony” from Mr. Zagardo. (Tauler Decl., ¶ 6, Ex. E.)
However, as noted by Defendant, the report is not signed, and it is not made
under penalty of perjury. As set forth above, “[Code of Civil Procedure] section 2015.5…defines a ‘declaration’ as a writing
that is signed, dated, and certified as true under penalty of perjury.” (Kulshrestha v. First Union Commercial Corp., supra, 33 Cal.4th at p. 606.)
This issue does not appear to be addressed by Plaintiff in the reply. 
In light of the foregoing, the Court does not
find that Plaintiff has demonstrated a likelihood
of success on the merits. The Court notes that “[a] trial court may not grant a [restraining order], regardless
of the balance of interim harm, unless there is some possibility that the
plaintiff would ultimately prevail on the merits of the claim.” ((Church of Christ in
Hollywood v. Superior Court, supra,
99 Cal.App.4th at p. 1252.)
B.   
Interim Harm to the Parties
“To obtain a preliminary
injunction, a plaintiff ordinarily is required to present evidence of the
irreparable injury or interim harm that it will suffer if an injunction is not
issued pending an adjudication of the merits.” ((White
v. Davis, supra, 30 Cal.4th
at p. 554.) “In evaluating interim harm, the trial court compares
the injury to the plaintiff in the absence of an injunction to the injury the
defendant is likely to suffer if an injunction is issued.” ((Shoemaker v. County of Los Angeles (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 618, 633.) 
Plaintiff argues that “a
balancing of hardships favors a preliminary injunction.” (Mot. at p. 7:17-28.)
Plaintiff notes that in IT Corp. v. County of Imperial (1983)
35 Cal.3d 63, 70, the California Supreme Court found that “[t]he County properly points out that once a trial court has
determined that the governmental entity will probably succeed at trial in
proving a statutory violation, the court is justified in presuming that public
harm will result if an injunction is not issued.” But here, the Court does not
find that Plaintiff has demonstrated that he will probably succeed at trial in
proving a statutory violation.
Plaintiff also argues in the
motion that he “will
continue to suffer interim harm, specifically an invasion of his privacy, if
the Court does not order Defendant to cease sending Plaintiff’s identifiable
information to TikTok.” (Mot. at p. 8:21-22.) But Plaintiff does not appear to
provide any evidence to support this assertion. Plaintiff’s
declaration in support of the motion simply provides that “I visited
Defendant’s website www.pacsun.com on March 1, 2024. I did not consent to any
tracking by TikTok when I visited…I would like to visit the website in the
future, but I do not wish to be tracked by TikTok if and when I do.” (Sorensen
Decl., ¶¶ 2-3.) Plaintiff also contends that “[o]nce
Defendant unlawfully discloses Plaintiff’s data, TikTok will store and use it
to further build an extensive profile on Plaintiff—an injury to Plaintiff that
cannot be undone.” (Mot. at p. 8:23-25.) But again, Plaintiff does not cite any
evidence to support this argument.  
            Based on the foregoing, the
Court does not find that Plaintiff has demonstrated that he will suffer irreparable
injury or interim harm if an injunction is not issued pending an adjudication
of the merits.
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, .Plaintiff’s motion for preliminary injunction is denied
Defendant is ordered to
provide notice of this ruling.  
 
DATED:  January 21, 2025                            
________________________________
Hon.
Teresa A. Beaudet
Judge,
Los Angeles Superior Court
 