  Case Number:  23PSCV02476    Hearing Date:   February 21, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE  NAME:  Weijun  Zhang v. Bolun Zhang, et al.  Defendant  All Good Escrow, Inc.’s Demurrer to Plaintiff’s Verified First Amended Complaint  TENTATIVE  RULING  The Court SUSTAINS Defendant All Good Escrow, Inc.’s  demurrer to the entire First Amended Complaint with leave to amend. Plaintiff  must file and serve the Second Amended Complaint within 30 days of the Court’s  order.  The Court also DENIES Plaintiff’s request, in the  opposition, for leave to add new causes of action. Plaintiff must file a motion  or obtain the stipulation of Defendant All Good.               Defendant All Good Escrow, Inc. is ordered  to give notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.  BACKGROUND  This is a  real property dispute. On August 14, 2023, Plaintiff Weijun Zhang (Plaintiff)  filed this action against Defendants Bolun Zhang (Bolun), Jinghan Zhang  (Jinghan), All Good Escrow, Inc. (All Good), Taikoo Supply Chain, Inc. (Taikoo)  (collectively, Defendants), and Does 1 through 20. On October 25, 2023,  Plaintiff filed the operative First Amended Complaint (FAC) against the same  Defendants, alleging causes of action for promissory fraud, breach of oral  contract, rescission of contract pursuant to Civil Code § 1689(b), breach of  covenant of good faith and fair dealing, conversion, actual fraudulent  conveyance, constructive fraudulent conveyance, quiet title, common count:  money had and received, breach of fiduciary duty, imposition of constructive  trust, and civil theft under Penal Code section 496(c).              On January 11, 2024, All Good filed  a demurrer to the First Amended Complaint. On February 2, 2024, Plaintiff filed  an opposition. On February 9, 2024, All Good filed a reply.  LEGAL  STANDARD            A demurrer  is a pleading used to test the legal sufficiency of other pleadings. It raises  issues of law, not fact, regarding the form or content of the opposing party's  pleading (complaint, answer or cross-complaint). (Code Civ. Proc., § 422.10;  see Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) It  is not the function of the demurrer to challenge the truthfulness of the  complaint; and for purposes of ruling on the demurrer, all facts pleaded in the  complaint are assumed to be true. (Id.)   A demurrer  can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading  under attack; or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially  noticeable. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318; Donabedian,  supra, 116 Cal.App.4th at p. 994.) No other extrinsic evidence can be  considered. (Ion Equip. Corp. v. Nelson (1980) 110 Cal.App.3d 868, 881  [error for court to consider facts asserted in memorandum supporting demurrer];  see also Afuso v. United States Fid. & Guar. Co. (1985) 169 Cal.App.3d  859, 862, disapproved on other grounds in Moradi-Shalal v. Fireman’s Fund  Ins. Cos. (1988) 46 Cal.3d 287 [error to consider contents of release not  part of court record].)   A demurrer  can be utilized where the “face of the complaint” itself is incomplete or  discloses some defense that would bar recovery. (Guardian North Bay, Inc. v.  Superior Court (2001) 94 Cal.App.4th 963, 971-972.) The “face of the  complaint” includes material contained in attached exhibits that are  incorporated by reference into the complaint, or in a superseded complaint in  the same action. (Frantz v. Blackwell (1987) 189 Cal.App.3d 91, 94; see  also Barnett v. Fireman’s Fund Ins. Co. (2001) 90 Cal.App.4th 500, 505  [“[W]e rely on and accept as true the contents of the exhibits and treat as  surplusage the pleader’s allegations as to the legal effect of the  exhibits.”])   A demurrer  can only be sustained when it disposes of an entire cause of action. (Poizner  v. Fremont General Corp. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97, 119; Kong v. City of  Hawaiian Gardens Redev. Agency (2003) 108 Cal.App.4th 1028, 1046.)  PRELIMINARY  ISSUES              The Court notes that All Good’s demurrer  does not comply with the requirements of Rule 3.1320, subdivision (a) of the  California Rules of Court, which provides that, “[e]ach  ground of demurrer must be in a separate paragraph and must state whether it  applies to the entire complaint, cross-complaint, or answer, or to specified  causes of action or defenses.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1320, subd. (a).)  The Court will still consider All Good’s demurrer, but admonishes All Good to  comply with the requirements of the California Rules of Court going forward.              The  Court also notes that Plaintiff’s opposition fails to comply with Rule 3.1113,  subdivision (f) of the California Rules of Court, which provides that  opposition memorandums over 10 pages must contain a table of contents and table  of authorities. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1113, subd. (f).) The Court  further notes that Plaintiff’s opposition contains an introduction section that  is approximately four pages long, arguing much of what is set forth in the  opposition memorandum. The Court finds this to be improper, as it appears to be  an attempt to evade the 15-page limit set forth in Rule 3.1113, subdivision (d)  of the California Rules of Court. (Id., rule 3.1113, subd. (d).)  The Court will still consider Plaintiff’s  opposition, but admonishes Plaintiff to comply with the requirements of the  California Rules of Court going forward.  DISCUSSION Meet and Confer  Per Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41, subdivision (a), All  Good was required to meet and confer with Plaintiff in person or telephonically  before bringing their demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a).) The  Court finds All Good’s meet-and-confer efforts sufficient. (Kinney Decl., ¶ 4.)  Entire Complaint All Good demurs to the entirety of the FAC on the grounds  that it fails to state a cause of action and is uncertain. More specifically,  All Good contends that none of the causes of action in the FAC identify All  Good as a defendant to whom those causes of action are directed per Rule 2.112  of the California Rules of Court. All Good further contends the extent of the  allegations of the FAC are that All Good is an escrow company that was involved  in the underlying real property transaction, and that such allegations do not  constitute the elements of a cause of action.  In opposition, Plaintiff contends the FAC adequately  alleges facts for the tenth cause of action for breach of fiduciary duties.  Plaintiff contends that All Good was a fiduciary of Plaintiff as an escrow  company receiving funds on behalf of a client like Plaintiff. Plaintiff also  contends that All Good owed Plaintiff a duty to disclose all facts regarding  Plaintiff’s funds and ensuring Plaintiff understood the effects of the  transaction. Plaintiff further contends that All Good negligently misused  Plaintiff’s funds without Plaintiff’s informed consent. Plaintiff also seeks  leave to amend to add causes of action for negligent concealment and  misrepresentation, deceit by suppression of material facts, negligence, money  had and received, and constructive fraud against All Good.  The Court agrees with All Good that none of the  causes of action in the FAC are directed towards All Good. “Each separately  stated cause of action, count, or defense must specifically state:… (4) The  party or parties to whom it is directed (e.g., ‘against defendant Smith’).”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.112, subd. (4).) Nowhere in the FAC do any of the  causes of action in the FAC identify All Good as a party against whom they are  directed per Rule 2.112, subdivision (4) of the California Rules of Court. The  extent of the allegations in the FAC against All Good are only that All Good  was the escrow company involved in the underlying transaction. (FAC, ¶¶ 4,  9, 23-24, 33.) There are no allegations anywhere in the FAC demonstrating that  All Good engaged in any sort of wrongful conduct.  Moreover, although not specifically mentioned in the  parties’ respective briefs, the Court notes that the FAC does not attach a copy  of the alleged escrow instructions at issue or allege the terms of those  instructions, which is essential for finding liability against an escrow  company. “[E]scrow companies have obligations limited to carrying out escrow  instructions [citation]…” (Alereza v. Chicago Title Co.  (2016) 6 Cal.App.5th 551, 561; see Id. [“Escrow companies already owe a  fiduciary duty to parties to an escrow to properly carry out all escrow  instructions. [Citation.] Failure of an escrow company to perform gives parties  to the escrow a cause of action for breach of contract for any proximately  caused damages. [Citation.]”]; see also Id. at p. 554 [“We conclude [defendant escrow company] did not owe a  duty of care to [plaintiff] because he was not a party to the escrow, not  mentioned in the escrow instructions as a third party beneficiary, and did not  sustain his losses as a direct result of the escrow company's negligence.”]) Without  those terms, the FAC fails to allege sufficient facts to impose liability  against All Good.  The Court further finds Plaintiff’s arguments in the opposition to  be unavailing and comprised largely of conclusory arguments. Plaintiff’s  opposition also largely fails to respond to the issues raised in All Good’s  demurrer, such as the failure to direct any of the causes of action in the FAC  against All Good per Rule 2.112 of the California Rules of Court. The Court  construes Plaintiff’s failure to respond to this issue to be a tacit admission  that All Good’s arguments here are meritorious. (Holden  v. City of San Diego (2019) 43 Cal.App.5th 404, 418; C.  Opposing the Motion—and Rebutting the Opposition, Cal. Prac. Guide Civ. Pro.  Before Trial Ch. 9(I)-C, ¶ 9:105.10.)  Based on the foregoing, the Court SUSTAINS Defendant All  Good Escrow, Inc.’s demurrer to the First Amended Complaint with leave to amend.  CONCLUSION  The Court SUSTAINS Defendant All Good Escrow, Inc.’s  demurrer to the entire First Amended Complaint with leave to amend. Plaintiff  must file and serve the Second Amended Complaint within 30 days of the Court’s  order.  The Court also DENIES Plaintiff’s request in the  opposition for leave to add new causes of action. Plaintiff must file a motion  or obtain the stipulation of Defendant All Good.               Defendant All Good Escrow, Inc. is ordered  to give notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.