 Case Number:  21STCV42748    Hearing Date:   April 19, 2024    Dept:  57 DEFENDANTS' BIFURCATION MOTIONSThe Court is granting the bifurcation motions of Defendants Helen Kim Law, APC and Helen U, Kim to the extent that the motions sought orders that (1) the issue of whether Helen U. Kim is the alter ego of Helen Kim Law, APC shall tried separately in a bench trial from the remaining issues in the case that are to be tried in front of a jury; and (2) the amount of a punitive damages award for Plaintiffs, which necessarily involves the presentation of evidence on the financial condition of the Defendants, shall be tried in front of a jury only if, and after, the jury returns a verdict that the Plaintiffs are entitled to a punitive damages award.  The Defendants' bifurcation motions are denied to the extent that the motions sought an order that the issue of whether Helen U. Kim is the alter ego of Helen Kim Law, APC shall be tried first in a bench trial before any other issues are tried in front of  the jury.  The Court has determined that it would promote efficiency and economy for the alter ego issue to  be tried in a bench trial after all the other issues are tried in front of the jury, including the amount of a punitive damages award for the Plaintiff if the jury finds that the Plaintiff are entitled to a punitive damages award.  In light of these rulings, the trial will proceed in three phases as follows.  Phase 1:  jury trial on liability and damages, including the Plaintiffs' entitlement to punitive damages.  Phase 2: jury trial on the amount of the award of punitive damages to the Plaintiffs, if the jury determines in Phase 1 that the Plaintiffs are entitled to such an award.  Phase 3:  bench trial on whether  Helen U. Kim is the alter ego of Helen Kim Law, APC if the jury determines in Phase 1 that the Defendants are liable to the Plaintiffs. DEFENDANTS' MOTIONS IN LIMINE ("MILs")# 1: Evidence From Unpublished Opinion on Helen Kim's Bills for Attorney's Fees.The Court is GRANTING Defendants' MIL # 1.  The evidence from the unpublished opinion in McElwain v. Kaiser Foundation Hospitals regarding Helen Kim's bills for attorney's fees in that case is not relevant to whether Kim orally promised Plaintiffs that she would split the litigation costs in the Gonzalez action from which Plaintiffs' case springs or defrauded the Plaintiffs through a false promise.  That the trial court and Court of Appeal in McElwain determined that Kim padded her fees in that case and that her time sheets reflected errors do not bear on her veracity and credibility in this case.  Neither the trial court nor the Court of Appeal in McElwain determined that Helen Kim's billing practices in that case were fraudulent. # 2  Evidence Related to Helen Kim's Pregnancy, House Purchase or Vacation PlansThe Court is GRANTING Defendants' MIL # 2 as to evidence of Helen Kim's pregnancy.  That evidence is irrelevant and, in any event, is prejudicial to Defendants.  The Court is DENYING Defendants' MIL # 2 as to evidence of Helen Kim's home purchase or vacation plans.  That evidence is relevant to Helen Kim's ability to split costs with Plaintiffs as, according to Plaintiffs, she orally promised to do, and to negate any contention by Helen Kim that she did not have the resources to share costs.  This evidence may hurt the Defendants, but it is not prejudicial for purposes of Evidence Code Section 352.# 3 Parol Evidence of the Purported Oral Agreement   The Court is DENYING Defendants' MIL # 3. Through this MIL, Defendants are taking another swipe at an issue on which they litigated and lost in their summary judgment motion.  The Defendants cannot use a motion in limine to get another bite at that apple.# 4  Unpaid Costs and Costs Incurred After the End of the Co-Counseling DealThe  Court is DENYING Defendants' MIL # 4.  The issues raised in this motion, which speak to the scope of the purported oral agreement, are for the jury to decide.   Defendants' arguments for taking this away from the jury are unpersuasive.# 5 Evidence of the Purported Oral Contract on the Ground That It is IndefiniteThe Court is DENYING Defendants' MIL # 5.  Whether the oral contract is indefinite as a matter of law is an issue for summary judgment or summary adjudication.  It is not an issue that can be properly raised through a motion in limine.PLAINTIFFS' MOTIONS IN LIMINE # 1  Evidence of Defendants' Claims Against Sonia Gonzalez The Court is DENYING Plaintiffs' MIL # 1 as moot in light of the Court's ruling sustaining Gonzalez's demurrer to Defendants' Cross-Complaint against her without leave to amend.    Defendants have no claims anymore against Gonzalez.  That there were claims in this that have been dismissed will be addressed through the jury instruction on dismissed claims. But that instruction will not reference whose claims against whom were dismissed. # 2  Ordering Defendants to Produce Evidence of Their Financial ConditionThe Court is DENYING Plaintiffs' MIL # 2  Requests for information on the financial condition of a party are handled through CCP Section 1987 notices, not through motions in limine.  MILs are designed for the exclusion of evidence, not the production of evidence.# 3  Evidence of Plaintiffs' Prior Co-Counseling Documents The Court is DENYING Plaintiffs' MIL # 3.  Plaintiffs opened the door to evidence of cost sharing arrangements in prior co-counseling arrangements.  To the extent that documents bearing on those arrangements contain attorney-client privileged information, those portions shall be redacted before the documents are published to the jury.# 4  Evidence of the Network Deposition Services LawsuitThe Court is GRANTING Plaintiffs' MIL # 4.  Evidence of the Network Deposition Services lawsuit is not relevant to the issues in this case, including Plaintiffs' credibility and habit/custom.  Additionally, evidence about this lawsuit is likely to confuse the jury and prejudice the Plaintiffs.# 5 Evidence of Cases In Which Plaintiffs Were Not Co-CounselThe Court is GRANTING Plaintiffs' MIL # 5.  Defendants opposition states that the only case in which Plaintiffs were not co-counsel that Defendants intend to raise at trial is the Network Deposition Services Lawsuit.  MIL # 5 is thus granted for the same reasons that MIL # 4 is being granted.