  Case Number:  21TRCV36208    Hearing Date:   March 21, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
ESPERANZA
  ASBERRY, et al.,


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:
 


 
21STCV36208




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
CENTINELA
  SKILLED NURSING & WELLNESS CENTRE, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          March 21,
2024
 
Moving Parties:                      Defendants Centinela
Skilled Nursing & Wellness Centre West, LLC and Brius Management Company
Responding
Party:                  Plaintiffs Esperanza Asberry, et al.
(1)  
Demurrer
to FAC
(2)  
Motion
to Strike
 
The court considered the moving and
opposition papers.
RULING
            The demurrer to the first, second,
third, and fourth causes of action in the FAC are OVERRULED.  The motion to strike is DENIED.  Defendants are ordered to file an answer
within 20 days.  
BACKGROUND
            On September 30, 2021, plaintiffs
Esperanza Asberry, Samuel L. Asberry, Jr., and Candis Ashberry aka Candis
Asberry, ind. and as heirs and successors in interest to Samuel L. Asberry filed
a complaint against Centinela Skilled Nursing & Wellness Centre, Centinela
Skilled Nursing & Wellness Centre West, Centinela Skilled Nursing &
Wellness Centre West, LLC, Brius Management Company, Mohsen Mobasser, Marie
Faye Sorianosos, Donte Asberry, and Tessie Asberry for (1)
wrongful death, (2) violations of Elder Abuse Act, (3) violation of Health
& Safety Code §1430(b), and (4) wrongful death.
            On
February 22, 2023, the case was transferred from the PI Hub to Dept. M.
            On
October 31, 2023, the court sustained with 30 days leave to amend defendants’
demurrer to the second and third causes of action in the complaint.  The court found that the allegations were
insufficient that plaintiffs had standing as they had not complied with CCP
377.32.  As to the Second and Third Causes
of Action, the court found that the allegations were insufficient as they were
conclusory and plaintiffs had not pled with particularity.
            On
November 30, 2023, plaintiffs filed a declaration pursuant to CCP §377.32.
            On
November 30, 2023, plaintiff filed a FAC for (1) wrongful death (Elder Abuse
Act), (2) violations of Elder Abuse Act, (3) violations of Health & Safety
Code §1430(b) (survival claim), and (4) wrongful death (negligence).

LEGAL AUTHORITY
Demurrer
            When considering demurrers, courts
read the allegations liberally and in context. 
Taylor v. City of Los Angeles
Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal. App. 4th 1216, 1228.  “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not
the evidence or other extrinsic matters. 
Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the
pleading or are judicially noticed.”  SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153
Cal. App. 3d 902, 905.  “The only issue
involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands,
unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.”  Hahn v.
Mirda (2007) 147 Cal. App. 4th 740, 747.
            Strike
“The court may, upon a motion . .
., or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper:  (a) Strike any irrelevant, false, or improper
matter inserted in any pleading.  (b)
Strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity
with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.”  CCP §436(b).
            CCP §431.10 states:  “(a) A material allegation in a pleading is
one essential to the claim or defense and which could not be stricken from the
pleading without leaving it insufficient as to that claim or defense.
            (b) An immaterial allegation in a
pleading is any of the following:  (1) An
allegation that is not essential to the statement of a claim or defense.  (2) An allegation that is neither pertinent
to nor supported by an otherwise sufficient claim or defense.  (3) A demand for judgment requesting relief
not supported by the allegations of the complaint or cross-complaint.
            (c) An ‘immaterial allegation’ means
‘irrelevant matter’ as that term is used in Section 436.”
            The grounds for moving to strike
must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice.  CCP §437.
DISCUSSION
            Defendants
Centinela Skilled Nursing & Wellness Centre West, LLC, Brius Management
Company, Mohsen Mobasser, and Marie Faye Sorianosos demur to the First, Second,
Third, and Fourth Causes of Action on the grounds that they fail to state
sufficient facts to constitute a cause of action and are uncertain as they are
barred by the statute of limitations and plaintiffs lack standing. 
            The
FAC alleges that individually and collectively, defendants owned, controlled,
operated, designed, built, maintained, inspected, furnished, supervised, and/or
controlled the real property and facility at 950 South Flower St., Inglewood.  FAC, ¶29. 
In summer of 2018, decedent suffered from a stroke and was briefly
hospitalized at Centinela Hospital Medical Center.  He was discharged and returned home.  Later that year, decedent suffered from a
second stroke, became paralyzed on the right side of his body, and was again
hospitalized at Centinela Hospital.  This
time, he was discharged to a skilled nursing facility in or about Gardena.  Because of the long distance and travel time
between plaintiff’s residence and the skilled nursing facility in Gardena,
decedent was moved to Centinela Skilled Nursing & Wellness Centre in about
late 2019.  Id., ¶30.  Decedent, who was about 81 years old, was
placed into the custodian care and custody of defendants at the facility and
was a resident there.  Decedent was
admitted to the facility for rehabilitation, physical therapy, blood pressure and
cholesterol regulation assistance, treatment and care for symptoms of dementia
and strokes, and other limiting conditions. 
Plaintiff hoped decedent would eventually rehabilitate enough to return
home.  Id., ¶31.
            During
decedent’s residence at the facility, defendants knew that decedent was in a
compromised physical state.  Decedent
could not really move, feed himself, or care for himself.  As a result, decedent required close
supervision, close monitoring, assistance with daily functions, and medical
attention to ensure decedent’s health, safety, and wellbeing.  Id., ¶32. 
Particularly noteworthy, decedent arrived with critical needs arising
from dementia and paralysis on the right side of his body.  Id., ¶33. 
Defendants also knew, by virtue of decedent’s physical state, that
decedent was dependent on defendants for all activities of daily living
including, feeding and dietary planning, skin care, hygiene, infection
control/prevention, toileting, medical care, and physical
rehabilitation/exercise.  Id., ¶34.
            Defendants
were required to provide decedent with care for some or all of decedent’s
fundamental and basic needs at the facility. 
Id., ¶35.  During decedent’s
residency at the facility, defendants failed to protect decedent from health
and safety hazards, including illnesses, infections, and COVID-19.  During decedent’s residency, defendants’
conduct directly and unambiguously put decedent in harm’s way, in a blatant
disregard of the high risk of injury and death. 
Id., ¶36.  Specifically, as result
of decedent’s admission/residency at the facility and defendants’ withholding
of and failure to provide care, decedent suffered from substantial weight loss,
malnutrition, dehydration, a bed sore on his buttocks, infection, rapid loss of
motor skills, and physical harm, and a COVID-19 diagnosis – all of which
contributed to acute respiratory failure and caused decedent’s death on April
29, 2020.  Id., ¶37.
            Prior
to March 2020, plaintiff Esperanza visited decedent at the facility almost
every morning before work.  At the start
of almost every visit, Esperanza would change decedent’s soiled adult
diaper/incontinence pads, provide showers, feed, hydrate, and generally care
for decedent.  She provided care the
facility had failed to provide in her absence. 
Id., ¶38.  After March 2020,
defendants restricted residents’ family members’ access to the facility due to
COVID-19.  Id., ¶39.  Throughout decedent’s residence at the
facility, defendants repeatedly withheld and failed to provide decedent with
bathing and hygienic monitoring, unsoiled adult incontinence pads/adult diapers,
adequate posture adjustments, hydration, nutrition, adequate fall prevention,
and necessary monitoring and assistance. 
Id., ¶¶40-48.  During Esperanza’s
visits, staff were frequently and regularly missing or nowhere to be seen.  Id., ¶ 49. 
From the time of arrival at the facility until death, it was apparent
that decedent declined in overall health and body.  During decedent’s stay, decedent did not
receive the attention and care ordered by the doctors and required by the care
plan.  This mistreatment occurred well before
any COVID-19 diagnosis.  Id., ¶54.
                        Statute
of limitations
            Plaintiffs
allege, citing to Emergency Rule 9, that “any and all claims applicable to this
action were tolled from April 6, 2020, until October 1, 2020.”
            As
to the First Cause of Action for wrongful death (Elder Abuse Act) and Fourth Cause
of Action for wrongful death (negligence), defendants argue that the one-year
statute of limitations applies for claims based on professional negligence
under CCP §340.5.  Defendants contend
that plaintiffs allege that decedent died on April 29, 2020, and that the
complaint was not filed until September 30, 2021.
            As
to the Third Cause of Action for violation of Health & Safety Code §1430(b),
defendants argue that the statute of limitation bars the claim as it is subject
to a one-year statute of limitations as it is an action upon a statute for a
penalty under CCP §340.
            In
opposition, plaintiffs argue that the demurer violates the rule as to
“successive demurrers.”  The court notes
that there are two additional defendants who are demurring who did not demurrer
to the complaint.  Plaintiffs also argue
that the First, Third, and Fourth Causes of Action are not barred by the
statute of limitations.
            The
court rules as follows:  “[F]or a
demurrer based on the statute of limitations to be sustained, the untimeliness
of the lawsuit must clearly and affirmatively appear on the face of the
complaint and matters judicially noticed.” 
Coalition for Clean Air v. City of Visalia (2012) 209 Cal. App. 4th
408, 420.  The Code of Civil Procedure
section 335.1 statute of limitations (applicable to causes for ‘assault,
battery, or injury to, or for the death of, an individual caused by the
wrongful act or neglect of another’) is facially applicable to elder abuse
actions and provides a two-year limitation period. . . .”  Benun v. Superior Court (2004) 123
Cal. App. 4th 113, 125-126.  Under
the Elder Abuse Act, “’neglect’ within the meaning of Welfare and Institutions
Code section 15610.57 covers an area of misconduct distinct from ‘professional
negligence.’”  Covenant Care, Inc. v.
Superior Court (2004) 32 Cal.4th 771, 783; see also CACI 3103.  “Thus, the statutory definition of ‘neglect’
speaks not of the undertaking of medical services, but of the failure to
provide medical care.” Covenant Care, supra, at 783.  The allegations support a claim of neglect
under the Elder Abuse Act.
            As
plaintiffs allege that decedent died on April 29, 2020 and the complaint was
filed within two years on September 30, 2021, the First and Fourth Causes of Action
are not barred on their face.  Further,
even if the statute of limitations is one-year, the claims are not barred.  As explained by plaintiffs, CCP §364 requires
a notice of intent to sue for actions against providers.  “If the notice is served within 90 days of
the expiration of the applicable statute of limitations, the time of the
commencement of the action shall be extended 90 days from the service of the
notice.”  CCP §364(d).  Plaintiffs contend that they served their
notice of intent to sue on April 28, 2021 and that the statute of limitations
was extended until July 28, 2021, and that COVID Rule 9 extended the original
statute of limitations of April 29, 2021 to October 1, 2021.
            As
to the Third Cause of Action for violation of Health & Safey Code §1430(b),
it is a civil action for “statutory damages” and not an action for a
penalty.  See Jarman v. HCR ManorCare,
Inc. (2020) 10 Cal. 5th 375, 379 (“The available remedies
include . . . ‘up to five hundred dollars ($500)’ in statutory damages.”).  See also Mou v. SSC San Jose Operating
Company LP (2019) 415 F.Supp.3d 918, 928 (“Because the Court finds that
section 1430(b) provides for damages, the statute of limitations set forth in
California Code of Civil Procedure 338(a) applies.”).  CCP §338(a) provides for a three-year statute
of limitation for any “action upon a liability created by statute, rather than
a penalty or forfeiture.”  Thus, the
court finds that this claim is not barred by the statute of limitations on its
face.
Standing
            Defendants
argue that plaintiffs lack standing as to the Second Cause of Action for elder
abuse and that plaintiffs, as successors-in-interest, are not entitled to any
damages under the Elder Abuse statute. 
Rather, the cause of action “belongs to Decedent” and plaintiffs are
only enforcing the action.  Defendants
make the same argument as to the Third Cause of Action.
            In
opposition, plaintiffs argue that they have standing under the “interested
person” standard under Welf. & Inst. Code §15657.3, which states that an
“interested person” includes an “heir, devisee, child, spouse . . . and any
other person having a property right in . . . the estate of a decedent which
may be affected by the proceeding.”  See
Probate Code §48.  As to defendants’
damages argument, plaintiffs contend, a demurrer is not an appropriate vehicle
to raise such a claim.
            The
court finds that plaintiffs have standing. 
As previously noted, plaintiffs complied with CCP §377.32 and allege that they
are decedent’s surviving spouse and children and have a property right in
decedent’s estate.  As to the third Cause
of Action, “[a] . . . successor in interest of a current or former resident or
patient of a skilled nursing facility . . . may bring a civil action against
the licensee of a facility who violates any rights of the resident or patient .
. . .”  Health & Safety Code
§1430(b)(1).  Further, plaintiffs
properly allege that they are seeking damages as decedent’s successor in
interest.  See FAC, ¶92.
            Thus, the demurrer to the First, Second,
Third, and Fourth Causes of Action in the FAC are OVERRULED.
 
                        Motion
to Strike
            Defendants
request that the court strike paras. 77 and 78 and prayer under the First Cause
of Action for attorney’s fees under Welf. & Inst. Code §15657 and Health
& Safety Code §1430(b) and prayer under the first Cause of Action for
exemplary and punitive damages.
            Defendants
argue that a claim for wrongful death does not allow for attorney’s fees or
punitive/exemplary damages.  Defendants
assert that the wrongful death statute under CCP §377.61 allows for recovery of
damages that are not recoverable under CCP §377.34.   CCP §377.34 allows for recovery of punitive
or exemplary damages.
            In
opposition, plaintiffs assert that defendants do not argue that the FAC does
not sufficiently allege the predicate Elder Abuse Act violations, which is what
the First Cause of Action is based upon. 
Plaintiffs also contend that they have properly alleged alternative
theories of recoveries and damages.
            The
court finds that plaintiffs’ allegations and prayer for attorney’s fees and
prayer for punitive damages under the first Cause of Action are not improper.
            The
motion to strike is DENIED.
 
ORDER
The demurrer to the first, second,
third, and fourth causes of action in the FAC are OVERRULED.  The motion to strike is DENIED.  Defendants are ordered to file an answer
within 20 days.  
            Plaintiffs
are ordered to give notice of the ruling.