 Case Number:  22TRCV00096    Hearing Date:   March 21, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior Court
  of California
County of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance Dept. B




 
THE
  ROOSK GROUP INC., 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
22TRCV00096




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
JAMIE
  MCDANIEL, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          March 21,
2024
 
Moving Parties:                      (1)-(4) Defendant Jamie
McDaniel; (5)-(6) defendant Friendly Llama, Inc.
Responding
Party:                  None
(1)  
Motion to Compel Responses to Form
Interrogatories (Set One)
(2)  
Motion to Compel Responses to
Special Interrogatories (Set One)
(3)  
Motion to Compel Responses to
Request for Production of Documents (Set Two)
(4)  
Motion for Order Deeming Admitted
Truth of Facts and Genuineness of Documents
 
(5)  
Motion to Compel Responses to
Special Interrogatories (Set One)
(6)  
Motion to Compel Responses to
Request for Production of Documents (Set One) 
 
            The court considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers.
RULING
The motions are GRANTED to the
extent that plaintiff has not yet served responses without objections.  
Plaintiff is ordered to respond
without objections to defendant Jamie McDaniel’s Form Interrogatories (Set One)
and Special Interrogatories (Set One) within five days. 
Plaintiff is ordered to respond
without objections to defendant Friendly Llama’s Special Interrogatories (Set
One) within five days.
Plaintiff is ordered (1) to serve
on defendant Jamie McDaniel a verified response without objections to
defendant’s Request for Production of Documents (Set Two) and (2) to produce
all documents and things in plaintiff’s possession, custody, or control, which
are responsive to defendant’s request, within five days.  
Plaintiff is ordered (1) to serve
on defendant Friendly Llama, Inc. a verified response without objections to
defendant’s Request for Production of Documents (Set One) and (2) to produce
all documents and things in plaintiff’s possession, custody, or control, which
are responsive to defendant’s request, within five days.
The court orders the truth of the
matters deemed admitted in defendant McDaniel’s Request for Admissions (Set
One) against plaintiff.
BACKGROUND
On February 9, 2022, plaintiffs
TelcoLynx, LLC and The Roosk Group Inc. filed a complaint against Jamie
McDaniel, Friendly Llama, Inc, Diane Zane, and Zane Consulting, Inc. for (1)
breach of contract, (2) breach of covenant of good faith and fair dealing, (3)
breach of fiduciary duties, (4) fraud, (5) rescission of contract, and (6)
unjust enrichment. 
            On June 28, 2022, plaintiffs filed a
FAC. 
            On August 12, 2022, the court
granted defendant Friendly Llama’s motion to disqualify counsel, Callagy Law,
P.C. as counsel for plaintiff TelcoLynx. 
            On January 12, 2023, the court
granted plaintiff Roosk Group, Inc.’s motion for leave to file a SAC. 
On January 17, 2023, The Roosk
Group, Inc. and nominal party Telcolynx, LLC filed a SAC against Jamie
McDaniel, Friendly Llama, Inc., Diane Zane and Zane Consulting, Inc. for (1)
breach of contract, (2) breach of covenant of good faith and fair dealing, (3)
breach of fiduciary duties, (4) fraud, (5) rescission of contract, and (6)
unjust enrichment. 
            On May 24, 2023, the court denied
defendant Friendly Llama’s request to strike “nominal plaintiff” Telcolynx, LLC
from the SAC.
            On September 29, 2023, after taking
the matter under submission, the court denied defendants’ motion to strike
plaintiff The Roosk Group’s derivative claims against defendants.  The motion to strike was granted with leave
to amend to striking Telcolynx as a “nominal plaintiff” and allowing plaintiff
to amend to name Telcolynx as a “nominal defendant.”
            On October 19, 2023, The Roosk Group
Inc. filed a TAC against Jamie McDaniel, Friendly Llama, Inc., Diane Zane, Zane
Consulting, Inc., and Telcolynx, LLC for (1) breach of oral contract (against
Friendly Llama), (2) breach of covenant of good faith and fair dealing (against
Friendly Llama), (3) breach of fiduciary duties (against Friendly Llama), (4)
breach of fiduciary duties (against McDaniel), (5) fraud (against Friendly
Llama and McDaniel), (6) rescission of contract (against Zane Consulting), (7)
breach of contract (against Zane and Zane Consulting), and (8) unjust
enrichment (against Zane and Zane Consulting).
LEGAL AUTHORITY
            Interrogatories
If a party to whom interrogatories
are directed fails to serve a timely response, the propounding party may move
for an order compelling responses and for a monetary sanction.  CCP §2030.290(b).  The statute contains no time limit for a
motion to compel where no responses have been served.  All that need be shown in the moving papers
is that a set of interrogatories was properly served on the opposing party,
that the time to respond has expired, and that no response of any kind has been
served.  Leach v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal. App. 3d 902, 905-906. 
Request for Production of Documents
Where there has been no timely
response to a CCP §2031.010 demand, the demanding party must seek an order
compelling a response.  CCP
§2031.300.  Failure to timely respond
waives all objections, including privilege and work product.  Thus, unless the party to whom the demand was
directed obtains relief from waiver, he or she cannot raise objections to the
documents demanded.  There is no deadline
for a motion to compel responses. 
Likewise, for failure to respond, the moving party need not attempt to
resolve the matter outside court before filing the motion.  Where the motion seeks only a response to the
inspection demand, no showing of “good cause” is required.  Weil & Brown, Civil Procedure Before Trial, 8:1487.
Request for Admissions 
Pursuant to CCP § 2033.280(b), a
party may move for an order that the genuineness of any documents and the truth
of any matters specified in the requests be deemed admitted, as well as for a
monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010).  “Failure to timely respond to RFA does not
result in automatic admissions.  Rather,
the propounder of the RFA must ‘move for an order that the genuineness of any
documents and the truth of any matters specified in the requests be deemed
admitted, as well as for a monetary sanction’ under § 2023.010 et seq.”  Weil & Brown, Civ. Proc. Before Trial, ¶ 8:1370, citing CCP § 2033.280(b).  The court “shall” grant the motion to deem
RFA admitted, “unless it finds that the party to whom the requests for
admission have been directed has served, before the hearing on the motion, a
proposed response to the requests for admission that is in substantial
compliance with Section 2033.220.”  CCP §
2033.280(c).
DISCUSSION
            Defendant Jamie McDaniel requests
that the court compel plaintiff The Roosk Group Inc. to respond without
objections to defendant’s initial form and special interrogatories and requests
for production of documents (set two) and to deem admitted the requests for
admission.  Defendant Friendly Llama,
Inc. requests that the court compel plaintiff to respond without objections to
defendant’s initial special interrogatories and requests for production of
documents.
Defendants explain that they served
the discovery requests on plaintiff on December 12, 2023.  Responses were due on January 16, 2024.  As defense counsel had not received
responses, on January 22, 2024, defense counsel sent a meet and confer letter
to plaintiff’s counsel requesting responses without objections by January 26,
2024.  On January 23, 2024, plaintiff’s
counsel sent an email to defense counsel stating, “I do not show the referenced
requests in our system.  Please resend
them so that we can review and address them.” 
On the same date, defense counsel forwarded the December 12, 2023 email
along with the discovery requests to plaintiff’s counsel.  The December 12 email was addressed to four
persons at Callagy Law, plaintiff’s counsel’s law firm.  On February 2, 2024, defense counsel emailed
plaintiff’s counsel and asked if plaintiff would be providing responses without
objection.  On February 5, 2024,
plaintiff’s counsel responded:  “We do
intend to provide responses to the discovery requests that were inadvertently
overlooked.  I do not intend to provide
those responses without objections where those objections are warranted.  If need be, I’ll file appropriate motions to
address any dispute over whether any objections have been waived.  We are reviewing the requests and working
with our client on responses.”  As of the
date of filing the motions on February 16, defense counsel had not received
responses.
In opposition, plaintiff contends
that any failure to respond by the original January 16 response date was caused
by plaintiff’s lack of knowledge that the requests had been issued and served
and that they had been “overlooked” during the back-and-forth exchanges in
resolving other discovery issues and that “[i]t is nothing more than human
error.”  Plaintiff also argues that
sanctions are inappropriate because “[d]efendant has been advised that
responses will be provided” and that there was no basis or need for defendant
to file their motions.
In reply, defendants reiterate that
plaintiff failed to respond by the due date. 
Defendants assert that plaintiff’s argument that its failure to respond
should be excused because it was unintentional is irrelevant as to the
applicable discovery statutes. 
Defendants also argue that they are “not obligated to wait for Roosk to
produce information at some indeterminate future date.  Roosk waived its objections and then never
committed to a deadline when the information would be produced.”  
The court finds that defendants
properly served discovery requests and plaintiff failed to respond by the
statutory due date.  Thus, plaintiff
waived its objections.  There has been no
indication that plaintiff has served any responses.  The motions are GRANTED.
 
            Sanctions
Under CCP
§ 2023.030(a), “[t]he court may impose a monetary sanction ordering that one
engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or any attorney advising that
conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees,
incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct. . . . If a monetary sanction is
authorized by any provision of this title, the court shall impose that sanction
unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust.”  Under CCP § 2023.010, an
example of the misuse of the discovery process is “(d) Failing to respond or to
submit to an authorized method of discovery.” 
Sanctions are mandatory in
connection with motions to compel responses to interrogatories and requests for
production of documents against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel unless the court “finds that
the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that
other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  CCP §§ 2030.290(c), 2031.300(c).
Cal.
Rules of Court, Rule 3.1348(a) states: 
“The court may award sanctions under the Discovery Act in favor of a
party who files a motion to compel discovery, even though no opposition to the
motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn, or the requested
discovery was provided to the moving party after the motion was filed.”
Defendants
request $975 (at $325/hr.) for each motion against plaintiff.  The court finds that sanctions are not
warranted against plaintiff as it was plaintiff’s counsel that admitted to
inadvertently missing the email service of the discovery requests.  Defendants did not request sanctions against
plaintiff’s counsel.  The request is thus
denied. 
 
ORDER
The motions are GRANTED to the
extent that plaintiff has not yet served responses without objections.  
Plaintiff is ordered to respond
without objections to defendant Jamie McDaniel’s Form Interrogatories (Set One)
and Special Interrogatories (Set One) within five days. 
Plaintiff is ordered to respond
without objections to defendant Friendly Llama’s Special Interrogatories (Set
One) within five days.
Plaintiff is ordered (1) to serve
on defendant Jamie McDaniel a verified response without objections to
defendant’s Request for Production of Documents (Set Two) and (2) to produce
all documents and things in plaintiff’s possession, custody, or control, which
are responsive to defendant’s request, within five days.  
Plaintiff is ordered (1) to serve
on defendant Friendly Llama, Inc. a verified response without objections to
defendant’s Request for Production of Documents (Set One) and (2) to produce
all documents and things in plaintiff’s possession, custody, or control, which
are responsive to defendant’s request, within five days.
The court orders the truth of the
matters deemed admitted in defendant McDaniel’s Request for Admissions (Set
One) against plaintiff.
            Defendants are ordered to give
notice of the ruling.