  Case Number:  23STCV21084    Hearing Date:   April 18, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
 
 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



LADREA JOHNSON, 
 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
DINGWELL LAW, APC, et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


 


     
  CASE NO.:  23STCV21084
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: DEMURRER AND
  MOTION TO STRIKE 
 
Date:  April 18, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept.  56
Judge: Holly J. Fujie
 



 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant Dingwell Law, APC (“Moving
Defendant”)
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff 
 
The Court has considered the moving, opposition,
and reply papers.
 
BACKGROUND
            This action arises
out of an employment relationship. 
Plaintiff’s first amended complaint (the “FAC”) alleges: (1) race
discrimination in violation of the Fair Employment and Housing Act (“FEHA”);
(2) harassment on the basis of race in violation of FEHA; (3) religious
discrimination in violation of FEHA; (4) retaliation in violation of FEHA; (5)
failure to prevent race discrimination, harassment, and retaliation in
violation of FEHA; (6) wrongful termination in violation of public policy; (7)
intentional infliction of emotional distress; and (8) negligent infliction of
emotional distress. 
 
In relevant part, the FAC alleges: Plaintiff, who
is Black and a Jehovah’s Witness, was hired as a paralegal (but used more like
a legal assistant) by Moving Defendant from December 7, 2020, through December
11, 2022.  (FAC ¶¶ 13, 14, 17.)  Kelly L. Dingwell (“Dingwell”) was Plaintiff’s
immediate supervisor during her employment. 
(FAC ¶ 16.)  
 
One to three months after beginning her
employment, after making a minor error, Plaintiff was demoted from performing
paralegal duties to performing legal assistant duties and not permitted to
resume paralegal duties until approximately October 2022.  (FAC ¶¶ 19, 24.)  Alexis Angel (“Angel”), a legal assistant,
was assigned to perform Plaintiff’s paralegal duties after Plaintiff’s
demotion.  (FAC ¶ 23.)  
 
Throughout her employment, Plaintiff noticed that
she received less favorable treatment than Angel, who is Mexican.  (FAC ¶¶ 30, 36.)  For example, Angel was assigned eight-hour
shifts while Plaintiff worked five-hour shifts. 
(FAC ¶ 27.)  After Dingwell sought
input from Plaintiff and Angel for pictures to display in the office, Dingwell
decided to exhibit the images of white and Latina women that she and Angel
selected, to the exclusion of the image of a black woman that Plaintiff
recommended.  (FAC ¶ 34.) 
 
At some point, Dingwell asked Plaintiff to
complete a calendar that included holidays. 
(FAC ¶ 33.)  Dingwell insisted
that Plaintiff complete the task after Plaintiff voiced her concern about the
task due to her religious beliefs.  (Id.)
During Plaintiff’s employment, Dingwell allegedly
made disparaging comments to demean or ridicule her, which impacted Plaintiff’s
experience in the workplace.  (FAC ¶¶ 20,
26, 44, 52.)  In December 2022, Plaintiff
was reprimanded for an error allegedly made by Angel.  (FAC ¶ 36.) 
When Plaintiff attempted to address her concerns with Dingwell on or
about December 11, 2022, Dingwell terminated Plaintiff’s employment.  (FAC ¶ 40.)  
 
Moving Defendant filed a demurrer (the “Demurrer”)
to each cause of action in the FAC, arguing that each claim fails to state
sufficient facts to constitute a cause of action.  Moving Defendant also filed a motion to
strike (the “Motion”) portions of the Complaint. 
 
DEMURRER
Meet and Confer
The meet and confer requirement has been met for the Demurrer and the Motion.

 
Legal Standard
A demurrer tests the sufficiency of a complaint as a matter of law.  (Durell
v. Sharp Healthcare (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 1350, 1358.)  The court accepts as true all material
factual allegations and affords them a liberal construction, but it does not
consider conclusions of fact or law, opinions, speculation, or allegations
contrary to law or judicially noticed facts. 
(Shea Homes Limited Partnership v.
County of Alameda (2003) 110 Cal.App.4th 1246, 1254.)  With respect to a demurrer, the complaint
must be construed liberally by drawing reasonable inferences from the facts
pleaded.  (Rodas v. Spiegel (2001) 87 Cal.App.4th 513, 517.)  A demurrer will be sustained without leave to
amend if there exists no reasonable possibility that the defect can be cured by
amendment.  (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.)  
 
FEHA Claims
            Moving Defendant
demurs the first cause of action for race discrimination, the third cause of
action for religion discrimination, the fourth cause of action for retaliation
and the fifth cause of action for failure to prevent race discrimination,
harassment, and retaliation in violation of FEHA, arguing that at the time of
the alleged FEHA violations, Moving Defendant had and continues to have only
two employees and, therefore, Moving Defendant is not an employer within the
meaning of FEHA. 
 
            “‘Employer’ includes
any person regularly employing five or more persons, or any person acting as an
agent of an employer, directly or indirectly, the state or any political or
civil subdivision of the state, and cities ….” (Gov. Code, § 12926, subd. (d).)
 
            Whether Moving
Defendant had five or more employees at the time of the alleged FEHA violations
is a disputed issue.  (See Declaration of
Kelly Dingwell, filed February 23, 2024, ¶ 6 [declaring that Moving
Defendant had three employees on payroll during Plaintiff’s employment]; Opposition,
Declaration of Ladrea Johnson, ¶¶ 3-6 [declaring that at the time of her
employment, Moving Defendant had five or more employees].)  In a demurrer proceeding, the Court assumes all
well-pleaded facts to be true and does not determine disputed facts.  
 
In the instant case, it is sufficient that the
FAC alleges that “[a]t all times material hereto, Defendant [was] an employer
covered by FEHA and Defendant employed Plaintiff.” (FAC ¶ 50.)  To the extent Moving Defendant is arguing
that this fact is uncertain, it can resolve that uncertainty through discovery
and raise the issue in a dispositive motion. 
 
Based on the foregoing, the Court OVERRULES the
Demurrer to the first cause of action for race discrimination, the third cause
of action for religion discrimination, the fourth cause of action for
retaliation and the fifth cause of action for failure to prevent race
discrimination, harassment, and retaliation in violation of FEHA insofar as it
is based on the ground that Moving Defendant is not an “employer” within the
meaning of FEHA. 
 
First and Third Causes of Action: FEHA Discrimination
It is an unlawful
employment practice for an employer to refuse to hire or employ a person, to
discharge a person from employment, or to discriminate against the person in
compensation or in terms, conditions, or privileges of employment on the basis of
race or religious creed.  (Gov. Code, §
12940, subd. (a).)  
 
To establish a
claim for discrimination in violation of FEHA, a plaintiff must generally prove
that: (1) he or she was a member of a protected class; (2) he or she was
qualified for the position he or she sought or was performing competently in
the position he or she held; (3) he or she suffered an adverse employment
action, such as termination, demotion, or denial of an available job; and (4)
some other circumstance suggesting discriminatory motive.  (Guz v. Bechtel National, Inc. (2000)
24 Cal.4th 317, 355.)  

 
The First Cause
of Action
As Plaintiff points out, the Court previously
overruled Moving Defendant’s demurrer to the first cause of action in the
original Complaint, which was made on the same ground as asserted here.  (Minute Order dated January 4, 2024 (“January
4 Order”), p. 4, the first full paragraph.) 
The Court therefore OVERRULES the Demurrer as to the first cause of
action.
 
            The Third Cause
of Action
The Court finds that the FAC still fails to
allege what adverse employment action, if any, Plaintiff experienced due to
being allegedly forced to calendar holidays against her religious beliefs.  (January 4 Order, pp. 3-4 [sustaining the
demurrer to the original complaint’s third cause of action because there were
no allegations that Plaintiff experienced an adverse employment action due to
Dingwell urging Plaintiff to complete a task against her religious beliefs].)  In opposition, Plaintiff argues: “The adverse
employment action is Kelly Dingwell forcing Plaintiff to complete calendaring
tasks which conflicts with Plaintiff’s religion.  This materially affects the terms of Plaintiff’s
employment in that she is not allowed the right and freedom to exercise her
First Amendment Right to religion.  Kelly
Dingwell’s insistence on a work task that conflicting with Plaintiff’s
religious beliefs directly led to Plaintiff’s loss of her First Amendment right
and is a violation of FEHA.”  (Opposition,
p. 9:17-22 [emphasis removed].)  
 
Under FEHA, “[a]n ‘adverse employment action’ is
one that ‘materially affects the terms, conditions, or privileges of
employment.’  [Citation.]  ‘In the case of an institutional or corporate
employer, the institution or corporation itself must have taken some official
action with respect to the employee, such as hiring, firing, failing to
promote, adverse job assignment, significant change in compensation or
benefits, or official disciplinary action.’ [Citation.]”  (Doe v. Department of Corrections &
Rehabilitation (2019) 43 Cal.App.5th 721, 734 [emphasis removed].) Plaintiff
in its opposition to the Demurrer on this cause of action appears to conflate
the actions with regard to the creation of the calendar (which, as a note, did
not include an allegation that Plaintiff was required to observe or acknowledge
any of the holidays on the calendar) with an adverse employment action.  As stated in connection with the January 4
Order, such an action is not an adverse employment action under FEHA.  Because Plaintiff fails to allege what
action, if any, Moving Defendant took against her in response to her expression
of her religious belief regarding holidays, this cause of action does not
sufficiently allege a viable claim under FEHA.  
 
Based on the foregoing, the Court SUSTAINS the
Demurrer to the third cause of action with 20 days leave to amend. 
 
Second Cause of Action: Harassment on the Basis of Race
Employers may not harass an employee
because of race, religious creed, color, national origin, ancestry,
physical¿disability, mental¿disability, medical condition, genetic information,
marital status, sex, gender, gender identity, gender expression, age, sexual
orientation, or military and veteran status. 
(Gov. Code § 12940,¿subd. (j)(1).)  The elements of a cause of action for
harassment under FEHA are: (1) the plaintiff belongs to a protected group; (2) the
plaintiff was subjected to harassment; (3) the harassment complained of was
based on the plaintiff’s membership in the protected group; (4) the harassment
complained of was sufficiently pervasive so as to alter the conditions of
employment and create an abusive working environment; and
(5)¿respondeat¿superior.  (Jones v.
Department of Corrections & Rehabilitation¿(2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 1367,
1377.)  The court looks to the
totality of the circumstances to determine that a hostile work environment
existed.  (Etter v. Veriflo Corp. (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 457, 466.) A court
looks at: (1) the frequency of harassment; (2) the severity of harassment; (3)
whether the conduct was threatening, humiliating, or merely an offensive
utterance; and (4) did the harassment interfere with a plaintiff’s work
performance.  (Id.)  
 
The Court finds
that the FAC alleges sufficient facts of harassment on the basis of race by
alleging, among other things, that favored one employee who was Mexican-Latino
(e.g., by giving that employee more work opportunities and reprimanding
Plaintiff for mistakes that the Mexican/Latina employee allegedly made) while mistreating
Plaintiff due to Plaintiff’s race.  (FAC ¶¶
23, 52, 63.)  Those facts support an
inference of harassment on the basis of race. 
Whether those facts are sufficiently severe to support this claim is a
question for the trier of fact. 
 
The Court
therefore OVERRULES the Demurrer to the second cause of action.
 
Fourth Cause of Action: Retaliation
The elements of a cause of action for a FEHA
retaliation claim are: (1) the employee’s engagement in a protected activity;
(2) retaliatory animus on the part of the employer; (3) an adverse action by
the employer; (4) a causal link between the retaliatory animus and the adverse
action; (5) damages; and (6) causation. 
(Brown v. Los Angeles Unified School District (2021) 60 Cal.App.5th
1092, 1105.)
 
“‘The retaliatory motive is “proved by showing
that plaintiff engaged in protected activities, that his employer was aware of
the protected activities, and that the adverse action followed within a
relatively short time thereafter.”  [Citation.]
 “The causal link may be established by
an inference derived from circumstantial evidence, ‘such as the employer’s
knowledge that the [employee] engaged in protected activities and the proximity
in time between the protected action and allegedly retaliatory employment
decision.’”  [Citation.]’  [Citation.]” 
(Morgan v. Regents of University of Cal. (2000) 88 Cal.App.4th
52, 69.)
 
Here, the FAC has alleged sufficient facts for
retaliation under FEHA by alleging that Plaintiff emailed Dingwell on or about
December 11, 2022, complaining about discrimination and harassment, and
Dingwell responded by terminating Plaintiff. 
(FAC ¶ 87.)
 
The Court therefore OVERRULES the Demurrer to the
fourth cause of action. 
  
Fifth
Cause of Action: Failure to Prevent Discrimination and Harassment under FEHA
 It is an unlawful employment
practice for an employer, labor organization, employment agency, apprenticeship
training program, or any training program leading to employment to fail to take
all reasonable steps necessary to prevent discrimination and harassment from
occurring.  (Gov. Code § 12940, subd.
(k).)  To establish this claim, a
plaintiff must establish the defendant’s legal duty of care, breach of duty,
legal causation, and damages to the plaintiff.  (See Trujillo v. North County
Transit District (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 280, 286-87.)
 
            In light of the Court’s ruling on
the first and second causes of action, the Court OVERRULES the Demurrer to the
fifth cause of action.  
 
Sixth Cause of Action: Wrongful Termination
The elements of a claim for wrongful
discharge in violation of public policy are: (1) an employer-employee
relationship, (2) the employer terminated the plaintiff’s employment, (3) the
termination was substantially motivated by a violation of public policy, and
(4) the discharge caused the plaintiff harm. 
(Nosal-Tabor v. Sharp Chula Vista Medical Center (2015) 239
Cal.App.4th 1224, 1234-35.)  A discharge
is actionable as against public policy if it violates a policy that is: (1)
delineated in either constitutional or statutory provisions; (2) public in the
sense that it inures to the benefit of the public rather than serving merely
the interests of the individual; (3) well-established at the time of discharge;
and (4) substantial and fundamental. (Id. at 1238-39.)
 
            The FAC alleges
sufficient facts of wrongful discharge by alleging that Plaintiff was fired
immediately upon complaining of discrimination and harassment.  (FAC ¶ 87.)
 
The Court therefore OVERRULES the Demurrer to the
sixth cause of action. 
 
Seventh and Eighth Causes of Action: Intentional Infliction of
Emotional Distress and Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress
“It is the rule that when a trial court sustains
a demurrer with leave to amend, the scope of the grant of leave is ordinarily a
limited one.  It gives the pleader an
opportunity to cure the defects in the particular causes of action to which the
demurrer was sustained, but that is all.” (Community Water Coalition v.
Santa Cruz County Local Agency Formation Com. (2011) 200 Cal.App.4th 1317,
1329 (“Community”).)
 
“‘The plaintiff may not amend the complaint to
add a new cause of action without having obtained permission to do so, unless
the new cause of action is within the scope of the order granting leave to
amend.’  [Citation.]”  (Community, supra, 200
Cal.App.4th at p. 1329.)
 
Here, the original Complaint only contained six
causes of action and no emotional distress claims.  
 
There is no court record indicating that the Court
permitted Plaintiff to file the FAC with new causes of action of intentional
and negligent infliction of emotional distress. 
Further, those claims are not within the scope of the January 4 Order,
granting Plaintiff leave to amend the original Complaint.   
 
For those reasons, the Court SUSTAINS the
Demurrer to the seventh and eighth causes of action without leave to amend.  
 
MOTION TO STRIKE
Legal Standard
Under California Code of Civil
Procedure section 436, a motion to strike either: (1) strikes any
irrelevant, false or improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (2) strikes
any pleading or part thereof not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of
this state, a court rule or order of court.  (CCP § 436.)
 
Punitive Damages
Under Civil
Code section 3294, subdivision (a), a plaintiff may recover punitive
damages in an action for breach of an obligation not arising from contract when
the plaintiff proves by clear and convincing evidence that the defendant has
been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice. 
(Civ. Code § 3294, subd. (a).) 
Malice is conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to
the plaintiff, or despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with
a willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.  (Civ. Code § 3294, subd. (c)(1).) 
Despicable conduct is conduct which is so vile, base, contemptible, miserable,
wretched or loathsome that it would be looked down upon and despised by ordinary
decent people.  (Mock v. Michigan Millers Mutual Ins. Co.
(1992) 4 Cal.App.4th 306, 331.)  Oppression is defined as despicable
conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious
disregard of that person’s rights. 
(Civ. Code § 3294, subd. (c)(2).)  
 
To state a
prima facie claim for punitive damages, a plaintiff must both allege the
elements set forth in Civil Code section 3294 and include specific allegations
showing that the defendant’s conduct was oppressive, fraudulent, or
malicious.  (See Today’s IV, Inc. v.
Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority (2022) 83
Cal.App.5th 1137, 1193.)  Punitive
damages may not be pleaded generally.  (Id.)  In order to
survive a motion to strike an allegation of punitive damages, the ultimate
facts showing an entitlement to such relief must be pled by a plaintiff.  (Clauson
v. Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th
1253, 1255.)  In passing on the
correctness of a ruling on a motion to strike, judges read allegations of a
pleading subject to a motion to strike as a whole, all parts in their context,
and assume their truth.  (Id.)  
 
The
Court incorporates the analysis of the FAC set forth with respect to the
Demurrer and finds that the viably alleged claims—which involve Plaintiff’s
alleged discriminatory demotion—still do not include sufficient facts that
state a claim for punitive damages.  In
addition, “wrongful
termination, without more, will not sustain a finding of malice or oppression.”
 (Scott v. Phoenix Schools, Inc.
(2009) 175 Cal.App.4th 702, 717.)
 
 The Court therefore GRANTS the Motion with 20
days leave to amend.  
 
Moving party is ordered to give
notice of this ruling. 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative
must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed by the
instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the
department does not receive an email and there are no appearances at the
hearing, the motion will be placed off calendar. 
 
 
  Dated
this 18th day of April 2024
 



  






Hon. Holly J. Fujie
Judge of the Superior Court
 


