 Case Number:  22NWCV01237    Hearing Date:   August 6, 2024    Dept:  C Maria Ramirez vs Ford Motor Company, et al
Case No.: 22NWCV01237
Hearing Date: August 6, 2024 @ 9:30 a.m. 
 
#3
Tentative Ruling 
    
I.       
Plaintiff Maria Ramirez’s Motion to Compel
Further Responses to Request for Production of Documents (Set One) is CONTINUED
to October 1, 2024 at 9:30 a.m. in Department SE-C. 
   
II.       
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further
Response to Special Interrogatories (Set One) is ADVANCED from October 2, 2024
to today and CONTINUED to October 1, 2024 at 9:30 a.m. in Dept. SE-C.
 
III.       
Defendant Ford Motor Company’s Motion for
Protective Order remains on calendar for August 29, 2024 at 9:30 a.m. in Dept.
SE-C.
Plaintiff to give notice. 
 
This is a lemon law action. 
Plaintiff Maria Ramirez (“Plaintiff”) contends that Defendants Cerritos
Ford, Inc. and Ford Motor Company (collectively “Defendants”) violated the
California Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act (“Song-Beverly Act”) by failing
to repair Plaintiff’s 2020 Ford Explorer. During the warranty period, the
Subject Vehicle contained or developed numerous defects that Defendant’s
authorized repair facility was unable to conform to warranty.
On August 29, 2023, Plaintiff served her first set of
Request for Production of Documents to Defendant Ford. (Powell Decl., ¶ 3; Ex.
A.) On October 3, 2023, Defendant Ford served its responses to Plaintiff’s
request, but the response were not verified. (Powell Decl., ¶ 4; Ex. B.) On
November 6, 2023, Ford served verifications. (Powell Decl., ¶ 6; Ex. D.)
Plaintiff contends the responses were insufficient.
The Court is not persuaded that counsel have exhausted
their meet and confer obligations pursuant to the Code. Counsel are advised
that their meet and confer efforts should go beyond merely sending letters
stating their respective positions. (See Townsend v. Superior Court (1998) 61
Cal.App.4th 1431, 1439.) “A determination of whether an attempt at informal
resolution is adequate…involves the exercise of discretion. The level of effort
at an informal resolution which satisfies the ‘reasonable and good faith
attempt’ standard depends upon the circumstances. In a larger, more complex
discovery request, a greater effort at informal resolution may be warranted. In
a simpler, or more narrowly focused case, a more modest effort may suffice. The
history of the litigation, the nature of the interaction between counsel, the
nature of the issues, the type and scope of the discovery requested, the
prospects for success and other similar factors can be relevant. Judges have
broad powers and responsibilities to determine what measures and procedures are
appropriate in varying circumstances.” (Obregon v. Sup. Ct. (1998) 67
Cal.App.4th 424, 431.)
Here, Defendant confirms that the meet and confer process
has consisted of only a series of letters sent between the parties. (Biemann
Decl., ¶ 4, Exs. D-F.) The Court finds that this is insufficient given the
number of outstanding discovery requests at issue in the instant motion. Moreover,
Defendant represents it will produce additional confidential documents after a
protective order is entered.  Ford’s
motion for a protective order is scheduled to be heard on August 29, 2024.  
Therefore, Counsel are ORDERED to make further efforts to
resolve the issues presented. If, after exhausting those efforts, court
intervention is needed, counsel may appear and argue the merits on the
continued hearing date. If counsel are unable to informally resolve their
discovery disputes, then counsel are instructed to submit a REVISED JOINT SEPARATE
STATEMENT with a detailed outline of the remaining disputed issues for which a
ruling is required. Counsel are also strongly advised to review the standing
CMC order issued in Department F for guidance on the manner to handle disputed
items. The revised joint separate statement must be FILED on or before September
23, 2024.  The joint statement should
reflect what documents, if any, have been produced by Ford following entry of a
protective order on August 29, 2024.  
 