 Case Number:  22NWCV00913    Hearing Date:   August 6, 2024    Dept:  C Lopez v. Subway Restaurants,
LLC 
CASE NO.: 22NWCV00913 
HEARING: August 6, 2024 @ 9:30 a.m. 
 
#2 
Tentative Ruling
Defendant Foldcraft Co.’s Motion to Strike is
DENIED in part and GRANTED in part with 20 days leave to amend as set forth
below.  
Defendant to give notice. 
 
Background
This product liability action was filed by Plaintiff Karina
Lopez (“Plaintiff”) against Defendants Subway Restaurants, LLC, EatFreash,LLC,
and Foldcraft Co. on September 8, 2022. On October 31, 2023, the operative
First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) was filed. 
The FAC alleges that “[o]n May 31, 2021, Plaintiff, a
pregnant young woman, was dining inside Defendants’ PREMISES, and unbeknownst
to Plaintiff, one of the chairs inside Defendants’ PREMISES was defective, and
as Plaintiff sat down on one of those chairs, the (‘CHAIR’) ‘collapsed’ and as
a result Plaintiff fell onto the hard floor. Plaintiff was injured as a result
of the traumatic incident.” (FAC ¶11.) Defendant Foldcraft Co. manufactured the
chair. The FAC asserts causes of action for (1) Strict Products Liability; (2)
Breach of Express and Implied Warranties; (3) Negligence based on Defective
Product; (4) Negligence and Premises Liability; and (5) Negligence Based on
Violation of OSHA Regulations.
Defendant Foldcraft Co. (“Foldcraft”) moves to strike
Plaintiff’s claims for punitive damages and all language related thereto;
Prayer for Attorney Fees; Prayer for restitution and disgorgement; Prayer for
consequential damages, Fourth Cause of Action for Negligence and Premises
Liability; Fifth Cause of Action for Negligence Based on Violation of OSHA
Standards; the portion of Plaintiff’s General Allegations and throughout the
FAC which states “Premises,” “subject Premises” or “premises of the subject
location; the portion of Plaintiff’s First Cause of Action on page 7, ¶ 22,
lines 5-6, which states “the Chair was owned and/or operated by Defendants in
their business establishment on a daily basis.”
In Opposition, Plaintiff argues that punitive damages are
permissible because Plaintiff has adequately alleged malice. Plaintiff also
contends that the motion to strike as to the fourth and fifth causes of action
acts a demurrer, which cannot occur after an answer. 
Judicial Notice 
Foldcraft seeks judicial notice of the deposition
transcript of Allan Boice, the Court GRANTS the request for judicial notice but
not for the truth asserted within the deposition transcript. (Richtek USA,
Inc. v. uPI Semiconductor Corp. (2015) 242 Cal.App.4th 651, 660-662.)
Legal Standard 
A motion to strike lies either when (1) there is
“irrelevant, false or improper matter inserted in any pleading”; or (2) to
strike any pleading or part thereof “not drawn or filed in conformity with the
laws of this state, a court rule or order of court.” (CCP §436.)
Discussion 
Punitive Damages 
Punitive damages must be pled with specificity. Plaintiff
must allege specific facts showing that the defendant’s conduct was oppressive,
fraudulent, or malicious. (Smith v. Sup. Ct. (1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 1033,
1041-42.) For corporations, the advance knowledge and conscious disregard, authorization,
ratification, or act of oppression, fraud, or malice must be on the part of an
officer, director, or managing agent of the corporation. (Cal. Civ. Code
§3294(b).) “In a personal injury action the notion of conscious disregard of
the safety of others logically may be substituted for that of disregard of the
rights of others… [C]onscious disregard of safety as an appropriate description
of the animus malus which may justify an exemplary damage award when
nondeliberate injury is alleged.” (G.D. Searle & Co. v. Sup. Ct.
(1975) 49 Cal.App.3d 22, 29.) 
In order to recover punitive damages, the act complained of
must not only be willful in the sense of intentional but must also be
accompanied by aggravated circumstances amounting to malice in fact. (Ebaugh
v. Rabkin (1972) 22 Cal.App.3d 891, 894.) There must be an intent to vex,
annoy, or injure. (Ibid.) Mere negligence, even gross negligence, is not
sufficient to justify an award of punitive damages. (Ibid.) “Consequently, to
establish malice, ‘it is not sufficient to show only that the defendant's
conduct was negligent, grossly negligent or even reckless.’" (Bell v.
Sharp Cabrillo Hosp. (1989) 212 Cal.App.3d 1034, 1044.) Carelessness,
characterized as negligence or recklessness, is not sufficient to support an
award of punitive damages. (Nolin v. Nat’l Convenience Stores, Inc.
(1979) 95 Cal.App.3d 279, 285-286.)
Foldcraft contends that Plaintiff fails to allege any facts
to show that it acted with the requisite level of malice necessary to maintain
the request for punitive damages.
In opposition, Plaintiff contends Foldcraft acted with a
conscious disregard of the safety of others. 
With respect to punitive damages, the FAC alleges that “[t]he
chair in question, which collapsed underneath plaintiff causing her injuries,
was manufactured in 2014. The incident occurred on May 31, 2021, 7 years later.)
(FAC ¶12.) “[T]he manufacturer's PMK, Allan Boice, testified in deposition that
he has heard of at least 50 instances of a chair of similar design and size to
the one that broke when plaintiff used it. 
All of these occurrences occurred prior to plaintiffs incident. All of
these prior incidents involved the same type of chair that broke in plaintiff's
case.” (FAC ¶ 3.) “The chair in question broke within 7 years of when it was
manufactured, and that is the formula used to determine the life of the chair
and its usefulness.” (FAC ¶14.) “In the 7 years from when the subject chair was
manufactured up until the date of the incident, the manufacturer never notified
Subway to return their chairs because they are breaking and they need to be
fixed.” (FAC ¶15.) Further, Foldcraft, when sending the requested chairs or
other furniture, sends paperwork to Subway headquarters to send to their
franchisees that the chair has a certain life. In addition they inform Subway
to notify their franchisees to provide them with a copy of the paperwork about
the product, its life, and its necessary maintenance.” (FAC ¶16.) “The
manufacturer was aware of the life of the chairs it sells to Subway, and per
the testimony of their employee Allan Boice, Foldcraft notified Subway of the
life of the chair and expected Subway corporate to notify its franchisees.”
(FAC ¶17.) 
On May 23, 2024, this Court overruled Defendants Eat Fresh,
LLC and Subway Restaurants, LLC’s motion to strike the punitive damages
allegations from the FAC.  Defendant Foldcraft
stands in a different position.  Foldcraft
sold the chair in question to Subway and the chair was in a Subway restaurant
when the incident occurred.  Moreover, according
to the FAC, Foldcraft notified and provided documentation to Subway about the
chair, its life, and maintenance, and Foldcraft expected Subway’s corporate
entity to notify its franchisees.  Given
such notice, Plaintiff fails to explain why Foldcraft had a duty to request
that the chairs be returned when the chair life expired.  The Court determines that punitive damages
are not plead with specificity as to Foldcraft. 

Accordingly, the motion to strike language relating to punitive
damages is GRANTED with 20 days leave to amend. 

Attorney’s Fees 
Foldcraft contends that attorney fees cannot be awarded because
Plaintiff has not cited a statue that would allow for attorney fees. 
However, CCP § 1794 allows buyers of consumer goods to
recover attorney’s fees if they prevail in an action for breach of an express
or implied warranty.  
Accordingly,
the motion to strike the prayer for attorney’s fees is DENIED. 
Restitution and Disgorgement Damages
Restitution is a remedy based upon the principle of unjust
enrichment. For the Plaintiff to bring a claim for restitution, the defendant
must have been unjustly enriched at the expense of the Plaintiff. (American
Master Lease LLC v. Idanta Partners, Ltd. (2014) 225 Cal.App.4th 1451, 1481.)
Disgorgement is a remedy broader than restitution or restoration of what the
plaintiff lost. (Id. at 1482.)
Foldcraft contends that Plaintiff has not alleged any
unjust enrichment in FAC. 
Plaintiff does not dispute this argument in her Opposition.

Accordingly, the motion to strike the prayer for restitution
and disgorgement damages is GRANTED with 20 days leave to amend.  
Consequential Damages 
Consequential damages are a type of civil damages that
result from breach of a contractual agreement. If special circumstances exist
that cause an unusual injury to a party beyond the directs acts of the
breaching party, those damages are considered consequential. (Brandon &
Tibbs v. George Kevorkian Accountancy Corp. (1990) 226 Cal.App.3d 442,
455-456.) To be recoverable, consequential damages must have been contemplated
at the time the parties entered into the contract. (Id. at 455-456.)
Foldcraft contends that Plaintiff did not have a
contractual agreement with Foldcraft and therefore this prayer should be
stricken.
Plaintiff does not dispute this argument in her Opposition.

Accordingly, the motion to strike the prayer for consequential
damages is GRANTED with 20 days leave to amend. 

Fourth Cause of Action for Negligence and Premises Liability and Fifth
Cause of Action for Negligence Based on Violation of OSHA Regulations
Foldcraft
contends that the Fourth and Fifth Causes of Action should be stricken as these
causes of action are not adequately plead. 
In
Opposition, Plaintiff contends that Foldcraft’s request to strike the fourth
and fifth causes of action is not a proper subject of this motion.  The Court agrees.  A claim that a cause of action fails to
allege facts sufficient to state a cause of action is improperly brought by way
of a motion to strike. (Ferraro v. Camarlinghi (2008) 161 Cal.App.4th
509, 529.)
Accordingly, the motion to strike the Fourth and Fifth
Causes of Action is DENIED.  
Use of the word “Premises”
Foldcraft contends that the FAC fails to specify the
location of the restaurant where the incident occurred.  However, this does not amount to an argument
that the word “premises” as used in the FAC is irrelevant, false, or improper.  If not already known, the location of the
restaurant can be ascertained through the discovery process.  
Accordingly, the motion to strike the word “premises” is DENIED.  
Language in the First Cause of Action for
Strict Liability
Foldcraft moves to strike certain language in the first
cause of action because Foldcraft did not own the chair in question or the
restaurant where the incident occurred.  However,
the grounds for a motion to strike must appear on the face of the pleading, or
from matter which the court may judicially notice. (CPF Agency Corp. v.
R&S Towing Service (2005) 132 Cal.App.4th 1014, 1032.  Foldcraft’s argument improperly relies upon
extrinsic evidence.
Accordingly, the motion to strike language in the first
cause of action is DENIED.
Use of the words “lethal” and “violent”
Foldcraft contends that the words “lethal” and “violent”
should be stricken because they are designed to support a claim for punitive
damages.  However, they are not used
exclusively for that purpose, and their use in the FAC is not improper.  
Accordingly, the motion to strike the words “lethal” and
“violent” is DENIED.
Compliance with CRC, Rule 2.112
Cal. Rule of Court, Rule 2.112 states in relevant part: “Each
separately stated cause of action, count, or defense must specifically state: (1)
Its number (e.g., "first cause of action"); (2)  Its nature
(e.g., "for fraud") …”
Foldcraft argues that the causes of action in the FAC, with
the exception of Strict Products Liability, should be pleaded separately.  However, Foldcraft provides no authority that
this issue is properly addressed in a motion to strike.  
Accordingly, the request is DENIED.  