  Case Number:  23STCV22369    Hearing Date:   September 26, 2024    Dept:  68 Dept.
68
Date:
9-26-24 a/f 1-14-25
Case
#: 23STCV22369
Trial
Date: 1-27-25
 
DISQUALIFY COUNSEL
 
MOVING
PARTY: Defendants, Sang Han, et al.
RESPONDING
PARTY: Plaintiff, Young Shim, et al.
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Motion
to Disqualify Counsel
 
SUMMARY
OF ACTION
Beginning
in an unspecified period of time, Defendants San Han and In Ran Kim aka Lulu
Kim engaged Plaintiffs Young Shim and Jung Kim for investment into a joint
restaurant venture. Plaintiffs provided $60,000, and allowed Defendants to
charge another $5,000 on a provided credit card. Plaintiffs demanded an
accounting of the funds, then a refund. Neither occurred.
 
On
September 15, 2023, Plaintiffs filed a complaint for (1) Breach Of Oral
Contract (2) Fraud (3) Breach Of Implied Covenant Of Good Faith And Fair
Dealings (4) Intentional Misrepresentation (5) Concealment (6) Negligent
Misrepresentation (7) Conspiracy To Defraud (8) Breach Of Fiduciary Duty and
(9) Constructive Fraud. On October 16, 2023, Defendants answered and filed a
cross-complaint against Shim and Kim for 1) Breach Of Oral Contract; 2) Failure
To Pay Earned Wages; and 3) Failure To Pay Minimum Wages And Liquidated Damages
For Willful Failure To Pay. 
 
On
January 3, 2024, the clerk entered defaults as to Defendants Lululala Organic
Juice & Salad Co. and Pho Lululala 1, Inc. 
 
RULING: Denied.
Evidentiary
Objections 
·        
Numbers
1: Overruled/Not Relied Upon
·        
Numbers
2-5: Overruled.
 
Defendants
Sang Han and In Kim (Lulu) move to disqualify counsel for Plaintiffs Young Shim
and Jung Kim, attorney Jay Hong. Defendants contend the motion was prompted
upon the realization that Defendants consulted with Hong on business matters
involving the formation of the business partnership now in litigation with
Plaintiffs. Attorney Hong subsequently filed the subject lawsuit on behalf of
Plaintiffs Shim and Kim against moving Defendants. 
 
Defendants
in opposition deny any evidentiary basis in support of the motion, including
proof of any attorney client relationship through proof of a retainer agreement
or any payments. Attorney Hong denies ever representing or consulting with Defendants
in any identified business entity associated with the subject case, but
concedes to representing an entity named Lululala USA Ventures, which was the
only named defendant in the lawsuit, and neither individual were parties to the
sanction. Plaintiffs maintain the motion being brought one year after filing
only serves to delay, harass, and force a more favorable settlement. 
 
The
court electronic filing system shows no reply on file at the time of the
tentative ruling publication cutoff.
 
(a) A lawyer shall not, without informed written
consent from each client and compliance with paragraph (d), represent a client
if the representation is directly adverse to another client in the same or a
separate matter.
(b) A lawyer shall not, without informed written
consent from each affected client and compliance with paragraph (d), represent
a client if there is a significant risk the lawyer's representation of the
client will be materially limited by the lawyer's responsibilities to or
relationships with another client, a former client or a third person, or by the
lawyer's own interests.
(c) Even when a significant risk requiring a lawyer to
comply with paragraph (b) is not present, a lawyer shall not represent a client
without written disclosure of the relationship to the client and compliance
with paragraph (d) where:
(1) the lawyer has, or knows that another lawyer in the
lawyer's firm has, a legal, business, financial, professional, or personal
relationship with or responsibility to a party or witness in the same matter;
or
(2) the lawyer knows or reasonably should know that another
party's lawyer is a spouse, parent, child, or sibling of the lawyer, lives with
the lawyer, is a client of the lawyer or another lawyer in the lawyer's firm,
or has an intimate personal relationship with the lawyer.
(d) Representation is permitted under
this rule only if the lawyer complies with paragraphs (a), (b), and
(c), and:
(1) the lawyer reasonably believes that the lawyer will be
able to provide competent and diligent representation to each affected client;
(2) the representation is not prohibited by law; and
(3) the representation does not involve the assertion of a
claim by one client against another client represented by the lawyer in the
same litigation or other proceeding before a tribunal.
(e) For purposes of this rule, “matter” includes
any judicial or other proceeding, application, request for
a ruling or other determination, contract, transaction, claim,
controversy, investigation, charge, accusation, arrest, or other deliberation,
decision, or action that is focused on the interests of specific persons, or a
discrete and identifiable class of persons.
 
(Cal. Rules Professional Conduct, rule 1.7.)
 
(a) A lawyer who has formerly represented a client in a
matter shall not thereafter represent another person in the same or a
substantially related matter in which that person’s interests are materially
adverse to the interests of the former client unless the former client gives
informed written consent. 
(b) A lawyer shall not knowingly represent a person in the
same or a substantially related matter in which a firm with which the lawyer
formerly was associated had previously represented a client (1) whose interests
are materially adverse to that person; and (2) about whom the lawyer had
acquired information protected by Business and Professions Code section 6068,
subdivision (e) and rules 1.6 and 1.9(c) that is material to the matter; unless
the former client gives informed written consent. 
(c) A lawyer who has formerly represented a client in a
matter or whose present or former firm has formerly represented a client in a
matter shall not thereafter: (1) use information protected by Business and
Professions Code section 6068, subdivision (e) and rule 1.6 acquired by virtue
of the representation of the former client to the disadvantage of the former
client except as these rules or the State Bar Act would permit with respect to
a current client, or when the information has become generally known; or (2)
reveal information protected by Business and Professions Code section 6068,
subdivision (e) and rule 1.6 acquired by virtue of the representation of the
former client except as these rules or the State Bar Act permit with respect to
a current client.
 
Cal. Rules of Professional Conduct, rule 1.9
 
“Motions to
disqualify counsel present competing policy considerations. On the one hand, a court
must not hesitate to disqualify an attorney when it is satisfactorily
established that he or she wrongfully acquired an unfair advantage that
undermines the integrity of the judicial process and will have a continuing
effect on the proceedings before the court. On the other hand, it must be kept in mind that
disqualification usually imposes a substantial hardship on the disqualified
attorney's innocent client, who must bear the monetary and other costs of
finding a replacement…” (Gregori v. Bank of America (1989) 207 Cal.App.3d 291, 300.)
 
“‘[D]isqualification
is proper as a prophylactic measure to prevent future prejudice to the opposing
party from information the attorney should not have possessed’; an affirmative
showing of existing injury from the misuse of privileged information is not
required. (Citation.) A trial court, however, may not order
disqualification ‘“simply to punish a dereliction that will likely have no
substantial continuing effect on future judicial proceedings.”’” (McDermott Will & Emery LLP v. Superior
Court (2017) 10 Cal.App.5th 1083, 1120.)
 
“Where the potential conflict is one that arises from the
successive representation of clients with potentially adverse interests, the
courts have recognized that the chief fiduciary value jeopardized is that of
client confidentiality. Thus, where a former client seeks to have a previous
attorney disqualified from serving as counsel to a successive client in
litigation adverse to the interests of the first client, the governing test
requires that the client demonstrate a “substantial relationship” between the
subjects of the antecedent and current representations.” (Flatt v. Superior
Court (1994) 9 Cal.4th 275, 283.) 
 
In ruling on a motion for
disqualification, the court must first determine the existence of any (former)
attorney client relationship or even the transmission of confidential
information thereby prejudicing the now adverse party. (People ex
rel. Dept. of Corporations v. SpeeDee Oil Change Systems, Inc. (1999) 20
Cal.4th 1135, 1148 [“An attorney represents a client—for purposes of a conflict
of interest analysis—when the attorney knowingly obtains material confidential
information from the client and renders legal advice or services as a result”];
Jessen v. Hartford Casualty Ins. Co., supra, 111 Cal.App.4th at pp. 707-709 [“We
agree that the question whether an attorney should be disqualified in a
successive representation case turns on two variables: (1) the relationship
between the legal problem involved in the former representation and the legal
problem involved in the current representation, and (2) the relationship
between the attorney and the former client with respect to the legal problem
involved in the former representation”].)
 
“The ‘substantial
relationship’ test mediates between two interests that are in tension in such a
context—the freedom of the subsequent client to counsel of choice, on the one
hand, and the interest of the former client in ensuring the permanent
confidentiality of matters disclosed to the attorney in the course of the prior
representation, on the other. Where the requisite substantial relationship
between the subjects of the prior and the current representations can be
demonstrated, access to confidential information by the attorney in the course
of the first representation (relevant, by definition, to the second
representation) is presumed and disqualification of the attorney's representation of
the second client is mandatory.” (Ibid.)
 
The admitted existence of a former attorney client
relationship and consultations allows for a finding of a substantial
relationship and therefore a presumption of confidential information possessed
by former counsel. Still, the confidential information must actually be
material to the instant dispute in order to reflect the policy against abusive
use through this tactic. (H. F. Ahmanson & Co. v. Salomon Brothers, Inc.
(1991) 229 Cal.App.3d 1445, 1452-1454; Jessen v. Hartford Casualty Ins. Co.
(2003) 111 Cal.App.4th 698, 708-709.)
 
In assessing whether there is a “substantial relationship”
between two matters, courts “should ‘focus on the similarities between the two
factual situations, the legal questions posed, and the nature and extent of the
attorney's involvement with the cases.’” (H.F. Ahmanson & Co. v. Salomon
Brothers, Inc., supra, 229 Cal.App.3d at p. 1455.) “The current
matter is substantially related to the earlier matter if: [¶] (1) the current
matter involves the work the lawyer performed for the former client; or [¶] (2)
there is a substantial risk that representation of the present client will
involve the use of information acquired in the course of representing the
former client, unless that information has become generally known.” (Rest.3d
Law Governing Lawyers, § 132.) (Acacia Patent Acquisition, LLC v. Superior
Court (2015) 234 Cal.App.4th 1091, 1097–1098.)
 
Defendants
first represent retaining Hong as “general counsel” on business matters, but
only identifies an unrelated business entity identified as Sushi Eyaki. Defendants
later consulted Hong on (defaulted Defendant) Lululala Organic Juice, but
Defendants elected not retain Hong in any business matters regarding the
partnership or operations. Defendants met with Hong professionally a third time
to address potential issues regarding non-party Lulune Restaurant, but no
representation of any retainer agreement appears. Finally, Defendants retained
Hong (a second time) for defense in an unrelated employment case involving
Lululala Ventures, Inc. Defendants instead maintain disclosing their personal
financial information in the process of both the retained work on the unrelated
entity, and discussions regarding Lulune Restaurant and Lululala Organic Juice rendered
Hong privy to Defendants’ personal financial information. There is no
indication of concurrent representation by Hong thereby supporting the
automatic disqualification standard presented in the motion. (See Flatt v.
Superior Court, supra, 9 Cal.4th at p. 286.)
 
The
declaration of Lulu Kim in support of the represented interactions includes
three different, undated and unexecuted retainer agreements. [Declaration of
Lulu Kim, Ex. B-D.] The first one lists “general counsel” services. The second
for representation regards Lululala USA Ventures and third parties Robert
Daniel and Christina Kim. The third addresses a partnership agreement for
Lululala Organic Juice & Sale Co., though Lulu admits that no such
agreement was ever executed. The remainder of the declaration consists of SMS
communications in a foreign language with translation of the sections. [Id.,
Ex. E.] The messages lack specific reference to any case, and no relationship
between the parties appears other than Hong apparently assisting Defendants in
some form of collection action/activities brought against Defendants. [Ibid.]
 
Hong
denies representing or providing consultations to any named defendant or entity
involved in the subject action. An offer of services was made on the subject
items presented in the Lulu Kim declaration, but no agreements were ever executed,
and Hong never received any retainer payment as required under the terms of
each and every agreement. Hong only admits to representing Lululala USA
Ventures. [Declaration of Jay Hong, Ex. 5.] The opposition also contains
witness declarations purportedly describing the actual meetings with Lulu Kim
and Hong, whereby no confidential information was disclosed in contradiction to
the Lulu Kim declaration. [Declarations of Cheol Kim & Je Lee.] Plaintiffs
Young Shim and Jung Kim deny any involvement with investing in the Organic Juice
& Salad Co. entity in any way. Shim was only involved with Lulune, Inc.
[Declarations of Young Shim and Jung Kim.]
 
The
parties present conflicting accounts regarding the scope of any consultation
and representation. Defendants even admit to the lack of retention on at least
certain items, and submit no proof of payment on any agreement. Hong maintains
no provision of services without payment upfront. The court finds no
establishment of any attorney client relationship via retainer agreement from
the unexecuted, undated documents, with the exception of the mutually agreed
upon Lululala USA Ventures activities (see below). 
 
The
declarations of third party witnesses Cheol Kim and Je Lee, regarding their
presence and circumstances of the alleged meeting regarding formation of the
partnership agreement also undermines any proof of the exchange of material
information within the confidential confines of the attorney client privilege
bubble. In other words, any information conveyed with third parties present in
no way supports the reliance on the transmission of confidential, material
information. Plaintiffs otherwise establish a lack of familiarity with any related
entities thereby disassociating themselves from any basis of conflict arising
from a material advantage on prior representation. [See Declarations of Youn
Shim and Jung Kim.]
 
Defendants
implicitly acknowledge their lack of evidence regarding the retainer agreements,
and instead alternatively rely on nebulous circumstances regarding established
contact and “consultation” with Hong, thereby leading to the drafting of a
retainer agreement. Defendants’ disclosure of personal financial problems
constitutes the material basis for material advantage to Plaintiffs. The
circumstances regarding Lululala USA Ventures supports consideration of this
position. 
 
Hong
agrees on the claim of representation as to defense of the Lululala USA
Ventures. It’s not clear whether this action was also the one referenced in the
SMS text message exchange (e.g. the collection matter). Defense in a collection
matter presumably included consideration of the Defendants’ financial circumstances.
The court finds Hong therefore became privy to at least some of Defendants’
financial information, which supports consideration of the substantial
relationship test for purposes of considering unfair advantage. 
 
On “substantial risk that representation of the present
client will involve the use of information acquired in the course of
representing the former client, unless that information has become generally
known,” Defendants present limited discussion on the actual impact of Hong’s
imputed awareness of Defendants’ financial condition presumably acquired during
said representation. (Acacia Patent Acquisition, LLC v. Superior Court, supra,
234 Cal.App.4th at pp. 1097–1098.) The most substantive factual address of the
standard comes from the Declaration of Lulu Kim, whereby it is represented that
Hong’s knowledge of Defendants’ financial situation provides advantage in that
Hong would be more readily available to determine how to personally collect on
a potential judgment against Defendants. [Lulu Kim Decl., ¶ 11.] 
 
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendants present certain responses to
Special Interrogatories regarding the cross-complaint allegations. The
responses to the majority of the 35 items consist of objections without further
facts. A small number of responses provide limited description of the terms of
the agreement, basis of certain costs and operations, and additional statement
that bad credit by all parties except for Defendant Han led to entrustment of
CEO to Han. [Responses to Special Interrogatory numbers 3, 7, 10, 11.] Lulu Kim
also offers responses to the wage and hour claim. [Id., numbers 25, 27.]
Objections constitute all responses to the requests for production of
documents. 
 
The subject action clearly and specifically alleges
Defendants’ mishandling of funds for a joint investment. In identifying Han as
the CEO on the basis of personal good credit, an argument can be made that
Defendants/Cross-Complainants voluntarily introduced the potential for piercing
any potential corporate veil. Use of personal credit as opposed to an
established, separate business entity suggests personal business operations
thereby rendering an individual subject to judgment. 
 
Even without the subject response, however, should Plaintiffs
prevail, the court assumes Plaintiffs will seek valid means for recovery of their
damages from the missing investment funds. Plaintiffs, if necessary, will become
entitled to conduct discovery into the assets and financial position of
Defendants. It’s entirely possible the proposed depositions of Defendants,
which Plaintiffs maintain prompted the subject motion to disqualify would delve
into business operations beyond the parties’ transactions. 
 
Given the extensive fraud and breach of fiduciary based
causes of action, Plaintiffs’ can rightfully examine potential uses of the
funds for outside, unrelated activities. Barring an absolute ability to prevent
disclosure under a potential personal financial privilege objection, an
argument can be made that any later discovered financial information within the
confines of the instant action will render the subject personal information
part of the “generally known” universe of facts. In other words, the information
becomes generally known, and any confidential, material advantage dissipates. 
 
The court however cannot ex post facto certify no prejudice
on later discovered information. Retrospective dismissal of potential advantage
(e.g. denial of the motion and allowing the deposition to proceed) undermines the
purpose of the disqualification rules. The court must consider the impact
before allowing such discovery.
 
The circumstances of the subject action lead to a conclusion
of no apparent material advantage in conducting basic, general personal and
business entity financial discovery for potential judgment collection efforts. Barring
a complex and elaborate set of financial transactions, which is nowhere
supported in the motion, future potential judgment collection in this action in
no way presents concern of unfair advantage simply based on previously
disclosed information in defense of a prior collection action. Plaintiffs are
entitled to conduct discovery. Nothing in any defense to a collection action
indicates precise, exact and compromising knowledge of the current state of
Defendants/Cross-Complainants financial activities following said prior
representation. The court therefore finds no support for the element of the
substantial factor test regarding “work the lawyer performed for the former
client” materially impacting the subject case in any way.
 
The motion appearing on the eve of potential discovery into
such matters and with the trial date approximately four months away from this
hearing, the court finds the motion was potentially prompted by collateral
purpose rather than material support for unfair advantage. The motion is
therefore DENIED in its entirety.
 
The order denying the motion is directly appealable. (Apple Computer, Inc. v. Superior Court (2005)
126 Cal.App.4th 1253, 1263-1264.) The court can stay the action for a limited
period of time, if Defendant wishes to appeal. “A petition for extraordinary
relief on the merits accompanied by a request for an immediate stay is
preferable, because generally extraordinary writs are determined more speedily
than appeals. The specter of disqualification of counsel should not be allowed
to hover over the proceedings for an extended period of time for an appeal.” (Reed v. Superior Court (2001) 92
Cal.App.4th 448, 455.) 
 
Trial remains set for January 27, 2025, pending any stay and
review of the writ.
 
Defendants to give notice. 
 