 Case Number:  23STCV24029    Hearing Date:   September 26, 2024    Dept:  68 Dept.
68
Date:
9-26-24 c/f 8-28-24
Case
#23STCV24029 (related to lead case 22STCV38443
Trial
Date: 1-27-25
 
LEAVE TO AMEND
 
MOVING
PARTY: Plaintiff, Limelight International, Ltd., et al. 
RESPONDING
PARTY: Defendant, D. Masin Consulting, LLC
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Motion
for Leave to File a Verified Second Amended Complaint
 
SUMMARY
OF ACTION
Plaintiff
Limelight International Ltd., (Limelight) a Hong Kong based company authorized
to conduct business in California alleges an unspecified defaulted balance owed
by defendant RLoom LLC (RLoom) in 2022. On February 8, 2023, RLoom and
defendant D. Masin Consulting, LLC (D. Masin) executed a “General Assignment
for the Benefit of All Creditors,” whereby all assets were subject to
liquidation for payment of outstanding debts. Also on February 8, 2022, D.
Masin and RLoom Design Corp. aka Newstyle Fashion Inc. also entered into an
“Asset Purchase Agreement, whereby said assets were assigned by RLoom to D.
Masin were sold to Newstyle for $365,000. Limelight maintains an asset value of
at least $9,000,000, including its claimed outstanding debt.
 
On
October 3, 2023, Plaintiff filed its complaint for Malicious Prosecution,
Breach of Fiduciary Duty, Fraudulent Conveyance, Successor Liability, Aiding
and Abetting Breach of Fiduciary Duty, and Conspiracy to Fraudulently Transfer
Property. Following certain defendants answer to the complaint, the parties
stipulated to the filing of a first amended complaint. The first amended
complaint filed on January 3, 2024, alleges Malicious Prosecution, Breach of
Fiduciary Duty, Fraudulent Conveyance, Successor Liability, Aiding and Abetting
Breach of Fiduciary Duty, and Conspiracy to Fraudulently Transfer Property. On
January 3, 2024, Plaintiff dismissed the first cause of action for Malicious
Prosecution. 
 
On
February 20, 2024, the court overruled the demurrer to the first amended
complaint. Defendants answered the first amended complaint on March 1, 2024. 
 
RULING: Denied.
Evidentiary
Objections: Overruled/Not Relied Upon for the Content of Any Matter Asserted
 
Plaintiff, Limelight International, Ltd., et al. moves for
leave to file a verified second amended complaint in order to add attorneys and
law firms, Jeffrey Golden, Golden Goodrich, LLP, (Golden), Michael Baum, and
Resch Polster & Berger, LLP (Baum), as defendants, and four new causes of
action for actual fraud against Luo, Aiding and Abetting Breach of Fiduciary
Duty (in addition to the fourth cause of action), Conspiracy to Defraud,
Violation of 18 USC 1962(c), and Violation of 18 USC 1962(c) against D. Masin,
RLoom, the proposed attorney defendants, and new defendants Fu, Choi Krisier,
and Bluewater.
 
Defendants Luo and D. Masin submitted separate oppositions.
Luo (represented by the Baum attorneys) contends the motion lacks merit, and
constitutes a veiled effort to delay the trial, disrupt the attorney client
relationships, and exert greater collateral efforts to collect. Luo maintains
no exemption under Code of Civil Procedure section 1714.10 applies, and the
motion lacks admissible evidence. D. Masin (represented by the Golden lawyers)
also maintains the motion only comes as a means to force a settlement, lack of
legal support and evidence, and challenges of the causes of action themselves.
 
Defendant Rosenthal & Rosenthal of California, Inc.
filed a “limited joinder” to the oppositions and evidentiary objections. 
 
Plaintiff in reply to D. Masin challenges the legal standard
set forth in the opposition, and states Defendant presents premature and
improper arguments. Plaintiff reiterates the propriety of the proposed causes
of action, including the sufficiency of the proposed new causes of action.
Plaintiff challenges the standing and privilege and agent immunity arguments as
invalid defenses to the subject motion. Plaintiff in reply to Luo states the
opposition challenges the legal standard set forth in the opposition, and
Defendant presents premature and improper arguments. Plaintiff reiterates the
propriety of the proposed causes of action, including the sufficiency of the
proposed new causes of action. Plaintiff challenges the litigation privileges,
and privilege and agent immunity arguments as invalid defenses to the subject
motion.
 
A
conventional motion for leave to amend must comply with the requirements set
forth in California Rules of Court Rule 3.1324, which states as follows:
 
“(a)      Contents of motion
A
motion to amend a pleading before trial must:
(1)              
Include a copy of the proposed amendment or amended
pleading, which must be serially numbered to differentiate it from previous
pleadings or amendments;
(2)              
State what allegations in the previous pleading are
proposed to be deleted, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number,
the deleted allegations are located; and 
(3)              
State what allegations are proposed to be added to the
previous pleading, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the
additional allegations are located.
 
(b)        Supporting declaration
A
separate declaration must accompany the motion and must specify:
(1)        The effect of the amendment;
(2)        Why the amendment is necessary and
proper;
(3)        When the facts giving
rise to the amended allegations were discovered; and 
(4)              
The reasons why the request for amendment was not made 
earlier…” (emphasis added).
 
Dilatory delays and prejudice to the opposing parties is a
valid ground for denial. (Hirsa v.
Superior Court (1981) 118 Cal.App.3d 486, 490.)  Prejudice exists where the amendment would
require delaying the trial, resulting in loss of critical evidence, or added
costs of preparation such as an increased burden of discovery. (Magpali v. Farmers Group, Inc. (1996) 48
Cal.App.4th 471, 486-488.) 
 
Leave to amend is generally liberally granted. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 473(a); Mesler v. Bragg
Management Co. (1985) 39 Cal.3d 290, 296.) The court will not generally
consider the validity of the proposed amended pleading in ruling on a motion
for leave, instead deferring such determinations for a demurrer or motion to
strike, unless the proposed amendment fails to state a valid claim as a matter
of law. (Kittredge Sports Co. v. Sup.Ct. (Marker, U.S.A.) (1989) 213
Cal. App.3d 1045, 1048; California
Casualty Gen. Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (1985) 173 Cal.App.3d 274, 280–281
disapproved of on other grounds by
Kransco v. American Empire Surplus Lines Ins. Co. (2000) 23 Cal.4th 390.) 
 
The motion itself offers minimal articulation of the four
additional causes of action, only substantially references the legal defendants
and Luo, and omits any specific articulation of the proposed new defendants,
such as Bluewater, Krisier, Choi, and Fu. The court in fact was only able to identify
the parties and causes of action through reference to the second of the two
proposed second amended complaint attachments. [Ex. B.]
 
Notwithstanding, Plaintiffs represent only discovering the “facts”
supporting the proposed amendments in March 2024, following further discovery
into the case after successfully opposing the demurrers. Plaintiffs also deny
any prejudice in that all proposed parties are familiar with the action and the
proposed claims adds no new complexity or preparation requirements. While a
normal motion for leave allows for a lighter level of review, the vast majority
of the motion appears exclusively dedicated the attorney defendants, and the
attempt to name attorneys in conspiracy claims requires review under Civil Code
section 1714.10.
 
a) No cause of action against an attorney for a civil
conspiracy with his or her client arising from any attempt to contest or
compromise a claim or dispute, and which is based upon the attorney's
representation of the client, shall be included in a complaint or other
pleading unless the court enters an order allowing the pleading that includes
the claim for civil conspiracy to be filed after the court determines that the
party seeking to file the pleading has established that there is a reasonable
probability that the party will prevail in the action. The court may allow the
filing of a pleading claiming liability based upon such a civil conspiracy
following the filing of a verified petition therefor accompanied by the
proposed pleading and supporting affidavits stating the facts upon which the
liability is based. The court shall order service of the petition upon the
party against whom the action is proposed to be filed and permit that party to
submit opposing affidavits prior to making its determination. The filing of the
petition, proposed pleading, and accompanying affidavits shall toll the running
of any applicable statute of limitations until the final determination of the
matter, which ruling, if favorable to the petitioning party, shall permit the proposed
pleading to be filed.
...
(c) This section shall not apply to a cause of action
against an attorney for a civil conspiracy with his or her client, where (1)
the attorney has an independent legal duty to the plaintiff, or (2) the
attorney's acts go beyond the performance of a professional duty to serve the
client and involve a conspiracy to violate a legal duty in furtherance of the
attorney's financial gain.
 
Civ. Code, § 1714.10
 
Plaintiff specifically maintains Civil Code section 1714.10
is inapplicable, in that aiding and abetting in the seventh cause of action
constitutes a separate and distinct claim from conspiracy, and the conspiracy
cause of action falls within the exemptions in subdivision (c). On the RICO
claims, Plaintiff contends exemption under subdivision (c) as well based on
both personal financial gain, as well as the claims in fraud. Even if none of
the claims are exempt, Plaintiff establishes a probability of prevailing,
thereby supporting leave under the standard. 
 
“A defendant is liable for aiding and abetting another in
the commission of an intentional tort, including a breach of fiduciary duty, if
the defendant ‘knows the other's conduct constitutes a breach of duty and gives
substantial assistance or encouragement to the other to so act.’” (Citation.)
The elements of a claim for aiding and abetting a breach of fiduciary duty are:
(1) a third party's breach of fiduciary duties owed to plaintiff; (2)
defendant's actual knowledge of that breach of fiduciary duties; (3)
substantial assistance or encouragement by defendant to the third party's
breach; and (4) defendant's conduct was a substantial factor in causing harm to
plaintiff.” (Nasrawi v. Buck Consultants LLC (2014) 231 Cal.App.4th 328,
343 [internal quotation marks omitted].)
 
“‘California
courts have long held that liability for aiding and abetting depends on proof
the defendant had actual knowledge of the specific primary wrong the defendant
substantially assisted. In Lomita Land & Water Co. v.
Robinson (1908) 154 Cal. 36 [97 P. 10] ..., the California Supreme Court explained this
requirement in the course of affirming a judgment against two defendants for
aiding and abetting a fraudulent land sale scheme engineered by two others. The
court stated, “The words ‘aid and abet’ as thus used have a well understood
meaning, and may fairly be construed to imply an intentional participation with knowledge of the object to be attained.” [Citation.]’ (Citation.) A
defendant who acts with actual knowledge of the intentional wrong to be
committed and provides substantial assistance to the primary wrongdoer is not
an accidental participant in the enterprise.” (Upasani v. State Farm General Ins. Co. (2014) 227
Cal.App.4th 509, 519.) 
 
“Liability may
also be imposed on one who aids and abets the commission of an intentional tort
if the person (a) knows the other's conduct constitutes a breach of duty and
gives substantial assistance or encouragement to the other to so act or (b)
gives substantial assistance to the other in accomplishing a tortious result
and the person's own conduct, separately considered, constitutes a breach of
duty to the third person.” (Saunders v. Superior Court (1994) 27 Cal.App.4th 832, 846; Schulz v. Neovi
Data Corp. (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 86, 95.) “‘Mere
knowledge that a tort is being committed and the failure to prevent it does not
constitute aiding and abetting. [Citation.] ‘As a general rule, one owes no
duty to control the conduct of another...’” (Austin B. v. Escondido Union
School Dist. (2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 860, 879.)
 
Plaintiff essentially relies on the court ruling overruling
the demurrer of Rosenthal & Rosenthal to the fifth cause of action for
aiding and abetting breach of fiduciary duty applies to the attorney defendants
based on the pled elements for the claim and declaration of counsel. The
holding was narrowly and specifically based on the finding that Rosenthal &
Rosenthal in its role as a financial participant in the underlying course of
conduct owed a fiduciary duty to Plaintiff via its factoring agreement with RLoom.
[First Amend. Comp., ¶ 56.] The pled
allegations regarding approval of the underlying asset transfer by Rosenthal
& by RLoom D. Masin, RLoom Design Corp. aka Newstyle Fashion Inc.,
as well as knowledge of the violation of the fiduciary relationship between
Limelight, Rloom and D. Masin subjected Rosenthal & Rosenthal to remain in
the action for purposes of the fifth cause of action in the first amended
complaint. Plaintiff now seeks to expand said fiduciary basis into full blown
conspiracy and criminal enterprise RICO level claims through effectively
grafting onto the aiding and abetting claim as to anyone and everyone
associated with the transaction. 
 
While the court found the no direct basis of fiduciary
between Rosenthal & Rosenthal and Plaintiff, the aiding and abetting
requirements were sufficiently pled for purposes of the demurrer. The
distinctions relied upon in a financial agreement capacity were purely based on
the pled elements. The motion for leave to file against an attorney requires
consideration of the fundamental basis for requiring leave: a finding that the
conduct of counsel constituted a participatory action in underlying wrongful
conduct. The fiduciary exception between aiding and abetting and conspiracy created
in California case law may be pled by a party without challenge to the
substance of the claim during a demurrer. Courts considering the actual
question of conspiracy versus aiding and abetting against counsel to a
party(ies) under Civil Code section 1714.10, however, categorically and
unequivocally requires review under the statute. (Howard v. Superior Court
(1992) 2 Cal.App.4th 745, 749; see Berg & Berg Enterprises, LLC v. Sherwood
Partners, Inc. (2005) 131 Cal.App.4th 802, 823 (footnote 10).)
 
Plaintiff concedes to the application of Civil Code section
1714.10 for purposes of determining the exemption on the eighth, ninth and
tenth causes of action. The court considers the evidentiary showing requirement
for all proposed new causes of action. 
 
Plaintiff relies on the position that the proposed attorney
defendants knowingly and actively participated in the scheme to transfer assets
of the client without proper disclosure or fair consideration thereby breaching
a fiduciary duty. Plaintiff also maintains counsel owed an independent duty to
the third parties in advising D. Masin to make false and misleading statements
to creditors, which benefitted the attorney defendants own financial gain. Plaintiff
submits the allegations in the proposed verified second amended complaint, as
well as declaration from attorney Alexander Haberbush and Lane Bogard, as
Catherine Yan, president of Plaintiff Limelight International Ltd. in support.
 
The declaration of attorney Haberbush represents that as
discovery proceeded, Plaintiff received “confidential documents” from Rosenthal
and Rosenthal, non-privileged production from D. Masin, and responses to
Interrogatories from RLoom. The declaration contains no additional information
as to the content, and instead denotes said responses were incorporated into
the proposed second amended complaint. Attorney Bogard reiterates the discovery
responses and specifically identifies receipt of the “Asset Purchase
Agreement,” which is perhaps the same “confidential” document described by
Haberbush. Bogard discovered that both Baum and the Golden lawyers represented
D. Masin. Finally, the declaration of Yan offers a narrative of the events to
transfer assets, to which the attorneys apparently facilitated. 
 
The proposed verified second amended complaint adds
extensive allegations regarding an elaborate fraud scheme by Defendants Luo and
D. Masin. Rosenthal and Rosenthal became involved in said plan via their
factoring work, and the proposed attorney defendants are named due to
representation of their clients. The dozens of proposed new paragraphs and
declarations lack any actual specific articulation establishing a basis of duty
by any proposed attorney defendant to Plaintiff, or attorney client in any way
engaging in the alleged conspiracy for personal monetary gain. Again, the
successfully pled aiding and abetting standard for D. Masin in no way
automatically establishes a next level of liability to counsel and
co-defendants without an underlying foundation for liability, such as supported
conspiracy and/or RICO claim. 
 
The court finds no support for any alleged fiduciary duty
owed by D. Masin to the creditors as somehow extending to any attorney
representing any defendant. Luo engaging in an alleged plan to expand and
enrich business with the assistance of counsel in their role representing Luo
in certain aspects of said business transactions, will not equate to a
conspiracy. The declarations Haberbush, Bogard, and Yan, and proposed second
amended complaint only offer conclusions apparently based on discovery of the
Asset Purchase Agreement. The mere existence of the agreement in no way
presents sufficient evidentiary support for the proposed incredible expansion
of the subject litigation. The agreement, motion and declarations in no way
overcomes the public policy protections put in place to protect against naming
counsel in both conspiracy and the even higher threshold claim of RICO
violations, which requires a criminal enterprise level of proof, for any and
all claims involving assistance with client business transactions. (18 U.S.C. § 1962, et seq.; 18 USC; Schreiber Distributing Co. v. Serv-Well Furniture Co., Inc. (9th Cir. 1986) 806 F.2d 1393, 1400-1401.) Again, the
agreement is not evidence of illegal conduct or knowing furtherance of wrongful
conduct. The court therefore finds no basis for the exemption. 
 
While Plaintiffs overcame the bar as to Rosenthal and
Rosenthal, a financial institution, based on a single unique exception within
aiding and abetting law found in California common law, such principles lack
support for further extension under the standards required for attorney
conspiracy liability. The addition of the new defendants would also present
extreme prejudice, especially with trial four (4) months and one (1) day away
from the subject hearing.
 
In addition to the lack of support for any and all of the
proposed attorney defendants, the court finds the lack of specific address for
all of the new defendants and proposed new claims. Given the lack of support
and the rule against considering the legal merits of proposed causes of action
barring a showing readily determined as a matter of law under the liberal
review standard for leave to amend, the court declines to consider the legal
challenges presented in opposition as to the fraud cause of action. 
 
Regardless, the court still finds no basis of support for
the conspiracy and RICO causes of action due to dependence on the attorney
defendants. Such a finding also undermines the unaddressed non-attorney
parties. Even if the court considered the non-attorney defendants and new
claims however, the second amended verified complaint prevents any parsing out
of the proposed invalid claims, thereby allowing any form of an amended
pleading to proceed. 
 
Finally, the court finds the addition of the new parties
would significantly prejudice all parties to the action, especially with the
trial date and cutoffs approximately three to four months from the subject
hearing. The court rejects the entire proposed pleading and declines to
consider any potential further revised complaint should Plaintiffs make such a
request at oral argument. Plaintiffs were required to submit a complete
proposed complaint. The material prejudice presented by the subject motion in
no way invites further facilitation from the court for further delay regardless
of the alleged discovery of the single “Asset Purchase Agreement” document.
 
The motion for leave to add in the new attorney defendants,
the new defendants, and the new causes of action is DENIED in its entirety.
 
Three motions to compel further responses to document
demands scheduled for October 30, 31, and December 5, 2024. The court may set
an expedited hearing of OSC re: Appointment of Referee based on the volume of
the content presented in the motions, and potential future efforts to
enormously expand the scope of the claims and exponentially increase
discovery—all with the impending trial date less than four months from trial.
The court will not consider any ex parte applications to advance any and all
hearings of the proposed motions. The parties may stipulate to a discovery
referee.
 
Plaintiff to give notice to all parties.
 