 Case Number:  23STCV24250    Hearing Date:   September 26, 2024    Dept:  68 Dept.
68
Date:
 9-26-24 a/f 11-6-24
Case:
23STCV24250
Trial
Date: Not Set
 
DEMURRER TO THE FIRST COMPLAINT
 
MOVING
PARTY: Defendant, Allianz Life Insurance Company of North America
RESPONDING
PARTY: Plaintiffs, Layne Kramer, et al.
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Demurrer
to the First Amended Complaint
·        
2nd
Cause of Action: Breach of Fiduciary Duty
·        
3rd
Cause of Action: Professional Negligence
 
Motion
to Strike
                              
SUMMARY
OF ACTION
On
an unspecified date, but sometime after November 2012 and presumably before
November 2018, plaintiffs Layne Kramer, et al. invested in two annuity
contracts provided by defendant Allianz Life Insurance Company of North
America. The annuities were acquired with inheritance money following the
passing of Layne Kramer’s father. Layne sought a source of income for the care
of her elderly, ill mother. The transaction was arranged/brokered by insurance
agent defendant David Neuman. 
 
Again,
presumably following the purchase of the annuities, Neuman was convicted on one
count of felony embezzlement, and his insurance license revoked on November 13,
2018. A new agent was assigned by Allianz to Plaintiffs’ account. Notwithstanding
the termination of any relationship between Neuman and Allianz, Neuman, as a
continuing authorized agent on the account, was subsequently able to arrange
for the disbursement of $330,000 from the annuities for personal use. Plaintiffs
allege Allianz neither informed Plaintiffs of the prior conviction and loss of
license by Neuman, nor properly inquired on the requested disbursements by
Neuman. 
 
On
October 4, 2023, Plaintiffs filed their complaint for Financial Elder Abuse,
Breach of Fiduciary Duty, Professional Negligence, and Receipt and Possession
of Stolen Property (David Neuman only named defendant in this cause of action).
David Neuman answered on December 12, 2023. 
 
On
March 11, 2024, the court sustained the demurrer to the second and third causes
of action for Breach of Fiduciary Duty and Negligence with leave to amend. The
court also granted the motion to strike paragraph 49 of the complaint, and
denied the remainder of the motion. 
 
On
April 10, 2024, Plaintiff filed a first amended complaint for Cal. Financial
Elder Abuse, Breach Of Fiduciary Duty, Professional Negligence, and Receipt And
Possession Of Stolen Property. On April 22, 22, 204, Defendant David Neuman
answered the first amended complaint.
 
RULING
Demurrer: Sustained with
Leave to Amend.
Defendant
Allianz Life Insurance Company of North America (Allianz) brings the subject
demurer to the second and third causes of action in the complaint for Breach of
Fiduciary Duty and Professional Negligence. Allianz submits the demurrer on
grounds that Allianz, as an insurer owed no fiduciary duty or professional duty
of care to its insureds, and challenges the allegations of an agency
relationship between the insurer and Neuman. On the negligence cause of action,
Allianz submits a second argument regarding a bar under the statute of
limitations. Plaintiffs, Layne Kramer, Kramer Family Irrevocable Grant Trust by
trustee Layne Kramer (Kramer) in opposition contends the operative complaint
alleges a relationship beyond a conventional insurer based on the undertaking
of additional fiduciary and professional duties in holding itself out as
financial and estate planning professionals. Plaintiffs rely on imputed
liability through the acts of its agent, Neuman. Allianz in reply reiterates
the lack of any legal basis of duty, and insufficient facts distinguishing the
conduct of Neuman from Allianz. Restated challenges to the agency allegations,
as well as new argument under ostensible agency principles is also presented.
Allianz concludes with denial of any basis of professional negligence and the
statute of limitations bar as to any negligence claim.
 
A
demurrer is an objection to a pleading, the grounds for which are apparent from
either the face of the complaint or a matter of which the court may take
judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd. (a); see also Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311,
318.) The purpose of a demurrer is to challenge the sufficiency of a pleading
“by raising questions of law.” (Postley
v. Harvey (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 280, 286.) “In the construction of a
pleading, for the purpose of determining its effect, its allegations must be
liberally construed, with a view to substantial justice between the parties.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 452.) The court “ ‘ “treat[s] the demurrer as admitting all
material facts properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions
of fact or law . . . .” ’ ” (Berkley v.
Dowds (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 518, 525.) In applying these standards, the
court liberally construes the complaint to determine whether a cause of action
has been stated.  (Picton v. Anderson Union High School Dist. (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th
726, 733.)
 
“A demurrer for uncertainty is strictly
construed, even where a complaint is in some respects uncertain, because
ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery procedures.” (Khoury v. Maly's of California, Inc. (1993)
14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616; Williams v.
Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 135, 139 [“[U]nder our liberal pleading rules, where the
complaint contains substantive factual allegations sufficiently apprising
defendant of the issues it is being asked to meet, a demurrer for uncertainty
should be overruled or plaintiff given leave to amend.]
 
2nd
Cause of Action: Breach of Fiduciary Duty
To plead a cause of action for breach of fiduciary duty, a
plaintiff must allege facts showing the existence of a fiduciary duty owed to
that plaintiff, a breach of that duty and resulting damage. (Pellegrini v. Weiss (2008) 165
Cal.App.4th 515, 524.) A fiduciary duty is founded upon a special relationship
imposed by law or under circumstances in which “confidence is reposed by
persons in the integrity of others” who voluntarily accept the confidence. (Tri-Growth Centre City, Ltd. v. Silldorf,
Burdman, Duignan & Eisenberg (1989) 216 Cal.App.3d 1139, 1150; City of Hope National Medical Center v. Genentech, Inc. (2008) 43 Cal.4th 375, 386.) “A fiduciary or
confidential relationship can arise when confidence is reposed by persons in
the integrity of others, and if the latter voluntarily accepts or assumes to
accept the confidence, he or she may not act so as to take advantage of the
other's interest without that person's knowledge or consent.” (Pierce v. Lyman (1991) 1 Cal.App.4th
1093, 1101–02.)
 
The court considers the four
factors potentially determining a fiduciary duty: “(1) one party entrusts its
affairs, interests or property to another; (2) there is a grant of broad
discretion to another, generally because of a disparity in expertise or
knowledge; (3) the two parties have an “asymmetrical access to information,”
meaning one party has little ability to monitor the other and must rely on the
truth of the other party's representations; and (4) one party is vulnerable and
dependent upon the other.” (City of Hope National Medical
Center v. Genentech, Inc. (2008) 43
Cal.4th 375, 387–388.) One of the four factors is not determinative of a
fiduciary relationship, but even the extince of all four factors in no way
leads to a required finding of a fiduciary relationship. (Id. at 388.) Contractual
relationships are among the situations where a Plaintiff may allege the
elements, but the pre-existing contractual relationship in no way additionally
supports the existence of fiduciary duty. (Id. at pp. 388-389.) Even
considering the factors, the court finds the allegations in the operative
complaint insufficiently articulate any contractual based fiduciary duty simply
based on the purchase of the two annuity contracts.
 
Additionally, in the insurance coverage context, “[a]n insurer is not a fiduciary, and owes no obligation to
consider the interests of its insured above its own.” (Morris v. Paul Revere Life Ins. Co. (2003) 109 Cal.App.4th 966, 973; Village Northridge Homeowners Assn. v. State Farm Fire &
Casualty Co. (2010) 50 Cal.4th 913, 929; Vu
v. Prudential Property & Casualty Ins. Co. (2001) 26 Cal.4th 1142,
1150–1151 [“The insurer-insured relationship, however, is not a true ‘fiduciary
relationship’ in the same sense as the relationship between trustee and
beneficiary, or attorney and client”]; Tran v. Farmers Group, Inc.
(2002) 104 Cal.App.4th 1202, 1211 [“California courts have refrained from
characterizing the insurer-insured relationship as a fiduciary one].) 
 
“But, although an annuity contract
is not a life insurance contract it is equally clear that the sale of annuity
contracts in California is part of the business done by insurance companies. In
fact, only insurance companies may engage in the sale of annuities in this
state. As early as 1913 the attorney general of this state ruled that in order
to qualify for the purpose of selling annuities, a company had to qualify as an
insurance company. ... ‘Life insurance business, including endowments and
annuities” ... has remained in the law since 1907. ... This statutory
classification makes it clear that in this state the selling of annuities is
part of the ‘business done in this state’ by life insurance companies ... (Equitable
Life Assur. Soc. of U.S. v. Johnson (1942) 53 Cal.App.2d 49, 57.)
 
Thus, whether an insurance policy
or annuity, the court finds no basis of a fiduciary duty simply based on the
purchase of the annuity. The contractual relationship established through the
annuities insufficiently establishes such a basis. (Wolf v. Superior Court (2003)
107 Cal.App.4th 25, 30-31.) 
 
Allianz relies on this general
presumption, as well as the lack of facts establishing any alternative basis
demonstrating a voluntary undertaking of duties through the relationship of the
parties. Plaintiff presents significant challenge to the California law cited
through citation to Federal District Court opinions. Federal district court
case law only constitutes persuasive authority. The cases actually affirm
California law barring a basis for the finding of the imposition of a fiduciary
duty on the insurer. (Negrete v. Fidelity and Guar. Life Ins. Co. (C.D.
Cal. 2006) 444 F.Supp.2d 998, 1004 (Negrete); Estate of Migliaccio v.
Midland Nat'l. Life Ins. Co. (C.D. Cal. 2006) 436 F.Supp.2d 1095, 1106-1108.)
The Negrete case actually found a basis of breach of fiduciary on the
basis of agents assurances to act as a financial manager. (Negrete, supra,
444 F.Supp.2d at pp. 1003-1004.)
 
Plaintiffs emphasize the voluntary
undertaking relationship as a financial advisor based on the promotion for the
purchase of investment products via the principal agent relationship between
Allianz and Neuman. In other words, Allianz went above and beyond its role as
insurer in the promotion of financial investment products through Neuman. (Hasso v. Hapke (2014) 227
Cal.App.4th 107, 140; Michelson v. Hamada (1994) 29 Cal.App.4th 1566, 1575-1576.) The operative
complaint specifically alleges the basis of the fiduciary relationship under
the language of California Civil Code section 3372. [First Amend. Comp., ¶¶ 1,
2, 12-14, 64-66.] 
 
“Any person engaged in the business of advising others for
compensation as to the advisability of purchasing, holding or selling property
for investment and who represents himself or herself to be an expert with
respect to investment decisions in such property, or any class of such
property, shall be liable to any person to whom such advisory services are
furnished for compensation and who is damaged by reason of such person's
reliance upon such services, for the amount of such compensation and for such damages,
unless the person rendering such services proves that such services were
performed with the due care and skill reasonably to be expected of a person who
is such an expert.” (Civ. Code, § 3372, subd. (a).)
 
The court accepts the existence of
this potential basis of a fiduciary duty as pled in the operative complaint,
and requirement to assume the truth of all matters pled. Allianz raises
valid challenges as to any reliance on this section for purposes of
establishing a fiduciary relationship based on a representation of an agent. 
 
Allianz further carefully points
out that the alleged transfer of funds by Neuman occurred after cessation of
the relationship with the insurer, thereby effectively severing any principal
agent relationship. [First Amend. Comp., ¶¶ 38-47.] (Civ. Code, § 2343; Peredia v. HR Mobile Services, Inc. (2018) 25 Cal.App.5th 680, 691.) Plaintiff maintains an
ongoing relationship, whereby well after the admitted detachment of any
relationship with Neuman, Allianz remained obliged to continue protecting
accounts from the rogue behavior of Neuman based on prior “red flags.” [First
Amend. Comp., ¶¶ 65-66.] A new agent was in fact assigned to Plaintiff without
informing Plaintiff of the reason for the new agent assignment. Plaintiff
implicitly maintains an obligation to inform Plaintiff of the reason for the
separation as a form of warning to Plaintiff of potential improper conduct by
Neuman at a later date. Allianz also lacked any “internal” alert services for
potential former agent criminal conduct. [First Amend. Comp., ¶¶ 39.] Allianz
missed changes to the account by Neuman following cessation of relations with
the company, while Plaintiff was still under the umbrella of the financial
services provided by Allianz. 
 
The court appreciates Plaintiff’s
position. The reliance still presents a logical gap not overcome in the
operative pleading or opposition. Plaintiff depends on an interdependence via the
principal agent relationship to overcome the presumption against an insurer,
even one selling annuities, as the basis for a tort based fiduciary duty as
distinguished from a quasi-contractual form of fiduciary relationship. The subsequent
decoupling of said principal agent relationship with Neuman however presents an
insufficiently addressed temporal disassociation barrier. More simply, even upon
reassignment to a new agent following dismissal of Neuman, it remains unpled
how the new agent in any way continued with “financial management” services via
the principal agent basis of liability. The assignment of a new agent in no way
automatically assumes continued promises of “financial planning services,” as
opposed to a mere default to simple ownership of the annuity contract provided
by Allianz. [First Amend. Comp., ¶¶ 39.] The court declines to find an
automatic extra layer of required support required for a fiduciary duty within
the pled allegations. Thus, the court finds a lack of support for any ongoing
fiduciary duty after the disassociation with agent Neuman in either unmade
allegations and/or argument in opposition 
 
Allowing such a claim to proceed
without sufficient support would upend the public policy behind very strictly
limiting liability for any number of the innumerable insurance transactions occurring
through brokers and agents. The court therefore sustains the demurrer on
grounds of uncertainty and failure to sufficiently a legal basis of liability. 
 
3rd Cause of Action: Professional Negligence
Allianz challenges the subject claim on the failure
to allege an independent basis of duty separate and apart from the alleged
conduct of Neuman. Plaintiff relies on the principal agent basis of liability
for establishment of a basis of imposed duty. 
 
“To state a cause of action for professional
negligence, a party must show ‘(1) the duty of the professional to use such
skill, prudence and diligence as other members of the profession commonly
possess and exercise; (2) breach of that duty; (3) a causal connection between
the negligent conduct and the resulting injury; and (4) actual loss or damage
resulting from the professional negligence.’” (Giacometti v. Aulla, LLC
(2010) 187 Cal.App.4th 1133, 1137.) The operative complaint alleges the
elements of the claim. [Comp., ¶¶ 70-73.] 
 
Allianz
first maintains the nature of the insurance contract itself bars any negligence
claim. (New Plumbing Contractors, Inc. v. Nationwide Mutual Ins. Co.
(1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1088, 1096.) The argument while legally correct assumes an
agreement for benefits under an insurance contract. Nothing in the operative
complaint alleges an agreement for insurance, an agreement for brokerage
services, or even a breach of the two annuity agreements. The court therefore
finds this position inapposite for purposes of ruling on the demurrer.
 
As
addressed in the breach of fiduciary claim, however, the court agrees with the
lack of facts establishing a basis of any undertaken duty to protect Plaintiff
from conduct of a former agent no longer associated with the insurer. The same
facts also undermine a finding of causation. The demurrer is sustained on this
basis.
 
Allianz
additionally contends the action is barred under the two year statute of
limitations. Allianz two paragraph argument relies on the allegations of the
underlying transaction occurring on May 21, 2020, and January 22, 2021, but the
lawsuit was not filed until October 4, 2023. The opposition lacks any apparent
response to the statute of limitations argument. Allianz in reply reiterates
the statute of limitations bar based at least in part on the lack of any
responsive argument in opposition, thereby conceding to the argument.
 
Allianz
generally cites to Code of Civil Procedure section 339, which states in its
entirety:
 
Within
two years: 1. An action upon a contract, obligation or liability not founded
upon an instrument of writing, except as provided in Section 2725 of the
Commercial Code or subdivision 2 of Section 337 of this code; or an action
founded upon a contract, obligation or liability, evidenced by a certificate,
or abstract or guaranty of title of real property, or by a policy of title
insurance; provided, that the cause of action upon a contract, obligation or
liability evidenced by a certificate, or abstract or guaranty of title of real
property or policy of title insurance shall not be deemed to have accrued until
the discovery of the loss or damage suffered by the aggrieved party thereunder.
2. An
action against a sheriff or coroner upon a liability incurred by the doing of an act
in an official capacity and in virtue of office, or by the omission of an
official duty including the nonpayment of money collected in the enforcement of
a judgment.
3. An
action based upon the rescission of a contract not in writing. The time begins
to run from the date upon which the facts that entitle the aggrieved party to
rescind occurred. Where the ground for rescission is fraud or mistake, the time
does not begin to run until the discovery by the aggrieved party of the facts
constituting the fraud or mistake.
 
Code Civ.
Proc., § 339
 
The
demurrer and reply lack specific address of the basis for the application of
the two year written contract statute of limitations for a professional
negligence cause of action. Again, nothing in the operative complaint appears
to raise a claim under the annuity contracts themselves. “‘It has been well established in this state that if
the cause of action arises from a breach of a promise set forth in the
contract, the action is ex contractu but if it arises from a
breach of duty growing out of the contract it is ex delicto.
[Citations.]’” (Wentland v.
Wass (2005) 126 Cal.App.4th 1484, 1495; (Erlich v. Menezes (1999) 21 Cal.4th 543, 551 [“conduct amounting to a breach of contract becomes
tortious only when it also violates a duty independent of the contract arising
from principles of tort law”]; Stop
Loss Ins. Brokers, Inc. v. Brown & Toland Medical Group (2006) 143
Cal.App.4th 1036, 1057–1058.). The rule also
finds support in the economic loss rule. (Sheen v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2022) 12 Cal.5th
905, 922 [“the rule functions to bar claims in
negligence for pure economic losses in deference to a contract between
litigating parties].)
 
The court
declines to elaborate on unmade arguments on behalf of either party. The court instead
acknowledges the argument should Allianz
again raise the argument again in any potential demurrer to the second amended
complaint and therefore evading any challenges on the basis of a piecemeal or
successive demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc., 430.41, subd. (b).) The court also
acknowledges the argument for notation on the record in case of appeal. (Escamilla v. Vannucci
(2023) 97 Cal.App.5th 175 (footnote 6); Griffin
v. The Haunted Hotel, Inc. (2015) 242 Cal.App.4th 490, 505; Kruger
v. Department of Motor Vehicles (1993) 13
Cal.App.4th 541, 546 [“We agree with the trial court that we have a “duty to
rule correctly [on legal questions] regardless of what response is given to us”
and decline to apply abandonment or waiver principles to preclude respondent
from replying to the points raised by appellant on appeal”].) The court otherwise declines
to make any finding that the complaint is barred as a matter of law on the
incomplete argument on first consideration of the action. 
 
The
demurrer is sustained with leave to amend on all grounds addressed other than
the statute of limitations on which the court defers consideration until
potential future argument.
 
Motion to
Strike: Granted.
Allianz
moves to strike paragraph 54 of the First Amended Complaint on grounds that
said claims improperly seek relief beyond the scope of the financial elder
abuse statute. More specifically, Layne Kramer alleges wrongful conduct before
turning 65 years old, as well as challenges to the specific types of conduct
relied upon in support of the elder abuse claim. Plaintiffs in opposition
maintains the motion sweeps too broadly, and all challenged claims are
relevant. Any and all conduct before Plaintiff turned 65 should also remain as
part of the action. Allianz in reply reiterates the lack of a valid claim for
anything accruing prior to age 65, as well as the lack of actionable facts.
Plaintiff in opposition maintains the challenged paragraph “sufficiently apprizes”
Defendant of the of claim and “must not be stricken under binding precedent.”
Allianz in reply maintain the allegations exceed any claim for relief under the
financial elder abuse statute.
 
The subject paragraph states: “Allianz took and
obtained Kramer’s funds for a wrongful use and/or was assisting Neuman in the
taking and retaining of Kramer’s personal property for a wrongful use, when
Allianz engaged in the following actions, among others: (i) approved Neuman’s
change of mailing address of Kramer’s Trust to Neuman’s own home address
without Kramer’s knowledge and/or consent, (ii) disbursed Kramer’s funds to
Neuman when it knew or should have known that Neuman was the writing agent, had
his license revoked for abusing seniors, and was a convicted felon; and (iii)
failed to follow standard KBA protocol to verify that the customer desired the
disbursement and that the customer was not the victim of fraud or identity
theft.”
 
In the prior order on the motion to strike the court
found paragraph 49 lacked any basis of support towards the elder abuse claim. (Welf.
& Inst. Code, § 15610.30.) Allianz again challenges the replacement
paragraph. The court again finds the subject paragraph again falls outside the
scope of recovery for financial elder abuse notwithstanding the extensive
argument in opposition over said single paragraph to an otherwise unchallenged
cause of action.
 
In summary, the demurrer is sustained with 20 days leave to amend as
to the breach of fiduciary duty and professional negligence causes of action
for the reasons stated in the demurrer section of the ruling. The motion to
strike is granted was well. 
 
Plaintiff
may not add any new causes of action without leave of court. (Harris v.
Wachovia Mortgage, FSB (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 1018, 1023.) Material
changes to the operative complaint seeking to alter or omit the material terms or
dates may also be subject to a demurrer under the sham pleading standard. Given
the case presents the first review of the action, the court declines to consider
Plaintiffs’ potential inability to factually present a claim without omitting
or altering certain key facts. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (e)(1); Youngman
v. Nevada Irr. Dist. (1969) 70 Cal.2d 240, 245.) The court will consider
potential alternative theories of liability upon the request of Plaintiffs,
however.
 
“In response to a demurrer and prior to the case being at
issue, a complaint or cross-complaint shall not be amended more than three
times, absent an offer to the trial court as to such additional facts to be
pleaded that there is a reasonable possibility the defect can be cured to state
a cause of action. The three-amendment limit shall not include an amendment
made without leave of the court pursuant to Section 472, provided the amendment
is made before a demurrer to the original complaint or cross-complaint is
filed.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (e)(1), see Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5,
subd. (e)(1).) The court has now twice reviewed the fiduciary duty and
negligence causes of action, and the subject elder abuse paragraph preceding an
otherwise unchallenged cause of action. 
 
Allianz to give notice. 
 