  Case Number:  23SMCV04625    Hearing Date:   September 19, 2024    Dept:  O   Case
Name:  Renovating Specialist, Inc. v.
557 Westlake, LLC, et al. 



Case No.:


23SMCV04625


Complaint Filed:


9-26-23           




Hearing Date:


9-19-24 


Discovery C/O:


N/A




Calendar No.:


12


Discovery Motion C/O:


N/A




POS:


OK


 Trial Date:


None



SUBJECT:                 DEMURRER W/ MOTION TO STRIKE 
MOVING
PARTY:   Defendants 577 Westlake, LLC and
Nissim David-Chai
RESP.
PARTY:         Plaintiff Renovating
Specialist, Inc. dba Sivan Windows And Doors 
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
            Defendants 577
Westlake, LLC And Nissim David-Chai Demurrer to the 2nd and 3rd
causes of action in Plaintiff Renovating Specialist, Inc. dba Sivan Windows And
Doors FAC are OVERRULED. Plaintiff alleges all the elements of both causes of
action with the requisite specific fact requirement for the fraud cause of
action. 
 
Defendants Motion to Strike is
DENIED. Plaintiff pleads a fraud and Penal Code § 496 claim, which allow for
punitive and treble damages respectively. 
  
 
REASONING
            
 
I.     
Demurrer to 2nd cause of action for
fraud in the inducement—OVERRULED
 
            "A complaint for fraud must allege the following
elements: (1) a knowingly false representation by the defendant; (2) an intent
to deceive or induce reliance; (3) justifiable reliance by the plaintiff; and
(4) resulting damages. Every element must be specifically pleaded. [citations
omitted]" (Service by Medallion, Inc. v. Clorox Co. (1996) 44
Cal.App.4th 1807, 1816.)
 
            “[T]he facts constituting the fraud must be alleged with
sufficient specificity to allow defendant to understand fully the nature of the
charge made.” (Roberts v. Ball, Hunt, Hart, Brown & Baerwitz (1976)
57 Cal.App.3d 104, 109.) Fraud actions against corporations require the
plaintiff “to allege the names of the persons who made the allegedly fraudulent
representations, their authority to speak, to whom they spoke, what they said
or wrote, and when it was said or written.” (Tarmann v. State Farm Mut.
Auto. Ins. Co. (1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 153, 157.) However, the specificity
requirement is “relaxed when the allegations indicate that the defendant must
necessarily possess full information concerning the facts of the controversy or
when the facts lie more in the knowledge of the opposite party.” (Ibid.,
citations omitted.)
 
            Plaintiff Renovating Specialist, Inc. dba Sivan Windows
And Doors (“Plaintiff”) alleges 
Defendants 577 Westlake, LLC
(“Westlake”) and Nissim David-Chai (“Chai”) (collectively “Defendants”) made
knowingly false statements to Plaintiff, and Plaintiff includes specifics of
the alleged knowingly false statements. (FAC, ¶¶ 23, 25, 26.) Plaintiff alleges
that Chai made the alleged statements while acting as an agent of Westlake, and
that the statements were “false and untrue,” alleging “Defendants never
intended to pay Plaintiff for the full price of the products it had ordered.” (Id.,
¶¶ 24, 25.) Plaintiff alleges Defendants made the false allegations to induce
Plaintiff to “deliver the windows and doors to Plaintiff. (Id., ¶ 26.)
Plaintiff alleges Plaintiff was “ignorant of the falsity of Defendants’
statements,” and if Plaintiff had known the truth Plaintiff would not have
agreed to the contract terms. (Id., ¶ 27.) Plaintiff alleges justifiable
reliance. (Id., ¶¶ 10–11, 27.) Plaintiff pleads the contract was signed Plaintiff
pleads resulting damages. (Id., ¶ 28.)
 
            Defendants argue the timing of the alleged false
representations were not plead correctly in the FAC, since Plaintiff fails to
allege that Defendants “never intended to pay full contract price before the
contract was executed,” and thus Chai “cannot have made these alleged
representations to induce Plaintiff to execute a contract.”
(Demurrer, p. 6.) The Court does not agree with this argument. Plaintiff
alleges the contract was signed on 9-29-22. (FAC, Ex. 1 (the “Contract”).
Plaintiff alleges that Chai made the false statements “during the fourth
quarter of 2022.” (FAC, ¶ 23.) During the fourth quarter of 2022 could very
well indicate a time prior to 9-29-22, and Plaintiff is only required to plead
ultimate facts, not evidentiary facts. 
 
            Plaintiff has successfully plead specific ultimate facts
to allege a case of action for fraud in the inducement. Defendants’ demurrer to
the 2nd cause of action is OVERRULED. 
 
II.   Demurrer
to 3rd cause of action for Treble Damages – Penal Code § 496—OVERRULED
 
(a) Every person who buys or receives
any property that has been stolen or that has been obtained in any manner
constituting theft or extortion, knowing the property to be so stolen or
obtained, or who conceals, sells, withholds, or aids in concealing, selling, or
withholding any property from the owner, knowing the property to be so stolen
or obtained, shall be punished by imprisonment in a county jail for not more
than one year, or imprisonment pursuant to subdivision (h) of Section 1170.


(Pen. Code, § 496, subd. (a).)
 
Theft is defined
in Penal Code §484(a). “Every person who shall feloniously steal, take, carry,
lead, or drive away the personal property of another, or who shall fraudulently
appropriate property which has been entrusted to him or her, or who shall
knowingly and designedly, by any false or fraudulent representation or
pretense, defraud any other person of money, labor or real or personal
property…is guilty of theft.” (Pen. Code §484(a).)
 
“A plaintiff may recover treble
damages and attorney's fees under section 496(c) when property has been
obtained in any manner constituting theft.” (Siry Investment, L.P. v.
Farkhondehpour (2022) 13 Cal.5th 333, 349, 361 [enording the analysis of  Bell
v. Feibush (2013) 212 Cal.App.4th 1041 which found the legislative
intent of Penal Code § 496(a) was to permit treble damage recovery by ‘any
person’ injured by the knowing purchase, receipt, concealment, or withholding
of property stolen or obtained by theft.”].)
 
            Plaintiff
pleads “Defendant received the windows and doors from Plaintiff without paying
for them in full by means of theft by false pretenses.” (FAC, ¶ 32.) Plaintiff
has successful plead fraud in the inducement, as analyzed above, the requisite
intent to take property by false pretenses has been plead. (See FAC, ¶¶ 22–27.)
Plaintiff may seek treble damages under Penal Code § 496(c). (FAC, ¶ 33.) Thus,
Plaintiff pleads all the elements of a Penal Code § 496 civil action for treble
damages. 
 
            Defendants
Demurrer to the 3rd cause of action is OVERRULED. 
 
III.          
Motion to Strike—DENIED
 
Defendants Motion to Strike
Punitive and treble damages, plus attorneys’ fees is DENIED due to Plaintiff’s
successful pleading of the 2nd and 3rd causes of action. 
 
“(a) In an action for breach of an
obligation not arising from contract, where it is proven by clear and
convincing evidence that the defendant had been guilty of oppression, fraud, or
malice, the plaintiff, in addition to the actual damages, may recover damages
for the sake of example and by way of punishing the defendant.” (Civ. Code, §
3294, subd. (a).).
 
Treble damages are permitted under
a Penal Code § 496 claim. (See Pen. Code § 496, subd. (c) [“Any person who
has been injured by a violation of subdivision (a) or (b) may bring an action
for three times the amount of actual damages, if any, sustained by the
plaintiff, costs of suit, and reasonable attorney's fees.”].)
 
Plaintiff has successfully plead a Fraud
and Penal Code § 496 cause of action in the FAC. Thus, Plaintiff may plead a
prayer for punitive and treble damages, plus and award of attorneys’ fees. 