 Case Number:  24SMCV00500    Hearing Date:   August 7, 2024    Dept:  I The motion to strike punitive damages is DENIED, but on
narrow grounds.  This is a claim by
plaintiff that defendant caused damage to plaintiff’s unit by overwatering the
plants.  Plaintiff alleges that the
overwatering caused the water to intrude into plaintiff’s unit and that
defendant did not care or stop.  The
court does not think that this would be enough for punitive damages.  Overwatering is not the kind of malicious,
oppressive, or fraudulent conduct that would give rise to punitive
damages.  The area where plaintiff’s
cause of action has a bit of relatively weak legs is the notion that plaintiff
allegedly told defendant of the problem and how important it was that the
problem be fixed—that is, the results of the water intrusion—and that plaintiff
would do so if necessary because the failure to do so would make the situation
significantly worse.  Plaintiff contends
that defendant assured plaintiff that defendant would take care of it.  As a result of that promise, plaintiff
allegedly did not fix the problem.  But
rather than take care of it, the allegation is that defendant continued to
engage in the overwatering and did nothing to fix the problem or the
damage.  That allegedly caused the value
of plaintiff’s property to decline further and more quickly.  According to plaintiff, defendant made the
promise to repair even though defendant had no intention of repairing anything
and that defendant made the promise so as to forestall plaintiff from
undertaking timely repairs.  Frankly, the
court doubts that mental state or that there is any evidence of it that would
rise to the level of fraud sufficient to warrant punitive damages.  Plaintiff would need to show not only that
defendant made a promise to fix the problem and had no intention of doing
anything, but also that the motive for doing so was to cause harm to
plaintiff.  That is a heavy load.  But it is a better load to be tested on
summary adjudication.  While the court
cannot weigh the evidence at that stage, the court can at least see whether
plaintiff has any evidence and whether that evidence, if credited, could lead a
reasonable jury to believe by clear and convincing evidence that there was
sufficient fraud.  And, after some
reasonable discovery, it might well be that plaintiff is able to garner
sufficient evidence to get to a jury and to convince a jury at trial.  So this is a close one, but the court
believes there is enough here for pleading purposes.  