 Case Number:  24SMCV00423    Hearing Date:   August 7, 2024    Dept:  I The application is DENIED. 
The court will allow plaintiff, however, by oral motion to withdraw the
Motion to Assign, thereby taking it off calendar for 8/14/24 and potentially
resolving the concern over the motion for sanctions.  The court notes that the issue whether Paul
Hastings accepted service on behalf of all six defendants or only three will
need to be adjudicated eventually.  But
it need not be adjudicated on 8/14/24. 
So what is on for that date is the motion to quash, which the court
interprets as more in the nature of an evidentiary objection to the Ran
declaration, and the motion to stay.
The court is aware of the potential conflict.  However, the hearing on August 14, 2024, is
not an evidentiary hearing.  Plaintiff
need not be in court personally.  That
said, if plaintiff is actually going to be testifying in another court or
before another body on that date, plaintiff needs to file a declaration with
the appropriate proof.  Right now, the
court has a face page involving a matter pending in the DC Circuit.  That is the matter in which defendants here
are challenging the constitutionality of the recently-enacted law that requires
sale of TikTok to an American owner or bans its use in the US.  Of course, this court takes no position on
the constitutionality of that law.  The
point is that those appellate proceedings do not preclude the motions currently
on calendar.  The court also has a notice
of related case in the Labor Commissioner’s office.  But that related case does not really have
any bearing on this motion.  The court is
also aware of a notice of related case filed in the federal district court for
the District of Columbia, but that has no effect on the instant motion.  None of those show that plaintiff needs to be
elsewhere on August 14, 2024.
Accordingly, there is no reason to postpone the
hearing.  Therefore, the application is
DENIED.
The court is in receipt of defendant’s opposition, but the
court has not yet reviewed it.  If
defendants would like to postpone the ex parte hearing to allow the
court to review the papers, the court will do so, but the court doubts it is
necessary.
 