 Case Number:  23VECV03203    Hearing Date:   August 7, 2024    Dept:  I The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND IN PART AND
OVERRULED IN PART.   
 
This demurrer goes to Viridity’s cross-complaint filed
against Miles.  The underlying facts are
(in a nutshell and in an abbreviated fashion) as follows.  Miles and Viridity planned to embark on a
business enterprise.  As part of that
enterprise, certain legal documents were to be drawn up.  The Mashian Law Group (MLG) was retained to
draw up the papers.  According to MLG,
Viridity promised to pay MLG’s fees.  But
that said, MLG’s retainer agreement was with Miles, and the retainer agreement
requires that Miles, the client, pay the fee. 
Viridity in fact did pay the initial $5000 retainer.  MLG did additional work, but the project
never came to fruition.  Neither Viridity
nor Miles paid the balance of the bill. 
MGL sued both Miles and Viridity. 
Viridity settled the case MLG brought. 
The instant demurrer involves Viridity’s cross complaint against
Miles.  The cross complaint seeks
declaratory relief and also damages against Miles for breach of contract and
fraud.  The contract Miles allegedly
breached was his agreement with MLG.  The
alleged fraud is that Miles did not tell Viridity that he had no intention of
paying MLG’s bill.  Miles demurs, arguing
that Viridity has no standing to sue for a breach of the Miles/MLG contract (as
it is not a party to that contract) and that fraud is not sufficiently
pled.  Viridity opposes.
 
The court agrees that Viridity is not a third party
beneficiary of the Miles/MLG contract. 
While it is certainly true that the legal work would aid Viridity in
that if the documents had been drawn up and later signed there would have been
a deal, that is not enough for a third party beneficiary claim.  To make such a claim, the plaintiff must show
that the contracting parties mutually intended that the third party be a
beneficiary of the contract.  Here, the
Miles/MLG contract was a retainer agreement to provide legal services to
Miles.  A lawyer’s sole duty runs
generally only to the client—not to a third party, even if a third party agrees
to pay the bill.  (There are some obvious
nuances there.  The lawyer probably does
have a duty with the payor not to pad the bill or the like.  But those duties are sharply limited.)  It is hard to see how both Miles and MLG
intended that Viridity be a third party beneficiary under the retainer
agreement, let alone that Viridity be allowed to sue for breach of that agreement.  The court can see no valid allegation of
third party beneficiary status—even as a pleading matter—by which Viridity can
sue Miles for breaching the Miles/MLG contract.
 
As to fraud, it is a bit murkier.  The allegation is that Miles secretly had no
intention of ever paying MLG, but that Viridity understood that it was only
going to pay Miles to reimburse Miles for fees Miles paid, and then, only if
the deal got done.  More specifically,
the cross complaint alleges that Virdity “has alleged that Cross-Defendant
entered into an agreement for legal services and intentionally concealed his
intention not to pay for the legal services rendered.  (FACC, ¶¶36-37.) . . . .  Therefore, Cross-Defendant was bound by a
common law duty to negotiate in good faith, which included informing Viridity
of his lack of intention to pay these legal fees . . . .  Cross-Defendant failed to disclose that he did
not intend to pay Mashian’s legal fees and then seek reimbursement from
Viridity only upon lease consummation and only for reasonable attorneys’ fees,
pursuant to the LOI.  (FACC, ¶¶ 36-37.)  Viridity was induced to continue lease
negotiations in justifiable reliance that Cross-Defendant would pay Mashan for
its services, something it would not have done had Cross-Defendant disclosed
his intentions.  (FACC, ¶¶ 35-39.)  Viridity sustained financial loss by paying
the Retainer, by having to litigate against Mashian and incur legal fees and
costs, and by having to pay the Settlement Payment to Mashian in order to get
out of costly litigation.  (FACC, ¶ 39.)”   (Opp. at p. 8-9.)  The end result is that Viridity claims that
had it known of Miles’s intentions, it would not have paid the $5000 retainer
and it would have made it clearer to MLG that it would not pay MLG anything
directly under any circumstances.  There
are some issues with that theory, but it is stated with particularity.  If Miles wants to attack the theory on the
grounds that there was no reliance on the alleged misstatement, summary
judgment is a better way to do it.  The
court understands that the fraud theory is thin at best, but this is only a
pleading motion.
 
Therefore, the demurrer is SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND
as to the second cause of action and OVERRULED as to the third cause of
action.  Miles has 30 days’ leave to
answer.