This is a medical malpractice action.  Plaintiffs Ana Cordova and Luis Cordova seek a trial preference under Code Civ. Proc. § 36(a).  Plaintiff Ana Cordova is 76 years old and has health concerns.  Plaintiffs seek for the trial to be set on May 20, 2024.Defendant Shuo Steven Wang opposes the Motion because (1) there is no declaration that all essential parties have appeared and (2) there is no prejudice without a preference because (a) Plaintiff has received substantial settlements already and (b) her expert has stated she will live another ten years.Code Civ. Proc. § 36(a) states, “A party to a civil action who is over 70 years of age may petition the court for a preference, which the court shall grant if the court makes both of the following findings: (1) The party has a substantial interest in the action as a whole. (2) The health of the party is such that a preference is necessary to prevent prejudicing the party’s interest in the litigation.”Here, as the injured party, there is no dispute Ana Cordova has a substantial interest in this malpractice suit.  Further, she has shown that she has paralysis, which can lead to ulcers and potential infections.  She is also at “an increased risk for deep vein thrombosis, urinary tract infections, muscle spasms, osteoporosis, chronic pain and respiratory complications.”  This is a source of potential prejudice should there not be a preference.  It should be noted that “[t]he issue under subdivision (a) [of CCP § 36] is not whether an elderly litigant might die before trial or become so disabled that she might as well be absent when trial is called.”  (Fox v. Superior Ct. (2018) 21 Cal.App.5th 529, 534.)  Finally, in their Reply, Plaintiffs indicate that “I believe that all essential parties have been filed and served in this matter.  I am not aware of any other essential parties to this litigation.”  (Hemesath Decl. ¶¶ 3-4.)Thus, Plaintiffs have shown an entitlement to a preference under Code Civ. Proc. § 36(a).  The Court will set the trial date for June 7, 2024.The Request for Judicial Notice is granted.Moving parties to give notice.If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic. 