 Case Number:  24STCV13022    Hearing Date:   June 27, 2024    Dept:  73 06/27/24

Dept. 73

Hon. Rolf
Treu, Judge presiding 

 

MONTEBELLO (EDENS), LLC v. TASH
DENTAL CORPORATION, et al. (24STCV13022)

 

Counsel for
Plaintiffs/opposing party:  Joshua Moon,
Candice Harper (Buchalter)

Counsel for
Defendants/moving party:  Paul Marks (Neufeld
Marks)

 

demurrer TO complaint (filed 06/03/24)

 

TENTATIVE RULING

 

The Court OVERRULES Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiff’s Complaint.

 

I. BACKGROUND

 

On May 23,
2024, Plaintiff Montebello (Edens), LLC (“Plaintiff”) filed this unlawful
detainer action against Defendants Tash Dental Corporation and Raymond Tash DDS
a Professional Corporation.  

 

The Complaint
alleges the following. On or about
August 15, 1995, Plaintiff's predecessor-in-interest leased to Defendants'
predecessor-in-interest the premises identified as Store No. 8 and commonly
known as 880-B West Beverly Boulevard, Montebello, California 90640
("Premises"), pursuant to a written Lease. (Compl., ¶ 8.) In or
around October 2022, the Original Lease, as amended, was further amended and
assigned to Defendant Tash Dental Corporation. (Ibid.) Plaintiff is
informed and believes that Defendant Raymond Tash DDS, also occupies the
Premises pursuant to an oral assignment or sublease, which was entered into
without Landlord's knowledge or consent, in violation of the terms of the
Lease. (Compl., ¶ 9.) It is alleged that Defendant
failed to make all the payments of rent due under the lease. (Compl., ¶ 13.)
On May 10, 2024, Plaintiff caused to be served on Defendants a written notice
stating the amount of leasehold obligations due and requiring Defendants to pay
the whole thereof or deliver up possession of the Premises within five days
after service of the notice. (Ibid.) At the time of service of the
notice, Defendants had not paid its rental obligations in the total amount of $102,490.13. (Compl., ¶ 12)

 

On June 3, 2024, Defendants filed the instant demurrer on the
grounds that Plaintiff failed to allege facts sufficient to state an unlawful
detainer cause of action. 

·       Defendants
assert that the lease attached to the Complaint does not name Plaintiff as the
landlord. Instead, the landlord names Montebello LLC, a Delaware Limited
Liability Company as the landlord. Thus, Plaintiff has not established that it
had the right to collect rent. 

 

On June 13, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition, arguing Defendants’
demurrer is procedurally improper and not based on any legal authority.

·       Defendants
demurrer was filed late and should be denied because it is untimely. 

·       Plaintiff has
sufficiently alleged a landlord-tenant relationship by alleging its interest as
owner of the Premises.

o  
In unlawful detainer actions, it is incumbent upon the plaintiff
to show the existence of a landlord-tenant relationship for the subject
property at issue. However, for the purposes of the pleading stage, a plaintiff
can meet its burden of showing a landlord-tenant relationship by alleging that
he or she procured a written lease from its predecessor-in-interest. (Berryman
v. Gibson (1908) 7 Cal.App. 679, 682.)

·       Defendants
and its counsel should be sanctioned for filing a frivolous demurrer. 

 

Defendants have not filed a reply. 

 

II. ANALYSIS

 

A.     Legal
Standard for Demurrer

 

A demurrer
tests the sufficiency of whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn
v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When considering demurrers,
courts read the allegations liberally and in context—any defects must be
apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice. (Donabedian
v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) “A demurrer tests the
pleading alone, and not the evidence or facts alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc. v.
Accountants, Inc. Servs. (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) As such, the
court assumes the truth of the complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual
allegations. (Id.) The only issue a demurrer is concerned with is
whether the complaint, as it stands, states a cause of action. (Hahn,
supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at p. 747.)

 

B.     Meet and
Confer Requirement 

 

“Before filing a demurrer pursuant to
this chapter, the demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by
telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for
the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would
resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.41, subd. (a).)  

 

As an initial matter, the Court notes that Defendants
have failed to provide a meet and confer declaration with their demurrer. 

 

Plaintiff does not raise this issue in its opposition. Plaintiff’s
counsel states in his declaration that the parties met and conferred by
telephone on June 12, 2024, after Plaintiff received Defendants’ demurrer. (Moon
Decl., ¶ 5.)

 

However, Defendants should have met and conferred prior
to filing the instant motion. The Court finds Defendants’ efforts fall short of the
good-faith effort requirements set forth in Code of Civil Procedure section
430.41(a). However, failure to meet and confer is not a proper ground for
overruling a demurrer. (CCP § 430.41(a)(4).) Thus,
the Court continues its discussion on the merits of the motion.

 

C.     Timeliness

 

First,
Plaintiff argues that Defendants’ motion should be denied because it is
untimely.

 

A demurrer
must be filed and served at least 16 court days before the hearing (Code Civ.
Proc. §1005(b)), which is increased by 2 calendar days when notice thereof is
served electronically (Code Civ. Proc. § 1010(a)(3)(B).)

 

Here, the
proof of service accompanying the demurrer indicates that it was served on June
3, 2024. (Moon Decl., ¶ 4.) With a hearing date of June 27, 2024, the last day
Defendants could serve the demurrer by electronic means was May 31, 2024.

 

However, the court has discretion to consider an untimely demurrer as long as the substantial rights of the parties
are not affected.  (Jackson v. Doe (2011) 192 Cal.App.4th 742,
750.) 

 

Plaintiff has not shown that the substantial
rights of the parties were affected. Thus, the Court exercises its discretion
to consider the untimely demurrer. 

 

D.     Unlawful
Detainer Action

 

To state a cause of action
for unlawful detainer based on nonpayment of rent, the plaintiff must allege
facts demonstrating, “’(1) the tenant is
in possession of the premises; (2)
that possession is without permission; (3) the tenant
is in default
for nonpayment of rent; (4) the tenant has
been properly
served with a
written three-day notice;
and (5)
the default continues
after the three-day notice period has
elapsed.’ [Citation.]” (Fitness Int'l,
LLC v. KB Salt Lake III, LLC (2023) 95 Cal.App.5th 1032, 1045.)

 

Defendants
demur to the entire Complaint on the grounds Plaintiff failed to allege facts sufficient to state an unlawful detainer
cause of action. Specifically, Defendants argue that Plaintiff has not
sufficiently alleged a landlord-tenant relationship. Defendants assert that the
lease attached to the Complaint does not name Plaintiff as the landlord.
Instead, the landlord names Montebello LLC, a Delaware Limited Liability Company,
as the landlord. Thus, Defendants argue that Plaintiff has not established that
it was a party to the lease and had the right to collect rent. 

 

Here, the Complaint alleges the
Lease for the Premises was entered into between Defendants' predecessor-in-interest
and Plaintiff's predecessor-in-interest. (Compl., ¶ 8.) The Complaint also
alleges that Plaintiff is the owner of the real property. (Compl., ¶ 7.) 

 

The Court finds Plaintiff’s allegations
are sufficient. In unlawful
detainer actions, the plaintiff must allege the existence of a landlord-tenant
relationship for the subject property at issue. At the pleading stage, a
plaintiff can meet its burden of showing a landlord-tenant relationship by
alleging that he or she procured a written lease from its
predecessor-in-interest. (Berryman v. Gibson (1908) 7 Cal.App. 679,
682.) Thus, Plaintiff’s allegation that it is a predecessor-in-interest to the
lease and is the owner of the real property is sufficient at this stage.

 

Accordingly,
Defendants’ demurrer to the Complaint is overruled.

 

E.     Sanctions

 

A party and
its attorney may be sanctioned or ordered to show cause by the Court why it
should not "pay any reasonable expenses, including attorney's fees,
incurred by another party as a result of bad-faith actions or tactics that are
frivolous or solely intended to cause unnecessary delay." (Code Civ. Proc.
§ 128.5, subd. (a).) This includes filing motions that are "totally and
completely without merit or for the sole purpose of harassing the opposing
party." (Code Civ. Proc. § 128.5, subd. (b)(1)-(2).)

 

Plaintiff’s
opposition to the demurrer includes a request for sanctions against Defendants
in the sum of $2,525.00. Plaintiff conclusively states that Defendants’ motion
was filed in bad faith and brought for the purpose of delay. While the Court
finds that Defendants’ argument lacks merit, the Court declines to impose
sanctions.

 

III. DISPOSITION

 



The Court OVERRULES Defendants’ demurrer as to Plaintiff’s
entire Complaint.