 Case Number:  23STCV24193    Hearing Date:   July 31, 2024    Dept:  52 Plaintiff Gayane Mkrtchyan’s Motion
to Quash or Modify Deposition Subpoena for Production of Business Records
            Plaintiff
Gayane Mkrtchyan moves to quash or modify the deposition subpoena defendant QTC
Management, Inc. (QTC) served on non-party Andrew M. Blecher, M.D.
Reasonably Particularized Categories
            Plaintiff
contends the subpoena’s requests for documents are not reasonably
particularized.  “A deposition subpoena
that commands only the production of business records for copying shall
designate the business records to be produced either by specifically describing
each individual item or by reasonably particularizing each category of item.”  (CCP § 2020.410(a).)  The right to object on this basis belongs to
the deponent Dr. Blecher, not to plaintiff. 
Assuming plaintiff may object on this basis, the subpoena’s categories are
adequately particularized.  Each category
includes sufficient information to permit the deponent to identify and produce
responsive documents.   
Privacy Rights
Plaintiff
argues this subpoena violates her constitutional privacy rights.  “The party asserting a privacy right must
establish a legally protected privacy interest, an objectively reasonable
expectation of privacy in the given circumstances, and a threatened intrusion
that is serious.”  (Williams v.
Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 552.)  If the objecting party shows all three
elements, then the court must balance the need for disclosure against the right
to privacy.  (Ibid.) 
Plaintiff shows a legally protected
privacy interest and a serious intrusion, but not an objectively reasonable
expectation of privacy in the circumstances. 
Bringing a suit that puts one’s medical or mental condition at issue can
waive one’s privacy rights.  (Vinson
v. Superior Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833, 842.)  “[B]y asserting a causal link between her
mental distress and defendants’ conduct, plaintiff implicitly claims it was not
caused by a preexisting mental condition, thereby raising the question of alternative
sources for the distress.”  (Id.
at p. 840.)  
In these circumstances, plaintiff has
no reasonable expectation of privacy in the requested medical records.  The gravamen of plaintiff’s action is
disability discrimination.  Plaintiff put
at issue whether she was able to perform the essential functions of her job.  Her third amended complaint alleges that,
between December 2018 to January 2019, she “was dealing with uncontrolled blood
pressure … and was unable to travel” as her employer instructed.  (3AC, ¶ 21.b.)  It further alleges she had other disabilities
between 2021 and 2023.  (Id., ¶
21.e-i.)  QTC is entitled to discover plaintiff’s
medical records to evaluate her disability discrimination claims.         
Plaintiff also put her mental
condition at issue.  Her third amended
complaint alleges, “Mkrtchyan who worked for Defendants for nearly three
decades suffers from crippling anxiety, depression, stress and associated
emotional ailments due to Defendants wrongful conduct in taking her job away
from her and refusing to return her to work in any capacity after she requested
accommodations due to her disability.  These
actions by Defendants have disabled Mkrtchyan, preventing her from returning to
work, effectively terminating her employment.” 
(3AC, ¶ 21.z.)  It further alleges
she “has suffered and will suffer psychological and emotional distress,
humiliation, and mental and physical pain and anguish, in a sum to be proven at
trial.”  (Id., ¶ 23.)  Moreover, plaintiff brings a cause of action
for intentional infliction of emotional distress.  (Id., ¶¶ 87-99.)  QTC is entitled to discover plaintiff’s
medical records to evaluate her claims for emotional distress.
Even if plaintiff had a reasonable
expectation of privacy in the circumstances, the court would conclude QTC’s
need for disclosure outweighs plaintiff’s privacy rights.  This
discovery is “essential to the fair resolution of the lawsuit” (Look v.
Penovatz (2019) 34 Cal.App.5th 61, 73) because it may contain highly
probative documents about plaintiff’s ability to perform her essential job
duties or the source and extent of plaintiff’s emotional distress.  The records could include evidence supporting
a finding that plaintiff was unable to perform her essential job duties and
that she would not likely be able to perform her duties after further medical
leave.  (See Hanson v. Lucky Stores, Inc. (1999) 74
Cal.App.4th 215, 226.)  The records could also show plaintiff had
preexisting conditions or other sources of emotional distress that occurred
before or after the alleged discrimination. 
Any such evidence would be essential for QTC to rebut plaintiff’s claims.
Relevance
Plaintiff also argues the subpoena
demands irrelevant documents.  For the
same reasons discussed regarding her privacy objection, the demands are
reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.
Sanctions
QTC seeks monetary
sanctions against plaintiff.  “[T]he
court may in its discretion award the amount of the reasonable expenses
incurred in making or opposing the motion, including reasonable attorney’s
fees, if the court finds the motion was made or opposed in bad faith or without
substantial justification.”  (CCP §
1987.2(a).)  Though unsuccessful,
plaintiff’s motion was made in good faith and with substantial
justification.  She made reasonable
arguments in support of her position.  
Disposition
            Plaintiff’s
motion to quash or modify defendant QTC Management, Inc.’s deposition subpoena
for production of business records is denied.  
 