  Case Number:  21STCV27825    Hearing Date:   July 31, 2024    Dept:  52 Defendants Steven Loeb
and Rosen and Loeb’s Motions to Compel Plaintiff Victor Enright to Respond to
(1) Requests for Production, (2) Form Interrogatories, and (3) Special
Interrogatories
Requests
for Production
Defendants Steven Loeb and Rosen and Loeb move to
compel plaintiff Victor Enright to respond to requests for production, set one.  When a party fails to serve a timely response
to requests for production, the requesting party may move for an order
compelling responses.  (CCP §
2031.300(b).)  Failing to serve a timely
response waives any objections.  (Id.,
subd. (a).)
Defendants served requests for production, set one,
on plaintiff on March 14, 2023.  (Goldman
Decl., ¶ 5, Ex. 1.)  Plaintiff had not
served any response as of June 7, 2024, when defendants filed this motion.  (Id., ¶ 17.)  Plaintiff failed to serve a timely response
to defendants’ requests for production.  Defendants
are therefore entitled to an order compelling verified responses without
objections.
Form and Special Interrogatories
Defendants Steven Loeb and Rosen and Loeb move to
compel plaintiff Victor Enright to respond to form interrogatories – general,
set one, and special interrogatories, set one. 
When
the responding party fails to serve a timely response to interrogatories, the
propounding party may move for an order compelling responses.  (CCP § 2030.290(b).)  Failing to serve a timely response waives any
objection to the interrogatories.  (Id.,
subd. (a).)
            Defendants served form
interrogatories - general, set one and special interrogatories, set one, on plaintiff
on March 14, 2023.  (Goldman Decls., ¶ 5,
Ex. 1.)  Plaintiff had not served any response as of June 7, 2024, when defendants
filed this motion.  (Id., ¶
17.)  Plaintiff failed to serve a timely
response to defendants’ form interrogatories and special interrogatories.  Defendants are therefore entitled to an order
compelling verified responses without objections.
Pending Anti-SLAPP Motion
Plaintiff filed
an objection to defendants’ motions to assert that all discovery proceedings
are stayed under Code of Civil Procedure 425.16.  Section 425.16, subdivision (g) provides, “All
discovery proceedings in the action shall be stayed upon the filing of a notice
of” an anti-SLAPP motion.  
The stay does not apply to the discovery
proceedings in the action between plaintiff and defendants.  The purpose of the anti-SLAPP statute and the
discovery stay is “to protect
defendants from having to expend resources defending against frivolous SLAPP
suits unless and until a plaintiff establishes the viability of its claim by a
prima facie showing.”  (Britts v.
Superior Court (2006) 145 Cal.App.4th 1112, 1124.)  “The purpose of this [discovery] limitation
is only to further the purposes of the special motion to strike, i.e., to
minimize the costs and burdens of unmeritorious litigation directed at free
speech rights.”  (Slauson Partnership
v. Ochoa (2003) 112 Cal.App.4th 1005, 1021.)
Defendants/cross-complainants
Steven
Loeb and Rosen and Loeb filed a second amended cross-complaint against
cross-defendants Richie Litigation, P.C. and DRE A.P.C.  Cross-defendants filed an anti-SLAPP motion
to strike the second amended cross-complaint. 
Plaintiff is not a
party to the second amended cross-complaint.  “A complaint and a
cross-complaint are, for most purposes, treated as independent actions.”  (Security Pacific National Bank v. Adamo (1983) 142 Cal.App.3d 492, 496.)  “Where
there are both a complaint and a cross-complaint there are actually two separate actions pending and the issues
joined on the cross-complaint are completely severable from the issues under
the original complaint and answer.” 
(Ibid.)  
Here, the
anti-SLAPP procedure’s purpose is to protect cross-defendants from the expense
of defending against the second amended cross-complaint.  The anti-SLAPP motion
does not involve plaintiff.  The subject discovery between plaintiff and
defendants/cross-complainants does not involve the cross-defendants who filed
an anti-SLAPP motion.  Cross-defendants
represent plaintiff as his attorneys, but they are not parties to the action
between plaintiff and defendants. 
Staying the subject discovery would not protect cross-defendants in
their capacity as parties defending against the second amended
cross-complaint.  This discovery would
remain outstanding even if cross-defendants succeeded in striking the entire
second amended cross-complaint without leave to amend.  
In these
circumstances, “the action” in which all discovery proceedings are stayed (CCP
§ 425.16(g)) means the second amended cross-complaint.  The term “the action” does not include plaintiff’s
first amended complaint, which is considered a separate and independent
action.  
Sanctions       
In
each motion, defendants move for monetary sanctions against plaintiff and his
counsel.  Plaintiff acted with
substantial justification based on the position that Code of Civil Procedure
425.16(g) stayed this discovery.  Though
the court rejects that argument, it was reasonable.  The court therefore will not impose monetary
sanctions.
Disposition  
Defendants Steven Loeb and Rosen and Loeb’s motion to compel
responses to requests for production is granted.  Plaintiff
Victor Enright is ordered to serve verified responses to requests for
production, set one, without objections within 30 days.  Plaintiff is further ordered to produce all responsive documents concurrently with the written
responses.  
Defendants Steven Loeb and Rosen and Loeb’s motion to compel
responses to form interrogatories is granted.  Plaintiff
Victor Enright is ordered to serve verified responses to form
interrogatories – general, set one, without objections within 30 days.  
Defendants Steven Loeb and Rosen and Loeb’s motion to compel
responses to special interrogatories is granted.  Plaintiff
Victor Enright is ordered to serve verified responses to special
interrogatories, set one, without objections within 30 days. 
 