 Case Number:  YC033114    Hearing Date:   March 21, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling 
¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 March 21, 2024 
¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                   YC033114
¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Palos
Verdes Homes Association v. David Goldhammer
¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                Plaintiffs-in-Intervention,
William Regan and Desiree Myers
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Defendant, David Avedon (formerly David Goldhammer)
¿ 
TRIAL DATE:                       Not
Set.  
 
DISPOSED DATE:                September 30, 1999
¿ 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Motion for
Contempt Against Defendant, Davide Avedon 
(2) Issuance of a Permanent
Injunction
 
Tentative Rulings:                  (1) CONTINUE
 
 
 
 
I. BACKGROUND¿ 
¿ 
A.   
Factual¿ 
 
This
action was filed on August 31, 1998 and involves a dispute between two property
owners living in Palos Verdes Estates. Plaintiffs in intervention contend that
Defendant, Avedon’s violation of the view has already been repeatedly
established by prior Court rulings. Plaintiffs in intervention assert that this
case is in dire need of case management due to defendant Avedon’s repeated and
continued non-compliance with court orders to keep his vegetation trimmed.
Plaintiffs in Intervention note that Court orders and arbitration awards issued
over the past two decades by Judges Stuart Rice, Andrew Kauffman, Gregory
O’Brien, Deidre Hill and others have been routinely violated. Plaintiffs in
Intervention note that their failure to enforce these orders is hampered by
Defendant Avedon’s in pro per status and failure to communicate. 
 
Based
on all of this, Plaintiffs in Intervention contend that they now seek an order
setting an Order to Show Cause re Avedon’s contempt of these past orders.
Further, in addition to seeking enforcement of past enforcement regarding
existing foliage, the parties are in need of a permanent injunction against
Avedon’s planting new vegetation following the Court of Appeal’s affirmance of
Judge Hill’s preliminary injunction finding such planned vegetation would block
Plaintiffs in Interventions’ view. 
 
 
B. Procedural
 
This is not the first time
this motion has come on this Court’s calendar. On September 5, 2023, Plaintiffs
in Intervention, William Regan and Desiree Myers filed a Motion for Contempt
against Defendant, David Avedon and for Issuance of a Permanent Injunction. On
September 19, 2023, Defendant filed an opposition brief. On October 25, 2023,
Plaintiffs filed a reply brief. 
 
Subsequently, on November 30,
2023, the Court and counsel conferred regarding a prospective date for the
Court and counsel to conduct a site inspection of the neighboring properties. The
Site Inspection was scheduled for January 12, 2024 at 3:30PM. The Court and
both counsel attended the inspection of both properties where the Court had the
opportunity to observe and take note of the view lines, conditions of growth,
and to discuss various issues with the parties on site.
 
On February 16, 2024,
Plaintiffs in Intervention, William Regan and Desiree Myers filed a Motion for
Contempt against Defendant, David Avedon and for Issuance of a Permanent
Injunction again. On March 8, 2024, Defendant filed an opposition brief. On March
14, 2024, Plaintiffs in intervention filed a reply brief. 
 
 
¿II. ANALYSIS
¿ 
¿ 
            After the Court’s November 1, 2023
hearing on a previous motion, the parties agreed to a site inspection by the
Court, and said site inspection was held on January 12, 2024. Plaintiffs in
Intervention contend that the site inspection revealed the following: 
1.    
The Driveway Hedge. The hedge growing
along Goldhammer/Avedon’s driveway is unquestionably higher than the 12-foot
height limit imposed by Judge Gregory O’Brien and confirmed by Judge Andrew
Kauffman with prior Contempt Order enforcement by Judge Stuart Rice. The Court
did not need a measuring stick to confirm that violation. In many places the
hedge is higher than 20 feet and certainly not 12 feet from “grade” as required
by Judge Rice. The breadth of the hedge has also now grown substantially, many
feet covering large portions Goldhammer/Avedon’s driveway in conflict with
Judge Rice’s order. The hedge planted at the parties’ joint property line also
well exceeded the 12-foot height limit. 
2.    
The Olive Tree. The prior expert arborist
recommended that the olive tree in Goldhammer/Avedon’s back yard be laced and
pruned back to the bottom edge of the Goldhammer/Avedon roofline. The site
inspection revealed that the olive tree has not been laced and is beyond the
roofline. The prior expert appointed by the Court recommended that the Olive
tree be maintained no higher than 29-30 feet and an 18 foot radius. (Regan
Decl., ¶ 19b, Ex. H.) The inspection revealed those limits have not been
adhered to. 
3.    
The Queen Palms. The queen palms are
presently in compliance because the dead and dying fronds were recently removed
in response to the 2023 Court filing by Regan. 
Plaintiffs in Intervention assert that because of
the prior orders by Judge Stuart Rice, Andrew Kauffman, Gregory O’Brien and
Diedre Hill, it would be appropriate for this Court to conclude: (1) The prior
orders are valid; (2) Goldhammer/Avedon has the ability to comply with the orders
(i.e., hire a trimmer); and (3) Goldhammer/Avedon has willfully disobeyed,
since 2011, prior court orders by failing to trim his vegetation. In other
words, Plaintiffs in Intervention contend that as to the existing vegetation,
this Court should find Goldhammer/Avedon in contempt. (Code of
Civ. Proc., § 1209, subd.(a)5; Koshak v. Malek (2011) 200 Cal.App.4th 1540,
1548 [“willful failure to comply with an order of the court constitutes
contempt”].) Plaintiffs in Intervention also contend that Goldhammer/Avedon’s
apparent defense to the contempt finding is an attempt to relitigate whether
the view impairment is substantial or whether his privacy needs outweigh
Regan’s view rights. However, Plaintiffs in Intervention assert that these
subjective determinations were already made by Judge Stuart Rice, Anrew
Kauffman, Gregory O’Brien and Deidre Hill. Thus, Plaintiff in Intervention
argues the only thing for this Court to do is to enforce the objective criteria
for compliance with the prior orders. 
In Avedon’s opposition, he argues
that The Palm Trees are and have been in compliance with Court orders,
as conceded to by Plaintiff in Intervention’s motion. As to the Heritage
Olive Tree, Avedon also argues that this is in compliance with Court
Orders, noting that the Settlement Agreement allowed Avedon to maintain the
Olive tree at its then height. Avedon contends that The Settlement Agreement
allowed Avedon to maintain the Olive Tree at its then height, and that there is
no evidence that he has not done so. The Court finds that this is a slight
misinterpretation of the Settlement Agreement. The Settlement Agreement states
that:
“Goldhammer will retain an ISA certified tree trimmer
who will trim the crown of the Olive Tree so that no part exceeds in height a
horizontal line parallel to the ground and 5 feet below the present crown of
the Olive Tree. Goldhammer’s ISA certified tree trimmer shall trim the sides,
remove any deadwood and lace the Olive Tree as the ISA certified tree trimmer feels
is appropriate. The trimming shall be done as soon as in the opinion of the
tree trimer it can be done without endangering the Olive Tree but in no event
later than November 30, 1999. After the ISA certified tree trimmer trims the
Olive Tree, he shall measure the height of the Olive Tre to its crown, and that
measurement shall be the “Guage Measurement” for purposes of this Agreement.
This Guage Measurement shall be verified by a representative of Regan. Once a
year thereafter, Goldhammer will cut back and lace (as the trimmer feels is
appropriate) the Olive Tree to the Guage Measurement. The yearly trimmings to
the Guage Measurement will be verified by a representative that is acceptable
to both Regan and Goldhammer or alternatively by a representative of Regan and
a representative of Goldhammer.” 
(Declaration of William Regan,
Exhibit B, “Settlement Agreement”, para. 1(B).) As such, the “Guage
Measurement” was not at the height the olive tree was at then, it was the
height that the ISA certified tree trimmer would have cut the tree to in order
to meet the measurement requirements. 
            The
Court is inclined to continue the hearing. 
At the site inspection the Court encouraged a settled resolution and apparently
at least one side was willing to discuss a global settlement.  The Court observed what it observed at the properties
and will apply prior orders and agreements of the parties regardless of any
claimed subsequent municipal legislation that was passed only recently, long
after the pendency of this suit and prior court orders.  But if the parties cannot decide their own fate,
the Court will issue a tentative ruling on the record presented to it by the
date to be agreed for a continuance.