 Case Number:  23TRCV01178    Hearing Date:   March 21, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                    March 21, 2024¿ 
¿¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                      23TRCV01178
¿¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                           Ali Mohaved v. BMW of North America, LLC,
et al.   
¿¿¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                (1) Plaintiff,
Ali Mohaved 
¿¿¿ 
RESPONDING PARTY:        (1) Defendant, BMW of North America, LLC 
¿¿¿ 
TRIAL DATE:                       April 7, 2025
¿¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Motion to Compel Deposition Attendance and Production of
Documents without Objection, by Defendant BMW of North America ,LLC’s Person
Most Knowledgeable. 
                                                (2) Motion to Compel
Further Responses to Requests for Production of Documents, Set One
                                                
Tentative Rulings:                     (1) GRANT in part.  The Court orders
the agreed-upon May 21 PMK deposition on the categories and duces tecum noticed
on November 28, 2023, but without ruling on the objections until we see what
BMW’s production of documents at or before the deposition contains
                                                (2) ARGUE the RFP,
given that it appears BMW responded to all but 3 of the original Requests and
expressed willingness to produce technical literature subject to the protective
order that the parties have since executed
                                                (3) On its own
motion, the Court VACATES the mistaken Minute Order of March 7, 2024 on the PMK
deposition and its duces tecum
 
                                                
I. BACKGROUND¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
A. Factual¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
On April 17, 2023, Plaintiff, Ali Mohaved
(“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against Defendant, BMW of North America, LLC,
and DOES 1 through 100. The Complaint alleges causes of action for: (1)
Violation of Song-Beverly Act – Breach of Express Warranty; (2) Violation of
Song-Beverly Act – Breach of Implied Warranty; and (3) Violation of the
Song-Beverly Act § 1793.2(b).  
 
On July 31, 2023, Plaintiff notes that he properly
noticed the deposition of Defendant’s PMK and sought Defendant’s documents
relating to this case. Plaintiff contends it had to notice the PNK deposition
on two more occasions, battling through BMW’s objections, and the unilateral
cancellation of a confirmed PNK deposition date, over the next four months
before serving Plaintiff’s confirmed PMK Deposition Notice on November 28,
2023, setting the deposition for January 5, 2024, trimmed down the Matters of
Examination from twenty-eight (28) to nine (9), and reduced the categories of
Documents to be produced from thirty-one (31) to twenty-three (23). 
 
However, Plaintiff notes that rather than timely
producing a witness or witnesses in response to the PMK deposition notice,
Defendant stonewalled Plaintiff and refused and continues to refuse to produce
a PMK as to any of the matter specified in Plaintiff’s Notice of Deposition. Plaintiff
asserts that though it has been pursuing this critical deposition for more than
five (5) months, BMW has still failed to produce anyone as their PMK, failed to
produce documents, and has not served objections or other responses to
Plaintiff’s November 28, 2023 Confirmed PMK Notice of Deposition. As such,
Plaintiff has brought this Motion to Compel the Deposition of BMW’s PNK and
Production of Documents. 
 
Further, Plaintiff notes that he propounded Requests
for Production of Documents, Set One on Defendant, BMW on August 1, 2023. On
September 4, 2023, Plaintiff contends that BMW served unverified and
non-compliant responses to the requests, and produced no documents. Through
meet and confer efforts between the parties, Plaintiff notes that he was able
to coax further responses and document production out of BMW on October 13,
2023, and BMW verified those responses on October 16, 2023. Nonetheless,
Plaintiff maintained that such responses were still insufficient in further
meet and confer communications on October 24, 2023, October 27, 2023, and
November 17, 2023. Despite this, Plaintiff argues that BMW still has not
produced its Warranty Vehicle Inquiry (“WVI”), which BMW agreed to produce, and
continues to refuse producing responsive documents relating to preparation of
Technical Service Bulletins (“TSBs”) and Recalls pertaining to the subject
vehicle. As such, Plaintiff has also brought a Motion to Compel Further
Responses to Requests for Production of Documents, Set One. 
 
B. Procedural¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
On January 18, 2024, Plaintiff filed this
Motion to Compel Deposition Attendance and Production of Documents, without
objection, by Defendant BMW’s PMK.  The motion
came up for hearing on March 7, 2024 which was attended by Plaintiff’s counsel
but not by BMW’s counsel, and as to which the Court had posted a tentative
ruling.  In the absence of any opposition
or appearance by BMW, the Court mistakenly granted the motion which had not
been noticed for March 7 but which was on the calendar for that date.  Plaintiff’s counsel did not notify the Court
that the March 7 hearing was NOT the date noticed in the motion, and the Court
mistakenly failed to identify that mistake until working up the two motions scheduled
for March 21.   Plaintiff’s counsel gave
BMW written notice of the mistaken March 7 ruling.  Accordingly, and on its own motion, the Court
VACATES the March 7 minute order as having been mistakenly ruled upon without
input from BMW and on the wrong hearing date. 
On March 14, 2024, Defendant BMW filed an opposition to the PMK deposition
motion that had been noticed for a March 21, not March 7, hearing. To date, no
reply brief has been filed.  
 
Further, on January 25, 2024, Plaintiff
filed a Motion to Compel Further Responses to Requests for Production of
Documents, Set One by Defendant BMW. On March 7, the Court ordered that this motion’s
hearing date be moved to March 21, and the Plaintiff gave written notice of
that changed hearing date in the same notice or ruling that contained the
notice of the mistaken granting of the PMK deposition motion.  On March 14, 2024, BMW filed an opposition.
To date, no reply brief has been filed. 
 
¿II.
ANALYSIS¿¿ 
¿¿ 
A.   
Motion
to Compel the Deposition of BMW’s PMK
 
Code of Civil Procedure
section 2025.450, section (a) provides:  
 
“If, after service of a deposition notice, a party to the action
or an officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a party, or a person
designated by an organization that is a party under Section 2025.230, without
having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails to appear for
examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for inspection any document,
electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the
deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move for an order compelling
the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the production for inspection of
any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in
the deposition notice.” 
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450,
subd. (a).)  
 
The motion must “be
accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040, or, when
the deponent fails to attend the deposition…by a declaration stating that the
petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire about the nonappearance.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (b)(2).) A court shall impose monetary sanctions
if the motion to compel is granted unless the one subject to sanctions acted
with substantial justification or other circumstances would make the imposition
of the sanction unjust. (Code. Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (g)(1).)  
 
Meet and Confer
 
            Pursuant to Code
of Civil Procedure section 2025.450(b)(2), a Motion for an Order Compelling the
Deponent’s Attendance and Testimony shall be accompanied by a meet and confer
declaration under section 2016.040. As noted in Plaintiff’s counsel, Sepehr
Daghighian’s (“Daghighian Decl.”) declaration, since August 2023, Plaintiff’s
counsel has sent meet and confer letters to counsel for Defendant in order to
set a mutually agreeable date for the deposition. Per this declaration,
Plaintiff indicates that after the originally noticed date in August to which
BMW objected, the parties agreed on an October 11 date for the PMK
deposition.  But on October 6, BMW served
written objection and did not produce a witness on October 11.  After letters and a telephonic meet and
confer, a new PMK deposition date of January 5 was agreed upon, per the Daghighian
Decl., along with a reduction in the number of categories and scope of the
deposition.  Plaintiff thus served an
updated notice of the PMK deposition and the trimmed categories of requested documents
on November 28, 2023.  The Court is
satisfied that there was a good faith meet and confer process in 2023.  What occurred in early 2024 is discussed
below.
 
Discussion 
 
            Here, Plaintiff
argues that good cause exists to order Defendant to produce its PMK and
custodian of records because or Plaintiff’s frustration with the setting and cancellation
of the PMK deposition now multiple times. 
Plaintiff contends it has properly noticed the PMK deposition five times
and the information sought is relevant and necessary to Plaintiff’s case. After
months of back and forth, Plaintiff notes that it timely served his Confirmed
Notice of Deposition of Defendant’s PMK and Custodian of Records on November
28, 2023, thus obligating Defendant’s attendance and document production on
January 5, 2024. However, per the movng papers, Plaintiff reports that on
January 4, 2024, Defendant, again, unilaterally cancelled the confirmed
deposition – citing, “an unexpected conflict” – and proposing March 12th
or 13th. Plaintiff argues that by refusing to provide dates, and
follow through on them, BMW is impeding Plaintiff’s ability to conduct basic
discovery in order to handicap Plaintiff at trial. In BMW’s opposition, they
argue this motion is moot because BMW has complied and provided a date for the
PMK deposition. 
 
Nonetheless, the parties have not taken this motion
off calendar, but the Court notes that the proposed dates by BMW for March 12th
or 13th have since passed with the deposition still not having taken
place.  In BMW’s opposition papers, BMW
now states it can produce its PMK for deposition on May 21, 2024. The Court thus
does not believe this motion is mooted as the deposition date is continuously
being unilaterally postponed by PMW now several times.  However, the Court does not find that on the
record before it, the fact warrant the order that Plaintiff is seeking.
Plaintiff’s motion asserts that this Court order Defendant, within 10-day: (1)
produce its deponent(s) most qualified to testify as to each Matter of
Examination contained in the November 28, 2023 Confirmed PMK Deposition Notice,
without objection; and (2) to produce the documents requested in the
aforementioned PMK Deposition Notice, without objection. The Court will order a
May 21 PMK deposition on the categories noticed on November 28 and with that
noticed deces tecum, but the Court will not rule on the objections to the document
categories until after the deposition proceeds. 

 
 
B.   
Motion to Compel Further Responses to Requests for Production of
Documents
 
Discussion
 
            The Moving papers
indicate that BMW did provide verified written responses complying with the statutory
requirements of stating a willingness to comply, as to all but the 3 technical
literature categoes requested.  The
parties have since signed a stipulated protective order to restrict
dissemination of the technical literature and recall documents, but it is
unclear tot eh Court whether those remaining 3 categories remain outstanding or
whether responsive documents have now been proeuced subject tot eh protective
order.  The Court will hear oral argument
and make a further ruling or continue the hearing pending submission of supplemental
declarations.  
 
 