  Case Number:  21TRCV00873    Hearing Date:   March 21, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative
Ruling¿ 
¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 March 21, 2024¿ 
¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                   21TRCV00873
¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Brice Head,
individually and as trustee of the Head 2005 Trust dated June 7, 2005 v. Paseo
Verde, LLC, et al.   
¿¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant, Brice Head
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Defendant/Cross-Complainant, Reynolds
Development Corporation  
¿¿ 
TRIAL DATE:                       Not
Set.  
¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Motion to Strike Cross-Complaint
¿ 
Tentative Rulings:                  (1) DENIED.  Taking the holistic view of the case and its
status, the Court vacated the trial date on 9/28/23. So there was no trial set
when the Cross-Complaint was filed.  
 
¿ 
 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿ 
¿¿ 
A. Factual¿¿ 
¿ 
            On
November 29, 2021, Plaintiff, Brice Head, individually and as Trustee of the
Head 2005 Trust dated June 7, 2005 (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against
Defendant, Paseo Verde, LLC, Reynolds Development Corporation, and DOES 1
through 10. The Complaint alleges causes of action for: (1) Statutory
Violation; (2) Negligence; and (3) Breach of Contract. 
 
            On
December 21, 2023, Defendant/Cross-Complainant, Reynolds Development
Corporation (“Reynolds”) filed a Cross-Complaint against Cross-Defendants,
Kessler Construction, Inc., M. Cohen and Sons, Inc., S&W Waterproofing,
Inc., and MOES 1 through 30. The Cross-Complaint alleges causes of action for:
(1) Breach of Contract; (2) Equitable Indemnity; (3) Total Indemnity; (4)
Contribution; and (5) Declaratory Relief. 
 
            Plaintiff,
Brice Head, individually, and trustee of the Head 2005 Trust dated June 7,
2005, has filed a Motion to Strike the Cross-Complaint.
 
B. Procedural¿¿ 
 
On February 5, 2024, Plaintiff
filed a Motion to Strike. On March 8, 2024, Defendant/Cross-Defendant, Reynold
filed an opposition. On March 12, 2024, Plaintiff filed a reply briefs.
 
 
¿II. MOVING PARTY’S GROUNDS
¿ 
            Here, Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant,
Brice Head (“Head”) filed this Motion on the grounds that he argues that
Cross-Complainant was barred from filing the cross-complaint without leave from
this Court pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure § 428.50. 
 
III. ANALYSIS¿ 
¿ 
A. Legal Standard 
 
Any party, within the time allowed to respond to
a pleading may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the whole or any
part thereof. (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(1).) The court may, upon a
motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper,
strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a); Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d
767, 782 [“Matter in a pleading which is not essential to the claim is
surplusage; probative facts are surplusage and may be stricken out or
disregarded”].) The court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not
drawn or filed in conformity with California law, a court rule, or an order of
the court. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (b).) An immaterial or irrelevant
allegation is one that is not essential to the statement of a claim or defense;
is neither pertinent to nor supported by an otherwise sufficient claim or
defense; or a demand for judgment requesting relief not supported by the allegations
of the complaint. (Code Civ. Proc., § 431.10, subd. (b).) The grounds for
moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial
notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437.)¿¿ 
 
B. Discussion
Head brings this motion to strike Reynold’s
Cross-Complaint on the grounds that Plaintiff – superficially correctly – notes
that pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure § 428.50, et seq., Reynolds was
required to seek leave of this Court prior to filing the cross-complaint as it
was filed after the setting of the trial date. “A party shall file a
cross-complaint against any of the parties who filed the complaint or
cross-complaint against him or her before or at the same time as the answer to
the complaint or cross-complaint.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 428.50 (a).) “Any
other cross-complaint may be filed at any time before the court has set a date
for trial.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 428.50 (b).) “A party shall obtain
leave of court to file any cross-complaint except one filed within the time
specified in subdivision (a) or (b) [above].  Leave may be granted in the
interest of justice at any time during the course of the action.” (Code
Civ. Proc. § 428.50(c).)
Head explains that on May 17, 2022, after a CMC hearing, a Notice
of Ruling was prepared and served as to all Defendants notifying Defendants
that the Post-Mediation Status Conference scheduled for February 8, 2023, the
Final Status Conference was scheduled for October 31, 2023, and Trial on the
matter was scheduled for November 7, 2023. However, the cross-complaint was not
filed until December 21, 2023. 
However, in opposition, Reynolds does not argue its
cross-compliant was in compliance with Code of Civil Procedure § 428.50.
Instead, Reynolds argues this Court should permit the filing of its cross-complaint
because the trial date had been vacated by Court order before the cross-complaint
was filed, and because permitting the cross complaint will serve the interest
of justice and avoid the multiplicity of lawsuits. For example, Reynolds
contends that it this Court is inclined to grant the motion to strike, that
Reynolds would subsequently file a motion for leave to file a cross-complaint,
and resolution of the matter will be delayed even further. Plaintiff does not
assert any substantive reason why the Cross-Complaint should be stricken. 
The Code of Civil Procedure is clear that a party can file a cross complaint
at any time during the course of action, meaning before judgment has been
entered.  Code Civ. Proc. § 428.50 (b); City of Hanford v. Superior
Court, supra, 208 Cal.App.3d at p. 587 [“We conclude ‘during the
course of the action’ should not be construed to permit the filing of a
cross-complaint after final judgment has been entered on the underlying
complaint”]; Orient Handel v. United States Fid. & Guar. Co. (1987)
192 Cal.App.3d 684, 701 [finding that a trial court did not abuse its
discretion by granting leave to file a cross-complaint too close to the time
set for trial].  Here, trial has yet to occur. In fact, on September 28,
2023, this Court found good cause to vacate the trial date. Because of this,
the Court does not understand Head’s argument that he will suffer severe
prejudice if this cross-complaint is allowed to be filed. Here, the Court finds
that if Reynolds were to file a Motion for Leave to File Cross-Complaint, on
the record before the Court it would find good cause to grant the same. 
As such,
Brice Head’s Motion to Strike is DENIED. The Court will entertain oral argument
as to any substantive reason why the cross -complaint should be stricken.