  Case Number:  20STCV18455    Hearing Date:   December 12, 2024    Dept:  61 FOREST SMITH, INDIVIDUALLY AND AS TRUSTEE OF THE FOREST G. SMITH IV REVOCABLE LIVING TR, et al. vs BLAIR STOVERTENTATIVEPlaintiffs Forest Smith and Lena Smith’s Motion for Leave to File Third Amended Complaint is DENIED.Defendant to give notice.DISCUSSIONCode Civ. Proc. section 473 subd. (a)(1) states that:The court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to amend any pleading or proceeding by adding or striking out the name of any party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any other respect; and may, upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or demurrer. The court may likewise, in its discretion, after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an amendment to any pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may upon like terms allow an answer to be made after the time limited by this code.“The trial court has discretion to permit or deny the amendment of the complaint, but instances justifying the court's denial of leave to amend are rare.” (Armenta ex rel. City of Burbank v. Mueller Co. (2006) 142 Cal.App.4th 636, 642.)“Although courts are bound to apply a policy of great liberality in permitting amendments to the complaint at any stage of the proceedings, up to and including trial [Citations], this policy should be applied only ‘[w]here no prejudice is shown to the adverse party . . .’ [Citation.] A different result is indicated ‘[w]here inexcusable delay and probable prejudice to the opposing party’ is shown. [Citation.]” (Magpali v. Farmers Group, Inc. (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 471, 487.)Pursuant to California Rule of Court Rule 3.1324, “[a] motion to amend a pleading before trial must: (1) Include a copy of the proposed amendment or amended pleading, which must be serially numbered to differentiate it from previous pleadings or amendments; (2) State what allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to be deleted, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the deleted allegations are located; and (3)State what allegations are proposed to be added to the previous pleading, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the additional allegations are located.”Such a motion must include a supporting declaration stating, “(1) The effect of the amendment; (2) Why the amendment is necessary and proper; (3) When the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered; and (4) The reasons why the request for amendment was not made earlier.” (CRC Rule 3.1324, subd. (b).)Plaintiffs Forest Smith and Lina Smith (Plaintiffs) seek leave to file a third amended complaint (TAC) adding Kruse Mennillo LLC (Kruse) as a defendant to this action, plus an additional cause of action for aiding and abetting Defendant Blair Stover’s (Defendant) alleged frauds and breaches of fiduciary duty. (Anderson Decl. Exh. A [Proposed TAC].)1Plaintiffs’ motion is long delayed. This matter was originally filed on May 14, 2020, and although the original Complaint named only Stover as Defendant, it alleged that Stover’s wrongdoing was committed in concert with Kruse, at one point alleging that “Stover and Kruse Mennillo devised a scheme by which Stover was able to misappropriate millions of dollars from Apex,” Plaintiffs’ company. (Complaint ¶ 34.)The gravamen of Plaintiffs’ proposed TAC against Kruse is somewhat different, but not in any way that excuses the delay. The TAC alleges that Kruse aided and abetted Stover’s breaches and frauds by concealing from Plaintiffs the tax and accounting documents that evidenced the work that Kruse was performing for Plaintiffs at Stover’s behest, which Plaintiffs only discovered after Kruse provided responses to a subpoena issued in February 2024. (Proposed TAC ¶¶ 46–51.) Yet Plaintiffs further allege that Stover had referred Plaintiffs to Kruse long before this litigation, and that Plaintiffs had sought the relevant documents from Kruse without success “[t]hroughout the 2009–2019 time period” in which Kruse was retained. (Proposed TAC ¶ 46.) Nor do Plaintiffs explain why they delayed seeking discovery against Kruse until issuing a subpoena in February of this year. Plaintiffs’ explanation that they had no reason to suspect wrongdoing until Kruse sent Plaintiffs a K-1 form for one of their companies on October 14, 2023, is inconsistent with both their prior allegations and the allegations they now propose to add. (Smith Decl. Exh. A.)This leaves the question of prejudice, since delay alone will not justify denial of leave to amend “where the opposing party was not misled or prejudiced by the amendment.” (Berman v. Bromberg (1997) 56 Cal.App.4th 936, 945.) This matter has been pending since May 14, 2020. Trial in this matter is set for March 25, 2025, some three-and-a-half months from the date of hearing on this motion. Allowing the introduction of a new defendant will likely entail additional discovery, challenges to the pleadings, and dispositive motions, requiring continuance of trial and related deadlines.Plaintiffs argue that no depositions have yet been taken in this action, and that they are dedicated to the trial of their claims before the expiration of the five-year deadline. (Reply at pp. 6–7; see Code Civ. Proc. § 583.310.) Yet the notion that Plaintiffs will not delay further prosecution of their claims, or that Kruse will not aggressively dispute its own liability, is rebutted by the long procedural history of this case and the very motion now under consideration. Prejudice is likely to ensue if leave to amend is granted, and is not merely speculative, as Plaintiffs suggest.The motion is therefore DENIED.* Plaintiffs argue that Stover’s opposition was not served upon them, and should be disregarded. (Reply at p. 2.) The same resolution on the motion is reached regardless of whether Stover’ opposition is considered.