  Case Number:  22PSCV02862    Hearing Date:   July 2, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE
NAME:  Lightking
America Technology (L.A.) LTD. v. Arbor CPA, APC, et al. 
Motion
to Quash Subpoena, and/or for Protective Order 
TENTATIVE
RULING 
The Court GRANTS non-party Zeming Qi’s motion to
quash subpoena, and/or for protective order, but only as to records sought for non-party
Zeming Qi’s account. The motion is DENIED as to records sought for Lightking
America Technology, LTD. 
            Non-party Zeming Qi is ordered to
give notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order. 
BACKGROUND 
This is a breach of contract action. On December 13, 2022, plaintiff
Lightking America Technology (LA), LTD filed this action against defendants
Arbor CPA, APC, Hui Heidi Liu, CPA, (collectively, Defendants) and Does 1
through 50. On May 9, 2023, Lightking America Technology (L.A.) LTD. and
Lightking American (L.A.), LTD. (collectively, Plaintiffs) filed the operative
First Amended Complaint against Defendants, alleging causes of action for
breach of contract, breach of fiduciary duty, and aiding and abetting breach of
fiduciary duty.
On April 29, 2024, non-party Zeming Qi (Qi) moved to quash a
deposition subpoena and/or for a protective order. On June 25, 2024, plaintiff Lightking America Technology (LA), LTD opposed the motion. Qi did not file a reply.
LEGAL
STANDARD 
If a subpoena requires the attendance of a witness or
the production of books, documents, electronically
stored information, or other things before a court, or at the trial of
an issue therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the court, upon motion
reasonably made by any person described in subdivision (b), or upon the court's
own motion after giving counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard, may make
an order quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance
with it upon those terms or conditions as the court shall declare, including
protective orders. In addition, the court may make any other order as may be
appropriate to protect the person from unreasonable or oppressive demands,
including unreasonable violations of the right of privacy of the person. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1,
subd. (a).) 
PRELIMINARY
ISSUES 
            “To protect personal privacy
and other legitimate interests, parties and their attorneys must not include,
or must redact where inclusion is necessary, the following identifiers from all
pleadings and other papers filed in the court's public file, whether filed in
paper or electronic form, unless otherwise provided by law or ordered by the
court:… 
(2) Financial account numbers 
If financial account numbers are required in a
pleading or other paper filed in the public file, only the last four digits of
these numbers may be used.” 
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule
1.201, subd. (a)(2).) 
            The
Court notes that Qi’s motion includes a copy of the deposition subpoena at
issue without having redacted Qi’s or Lightking America Technology
(L.A.) LTD’s bank
account information. (Gross Decl., Ex. A.) The Court admonishes Qi to comply
with Rule 1.201, subdivision (a)(2), of the California Rules of Court and to be
cognizant of including sensitive information in court documents going forward. 
DISCUSSION           
Meet and Confer           
Although a meet-and-confer declaration is not required for a
motion to quash a subpoena, the Court appreciates Qi’s efforts to meet and
confer before bringing this motion. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1; Gross
Decl., ¶ 4.)           
            Analysis 
Courts
look to the following factors to determine whether good cause has been shown to
enforce a subpoena: (1) if the defendant satisfied
the burden of showing a plausible justification for acquiring documents from a
third party, (2) whether the material sought is adequately described and not
overly broad, (3) whether the material is reasonably available to the entity
from which it is sought and not readily available to defendant from other
sources, (4) whether production of the requested materials would violate a
third party's confidentiality or privacy rights or intrude upon any protected
governmental interest, (5) whether defendant's request is timely, (6) whether
time required to produce the requested information would necessitate an
unreasonable delay of defendant's trial, and (7) whether production of records
containing the requested information would place an unreasonable burden on a third
party. (See Facebook, Inc. v. Superior Court of San Diego County (2020)
10 Cal.5th 329, 345-347; 50A Cal. Jur. 3d Process, Notices, and Subpoenas §
102.) When a party subpoenas the personal records of a consumer from a witness,
the party serving the subpoena must also serve a notice of the subpoena to the
consumer. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1985.3, subd. (e).) 
            Here, non-party Qi seeks to quash a Deposition Subpoena
for Production of Business Records recently served on East West Bank (the
Subpoena). (Gross Decl., Ex. A.) The Subpoena seeks various banking records and
documents as they relate to Qi and as to Lightking America Technology (L.A.)
LTD from the time period of September 27, 2016 to the present. (Id.) Qi
contends the Subpoena should be quashed because it seeks Qi’s personal records
and because Plaintiffs failed to serve Qi with a notice to consumer. The Court
finds Qi’s motion persuasive. 
            “The party asserting a privacy right must establish a
legally protected privacy interest, an objectively reasonable expectation of
privacy in the given circumstances, and a threatened intrusion that is
serious.” (Williams v. Superior Ct. (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 552.) The
Subpoena specifically seeks Qi’s bank records. (Gross Decl., Ex. A.) Qi has an
objectively reasonable expectation of privacy in his bank records. (See Code
Civ. Proc., § 1985.3, subd. (a)(1).) 
The Court
further agrees that the lack of notice to consumer to Qi is sufficient grounds
for quashing the Subpoena. (Qi Decl., ¶ 2; Code Civ. Proc., § 1985.3, subd.
(e).) The Court also construes Plaintiffs’ lack of opposition to this point as
a tacit admission that Qi’s arguments are meritorious and that Plaintiffs did
not serve a notice to consumer upon Qi per Code of Civil Procedure section
1985.3. (See Sexton v. Superior Court (1997) 58 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1410;
C. Opposing the Motion—and Rebutting the Opposition, Cal. Prac. Guide Civ. Pro.
Before Trial Ch. 9(I)-C, ¶ 9:105.10.) 
However, the Court notes that the Subpoena also seeks
documents other than Qi’s bank records, namely, those of Plaintiff Lightking
America Technology (L.A.) LTD. (Gross Decl., Ex. A.) Qi brought this motion
only on behalf of Qi. (See Notice of Motion, p. 2:1-3.) Thus, the Court will
grant the motion to quash only as to Qi. (See also Code Civ. Proc., § 1985.3,
subd. (l) [“If the subpoenaing party is the consumer, and the consumer is the
only subject of the subpoenaed records, notice to the consumer, and delivery of
the other documents specified in subdivision (b) to the consumer, is not
required under this section.”]) 
            Based on the foregoing, the Court GRANTS the motion to
quash subpoena, and/or for protective order, but only as to records sought for non-party
Zeming Qi’s account. The motion is DENIED as to records sought for Lightking
America Technology, LTD. 
CONCLUSION 
The Court GRANTS non-party Zeming Qi’s motion to
quash subpoena, and/or for protective order, but only as to records sought for non-party
Zeming Qi’s account. The motion is DENIED as to records sought for Lightking
America Technology, LTD. 
            Non-party Zeming Qi is ordered to
give notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.