  Case Number:  21STCV07597    Hearing Date:   April 11, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian
Department 27
Tentative
Ruling
 
Hearing Date:                4/11/2024 at 1:30 p.m.
Case No./Name.:         21STCV07597 DAWN MARIE FISHER vs ADAM F.
GOLDBERG PRODUCTION
Motion Name:                MOTION TO DISMISS
Moving Party:                 Defendant Remote Broadcasting Inc.
Responding Party:      Plaintiff
Notice:                                Sufficient
 
Ruling:                               MOTION TO DISMISS IS GRANTED
 
 
Legal Standard
A court has
discretion to dismiss an action for delay in prosecution. (See Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 583.410(a).) The court may not dismiss an action for delay in prosecution
unless service has not been made within two years after the action is commenced
against the defendant. (See id., § 583.420(a)(1).) If service of the
summons and complaint has not been served upon a defendant within the
three-year statutory time period, the court shall dismiss the action. (See id.,
§ 583.250.)
In
determining whether the court should exercise its discretion in dismissing an
action, the court must consider all relevant matters, including: 
 
“(1) The court’s file in the case and the
declarations and supporting date submitted by the parties and, where
applicable, the availability of the moving party and other essential parties
for service of process;  
(2) The diligence in seeking to effect service of
process; 
(3) The extent to which the parties engaged in
any settlement negotiations or discussions; 
(4) The diligence of the parties in pursuing
discovery or other pretrial proceedings, including any extraordinary relief
sought by either party; 
(5) The nature and complexity of the case; 
(6) The law applicable to the case, including the
pendency of other litigation under a common set of facts or determinative of
the legal or factual issues in the case; 
(7) The nature of any extensions of time or other
delay attributable to either party; 
(8) The condition of the court’s calendar and the
availability of an earlier trial date if the matter was ready for trial; 
(9) Whether the interests of justice are best
served by dismissal or trial of the case; and 
(10 Any other fact or circumstance relevant to a
fair determination of the issue.” 
 
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1342(e).)
 
The
plaintiff has the burden of showing excusable delay once a complaint is not
served within the two-year period. (Ladd v. Dart Equipment Corp. (1991)
230 Cal.App.3d 1088, 1099-110.) The court must consider all relevant matters,
including the court’s file in the case and declarations and supporting date
submitted by the parties, the diligence in seeking to effect service of
process, whether the interests of justice are best served by dismissal or trial
of the case, and any other fact or circumstance relevant to a fair
determination of the issue. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1342(e).)  As Plaintiffs have failed to meet their burden, the Court may dismiss
the action against Crescenta Valley despite the general policy favoring
resolution of cases on the merits. (See Ladd, supra, 230
Cal.App.3d at 1104.)
 
Factual Background and Analysis
On February 26, 2021, Plaintiff filed the present
trip and fall case against Adam F. Goldberg Productions and Sony Pictures
Entertainment, Inc., alleging that Defendants removed a bike rack which left a
bolt sticking out on the roadway, and Plaintiff tripped over the protruding
bolt. On September 6, 2023, Plaintiff added Remote Broadcasting Inc. as a Doe
defendant. Defendant Remote Broadcasting now moves the Court to dismiss the
action because Defendant was not served within 2 years of the filing of the complaint,
and Plaintiff was not diligent in acquiring the identity of Remote
Broadcasting. Plaintiff argues that they were diligent in acquiring that
information, but Defendant was obstructing them from acquiring such
information.
Defendant's
motion to dismiss under § 583.250, based on the claim that Defendant was not
served within three years from the date Plaintiff filed the complaint, is
without merit. The complaint was filed on February 26, 2021, and Defendant was
added on September 6, 2023, and served on December 26, 2023, which is less than
three years from the filing date.
It
is within the court's discretion to consider dismissing the case for failure to
serve the complaint within two years. California Code of Civil Procedure §
583.420(a)(1). The plaintiff has the burden of showing excusable
delay once a complaint is not served within the two-year period. (Ladd v.
Dart Equipment Corp. (1991) 230 Cal. App. 3d 1088, 1099-110.)
Plaintiff failed to meet its burden
of proving excusable delay. Plaintiff claims to have conducted extensive
discovery to identify the person who instructed Sony Pictures to remove the
subject bike rack. However, Plaintiff has not provided evidence detailing these
requests. The only evidence presented includes a request for production, an
email, and a deposition that took place more than two years after the complaint
was filed. Plaintiff has not demonstrated sufficient diligence within the first
two years of filing the complaint to discover Defendant’s identity. No evidence
of discovery requests, email correspondence, public searches, or other attempts
to identify the responsible entity within the first two years were attached to
the opposition. Plaintiff alleges that Defendant thwarted her efforts to find
out the identity of the responsible entity; however, Plaintiff has failed to
provide any evidence supporting this allegation within the first two years of
the case. Furthermore, in its reply, Defendant introduced Plaintiff's discovery
that was served in the first two years of the case, and that discovery does not
show Plaintiff clearly seeking the identity of the persons/entities involved in
removing the bike rack.
 
Because Plaintiff failed to meet its
burden of showing excusable delay, Defendant's motion is GRANTED.
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
 
If a party intends to submit on this tentative
ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the
case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time,
counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿¿¿ 
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative
ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person
for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue. 
 
If the parties neither submit nor appear at
hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative
ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative
ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without
leave.
 