 Case Number:  21STCV37594    Hearing Date:   April 11, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian
Department 27
Tentative
Ruling
 
Hearing Date:                4/11/2024 at 1:30 p.m.
Case No./Name.:         21STCV37594 ANNA VASERFIRER, et al. vs UBER
TECHNOLOGIES, INC 
Motion Name:                Motion to Seal Exhibits in Support of Motion for Summary Judgment
Moving Party:                 Defendants Uber Technologies, RASIER, and Rasier-CA LLC
Responding Party:      Plaintiff
Notice:                                Sufficient
 
Ruling:                               MOTION TO SEAL EXHIBITS IN SUPPORT OF MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT
IS GRANTED IN PART AND DENIED IN PART.
 
Legal Standard
¿ 
Pursuant to
California Rules of Court Rule 2.550 the court may seal a record “only if it
expressly finds facts that establish: (1) There exists an overriding interest
that overcomes the right of public access to the record; (2) The overriding
interest supports sealing the record; (3) A substantial probability exists that
the overriding interest will be prejudiced if the record is not sealed; (4) The
proposed sealing is narrowly tailored; and (5) No less restrictive means exist
to achieve the overriding interest.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
2.550(d).) In Hinshaw v. Superior Court (1996) 51 Cal.App.4th 233, 242,
the court stated that private, non-governmental parties have a privacy interest
in maintaining confidentiality of settlement agreements that contain personal
financial information. The court has also found that the public at large may
have an interest in knowing settlement terms when a public entity settles a
lawsuit, especially when it involves how public funds are spent. (See Copley
Press, Inc. v. Superior Court (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 367, 376.)
 
Factual
Background and Analysis
 
On October
12, 2021, Plaintiff filed the present case, alleging she was hit by Oscar
Moquete, who was performing services on behalf of Uber Technologies, RASIER,
and Rasier-CA LLC (collectively, “Defendants”) at the time of the incident. On
February 1, 2024, Defendants filed a motion for summary judgment against
Plaintiff. Defendants now move the Court to seal Exhibits A and B to the
Sauerwein Declaration and Exhibit A to the Gaddis Declaration, all filed in
support of Defendants’ Motion for Summary Judgment. Exhibit A to the Sauerwein
Declaration contains Defendant Oscar Moquete’s personally identifying
information, including his address, driver’s license number, and details about
his vehicle, such as the registered address and insurance information. Exhibit
B to the Sauerwein Declaration is a consumer report/background check for
Moquete, revealing a variety of personal information including his criminal
history and driving status information. Exhibit A to the Gaddis Declaration
contains 84 entries for Moquete’s activities over the course of two days, each
entry including his exact GPS location.
 
The
protection of privacy and avoidance of identity theft, harassment, and safety
concerns constitute a compelling overriding interest, especially when exhibits contain
personal identifying information, criminal history, and driving status. This
interest supports sealing Exhibits A and B to the Sauerwin Declaration.  The sealing request is narrowly tailored,
targeting only documents containing sensitive data, and thereby adhering to the
principle of minimal restriction. This strategy represents the least
restrictive means to protect the individual's privacy without unduly
restricting access to broader court records. Additionally, Plaintiff did not
file an opposition contesting Defendants' motion to seal.  Thus, the Court
GRANTS Defendants’ request to seal Exhibits A and B to the Sauerwin Declaration
supporting the Motion for Summary Judgment.
 
However, the Court is not
persuaded of a compelling overriding basis necessitating the sealing of Exhibit
A to the Gaddis Declaration and hereby DENIES that request.
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
 
If a party intends to submit on this tentative
ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the
case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time,
counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿¿¿ 
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative
ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person
for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue. 
 
If the parties neither submit nor appear at
hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative
ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative
ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without
leave.