 Case Number:  24STCV08968    Hearing Date:   December 18, 2024    Dept:  71 Superior Court of California
County of
Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 71
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



SCOTT GURNEY, et al.,
 
  
         vs.
 
KINGSFORD STREET INVESTORS, LLC, et al.


 Case No.:  24STCV08968
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  December 18, 2024



 
Plaintiffs Scott Gurney’s
and Deirdre Gurney’s motion to compel Defendant Kingsford Street Investors, LLC
to provide responses to their Request for Production of Documents (Set One) is granted.
Defendant Kingsford Street Investors, LLC is
ordered to provide verified responses pursuant to C.C.P. §2031.210 and to
produce the documents, electronically stored information, and/or other things
requested without objections within 20 days of this ruling.
Plaintiffs Scott
Gurney’s and Deirdre Gurney’s request
for monetary sanctions on the motion to compel responses for its Request
for Production against Defendant
Kingsford Street Investors, LLC is
denied.
Plaintiffs Scott
Gurney’s and Deirdre Gurney’s motion to compel Defendant Lysa Grigorian to provide
responses to their Request for Production of Documents (Set One) is granted.
Defendant Lysa Grigorian is ordered to provide verified responses pursuant to
C.C.P. §2031.210 and to produce the documents, electronically stored
information, and/or other things requested without objections within 20 days of
this ruling.
Plaintiffs Scott
Gurney’s and Deirdre Gurney’s request
for monetary sanctions on the motion to compel responses for its Request
for against Defendant Lysa
Grigorian is denied.
          
          Plaintiffs Scott
Gurney (“Scott”) and Deirdre Gurney’s (“Deirdre”) (collectively, “Plaintiffs”)
move to compel Defendant Kingsford Street Investors, LLC
(“Kingsford”) to provide responses to their Request for Production of Documents
(Set One).  (Notice of Motion Kingsford,
pg. 2.)  Plaintiffs also request an award
of sanctions against Kingsford in the amount of $2,072.50.  (Notice of Motion Kingsford, pg. 1.)
Plaintiffs move to
compel Defendant Lysa Grigorian (“Grigorian”) to provide responses to their
Request for Production of Documents (Set One). 
(Notice of Motion Grigorian, pg. 2.) 
Plaintiffs also request an award of sanctions against Grigorian in the
amount of $2,072.50.  (Notice of Motion Grigorian,
pg. 1.)
 
1.     Motion to
Compel- Kingsford
Having reviewed Plaintiffs’ Motion to Compel Responses from Kingsford to
their RFP, the Court rules as follows.
          On August 29, 2024,
Plaintiff served RFP on Kingsford by electronic service to Defendant’s counsel
of record, Pamela A Mozer, at zmmozer@aol.com. 
(Decl. of Ruttenberg ¶1, Exh. A.)  Defendant’s responses were due on September
30, 2024.  As of October 18, 2024,
Plaintiffs did not receive responses or a request for deadline extension.  (Decl. of Ruttenberg ¶2.)  Plaintiffs now move to compel responses.  
          Plaintiff’s motion to
compel RFP is granted pursuant to C.C.P. §2031.300.  Kingsford is ordered to provide verified
responses pursuant to C.C.P. §2031.210 and to produce the documents,
electronically stored information, and/or other things requested without
objections within 20 days of this ruling.
Plaintiffs request monetary sanctions totaling $2,072.50 against Kingsford. 
          The declines to award
sanctions in light of the fact that Plaintiffs’ notice of motion does not
comply with the requirements enumerated in C.C.P. §2023.040: “A request for a
sanction shall, in the notice of motion, identify every person, party, and
attorney against whom the sanction is sought, and specify the type of sanction
sought. The notice of motion shall be supported by a memorandum of points
and authorities, and accompanied by a declaration setting forth facts
supporting the amount of any monetary sanction sought.”  (C.C.P. §2023.040, emphasis added.)  Plaintiffs’ notice of motion only indicates
in the caption the amount of sanctions sought and does not identify every
person, party, and attorney against whom the sanction is sought.
          Accordingly, Plaintiffs’
request for sanctions is denied.
Moving Party is to give notice of this ruling. 
 
2.     Motion to
Compel- Grigorian
Having reviewed Plaintiffs’ Motion to Compel Responses from Grigorian to
their RFP, the Court rules as follows.
          On August 29, 2024,
Plaintiff served RFP on Grigorian by electronic service to Defendant’s counsel
of record, Pamela A Mozer, at zmmozer@aol.com. 
(Decl. of Ruttenberg ¶1, Exh. A.)  Defendant’s responses were due on September
30, 2024.  As of October 18, 2024,
Plaintiffs did not receive responses or a request for deadline extension.  (Decl. of Ruttenberg ¶2.)  Plaintiffs now move to compel responses.  
          Plaintiff’s motion to
compel RFP is granted pursuant to C.C.P. §2031.300.  Grigorian is ordered to provide verified
responses pursuant to C.C.P. §2031.210 and to produce the documents,
electronically stored information, and/or other things requested without
objections within 20 days of this ruling.
Plaintiffs request monetary sanctions totaling $2,072.50 against Grigorian. 
          The declines to award
sanctions because Plaintiffs’ notice of motion does not comply with the
requirements enumerated in C.C.P. §2023.040: “A request for a sanction shall, in
the notice of motion, identify every person, party, and attorney against whom
the sanction is sought, and specify the type of sanction sought. The notice
of motion shall be supported by a memorandum of points and authorities, and
accompanied by a declaration setting forth facts supporting the amount of any
monetary sanction sought.”  (C.C.P.
§2023.040, emphasis added.)  Plaintiffs’
notice of motion only indicates in the caption the amount of sanctions sought
and does not identify every person, party, and attorney against whom the
sanction is sought.
          Accordingly, Plaintiffs’
request for sanctions is denied.
Moving Party is to give notice of this ruling.
 
Dated:  December
_____, 2024
                                                                             





  