 Case Number:  23STCV02819    Hearing Date:   February 22, 2024    Dept:  45 Superior Court of California County   of Los Angeles        OLGA SOLOVEY, et    al.;                                Plaintiffs,                                 vs.   RUST MOVIE    PRODUCTIONS,  LLC, et al.;                                 Defendants.     Case No.: 23STCV02819  (Related    21STCV42301) DEPARTMENT    45       [TENTATIVE] RULING   Action Filed:  02/09/23. Trial    Date:  None Set          Hearing date:              February 22, 2024 Moving Party:             Defendants  Rust Movie Productions, LLC; Thomasville Pictures, LLC; Ryan Smith; and Langley  Allen Cheney  Responding Party:      Plaintiffs  Olga Solovey, Anatolii Androsovych, and Svetlana Zemko   Demurrer to Complaint and Motion to Strike The court  considered the moving papers, opposition, and reply papers.  The demurrer is sustained  with leave to amend. The court grants 20 days leave to amend. The motion to  strike portions of the complaint is moot.  Background Plaintiffs Olga Solovey,  Anatolii Androsovych, and Sevtlana Zemko (Plaintiffs) filed this action on  February 9, 2023 against defendants Rust Movie Productions, LLC; Alexander R.  Baldwin III; El Dorado Pictures, Inc.; Ryan Donnell Smith; Langley Allen Cheney;  Thomasville Pictures, LLC; Anjul Nigam; Brittany House Pictures; Hannah  Gutierrez-Reed; Sarah Zachry; Seth Kenney; PDQ Arm and Prop, LLC; David Halls; Nathan  Klingher; Ryan Winterstein; Short Porch Pictures, LLC; Matthew Delpiano;  Calvary Media, Inc.; Gabrielle Pickel; 3rd Shift Media, LLC; Katherine Walters;  Chris M.B. Sharp; Jennifer Lamb; Emily Salveson; and Streamline Global  (collectively, Defendants), alleging the following causes of action: (1) battery;  (2) intentional infliction of emotional distress; (3) negligence; and (4) loss of  consortium. This dispute arises from a fatal firearm shooting by Alexander  Baldwin III of Director of Photography Halyna Hutchins on the set of the  production, Rust. Legal Standard When considering demurrers,  courts read the allegations liberally and in context. (Taylor v. City of L.A.  Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1228.) “A demurrer  tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters.  Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or  are judicially noticed.” (SKF Farms v. Super. Ct. (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d  902, 905.) “The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the  complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of  action.” (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When considering motions to  strike, the court may strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted  in any pleading. (Code Civ. Pro., § 436, subd. (a).) The court may also strike  all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws  of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court. (Code Civ. Pro., § 436,  subd. (b).) Requests  for Judicial Notice             Plaintiffs request judicial notice  of an administrative complaint filed by the New Mexico Environment Department,  Occupational Health and Safety Bureau against defendant Rust Movie Productions,  case number OSHA 22-11. Plaintiffs also request judicial notice of the fact of  the following: (1) involuntary manslaughter charges filed against defendant  Alexander Baldwin on January 31, 2023, in New Mexico; (2) involuntary manslaughter charges against defendant Hannah Gutierrez-Reed  on January 31, 2023, in New Mexico; (3) negligent user of deadly weapon charges  against defendant David Halls on January 31, 2023, in New Mexico.               The  court takes judicial notice of the administrative complaint. (Evid. Code, § 452,  subd. (c).) The court also takes judicial notice of  the records in court cases occurring in New Mexico. (Brown v. Watson (1989) 207 Cal.App.3d 1306, 1309.)             Defendants request judicial notice of the following: (1) the complaint in Matthew  Hutchins et al. v. Rust Movie Productions LLC, et al., filed in the State  of New Mexico County of Santa Fe First Judicial District Court, case no.  D-101-CV-2022-00244; (2) the complaint in Mamie Mitchell v. Rust Movie  Productions LLC, et al., filed in the Los Angeles Superior Court, case no.  21STCV42301; (3) the complaint in Cherlyn Schaefer v. Rust Movie Productions  LLC, et al., filed in the State of New Mexico County of Santa Fe First  Judicial District Court, case no. D-101-CV-2022-00191; and (4) the complaint in  Serge Svetnoy v. Rust Movie Productions LLC, et al., filed in the Los  Angeles Superior Court, case no. 21STCV41392.              The court takes judicial notice of  the records in court cases occurring in New Mexico. (Brown v. Watson, supra, 207 Cal. App. 3d 1306 at p. 1309.)  The court also takes judicial notice oof the files in another action pending before the same court.  (Insurance  Underwriters Clearing House, Inc. v. Natomas Co. (1986) 184  Cal. App. 3d 1520, 1523.)  Discussion Preliminarily, defendants  Rust Movie Productions, LLC; Thomasville Pictures, LLC; Ryan Smith; and Langley  Allen Cheney satisfied the meet and confer requirements.  On February 27, 2023, their counsel, Michael  Moss, emailed a meet and confer letter to Plaintiffs’ counsel detailing the  grounds for Defendants’ proposed demurrer. (Decl. Moss, ¶ 3.) On March 3, 2023,  he held a Zoom video conference with Plaintiffs’ counsel during which they  discussed the grounds for Defendants’ proposed demurrer. (Decl. Moss, ¶ 3.) The  parties, however, did not reach an agreement resolving the objections raised in  the demurrer. (Decl. Moss, ¶ 3.) As required, the demurring parties filed a  declaration stating the means by which they met and conferred with the parties  who filed the pleading subject to demurrer, and that the parties did not reach  an agreement resolving the objections raised in the demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc.,  § 430.41, subd. (a)(3)(A).)  Defendants Alexander  R. Baldwin III and El Dorado Pictures, Inc. demur to the third and fourth loss  of consortium causes of action because under California law, only the spouse  can sue for loss of consortium. Here, plaintiffs Olga Solovey, Anatolii  Androsovych, and Svetlana Zemko, who are the mother, father, and sister of  Halyna Hutchins, sue for loss of consortium. Plaintiffs oppose on the ground that  New Mexico law applies and that under New Mexico law, parents and siblings can  also sue for loss of consortium.  Generally, the  courts of this state only apply the laws of this state.  However, when a  case involves a significant relationship to more than one state, the court  selects the appropriate state law to apply to the case.  (Hurtado v.  Super. Ct. (1974) 11 Cal.3d 574, 579-80.) In deciding which law to apply,  the court is not concerned with which state's law is the better rule of law,  but which jurisdiction should be provided the lawmaking power under the  circumstances of the present case. (McCann v. Foster Wheeler LLC  (2010) 48 Cal.4th 68, 97.) “[T]he starting point in our analysis is that a  California court should apply California law unless there is a reason not  to.”  (Chen v. L.A. Truck Centers, LLC (2017) 7 Cal.App.5th 757,  766.)  When there is no  advance agreement on the applicable law, but the action involves the  significant interests of another state, the court may analyze the governmental  interests of the various jurisdictions involved to select the most appropriate  law.  (Washington Mutual Bank, FA v. Super. Ct. (2001) 24 Cal.4th  906, 915.)  In California, choice-of-law  arguments are determined by a three-part test known as the “governmental  interest” analysis.  “‘First, the court determines whether the relevant  law of each of the potentially affected jurisdictions with regard to the particular  issue in question is the same or different.  Second, if there is a  difference, the court examines each jurisdiction’s interest in the application  of its own law under the circumstances of the particular case to determine  whether a true conflict exists.  Third, if the court finds that there is a  true conflict, it carefully evaluates and compares the nature and strength of  the interest of each jurisdiction in the application of its own law “to  determine which state’s interest would be more impaired if its policy were  subordinated to the policy of the other state” [citation] and then ultimately  applies “the law of the state whose interest would be more impaired if its law  were not applied.”’”  (McCann v. Foster Wheeler LLC (2010) 48  Cal.4th 68, 87-88.)   1.      Relevant Laws of  California and New Mexico  For the first step  of the “governmental interest” analysis, the Court looks to the two jurisdictions’  laws.  Under  California law, there are four elements to a cause of action for loss of  consortium: “(1) a valid and lawful marriage between the plaintiff and the  person injured at the time of the injury; (2) a tortious injury to the  plaintiff's spouse; (3) loss of consortium suffered by the plaintiff; and (4)  the loss was proximately caused by the defendant's act.” (LeFiell Mfg. Co.  v. Super. Ct. (2012) 55 Cal. 4th 275, 284.) Under  New Mexico law, courts assess whether the  claimant and the injured party shared a sufficiently close relationship and  duty of care. (Wachocki v. Bernalillo Cnty.  Sheriff's Dept. (2011-NMSC-039) ¶ 5, 150 N.M. 650.) Comparing the two jurisdictions’  standards for loss of consortium claims, the court finds that the first step of  the governmental interest analysis has been satisfied.   2.      Each Jurisdiction’s  Interest in the Application of their Own Law and the Existence of a Conflict  The second step of  the governmental interest analysis examines “each jurisdiction’s interest in  the application of its own law in the circumstances of the particular case to  determine whether a true conflict exists.”  (McCann, supra,  48 Cal.4th at p. 90.)    There are three  distinct aspects of a cause of action for wrongful death, and in making a choice  of law, the court must consider these three aspects separately. (Hurtado  v. Super. Ct. (1974) 11 Cal.3d 574, 584.) They are (1) compensation for  survivors; (2) deterrence of conduct; and (3) limitation, or lack thereof, upon  the damages recoverable. (Ibid.) The first aspect reflects the state's  interest in providing for compensation and in determining the distribution of  the proceeds, said interest extending only to local decedents and local  beneficiaries; the second reflects the state's interest in deterring conduct,  said interest extending to all persons present within its borders; the third reflects  the state's interest in protecting resident defendants from excessive financial  burdens. (Ibid.) Although the instant action is not a wrongful death  action, the court applies the same principles because here, the decedent’s  family members seek monetary damages for the death of the decedent.  Applying the  principles, first, the three plaintiffs reside in Ukraine, not California.  (Compl., ¶¶ 8 to 10.) Hence, California has little to no interest in providing  compensation to the survivors of Hutchins because they are not California  residents. Second, the event occurred in New Mexico, not California; thus,  California has little to no interest in deterring the tortious conduct that led  to the death of Hutchins. Third, California has an interest in protecting defendant  El Dorado Pictures, Inc., a business with its principal place of business in  California, from excessive financial burdens. California has no interest in  protecting defendant Alexander Baldwin III, a New York resident, from excessive  financial burdens. (Compl., ¶ 12.)  Regarding the  interests of New Mexico, because Hutchins’ death occurred in New Mexico, New  Mexico has an interest in deterring the type of tortious conduct that resulted  in her death.  The court finds  that a true conflict exists because each jurisdiction has a legitimate interest  in the application of its own law. Therefore, the court finds that it is appropriate  to conduct an analysis of the third step of the governmental interest analysis.  3.      The Nature and  Strength of Each Interest and Which State’s Interest is More Impaired  The third step of the governmental  interest analysis requires the court to weigh the two jurisdictions’ interests  in the matter.  The court must determine the relative  commitment of the respective states to the laws involved. (Offshore  Rental Co. v. Cont'l Oil Co.  (1978) 22 Cal. 3d 157, 166.) This involves evaluating the following factors:  the history and status of the states' laws and the function and purpose of  those laws. (Ibid.)  In  California, due to the the intangible nature of the injury and the danger of  multiplication of claims and liability, courts have not enlarged the recovery  of loss of earnings and services of a child to permit a parent to recover for  the loss of affection and society. (Baxter v.  Super. Ct. (1977) 19 Cal. 3d 461, 463.) For the same reasons, it has not  permitted siblings to recover for the loss of affection and society. (See Borer  v. Am. Airlines, Inc. (1977) 19 Cal.3d. 441, 446.) In contrast, in New  Mexico, courts abide by the policy that while allowing those who are legally  married eases the disposition of many losses of consortium claims, it does not  further the interests of justice. (Lozoya v. Sanchez (2003-NMSC-009) 133  N.M. 579, 586.) Further, using the legal status as a proxy is not the most  precise way to determine to whom a duty is owed, and it excludes many persons  whose loss of a significant relational interest may be just as devastating as  the loss of a legal spouse. (Ibid.)  The  court finds that a failure to apply New Mexico’s law would impair New Mexico’s  interests. Hutchins was in New Mexico for a work project, and by entering New Mexico,  she and other exposed themselves to the risks of the territory, including its  expansive loss of consortium laws in the case of death of a crew member. (Compl.  ¶¶ 2, 42.) If New Mexico law did not apply, anyone could assert that expansive  damage laws of a territory they entered do not apply because they reside  elsewhere. A failure to apply California law would not impair California’s  interests because as discussed further below, New Mexico uses a precise way to  determine to whom a duty is owed for loss of consortium.  Therefore, weighing the interests of the  two states, the court finds that a failure to apply New Mexico law would  significantly impair New Mexico’s interest.   New Mexico law states that a  loss-of-consortium claimant must demonstrate two elements to recover damages. (Wachocki  v. Bernalillo Cnty. Sheriff's Dept. (2011-NMSC-039)  ¶ 5, 150 N.M. 650.) The first element is that the claimant and the injured  party shared a sufficiently close relationship. (Ibid.) The  following factors were relevant in determining whether the claimant and injured  party shared such a close relationship: the duration of the relationship, the  degree of mutual dependence, the extent of common contributions to a life  together, the extent and quality of shared experience, whether the plaintiff  and the injured person were members of the same household, their emotional  reliance on each other, the particulars of their day to day relationship, and  the manner in which they related to each other in attending to life's mundane  requirements. (Ibid.) The second element is a duty of care. (Ibid.)  The tortfeasor owes a duty of care to the claimant where it is foreseeable that  the harm inflicted upon the injured party would damage the relationship between  the injured party and the claimant. (Ibid.) Applying  New Mexico law, the court finds that Hutchins did not share a sufficiently  close relationship with her parents or her siblings. Plaintiffs plead, “Without  the death of Halyna Hutchins, Plaintiffs would have continued to maintain their  close relationship with Halyna, a familial, loving relationship that was  sufficiently close, including, without limitation, one that included mutual  dependence, shared experiences, financial support and dependence, emotional  reliance on each other, and the many intimate manners in which Plaintiffs and  Halyna related to each other.” (Compl., ¶ 118.) Plaintiffs also plead, “As a  direct result of the loss of the close relationship interest between Halyna and  Plaintiffs Olga Solovey, Anatolii Androsovych, and Svetlana Zemko, Plaintiffs  have lost the love, companionship, comfort, care, assistance, protection,  affection, society, guidance, training, assistance, and moral support of  Halyna.” (Compl., ¶ 119.) Plaintiffs’ allegations are conclusory. They allege  nothing about the degree of mutual dependence, the extent of common  contributions, the extent or quality of shared experience, their emotional  reliance on each other, the particulars of their day-to-day relationship, and  the way they related to each other.  Based on the above, the court sustains defendants’ demurrer  with leave to amend. The court grants 20 days leave to amend.  Defendants move to strike allegations requesting  punitive damages and attorney fees. Considering the court’s ruling on sustaining the  demurrer to the third and fourth causes of action, with leave to amend, the  motion to strike punitive damages and attorney fees sought in these causes of  action is moot.  It is so ordered.       Dated:  February 22, 2024                              _______________________ ROLF M. TREU Judge of the Superior Court  Superior
Court of CaliforniaCounty
 of Los Angeles 


 
OLGA SOLOVEY, et
  al.;
 
                             Plaintiffs,
 
                              vs.
 
RUST MOVIE
  PRODUCTIONS, 
LLC, et al.;
 
                              Defendants.
 


Case No.: 23STCV02819 
(Related
  21STCV42301)
DEPARTMENT
  45
 
 
 
[TENTATIVE] RULING
 
 
 
Action
  Filed:  02/09/23.
Trial
  Date:  None Set
 
 


 Hearing date:              February 22, 2024Moving Party:             Defendants
Alexander R. Baldwin III and El Dorado Pictures, Inc.Responding Party:      Plaintiffs
Olga Solovey, Anatolii Androsovych, and Svetlana Zemko Demurrer to ComplaintThe court
considered the moving papers and opposition. The demurrer is sustained
with leave to amend. The court grants 20 days leave to amend. BackgroundPlaintiffs Olga Solovey,
Anatolii Androsovych, and Sevtlana Zemko (Plaintiffs) filed this action on
February 9, 2023 against defendants Rust Movie Productions, LLC; Alexander R.
Baldwin III; El Dorado Pictures, Inc.; Ryan Donnell Smith; Langley Allen Cheney;
Thomasville Pictures, LLC; Anjul Nigam; Brittany House Pictures; Hannah
Gutierrez-Reed; Sarah Zachry; Seth Kenney; PDQ Arm and Prop, LLC; David Halls; Nathan
Klingher; Ryan Winterstein; Short Porch Pictures, LLC; Matthew Delpiano;
Calvary Media, Inc.; Gabrielle Pickel; 3rd Shift Media, LLC; Katherine Walters;
Chris M.B. Sharp; Jennifer Lamb; Emily Salveson; and Streamline Global
(collectively, Defendants), alleging the following causes of action: (1) battery;
(2) intentional infliction of emotional distress; (3) negligence; and (4) loss
of consortium. This dispute arises from a fatal firearm shooting by Alexander
Baldwin III of Director of Photography Halyna Hutchins on the set of the
production, “Rust.”Legal StandardWhen considering demurrers,
courts read the allegations liberally and in context. (Taylor v. City of L.A.
Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1228.) “A demurrer
tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters.
Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or
are judicially noticed.” (SKF Farms v. Super. Ct. (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d
902, 905.) “The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the
complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of
action.” (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)Requests
for Judicial Notice            Plaintiffs request judicial notice
of an administrative complaint filed by the New Mexico Environment Department,
Occupational Health and Safety Bureau against defendant Rust Movie Productions,
case number OSHA 22-11. Plaintiffs also request judicial notice of the fact of
the following: (1) involuntary manslaughter charges filed against defendant
Alexander Baldwin on January 31, 2023, in New Mexico; (2) involuntary manslaughter charges against defendant Hannah Gutierrez-Reed
on January 31, 2023, in New Mexico; (3) negligent user of deadly weapon charges
against defendant David Halls on January 31, 2023, in New Mexico.              The
court takes judicial notice of the administrative complaint. (Evid. Code, § 452,
subd. (c).) The court also takes judicial notice of
the records in court cases occurring in New Mexico. (Brown v. Watson (1989) 207 Cal. App. 3d 1306, 1309.)DiscussionPreliminarily, defendants
Alexander R. Baldwin III and El Dorado Pictures, Inc. satisfied the meet and
confer requirements. (Decl. Cesnik, ¶ 3; Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a)(3)(b).)
Defendants Alexander
R. Baldwin III and El Dorado Pictures, Inc. demur to the loss of consortium
causes of action because under California law, only the spouse can sue for loss
of consortium. Here, plaintiffs
Olga Solovey, Anatolii Androsovych, and Svetlana Zemko, who are the mother,
father, and sister of Halyna Hutchins, sue for loss of consortium. Plaintiffs
oppose on the ground that New Mexico law applies and that under New Mexico law,
parents and siblings can also sue for loss of consortium. Generally, the
courts of this state only apply the laws of this state.  However, when a
case involves a significant relationship to more than one state, the court
selects the appropriate state law to apply to the case.  (Hurtado v.
Super. Ct. (1974) 11 Cal.3d 574, 579-80.) In deciding which law to apply,
the court is not concerned with which state's law is the better rule of law,
but which jurisdiction should be provided the lawmaking power under the
circumstances of the present case. (McCann v. Foster Wheeler LLC
(2010) 48 Cal.4th 68, 97.) “[T]he starting point in our analysis is that a
California court should apply California law unless there is a reason not
to.”  (Chen v. L.A. Truck Centers, LLC (2017) 7 Cal.App.5th 757,
766.) When there is no
advance agreement on the applicable law, but the action involves the
significant interests of another state, the court may analyze the governmental
interests of the various jurisdictions involved to select the most appropriate
law.  (Washington Mutual Bank, FA v. Super. Ct. (2001) 24 Cal.4th
906, 915.) In California, choice-of-law
arguments are determined by a three-part test known as the “governmental
interest” analysis.  “‘First, the court determines whether the relevant
law of each of the potentially affected jurisdictions with regard to the particular
issue in question is the same or different.  Second, if there is a
difference, the court examines each jurisdiction’s interest in the application
of its own law under the circumstances of the particular case to determine
whether a true conflict exists.  Third, if the court finds that there is a
true conflict, it carefully evaluates and compares the nature and strength of
the interest of each jurisdiction in the application of its own law “to
determine which state’s interest would be more impaired if its policy were
subordinated to the policy of the other state” [citation] and then ultimately
applies “the law of the state whose interest would be more impaired if its law
were not applied.”’”  (McCann v. Foster Wheeler LLC (2010) 48
Cal.4th 68, 87-88.)  1.    
Relevant Laws of
California and New Mexico For the first step
of the “governmental interest” analysis, the Court looks to the two jurisdictions’
laws.  Under
California law, there are four elements to a cause of action for loss of
consortium: “(1) a valid and lawful marriage between the plaintiff and the
person injured at the time of the injury; (2) a tortious injury to the
plaintiff's spouse; (3) loss of consortium suffered by the plaintiff; and (4)
the loss was proximately caused by the defendant's act.” (LeFiell Mfg. Co.
v. Super. Ct. (2012) 55 Cal. 4th 275, 284.) Under
New Mexico law, courts assess whether the
claimant and the injured party shared a sufficiently close relationship and
duty of care. (Wachocki v. Bernalillo Cnty.
Sheriff's Dept. (2011-NMSC-039) 265 P.3d 701, 702-703.) Comparing the two jurisdictions’
standards for loss of consortium claims, the court finds that the first step of
the governmental interest analysis has been satisfied.  2.    
Each Jurisdiction’s
Interest in the Application of their Own Law and the Existence of a Conflict The second step of
the governmental interest analysis examines “each jurisdiction’s interest in
the application of its own law in the circumstances of the particular case to
determine whether a true conflict exists.”  (McCann, supra,
48 Cal.4th at p. 90.)   There are three
distinct aspects of a cause of action for wrongful death, and in making a choice
of law, the court must consider these three aspects separately. (Hurtado
v. Super. Ct. (1974) 11 Cal.3d 574, 584.) They are (1) compensation for
survivors; (2) deterrence of conduct; and (3) limitation, or lack thereof, upon
the damages recoverable. (Ibid.) The first aspect reflects the state's
interest in providing for compensation and in determining the distribution of
the proceeds, said interest extending only to local decedents and local
beneficiaries; the second reflects the state's interest in deterring conduct,
said interest extending to all persons present within its borders; the third reflects
the state's interest in protecting resident defendants from excessive financial
burdens. (Ibid.) Although the instant action is not a wrongful death
action, the court applies the same principles because here, the decedent’s
family seeks monetary damages for the death of the decedent. Applying the
principles, first, the three plaintiffs reside in Ukraine, not California.
(Compl., ¶¶ 8 to 10.) Hence, California has little to no interest in providing
compensation to the survivors of Hutchins because they are not California
residents. Second, the event occurred in New Mexico, not California; thus,
California has little to no interest in deterring the tortious conduct that led
to the death of Hutchins. Third, California has an interest in protecting defendant
El Dorado Pictures, Inc., a business with its principal place of business in
California, from excessive financial burdens. California has no interest in
protecting defendant Alexander Baldwin III, a New York resident, from excessive
financial burdens. (Compl., ¶ 12.) Regarding the
interests of New Mexico, because Hutchins’ death occurred in New Mexico, New
Mexico has an interest in deterring the type of tortious conduct that resulted
in her death. The court finds
that a true conflict exists because each jurisdiction has a legitimate interest
in the application of its own law. Therefore, the court finds that it is appropriate
to conduct an analysis of the third step of the governmental interest analysis. 3.    
The Nature and
Strength of Each Interest and Which State’s Interest is More Impaired The third step of the governmental
interest analysis requires the court to weigh the two jurisdictions’ interests
in the matter.  The court must determine the relative
commitment of the respective states to the laws involved. (Offshore
Rental Co. v. Cont'l Oil Co.
(1978) 22 Cal. 3d 157, 166.) This involves evaluating the following factors:
the history and status of the states' laws and the function and purpose of
those laws. (Ibid.) In
California, due to the the intangible nature of the injury and the danger of
multiplication of claims and liability, courts have not enlarged the recovery
of loss of earnings and services of a child to permit a parent to recover for
the loss of affection and society. (Baxter v.
Super. Ct. (1977) 19 Cal. 3d 461, 463.) For the same reasons, it has not
permitted siblings to recover for the loss of affection and society. (See Borer
v. Am. Airlines, Inc. (1977) 19 Cal.3d. 441, 446.) In contrast, in New
Mexico, courts abide by the policy that while allowing those who are legally
married eases the disposition of many losses of consortium claims, it does not
further the interests of justice. (Lozoya v. Sanchez (2003-NMSC-009) 133
N.M. 579, 586.) Further, using the legal status as a proxy is not the most
precise way to determine to whom a duty is owed, and it excludes many persons
whose loss of a significant relational interest may be just as devastating as
the loss of a legal spouse. (Ibid.) The
court finds that a failure to apply New Mexico’s law would impair New Mexico’s
interests. Hutchins was in New Mexico for a work project, and by entering New Mexico,
she and other exposed themselves to the risks of the territory, including its
expansive loss of consortium laws in the case of death of a crew member. (Compl.
¶¶ 2, 42.) If New Mexico law did not apply, anyone could claim expansive damage
laws of a territory do not apply because they reside elsewhere. A failure to
apply California law would not impair California’s interests because as
discussed further below, New Mexico uses a precise way to determine to whom a
duty is owed for loss of consortium. Therefore, weighing the interests of the
two states, the Court finds that a failure to apply New Mexico law would
significantly impair New Mexico’s interest.  New Mexico law states that a
loss-of-consortium claimant must demonstrate two elements to recover damages. (Wachocki
v. Bernalillo Cnty. Sheriff's Dept. (2011-NMSC-039)
¶ 5, 150 N.M. 650.) The first element is that the claimant and the injured
party shared a sufficiently close relationship. (Ibid.) The
following factors were relevant in determining whether the claimant and injured
party shared such a close relationship: the duration of the relationship, the
degree of mutual dependence, the extent of common contributions to a life
together, the extent and quality of shared experience, whether the plaintiff
and the injured person were members of the same household, their emotional
reliance on each other, the particulars of their day to day relationship, and
the manner in which they related to each other in attending to life's mundane
requirements. (Ibid.) The second element is a duty of care. (Ibid.)
The tortfeasor owes a duty of care to the claimant where it is foreseeable that
the harm inflicted upon the injured party would damage the relationship between
the injured party and the claimant. (Ibid.)Applying
New Mexico law, the court finds that Hutchins did not share a sufficiently
close relationship with her parents or her siblings. Plaintiffs plead, “Without
the death of Halyna Hutchins, Plaintiffs would have continued to maintain their
close relationship with Halyna, a familial, loving relationship that was
sufficiently close, including, without limitation, one that included mutual
dependence, shared experiences, financial support and dependence, emotional
reliance on each other, and the many intimate manners in which Plaintiffs and
Halyna related to each other.” (Compl., ¶ 118.) Plaintiffs also plead, “As a
direct result of the loss of the close relationship interest between Halyna and
Plaintiffs Olga Solovey, Anatolii Androsovych, and Svetlana Zemko, Plaintiffs
have lost the love, companionship, comfort, care, assistance, protection,
affection, society, guidance, training, assistance, and moral support of
Halyna.” (Compl., ¶ 119.) Plaintiffs’ allegations are conclusory. They allege
nothing about the degree of mutual dependence, the extent of common
contributions, the extent or quality of shared experience, their emotional
reliance on each other, the particulars of their day-to-day relationship, and
the way they related to each other. Based on the above, the court sustains defendants’
demurrer with leave to amend. The court grants 20 days leave to amend. It is so
ordered.   Dated:  February 22, 2024                              _______________________ROLF M. TREUJudge of the Superior Court 

































































































