 Case Number:  23STCV02706    Hearing Date:   February 22, 2024    Dept:  45    Superior Court    of California County of Los    Angeles Central District Stanley Mosk    Dept. 62       ALTHEA    RICHARDSON, et al.,          Plaintiffs,     Case No.:       23STCV02706       vs.         [Tentative]    RULING         DESERT    VIEW APARTMENTS, LP, a California Corporation, and DOES 1 through 20,    inclusive,         Defendants.                                Hearing  Date:  February 22, 2024                      Moving  Parties:  Plaintiff Althea Richardson              Responding Party: None.         Petition to Approve  Minor Compromise of Disputed Claim (Jayden Jones, Age: 11)               The court considered the petition papers.   RULING             The Petition to Approve Minor  Compromise of Disputed Claim (Jayden Jones, Age: 11) is GRANTED in the  amount of $3,000.00.   BACKGROUND               On February 6, 2023, Plaintiff  Althea Richardson, for herself and as guardian ad litem of minors: Jordyn  Richardson, Jyair Thomas, Jeremiah Walker, and Jayden Jones; Guadalupe Herrera;  Glennzale Hunter Ervin; Antonio Jose Gilberto Chavez; Deborah Erwin, for  herself and as guardian ad litem of minor: Faith Ervin; Glen Erwin, for himself  and as guardian ad litem of minors: Inspiration Ervin, Elijah Ervin, Trinity  Ervin and Cherish Ervin; Anthony Cooper; Amia Little, for herself and as  guardian ad litem of minor: Treasure Anderson; Andre Cooper, for himself and as  guardian ad litem of minor: Benjamin Cooper; Nazjah Burt; Dejoun Stuart; Angelo  Little; Anthonette Crosby, for herself and as guardian ad litem of minors:  Pocahuntes Riley, Timothy Riley, Sincere Riley and Janelle Age; Britney Rouse,  for herself and as guardian ad litem of minor: Sarai Crenshaw; Imani Asiyah  Fattaah, for herself and as guardian ad litem of minors: Kaden Zion Rivers,  DeAnder LeAnthony Brown Jr. (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) commenced this action.     Plaintiffs filed a Complaint for  damages against Defendant Desert View Apartments, LP, alleging causes of action  for (1) Breach of the Warranty of Habitability; (2) Breach of the warranty of  Quiet Enjoyment; (3) Nuisance; (4) Violation of Civil Code S. 1941.1, et seq;  (5) Negligence; and (6) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress.    On November 15, 2023, Plaintiff  Althea Richardson (“Petitioner”) filed a Petition to Approve Compromise of  Disputed Claim (Jayden Jones, Age: 11). The Petition is unopposed.               LEGAL AUTHORITY   “A parent having the right to  compromise the disputed claim of the minor under this section may execute a  full release and satisfaction, or execute a covenant not to sue on or a  covenant not to enforce judgment on the disputed claim, after the money or other  property to be paid or delivered has been paid or delivered as provided in  subdivision (c). If the court orders that all or any part of the money to be  paid under the compromise or covenant be deposited in an insured account in a  financial institution in this state, or in a single-premium deferred annuity,  the release and satisfaction or covenant is not effective for any purpose until  the money has been deposited as directed in the order of the court.” (Prob.  Code, § 3500(d).)    “The court shall schedule a hearing  on a petition for compromise of a minor’s disputed claim pursuant to Section  3500 within 30 days from the date of filing. If the petition is unopposed, the  court shall issue a decision on the petition at the conclusion of the hearing.”  (Prob. Code, § 3505.)    “The court making the order or  giving the judgment referred to in Section 3600, as a part thereof, shall make  a further order authorizing and directing that reasonable expenses, medical or  otherwise and including reimbursement to a parent, guardian, or conservator,  costs, and attorney’s fees, as the court shall approve and allow therein, shall  be paid from the money or other property to be paid or delivered for the  benefit of the minor or person with a disability.” (Prob. Code, §  3601(a).)    DISCUSSION   Claimant Jayden   Jones (“Claimant”), a minor, by and through their Guardian Ad Litem, Althea   Richardson (“Petitioner”), has agreed to settle their claims against  Defendant Desert View Apartments, LP in exchange for $4,000.00.  If approved, $1,000.00  will be used for attorney’s fees, leaving a balance of $3,000.00  for Claimant to be deposited into a blocked account, subject to withdrawal  only upon authorization of the court.   The Court  has reviewed the proposed settlement and finds that it is fair and  reasonable.  Further, the requested  attorney’s fees, which amounts to approximately 25% of the total settlement, is  fair and reasonable.                          Accordingly,  the Petition to Approve Compromise of Disputed Claim (Jayden Jones, Age: 11) is  GRANTED.                Moving  party is ordered to give notice of ruling.   The Court  sets an OSC for ________________ ____, 2024 for proof of deposit.  (Cal.  Rules of Court, Rule 7.953(a).)  If an acknowledgement of receipt by the  financial institution is filed before that date, no appearance will be  required.    Per  California Rules of Court, Rule 7.952, Petitioner and Claimant must appear at  the hearing, unless the Court finds good cause to excuse their appearance. The  Court finds that Claimant’s appearance is not necessary, but will require  Petitioner to appear.    Superior Court    of California County of Los    Angeles Central District Stanley Mosk    Dept. 62       ALTHEA    RICHARDSON, et al.,          Plaintiffs,     Case No.:       23STCV02706       vs.         [Tentative]    RULING         DESERT    VIEW APARTMENTS, LP, a California Corporation, and DOES 1 through 20,    inclusive,         Defendants.                               Hearing  Date:  February 22, 2024                    Moving  Parties:  Plaintiff Deborah Erwin      Responding Party: None.        Petition to Approve  Minor Compromise of Disputed Claim (Faith Ervin, Age: 17)             The court considered the petition papers. RULING            The Petition to Approve Minor  Compromise of Disputed Claim (Faith Ervin, Age: 17) is GRANTED in the  amount of $3,000.00. BACKGROUND             On February 6, 2023, Plaintiff  Althea Richardson, for herself and as guardian ad litem of minors: Jordyn  Richardson, Jyair Thomas, Jeremiah Walker, and Jayden Jones; Guadalupe Herrera;  Glennzale Hunter Ervin; Antonio Jose Gilberto Chavez; Deborah Erwin, for  herself and as guardian ad litem of minor: Faith Ervin; Glen Erwin, for himself  and as guardian ad litem of minors: Inspiration Ervin, Elijah Ervin, Trinity  Ervin and Cherish Ervin; Anthony Cooper; Amia Little, for herself and as  guardian ad litem of minor: Treasure Anderson; Andre Cooper, for himself and as  guardian ad litem of minor: Benjamin Cooper; Nazjah Burt; Dejoun Stuart; Angelo  Little; Anthonette Crosby, for herself and as guardian ad litem of minors:  Pocahuntes Riley, Timothy Riley, Sincere Riley and Janelle Age; Britney Rouse,  for herself and as guardian ad litem of minor: Sarai Crenshaw; Imani Asiyah  Fattaah, for herself and as guardian ad litem of minors: Kaden Zion Rivers,  DeAnder LeAnthony Brown Jr. (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) commenced this action.   Plaintiffs filed a Complaint for  damages against Defendant Desert View Apartments, LP, alleging causes of action  for (1) Breach of the Warranty of Habitability; (2) Breach of the warranty of  Quiet Enjoyment; (3) Nuisance; (4) Violation of Civil Code S. 1941.1, et seq;  (5) Negligence; and (6) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress.  On November 15, 2023, Plaintiff Deborah  Erwin (“Petitioner”) filed a Petition to Approve Compromise of Disputed Claim (Faith  Ervin, Age: 17). The Petition is unopposed.             LEGAL AUTHORITY “A parent having the right to  compromise the disputed claim of the minor under this section may execute a  full release and satisfaction, or execute a covenant not to sue on or a  covenant not to enforce judgment on the disputed claim, after the money or  other property to be paid or delivered has been paid or delivered as provided  in subdivision (c). If the court orders that all or any part of the money to be  paid under the compromise or covenant be deposited in an insured account in a  financial institution in this state, or in a single-premium deferred annuity,  the release and satisfaction or covenant is not effective for any purpose until  the money has been deposited as directed in the order of the court.” (Prob.  Code, § 3500(d).)  “The court shall schedule a hearing  on a petition for compromise of a minor’s disputed claim pursuant to Section  3500 within 30 days from the date of filing. If the petition is unopposed, the  court shall issue a decision on the petition at the conclusion of the hearing.”  (Prob. Code, § 3505.)  “The court making the order or  giving the judgment referred to in Section 3600, as a part thereof, shall make  a further order authorizing and directing that reasonable expenses, medical or  otherwise and including reimbursement to a parent, guardian, or conservator,  costs, and attorney’s fees, as the court shall approve and allow therein, shall  be paid from the money or other property to be paid or delivered for the  benefit of the minor or person with a disability.” (Prob. Code, §  3601(a).)  DISCUSSION Claimant Faith   Ervin (“Claimant”), a minor, by and through their Guardian Ad Litem, Deborah   Erwin (“Petitioner”), has agreed to settle their claims against  Defendant Desert View Apartments, LP in exchange for $4,000.00.  If approved, $1,000.00  will be used for attorney’s fees, leaving a balance of $3,000.00  for Claimant to be deposited into a blocked account, subject to withdrawal  only upon authorization of the court. The Court  has reviewed the proposed settlement and finds that it is fair and  reasonable.  Further, the requested  attorney’s fees, which amounts to approximately 25% of the total settlement, is  fair and reasonable.                        Accordingly,  the Petition to Approve Compromise of Disputed Claim (Faith Ervin, Age: 17) is GRANTED.              Moving  party is ordered to give notice of ruling. The Court  sets an OSC for ________________ ____, 2024 for proof of deposit.  (Cal.  Rules of Court, Rule 7.953(a).)  If an acknowledgement of receipt by the financial  institution is filed before that date, no appearance will be required.  Per  California Rules of Court, Rule 7.952, Petitioner and Claimant must appear at  the hearing, unless the Court finds good cause to excuse their appearance. The  Court finds that Claimant’s appearance is not necessary, but will require  Petitioner to appear.    Superior Court    of California County of Los    Angeles Central District Stanley Mosk    Dept. 62       ALTHEA    RICHARDSON, et al.,          Plaintiffs,     Case No.:       23STCV02706       vs.         [Tentative]    RULING         DESERT    VIEW APARTMENTS, LP, a California Corporation, and DOES 1 through 20,    inclusive,         Defendants.                               Hearing Date:  February 22, 2024                    Moving  Parties:  Plaintiff Althea Richardson             Responding Party: None.        Petition to Approve  Minor Compromise of Disputed Claim (Jeremiah Walker, Age: 15)             The court considered the petition papers. RULING            The Petition to Approve Minor  Compromise of Disputed Claim (Jeremiah Walker, Age: 15) is GRANTED in  the amount of $3,000.00. BACKGROUND             On February 6, 2023, Plaintiff  Althea Richardson, for herself and as guardian ad litem of minors: Jordyn  Richardson, Jyair Thomas, Jeremiah Walker, and Jayden Jones; Guadalupe Herrera;  Glennzale Hunter Ervin; Antonio Jose Gilberto Chavez; Deborah Erwin, for  herself and as guardian ad litem of minor: Faith Ervin; Glen Erwin, for himself  and as guardian ad litem of minors: Inspiration Ervin, Elijah Ervin, Trinity  Ervin and Cherish Ervin; Anthony Cooper; Amia Little, for herself and as  guardian ad litem of minor: Treasure Anderson; Andre Cooper, for himself and as  guardian ad litem of minor: Benjamin Cooper; Nazjah Burt; Dejoun Stuart; Angelo  Little; Anthonette Crosby, for herself and as guardian ad litem of minors:  Pocahuntes Riley, Timothy Riley, Sincere Riley and Janelle Age; Britney Rouse,  for herself and as guardian ad litem of minor: Sarai Crenshaw; Imani Asiyah  Fattaah, for herself and as guardian ad litem of minors: Kaden Zion Rivers,  DeAnder LeAnthony Brown Jr. (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) commenced this action.   Plaintiffs filed a Complaint for  damages against Defendant Desert View Apartments, LP, alleging causes of action  for (1) Breach of the Warranty of Habitability; (2) Breach of the warranty of  Quiet Enjoyment; (3) Nuisance; (4) Violation of Civil Code S. 1941.1, et seq;  (5) Negligence; and (6) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress.  On November 13, 2023, Plaintiff  Althea Richardson (“Petitioner”) filed a Petition to Approve Compromise of  Disputed Claim (Jeremiah Walker, Age: 15). The Petition is unopposed.             LEGAL AUTHORITY “A parent having the right to  compromise the disputed claim of the minor under this section may execute a  full release and satisfaction, or execute a covenant not to sue on or a  covenant not to enforce judgment on the disputed claim, after the money or  other property to be paid or delivered has been paid or delivered as provided  in subdivision (c). If the court orders that all or any part of the money to be  paid under the compromise or covenant be deposited in an insured account in a  financial institution in this state, or in a single-premium deferred annuity,  the release and satisfaction or covenant is not effective for any purpose until  the money has been deposited as directed in the order of the court.” (Prob.  Code, § 3500(d).)  “The court shall schedule a hearing  on a petition for compromise of a minor’s disputed claim pursuant to Section  3500 within 30 days from the date of filing. If the petition is unopposed, the  court shall issue a decision on the petition at the conclusion of the hearing.”  (Prob. Code, § 3505.)  “The court making the order or  giving the judgment referred to in Section 3600, as a part thereof, shall make  a further order authorizing and directing that reasonable expenses, medical or  otherwise and including reimbursement to a parent, guardian, or conservator,  costs, and attorney’s fees, as the court shall approve and allow therein, shall  be paid from the money or other property to be paid or delivered for the  benefit of the minor or person with a disability.” (Prob. Code, §  3601(a).)  DISCUSSION Claimant Jeremiah   Walker (“Claimant”), a minor, by and through their Guardian Ad Litem, Althea   Richardson (“Petitioner”), has agreed to settle their claims against  Defendant Desert View Apartments, LP in exchange for $4,000.00.  If approved, $1,000.00  will be used for attorney’s fees, leaving a balance of $3,000.00  for Claimant to be deposited into a blocked account, subject to withdrawal  only upon authorization of the court. The Court  has reviewed the proposed settlement and finds that it is fair and  reasonable.  Further, the requested  attorney’s fees, which amounts to approximately 25% of the total settlement, is  fair and reasonable.                        Accordingly,  the Petition to Approve Compromise of Disputed Claim (Jeremiah Walker, Age: 15)  is GRANTED.              Moving  party is ordered to give notice of ruling. The Court  sets an OSC for ________________ ____, 2024 for proof of deposit.  (Cal.  Rules of Court, Rule 7.953(a).)  If an acknowledgement of receipt by the  financial institution is filed before that date, no appearance will be  required.    Superior Court    of California County of Los    Angeles Central District Stanley Mosk    Dept. 62       ALTHEA    RICHARDSON, et al.,          Plaintiffs,     Case No.:       23STCV02706       vs.         [Tentative]    RULING         DESERT    VIEW APARTMENTS, LP, a California Corporation, and DOES 1 through 20,    inclusive,         Defendants.                               Hearing Date:  February 22, 2024                    Moving  Parties:  Plaintiff Althea Richardson             Responding Party: None.        Petition to Approve  Minor Compromise of Disputed Claim (Jeremiah Walker, Age: 15)             The court considered the petition papers. RULING            The Petition to Approve Minor  Compromise of Disputed Claim (Jeremiah Walker, Age: 15) is GRANTED in  the amount of $3,000.00. BACKGROUND             On February 6, 2023, Plaintiff  Althea Richardson, for herself and as guardian ad litem of minors: Jordyn  Richardson, Jyair Thomas, Jeremiah Walker, and Jayden Jones; Guadalupe Herrera;  Glennzale Hunter Ervin; Antonio Jose Gilberto Chavez; Deborah Erwin, for  herself and as guardian ad litem of minor: Faith Ervin; Glen Erwin, for himself  and as guardian ad litem of minors: Inspiration Ervin, Elijah Ervin, Trinity  Ervin and Cherish Ervin; Anthony Cooper; Amia Little, for herself and as  guardian ad litem of minor: Treasure Anderson; Andre Cooper, for himself and as  guardian ad litem of minor: Benjamin Cooper; Nazjah Burt; Dejoun Stuart; Angelo  Little; Anthonette Crosby, for herself and as guardian ad litem of minors:  Pocahuntes Riley, Timothy Riley, Sincere Riley and Janelle Age; Britney Rouse,  for herself and as guardian ad litem of minor: Sarai Crenshaw; Imani Asiyah  Fattaah, for herself and as guardian ad litem of minors: Kaden Zion Rivers,  DeAnder LeAnthony Brown Jr. (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) commenced this action.   Plaintiffs filed a Complaint for  damages against Defendant Desert View Apartments, LP, alleging causes of action  for (1) Breach of the Warranty of Habitability; (2) Breach of the warranty of  Quiet Enjoyment; (3) Nuisance; (4) Violation of Civil Code S. 1941.1, et seq;  (5) Negligence; and (6) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress.  On November 13, 2023, Plaintiff  Althea Richardson (“Petitioner”) filed a Petition to Approve Compromise of  Disputed Claim (Jeremiah Walker, Age: 15). The Petition is unopposed.             LEGAL AUTHORITY “A parent having the right to  compromise the disputed claim of the minor under this section may execute a  full release and satisfaction, or execute a covenant not to sue on or a  covenant not to enforce judgment on the disputed claim, after the money or  other property to be paid or delivered has been paid or delivered as provided  in subdivision (c). If the court orders that all or any part of the money to be  paid under the compromise or covenant be deposited in an insured account in a  financial institution in this state, or in a single-premium deferred annuity,  the release and satisfaction or covenant is not effective for any purpose until  the money has been deposited as directed in the order of the court.” (Prob.  Code, § 3500(d).)  “The court shall schedule a hearing  on a petition for compromise of a minor’s disputed claim pursuant to Section  3500 within 30 days from the date of filing. If the petition is unopposed, the  court shall issue a decision on the petition at the conclusion of the hearing.”  (Prob. Code, § 3505.)  “The court making the order or  giving the judgment referred to in Section 3600, as a part thereof, shall make  a further order authorizing and directing that reasonable expenses, medical or  otherwise and including reimbursement to a parent, guardian, or conservator,  costs, and attorney’s fees, as the court shall approve and allow therein, shall  be paid from the money or other property to be paid or delivered for the  benefit of the minor or person with a disability.” (Prob. Code, §  3601(a).)  DISCUSSION Claimant Jeremiah   Walker (“Claimant”), a minor, by and through their Guardian Ad Litem, Althea   Richardson (“Petitioner”), has agreed to settle their claims against  Defendant Desert View Apartments, LP in exchange for $4,000.00.  If approved, $1,000.00  will be used for attorney’s fees, leaving a balance of $3,000.00  for Claimant to be deposited into a blocked account, subject to withdrawal  only upon authorization of the court. The Court  has reviewed the proposed settlement and finds that it is fair and  reasonable.  Further, the requested  attorney’s fees, which amounts to approximately 25% of the total settlement, is  fair and reasonable.                        Accordingly,  the Petition to Approve Compromise of Disputed Claim (Jeremiah Walker, Age: 15)  is GRANTED.              Moving  party is ordered to give notice of ruling. The Court  sets an OSC for ________________ ____, 2024 for proof of deposit.  (Cal.  Rules of Court, Rule 7.953(a).)  If an acknowledgement of receipt by the  financial institution is filed before that date, no appearance will be  required. 


Superior Court
  of California
County of Los
  Angeles
Central District
Stanley Mosk
  Dept. 62




 
ALTHEA
  RICHARDSON, et al., 


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23STCV02706




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
DESERT
  VIEW APARTMENTS, LP, a California Corporation, and DOES 1 through 20,
  inclusive,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 


Hearing Date:  February 22, 2024                    Moving
Parties:  Plaintiff Althea Richardson             Responding Party: None.        Petition to Approve
Minor Compromise of Disputed Claim (Jyair Thomas, Age: 6)             The court considered the petition papers. RULING            The Petition to Approve Minor
Compromise of Disputed Claim (Jyair Thomas, Age: 6) is GRANTED in the
amount of $3,000.00. BACKGROUND             On February 6, 2023, Plaintiff
Althea Richardson, for herself and as guardian ad litem of minors: Jordyn
Richardson, Jyair Thomas, Jeremiah Walker, and Jayden Jones; Guadalupe Herrera;
Glennzale Hunter Ervin; Antonio Jose Gilberto Chavez; Deborah Erwin, for
herself and as guardian ad litem of minor: Faith Ervin; Glen Erwin, for himself
and as guardian ad litem of minors: Inspiration Ervin, Elijah Ervin, Trinity
Ervin and Cherish Ervin; Anthony Cooper; Amia Little, for herself and as
guardian ad litem of minor: Treasure Anderson; Andre Cooper, for himself and as
guardian ad litem of minor: Benjamin Cooper; Nazjah Burt; Dejoun Stuart; Angelo
Little; Anthonette Crosby, for herself and as guardian ad litem of minors:
Pocahuntes Riley, Timothy Riley, Sincere Riley and Janelle Age; Britney Rouse,
for herself and as guardian ad litem of minor: Sarai Crenshaw; Imani Asiyah
Fattaah, for herself and as guardian ad litem of minors: Kaden Zion Rivers,
DeAnder LeAnthony Brown Jr. (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) commenced this action.
 Plaintiffs filed a Complaint for
damages against Defendant Desert View Apartments, LP, alleging causes of action
for (1) Breach of the Warranty of Habitability; (2) Breach of the warranty of
Quiet Enjoyment; (3) Nuisance; (4) Violation of Civil Code S. 1941.1, et seq;
(5) Negligence; and (6) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress.  On November 15, 2023, Plaintiff
Althea Richardson (“Petitioner”) filed a Petition to Approve Compromise of
Disputed Claim (Jyair Thomas, Age: 6). The Petition is unopposed.             LEGAL AUTHORITY “A parent having the right to
compromise the disputed claim of the minor under this section may execute a
full release and satisfaction, or execute a covenant not to sue on or a
covenant not to enforce judgment on the disputed claim, after the money or
other property to be paid or delivered has been paid or delivered as provided
in subdivision (c). If the court orders that all or any part of the money to be
paid under the compromise or covenant be deposited in an insured account in a
financial institution in this state, or in a single-premium deferred annuity,
the release and satisfaction or covenant is not effective for any purpose until
the money has been deposited as directed in the order of the court.” (Prob.
Code, § 3500(d).)  “The court shall schedule a hearing
on a petition for compromise of a minor’s disputed claim pursuant to Section
3500 within 30 days from the date of filing. If the petition is unopposed, the
court shall issue a decision on the petition at the conclusion of the hearing.”
(Prob. Code, § 3505.)  “The court making the order or
giving the judgment referred to in Section 3600, as a part thereof, shall make
a further order authorizing and directing that reasonable expenses, medical or
otherwise and including reimbursement to a parent, guardian, or conservator,
costs, and attorney’s fees, as the court shall approve and allow therein, shall
be paid from the money or other property to be paid or delivered for the
benefit of the minor or person with a disability.” (Prob. Code, §
3601(a).)  DISCUSSION Claimant Jyair
 Thomas (“Claimant”), a minor, by and through their Guardian Ad Litem, Althea
 Richardson (“Petitioner”), has agreed to settle their claims against
Defendant Desert View Apartments, LP in exchange for $4,000.00.  If approved, $1,000.00
will be used for attorney’s fees, leaving a balance of $3,000.00
for Claimant to be deposited into a blocked account, subject to withdrawal
only upon authorization of the court. The Court
has reviewed the proposed settlement and finds that it is fair and
reasonable.  Further, the requested
attorney’s fees, which amounts to approximately 25% of the total settlement, is
fair and reasonable.                        Accordingly,
the Petition to Approve Compromise of Disputed Claim (Jyair Thomas, Age: 6) is GRANTED.              Moving
party is ordered to give notice of ruling. The Court
sets an OSC for ________________ ____, 2024 for proof of deposit.  (Cal.
Rules of Court, Rule 7.953(a).)  If an acknowledgement of receipt by the financial
institution is filed before that date, no appearance will be required. 













































































             