  Case Number:  22STCV10045    Hearing Date:   February 22, 2024    Dept:  45 Superior Court of  California County  of Los Angeles        WEATHER    GROUP, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company; and Entertainment Studios    Networks, Inc., a California Corporation                                Plaintiffs,                                 vs. MCDONALD’S    USA, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company,                                 Defendants.   Case No.:    23STCV10045   DEPARTMENT    45       [TENTATIVE] RULING       Action Filed: 05/04/2023   Trial Date: None Set        Hearing Date: Thursday,  February 22, 2024   (1) Reservation  ID: 5154 3295 9852 Name of Motion: Motion for Sanctions pursuant to CCP §  128.7(h) Moving Party:  Plaintiffs Weather Group, LLC and Entertainment Studios Networks, Inc.   Responding  Party: Defendant McDonald’s USA, LLC      The  Court considered the moving papers, opposition papers, and reply papers. After  review, Plaintiffs’ Motion for  Sanctions pursuant to CCP § 128.7(h) is DENIED.     Background             Weather Group, LLC and Entertainment  Studios Networks, Inc. (collectively, Plaintiffs) filed a Complaint on May 4,  2023 against McDonald’s USA, LLC, (Defendant) alleging a single cause of action  for Fraud — False Promise (Civ. Code § 1711).               The Complaint alleges the following:  Prominent American corporations promised to take an active role in remedying  racial injustice after George Floyd’s murder ignited nationwide protests. (Complaint,  ¶ 1.) Defendant only pledged $1 million despite being one of the largest public  corporations in America. (Id. at ¶ 2.) Plaintiffs are part of a  conglomerate of related media companies (“Allen Media Group” or “AMG), all  owned by Byron Allen, an African American entrepreneur. (Id. at ¶ 4.) AMG  is by far the largest African American-owned media company in the country, with  Plaintiffs representing over 90 percent of that category. (Id. at ¶ 8.) Allen  created the Black Owned Media Matters movement after the George Floyd murder to  address racial discrimination and systemic racism in the media. (Id. at ¶  5.)                AMG informed Defendant in March 2021  that AMG had been victims of racial discrimination in contracting in violation  of 42 U.S.C. § 1981. (Id. at ¶ 6.) Plaintiffs allege that Defendant  announced its “Four-Year Plan” in May 2021 to deflect from these serious  allegations. (Id. at ¶ 7.) Plaintiffs further allege that Defendant’s  plan included a commitment to increase its spending with Black Owned Media from  two to five percent by 2024. (Id.)                Plaintiffs allege that in reliance  on Defendant’s commitment, Plaintiffs spent considerable time and effort to put  together a proposal for Defendant to advertise across their portfolio. (Id.  at ¶ 9.) Defendant rebuffed Plaintiffs and proposed to spend only a tiny  fraction of its advertising budget on Plaintiffs’ properties. (Id. at ¶  10.) Defendant’s allocation left it well short of its public commitment. (Id.)   In 2021 and afterwards, Defendant was  not spending anywhere close to two percent of its national advertising budget  on Black Owned Media under any definition. (Id. at 12.) Plaintiffs then  filed suit.               Now there are three motions before  the Court, only one of which will be addressed here. Plaintiffs filed a Motion  for Sanctions under CCP 128.7(h) (Motion) on January 25, 2024. Defendant  opposed, and Plaintiffs filed a reply.    Legal Standard             “A motion for sanctions brought by a  party or a party's attorney primarily for an improper purpose, such as to  harass or to cause unnecessary delay or needless increase in the cost of  litigation, shall itself be subject to a motion for sanctions. It is the intent  of the Legislature that courts shall vigorously use its sanctions authority to  deter that improper conduct or comparable conduct by others similarly situated.”  (CCP § 128.7(h).)   Discussion               Plaintiffs file this Motion arguing  that Defendant abused the sanctions rules, specifically CCP § 128.7(h). The  Court disagrees and denies Plaintiffs’ Motion.               Defendant’s Motion for  Sanctions was not filed in bad faith               Plaintiffs have failed to show that  Defendant’s Motion for Sanctions was filed in bad faith. Plaintiffs argue that no  reasonable attorney would have brought sanctions motions on this record where  there had been no discovery, no opportunity for Plaintiffs to prove their  claims, and no opportunity for Plaintiffs to cross-examine witnesses. However,  as noted in the Court’s Minute Order  Dated February 2, 2024, Plaintiffs failed to make a prima facie showing of  Defendant’s nonperformance, failed to identify a particular act that sought  inducement, and failed to show reasonable reliance for their claim of fraud. (See  Minute Order, pgs.16, 19, and 20.) The Complaint did not survive Defendant’s Special  Motion to Strike. Here, a reasonable attorney could find grounds to file a  Motion for Sanctions, regardless of the outcome. Moreover, Plaintiffs cite no frivolous  conduct by Defendant. Without a showing of improper purpose, Plaintiffs’ Motion  must be denied.         Conclusion             Accordingly, Plaintiffs’ Motion for Sanctions pursuant to CCP §  128.7(h) is DENIED.               It is so ordered.   Dated: Thursday,  February 22, 2024       _______________________ Rolf  M. Treu Judge  of the Superior CourtSuperior Court of
CaliforniaCounty
of Los Angeles 


 
WEATHER
  GROUP, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company; and Entertainment Studios
  Networks, Inc., a California Corporation
 
                             Plaintiffs,
 
                              vs.
MCDONALD’S
  USA, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company,
 
                              Defendants.


Case No.:
  23STCV10045  
DEPARTMENT
  45
 
 
 
[TENTATIVE] RULING
 
 
 
Action Filed: 05/04/2023  
Trial Date: None Set  


 Hearing Date: Thursday,
February 22, 2024 (1) Reservation
ID: 5154 3295 9852Name of Motion: Motion for Sanctions pursuant to CCP §
128.7(h)Moving Party:
Plaintiffs Weather Group, LLC and Entertainment Studios Networks, Inc.  Responding
Party: Defendant McDonald’s USA, LLC   

The
Court considered the moving papers, opposition papers, and reply papers. After
review, Plaintiffs’ Motion for
Sanctions pursuant to CCP § 128.7(h) is DENIED. 

 Background            Weather Group, LLC and Entertainment
Studios Networks, Inc. (collectively, Plaintiffs) filed a Complaint on May 4,
2023 against McDonald’s USA, LLC, (Defendant) alleging a single cause of action
for Fraud — False Promise (Civ. Code § 1711).             The Complaint alleges the following:
Prominent American corporations promised to take an active role in remedying
racial injustice after George Floyd’s murder ignited nationwide protests. (Complaint,
¶ 1.) Defendant only pledged $1 million despite being one of the largest public
corporations in America. (Id. at ¶ 2.) Plaintiffs are part of a
conglomerate of related media companies (“Allen Media Group” or “AMG), all
owned by Byron Allen, an African American entrepreneur. (Id. at ¶ 4.) AMG
is by far the largest African American-owned media company in the country, with
Plaintiffs representing over 90 percent of that category. (Id. at ¶ 8.) Allen
created the Black Owned Media Matters movement after the George Floyd murder to
address racial discrimination and systemic racism in the media. (Id. at ¶
5.)              AMG informed Defendant in March 2021
that AMG had been victims of racial discrimination in contracting in violation
of 42 U.S.C. § 1981. (Id. at ¶ 6.) Plaintiffs allege that Defendant
announced its “Four-Year Plan” in May 2021 to deflect from these serious
allegations. (Id. at ¶ 7.) Plaintiffs further allege that Defendant’s
plan included a commitment to increase its spending with Black Owned Media from
two to five percent by 2024. (Id.)              Plaintiffs allege that in reliance
on Defendant’s commitment, Plaintiffs spent considerable time and effort to put
together a proposal for Defendant to advertise across their portfolio. (Id.
at ¶ 9.) Defendant rebuffed Plaintiffs and proposed to spend only a tiny
fraction of its advertising budget on Plaintiffs’ properties. (Id. at ¶
10.) Defendant’s allocation left it well short of its public commitment. (Id.)
 In 2021 and afterwards, Defendant was
not spending anywhere close to two percent of its national advertising budget
on Black Owned Media under any definition. (Id. at 12.) Plaintiffs then
filed suit.             Now there are three motions before
the Court, only one of which will be addressed here. Plaintiffs filed a Motion
for Sanctions under CCP 128.7(h) (Motion) on January 25, 2024. Defendant
opposed, and Plaintiffs filed a reply.  Legal Standard            “A motion for sanctions brought by a
party or a party's attorney primarily for an improper purpose, such as to
harass or to cause unnecessary delay or needless increase in the cost of
litigation, shall itself be subject to a motion for sanctions. It is the intent
of the Legislature that courts shall vigorously use its sanctions authority to
deter that improper conduct or comparable conduct by others similarly situated.”
(CCP § 128.7(h).) Discussion             Plaintiffs file this Motion arguing
that Defendant abused the sanctions rules, specifically CCP § 128.7(h). The
Court disagrees and denies Plaintiffs’ Motion.             Defendant’s Motion for
Sanctions was not filed in bad faith             Plaintiffs have failed to show that
Defendant’s Motion for Sanctions was filed in bad faith. Plaintiffs argue that no
reasonable attorney would have brought sanctions motions on this record where
there had been no discovery, no opportunity for Plaintiffs to prove their
claims, and no opportunity for Plaintiffs to cross-examine witnesses. However,
as noted in the Court’s Minute Order
Dated February 2, 2024, Plaintiffs failed to make a prima facie showing of
Defendant’s nonperformance, failed to identify a particular act that sought
inducement, and failed to show reasonable reliance for their claim of fraud. (See
Minute Order, pgs.16, 19, and 20.) The Complaint did not survive Defendant’s Special
Motion to Strike. Here, a reasonable attorney could find grounds to file a
Motion for Sanctions, regardless of the outcome. Moreover, Plaintiffs cite no frivolous
conduct by Defendant. Without a showing of improper purpose, Plaintiffs’ Motion
must be denied.       Conclusion            Accordingly, Plaintiffs’ Motion for Sanctions pursuant to CCP §
128.7(h) is DENIED.             It is so ordered. Dated: Thursday,
February 22, 2024   _______________________Rolf
M. TreuJudge
of the Superior Court 

































































































     