

 
Petitioner,
Three Group, Inc., moves for an order compelling Respondent, the City of Los
Angeles, to provide supplemental privilege logs within ten days of the hearing.
Alternatively, Petitioner requests the City be required to produce the
documents withheld under unsubstantiated claims of privilege. Petitioner also
seeks monetary sanctions for the City’s alleged misuse of the discovery process.
The City opposes the motion. 
 
The
motion is GRANTED. 
 
The
request for monetary sanctions is DENIED. 
 
The
City’s request for judicial notice is GRANTED pursuant to Evidence Code sections
452, subdivision (d) and 453. 
 
Petitioner’s
request for judicial notice is GRANTED pursuant to Evidence Code Sections 452,
subdivisions (c), (d) and 453. 
 
BRIEF
STATEMENT OF THE CASE
 
On
March 28, 2023, Petitioner filed its Verified Petition for Writ of Mandate and
Complaint for Declaratory Relief against the City. The petition seeks to
enforce provisions of the California Public Records Act (CPRA), Government Code
section 7921.000. Through the CPRA, Petitioner sought records, documents, and
correspondence relating to (1) 1433 North La Brea Avenue in Los Angeles and (2)
the quasi-judicial proceedings pending before the Nuisance Abatement
Revocations Unit in the Office of Zoning Administration of the Los Angeles City
Planning Commission. 
 
APPLICABLE
LAW
 
Pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.240, subdivision (c)(1), “[i]f an
objection is based on a claim of privilege or a claim that the information
sought is protected work product, the response shall provide sufficient factual
information for other parties to evaluate the merits of that claim, including,
if necessary, a privilege log.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.240, subd. (c)(1).)
 
In
Catalina Island Yacht Club v. Superior Court (2015) 242 Cal.App.4th
1116, 1121 (Catalina), the court held: 
 
When
confronted with a deficient privilege log that fails to provide the necessary
information to rule on attorney-client and work product objections, a trial
court may order the responding party to provide a further privilege log that
includes the necessary information to rule on those objections, but may not
order the privileges waived because serving a deficient privilege log, or even
failing to serve a privilege log, is not one of the three statutorily
authorized methods for waiving the attorney-client privilege. 
 
The
court may also impose monetary sanctions against the responding party for
providing a deficient privilege log. (Ibid.)
 
“[A]
privilege log typically should provide the identity and capacity of all
individuals who authored, sent, or received each allegedly privileged document,
the document’s date, a brief description of the document and its contents or
subject matter sufficient to determine whether the privilege applies, and the
precise privilege or protection asserted.” (Id. at 1130.)
 
ANALYSIS
 
              The Discovery Issues
 
Petitioner
argues the City has not provided sufficient information to substantiate its
claims of privilege. Petitioner reports “[t]he best evidence of the inadequacy
of the City’s Privilege Logs are the Logs themselves.” (Reply 2:2.) 
 
At
issue are three privilege logs provided by the City to Petitioner in response
to certain discovery requests—the withheld privilege log (Consoli-Tiensvold
Decl. Exh. N), the redacted privilege log (Consoli-Tiensvold Decl. Exh. O) and
the supplemental redaction/privilege log. (Consoli-Tiensvold Decl. Exh. P.) 
 
Petitioner
contends the City must supplement its withheld privilege log to allow it
and the court to evaluate claims of attorney-client privilege for purposes of
compliance with requests for production made by Petitioner. (See Code Civ.
Proc., § 2031.240, subd. (c)(1).) Petitioner alleges the withheld privilege log
suffers from a number of deficiencies. To wit,
 
·       it
provides no substantive description of the documents only describes the
documents as either “one email,” “one email with attachments,” or “one email
thread,” then states “PMK #1 and #3; Demand #2,” as description of the content
of the email;
·       the
capacity and title of the individuals who authored, sent, or received each
allegedly privileged document is not described and merely identifies the
individuals as with the City;
·       it
does not identify who sent, received and was copied on the withheld email;
·      
there is insufficient specific information provided about email
threads such as the number of emails in the thread, individuals involved in the
communications and the privilege claimed for each email within a thread;
·      
attachments are insufficiently identified;
·      
it does not indicate the City withheld any documents in response
to request two in the request for production of documents (PMK 2) related to a
deposition of the person most knowledgeable (documents related to procedures to
search pursuant to the CPRA).
 
Petitioner
contends the City must also supplement its redaction privilege log for
the same reasons. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.240, subd. (c)(1).) Petitioner
alleges the redaction privilege log fails to provide sufficient preliminary
facts to demonstrate any privilege applies to the redactions. Petitioner
advises the redaction privilege log merely sets forth page numbers and a
generalized basis for the redaction—“Redacted portions contain summary and
excerpt of [attorney-client privilege],” “Redacted portions contain summary of
or reveal [attorney-client privilege],” or “Redacted portions contain excerpt
of ACP.” The redaction privilege log does not indicate (1) the communication involved
contained legal advice where the attorney was merely copied on a communication,
(2) the capacity of the individuals involved in the communication, and (3) why
documents related to Petitioner’s CPRA request are non-responsive.
 
Petitioner
also claims the supplemental privilege redaction log also is “utterly
devoid of any information that would allow Petitioner to assess the City’s
claims of privilege and suffer[s] from the same deficiencies as the Withheld
Privilege Log.” (Memo 10:16-18.)
 
The
City asserts a number of arguments in its defense. First, it contends
Petitioner has raised issues the parties did not discuss during meet-and-confer
efforts undertaken in advance of requesting the court to resolve the parties’
discovery dispute. Second, the City argues it has met its discovery obligation
with the privilege logs. The City reports it provided “more than adequate
information” (Opposition 12:3) with six categories of information in the logs: 
(1)
document date; (2) sender; (3) recipient; (4) document description; (5)
description of content; and (6) privilege asserted. 
 
The
City also explains it provided an information key at the end of the withheld
privilege log to assist with interpreting the log. The City’s references to
“PMK #1” and “PMK #2” or “DEMAND #2” are specific references to the discovery
requests made by Petitioner.
 
As
to the preliminary facts revealed by the logs, the City notes the logs show all
of the email communications were made only between the attorney and client. The
logs also show the content of the emails (and email threads) relate to the
City’s actions in response to Petitioner’s CPRA request, and the City’s search
for responsive documents. The City asserts it is not required to describe
attachments to email communications.
 
The
redaction logs, according to the City, establish privilege because the City’s
employees communicated with the City’s attorneys as they searched for
responsive documents related to Petitioner’s CPRA request and the petition.
This
court has presided over this matter since its inception. The court has spent
significant time with the parties attempting to collaboratively resolve their
discovery dispute. In the court’s view, the discovery dispute is not particularly
complex and is relatively straightforward. While the parties may each have legal
authority to support their position, reasonable minds should have prevailed in
order move this litigation forward.
 
To
the extent the City contends Petitioner did not sufficiently meet and confer—or
did not sufficiently discuss issues during those meetings—the court finds
Petitioner met its meet-and-confer obligation under the circumstances. The
evidence supports a finding the parties—by themselves and with the
court—actively attempted to resolve their discovery issues. Moreover, given the
impasse and protracted discussions further meet and confer would likely not
have resulted in any further resolution of issues; the court and parties have been
discussing discovery problems since the first trial setting conference in July
2023. As it is, through the meet and confer process, the parties have created a
focused issue for resolution by the court.
 
The
court finds the withheld privilege log, the redaction privilege log, and the
supplemental redaction privilege log are deficient. The court cannot determine
the City’s privilege claims on the information provided in the privilege logs.
(See Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.240, subd. (c)(1).) The information provided in
the logs is inadequate to assist in any substantive evaluation of the privilege
claims.
 
Withheld
Privilege Log
 
First,
it is clear LN (Deputy City Attorney Linda Nguyen) or SK (Deputy City Attorney
Soraya Kelly) are senders and/or recipients of all email communications
withheld. While the capacity of other senders/recipients would ordinarily be
required (see Catalina, supra, 242 Cal.App.4th at 1130), the information
the City provided about senders and recipients (City employees) is sufficient
given the context—communications between deputy city attorneys and the City’s employees
are within the sphere of attorney/client communications. Whether a particular City
employee works in building and safety or law enforcement would not inform on
whether the privilege is properly asserted. Further, the orders made herein should
sufficiently advise Petitioner and the court of the factual basis for the privilege
claim without the capacity of a particular City employee.
 
Second,
the court agrees with Petitioner on the issue of the attachments to email
communications. There must be some information provided in the privilege log
about the nature of the attachment to establish sufficient facts to establish
that particular attachment is privileged. That the attachment is included as
part of an email string between a Deputy City Attorney and employees of the
City does not necessarily establish the attachment is privileged. The
attachment could, for example, be a restaurant’s take-out menu which clearly
would not be an attorney-client privileged document. Accordingly, the attachment
itself must be evaluated for privilege. “[A] communication which was not
privileged to begin with may not be made so by subsequent delivery to the
attorney.” (Alpha Beta Co. v. Superior Court (1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 818,
825.)
 
Third,
the City’s description of communications as an “email thread” creates confusion
and obfuscates the privilege issue. The parties dispute whether there was an
agreement about reflecting multiple email communications as threads, and the court
need not resolve that dispute for purposes of this motion. (See Opposition
13:36-14:2, Nguyen Decl. Exh. G p. 4 at fn. 3; Reply 5 fn. 1.) Suffice it to
say, from an outsider’s perspective, the communications between counsel are
difficult to decipher, and it does not appear the parties had any agreement
about lumping email communications together as threads. The parties’ positions
on whether a privilege log may discuss “threads” of email communications
appears grounded in their views of the law on privilege logs.
 
As
the privilege log is currently constituted, the court cannot determine the
sender and recipient for each email within a string. It may be that
communications within the email thread are not privileged. For example, the
thread may have been communicated to the attorney at the conclusion of a
lengthy discussion by City employees, or the attorney may have communicated to
City employees early in an email thread and other non-privileged communication
occurs later between City employees. Accordingly, each email communication
within a thread—with information relevant to the privilege issue—must be
separately reflected in a privilege log. That is, individual email
communications must be separately considered for privilege. 
 
Fourth,
as to PMK 2, Petitioner has failed to provide sufficient evidence the City
withheld any documents related to PMK 2. The City’s response to PMK 2 indicates
it would respond. (Consoli-Tiensvold Reply Decl. Exh. R p. 3.) The City’s response
complied with the Code of Civil Procedure. The City’s counsel has also attested
for purposes of this motion that “[t]he City did not withhold any documents
responsive to Petitioner’s PMK Request No. 2 nor did it ever represent that it
did.” (Nguyen Decl. ¶ 22.) Such evidence is sufficient to establish the City
did not withhold any documents in response to PMK 2. Moreover, it appears the
City has consistently held that position in provided a full production. (See
Reply 6:17-18. [“The City refused to do so, instead stating only that no
responsive records were withheld.”] See also Consoli-Tiensvold Decl. Exh. D p.
31 [“if the City”].)
 
Finally,
given that the court has ordered the City to breakdown the email communication
threads into specific communications, the City will be required to provide additional
descriptions of the material for each communication (i.e., each email
communication) for which it claims privilege. That is, the privilege log must
be expanded to provide sufficient detail to evaluate a privilege claim for each
email communication in any thread.
 
As
the court sees it, the linchpin issue about the privilege log is whether the
City has sufficiently described the factual basis for the attorney-client privilege
for each document withheld (or each redaction made). As noted, each party has a
strong legal basis to support their position.
 
The
court recognizes here the dominant purpose of the relationship of deputy city
attorneys and City employees is the delivery of legal advice through an
attorney-client relationship. The circumstances here do not suggest the deputy
city attorney (whether Ms. Nguyen or Ms. Kelly) is acting other than as an
attorney in that relationship. The situation here is not where there is some
possibility the deputy city attorney is providing business advice or acting as
a trustee or a negotiator where the communications may not be privileged. (See 2,022
Ranch v. Superior Court (2003) 113 Cal.App.4th 1377, 1390.) That is, there
appears to be no reason to believe the relationship between the deputy city
attorneys and the various City employees is anything other than a traditional
attorney-client relationship.
 
In
evaluating privilege claims, the law is clear—the focus is on the relationship
between the attorney and the client and its dominant purpose, “not on the
purpose served by the individual communication.” (City of Petaluma v.
Superior Court (2016) 248 Cal.App.4th 1023, 1032.) Our Supreme Court has
made clear: “If a court determines that ‘communications were made during the
course of an attorney-client relationship, the communications, including any
reports of factual material, would be privileged, even though factual material
might be discoverable by some other means.’ ” (Ibid. quoting Costco
Wholesale Corp. v. Superior Court (2009) 47 Cal.4th 725, 740 [Costco].)[1]
The City’s position about the sufficiency of the information it provided in its
privilege logs (whether about withheld documents or redacted documents) is supported
by Supreme Court authority—communications made in the context of an
attorney-client relationship are privileged. The City believes based on Costco
it need only explain the sender and recipient of the communication. Given Costco,
the City’s position is well founded.
 
Catalina, a Court of Appeal decision which is also binding on this court, sees it
differently for claims of privilege and privilege logs. Costco did not address privilege logs; Catalina
did.
Catalina requires a description that is something more than a mere
recitation that the allegedly protected communication was between an attorney
and her client. Catalina noted sufficient descriptor information is
important because “not all communications with an attorney are privileged.
Instead, the attorney-client privilege attaches only to confidential
communication made in the course of or for the purposes of facilitating the
attorney-client relationship. [Citations.]” (Catalina, supra, 242
Cal.App.4th at 1129 fn. 5. See also Bank of America, N.A. v. Superior Court (2013)
212 Cal.App.4th 1076, 1100 [evaluating descriptions of documents withheld].)[2]
Despite
Costco, supra, 47 Cal.4th at 725 and its discussion that merely
establishing the attorney-client relationship and communication is sufficient
to establish privilege, pursuant to Catalina and its specific direction
for privilege logs, the court orders the City to provide more detail in
its withheld privilege log about the nature of the documents withheld or the
redactions made. The withheld privilege log must “identif[y] each withheld
document with particularity and provide[] sufficient factual information” for
Petitioner and the court to evaluate the claim of attorney-client privilege. (Catalina,
supra, 242 Cal.App.4th at 1130.)
 
Redaction
Privilege Log and Supplemental Redaction Privilege Log
 
For
the Redaction Privilege Log and the Supplemental Redaction Privilege Log, the
court’s reasoning is identical. Without sufficient specificity, the court
cannot evaluate the attorney-client privilege claim.
 
Finally,
the City’s “non-responsive” claim is unclear. If a document is nonresponsive to
the discovery request, it is unclear why the City references the document in
the first instance. In any event, any “non-responsive” claim should be
supported by a sufficient explanation of how a document produced in response to
a discovery request is nonetheless nonresponsive. 
 
Request for Monetary Sanctions
 
Petitioner’s
request for monetary sanctions based on the City’s alleged misuse of the
discovery process is denied. First, Petitioner was not completely successful
with its motion. In this context, the capacity of the City’s employees is not
required to evaluate the City’s claims of attorney-client privilege. The court
also found the City provided a fully compliant response to PMK 2. As to lumping
documents together under the category of “email thread,” there is some
confusion about whether the parties agreed to such categorization. 
 
Finally,
and most importantly, the court finds the City acted with substantial
justification when it decided attorney involvement in email communications
here—between deputy city attorneys and City employees—constituted sufficient
factual grounds for a finding the communications are privileged. The language
in Costco, supra, 47 Cal.4th at 733, supports its position. The language
from Costco was adopted by other cases relied upon by the City as authority
for its position with the privilege log. (See City of Petaluma v. Superior
Court, supra, 248 Cal.App.4th at 1032.)
 
Based
upon the facts, the court finds the City acted with substantial justification
in opposing Petitioner’s motion. The court finds Costco supports the
City’s view about the information necessary to find a communication is
protected by the attorney-client privilege. Certainly, given Costco and City
of Petaluma v. Superior Court, it would be unjust to impose a sanction on
the City here.
 
CONCLUSION
 
Based on the foregoing, the motion is GRANTED. The
City shall provide new privilege logs for withheld and redacted documents as
described herein.
 
Petitioner’s request for monetary sanctions is
denied. 
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED.
 
March
22, 2024
 
                                                                                                   ________________________________
                                                                                                                   Hon. Mitchell
Beckloff 
                                                                                                                   Judge of the
Superior Court


