

 
 
Plaintiff,
The Doctor’s Choice Agency, requests an order sealing portions of the
declaration of Defendant David Wittenberg in support of his opposition to
Plaintiffs’ ex parte application for a temporary restraining order and
preliminary injunction. Plaintiff contends a partial sealing is warranted
because the document “contain[s] defamatory and salacious allegations that
gratuitously attack the character and reputation of a non-party in this case.” The
motion is unopposed. 
 
The
motion to seal is denied.  
 
BACKGROUND
 
This
action arises from Defendant David Wittenberg allegedly engaging in
embezzlement of funds while serving as an officer of Plaintiffs, Omni Home
Health, Inc. (Omni), Gratitude Health Care, Inc. (Gratitude), and My Choice
Therapy (My Choice) (collectively, Plaintiffs). Plaintiffs allege Defendant
Wittenberg surreptitiously embezzled over a million dollars from Plaintiffs for
his own benefit and personal use. (Complaint, ¶¶ 12-13.) 
              
On
October 12, 2023, Plaintiffs filed a complaint against Defendant Wittenberg
alleging causes of action for: (1) breach of fiduciary duty; (2) conversion;
(3) fraudulent concealment; (4) unjust enrichment; (5) accounting; (6)
declaratory judgment; and (7) injunctive relief. 
              
On
October 25, 2023, Plaintiffs filed an ex parte application for a
temporary restraining order and for an order to show cause why a preliminary
injunction should not issue to restrain and prevent Defendant Wittenberg, and
any person acting at his direction, from (1) taking any action that purports to
be on behalf of Plaintiffs; (2) interfering with Plaintiffs and their officers’
ability to manage and operate Plaintiffs’ businesses; and (3) blocking or
exerting any authority over Plaintiff The Doctor’s Choice Agency bank accounts.

              
On
October 27, 2023, Defendant Wittenberg filed an opposition to Plaintiffs’ ex
parte application. The opposition included a declaration of Defendant
Wittenberg.
 
This
court denied the ex parte application. 
              
On
November 14, 2023, Plaintiffs filed the operative First Amended Complaint (FAC)
against Defendants Wittenberg, Choice Health Group, Inc., Medsac Inc.
(collectively, Defendants) alleging causes of action for (1) breach of
fiduciary duty; (2) conversion; (3) fraudulent concealment; (4) unjust
enrichment; (5) accounting; (6) declaratory judgment; (7) injunctive relief;
and (8) breach of contract.  
                             
On
February 27, 2024, Plaintiff The Doctor’s Choice Agency filed and served their
unopposed motion to seal.  
              
On
March 12, 2024, Defendants filed a notice of settlement indicating Plaintiffs
and Defendants have reached a settlement in principle of all claims and causes
of action, and the parties anticipate filing a request for dismissal with
prejudice of the entire case within 45 days. 
 
STANDARD OF
REVIEW
 
“[S]ubject
to certain exceptions . . . a court record must not be filed under seal without
a court order.” (Overstock.com, Inc. v. Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. (2014)
231 Cal.App.4th 471, 486.) “A party requesting that a record be filed under
seal must file a motion or an application for an order sealing the record. The
motion or application must be accompanied by a memorandum and a declaration
containing facts sufficient to justify the sealing.” (Id. [emphasis
added].) “In doing so, the moving party must lodge with the court the
record for which the sealing order is sought. The court holds the record
conditionally under seal until it rules on the motion or application.” (Id.
at 486-487.)    
 
In
order for records to be sealed, “a trial court must hold a hearing and
expressly find that 
(i)
there exists an overriding interest supporting closure and/or sealing; (ii)
there is a substantial probability that the interest will be prejudiced absent
closure and/or sealing; (iii) the proposed closure and/or sealing is narrowly
tailored to serve the overriding interest; and (iv) there is no less
restrictive means of achieving the overriding interest.” (Universal City Studios, Inc. v. Superior Court (2003) 110
Cal.App.4th 1273, 1279.) “Unless confidentiality is required by law, court
records are presumed to be open.” (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 2.550, subd. (c).)
“Since court records are public records, the burden rests on the party seeking
to deny public access to those records to establish compelling reasons why and
to what extent these records should be made private.” (Mary R. v. B. &
R. Corp. (1983) 149 Cal.App.3d 308, 317.) 
 
ANALYSIS
 
As
an initial matter, the motion must be denied because Plaintiff has not filed a
declaration stating sufficient facts to justify sealing portions of Defendant
Wittenberg’s declaration. While Plaintiff has filed a declaration in support of
its motion, that declaration merely authenticates Defendant Wittenberg’s
declaration. (Newborn Decl., ¶ 2; Exh. A.) Accordingly, in the absence of
evidence, the court cannot make any factual findings addressing the
requirements for sealing. (See Universal City Studios, Inc. v. Superior
Court, supra, 110 Cal.App.4th 1273, 1279 [sealing factors]). The
motion is therefore denied.
 
Even
if the court reached the merits on the substance, the court finds no overriding
interest here to justify sealing the record. The court finds the facts
here—where one party makes allegations in a lawsuit against the shareholder of other
parties—are distinctly different from those of Warner v. Warner (1955)
135 Cal.App.2d 302, 304. In Warner v. Warner, a party’s lawyer—not the
party or a shareholder to a party to a lawsuit—was subject to irrelevant and
defamatory attacks in a pleading. Here Akvia Greenfield is a shareholder of all
Plaintiffs, and he is intertwined with the facts set forth in the complaint and
FAC.
 
Absent
facts to support all factors required to sealing, the court cannot seal any
portions of the document.
 
CONCLUSION
 
For the foregoing reasons, the motion to seal is
denied. 
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED.
 
March
22, 2024                                                                                    ______________________________
                                                                                                                   Hon. Mitchell
Beckloff 
                                                                                                                   Judge of the
Superior Court
 