

 
Plaintiff,
City of Huntington Park, seeks an order declaring 6401 Santa Fe Avenue (the
Property) to be a public nuisance in violation of state and local laws with a
finding preservation of the the Property is necessary; (2) appointing Blake C.
Alsbrook to serve as the Court’s receiver over the Property; (3) granting
Alsbrook authority to manage and oversee the rehabilitation of the Property;
and (4) enjoining Defendants from allowing or maintaining nuisances on the
Property. Defendants, Emelina Alvarez and Marie Fine, oppose Plaintiff’s motion.

 
The
motion is DENIED.  
 
Plaintiff’s
request for judicial notice is GRANTED pursuant to Evidence Code sections 452, subdivisions
(b), (c), (d)(2), (h), and 453.
 
BRIEF
STATEMENT OF THE CASE
 
On
January 3, 2024, Plaintiff filed its Complaint for Injunctive and Other
Equitable Relief against Defendants Sani-Dip Cleaners, Inc. a/k/a Sani Dip
Cleaners, Inc.; Emelina Alvarez, individually and d/b/a Sani-Dip Cleaners,
Inc.; Marie Fine, individually and d/b/a Sani-Dip Cleaners, Inc.; and DOES 1
through 50 (collectively, Defendants), asserting causes of action for (1)
Public Nuisance (Civ. Code, §§ 3479, 3480, 3491, 3494; Code Civ. Proc., §§ 526,
subd. (a)(1), 731); and (2) Public Nuisance Per Se (Huntington Park Municipal
Code [HPMC] § 5-35.18). 
 
APPLICABLE
LAW
 
Pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure section 564, subdivision (b)(9), a receiver may be
appointed by the court “in all other cases where necessary to preserve the
property or rights of any party.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 564, subd. (b)(9).)[1]
 
///
 
ANALYSIS
 
Plaintiff presents evidence Defendants Alvarez and
Fine are responsible for the Property. (Sanchez Decl. ¶¶ 6-9; Bollier Decl. ¶
4.) Ownership of the Property is unclear. (RJN Exhs. A, B. 
Sanchez Decl. ¶ 6.)
 
The Property is improved with a 4,983 square foot,
single story commercial building and parking lot. (Bollier Decl. ¶ 3.) The
building had previously been occupied by a dry-cleaning service and has been
vacant for more than two years. (Bollier Decl. ¶ 3.) 
 
Plaintiff has issued four administrative citations
to Defendant Fine for violations of the HPMC. (Haining Decl. Exhs. H, I, J, K.)
The citations all note the same violations of the HPMC—graffiti on private
property, trash and litter accumulation, poorly maintained and overgrown
landscaping, and an improperly maintained wooden fence. (Haining Decl. Exhs. H,
I, J, K.) In those administrative citations, Plaintiff advised Defendant Fine
she must remove all graffiti from the property and buildings, remove all trash
and litter from the parking lot and Property, remove overgrown landscaping that
is obstructing the public sidewalk and secure the wooden fence/gate. (Haining
Decl. Exhs. H, I, J, K.)
 
Plaintiff presents evidence Defendant Fine has
failed to take action to remedy the HPMC violations for which Plaintiff issued citations
to this day. (Supp. Bollier Decl. ¶ 4.)
 
Notably, none of the citations concern trespassers or
squatters. In July 2023, there were reports of a trespasser at the Property. (Bollier
Decl. ¶ 10.) At that time, an exterior rear door to the Property was open. (Bollier
Decl. ¶ 10.) Plaintiff thereafter removed “many abandoned items and encampments
from inside the building.” (Bollier Decl. ¶ 10.)[2]
 
Plaintiff argues it is entitled to the appointment
of a receiver under Code of Civil Procedure section 564, subdivision (b)(9)
because Defendants have shown disregard for the law and no intent and ability
to comply with the HPMC. Specifically, Plaintiff contends it has attempted all
feasible methods to address problems at the Property, including issuing
numerous notices, letters, meetings, and even filing this action. Plaintiff presents
evidence Defendants have stated and demonstrated on numerous occasions that
they lack the financial ability to abate the hazardous and substandard
conditions existing at the Property. 
 
Plaintiff also asserts it is not in the business of rehabilitating
properties and does not have the resources to do so. Further, Plaintiff argues eminent
domain is also not a viable alternative because it is time consuming, costly,
and would undercut the public policy that landlords and property owners be
responsible for maintaining safe and habitable properties. 
 
Plaintiff contends the appointment of a receiver is
authorized under general principles of equity because Defendants have stated
their inability to correct the ongoing violations, and Plaintiff has made
numerous efforts to compel compliance with the HPMC. As such, Plaintiff
requests the Court order the Property be vacated and underlying substandard
conditions be corrected or eliminated such that the Property complies with the
HPMC. 
 
Plaintiff asserts the Court should appoint Blake C.
Alsbrook as the Court’s receiver because he has the necessary expertise both in
managing commercial properties and generally performing the duties of a court
receiver; will bring the expertise and commitment to this project necessary to
abate the violations on the Property as evidenced by his substantial work as a
court receiver in other cases; and has the necessary expertise to secure
funding, to develop a viable rehabilitation plan and to supervise the satisfactory
rehabilitation of the Property. 
 
Alternatively, Plaintiff argues it is entitled to a
preliminary injunction under HPMC section 9-2.2407, subdivision (1)(A) and
Civil Code sections 3491 and 3494. To this end, Plaintiff contends it need only
prove a reasonable probability of prevailing at trial; it is reasonably
probable Plaintiff will prevail on the merits of its claim for nuisance per se;
is likely to prevail on the merits of its claim for public nuisance under the
Civil Code; and Defendants cannot show grave or irreparable injury to overcome
the presumption in Plaintiff’s favor. Specifically, Plaintiff asserts the
Property is nuisance and nuisance per se under HPMC and the Civil Code; despite
having been repeatedly informed and cited to make corrections, Defendants have
failed to bring the Property in compliance with the HPMC; and the requested
preliminary injunction will not interfere with Defendants’ lawful possession or
use of the Property. Finally, Plaintiff argues it is not required to post an
undertaking because it is a government entity. 
 
Defendants Alvarez and Fine argue the Property does
not need “preserving” because pending the outcome of the Los Angeles Regional
Water Quality Control Board (LARWQCB) findings, the building on the Property
will be demolished and appropriate soil decontamination procedures  will be undertaken. They also contend Plaintiff
has shown no “irreparable” injury in the absence of a receiver or that other
remedies would be inadequate—requirements for the appointment of a receiver. 
 
Defendants Alvarez and Fine explain they have no
intention of rehabilitating or using the building on the Property for any
purpose because the chemical contamination at the site has effectively
condemned the Property. (Fine Decl. ¶ 7.) They believe the building will need
to be demolished as part of any soil cleanup at the site, and the building has
no commercial value nor ability to be economically rehabilitated into a useful
form. (Fine Decl. ¶ 7.) 
 
Defendants Alvarez and Fine also contend any HPMC violations
cannot be a public nuisance since the building is not being utilized by anyone,
including any members of the public. They report they retained workers to clean
up the Property including painting over Graffiti, cleaning up any trash and
litter and overgrown weeds on the site after receiving the citations. (Fine
Decl. ¶ 8.) Defendants Alvarez and Fine argue a receiver is not necessary to
perform any of the tasks for which a citation was issued, nor would one be
appropriate because the court could make appropriate clean-up orders in the
form of injunctive relief.
 
In reply, Plaintiff argues the Property is dangerous
and in need of preservation and abatement because it is a vacant commercial
property at-risk for break-ins thereby demonstrating a receiver is warranted.[3] Plaintiff further argues
Defendants Alvarez and Fine fail to show LARWQCB’s approval is required for
them to take any action; fail to show that Barnett Tool & Engineering
Company will be responsible for abating the nuisance condition of the building
itself not just the soil; and fail to demonstrate that any of Barnett Tool
& Engineering Company’s theoretical abatement actions will occur within a
reasonable timeline, if at all. By contrast, Plaintiff contends LARWQCB has
confirmed that the Property can be rehabilitated, demolished, or sold as long
as the soil is not excavated. (Mikalian Decl., ¶ 5.) 
 
Plaintiff also asserts once a receiver is appointed,
the Court can approve a plan that seeks to rehabilitate or demolish, and
potentially sell the Property without any limitations by LARWQCB. Plaintiff also
argues the Court has authority to appoint a receiver even if demolition is the
most likely outcome. 
 
Plaintiff reports despite having had nearly two
months from the time of the ex parte hearing, Defendants continue to do
nothing to bring the Property into compliance with the HPMC and downplay the
dangerous conditions that exist at the Property and its impact on neighboring
businesses and the community as a whole.[4] (Fine Decl. ¶ 8; Mikalian
Decl. ¶ 4, Ex. 1; Bollier Decl. ¶ 4, Ex. A.) Plaintiff also contends the owner
of the Property has not objected to the appointment of a receiver.
 
The court finds Plaintiff has not established the
appointment of a receiver is necessary under these facts. Plaintiff has not
demonstrated how the appointment of a receiver is “necessary to preserve the
property or rights of any party.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 564, subd. (b)(9).) There
appears to be no issue related to preservation of the Property. While
Plaintiff asserts there is a risk to the Property from vagrants, Plaintiff has
presented no evidence law enforcement or public safety officials have been
engaged for such problems with the Property since July 2023.[5] The citations issued—and
the most recent photographs of the Property—do not suggest a receiver is
necessary to preserve the Property. Preserving the Property does not equate to
picking up minimal trash in the parking lot or minimally overgrown landscape
trimming. A receiver is also not necessary to preserve the Property to paint
over a seemingly single spot of graffiti tagging on the building.
 
To the extent Plaintiff believes the Property and
the building on it presents a health and safety threat, Plaintiff has other
avenues available to it to address the problem. (See, e.g., Health & Saf.
Code, § 17980.) Code of Civil Procedure section 564, subdivision (b)(9) does
not support the appointment of a receiver under these facts.
 
CONCLUSION
 
Based on the foregoing, the motion for the
appointment of a receiver pursuant to Code of Civl Procedure section 564,
subdivision (b)(9) is denied. 
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED.
 
March
22, 2024                                                                     
 
________________________________
                                                                                                                   Hon. Mitchell
Beckloff 
                                                                                                                   Judge of the Superior
Court


