 Case Number:  22STCV19485    Hearing Date:   January 30, 2024    Dept:  27  
 
 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL
DISTRICT
 



VANNESSA
  RAMOS, 
                   Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
COSTCO
  WHOLESALE CORPORATION, et al.,
 
                   Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


CASE NO.: 22STCV19485
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION TO DISQUALIFY COUNSEL
 
Dept.
  27
1:30
  p.m.
January
  30, 2024



 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
On June 15, 2022, plaintiff Vannessa
Ramos (“Plaintiff”) filed this premises liability action against defendants Costco
Wholesale Corporation (“Costco”) and Susan Doe. Plaintiff claims that on
February 6, 2022, she was cut by an “unmarked and/or unsecured broken jar
and/or similar item” while she was attempting to grab an item from a shelf or
display. (Complaint, ¶8.) Plaintiff contends Costco “knew, or should have known
. . . that the structures and/or components and/or other parts of” the Los
Feliz Costco was “in a dangerous and defective and unsafe condition, and a
menace to Plaintiff.” (Id. at ¶9.) Plaintiff claims she suffered “severe
injury and pain” as a result of the cut. (Id. at ¶8.)
On December 7, 2023, Defendant Costco filed
this motion to disqualify counsel. Plaintiff opposes.
II.         
LEGAL
STANDARD
“‘A trial court’s authority to
disqualify an attorney derives from the power inherent in every court ‘[t]o
control in furtherance of justice, the conduct of its ministerial officers, and
of all other persons in any manner connected with a judicial proceeding before
it, in every matter pertaining thereto.’’”  (Ontiveros v. Constable
(2016) 245 Cal.App.4th 686, 694 (quoting People ex rel. Dept. of
Corporations v. SpeeDee Oil Change Systems, Inc. (1999) 20 Cal.4th 1135,
1145 (quoting Code Civ. Proc., § 128(a)(5))).)  “‘[D]isqualification
motions involve a conflict between the clients’ right to counsel of their
choice and the need to maintain ethical standards of professional
responsibility.’”  (Id. at 694-95.)  “‘The paramount concern
must be to preserve public trust in the scrupulous administration of justice
and the integrity of the bar.’”  (Id. at 695.)  “‘The
important right to counsel of one’s choice must yield to ethical considerations
that affect the fundamental principles of our judicial process.’”  (Id.) 
In exercising its discretion to disqualify an attorney, the Court is required
to make a reasoned judgment which complies with the legal principles and
policies applicable to the issue at hand. ¿(Henriksen v. Great Am. Sav. &
Loan (1992) 11 Cal.App.4th 109, 113.) ¿ 
In ruling on a motion to disqualify,
the court should weigh: (1) the party's right to counsel of choice; (2) the
attorney's interest in representing a client; (3) the financial burden on a
client of change of counsel; (4) any tactical abuse underlying a disqualification
motion; and (5) the principal that the fair resolution of disputes requires
vigorous representation of parties by independent counsel.  (Mills Land
& Water Co. v. Golden West Refining Co. (1986) 186 Cal.App.3d 116,
126.)  Whether an attorney should be disqualified is a matter addressed to
the sound discretion of the trial court.  (Henriksen v. Great American
Savings & Loan (1992) 11 Cal.App.4th 109, 113.) 
III.       
DISCUSSION
Judicial Notice
          Costco’s
request that the Court take judicial notice of various Court records is
GRANTED. (Evid. Code § 452(d).)
Evidentiary Objections
Plaintiff’s evidentiary objections are
overruled.
Analysis
Defendant Costco moves for a court
order disqualifying Plaintiff’s counsel, Downtown L.A. Law Group (“DTLA Law
Group”), from representing Plaintiff in this case. Defendant Costco argues DTLA
Law Group attorney Anthony Werbin (“Werbin”) was counsel for Costco prior to
joining DTLA Law Group and possesses confidential and proprietary information
regarding Costco that constitute a conflict, which is imputed on DTLA Law
Group.
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues
disqualification is not warranted because Werbin is not assigned counsel on
this case, Werbin does not have any confidential or protected information
directly related to this matter, and a substantial relationship does not exist.
“A former client may seek to disqualify
a former attorney from representing an adverse party by showing the former
attorney actually possesses confidential information adverse to the former
client.”  (H.F. Ahmanson & Co. v. Salomon Brothers, Inc. (1991)
229 Cal.App.3d 1445, 1452.)  Additionally, a former client need not
establish that the attorney actually possesses confidential information to
disqualify the former attorney.  (H.F. Ahmanson & Co., supra,
229 Cal.App.3d at 1452.)  “It is enough to show a ‘substantial
relationship’ between the former and current representation.”  (Id.) 
“It is the possibility of the breach of confidence, not the fact of an actual
breach that triggers disqualification.”  (In re Marriage of Zimmerman
(1993) 16 Cal.App.4th 556, 563; H.F. Ahmanson & Co., supra, 229
Cal.App.3d at 1452.)
“[T]he attorney’s possession of
confidential information will be presumed only when ‘a substantial relationship
has been shown to exist between the former representation and the current
representation, and when it appears by virtue of the nature of the former
representation or the relationship of the attorney to his former client
confidential information material to the current dispute would normally have
been imparted to the attorney . . . .’”  (H.F. Ahmanson & Co.,
supra, 229 Cal.App.3d at 1454.)  Disqualification of the attorney from
representing the second client is mandatory where the substantial relationship
test is met and access to confidential information is presumed.  (Flatt
v. Superior Court (1994) 9 Cal.4th 275, 283.) 
“[A] ‘substantial relationship’ exists
whenever the ‘subjects’ of the prior and the current representations are linked
in some rational manner.”  (Jessen v. Hartford Casualty Ins. Co.
(2003) 111 Cal.App.4th 698, 711 (citing Flatt, supra, 9 Cal.4th at
283).)  The “subject” of a representation includes “information material
to the evaluation, prosecution, settlement or accomplishment of the litigation
or transaction given its specific legal and factual issues.”  (Id.
at 712-13.)  “[S]uccessive representations will be ‘substantially related’
when the evidence before the trial court supports a rational conclusion that
information material to the evaluation, prosecution, settlement or
accomplishment of the former representation given its factual and legal issues
is also material to the evaluation, prosecution, settlement or accomplishment
of the current representation given its factual and legal issues.”  (Id.
at 713.)
The substantial relationship test
requires comparison not only of the legal issues involved in successive
representations, but also of evidence bearing on the materiality of the
information the attorney received during the earlier representation.  (Khani
v. Ford Motor Co. (2013) 215 Cal.App.4th 916, 921-22.)  The evidence
must show that the attorney acquired confidential information and not merely
general information about the former client.  (Id.)
The Court finds Defendant Costco has
demonstrated the existence of a substantial relationship between representation
of Plaintiff in this action and Werbin’s representation of Costco in prior
actions. Werbin’s representation of Costco involved matters relating to
personal injuries substantially similar to the claims made by the Plaintiff in
the instant case. (Sefton Decl., ¶3.) Werbin represented Costco in 21 cases
between July 5, 2017 and January 16, 2020. (Id. at ¶2.) He also served
as one of Costco’s trial counsel in the case of Guo Jun Chen v. Costco
Wholesale Corporation (Case No. BC654699), which went to trial on May 29,
2019, and in which a verdict was rendered on June 4, 2019. (Id. at ¶4.)
Most notably, Werbin was counsel for Costco on at least two cases involving the
Los Feliz, California Costco warehouse in negligence and premises liability
claims. (Ibid; Compendium of Exhibits, Exhs. 9-12.) While serving as
Costco’s attorney, Werbin was lead counsel and handled virtually every aspect
of Costco’s file, which included, but was but not limited to, developing
strategy, communicating with Costco employees as well as its claims
administrator Gallagher Bassett, reviewing confidential and privileged
documents, preparing responses to discovery, preparing witnesses to testify at
depositions, defending numerous depositions of Costco employees, and developing
litigation strategy. (Sefton Decl., ¶5.) In connection with his work for
Costco, Mr. Werbin was privy to Costco’s prelitigation strategies, case
handling procedures, attorney-client communications, confidential and
proprietary information concerning Costco’s operations, confidential client
documentation, policies and procedures, and trade secrets. (Id. at ¶6.) Moreover,
on March 19, 2019, Werbin was an active participant in a day-long California
Defense Counsel Conference that Costco held for its panel of defense attorneys
in California in order to discuss California litigation, convey information,
and share defense tools and strategies among its defense counsel. After the
conference, Werbin even sent an email to other attendees sharing his thoughts
on defense strategy. (Id. at ¶7, Exh. 1.) 
From this evidence, especially that
Werbin has handled two negligence/premises liability cases involving the same Los
Feliz store location, it can be presumed that Werbin gained confidential
information involving the Los Feliz location from his prior representations
that would be material to litigating the current matter and would provide an
unfair advantage to Plaintiff. Werbin’s declaration indicates he has no
recollection of ever working on a Costco matter involving the “Lake Elsinore
warehouse” or anything about that warehouse, but that warehouse is irrelevant.
Werbin would thus be disqualified from representing Plaintiff had he been
involved in this matter. 
Given Werbin would be disqualified from
representing Plaintiff in this matter had he been involved, the issue is thus
whether DTLA Law Group should be disqualified from representing Plaintiff in
this matter.
“[W]hether disqualification of the
entire firm is automatic is an open question.”  (California
Self-Insurers’ Security Fund v. Superior Court (2018) 19 Cal.App.5th 1065,
1077.)  As was noted by the Court of Appeal in Kirk v. First American
Title Ins. Co. (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 776 and discussed in California
Self-Insurers’ Security Fund, the case law regarding whether vicarious
disqualification is automatic and absolute is mixed.  (California
Self-Insurers’ Security Fund, supra, 19 Cal.App.5th at 1075; Kirk,
supra, 183 Cal.App.4th at 799.)  The Kirk Court summarized
the history of the law of vicarious disqualification and found that Flatt
did not create an absolute rule of vicarious disqualification and that “the
state of the law is as initially expressed by the appellate courts: (1) a
case-by-case analysis based on the circumstances present in, and the policy
interests implicated by, the case; (2) tempered by the Henriksen [v.
Great American Savings & Loan (1992) 11 Cal.App.4th 109] rule that
vicarious disqualification should be automatic in cases of a tainted attorney
possessing actual confidential information from a representation, who switches
sides in the same case.”  (Kirk, supra, 183 Cal.App.4th at 800; California
Self-Insurers’ Security Fund, supra, 19 Cal.App.5th at 1076 (quoting Kirk).) 
The Kirk Court further indicated that vicarious disqualification is the
general rule and that courts should presume knowledge is imputed to all members
of a tainted attorney’s law firm, but that, “in the proper circumstances, the
presumption is a rebuttable one, which can be refuted by evidence that ethical
screening will effectively prevent the sharing of confidences in a particular
case.’”  (Kirk, supra, 183 Cal.App.4th at 801; California
Self-Insurers’ Security Fund, supra, 19 Cal.App.5th at 1076 (quoting Kirk).) 
As such, the presumption that Werbin’s
knowledge is imputed to all members of his firm and the general rule of
vicarious disqualification of the firm would generally apply.
Plaintiff argues that vicarious
disqualification is rebuttable by evidence of ethical screening and that DTLA
Law Group has a firm policy where Werbin’s team is not assigned any cases
involving Costco. According to Plaintiff’s counsel, Jacob Brown, DTLA Law Group
attorneys are divided into teams, which consist of their own set of attorneys,
paralegals, and office staff.  (Brown Decl., ¶7.) Further, Brown states
that teams do not generally share case files.  (Ibid.)  Brown
states that the firm stores all case information, documents, and files
electronically and that Werbin does not access any case files or information
involving Costco cases.  (Id. at ¶10.)  Brown declares that
Werbin has never been consulted by any member of DTLA Law Group as to how to
handle a Costco case.  (Id. at ¶14.)
Further, in December of 2021, DTLA Law Group made a software switch from
Abacuslaw and introduced a new software system named FileVine. Prior to using
FileVine software, all client files were viewable by all DTLA Law employees.
Upon shifting to the use of FileVine, only those with administrative roles at
the firm and those who have been assigned to a case will be able to view files
associated with a case. (Id. at ¶10; Rezkallah Decl., ¶¶ 3-4.) 
 “The
typical elements of an ethical wall are: (1) physical, geographic, and
departmental separation of attorneys; (2) prohibitions against and sanctions
for discussing confidential matters; (3) established rules and procedures
preventing access to confidential information and files; (4) procedures
preventing a disqualified attorney from sharing in the profits from the
representation; and (5) continuing education in professional responsibility.”
(Henriksen, supra, 11 Cal. App. 4th 109, 116 n.6.) While the firm’s
Human Resources Manager and Administrative Director attests to these things, she
does so in a conclusory manner, failing to present any of the alleged policies
to ensure that confidential information is not shared, particularly in light of
the size of the firm.  (Nat'l Grange
of Order of Patrons of Husbandry v. Cal. Guild (2019) 38 Cal. App. 5th 706,
715 (“[A]n effective wall involves the imposition of preventive measures to
guarantee that information will not be conveyed.”)) 
The Court is particularly concerned in
this case that DTLA Law Group failed to provide written notice to Costco of
their representation.  It is unclear to
the Court, especially in light of the fact that these issues have arisen before
specifically in relation to Werbin and Costco, how and why if a policy has been
implemented by DTLA Law, such a notice was not immediately sent in this
case.  As such, the Court is unable to
find that DTLA Law has taken sufficient measures to guarantee that an effective
ethical wall, including all appropriate policies, has been “built” by DTLA Law.
The “paramount concern” in evaluating a motion to disqualify counsel “must be
to preserve public trust in the scrupulous administration of justice and the
integrity of the bar.”  (Jarvis v. Jarvis (2019) 33 Cal.App.5th
113, 139.)  Thus, under these circumstances and in light of the paramount
concern to preserve public trust in the scrupulous administration of justice
and integrity of the bar, the Court finds DTLA Law Group should be disqualified
from representing Plaintiff in this action. 
IV.        
CONCLUSION
Accordingly, the motion is GRANTED.       
Moving Party to give notice.
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. 
Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to
appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the
hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you
receive a submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume
that others might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive emails from the
parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
        Dated this 30th day of January 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon.
  Lee S. Arian
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 