 Case Number:  22STCV26993    Hearing Date:   January 30, 2024    Dept:  27  
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF
THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF
LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



JIMMY LEON HIX,
  et al.,
                        Plaintiff(s),
            vs.
 
MARIO GIOVANY FLORES SANDOVAL, et
  al., 
 
                        Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


   
  CASE NO.: 22STCV26993
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDERS RE:
 
(1)  MOTION TO
  COMPEL WEGO INC.’S FURTHER RESPONSES TO DEMANDS FOR PRODUCTION, SET THREE
(2)  MOTION TO
  COMPEL MARIO GIOVANY FLORES SANDOVAL’S FURTHER RESPONSES TO DEMANDS FOR
  PRODUCTION, SET FOUR
 
Dept. 27
1:30 p.m.
January 30, 2024



 
MOVING PARTIES:          Plaintiffs Jimmy Leon Hix and Karen Marie Hix
RESPONDING PARTIES: Defendants Wego Inc. and Mario Giovany
Flores 
 Sandoval
 
I.         BACKGROUND
On
August 18, 2022, Plaintiffs Jimmy Leon
Hix and Karen Marie Hix (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) filed this action against
Defendants Mario Giovany Flores Sandoval (“Sandoval”), Bestway Rent A Car, Wego,
Inc. (erroneously sued as Wego Delivers, Inc.) (“Wego”), Alvy Delivers, Inc. (“Alvy
Delivers”), and Does 1 through 40, inclusive, asserting causes of action for
(1) negligence, (2) negligent entrustment, (3) negligent hiring, retention, and
supervision, and (4) loss of consortium. 
The Complaint alleges the following,
among other things. On or about September 25, 2020, Plaintiff Jimmy Hix was
driving on the I-5 freeway. (Compl., ¶ 13.)
Defendant Sandoval was driving in the same direction in a lane next to the
plaintiff when he switched lanes, colliding directly into the plaintiff’s
vehicle and causing the plaintiff to suffer severe and permanent injuries.
(Compl., ¶¶
14-16.) At the time of the accident, Sandoval was driving in the course and
scope of his employment with Wego and Alvy Delivers. (Compl., ¶ 14.) At all relevant times, Plaintiff
Karen Hix was (and is still) married to Plaintiff Jimmy Hix. (Compl., ¶ 39.) As a result of the injuries her
spouse sustained in the accident, Karen Hix suffered the loss of companionship,
care, society, and consortium, among other things. (Compl., ¶ 40.)
On
January 3, 2024, Plaintiffs filed the instant motions to compel Wego’s further
responses to Plaintiffs’ Demand for Production of Documents and Things (Set
Three) and Sandoval’s further responses to Plaintiffs’ Demand for Production of
Documents and Things (Set Four). 
          On January 17, 2024, Wego and Sandoval
filed their oppositions to the motions. 
          On January 23, 2024, Plaintiffs filed
their replies. 
          The Non-Jury
Trial is set for May 15, 2024. 
II.        LEGAL STANDARD
The following rules apply to responses
to requests for production of documents.
“The party to whom a demand for
inspection, copying, testing, or sampling has been directed shall respond
separately to each item or category of item by any of the following:
(1)  A statement that the party will comply with the particular
demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling by the date set for the
inspection, copying, testing, or sampling pursuant to paragraph (2) of
subdivision (c) of Section 2031.030 and any related activities.
(2)  A representation that the party lacks the ability to comply
with the demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling of a particular
item or category of item.
(3)  An objection to the particular demand for inspection,
copying, testing, or sampling.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.210, subd. (a).) 
“A representation of inability to
comply with the particular demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling
shall affirm that a diligent search and a reasonable inquiry has been made in
an effort to comply with that demand. This statement shall also specify whether
the inability to comply is because the particular item or category has never
existed, has been destroyed, has been lost, misplaced, or stolen, or has never
been, or is no longer, in the possession, custody, or control of the responding
party. The statement shall set forth the name and address of any natural person
or organization known or believed by that party to have possession, custody, or
control of that item or category of item.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.230.)
“If only part of an item or category of
item in a demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling is
objectionable, the response shall contain a statement of compliance, or a
representation of inability to comply with respect to the remainder of that
item or category.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.240, subd. (a).)
“If the responding party objects to the
demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling of an item or category of
item, the response shall do both of the following:
(1)  Identify with particularity any document, tangible thing,
land, or electronically stored information falling within any category of item
in the demand to which an objection is being made.
(2)  Set forth clearly the extent of, and the specific ground
for, the objection. If an objection is based on a claim of privilege, the
particular privilege invoked shall be stated. If an objection is based on a
claim that the information sought is protected work product under Chapter 4
(commencing with Section 2018.010), that claim shall be expressly asserted.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.240, subd. (b).)
          Upon
receiving the responses to the requests for production, the propounding party “may
move for an order compelling further response to the demand if the demanding
party deems that any of the following apply:
(1)  A statement of compliance with the demand is incomplete.
(2)  A representation of inability to comply is inadequate,
incomplete, or evasive.
(3)  An objection in the response is without merit or too
general.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (a).)
III.      DISCUSSION
A.   Timeliness
A
motion to compel further responses to the demand must be brought “within 45
days of the service of the verified response, or any supplemental verified
response, or on or before any specific later date to which the demanding party
and the responding party have agreed in writing, [otherwise] the demanding
party waives any right to compel a further response to the demand.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (c).)
If service of the responses is made electronically,
Code of Civil Procedure section 1010.6 extends the 45-day deadline by two court
days. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 1010.6, subd. (a)(3)(B) [extending by
two court days “any right or duty to do any act or make any response within any
period or on a date certain after the service of the document … by electronic
means …”]; Kahn v. The Dewey Group (2015) 240 Cal.App.4th 227, 235-236 [finding
the same].)  
Here,
Plaintiffs’ counsel states that Defendants served their responses at issue on
December 22, 2023. (Motions, Declaration of Artur Aziev (“Aziev Decl.”), ¶ 8.)  Accordingly, the motions are timely; they were
filed within 45 days of those responses. 
B.   Meet and Confer
          The instant
motion must be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration. (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2031.310, subd. (b).)  Plaintiffs have satisfied the meet and confer
requirement. (Aziev Decl., ¶¶ 8-9.) 
C.   Separate
Statements
The instant motion must also be
accompanied by a separate statement (unless the court has relieved a party from
the separate statement requirement). (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (b);
Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1345(a)(3) [requiring separate statements for
motions to compel further responses to a demand for inspection].)
          Plaintiffs have filed separate statements
as required. (Separate Statement, filed on January 3, 2024.)
D.  The Demands for
Production at Issue 
Plaintiffs
seek an order compelling Wego’s further responses to Plaintiffs’ Demand for
Production of Documents and Things, Set Three (the “Wego Demands”), Nos. 49-78.
Those demands seek the production of the following documents and things:
·        
Nos.
49, 50, 53, 54, 57, 58, 61, 62, and 74–77: Photographs and video surveillance Wego
conducted of Plaintiffs, Plaintiffs’ family members, and Plaintiffs’ residence.
·        
Nos.
51, 52, 55, 56, 59, 60, 63, and 64: Documents reflecting the specific cameras
or equipment used to conduct the surveillance. 
·        
Nos.
65 and 66: All documents reflecting the identity of all individuals paid by Wego
to take the photographs and videos from the date of the incident to the
present. 
·        
No.
67: All documents reflecting the dates that Wego monitored Plaintiffs for the
purpose of taking photographs and videos. 
·        
No.
68: All documents reflecting the total number of hours the defendants monitored
Plaintiffs for the purpose of taking photographs and videos. 
·        
No.
69: All documents reflecting the total number of dollars paid by the defendants
to the individuals who monitored Plaintiffs for the purpose of taking
photographs and videos depicting Plaintiffs. 
·        
No.
70: “All photographs depicting Plaintiffs’ family members from the date of the
INCIDENT to the present.”
·        
Nos.
71, 72, and 73: All emails, text messages, and voice messages concerning
Plaintiffs that were created by the individuals who monitored Plaintiffs for
the purpose of taking photographs and videos depicting Plaintiffs. 
·        
No.
78: “A privilege log for any documents withheld on the basis of privilege or
work product in response to the previous requests.” 
(Motion to Compel
Wego Inc.’s Further Responses (“Wego Motion”), p. 5:16-22; Aziev Decl., 1,
Exhibit A – a copy of the Wego Demands.)
In
their other motion (the “Sandoval Motion”), Plaintiffs seek Sandoval’s further
responses to Plaintiffs’ Demand for Production of Documents and Things, Set
Four (the “Sandoval Demands”), Nos. 62-91. Those demands ask Sandoval to
produce the following documents and things. 
·        
Nos.
62, 63, 66, 67, 70, 71, 74, 75, and 87–90: Photographs and video surveillance the
defendant conducted of Plaintiffs, their family members, and their residence. 
·        
Nos.
64, 65, 68, 69, 72, 73, 76, and 77: Documents reflecting information regarding
the cameras and equipment used for surveilling Plaintiffs and their relatives. 
·        
Nos.
78-86: All reports or communications regarding Sandoval’s surveillance on
Plaintiffs. 
(Sandoval Motion,
p. 5:15-22.) 
          According to Plaintiffs, the main
issue in both motions is that “[a]lthough Defendants agreed to produce certain
surveillance records, their responses fail to confirm that all responsive
documents have been produced. Instead, the responses as phrased, leave Plaintiffs
guessing as to whether there will be any additional documents or surveillance
produced at the very last minute before trial. [In addition] Defendants raise
privilege objections but fail to provide a privilege log.” (Wego Motion, p.
6:3-6, Sandoval Motion, p. 6:3-7.) 
In
support of the Defendants’ oppositions, defense counsel states that on Friday,
January 12, 2024, Defendants served their Second Further Responses to the
demands at issue. (Declarations of Dana H. Furman, filed on January 17, 2024 (“Furman
Decl.”), ¶ 6; Exhibits B and C – copies of the Second Further Responses.)
According to defense counsel, “[t]he second further responses added a detailed
explanation of the factual reasons supporting the objections and the grounds
for the privilege objections.” (Furman Decl., ¶ 6.)
In
their replies, Plaintiffs argue that the Court should still grant the motions
because the second supplemental responses are still evasive, and Defendants
have completely refused to provide a privilege log or identify which records
are being withheld on the grounds of privilege and work-product doctrine. 
“The
propounding party’s remedy when it deems ‘[a]n objection in the response is
without merit or too general’ is to ‘move for an order compelling further
response.’ [Citations.]” (Catalina Island Yacht Club v. Superior Court
(2015) 242 Cal.App.4th 1116, 1127 (“Catalina”).)
“If
the response and any privilege log provide sufficient information to permit the
court to determine whether the asserted privilege protects specific documents
from disclosure, the court may rule on the merits of the objection by either
sustaining it or overruling it as to each document.” (Catalina, supra,
242 Cal.App.4th at p. 1127.) 
“If
the response and any privilege log fail to provide sufficient information to
allow the trial court to rule on the merits [of the objection], the court may
order the responding party to provide a further response by serving a privilege
log or, if one already has been served, a supplemental privilege log that
adequately identifies each document the responding party claims is privileged
and the factual basis for the privilege claim.” (Catalina, supra,
242 Cal.App.4th at p. 1127 [emphasis added].) 
With
those principles in mind, the Court rules on the Wego Motion as follows.

·        
Nos. 49, 50, and 65: The request is
DENIED because despite objecting to the demand, Wego has stated in its second
supplemental responses that it has produced all documents in response to those
demands. (See Furman Decl., Exhibit B – a copy of Wego’s Second Further
Responses.) To the extent Plaintiffs are concerned that documents or things not
disclosed during discovery will be submitted as evidence at trial, Plaintiffs
can raise evidentiary objections during trial. 
·        
Nos. 51, 52, 55, 56, 63, 64, 71, 72,
and 73:
The requests are DENIED because despite objecting to the demand, Wego has
stated that after a diligent search and reasonable inquiry, it is unable to
comply with the demands because the documents are not in its possession,
custody, or control, or they have been lost or destroyed. In addition, that all
responsive documents have been produced unless, as otherwise stated,  they could not be located after a diligent
search and reasonable inquiry. 
·        
Nos. 53 and 54: The requests
are GRANTED because Wego’s objections are unpersuasive, and it indicates that
surveillance videos “will be produced,” although it then states on the other
hand that all responsive documents “have been produced ….”
·        
No. 57, 58, 59, 60, 61, 62, 76, and
77:
The requests are DENIED because Wego states in its second supplemental
responses that the documents do not exist or the demand is not applicable. 
·        
No. 66, 67, 68, 69, 70, 74, and 75: The requests are
GRANTED because Wego’s objections are unpersuasive, and Wego states on one hand
that it “agrees to produce …” documents in response to those demands while saying
on the other hand that all responsive documents “have been produced ….” 
·        
No. 78: The request is
GRANTED because Wego (1) implies that it has withheld documents on the basis of
privilege or work product in response to the previous demands and (2) states
that it will serve a privilege log “as required by law.” (People ex rel.
Lockyer v. Superior Court (2004) 122 Cal.App.4th 1060, 1075 [“[T]here is no
obligation to produce a privilege log at all [in response to requests for
production of documents], unless ordered to do so by the court upon a motion by
a party seeking such a document [e.g., a motion to compel further responses”].)
Here, the Court finds a privilege log is necessary to allow the Court to rule
on the merits of the defendant’s privilege objection. 
The
Court rules on the Sandoval Motion as follows. 
·        
Nos. 62, 74, and 75: The request is
DENIED because despite objecting to the demand, Sandoval has stated in his
second supplemental responses that he has produced all documents he has in
response to those demands. (See Furman Decl., Exhibit C – a copy of Sandoval’s
Second Further Responses.) 
·        
No. 63: The request is
GRANTED because Sandoval’s objections are unpersuasive, and while he states on
one hand that he “agrees to produce …” documents in response to those demands, he
also says on the other hand that all responsive documents “have been produced
….”
·        
Nos. 64, 65, 68, 69, 76, 77, 84, 85, and
86:
The requests are DENIED because despite objecting to the demand, Sandoval has
stated that after a diligent search and reasonable inquiry, he is unable to
comply with the demand because the documents are not in his possession,
custody, or control, or they have been lost or destroyed. In addition, that all
responsive documents have been produced unless, as otherwise stated, they could
not be located after a diligent search and reasonable inquiry. 
·        
Nos. 66 and 67: The requests
are GRANTED because Sandoval’s objections are unpersuasive, and he claims on
one hand that surveillance videos “will be produced” but then states on the
other hand that all responsive documents “have been produced ….”
·        
Nos. 70, 71, 72, 73, 89, and 90: The requests
are DENIED because Sandoval states in his second supplemental responses that
the documents do not exist or the demand is not applicable.
·        
Nos. 78, 79, 80, 81, 82, 83, 87, and 88: The requests
are GRANTED because Sandoval’s objections are unpersuasive, and he states on
one hand that he “agrees to produce …” documents in response to those demands while
saying on the other hand that all responsive documents “have been produced ….” 
·        
No. 91: The request is
GRANTED for the same reasons the Court has granted the request to compel Wego
Demands, No. 78 above.  
E.   Sanctions
“Except
as provided in subdivision (j), the court shall impose a monetary sanction
under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person,
or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel further response
to a demand, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with
substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of
the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2031.310, subd. (h).)
Plaintiffs seek sanctions of $1,787.50
per motion and against each defendant. The amount represents 6.5 hours of Plaintiffs’
counsel spent on one motion at his billing rate of $275 per hour. (Aziev Decl., ¶¶
11-14.)
The Court finds some sanctions
warranted because some of the defendants’ responses were evasive. For example,
they would say on one hand that they have produced all responsive
documents and things while saying on the other that they will produce
certain documents and things. 
However,
the defendants acted with substantial justification in opposing the request to
compel further responses to some demands, as reflected by the Court’s rulings
above. 
Accordingly,
the Court will only impose sanctions of $1,000 against each defendant. 
IV.      CONCLUSION
The Court rules on Defendants Wego Inc.
(erroneously sued as Wego Delivers, Inc.) and Mario Giovany Flores Sandoval’s
Motions to Compel Further Responses as follows. 
The request to compel Wego Inc.’s
further responses to Plaintiffs’ Demand for Production of Documents and Things,
Set Three, Nos. 53-54, 66-70, 74-75, and 73 is GRANTED. 
The request to compel Mario Giovany
Flores Sandoval’s further responses to Plaintiffs’ Demand for Production of
Documents and Things, Set Four, Nos. 63, 66, 67, 78-83, 87-88, and 91 is GRANTED.

The defendants are ordered to serve
further, verified, and code-compliant responses to those demands within 30 days
of this ruling. 
The request to compel further responses
to the other demands is DENIED.
The request for sanctions is GRANTED,
but in the reduced amount of $1,000 against each defendant. Defendants Wego
Inc. and  Mario Giovany Flores Sandoval
are each ordered to pay sanctions of $1,000 to the plaintiffs. 
Moving
parties to give notice.  
            Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit
on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided on the court’s
website at www.lacourt.org.  Please be
advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to appear at the
hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue
the matter.  Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue.  If
the Court does not receive emails from the parties indicating submission on
this tentative ruling and there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court
may, at its discretion, adopt the tentative as the final order or place the
motion off calendar.
     
Dated this 30th day of January 2024
 
 




 


 




 


Hon. Lee S.
  Arian
Judge of the
  Superior Court




 