

TENTATIVE
            Defendants Motion to Continue Trial is GRANTED.

Background
            George Durley (“Decedent”) by and through his
successors-in-interest Versie Durley, George Durley, Jr., and Michael Allen
(collectively, “Plaintiffs”) filed a Complaint on March 3, 2022, against KND
Real Estate 40, LLC dba Kindred Hospital Paramount and Kindred Healthcare
Operating, LLC (collectively, “Defendants”). Plaintiffs alleged four causes of
action in their Complaint: (1) elder abuse and neglect, (2) negligence based
upon medical malpractice, (3) wrongful death, and (4) damages pursuant to CCP §
377.34. The Complaint was not served until a year after filing.  Defendants now bring a Motion to Continue
Trial. Plaintiffs filed no opposition. 
 
Discussion
 
Legal Standard
            California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1332, subdivision (c) states that although disfavored,
the trial date may be continued for “good cause,” which includes (without
limitation): 
 
(1) The unavailability of an essential lay or expert
witness because of death, illness, or other excusable circumstances;
(2) The unavailability of a party because of death,
illness, or other excusable circumstances;
(3) The unavailability of trial counsel because of
death, illness, or other excusable circumstances;
(4) The substitution of trial counsel, but only where
there is an affirmative showing that the substitution is required in the
interests of justice;
(5) The addition of a new party if:
            (A) The new
party has not had a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for
trial; or
            (B) The
other parties have not had a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and
prepare for trial in regard to the new party's involvement in the case;
(6) A party's excused inability to obtain essential
testimony, documents, or other material evidence despite diligent efforts; or
(7) A significant, unanticipated change in the status
of the case as a result of which the case is not ready for trial.
(Id., Rule 3.1332(c).)¿¿¿ 
 
            The court
may also consider the following factors: “(1) The proximity of the trial date;
(2) Whether there was any previous continuance, extension of time, or delay of
trial due to any party; (3) The length of the continuance requested; (4) The
availability of alternative means to address the problem that gave rise to the
motion or application for a continuance; (5) The prejudice that parties or
witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance; (6) If the case is
entitled to a preferential trial setting, the reasons for that status and
whether the need for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay; (7) The
court's calendar and the impact of granting a continuance on other pending
trials; (8) Whether trial counsel is engaged in another trial; (9) Whether all
parties have stipulated to a continuance; (10) Whether the interests of justice
are best served by a continuance, by the trial of the matter, or by imposing
conditions on the continuance; and (11) Any other fact or circumstance relevant
to the fair determination of the motion or application.” (Cal. Rules of Court
3.1332(d).)¿¿ ¿ 
 
Analysis
            Defendants
request a trial continuance from the date of the current trial, May 23, 2024,
to September 19, 2024, and put forth three reasons for this request. First,
counsel for Defendants will be engaged in a separate trial beginning on May 21,
2024, that is expected to last two weeks. Second, the parties are engaged in
mediation efforts; a continuance will allow the parties sufficient time to
determine whether successful mediation is possible. Finally, discovery is not completed,
and a continuance will allow all parties to accomplish any necessary remaining
discovery.
 
            Addressing
Defendants’ first reason, CRC 3.1332(c)(3) permits a continuance when
trial counsel is unavailable, as they are here. (See Declaration of Trial
Counsel, ¶ 3.) Defendants’ second reason, the opportunity to engage in
mediation, has the potential to resolve the issue without the need for a trial,
saving the Court’s valuable resources in the process. Unfortunately, the reason
is not particularly compelling here, where the parties have not indicated that
they have engaged a mediator. Finally, CRC
3.1332(c)(6) permits a continuance where there is an excused inability
to obtain essential discovery. Here, the parties have not completed discovery,
and there is no evidence of dilatory tactics by either side, although it is not
entirely clear to the Court why in almost a year the parties have been unable
to complete discovery. That said, there appears to be no prejudice to any party
if a continuance is granted; the non-moving parties have not claimed any. Under
the circumstances, where the factors do not weigh heavily in favor of a
continuance, and the Court is not persuaded that the parties have pursued
discovery with diligence, the Court will grant a continuance, but not for the
requested 120 days, but rather for 60 days. Given that the trial will now not
be until the end of July, 2024, that will give the parties more than sufficient
time to complete discovery, to the extent they really intend to do so, engage
in mediation. 
 
Conclusion
            Accordingly,
Defendants’ Motion to Continue Trial is GRANTED in part and
denied in part.  It is granted in that
the trial and all statutory deadlines related to the trial date will be
continued.  It is denied in respect to
the requested time of the continuance. Trial will be continued until FATD 7/23/24, and
the statutory deadlines shall be tied to that date. The Final Status Conference shall be ______.
Any further continuance request will be highly disfavored.
 
Moving party is ordered to give notice.  
 
 
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at
SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative as
directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  Please be advised that if you submit on the
tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you receive a submission from all
other parties in the matter, you should assume that others might appear at the
hearing to argue.  If the Court does not
receive emails from the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion,
adopt the tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
      Dated this 29th day of January 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Lee S.
  Arian 
Judge
  of the Superior Court
 




 
 