 Case Number:  22STCV15463    Hearing Date:   January 30, 2024    Dept:  27  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL
DISTRICT
 



LORIE BENSON, 
                   Plaintiff,
          vs.
 
FULLERTON
  ISLAND VILLAGE APARTMENTS, LLC, et al.,
 
                   Defendants.
 


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 22STCV15463
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTIONS FOR PROTECTIVE ORDERS


 
Dept.
  27
1:30
  p.m.
January
  30, 2024



 
MOVING PARTY: Defendants Ralph Raulli and Fullerton Island
Village Apartments, LLC (“Fullerton Island”) (collectively “Defendants”)  
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff Lorie Benson (“Plaintiff”) 
 
 
 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
This
action arises from an alleged fall that Plaintiff Lorie Benson (“Plaintiff”)
sustained on April 28, 2021, while walking on a defective stairway located at
125 N. Acacia Ave., Fullerton, CA 92831 (the “Subject Premises”). 
On
May 10, 2022, Plaintiff filed a complaint against Defendants Fullerton Island
Village Apartments, LLC (“Fullerton Island”), Ralph Raulli, and DOES 1 through
50 (collectively “Defendants”) alleging causes of action for: (1) negligence
and (2) premises liability. 
On
August 16, 2022, Defendants filed an answer to the complaint. 
The Instant Motions
On
September 25, 2023, Defendants filed and served two motions. Defendants filed a
motion for a protective order precluding Plaintiff from taking a second
deposition of Defendant Fullerton Island’s Person Most Qualified (the “PMQ”)
and for monetary sanctions against Plaintiff and Plaintiff’s attorney of record,
Daniel B. Miller and Wilshire Law Firm, in the amount of $662.28 (the
“Preclusion Motion”).[1]
Defendants also filed a motion for a protective order postponing the videotaped
depositions noticed by Plaintiff of her treating doctors, Amer Khalil, M.D.,
Steven S. Shin, M.D., and Jonathan Eskenazi, M.D., until a date after Defendants
have taken discovery depositions of those doctors (the “Postponement Motion”)[2]
(collectively, the “Motions”). 
On
September 28, 2023, the Court granted Defendants’ ex parte applications
to stay the deposition of Fullerton Island’s PMQ and stay the taking of
Plaintiff’s videotaped depositions of Amer Khalil, M.D., Steven S. Shin, M.D.,
and Jonathan Eskenazi, M.D. until after the Motions are heard. 
On
January 17, 2024, Plaintiff filed oppositions to the Motions and, on January
22, 2024, Defendants filed reply briefs.
The
Court will address both motions in this one ruling. The Court will address the
Preclusion Motion first and then the Court will address the Postponement
Motion. The Court finds that the meet and confer requirement has been met as to
both motions. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.420.) 
II.         
THE
PRECLUSION MOTION 
Defendants move for an order precluding
Plaintiff from taking a second deposition of the Fullerton Island’s PMQ, which
was noticed by Plaintiff on August 25, 2023. The Preclusion Motion is made on
the grounds that the Topics of Examination listed in Plaintiff’s deposition
notice consisted of topics that were either covered or could have been covered
when Plaintiff previously deposed the Fullerton Island PMQ on November 16, 2022.
(Motion, 2: 9-15.) 
In opposition to the Preclusion Motion,
Plaintiff argues that the motion is moot because Plaintiff withdrew the second
deposition of the Fullerton Island PMQ on September 27, 2023. (DeSantis Decl.,
¶ 2; Exhibit 1.) Defendants assert that the motion is not moot because
Plaintiff has only temporarily withdrawn the second notice of deposition of the
Fullerton Island PMQ. (Reply, 2:15-19.) 
 
Issue No.1: Mootness of the Preclusion Motion
          “The court,
for good cause shown, may make any order that justice requires to protect any
party, deponent, or other natural person or organization from unwarranted
annoyance, embarrassment, or oppression, or undue burden and expense.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2025.420, subd. (b).) A protective order may include a direction
that a “deposition not be taken at all.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.420, subd.
(b)(1).) A court must restrict the extent or use of a discovery method if
“[t]he discovery sought is unreasonably cumulative or duplicative.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2019.030, subd. (a)(1).) 
          The Court
notes that Plaintiff’s counsel has indicated that Plaintiff is “withdrawing the
noticed PMQ deposition for now, making defendant’s ex parte and motion on the
subject moot.” (DeSantis Decl., ¶ 2; Exhibit 1.) 
          The Court
finds that the Preclusion Motion is based on the second deposition notice
pertaining to Fullerton Island’s PMQ. However, such deposition notice has been
withdrawn and the basis for the Preclusion Motion, which is the August 25, 2023
notice of deposition for Fullerton Island’s PMQ, is now moot. 
          Defendants
assert that a protective order is still needed to prohibit Plaintiff from
re-noticing the deposition of Fullerton Island’s PMQ. In essence, Defendants
seek a ruling on a possible course of action that Plaintiff may take.
At this time, the Court declines the
invitation to rule on possibilities. 
Suffice it to say, with each court in the PI Hub saddled with a docket
of about 4,000 cases, the Court does not have the time to provide what amounts
to advisory rulings.  If Plaintiff
notices another Fullerton Island PMQ deposition, and the parties cannot agree
on the propriety of that noticed deposition, the Court will resolve that
dispute when it arises.
Issue No.2: Good Cause as to the Preclusion Motion  
          While the
Court is not in the business of providing advisory opinions, it notes that even
if the Preclusion Motion were not moot, the Court could not issue a protective
order due to Defendants’ failure to show good cause. “[T]he burden is on the
party seeking the protective order to show good cause for whatever order is
sought.” (Fairmont Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (2000) 22 Cal.4th 245,
255.) Good cause is not “enshrined in legal formalism; it calls for a factual
exposition of a reasonable ground for the sought order.” (Tanguilig v.
Valdez (2019) 36 Cal.App.5th 514, 528.) “In law and motion practice,
factual evidence is supplied to the court by way of declarations.” (Calcor
Space Facility, Inc. v. Superior Court (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 216, 224.)  Counsel fails to articulate in her
declarations why a protective order is needed.
 
Issue No.3: Monetary Sanctions
          “The court
shall impose a monetary sanction . . . against any party, person, or attorney
who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion for a protective order, unless it
finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification
or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2025.420, subd. (h).) A trial court has discretion to impose
monetary sanctions against a party persisting, “over objection and without
substantial justification, in an attempt to obtain information outside the
scope of permissible discovery.” (Pratt v. Union Railroad Co. (2008) 168
Cal.App.4th 165, 183.) 
          The Court
declines to impose monetary sanctions against Plaintiff and Plaintiff’s
attorney of record. While the Court recognizes that Defendants filed the
Preclusion Motion prior to withdrawal of the second deposition notice for
Fullerton Island’s PMQ, the Preclusion Motion is now moot. Moreover, even if
the Preclusion Motion was not moot pursuant to the withdrawal of the second
deposition notice, Defendants have not made a showing of good cause to justify
a protective order. Moreover, the Court fails to see how Plaintiff persisted
over objection when the second deposition notice was withdrawn shortly after
the instant motion was filed. 
           Thus, the Court DENIES the Preclusion Motion
in its entirety WITHOUT PREJUDICE.  The
Court also DENIES Defendants’ request for monetary sanctions against Plaintiff
and her counsel of record. The Court finds that imposition of monetary
sanctions would be unjust.   
III.       
THE
POSTPONEMENT MOTION 
Defendants move for a protective order
postponing the videotaped depositions noticed by Plaintiff of her treating
doctors, Amer Khalil, M.D., Steven S. Shin, M.D., and Jonathan Eskenazi, M.D.,
until a date after Defendants have taken discovery depositions of those
doctors. (Postpone Deposition Motion, 1:27-2:3.) The motion is made on the
grounds that Defendants need an opportunity to take discovery of such doctors
before Plaintiff’s videotaped depositions of those doctors in order to prepare
for cross-examination of those doctors at trial. Defendants seek a protective
order allowing them to take discovery depositions of Plaintiff’s treating
doctors prior to Plaintiff taking videotaped depositions of her treating
doctors for use at trial. 
Relevant Legal Standard
The Court references the legal
standards set forth above pursuant to the Preclusion Motion and applies such
legal standards herein. The Court may issue a protective order with a direction
“[t]hat a video recording of the deposition testimony of a treating or
consulting physician or any expert witness, intended for possible use at trial
. . . be postponed until the moving party has had an adequate opportunity to
prepare, by discovery deposition of the deponent, or other means, for
cross-examination.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.420, subd. (b)(3).) “[O]n motion
and for good cause shown, the court may establish the sequence and timing of
discovery for the convenience of parties and witnesses and in the interests of
justice.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2019.020, subd. (b).) The right of a party to
engage in expert witness discovery “stems from the necessity of preparing to
cope with that expert when he does take the witness stand at trial.” (Kennemur
v. State of California (1982) 133 Cal.App.3d 907, 916.) “If anything, the
need for pretrial discovery as an aid to the preparation of cross-examination
and rebuttal is greater with respect to the expert witness than it is in the
case of an ordinary fact witness.” (Id. at p. 916-17.) 
 
Issue No.1: Appropriateness of a Protective Order
          Initially, in
opposition to the Postponement Motion, Plaintiff contends that the motion is no
longer necessary because the depositions of her treating doctors have already
been postponed because the depositions have been taken off-calendar.
(Opposition, 2:4-5.) Plaintiff, however, presents no evidence supporting such
fact and, on reply, Defendants contend that Plaintiff has not withdrawn the
noticed videotaped depositions of her treating providers. (Supp. Decl. of
Capra-Cunningham, ¶¶ 4, 7-8; Exhibits M and N.) Plaintiff provides no evidence
in support of the opposition. 
          Declaration
of Defendants’ Counsel
          Counsel for
Defendants, Marisa M. Capra-Cunningham, declares that Plaintiff identified Amer
Khalil, M.D., Steven S. Shin, M.D., and Jonathan Eskenazi, M.D., as healthcare
providers from which she received treatment for her claimed injuries.
(Capra-Cunningham Decl., ¶ 3; Exhibit A.) On August 25, 2023, Plaintiff served notice
of taking the depositions of Dr. Khalil, Dr. Shin, and Dr. Eskenazi, all of
which were set for September 29, 2023, and each of the deposition notices
stated that Plaintiff reserved the right to videotape the depositions for
possible use at trial. (Id., ¶ 6; Exhibits D, E, F.) Plaintiff served
deposition subpoenas for personal appearance on August 25, 2023, which ordered
each of the respective doctors to appear and testify at deposition on September
29, 2023, and each deposition subpoena stated that the deposition would be recorded
by videotape for possible use at trial. (Id., ¶ 7; Exhibits G, H, I.) 
Counsel declares that to properly
prepare for cross-examination of such providers, she needs an opportunity to
first take discovery depositions of such providers. (Id., ¶ 10.) Counsel
further states that after discovery depositions of such providers are
completed, she needs time to review the testimony, have such testimony reviewed
by Defendants’ medical consultants, and discuss the doctors’ testimony with
Defendants’ medical consultants. (Id., ¶ 10.) Thus, counsel states that
in order “to provide an adequate opportunity for [her] to prepare for
cross-examination of Dr. Khalil, Dr. Shin, and Dr. Eskenazi, [P]laintiff’s
videotaped depositions of these doctors should be postponed until a reasonable
time after discovery depositions of these doctors have been taken.” (Id.)

Analysis
Initially, the Court finds that
Plaintiff’s citation to Oliveros v. County of Los Angeles (2004) 120
Cal.App.4th 1389 is inapposite as such case did not involve the issuance of a
protective order. Also, Plaintiff only presents argument—and no factual
evidence—to support the contention that Defendants have not acted diligently in
obtaining the discovery depositions of Plaintiff’s treating providers. 
The Court finds that Defendants have
shown good cause for a protective order as to the Postponement Motion. Given
that Plaintiff is seeking to utilize the videotaped depositions of her treating
doctors at trial, the Court finds it appropriate that Defendants be able to prepare
for cross-examination beforehand by way of discovery depositions. Defendants’
counsel attests to the fact that discovery has yet to be completed.
(Capra-Cunningham Decl., ¶ 8; Exhibit J.)  Plaintiff has indicated that she seeks to use
such videotaped deposition testimony at trial. The Court finds that Defendants
should have the opportunity “to prepare, by discovery deposition of the
deponent, or other means, for cross-examination.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.420,
subd. (b)(3).) 
Accordingly, the Court GRANTS the
Postponement Motion. 
IV.        
CONCLUSION
The Preclusion Motion is DENIED in its
entirety WITHOUT PREJUDICE.
The Court GRANTS the Postponement
Motion.  
 
Moving party to give notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. 
Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to
appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the
hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you
receive a submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume
that others might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive emails from the
parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
      Dated this 30th day of January 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon.
  Lee S. Arian 
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
 
 
 


