 Case Number:  22STCV24394    Hearing Date:   January 30, 2024    Dept:  27  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL
DISTRICT
 



ANNIKA PENH TE, 
                   Plaintiff,
          vs.
 
SUSAN
  CADENA, et al.,
 
                   Defendants.
 


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 22STCV24394
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION TO CONTINUE TRIAL DATE AND RE-OPEN DISCOVERY
 
Dept.
  27
1:30
  p.m.
January
  30, 2024



 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff Annika Penh Te (“Plaintiff”)  
RESPONDING PARTY: Defendants Susan Cadena and Anthony
Hardman (“Defendants”) 
 
 
 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
This
action arises from a motor vehicle accident that occurred on April 27, 2021, in
which Plaintiff Annika Penh Te (“Plaintiff”) alleges she sustained injuries. On
July 28, 2022, Plaintiff filed a complaint against Defendants Susan Cadena,
Anthony Hardman, and DOES 1 to 20 (collectively “Defendants”) alleging a single
motor vehicle injury cause of action.
On
September 6, 2022, Defendants filed an answer to the complaint. 
On
January 8, 2024, Plaintiff filed and served the instant motion to continue
trial and to re-open discovery (the “Motion”). Plaintiff seeks a trial
continuance from January 25, 2024, to May 18, 2024, or such other date as is
convenient for the Court and the parties, and for an order that all discovery
and motion cut-off dates be commensurate with the new trial date. 
On
January 11, 2024, the Court granted Plaintiff’s ex parte application for
an order shortening time for the hearing on the Motion. (01/11/24 Minute
Order.) The Court’s January 11, 2024 minute order provides that “[p]ursuant to
the request of moving party, the [n]on-[j]ury [t]rial scheduled for 01/25/2024
is continued to 02/14/2024.” (01/11/24 Minute Order.) 
On January 16, 2024, Defendants filed
an opposition to the Motion, to which Plaintiff replied on January 23, 2024. 
 
 
II.    LEGAL STANDARD 
Code Civ. Proc. § 128(a)(8) provides
that the court has the power to “amend and control its process and orders so as
to make them conform to law and justice.” “[T]he power to determine when a
continuance should be granted is within the discretion of the trial court.” (Color-Vue,
Inc. v. Abrams (1996) 44 Cal.App.4th 1599, 1603.) A trial court has wide
latitude in the matter of calendar control including the granting or denying of
continuances. (Park Motors, Inc. v. Cozens (1975) 49 Cal.App.3d 12,
18.)  
A party seeking a continuance of the
date set for trial, whether contested or uncontested or stipulated by the
parties, must make the request for a continuance by a noticed motion or ex
parte application, with supporting declarations. (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule
3.1332(b).) The party must make the motion or application as soon as reasonably
practical once the necessity for the continuance is discovered. (Ibid.) 
Each request for a continuance must be
considered on its own merits according to California Rules of Court,
Rule 3.1332(c). The court may grant a continuance only on an affirmative
showing of good cause requiring the continuance.  (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1332(c).) Good
cause may be present where a party has not been unable “to obtain essential
testimony, documents, or other material evidence despite diligent efforts” or
there has been a “significant, unanticipated change in the status of the case
as a result of which the case is not ready for trial.” (Cal. Rules of Court,
Rule 3.1332(c)(6)-(7).) 
California Rules of Court, Rule
3.1332 sets forth a list of non-exhaustive factors to be analyzed when
determining whether good cause for a trial continuance is present. A court
considers factors such as: (1) the proximity of the trial date; (2) whether
there was any previous continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial due to
any party; (3) the length of the continuance requested; (4) the availability of
alternative means to address the problem that gave rise to the motion or
application for a continuance; (5) the prejudice that parties or witnesses will
suffer as a result of the continuance; (6) if the case is entitled to a
preferential trial setting, the reasons for that status and whether the need
for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay; (7) the court’s calendar
and the impact of granting a continuance on other pending trials; (8) whether
trial counsel is engaged in another trial; (9) whether all parties have
stipulated to a continuance; (10) whether the interests of justice are best served
by a continuance, by the trial of the matter, or by imposing conditions on the
continuance; and (11) any other fact or circumstance relevant to the fair
determination of the motion or application. (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule
3.1332(d).) 
III.    DISCUSSION 
Issue No.1: Untimeliness of the Motion
          Defendants
contend that the Motion should be denied because Plaintiff did not provide
proper notice of the Motion. Specifically, Defendants assert that the Motion
should have been filed by January 3, 2024. 
          “[A]ll moving
and supporting papers shall be served and filed at least 16 court days before
the hearing.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1005, subd. (b).) “[I]f the notice is served
by facsimile transmission, express mail, or another method of delivery
providing for overnight delivery, the required 16-day period of notice before
the hearing shall be increased by two calendar days.” (Id.) 
          Here, the
Motion was served on Defendants by electronic service on January 8, 2024. The
Court finds that the filing and service of the Motion on January 8, 2024 was
not at least 16 days before the hearing. Thus, the Motion was filed late. The
Court will consider the Motion on the merits as Defendants do not indicate any
prejudice from the late filing and service of the Motion. 
          Accordingly,
the Court exercises its discretion under California Rules of Court, Rule
3.1300(d) and will consider the Motion. 
Issue No.2: Good Cause 
          Evidence
in Support of the Motion
          In support of
the Motion, Plaintiff’s counsel, Edward W. Hess Jr. (“Hess”), states that due
to recent developments concerning Plaintiff’s medical status this action is not
ready for trial. (Hess Decl., ¶ 3.) Plaintiff has ongoing medical issues which
has led her physician to recommend that she obtain a consultation and
recommendation from a spinal surgeon. (Id., ¶ 4.) Plaintiff has
scheduled a first-available appointment with neurosurgeon Devin K. Binder,
M.D., Ph.D. for January 24, 2024. (Id.) Counsel attests that a trial
continuance is warranted due to the new information concerning Plaintiff’s medical
treatment as the parties must: (1) perform additional discovery and
investigation and (2) have the newly obtained information reviewed by all
parties and their experts. (Id., ¶ 6.) Defendants have refused to
stipulate to a trial continuance. (Id., ¶ 5.) 
          Evidence
in Opposition to the Motion
          In opposition
to the Motion, Defendants’ counsel, Allison L. Grandy (“Grandy”), declares that
Defendants believe that Plaintiff only underwent injections for pain at the end
of 2023 for purposes of trial. (Grandy Decl., ¶ 2.) Trial was set to commence
on January 25, 2024, until Plaintiff was granted a continuance to February 14,
2024 to accommodate the Motion. (Id., ¶ 3.) Counsel states that her
office will be prepared for the February 14, 2024 trial date and Defendants
have already expended significant time and resources in preparing the case for
trial as currently set. (Id., ¶¶ 3-4.) Defendants will be harmed by
further delays by having to re-depose retained experts and will be required to
serve new written discovery to ascertain any treatment from 2024 and issue
subpoenas for those records. (Id., ¶ 5.) Counsel attests that should a
continuance be granted, the defense will require at least seven to nine months
to complete discovery before a new trial date. (Id., ¶ 6.) 
          Analysis
          The Court
finds that Plaintiff has not shown good cause to continue trial. The fact that
Plaintiff’s physician has recommended that she obtain a consultation and
recommendation from a spine surgeon does not warrant a trial continuance.
Plaintiff does not indicate that surgery will be performed prior to the
commencement of trial that may render her unavailable for trial. Thus, there
may not be the need for additional discovery as Plaintiff’s counsel contends. (Hess
Decl., ¶ 6.) In fact, the reply brief acknowledges that additional medical
treatment is not definite as “Plaintiff is consulting with a neurosurgeon to
explore potential invasive options to relieve her chronic post-accident
pain.” (Reply, 1:25-26, emphasis added.) 
Moreover, and significantly, Plaintiff
provides no explanation as to: (1) why such consultation was sought near the
trial date; or (2) when her physician referred her to the spine surgeon. Simply,
Plaintiff provides no reason why she did not seek a consultation with a spine
surgeon well in advance of the trial date, if, in fact, such consultation was
truly necessary. (This case involves about $600 in property damage. Opposition
at p. 2.) Also, given that Defendants are ready for trial, a delay in trial would
cause Defendants to incur additional trial preparation costs. (Grandy Decl., ¶
4). Thus, the Court does not find a trial continuance to be appropriate. 
          Accordingly, exercising
its discretion, the Court DENIES the Motion.   
IV.     CONCLUSION
The Court DENIES the motion of Plaintiff
to continue trial in this action. 
 
Moving party is ordered to give notice.

 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. 
Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to
appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the
hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you
receive a submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume
that others might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive emails from the
parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
      Dated this 30th day of January 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon.
  Lee S. Arian 
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 