  Case Number:  18STCV00734    Hearing Date:   January 30, 2024    Dept:  27 f
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL
DISTRICT
 



ADI
  AKE LOPEZ, et al.,
                   Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
THE
  STATE OF CALIFORNIA, et al.,
 
                   Defendant(s),


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 18STCV00734
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION TO BE RELIEVED AS COUNSEL
 
Dept.
  27
1:30
  p.m.
January
  30, 2024



 
I.       INTRODUCTION
          On
January 8, 2024, Plaintiff Lucila Ake Iuit’s counsel, Suzanna Abrahamian,
Tigran Martinian, and Andre Sherman filed the instant Motion to be Relieved as
Counsel.
II.      LEGAL
STANDARDS
California Rule of Court rule 3.1362
(Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel) requires (1) notice of motion and motion to
be directed to the client (made on the Notice of Motion and Motion to be
Relieved as Counsel—Civil form (MC-051)); (2) a declaration stating in general
terms and without compromising the confidentiality of the attorney-client
relationship why a motion under Code of Civil Procedure section 284(2) is
brought instead of filing a consent under Code of Civil Procedure section
284(1) (made on the Declaration in Support of Attorney's Motion to Be Relieved
as Counsel—Civil form (MC-052)); (3) service of the notice of motion and motion
and declaration on all other parties who have appeared in the case; and (4) the
proposed order relieving counsel (prepared on the Order Granting Attorney's
Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel—Civil form (MC-053)).
The court has discretion to allow an
attorney to withdraw, and such a motion should be granted provided that there
is no prejudice to the client, and it does not disrupt the orderly process of
justice. (See Ramirez v. Sturdevant (1994) 21 Cal.App.4th 904, 915.) 
III.     DISCUSSION
Counsel seeks to be relieved on grounds
that there has been a breakdown in the attorney-client relationship. Absent a
showing of resulting prejudice, an attorney's request for withdrawal should be
granted. (People v. Prince (1968) 268 Cal.App.2d 398, 406.). 
Here, there is no apparent prejudice.
However, the declaration and order only specify that there is an OSC on March
26, 2024. It does not specify the subject matter of the OSC, and the order does
not specify the time and place. Further, the order claims the client’s address
is current, while the declaration states that counsel served the client at her
last known address and were unable to confirm it.  Counsel need to make a concerted effort to
locate and notify Plaintiff of a motion to withdraw as counsel.  That was not done here.
IV.     CONCLUSION
Counsel’s motion is DENIED without
prejudice.
 
Moving party to give notice.
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. 
Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to
appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the
hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you
receive a submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume
that others might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive emails from the
parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 
        Dated this 30th day of January 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Lee S. Arian
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
 