 Case Number:  19STCV22840    Hearing Date:   January 30, 2024    Dept:  27 SUPERIOR COURT OF
THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  
FOR THE COUNTY OF
LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT 
 



GARCIA, et al.,  
 
Plaintiff(s), 
vs. 
 
FERNANDES, JR., et al., 
 
Defendant(s). 


) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 


      CASE NO.: 19STCV22840 
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER
  RE: MOTION TO REOPEN DISCOVERY
 
Dept. 27 
1:30 p.m. 
January 25, 2024 



 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiffs Estate of Milagros
Morales, Edgar Raul Morales Garcia, Goldin Solano, Edgar Morales, Jr., and
Samantha Morales
RESPONDING PARTY: None
 
I.                  
Introduction 
This action arises from a fatal car
crash on May 26, 2019 in which Cleverson Fernandes drove his vehicle into the
vehicle that Milagros Morales, Edgar Garcia, Edgar Garcia, Jr., Samantha
Morales, and Goldin Solano were present. 
Milagros Morales was killed in the crash.  The operative First Amended Complaint alleges
six causes of action: (1) negligence—survival; (2) negligence—wrongful death;
(3) negligence; (4) dangerous condition of public property—survival; (5)
dangerous condition of public property—wrongful death; and (6) dangerous
condition of public property. 
Trial was originally set for October
23, 2023, and the discovery cut-off was September 22, 2023.  The Court continued trial to April 16,
2024.  As a result, Plaintiffs Estate
of Milagros Morales, Edgar Raul Morales Garcia, Goldin Solano, Edgar Morales,
Jr., and Samantha Morales (“Plaintiffs”) filed the instant motion to reopen
discovery.  No opposition has been
filed.  
II.               
Legal Standard
Except as otherwise
provided, “any¿party shall be entitled as a matter of right to complete
discovery proceedings on or before the 30th day, and to have motions concerning
discovery heard on or before the 15th day, before the date initially set for
trial of the action.”  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2024.020, subd. (a).)¿ “[A]¿continuance¿or postponement of the trial date
does not operate to reopen discovery proceedings” unless a motion to reopen
discovery is filed and granted pursuant to¿section 2024.050.¿ (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2024.020, subd. (b);¿Pelton-Shepherd Industries, Inc. v. Delta Packaging
Products, Inc.¿(2008) 165 Cal.App.4th 1568.)  Section 2024.050 provides that “[o]n¿motion
of any party, the court may grant leave to complete discovery proceedings, or
to have a motion concerning discovery heard, closer to the initial trial date,
or to reopen discovery after a new trial date has been set.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.050, subd. (a).)
The reopening of
discovery is a matter that is committed to the trial court’s sound discretion.¿
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.050, subds. (a), (b).) 
In determining whether to reopen
discovery, the court must consider the necessity of and reasons for the
additional discovery, the diligence or lack thereof by the party seeking to
reopen discovery in attempting to complete discovery prior to the cutoff,
whether permitting the discovery will prevent the case from going forward on
the trial date or will otherwise prejudice any party, and any past continuances
of the trial date.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2024.050, subd. (b).)
A motion to reopen discovery pursuant to¿section 2024.050 must be
accompanied by a meet and confer declaration demonstrating a good faith effort
at informal resolution.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.050, subd. (a).)¿  
III.            
Discussion 
The Court continued trial to April 16,
2024, which the Court set pursuant to the ex parte application filed by Plaintiffs.  (See September 29, 2023 Minute Order.)  The Court stated discovery cut-off dates to
remain tied to the current, not the new trial date.  (Id.) 
On November 30, 2023, Plaintiffs filed their motion to reopen discovery.  As a preliminary matter, the Court finds Plaintiffs
satisfied the meet and confer requirements. 
(Declaration of Montse P. Murillo (“Murillo Decl.”), ¶ 4.)
Upon review, the Court finds
the balance of factors set forth in § 2024.050, subd. (b) weighs in favor of
reopening discovery and having discovery cut-off dates be tied to the April 16,
2024 trial date.  Specifically, it
is expected that defendant Cleverson Fernandes, who has not yet appeared in
this case, will soon be seeking relief from default and will appear as a
defendant.  (Murillo Decl., ¶¶ 6-7.)  Plaintiffs
need to depose defendant Cleverson Fernandes and obtain discovery from him.  (Murillo Decl., ¶ 8.)  Also, neither Plaintiffs nor defendant Ivory
Heron Group have taken discovery from the other.  (Murillo Decl., ¶ 9.)  Plaintiffs need to obtain discovery from defendant
Ivory Heron Group, which includes a person-most-qualified deposition, written
discovery, and potentially other witness depositions.  (Id.) 
Plaintiff’s counsel testifies that the delay in serving discovery on
defendant Ivory Heron Group was the result of a calendaring error by counsel.  (Id.) 
Furthermore, Plaintiffs request that discovery track from the current
trial date; the length of time between the previous trial date and current
trial date is about six months, which is not substantial considering the
remaining discovery.  Lastly, it appears
no party will be prejudiced by reopening discovery as no opposition has been
filed by any party.   
IV.            
Conclusion 
Accordingly, Plaintiffs’ motion to
reopen discovery is GRANTED. 
Moving party to give
notice.  
Parties who intend
to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at
SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative as
directed by the instructions provided on the court website at
www.lacourt.org.  Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative
and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless
appear at the hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. 
     Dated this 25th day of January
2024 



  


 




 


Hon. Lee S. Arian
   
Judge of the
  Superior Court 
 



 
 
 