  Case Number:  21STCV00226    Hearing Date:   May 30, 2024    Dept:  E  Hearing Date: 5/30/24 – 9:00amCase No: 21STCV00226Trial Date: Not set.Case Name: Bi Yun Cheng, et al. v. Home 2001, Inc., et al. MOTION 1: DEFENDANTS’ HOME 2001, INC., TERRY TUNG, AND HSIU HSIA TSAI’S MSJ/MSA Moving Party: Defendants, HOME 2001, INC.; TERRY TUNG; and HSIU HSIA TSAIResponding Party: Plaintiffs, BI YUN CHENG; XINYI RUAN; and RYAN RUAN, a minor, by and through his Guardian Ad Litem, BI YUN CHENG Proof of service timely filed (CRC 3.1300(c)):¿¿ ok¿Correct Address (CCP §§ 1013, 1013(a)):¿¿¿¿ok¿16/+5 day¿lapse (CCP §1005):¿¿ok¿¿ RELIEF REQUESTED: Defendants Home 2001, Inc. (“Home”), Terry Tung (“Tung”), and Hsiu Hsia Tsai (“Tsai”) move for summary judgment, or in the alternative, summary adjudication on Plaintiffs’ first cause of action for premises liability and second cause of action for negligence against Defendants on the grounds that: (1) under the Privette doctrine, Defendants cannot be liable for Mr. Ruan’s injuries and death; (2) there are insufficient facts on which to hold Ms. Tsai liable; (3) because Mr. Ruan falsely represented to Mr. Tung that Mr. Ruan was a licensed contractor, Labor Code § 2750.5 does not apply, and Mr. Ruan is not deemed the employee of any of Defendants; and (4) none of Defendants can be held liable under Plaintiff’s premises liability claim, because no defendant was a possessor of the subject property. BACKGROUND: The instant FAC alleges two causes of action against Defendants for (1) Wrongful Death –Premises Liability and (2) Wrongful Death – Negligence. This action arises from an incident on or about August 15, 2020, when Decedent, Wen Wei Ruan, an alleged repairman and air conditioning technician, was allegedly hired by Defendants to inspect, fix, or troubleshoot an air conditioning unit on the rooftop of an Apartment Complex. (FAC ¶14.) Plaintiffs allege that when climbing down, Decedent was on the ladder attached to the east side wall of the apartment complex, and the ladder separated from the wall, which caused Decedent and the ladder to fall onto the next-door neighbor’s driveway. (Ibid.) Plaintiffs allege that this sudden and unexpected fall caused Decedent to sustain traumatic, severe injuries, among others: blunt head trauma, brain hemorrhage, multiple skull fractures, contusion to the left lateral quadrant, abrasions to the to the upper right lateral back, contusions to the lower right back, a large abrasion to the posterior surface of the left lower extremity, internal bleeding, and head laceration. (Ibid.) Plaintiff, Bi Yun Cheng, alleges that Decedent was her husband. (FAC ¶2.) Plaintiff, Xinyi Ruan, alleges that Decedent was their father. (FAC ¶3.) Plaintiff, Ryan Ruan, alleges that Decedent was their father. (FAC ¶4.) Plaintiffs allege that Defendants owned, possessed, maintained, and controlled the Apartment Complex. (FAC ¶21.) Plaintiffs allege that Defendants were aware of the defective nature of the ladder and that it was reasonably foreseeable that a third party, namely the Decedent, would use this ladder to inspect and repair the air conditioning unit on the roof of the apartment complex and use this ladder for that purpose. (FAC ¶16.) Plaintiffs allege that in so using the ladder for that purpose, the ladder broke off from the wall due to its negligently maintained condition and therefore resulting in Decedent’s death. (Ibid.)TENTATIVE RULING: Deny as to Home 2001 and Tung, and Grant as to Tsai. ANALYSIS: Legal StandardA motion for summary judgment or adjudication provides “courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.”  (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.)  It must be granted “if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.”¿ (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119, quoting Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).)  A defendant moving for summary judgment carries the initial “burden of showing that a cause of action has no merit” by proving that “one or more elements of the cause of action, even if not separately pleaded, cannot be established, or that there is a complete defense to the cause of action.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p).)  “Once the defendant . . . has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff . . . to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.”  (Ibid.)  To establish a triable issue of material fact, the opposing party must produce substantial responsive evidence.  (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)  Courts “liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party.”¿ (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)¿ DiscussionAs an initial matter, the Court previously held a hearing on this motion and continued it for supplemental briefing due to “the confused and inchoate nature of the briefing from both sides.” Defendants and Plaintiff have now provided supplemental briefing. One of the main issues with the moving papers was a failure to provide argument and evidence of Ruan’s status as an independent contractor such that the Privette doctrine would even apply. Defendants’ supplemental briefing seems to argue that there is no requirement that Ruan be an independent contractor for Privette, but the Privette line of cases clearly assumes independent contractor status prior to its application.   A.     PrivetteB.      Generally, a non-negligent party cannot be liable in tort to its independent contractor’s employees. (Privette v. Superior Court (1993) 5 Cal.4th 689, 702.) Privette “renders the hirer of an independent contractor immune from liability to the independent contractor’s employee even when the basis for liability was that the hirer failed to provide in the contract that the contractor must take special precautions to avert the risks of work.  [Citation.] Privette also bars liability when the injured employee’s theory is that the hirer negligently hired the independent contractor.  [Citation.] Finally, Privette applies when the injured employee’s cause of action against the hirer of the independent contractor is based on the hirer’s failure to comply with statutory or regulatory workplace safety requirements. [Citation.]” (Johnson v. Raytheon Company, Inc. (2019) 33 Cal.App.5th 617, 638.) “By hiring an independent contractor, the hirer implicitly delegates to the contractor any tort duty it owes to the contractor’s employees to ensure the safety of the specific workplace that is the subject of the contract.  That implicit delegation includes any tort law duty the hirer owes to the contractor’s employees to comply with applicable statutory or regulatory requirements.” (SeaBright Ins. Co. v. US Airways, Inc. (2011) 52 Cal.4th 590, 594.) The California Supreme Court has held that the duty to ensure a safe workplace may be delegated, based largely on the policy rationale that because workers’ compensation limits the liability of an independent contractor to its employees, “it would be unfair to permit the injured employee to obtain full tort damages from the hirer of the independent contractor—damages that would be unavailable to employees who did not happen to work for a hired contractor. This inequity would be even greater when, as is true here, the independent contractor had sole control over the means of performing the work.”  (Id. at p. 603.) There are two exceptions to the Privette general rule of nonliability where a hirer of an independent contractor retained control over safety conditions and the exercise of retained control affirmatively contributed to the employee’s injuries (Hooker v. Department of Transportation (2002) 27 Cal.4th 198, 202), or where a landowner knew, or should have known, of a latent or concealed preexisting hazardous condition on its property, the contractor did not know and could not have reasonably discovered this hazardous condition, and the landowner failed to warn the contractor about this condition (Kinsman v. Unocal Corp. (2005) 37 Cal.4th 659, 664).  (Gonzalez v. Mathis (2018) 20 Cal.App.5th 257, 267 [“In subsequent cases, the Court established two exceptions to the “Privette doctrine”].)  Other exceptions have been found where there is a nondelegable duty (SeaBright Ins. Co., supra, 52 Cal.4th at p. 596), where there is a peculiar risk (Privette, supra, 5 Cal.4th at p. 693), where there is a regulated hirer (Vargas v. FMI, Inc. (2015) 233 Cal.App.4th 638, 644), or where the hirer provides defective equipment (McKown v. Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (2002) 27 Cal.4th 219, 225).  These exceptions can usually be covered by the two categories of exceptions recognized in Kinsman.  “A general contractor owes no duty of care to an employee of a subcontractor to prevent or correct unsafe procedures or practices to which the contractor did not contribute by direction, induced reliance, or other affirmative conduct.”  (Hooker v. Department of Transportation (2002) 27 Cal.4th 198, 209; see also SeaBright Ins. Co., supra, 52 Cal.4th at p. 594 [even where the defendant’s property lacked certain safety guards as required by applicable regulations, it was the responsibility of the independent contractor to identify the absence of the safety guards and to take reasonable steps to address the hazard].) A property owner’s liability for injuries to an independent contractor’s employee arising from a hazardous condition on the premises may exist where the hazard is concealed from the contractor, but known to the landowner.  (Kinsman v. Unocal Corporation (2005) 37 Cal.4th 659, 675.)  However, the result is different where the hazard is known to the contractor and the contractor contractually assumes responsibility for the safety of its employees. A “hirer of an independent contractor is not liable to an employee of the contractor merely because the hirer retained control over safety conditions of a worksite.”  (Hooker, supra, 27 Cal.4th 198 at p. 202.)  Rather, “a hirer is liable to an employee of a contractor insofar as the hirer’s exercise of retained control affirmatively contributed to the employee’s injuries.”  (Ibid.)  Such affirmative conduct can be established where, for example, the hirer negligently provided unsafe equipment for use.  (McKown v. Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (2002) 27 Cal.4th 219, 225-226.)  Here, just the act of having employees whose duties included overseeing safety and warning of any safety hazards does not show affirmative conduct contributing to the Plaintiff’s injuries.  (Madden v. Summit View, Inc. (2008) 165 Cal.App.4th 1267, 1278 [evidence that hirer provided supervision at the site was insufficient to show affirmative conduct absent evidence that subcontractor was powerless to take other reasonable safety precautions]; see also Rest.2d Torts § 414, com. c, p. 388 [“It is not enough that [the hirer] has merely a general right to order the work stopped or resumed, to inspect its progress or to receive reports, to make suggestions or recommendations which need not necessarily be followed, or to prescribe alterations and deviations . . . There must be such a retention of a right of supervision that the contractor is not entirely free to do the work in his own way”].) It is true that “affirmative contribution need not always be in the form of actively directing a contractor or contractor’s employee.  There will be times when a hirer will be liable for its omissions.  For example, if the hirer promises to undertake a particular safety measure, then the hirer’s negligent failure to do so should result in liability if such negligence leads to an employee injury.”  (Hooker, supra, 27 Cal.App.4th at p. 212, fn. 3.)             Independent Contractor Status The threshold issue to the application of this doctrine is whether Ruan was an independent contractor, as this is in dispute by the parties. As noted in the previous tentative ruling, the separate statement is poorly written and does not lay out the issues succinctly for the Court. The Court turns to the supplemental briefing of Defendants for guidance. Defendants argue that Ruan was an independent contractor under Labor Code § 2750.5 based on the factors enumerated in subdivisions (a), (b), and (c). However, it is undisputed that the work that was performed required a contractor’s license. (Supp. Brief at 4:4-6.) “In addition to the factors contained in subdivisions (a), (b), and (c), any person performing any function or activity for which a license is required . . . shall hold a valid contractors' license as a condition of having independent contractor status.” The Court assumes, based on the briefings, that Ruan was not licensed—especially in light of Defendants’ estoppel argument which the Court addresses below. Again, Defendants’ separate statement is insufficient as it does not address these material facts. The only fact stated regarding Ruan’s license is the following: Mr. Ruan advised Mr. Tung that Mr. Ruan was a licensed air-conditioning contractor and was looking to perform air conditioning repair work. Mr. Tung relied on Mr. Ruan’s representation that Mr. Ruan was properly licensed. Mr. Tung never had any reason to doubt Mr. Ruan’s statement that he was licensed. (UMF No. 10.) Without knowing if he was actually licensed or if the job required a license, this fact is rendered irrelevant. Accordingly, based on the assumption that he did not have a license, Ruan did not have independent-contractor status for this job which required a license; thus the Privette doctrine does not apply. (See Lab. Code § 2750.5.) Section 2750. 5 “absolutely denies independent contractor status to a person required to have such a license who is not licensed.”¿(Foss v. Anthony Industries¿(1983) 139 Cal.App.3d 794, 797.)             Estoppel Defendants also argue that Plaintiffs are estopped from asserting that Ruan is an employee because Ruan represented to Tung that he was a licensed contractor. The Court notes that Defendants’ argument as to this point completely undermines its position that Ruan need not be an independent contractor for Privette to apply.“Whenever a party has, by his own statement or conduct, intentionally and deliberately led another to believe a particular thing true and to act upon such belief, he is not, in any litigation arising out of such statement or conduct, permitted to contradict it.”  (Evid. Code § 623.)  “Four elements must ordinarily be proved to establish an equitable estoppel: (1) The party to be estopped must know the facts; (2) he must intend that his conduct shall be acted upon, or must so act that the party asserting the estoppel had the right to believe that it was so intended; (3) the party asserting the estoppel must be ignorant of the true state of facts; and, (4) he must rely upon the conduct to his injury.” (Hopkins v. Kedzierski (2014) 225 Cal.App.4th 736, 756 [internal quotations omitted].)“Notwithstanding the conclusive presumption established by the second to last paragraph of section 2750.5, one who misrepresents himself as a licensed contractor is estopped from asserting that his unlicensed status makes him an employee under the statute. [Citation].” (Chin v. Namvar (2008) 166 Cal.App.4th 994, 1004.)             “The essence of an estoppel is that the party to be estopped has by false language or          conduct ‘led another to do that which he would not otherwise have done and as a result thereof that he has suffered injury.’ [Citation.]” (State Compensation Ins. Fund v.           Workers' Comp. Appeals Bd. (1985) 40 Cal.3d 5, 16, 219 Cal.Rptr. 13, 706 P.2d 1146   (Meier ).) In the absence of a representation by the contractor that he or she is licensed,          there can be no estoppel. (Meier, supra, at p. 16, 219 Cal.Rptr. 13, 706 P.2d 1146; see       also Travelers Ins. Co. v. Workers' Comp. Appeals Bd. (1983) 147 Cal.App.3d 1033,   1038, 195 Cal.Rptr. 564 (Travelers ) [same].)             …             Whether a party's conduct estops it from taking a particular legal position usually, though             not always, involves a factual determination. “The existence of an estoppel is generally a        question of fact, and the party relying on the estoppel must prove all of the elements.”    (Meier, supra, 40 Cal.3d at pp. 19–20, 219 Cal.Rptr. 13, 706 P.2d 1146.) Occasionally, a           court may rule on estoppel as a matter of law. (See General Accident Ins. Co. v. Workers'           Comp. Appeals Bd. (1996) 47 Cal.App.4th 1141, 1149, 55 Cal.Rptr.2d 272.) (Id. at 1004-05, 1006.) Relevant factors include the nature of the worker's initial disclosure and the hirer's initial inquiry, the parties' expectations, the nature and length of the relationship between worker and hirer, and custom and practice in the industry, among others, and in some cases, oral representation of a valid license status may require further investigation or even written proof depending on the circumstances. (See id. at 1007.) “The burden is on the hirer to prove that the worker is estopped from claiming employee status.” (Id. at 1007.) “When the evidence is not in conflict and is susceptible of only one reasonable inference, the existence of an estoppel is a question of law,” (Doe v. Marten (2020) 49 Cal.App.5th 1022, 1029), but “estoppel will not be applied where it is based on surmise or questionable inference.” (Lee v. Board of Administration (1982) 130 Cal.App.3d 122, 135.) Here, all Defendant provides is Tung’s declaration stating that Ruan represented himself to be licensed and provided his business card. Tung does not state how the business card has any relevance to this such as if the business card contained a license number or otherwise represents Ruan as licensed. Tung does not state that he investigated Ruan’s license status at all, or provide any relevant evidence other than the verbal representation. Defendants do not provide any other evidence or argument as to estoppel such as going over the relevant factor to consider. Accordingly, Defendants have not met their burden to show that estoppel applies here.             Conclusion Based on the foregoing, Defendants have failed to show that Privette applies and bars the claims. Again, the Court reiterates that the separate statement does not lay this all out and the Court is piecing the analysis together itself. Defendants do not even provide that Ruan is an independent contractor as a material fact. This alone is sufficient grounds for denial. The Court also notes that the only evidence presented in support of the entire motion except as to the issues with Tsai is the self-serving declaration of Tung. C.     Premises Liability The elements of a cause of action for premises liability are the same as those for negligence: duty, breach, causation, and damages. (Castellon v. U.S. Bancorp (2013) 220 Cal. App. 4th 994, 998.) Those who own, possess, or control property generally have a duty to exercise ordinary care in managing the property in order to avoid exposing others to an unreasonable risk of harm. (Annocki v. Peterson Enterprises, LLC (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 32, 37.) The Court previously found it difficult to determine what issues are material to determine that Defendants cannot be liable for premises liability. In their supplemental brief, Defendants provide the following: “Defendants do not have the required control of the subject property to qualify as possessors. The scope of Defendants’ property management role was limited to the tenants’ living quarters and their complaints. (SS ¶ 28). Home 2001, Inc. was responsible for collecting rent from tenants, answering tenants’ complaints, and finding new tenants when a property became vacant. (SS ¶ 2). The only time Defendants hire a contractor for the property is when there is a tenant complaint and after Mr. Wang’s approval. (SS ¶ 7). General maintenance of the building, such as painting, roofing, fascia board, and stucco is not the responsibility of Defendants and Mr. Wang had never asked Home 2001, Inc. to locate contractors to perform this type of work. (SS ¶ 8).” (Supp. Brief at p. 9.) The Court does not find this argument and evidence sufficient. Defendants do not lay out what is required to find the requisite control of the property and how this evidence support such. The evidence also only pertains to Home 2001. Further, the evidence makes no mention of the ladder and subject area, and Defendants’ control thereof. Accordingly, Defendants have not met their burden. D.    Defendant Tsai The Court follows its previous tentative ruling as to Ms. Tsai as Plaintiffs have not addressed it in opposition. The Court previously stated the following: Defendants include a separate statement that lists four issues for this motion. Those issues are labeled in Defendants’ separate statement as follows: (1) “Issue 1: Plaintiffs’ Claims Against Defendants Are Barred by the Privette Doctrine”; (2) “Issue 2: There Are Insufficient Facts to Hold Ms. Tsai Liable on Plaintiffs’ Claims”; (3) “Issue 3: Because Mr. Ruan Falsely Represented to Mr. Tung That Mr. Ruan Was a Licensed Contractor, Labor Code § 2750.5 Does Not Apply, and Mr. Ruan Is Not Deemed The Employee of Any of Defendants”; and (4) “Issue 4: None Of The Defendants Can Be Held Liable Under Plaintiffs’ Premises Liability Claim, Because No Defendant Was A Possessor Of The Subject Property.” As a preliminary matter, even though Defendants’ separate statement labels 4 separate issues, Plaintiffs’ separate statement in opposition does not indicate that there are four separate issues to be determined. Defendants’ separate statement indicates that UMF 1-31 pertains to Issue 1, and that UMF 32-41 pertains to Issue 2. However, Plaintiffs’ separate statement lumps UMF 1-41 all together as if it is one issue. In any event, “Issue 2: There Are Insufficient Facts to Hold Ms. Tsai Liable on Plaintiffs’ Claims,” pertains to UMF 32-41. Defendants argue that Ms. Tsai had no induvial involvement in the relevant facts of this case and cannot be liable for Mr. Ruan’s injuries. All of Defendants’ UMF of 32-41 pertaining to Issue 2 went undisputed by Plaintiffs in Plaintiffs’ separate statement. Thus, it appears as if Plaintiffs are not contesting Defendants’ argument that Ms. Tsai cannot be liable. Therefore, Defendant’s MSJ/MSA with respect to Defendant Hsiu Hsia Tsai is GRANTED. Accordingly, the motion as to Ms. Tsai is GRANTED. E.     Evidentiary Objections The Court incorporates its previous rulings on the evidentiary objections in its tentative ruling (which was incorporated into the April 12, 2024 Minute Order). All other objections are overruled as immaterial in light of the above discussion. (CCP § 437c(q).) MOTION 2: DEFENDANTS’ INNER GOLD, LLC., CHUANG TO LEE, AND SHUNLU KAO’S MSJ/MSA Moving Party: Defendants, Inner Gold, LLC.; Chuang To Lee; and Shunlu KaoResponding Party: Plaintiffs, Bi Yun Cheng; Xinyi Ruan; and Ryan Ruan, a minor, by and through his Guardian Ad Litem, Bi Yun Cheng Proof of service timely filed (CRC 3.1300(c)):¿¿ ok¿Correct Address (CCP §§ 1013, 1013(a)):¿¿¿¿ok¿16/+5 day¿lapse (CCP §1005):¿¿ok¿¿ RELIEF REQUESTED: “Defendants Inner Gold, LLC (“Inner Gold”), Chuang To Lee (“Lee”), and Shunlu Kao (“Kao”) move for summary judgment as to the FAC on the basis there are no triable issues of material fact. In the alternative, they move for summary adjudication of the first and second causes of action. BACKGROUND: The Court incorporates the background from Motion 1. Further background relevant to Motion 2: Defendants Lee and Kao filed the Limited Liability Company Articles of Organization with the California Secretary of State and formed Defendant Inner Gold. (UMF 1.) At the time, Lee lived in Taiwan so he gave his brother, Andrew Wang, his power of attorney to form Defendant Inner Gold for the purpose of investing in real estate in California. (UMF 2.) Lee and Kao executed the Operating Agreement of Defendant Inner Gold, which listed Lee as owning a 99% Membership Interest and Kao as owning a 1% Membership Interest. (UMF 3.) Inner Gold purchased the subject Apartment Complex on December 15, 2011. (UMF 4.) TENTATIVE RULING: Deny. ANALYSIS: Legal StandardThe Court incorporates the legal standards from Motion 1 regarding summary judgments and Privette. DiscussionAs an initial matter, the Court previously held a hearing on this motion and continued it for supplemental briefing due to “the confused and inchoate nature of the briefing from both sides.” Defendants and Plaintiff have now provided supplemental briefing.   Defendants supplemental brief lays out three issues: (1) Decedent was an independent contractor, (2) Plaintiffs fail to establish the Kinsman exception to the Privette Doctrine, and (3) Lee and Kao’s dismissals without prejudice while the MSJ was pending. A.     Independent Contractor Status As to the independent contractor issue, the motion’s main argument is that the Privette doctrine bars the claims. The Court previously stated that much like the other Defendants’ motion discussed above, Defendants here assume that Ruan was an independent contractor as well. Defendants supplemental brief relies on the testimony of Tung and declaration of Andrew Wang to argue that estoppel applies here under Chin. The evidence shows that Ruan represented to Tung that he was a licensed contractor, and that Tung represented to Wang that Ruan was a licensed contractor. This evidence in essence is the same as the evidence presented in the MSJ discussed above. Accordingly, the Court incorporates its discussion above and finds that Defendants have not sufficiently shown that estoppel applies here. As Defendants have not shown that Ruan was an independent contractor, Defendants have not shown that Privette applies. Thus, the Court need not address the exception argument. As Privette is the only substantive ground relied upon by Defendant Inner Gold, the motion is DENIED as to Inner Gold. B.     Kao and Lee Defendants argue that whether Plaintiffs can dismiss Kao and Lee without prejudice while the MSJ was pending is unsettled. Thus, they argue that the Court can grant the motion as to them as no argument was presented in opposition, or the Court can deem it moot based on the dismissals. The right of a plaintiff to voluntarily dismiss an action before commencement of trial is not absolute. Code of Civil Procedure section 581 recognizes exceptions to the right; other limitations have evolved through the courts' construction of the term ‘commencement of trial.’ These exceptions generally arise where the action has proceeded to a determinative adjudication, or to a decision that is tantamount to an adjudication. (Harris v. Billings¿(1993) 16 Cal.App.4th 1396, 1402.) In determining whether dismissal is proper, a two-part “mere formality” test applies based on the presence of an impending “dispositive” motion. (Cole v. Hammond¿(2019) 37 Cal.App.5th 912, 922.) Under this test, “a voluntary dismissal is ineffective if there has been either: (1) ‘public and formal judicial expressions of the merits of a case in the context of a substantively dispositive proceeding’ or (2) ‘some procedural dereliction by the dismissing plaintiff that made dismissal otherwise inevitable’”¿(Ibid. accord Franklin Capital Corp. v. Wilson¿(2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 187, 200, 202.)On a motion for summary judgment, courts specifically bar the dismissal of an action after a summary judgment hearing “for the express and exclusive purpose of permitting the plaintiff an opportunity to present opposition¿evidence.” (Mary Morgan, Inc. v. Melzark¿(1996) 49 Cal.App.4th 765, 771–772.) The purpose of the rule is to prevent the refilling of a new action that a party “could not, or would not, defend when challenged by respondents' summary judgment motions.” (Id. at p. 772.) A party may dismiss an action without prejudice prior to the opposition deadline, however. (Zapanta v. Universal Care, Inc.¿(2003) 107 Cal.App.4th 1167, 1173; see Cole v. Hammond, supra, 37 Cal.App.5th at p. 922.) The failure to timely file an opposition and instead dismiss without prejudice entitles the court to rule on the motion for summary judgment. (Cravens v. State Bd. of Equalization¿(1997) 52 Cal.App.4th 253, 257.)  Here, Plaintiffs dismissed Lee and Kao prior to their opposition being due, and prior to any hearing on the motion. Accordingly, the Court finds the dismissals proper and DENIES the motion as to them as moot. C.     Evidentiary Objections The Court incorporates its previous rulings on the evidentiary objections in its tentative ruling (which was incorporated into the April 12, 2024 Minute Order). All other objections are overruled as immaterial in light of the above discussion. (CCP § 437c(q).) MOTION 3: PLAINTIFFS’ BI YUN CHENG, XINYI RUAN, AND RYAN RUAN’S MOTION FOR LEAVE TO AMEND Moving Party: Plaintiffs Bi Yun Cheng, Xinyi Ruan, and Ryan RuanResponding Party: Defendant Inner Gold (Lee and Kao dismissed); Joinder by Defendants Home 2001 and Tung (MSJ granted as to Tsai) Proof of service timely filed (CRC 3.1300(c)):¿¿ ok¿Correct Address (CCP §§ 1013, 1013(a)):¿¿¿¿ok¿16/+5 day¿lapse (CCP §1005):¿¿ok¿¿ RELIEF REQUESTED: Plaintiff requests leave to file a Second Amended Complaint to add allegations that have become known through discovery. BACKGROUND: The Court incorporates the background from the previous motions. RECOMMENDED RULING: Deny without prejudice. CCP §473(a)(1) states: “The court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to amend any pleading or proceeding by adding or striking out the name of any party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any other respect; and may, upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or demurrer. The court may likewise, in its discretion, after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an amendment to any pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may upon like terms allow an answer to be made after the time limited by this code.”  Judicial policy favors resolution of all disputed matters between the parties and, therefore, the courts have held that “there is a strong policy in favor of liberal allowance of amendments.” (Mesler v. Bragg Management Co. (1985) 39 Cal.3d 290, 296-97; see also Ventura v. ABM Industries, Inc. (2013) 212 Cal.App.4th 258, 268) [“Trial courts are bound to apply a policy of great liberality in permitting amendments to the complaint at any stage of the proceedings, up to and including trial where the adverse party will not be prejudiced.”].) Pursuant to CRC 3.1324(a), a motion to amend must: (1) include a copy of the proposed amendment or amended pleading, which must be serially numbered; and (2) state what allegations are proposed to be deleted from or added to the previous pleading and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, such allegations are located.  CRC 3.1324(b) requires a separate declaration that accompanies the motion, stating: (1) the effect of the amendment; (2) why the amendment is necessary and proper; (3) when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered; and (4) the reason why the request for amendment was not made earlier. DiscussionPlaintiffs’ motion does not comply with CRC 3.1324(b). The declaration of Vincent D. Howard is insufficient and does not state (1) the effect of the amendment, (2) why the amendment is necessary and proper, (3) when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered, and (4) the reason why the request for amendment was not made earlier.