 Case Number:  23TRCV00972    Hearing Date:   March 22, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
FABIAN
  GONZALEZ, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23TRCV00972




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
GENERAL
  MOTORS LLC,


 
 
 
Defendant.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          March 22,
2024
 
Moving
Parties:                      Plaintiff Fabian Gonzalez
Responding
Party:                  Defendant General Motors LLC
Motion
to Compel Further Responses to Plaintiff’s Request for Production of Documents,
Set One
 
            The court considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers.
RULING
            The motion is DENIED WITHOUT
PREJUDICE as to plaintiff’s motion to compel further responses to plaintiff’s
request for production of documents, set one, Nos. 16-21 and 49-51 relating to
civil penalty to be conducted in a “phase 2,” after determination of defects in
the subject vehicle.
            The Court is
ordering the case bifurcated for both discovery and trial.  In phase one the parties shall try the basic
Song Beverly Act claim arising from the claimed breach of that Song Beverly
statutory obligations.  The discovery
sought by Plaintiff in this motion is not relevant to the phase one trial.
            Phase
two shall involve Plaintiff’s claim to a civil penalty under Civil Code § 1794(c) for a willful
violation of the statute.  Discovery on
the phase two issues, such as whether or not Defendant knew that it could not
repair the claimed defects, based on its knowledge learned from vehicles other
than Plaintiff’s vehicle, shall be deferred until after the trer of fact has
returne a verdict favorable to Plaintiff in phase one.

BACKGROUND
            On April 3, 2023, plaintiff Fabian
Gonzalez, ind. and dba Julius Sewing and Appliances filed a complaint against General
Motors LLC for violations of Song Beverly Act.
            On October 24, 2023, the parties
entered into a stipulation and protective order – confidential designation
only.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
45-Day Rule: 
This motion must be served within 45 days after service of the response
in question (extended if served by mail, overnight delivery, or fax; see CCP §
1013); otherwise, the demanding party waives the right to compel any further
response to the CCP §2031.010 demand. 
CCP §§2031.310(c), 2016.050; see Sperber
v. Robinson (1994) 26 Cal. App. 4th 736, 745.  The 45-day time limit is mandatory and
jurisdictional.  Sexton v. Superior Court (1997) 58 Cal. App. 4th 1403, 1410.  The parties, however, can also agree in
writing on a specific later date by which to file the motion to compel.  CCP §2031.310(c). 
Meet-and-Confer Requirement: 
The motion to compel further responses must be accompanied by a
declaration showing “a reasonable and good faith attempt” to resolve the issues
outside of court (so-called “meet and confer”). 
CCP §§2016.040, 2031.310(b)(2).
Separate Statement: 
Any motion involving the content of a discovery request or the responses
to such a request shall be accompanied by a separate statement.  This includes a motion to compel further
responses to demand for inspection of documents or tangible things.  CRC Rule 3.1020(a)(3).  
Request for Production of Documents
On receipt of a response to an
inspection demand, the demanding party may move for an order compelling further
responses to the demand if the demanding party deems that any of the following
apply:  (1) a statement of compliance
with the demand is incomplete; (2) a representation of inability to comply is
inadequate, incomplete, or evasive; or (3) an objection in the response is
without merit or too general.  CCP §
2031.310(a).  A statement of compliance
shall state that the production, inspection, and related activity demanded will
be allowed either in whole or in part, and that all documents or things in the
demanded category that are in the possession, custody, or control of that party
and to which no objection is being made will be included in the production.  CCP § 2031.220.  “A representation of inability to comply with
[a] particular demand for inspection . . . shall affirm that a diligent search
and reasonable inquiry has been made in an effort to comply with that
demand.  This statement shall also
specify whether the inability to comply is because the particular item or category
has never existed, has been destroyed, has been lost, misplaced, or stolen, or
has never been, or is no longer, in the possession, custody, or control of the
responding party.  This statement shall
set forth the name and address of any natural person or organization known or
believed by that party to have possession, custody, or control of that item or
category of item.”  CCP § 2031.230. 
A motion to compel further response
to requests for production “shall set forth specific facts showing good cause
justifying the discovery sought by the inspection demand.”  CCP § 2031.310(b)(1).  “To establish ‘good cause,’ the burden is on
the moving party to show both:  [1] Relevance to the subject matter (e.g.,
how the information in the documents would tend to prove or disprove some issue
in the case); and [2] Specific facts justifying discovery
(e.g., why such information is necessary for trial preparation or to prevent
surprise at trial).  The fact that there
is no alternative source for the
information sought is an important factor in establishing ‘good cause’ for
inspection.  But it is not essential in every case.”  Weil & Brown, Civil Procedure Before Trial, 8:1495.6 (citations omitted).  “Declarations are generally used to show the
requisite ‘good cause’ for an order to compel inspection.  The declarations must contain ‘specific facts’
rather than mere conclusions.”  Id. at 8:1495.7 (citation omitted).  “The declarations may be on information and
belief, if necessary.  However, in such
cases, the ‘specific facts’ supporting such information and belief (the sources
of the information) must also be alleged.” 
Id. at 8:1495.8 (citation
omitted).  “Most declarations are made by
the attorney for the moving party, who is usually more familiar with the
relevancy and ‘specific facts’ constituting ‘good cause’ for inspection.”  Id.
at 8:1495.9.
“If ‘good cause’ is shown by the moving
party, the burden is then on the responding party to justify any objections
made to document disclosure (the same as on motions to compel answers to
interrogatories or deposition questions. . . ).”  Id.
at 8:1496 (citation omitted).
DISCUSSION
            Plaintiff Fabian Gonzalez requests
that the court order defendant General Motors to provide further responses and
documents to plaintiffs’ Request for Production of Documents, Set One, Nos. 16-21
and 49-51.
            In the complaint, plaintiff alleges
that on April 9, 2022, plaintiff purchased a 2022 GMC Yukon, manufactured
and/or distributed by defendant. 
Complaint, ¶5.  The total amount
paid exceeds $25,000.  Id., ¶6.  During the warranty period, the vehicle
contained or developed defects including defective body system, powertrain
system, safety system, electrical system, braking system, and noise
system.  Id., ¶11.  Defendant was unable and/or failed to service
or repair the vehicle within a reasonable number of attempts.  Id., ¶14.
            In the motion, plaintiff explains
that on August 23, 2022, with 3575 miles on odometer, plaintiff presented the
vehicle to defendant’s authorized repair facility with concerns of check engine
light illumination, failure to crank, DTCs, park assist system failures,
collision avoidance system failures.  The
facility technician verified all or most of the concerns and performed various
repairs.  The subject vehicle was in
repairs for four days.
            On October 21, 2022, with
approximately 4324 miles on odometer, plaintiff presented the vehicle to
authorized repair facility with concerns of vehicle dying.  The technician verified the concerns and
performed various repairs.  The vehicle
was in repairs for 22 days.
On November 3, 2022, plaintiff
presented the vehicle to authorized repair facility with concerns of failure to
accelerate, battery failures, engine malfunctions.  The technician verified the concerns and
performed various repairs.  The vehicles
was in repairs for 23 days.
On January 20, 2023, with
approximately 4594 miles on odometer, plaintiff presented the vehicle to
authorized repair facility with concerns of failure to CEL illumination,
failure to start/crank, BCM failures. 
The technician verified the concerns and performed various repairs.  The vehicle was in repairs for 28 days. 
Plaintiff contends that none of the
attempts have repaired the subject vehicle’s defects as plaintiff continued to
experience problems with the vehicle.
            Plaintiff asserts that on August 7, 2023,
plaintiff propounded requests for production of documents, set one and a meet
and confer letter.  On September 7,
defendant served responses.  On November
3, 2023, plaintiff’s counsel sent a detailed meet and confer letter.  Plaintiff contends that on at least five
occasions from September through November 2023, plaintiff’s counsel made
reasonable efforts to reach defense counsel by telephone.  Counsel agreed to extend statutory deadline
for plaintiff to file motion.
             Specifically, plaintiff seeks documents
relating to GM’s internal investigation and analysis of the defects plaguing
the vehicle and establishing that defendant previously knew of such defects but
nevertheless failed to repurchase the vehicle. 
            Plaintiff argues that the documents
are relevant to plaintiff’s claims that defendant possessed prior knowledge of
the electrical defect, through for example, internal testing, bulletins issued
to its dealers, and service campaigns; knew that plaintiff’s vehicle suffered
from the defects; knew it could not repair the vehicle regardless of how many
repair visits were made; willfully violated the Song Beverly Act by failing to
repurchase the vehicle; and breached the implied warrant of merchantability
when it sold to plaintiff a vehicle that contains known defects at the time of
sale. 
Plaintiff cites to Donlen v.
Ford Motor Co. (2013) 217 Cal. App. 4th 138, 143-44 (evidence of
special service bulletins issued before plaintiff bought his truck and evidence
of similar transmission problems in other trucks were relevant and admissible);
Doppes v. Bentley Motors, Inc. (2009) 174 Cal. App. 4th 967,
973, 978-79, 986 (documents of warranty complaints, service histories, and
employee records concerning the subject defect in all affected vehicles and the
company’s responses and instructions regarding cure were discoverable and
relevant to issue of defendant’s good faith treatment of the problem).
            In opposition, defendant argues that
it fully responded and/or served valid objections.  Defendant argues that plaintiff does “not
need documents about other vehicles” and that the requests impermissibly seek
trade secret material and other protected information.
            In reply, plaintiff reiterates that
they have provided sufficient facts to demonstrate good cause for the requested
discovery, including that such information is probative of nonconformities with
the subject vehicle, ability to repair plaintiff’s vehicle within a reasonable
number of opportunities, and defendant’s knowledge of the defects. 
            The requests define “Electrical
Defect” to mean such defects which result in symptoms including, check engine
light illumination; repeat appearances of low voltage codes; failures and/or
malfunctions cranking; premature failures and/or replacement of battery; Recall
N222372380; Recall 222386380; TSB PIT 5883; TSB PIC5650; TSB PIT 5985; TSB PIT
5873; DTC P00FF-00; and any other concern identified in the repair history for
the subject 2022 GMC Yukon. 
            The requests at issue are as
follows:
No. 16: 
all documents concerning or relating to any internal analysis or
investigation by defendant or on its behalf regarding Electrical Defect in
vehicles of the same year, make, and model as the subject vehicle.  
No. 17: 
all documents concerning or relating to any communications defendant
have had regarding Electrical Defect in vehicles of the same year, make, and
model as the subject vehicle.  
No. 18: 
all documents concerning or relating to any decision to issue any
notices, letters, campaigns, warranty extensions, TSBs and recalls concerning
the Electrical Defect in vehicles of the same year, make, and model as the
subject vehicle.
No. 19: 
all documents concerning customer complaints, claims, reported failures,
and warranty claims related to Electrical Defect in vehicles of the same year,
make, and model as the subject vehicle.
No. 20: 
all documents concerning failure rates of vehicles of the same year,
make, and model as the subject vehicle as a result of Electrical Defect.
No. 21: 
all documents concerning or relating to any fixes for Electrical Defect
in vehicles of the same year, make, and model as the subject vehicle.
            No.
49:  all documents provide to any
qualified third party dispute resolution program in which GM participates
regarding, reflecting, or concerning GM’s policies and/or procedures regarding
the Song Beverly Act.
            No.
50:  all training manuals and/or
other documents relating to the training given to GM employees, agents, and
representatives in connection with handling consumer lemon law repurchase
requests.
            No.
51:  all documents regarding any
communications between GM and any government agency or entity regarding the
Electrical Defect in vehicles of the same year, make, and model as the subject
vehicle.The Court is ordering the case bifurcated for both discovery and
trial.  In phase one the parties shall
try the basic Song Beverly Act claim arising from the claimed breach of that
Song Beverly statutory obligations.  The discovery
sought by Plaintiff in this motion is not relevant to the phase one trial.
Phase two shall involve Plaintiff’s
claim to a civil penalty under Civil Code
§ 1794(c) for a willful violation of the statute.  Discovery on the phase two issues, such as whether
or not Defendant knew that it could not repair the claimed defects, based on
its knowledge learned from vehicles other than Plaintiff’s vehicle, shall be
deferred until after the trer of fact has returne a verdict favorable to
Plaintiff in phase one.
 
            The motion is DENIED WITHOUT
PREJUDICE.
ORDER
            The motion is DENIED WITHOUT
PREJUDICE as to plaintiff’s motion to compel further responses to plaintiff’s
request for production of documents, set one, Nos. 16-21 and 49-51 relating to
civil penalty to be conducted in a “phase 2,” after determination of defects in
the subject vehicle.
            The Court is ordering the case bifurcated
for both discovery and trial.  In phase
one the parties shall try the basic Song Beverly Act claim arising from the
claimed breach of that Song Beverly statutory obligations.  The discovery sought by Plaintiff in this
motion is not relevant to the phase one trial.
            Phase two shall involve Plaintiff’s
claim to a civil penalty under Civil Code
§ 1794(c) for a willful violation of the statute.  Discovery on the phase two issues, such as whether
or not Defendant knew that it could not repair the claimed defects, based on
its knowledge learned from vehicles other than Plaintiff’s vehicle, shall be
deferred until after the trer of fact has returne a verdict favorable to
Plaintiff in phase one.
 
Plaintiff
is ordered to give notice of ruling.