 Case Number:  23SMCV01442    Hearing Date:   March 7, 2024    Dept:  P Tentative ruling 
Ammari v. Martinez
et al., Case No. 23SMCV01442
Hearing Date March
7, 2024 
Defendants Martinez,
Crespo & Enamorado’s Special Motion to Strike (Anti-SLAPP Motion) the First
Amended Complaint (FAC) 
 
Plaintiff Ammari
alleges defendants falsely accused him of human trafficking, child molestation
and fraud in the presence of other people and via internet videos. Defendants
argue the posts were protected speech and move to strike the complaint under the
anti-SLAPP statute. 
 
Evidentiary Objections: OVERRULED. 
 
Courts
resolving an anti-SLAPP motion under Cal. Civ. Code §425.16 follow a two-step
process. Jarrow Formulas, Inc. v.
LaMarche (2003) 31 Cal.4th 728, 733. In prong one, the court determines
whether the conduct underlying plaintiff’s cause of action arises from
defendant’s constitutional rights of free speech or petition. Baral v. Schnitt (2016) 1 Cal. 5th 376,
395. This is a threshold issue—if moving party fails to show the conduct is
constitutionally protected, the court need not address prong two. Jarrow, supra, 31 Cal.4th at 733. 
 
When
analyzing prong one, courts look to the complaint’s allegations to determine
whether the action arises from protected activity. Central Valley
Hospitalists v. Dignity Health (2018) 19 Cal.App.5th 203, 217. A court
cannot “insert into a pleading claims for relief based on allegations of
activities that plaintiffs simply have not identified . . . it is not [a
court’s] role to engage in what would amount to a redrafting of the [pleading]
in order to read that document as alleging conduct that supports a claim that
has not in fact been specifically alleged, and then assess whether the pleading
that we have essentially drafted could survive the anti-SLAPP motion directed
at it.” Id. at 281, citing Medical Marijuana, Inc. v. ProjectCBD.com (2016)
6 Cal.App.5th 602, 621.
 
During
the first phase of anti-SLAPP analysis, “the court is not limited to examining
the allegations of the complaint alone but rather considers the pleadings and
the factual material submitted in connection with the special motion to
strike.” Contreras v. Dowling (2016) 5 Cal.App.5th 394, 408. When
resolving the first prong, a court may properly consider extrinsic evidence to
determine the nature of the acts alleged. Id. 
 
To
fulfill the first prong, the complaint must be based on “written or oral
statement or writing made in a place open to the public or a public forum in
connection with an issue of public interest.” Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §425.16. Publicly
accessible internet websites are “public forums” under the statute. ComputerXpress,
Inc. v. Jackson (2001) 93 Cal.App.4th 993, 1006. 
 
Under
the second prong, the burden shifts to plaintiff to show a legally sufficient
claim and to prove with admissible evidence a reasonable probability of
prevailing. E.g., Navellier v. Sletten (2002)
29 Cal.4th 82, 88. To fulfill prong two, plaintiff must produce evidence
admissible at trial and not solely rely on the complaint’s allegations. HMS Capital, Inc. v. Lawyers Title Co. (2004)
118 Cal.App.4th 204, 212. 
 
The
FAC alleges defamatory statements were made “outside . . .  in front of numerous third persons,” and via
internet videos. The FAC does not identify specific websites where videos were
posted, but Crespo states they were uploaded to Youtube and TikTok. Crespo
decl. ¶2. Videos on Youtube and TikTok are generally accessible to the public,
making those sites public forums. See Barrett v. Rosenthal (2006) 40
Cal.4th 33, 41 n. 4. 
 
Alleged
oral statements were also made in a public forum; the FAC alleges they were
made “at or near 2100 E. Florence Ave., Huntington Park, California[.]” The
court takes judicial notice under Cal. Evid. Code §452 that this is a public
street, which is a public forum as a matter of law. 
 
Both
the videos and oral statements were made in public forums. To fulfil the first
prong, defendants must also establish that they concerned an issue of public
interest. 
 
The
FAC’s allegations provide little context about whether the accusations were matters
of public interest or why the alleged defamatory statements were made. The
court reviews the evidence presented. 
 
Defendant
Crespo identifies himself as an advocate for street vendors and states Ammari was
harassing street vendor defendant Martinez. Crespo decl. ¶¶2, 4. Videos
depicting interactions between Martinez and Ammari received thousands of views.
Id. ¶¶3-4. Martinez argues this means comments he made about Ammari were
related to matters of public interest.
 
When
determining whether speech was uttered in connection with an issue of public
interest, the court must determine the nature of the issue and “what functional
relationship exists between the speech and the public conversation about some
matter of public interest.” Bernstein v. LaBeouf (2019) 43 Cal.App.5th
15, 19-20. Per Bernstein,“a private dispute does not become a matter of
public interest simply because it was widely communicated to the public.” Id.
at 24.
 
Defendant
Enamorado argues street vendor safety was at the crux of the dispute between
Martinez and Ammari, and, based on the number of views and the subject matter, the
dispute is a matter of public interest. See Enamorado decl. ¶8.
 
However,
defendants fail to show any connection between the Martinez/Ammari dispute and
accusations of child molestation and trafficking that form the gravamen of the FAC.
Crespo and Enamorado’s declarations identify a dispute between a property owner
and a street vendor, in the context of the larger issue of street vendor safety,
as the issue of public interest. The Enamorado declaration supports this
conclusion, stating street vendors “are a vulnerable population who are often
targeted,” and Ammari’s alleged harassment of a street vendor was an issue of
public concern. Enamorado decl. ¶9.
 
There
is no defined connection between street vendor safety and the alleged false
accusations of criminal conduct. It is not clear how accusing Ammari of being a
child molester and human trafficker contributes to or is related to a public
discussion of street vendors’ rights and safety. 
 
Per
Bernstein, there must be a “functional relationship between the speech
and the public conversation[.]” There is no functional connection between the
defamatory remarks alleged in the FAC and the public conversation regarding
street vendors identified in the anti-SLAPP motion. As the first anti-SLAPP
prong is not met, the motion is DENIED. 