  Case Number:  23STCV01333    Hearing Date:   December 4, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Cassandra Catapia, et al.,


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23STCV01333
(Related to 24STCV08690)




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




2471 Whittier, LLC, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date: December 4, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice Leiter
(3) Motions to Compel Deposition
Moving Party: Plaintiffs Cassandra Catapia and
Sergio Velasquez
Responding Party: Defendants 2471 Whittier, LLC, Ron
Cholo Enterprise, LLC, David Kiralla, Alen Aivazian and Ryan Sweeney
 
T/R:     PLAINTIFFS’ MOTIONS TO COMPEL
DEPOSITION ARE GRANTED.
 
THE WITNESSES ARE ORDERED TO APPEAR FOR
DEPOSITION WITHIN 45 DAYS OF NOTICE OF RULING. THE PARTIES ARE ORDERED TO MEET
AND CONFER REGARDING DATES.
 
PLAINTIFFS’ REQUESTS FOR SANCTIONS ARE
DENIED.
 
PLAINTIFFS TO NOTICE.
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please
email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing.
The Court considers the moving papers,
opposition, and reply. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On January 22, 2024, Plaintiffs Cassandra
Catapia and Sergio Velasquez filed the operative first amended complaint
against Defendants 2471 Whittier, LLC, Ron Cholo Enterprise, LLC, David
Kiralla, Alen Aivazian and Ryan Sweeney, asserting causes of action for (1)
negligence; (2) premises liability; and (3) negligent hiring, training and
supervision. Plaintiffs allege they were shot by a fellow patron at a bar owned
and operated by Defendants.
 
ANALYSIS
 
“If, after service of a deposition notice, a
party to the action or an officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a
party, or a person designated by an organization that is a party under Section
2025.230, without having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails
to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for inspection
any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in
the deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move for an order
compelling the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the production for inspection
of any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described
in the deposition notice.” (CCP § 2025.450(a).)
The motion must be accompanied by a
good faith meet and confer declaration under section 2016.040 or, “when the
deponent fails to attend the deposition and produce the documents,
electronically stored information, or things described in the deposition notice,
by a declaration stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent to
inquire about the nonappearance.”  (CCP §
2025.450(b)(2).)  
 
Plaintiffs move to compel the depositions of
third-parties Drew Martinez, Javier Jamarilo and Victor Lares. Plaintiffs
assert that Defendants have refused to make these witnesses available for
deposition. These deponents are not named Defendants in this action, and it is
unclear from the papers how the deponents are related to this action or to the
Defendants. In opposition, Defendants assert Plaintiffs failed to provide
notice of the depositions to each party and that the notices seek documents
that already have been produced in discovery.
The Court notes that the deponents have not
been served with these motions nor does it appear they were served with the
notices of deposition. The deponents are not named Defendants in this action,
and it is unclear from either the moving or opposing papers how the deponents
are related to this action or to the Defendants. If the deponents are not
employees of Defendants, Plaintiffs cannot compel their depositions in this
manner. However, the Court assumes that they are employees. If they are employees,
Plaintiffs are entitled to take their depositions. 
Assuming the deponents are employees of
Defendants, the motions are GRANTED. The witnesses are ordered to appear within
45 days of notice of ruling. The deponents need not produce any documents
previously produced by Defendants. The Court declines to award sanctions
because the papers do not state how the deponents are related to this action
and because Defendants’ objections to the production of documents are
substantially justified. 
 
 