 Case Number:  24SMCV03301    Hearing Date:   December 20, 2024    Dept:  P Tentative Ruling
Beverly Hills Property LLC v. Sanai,
Case no. 24SMCV03301
Hearing date December 20, 2024
Defendant
Sanai’s Demurrer to the FAC
Plaintiff
Beverly Hills Property sues defendant Sanai for unlawful detainer arising from
unpaid rents beginning 11/1/23. Plaintiff was granted leave to file a first
amended complaint 12/10/24. Min. Order 12/10/24. Defendant demurs to the FAC
arguing the FAC fails to state sufficient COAs, fails to join necessary
parties, was filed by a party without the legal capacity to bring suit and that
a separate on-going action covers the same COAs. Defendant requests judicial
notice. Plaintiff was not granted time to file an opposition.
Defendant’s RJN
Defendant
requests judicial notice of the following: (1) the articles of organization of
plaintiff; (2) the fact that filing of said articles of organization brought
plaintiff into existence; (3) a certified fictitious business names statement
filed by Donald Sterling; (4) the fact that “Beverly Hills Property” was the
fictitious name on defendant’s original rental agreement and was the dba of
Donald Sterling and as such the party with which defendant leased was Donald
Sterling; (5) plaintiff’s previous lawsuits against defendant; and (6)
plaintiff’s first action against defendant is pending before appellate
department, case no. 24APLC00113. 
Defendant
argues judicial notice of items 1-3, 5-6 are mandatory under Cal. Evid. Code
§452. This is incorrect. Cal. Evid. Code §452 only mandates notice when a
request is made and the requesting party gives sufficient notice of the request
such that any adverse party can prepare to meet the request. Defendant filed
this RJN on 12/18/24 for hearing 12/20/24; this is insufficient notice to allow
plaintiff to prepare to meet the request. Defendant does not declare any meet
and confer regarding the RJN occurred to give plaintiff sufficient time prior
to the instant motion. As such, notice is not mandatory.
Judicial
notice of organizational records, court records and facts not subject to
reasonable dispute is proper. Defendant’s request for judicial notice of item 4
is not a fact of common knowledge such that it cannot be reasonably subject to
dispute, nor is it a record of any court or institution. Judicial notice of
items 1-3, 5-6 is GRANTED. Judicial notice of item 4 is DENIED.
Defendant’s Demurrer
“The
function of a demurrer is to test the sufficiency of the complaint as a matter
of law.” Holiday Matinee, Inc. v. Rambus, Inc. (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th
1413, 1420. A complaint “is sufficient if it alleges ultimate rather than
evidentiary facts,” Doe v. City of Los Angeles (2007) 42 Cal.4th 531,
550, but plaintiff must allege essential facts “with reasonable precision and
with particularity sufficient to acquaint [the] defendant with the nature,
source and extent” of the plaintiff’s claim. Doheny Park Terrace Homeowners
Ass’n., Inc. v. Truck Ins. Exchange (2005) 132 Cal.App.4th 1076, 1099.
Defendant
argues plaintiff fails to allege a management contract between plaintiff and
the owners of the property, so plaintiff has no standing to sue. This argument
is unavailing. As in the initial complaint, plaintiff alleges it is authorized
to bring suit in its own name. FAC para. 4. On demurrer, all allegations must
be taken as true. Doe, supra. Plaintiff has alleged standing;
this is sufficient.
Defendant
argues misjoinder in the failure to include owner Donald Sterling as a party,
as Sterling is allegedly the holder of any contractual rights against
defendant. This argument is unavailing; plaintiff alleged standing in its own
name as property manager and collector of rents. Id. Further, defendant’s
arguments that joinder is necessary to prevent “special motions to strike” and
that “Donald dba BHP will be sued for the past two lawsuits” are speculative
and irrelevant. Demurrer to FAC 8:1-8. 
Defendant
argues plaintiff’s initial lawsuit is before the appellate department as case
no. 24APLC00113, so the instant matter should be abated. This argument is
unavailing; a demurrer is not the proper tool to address this, and defendant
fails to demonstrate grounds for abatement.
Defendant
raises arguments the court previously ruled on; plaintiff alleged authorization
to bring suit in its own name. This is sufficient. Donald Sterling is not a
necessary party; joinder is not proper. There are no grounds to sustain
defendant’s demurrer. OVERRULED. Defendant to answer in 5 days.