 Case Number:  22SMCV00693    Hearing Date:   December 20, 2024    Dept:  P Tentative Ruling
Jadidi v. Azzurra Homeowners
Association, Case no. 22SMCV00693
Hearing date December 20, 2024
Defendant
Azzurra HOA’s Motion for Summary Judgment
Plaintiff
Jadidi, in pro per, sues defendant Azzurra Homeowners Association for violation
of CC&Rs, private nuisance and negligence arising from damages to the wall
of Jadidi’s condominium. Plaintiff alleges defendant failed to make mandatory
repairs to common area walls bordering plaintiff’s unit and, in a previous
attempt to make repairs, further damaged the unit. Defendant moves for summary
judgment, arguing plaintiff failed to produce facts in discovery per Union
Bank v. Superior Court (1995) 31 Cal.App.4th 573, 37 Cal.Rptr.2d 653. 
Defendant
argues plaintiff’s opposition is untimely; this is incorrect. Plaintiff filed
the opposition 12/6/24 but a clerical error resulted in rejection of the
initial filing. Clerk Not. of Error 12/13/24.
Pursuant
to Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §437c(a)(1) a party may move for summary judgment in
any action if it is contended that the action has no merit. Pursuant to §437c(f)(1)
a court may summarily adjudicate causes of action. A motion for summary
judgment shall be granted if there is no triable issue of material fact, and
the record establishes that as a matter of law, plaintiff cannot prevail on a
cause of action. Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §437c(c). A defendant met its burden of
showing a cause of action has no merit if the party shows one or more elements
of the cause of action cannot be established, or there is a complete defense to
the cause of action. Once defendant met its burden, the burden shifts to
plaintiff to show a triable issue of material fact exists as to the cause of
action or a defense thereto. Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §437c(p)(2). A defendant
moving for summary judgment may rely on a plaintiff's factually devoid
discovery responses to shift the burden of proof as to whether there are
triable issues of fact precluding summary judgment to plaintiff. Union Bank,
supra.
Defendant
argues plaintiff failed to provide responsive answers to requests for
discovery. Defendant asserts plaintiff provided a single-word answer, “no,” to Judicial
Council form interrogatory number 17.1, which requires plaintiff to state all
facts which support the contention that defendant committed the alleged acts on
which liability is predicated. Decl. Szymanski para. 7; exh. E. Defendant
argues plaintiff failed to include a separate statement in opposition to the
instant motion, in violation of common and statutory law. See Cal. Code
Civ. Proc. §437c(b)(3); Lewis v. County of Sacramento (2001) 93 Cal.App.4th
107, 115 (holding without a separate statement of undisputed facts it is
impossible to demonstrate the existence of disputed facts). This is sufficient
to shift the burden to plaintiff to raise a triable issue of material fact.
Plaintiff’s
response to Judicial Council form interrogatory number 17.1 fails to establish
facts in support of plaintiff's allegations. Plaintiff does not provide a
separate statement of undisputed facts or underlying evidence in support of the
claims. Plaintiff includes a hearsay declaration but attaches no exhibits or
additional declarations demonstrating the existence of triable facts. Plaintiff
fails to meet its burden of proving there is a question of material fact. Without
any evidence, plaintiff fails to meet the evidentiary burden, and the motion
must be GRANTED.