  Case Number:  21PSCV00399    Hearing Date:   August 7, 2024    Dept:  G Defendant Del Terra Real
Estate Services, Inc.’s Motion for Summary Judgment or AdjudicationRespondent: Plaintiff Bassett
Unified School DistrictTENTATIVE RULINGDefendant Del Terra Real
Estate Services, Inc.’s Motion for Summary Judgment or Adjudication is DENIED.BACKGROUNDThis
is a breach of contract action arising from an agreement to provide
construction management services. In April 2015, Plaintiff Bassett Unified
School District (BUSD) entered into a written agreement with Defendant Del
Terra Real Estate Services, Inc. (Del Terra) in which Del Terra agreed to
provide construction management services for BUSD’s new and existing
construction projects. In 2018 and 2019, the agreement between BUSD and Del
Terra was extended. Subsequently, BUSD alleges Del Terra breached the agreement
by overbilling BUSD and failing to maintain proper records.On
May 17, 2021, BUSD filed a complaint against Del Terra and Does 1-100, alleging
the following causes of action: (1) breach of contract, (2) breach of fiduciary
duty, (3) negligence, (4) intentional misrepresentation, (5) constructive
fraud, and (6) negligent misrepresentation.On
September 17, 2021, BUSD filed a First Amended Complaint (FAC) against the same
defendants alleging the same causes of action. On January 4, 2022, the Court
sustained a demurrer by Del Terra to BUSD’s fourth and fifth causes of action
without leave to amend.On
February 3, 2022, Del Terra filed a cross-complaint against BUSD and Roes
1-100, alleging the following causes of action: (1) breach of contract, (2)
breach of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing, and (3) declaratory
relief.On March 25, 2024, Del Terra
filed the present motion for summary judgment or adjudication. A hearing on the
motion is set for August 7, 2024, with a post-mediation status conference/trial
setting conference on February 10, 2025.REQUESTS FOR JUDICIAL
NOTICEBUSD requests the Court take
judicial notice of a news release by the Los Angeles County District Attorney’s
Office and election results published by the Los Angeles County
Registrar-Recorder/County Clerk. Because the Court may take judicial notice of
the official acts of this state and its entities pursuant to Evidence Code
section 452, subdivision (c), BUSD’s requests are GRANTED.EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONSBUSD’s evidentiary objections
are OVERRULED as to Nos. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, and 6. The Court declines to
considers Del Terra’s evidentiary objections as they have not been made in
compliance with Rule 3.1354, subdivision (b) of the California Rules of Court.ANALYSISDel Terra moves for summary
judgment or adjudication on the grounds that BUSD’s first cause of action for
breach of contract, second cause of action for breach of fiduciary duty, third
cause of action for negligence, and sixth cause of action for negligent
misrepresentation are barred by the applicable statute of limitations. In the
alternative, Del Terra claims the second cause of action, third cause of
action, and sixth cause of action are barred as a matter of law by the economic
loss rule. Last, Del Terra claims the second cause of action is also barred as
a matter of law because Del Terra did not owe a fiduciary duty to BUSD.For the following reasons,
the court DENIES Del Terra’s motion.Legal StandardA motion for summary judgment
or adjudication provides “courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties’
pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in
fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.
(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) It must be granted “if all the evidence submitted,
and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted
by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any
material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of
law.”  (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110,
1119, quoting Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).) To establish a triable issue
of material fact, the opposing party must produce substantial responsive
evidence. (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.) Courts
“liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary
judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that
party.”  (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384,
389.)  “A motion for summary adjudication shall be granted only if it
completely disposes of a cause of action, an affirmative defense, a claim for
damages, or an issue of duty.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(1).)Statutes of LimitationsDel Terra argues they are
entitled to summary judgment or adjudication of BUSD’s first cause of action
for breach of contract, second cause of action for breach of fiduciary duty,
third cause of action for negligence, and sixth cause of action for negligent
misrepresentation on the grounds that they are time-barred. The court
disagrees.Legal StandardThe statute of limitations for
a cause of action for breach of a written contract is four (4) years. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 337, subd. (a).) For a cause of action based on breach of
fiduciary duties, the statute of limitations is also four (4) years unless the
breach involves fraud or professional negligence. (American Master Lease LLC
v. Idanta Partners, Ltd. (2014) 225 Cal.App.4th 1451, 1479.) The statute of
limitations for negligence is two (2) years, while the statute of limitations
for fraud is three (3) years (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 338, subd. (d); 339, subd. (1).)A statute of limitations
generally begins to run at “the time when the cause of action is complete with
all of its elements.” (Norgart v. Upjohn Co. (1999) 21 Cal.4th 383, 397
(Norgart).) But an exception to this rule “is the ‘discovery rule,’
which postpones accrual of a cause of action until the plaintiff discovers, or
has reason to discover, the cause of action.” (Fox v. Ethicon Endo-Surgery,
Inc. (2005) 35 Cal.4th 797, 807 (Fox).) “A plaintiff has reason to
discover a cause of action when he or she ‘has reason at least to suspect a
factual basis for its elements.’” (Ibid, quoting Norgart, supra,
21 Cal.4th at p. 398.)Because “[t]here are no hard
and fast rules for determining what facts or circumstances will compel inquiry
by the injured party and render him chargeable with knowledge,” accrual of a
statute of limitations is generally a question of fact. (United States Liab.
Ins. Co. v. Haidinger-Hayes, Inc. (1970) 1 Cal.3d 586, 597; Fox, supra,
35 Cal.4th at p. 810 [“Resolution of the statute of limitations issue is
normally a question of fact.”].) But “whenever reasonable minds can draw only
one conclusion from the evidence, the question becomes one of law.” (Snow v.
A.H. Robbins Co. (1985) 165 Cal.App.3d 120, 128.)DiscussionIn the FAC, BUSD alleges the
following. In April 2015, BUSD and Del Terra entered into an agreement in which
Del Terra agreed to provide program and construction management services for
BUSD’s existing projects and new projects relating to BUSD’s Measure V bond
program. (FAC, ¶ 4.) In 2019, Del Terra amended the agreement to include
additional fees. (FAC, ¶ 17.) In addition to generally alleging that Del Terra
breached its professional obligations and legal obligations pursuant to the
2015 Agreement and 2019 Amendment (FAC, ¶ 25(a), (b)), BUSD alleges two types
of breach or wrongdoing. First, BUSD alleges Del Terra breached its obligations
pursuant to the 2015 Agreement and 2019 Amendment by (1) failing to properly
bill and submit invoices for program and construction management services (FAC,
¶ 25(c)-(e)), (2) requesting the 2019 Amendment for additional compensation
when Del Terra has failed to complete the projects required by the 2015
Agreement (FAC, ¶ 31(h)), (3) invoicing BUSD for services based on an unapproved
36-month schedule without regard for the actual level of work performed (FAC, ¶
31(i)), (4) improperly invoicing project costs as construction costs to
increase Del Terra’s fees (FAC, ¶ 31(j)), and (5) hiring consultants as
“additional services” to perform unnecessary work or work that was to be
completed by Del Terra (FAC, ¶ 31(k).)Second, BUSD alleges Del
Terra breached its obligations pursuant to the 2015 Agreement and 2019 Amendment
by (1) failing to obtain proper certification of its various projects from the
Division of the State Architect (FAC, ¶ 25(f)), (2) failing to properly
maintain records and documents for Del Terra’s projects (FAC, ¶ 25(g), 26), and
(3) failing to provide documents for BUSD’s review and audit (FAC, ¶ 25(h)).
BUSD alleges Del Terra’s billing practices resulted in BUSD overpaying Del
Terra for services provided and performed. (FAC, ¶ 27.) BUSD also alleges Del
Terra’s handling of documents and failure to obtain certifications resulted in BUSD
incurring additional costs to obtain the missing certificates, organize its
records, and recreate missing documentation. (FAC, ¶ 27.)In this case, Del Terra
argues BUSD’s causes of action are time-barred because BUSD discovered or had
reason to discover Del Terra’s alleged misconduct more than four (4) years ago
in 2016. (Motion, p. 13:15-28.) In support of this argument, Del Terra relies
on the following facts. On May 11, 2016, Ian M. Guajardo, BUSD’s director of
facilities, development, and transportation, sent an email to Dr. Antoine
Hawkins, BUSD’s chief business officer, that raised concerns about “Del Terra’s
method of operations within the school district and how they are handling the
business side of the modernization program.” (Defendant’s Separate Statement
(DSS), ¶ 22, 24, 27.) Guajardo recommended that BUSD review the procedures and
practices for the control of bond funds and future modernization projects.
(DSS, ¶ 28.) But while these facts suggest Guajardo was aware there were issues
with Del Terra’s billing, a review of the actual email suggests otherwise. The
email states as follows in its entirety:“Antoine,I
have a few concerns regarding Del Terra’s method of operation within the school
district in how they are handling the business side of the modernization
program.All
bids, notices of completions, budget review, expenditures, purchase
orders/requisitions, board agenda items, notice to proceed to come for the
Facilities / Business office. In my opinion, there’s no check-in-balance in how
the bond project is being handled?For
example, all sealed bids should be sent to the business office on the
perspective due dates and ‘opened’ in a public forum by the business staff (not
the facilities or Del Terra). All reference checks and verifications of the bid
packets must by handled by District staff not Del Terra. This can and will be a
problem if one of the contractors makes an official protest regarding their bid
packet or the handling of the bids.In
my opinion, we must look over all of the procedures regarding the past
practices that have taken place and install new practices for the best interest
of the district. This will be the only way to control the bond funds and future
modernization projects. This can be a problem if the auditors are reviewing the
financial records and other documentation that could be a negative finding.Please
let me know if you have any questions or comments.Thank
you.Ian
M. Guajardo.” (MSJ, Ex. E, Depo Ex. 132.)Although the email discusses
concerns with how Del Terra is handling the business side of BUSD’s modernization
programs, it appears the crux of the email is to suggest better oversight from
BUSD to prevent any issues that may arise if there is an audit or challenge to
bidding results by a contractor. Nowhere in the email does Guajardo claim Del
Terra is engaging in improper billing or mishandling records as alleged in the
FAC. And while Dr. Hawkins and Guajardo subsequently discussed Guajardo’s
concerns, neither the separate statement nor the evidence cited establishes the
specifics of what they discussed. (DSS. ¶ 30; MSJ, Ex. E, p. 84:5-85:7.)On July 28, 2016, Guajardo
sent an email to Dr. Hawkins that expressed concerns over billing issues with
Del Terra. (DSS, ¶ 31.) Guajardo reported that BUSD received a request for
payment from SVA Architects that lacked supporting documentation, including a
previous contract or board-approved agenda item. (DSS, ¶ 32.) The text of the
email reads as follows:“Dr.
Antoine,I
need to bring a billing issue to your attention regarding SVA architects that
we have received a request for payment.It
appears that this work was performed at Bassett HS for the HVAC unit/equipment
that was installed as part of the modernization program. The problem that we
have discovered there is NO contract, board approved agenda item, addendum or
anything else regarding the extra services that was provided or agreed upon for
this work to proceed. Jerry has emails indicating the approval for this
additional work but no signed agreement or board agenda supporting the topic.Barbara
and I had a telephone conference discussion with Jerry regarding this topic. He
has emails from the previous Superintendent agreeing with the additional
work/equipment regarding this project. Barbara has checked her previous emails
and there is no support information for the approved additional work?It
is my opinion, the district should not pay the requested amount of $43,393.75
without supporting documentation from Del Terra and SVA architects. I have
attached a copy of the statement from SVA Architect and highlighted the area in
yellow for your review and comments.Until
this matter has been resolved I asked Barbara not to encumber the requested
amount of $43,393.75.Barbara
may add additional information regarding this topic?We
can discuss this topic next week.Thank
you.Ian
M. Guajardo.” (MSJ, Ex. E, Depo Ex. 7.)Like the first email, the
second email does not actually accuse Del Terra of any billing irregularities.
Instead, it merely advises the delay of payment until Del Terra and SVA
Architects provide additional documentation. Notably, Del Terra fails to
provide any additional evidence that establishes if this billing issue was
cleared up. This omission important since, if Del Terra subsequently provided
the proper documentation for this payment request, the email would not have put
BUSD on notice of Del Terra’s billing issues. The court finds these facts alone
insufficient to put a reasonable person on inquiry notice of the allegations
that Del Terra was billing for incomplete work and failing to properly maintain
records.  Ultimately, the court determines
that it may not find as a matter of law that the facts are sufficient to place
BUSD on inquiry notice.Furthermore, as noted above,
the FAC alleges Del Terra also committed breaches of the 2019 Amendment.  Del Terra fails to contradict or address
these allegations with any facts or evidence. The failure to address a material
allegation in the pleadings by a moving party defendant is fatal to a motion
for summary judgment or adjudication on that cause of action or issue. (See
Teselle v. McLoughlin¿(2009) 173 Cal.App.4th 156, 171.) This is because the
allegations in the pleading frame the material facts at issue and the failure
to address these allegations constitutes a failure to establish an absence of
triable material facts. (Id., at p. 172-173.) Additionally, since the
2019 Amendment was presented in July of 2019 and effective as of June 2019 (FAC,
¶ 17), any alleged breaches of it would be within two years of when Plaintiff
filed the present action in May 2021.Accordingly, Del Terra failed
to demonstrate that BUSD’s causes of action are time barred.Economic Loss RuleDel Terra next contends they
are entitled to summary judgment or adjudication of BUSD’s second cause of
action for breach of fiduciary duty, third cause of action for negligence, and
sixth cause of action for negligent misrepresentation on the grounds that they
are barred by the economic loss rule. The court disagrees.Legal StandardPursuant to the economic loss
rule, “there is no recovery in tort for negligently inflicted ‘purely economic
losses,’ meaning financial harm unaccompanied by physical or property damage.”
(Sheen v. Wells Fargo Bank. N.A. (2022) 12 Cal.5th 905, 922 (Sheen).)
It “functions to bar claims in negligence for pure economic losses in deference
to a contract between litigating parties.” (Id., at p. 922.) “Tort
damages have been permitted in contract cases where . . . the duty that gives
rise to tort liability is either completely independent of the contract or arises
from conduct which is both intentional and intended to harm.” (Erlich v.
Menezes (1999) 21 Cal.4th 543, 551-552 (Erlich).)DiscussionIn this case, Del Terra
contends BUSD’s damages for breach of fiduciary duty, negligence, and negligent
misrepresentations arise of BUSD’s contract with Del Terra and involve nothing
more than purely economic losses. (Motion, p. 18:5-16.) In opposition, BUSD
contends Del Terra’s answer to the FAC fails to allege the economic loss rule
as a defense to these causes of action, with the exception of BUSD’s cause of
action for negligence. (Del Terra Answer to FAC, ¶ 22.) BUSD’s contention fails
“as the economic loss rule is not a defense to a cause of
action. Rather, the existence of damages other than purely economic loss is
an element of a plaintiff's common law cause of action.” (Greystone
Homes, Inc. v. Midtec, Inc. (2008) 168 Cal.App.4th 1194, 1215.)As to the second cause of
action for breach of fiduciary duty, BUSD contends the economic loss rule does
not apply because the FAC alleges intentional conduct. (Opp., p. 28:10-14.)
Notably, it alleges Del Terra’s breaches of fiduciary duty were committed
willingly, fraudulently, and recklessly. (FAC, ¶ 31.) Del Terra has failed to
demonstrate an absence of triable material facts on this issue as its separate
statement does not include facts addressing this issue beyond pointing to the
fact that the court sustained their demurrer to BUSD’s separate causes of
action for fraud. (DSS, ¶ 14.) Thus, the court finds the economic loss rule
does not bar BUSD’s breach of fiduciary duty claim.With regard to the sixth
cause of action for negligent misrepresentation, BUSD contends negligent
misrepresentation is a distinct cause of action from negligence and not subject
to the economic loss rule. (Opp., p. 28:15-19.) In support of this contention,
BUSD cites to a federal district court case where the court found negligent
misrepresentation was not barred by the economic loss rule because it was a
species of fraud. (Whittington v. KidsEmbrace, LLC (C.D. Cal. July 19,
2021, No. CV 21-1830-JFW(JPRx)) 2021 WL 3076646, *6, citing Kalitta Air,
L.L.C. v. Central Texas Airborne Systems, Inc. (9th Cir. 2008) 315
F3d.Appx. 603, 607 [“We hold that California law classifies negligent
misrepresentation as a species of fraud, [Citation], for which economic loss is
recoverable.”].) In reply, Del Terra failed to point to contrary authority.
Thus, the court finds the economic loss rule does not bar BUSD’s negligent
misrepresentation claim.Last, BUSD contends the
economic loss rule does not apply because the 2015 Agreement and 2019 Amendment
were contracts for professional services. (Opp., p. 28:24-29:9.) It is well
established that “the negligent failure to exercise reasonable care and skill
in undertaking to perform a service contract of this type is a tort, as well as
a breach of contract.” (Moreno v. Sanchez (2003) 106 Cal.App.4th 1415,
1435; see also North American Chemical Co. v. Superior Court (1997) 59
Cal.App.4th 764, 774 [“A contract to perform services gives rise to a duty of
care which requires that such services be performed in a competent and
reasonable manner. A negligent failure to do so may be both a breach of
contract and a tort.”].) In reply, Del Terra failed to address or point to contrary
authority. Thus, the court finds the economic loss rule does not bar BUSD’s
negligence claim based on Del Terra’s allegedly negligent management of BUSD’s
bond programs.Accordingly, Del Terra’s
motion is DENIED on these grounds.Breach of Fiduciary
Duty (Second Cause of Action)Del Terra maintains BUSD’s
second cause of action for breach of fiduciary duty fails as a matter of law
because Del Terra did not owe BUSD a fiduciary duty. The court disagrees.Legal Standard“The elements of a cause of
action for breach of fiduciary duty are the existence of a fiduciary
relationship, breach of fiduciary duty, and damages.” (Oasis West Realty,
LLC v. Goldman (2011) 51 Cal.4th 811, 820.)DiscussionIn the FAC, BUSD alleges Del
Terra agreed to serve as BUSD’s agent and fiduciary in Article 1.3.2 of the
2015 Agreement. (FAC, ¶ 7, 30.) BUSD also alleges the 2019 Amendment included
the same provision. (FAC, ¶ 30.) In both agreements, Article 1.3.2 states as
follows:“Relationship.
Manager serves as District’s agent and fiduciary in performing services
under this Agreement. Manager shall, in this capacity, maintain confidences and
provide professional services in a manner consistent with District’s economic,
educational and governmental best interests.” (FAC, Ex. 1, § 1.3.2; Ex. 4, §
1.3.2.)While the 2015 Agreement and
2019 Amendment state Del Terra serves as BUSD’s fiduciary, Del Terra maintains the
party’s terms do not control because the agreements fail to establish the
relationship is a fiduciary one. (Motion, p. 17:1-18:2.) “A fiduciary
relationship is ‘any relation existing between parties to a transaction wherein
one of the parties is . . . duty bound to act with the utmost good faith for
the benefit of the other party. Such a relation ordinarily arises where a
confidence is reposed by one person in the integrity of another, and in such a
relation the party in whom the confidence is reposed, if he voluntarily accepts
or assumes to accept the confidence, can take no advantage from his acts
relating to the interest of the other party without the latter's knowledge or
consent. A fiduciary relation in law is ordinarily synonymous with a
confidential relation.’” (Gilman v. Dalby (2009) 176 Cal.App.4th 606, 613-614,
quoting Herbert v. Lankershim (1937) 9 Cal.2d 409, 483.) “In the
commercial context, traditional examples of fiduciary relationships include
those of trustee/beneficiary, corporate directors and majority shareholders,
business partners, joint adventurers, and agent/principal.” (Id., at p.
614.)In this case, Del Terra
maintains the agreements do not evidence an intent by Del Terra to undertake
the obligations of a fiduciary and subordinate its interests to and for the
benefit of BUSD. But the agreements do so by requiring the Del Terra to provide
services “in a manner consistent with the District’s economic, educational and
governmental best interests.” (FAC, Ex. 1, § 1.3.2; Ex. 4, § 1.3.2.) Further,
the finds the agreements create an agency relationship which gives rise to
fiduciary duties. In contesting the existence of an agency relationship, Del
Terra points to Article 10.15 which states as follows:“Manager
is and shall at all times remain as to the District a wholly independent
contractor. Neither the District nor any of its agents shall have control over
the conduct of Manager or any of Manager’s officers, agents, or employees,
except as herein set forth. Manager shall not, at any time, or in any manner,
represent that it or any of its agents or employees are in any manner agents or
employees of the District.” (FAC, Ex. 1, § 10.15; Ex. 4, § 10.15.)Del Terra maintains this
provision conflicts with Article 1.3.2. The court is not persuaded by this
argument since Article 10.15 merely prevents Del Terra from representing to
others that it is BUSD’s agent.  Article 10.15
does not prevent Del Terra from serving as BUSD’s agent for the purposes of
managing its bond projects. (See Porter v. Arthur Murray, Inc. (1967)
249 Cal.App.2d 410, 420 [“It may be freely asserted that one may be the agent
of another without holding himself out to be such agent.”].) As such, the court
finds the 2015 Agreement and 2019 Amendment required Del Terra to act
consistently with BUSD’s best interests as a fiduciary and establish that Del
Terra was BUSD’s agent, owing fiduciary duties to BUSD.Accordingly, Del Terra’s
motion is DENIED as to this cause of action.CONCLUSIONBased on the foregoing, the court
DENIES Del Terra’s motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication.