 Case Number:  23NWCV01003    Hearing Date:   September 26, 2023    Dept:  C BRYAN v.
SCOTTY AND SON TOWING, COLLISION, AND AUTOMOTIVE REPAIR
CASE NO.: 
23NWCV01003
HEARING:  9/26/23
 
#3
TENTATIVE
RULING
 
Defendant
Scotty and Son Towing, Collision, and Auto Repair’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s complaint
is OVERRULED.  Defendant is ORDERED to
file and serve its Answer within 10 days.
 
Opposing
Party to give NOTICE.
 
 
Defendant Scotty and Son Towing, Collision, and
Auto Repair demurs to the complaint on the ground that the court lacks personal
jurisdiction over Defendant.
 
The Complaint alleges that “[o]n or about
December 2, 2022, Defendant SCOTTY and SON TOWING, COLLISION and AUTO REPAIR,
entered into a repair contract with Plaintiff providing for installation of an
engine assembly into Plaintiff’s 2017 Dodge Ram Power Wagon together with front
bumper and radiator repairs.”  
(Complaint, ¶ 7.)  “As a result of
the work by Defendant the vehicle is now in worst condition than when it was towed
to Defendant’s repair shop because of the defective work performed by
Defendant.”  (Id., ¶ 8.)  Based thereon, the SAC asserts causes of
action for:
 
1.       
Breach
of Contract
2.       
Promissory
Estoppel
3.       
Fraudulent
Misrepresentation
4.       
Negligence

 
“A defendant appears in an action when
the defendant answers, demurs, files a notice of motion to strike...”  (CCP § 1014.) 
 
“[A] defendant who demurs or moves to strike must
concurrently move to quash or dismiss, or any jurisdictional defect is
waived.”  (Roy v. Sup.Ct. (2005) 127 Cal.App.4th 337, 344.)  “Under the express provisions of section 418.10, subdivision (e), a challenge to personal jurisdiction is waived if a defendant demurs or moves to
strike without concurrently moving to quash... Nothing could be clearer: a
defendant may move to quash coupled with any other action without being deemed to
have submitted to the court's jurisdiction. However, the motion to quash remains essential.”  (Id. at 345.)
 
Defendant demurs to the
Complaint, contending that the court lacks jurisdiction over Defendant because
the Complaint alleges that Defendant is doing business in the state of
Arizona.  (Complaint, ¶ 2.)
 
However, Defendant did not simultaneously file
a motion to quash on the ground that the court lacks personal jurisdiction over
Defendant.  “Failure to make a motion under this section at
the time of filing a demurrer or motion to strike constitutes a waiver of
the issues of lack of personal jurisdiction, inadequacy of process,
inadequacy of service of process, inconvenient forum, and delay in prosecution.”  (CCP §418.10(e)(3).)
 
Defendant
argues in its reply that CCP § 430.10(a) allows the demurring party to object
to jurisdiction.  However, CCP §
430.10(a) pertains to jurisdiction over the “subject of the cause of action.”  Here, Defendant is objecting to the court’s
exercise of personal jurisdiction over Defendant, not subject matter
jurisdiction.
 
Accordingly,
the court finds that Defendant has made a general appearance and has waived the
issue of the court’s lack of personal jurisdiction.  The demurrer is OVERRULED.  Defendant is ORDERED to file and serve its
Answer within 10 days.
 
 
 
 