 Case Number:  21NWCV00133    Hearing Date:   September 26, 2023    Dept:  C Saadia Square v. all-ways
CASE NO.:  21NWCV00133
HEARING:   9/27/23 @ 9:30 AM
#4
 
Defendants’ Motion for Summary Judgment is GRANTED.
Moving
Party to give NOTICE.
 
Defendants’
Rialto Merrill Holdings, LLC, All-Ways Pacific LLC, All-Ways Far East, LLC, and
All-Ways Forwarding International Inc. move for summary judgment against Saadia
Square’s remaining causes of action for tortious interference with its ROFO and
declaratory judgment in its Second Amended Complaint.
Background
The
operative Second Amended Complaint (SAC) alleges the following relevant facts:
“This action was initiated on March 5, 2021 and arises out of the scheme to
violate Saadia’s Right of First Offer (ROFO) and deprive Saadia of the right to
purchase the industrial property in Rialto, CA (the Property). (SAC ¶ 1.)
“Saadia and SM Member are the sole members of SM Holdco (SM). SM, in turn, is
the sole member of SM Logistics Owner LLC which, in turn, is the sole member of
SM Rialto, the single-asset entity that owned the Property. The Property is a
unique industrial real estate asset located in Rialto, CA…. [¶] In order to
protect its investment in SM, Saadia negotiated for a ROFO…. The ROFO allows
Saadia to purchase the Property and protect its multi-million dollar financial
stake in SM. Without this ROFO, Saadia’s interest in the Property was at risk
of being wiped out by SM Member’s virtually unfettered control The ROFO right
was Saadia’s primary protection.” (SAC ¶¶ 26-27.) “Rather than honor the ROFO,
and without Saadia’s knowledge or consent, SM entered into an Option Agreement
dated March 11, 2020 (the Option) with All-Ways.
The
Option defines the ‘Effective Date’ as March 11, 2020, the date of the Option,
and sets the deadline by which All-Ways must exercise the option as March 10,
2020, ‘the last day of the twelfth (12th) full calendar month following the
Effective Date (the ‘Option Exercise Period’), time being of the essence.’…
Although the deadline to exercise the option set forth in the Option Agreement
was March 10, 2020, in a related action, RMH… alleges that RH assigned the
Option to All-Ways and that RMH purportedly exercised the option on March 11,
2021, not March 10, 2021.” (SAC ¶28.) “[I]n violation (and with knowledge) of
Saadia’s ROFO, on information and belief, the Property was sold to RMH on
August 3, 2021.” (SAC ¶31.) “Although SM Rialto entered into the Lease with RD
and entered into the Option Agreement with non-party Rialto Holdings, LLC
(‘RH’) on March 11, 2020, SM did not disclose either agreement to Saadia. RMH
alleges in a separate action that RH later assigned the Option Agreement to
RMH, against without Saadia’s knowledge. SM concealed the identity of RD, RH,
and RMH from Saadia and referred to them merely and interchangeable as
‘All-Ways’.” (SAC ¶ 46.)
Evidentiary
Objections
All-Ways’s
objections Nos. 1-18 are overruled.
Legal
Standard
“‘It
is the defendant's burden on its motion for summary judgment to negate the
matters which the plaintiff will bear the burden of proving at the trial.’” (Segura
v. Brundage (1979) 91 Cal. App. 3d 19, 28-29 (moving parties failed to meet
initial burden to negate exception to affirmative defense that plaintiffs would
have burden to prove at trial-- delayed discovery re statute of limitation,
where plaintiffs injected that exception in their complaint).)
Discussion 
All-Ways has met its burden of negating a
necessary element of its claim because it has proven that its Option is
superior to Saadia’s unrecorded ROFO. The Option relates back to March 11, 2020
when the Option was created. (Wachovia Bank v. Lifetime Industries, Inc.
(2006) 145 Cal.App.4th 1039, 1050.) The relation-back doctrine negates Saadia’s
interference claim because All-Ways did not have knowledge of Saadia’s ROFO on
March 11, 2020. An interference claim requires that Saadia prove All-Ways had
knowledge of the contract. (Quelimane Co. v. Stewart Title Guar. Co.
(1998) Cal.4th 26, 55.) All-Ways did not have knowledge of the ROFO until after
March 11, 2020 when the Option was created. Thus, All-Ways has negated a
necessary element of Saadia’s interference claim.
Additionally, Saadia’s declaratory claim also
fails as it is derivative of its interference claim.
Thus, the burden shifts to Saadia to prove that
the Option does not relate back to March 11, 2020. Saadia does not satisfy its
burden.
Saadia argues that the sale was a sham because (1)
SM transferred title to All-Ways, (2) All-Ways borrowed $95 million from
Alliance Bernstein, (3) Fidelity issued a policy containing an endorsement that
warranted to repay substantially all losses that would be incurred by Alliance
and All-Ways in the event Saadia took title to the Property, and (4) SM
provided Fidelity with an indemnity agreement. However, Saadia offers no
authority which states that the parties were not entitled to conduct the
transaction in such a manner. Thus, Saadia has failed to sustain its burden of
proving that the transaction “never occurred” or was a sham.
Saadia argues that the financing had to be
delivered on March 11, 2021, because the Option was a non-contingency clause
contract and All-Ways failed to tender payment of the non-refundable deposit
upon exercising the option on March 11, 2021. However, “[t]he acceptance of the
exercise of the option without objection to the form of the exercise waives any
objection to the form of the exercise.” (Collins v. Marvel Land Co.
(1970) 13 Cal.App.3d 34, 40.) This Court previously ruled that “SM Rialto
waived any purported defects in (All-Ways)’s exercise of the Option by
accepting the exercise of the option without objection (SSADF 59, 62, 66), and
Saadia cannot challenge that waiver.” Thus, Saadia waived these arguments.
Therefore, they are precluded as a matter of law.
Saadia argues that SM’s acceptance of the
Option and waiver of the conditions were ultra vires actions. Saadia has failed
to sustain its burden of providing evidence to support its defense that the
modification of the Option was an ultra vires act. The Operating Agreement
provides that SM may “dispose of and otherwise deal with the Property ….”
(Saadia Decl., Ex. G, p. 13.)  Further,
Saadia has waived this argument by failing to raise it until now. Therefore,
Saadia has failed to sustain its burden of proving that the Option is void
under ultra vires.
Saadia argues that the relation-back doctrine
does not apply because All-Ways and SM modified the contract. Additionally,
Saadia relies on Wachovia, supra, 145 Cal.App.4th 1039, to support its
contention that the relation-back doctrine does not apply. However, Wachovia
clarified that the relation-back doctrine would not apply when the optionee
“cannot enforce the option, but the optionee nevertheless purchases title to
the subject property in a new transaction wholly unconnected with the option.”
Here, the All-Ways is entitled to enforce the option because SM waived the
alleged defects in exercising the option and the final sales agreement is a
modification of the Option and not wholly separate from it. Additionally, Lindley
v. Blumberg (1907) 7 Cal. App. 140, is distinguishable because in Lindley,
the grantor of the option did not hold title and the true property owner was
not equitably estopped from asserting her interest because she was unaware of
the lease and option. Here, SM held title and Saadia was aware of the Option
but did not disclose its ROFO until January 2021. Therefore, Saadia’s defense
that the relation-back doctrine does not apply fails as a matter of law.
Thus, Saadia’s fails to prove that the Option
does not relate back to March 11, 2020. Therefore, Saadia cannot prove a necessary
element of its interference claim and its declaratory claim fails as it is
derivative of the interference claim.
 
Accordingly, All-Ways’s Motion for Summary
Judgment is GRANTED.