 Case Number:  22STCV34687    Hearing Date:   September 26, 2023    Dept:  C SANCHEZ
v. EOS FITNESS, LLC, et al.
CASE NO.: 
22STCV34687
HEARING:   9/26/23
 
#8
TENTATIVE
RULING
 
I.            
Defendants EOS Fitness
LLC, Apparcel, and Jones’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s first amended complaint is SUSTAINED
with 10 days leave to amend.
 
II.           
Defendants EOS Fitness
LLC, Apparcel, and Jones’s motion to strike is MOOT.
 
Moving
Parties to give NOTICE.
 
 
Defendants EOS
Fitness LLC, Apparcel, and Jones demur to the complaint
on the grounds that the 1st, and 4th – 7th
causes of action fail to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action
and are uncertain.
 
As an initial matter, the court notes that
Plaintiff’s Opposition is 33 pages long. 
Plaintiff is reminded of the 15-page limitation pursuant to CRC
3.113(d).  This court will overlook this
transgression once.  In the future, if
any memorandum exceeds this page limit, the court will not consider the papers.
 
The First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) alleges
that on May 13, 2022, at approximately 8:30 a.m., Plaintiff was informed that
his membership was cancelled because team members feel harassed and
uncomfortable… “It can be something as simple as taking off a bandanna that has
the flag on it and waving it.”  (FAC, ¶
31.)  Plaintiff was “pushed, shoved,
stricken and beaten by persons that Plaintiff has never met before and who are
not of color like Plaintiff, nor of the same race, religion and/or
citizenship.  Most of them have tattoos,
eat meat, drink beer, worship money and/or women, and have no courtesy or
consideration for Plaintiff.”  (Id., ¶
34.)  “Plaintiff was subjected to
discrimination because Plaintiff’s EOS Fitness gym membership was canceled for
using patriotic attire during workouts in the gym and adamantly opposing the
use of steroids to body build.”  (Id., ¶
36.)  Fn. 6 of the FAC alleges that
racial discrimination of Defendant EOS Fitness is evidenced by the painting on
the front wall showing the Hollywood sign, which is the epitome of “white
supremacy.”  Based thereon, the FAC
asserts causes of action for:
 
1.       
Violation
of CC § 51
2.       
Assault
3.       
Battery
4.       
Violation
of CC § 51.7
5.       
Violation
of CC § 52 
6.       
Violation
of CC § 52.1
7.       
IIED
8.       
42
USC § 1983
 
1st, 4th – 6th,
and 8th CAUSES OF ACTION
 
VIOLATION OF CC §§ 51, 51.7, 52, and 52.1 and
42 USC § 1983:
 
“All persons within the jurisdiction of this
state are free and equal, and no matter what their sex, race, color, religion,
ancestry, national origin, disability, medical condition, genetic information,
marital status, sexual orientation, citizenship, primary language, or
immigration status are entitled to the full and equal accommodations,
advantages, facilities, privileges, or services in all business establishments
of every kind whatsoever.”  (CC § 51(b).)  “All persons within the jurisdiction of this
state have the right to be free from any violence, or intimidation by threat of
violence, committed against their persons or property because of political
affiliation, or on account of any characteristic listed or defined in
subdivision (b) or (e) of Section 51, or position in a labor dispute, or because another person
perceives them to have one or more of those characteristics.”  (CC § 51.7(b)(1).)  “Whoever denies, aids or incites a denial, or
makes any discrimination or distinction contrary to Section 51, 51.5, or 51.6, is liable for
each and every offense for the actual damages.” 
(CC § 52.)  “ If a person or persons, whether or not acting under color of law,
interferes by threat, intimidation, or coercion, or attempts to interfere by
threat, intimidation, or coercion, with the exercise or enjoyment by any
individual or individuals of rights secured by the Constitution or laws of the
United States, or of the rights secured by the Constitution or laws of this
state, the Attorney General, or any district attorney or city attorney may
bring a civil action for injunctive and other appropriate equitable relief in
the name of the people of the State of California, in order to protect the
peaceable exercise or enjoyment of the right or rights secured.”  (CC § 52.1.) 
“Every person who, under color of any statute, ordinance,
regulation, custom, or usage, of any State or Territory or the District of
Columbia, subjects, or causes to be subjected, any citizen of the United States
or other person within the jurisdiction thereof to the deprivation of any
rights, privileges, or immunities secured by the Constitution and laws, shall
be liable to the party injured in an action at law, suit in equity, or other
proper proceeding for redress, except that in any action brought against a
judicial officer for an act or omission taken in such officer’s judicial
capacity, injunctive relief shall not be granted unless a declaratory decree
was violated or declaratory relief was unavailable.”  (42 USC § 1983.)
 
Plaintiff alleges that he was discriminated against
because of his race, but provides no facts supporting any such “racial”
discrimination.  Plaintiff also alleges
that he was assaulted by unknown Doe Defendants, but none of these individuals
are alleged to be demurring Defendants.  
 
Accordingly, the demurrer is SUSTAINED with 10
days leave to amend.
 
7th CAUSE OF ACTION
 
IIED:  The elements are:  (1) outrageous conduct by the defendant; (2)
intention to cause or reckless disregard of the probability of causing
emotional distress; (3) severe emotional suffering; and (4) actual and
proximate causation of the emotional distress. 
(Cole v. Fair Oaks Fire Protection Dist. (1987) 43 Cal. 3d 148,
155 n.7.)
 
The conduct
complained of (i.e. cancelling Plaintiff’s gym membership) does not rise to the
level of outrageous conduct.  Accordingly, the demurrer is SUSTAINED with 10 days leave to
amend.  
 
In light of the court’s grant of leave to
amend, the accompanying motion to strike is MOOT.
 