  Case Number:  21STCV10612    Hearing Date:   June 7, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




nancy del socorro diaz
   martinez

   ;
 


   Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
champion power equipment,
   inc.

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


21STCV10612




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


June
   7, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[tentative]
  Order RE:
 
(1)  
  petition
  to approve compromise of claim on behalf of minor claimant nancy del socorro
  martinez
(2)  
  joint
  ex parte application to file confidential records under seal
 



 
MOVING PARTY:                 Petitioner Paloma Denisse
Martinez Flores   
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Unopposed
(1)  
Petition
to Approve Compromise of Claim on Behalf of Minor Claimant Nancy Del Socorro
Martinez
MOVING PARTIES:              Plaintiff Nancy Del Socorro
Martinez and defendant Champion Power Equipment
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Unopposed
(2)  
Joint
Ex Parte Application to File Confidential Records Under Seal 
The court considered the moving papers filed in connection with the
petition for approval of compromise of claim. 
No opposition papers were filed. 
The court considered the moving papers filed in connection with the
joint motion to seal.  No opposition
papers were filed.  
PETITION TO APPROVE COMPROMISE OF CLAIM
Petitioner Paloma Denisse
Martinez Flores (“Petitioner”) seeks court approval of the settlement made on
behalf of minor claimant Nancy Del Socorro Martinez (“Minor Claimant”). 
The compromise of a minor’s disputed claim for damages is valid only
after it has been approved, upon the filing of a petition, by the court.¿
(Prob. Code, § 3500.)¿ The petition must be verified by the petitioner, must
contain a full disclosure of all information that has any bearing upon the
reasonableness of the compromise, and must be prepared on judicial council form
MC-350.¿ (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 7.950.)¿ 
Defendant Champion Power
Equipment, Inc. (“Defendant”) and TCRM LLC (“TCRM”)[1] have agreed to settle this
action with Minor Claimant, Nonna Jean Pena, as next friend of Diego Kaez
Diaz-Martinez, a minor, Juan Jesus Cruz Gamez, as wrongful death beneficiary of
Alejandra Estefania Martinez, a minor, deceased, and Inez Garcia, individually
and as administratrix of the Estate of Alejandro Arellano, deceased.  (MC-350, ¶¶ 10, 11, subd. (b)(5).)  
Of the total settlement, 75
percent is allocated to Minor Claimant. 
(MC-350, ¶ 10.)  Of that
settlement amount, a confidential amount will be paid for medical expenses, 40
percent will be paid to counsel for attorney’s fees, and a confidential amount
will be paid to counsel for legal expenses. 
(MC-350, ¶¶ 12-16.)  The net
recovery to Minor Claimant will then be split as follows: (1) a portion of the
net recovery will be invested in a single-premium deferred annuity, subject to
withdrawal only on authorization of the court, and (2) the rest of the net
recovery will be paid or transferred to the trustee of a special needs trust
established under Probate Code section 3604 for the benefit of Minor
Claimant.  (MC-350, ¶ 18, subds. (b)(3),
(b)(4).)
The court has reviewed the Petition filed under seal with the court
and finds the settlement to be fair and reasonable, and in the best interest of
Minor Claimant.  The court further finds
that the requested amount of attorney’s fees is reasonable after considering
the declaration of Adam Shea and the factors set forth in California Rules of
Court, rule 7.955, subdivision (b). 
However, as set forth above, Petitioner
states in the Petition that a certain portion of the settlement will be paid to
the trustee of a special needs trust established under Probate Code section
3604 for the benefit of Minor Claimant. 
(Pet., MC-350, ¶ 18, subd. (b)(4).)  But Petitioner has not provided the court with
evidence that the special needs trust complies with Probate Code section
3604.  While the Petition states that the
terms of the proposed special needs trust are specified in Attachment 18b(4),
that attachment is incomplete.  (Ibid.)
 Specifically, although the “Order
Creating, Establishling [sic], and Funding a Special Needs Trust for the
Benefit of Nancy Del Socorro Diaz Martinez under §142.005 of the Texas Property
Code and 42 U.S.C. §1396p (d)(4)(A)” states that the terms of the trust
agreement are attached as Exhibit A to the order, Petitioner has not included
that exhibit in the Petition.  (Pet.,
Attachment 18b(4), p. 1.)  Thus, the
court has not been provided with the terms of the special needs trust. 
Moreover, it appears that
Petitioner has not complied with Local Rule 4.115, subdivision (b), which
requires, when a settlement proposes the establishment of a special needs
trust, that (1) the terms be reviewed by the Probate Division, and (2) “a party
seeking to establish and fund a trust as part of a petition for approval of a
compromise filed in a civil department . . . [to,] within two court days of the
filing of the petition for approval of compromise and trust, lodge with the
filing window of the Probate Division at Stanley Mosk Courthouse a physical
copy of the face page of the petition to approve compromise and attach a copy
of the proposed trust instrument and the proposed order approving the
compromise and trust.”  
Thus, the court exercises its
discretion to continue the hearing on the Petition to give Petitioner an
opportunity to file an amended Attachment 18b(4) to the Petition that satisfies
all requirements regarding the payment of settlement funds to a special needs
trust and to comply with the requirements of Local Rule 4.115, subdivision (b) .

EX PARTE APPLICATION TO SEAL
Plaintiff Nancy Del Socorro
Martinez and defendant Champion Power Equipment (together, the “Parties”) filed
the pending ex parte application for an order filing confidential documents
under seal on May 20, 2024.  On May 22,
2024, the court issued a minute order continuing the ex parte application to
seal to June 7, 2024.  (May 22, 2024
Minute Order, p. 1.) 
The Parties seek an order
placing under seal the following documents in order to avoid disclosure of the
dollar amount of the Parties’ settlement, the attorney’s fees, and the planned
use for portions of those funds: (1) the Parties’ settlement agreement and
release, (2) the pending Petition to Approve Compromise of Claim, (3) documents
in support of the Petition, (4) the ex parte application, and (5) the hearing
transcript on the ex parte application and Petition. 
Because the Parties’ motion to
seal concerns the documents filed in connection with the Petition, the court
finds that it is appropriate, and exercises its discretion, to continue the
hearing on the Parties’ motion to seal to be heard on the same day that the
court rules on Petitioner’s Petition. 
ORDER
The court orders that the
hearing on petitioner Paloma Denisse Martinez Flores’s Petition for Approval of
Compromise of Claim is continued to August 9, 2024, at 10:00 a.m., in
Department 53. 
            The court orders that the hearing on
plaintiff Nancy Del Socorro Diaz Martinez and defendant Champion Power
Equipment’s ex parte application to file confidential records under seal is
continued to August 9, 2024, at 10:00 a.m., in Department 53. 
The court orders petitioner
Paloma Denisse Martinez Flores (1) to file an amended 18b(4) attachment that
complies with the requirements of Local Rules 4.115, subdivision (b), and 4.116
and California Rules of Court, rule 7.903, no later than July 5, 2024, and (2)
to lodge with the Probate Division the documents required by Local Rule 4.115,
subdivision (b) no later than July 5, 2024. 
 
The court orders that the
Order to Show Cause re Dismissal (Settlement) is continued from July 15, 2024,
to August 9, 2024, at 10:00 a.m., in Department 53. 
            The court orders plaintiff Nancy Del
Socorro Diaz Martinez to give notice of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
DATED:  June 7, 2024
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court


