

 
SERVICE: 

 
[X]
Proof of Service Timely Filed (CRC, rule 3.1300)                      OK
[X]
Correct Address (CCP §§ 1013, 1013a)                                      OK 
[X]
16/21 Court Days Lapsed (CCP §§ 12c, 1005(b))                       OK  
 
OPPOSITION:          Filed as of January 24, 2024               [   ] Late          [   ] None 
REPLY:                     Filed as of January 30, 2024               [   ] Late          [   ] None 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On
September 6, 2022, Plaintiff Jordan Brown (“Plaintiff”) filed three causes of action
against Defendant Kylee Thurman (“Defendant”) for Breach of Contract, Common
Counts, Conversion and Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress. 
 
Defendant
filed a General Denial to Plaintiff’s complaint on October 07, 2022. 
 
On
January 10, 2024, Plaintiff filed the instant Motion to Compel Further Production
Responsive to Plaintiff’s Amended Notice of Deposition of Defendant and Request
for Production of Documents for Deposition and Request for Monetary Sanctions.
Defendant files in opposition. Plaintiff files in reply. 
 
MOVING PARTY
POSITION
 
            Plaintiff
prays for the Court to issue an order to compel further responses from
Defendant to requests to produce documents for deposition included in Plaintiff’s
Amended Notice of Deposition of Defendant Kylee Thurman and Request for
Production of Documents for Deposition. Plaintiff argues that the motion is
based on CCP § 2025.450 and that Defendant admitted that she had documents and
things responsive to Plaintiff’s discovery demands, which she did not produce
because she deemed them irrelevant. Moreover, Plaintiff argues that certain
evidence that she did produce indicates the existence of additional evidence
she is improperly withholding and other bases. Plaintiff further requests the
Court to impose sanctions against Defendant for $2,370.00.
 
OPPOSITION
 
             In opposition, Defendant argues that
Plaintiff’s request exceeds the limits allotted by CCP § 94 because Plaintiff
has made over 35 discovery requests. Defendant argues that she is not obligated
to produce additional documents and that Plaintiff has not received
authorization under CCP § 95 to make other discovery requests. Defendant
further argues that Plaintiff’s request is vague, overbroad, and unduly
burdensome as the requests are subject to multiple interpretations and not
bound by time.
 
REPLY
 
            In reply, Plaintiff
reargues that Carter v. Sup. Ct. is controlling in this case and that
Defendant does not provide the Court with any authority that supports her
contention that CCP § 94(a) pertains to discovery propounded under CCP §
2025.280. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
I.          Evidentiary
Rulings 
Defendant’s Objection 1 – OVERRULED The document provided is the
Defendant’s deposition and would come in under hearsay exception for party
opponent. The document is authenticated as Defendant’s declaration states that
the deposition is a true and correct copy of the Deposition transcripts. The
Secondary Evidence rule does not apply here as the Court does not find a proper
basis to exclude the evidence under Evidence Code § 1521.
Defendant’s Objection 2 – OVERULED. The document provided is the
Defendant’s deposition and would come in under hearsay exception for party
opponent. The document is authenticated as Defendant’s declaration states that
the deposition is a true and correct copy of the Deposition transcripts. The
Secondary Evidence rule does not apply here as the Court does not find a proper
basis to exclude the evidence under Evidence Code § 1521.
 
II.        Legal Standard  
Code of Civil Procedure §
2025.450(a) provides:  
 
“If, after service of a deposition notice, a party to the
action or an officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a party, or a
person designated by an organization that is a party under Section 2025.230,
without having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails to appear
for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for inspection any
document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the
deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move for an order compelling
the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the production for inspection of
any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in
the deposition notice.” 
 
The motion shall “(1) set forth
specific facts showing good cause justifying the production for inspection of
any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in
the deposition notice” and “(2) be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration
under Section 2016.040, or, when the deponent fails to attend the deposition
and produce the documents, electronically stored information, or things
described in the deposition notice, by a declaration stating that the
petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire about the
nonappearance.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.450(b)(2).) 
 
 “Any party may obtain discovery . . . by inspecting,
copying, testing, or sampling documents, tangible things, land or other
property, and electronically stored information in the possession, custody, or
control of any other party to the action.”¿  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2031.010(a).) 
 
“The party to whom a demand for inspection, copying,
testing, or sampling has been directed shall respond separately to each item or
category of item by any of the following: 
 
(1) A
statement that the party will comply with the particular demand for inspection,
copying, testing, or sampling by the date set for the inspection, copying,
testing, or sampling pursuant to paragraph (2) of subdivision (c) of Section
2031.030 and any related activities. 
(2) A
representation that the party lacks the ability to comply with the demand for
inspection, copying, testing, or sampling of a particular item or category of
item. 
(3) An
objection to the particular demand for inspection, copying, testing, or
sampling.” 
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.210(a).) 
“On receipt of a response to a demand for inspection,
copying, testing, or sampling, the demanding party may move for an order
compelling further response to the demand if the demanding party deems that any
of the following apply: 
 
(1) A statement of compliance with the demand is
incomplete. 
(2) A representation of inability to comply is inadequate,
incomplete, or evasive. 
(3) An
objection in the response is without merit or too general.” 
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310(a).)¿ 
 
A demanding party’s motion for an order compelling a
further response must “set forth the facts showing good cause justifying the
discovery sought by the demand.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., §¿2031.310(b)(1).)¿
Further, a demanding party’s motion for an order compelling a further response
must “be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.”¿
(Ibid. at §¿2031.310(b)(2).) ¿ Pursuant to Section 2016.040, “[a] meet
and confer declaration in support of a motion shall state facts showing a
reasonable and good faith attempt at an informal resolution of each issue
presented by the motion.”¿  (Ibid., § 2016.040.)¿ 
 
A demanding party’s motion for an order compelling a
further response must, additionally, be accompanied by a separate
statement.¿  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1345(a)(3).)¿  The separate
statement must comply with the requirements set forth in California Rules of
Court, rule 3.1345(c).¿ (Ibid.) 
 
Further, “[u]nless notice of this motion is given within 45
days of the service of the verified response,¿or any supplemental verified
response, or on or before any specific later date to which the demanding party
and the responding party have agreed in writing, the demanding party waives any
right to compel a further response to the demand.”¿  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2031.310(c).) 
 
“Except as provided in
subdivision (j), the court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7
(commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel further response to a demand,
unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust.”¿  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310(h).) 
 
 
II.        Discussion
 
            As a
preliminary matter, the Court notes that the motion is improperly filed as a
motion to compel deposition or produce documents. Noting the parties' papers,
it is clear Plaintiff is seeking an order from the Court compelling further
responses to Plaintiff's Request for production, which would be proper under
CCP § 2030.300. Therefore, the Court's analysis will follow under CCP §
2030.300.
 
A.
Notice of the Motions 
 
Notice
of the motion to compel further response must be given “within 45 days of
service of the verified response, or any supplemental verified response, or any
specific later date to which the requesting party and the responding party have
agreed in writing,” otherwise, the propounding party waives any right to compel
a further response. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (c); § 2031.310, subd.
(d).) 
 
Plaintiff
served his Amended Notice of Deposition of Defendant Kylee Thurman and Request
for Production of Documents for Deposition (“Depo Notice”) on August 08, 2023.
(Motion, Perrin Disner Decl., ¶2.) Plaintiff’s Counsel took Defendant’s
deposition on September 01, 2023, where she brought limited production of
documents purporting to be responsive to the requests included in the Depo
Notice. (Id. ¶ 3; Exh. B.)
Plaintiff’s Counsel sent a meet and confer letter on November 02, 2023,
followed by Defendant’s “supplemental production” on December 01, 2023. (Id. ¶ 6.) After receiving Defendant’s
“supplemental production,” Plaintiff’s Counsel met and conferred repeatedly
with Defendant’s Counsel about the inadequacy of the supplemental production,
both by phone and via email, on January 04 and 05. However, Defendant’s Counsel
informed Plaintiff that Defendant did not intend to produce more documents or
things responsive to Plaintiff’s Depo Notice request. (Id. ¶ 7.) Here, Plaintiff meets the
notice requirements of the motion because Plaintiff received the supplemental
responses on December 01, 2023. The instant motion was filed on January 10,
2024, complying with CCP § 2030.300(c) notice requirements.
 
B.
Meet and Confer Requirement 
 
Next,
the Motions must be accompanied by a “meet and confer” declaration. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (b)(1); 2031.310, subd. (b)(2).) 
 
Here,
Plaintiff provides the court with the declaration of his counsel in which he
declares that he met with Defendant several times regarding the inadequacy of
Defendant’s supplemental production. However, Plaintiff’s counsel has refused
to produce more documents. (Disner Decl., ¶7.) Therefore, the meet and confer
requirements have been satisfied.
 
C.
Separate Statement Requirement (CRC Rule 3.1345)
 
Finally,
Cal. Rules of Court Rule 3.1345 requires all motions or responses involving
further discovery to contain a separate statement with the text of each
request, the response, and a statement of factual and legal reasons for
compelling further responses. (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1345, subd. (a).) 
 
Here,
the Motions are accompanied by separate statements. (01/10/24 Separate
Statements.) 
 
Plaintiff
moves to compel further responses to Plaintiff’s Request for Production of
Documents Nos. 1-9 because Defendant’s responses to the requests consisted only
of meritless objections. 
 
However,
the Court finds that it cannot compel Defendant to comply with Plaintiff’s
request for production at the deposition because, based on Defendant’s
opposition papers, Plaintiff’s requests greatly exceed the permitted number of
discovery requests in a limited civil action. In this case, based on the
separate statement, Plaintiff has propounded twenty-nine (29) interrogatories,
two (2) requests for production of documents, and sixteen (16) requests for
admission on top of the nine requests for productions for deposition made to
Defendant. (Separate Statement) The Court finds that Plaintiff’s reliance
on Carter v. Sup. Ct. court
is misplaced. While the Carter Court
allowed the petitioner in that case to make two different discovery requests
under one statute, Carter notable
does not supersede the explicit limitation on the number of discovery requests
that can be made in a limited civil case. Code of Civil Procedure § 94(a)
limits discovery in limited jurisdiction actions to “any combination of 35 of
the following: interrogatories with no subparts…, demands to produce documents
or things…, requests for admission with (no subparts).” Plaintiff’s 47 requests
greatly exceed what is permitted in this limited civil action, and the Court
will not choose which requests to eliminate for Plaintiff’s discovery requests
to comply with the rule of 35. 
 
Accordingly, the Court
CONTINUES the motion for Plaintiff to file a supplemental briefing regarding Plaintiff’s
initial discovery request, so the Court can substantiate whether Plaintiff’s
discovery request exceeds the rule of 35. 
 
D.
Sanctions
 
Code of Civil
Procedure section 2031.310 provides that, “the court shall impose a monetary
sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party,
person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel
further response to a demand . . ..” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (h).) 
 
Here, since the
Court continues the motion. The Court will not address the issue of sanctions. 
 
 
 
 
III.       Conclusion 
            
            Plaintiff Jordan Brown’s Motions
to Compel Further Production Responsive to Plaintiff’s Amended Notice of
Deposition of Defendant and Request for Production of Documents for Deposition is
CONTINUED TO MARCH 12, 2024 at 10:00 a.m. at the SPRING STREET COURTHOUSE. 
 
At least 16 court days before the next scheduled hearing,
Plaintiff must file a supplement briefing providing the Court with the previous
discovery request made by Plaintiff. Failure to do so will result in the motion
being placed off calendar or denied.
 
Moving Party is ordered to give notice.