

 
SERVICE: 

 
[X]
Proof of Service Timely Filed (CRC, rule 3.1300)                      OK
[X]
Correct Address (CCP §§ 1013, 1013a)                                      OK 
[X]
16/21 Court Days Lapsed (CCP §§ 12c, 1005(b))                       OK  
 
OPPOSITION:          Filed as of January 24, 2024               [   ] Late          [   ] None 
REPLY:                     Filed as of January 30, 2024               [   ] Late          [   ] None 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On
January 26, 2023, Plaintiff Alejandra Perez (“Plaintiff”) filed an action
against Defendants Full of Flavor, LLC (“FF”) and Peter Trinh (“Trinh”)
(collectively “Defendants”) for an alleged violation of the Unruh Civil Rights
Acts. 
 
On
March 17, 2023, pursuant to Plaintiff’s request, the Court entered default
against Defendants FF and Trinh. (3-17-23 Request for Entry of Default.)
Default judgment was entered for Plaintiff and against Defendants on April 3,
2023, in the amount of $5,165.60. (4-3-23 Judgment.) 
 
On
May 8, 2023, Defendants filed a Motion to Set Aside Default Judgment. Plaintiff
filed an Opposition on May 12, 2023. 
 
On
June 6, 2023, Defendants filed a motion to Set Aside Default Judgment
(“Motion”). Plaintiff filed an Opposition on June 8, 2023, and Defendants filed
a Reply on June 26. 2023. 
 
Defendant
FF filed an Answer on June 26, 2023, and Defendant Trinh filed an Answer on
July 3, 2023. 
 
On
July 3, 2023, Judge Rolf M. Treu recused himself from the case due to a prior
business relationship with Plaintiff’s counsel. Accordingly, the hearing on the
Motion was continued to August 07, 2023. On August 07, 2023, the Court Granted
Defendants’ motion to set aside default judgment and vacated the default and
default judgment entered against Defendants. 
 
On
January 02, 2024, Defendant FF filed the instant motion to Compel Further Responses
to Interrogatories. 
 
MOVING PARTY
POSITION
 
            Defendant
FF prays for the Court to issue an order compelling Plaintiff to serve further
responses to Defendant FF’s Interrogatories and for the imposition of sanctions
against Alejandra Perez for $1,749.15. Defendant FF argues that their request is
relevant because it pertains to Defendant FF’s defense against Plaintiff’s
suit. Defendant FF further argues that Plaintiff’s refusal to provide
appropriate responses is meritless because the responses do not comply with CCP
§ 2030.220. 
 
OPPOSITION
 
             In opposition, Plaintiff argues that the Court
should deny Defendant FF’s and impose monetary sanctions against Defendant FF and
its counsel for $3,550.00. Plaintiff argues that she has properly answered and has
made relevant objections to Defendant FF’s Interrogatories. Plaintiff
additionally argues that sanctions against Defendant FF and its counsel is
necessary as Defendant FF’s motion is frivolous and Defendant FF’s request for
sanctions is unwarranted. 
 
REPLY
 
            In reply, Defendant
FF reasserts its arguments made in their moving papers and declines to respond,
noting Plaintiff’s opposition and request for sanctions as reasoning that
Plaintiff’s analysis is not deserving of a response. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
I.          Legal Standard  
Responses to
interrogatories must be “as complete and straightforward as the information
reasonably available to the responding party permits.”  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2030.220(a).)  If an interrogatory cannot be answered completely, then
it must be answered to the extent possible.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2030.220(b).)  “If the responding party does not have personal knowledge
sufficient to respond fully to an interrogatory, that party shall so state, but
shall make a reasonable and good faith effort to obtain the information by
inquiry to other natural persons or organizations, except where the information
is equally available to the propounding party.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2030.220(c).) 
 
Code of Civil Procedure § 2030.300 provides that “[o]n
receipt of a response to interrogatories, the propounding party may move for an
order compelling a further response if the propounding party deems that” the
responses contain: (1) answers that are evasive or incomplete; (2)¿an
unwarranted or insufficiently specific exercise of an option to produce
documents in lieu of a substantive response; or (3) unmerited or overly
generalized objections.  (Code of Civ. Proc. §¿2030.300(a).) 
 
Notice of the motions must be
given within 45 days of service of the verified response, otherwise, the
propounding party waives any right to compel a further response.  (Code
Civ. Proc. §¿2030.300(c).) 
 
The motion must also be
accompanied by a meet and confer declaration “showing a reasonable and good
faith attempt at an informal resolution of each issue presented by the
motion.”  (Code of Civ. Proc. §§ 2016.040, 2030.300(b).) 
 
Finally, California Rules of
Court, rule 3.1345 requires that all motions or responses involving further
discovery contain a separate statement with the text of each request, the
response, and a statement of factual and legal reasons for compelling further
responses.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1345(a)(2)). 
 
 
 
II.        Discussion
 
A.
Notice of the Motion 
 
Notice
of the motion to compel further responses must be given “within 45 days of
service of the verified response, or any supplemental verified response, or any
specific later date to which the requesting party and the responding party have
agreed in writing,” otherwise, the propounding party waives any right to compel
a further response. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (c); § 2031.310, subd.
(d).) 
 
Here,
Defendant FF’s Interrogatories were served on Plaintiff on October 27, 2023. (Ara
Sahelian Decl., ¶2; Exh. A.) Defendant FF received Plaintiff’s responses on
November 13, 2023, and followed up with a meet and confer correspondence on
November 21, 2023. (Id. ¶ 5.) That same day Plaintiff responded that she
would not be amending her responses. (Id.; Exh. B.) The Motion was
timely filed and served on January 02, 2024.
 
B.
Meet and Confer Requirement 
 
Next,
the motion must be accompanied by a “meet and confer” declaration. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (b)(1); 2031.310, subd. (b)(2).) 
 
As
noted above, the supporting declaration demonstrates an effort by Defendant FF’s
counsel to obtain further responses from Plaintiff after service of the
original responses failed to yield supplemental responses. (Sahelian Decl. ¶ 5,
Exhs. A & B.) Thus, the meet and confer requirement, therefore, is
satisfied. 
 
C.
Separate Statement Requirement (CRC Rule 3.1345)
 
Finally,
Cal. Rules of Court Rule 3.1345 requires all motions or responses involving
further discovery to contain a separate statement with the text of each
request, the response, and a statement of factual and legal reasons for
compelling further responses. (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1345, subd. (a).) 
 
Here,
the Motion is accompanied by a separate statement. (01/02/24 Separate
Statement.) 
 
Defendant
FF moves to compel further responses to Special Interrogatories, Set One, Nos.
1-3 and Form Interrogatories Set One, Nos. 102.10, 106.2, 109.1, 111.1, 111.2,
112.4, and 112.5 because Plaintiff’s responses to the requests consisted only
of meritless objections. 
 
 
i.
Form Interrogatories 
 
Interrogatory
No. 102.10  
 
Interrogatory No. 102.10
requests that Plaintiff “Describe any physical, emotional, or
mental disability or condition that you had that may have contributed to the
occurrence of the INCIDENT.”
 
Defendant
FF argues that Plaintiff’s response to Form Interrogatory 102.10 is incomplete,
in that Plaintiff must describe the precise nature and extent of plaintiff’s
visual impairment. In opposition Plaintiff argues that she fully answered the
request by stating that the disability or condition was her blindness.
“Blindness substantially limits seeing” and is, therefore, a disability under
28 C.F.R. § 36.105(d)(2)(iii)(B). 
 
The Court finds this response to
be sufficient. Plaintiff provides specific details justifying her response as
she answers the interrogatory by stating her physical disability which is her
blindness. 
 
Thus, a further response without
objections is not required.  
 
Interrogatory
No. 106.2
 
Interrogatory
No. 106.2 requests that Plaintiff “Describe your present
complaints about each injury or illness related to the INCIDENT.”
 
Defendant
FF argues that Plaintiff’s response to Form Interrogatory 106.2 is incomplete.
Plaintiff must describe the precise nature and extent of each injury or illness
related to the incident since she is seeking damages. In opposition, Plaintiff
argues she truthfully answered that she has none and that Plaintiff can’t
fabricate a non-existing complaint about a non-existing injury or illness.
 
Responses to interrogatories must
be “as complete and straightforward as the information reasonably available to
the responding party permits.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.220, subd. (a).)
Plaintiff’s response is not straightforward and does not provide a sufficient
explanation for why she gave no response to the interrogatory. The information
sought is directly relevant as it may aid in determining liability in this
action.  
 
 A further response without
objections must be served.  
 
Interrogatory
No. 109.1
 
Interrogatory
No. 109.1 requests that Plaintiff “Describe each other item of
damage or cost that you attribute to the INCIDENT, stating the dates of
occurrence and the amount.”
 
Defendant
FF argues that Plaintiff’s response to Form Interrogatory 109.1 is
non-responsive, evasive and incomplete because it fails to describe each item
of damage or cost that Plaintiff attributes to the incident. Citing Civil Code
§ 52 required proof of actual damages defined as special and general damages. Defendant
FF further cites Beeman v. Burling which held that general damages refer
to damages from harm or loss that are subjective or not directly quantifiable.
In opposition, Plaintiff argues that she states that her damages incurred on
October 1, 2022, are those set by Civil Code section 52(a), part of the Unruh
Civil Rights Act, in the amount of $4,000. Plaintiff further argues that case
law provided in Koire v. Metro Car Wash and Molski v. M.J. Cable,
Inc. hold that Plaintiff need not prove actual damages to recover statutory
damages.  
 
The Court finds this response to
be sufficient. Plaintiff provides specific details justifying her response. However,
the Court finds Munson v. Del Taco, Inc. to be persuasive here
as the Supreme Court of California has held that a party only need prove that there
was discrimination based on disability. (Munson v. Del Taco, Inc. (2009)
46 Cal.4th 661.) Here, Plaintiff correctly states that she would not need to
provide any further answer because the request would not be relevant under
Civil Code § 52. 
 
Thus, a further response without
objections is not required.  
 
 
Interrogatory
Nos. 111.1 and 111.2
 
Interrogatory
No. 111.1 requests that Plaintiff “Identify each personal injury
claim that YOU OR ANYONE ACTING ON YOUR BEHALF have made within the past ten
years and the dates.”
 
Interrogatory
No. 111.2 requests that Plaintiff “State the case name, court,
and case number of each personal injury action or claim filed by YOU OR ANYONE
ACTING ON YOUR BEHALF within the past ten years.”
 
Defendant
FF argues that Plaintiff’s response to Form interrogatories 111.1 and 111.2 is
non-responsive, evasive and incomplete. The information regarding those other
claims and alleged harm suffered are relevant to Defendant FF because Unruh/ADA
claims are personal injury claims.  Defendant
FF asserts that without having the answers to form interrogatory no. 111.1, Defendant
FF is deprived of relevant information on Plaintiff’s past claims of injury or
harm. Plaintiff’s other claims are relevant to her present injury claim of
difficulty, at least for the purposes of discovery, and likely for trial. The
lawsuits are relevant to the present claim of personal injury damage. In
opposition, Plaintiff argues that she is not claiming any sort of personal
injury as a result of the incident that gave rise to this action. According to
Plaintiff’s Complaint, Plaintiff’s prayer for statutory damages under Civil
Code section 52(a) is based entirely upon her inability to learn about
Defendant FF’s menu items and not any sort of personal injury. The Unruh Civil
Rights Act, the statute at issue in this case, is a strict liability one and
requires no proof of damage, loss, or injury. (Civ. Code, § 52(a), “in no case
less than four thousand dollars ($4,000);” see Koire v. Metro Car Wash
(1985) 40 Cal.3d 24, 33-34.) Plaintiffs assert that Civil Code section 55.56
has no application to this case because it does not contain a
“construction-related accessibility claim.” 
 
The objections
asserted for these Interrogatories are not meritorious. First, Plaintiff’s
argument of relevance fails in this case as Defendant FF shows that the
responses are relevant as Plaintiff has claimed to have been harmed hundreds of
times by alleged access barriers. The information requested is directly
relevant as it goes to the determination of liability. Plaintiff has also not
justified her general objections.  
 
Thus, a further
response without objections must be served.
 
Interrogatory
No. 112.4 and 112.5
 
Interrogatory
No. 112.4 requests that Plaintiff “Identify each document or
photograph that describes or depicts any place, object, or individual
concerning the INCIDENT or plaintiff’s injuries, or attach a copy. (if you do
not attach a copy, state the name, ADDRESS, and telephone number of each PERSON
who had the original document or photograph or a copy.)”
 
Interrogatory
No. 112.5 requests that Plaintiff “Identify each other item of
physical evidence that shows how the INCIDENT occurred or the nature or extent
of plaintiff’s injuries, and state the location of each item, and the name,
ADDRESS, and telephone number of each PERSON who has it.” 
 
Defendant
FF argues that Plaintiff’s response to Form Interrogatory 112.4 is also
unresponsive and evasive, in that “all such items” are not individually
identified by describing or depicting any place, object, or individual
concerning the incident, or plaintiff’s injuries, on the documents Plaintiff
provided. Defendant
FF argues that Plaintiff’s response to Form Interrogatory 112.5 is likewise
unresponsive and evasive, in that “all such items” are not individually
identified that show how the incident occurred or the nature or extent of
plaintiff’s injuries. In opposition, Plaintiff states that the documents and
evidence in question consisted entirely of the digital and electronic files and
folders making up and constituting Defendant FF’s website at
www.cultsantamonica.com, as referenced in paragraph 4 of Plaintiff’s Complaint.
Plaintiff explains that since these e-files and e-folders could not be
physically “attached” to Plaintiff’s interrogatory responses, they were
produced electronically twice – first on November 13, 2023, and, again, on
November 14, 2023; defense counsel acknowledged receiving them on the latter
date. (Mehrban Decl., infra, ¶ 2.) Plaintiff further states that as it stands
today, Defendant FF has every item of evidence that Plaintiff has. (Id.)

 
The
Court finds the response sufficient as Plaintiff has stated that she has
provided the attachments electronically to Defendant FF and that it has
acknowledged receipt. 
 
Thus, a further response without
objections is not required.  
 
ii. Special
Interrogatories 
 
Special
Interrogatory No. 1 
 
Special
Interrogatory No. 1 requests that “For each lawsuit YOU
identified in YOUR response to Form Interrogatory 111.1, served concurrently,
state whether YOU provided testimony under oath, by way of a declaration, a
deposition, or trial.”
 
Defendant
FF argues that Plaintiff’s response is unacceptable. Although Plaintiff
objected that the information requested is irrelevant to the subject matter, and
did so to Form Interrogatory 111.1, Plaintiff has a duty to respond as
Plaintiff’s claim is a claim for personal injury. Form Interrogatory 111.1 has
been created by the Judicial Council for a reason. It is non-objectionable.
Therefore, any documents identified in 111.1 must be produced. Plaintiff does
not provide a reason for why she does not adequately respond to this Special
Interrogatory. 
 
Thus, a further
response without objections must be served.
 
Special
Interrogatory Nos. 2 and 3
 
Special
Interrogatory No. 2 requests that Plaintiff “State ALL FACTS
showing that you have returned to patronize the businesses YOU sued in the past
three years, in which YOU alleged that YOU were deterred from patronizing.”
 
Special
Interrogatory No. 3 requests that Plaintiff “Identify all
DOCUMENTS showing that you have returned to patronize the businesses YOU sued
in the past three years, in which YOU alleged that YOU were deterred from
patronizing.”
 
Defendant
FF argue that Plaintiff’s responses are incomplete because, similar to Defendant
FF’s argument for Special Interrogatory No. 1, Plaintiff has a duty to respond
as Plaintiff’s claim is a claim for personal injury, and the information on
other actions filed is relevant. The case information, including the number of
cases, locations, dates and times of the alleged past incidents (visits to the
properties), directly bear on Plaintiff’s travels, which will provide
circumstantial evidence relevant to her bona fide intent to return to the
businesses sued. Plaintiff’s intent to return to all the locations she has sued
presents a question of her state of mind and thus necessary to allow Defendant
FF to fully develop the relevant evidence in her case. Defendant FF
additionally argue that Plaintiff’s response to Special Interrogatory No. 3 is
evasive. Although Plaintiff objected that the information requested is
irrelevant to the subject matter, the information is relevant to Plaintiff’s
burden to prove she was and will be a bona fide customer of Defendant FF’s
business.
 
In
opposition, Plaintiff argues that the request goes beyond the scope of
discovery because there could be hundreds of establishments where plaintiff, or
anyone else, could have been “deterred” from patronizing over the course of
several years for any number of reasons. Moreover, Plaintiff points out that
her Complaint is based entirely upon her inability to access information
appearing on Defendant’s website, not about being deterred from patronizing
Defendant FF’s restaurant. 
 
The Court finds this response to
be sufficient. Plaintiff provides specific details justifying her objection
that Defendant FF request goes beyond the scope of discovery and expects her to
speculate future action. The Court fails to see how this would be relevant to
the action because the suit surrounds Plaintiff’s inability to access
information in her previous visitation of Defendant’s establishment and not
whether the previous experience has deterred her from desiring to visit
Defendant’s or other establishments. Plaintiff’s response is complete and
straightforward as required by the Discovery Act and Plaintiff has justified
her general objections in opposition.  
 
Thus, a further response without
objections is not required.  
 
D.
Sanctions
 
Sanctions
are appropriate and have been properly noticed. (See Code Civ. Proc., §§
2030.300, subd. (d); 2031.310, subd. (h).) 
 
Here,
Defendant FF requests that sanctions be entered against Defendant FF in the
amount of $1,749.15 based on an anticipated 3.75 hours of attorney time spent on
the motion at a rate of $450 per hour and $61.65 in court fees. (Sahelian Decl.
¶ 7.)
 
Plaintiff
requests sanctions in the amount of $3,550.00 per motion based on 7.1 hours of
attorney time billed at an hourly rate of $500.00. (Mehrban Decl., infra, ¶¶ 3
- 9.) 
 
Given that the
Motion is granted in part and denied in part, the Court does not find that Defendant
FF has unsuccessfully opposed the Motion. Moreover, Code of Civil
Procedure §§ 2023.010 and 2023.030 list the available discovery sanctions but
do not independently authorize a court to impose specific sanctions.  (City
of Los Angeles v. PricewaterhouseCoopers (2022) 84¿Cal.App.5th¿466,
503-504.) Thus, a court’s authority to impose the sanctions specified in
§§¿2023.010 and 2023.030 must arise from a statute governing a particular
method of discovery.  (Id.) Here, since neither party has
successfully made or opposed the motion, the Court order will not reach the
issue of sanctions. For this reason, the Court does not grant sanctions for
misuse of discovery solely based on § 2023.010.
 
 
III.       Conclusion 
            
            Defendant Full of Flavor,
LLC’s Motion to Compel Further Interrogatory Answers is GRANTED in part and
DENIED in part. 
 
Defendant Full of Flavor, LLC is ordered to provide further
responses to Form Interrogatories 106.2, 111.1 and 111.2 and Special
Interrogatory No. 1. 
 
Defendant Full of Flavor, LLC IS NOT required to
provide further responses to Form Interrogatory 102.10, 109.1, 112.4 and 112.5
and Special Interrogatories No. 2 and 3. 
 
Defendant FF’s Request for
Sanctions is DENIED. 
 
Plaintiff’s Request for Sanctions
is DENIED.
 
Moving Party is ordered to give notice.