  Case Number:  21STCV15897    Hearing Date:   November 12, 2024    Dept:  T Motion to Compel DiscoveryCase Name:                             Tatiana Bahadori v. Carol L. Guiteras, et al.Moving Party:                         Defendant City of Los Angeles Responding Party:                  Plaintiff Tatiana BahadoriTentative Ruling:                    Alternative Relief GrantedBACKGROUND This is a trip and fall personal injury case on a public sidewalk allegedly owned and maintained by Defendant. On June 18, 2021, Defendant served its Request for Production of Documents, Set One on Plaintiff. On August 6, 2021, after receiving extensions of time to respond, Plaintiff served her Responses. Request No. 16, asked Plaintiff to produce: “…all cellular messages, including but not limited by texts, messaging applications, Facebook messages, etc., made or received by YOU (Plaintiff) at the scene of the of the incident on the date of the incident.” Plaintiff’s written response to Request for Production No. 16 contained objections and stated, subject to those objections, that “Plaintiff will produce a copy of text messages with her sister at the scene of the subject incident upon location of same.” (Motion, p. 3.)MOVING PARTY POSITIONDefendant argues Plaintiff failed to comply with her discovery obligations, entitling Defendant to an order compelling compliance. (Motion, p. 4.)  Defendant also seeks monetary sanctions against Plaintiff in the amount of $600.00, which represents the time that the City Attorney’s Office expended in reviewing the file, preparing this motion, and appearing at the hearing. (Motion, p. 4-5.) OPPOSITIONPlaintiff argues that she cannot produce what she does not have, as she has changed phones multiple times, and her current phone does not contain text messages from the time requested by Defendant. (Opposition, p. 6.) On the same basis, Plaintiff also argues monetary sanctions are not warranted. (Id. at 7.) REPLYDefendant argues Plaintiff’s arguments do not permit her failure to produce and spoliation of evidence (Reply, p. 3.) Moreover, Defendant argues Plaintiff’s assertions about not possessing the text messages requested lack any firsthand statements. (Id. at 4.) Defendant also reasserts that monetary sanctions are warranted due to Plaintiff’s failure to comply with her discovery obligations, as well as spoliation of relevant evidence. (Id. at 5.)ANALYSISI.                Motion to Compel DiscoveryPursuant to CCP section 2031.320: (a) If a party filing a response to a demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling under Sections 2031.210, 2031.220, 2031.230, 2031.240, and 2031.280 thereafter fails to permit the inspection, copying, testing, or sampling in accordance with that party’s statement of compliance, the demanding party may move for an order compelling compliance. (b) Except as provided in subdivision (d), the court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel compliance with a demand, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust. Plaintiff is not obligated to make an inquiry of or to an independent third party for documents in their possession to provide compliant responses to a request for production of documentsHere, Plaintiff’s Opposition states that “Plaintiff’s counsel is informed and believes that at the time the request for production was served on June 18, 2021, Plaintiff was no longer in possession of the same cell phone she had at the time of the incident and thus would not have had custody or control of responsive text messages.” (See, Opposition, p. 6.) However, Plaintiff does not provide any statements or declaration from Plaintiff indicating this information is true and correct — but relies on Plaintiff’s counsel’s declaration that he “discussed the issue with Plaintiff and learned she has changed phones multiple times since the August 1, 2019 accident and that the current phone does not contain any text messages from August 1, 2019.” (Id.) This  hearsay statement regarding the fact that Plaintiff changed phones and does not possess the responsive messages is not sufficient based on Plaintiff’s original response.  At the same time, the Court finds Plaintiff’s counsel’s representation to the Court that efforts to locate the texts were unsuccessful is credible.  As such, the Court finds no grounds to order Plaintiff to produce something she does not have.  Based on the foregoing, Plaintiff does owe Defendant a verified and code compliant amended or supplemental response.  As such, the Court will grant alternative relief to Defendant’s motion ordering Plaintiff to provide such a response.  The Court does not reach the issue of Defendant’s spoliation concerns at this time and this ruling is without prejudice to Defendant raising the issue in the future.  The Court declines to grant Defendant’s request for sanctions, as the Court finds that the opposition was made with substantial justification, making the imposition of sanctions unjust. (Deck v. Developers Investment Co., Inc. (2023) 89 Cal.App.5th 808.)RULINGThe Court grants the following alternative relief: Plaintiff is ordered to serve code compliant and verified amended or supplemental responses addressing the texts within 20 days.  Defendant’s request for sanctions is denied.  This ruling is without prejudice to Defendant bringing a motion for evidentiary sanctions based on alleged spoliation of evidence.