  Case Number:  22STCV36742    Hearing Date:   April 8, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
A-Ju Realty, Inc., et al.,


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:
 


 
22STCV36742




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
Kee Whan Ha, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.


 


 




 


 


 


 



 
Hearing Date:
April 8, 2024
Department 54,
Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion for
Summary Adjudication;
Motion for
Summary Judgment, or in the alternative, Motion for Summary Adjudication
 
T/R:      PLAINTIFFS’ MOTION FOR SUMMARY ADJUDICATION IS DENIED.
 
DEFENDANTS’
MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT, OR IN THE ALTERNATIVE, MOTION FOR SUMMARY
ADJUDICATION IS DENIED.
 
DEFENDANTS TO NOTICE. 
 
If the parties
wish to submit on the tentative, please email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with notice to opposing
counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the day of the hearing.
 
The Court considers the moving papers, oppositions, and replies.
 
BACKGROUND
                
On February 7, 2023, Plaintiffs A-Ju Realty, Inc. and Yun Sam Chung
filed the operative first amended complaint against Defendants Kee Whan Ha,
Hannam Chain U.S.A., Inc., Jung Wan Koo, 1000 South Vermont, LLC, and Newkoa,
LLC, asserting 12 causes of action for breach of fiduciary duty, fraud,
conversion, accounting, and intentional infliction of emotional distress. 
 
Plaintiff A-Ju Realty, Inc. was a 22.5% member of Defendant 1000 South
Vermont, LLC, which owned certain real property in Koreatown, Los Angeles.
Plaintiffs allege that Defendant Ha, the manager of Vermont, represented that
Vermont was going to develop the property and would require significant capital
investment from Plaintiffs. Plaintiffs were not able to provide additional
capital and instead agreed to a buyout of A-Ju’s 22.5% interest in Vermont for
$3,000,000.00. Plaintiffs allege Defendants did not intend to develop the
property, but intended to sell the property to a developer, which it later did
for $40,000,000.00. Plaintiffs allege Defendants made these misrepresentations
to induce Plaintiffs to sell the membership interest in Vermont and keep the
profits of the sale for themselves.
 
EVIDENCE
OBJECTIONS
“In granting or denying a motion for summary
judgment or summary adjudication, the court need rule only on those objections
to evidence that it deems material to its disposition of the motion.” (CCP §
437c(q).) Plaintiffs’ objections to the Ha Declaration nos. 6, 7 and 12 are
OVERRULED. Defendants’ objections to the Chung Declaration are OVERRULED.
ANALYSIS
 
A. Plaintiffs’
Motion for Summary Adjudication
 
“In moving for summary judgment, a
‘plaintiff . . . has met’ his ‘burden of showing that there is no defense to a
cause of action if’ he ‘has proved each element of the cause of action
entitling’ him ‘to judgment on that cause of action.’”  (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001)
25 Cal.4th 826, 849 (as modified (July 11, 2001).)  The plaintiff “must present evidence that
would require a reasonable trier of fact to find any
underlying material fact more likely than not—otherwise, he would not be
entitled to judgment as a matter of law, but would have to
present his evidence to a trier of fact.” 
(Id., at 851, original italics.)
 
Once the plaintiff has met that burden,
the burden shifts to the defendant to show that a triable issue of one or more
material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense
thereto.  (CCP § 437c(p)(1).)  “There is a triable issue of material fact
if, and only if, the evidence would allow a reasonable trier of fact to find
the underlying fact in favor of the party opposing the motion in accordance
with the applicable standard of proof.” 
(Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at 850.)  The defendant “shall not rely upon
the allegations or denials of its pleadings to show that a triable issue
of material fact exists but, instead, shall set forth the specific facts
showing that a triable issue of material fact exists as to the cause
of action or a defense thereto.”  (CCP §
437c(p)(1).)
 
Plaintiff moves for summary
adjudication of the first cause of action for breach of fiduciary duty and
ninth cause of action for accounting. 
 
1.    Breach of Fiduciary Duty
 
The elements for a breach of fiduciary
duty cause of action are “the existence of a fiduciary relationship, its
breach, and damage proximately caused by that breach.” 
(Thomson v. Canyon (2011) 198
Cal.App.4th 594, 604.)  
 
Plaintiff presents evidence that Defendants owed Plaintiff a fiduciary
duty as members of the Company. Plaintiffs argue Defendants breached this duty
by failing to provide Plaintiffs with financial information of the company while
Plaintiffs were members. Plaintiffs assert they suffered damages in the form of
attorney’s fees for bringing this action. 
 
In opposition, Defendants assert the claim for breach of fiduciary duty
is barred both by the four-year statute of limitations for breach of fiduciary
duty and by the three-year statute for fraud. Plaintiffs executed the buyout
agreement in January 2018. Defendants present evidence that Plaintiffs approached
Defendants in April 2018 with a listing agreement to sell the Company’s
properties for approximately $49 million, with Plaintiffs as broker. Defendants
also present evidence that Plaintiffs knew Defendants potentially would sell
the properties in 2016 based on emails between Defendants and Plaintiffs’
former counsel. Defendants argue that Plaintiffs knew or should have known of
any potential claims no later than April 2018. Plaintiffs filed this action on
November 21, 2022. This is sufficient to create a triable issue of fact as to
Plaintiffs’ claim for breach of fiduciary duty.
 
In reply, Plaintiff asserts the claim accrued in February 2022 when
Defendants ultimately sold the property and caused Plaintiffs damages. This
does not defeat Defendants’ arguments. Plaintiffs allege Defendants failed to
provide financial information on the company and misrepresented its intent to
sell the properties owned by the company. Whether Plaintiffs were aware that
Defendants failed to provide financial information concerning the company while
Plaintiffs were members of the company, and therefore were aware of the claimed
breach of fiduciary duty, is a triable issue of fact.
 
Plaintiffs’ motion for summary adjudication of the claim for breach of
fiduciary duty is DENIED.
 
2.    Accounting
 
“A cause of action for accounting
requires a showing of a relationship between the plaintiff and the defendant,
such as a fiduciary relationship, that requires an accounting or a showing that
the accounts are so complicated they cannot be determined through an ordinary
action at law.” (Fleet v. Bank of America N.A. (2014) 229 Cal.App.4th
1403, 1413.) “‘An action for accounting is not available where the plaintiff
alleges the right to recover a sum certain or a sum that can be made certain by
calculation.’” (Id. (quoting Teselle v. McLoughlin (2009) 173
Cal.App.4th 156, 179).)
 
Plaintiffs seek an accounting of all profits from the Company sale of
the Property and of all the Company’s assets, liabilities, profits and losses,
as well as various business records of the Company beginning January 1, 2011.
Plaintiffs also request recission of the buyout agreement.
 
Plaintiffs allege that Defendants Hannam and the Company have possession
of and/or have converted funds and assets transferred to them from the
Company’s sale of the Property, without the consent or authorization of
Plaintiffs. (FAC ¶ 96.) Plaintiffs further allege that the exact amounts of the
funds from the sale of the Property transferred to Defendants and/or expended
by Defendants for their own personal use are unknown to Plaintiffs and can be
determined only by an accounting. (FAC ¶ 97.) 
 
Plaintiffs present evidence showing that Defendants owed Plaintiffs a
fiduciary duty as members of the Company. Plaintiffs also present evidence
showing Defendants did not provide Plaintiffs with financial statements or
financial information of the Company while a member. 
 
In opposition, Defendants assert the claim for accounting is derivative
of the breach of fiduciary duty and therefore fails. A claim for an accounting
is derivative as it must be based on establishing an underlying cause of
action. (Janis v. California State Lottery Com (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th
824, 834.) Defendants have established triable issues of fact as to the claim
for breach of fiduciary duty.
 
Plaintiffs’ motion for summary adjudication of the claim for accounting
is DENIED.               
 
B. Defendants’ Motion for Summary
Judgment, or in the alternative, Motion for Summary Adjudication
 
“The purpose of the law of summary
judgment is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties'
pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in
fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.
(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) Trial judges are required “to grant summary
judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably
deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or
evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that
the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” (Adler v.
Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)
 
As to each claim as framed by the
complaint, the defendant moving for summary judgment must satisfy the initial
burden of proof by presenting facts to negate an essential element, or to
establish a defense. (CCP § 437c(p)(2).) Once the defendant has met that
burden, “the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a triable issue of one
or more material facts exists as to that cause of action or a defense thereto.”
(Id.)  To establish a triable
issue of material fact, the party opposing the motion must produce “substantial
responsive evidence.” (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151,
166.) Courts “liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing
summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that
party.” (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384,
389.)
 
1.   
Fraud and Negligent Misrepresentation
The elements of fraud are: “(a)
misrepresentation (false representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (b)
knowledge of falsity (or ‘scienter’); (c) intent to defraud, i.e., to induce
reliance; (d) justifiable reliance; and (e) resulting damage.” (Charnay v.
Cobert (2006) 145 Cal.App.4th 170, 184.)
 
Defendants assert Plaintiffs’ claims for fraud fail because Defendants
did not make any misrepresentations and because they are barred by the statute of
limitations. Defendants present evidence showing they did not misrepresent
their intent to develop, rather than sell the subject properties. Defendants
also present evidence showing Plaintiffs were aware of offers to buy the
property as early as 2016 and 2017 through emails between Defendants and
Plaintiffs’ former attorney. Defendants argue that Plaintiffs were on notice of
the fraud claims no later than April 2018, when Plaintiffs approached
Defendants to sell the properties with Plaintiffs as broker. 
 
In opposition, Plaintiffs contend that before Plaintiffs sold their interests in the Company in 2018, the Ha
Defendants represented through verbal and written communications that, rather
than lease and franchise the existing businesses, they decided to develop the
Property. Plaintiffs represent that they did not know they had suffered actual
monetary damages until they learned that the Ha Defendants sold the Property in
approximately February 2022 or later. This is sufficient to create a triable
issue of fact as to fraud.
 
Defendants’ motion for
summary judgment is DENIED. Defendants’ motion for summary adjudication of the
claims for fraud is DENIED.
 
2.   
Remaining Claims
Defendants move for summary adjudication for
the remaining causes of action and claim for punitive damages based on the same
arguments and evidence as discussed with respect to the fraud claims. As
stated, Plaintiffs have established triable issues of fact as to whether
Defendants misrepresented their intent to develop the properties and as to when
Plaintiffs knew or should have known of their claims.
Defendants’ motion for summary adjudication
is DENIED.


 



Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles




 
A-Ju Realty, Inc., et al.,


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:
 


 
22STCV36742




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
Kee Whan Ha, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.


 


 




 


 


 


 



 
Hearing Date:
April 8, 2024
Department 54,
Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion for Sanctions
Moving Party: Plaintiffs
A-Ju Realty, Inc. and Yun Sam Chung 
Responding
Party: Defendants Kee Whan Ha, Hannam Chain U.S.A., Inc., Jung Wan Koo, 1000
South Vermont, LLC and Newkoa, LLC
 
T/R:      PLAINTIFFS’ MOTION FOR SANCTIONS IS DENIED.
 
PLAINTIFFS TO NOTICE. 
 
If the parties
wish to submit on the tentative, please email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with notice to opposing
counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the day of the hearing.
 
The Court considers the moving papers, opposition, and reply.
 
BACKGROUND
                
On February 7, 2023, Plaintiffs A-Ju Realty, Inc. and Yun Sam Chung
filed the operative first amended complaint against Defendants Kee Whan Ha,
Hannam Chain U.S.A., Inc., Jung Wan Koo, 1000 South Vermont, LLC, and Newkoa,
LLC, asserting 12 causes of action for breach of fiduciary duty, fraud,
conversion, accounting, and intentional infliction of emotional distress. 
 
Plaintiff A-Ju Realty, Inc. was a 22.5% member of Defendant 1000 South
Vermont, LLC, which owned certain real property in Koreatown, Los Angeles.
Plaintiffs allege that Defendant Ha, the manager of Vermont, represented that
Vermont was going to develop the property and would require significant capital
investment from Plaintiffs. Plaintiffs were not able to provide additional
capital and instead agreed to a buyout of A-Ju’s 22.5% interest in Vermont for
$3,000,000.00. Plaintiffs allege Defendants did not intend to develop the
property, but intended to sell the property to a developer, which it later did
for $40,000,000.00. Plaintiffs allege Defendants made these misrepresentations
to induce Plaintiffs to sell the membership interest in Vermont and keep the
profits of the sale for themselves.
 
ANALYSIS
 
It is a misuse of the discovery process to fail “to respond or to submit
to an authorized method of discovery,” (CCP § 2023.010(d)) or to disobey “a
court order to provide discovery.”  (CCP
§ 2023.010(g).)  Under CCP § 2023.030,
courts have the authority to issue monetary sanctions, evidentiary sanctions,
or terminating sanctions after giving parties proper notice and the opportunity
to be heard.
 
In determining whether sanctions should be imposed, courts consider the
totality of the circumstances, including the “conduct of the party to determine
if the actions were willful; the detriment to the propounding party; and the
number of formal and informal attempts to obtain the discovery.”  (Lang v. Hochman (2000) 77 Cal. App.
4th 1225, 1246.)   “The penalty should be
appropriate to the dereliction, and should not exceed that which is required to
protect the interests of the party entitled to but denied discovery.”  (Wilson v. Jefferson (1985) 163 Cal.
App. 3d 952, 959.)
 
Plaintiffs move for terminating, evidence and monetary sanctions against
Defendants on the ground that they have violated the Court’s February 2, 2024 order
requiring further responses to Plaintiffs’ requests for production. Plaintiffs
assert that Defendants’ supplemental production is insufficient. In opposition,
Defendants assert they have complied with the Court’s order, providing more
than 1,000 pages of documents on February 6, 2024, February 22, 2024, and March
13, 2024. 
 
As Defendants have provided supplemental responses, there is
insufficient evidence of a willful failure to comply with the Court’s orders. Discovery
sanctions are not appropriate here. Plaintiff’s motion is DENIED.


 