 Case Number:  23STCV25542    Hearing Date:   April 8, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Bridgeland Resources, LLC,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23STCV25542




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
Pacific Coast Energy Company, LP,


 
 
 
Defendant.


 


 




 


 


 


 



 
Hearing Date: April 8, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Demurrer to First Amended Complaint
Moving Party: Defendant Pacific Coast Energy
Company, LP 
Responding Party: Plaintiff Bridgeland Resources, LLC
 
T/R:      DEFENDANT’S DEMURRER IS OVERRULED.
 
DEFENDANT TO FILE AND SERVE AN ANSWER
TO THE FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT WITHIN 30 DAYS OF NOTICE OF RULING.
 
DEFENDANT TO NOTICE. 
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please
email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing.
The Court considers the moving papers,
opposition, and reply.
 
BACKGROUND
                
On December 29, 2023, Plaintiff filed
the operative first amended complaint against Defendant, asserting nine causes
of action for breach of contract, breach of the covenant of good faith and fair
dealing, lien foreclosure, cancellation of instruments, tortious interference,
and declaratory and injunctive relief. The parties jointly operate oil fields. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
A demurrer to a complaint may be taken to the
whole complaint or to any of the causes of action in it.  (CCP § 430.50(a).)  A demurrer challenges only the legal
sufficiency of the complaint, not the truth of its factual allegations or the
plaintiff's ability to prove those allegations. 
(Picton v. Anderson Union High Sch. Dist. (1996) 50 Cal.
App. 4th 726, 732.)  The court must treat
as true the complaint's material factual allegations, but not contentions,
deductions or conclusions of fact or law. 
(Id. at 732-33.)  The
complaint is to be construed liberally to determine whether a cause of action
has been stated.  (Id. at 733.)
 
A. First and Second Causes of Action
for Breach of Joint Operating Agreement
 
“The standard elements of a claim for breach
of contract are: ‘(1) the contract, (2) plaintiff’s performance or excuse for
nonperformance, (3) defendant’s breach, and (4) damage to plaintiff
therefrom.’” (Wall Street Network, Ltd. v. New York Times Co. (2008) 164
Cal.App.4th 1171, 1178.)
Defendant demurs to the first and
second causes of action on the grounds that Plaintiff has failed to allege
Plaintiff has performed under the contract. Defendant asserts Plaintiff did not
comply with the requirement to mediate before this case was filed and seek
reimbursement for expenses that Plaintiff failed to timely submit to Defendant
under the contract. In opposition, Plaintiff asserts that whether mediation
occurred prior to the filing of the complaint is outside the four corners of
the complaint. Plaintiff also asserts that any untimely invoices are not
material breaches.
 
The Court is limited on demurrer to the
facts of the complaint. Plaintiff alleges that it performed its obligations
under the contract; the Court must accept this as true at this stage.
Defendant’s arguments require consideration of evidence and facts not before
the Court.
 
The demurrer to the first and second
causes of action is OVERRULED.
 
B. Third Cause of Action for Breach of
the Settlement Agreement
 
Defendant demurs to the third cause of
action for breach of the settlement agreement on the grounds that Plaintiff
failed to perform under the contract and that the provision in settlement
agreement allegedly breached by Defendant is ambiguous. 
 
Plaintiff alleges it complied with the
settlement agreement. Plaintiff alleges Defendant breached the agreement by
recording a lien before the time allowed under the agreement. That Defendant has
a different interpretation of the applicability of the time limits does not
defeat this a cause of action.
 
The demurrer to the third cause of
action is OVERRULED.
 
C. Fifth Cause of Action for Lien
Foreclosure
 
Defendant asserts the fifth cause of
action fails because the liens are for amounts incurred more than six months
before the liens were recorded under CCP §1203.52. In opposition, Plaintiff
argues the demurrer cannot be sustained on this basis because a demurrer must
dispose of an entire cause of action. Defendant’s argument applies to some but
not all the liens at issue under the fifth cause of action. The Court agrees.
 
The demurrer to the fifth cause of
action is OVERRULED.
 
D. Sixth, Eighth and Ninth Causes of
Action for Cancellation of Instruments, Declaratory Relief, and Injunction
 
Defendant demurs to the sixth, eighth
and ninth causes of action on the grounds that they are derivative of the
causes of action for breach of contract. As discussed, Plaintiff has
sufficiently alleged claims for breach of contract. 
 
The demurrer to the sixth, eighth, and
ninth causes of action is OVERRULED.
 
 