 Case Number:  BC453138    Hearing Date:   March 20, 2024    Dept:  34 SUBJECT:        Motion to Compel Full Satisfaction of
Judgment
 
Moving Party: Judgment
Debtor John Andrade 
Resp. Party:    Judgment Creditor Kavoos Rostami
 
 
Judgment Debtor’s Motion to Compel Full
Satisfaction of Judgment is DENIED. 
 
Judgment Debtor’s Request for Sanctions and
Attorney’s Fees is DENIED. 
 
BACKGROUND:
 
        More than thirteen years ago, on January
18, 2011, Plaintiff Kavoos Rostami filed his Complaint against Defendant John
Andrade on causes of action of book account, goods sold and delivered, and
account stated.
 
        On August 15, 2011, the Court entered
Judgment in favor of Plaintiff and against Defendant in the total amount of
$89,304.44. 
 
        On March 15, 2021, Plaintiff (now
“Judgment Creditor”) filed Judicial Council Form EJ-190, Application for and
Renewal of Judgment. 
 
        Three years of post-judgment motion
practice has ensued. 
 
        On February 20, 2024, Defendant (now
“Judgment Debtor”) filed his Motion to Compel Full Satisfaction of Judgment
(“Motion”). In support of his Motion, Judgment Debtor concurrently filed: (1)
Memorandum of Points and Authorities; (2) Declaration of John Andrade; (3)
Declaration of Nataly de la Bastida; (4) Declaration of James A. Blanco; (5)
Declaration of David Focil; and (6) Compendium of Evidence. 
 
        On March 6, 2024, Judgment Creditor
filed his Opposition to the Motion. In support of his Opposition, Judgment Creditor
concurrently filed: (1) Exhibit List; (2) Declaration of Kavoos Rostami; (3)
Beth Chrisman; (4) Declaration of Timothy Krantz; (5) Request for Judicial
Notice; (6) Evidentiary Objections; and (7) Proof of Service. 
 
        On March 15, 2024, Judgment Debtor filed
his Reply in support of his Motion. Judgment Debtor concurrently filed: (1)
Reply Declaration of David Focil; (2) Declaration of Edwin Gavilanez; and (3)
Evidentiary Objections. 
 
        On March 18, 2024, Judgment Creditor
filed its Objection to the Reply. 
 

ANALYSIS:
 
I.         
Evidentiary
Objections
 
A.      Judgment Creditor’s Evidentiary Objections
 
Judgment Creditor filed evidentiary objections to portions of the declaration
of Nataly de la Bastida.  The following
are the Court’s rulings on these objections. 
 




Objection






1


SUSTAINED





2


SUSTAINED





3


 


OVERRULED




4


 


OVERRULED




5


 


OVERRULED




 
 
        Judgment Creditor also filed an
objection to Judgment Debtor’s Reply on the basis that it was filed late. The
Court agrees that the Reply was filed late, but the Court has considered it
anyway.
 
        The Objection to the Reply is OVERRULED.
 
B.      Judgment Debtor’s Evidentiary Objections
 
Judgment Debtor filed an evidentiary objection to a portion of Judgment
Creditor’s evidence. The following is the Court’s ruling on this objection. 
 




Objection


 





1


 


OVERRULED




 
II.      
Request for
Judicial Notice
 
Judgment Creditor requests that the Court take judicial notice of:
 
(1)      
A minute order in
this matter; 
 
(2)      
The Court docket
in this matter; and
 
(3)      
A Special Warranty
Deed recorded on January 25, 2021 in the Public Records of Miami-Dad County. 
 
The Court DENIES as superfluous judicial
notice of the first two items. Any party that wishes to draw the Court’s
attention to an item filed in this action may simply cite directly to the
document by execution and filing date. (See Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1110(d).)
 
        The Court GRANTS judicial notice of the
third item.
 
III.    
Legal Standard
 
“A money judgment
may be satisfied by payment of the full amount required to satisfy the judgment
or by acceptance by the judgment creditor of a lesser sum in full satisfaction
of the judgment.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 724.010, subd. (a).)
 
“Where a money
judgment is satisfied by payment to the judgment creditor by check or other
form of noncash payment that is to be honored upon presentation by the judgment
creditor for payment, the obligation of the judgment creditor to give or file
an acknowledgment of satisfaction of judgment arises only when the check or
other form of noncash payment has actually been honored upon presentation for
payment.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 724.010, subd. (c).)
 
“When a money
judgment is satisfied, the judgment creditor immediately shall file with the
court an acknowledgment of satisfaction of judgment. This section does not
apply where the judgment is satisfied in full pursuant to a writ.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 724.030.)
 
“If a money judgment
has been satisfied, the judgment debtor, the owner of real or personal property
subject to a judgment lien created under the judgment, or a person having a
security interest in or a lien on personal property subject to a judgment lien
created under the judgment may serve personally or by mail on the judgment
creditor a demand in writing that the judgment creditor do one or both of the
following:
 
“(1) File an acknowledgment of satisfaction
of judgment with the court.
 
“(2) Execute, acknowledge, and deliver an
acknowledgment of satisfaction of judgment to the person who made the demand.”
 
(Code Civ. Proc., §
724.050, subd. (a).)
 
“If the judgment
has been satisfied, the judgment creditor shall comply with the demand not
later than 15 days after actual receipt of the demand.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
724.050, subd. (c).)
 
“If the judgment
creditor does not comply with the demand within the time allowed, the person
making the demand may apply to the court on noticed motion for an order
requiring the judgment creditor to comply with the demand. The notice of motion
shall be served on the judgment creditor. Service shall be made personally or
by mail. If the court determines that the judgment has been satisfied and that
the judgment creditor has not complied with the demand, the court shall either
(1) order the judgment creditor to comply with the demand or (2) order the
court clerk to enter satisfaction of the judgment.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
724.050, subd. (d).)
 
“If the judgment
has been satisfied and the judgment creditor fails without just cause to comply
with the demand within the time allowed, the judgment creditor is liable to the
person who made the demand for all damages sustained by reason of such failure
and shall also forfeit one hundred dollars ($100) to such person. Liability
under this subdivision may be determined in the proceedings on the motion
pursuant to subdivision (d) or in an action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 724.050,
subd. (e).)
 
“In an action or
proceeding maintained pursuant to this chapter, the court shall award
reasonable attorney’s fees to the prevailing party.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 724.080.)
 
“The damages
recoverable pursuant to this chapter are not in derogation of any other damages
or penalties to which an aggrieved person may be entitled by law.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 724.090.)
 
IV.     
Discussion
 
A. 
    The
Parties’ Arguments
 
Judgment Debtor moves the Court to: (1) order
Judgment Creditor to execute and record a satisfaction of judgment and transmit
a copy of the same to Judgment Debtor; (2) award Judgment Debtor $100.00
pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 724.050, subdivision (e); and (3)
award Judgment Debtor attorney’s fees and costs of $16,725.00 pursuant to Civil
Code section 724.080. (Memorandum, p. 12:2–6.)
 
Judgment Debtor argues: (1) that Judgment
Creditor breached the express terms of a valid verbal and written agreement
between the Parties; (2) that, alternatively, the Parties’ conduct created an
implied contract obligating Judgment Creditor to acknowledge a full
satisfaction of judgment; (3) that Judgment Creditor’s nearly decade-long
post-judgment conduct strongly supports Judgment Debtor’s claims; and (4) that
Judgment Debtor is entitled to attorney’s fees. (Memorandum, pp. 7:2–3,
8:21–23, 11:1–2, 11:17.)
 
Judgment Creditor disagrees, arguing that,
for a variety of reasons, Judgment Debtor has not met his burden of proof.
(Opposition, p. 4:6.)
 
In his Reply, Judgment Debtor argues: (1)
that Judgment Creditor’s sworn testimony contains omissions that critically
undermine his contentions; (2) that the Opposition mischaracterizes the
evidentiary record; and (3) that Judgment Debtor has met his burden of proof.
(Reply, pp. 2:20–21, 4:1–2, 5:13.)
 
B.         
Whether the Parties have an Oral Post-Judgment Agreement from 2012 and/or
a Written Post-Judgment Agreement Dated January 13, 2013
 
1. 
    Legal
Standard
 
“An accord is an
agreement to accept, in extinction of an obligation, something different from
or less than that to which the person agreeing to accept is entitled.” (Civ.
Code, § 1521.)
 
“Though the
parties to an accord are bound to execute it, yet it does not extinguish the
obligation until it is fully executed.” (Civ. Code, § 1522.)
 
“Acceptance, by
the creditor, of the consideration of an accord extinguishes the obligation,
and is called satisfaction.” (Civ. Code, § 1523.)
 
“A court may order entry of satisfaction of judgment
whenever a judgment is satisfied in fact.” (George S. Nolte Consulting Civil
Eng’rs, Inc. v. Magliocco (1979) 93 Cal.App.3d 190, 193 [citations omitted].)

 
“Although section 724.050 does not expressly state
satisfaction of the judgment must be shown ‘in fact’ we conclude a reasonable
reading of the section requires the trial court find actual satisfaction of the
judgment.” (Pierson v. Honda (1987) 194 Cal.App.3d 1411, 1414, n. 4.) 
 
“Except
as otherwise provided by law, a party has the burden of proof as to each fact
the existence or nonexistence of which is essential to the claim for relief or
defense that he is asserting.” (Evid. Code, § 500.) 
 
“In
a civil case the party with the burden of proof must convince the trier of fact
that its version of a fact is more likely than not the true version. Stated
another way, it requires the burdened party ‘to convince the trier of fact that
the existence of a particular fact is more probable than its nonexistence--a
degree of proof usually described as proof by a preponderance of the evidence.’”
(Beck Dev. Co. v. S. Pac. Transp. Co. (1996) 44 Cal.App.4th 1160, 1205,
quoting Cal. Law Revision Com. com., 29B pt. 1 West’s Ann. Evid. Code (1995) §
500, p. 553.)
 
2. 
    The
Evidence Submitted by the Parties
 
a.  
    Judgment
Debtor’s Evidence
 
Judgment Debtor claims that the Parties had a
written post-judgment agreement, signed January 13, 2013 by Judgment Creditor.
(Compendium Evidence, Exh. 1.) The purported agreement states the following:
 
“As of January 1st
2013 Besttrade Flower has come to an agreement to pay the amount of
$25,000 to K.R. Floral, Inc., in the form of cash
and/or flowers. K.R. Floral, Inc. will receive a shipment on a weekly basis of:
 
·      
10 full boxes Color assorted ’60-’70
·      
10 full boxes Freedom ’60-’70
·      
5 ½ boxes of Vendela ’50
 
“This product will
arrive in Los Angeles on an agreed price between both parties, before shipment
is made. All products will be in good quality, if there are any claims it will
be made within 24 hours of arrival. This agreement will remain until balance is
paid in full. 
 
“Attentively,
 
“[Signature]
 
“Karl Rostami
“K.R. Floral, Inc.
“Owner”
 
(Compendium of Evidence, Exh. 1.)
 
        According to Judgment
Debtor: (1) sometime in late 2012, he approached Judgment Creditor at Judgment
Creditor’s flower shop with the intent of settling the Judgment; (2) at this
time, the Parties came to an agreement where Judgment Debtor would send
Judgment Creditor approximately $25,000 worth of roses (based on wholesale
prices) over the course of 2013 in exchange for full satisfaction of the
Judgment, with no monetary payments to be made to Judgment Debtor for the rose
shipments; (3) on or around January 5, 2013, Judgment Debtor sent the first
trial run shipment of roses, which Judgment Creditor accepted; (4) Judgment
Creditor drafted a written version of the Parties’ oral agreement; (5) on
January 13, 2013, Judgment Debtor returned to Judgment Creditor’s store, was
shown the written agreement by Judgment Creditor, saw Judgment Creditor sign
the written agreement, confirmed that it was an accurate reflection of their
prior oral agreement, and left the store with the original copy of the written
agreement; and (6) Judgment Debtor continued shipping flowers to Judgment
Creditor through 2013, which were never refused and ended up at approximately
$25,000.00 worth of flowers. (Decl. Andrade, ¶¶ 7–17.)
 
        Judgment Debtor submits
additional evidence in support of his claims. (While the Court has considered all
of the evidence, only the most relevant and probative evidence is discussed
below.)
 
Nataly de la Bastida (Judgment Debtor’s
Office Manager) claims she communicated regularly with Judgment Creditor via
phone calls and emails throughout 2013. (Decl. de la Bastida, ¶¶ 3, 9.) 
 
James A. Blanco (Judgment Debtor’s Forensic
Document Examiner) contends that the signature on the purported written
agreement is consistent with the handwriting of Judgment Creditor. (Decl.
Blanco, ¶¶ 2, 4–7 and Exh. A.) 
 
Judgment Debtor provides copies of the
invoices sent to Judgment Creditor throughout 2013, as well as copies of the
related airway bills of lading for these flower shipments. (Compendium of
Evidence, Exhs. 2–3.)
 
Edwin Gavilanez is the General Manager of
Champion Air Cargo del Ecuador, the company Judgment Debtor allegedly used for
certain transports of flowers.  Edwin
Gavilanez declares that his company coordinated with Judgment Creditor’s
company and made flower shipments in January, March, and July 2013. (Decl.
Gavilanez, ¶¶ 3, 7.) Notably, the Declaration of Edwin Gavilanez was
concurrently filed with the Reply.
 
b.  
    Judgment
Creditor’s Evidence
 
        Judgment Creditor disputes
that he agreed to the purported oral and written agreements claimed by Judgment
Debtor. According to Judgment Creditor: (1) Judgment Creditor had a random
meeting with Judgment Debtor in approximately March 2013, which happened when
Judgment Creditor saw Judgment Debtor outside a coffee shop near other stores
where Judgment Creditor was collecting money owed to him from other customers;
(2) Judgment Creditor approached Judgment Debtor, sat with him in the coffee
shop, and told him that he needed to pay the Judgment; (3) Judgment Debtor
asked if Judgment Creditor would consider taking flowers as full payment on the
Judgment, but Judgment Creditor rejected this offer; (4) Judgment Creditor then
offered to accept half the Judgment value in roses and half the Judgment value
in cash or check, which Judgment Debtor accepted; (5) Judgment Creditor
received the first batch of roses after this discussion in the first week of
April 2013; (6) Judgment Creditor continued to receive roses until the end of
2013; (7) Judgment Creditor never spoke to Nataly de la Bastida and does not
recall receiving any emails from her; (8) Judgment Debtor never came to
Judgment Creditor’s shop on January 13, 2013; and (9) Judgment Creditor did not
write the purported written agreement dated January 13, 2013, did not sign it,
and did not see it until 2023 (when his attorney showed it to him). (Decl.
Rostami, ¶¶ 4–7.)
 
        Judgment Creditor submits
additional evidence in support of his claims. Among the other evidence
presented, Beth Chrisman (Judgment Creditor’s Certified Questioned Document
Examiner) concludes that Judgment Creditor did not sign the purported written
agreement dated January 13, 2013. (Decl. Chrisman, ¶¶ 1, 3–5 and Exh. A.)
 
3. 
    Inconsistencies
in the Evidence
 
As stated above, the Court has considered all of the evidence
submitted. There are inconsistencies with the evidence submitted by both
Parties. 
 
a.  
    Inconsistencies
with Judgment Debtor’s Evidence
 
There are multiple inconsistencies or lacunae with the claims of
Judgment Debtor and his declarants. 
 
i.           
Declaration of
Nataly de la Bastida
 
Nataly de la Bastida claims that she spoke with Judgment Creditor
multiple times over the phone and by email. 
 
But there is no documentary evidence that supports these claims.
Despite a lengthy amount of time for discovery, no phone records or email
chains have been provided to the Court to corroborate Ms. de la Bastida’s
claim. 
 
The lack of documentary evidence on this claim, coupled with a lack of
explanation for why corroborating phone records and emails were not also
provided diminishes Nataly de la Bastida’s credibility.
 
ii.         
Declaration of
James Blanco
 
James Blanco’s opinion is that “[g]iven all of the observed
similarities, the handwriting features observed in the Exhibit 3 questioned
signature are consistent with and do represent the natural, normal and genuine
handwriting characteristics of [Judgment Creditor] as demonstrated by his
Exhibit 4 known specimen signatures. Consequently, [Judgment Creditor] likely
wrote the Exhibit 3 questioned “K. Rostami” signature.” 
 
However, James Blanco’s report is, at best, incomplete. Specifically,
James Blanco focuses heavily on the “similarities” of the signatures but does
not consider the “differences” of the signatures. Rather, the only discussion
of “differences” comes in general discussions about how signatures have
“writing variations,” not how the signature at issue is different from the
other samples of Judgment Creditor’s signature. 
 
The lack of discussion of these differences — many of which appear
obvious to the Court’s untrained eye — diminishes the credibility of James
Blanco and his opinion in this matter. 
 
iii.        
Declaration of
Edwin Gavilanez
 
Judgment Debtor claims that the first batch of roses was sent to
Judgment Creditor on or around January 5, 2013. In support of this claim,
Judgment Debtor includes an invoice dated January 4, 2013 that indicates such a
shipment did occur.  
 
However, in contrast to the later invoices, there is no accompanying
airway bill of lading (which start as of April 3, 2013). (Id. at Exh. 3,
p. 10 [actual page 36 of 98].) 
 
Judgment Debtor attempts to paper this gap by providing the Declaration
of Edwin Gavilanez, which claims another shipping company (Champion Air Cargo
del Ecuador Cia. Ltda.) coordinated with Judgment Creditor and made shipments
in January, March, and July 2013. (Decl. Gavilanez, ¶ 7.) 
 
But there are two issues here. 
 
First, the general rule of motion practice is that “new evidence is not
permitted with reply papers.” (Jay v. Mahaffey (2013) 218 Cal.App.4th
1522, 1537.) The Court does not accept the Declaration of Edwin Gavilanez,
which clearly should have been filed with the motion. (Id. at p. 1538
[“Thus, while the trial court had discretion to admit the reply declarations,
it was not an abuse of discretion to decline to do so.”].)
 
Second, even if the Court did accept the Declaration of Edwin
Gavilanez, similar issues arise. The Declaration of Edwin Gavilanez does not
include phone records or emails that would support his claim of coordinating
shipments with Judgment Creditor, and it does not include an airway bill of
lading or other documentary evidence that supports his claims regarding
shipments in January, March, and July 2013. The lack of such evidence
diminishes the credibility of Edwin Gavilanez. 
 
iv.        
Declaration of
John Andrade
 
Among other things, Judgment Debtor claims: (1) that he made an oral
agreement (and, subsequently, a written agreement) with Judgment Creditor to
exchange $25,000.00 worth of roses (based on wholesale prices) over the course
of 2013 in exchange for full satisfaction of the Judgment; and (2) that his
office provided Judgment Creditor with copies of all shipment invoices and
airway bills of lading via email. (Decl. Andrade, ¶¶ 7–9, 14.)
 
There are two inconsistencies here. 
 
First, Judgment Debtor provides the Court with certain invoices and
airway bills of lading. However, Judgment Debtor does not provide the Court
with the emails or other documentary evidence that would indicate Judgment
Creditor was actually sent these invoices and airway bills of lading. Again,
given the recent period of post-judgment discovery, the lack of documentary
evidence to support that Judgment Creditor was actually emailed these invoices
and airway bills of lading through 2013 diminishes Judgment Debtor’s
credibility. 
 
Second, Judgment Debtor’s claims are called into question because of
issues with the purported written agreement.
 
The authenticity of the purported written agreement is in question.
Judgment Creditor claims that he did not write this document, sign it, or see
it until last year. The Parties submit dueling opinions by handwriting experts.
The Court has already discussed how the credibility of James Blanco and his
opinion is greatly diminished because he did not discuss the differences
between this signature and other signatures by Judgment Creditor. In contrast,
the Court finds the Declaration of Beth Chrisman and her opinion to be highly
credible. (Decl. Chrisman, ¶ 5 and Exh. A.) This is because this expert’s
report discusses in specific detail both the similarities and the differences
between this signature and other signatures by Judgment Creditor. (Id. at
Exh. A, pp. 2–3.)
 
Judgment Creditor’s handwriting expert determined that Judgment Debtor
“did not sign the questioned agreement.” (Decl. Chrisman, Exh. A, p. 1.) The
Court found her opinion to be highly credible. Judgment Debtor’s handwriting
expert determined that Judgment Creditor “likely wrote” the signature on the
agreement. (Decl. Blanco, Exh. A, p. 3.) As stated above, the Court found this
opinion to be greatly diminished in credibility. Furthermore, it is noteworthy
to the Court that the heading on the purported written agreement does not match
any other documents created by Judgment Creditor — including the heading on the
original Statement upon which this matter began. (See Complaint, Exh. 1.)
 
After considering all of the evidence on this point, the Court finds by
a preponderance of the evidence that Judgment Creditor did not sign the
purported written agreement. 
 
Judgment Debtor claims that he saw Judgment Creditor sign this
document. The Court finds Judgement Debtor’s claim is not credible. 
 
b.         
Inconsistencies
with Judgment Creditor’s Evidence
 
There are minor issues with the claims of Judgment Creditor. These
primarily arise from issues that Judgment Creditor either did not address or
was vague about. 
 
The first concern involves Judgment Creditor’s post-2013 delay in
further seeking to enforce or renew the Judgment. Specifically, the Court has
not been made aware of why Judgment Creditor waited seven or eight years after receiving
a partial payment from Judgment Debtor before taking any efforts to enforce or
renew the Judgment. While there is not anything inherently wrong with this
behavior, it seems odd when the evidence at hand indicates that he was
relatively active in seeking the Judgment. 
 
The second inconsistency involves the invoices from April 2013 to
December 2013. Judgment Creditor declares that he “never agreed to accept
$25,000 worth of roses as full payment on the Judgment nor did I prepare or
sign the 1/13/2013 letter.” (Decl. Rostami, ¶ 8.) But Judgment Creditor does
not definitively state whether he did or did not receive the invoices, whether
by email or along with the flower shipments. Not agreeing to accept this
payment is different from not receiving a potential accord via invoices.
Judgment Creditor’s lack of candor on this issue slightly diminishes his
credibility. 
 
Overall, these issues were relatively minor. The Court finds Judgment
Creditor’s testimony to be of somewhat credibile. 
 
4.      Discussion
 
“Except
as otherwise provided by law, a party has the burden of proof as to each fact
the existence or nonexistence of which is essential to the claim for relief or
defense that he is asserting.” (Evid. Code, § 500.) 
 
“In
a civil case the party with the burden of proof must convince the trier of fact
that its version of a fact is more likely than not the true version. Stated
another way, it requires the burdened party ‘to convince the trier of fact that
the existence of a particular fact is more probable than its nonexistence--a
degree of proof usually described as proof by a preponderance of the
evidence.’” (Beck Dev. Co., supra, 44 Cal.App.4th at p. 1205,
quotation omitted.)
 
        Here, Judgment Debtor claims
that the Parties entered into an oral agreement in late 2012. Judgment Debtor
further claims that the Parties entered into a written agreement on January 13,
2013. Judgment debtor has the burden of proof as to these claims. (Evid. Code,
§ 500; Beck Dev. Co., supra, 44 Cal.App.4th at p. 1205.)
 
        For the reasons discussed
above, Judgment Creditor’s testimony is of moderate credibility, and Judgment
Creditor’s expert’s opinion is highly credible. In contrast, for the reasons
discussed above, the evidence adduced by Judgment Debtor is not particularly credible.   
 
Upon considering all of the evidence
submitted in this matter, the Court determines that Judgment Debtor does not
meet his burden to show that there was an oral agreement and/or a written
agreement. 
 
        The Court finds that the
Parties did not enter into either of these purported agreements. Therefore,
there cannot be satisfaction based on either of these mere allegations. 
 
C.         
Whether the Parties have an Accord or an Implied-in-Fact Contract Based
on the Invoices
 
1. 
    Legal
Standard
 
“Part performance
of an obligation, either before or after a breach thereof, when expressly
accepted by the creditor in writing, in satisfaction, or rendered in pursuance
of an agreement in writing for that purpose, though without any new
consideration, extinguishes the obligation.” (Civ. Code, § 1524.)
 
“It is the public policy
of this State, in the best interests of the taxpayer and of the litigant, to
encourage fair dealing and to promote justice by reducing litigated matters to
the lowest level of jurisdiction. In case of a dispute over total money due on
a contract and it is conceded by the parties that part of the money is due, the
debtor may pay, without condition, the amount conceded to be due, leaving to
the other party all remedies to which he might otherwise be entitled as to any
balance claimed. If any conditions are attached to the payment, this section
shall not be deemed to have limited the remedies available to the other party
under other provisions of law on the original amount claimed.” (Civ. Code, §
1525.)
 
“Where a claim is disputed or
unliquidated and a check or draft is tendered by the debtor in settlement
thereof in full discharge of the claim, and the words ‘payment in full’ or
other words of similar meaning are notated on the check or draft, the
acceptance of the check or draft does not constitute an accord and satisfaction
if the creditor protests against accepting the tender in full payment by
striking out or otherwise deleting that notation or if the acceptance of the
check or draft was inadvertent or without knowledge of the notation.” (Civ.
Code, § 1526, subd. (a).)
 
“Notwithstanding
subdivision (a), the acceptance of a check or draft constitutes an accord and
satisfaction if a check or draft is tendered pursuant to a composition or
extension agreement between a debtor and its creditors, and pursuant to that
composition or extension agreement, all creditors of the same class are
accorded similar treatment, and the creditor receives the check or draft with
knowledge of the restriction. A creditor shall be conclusively presumed to have
knowledge of the restriction if a creditor either:
 
“(1) Has, previous to the receipt of the
check or draft, executed a written consent to the composition or extension
agreement.
 
“(2) Has been given, not less than 15 days nor
more than 90 days prior to receipt of the check or draft, notice, in writing,
that a check or draft will be tendered with a restrictive endorsement and that
acceptance and cashing of the check or draft will constitute an accord and
satisfaction.”
 
(Civ. Code, § 1526,
subd. (b), paragraph break omitted.)
 
“Notwithstanding subdivision (a),
the acceptance of a check or draft by a creditor constitutes an accord and
satisfaction when the check or draft is issued pursuant to or in conjunction
with a release of a claim.” (Civ. Code, § 1526, subd. (c).)
 
For the purposes
of paragraph (2) of subdivision (b), mailing the notice by first-class mail,
postage prepaid, addressed to the address shown for the creditor on the
debtor’s books or such other address as the creditor may designate in writing
constitutes notice.” (Civ. Code, § 1526, subd. (d).)
 
2. 
    Discussion
 
The question remains: did the invoices create
an accord (or an implied-in-fact contract) which could have then been satisfied
by shipment of approximately $25,000.00 worth of roses?
 
        For multiple independent
reasons, the answer is “no.”
 
a.  
    There
was no Written Agreement
 
The Court found above that there was no
written agreement between the Parties. Thus, it is not possible for there to
have been an accord and satisfaction pursuant to Civil Code section 1524, which
requires a written agreement. 
 
b.         
Judgment Creditor did not have Knowledge of the Note (and thus of the
Proposed Accord)
 
Judgment Debtor claims that his office
“provided [Judgment Creditor with copies of all shipment invoices and Airway
Bill of Ladings (‘AWB’) via email.” (Decl. Andrade, ¶ 14.) However, as
previously discussed, the Court has not been presented with any of these emails.

 
        Judgment Creditor declares
that he “never agreed to accept $25,000 worth of roses as full payment on the
Judgment”. (Decl. Rostami, ¶ 8.) 
 
        Upon reviewing all of the
evidence, the Court does not find by a preponderance of the evidence that
Judgment Creditor was actually sent and/or actually received these invoices. 
 
        Civil Code section 1526 is
not clear as to whether: (1) the judgment debtor retains the burden to
demonstrate that the judgment creditor had knowledge of the proposed accord; or
(2) the defense of lack of knowledge is a subsequent burden that shifts to the judgment
creditor.
 
The Court need not and does not resolve this
question of law at this time. In this situation, it does not matter who had the
burden of proof. Without any evidence that these invoices were sent and
received, and with evidence that Judgment Creditor did not agree to an accord,
the Court determines that no accord and satisfaction occurred because Judgment
Creditor did not have knowledge of the note placed on the invoices. (Civ. Code,
§ 1526, subd. (a).) 
 
c.          
No Check or Draft was Tendered to Judgment Creditor
 
        Civil Code section 1526
discusses “a check or draft” that is tendered by a judgment debtor for
settlement in full discharge of the claim. However, the terms “check” and
“draft” are not defined in the associated parts of the Civil Code. 
 
        What do those terms mean
here?
        
“The rules which
govern the interpretation of contracts are prescribed by Part II of this
Division. Other obligations are interpreted by the same rules by which statutes
of a similar nature are interpreted.” (Civ. Code, § 1429.)
 
“‘Check’ means
(1) a draft, other than a documentary draft, payable on demand and drawn on a
bank, (2) a cashier’s check or teller’s check, or (3) a demand draft. An
instrument may be a check even though it is described on its face by another
term, such as ‘money order.’” (Com. Code, § 3104, subd. (f).)
 
“‘Demand draft’ means a writing not
signed by a customer that is created by a third party under the purported
authority of the customer for the purpose of charging the customer’s account
with a bank. A demand draft shall contain the customer’s account number and may
contain any or all of the following:
 
“(1) The customer’s printed or typewritten name.
 
“(2) A notation that the customer authorized the
draft.
 
“(3) The statement “No Signature Required” or words
to that effect.
 
“A demand draft shall not include a check
purportedly drawn by and bearing the signature of a fiduciary, as defined in
paragraph (1) of subdivision (a) of Section 3307.”
 
(Com. Code, § 3104, subd. (k).)
 
“‘Instrument’
means a negotiable instrument.” (Com. Code, § 3104, subd. (b).)
 
“An instrument is
a ‘note’ if it is a promise and is a ‘draft’ if it is an order. If an
instrument falls within the definition of both ‘note’ and ‘draft,’ a person
entitled to enforce the instrument may treat it as either.” (Com. Code, § 3104,
subd. (e).)
 
“Except as provided in subdivisions (c)
and (d), ‘negotiable instrument’ means an unconditional promise or order to pay
a fixed amount of money, with or without interest or other charges described in
the promise or order, if it is all of the following:
 
“(1) Is payable to bearer or to order at the time it
is issued or first comes into possession of a holder.
 
“(2) Is payable on demand or at a definite time.
 
“(3) Does not state any other undertaking or
instruction by the person promising or ordering payment to do any act in addition
to the payment of money, but the promise or order may contain (i) an
undertaking or power to give, maintain, or protect collateral to secure
payment, (ii) an authorization or power to the holder to confess judgment or
realize on or dispose of collateral, (iii) a waiver of the benefit of any law
intended for the advantage or protection of an obligor, (iv) a term that
specifies the law that governs the promise or order, or (v) an undertaking to
resolve in a specified forum a dispute concerning the promise or order.”
 
(Com. Code, § 3104, subd. (a).)
 
“An order that
meets all of the requirements of subdivision (a), except paragraph (1), and
otherwise falls within the definition of “check” in subdivision (f) is a
negotiable instrument and a check.” (Com. Code, § 3104, subd. (c).)
 
Upon considering the related definitions for
“check” and “draft” pursuant to Civil Code section 1429 and Commercial Code
section 3104, it is obvious that there was no “check or draft” issued in this
matter by Judgment Debtor. The invoices and airway bills of lading produced by
Judgment Debtor were not checks or drafts as those terms are defined. They
cannot be taken to a bank, drawn upon, or require payment on demand. Rather,
they are merely receipts and acknowledgements of produced shipped. Thus, any
notations on these invoices are irrelevant for the purposes of an accord and
satisfaction pursuant to Civil Code section 1526.  
 
Therefore, even if the Court had found that
Judgment Debtor sent these invoices to Judgment Creditor and that Judgment
Creditor received them, it would still be irrelevant because they cannot
support a finding that an accord and satisfaction occurred. 
 
d.  
    There
was no Implied-in-Fact Contract
 
“A contract is
either express or implied.” (Civ. Code, § 1619.)
 
        “An express contract is one, the terms of which are stated in
words.” (Civ. Code, § 1620.)
 
“An implied
contract is one, the existence and terms of which are manifested by conduct.”
(Civ. Code, § 1621.)
 
“An
implied-in-fact contract is based on the conduct of
the parties. (Civ. Code, § 1621.) Like an
express contract, an implied-in-fact contract requires an ascertained agreement
of the parties.” (Unilab Corp. v. Angeles-IPA (2016) 244 Cal.App.4th
622, 636, citations omitted.)
 
Here, the evidence submitted to the Court
does not indicate that there was an implied-in-fact contract between the
Parties. As stated above, the evidence does not support a finding that Judgment
Creditor received the invoices (and thus the note that they included).
Furthermore, even if Judgment Creditor had received the invoices and read the
note on them, Judgment Debtor has not met his burden to prove that there was an
implied-in-fact contract. Given that the Court has not found that there was an
oral agreement or a written agreement for an amount less than the Judgment
amount, it is reasonable to read the note (which states in full: “According
with the conversation that we had in person, I am sending flowers as a debt
payment to pending of a total usd 25.000, agreed”) as being a partial non-cash
payment toward the existing Judgment amount rather than making an
implied-in-fact contract. (Compendium of Evidence, Exh. 2, pp. 2–20, sic.)
 
D. 
    Remaining
Issues
 
The Court has found that there was no oral
agreement, no written agreement, and no subsequent accord based on the
invoices. 
 
The evidence before the Court does not
suggest that the Judgment amount has been completely satisfied. 
 
Judgment Creditor’s years-long delay in seeking
further enforcement and subsequent renewal of the Judgment is irrelevant to
whether the Judgment amount has been completely satisfied. 
 
The Court finds that the Judgment has not
been satisfied. 
 
The Court DENIES Judgment Debtor’s Motion to
Compel Full Satisfaction of Judgment. 
 
Given that Judgment Debtor has not satisfied
the Judgment and the Motion to Compel Full Satisfaction of Judgment has been
denied, attorney’s fees are not appropriate here. 
 
The Court DENIES Judgment Debtor’s Request
for Sanctions Attorney’s Fees. 
 
V.        
Conclusion 
 
Judgment Debtor’s Motion to Compel Full
Satisfaction of Judgment is DENIED. 
 
Judgment Debtor’s Request for Sanctions and
Attorney’s Fees is DENIED. 
 