  Case Number:  19STCV41520    Hearing Date:   March 20, 2024    Dept:  34 SUBJECT:        Motion for Award of Attorney’s Fees and
Costs Incurred in Enforcing Judgment
 
Moving Party: Judgment Creditor Westlake Village Property,
L.P.
Resp. Party:    Judgment
Debtors Dr. Leevil, LLC and D-Day Capital, LLC
 
 
SUBJECT:        Motion to Issue an Order to Satisfy
Judgment and Request for Attorneys Fees
 
Moving Party: Judgment Debtor Dr. Leevil, LLC 
Resp. Party:    Judgment
Creditor Westlake Village Property, L.P.
 
 
SUBJECT:        Motion to Strike, or Alternatively, Tax
Costs
 
Moving Party: Judgment Debtors Dr. Leevil, LLC and D-Day Capital,
LLC
Resp. Party:    Judgment
Creditor Westlake Village Property, L.P.
 
 
Judgment Creditor’s Motion for Attorney’s Fees is GRANTED in part.
 
Fees and costs are AWARDED in favor of Judgment Creditor Westlake
Village Property, L.P. and against
Judgment Debtors D-Day Capital, LLC, Dr. Leevil, LLC, and Dr. Leevil SPE LLC,
jointly and severally, in the total amount of $153,395.99.
 
Judgment Debtor’s Motion to Satisfy Judgment is DENIED. 
 
Judgment Debtor’s Request for Attorney’s Fees is DENIED. 
 
Judgment Debtors’ Motion to Strike or Tax Costs is DENIED. 
 
BACKGROUND:
 
        On February 15,
2019, Plaintiff filed its Complaint against Defendants Dr. Leevil, LLC and
D-Day Capital, LLC on causes of action for breach of written contract,
accounting, and money had and received. 
 
        On November 19,
2019, this case was transferred from the Superior Court of California, County
of Ventura to the Superior Court of California, County of Los Angeles. 
 
        On September
29, 2021, pursuant to an oral request made by Plaintiff, the Court dismissed
with prejudice Plaintiff’s Complaint. The Court retained jurisdiction to make
orders to enforce any and all terms of the settlement, including judgment,
pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 664.6. 
 
        On January 2,
2023, the Court entered Judgment in this matter in favor of Plaintiff (now
“Judgment Creditor”) and against Defendants (now “Judgment Debtors”). 
 
On May 11, 2023, by request of
Judgment Creditor, the Clerk’s Office issued Judicial Council Form EJ-130, Writ
of Execution (Money Judgment) to the Sheriff or Mashal of the County of Los
Angeles regarding Judgment Debtor Dr. Leevil, LLC. 
 
        On November 7,
2023, by request of Judgment Creditor, the Clerk’s Office issued Judicial
Council Form EJ-130, Writ of Execution (Money Judgment) to the Sheriff or
Mashal of the County of Alameda regarding Judgment Debtor Dr. Leevil, LLC. 
 
On November 7, 2023, by request of
Judgment Creditor, the Clerk’s Office issued Judicial Council Form EJ-130, Writ
of Execution (Money Judgment) to the Sheriff or Mashal of the County of Ventura
regarding Judgment Debtor Dr. Leevil, LLC. 
 
        On November 13,
2023, by request of Judgment Creditor, the Clerk’s Office issued Judicial
Council Form EJ-130, Writ of Execution (Money Judgment) to the Sheriff or
Mashal of the County of Los Angeles regarding Judgment Debtor Dr. Leevil, LLC. 
 
        On November 28,
2023, the Court granted in part Judgment Creditor’s Motion to Amend Judgment to
Add Alter Ego Defendant as Judgment Debtor, and Identify Alter Ego (“Second
Motion to Amend”). The Court granted Judgment Creditor’s request that the Court
amend the Judgment to add Dr. Leevil SPE LLC to the Judgment as an alter ego of
Judgment Debtor Dr. Leevil, LLC. 
 
        On December 18,
2023, Judgment Creditor filed its Motion for Award of Attorney’s Fees and Costs
Incurred in Enforcing Judgment (“Judgment Creditor’s Motion for Attorney’s
Fees”). Judgment Creditor concurrently filed: (1) Declaration of Duc Le; (2)
Declaration of Teri T. Pham; and (3) Proposed Order. 
 
        On December 26,
2023, Judgment Debtor Dr. Leevil, LLC filed its Motion to Issue an Order to
Satisfy Judgment and Request for Attorneys Fees (“Judgment Debtor’s Motion to
Satisfy Judgment”).
 
        On December 27,
2023, Judgment Creditor filed its Judicial Council Form MC-012, Memorandum of
Costs After Judgment, Acknowledgment of Credit, and Declaration of Accrued Interest.
 
        On January 5,
2024, Judgment Creditor filed its Opposition to Judgment Debtor’s Motion to
Satisfy Judgment. Judgment Creditor concurrently filed: (1) Declaration of
Neeloufar Mahrouyan; and (2) Declaration of Teri T. Pham. 
 
        On January 9,
2024, Judgment Debtors Dr. Leevil, LLC and D-Day Capital, LLC filed their
Motion to Strike, or Alternatively, Tax Costs (“Motion to Strike or Tax
Costs”). 
 
        On January 10,
2024, Judgment Debtor Dr. Leevil, LLC filed its Reply in support of Judgment
Debtor’s Motion to Satisfy Judgment. 
 
        On January 12,
2024, Judgment Creditor filed its Notice of Withdrawal of Memorandum of Costs
After Judgment. 
 
        On February 2,
2024, Judgment Debtors Dr. Leevil, LLC and D-Day Capital, LLC filed their
Opposition to Judgment Creditor’s Motion for Attorney’s Fees. 
 
        On February 2,
2024, Judgment Creditor filed its Opposition to Motion to Strike or Tax Costs.
Judgment Creditor concurrently filed Declaration of Neeloufar Mahrouyan. 
 
        On February 8,
2024, Judgment Creditor filed its Reply in support of Judgment Creditor’s
Motion for Attorney’s Fees. 
 
        On February 8,
2024, Judgment Debtors Dr. Leevil, LLC and D-Day Capital, LLC filed their Reply
in support of Motion to Strike or Tax Costs. 
 
        On February 19,
2024, Judgement Debtor Dr. Leevil, LLC filed its Request for Judicial
Notice.  On the same day, Judgement
Debtor Dr. Leevil SPE LLC filed its request for judicial notice.
 
 
ANALYSIS:
 
I.         
Judgment Creditor’s Motion for Attorney’s
Fees
 
A.      Legal
Standard
 
“This title shall be known and may
be cited as the Enforcement of Judgments Law.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 680.010.)
 
“The judgment creditor may claim
under this section the following costs of enforcing a judgment: . . . (6)
Attorney’s fees, if allowed by Section 685.040.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 685.070,
subd. (a)(6).)
 
“The judgment creditor is entitled
to the reasonable and necessary costs of enforcing a judgment. Attorney’s fees
incurred in enforcing a judgment are not included in costs collectible under
this title unless otherwise provided by law. Attorney’s fees incurred in
enforcing a judgment are included as costs collectible under this title if the
underlying judgment includes an award of attorney’s fees to the judgment
creditor pursuant to subparagraph (A) of paragraph (10) of subdivision (a) of
Section 1033.5.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 685.040.)
 
“Except as otherwise expressly
provided by statute, a prevailing party is entitled as a matter of right to
recover costs in any action or proceeding.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1032, subd.
(b).)
 
“The following items are allowable as costs under Section
1032: . . . Attorney’s
fees, when authorized by any of the following: (A) Contract. (B) Statute. (C)
Law.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1033.5, subd. (a)(10).)
 
B.         
Judgement Debtor’s Untimely Requests for Judicial
Notice and Brief
 
On February 19, 2024, the day
before the hearing, Judgement Debtor Dr. Leevil, LLC filed its Request for
Judicial Notice.  On the same day, Judgement
Debtor Dr. Leevil SPE LLC filed its request for judicial notice.  The Court declines to accept the late-filed
brief or to take judicial notice of the items requested.
 
 
C.      The
Parties’ Arguments
 
Judgment Creditor moves the Court for $177,015.78 in attorney’s fees.
(Judgment Creditor’s Motion for Attorney’s Fees, p. 9:2–4.)
 
Judgment Creditor argues: (1) that Judgment Creditor is entitled to
recover its attorneys’ fees and costs incurred in collection of the judgment
under the Parties’ contract; and (2) that Judgment Creditor is entitled to the
full amount of its attorneys’ fees and costs to enforce the judgment. (Judgment
Creditor’s Motion for Attorney’s Fees, pp. 5:19–21, 6:12–13.)
 
Judgment Debtors Dr. Leevil, LLC and D-Day Capital, LLC disagree,
arguing: (1) that a motion for attorneys’ fees and costs for enforcing a
judgment must be filed prior to satisfaction of the judgment or it is
time-barred; (2) that Judgment Debtor Dr. Leevil, LLC fully satisfied its portion
of the judgment prior to Judgment Creditor filing its fee motion; (3) that
Judgment Creditor has not apportioned the attorneys’ fees against Judgment
Debtors and cannot recover fees incurred against Judgment Debtor Dr. Leevil,
LLC; (4) that Judgment Creditor’s requested attorneys’ fees and hours spent are
unreasonable; and (5) that Judgment Creditor’s request for costs, other than
attorneys’ fees is improper because Judgment Creditor withdrew its memorandum
of costs and Judgment Debtors have a motion to strike costs pending.
(Opposition to Judgment Creditor’s Motion for Attorney’s Fees, pp. 3:20–21,
5:3–4, 7:17–18, 11:14, 12:14–15.)
 
In its Reply, Judgment Creditor argues: (1) that the judgment has not
been satisfied; (2) that Judgment Debtors are jointly and severally liable to
pay the judgment; (3) that Judgment Creditor’s requested attorneys’ fees and
hours spent are reasonable; and (4) that Judgment Creditor’s request for costs
is not improper. (Reply in support of Judgment Creditor’s Motion for Attorney’s
Fees, pp. 3:5, 7:2, 7:15, 8:23.)
 
D.      Prevailing
Party
 
On January 2, 2023, the Court entered Judgment in favor of Judgment
Creditor and against Judgment Debtors. Judgment Creditor is the prevailing
party in this matter and for enforcement purposes. Notwithstanding other
provisions of law, Judgment Creditor is thus entitled to the reasonable and
necessary costs incurred for enforcing the Judgment. (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 685.040.)
 
E.      The
Attorney’s Fees Provision 
 
1.      Legal
Standard
 
“When a party recovers a judgment for breach of contract,
entry of the judgment absolves the defendant of any further contractual
obligations, and the judgment for damages replaces the defendant's duty to
perform the contract. Upon entry of judgment, all further contractual rights
are extinguished, and the plaintiff's rights are thereafter governed by the
rights on the judgment, not by any rights which might have been held to have
arisen from the contract.” (Tomaselli v. Transamerica Ins. Co. (1994) 25
Cal.App.4th 1766, 1770, citations omitted.)
 
“Postjudgment attorney fees are
recoverable costs under section 685.040 if the fees were
‘incurred in enforcing a judgment’ that contained an award of attorney fees
pursuant to a contract. A judgment creditor may claim such costs via a
memorandum of costs filed before the judgment has been ‘fully satisfied but not
later than two years after the costs have been incurred.’ (§ 685.070, subds. (a)(6), (b).)” (Globalist
Internet Techs., Inc. v. Reda (2008) 167 Cal.App.4th 1267, 1274; see also Nash
v. Aprea (2023) 96 Cal.App.5th 21, 29–32.)
 
2.      Discussion
 
This action was filed in the Superior Court of California, County of
Ventura as case number 56-2019-00524976-CU-BC-VTA on February 15, 2019 by
Judgment Creditor (then “Plaintiff”) against Judgment Debtors Dr. Leevil, LLC
and D-Day Capital, LLC (then “Defendants”). (Judgment Creditor’s Motion for
Attorney’s Fees, Exh. 1.A, p. 1.)
 
On September 20, 2021, the Parties entered into an agreement, titled
“Settlement Agreement and Limited Release.” (Judgment Creditor’s Motion for
Attorney’s Fees, Exh. 1, p. 1.) The Settlement Agreement and Limited Release is
signed by Judgment Debtor Dr. Leevil, LLC (by its manager, Ronald Richards, on
September 24, 2021), Judgment Debtor D-Day Capital, LLC (by its manager, Ronald
Richards, on September 24, 2021), and Judgment Creditor (by its general
partner, Jeoung Lee, on September 27, 2021). (Id. at p. 5.)
 
The following are the relevant attorney’s fees provisions.  
 
“Attorneys’ Fees. The Parties shall each bear and be
responsible for their own respective attorneys’ fees and costs incurred in
connection with the Lawsuit and in the negotiation and execution of this
Agreement.” (Judgment Creditor’s Motion for Attorney’s Fees, Exh. 1, ¶ 5.)
“Prevailing
Party Attorneys’ Fees. In any action for default, breach or to enforce this
Agreement, the prevailing party shall be entitled to recover its attorneys’
fees and costs incurred therein.” (Judgment Creditor’s Motion for Attorney’s
Fees, Exh. 1, ¶ 6.)
        Pursuant to the underlying contract, but
notwithstanding other provisions of law, Judgment Creditor is entitled to
attorney’s fees as costs incurred for enforcing the Judgment. (Code Civ. Proc.,
§§ 685.070, subd. (a)(6); 1032, subd. (b); 1033.5, subd. (a)(10).)
 
F.       Claiming
Costs Before Full Satisfaction of the Judgment
 
1.      Legal
Standard
 
“Before the judgment is fully
satisfied but not later than two years after the costs have been incurred, the
judgment creditor claiming costs under this section shall file a memorandum of
costs with the court clerk and serve a copy on the judgment debtor. Service
shall be made personally or by mail. The memorandum of costs shall be executed
under oath by a person who has knowledge of the facts and shall state that to
the person’s best knowledge and belief the costs are correct, are reasonable
and necessary, and have not been satisfied.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 685.070, subd.
(b).)
 
“The judgment creditor may claim
costs authorized by Section 685.040 by noticed motion. The motion shall be made
before the judgment is satisfied in full, but not later than two years after
the costs have been incurred. The costs claimed under this section may include,
but are not limited to, costs that may be claimed under Section 685.070 and
costs incurred but not approved by the court or referee in a proceeding under
Chapter 6 (commencing with Section 708.010) of Division 2.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
685.080, subd. (a).)
 
“There does not appear to be any dispute concerning [a
judgment creditor’s] right to timely seek reasonable attorney fees as costs in
efforts to enforce its judgment. That having
been said, any motion for such costs must be timely made. To be timely, the
motion must be made before the
underlying judgment has been fully satisfied and within two years of the fees
being incurred. The statutory
purpose of requiring that the motion for enforcement costs be brought before
the judgment is satisfied in full is to avoid a situation where a judgment
debtor has paid off the entirety of what he justifiably believes to be his obligation
in the entire case, only to be confronted later with a motion for yet more
fees.” (Gray1 CPB, LLC v. SCC Acquisitions, Inc. (2015) 233 Cal.App.4th
882, 891, cleaned up, emphasis in original.)
“A judgment creditor who has yet to file a memorandum
of costs (§ 685.070) or cost motion (§ 685.080) is not generally at the mercy
of the judgment debtor as to the timing of satisfaction. If the tendered
payment is by uncertified check, as it was in this case, the creditor may
postpone presenting the check for payment and, in the meantime, file his or her
cost memorandum or motion. (See § 724.010, subd. (c) [obligation to acknowledge
satisfaction of judgment arises only when check is presented and honored]; Hale v. Bohannon (1952) 38 Cal.2d 458, 467 [241 P.2d 4] [the
mere giving of a check does not constitute payment].) Even if payment is by certified check or similar
instrument, the acceptance of
which arguably constitutes satisfaction (see Cal. U. Com. Code, § 3310,
subd. (a)), the judgment creditor retains, at the least, the option of
rejecting the certified check and filing the motion or memorandum for
enforcement costs and fees.” (Conservatorship
of McQueen (2014) 59 Cal.4th 602,
615, emphasis in original.)
 
2.      Discussion
 
The Parties’ respective filings bring up multiple questions: 
 
(1) whether a wire
transfer is the equivalent of cash in this context; 
(2) whether Judgment
Creditor may file a motion or memorandum for costs (including for attorney’s
fees as costs) on the basis of the Judgment not being fully satisfied; 
(3) if the Judgment
is not satisfied as a whole, which parties can be the subject of motions for
and/or memoranda of costs; and 
(4) whether Judgment
Debtor Dr. Leevil, LLC has actually satisfied its portion of the Judgment. The
Court considers each of these issues in turn. 
 
a.       Wire
Transfers as Cash Equivalents
 
i.           
Legal Standard
 
“Conceivably, a judgment debtor could satisfy the
judgment by tendering cash for the full outstanding amount, with interest,
before the creditor has sought his or her enforcement costs and fees, though
this is likely to be a rarity for sizeable judgments. If the creditor has
reason to believe cash may imminently be tendered to pay the judgment, prudence
counsels filing a motion or memorandum for the costs and fees accumulated to
that point; if the judgment is not then satisfied, any costs or fees accruing later
may be sought in a supplemental motion or memorandum. In any event, the
possibility that some wily judgment debtor may make a cash payment timed to
foreclose a final motion for costs and fees does not provide this court
authorization to ignore the explicit, unambiguous language of section 685.080 and substitute a ‘reasonable time’ rule of
our own invention.” (Conservatorship of McQueen, supra, 59
Cal.4th at pp. 615–616.)
When a
judgment creditor receives a cashier’s check for full satisfaction of the judgment
and chooses not to reject it to instead demand payment in cash, “the effect
[is] the same as if it had accepted cash.” (Gray1 CPB, LLC, supra,
233 Cal.App.4th at p. 894, citing Com. Code, § 3310, subd. (a).) “Having
accepted [the cashier’s check], the judgment was satisfied and [the judgment
creditor’s] subsequent motion for attorney fees [is] untimely.” (Id. at
p. 895.)
“‘Payment’ for purposes of
satisfaction of a money judgment means either (1) the tender of cash or (2) the
tender and acceptance of a certified check or similar instrument.” (Wertheim, LLC v. Currency Corp. (2021)
70 Cal.App.5th 327, 337–338, citations omitted.)
 
“The common meaning of the word ‘cash’ is ‘ready money,’ or
‘money or its equivalent (as a check) paid for good or services at the time of
purchase or delivery. (Webster's 10th Collegiate Dict. (1999) p. 177.) Our courts have defined the term ‘cash’ as 'current money in
hand or readily available,' and as ‘ready money’ at command, subject to free
disposal; not tied up in a fixed state. (Estate of
Chamberlain (1941) 46 Cal. App. 2d 16, 20 [115 P.2d 235].)
The electronic transfer of funds from one bank to another has been
characterized as the equivalent of transferring money. (U.S. v. Goldberg (3d Cir. 1987) 830 F.2d 459, 466.)” (Washington Mut. Bank v. Super. Ct. (2002) 95 Cal.App.4th 606, 623, internal quotation marks omitted,
holding that the word “cash” as that term is used in Civil Code section 2948.5
includes a wire or electronic transfer because such transfers are the
functional equivalent of cash.)
 
“These transfers, commonly referred to as wholesale wire
transfers, differ from other payment methods in a number of significant
respects, a fact which accounts in large measure for their popularity. Funds are moved
faster and more efficiently than by traditional payment instruments, such as
checks. The transfers are completed at
a relatively low cost, which does not vary widely depending on the amount of
the transfer, because the price charged reflects primarily the cost of the
mechanical aspects of the funds transfer. Most transfers are completed within
one day and can cost [very little] to carry out a multimillion dollar
transaction.” (Washington Mut. Bank, supra, at p. 624, quoting Banque
Worms v. BankAmerica Int’l (1991) 77 N.Y.2d 362, 369–370, other citations
omitted.)
 
ii.         
Discussion
 
The Parties disagree about whether a wire transfer must be accepted for
the purposes of satisfaction of a judgment. 
 
Judgment Debtor Dr. Leevil, LLC submits evidence to the Court that
indicates it made a wire transfer of $640,002.36 to Judgment Creditor on
November 30, 2023. (Opposition to Judgment Creditor’s Motion for Attorney’s
Fees, Exh. C.) According to Judgment Debtor Dr. Leevil, LLC, this wire transfer
“is the equivalent of cash” and must be accepted by Judgment Creditor toward
satisfaction of the Judgment. (Id. at p. 4:19–24.)
 
Judgment Creditor disagrees, arguing that cash and wire transfers are
different. (Reply in support of Judgment Creditor’s Motion for Attorney’s Fees,
p. 5:14.) Judgment Creditor further claims (without providing declaratory or
documentary evidence) that it “unequivocally rejected the wire as payment in
full satisfaction of the Judgment within twenty-four hours after receiving
notice of receipt of the wire.” (Id. at p. 4:3–4.)
 
        The Court agrees with Judgment Debtors’
arguments.
        
        The California Supreme Court has
concluded that the statutory language in the Enforcement of Judgments Law does
not allow judgment creditors to refuse immediate cash payments of judgments. (Conservatorship
of McQueen, supra, 59 Cal.4th at pp. 615–616.) Furthermore, the
Court of Appeal has concluded that, for the purposes of the Enforcement of
Judgments Law, acceptance of a cashier’s checks must be treated the same as the
acceptance of cash — although cashier’s checks advantage judgment creditors in
this situation because they can be rejected when tendered. (Gray1 CPB, LLC, supra, 233 Cal.App.4th at pp.
894–896.)
 
Here, Judgment Debtor Dr. Leevil, LLC initiated a wire transfer to
Judgment Creditor. The wire transfer appears to have been sent nearly
immediately from one bank account to another. The money reaching Judgment
Creditor’s bank account was the functional equivalent of Judgment Creditor
having received the money in cash — meaning the money need only have been
tendered to Judgment Creditor, not tendered to and accepted by Judgment
Creditor. (Wertheim, LLC, supra, 70 Cal.App.5th at p. 337–338.)
 
There is no reason why a wire transfer should be treated like a check rather
than like cash. When a judgment creditor receives a check, it can choose
whether to accept that check and when to deposit that check. But when a
judgment creditor receives a wire transfer, it has limited ability to deny
acceptance of (i.e., reject) the transfer. Unless a judgment creditor takes
specific actions with its bank of choice to limit certain wire transfers —
actions that do not appear to have occurred here — that bank will normally
accept all wire transfers on an automatic basis. These judgment creditors will
have immediate access to the cash, and their judgments will be (at least
partially, if not fully) satisfied.
 
In addition, there is no reason why a judgment creditor should be allowed
to refund a wire transfer and avoid satisfaction of the judgment. After all, in
the case of both cash and checks, judgment creditors are not allowed to refund
accepted payments that fully satisfy judgments — even if doing so would allow
them to recover enforcement costs and fees. There is no reason why an accepted
wire transfer should be treated any different. 
 
        Thus, the Court accepts that Judgment
Debtor Dr. Leevil, LLC wired Judgment Creditor $640,002.36 and that, for the
purposes of satisfaction of the Judgment, Judgment Creditor was not at liberty
to subsequently reject it. 
 
b.         
Whether Judgment Creditor May File a Motion and/or
Memorandum for Costs
 
i.           
Legal Standard
 
“When the Enforcement of Judgments
Law refers to a judgment having been fully satisfied, it means an outstanding
judgment, not what the judgment would be if postjudgment costs were to be added
thereto. No other interpretation is
possible. If a judgment were not fully satisfied because of the existence of as
yet unawarded attorney fees, the phrase before the judgment is fully satisfied would serve no purpose. Therefore,
the only reasonable interpretation is that statutory references to the judgment
having been fully satisfied, are to the judgment (including accrued interest)
as it existed at the time payment was made.” (Gray 1 CPB, LLC, supra,
233 Cal.App.4th at p. 892, citations omitted, italics in original.)
 
Anything less than full satisfaction of the Judgment means that recovery
of costs (including attorney’s fees as costs) is “not barred by the time limits
of section 685.080.” (Lucky United Props. Inv., Inc. v. Lee (2010) 185
Cal.App.4th 125, 142.)
 
ii.         
Discussion
 
On January 2, 2023, the Court entered Judgment in this matter. The
Judgment was in favor of Judgment Creditor and against: (1) Judgment Debtor Dr.
Leevil, LLC in the amount of $577,643.84; (2) Judgment Debtor D-Day Capital,
LLC in the amount of $412,602.74; and (3) both Judgment Debtor Dr. Leevil, LLC
and Judgment Debtor D-Day Capital, LLC, jointly and severally, in the amount of
$8,998.20.
 
According to Ronald Richards (who is counsel of record for both Judgment
Debtor Dr. Leevil, LLC and Judgment Debtor D-Day Capital, LLC), Judgment Debtor
Dr. Leevil, LLC has fully satisfied its portion of the Judgment in this action
via a bank wire payment in the amount of $640,002.36 to Judgment Creditor.
(Opposition, Decl. Richards, ¶ 3.) This payment ostensibly covers all of the
amount of which Judgment Debtor Dr. Leevil, LLC owes, including (1) the
principal amount solely against it, (2) the principal amount that it is jointly
and severally against it, and (3) post-judgment interest that accrued. 
 
(The Court will discuss below whether Judgment Debtor Dr. Leevil, LLC has
actually fully satisfied its portion of the Judgment.)
 
However, there is no doubt that the Judgment as a whole is not satisfied.
After all, the Judgment as entered was for $999,244.78 — yet Judgment Debtor
Dr. Leevil, LLC only provides evidence that $640,002.36 has been paid.
(Opposition, Exh. C.)
 
        Thus, because the Judgment is not fully
satisfied, Judgment Creditor is allowed to file a memorandum and/or a motion
for costs, including attorney’s fees as costs. 
 
c.       Who is
Responsible for Fees and Costs 
 
i.           
Legal Standard
 
“A plaintiff is only entitled to a single
recovery of full compensatory damages for a single injury.
Thus, the rule is full payment of a judgment by one tortfeasor
discharges all others who maybe liable for the same injury. This rule is designed to prevent double
recovery. However, this
is only a partial statement of the rule. It is equally the rule where fewer than all
of the joint tortfeasors satisfy less than the entire judgment, such
satisfaction will not relieve the remaining tortfeasors of their obligation
under the judgment. Stated otherwise, partial satisfaction has the effect of a discharge pro tanto. ‘Pro tanto’ means ‘for so much.’” (McCall
v. Four Star Music Co. (1996) 51 Cal.App.4th 1394, 1399, cleaned up.)
 
        “The court shall make an order
allowing or disallowing the costs to the extent justified under the circumstances
of the case.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 685.080, subd. (c).)
 
ii.         
Discussion
 
At present, this matter involves three judgment debtors: (1) D-Day
Capital, LLC; (2) Dr. Leevil, LLC; and (3) Dr. Leevil SPE LLC.
 
Notably, the Court denied a motion to find that Judgment Debtors D-Day
Capital, LLC and Dr. Leevil, LLC are alter egos of each other because it had
not been presented with sufficient evidence of their alter ego status. (Minute
Order dated November 28, 2023, p. 10.)
 
However, Dr. Leevil SPE LLC was added to this matter as a judgment debtor
on the basis that it is an alter ego of Dr. Leevil, LLC. (Minute Order dated
November 28, 2023, p. 13.)  The Court
denied reconsideration of its Minute Order dated November 28, 2023. (Minute
Order dated January 5, 2024, p. 7.)
 
Given that Judgment Debtor D-Day Capital, LLC has not paid its portion of
the Judgment, there is no bar against Judgment Creditor moving for costs and
fees against Judgment Debtor D-Day Capital, LLC.
 
The situation is different, however, as to Judgment Debtor Dr. Leevil,
LLC (and, by extension, its alter ego Judgment Debtor Dr. Leevil SPE LLC). 
 
The Enforcement of Judgments Law is not entirely clear on what to do when
one judgment debtor has fully satisfied its portion of a judgment but another
judgment debtor has not. If one judgment debtor fully satisfied its portion of
the judgment (including any portions of the judgment that are jointly and
severally incurred) before costs were requested, can both judgment debtors still
be liable for costs and fees? A strict reading of the statute would indicate
that a judgment debtor who made the earlier payment could still be liable for
costs and fees because the judgment has not been “fully satisfied”; a broader
reading of the statute would indicate that such a judgment debtor would not be
liable because the judgment has been “fully satisfied” as to the judgment
debtor who promptly paid their debt. The situation is further complicated by
Code of Civil Procedure section 695.210, subdivision (c), which states the
“amount required to satisfy a money judgment is the total amount of the
judgment as entered or renewed with the following additions and subtractions: .
. . The subtraction of the amount of any partial satisfactions of the judgment.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 695.210, subd. (c).)
 
The Court need not and does not resolve this question of law because the
Legislature provided trial courts with a limited amount of discretion in this
situation. Specifically: “[t]he court shall make an order allowing or disallowing
the costs to the extent justified under the circumstances of the case.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 685.080, subd. (c).) Thus, even if the strict reading of the
statute is required in this sort of situation, the Court could still disallow
costs as to a specific judgment debtor in a situation justified by that
judgment debtor having fully paid its portion of the debt prior to a creditor’s
request for costs and fees. 
 
Considering the specific circumstances of this case, if Judgment Debtor
Dr. Leevil, LLC did, in fact, fully satisfy its portion of the Judgment before
costs and fees were requested, the Court would make an order (1) allowing
post-judgment enforcement costs and fees as to Judgment Debtor D-Day Capital,
LLC and (2) disallowing post-judgment enforcement costs and fees as to Judgment
Debtor Dr. Leevil, LLC (and, by extension, Judgment Debtor Dr. Leevil SPE LLC).

 
However, if Judgment Debtor Dr. Leevil, LLC did not, in fact, fully
satisfy its portion of the Judgment before costs and fees were requested, the
Court would make an order allowing post-judgment enforcement costs and fees as
to Judgment Debtor Dr. Leevil, LLC, its alter ego (Judgment Debtor Dr. Leevil
SPE LLC), and Judgment Debtor D-Day Capital, LLC.  
 
d.         
Whether Dr. Leevil, LLC has Fully Satisfied its
Portion of the Judgment
 
i.           
Legal Standard
 
“Unless the provision or context
otherwise requires, the definitions in this chapter govern the construction of
this title.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 680.110.)
 
“‘Principal amount of the judgment’
means the total amount of the judgment as entered or as last renewed, together
with the costs thereafter added to the judgment pursuant to Section 685.090,
reduced by any partial satisfactions of such amount and costs and by any
amounts no longer enforceable.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 680.300.)
 
“‘Writ’
includes a writ of execution, a writ of possession of personal property, a writ
of possession of real property, and a writ of sale.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
680.380.)
 
“‘Levying officer’ means the sheriff
or marshal.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 685.260.)
 
“The amount
required to satisfy a money judgment is the total amount of the judgment as
entered or renewed with the following additions and subtractions:
 
“(a) The addition of costs added
to the judgment pursuant to Section 685.090.
 
“(b) The addition of interest
added to the judgment as it accrues pursuant to Sections 685.010 to 685.030,
inclusive.
 
“(c) The subtraction of the amount
of any partial satisfactions of the judgment.
 
“(d) The subtraction of the amount
of any portion of the judgment that is no longer enforceable.”
 
(Code Civ. Proc., §
695.210.)
 
“Costs are
added to and become a part of the judgment:
 
“(1) Upon the
filing of an order allowing the costs pursuant to this chapter.
 
“(2) If a
memorandum of costs is filed pursuant to Section 685.070 and no motion to tax
is made, upon the expiration of the time for making the motion.
 
“(3) As specified in Section 685.095.”
 
(Code Civ. Proc., §
685.090, subd. (a).)
 
“When a writ is served by a levying
officer or registered process server, the costs for that service, as determined
pursuant to Section 1033.5, shall be added to and become part of the judgment.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 685.095.)
 
“If a writ
or earnings withholding order is outstanding at the time the costs are added to
the judgment pursuant to this section, the levying officer shall add the amount
of those costs to the amount to be collected pursuant to the writ or earnings
withholding order if the levying officer receives either of the following
before the writ or earnings withholding order is returned:
 
“(1) A
certified copy of the court order allowing the costs.
 
“(2) A
certificate from the clerk of the court that the costs have been added to the
judgment where the costs have been added to the judgment after a memorandum of
costs has been filed pursuant to Section 685.070 and no motion to tax has been
made within the time allowed for making the motion.”
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 685.090, subd. (c).)
 
“The levying officer shall include
the costs described in subdivision (c) in the amount of the sale or collection
distributed to the judgment creditor only if the levying officer receives the
certified copy of the court order or the clerk’s certificate before the
distribution is made.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 685.090, subd. (d).)
 
“The costs added to the judgment
pursuant to this section are included in the principal amount of the judgment
remaining unsatisfied.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 685.090, subd. (b).)
 
ii.         
Discussion
 
Judgment Debtor Dr. Leevil, LLC submitted evidence that it wired
$640,002.36 to Judgment Creditor. (Opposition to Judgment Creditor’s Motion for
Attorney’s Fees, Exh. C.) 
 
This amount includes: (1) $577,643.84 in principal damages against Dr.
Leevil, LLC; (2) $8,998.20 in attorneys’ fees and costs incurred in obtaining
the Judgment against Dr. Leevil, LLC and D-Day Capital, LLC, jointly and
severally; and (3) $53,360.32 in interest that accumulated on the total of
those damages during the 332 days between January 2, 2023 (the date of entry of
Judgment) and November 30, 2023 (the date of the wire payment to Judgment
Creditor).  
 
        Did the payment of $640,002.36 constitute
a full satisfaction of Judgment Debtor Dr. Leevil, LLC’s portion of the
Judgment?
 
        The answer is “no.”
 
        Pursuant to the Enforcement of Judgments
Law, there are three ways in which costs “are added to and become a part of the
judgment.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 685.090, subd. (a).)
 
        The first way occurs “[u]pon the filing
of an order allowing the costs pursuant to this chapter.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
685.090, subd. (a)(1).) This avenue is inapplicable here because the Court has
not filed a post-judgment order allowing costs, much less an order prior to the
payment of $640,002.36. 
 
        The second way occurs “upon the expiration
of the time for making” a motion to tax costs when “a memorandum of costs is
filed pursuant to Section 685.070.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 658.090, subd. (a)(2).)
Here, a memorandum of costs was filed on December 27, 2023, however, a motion
to tax costs was filed on January 9, 2024 —within the ten-day statutory period
in which a motion to tax costs could be filed. (Code Civ. Proc., § 685.070,
subd. (c).) Thus, this second avenue is inapplicable. Furthermore, because the
memorandum of costs was filed after the payment of $640,002.36, it would also
be inapplicable if the Judgment were fully satisfied at the time the memorandum
of costs was filed. (Code Civ. Proc., § 685.070, subd. (b).)
 
        The third and final way occurs “[a]s
specified in [Code of Civil Procedure] Section 685.095.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
685.090, subd. (a)(3).)
 
“When a writ is served by a levying
officer or registered process server, the costs for that service, as determined
pursuant to Section 1033.5, shall be added to and become part of the judgment.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 685.095.)
 
“‘Writ’
includes a writ of execution, a writ of possession of personal property, a writ
of possession of real property, and a writ of sale.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
680.380.)
 
“‘Levying officer’ means the sheriff
or marshal.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 685.260.)
 
        Here, four writs of execution appear to
have been issued by levying officers. 
 
On May 11, 2023, by request of
Judgment Creditor, the Clerk’s Office issued Judicial Council Form EJ-130, Writ
of Execution (Money Judgment) to the Sheriff or Mashal of the County of Los
Angeles regarding Judgment Debtor Dr. Leevil, LLC. 
 
        On November 7,
2023, by request of Judgment Creditor, the Clerk’s Office issued Judicial
Council Form EJ-130, Writ of Execution (Money Judgment) to the Sheriff or
Mashal of the County of Alameda regarding Judgment Debtor Dr. Leevil, LLC. 
 
On November 7, 2023, by request of
Judgment Creditor, the Clerk’s Office issued Judicial Council Form EJ-130, Writ
of Execution (Money Judgment) to the Sheriff or Mashal of the County of Ventura
regarding Judgment Debtor Dr. Leevil, LLC. 
 
        On November 13,
2023, by request of Judgment Creditor, the Clerk’s Office issued Judicial
Council Form EJ-130, Writ of Execution (Money Judgment) to the Sheriff or
Mashal of the County of Los Angeles regarding Judgment Debtor Dr. Leevil, LLC. 
 
        As can be seen from each of these Writs
of Execution, a $40.00 fee for issuance of a writ was listed as a cost for each
writ. (See EJ-130s, Item 17.) Furthermore, these $40.00 amounts were added to
the total amount due. (See EJ-130s, Item 18.)
 
        In addition, Judgment Creditor
repeatedly filed Judicial Council Form POS-020, Proof of Personal
Service—Civil. These proofs of service — filed on September 25 and November 2,
2023 — demonstrate that the Writs of Execution were, in fact, served by a
registered California process server. (See POS-020s, Item 4.b.)
 
        The statute is explicit: the costs of
the Writs of Execution were added to and became part of the Judgment when
the writs were served by the levying officer or registered process server.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 685.095, italics added.) Because this is an authorized way
to add costs, the total of these costs plus the preexisting Judgment amount
(including the interest that had accrued on the Judgment) became the “principal
amount of the judgment” and was the new amount required to satisfy the
Judgment. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 680.300; 685.090, subd. (a)(3); 695.210, subds.
(a)–(b).)
 
        The Court notes that Judgment Creditor
appears to have been sloppy with its Writs of Execution. Specifically, all of
the Writs of Execution have the same principal numbers, even though the
Judgment amount clearly changed between them due to subsequent Writs of
Execution (each of which added $40.00 in costs upon service) and the passage of
time (which resulted in increased interest on both the original Judgment amount
and the writ costs). However, Judgment Creditor’s failures to properly
calculate the current Judgment amounts on various writs do not change the fact
that the statute explicitly requires addition of the costs of those writs upon
service. 
 
        Because Judgment Debtor did not pay the
$160.00 in costs for the Writs of Execution (plus the interest that had accrued
because of those costs as of the respective times of service of the Writs of
Execution) when attempting to satisfy the Judgment, Judgment Debtor’s payment
of $640,002.36 did not, in fact, constitute a full satisfaction of Judgment
Debtor Dr. Leevil, LLC’s portion of the Judgment.
 
        Thus, the Court shall allow costs and
fees for enforcement of the Judgment to be assessed against all of the Judgment
Debtors. 
 
G.      The
Request for Attorney’s Fees
 
Judgment Creditor requests $164,876.25 in attorney’s fees. (Judgment
Creditor’s Motion for Attorney’s Fees, p. 9:2–4.) Judgment Creditor further
requests $7,750.00 in connection with this motion. (Id. at p. 8:21–25.) 
 
1.      The
Method for Calculating Recovery of Fees
 
The Parties do not dispute that the
appropriate approach for calculating recovery of attorneys’ fees is the
lodestar adjustment method, which involves multiplying the number of hours
reasonably expended by the reasonably hourly rate. (Warren v. Kia Motors Am.
(2018) 30 Cal.App.5th 24, 36; accord Hanna v. Mercedes-Benz USA, LLC (2019)
36 Cal.App.5th 493, 509–12.) 
 
2.      The
Reasonableness of the Fees Requests
 
a.       Legal
Standard
 
“Under the lodestar adjustment methodology, the trial court
must initially determine the actual time expended and then ascertain whether
under all the circumstances¿of the case the amount of actual time expended and the monetary charge being
made for the time expended are reasonable. Factors to be considered include,
but are not limited to, the complexity of the case and procedural demands, the
attorney skill exhibited and the results achieved. The prevailing party and fee
applicant bears the burden of showing that the fees incurred were reasonably
necessary to¿the conduct of the litigation,
and were
reasonable in amount. It follows that if the prevailing party fails to meet
this burden, and the court finds the time expended or amount charged is not
reasonable under the circumstances, then the court must take this into account
and award attorney fees in a lesser amount.” (Mikhaeilpoor v. BMW of N. Am.,
LLC (2020) 48 Cal.App.5th 240, 247 [cleaned up].)
 
“The judgment creditor is entitled
to the reasonable and necessary costs of enforcing a judgment. Attorney’s fees
incurred in enforcing a judgment are not included in costs collectible under
this title unless otherwise provided by law. Attorney’s fees incurred in
enforcing a judgment are included as costs collectible under this title if the
underlying judgment includes an award of attorney’s fees to the judgment
creditor pursuant to subparagraph (A) of paragraph (10) of subdivision (a) of
Section 1033.5.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 685.040.)
 
“Code of Civil Procedure section 685.040 has a requirement which Civil Code section 1717 does not: only fees that were
necessarily incurred are recoverable.” (Wertheim, LLC, supra, 70
Cal.App.5th at p. 332.)
 
b.       Reasonableness
of the Hourly Rates
 
Judgment Creditor’s Counsel claim the following hourly rates:
 
(1)       $480.00 to $500.00
per hour for Partner Teri T. Pham;
 
(2)       $450.00 to $590.00
per hour for Senior Counsel Matthew W. Rosene;
 
(3)       $350.00 per hour
for Associate Scott L. Satkin; and
 
(4)       $450.00 per hour
for Associate Neeloufar Mahrouyan. 
 
(Decl. Pham, ¶¶ 1,
15–19.) 
 
        Judgment Creditor’s Counsel does not
list in the declaration the hourly rates for the various paralegals who worked
on this matter. However, the invoices indicate that the paralegals all charged
$250.00 per hour in this matter. (Decl. Pham, Exh. 12.)
 
        The Court finds that all of these hourly
rates are reasonable in the Los Angeles market.
 
 
c.       Reasonableness
of the Number of Hours
 
Judgment Creditor’s Counsel does not provide a total number of hours
worked in the declaration, nor is there a breakdown of total hours by attorney
or paralegal. Adding up all the hours listed in the invoices, it appears that
Judgment Creditor’s counsel and paralegals worked a total of 348 hours on this
matter from January 2, 2023 (the date of entry of Judgment) to present. (Decl.
Pham, Exh. 12.)
 
During the approximately fourteen months since Judgment was entered, this
matter has involved: (1) many applications and orders for appearance and
examination (i.e., applications for debtor’s examinations); (2) multiple
motions to amend judgment; (3) a motion to quash; (4) a motion for
reconsideration; (5) this motion for attorney’s fees; (6) the subsequent motion
for an order to satisfy judgment; and (7) the subsequent motion to strike or tax
costs. 
 
        Some of these motions have been complex
and required many hours; others have been more routine. 
 
Furthermore, Judgment Creditor’s Counsel has had a mixed record on the
motions, sometimes making relatively simple errors that necessitated refiling
the motions in order to succeed on the second go-around. Indeed, it is not at
all clear that the number of hours Judgment Creditor’s Counsel claim to have
spent led to better results. For example, had Judgment Creditor’s Counsel filed
a memorandum of costs or motion for costs earlier, this motion would have been
much more straightforward, and it appears that Judgment Creditor is only
getting fees and costs as to Judgment Debtor Dr. Leevil, LLC because of a
technicality — not due to any particular skill demonstrated by Judgment
Creditor’s Counsel. 
 
Here, consideration of the invoices and the
circumstances indicates that the amount of hours claimed does appear to be
inflated — but not by an outrageous amount. 
 
“When a ‘voluminous fee application’ is
made, the court may, as it did here, ‘make across-the-board percentage cuts
either in the number of hours claimed or in the final lodestar figure.’ These
percentage cuts to large fee requests are, however, ‘subject to heightened
scrutiny and the use of percentages, in any case, neither discharges the
district court from its responsibility to set forth a ‘concise but clear’
explanation of its reasons for choosing a given percentage reduction nor from
its duty to independently review the applicant's fee request.’” (Kerkeles v.
City of San Jose (2015) 243 Cal.App.4th 88, 102, quoting Gates v.
Deukmejian (9th Cir. 1992) 987 F.2d 1392, 1399.)
 
        The Court adopts that approach here and
applies a 15% across-the-board percentage cut to the number of hours claimed.
The Court basis this 150% across-the-board reduction on its experiences and
observations of what has occurred during this litigation. Thus, the Court will
allow 295.8 hours to be claimed.
 
        In addition, the Court will allow an
additional $1,000.00 in fees for the work done on the three motions at issue in
this Order. While a larger amount of fees would normally be reasonable,
Judgment Creditor’s Counsel did not do a stellar job on this motion. Various
important statutes were not cited, and Counsel’s memorandum of points and
authorities did not properly assess the issues surrounding satisfaction of
judgment, all of which made the Court’s work in adjudicating this matter much
slower and more arduous. 
 
 
H.      The
Request for Costs
 
Judgment Creditor requests $12,139.53 in costs. (Judgment Creditor’s
Motion for Attorney’s Fees, p. 9:2–4.) Judgment Creditor further requests
$111.65 in costs for this motion. (Id. at p. 8:21–25.) The Court
assesses this request below. 
 
1.      Legal
Standard
 
“Except as otherwise expressly provided by statute, a
prevailing party is entitled as a matter of right to recover costs in any
action or proceeding.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1032, subd. (b).)
 
Prevailing parties seeking to claim
costs must comply with California Rules of Court, rule 3.1700(a), and parties
seeking to contest costs must comply with California Rules of Court, rule
3.1700(b). 
 
The Court separately considers each
category of contested costs, including: (1) whether they are specifically
allowable or specifically prohibited; (2) whether they were incurred, whether
or not paid; (3) whether they were reasonably necessary to the conduct of the
litigation rather than merely convenient or beneficial to its preparation; and
(4) whether they are reasonable in amount. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 1033.5, subds.
(a), (b), and (c)(1)–(3).
 
“Items not mentioned in this
section and items assessed upon application may be allowed or denied in the court’s
discretion.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1033.5, subd. (c)(4); see also Foothill-De Anza Cmty. Coll.
Dist. v. Emerich (2007) 158 Cal.App.4th 11, 30.)
 
2.      Discussion
 
Judgment Debtors Dr. Leevil, LLC and D-Day Capital, LLC argue: (1) that
the request for costs is improper because Judgment Creditor withdrew its
Memorandum of Costs; and (2) that Judgment Debtors Dr. Leevil, LLC and D-Day
Capital, LLC have a pending motion to strike costs. (Opposition to Judgment
Creditor’s Motion for Attorney’s Fees, p. 12:14–15.)
 
The first argument is without merit. 
 
Judgment creditors are allowed to request costs for enforcement of
judgments by both motions and memoranda. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 685.070, subd.
(b); 685.080, subd. (a).) The withdrawal of one does not automatically moot the
other. 
 
The second argument is also without merit. 
 
The arguments made in Judgment Debtors’ Motion to Tax or Strike Costs
are: (1) that Judgment Debtor Dr. Leevil, LLC satisfied its portion of the
Judgment prior to Judgment Creditor filing its Memorandum of Costs; and (2)
that Judgment Creditor did not provide any itemization or breakdown of the
costs between Judgment Debtors Dr. Leevil, LLC and D-Day Capital, LLC. 
 
As discussed above, Judgment Debtor Dr. Leevil, LLC did not, in fact,
satisfy its portion of the Judgment prior to Judgment Creditor filings its
Memorandum of Costs. Furthermore, all of the attorney’s fees and costs incurred
in this matter were so inextricably intertwined that it would not have been
reasonable to apportion them between the judgment debtors. 
 
Finally, in certain situations, the costs associated with a motion to
amend a judgment to include an alter ego are considered pre-judgment costs
rather than post-judgment enforcement costs. (Highland Springs Conference
& Training Ctr. v. City of Banning (2019) 42 Cal.App.5th 416, 422–427.)
Because the Court is awarding all categories and costs and fees (and not
disallowing any of the costs and fees), the Court need not receive further
briefing from the Parties as to: (1) whether the costs for the motion to amend
judgment (and related motions, such as the motion for reconsideration) in this
matter should be considered pre-judgment or post-judgment costs; or (2) which
such pre-judgment costs and fees should be allowed.
 
The Court awards all of the costs requested by Judgment Creditor.
 
I.        Conclusion
 
It has been noted before that “he who lives by the ipse dixit dies
by the ipse dixit.” (Morrison v. Olson (1988) 487 U.S. 654, 726
(dis. opn. of Scalia, J.).)  
 
Judgment Creditor’s Motion for Attorney’s Fees is GRANTED in part.
 
Fees and costs are AWARDED in favor of Judgment Creditor Westlake
Village Property, L.P. and against
Judgment Debtors D-Day Capital, LLC, Dr. Leevil, LLC, and Dr. Leevil SPE LLC,
jointly and severally, in the total amount of $153,395.99.
 
II.      
Judgment Debtor’s Motion to Satisfy Judgment
 
A.      Legal
Standard
 
“A money judgment may be satisfied
by payment of the full amount required to satisfy the judgment or by acceptance
by the judgment creditor of a lesser sum in full satisfaction of the judgment.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 724.010, subd. (a).)
 
“Where a money judgment is satisfied
by payment to the judgment creditor by check or other form of noncash payment
that is to be honored upon presentation by the judgment creditor for payment,
the obligation of the judgment creditor to give or file an acknowledgment of
satisfaction of judgment arises only when the check or other form of noncash
payment has actually been honored upon presentation for payment.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 724.010, subd. (c).)
 
“When a money judgment is satisfied,
the judgment creditor immediately shall file with the court an acknowledgment
of satisfaction of judgment. This section does not apply where the judgment is
satisfied in full pursuant to a writ.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 724.030.)
 
“If a money judgment has been
satisfied, the judgment debtor, the owner of real or personal property subject
to a judgment lien created under the judgment, or a person having a security
interest in or a lien on personal property subject to a judgment lien created
under the judgment may serve personally or by mail on the judgment creditor a
demand in writing that the judgment creditor do one or both of the following:
 
“(1)
File an acknowledgment of satisfaction of judgment with the court.
“(2)
Execute, acknowledge, and deliver an acknowledgment of satisfaction of judgment
to the person who made the demand.”
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 724.050, subd. (a).)
 
“If the judgment has been satisfied,
the judgment creditor shall comply with the demand not later than 15 days after
actual receipt of the demand.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 724.050, subd. (c).)
 
“If the judgment creditor does not
comply with the demand within the time allowed, the person making the demand
may apply to the court on noticed motion for an order requiring the judgment
creditor to comply with the demand. The notice of motion shall be served on the
judgment creditor. Service shall be made personally or by mail. If the court
determines that the judgment has been satisfied and that the judgment creditor
has not complied with the demand, the court shall either (1) order the judgment
creditor to comply with the demand or (2) order the court clerk to enter
satisfaction of the judgment.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 724.050, subd. (d).)
 
“If the judgment has been satisfied
and the judgment creditor fails without just cause to comply with the demand
within the time allowed, the judgment creditor is liable to the person who made
the demand for all damages sustained by reason of such failure and shall also
forfeit one hundred dollars ($100) to such person. Liability under this subdivision
may be determined in the proceedings on the motion pursuant to subdivision (d)
or in an action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 724.050, subd. (e).)
 
“In an action or proceeding
maintained pursuant to this chapter, the court shall award reasonable attorney’s
fees to the prevailing party.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 724.080.)
 
“The damages recoverable pursuant to
this chapter are not in derogation of any other damages or penalties to which
an aggrieved person may be entitled by law.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 724.090.)
 
B.      Discussion
 
Judgment Debtor Dr. Leevil, LLC moves the Court for an order compelling
Judgment Creditor to acknowledge full satisfaction of the Judgment. 
 
However, for the reason discussed above regarding Judgment Creditor’s
Motion for Attorney’s fees, Judgment Debtor Dr. Leevil, LLC has not, in fact,
fully satisfied the Judgment. 
 
Accordingly, Judgment Debtor Dr. Leevil, LLC is not entitled to an order
compelling Judgment Creditor to acknowledge full satisfaction of the Judgment,
nor is Judgment Debtor Dr. Leevil, LLC entitled to attorney’s fees. 
 
C.      Conclusion
 
Judgment Debtor’s Motion to Satisfy Judgment is DENIED. 
 
Judgment Debtor’s Request for Attorney’s Fees is DENIED. 
 
 
III.    
Judgment Debtor’s Motion to Strike or Tax
Costs
 
A.      Legal
Standard
 
“Except as otherwise expressly provided by statute, a
prevailing party is entitled as a matter of right to recover costs in any
action or proceeding.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1032, subd. (b).)
 
Prevailing parties seeking to claim
costs must comply with California Rules of Court, rule 3.1700(a), and parties
seeking to contest costs must comply with California Rules of Court, rule
3.1700(b). 
 
The Court separately considers each
category of contested costs, including: (1) whether they are specifically
allowable or specifically prohibited; (2) whether they were incurred, whether
or not paid; (3) whether they were reasonably necessary to the conduct of the
litigation rather than merely convenient or beneficial to its preparation; and
(4) whether they are reasonable in amount. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 1033.5, subds.
(a), (b), and (c)(1)–(3).
 
“Items not mentioned in this
section and items assessed upon application may be allowed or denied in the
court’s discretion.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1033.5, subd. (c)(4); see also Foothill-De Anza Cmty. Coll.
Dist. v. Emerich (2007) 158 Cal.App.4th 11, 30.)
 
B.      Discussion
 
The Court has already considered and rejected the arguments made in
Judgment Debtors’ Motion to Strike or Tax Costs. 
 
C.      Conclusion
 
Judgment Debtors’ Motion to Strike or Tax Costs is DENIED. 
 