  Case Number:  23CHCV02013    Hearing Date:   April 2, 2024    Dept:  F49    Dept.    F49      Date:    4/2/24     Case    Name:  Barbara Deeann Costanzo v.    Emmanuel Gonzalez; Guillermo Luis Rodriguez; and Does 1-100     Case    # 23CHCV02013      LOS  ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT NORTH  VALLEY DISTRICT DEPARTMENT  F49    APRIL 2, 2024    MOTION TO STRIKE PUNITIVE  DAMAGES  Los Angeles Superior Court Case # 23CHCV02013    Motion  filed: 11/3/23   MOVING PARTY: Defendants Emmanuel Gonzalez and  Guillermo Luis Rodriguez  RESPONDING PARTY: None NOTICE: ok    RELIEF  REQUESTED: An  order from this Court striking the language regarding punitive damages in the  Complaint.    TENTATIVE  RULING: The motion  is GRANTED with LEAVE TO AMEND.   BACKGROUND   This action arises from a vehicle collision allegedly caused  by Defendants.   On July 10, 2023, Plaintiff Barbara Deeann Costanzo (“Plaintiff”)  filed her Complaint against Defendants Emmanuel  Gonzalez and Guillermo Luis Rodriguez (collectively, “Defendants”), and Does  1-100. The Complaint alleges motor vehicle liability and general negligence,  seeking, inter alia, punitive damages.     On November 13, 2023, Defendants filed the instant Motion to Strike.               No  opposing papers have been received by the Court.   ANALYSIS   The court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its  discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or  improper matter inserted in any pleading.   (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a); Stafford  v. Shultz, 42 Cal. 2d 767,  782 (1954) [“Matter in a pleading which is not essential to the claim is  surplusage; probative facts are surplusage and may be stricken out or  disregarded”].)    An immaterial or  irrelevant allegation is one that is not essential to the statement of a claim  or defense; is neither pertinent to nor supported by an otherwise sufficient  claim or defense; or a demand for judgment requesting relief not supported by  the allegations of the complaint.  (Code  Civ. Proc., § 431.10, subd. (b).)  The  grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way  of judicial notice.  (Code Civ. Proc., §  437.) A.     Procedural  Requirements   1.       Meet and Confer “Before filing a motion to strike . . . the moving party  shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party who filed the  pleading that is subject to the motion to strike for the purpose of determining  if an agreement can be reached that resolves the objections to be raised in the  motion to strike.”  (Code Civ. Proc. §  435.5, subd. (a).)  If no agreement is  reached, the moving party shall file and serve with the motion to strike a  declaration stating either: (1) the means by which the parties met and  conferred and that the parties did not reach an agreement, or (2) that the  party who filed the pleading failed to respond to the meet and confer request  or otherwise failed to meet and confer in good faith.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 435.5, subd. (a)(3).)   Here, Defendants’ counsel states that on October 30, 2023, he  conducted a telephonic meet and confer with Plaintiff’s counsel regarding the  issues presented in the instant motion During this conversation, Defendants’  counsel outlined their position and requested the dismissal of the punitive  damages allegations. Plaintiff’s counsel declined the request on November 1,  2023. (Armstrong Decl., ¶ 3.)   Based on the declaration, the Court finds that the meet and  confer requirements under Code of Civil Procedure section 435.5 subdivision (a)  have been met.    2.       Timeliness   “Any party,  within the time allowed to respond to a pleading may serve and file a notice of  motion to strike the whole or any part thereof [e.g., 30 days after the service  of the compliant or cross-complaint unless extended by court order or  stipulation.]” (Code Civ. Proc. § 435, subd. (b)(1).)    “If the parties  are unable to meet and confer at least 5 days before the date the motion to  strike must be filed, the moving party shall be granted an automatic 30-day  extension of time within which to file a motion to strike, by filing and  serving, on or before the date a motion to strike must be filed, a declaration  stating under penalty of perjury that a good faith attempt to meet and confer  was made and explaining the reasons why the parties could not meet and confer.  The 30-day extension shall commence from the date the motion to strike was  previously due[.]” (Code Civ. Proc. § 435.5, subd. (a)(2).)   Here, the  Complaint was served via substituted service on Defendants on August 12, 2023, followed  by mail service on August 16, 2023. (8/18/23 Proof of Service). Pursuant to  Code of Civil Procedure section 415.20 subdivision (a), service in this manner  is deemed completed on the 10th day after the mailing. Therefore, combining this  with the 30-day rule to respond to the Complaint after the service, the  deadline for Defendants to file a motion to strike was established as September  25, 2023.    However, Defendants  filed their Motion on November 13, 2023, missing the established deadline. Consequently, the Court considers the filing of the Motion  untimely.    Notably, the meet and confer process took place on  October 30, 2023. (Armstrong Decl., ¶ 3.) Despite  this effort, Defendants have not provided a declaration “stating under penalty  or perjury that a good faith attempt to meet and confer was made and  explaining the reasons why the parties could not meet and confer [at least  5 days before the date the motion to strike must be filed,]” as required by Code  of Civil Procedure section 435.5 subdivision (a)(2). This omission precludes Defendants  from being entitled to the 30-day automatic extension for filing their motion.   Given that Plaintiff does not oppose the timeliness issue  of the Motion, the Court will now proceed to evaluate the Motion on its merits.     B.      Motion to  Strike Punitive Damages   Defendants request that the following allegations be  stricken from the complaint:   1.       Page 3 of the  Complaint, No. 10(f); 2.       Page 3 of the  Complaint, No. 15 (General Negligence -1, Motor Vehicle -1 and Punitive  Damages); and  3.       The Exemplary Damages  Attachment in its entirety.   “Punitive damages are accessible  only upon a showing that the defendant acted with the intent to vex, injure, or  annoy.”  (Tomaselli v. Transamerica Ins. Co. (1994) 25 Cal.App.4th  1269, 1286 (internal citation omitted).) To withstand a motion to strike punitive damages  allegations, the complaint must set forth facts supporting a claim for punitive  damages: “the mere allegation an intentional tort was committed is not  sufficient to warrant an award of punitive damages. (Citation omitted.) Not  only must there be circumstances of oppression, fraud or malice, but facts must  be alleged in the pleading to support such a claim.” (Grieves v. Superior  Court (Fox) (1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 159, 166.) Civil Code § 3294  subdivision (c) defines malice, oppression, and fraud: (1) ‘Malice’ means conduct  which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable  conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious  disregard of the rights or safety of others.   (2) ‘Oppression’ means  despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in  conscious disregard of that person's rights.   (3) ‘Fraud’ means an  intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known  to the defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby  depriving a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.   “[Civil Code section 3294] plainly  indicates that absent an intent to injure the plaintiff, ‘malice’ requires more  than a ‘willful and conscious’ disregard of the plaintiffs’ interests. The  additional component of ‘despicable conduct’ must be found.” (College Hospital Inc. v. Superior Court, 8 Cal. 4th 704, 725 (1994).)   Here,  Defendants argue that the Complaint lacks any factual allegations of gross  negligence, i.e., “want of even scant care” or recklessness, much less  despicable conduct, citing Eastburn v. Regional Fire Protection Authority  (2003) 31 Cal.4th 1175, 1185, and Lackner v. North (2006) 135  Cal.App.4th 1188, 1209-1210. (Mot., at 4.)    The Court observes that in the  Complaint’s Exemplary Damages Attachment, the selection is “malice ...as  defined in Civil Code section 3294[.]” However, the facts supporting  plaintiff’s claim section merely allege, in relevant part, that “[a]s  Plaintiff was traveling, Emmanuel Gonzalez and Guillermo Luis Rodriguez AND  DOES 1 TO 100, inclusive, and each of them, negligently, carelessly and  recklessly, failed to control, and stop his/their vehicle thereby causing  his/their vehicle to collide with Plaintiff's vehicle ... and each of them,  carried a conduct with conscious disregard to the safety of the Plaintiff”  (Compl., Exemplary Damages Attachment, ¶ Ex. “2.”)   Considering  established precedents, the Court determines that mere allegations of  “reckless” and “conscious disregard to the safety of the Plaintiff,” do not  suffice to meet the requirements of alleging punitive damages.   Therefore, the Court GRANTS with LEAVE TO AMEND the Motion  to Strike Punitive Damages.   CONCLUSION   The Motion to Strike is GRANTED.   Plaintiff is GRANTED LEAVE TO AMEND the Complaint within 10  days of notice of this order.   Moving party to give notice.