 Case Number:  24VECV00978    Hearing Date:   July 8, 2024    Dept:  W DARIN HARVEY vs SIMON ASULIN
 
defendant simon asulin’s demurrer to
plaintiff darin harvey’s complaint and motion to strike 
 
Date of Hearing:        July
8, 2024                                                    Trial Date:       N/A

Department:              W                                                                     Case
No.:        24VECV00978
 
Moving Party:             Defendant
Simon Asulin      
Responding Party:      Plaintiff
Darin Harvey 
Meet and Confer:       Attempted.
(Norton Decl. ¶¶4-5.) 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On March
4, 2024, Plaintiff Darin Harvey filed a complaint against Defendant Simon
Asulin for assault, battery, intentional infliction of emotional distress, and
extortion. Plaintiff alleges they were renting an apartment to the girlfriend
of Defendant when on September 7, 2023, Defendant suddenly and viciously
attacked Plaintiff. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Defendant Simon Asulin’s Demurrer
to Plaintiff Darin Harvey’s Complaint is OVERRULED. Defendant Simon Asulin’s
Motion to Strike is DENIED. 
 
discussion
 
Defendant Simon Asulin demurs to
the complaint on the grounds the complaint and each cause of action contained
therein fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a claim against Defendant
Asulin. 
 
First Cause of Action – Assault
 
Defendant demurs to the first
cause of action for assault on the grounds Plaintiff fails to state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action and is uncertain. 
 
“The elements of a cause of action
for assault are: (1) the defendant acted with intent to cause harmful or
offensive contact, or threatened to touch the plaintiff in a harmful or
offensive manner; (2) the plaintiff reasonably believed he was about to be
touched in a harmful or offensive manner or it reasonably appeared to the
plaintiff that the defendant was about to carry out the threat; (3) the
plaintiff did not consent to the defendant’s conduct; (4) the plaintiff was
harmed; and (5) the defendant’s conduct was a substantial factor in causing the
plaintiff’s harm.” (Carlsen v. Koivumaki (2014) 227 Cal.App.4th 879, 890
(citing So v. Shin (2013) 212 Cal.App.4th 652, 668-69).) Physical injury
is not required; rather, the tort of assault is complete when anticipation of
harm occurs. (See Kiseskey v. Carpenters’ Trust for Southern California
(1983) 144 Cal.App.3d 222, 232.) 
 
Defendant argues Plaintiff pleads
no facts to support his conclusory claim that “Defendant acted with intention
to cause harmful or offensive with Plaintiff.” (Compl. ¶11.) Defendant further
contends the complaint fails to allege lack of consent, particularly when the
alleged argument became physical. 
 
The court disagrees the complaint
is alleged in conclusory terms. The complaint alleges on September 7, 2023,
Defendant suddenly and viciously attacked Plaintiff by grabbing Plaintiff by
the throat and the groin, causing severe injury to Plaintiff. (Compl. ¶4.) The complaint
further alleges Defendant acted with the intention to cause harmful or
offensive contact with Plaintiff; that the attack caused him severe injuries
and that he felt threatened as the assault was unfolding (Compl. ¶11.) That he
did not consent to being attacked in this manner is implicit and need not be
alleged.  
 
Accordingly, the demurrer to the
first cause of action is OVERRULED. 
 
Second Cause of Action – Battery
 
Defendant demurs to the second
cause of action for battery on the grounds Plaintiff fails to state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action and is uncertain. 
 
“The essential elements of a cause
of action for battery are: (1) defendant touched plaintiff, or caused plaintiff
to be touched, with the intent to harm or offend plaintiff; (2) plaintiff did
not consent to the touching; (3) plaintiff was harmed or offended by
defendant’s conduct; and (4) a reasonable person in plaintiff’s position would
have been offended by the touching.” (Yun Hee So v. Sook Ja Shin (2013)
212 Cal.App.4th 652, 669.) 
 
Defendant argues Plaintiff pleads
no facts to support his conclusory claim that “Defendant touched and attacked
Plaintiff with the intent to harm Plaintiff[]” nor does Plaintiff sufficiently
plead that Defendant made “offensive” contact with Plaintiff. (Compl. ¶16.) 
 
Again, the court disagrees that Plaintiff
has failed to sufficiently allege intent. Plaintiff has alleged a violent and
intentional assault, causing him serious injuries.  Nothing more is required at the pleadings
stage.  
 
Accordingly, the demurrer to the
second cause of action is OVERRULED. 
 
Third Cause of Action –
Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress
 
Defendant demurs to the third
cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional distress on the grounds
Plaintiff fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action and
is uncertain. 
 
The elements for a cause of action
for intentional infliction of emotional distress are (1) extreme and outrageous
conduct by the defendant with the intention of causing, or reckless disregard
of the probability of causing, emotional distress; (2) the plaintiff’s
suffering severe or extreme emotional distress; and (3) an actual and proximate
causal link between the tortious conduct and the emotional distress.  (Hughes
v. Pair (2009) 46 Cal.4th 1035, 1050.)   
 
Defendant argues Plaintiff
contends, with only the barest of any factual assertions, that Defendant
“suddenly and viciously attacked Plaintiff by grabbing Plaintiff by the throat
and groin,” after an argument arose on September 7, 2023. However, Plaintiff
pleads no facts to support that conclusory claim that Defendant’s conduct was
“extreme” or “outrageous,” especially no facts to support the claim that
Defendant’s conduct was such that it exceeded “what is tolerated by a civilized
society.” 
 
The court agrees Plaintiff has adequately
alleged a claim for intentional infliction of emotional distress. “Whether
conduct is “outrageous” is usually a question of fact. [Citations.]” (So v.
Shin (2013) 212 Cal.App.4th 652, 672.) A violent unprovoked physical
attack, if proven, is extreme and outrageous conduct which would support a
claim for IIED.  
 
Accordingly, the demurrer to the
third cause of action is OVERRULED. 
 
Fourth Cause of Action – Extortion

 
Defendant demurs to the fourth
cause of action for extortion on the grounds Plaintiff fails to state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action and is uncertain. 
 
Civil extortion is a cause of
action for recovery of money obtained by the wrongful use of fear (Cross v.
Cooper (2011) 197 Cal.App.4th 357.)  “It is essentially a cause of action for
moneys obtained by duress, a form of fraud.”  (Fuhrman v.
California Satellite Systems (1986) 179 Cal.App.3d at 426 (citing Leeper,
supra, 53 Cal.2d at 205, 207).) 
 
Defendant argues Plaintiff’s only
pleaded facts are extremely vague, unspecific, and wholly conclusory. While the
allegations are thin, the court agrees, they adequately allege all of the
elements of civil extortion.  It is
alleged that defendant caused “threats to the life of plaintiff,” in addition
to allegedly assaulting him, and “extorted money from plaintiff.”  (Complaint, ¶8.). These allegations are
sufficient.  There is no requirement that
plaintiff allege the extortionate statements with any specificity or that he
allege the amount of money taken from him. 

 
Accordingly, the demurrer to the
fourth cause of action is OVERRULED.
 
Motion to Strike 
 
 
Defendant first moves to strike
each cause of action as being conclusory. For the reasons set forth above, the
court denies the motion to strike each cause of action on these grounds
 
Similarly, the motion to strike
punitive damages is also denied. California Civil Code section 3294 authorizes
the recovery of punitive damages in non-contract cases where “the defendant has
been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice . . . .” (Civ. Code § 3294(a).)
“‘Malice’ means conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to
the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a
willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.” (Civ. Code
§ 3294(c)(1).) “Oppression” means despicable conduct that subjects a person to
cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person’s rights. (Civ.
Code § 3294(c)(2).) “Fraud” means an intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or
concealment of a material fact known to defendant with the intention on the
part of defendant of thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights or
otherwise causing injury. (Civ. Code § 3294(c)(3).)
 
A motion
to strike punitive damages is properly granted where a plaintiff does not state
a prima facie claim for punitive damages, including allegations that defendant
is guilty of oppression, fraud or malice.  (Turman v. Turning Point of
Cent. California, Inc., 191 Cal. App. 4th 53, 63 (2010).)  “Mere
negligence, even gross negligence, is not sufficient to justify such an award”
for punitive damages.  (Kendall Yacht Corp. v. United California Bank,
50 Cal. App. 3d 949, 958 (1975).)  The allegations supporting a request
for punitive damages must be alleged with specificity; conclusory allegations
without sufficient facts are not enough.  (Smith v. Superior Court,
10 Cal. App. 4th 1033, 1041-1042 (1992).) 
 
Here,
however, plaintiff alleges that he was violently assaulted by defendant and
that defendant threatened his life, extorting money from him with those
threats.  These allegations are
sufficient to support a request for punitive damages.  
 
 