 Case Number:  23VECV04614    Hearing Date:   July 8, 2024    Dept:  W TROY MICHELL DIAMOND V. STACIE ANTHONY,
ET AL. 
 
defendant loandepot.com llc and mr.
cooper’s demurrer to plaintiff’s complaint  
 
Date of Hearing:        July
8, 2024                                                    Trial Date:       N/A

Department:              W                                                                     Case
No.:        23VECV04614
 
Moving Party:             Defendants
LoanDepot.com LLC and Mr. Cooper
Responding Party:      Plaintiff
Troy Mitchell Diamond 
Meet and Confer:       Yes.
(Chvat Decl.) 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On October 16, 2023, Plaintiff filed a
complaint against Defendants Stacie Anthony aka Stacie Harb, Vicki D. Harb, The
Estate of Henry G. Harb, LoanDepo.com LLC, First American Title Company, and
Mr. Cooper to void a real property transfer and for conspiracy to commit
fraudulent transfer. Plaintiff alleges his ex-wife originally fraudulently
transferred the property to Defendants Vicki D. Harb and The Estate of Henry G.
Harb (collectively, “the Harbs”) in order to avoid her ex-husband, Plaintiff,
collecting against the property. Plaintiff then alleges the Harbs fraudulently
transferred the property to their daughter, Defendant Stacie Anthony. This
action focuses on the fraudulent transfer between the Harbs and their daughter.
Defendants LoanDepot.com LLC was the lender/beneficiary of the mortgage loan
obtained by the Harbs and their daughter, and Mr. Cooper acted as the loan
servicer. 
 
This action is related to LC105733,
Diamond v. Harb, et al. 
 
Plaintiff’s request for entry of default against The Estate of
Henry G. Harb, a deceased individual was entered June 20, 2024. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Defendants LoanDepot.com LLC and Mr. Cooper’s Demurrer to the
Complaint is SUSTAINED WITH LIMITED LEAVE TO AMEND. 
 
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICe
 
Defendants LoanDepot.com LLC and Mr.
Coooper request this court take judicial notice of several publicly recorded
documents and court records. (See RJN, Exhs. 1-8.) The court GRANTS Defendants’
request for judicial notice. 
 
discussion
 
Defendants LoanDepot.com LLC and Mr. Cooper demur to each and
every cause of action on the grounds that Plaintiff’s complaint against
Defendants is barred as a matter of law and fails to allege facts sufficient to
constitute any actional claim against them. 
 
Statute of Limitations
 
Defendants first demur to the complaint on the grounds the claims
are barred by the statute of limitations. 
 
Defendants contend since Defendants did not partake in the actual
transfer that Plaintiff alleges was fraudulent, the statute of limitations for
alleged “aiding and abetting” would be governed by the Code of Civil Procedure
section 338(d)’s three-year limitations period. (Vaca v. Wachovia Mortgage
Corp. (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 737, 743-744.) Defendants further contend,
even if the Uniform Voidable Transactions Act (“UVTA”) itself was to apply, the
statute of limitations is four years. Here, Defendants contend the dissolution
judgment, was entered on November 25, 2015 and the allegedly fraudulent
transfer, i.e., the “October 2016 Transfer” as Plaintiff calls it, was
admittedly in October 2016. Plaintiff’s lawsuit was not filed until October 16,
2023, seven years later. 
 
Moreover, Defendants contend Plaintiff cannot rely on any delayed
discovery rule as Plaintiff filed a separate lawsuit (Case No. LC105733)
involving the alleged unlawful transfer by Plaintiff’s ex-wife to the Harbs in
May 2017 – six years earlier. During that time, Plaintiff recorded a lis
pendens, which would have clearly put Plaintiff on notice of the alleged
transfer from the Harbs to their daughter in November 2016 and the lien
recorded by Defendants that same month. 
Similarly, Defendants contend Plaintiff cannot allege facts supporting
any tolling of the statute of limitations since he was, at all times, clearly
aware of the alleged fraudulent transfer. Lastly, Defendants argue whether or
not Susan, Plaintiff’s ex-wife, appealed the dissolution judgment is irrelevant
and a red herring. (See Lomeli v. Dep’t of Corr. (2003) 108 Cal.App.4th
788, 794-795 holding “there is a difference between finality for enforcement
purposes and finality for appeal purposes.”) There are only two appeals of the
dissolution proceeding – one which was dismissed less than three months after
it was filed and still puts the action beyond the statute of limitations and another
– which was filed after the statute of limitations would have run. 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues it is the UVTA that applies and
the statute of limitations for a UVTA claim can be tolled up to seven years. Crucially,
the UVTA provides that “[n]otwithstanding any other provision of law, a cause
of action with respect to a fraudulent transfer or obligation is extinguished
if no action is brought or levy is made within seven years after the transfer
was made or the obligation was incurred.” (Civ. Code §3439.09(c).) Plaintiff
contends the statute of limitations has actually been tolled for nearly four
years. Susan has filed multiple appeals of the underlying judgment in the Diamond
v. Diamond case and has also been tolled due to the Covid-19 pandemic. 
 
In the instant case, plaintiff clearly states that he is pursuing
relief solely under the UVTA; thus, the only relevant statute of limitations is
found in that statute.   Ordinarily, a fraudulent
transfer claim under the UVTA must be brought “within four years after the
transfer was made or the obligation was incurred or, if later, within one year
after the transfer or obligation was or could reasonably have been
discovered by the claimant.” Civ.C. § 3439.09(a).  Plaintiff does not rely on delayed discovery
and did not plead facts of delayed discovery in the complaint.  As such, plaintiff apparently concedes that
he would not be able to plausibly plead delayed discovery, since the transfer
was duly recorded in the same public records in which plaintiff subsequently
recorded his own notice of lis pendens in 2017 – well past the statute of
limitations period. (See Potter Huffman Land & Live Stock Co. v. Witcher
(1920) 48 Cal.App. 93, 102 holding a “party having readily accessible means of
acquiring knowledge of a fact, which he might have ascertained by inquiry, is
equivalent to notice and knowledge of it.”)
 
Instead, plaintiff relies on the concept of tolling that has been
recognized for UVTA claims under Section 3439.09(c), which provides that “[n]otwithstanding
any other provision of law, a cause of action with respect to a fraudulent transfer
or obligation is extinguished if no action is brought or levy is made within
seven years after the transfer was made or the obligation was incurred.” (Emph.
added.)  Plaintiff contends that “longstanding
case law establishes that the limitations period for an action to avoid a
fraudulent transfer does not commence to run until the underlying judgment is finalized,
including all relevant appeals.” Plaintiff relies on  Cortez v. Vogt (1997) 52 Cal.App.4th 917, 937,
which holds that “where there is an alleged fraudulent transfer made during a
pending lawsuit that will establish whether in fact, and the extent to which, a
debtor creditor relationship exists, we conclude the limitation period does not
commence to run until the judgment in the underlying action becomes final.” Plaintiff
argues that the underlying judgment, giving him a monetary judgment against his
former wife, did not become final until the appeals had been resolved, thereby
tolling the statute of limitations during the appellate process. The instant
lawsuit, filed six years and eleven months after the allegedly fraudulent
transfer was recorded, therefore falls within the seven-year catchall
provision.   
 
The court concludes that defendants have the better of the
argument on the statute of limitations.  The
first appeal was only pending for less than 3 months -- from June 9, 2017 until
September 5, 2017 -- when it was dismissed (Appellate Case No. B283115). [See
RJN, Exhibit 5]. That appeal would have tolled the SOL for only three
months.   The second appeal was filed on
June 16, 2022, after the four-year statute of limitations would have run;
accordingly, that appeal could not have tolled the running of the statute of
limitations, as it had already expired. 
Even if the court adds on six months for additional tolling due to the
Covid emergency orders (without finding that such additional tolling is
supported by the law), the entire tolling period would have only been 9
months.  Plaintiff filed this case on October
16, 2023, long after the four-year, 9 month period had elapsed.   
 
First and Second Causes of Action
 
Defendant next demurs to the complaint on the grounds the claims
are meritless. Specifically, (1) Defendants were not involved at all in the
allegedly fraudulent grant deed whereby the Harbs added their daughter to
title, nor does the Complaint set forth any facts to remotely suggest
Defendants were somehow involved in this transfer; (2) Plaintiff cannot even establish
that the underlying transfer of the Property to the Harbs in 2015, which
represents the sole basis for his challenge to the subsequent “October 2016
Transfer” was unlawful or even subject to the UVTA; (3) Plaintiff’s contention
that Defendants had a “duty to investigate the information in public records  is wholly unsupported and contrary to the law;
(4) Plaintiff’s claim for conspiracy equally fails; and (5) LoanDepot does not
own the 2016 loan/lien any longer and Mr. Cooper no longer services. It. 
 
Plaintiff fails to address any of these contentions in their
opposition. Plaintiff merely asserts the complaint herein only names Mr. Cooper
and Loandepot.com because they are indispensable parties as they are the named
beneficiaries on the deed of trust that was added to the property that is the
subject of the lawsuit. Moreover, the lawsuit does not seek monetary damages
against the Lenders. 
 
In reply, Defendants request Plaintiff to file an amended
complaint removing the inflammatory allegations of the Complaint against
Defendants and expressly confirming in each cause of action that: (1)
Defendants are only named because they have a valid lienholder interest in the
subject property, (2) no monetary damages against them are sought thereunder,
and (3) the adjudication of the causes of action shall have no impact or effect
on the validity, priority, or amount of Defendants’ loan/lien. Alternatively,
Plaintiff should be ordered to enter into a Stipulation for Non-Participation
preserving the validity, priority, and amount of the lien regardless of the
outcome of this case, as initially suggested by defense counsel from the
outset.
 
The court concludes that the demurrer should be sustained without
leave to amend as to any claims for damages against these defendants under the
UVTA; plaintiff cannot allege compliane with the applicable SOL.  Plaintiff may have leave to amend to clarify
that these defendants are named only as valid lienholders; that no monetary
damages are sought against them; and the adjudication of plaintiff’s claims
against them and the other parties shall have not effect on the validity,
priority or amount of defendants’ loan/lien.