 Case Number:  23STCV30438    Hearing Date:   April 23, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Pampanga Master Grill, Inc.,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23STCV30438




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




Core Value Advisors, LLC, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date: April 23, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice Leiter
Demurrer to Complaint
Moving Party: Defendants SCG Bahay Apartments, LLC
and SRG Residential
Responding Party: Plaintiff Pampanga Master Grill, Inc.
 
T/R:     DEFENDANTS’ DEMURRER TO THE THIRD CAUSE
OF ACTION IS SUSTAINED. THE DEMURRER TO THE FIRST AND SECOND CAUSES OF ACTION
IS OVERRULED.
 
PLAINTIFF TO FILE AND SERVE A FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT
WITHIN 
30 DAYS OF NOTICE OF RULING. DEFENDANTS
TO FILE AND SERVE A RESPONSE WITHIN 30 DAYS THEREAFTER.
 
DEFENDANT TO NOTICE
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please
email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing.
The Court considers the moving papers,
opposition, and reply. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On December 13, 2023, Plaintiff sued
Defendants, asserting causes of action for (1) breach of contract; (2) breach
of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing; and (3) negligence. Plaintiff,
a commercial tenant of a unit owned and managed by Defendants, alleges another
tenant improperly installed duct work; Defendants failed to remove or remedy
the improper duct work, preventing Plaintiff from completing construction in
Plaintiff’s unit. 
 
REQUEST FOR
JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
Defendant’s request for judicial notice
is GRANTED as to the existence of the documents, but not as to the truth of the
matters asserted therein.
 
ANALYSIS
 
A demurrer to a complaint may be taken to the whole complaint or to any
of the causes of action in it.  (CCP §
430.50(a).)  A demurrer challenges only
the legal sufficiency of the complaint, not the truth of its factual
allegations or the plaintiff's ability to prove those allegations.  (Picton v. Anderson Union High Sch. Dist. (1996)
50 Cal. App. 4th 726, 732.)  The court
must treat as true the complaint's material factual allegations, but not
contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.  (Id. at 732-33.)  The complaint is to be construed liberally to
determine whether a cause of action has been stated.  (Id. at 733.)
 
A. Breach of
Contract
 
“The standard
elements of a claim for breach of contract are: ‘(1) the contract, (2)
plaintiff’s performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3) defendant’s breach,
and (4) damage to plaintiff therefrom.’” (Wall Street Network, Ltd. v. New
York Times Co. (2008) 164 Cal.App.4th 1171, 1178.)
Defendants
demur to the first cause of action on the grounds that Plaintiffs fail to
allege specific facts showing Defendants breached the agreement. 
Plaintiffs
allege Defendants “agreed that they
would provide Unit #200 an exhaust shaft for the installation of its ducting
system measuring at least 30" x 30" (6.25 square feet) to the roof
with cleanouts and access to the exhaust shaft to be accessible to at every
floor of the building per code. Defendants further agreed that they would
ensure that the exhaust shafts of the other tenants in the Property, which
included Nashville's Unit #100 do not prevent or occupy each tenant's,
including PMG's Unit #200, being able to legally and possibly install their own
ducting system for its own intended use and benefit. Defendants further agreed
to ensure that each tenant of the Property, including Unit #100, obtains the
necessary permit for their intended construction work to be performed in their
leased unit and comply with the established laws and regulations.” (Compl. 21.)
Plaintiff alleges it performed under the lease and Defendants breached the
lease by failing to remedy the neighboring unit’s duct work and failing to
provide Plaintiff with the exhaust shaft required by the lease. This is
sufficient to state a cause of action for breach of contract.
The demurrer to the first cause of action is
OVERRULED.
B. Second Cause
of Action for Bad Faith
 
Defendants demur to the second cause of action on the ground that it is
duplicative of the first. The Court declines to sustain the demurrer on this
basis. Plaintiff may allege alternative theories of liability. 
 
The demurrer to the second cause of action is OVERRULED.
 
C. Third Cause
of Action for Negligence
 
Defendants demur to the third cause of action
for negligence on the ground that it is barred by the economic loss rule. (See Sheen v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2022) 12 Cal.5th 905, 922.) In opposition,
Plaintiff asserts that the allegations fall under the fraud exception to the
economic loss rule. But Plaintiff does not allege fraud; Plaintiff alleges only
negligence. 
The
demurrer to the third cause of action is SUSTAINED.
 
 