  Case Number:  22STCV05568    Hearing Date:   September 28, 2023    Dept:  76 Pursuant to California Rule of Court
3.1308(a)(1), the Court does not desire oral argument on the motion addressed
herein.  Counsel must contact the staff
in Department 76 to inform the Court whether they wish to submit on the
tentative, or to argue the matter.  As
required by Rule 3.1308(a), any party seeking oral argument must notify ALL
OTHER PARTIES and the staff of Department 76 of their intent to appear and
argue.
Notice to Department 76 may be sent by email to
smcdept76@lacourt.org or telephonically at 213-830-0776.
Per Rule of Court 3.1308, if notice of intention
to appear is not given, the Court may adopt the tentative ruling as the final
ruling.            Plaintiff
ASLI, LLC moves to compel the deposition of Defendant’s person most knowledgeable. 
RULING
            Plaintiff ASLI, LLC’s motion to
compel the deposition of Defendant’s person most knowledgeable with production
of documents is DENIED as to deposition categories Nos. 1, 13 – 16 and GRANTED
as to deposition categories Nos. 2 – 12. The motion to compel production of
documents is GRANTED as to requests for production Nos. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8
and DENIED as to requests for production Nos. 9 – 12.
            No sanctions were requested.
Motion To Compel Deposition With Production of Documents
Plaintiff
ASLI, LLC moves to compel the deposition of Defendant’s person most knowledgeable.

            Civ. Proc.
Code § 2025.450 provides in pertinent part:

(a) If, after service of a deposition
notice, a party to the action or an officer, director, managing agent, or employee
of a party, or a person designated by an organization that is a party under
Section 2025.230, without having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410[1],
fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for
inspection any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing
described in the deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move for an
order compelling the deponent's attendance and testimony, and the production for
inspection of any document, electronically stored information, or tangible
thing described in the deposition notice.

(b) A motion under subdivision (a) shall
comply with both of the following:

 (1) The motion shall set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the
production for inspection of any document, electronically stored information,
or tangible thing described in the deposition notice.

 (2) The motion shall be accompanied
by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040, or, when the deponent
fails to attend the deposition and produce the documents, electronically stored
information, or things described in the deposition notice, by a declaration
stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire about the
nonappearance.

. . .

(g) 

 (1) If a motion under subdivision (a)
is granted, the court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7
(commencing with Section 2023.010) in favor of the party who noticed the
deposition and against the deponent or the party with whom the deponent is
affiliated, unless the court finds that the one subject to the sanction acted
with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition
of the sanction unjust.
. . .


     (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450(a),
(b), (g)[bold emphasis added].)
 
            Relating
to this action, Defendant failed to produce a PMK at the April 8, 2022
deposition. (Pascal Decl., ¶ 6.) On April 12, 2022, Defendant reiterated that
it would only produce a PMK as to certain categories and would not produce any
documents at the deposition, and failed to provide alternative dates. On April
18, 2022, Plaintiff requested Defendant’s availability to meet and confer regarding
the PMK Depo.
 
            It
was not until over a year later—on May 3, 2023—when Plaintiff sent another correspondence
requesting a meet and confer, having not received a response from Defendant.  On May 10, 2023 and August 18, 2023, Plaintiff
attempted to meet and confer with Defendant, but Defendant’s counsel did not respond.
(Pascal Decl., ¶ 10.)
 
            Due
to Defendant’s failure to meet and confer in good faith, the Court finds that
Plaintiff satisfied the meet and confer requirement. (Pascal Decl., ¶¶ 5 – 10.)
 
            CCP
§ 2025.280(a) provides:
 
(a) The service of a
deposition notice under Section 2025.240 is effective to require any deponent who is a party to the action or
an officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a party to attend and to
testify, as well as to produce any document, electronically stored information,
or tangible thing for inspection and copying.

(Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.280(a)[bold emphasis added].)
 
       CCP § 2025.230 provides:
 
If the
deponent named is not a natural person, the deposition notice shall describe
with reasonable particularity the matters on which examination is requested. In
that event, the deponent shall designate
and produce at the deposition those of its officers, directors, managing
agents, employees, or agents who are most
qualified to testify on its behalf as to those matters to the extent of any
information known or reasonably available to the deponent.
 
     (Bold emphasis added.)
 
            Defendant
is required to designate and produce a PMK on the 16 noticed deposition topics,
absent having obtained a protective order pursuant to Civ. Proc. Code, §
2025.420[2]
that a PMK need not be produced on certain topics.


            On
April 1, 2022, Defendant served Objections to the March 25, 2022 Notice of
Deposition of the person most knowledgeable for General Motors LLC. (Pascal
Decl., Exh. 2.) However, serving written objections, even if valid
objections for failure to comply with Civ. Proc. Code, § 2025.210 et seq., does
not stay the deposition or excuse attendance. If such objections are determined
by the Court to be valid, this merely precludes using the deposition testimony
as evidence pursuant to Civ. Proc. Code, § 2025.620.
 
(a) Any party served with a
deposition notice that does not comply with Article 2 (commencing with Section
2025.210) waives any error or irregularity unless that party promptly serves a
written objection specifying that error or irregularity at least three calendar
days prior to the date for which the deposition is scheduled, on the party
seeking to take the deposition and any other attorney or party on whom the
deposition notice was served.
 
(b) If an objection is made three
calendar days before the deposition date, the objecting party shall make
personal service of that objection pursuant to Section 1011 on the party who
gave notice of the deposition. Any deposition taken after the service of a
written objection shall not be used against the objecting party under Section
2025.620 if the party did not attend the
deposition and if the court determines that the objection was a valid one.
 
(c) In addition to serving this
written objection, a party may also move
for an order staying the taking of the deposition and quashing the deposition
notice. This motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under
Section 2016.040. The taking of the
deposition is stayed pending the determination of this motion.

(Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.410 [bold emphasis and underlining added].)
 
            The
Court will address the objections asserted by Defendant as to each Category and
Request for Production as set forth in the Separate Statement:


¿        Category No.
1: DENY.
            
            Defendant
has agreed to produce a PMK regarding the subject vehicle’s repair history as reflected
in the Global Warranty History Report. (See Sep. State., Page 2.) Defendant
has also agreed to produce a witness to testify about any repair orders for the
Subject Vehicle that GM may have obtained from GM-authorized dealership(s) who
may have serviced, maintained, or repaired the Subject Vehicle. Plaintiff does
not indicate there are other repair visits—of which it would necessarily have knowledge—that
are not included in this scope. 
 
            The
objection on the grounds of vagueness and ambiguity is OVERRULED as without
merit. The common sense meaning of these words is apparent.
 
            The
objection on the grounds of overbreadth, undue burden, oppression is OVERRULED.
The category relates to the subject vehicle only. The category requires
Defendant to produce a witness relative to all documents within its possession,
custody or control. (See Civ. Proc. Code, § 2031.230.)
 
“The objection based
upon burden must be sustained by evidence showing the quantum of work
required.” (W. Pico Furniture Co. v.
Superior Court (1961) 56
Cal.2d 407, 417.) Moreover, “to support an objection of oppression there
must be some showing either of an intent to create an unreasonable burden or
that the ultimate effect of the burden is incommensurate with the result
sought.” (Id.) “[S]ome
burden is inherent in all demands for discovery. The objection of burden is
valid only when that burden is demonstrated to result in injustice. Hence, the
trial court is not empowered to sustain an objection in toto, when the same is predicated upon burden, unless such is
the only method of rendering substantial justice.” (Id. at 418 [recognizing
the court’s discretionary power to grant in part and deny in party and to
balance the equities between the purpose and need for information against the
burden which production entails].) “When discovery requests are grossly
overbroad on their face, and hence do not appear reasonably related to a
legitimate discovery need, a reasonable inference can be drawn of an intent to
harass and improperly burden.” (Obregon
v. Superior Court (1998) 67
Cal.App.4th 424, 431.)
 
¿        Categories
Nos. 2, 5: GRANT.
 
            Defendant
has not represented that it will produce a PMK as to the entire category of
documents. Defendant agrees to produce a witness as to repairs actually performed
pursuant to a TSB, but the scope is broader than this, requiring all TSBs applicable
to the subject vehicle, included those superseded. 
 
            As
Plaintiff argues, if a TSB was erroneously overlooked by the technician
during the technician’s due diligence, it would necessarily not be included in
the repair order. Superseded TSBs would reflect a continuing review and
assessment by the manufacturer. 
 
            The
objection on the grounds of overbreadth and undue burden is OVERRULED.
Defendant did not justify these objections. (See discussion above re:
Category No. 1.)
 
¿        Categories
Nos. 3, 4, 6: GRANT.
 
            Defendant
claims that Plaintiff needs to identify a reasonable number of specific TSBs,
but Plaintiff is entitled to discover the reason and process applicable to each
TSB applicable to the subject vehicle that was issued, even if superseded. 
 
            The
objection on the grounds of overbreadth and undue burden is OVERRULED. Defendant
did not justify these objections. (See discussion above re: Category No.
1.)
 
¿        Category No.
7: GRANT.
 
            Defendant’s
agreement to produce ignores the call of this category.
 
¿        Category No.
8: GRANT.
 
            Defendant has only
agreed to produce a witness as to a repurchase assessment for the subject
vehicle. However, Plaintiff is entitled to discover company policies and procedures
for repurchase assessments to see if they comply with the California Lemon Law.
 
            Defendant’s
objection on the ground of overbreadth and undue burden is OVERRULED. The polices
and procedures for evaluating vehicle repurchases is presumably made on a broad
basis, not specifically as to each model of a vehicle. 
 
            Defendant’s
objection on the ground of attorney-client privilege and attorney work-produce
doctrine is SUSTAINED to the extent that such privileged information is
responsive. Defendant is to object to a line of questioning which seeks to
elicit such information. 
 
¿        Categories Nos.
9, 10: GRANT.
 
            Defendant has only agreed
to produce a witness as to the routine maintenance and new vehicle limited warranty
for the subject vehicle. However, Plaintiff is entitled to discover company
policies and procedures for warranty repairs to see if Defendant followed such
policies and procedures properly. Plaintiff is also entitled to discover all
warranties applicable to the subject vehicle, not just the new vehicle limited
warranty. 
 
¿        Categories Nos.
11, 12: GRANT.
 
            The
objection on the grounds of overbreadth and undue burden is OVERRULED.
Defendant did not justify these objections. (See discussion above re:
Category No. 1.)
 
            Defendant
claims that this question should be directed to GM-authorized dealerships,
which diagnosed problems and performed the routine maintenance and warranty
repairs reflected n the subject vehicle’s repair history. However, this
category assumes that Defendant would be able to retrieve information regarding
which of its diagnostic and repair procedures were consulted and followed. If
this was not possible, a PMK must testify why not.
 
¿        Categories
Nos. 13, 14, 15, 16: DENY.
 
            Defendant’s
objection on the ground of burden and relevance is SUSTAINED. The burden of locating
all of the information sought outweighs the information to be gained from this category.
 
¿        Requests For
Production of Documents Nos. 1, 2: GRANT.
 
            In the separate
statement, Plaintiff has made a fact-specific showing of good cause for the
documents requested. (Civ. Proc. Code § 2025.450(b)(1).)
 
Where Defendant
refers to other discovery responses, this is an improper response:
 
Answers must be complete and
responsive. Thus, it is not proper to answer by stating, "See my
deposition," "See my pleading," or "See the financial
statement." Indeed, if a question does require the responding party to
make reference to a pleading or document, the pleading or document should be
identified and summarized so the
answer is fully responsive to the question. 
 
(Deyo v. Kilbourne (1978)
84 Cal.App.3d 771, 783-84 [emphasis added].)
 
¿        Requests For
Production of Documents Nos. 3, 4: GRANT.
 
            In the separate
statement, Plaintiff has made a fact-specific showing of good cause for the
documents requested. (Civ. Proc. Code § 2025.450(b)(1).) As Plaintiff
argues, Defendant knows whether a TSB or recall applies to the subject vehicle,
whereas Plaintiff may not have the technical expertise to make such determination.
 
Where Defendant
refers to other discovery responses, this is an improper response. (Deyo, supra, 84
Cal.App.3d at 783-84.)
 
The
objection on the grounds of overbreadth and undue burden is OVERRULED. Indeed,
there is no indication that all applicable TSBs cannot be located and retrieved
with an electronic search.
 
¿        Requests For
Production of Documents Nos. 5, 6: GRANT.
 
            In the separate
statement, Plaintiff has made a fact-specific showing of good cause for the
documents requested. (Civ. Proc. Code § 2025.450(b)(1).) 
 
Defendant’s
response does not address the documents requested. Where Defendant refers to
other discovery responses, this is an improper response. (Deyo, supra, 84
Cal.App.3d at 783-84.)
 
The
objection on the grounds of overbreadth and undue burden is OVERRULED.
 
            Defendant’s
objection on the ground of attorney-client privilege and attorney work-produce
doctrine is SUSTAINED to the extent that such privileged information is
responsive. The Court does not agree that an investigation necessarily involves
attorneys, as it can be a purely technical (not legal) determination. However, Defendant
is to produce a privilege log identifying which documents were withheld, and on
what basis. 
 
 
¿        Requests For
Production of Documents Nos. 7, 8: GRANT.
 
In the
separate statement, Plaintiff has made a fact-specific showing of good cause for
the documents requested. (Civ. Proc. Code § 2025.450(b)(1).) 
 
Defendant’s
response does not address the documents requested. Where Defendant refers to
other discovery responses, this is an improper response. (Deyo, supra, 84
Cal.App.3d at 783-84.)
 
 
The
objection on the grounds of overbreadth and undue burden is OVERRULED.
Defendant claims that this
question should be directed to GM-authorized dealerships, which diagnosed
problems and performed the routine maintenance and warranty repairs reflected In
the subject vehicle’s repair history. However, this category assumes that Defendant
would be able to retrieve information regarding which of its diagnostic and repair
procedures were consulted and followed. If this was not possible, Defendant
must explain why. See, e.g., Civ. Proc. Code, § 2231.230:
 
A representation of inability to comply with the particular demand for
inspection, copying, testing, or sampling shall affirm that a diligent search
and a reasonable inquiry has been made in an effort to comply with that demand.
This statement shall also specify whether the inability to comply is because
the particular item or category has never existed, has been destroyed, has been
lost, misplaced, or stolen, or has never been, or is no longer, in the
possession, custody, or control of the responding party. The statement shall set
forth the name and address of any natural person or organization known or
believed by that party to have possession, custody, or control of that item or
category of item.

     (Civ.
Proc. Code § 2031.230.)
 
 
¿        Requests For
Production of Documents Nos. 9, 10, 11, 12: DENY.
 
            Plaintiff’s
offered good cause in the separate statement is not persuasive as to the
detailed information sought, which implicates complaints about vehicles other
than the same model as the subject vehicle. Also, there is no explanation as to
how the details sought will tend in reason to prove or disprove a disputed fact
of consequence or lead to other evidence which will do so.
 
“Although the scope of civil discovery is broad, it is not limitless.”
(Calcor Space Facility, Inc. v. Superior Court (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 216, 223
[61 Cal. Rptr. 2d 567].) Discovery devices must “be used as tools to facilitate
litigation rather than as weapons to wage litigation.” (Id. at p. 221.) A party
seeking to compel discovery must therefore “set forth specific facts showing
good cause justifying the discovery sought.” (§ 2031.310, subd. (b)(1); see
Calcor Space Facility, Inc. v. Superior Court, supra, 53 Cal.App.4th at p.
223.)  To establish good cause, a discovery proponent must identify a disputed fact that is of
consequence in the action and explain how the discovery sought will tend in
reason to prove or disprove that fact or lead to other evidence that will
tend to prove or disprove the fact.
 
(Digital Music News LLC v. Superior Court
(2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 216, 224 (bold emphasis and underlining added),
overruled on other grounds in Williams
v. Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 557, n. 8.)
            Defendant’s
objection on the ground of burden is SUSTAINED. The burden of locating all of
the information sought outweighs the information to be gained from this category.
 
            No
sanctions were requested. 


