  Case Number:  22VECV01159    Hearing Date:   October 14, 2024    Dept:  W FAUSTINO
PACHECO MORALES V. RAVIT OHANA, ET AL.
 
MOTION TO INTERVENE
 
Date of Hearing:        October
14, 2024                                          Trial
Date:       None set.
Department:              W                                                                    Case
No.:        22VECV01159
 
Moving Party:            Brenda
E. Vargas
Responding Party:     No
opposition.  
 
BACKGROUND
 
Plaintiff Faustino
Pacheco Morales and Defendants
Ravit and Sharon Ohana entered into an agreement whereby Plaintiff was to
transport dirt from one of Defendants’ properties to another. Plaintiff
submitted invoices for payments; however, Defendants have failed to pay. 
 
On August 15, 2022, Plaintiff filed a complaint against
Defendants asserting causes of action for breach of contract, common counts,
and quantum meruit.  
 
Request for entry of default was entered February 14, 2023.
The court then denied Plaintiff’s request for entry of default judgment. Plaintiff
then sought request for entry of default again on June 12, 2023. 
 
On April 19, 2023, Plaintiff filed a first amended
complaint. Request for entry of default was again entered June 12, 2023 for
Ravit Ohana and June 15, 2023 for Sharon Ohana. The court entered default
judgment on November 9, 2023. 
 
[TENTATIVE] RULING:
 
Brenda E. Vargas’ Motion to Intervene is DENIED. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Brenda E. Vargas moves to intervene this action pursuant to
Code of Civil Procedure section 387 and seeks leave to file her proposed
complaint in intervention. Ms. Vargas argues as assignee of this claim, she has
a real, immediate and concrete interest in the breach of contract action which
is the subject of this litigation. 
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 387(b) provides that, “An
intervention takes place when a nonparty, deemed an intervenor, becomes a party
to an action or proceeding between other persons by… [j]oining a plaintiff in
claiming what is sought by the complaint[,] [u]niting with a defendant in
resisting the claims of a plaintiff[,] [or] [d]emanding anything adverse to
both a plaintiff and a defendant.”  
 
“A nonparty shall petition the court for leave to intervene
by noticed motion or ex parte application [which] shall include a copy of the
proposed complaint in intervention . . . and set forth the grounds upon which
intervention rests.” (CCP §387(c).)  
 
In the case of intervention as a right, “[t]he court shall,
upon timely application, permit a nonparty to intervene in the action or
proceeding if… [either] [a] provision of law confers an unconditional right to
intervene[,] [or] [t]he person seeking intervention claims an interest relating
to the property or transaction that is the subject of the action and that
person is so situated that the disposition of the action may impair or impede
that person’s ability to protect that interest, unless that person’s interest
is adequately represented by one or more of the existing parties.”  (CCP §387(d)(1)(A)-(B).) 
 
In the case of permissive intervention, “[t]he court may,
upon timely application, permit a nonparty to intervene in the action or
proceeding if the person has an interest in the matter in litigation, or in the
success of either of the parties, or an interest against both.”  (CCP §387(d)(2).)  
 
Here, Ms. Vargas asserts when Plaintiff obtained a Default
Judgment against Defendant, Plaintiff assigned his right to collect on the
Judgment with Ms. Vargas. In other words, pursuant to the agreement between Ms.
Vargas and Plaintiff, Plaintiff agreed to have his breach of contract claim be
assigned to Ms. Vargas. 
 
The court denies the motion. While the court agrees if Ms.
Vargas did purchase the debt she would have a direct and immediate interest in
this action, Ms. Vargas provides no copy of such agreement and also fails to
provide a copy of the proposed complaint. It is also unclear whether the
application is timely. Ms. Vargas simply contends the court recently set a side
the Default Judgment against Defendants and Defendants recently answered. As
such, intervention is occurring at an early stage. However, Ms. Vargas does not
provide when she entered into the agreement with Plaintiff. 
 
Accordingly, Brenda E. Vargas’ Motion to Intervene is DENIED
without prejudice. 
 