 Case Number:  23STCV10162    Hearing Date:   February 1, 2024    Dept:  68 Dept. 68
Date:
2-1-24
Case
#23STCV10162
Trial
Date: Not Set
 
FURTHER DOCUMENTS
 
MOVING
PARTY: Defendant, Skyhop Global, LLC
RESPONDING
PARTY: Plaintiff, Alexis Craney-Foster
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Motion
to Compel Further Responses to Request for Production of Documents
 
SUMMARY
OF ACTION
Plaintiff Alexis Craney-Foster was an employee of defendant
SkyHop Global LLC from January 8, 2021 through September 27, 2022, as an
airport shuttle driver for airport employees. During the course of employment,
Plaintiff alleges defendant Timothy Boykin began a course of sexually
inappropriate comments and touching. On June 5, 2021, Boykin visited her home,
where he non-consensually engaged in sexual intercourse with Plaintiff while
Plaintiff was intoxicated and incapacitated in her home after normal work hours.
 
Plaintiff complained about the conduct of Boykin, which
led, at least in part to his dismissal. New supervisor defendant Eros Surla
also allegedly engaged in sexually harassing conduct.

Plaintiff again complained, and was promised $50,000 in exchange for the
execution for a settlement agreement. Plaintiff refused. Plaintiff continued to
report the inappropriate conduct of Surla, but was told no relief was
available. Plaintiff was subsequently terminated. 
 
On May 5, 2023, Plaintiff filed a 17 cause of action
complaint for Disability Discrimination in Violation of the FEHA; Quid
Pro Quo – Sexual Harassment in Violation of the FEHA; Hostile Work Environment
– Sexual Harassment in Violation of the FEHA; Retaliation in Violation of the
FEHA; Failure to Prevent Discrimination, Harassment, and/or Retaliation in
Violation of the FEHA; Negligent Hiring, Retention, and/or Supervision; Sexual
Assault and Battery; Failure to Provide Reasonable Accommodations in Violation
of the FEHA; Failure to Engage in the Interactive Process in Violation of the
FEHA; Wrongful Termination in Violation of Public Policy; Retaliation in
Violation of Labor Code §§ 1102.5; Failure to Provide Meal Breaks in Violation
of Labor Code § 226.7; Failure to Provide Rest Breaks in Violation of Labor
Code § 226.7; Failure to Provide Accurate Wage Statements in Violation of Labor
Code § 226; Waiting Time Penalties Pursuant to Labor Code §§ 201 and 203;
Failure to Permit Inspection of Personnel File and Payroll Records in Violation
of Labor Code §§ 226(c), 226(f), 432, and 1198.5; and, Breach of Contract in
Violation of Civil Code Section 1549. On September 5, 2023, the court sustained
the demurrer to the seventeenth cause of action in the complaint with leave to
amend. 
 
On September 25, 2023, Plaintiff filed a 16 cause of action first
amended complaint for Disability Discrimination in Violation of the FEHA; Quid
Pro Quo – Sexual Harassment in Violation of the FEHA; Hostile Work Environment
– Sexual Harassment in Violation of the FEHA; Retaliation in Violation of the
FEHA; Failure to Prevent Discrimination, Harassment, and/or Retaliation in
Violation of the FEHA; Negligent Hiring, Retention, and/or Supervision; Sexual
Assualt and Battery; Failure to Provide Reasonable Accommodations in Violation
of the FEHA; Failure to Engage in the Interactive Process in Violation of the
FEHA; Wrongful Termination in Violation of Public Policy; Retaliation in
Violation of Labor Code §§ 1102.5; Failure to Provide Meal Breaks in Violation
of Labor Code § 226.7; 13; Failure to Provide Rest Breaks in Violation of Labor
Code § 226.7; Failure to Provide Accurate Wage Statements in Violation of Labor
Code § 226; 15. Waiting Time Penalties Pursuant to Labor Code §§ 201 and 203;
and, Failure to Permit Inspection of Personnel File and Payroll Records in
Violation of Labor Code §§ 226(c), 226(f), 432, and 1198.5. On December 14,
2023, the court sustained the demurrer to the seventh cause of action in the
first amended complaint, and granted the motion to strike allegations in regard
to the conduct of Boykin without leave to amend.
 
On January 3, 2024, Plaintiff filed a second amended
complaint for Disability Discrimination in Violation of the FEHA; Quid Pro Quo
– Sexual Harassment in Violation of the FEHA; Hostile Work Environment – Sexual
Harassment in Violation of the FEHA; Retaliation in Violation of the FEHA;
Failure to Prevent Discrimination, Harassment, and/or Retaliation in Violation
of the FEHA; Negligent Hiring, Retention, and/or Supervision; Sexual Assault
and Battery; Failure to Provide Reasonable Accommodations in Violation of the
FEHA; Failure to Engage in the Interactive Process in Violation of the FEHA; Wrongful
Termination in Violation of Public Policy; Retaliation in Violation of Labor
Code §§ 1102.5; Failure to Provide Meal Breaks in Violation of Labor Code §
226.7; 13. Failure to Provide Rest Breaks in Violation of Labor Code § 226.7;
Failure to Provide Accurate Wage Statements in Violation of Labor Code § 226;
Waiting Time Penalties Pursuant to Labor Code §§ 201 and 203; and, Failure to
Permit Inspection of Personnel File and Payroll Records in Violation of Labor
Code §§ 226(c), 226(f), 432, and 1198.5; Breach of Contract in Violation of
Civil Code Section 1549.
 
RULING: Granted
Defendant Skyhop Global moves to compel further responses to
Request for Production of Documents, numbers 45, 62, 68, 70, and 72-79. Defendant
contends the responses assert improper objections and/or remain non-responsive
and incomplete. Plaintiff in opposition represents supplemental responses were
provided, thereby rendering the motion moot, with the exception of request
number 79 seeking cell phone records from January 1, 2021, to the present.
Plaintiff maintains the records will be produced upon receipt from the service
provider. Defendant in reply substantively agrees that only number 79 remains
at issue due to service of supplemental responses “at the eleventh hour,” but
maintains the cell phone records remain unresolved.
 
"Whether a
particular response does resolve satisfactorily the issues raised by
a motion is a matter best determined by the trial court in the exercise of its
discretion, based on the circumstances of the case. In many cases involving
untimely responses, the propounding party will take the motion off
calendar or narrow its scope to the issue of sanctions. If the propounding
party proceeds with the motion, however, the trial court has the discretion to
rule on the motion. The trial court might compel responses without
objection if it finds no legally valid responses have been provided
to one or more interrogatories; it might deny
the motion to compel responses as essentially
unnecessary, in whole or in part, and just impose sanctions; it might
treat the motion as one under section 2030.300 and either determine that
further answers are required, or order the propounding party to “meet and
confer” (citation) and file a separate statement (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1020(a)(2), (c)); or it might take the motion off calendar, thereby requiring
the propounding party to file a motion under [citation]." (Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v.
Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390, 408–409.)

 
Notwithstanding the representation
of forthcoming production, the actual second supplement response following a
long list of objections, actually states: “Responding Party attempts to respond
as follows: Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.230 et seq., After
a diligent search and reasonable inquiry, Plaintiff is unable to comply
with this request because the requested documents are not in Plaintiff's
possession, custody or control and have been lost, misplaced, or destroyed.
Defendant’s requests are overbroad and violate her privacy rights. Discovery is
ongoing (underline in original).” The meet and confer indicates an impasse at
the sufficiency of the representation regarding efforts to secure said records,
including an argument for the obligation to specifically contact the cell phone
provider for copies. [Declaration of Shelby Radfar , Ex. C-F.]
 
Code of Civil Procedure Section 2031.230 states: “A
representation of inability to comply with the particular demand for
inspection, copying, testing, or sampling shall affirm that a diligent
search and a reasonable inquiry has been made in an effort to comply with that
demand. This statement shall also specify whether the inability to comply is
because the particular item or category has never existed, has been destroyed,
has been lost, misplaced, or stolen, or has never been, or is no longer, in the
possession, custody, or control of the responding party. The statement shall
set forth the name and address of any natural person or organization known or
believed by that party to have possession, custody, or control of that item or
category of item.”
 
Defendant seeks the cell phone information as form of
discovery into the wage and hour claims, as well as testing the veracity of
certain representations presented by Plaintiff. The merits of the sought after
discovery and basis seeking the records remains substantively unopposed. Defendant
also presents a valid argument regarding the insufficiency of the
representation of the inability to produce the records. A part may not rely on
the unavailability response where consent for provision of the information can
be provided. (Juror Number One v. Superior
Court (2012) 206 Cal.App.4th 854, 864-865
accord O'Grady v. Superior Court (2006) 139 Cal.App.4th 1423, 1446 [“Where
a party to the communication is also a party to the litigation, it would seem
within the power of a court to require his consent to disclosure on pain of
discovery sanctions”].)
 
While it may be suggested in the opposition that the
records will be obtained upon a request to the utility provider, the court
grants the subject motion to compel production in order to insure no further
misunderstanding on the subject regarding the obligation for production of the
cell phone records for the relevant period or a statutorily correct statement
of inability. The court therefore orders either a verified response
regarding a represented inability to obtain the records via the request and
approval process from the cell phone provider, or production of said records
from January 1, 2021, through the present. 
 
The court finds that the subject
motion was properly filed in that it prompted a greater effort from Plaintiff
to facilitate and complete the discovery process. The court normally awards
financial sanctions as compensation for the costs associated with such
motions. (Manlin v. Milner (2022) 82 Cal.App.5th 1004, 1025 [“For a trial court to
decline to award any amount of monetary sanctions when it finds discovery
misconduct has occurred is arbitrary and an abuse of discretion”].) The subject
motion lacks any request for sanctions, and therefore no sanctions will be
imposed.
 
The motion is therefore granted
only as to a further supplemental response to request for production, number
79. A third supplemental response is due within 20 days of this order, which
may include a promise for production, if production cannot be completed in
time. Any promise for production based on the consent and request for plaintiff
will be enforceable, if necessary. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.320.)
 
Case Management Conference set for March 18, 2024.
 
Defendant to provide notice.
 