  Case Number:  21STCP00191    Hearing Date:   February 1, 2024    Dept:  68 Dept. 68
Date:
2-1-23
Case
#21STCV00191
 
HEARING ON OSC RE: CONTEMPT
 
MOVING
PARTY: Respondents, Pressed Down, LLC, et al.
RESPONDING
PARTY: Petitioners, Chul Lim Choe, et al.
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Hearing
on OSC re: Contempt
 
SUMMARY
OF ACTION:

On
January 25, 2021, Chul Lim Choe and Protech Minerals, Inc. filed a Petition to
Correct the Arbitration Award and Enter Judgment as to arbitration decision
entered as to respondents Pressed Down, LLC, Protech Minerals, LLC, and Protech
Minerals RE LLC. On October 17, 2023, the court denied the petition as to
petitioners, and granted as to respondents. Petitioners filed a notice of
appeal on July 2, 2021. On June 24, 2022, the order on the petition was
affirmed on appeal. Remittitur was issued on September 12, 2022. 
 
RULING: Continued.
On
June 9, 2023, respondents Pressed Down, LLC, Protech Minerals, LLC, and Protech
Minerals RE LLC filed an Application for OSC re: Contempt and Sanctions for
Failure to Comply with the Court Order in favor of Respondents. The core of the
dispute involves an order for injunctive relief transferring interests in
certain mining claims, which includes payment of certain annual claim mining
fees to the Bureau of Land Management by Petitioner or persons/entities
associated with Petitioner. Petitioner denies any wrongful conduct in violation
of the order and appellate opinion. Respondent in reply reiterates the basis of
the violation. 
 
Beginning
on August 9, 2023, the court continued the hearing multiple times, until August
23, 2023, when the parties announced a stipulation. On August 24, 2023, the
court entered the stipulation of the parties, whereby it was agreed that: “Judgment
Debtors and their officers:
 
“1.
Shall not renew or cause any other person, including, but not limited to,
Jennifer Choe, Anthony Chee a/k/a Choe, Hannah Kang and Patrick Kang, Katherine
Choi a/k/a Choe and Andrew Cobb, Peter Han, Grace Han, Abraham Han, Monica Han,
Sam Choe, Hah K. Han, Jisoo Han, Joseph S. Han, Katelin Aldridge, Jennifer
Logsdon, Janeen Tyler, Jarrod Tyler and Joyce Han, to renew any of the Mining
Claims, by any means, including, but not limited to, payment of the annual
unpatented mining claim maintenance fee to the BLM, filing of a small-miner’s
waiver and/or proof of annual assessment work; 
2.
Shall not record or cause to be recorded in the Official County Records, any
affidavit or notice of intent to hold or notice of intent to locate, related to
the Mining Claims; 
3.
Shall not take any other action or cause any person to take any other action
that causes the Mining Claims to be renewed by any person or entity other than
Judgment Creditors or persons and/entities associated therewith; 
4.
Shall not stake or cause any other person to stake new mining claims in a
1-mile radius of any of the Mining Claims identified above; and 5. Shall not
communicate the anticipated status of expiration of any of the Mining Claims to
any other person or entity.”
 
In
a September 5, 2023, status report, Petitioners challenged certain aspects of
the “Plan of Operations,” which subsequently became part of the contempt
hearing considerations. Beginning on September 6, 2023, the court again began a
series of continuances of the OSC re: Contempt. 
 
On
October 9, 2023, Petitioner filed a Notice of Settlement and Request for OSC
re: Dismissal. On October 17, 2023, the court again continued the hearing on
the OSC re: Contempt and set a hearing for “Plans of Operation Issue.” The
parties were ordered to submit a “Joint Report” on any “remaining issues no
later than” November 15, 2023. On November 17, 2023, the hearings were again
continued to January 16, 2024, and again to February 1, 2023.
 
To
support an order to show cause re an indirect contempt (occurring outside the
immediate presence of the court), a declaration must evidence, as
jurisdictional requirements “‘(1) the making of the order, (2) knowledge of the
order, (3) ability of the accused to render compliance, and (4) willful
disobedience of the order [Citations]’.” (Board
of Supervisors v. Sup. Ct. (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 1724, 1736.) The Court may
set a contempt hearing based on the willful violation of the temporary
restraining order and/or preliminary injunction. (In re Coleman (1974) 12 Cal.3d 568, 571.) 
 
Given
the court only assumed the new assignment approximately two weeks before the
instant hearing, the court remains unclear on the current state of the action. The
motion for an order to show cause appears to remain as a request for the
setting of a contempt hearing, rather than an actual contempt hearing. The
court however prefers the parties update the court on the state of the
settlement and “Plan of Operation” at the time of the hearing, or subsequently
ordered written brief(s). Barring any imminent threat requiring immediate
address, such as a threatened claim waiver through non-payment of the renewal
fee to BLM or improper efforts to transfer title, the court will continue the
hearing for 45 to 60 days and allow the parties to update the court. 
 
Respondents
to give notice.
 