  Case Number:  23STCV0848    Hearing Date:   January 25, 2024    Dept:  62 CASE NAME: Williams v Astroturf Corporation et al
CASE NUMBER:  23STCV08478
HEARING DATE:   
January 25, 2024
DEPT: 62
HON.  ROLF M. TREU
 

SUBJECT: Demurrer
to First Amended Complaint 
MOVING PARTY: Defendants
– Astroturf Corporation and Astroturf Construction Corporation
RESP. PARTY: None filed.
 
Parties
Plaintiff
Mark Williams purports (in the pleading’s caption) to represent on Behalf of
Los Angeles County and California Taxpayers. 

However,
in the body of the complaint (Compl. ¶¶ 1, 12), he claims to represent the
nonprofit Concerned Citizens of South Central Los Angeles.  That nonprofit has gone on record (when
objecting to a NORC) stating that Mr. Williams is “a disgruntled former
employee of Concerned Citizens who does not represent Concerned Citizens and
has no standing to bring claims....”  
Even if he was still a member in good standing, he could not represent a
corporation as he is not a lawyer.
 
Allegations
Plaintiff
alleges that members/senior officials of the LAUSD conspired with the Astroturf
Defendants to sabotage many fields and cost the taxpayers millions of
dollars.  The allegations claim that the
synthetic turf is purposefully made from a defective material that degrades too
soon. (See Compl. ¶ 16.)
 
 
CAUSES OF ACTION 
1. False Claims – against all
2. Breach of Warranty –
against the Astroturf Defendants only
3. Inducing Breach of
Contract – against the Astroturf Defendants and LAUSD Senior Official
Defendants
4. “California Public Records
Act” - against the LAUSD Senior Official Defendants only 
5. Legal Malpractice –
against certain individual attorney defendants
 
 
On
August 25, 2023, the Court sustained the demurrer filed by the LAUSD Defendants
in its entirety without leave to amend. 
On
October 10, 2023, Plaintiff voluntarily dismissed the individual attorney defendants
from the action. 
On
November 17, 2023, the Astroturf Defendants filed the instant motion for
judgment on the pleadings directed at the three causes of action to which they
are named.
 
 
ANALYSIS 
1.    
First Cause of
Action: False Claims Act -  Tentative
Ruling: GRANT without leave to amend.  
 
In
order to state a cause of action under the False Claims Act, the following
elements must be alleged: “(1) a false or fraudulent claim (2) that was material
to the decision-making process, (3) which defendant presented, or caused to be
presented, to the [government] for payment or approval (4) with knowledge that
the claim was false or fraudulent.” (Hooper v. Lockheed Martin Corp.
(9th Cir. 2012) 688 F.3d 1037, 1047.) Pursuant to Government Code §
2650(b)(1)(A), a claim is “any request or demand … for money” that “[i] s
presented to an officer, employee, or agent of the state or of a political
subdivision.” A cause of action pursuant to this act must be alleged with particularity
similar to a fraud claim. (State of California ex rel. McCann v. Bank of
America, N.A. (2011) 191 Cal.App.4th 897, 906.)
Here,
the Complaint fails to allege when or what false representations were made by
the Astroturf Defendants. Instead, the Complaint alleges that the Astroturf
Defendants informed LAUSD Senior Officials that “its manufacturer did not
warranty the LAUSD specific material to fill synthetic turf,” and despite this
information, LAUSD officials directed the installment of this material and
indemnified the Astroturf Defendants in case of the product’s failure. (Compl.
¶ 66.) Thus, based on the pleadings, it appears that LAUSD had knowledge of the
product’s defects, and as a result, the Astroturf Defendants merely acquiesced to
LAUSD’s contract proposal. (See Am. Contract Servs. v. Allied Mold & Die
(2001) 94 Cal.App.4th 854, 864.)
Accordingly,
because first cause of action has not been pleaded with the requisite specificity
and LAUSD had knowledge of the products purported defects, the motion for judgment
on the pleadings is granted without leave to amend. (See Goodman v. Kennedy
(1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348 [determining the burden is on the plaintiff to show
that a pleading can be successfully amended].) 
 
2.    
Second Cause of
Action: Breach of Warranty – Tentative Ruling: GRANT without leave to
amend.  
 
The Astroturf
Defendants argue that this cause of action is fails as a matter of law for the
following reasons. First, Plaintiff does not allege to be a party to any
particular contract because the Purchase Order Agreement was with Concerned
Citizens and Plaintiff lacks standing to bring claims on the third-party’s
behalf as a pro se litigant. Second, this claim is time barred because it was
not brought within four years from the date of accrual, which fell on August 3,
2016 when the Astroturf Defendants purportedly refused to honor the warranty
provision of the agreement.
The
Court agrees. Because Plaintiff is self-represented and is not alleged to be a
party to the pertinent contract, he lacks standing to bring claims on behalf of
Concerned Citizens. (CLD Construction, Inc. v. City of San Ramon (2004)
20 Cal.App.4th 1141, 1145.) Furthermore, because the alleged breach of warranty
occurred in August 3, 2016 and even taking into account Emergency Rule 9, the
claim is time barred as Plaintiff did not file his complaint until April 2023.
(U.C.C. § 2725 [establishing a four-year statute of limitations for a breach of
warranty claim]; Amended Emergency Rule 9(a) [creating a tolling period
for statutes of limitations that exceed 180 days from April 6, 2020 to October
1, 2020].)
Accordingly,
the motion for judgment on the pleadings is granted as to the second cause of
action without leave to amend as Plaintiff is unable to cure these defects. (See
Goodman, supra, 18 Cal.3d at 348.)
 
3.    
Third Cause of Action:
Inducing Breach of Contract – Tentative Ruling: GRANT without leave to amend.
 
As
with the second cause of action, the Astroturf Defendants raise the same
argument with the third cause of action. Based on the reasoning above, the
Court finds these arguments to be persuasive. Furthermore, if plaintiff is
attempting to allege intentional interference with contract, he first must
allege a separate tort done by each named defendant. This would require
allegations of a contract to which he is a party. None is alleged. Therefore,
Plaintiff is unable to maintain this cause of action. 
Accordingly,
the motion for judgment on the pleadings is granted as to the third cause of
action without leave to amend. (See Goodman, supra, 18 Cal.3d at 348.)
 