 Case Number:  23STCV05240    Hearing Date:   June 21, 2024    Dept:  57 Pending before the Court is the demurrer of Ori Blumenfeld to the first, second, and third causes of action in the cross-complaint of 732 N. Vista Street, LLC. The cross-complaint is on Judicial Council form PLD-PI-001.  The cross-complaint arises from disputes related to the parties' co-ownership of real property located at 732 N. Vista Street in Los Angeles ("the Property").The first cause of action is for intentional tort. The form lists intentional tort as one of several causes of action that a complainant may assert.   732 N. Vista Street, LLC has checked the box on the form for "intentional tort."  Nowhere on the form or the addendum to it that 732 N. Vista Street, LLC has submitted are there any allegations stating what particular intentional tort Blumenfeld committed.  Perhaps the checking of the box on the form for intentional tort merely reflects that 732 N. Vista Street, LLC has asserted as its second cause of action the intentional tort of conversion and there is no separate cause of action for some other intentional tort.  But that is not how the form reads.  It reads as if there is a first cause of action for "intentional tort."  Because the form is devoid of any allegations supporting that cause of action, Blumenfeld's demurrer to it is sustained with leave to amend.As indicated above, the second cause of action in the cross-complaint is for conversion.   The addendum to the form sets forth the allegations related to the conversion claim.  In the Court's view, those allegations are sufficient to state a claim for conversion.  Blumenfeld's demurrer to the second of cause of action is therefore overruled. The third cause of action in the cross-complaint is for an an accounting.  Here too, the allegations related to this cause of action are set forth in the addendum to the form.  In the Court's view, those allegations are sufficient to state a claim for an accounting. Blumenfeld's demurrer to the third  cause of action is therefore overruled.  Also on calendar today in this case is an order to show cause regarding the appointment of a partition referee.  A partition referee is necessary here because Blumenfeld's complaint contains a cause of action for the partition of the Property.  The parties have submitted competing slates of candidates for appointment as partition referee.  After reviewing the slates and based on the Court's own knowledge of the candidates and their qualifications, the Court will appointment John Rachlin to be the partition referee in this case.