  Case Number:  24NNCV00805    Hearing Date:   January 3, 2025    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



ANTHONY ALMEDA, et al., 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
ZAYA
   STAPLES, et al.,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
  )


      CASE NO.: 24NNCV00805
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION TO COMPEL PLAINTIFF’S RESPONSES TO SPECIAL
   INTERROGATORIES (SET ONE); REQUEST FOR MONETARY SANCTIONS
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
January 3,
  2025



 
On April 8,
 2024, plaintiff Anthony Almeda (“Plaintiff”) filed this
action against defendants Zaya Staples and Lori Nickerson (collectively,
“Defendants”) arising from an automobile accident. On July 15,
 2024, Defendants served Special Interrogatories (Set One) on
Plaintiff. Responses were due on August 16, 2024, but Plaintiff did not serve
responses or request an extension of time in which to respond. On September 26,
2024, Defendants filed this motion for an order compelling Plaintiff to serve
verified responses, without objections, to Special Interrogatories (Set One).
Defendants also request that the Court impose sanctions of $760 against
Plaintiff and his attorney of record.  
Where a party fails to serve timely
responses to discovery requests, the court may make an order compelling
responses. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290.) A party that fails to serve timely
responses waives any objections to the request, including ones based on
privilege or the protection of attorney work product. (Ibid.)
Plaintiff did not oppose the Motion and
it is undisputed responses were not served. Accordingly,
 Defendants’ motion is GRANTED and Plaintiff
is ordered to serve verified responses without objections to Defendants’
Special Interrogatories (Set One) within 20 days of the date of this Order. 
The Code of Civil Procedure provides
that the court shall impose a monetary sanction against the party who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel, unless the party acted with
substantial justification or the sanction would otherwise be unjust. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (c).)  The Court
finds evidence of neither. Therefore, Defendants’ request for monetary
sanctions is GRANTED and imposed against Plaintiff
and counsel of record, jointly and severally, in the reduced amount of $235
for 1
hour at defense counsel’s hourly rate of $175.00
and $60.00
in filing fees, to be paid within 20 days of the date of this Order.
Moving party to give notice.
 
Dated
this 3rd
day of January 2025
 




 


 




 


William A. Crowfoot 
Judge of the Superior Court
 




Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from the parties indicating
submission on this tentative ruling and there are no appearances at the
hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the tentative as the final
order or place the motion off calendar.
 