 Case Number:  24NNCV02945    Hearing Date:   January 3, 2025    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



UNI-GLORY DEVELOPMENT, INC., 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
TAI ON
   HO, et al.,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 24NNCV02945
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEFENDANTS ONLEE INVESTMENT CORPORATION AND HC ARDEN GROUP,
   INC.’S DEMURRER AND MOTION TO STRIKE
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
January 3,
   2025



 
I.      INTRODUCTION
         On July 17,
2024, plaintiff Uni-Glory Development, Inc. (“Plaintiff”) filed this action for
fraudulent transfer and conspiracy to defraud creditors against defendants Tai
On Ho aka Eric Ho (“Ho”), Lee Cheung (“Cheung”) (Ho and Cheung, collectively,
the “Individual Defendants”), Onlee Investment Corporation (“Onlee”), and HC
Arden Group Inc. (“HC Arden”) (Onlee and HC Arden, collectively, the “Corporate
Defendants”). Plaintiff alleges that Fairview East, LLC (“Fairview East”) owed Plaintiff
a judgment of $1,653,533.02, but that the Individual Defendants “looted in
excess of $4.4 million dollars from Fairview East’s business operations through
personal transfers of money” from Fairview East’s bank account at Mega Bank to
the Corporate Defendants.  (Compl., ¶¶
12, 14-18.) Plaintiff alleges Ho made fraudulent transfers as an insider of
Fairview East from October 2017 to June 2020 in order to render Fairview East “
‘cash flow’  insolvent.” (Compl., ¶ 15.)
Specifically, between October 2017 and January 2019, Ho allegedly transferred
$3.1 million in cash from Fairview East’s bank account to Onlee, an entity
owned, controlled, and operated by the Individual Defendants. (Compl., ¶ 16.)
Between October 2017 and June 2020, Ho transferred $1.3 million from Fairview
East’s bank account to HC Arden, another entity owned, controlled, and operated
by the Individual Defendants. (Compl., ¶ 16.) Plaintiff alleges that at the
time of these transfers, the Individual Defendants were “fully aware that
[Fairview East] owed in excess of $1,200,000 to [Plaintiff] for unpaid
construction work” and “looted [Fairview East] after [Plaintiff] filed in the [sic]
civil action in the Los Angeles Superior Court in April 2017.” (Compl., ¶ 17.) 
          On
October 31, 2024, the Corporate Defendants filed this demurrer and motion to
strike. 
          The
Corporate Defendants demur to each of the three causes of action asserted in
the Complaint on the grounds that: (1) it omits an indispensable party,
Fairview East, LLC, (2) the factual allegations concerning “badges of fraud”
are insufficient, (3) there are no factual allegations that the Corporate Defendants’
conduct was a substantial factor in causing Plaintiff harm, (5) conspiracy is
not a separate cause of action, and (6) Plaintiff failed to plead conspiracy
with particularity. 
 
II.     LEGAL
STANDARDS
A.  
Demurrer
A demurrer tests the legal sufficiency
of the pleadings and will be sustained only where the pleading is defective on
its face. (City of Atascadero v. Merrill
Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith, Inc. (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 445, 459.)
“We treat the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded but not
contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law. We accept the factual
allegations of the complaint as true and also consider matters which may be
judicially noticed. [Citation.]” (Mitchell
v. California Department of Public Health (2016) 1 Cal.App.5th 1000, 1007; Del E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials
Co. (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 593, 604 [“the facts alleged in the pleading are
deemed to be true, however improbable they may be”].) Allegations are to be
liberally construed. (Code Civ. Proc., § 452.) In construing the allegations,
the court is to give effect to specific factual allegations that may modify or
limit inconsistent general or conclusory allegations. (Financial Corporation of America v. Wilburn (1987) 189 Cal.App.3rd
764, 769.) 
B.  
Motion
to Strike
          Any party,
within the time allowed to respond to a pleading may serve and file a notice of
motion to strike the whole or any part thereof. (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd.
(b)(1).) The court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and
upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter
inserted in any pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a); Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767,
782 [“Matter in a pleading which is not essential to the claim is surplusage;
probative facts are surplusage and may be stricken out or disregarded”].) The
court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with California law, a court rule, or an order of the court. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (b).) An immaterial or irrelevant allegation is one
that is not essential to the statement of a claim or defense; is neither
pertinent to nor supported by an otherwise sufficient claim or defense; or a
demand for judgment requesting relief not supported by the allegations of the
complaint. (Code Civ. Proc., § 431.10, subd. (b).) The grounds for moving to
strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 437.)
III.    DISCUSSION
A.  
Demurrer
a.  
Whether
Fairview East Is an Indispensable Party
A plaintiff must join as parties to the
action all persons whose interests are so directly involved that the court
cannot render a fair adjudication in their absence. (Code Civ. Proc., § 389.) If
such a person cannot be made a party, the court shall determine “whether in
equity and good conscience the action should proceed among the parties before
it, or should be dismissed without prejudice, the absent party being thus
regarded as indispensable.” In determining whether a party is indispensable,
the court considers “(1) to what extent a judgment rendered in the person’s
absence might be prejudicial to him or those already parties; (2) the extent to
which, by protective provisions in the judgment, by the shaping of relief, or
other measures, the prejudice can be lessened or avoided; (3) whether a
judgment rendered in the person’s absence will be adequate; [and] (4)whether
the plaintiff. . . will have an adequate remedy if the action is dismissed for
nonjoinder.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 389, subd. (b).) 
The Corporate Defendants argue that
Plaintiff’s claims pursuant to the Uniform Voidable Transactions Act (“UVTA”),
Civil Code section 3439.04, cannot proceed without including Fairview East. (Demurrer,
pp. 3-4.) The Corporate Defendants contend that Fairview East’s intent is
critical to Plaintiff’s claims and Fairview East is the only party that can
attest to its own intent. (Demurrer, p. 4.) The Corporate Defendants also argue
that Fairview East’s absence would result in its inability to defend itself and
that this may result in “incurring double, multiple, or otherwise inconsistent
obligations.” (Demurrer, p. 8.) 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues that
Fairview East, as an insolvent, judgment-proof entity, is not an indispensable
party because joint tortfeasors are not necessary or indispensable and Fairview
East’s interests are already adequately represented by the named defendants.
(Opp., pp. 18-19.) 
The Court agrees with Plaintiff that
Fairview East is not an indispensable party. The Individual Defendants allegedly
transferred the funds from Fairview East to the Corporate Defendants and
Fairview East’s “intent” can be ascertained through Ho, who allegedly
controlled Fairview East’s bank accounts and made the transfers that Plaintiff
seeks to void. Furthermore, Fairview East’s interest is adequately represented
by the Corporate Defendants in this action because they all share an interest
in upholding the integrity of the transfers at issue in this action. 
Therefore, the demurrer on the ground
of misjoinder is OVERRULED.  
b.  
First
and Second Causes of Action
The Corporate Defendant demur to
Plaintiff’s First and Second Causes of Action under the UVTA on the grounds
that: (1) Plaintiff does not sufficiently allege the “badges of fraud” to plead
“actual intent” and (2) Plaintiff does not sufficiently allege causation.
(Demurrer, pp. 4-6.)  The Corporate
Defendants claim that Fairview East’s bank statements cannot reflect intent or
“give rise to any of the governing ‘badges of fraud’ ” set forth in Civil Code
section 3439.04(b). (Demurrer, p. 10.)  The
“badges of fraud” alleged in the Complaint include the following: (i) whether
the transfer or obligation was to an “insider”; (ii) whether the debtor was
sued or threatened with suit before the transfer was made or obligation
incurred; (iii) whether the transfer was of substantially all the debtor's
assets; (iv) whether the value of the consideration received by the debtor was
reasonably equivalent to the value of the asset transferred or obligation incurred;
and (v) whether the debtor was insolvent or became insolvent shortly after the
transfer was made or obligation incurred. (Civ. Code § 3439.04(b).)
In opposition, Plaintiff argues (and
the Court agrees) that it has adequately pleaded actual intent by alleging that
Ho was an “insider” of Fairview East and the Corporate Defendants when he
caused Fairview East to transfer its assets. (Civ. Code, § 3439.04, subd.
(b)(1).) Plaintiff also alleges that Fairview East was sued by Plaintiff in
April 2017 for unpaid construction work before Ho began making the fraudulent
transfers of substantially all of Fairview East’s assets. (Civ. Code, §
3439.94, subd. (b)(4)-(5).) As a result, Fairview East became insolvent and unable
to meet its liabilities as they became due. (Civ. Code, § 3439.04, subd. (b)(9)
Compl., ¶¶ 15-17.) Plaintiff also alleges that Fairview East received no
consideration for the fraudulent transfers. (Civ. Code, § 3439.04, subd.
(b)(8).) 
On reply, the Corporate Defendants
argue that there are eleven badges of fraud and that Plaintiff has only identified
four. (Reply, p. 2.) This is not only inaccurate, as Plaintiff has identified
five badges of fraud, but unpersuasive. “The presence of a single badge of
fraud may spur mere suspicion; the confluence of several can constitute conclusive
evidence of actual intent to defraud, absent ‘significantly clear’ evidence of
a legitimate supervening purpose.” (See In Re Acequia, Inc. (9th Cir.
1994) 34 F.3d 800, 806.) Notably, the Corporate Defendants cite no authority
stating that there is a minimum number of “badges” which must be alleged in
order to withstand demurrer. Accordingly, the Court OVERRULES the Corporate
Defendants’ demurrer to the First Cause of Action on this ground. 
The Corporate Defendants also demur to
the First and Second Causes of Action on the grounds that Plaintiff fails to
sufficiently allege causation. (Demurrer, pp. 5-7.) This argument is premised
entirely on the allegation that the transactions took place up to 7 years
before the judgment against Fairview East was entered and therefore “too
attenuated to show that any act of the Corporate Defendants could have
comprised a ‘substantial factor’ in causing alleged harm to [Plaintiff].” (Ibid.)
However, whether the transactions took place 7 years before Fairview East was
liable on a judgment is irrelevant because the transfers took place after
Fairview East had been sued for unpaid construction work. (Compl., ¶ 17.)
Therefore, the demurrer to the First and Second Causes of Action on this ground
is OVERRULED. 
c.   
Third
Cause of Action for Conspiracy 
To plead a claim for conspiracy, the
plaintiff must allege the following elements with particularity: “(1) the
formation and operation of the conspiracy, (2) wrongful conduct in furtherance
of the conspiracy, and (3) damages arising from the wrongful conduct.” (AREI
II Cases (2013) 216 Cal.App.4th 1004, 1022.) The Corporate Defendants argue
that Plaintiff’s third cause of action for conspiracy fails because it only
alleges that Ho made the transfers and does not identify any other action by
any other defendant. (Demurrer, pp. 8-9.) The Corporate Defendants also argue,
on reply, that since the First and Second Causes of Action fail to state
sufficient facts, the allegations of a conspiracy also fail because a
conspiracy is not a separate cause of action. (Reply, pp. 5-6.) It is true that
conspiracy is a theory of liability other than an independent tort, but the
point remains that it exists to impose liability where there has been
“concerted action” to accomplish a “criminal or unlawful purpose by criminal or
unlawful means” and results in damage. (Taylor v. S&M Lamp Co. (1961)
190 Cal.App.2d 700, 705.) “[A] debtor and those who conspire with him to
conceal his assets for the purpose of defrauding creditors are guilty of
committing a tort and each is liable in damages.” (Id. at p. 706.) Here,
Plaintiff sufficiently and specifically pleads a theory of liability based on
conspiracy between the Individual and Corporate Defendants. The Individual
Defendants are alleged to be the officers of the Corporate Defendants who owned,
operated, and controlled the Corporate Defendants for their own personal
expenses and benefit. (Compl., ¶¶ 2-5.) Plaintiff also alleges that the
Individual Defendants were “fully aware” of Fairview East’s debts and
obligations and the Corporate Defendants were used to receive and hide Fairview
East’s assets. (Compl., ¶¶ 2-5, 16-18.) Plaintiff additionally alleges the
timeframe in which these transactions took place as well the amount of money
that was allegedly transferred. (Compl., ¶¶ 34, 37.) 
Accordingly, the demurrer to the Third
Cause of Action is OVERRULED. 
B.  
Motion
to Strike 
The Corporate Defendants move to strike
Plaintiff’s allegations pertaining to punitive damages. To be entitled to punitive
damages under Civil Code section 3294, a complaint must allege specific facts
supporting a claim of oppression, fraud, or malice. (See Grieves v. Superior
Court (1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 159, 166 (“Not only must there be circumstances
of oppression, fraud or malice, but facts must be alleged in the pleading to
support such a claim.”)
Here, Plaintiff’s claims are premised
on fraud and the conspiracy to commit fraud by transferring $4.4 million from
Fairview East to the Corporate Defendants. Therefore, Plaintiff has adequately
pleaded the “fraud” required by Civil Code section 3294 to support a claim for
punitive damages. Accordingly, the motion to strike is DENIED. 
IV.    CONCLUSION
The Corporate Defendants’ demurrer is
OVERRULED. The Corporate Defendants’ motion to strike is DENIED. 
Moving party to give notice.
Dated
this 3rd
day of January
2025
 




 


 




 


William A. Crowfoot 
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 