 Case Number:  24PSCV00253    Hearing Date:   October 30, 2024    Dept:  H Anakwenze v. Villa, et al.,
Case No. 24PSCV00253

ORDER ON DEMURRER Defendants Yeira Lisbeth Villa
and Cuberto Munoz’s Demurrer to Second Amended Complaint is SUSTAINED, without
leave to amend.

I.        BackgroundPlaintiff
Henrietta E. Anakwenze (“Plaintiff”) alleges that she sustained injuries and
damages in a January 20, 2022 motor vehicle accident.On
August 20, 2024, Plaintiff filed a Second Amended Complaint (the “Operative
Complaint” or “SAC”), asserting a motor vehicle cause of action against Yeira
Lisbeth Villa (“Villa”), Cuberto Munoz (together, “Defendants”), and Does 1-10.Pending
before the Court is Defendants’ demurrer to the Operative Complaint. For the
reasons stated herein, the demurrer is sustained, with no leave to amend.II.      Legal Standard A demurrer may be made on the grounds that the pleading,
inter alia, does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action
and/or is uncertain. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subds. (e) and (f).)“A demurrer tests the
pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it
lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are
judicially noticed.” (SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d
902, 905 [citations omitted].) At the pleading stage, a plaintiff need only
allege ultimate facts sufficient to apprise the defendant of the factual basis
for the claim against him. (Semole v.
Sansoucie (1972) 28 Cal.App.3d 714, 721.) “[A] demurrer does not, however,
admit contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law alleged in the
pleading, or the construction placed on an instrument pleaded therein, or facts
impossible in law, or allegations contrary to facts of which a court may take
judicial knowledge.” (S. Shore Land Co.
v. Petersen (1964) 226 Cal.App.2d 725, 732 [citations omitted].)   

III.     Discussion Defendants
demur, per Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10, subdivisions (e) and (f), to
the Operative Complaint on the basis that it fails to state facts sufficient to
constitute causes of action and is uncertain.Defendants
assert that the Operative Complaint is barred by the two-year statute of
limitations set forth in Code of Civil Procedure section 335.1, because
Plaintiff filed her original complaint on January 24, 2024 and the date of
injury alleged is January 20, 2022. (SAC, ¶ MV-1.) Indeed, “[a] complaint
showing on its face the cause of action is barred by the statute of limitations
is subject to general demurrer.” (Iverson, Yoakum, Papiano & Hatch v.
Berwald (1999) 76 Cal.App.4th 990, 995.) “Where a complaint does
not reveal on its face that it is barred by the statute of limitations, a
plaintiff has no obligation to plead around the defense.”  (JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. v. Ward
(2019) 33 Cal.App.5th 678, 688.) It follows, then, that a plaintiff is
obligated to plead around the defense when the complaint reveals on its face
that it is time-barred.Plaintiff has alleged,
in relevant part, that: “[o]n or about 1/20/22, the defendants who upon
information and belief are out of state residents and who upon further
information and belief were not engaged in interstate commerce, operated their
motor vehicle in violation of CA Vehicle Code Section 22350 on 210 Freeway West
Bound Near Big Dalton Wash, thereby resulting [in] the damages alleged herein.”
(SAC, ¶ MV-1.) Plaintiff argues that
the statute of limitations was tolled pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
section 351 (i.e., “[i]f, when the cause of action accrues against a person, he
is out of the State, the action may be commenced within the term herein limited,
after his return to the State, and if, after the cause of action accrues, he
departs from the State, the time of his absence is not part of the time limited
for the commencement of the action”). Defendants, in turn,
argue that section 351 is not applicable where a motor vehicle accident is at
issue. The Court agrees. In Bigelow v. Smik (1970) 6 Cal.App.3d 10, the
plaintiffs’ action to recover personal injury damages against a nonresident
motorist was dismissed for failure to bring suit within the then-applicable
one-year statute of limitations. In that case, the parties were involved in a
car accident in Los Angeles on August 20, 1963; the defendant, a resident of
Ohio, left California a few days later and did not return. The plaintiffs then
sued the defendant on October 8, 1964 and thereafter served him with process in
the manner provided for service on a nonresident motorist. The Second District
Court of Appeal affirmed, concluding that “since a nonresident is amenable to
service of process within the state and to the entry of personal judgment
against him, the reason for section 351 is not present, the section does not
apply, and the period of limitation for connecting suit against him does not suspend.”
(Id. at 15.)Additionally, in Litwin
v. Estate of Formela (2010) 186 Cal.App.4th 607, the plaintiffs’ personal
injury action against the estate of a deceased German citizen arising out of a
car accident was dismissed following the sustaining of a demurrer on statute of
limitations grounds. The Third District Court of Appeal affirmed, determining
that section 351’s tolling provision did not apply to claims arising from motor
vehicle accidents involving nonresident motorists.Plaintiff cites to Dew v. Appleberry
(1979) 23 Cal.3d 630, where the California Supreme Court observed that while substitute
service provisions may reduce the need for section 351, those provisions did
not repeal section 351 such that the tort action at issue would be tolled
during the period of the defendant’s absence from the state. (Id. at
634-635 [“Although [section 351] itself remains unchanged from the date of
enactment, the Legislature is clearly aware of the statute’s broad
ramifications, and has modified the reach of the rule in
appropriate circumstances. Thus when substituted or constructive service
of process upon a defendant resident motorist is available in ‘a cause of
action arising in this state out of his operation of a motor vehicle anywhere
within this state’ (Veh. Code, § 17460), ‘(n)otwithstanding any provisions
of Section 351 of the Code of Civil Procedure to the contrary. . . the
time of his absence from this State is part of the time limited for the
commencement of the action . . . .’ (id., § 17463).”].) However, the Litwin
court expressly reaffirmed that Bigelow “remains good law” and that Dew did not implicitly
overrule Bigelow, explaining that Dew was a premises
liability case, not a motor vehicle case, and that “Bigelow was
decided not on mere amenability to service, but on amenability to service in
the specific context of motor vehicle accidents in a mobile society and the
policy that nonresidents and residents should be on the same footing in the
litigation of accidents growing out of the use of the highways in this state.” (Litwin, supra, 186
Cal.App.4th at 617-618.)Defendants’
demurrer is sustained without leave to amend.