 Case Number:  23PSCV01080    Hearing Date:   October 30, 2024    Dept:  H Nottoli,  et al. v. The Claremont Hacienda, et al., Case No. 23PSCV01080   ORDER  ON DEMURRER AND MOTION TO STRIKE 1.        Defendants Claremont Senior Living,  LLC dba The Claremont Hacienda and Sunwest Bank’s Demurrer to Plaintiffs’ First  Amended Complaint is SUSTAINED, with leave to amend as to Claremont Senior  Living, LLC dba The Claremont Hacienda. The Court will hear from counsel for  Plaintiffs as to whether leave to amend is requested as to Sunwest Bank, and as  to which cause(s) of action, and if so, will require an offer of proof.  2.        Defendant Sunwest Bank’s Motion to  Strike Portions of Plaintiffs’ First Amended Complaint is DENIED as MOOT.   I.        Background Plaintiffs  Betty Nottoli (“Nottoli”), in and through her Successor-In-Interest, Patricia  Chiuppi, and Patricia Chiuppi (together, “Plaintiffs”) allege that while  Nottoli was a resident at The Claremont  Hacienda from January 2022 through April 6, 2022, she suffered multiple falls,  with the last fall resulting in a hip fracture that ultimately led to her death  on June 19, 2022.  On  March 25, 2024, Plaintiffs filed an “Amendment to Complaint,” wherein Sunwest  Bank (“Sunwest”) was named in lieu of Doe 21.  On  July 1, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a First Amended Complaint (the “Operative Complaint”  or “FAC”), asserting causes of action against The Claremont Hacienda, Claremont  Senior Living, LLC (“Claremont Senior Living”), Sunwest, and Does 1-50 for (1)  elder abuse, (2) negligence, (3) breach of contract, (4) willful misconduct,  and (5) wrongful death.  The  Final Status Conference is set for March 11, 2025. Trial is set for March 25,  2025.  Pending  before the Court are (1) Claremont Senior Living and Sunwest’s demurrer to the  Operative Complaint and (2) Sunwest’s motion to strike portions of the  Operative Complaint. For the reasons stated herein, the demurrer is sustained  and the motion to strike is denied as moot.   II.      Legal Standard  A demurrer  may be made on the grounds that the pleading, inter alia, does not state facts  sufficient to constitute a cause of action and/or is uncertain. (Code Civ.  Proc., § 430.10, subds. (e) and (f).)  When  considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in context. In  a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading  or via proper judicial notice. (Donabedian  v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) “A demurrer tests the  pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it  lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are  judicially noticed.” (SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d  902, 905 [citations omitted].) At the pleading stage, a plaintiff need only  allege ultimate facts sufficient to apprise the defendant of the factual basis  for the claim against him. (Semole v.  Sansoucie (1972) 28 Cal.App.3d 714, 721.) “[A] demurrer does not, however,  admit contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law alleged in the  pleading, or the construction placed on an instrument pleaded therein, or facts  impossible in law, or allegations contrary to facts of which a court may take  judicial knowledge.” (S. Shore Land Co.  v. Petersen (1964) 226 Cal.App.2d 725, 732 [citations omitted].) III.     Discussion Claremont  Senior Living and Sunwest  (together, “Defendants”) demur, per Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10,  subdivisions (e) and (f), to the first through fifth causes of action in the  Operative Complaint, on the basis that they each fail to state facts sufficient  to constitute causes of action and are uncertain. A.       Request for Judicial Notice A  court may take judicial notice of, among other things, “official acts of the legislative,  executive, and judicial departments of a state and of facts and propositions  that are not reasonably subject to dispute and are capable of immediate and  accurate determination by resort to sources of reasonably indisputable  accuracy.” (People v. Terry, 38 Cal. App. 3d 432, 439, 113 Cal. Rptr.  233, 237 (Ct. App. 1974) [citing Evid. Code § 452].) With this standard in mind, the Court grants Defendants’ Request for Judicial Notice as to Exhibit 1  (i.e., Articles of Organization and Statements of Information filed with the  California Secretary of State for Claremont Senior Living); Exhibit 2 (i.e.,  Statement and Designation of Out-of-State Stock Corporation and Statements of  Information filed with the California Secretary of State for Sunwest); Exhibit 3 (i.e., Nottoli’s death certificate);  and Exhibit 4 (i.e., the Court’s tentative ruling filed May 30, 2024 and  adopted as final). With respect to Exhibit 3, however, the Court does not take  judicial notice of its contents. “Taking judicial notice of a document is not  the same as accepting the truth of its contents or accepting a particular  interpretation of its meaning.” (Joslin v. H.A.S. Ins. Brokerage (1986)  184 Cal.App.3d 369, 374; Bohrer v. County of San Diego (1980) 104  Cal.App.3d 155, 164-165 [refusing to take judicial notice of the cause of death  listed in a death certificate].) B.       The  Demurrer Plaintiffs have alleged that Claremont Senior Living is  a limited liability company that was, at all relevant times, the licensee of  the Claremont Hacienda, a residential care facility  for the elderly. (FAC, ¶¶ 4-5.) Plaintiffs have further alleged that Sunwest became the owner/sole member of Claremont  Senior Living on November 2, 2020 “when it seized the property on a loan  default” and was, at all relevant times, the licensee, owner, operator,  management company, consulting company manager, and/or alter ego of the  Claremont Hacienda. (Id., ¶ 6.) Sunwest  asserts that it cannot be held liable based solely on its status as Claremont  Senior Living’s sole member. The Court agrees. A limited liability company is  “considered a separate legal entity, distinct from its stockholders, officers  and directors, with separate and distinct liabilities and obligations.” (Curci  Investments, LLC v. Baldwin (2017) 14 Cal.App.5th 214, 220). “While members actively participate  in the management and control of the company, they have limited liability for  the company’s debts and obligations to the same extent enjoyed by corporate  shareholders.” (Kwok v. Transnation Title Ins. Co. (2009) 170 Cal.App.4th  1562, 1571.) The “debts, obligations, or other liabilities of a limited  liability company, whether arising in contract, tort, or otherwise. . . do not  become the debts, obligations, or other liabilities of a member or manager  solely by reason of the member acting as a member or manager acting as a  manager for the limited liability company.” (Corp. Code § 17703.04,  subd. (a).) Sunwest  next argues that the Operative Complaint does not plead sufficient facts to  impose liability against it on the basis that it was operating as a joint  venture with Claremont Senior Living, Claremont Hacienda, and Does 1-50 to  operate Claremont Hacienda. (See FAC, ¶¶ 12 and 52-58.) The Court agrees. “A  joint venture is an undertaking by two or more persons jointly to carry out a  single business enterprise for profit.” (Weiner v. Fleischman (1991) 54  Cal.3d 476, 482 [internal quotations and citation omitted].) “There are three  basic elements of a joint venture: the members must have joint control over the  venture (even though they may delegate it), they must share the profits of the  undertaking, and the members must each have an ownership interest in the  enterprise.” (Simmons v. Ware (2013) 213 Cal.App.4th 1035, 1049  [quotations and citation omitted]). A joint venture is “virtually the same” as  a partnership and “courts freely apply partnership law to joint ventures.” (Weiner,  supra, 54 Cal.3d at 482.) “A joint venture or partnership may be formed orally,  or assumed to have been organized from a reasonable deduction from the acts and  declarations of the parties.” (Id. at 482-483). Plaintiffs fail to  allege that Claremont Senior Living and Sunwest entered into any oral or  written agreement to form a joint venture. Plaintiffs claim that Claremont  Senior Living and Sunwest created a joint venture through their conduct (Opp.,  6:17-18); however, they have failed to plead any facts supporting this  claim. (Schmid v. City and County of San Francisco (2021) 60 Cal.App.5th  470, 481 [“Bare conclusions devoid of any supporting facts . . . are  insufficient to withstand demurrer”].) Plaintiffs concede that Claremont Senior  Living was governed by an operating agreement that designated Sunwest as its sole member and Robert Willis as its sole manager. (Id.,  ¶¶ 38 and 55.) These actions, which Plaintiffs assert in their opposition  constitute evidence of a joint venture implied by conduct, are actions taken by  Sunwest and Willis under the aforesaid operating agreement, which does not  create joint venture liability. (See Corp. Code § 17703.04, subd. (c) [“Nothing  in this section shall be construed to affect the liability of a member of a  limited liability company to third parties for the member’s participation in  tortious conduct, or pursuant to the terms of a written guarantee or other  contractual obligation entered into by the member, other than an operating  agreement”].) Plaintiffs have  failed to set forth facts that Claremont Senior Living and Sunwest had “joint control” over any venture or specified how they each had an  “ownership interest in the enterprise” when Sunwest was Claremont Senior  Living’s sole member. Sunwest further contends that Plaintiffs have failed to allege sufficient facts to  establish that it is the “alter ego” of Claremont Hacienda, which Claremont Senior  Living owns. The Court agrees. “To recover on an alter ego theory, a plaintiff.  . . must allege sufficient facts to show a unity of interest and ownership, and  an unjust result if the corporation is treated as the sole actor.” (Leek v.  Cooper (2011) 194 Cal.App.4th 399, 415.) “Among the factors to be considered in  applying the doctrine are commingling of funds and other assets of the two  entities, the holding out by one entity that it is liable for the debts of the  other, identical equitable ownership in the two entities, use of the same  offices and employees, and use of one as a mere shell or conduit for the  affairs of the other. Other factors which have been described in the case law  include inadequate capitalization, disregard of corporate formalities, lack of  segregation of corporate records, and identical directors and officers.” (Id.  at 538-539 [quotations and citations omitted].) Plaintiffs have failed to  allege any facts showing a unity of interest or that there would be an  inequitable result from treating Claremont Senior Living as the sole actor.  Finally, Sunwest argues that Plaintiffs’  ratification claim against it fails. The Court agrees. “Ratification is essentially a matter of assent. Consequently, a  principal is not bound by ratification unless he acts with knowledge of all the  material facts involved in the unauthorized transaction, particularly with  knowledge of the acts of the person who assumed to act as his agent.” (Bate  v. Marsteller (1959) 175 Cal.App.2d 573, 582.) Here, Plaintiffs vaguely  allege that “Defendants’ managing agents” ratified “acts and omissions” of  unspecified persons. Plaintiffs have not pled facts reflecting that Claremont Senior Living’s employees were “authorized agents” of Sunwest, that Sunwest had knowledge of, and approved, the actions of those agents, or the  basis for such ratification. The Court sustains Sunwest’s demurrer on this basis. The Court further addresses Defendants’  demurrer to the specific causes of action below.  1.       First Cause of Action (Elder Abuse) The elements of a cause of action for elder abuse and  neglect are determined by the Elder Abuse and Dependent Adult Civil Protection  Act (“the Act”). (Welf. & Inst. Code § 15600 et seq.) The Act affords  heightened remedies to elders and dependent adults who can establish “by clear  and convincing evidence that a defendant is liable for . . . neglect as defined  in Section 15610.57, and that the defendant has been guilty of recklessness,  oppression, fraud, or malice in the commission of this abuse.” (Welf. &  Inst. Code § 15657, subd. (a).) The Act excludes liability for acts of professional  negligence; it does not apply to simple or gross negligence by health care  providers. (Delaney v. Baker (1999) 20 Cal.4th 23, 32). “[T]he Act does not apply unless the  defendant health care provider had a substantial caretaking or custodial  relationship, involving ongoing responsibility for one or more basic needs,  with the elder patient.” (Winn v. Pioneer Medical Group, Inc. (2016) 63  Cal.4th 148, 152.) Neglect under the Act “refers not to the substandard  performance of medical services but, rather, to the failure of those  responsible for attending to the basic needs and comforts of elderly or  dependent adults, regardless of their professional standing, to carry out their  custodial obligations. Thus, the statutory definition of ‘neglect’ speaks not  of the undertaking of medical services, but of the failure to provide  medical care.” (Sababin v. Superior Court (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 81, 89  [quotation marks and citation omitted].) Further, a plaintiff must show defendant was guilty of  “‘recklessness, oppression, fraud, or malice in the commission of [physical,  neglectful, or financial elder abuse.]’” (Benun v. Superior Court (2004)  123 Cal.App.4th 113, 119 [citation omitted].) Recklessness “refers to a  subjective state of culpability greater than simple negligence, which has been  described as a ‘deliberate disregard’ of the ‘high degree of probability’ that  an injury will occur.” (Delaney, supra, 20 Cal.4th at 31.) Oppression, fraud and malice involve  intentional or conscious wrongdoing of a despicable or injurious nature. (Id.)  A plaintiff must also show that an employer “had advance knowledge of the  unfitness of the employee and employed him or her with a conscious disregard of  the rights or safety of others or authorized or ratified the wrongful conduct  for which the damages are awarded or was personally guilty of oppression,  fraud, or malice” and, “[w]ith respect to a corporate employer, [that the  advance knowledge and conscious disregard, authorization, ratification or act  of oppression, fraud, or malice must be on the part of an officer, director, or  managing agent of the corporation.” (Civ. Code § 3294, subd. (b); Welf &  Inst. Code, 15657, subd. (c).) Several factors, then, “must be present for conduct to constitute  neglect within the meaning of the Elder Abuse Act and thereby trigger the  enhanced remedies available under the Act. The plaintiff must allege (and  ultimately prove by clear and convincing evidence) facts establishing that the  defendant: (1) had responsibility for meeting the basic needs of the elder or  dependent adult, such as nutrition, hydration, hygiene or medical care; (2)  knew of conditions that made the elder or dependent adult unable to provide for  his or her own basic needs; and (3) denied or withheld goods or services  necessary to meet the elder or dependent adult's basic needs, either with  knowledge that injury was substantially certain to befall the elder or  dependent adult (if the plaintiff alleges oppression, fraud or malice) or with  conscious disregard of the high probability of such injury (if the plaintiff  alleges recklessness). The plaintiff must also allege (and ultimately prove by  clear and convincing evidence) that the neglect caused the elder or dependent  adult to suffer physical harm, pain or mental suffering. Finally, the facts  constituting the neglect and establishing the causal link between the neglect  and the injury must be pleaded with particularity, in accordance with the  pleading rules governing statutory claims.” (Carter v. Prime Healthcare  Paradise Valley LLC (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 396, 406-407 [quotation marks  and citations omitted].) Defendants  contend that Plaintiffs failed to plead a cause of action for elder abuse. The  Court agrees. Plaintiffs have failed to plead specific facts establishing a  substantial caretaking or custodial relationship between Sunwest and Nottoli. Plaintiffs have failed to  explain how Sunwest  qualifies as a health care provider or had custody over Nottoli as a member of Claremont  Senior Living. Plaintiffs have failed to provide any facts indicating  any contact between Sunwest  and Nottoli, let alone any  specific services, procedures, or care provided by Sunwest to Nottoli. Plaintiffs  do not allege any specific acts attributable to Sunwest or Claremont Senior Living and instead only vaguely allege that  “Defendants” failed to “exercise the degree of care necessary to prevent” Nottoli from falling in March 2022 and  again in April 2022. (FAC, ¶ 70.) Plaintiffs, however, concede that both falls  were “unwitnessed” and that “the circumstances surrounding the [second] fall  [are] unknown.” (Id. ¶¶ 24-25.) Plaintiffs also assert that Defendants  failed to employ adequately trained staff (id., ¶ 45), yet fail to  allege how any such failure caused Nottoli’s  harm: “Absent specific facts indicating at least recklessness, any failure to  provide adequate supervision would constitute professional negligence but not  elder abuse.” (Worsham v. O’Connor Hospital (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 331,  338.)  Defendants’ demurrer to the first cause of  action is sustained on this basis.           2.       Second,  Fourth, and Fifth Causes of Action Defendants next demur to the second,  fourth, and fifth causes of action (i.e. negligence, willful misconduct, and  wrongful death, respectively). Turning to the second cause of action,  “[t]he following elements must be pleaded to state a cause of action for  negligence: (1) a legal duty of care toward the plaintiff; (2) a breach of that  duty; (3) legal causation; and (4) damages.” (Century Surety Co. v. Crosby  Insurance, Inc. (2004) 124 Cal.App.4th 116, 127.) Ordinarily, negligence  may be alleged in general terms . . .but there are limits to the  generality with which a plaintiff is permitted to state his cause of action,  and ... the plaintiff must indicate the acts or omissions which are said to  have been negligently performed. He may not recover upon the bare statement  that the defendant's negligence has caused him injury.” (Berkley v.  Dowds (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 518, 527.) As to the fourth cause of action, willful  misconduct “is not a separate tort, but simply an aggravated form of  negligence, differing in quality rather degree from ordinary lack of care.” (Id.  at 526 [quotations and citation omitted].) Finally, the elements of the fifth  cause of action (wrongful death) “are the tort (negligence or other wrongful  act), the resulting death, and the damages.” (Holland v. Silverscreen  Healthcare, Inc. (2024) 101 Cal.App.5th 1125, 1132.) Again, Plaintiffs fail to allege facts  establishing how Sunwest, as an alleged member of Claremont Senior Living, owed  a legal duty of care to Nottoli. Plaintiffs do not  allege any facts establishing that Sunwest had any contact with Nottoli. Further, Plaintiffs  have failed to plead causation as against Defendants. Defendants’ demurrer to the second,  fourth, and fifth causes of action is sustained on this basis. 3.       Third Cause  of Action (Breach of Contract) “To state a cause of  action for breach of contract, a party must plead the existence of a contract,  his or her performance of the contract or excuse for nonperformance, the  defendant’s breach and resulting damage.” (Harris v. Rudin, Richman &  Appel (1999) 74 Cal.App.4th 299, 307.) “If the action is  based on an alleged breach of a written contract, the terms must be set out  verbatim in the body of the complaint or a copy of the written instrument must  be attached and incorporated by reference.” (Otworth v. Southern Pac.  Transportation Co. (1985) 166 Cal.App.3d 452, 459.) Plaintiffs have  alleged that they entered into a contract with undefined “FACILITY DEFENDANTS.”  (FAC, ¶ 86.) Plaintiffs have failed to identify whether the contract was  written, oral, or implied by conduct, have failed to adequately identify the  parties to the contract, have failed to state when the contract was entered  into, and have failed to plead the existence of the contract terms. Defendants’ demurrer  is sustained on this basis.           C.       The  Motion to Strike The Court denies Sunwest’s motion to strike as moot,  based upon the ruling made on the demurrer. 