 Case Number:  23PSCV01046    Hearing Date:   October 30, 2024    Dept:  H Brenes v. United Therapy Network, Case No. 23PSCV01046 ORDER ON DEFENDANT’S MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENTDefendant United Therapy Network’s Motion for Summary Judgment is GRANTED. I.        BackgroundThis is an action for professional negligence. In January 2022, Plaintiff Evelia Brenes (“Plaintiff”) received physical therapy treatments from Defendant United Therapy Network (“UTN”) for recovery from a recent knee surgery. During Plaintiff’s third therapy session on January 10, 2022, she alleges UTN’s physical therapist failed to use the appropriate standard of care in administering treatment by using a massage gun on Plaintiff’s knee despite her complaints of pain. Plaintiff alleges UTN’s treatment delayed her recovery and forced her to incur costs for additional medical treatment. On April 10, 2023, Plaintiff filed a complaint against UTN and Does 1-50, alleging a single cause of action for professional negligence. Pending before the Court is UTN’s motion for summary judgment. Because the Court finds that UTN is entitled to summary judgment on the issue of causation, UTN’s motion is granted. II.      Legal Standard A motion for summary judgment or adjudication provides “courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) It must be granted “if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119, quoting Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).) To establish a triable issue of material fact, the opposing party must produce substantial responsive evidence. (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.) Courts “liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.) “A motion for summary adjudication shall be granted only if it completely disposes of a cause of action, an affirmative defense, a claim for damages, or an issue of duty.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(1).)III.     DiscussionUTN moves for summary judgment on the grounds that UTN did not breach the applicable standard of care and did not cause Plaintiff’s injuries. As discussed below, UTN is entitled to summary judgment on the issue of causation.To establish a claim for professional negligence, a plaintiff must demonstrate: “(1) the duty of the professional to use such skill, prudence and diligence as other members of his profession commonly possess and exercise; (2) a breach of that duty; (3) a proximate causal connection between the negligent conduct and the resulting injury; and (4) actual loss or damage resulting from the professional’s negligence.” (Turpin v. Sortini (1982) 31 Cal.3d 220, 229-230, quoting 4 Witkin, Summary of Cal. Law (8th ed. 1974) Torts, § 488 et seq., p. 2749.)“In professional malpractice cases, expert opinion testimony is required to prove or disprove that the defendant performed in accordance with the prevailing standard of care,¿except in cases where the negligence is obvious to laymen.” (Kelley v. Trunk (1998) 66 Cal.App.4th 519, 523.) And “[w]hen a defendant moves for summary judgment and supports his motion with expert declarations that his conduct fell within the community standard of care, he is entitled to summary judgment unless the plaintiff comes forward with conflicting expert evidence.” (Munro v. Regents of University of California (1989) 215 Cal.App.3d 977, 985, quoting Hutchinson v. United States (9th Cir. 1988) 838 F.2d 390, 392.) Similarly, “[w]here the complexity of the causation issue is beyond common experience,¿expert testimony is required to establish causation.” (Garbell v. Conejo Hardwoods, Inc. (2011) 193 Cal.App.4th 1563, 1569.) Plaintiffs must establish “that defendants’ breach of the standard of care was the cause, within a reasonable medical probability, of [their] injury.” (Bushling v. Fremont Medical Center (2004) 117 Cal.App.4th 493, 509.) The Complaint alleges UTN owed Plaintiff a duty of care as a physical therapist. (Complaint, ¶ 31.) UTN allegedly breached that duty when its staff used a massage gun on Plaintiff’s recovering knee notwithstanding her complaints of pain and medical history. (Complaint, ¶¶ 35-36.) The Complaint further alleges that the massage gun was the actual and proximate cause of Plaintiff’s injuries, which included months of unnecessary physical and emotional pain, time, and expenses. (Complaint, ¶¶ 37-39.) In arguing that UTN complied with the applicable standard of care and did not cause Plaintiff’s injuries, UTN points to the opinions of two experts: David Powers, PT, DPT, and Lawrence Miller, M.D.UTN first relies on the expert opinion of David Powers, PT, DPT, a licensed physical therapist. Dr. Powers opines that UTN’s therapists acted within the applicable standard of care when they used electrical stimulation and a massage gun during Plaintiff’s treatment. (MSJ, Ex. 3, ¶ 40.) Specifically, Dr. Powers states that there is no evidence that the massage gun was applied improperly, as UTN’s therapist appropriately applied the massage gun to the soft tissue around Plaintiff’s knee in a circular motion for approximately five minutes, appropriately increased the massage gun’s volume or rate of oscillation during treatment, and stopped applying the massage gun upon Plaintiff’s request. (MSJ, Ex. 3, ¶¶ 41-43; see Plaintiff’s Separate Statement (PSS), ¶¶ 21-23.) According to Dr. Powers, the fact that Plaintiff felt pain during the treatment was not indicative of any negligence and was to be expected during therapy. (MSJ, Ex. 3, ¶¶ 42-43; see PSS, ¶ 22.)UTN next relies on the expert opinion of Lawrence Miller, M.D., a licensed physician with experience in evaluating and treating neuropathic pain, complex regional pain syndrome, knee pain, orthopedic pain, and generalized pain complaints. (MSJ, Ex. 4, ¶ 3.) To a reasonable degree of medical probability, Dr. Miller states UTN did not cause or contribute to Plaintiff’s injuries or damages. (MSJ, Ex. 3, ¶ 41.) Dr. Miller opines that Plaintiff’s pain was caused by postoperative peripheral inflammation following her knee arthroscopy—a condition she developed prior to UTN’s treatment, based on her exhibiting “joint effusion, posterior knee tenderness, and pain during her orthopedic visit on December 27, 2021.” (MSJ, Ex. 3, ¶¶ 39, 41.) In opposition to UTN’s motion, Plaintiff relies on the expert opinion of Philip Lim, DPT, a licensed physical therapist.[FN1] Dr. Lim opines that UTN’s therapists did not act within the applicable standard of care by (1) utilizing a massage gun in close proximity to the area of Plaintiff’s surgery for a period of longer than one or two consecutive minutes and (2) utilizing a massage gun when Dr. Lugo did not specifically request it in Plaintiff’s referral to UTN. (Dr. Lim Decl., ¶ 8, 11.) Dr. Lim further opines that the improper use of a massage gun directly caused Plaintiff to experience pain in an area of the knee that was still healing from surgery and that the type of pain experienced does not normally result from the use of a massage gun. (Dr. Lim Decl., ¶ 10.)Based on Dr. Lim’s declaration, the Court finds a dispute of material fact exists as to whether UTN’s administration of a massage gun fell within the applicable standard of care. However, Dr. Lim fails to establish that such a breach actually caused Plaintiff’s injuries to a reasonable degree of medical probability. Although Dr. Lim states that the use of a massage gun caused Plaintiff to experience pain, Dr. Lim nowhere addresses Dr. Miller’s opinion that the cause of Plaintiff’s pain was postoperative peripheral inflammation that developed before Plaintiff visited UTN. Moreover, even assuming that the massage gun did cause Plaintiff to feel increased pain in the moment, Dr. Lim fails to connect the use of the massage gun to the broader injuries and damages alleged in the complaint. (See Compl. ¶ 39 [alleging that Plaintiff experienced the following injuries due to the use of the massage gun: physical pain and discomfort, use of cortisone injection, attending numerous doctor appointments, missing hours and days of work, incurring medical bills and costs, and emotion distress].)[FN2] His conclusory opinion that “Plaintiff’s injuries as alleged in her Complaint . . . were caused by” the use of the massage gun is insufficient to establish a causal connection between UTN’s actions and the injuries alleged in the complaint. Because Dr. Miller’s opinion remains unchallenged, Plaintiff has failed to establish the existence of a triable issue of material fact as to causation.Accordingly, the Court GRANTS UTN’s motion for summary judgment.     