 Case Number:  24PSCV01758    Hearing Date:   October 30, 2024    Dept:  H Yao,  et al. v. Yang, Case No. 24PSCV01758 ORDER  ON DEFENDANT’S DEMURRER Defendant  Sandra DeLeon’s Demurrer to Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint is OVERRULED.   Background Plaintiffs Mingwen Yao (“Yao”) and  Worldyao Group (“Group”) (together, “Plaintiffs”) allege as follows: Yao  is the majority shareholder of Group. On August 10, 2020, Yao and Qihui Yang  (“Yang”) entered into a written agreement, in which Yang agreed to invest  $30,000.00 in Group for a four-month period in exchange for $15,000.00 in  investment profits. After Yao failed to produce any profits or return Yang’s  original investment, Yang sued Yao and Group. On February 23, 2022, Yang and  Yao entered into a confidential settlement agreement, which contained a  non-disparagement clause. The settlement agreement is usurious. Yang brought a  motion to enforce the settlement agreement after Yao defaulted in making  payments due thereunder. Yang disparaged Plaintiffs in the community. Yang then  sued Plaintiffs in Case No. 22PSCV01615. Yang was able to obtain a default judgment  against Plaintiffs in that case because Plaintiffs were defrauded by James Lee  (“Lee”) and his associate, Sandra DeLeon (“DeLeon”), who falsely represented to  Plaintiffs that they were attorneys and would defend them in the lawsuit. On June 28, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a  First Amended Complaint (“FAC” or the “Operative Complaint”), asserting causes  of action against Yang, DeLeon, Lee, and Does 1-50 for (1) breach of contract,  (2) usury, (3) equitable relief to set aside default, and (4) fraud. On September 5, 2024, Yang’s default  was entered. Pending before the Court is DeLeon’s  demurrer to the Operative Complaint. For the reasons stated herein, the  demurrer is overruled.   Legal  Standard A demurrer  may be made on the grounds that, inter alia, the pleading does not state facts  sufficient to constitute a cause of action. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd.  (e).) “A demurrer  tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters.  Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or  are judicially noticed.” (SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153  Cal.App.3d 902, 905 [citations omitted].) At the pleading stage, a plaintiff  need only allege ultimate facts sufficient to apprise the defendant of the  factual basis for the claim against him. (Semole  v. Sansoucie (1972) 28 Cal.App.3d 714, 721.) “[A] demurrer does not,  however, admit contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law alleged in  the pleading, or the construction placed on an instrument pleaded therein, or  facts impossible in law, or allegations contrary to facts of which a court may  take judicial knowledge.” (S. Shore Land  Co. v. Petersen (1964) 226 Cal.App.2d 725, 732 [citations omitted].)    Discussion DeLeon demurs, per Code of Civil Procedure section  430.10(e), to the fourth cause of action in the Operative Complaint, on the  basis that it fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action. At the outset, the Court declines to consider the  information contained in DeLeon’s first accompanying declaration as improper on  demurrer. “The elements of  fraud, which give rise to the tort action for deceit, are (a) misrepresentation  (false representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (b) knowledge of falsity  (or ‘scienter’); (c) intent to defraud, i.e., to induce reliance; (d)  justifiable reliance; and (e) resulting damage.” (Lazar v. Superior Court  (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 638.) “Fraud  must be pleaded with specificity…[t]o withstand a demurrer, the facts constituting every element of the  fraud must be alleged with particularity, and the claim cannot be salvaged by  references to the general policy favoring the liberal construction of  pleadings.” (Goldrich v. Natural Y  Surgical Specialties, Inc. (1994) 25 Cal.App.4th 772, 782 [emphasis in  original].) “This particularity requirement necessitates pleading facts which show how, when, where, to  whom, and by what means the representations were tendered.” (Stansfield v. Starkey (1990) 220  Cal.App.3d 59, 73 [quotations and citations omitted; emphasis in original].) The  Court determines that Plaintiffs have sufficiently pled their cause of action  for fraud against DeLeon. Plaintiffs have alleged that a default judgment was entered  against them in Case No. 22PSCV01615 because they “were defrauded by an  individual who held himself out to be a licensed attorney, LEE, and his  associate DELEON,” that “LEE and DELEON represented to Plaintiffs that they  were attorneys and would competently defend YAO and GROUP in the lawsuit,” that  this representation occurred “[i]n or around November 2022, when Plaintiffs  consulted with LEE and DELEON regarding the lawsuit,” that Lee and DeLeon  intended that Plaintiffs rely on their representation so that Plaintiffs would  pay them a retainer fee, that Plaintiffs reasonably relied on the representation  because Lee and DeLeon were located in a “legitimate law office space” when  Plaintiffs consulted with them and had no other reason to believe otherwise,  that afterwards, Plaintiffs discovered that these individuals were not  attorneys and had tricked him into paying a $2,000.00 retainer without filing  any responsive pleading for them” and that Plaintiffs were damaged as a result  of the actions of Lee and DeLeon. (FAC, ¶¶ 14 and 28-32.) The  Court will ignore DeLeon’s attempt to interject purported facts that are  extraneous to the face of the complaint as improper on demurrer. Additionally,  DeLeon’s argument regarding the propriety of punitive damages should have been  raised via a separately filed motion to strike, which was not done. The  Court overrules DeLeon’s demurrer.