 Case Number:  23STCV01696    Hearing Date:   October 2, 2024    Dept:  73 10/02/2024 
Dept. 73
Hon. Rolf Treu, Judge presiding 
 
COVARRUBIAS v. CHRISTINA PYO, M.D.,
et al. (23STCV01696)
 
Counsel for
Plaintiff/moving party:  Elise
Sanguinetti (Arias Sanguinettie Wang & Team LLP)
Counsel for
Defendants: Michael Trotter (Kelly, Trotter & Franzen); James Kjar (Kjar,
McKenna & Stockalper LLP)
 
MOTION TO REINSTATE PRO HAC VICE APPLICATION
OF JAMES L. MITCHELL (filed 09/05/2024)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Motion to Reinstate Pro Hac Vice Application of James L.
Mitchell is GRANTED.
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
On January 26, 2023, Plaintiff Ayden Rafael
Covarrubias, individually, a minor by and through his guardian ad liem, Elia
Covarrubias, filed this action against Defendants Christina Pyo, M.D.; First Choice
Physician Partners; White Memorial Medical Center; Adventist Health System/West
and Does 1-75.
 
Plaintiff alleges a cause of action for
negligence. The
Complaint
alleges that Elia Covarrubias sought care and
treatment from Defendants for her labor and delivery of her son Ayden Rafael Covarrubias. The Complaint further alleges that
due to Defendants’ negligence during Elia Covarrubias’ labor and delivery from February 1, 2015 to February 2,
2015, Ayden Rafael Covarrubias suffered hypoxicischemic
encephalopathy and meconium aspiration, among other injuries which caused brain
damage and other catastrophic and permanent conditions including dyskinetic
cerebral palsy, dysphagia, neonatal seizures and global developmental delay,
among others.
 
On September
5, 2024, Plaintiff filed the instant application for James L. Mitchell to
appear as counsel pro hac vice on behalf of Plaintiff. 
 
No
opposition was filed.
 
II.
DISCUSSION 
 
CRC Rule 9.40(d)
provides that an application to be admitted pro hac vice must state the
following: (1) applicant attorney’s residence and office addresses; (2) the
courts to which the applicant attorney has been admitted and dates of
admission; (3) a representation that the attorney applicant is a member in good
standing in the courts of admission and is not currently suspended or disbarred
in any court; (4) the title of each court and action in which the applicant
attorney has appeared pro hac vice in this State in the preceding two years, if
any; and (5) the name, address, and telephone number of the active California
State Bar member who is counsel of record in the local action. (CRC Rule
9.40(d).) 
 
Plaintiff’s application on behalf of James L. Mitchell
provides the information required by C.R.C., Rule 9.40(d). Plaintiff’s
application indicates that Plaintiff is moving to reinstate Mr. Mitchell’s pro
hac vice admission because Mr. Mitchell’s pro hac vice admission had been terminated by
way of minute order on August 5, 2024, due to inadvertent non-payment of the
renewal fees. Plaintiff filed a notice of payment of Mr. Mitchell’s renewal
fee. 
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s
unopposed motion for an order reinstating James L. Mitchell to appear pro hac
vice is GRANTED. 
 
III. DISPOSITION

 
Motion to Reinstate Pro Hac Vice Application of
James L. Mitchell is GRANTED.