 Case Number:  23STCV31024    Hearing Date:   October 2, 2024    Dept:  73 10/02/24
Dept. 73
Hon. Rolf Treu, Judge presiding
 
SUPERSTAR MONITORING LLC, et al. v. SHARP
GROUP LLC, et al. (23STCV31024)
 
Counsel for
Plaintiffs/opposing party:  Suzanne
Rand-Lewis (Gary Rand & Suzanne E. Rand-Lewis, Professional Law
Corporations) 
Counsel for
Defendants/moving party:  Corine Zygelman
(Murchison & Cumming LLP)
 
demurrer AND MOTION TO STRIKE PORTIONS OF
THE complaint (filed 6/24/24)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Defendants’
demurrer to Plaintiffs’ fifth and sixth causes of action is OVERRULED. 
 
Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiff’s second, third, and ninth causes of
action is SUSTAINED with 20 days leave to amend. 
 
The Court DENIES Defendants’ motion to strike.
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
On December 19, 2023, Plaintiffs Superstar Monitoring LLC;
Annmarie Baranik (“Baranik”); Raymond Anthony Lerma; Samantha Brown; Adrian
Napolitano and Roman Moreno filed this premises liability action against Defendants
Sharp Group LLC and Rozita Natanzi. 
 
Plaintiffs’ Complaint alleges the following causes of action
against the Defendants: (1) Breach of Express and Implied Contract; (2) Breach
of the Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing/Breach of Express and Implied
Warranty of Quiet Enjoyment, Trespass, Nuisance; (3) Nuisance; (4) Fraud,
Negligent Misrepresentation, Concealment; (5) Negligence – Premises Liability;
(6) Negligence, Negligent Supervision, Negligent Management; (7) Violation of
Business and Professions Code §17200; (8) Violation of the Consumer Legal
Remedies Act; and (9) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress.
 
The Complaint alleges the following. Plaintiffs were
tenants/occupants of the subject premises, at Defendants’ Oakridge Plaza with
the street address of 14336 Ventura Boulevard. Plaintiff Baranik was the lessee
of the premises. Defendants entered into a written lease with Plaintiff Baranik,
which provided for her to have the exclusive use of and to occupy 1,117 square
feet of retail space, parking and amenities located at the premises for the use
of her business Superstar Monitoring LLC, and her employees, occupants and
clientele. Defendants breached the lease and their duties to Plaintiffs,
including failing to remediate water intrusion on the premises which caused the
premises to be unfit for use, unhealthy and unsafe.
 
On June 24, 2024, Defendants filed the instant demurrer and motion
to strike, arguing:
·       Plaintiffs’
second cause of action fails for uncertainty and failure to state a claim. It is actually unclear what is being alleged in the second cause
of action since the caption page shows one distinct cause of action and the
body of the complaint shows another.
·      
Plaintiffs’ third cause of action for nuisance is duplicative. The
nuisance claim is a mere clone of the negligence cause of action.
·       Plaintiffs’ fifth
and sixth causes of action for negligence are duplicative. Both causes of
action are for negligence.
·       Plaintiffs’ ninth
cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional distress fails to state
facts. Allegations
supporting a showing that Defendants acted intentionally or outrageously have
not been adequately pled. Further, the allegations
regarding Plaintiffs' severe emotional distress are conclusory and sparse.
·       Defendants
move to strike punitive damages because Plaintiffs fail to allege sufficient
facts to support the claim for punitive damages.
 
Plaintiffs filed an opposition, arguing that the Complaint
sufficiently sets forth facts to constitute a cause of action.
 
Defendants filed a reply maintaining that Plaintiff failed to
plead facts to constitute each of its causes of action.  
 
II. ANALYSIS
 
A.      Meet and
Confer Requirement 
 
“Before
filing a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the demurring party shall meet and
confer in person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is
subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be
reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a).)  
 
Here, counsel for Defendants submitted a declaration stating she
sent Plaintiffs’ counsel a letter outlining the alleged issues in the Complaint
and that she attempted to call Plaintiff’s counsel but was told counsel was not
available. (Mantovani Decl., ¶¶ 4-6.) Defendants’ counsel received an email from Plaintiffs’
counsel stating they were unwilling to amend the Complaint. (Ibid.) While the
parties did not meet and confer in person or by telephone, the failure to meet
and confer is not grounds to overrule or sustain a demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc.,
§§ 430.41, subd. (a)(4); 435.5 subd. (a)(4).) Thus, the Court
proceeds on the merits.
 
B.      Legal
Standard for Demurrer
 
A demurrer
tests the sufficiency of whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn
v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When considering demurrers,
courts read the allegations liberally and in context—any defects must be
apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice. (Donabedian
v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) “A demurrer tests the
pleading alone, and not the evidence or facts alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc. v. Accountants,
Inc. Servs. (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) As such, the court assumes
the truth of the complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual allegations. (Id.)
The only issue a demurrer is concerned with is whether the complaint, as it
stands, states a cause of action. (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at p.
747.)
 
C.      Second Cause
of Action
 
First, Defendants argue that
Plaintiffs’ second cause of action is uncertain.
 
CCP section 430.10(f) provides that a
pleading is uncertain if it is ambiguous and unintelligible. (See Code Civ.
Proc., § 430.10(f).) “A demurrer for uncertainty is strictly construed, even
where a complaint is in some respects uncertain, because ambiguities can be
clarified under modern discovery procedures.” (Khoury v. Maly’s of California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612,
616.) “A demurrer for uncertainty will be sustained only where the complaint is
so bad that defendant cannot reasonably
respond—i.e., he or she cannot reasonably determine what issues must be
admitted or denied, or what counts or claims are directed against him or her.”
(Weil & Brown, Civil Procedure Before Trial (The Rutter Group) § 7:85
(emphasis in original).) “The objection of uncertainty does not go to the
failure to allege sufficient facts.” (Brea
v. McGlashan (1934) 3 Cal.App.2d 454, 459.) “It goes to the doubt as to
what the pleader means by the facts alleged.” (Id.) “Such a demurrer should not be sustained where the allegations
of the complaint are sufficiently clear to apprise the defendant of the issues
which he is to meet.” (People v. Lim (1941) 18 Cal.2d 872, 882.) 
 
Here, the caption of the Complaint
lists the second cause of action as “Breach of the Covenant of Good Faith and
Fair Dealing/Breach of Express/Implied Warranty of Habitability.” (Complaint,
p. 1.) However, the body of the Complaint indicates the second cause of action
is for “Breach of the Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing/ Breach of
Express and Implied Warranty of Quiet Enjoyment, Trespass, Nuisance.”
(Complaint, p. 7.) While the body of the Complaint lists Nuisance under the
second cause of action, it also indicates that Nuisance is the third cause of
action. 
 
Here, the
Court finds the second cause of action is uncertain. The second cause of action
lists various theories, the body and caption of the Complaint are inconsistent,
and the second cause of action alleges Nuisance despite the third cause of
action also alleging Nuisance. Thus, the second cause of action is not
sufficiently clear to apprise the Defendants of the issues which they are to
meet. 
 
Based on this
ground, the demurrer to the second cause of action is SUSTAINED with leave to
amend. 
 
D.     Third Cause
of Action: Nuisance
 
Defendants argue Plaintiffs’ third cause of
action for nuisance fails because it is duplicative of its negligence causes of
action. 
 
To
establish an action for private nuisance, (1) “the plaintiff must prove an
interference with his use and enjoyment of his property”; (2) “the invasion of
the plaintiff’s interest in the use and enjoyment of the land must be
substantial, that is, that it causes the plaintiff to suffer substantial actual
damage”; (3) “the interference with the protected interest must not only be
substantial, but it must also be unreasonable, i.e., it must be of such a
nature, duration, or amount as to constitute unreasonable interference with the
use and enjoyment of the land.”  (Mendez
v. Rancho Valencia Resort Partners, LLC (2016) 3 Cal.App.5th 248, 262-263,
cleaned up.)

 
The Complaint
alleges:
 
“The conditions that Defendants negligently and intentionally
caused to exist constitute a nuisance within, but not limited to the meaning of
Civil Code §3479, et seq., in that said defective conditions were and are
injurious to the health and safety of Plaintiffs, unsafe, offensive to the
senses of Plaintiffs and did interfere substantially with Plaintiffs’ use and
enjoyment of the PREMISES. Pursuant to Civil Code §3501, Plaintiffs bring this
civil action for private nuisance. 
 
The dangerous and defective conditions of the PREMISES constituted
a nuisance, and deprived Plaintiffs of the safe, healthy and comfortable use of
the PREMISES. Defendants failed to adequately abate the nuisance as required by
law. Plaintiffs allege that they were exposed to unsafe, unfit premises with
long standing and ongoing safety, water, mold and smoke intrusion issues at the
PREMISES as more fully set forth above. Plaintiffs continued to be exposed to
these unsafe conditions until they vacated the PREMISES. Defendants retaliated
against the Plaintiffs when they complained and forced them to move.”
 
(Complaint, ¶¶ 32-33.)
 
Here,
Plaintiffs’ nuisance claim appears to be a negligence claim. Plaintiffs’
nuisance cause of action is premised on the “conditions that Defendants
negligently and intentionally caused to exist constitute a nuisance.”
(Complaint, ¶ 32.) Where
negligence and nuisance causes of action rely on the same facts about lack of
due care, the nuisance claim is a negligence claim. (El Escorial Owners'
Assn. v. DLC Plastering, Inc. (2007) 154 Cal. App. 4th 1337, 1349; Martinez
v. Pacific Bell (1990) 225 Cal.App.3d 1557, 1565.) Further, the requested
relief in the nuisance cause of action is also identical to the negligence
cause of action. Plaintiffs do not seek injunctive relief under their nuisance
cause of action.
 
In
opposition, Plaintiffs argue that court’s holding in El Escorial, does
not apply here because that concerned a construction defect case, in which the
Court of Appeal held that the plaintiff could not maintain a nuisance cause of
action for construction defect as the claim simply restated a negligence cause
of action under a different label, whereas this is a habitability case. 
 
However, the
Court does not find Plaintiffs’ argument persuasive. In El Escorial, the
court did not indicate that the court’s reasoning would not apply to a
habitability case. Similar to the plaintiff in El Escorial, Plaintiff
does not show how the nuisance cause of action differs from its negligence
cause of action.  A cause of action alleging a continuing nuisance is usually
accompanied by a request for an injunction. However, also like the plaintiff in
El Escorial, Plaintiffs do not request an injunction, but seek the same
monetary relief that is requested in its negligence cause of action. Thus,
Plaintiffs fail to distinguish their nuisance cause of action from their
negligence causes of action. 
 
Accordingly, the
demurrer to the third cause of action is SUSTAINED with leave to amend.
 
E.      Fifth and
Sixth Causes of Action: Premises Liability Negligence and Negligence
 
Defendants demur to the fifth cause of action for
Negligence – Premises Liability and the sixth cause of action for Negligence,
Negligent Supervision, Negligent Management on the grounds that they are
duplicative and must be combined into one cause of action. 
 
In order to state a claim for negligence,
Plaintiff must allege the elements of (1) “the existence of a legal duty of
care,” (2) “breach of that duty,” and (3) “proximate cause resulting in an injury.”  (McIntyre v. Colonies-Pacific, LLC
(2014) 228 Cal.App.4th 664, 671.)
 
Premises
liability is a form of negligence where the entity that owns or controls the
property fails to exercise ordinary care in the management of the property and
thereby exposes others to an unreasonable risk of harm. (Brooks v. Eugene
Burger Management Corp. (1989) 215 Cal.App.3d 1611, 1619.)
 
Here,
although Plaintiffs’ claim for premises liability is premised on the same
elements of its negligence claim, California case law recognizes premises
liability as a distinct cause of action. Claims for “¿premises liability and
negligence rest on the same elements—namely, (1) a legal duty of care, (2)
breach of that duty, and (3) proximate cause resulting in injury.” (Martinez
v. City of Beverly Hills (2021) 71 Cal.App.5th 508, 517.) “A premises
liability claim is distinct from a negligence claim as it ‘ “ ‘is grounded in
the possession of the premises and the attendant right to control and manage
the premises.’ ” ’ ” ” (Green v. Healthcare Services, Inc. (2021) 68
Cal.App.5th 407, 419.) Premises liability is not interchangeable with
professional negligence; it occurs where the defendant breaches an obligation
“by virtue of operating facilities open to the public, to maintain [its]
premises in a manner that preserves the well-being and safety of all users” of
the premises. (Johnson v. Open Door Community Health Care Centers (2017)
15 Cal.App.5th 153, 160.) Thus, the Court does not find that Plaintiffs must
consolidate their fifth and sixth causes of action into a single cause of
action. Further, Plaintiffs allege a duty (Complaint ¶ 43), a breach (id. ¶¶
45-46), causation (id. ¶ 47) and damages (Ibid.).
 
Therefore, the
demurrer to the fifth and sixth causes of action are OVERRULED.
 
F.       Ninth Cause
of Action: Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress
 
Defendants
argue Plaintiffs’ ninth cause of action fails to state a cause of action. 
 
“The elements of a prima facie case for the
tort of intentional infliction of emotional distress are: (1) extreme and
outrageous conduct by the defendant with the intention of causing, or reckless
disregard of the probability of causing, emotional distress; (2) the
plaintiff’s suffering severe or extreme emotional distress; and (3) actual and
proximate causation of the emotional distress by the defendant’s outrageous
conduct. Conduct to be outrageous must be so extreme as to exceed all bounds of
that usually tolerated in a civilized community.”  (Wilson v. Hynek (2012) 207
Cal.App.4th 999, 1009, cleaned up.)
 
The “mere allegation that the plaintiffs
suffered severe emotional distress, without facts indicating the nature or
extent of any mental suffering incurred as a result of the defendant's alleged
outrageous conduct, fail[s] to state a cause of action for intentional
infliction of emotional distress.” (Pitman v. City of Oakland (1988) 197
Cal.App.3d 1037, 1047.) “The allegation that plaintiff suffered shame,
humiliation and embarrassment without further factual explanation does not meet
the requirement of specificity….” (Id.)
 
The
Complaint alleges that Defendants’ acted deliberately and intentionally to cause Plaintiffs to suffer
humiliation, mental anguish and emotional distress. (Complaint ¶ 66.) The
Complaint further alleges:
 
“Defendants failed to advise Plaintiffs of issues at the PREMISES;
continually refused to properly inspect, repair, maintain and remediate the
damages which Plaintiffs continued to complain of, lied about and hid dangerous
conditions. Defendants, and each of them, were aware that failing to provide
proper security and failing to assist Plaintiffs with the items listed above,
defrauding, refusing and ignoring Plaintiffs’ ongoing requests for assistance
and pleas for help, caused Plaintiffs to suffer extreme emotional distress, and
other consequential damages….
 
As a proximate consequence of Defendants’ wrongful acts against
Plaintiffs they have suffered medical expenses, moving expenses, storage
expenses, attorneys’ fees, emotional distress and other general and special
damages.”
 
(Complaint ¶¶
66, 69.)
 
The Court
does not find Plaintiffs allegations sufficient to plead a cause of action for
intentional infliction of emotional distress. Plaintiffs merely allege they
suffered emotional distress without alleging facts
indicating the nature or extent of any mental suffering incurred as a result of
Defendants’ alleged outrageous conduct. Thus, Plaintiffs’ allegations do not
meet the requirement of specificity.
 
Accordingly, the
demurrer to the ninth cause of action is SUSTAINED with leave to amend.
 
G.     Motion to
Strike
 
A motion to strike lies only where the
pleading has irrelevant, false or improper matter, or has not been drawn or
filed in conformity with laws. (Civ. Proc. Code § 436.) The grounds for moving
to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice.
(Id. § 437.) 
 
Defendants request the Court to strike
portions of the Complaint as follows:
1.      Complaint, ¶ 26

2.      Complaint, ¶ 30
3.      Complaint, ¶ 35

4.      Complaint, ¶ 41

5.      Complaint, ¶ 48

6.      Complaint, ¶ 52
7.      Complaint, ¶ 64

8.      Complaint, ¶ 70
9.      Complaint, ¶ 5
of the Prayer 
 
Defendants argue the punitive damages of the allegations of the complaint
are unsupported by a clear and convincing factual showing of malice, oppression
or fraud.
 
The adequacy of a claim for punitive damages is properly tested by a
motion to strike. (Grieves v. Superior
Court (1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 159, 164.) Civil Code section 3294, subdivision
(a) authorizes the recovery of punitive damages where the defendant has been
guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice, express or implied. Malice means
conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or
despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and
conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others. (Civ. Code, § 3294,
subd. (c)(1).) Oppression is despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel
and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person’s rights. (Id., subd. (c)(2).) Fraud means an
intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known
to the defendant with the intention on the party of the defendant of thereby
depriving a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury. (Id., subd. (c)(3).) 
 
The Complaint alleges Defendants advised Plaintiffs that the PREMISES was
safe and habitable. Defendants made the representations with the intent to
defraud and induce Plaintiffs to become and remain tenants. The Complaint
further alleges Defendants concealed and/or suppressed material facts,
including, but not limited to the fact that the PREMISES was not safe and had
long standing and ongoing safety, water, mold and smoke intrusion issues. The
Complaint also alleges, in summary, that Plaintiffs informed Defendants of these
issues with the premises and Defendants failed to correct it and permitted it
with the knowledge of the consequences thereof.
 
Plaintiffs also allege that both
Defendants owned and managed the Premises, and that “Defendants and each of
them, were the agents, principals, servants and employees of each of the
remaining Defendants, and were at all times acting within the purpose and scope
of said agency, service and employment. Each Defendant has consented to,
ratified, permitted, encouraged and approved the acts of their/its agent.
Plaintiffs are informed and believe and thereon allege, that at all material
times each of the Defendants were the agents, servants, and employees of the
co-Defendants, and in doing the things herein alleged were acting in a
managerial capacity within the scope of their authority, whose acts and conduct
herein alleged were with the permission and consent of the co-Defendants. Each
of the Defendants’ actions and conduct were known to, authorized and ratified
by the co-Defendants.” (Complaint, ¶¶
2, 13.) 
 
Although sparse, this factual scenario is sufficient to support a claim
for punitive damages at the pleading stage. Contrary to Defendants’ assertion,
pleading specific facts is not mandated for punitive damages, which merely
requires ultimate facts. (Id. at 1055-1056.) The court in Perkins v.
Superior Court noted that “’the distinction between conclusions of law and
ultimate facts is not at all clear and involves at most a matter of degree’
[Citation.] . . . . What is important is that the complaint as a whole contain
sufficient facts to apprise the defendant of the basis upon which the plaintiff
is seeking relief. [Citations.]” ((1981) 117 Cal.App.3d 1, 6–7.) Taken in
context of the Complaint, Plaintiffs have adequately pled a claim for punitive
damages. The final decision of “[w]hether to award punitive damages . .
. and the amount of such an award are questions committed to the trier of fact.
[Citation.]” (Uzyel v. Kadisha (2010) 188 Cal.App.4th 866, 925.) 
 
Thus, the Court DENIES Defendants’ motion to strike. 
 
III. DISPOSITION
 
Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiffs’ fifth and sixth causes of
action is OVERRULED. 
 
Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiff’s second, third, and
ninth causes of action is SUSTAINED with 20 days leave to amend. 
 
The Court DENIES Defendants’ motion
to strike.