 Case Number:  23VECV05138    Hearing Date:   November 15, 2024    Dept:  W LILY
SHIA VS KENDRA THOMAS
 
MOTION OF
SPECIALLY APPEARING DEFENDANT KENDRA THOMAS TO QUASH SERVICE OF SUMMONS AND
COMPLAINT 
 
Date
of Hearing:        November 15, 2024                          Trial Date:       None set   
Department:
             W                                                        Case No.:        23VECV05138
 
Moving
Party:            Specially Appearing Defendant
Kendra Thomas  
Responding
Party:     Plaintiff Lily Shia 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On November 16, 2023, Plaintiff Lily Shia filed a
complaint against Defendant Kendra Thomas for gross negligence, intentional
tort, and seeking exemplary damages. The complaint arises out of Defendant’s
representation of Plaintiff’s minor child in a dissolution of marital
proceedings. 
 
[TENTATIVE]
RULING:
 
Specially Appearing
Defendant Kendra Thomas’ Motion to Quash Service of Summons is GRANTED. 


DISCUSSION
 
Specially Appearing Defendant Kendra Thomas
moves the court for an order quashing service of summons and complaint in this
action on the grounds she was not properly served with the summons and
complaint as prescribed by Code of Civil Procedure section 415.10 – 415.50.
Specifically, substituted service was not properly performed. 
 
¿“‘Service of process, under longstanding
tradition in our system of justice, is fundamental to any procedural imposition
on a named defendant.’ [Citation.]” (AO Alfa-Bank v. Yakovlev (2018) 21
Cal.App.5th 189, 202.) “To establish personal jurisdiction, compliance with
statutory procedures for service of process is essential.” (Kremerman v.
White (2021). 71 Cal.App.5th 358, 371.) Defendant’s knowledge of the action
does not dispense with statutory requirements for service of summons. (Kappel
v. Bartlett (1988) 200 Cal.App.3d 1457, 1466.)  
 
“If a copy of the summons and complaint cannot
with reasonable diligence be personally delivered to the person to be served,
as specified in Section 416.60, 416.70, 416.80, or 416.90, a summons may be
served by leaving a copy of the summons and complaint at the person’s dwelling
house, usual place of abode, usual place of business, or usual mailing address
other than a United States Postal Service post office box, in the presence of a
competent member of the household or a person apparently in charge of his or
her office, place of business, or usual mailing address other than a United
States Postal Service post office box, at least 18 years of age, who shall be
informed of the contents thereof, and by thereafter mailing a copy of the
summons and of the complaint by first-class mail, postage prepaid to the person
to be served at the place where a copy of the summons and complaint were left.
Service of a summons in this manner is deemed complete on the 10th day after
the mailing.” (CCP § 415.20(b).) 
 
Defendant argues none of the methods in which
Plaintiff attempted service is code compliant. Defendant argues the first
attempt at Defendant’s previous place of business was not compliant. Plaintiff
was aware this was no longer Defendant’s work address as Defendant notified
Plaintiff via e-mail on November 19, 2023 that Defendant would permanently be
closing her legal practice effective December 31, 2023. (Thomas Decl. ¶4, Exh.
B.) Plaintiff also stipulated to relieving Defendant as counsel to her child in
the underlying marital dissolution, Shia, Gunther vs. Shia, Lily Voxuan
(Case No. LD071307). (Thomas Decl. ¶4, Exh. C.) Following the Proof of
Non-Service, Plaintiff filed two Applications for Publication on April 30,
2024, and on June 12, 2024, both of which were denied by the court. (Thomas
Decl., Exhs. E and F.) Next, Plaintiff’s attempt to service Defendant via
United States Postal Service was also invalid. Plaintiff mailed the summons and
complaint to Los Angeles Superior Court, Stanley Mosk. This was not addressed
to Defendant’s home or place of business. (See CCP §415.20(b); Exh. G.)
Plaintiff was aware this was not Defendant’s place of business as per
Plaintiff’s Application for Publication, Plaintiff noted Defendant’s place of
business was Los Angeles Superior Court, Chatsworth. (Thomas Decl., Exh. E.)
Plaintiff’s last attempt, which involved personally serving LASC Mosk Court
Counsel, was also insufficient. (Thomas Decl., Exh. H.) Court Counsel could not
accept service of Defendant’s behalf – she did not work out of Stanley Mosk,
was not yet appointed as Commissioner, and there is no authority that Court
Counsel can accept service on any sitting LASC Judge. As such, Defendant was
never properly served.
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues she has made
diligent efforts to serve Defendant the summons and complaint by serving
Defendant based on Defendant’s last known contact information and serving the
address provided by on The State Bar of California website. Either way,
Plaintiff contends, Defendant had actual knowledge of the lawsuit. 
 
The court finds service was not properly
effectuated against Defendant. Although Plaintiff states she acted in good
faith and made diligent efforts to properly serve Defendant, that does not
excuse Plaintiff’s legal requirement to properly serve Defendant. As noted
above, “[p]roper service of process of a petition or complaint is the
means by which a court obtains personal jurisdiction over a party.”  (Abers
v. Rohrs (2013) 217 Cal.App.4th 1199, 1206.) “Even undisputed actual notice
of a proceeding does not substitute for proper service of the petition
or complaint.”  (Id.) As such, when substituted service is
attempted, strict compliance is required. (Id.) Upon review of all the
evince provided by the parties, there is no evidence Defendant was served in
the manner required by Code of Civil Procedure section 415.20(b). Although one
of the attempted services was before Defendant vacated her prior business
address, the rest of the attempts to serve Defendant by the Sheriff occurred
when Defendant no longer worked at that address. Although there appears to be
service at the Chatsworth Courthouse, it is of a Case Management Statement
(CM-110). There is no indication the summons or complaint was served. None of
the other attempts were at Defendant’s residential address or place of business.
The court never granted Plaintiff’s application for publication.
 
Accordingly, Specially Appearing Defendant
Kendra Thomas’ Motion to Quash Service of Summons is GRANTED.