 Case Number:  23VECV04833    Hearing Date:   November 15, 2024    Dept:  W J. A. vs BLUE
CROSS OF CALIFORNIA DBA ANTHEM BLUE CROSS
 
defendant blue
cross of california dba anthem blue cross’ motion to compel compliance with
business reocrds subpoenas 
 
Date
of Hearing:        November 13, 2024                          Trial
Date:       None
set. 
Department:              W                                                        Case
No.:        23VECV04833
 
Moving
Party:            Defendant Blue Cross of
California dba Anthem Blue Cross  
Responding
Party:     Children’s Hospital of Los
Angeles 
Meet
and Confer:      Yes (Barrera Decl.
¶¶18-28.)  
 
BACKGROUND
 
On October 30, 2023, Plaintiff
J.A., a minor by and through his Guardian ad Litem, and Michael Allen filed a
complaint against Defendant Blue Cross of California dba Anthem Blue Cross for 1.
Breach of the Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing; 2. Breach of
Contract; and 3. Violations of Business & Professions Code Section 17200.
Plaintiff alleges this action arises out of Anthem’s repeated wrongful and bad
faith denials of inpatient hospital admission so that J.A. can have medically
necessary brachial plexus (nerve repair) surgery. Plaintiff alleges J.A.’s
surgery was cancelled because Anthem denied the required inpatient hospital
admission in the intensive care unit (ICU) required for his surgery. As of the
date of this complaint, J.A. is still waiting to have surgery.
 
[Tentative]
Ruling
 
 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Defendant
Blue Cross of California dba Anthem Blue Cross moves the court for an order
pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.480 compelling Children’s
Hospital of Los Angeles (“CHLA”) to fully comply with four business records
subpoenas in this action. Specifically, Anthem seeks an order from the court
compelling CHLA to produce all documents responsive to Request Nos. 1 and 2 in
the CHLA subpoena as well as all documents responsive to Requests Nos. 3-6 in
the CHLA treating physicians subpoenas. 
 
A
party seeking discovery from a person who is not a party to the action may
obtain discovery by oral deposition, written deposition, or deposition subpoena
for production of business records.¿ (CCP § 2020.010.)¿ A deposition subpoena
may command: (1) only the attendance and testimony of the deponent, (2) only
the production of business records for copying, or (3) the attendance and
testimony of the deponent, as well as the production of business records, other
documents, electronically stored information, and tangible things.¿ (CCP §
2020.020.)¿  
 
A
service of a deposition subpoena shall be affected a sufficient time in advance
of the deposition to provide the deponent a reasonable opportunity to locate
and produce any designated documents and, where personal attendance is
commanded, a reasonable time to travel to the place of deposition.¿ (CCP §
2020.220(a).)¿ Personal service of any deposition subpoena is effective to
require a deponent who is a resident of California to: personally appear and
testify, if the subpoena so specifies; to produce any specified documents; and
to appear at a court session if the subpoena so specifies.¿ (CCP §
2020.220(c).) A deponent who disobeys a deposition subpoena may be punished for
contempt without the necessity of a prior order of the court directing
compliance by the witness.¿ (CCP § 2020.240.)¿A motion to compel compliance
with a deposition subpoena must be made within 60 days after completion of the
deposition record, the date objections are served, or the date specified for
production. (CCP §2025.480(b); Board of Registered Nursing v. Sup.Ct.
(Johnson & Johnson) (2021) 59 Cal.App.5th 1011, 1032-1033.) 
 
Anthem requests for production of
business records the following: 
 
Request No. 3 from Dr. Meisel, Dr. Stevanovic, and Dr.
Barnett subpoenas: “All DOCUMENTS REFERRING OR RELATING TO any COMMUNICATIONS
between YOU or YOUR office staff and DEFENDANT regarding PLAINTIFF from October
1, 2018 to present;”
 
Request No. 4 from Dr. Meisel, Dr. Stevanovic, and Dr.
Barnett subpoenas: “All DOCUMENTS REFERRING OR RELATING TO any COMMUNICATIONS
between YOU or YOUR office staff and PLAINTIFF, or anyone acting on PLAINTIFF’S
behalf, regarding PLAINTIFF from October 1, 2018 to present;”
 
Request No. 5 from Dr. Meisel, Dr. Stevanovic, and Dr.
Barnett subpoenas: “All DOCUMENTS REFERRING OR RELATING TO any COMMUNICATIONS
between YOU or YOUR office staff and SCOTT GLOVKY, APC regarding PLAINTIFF from
October 1, 2018 to present;”
 
Request No. 6 from Dr. Meisel, Dr. Stevanovic, and Dr.
Barnett subpoenas: “All DOCUMENTS REFERRING OR RELATING TO any COMMUNICATIONS
between YOU and Children’s Hospital Los Angeles, including any PERSON acting on
its behalf, regarding PLAINTIFF from October 1, 2018 to present;”
 
Request No. 2 to from CHLA subpoena: “All DOCUMENTS
REFERRING OR RELATING TO any COMMUNICATIONS between YOU and PLAINTIFF, or
anyone acting on PLAINTIFF’S behalf, regarding
PLAINTIFF and PLAINTIFF’S medical treatment received at your facility(s) from
October 1, 2018 to present;” and 
 
Request No 1. from CHLA subpoena: seeking all of Plaintiff’s
medical records.
 
Anthem
argues of all the requested information, CHLA has only produced medical records
responsive to Request No. 1 from the CHLA subpoena. Anthem contends the entire
purpose of a subpoena is to seek relevant information to a civil action that is
solely in the possession of a third party, CHLA. Without this information,
Anthem asserts it cannot properly defend itself. If no records exist, CHLA
needs to certify as such. Moreover, Anthem is entitled to all the requested
records in it subpoenas because CHLA never served written objections, declared
that it was producing documents responsive to the Subpoenas, and declared it
was not withholding any responsive documents. However, Anthem is still willing
to compromise on the records received as reflected in its August 12, 2024
compromise email. Anthem notes it has attempted to meet and confer with CHLA
regarding the deficient responses; however, CHLA simply stopped responding. 
 
            In opposition, CHLA explains that it
has taken various measures to search for the requested information, including
searching medical records relating to the patient and conducting a search of
ESI, using search terms reasonably calculated to find communications about the
patient from the relevant time period by the doctors involved.   Unless defendant has some other search terms
it thinks should be used, or any other type of record it thinks CHLA may have
that would contain relevant documents, the court believes CHLA’s efforts to
comply with the subpoena appear diligent and complete at this stage.  The information sought, if it exists, may be
in the possession of the actual doctors involved in plaintiff’s care, or other
custodians.   The court appreciates
defendant’s frustration at the half-hearted nature of CHLA’s initial response,
but through the meet and confer process, it would appear that defendant has
obtained the responses required by the code of civil procedure.   
 
 