  Case Number:  20STCV16349    Hearing Date:   November 15, 2024    Dept:  W PATRICIO HARRIS, et al. v. MANUEL HERNANDEZ,
et al.
 
defendant manuel hernandez’s motion to compel deposition of dr.
jonathan eskenazi and motion to continue trial and all related dates 
 
Date of Hearing:        November 15, 2024                          Trial Date:       January
6, 2025
Department:              W                                                        Case No.:        20STCV16349
 
Moving Party:            Defendant
Manuel Hernandez
Responding Party:     No
opposition 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On April 29, 2020, Plaintiffs Patricio Harris
(“Harris”) and Cheuk Ying Lam (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) filed this action
against defendants Manuel Hernandez (“Hernandez”), Shatha Alhazmi, and Does
1-50 for damages arising from a motor vehicle accident that allegedly occurred
on or about April 3, 2018.  The complaint
alleges a single cause of action for negligence against all defendants.  Hernandez filed his answer to the complaint
on April 27, 2022.   
 
The court has granted Uber Defendants’ and Defendant
Hernandez’s motions for terminating sanctions against Plaintiff Cheuk Ying Lam.
Accordingly, Plaintiff Patricio Harris remains the sole plaintiff in this
action. 
 
Plaintiff has filed amendments to complaint naming
Uber Technologies, Raiser LLC, and Raiser-CA LLC (collectively, the “Uber
Defendants”) as Does 1, 2, and 3, respectively. On November 12, 2024, Plaintiff
dismissed the Uber Defendants. 
 
[TENTATIVE]
RULING:
 
I.                   
Defendant Manuel Hernandez’s Motion to Compel Deposition of Dr. Jonathan
Eskenazi is GRANTED. 
II.                 
Defendant Manuel Hernandez’s Motion to Continue Trial and All Related
Dates is GRANTED. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
I.                   
DEFENDANT MANUEL HERNANDEZ’S MOTION TO
COMPEL DEPOSITION OF DR. JONATHAN ESKENAZI 
 
Defendant Manuel Hernandez moves this court for an order compelling
the appearance of Dr. Jonathan Eskenazi at a deposition to provide testimony in
the case at issue. Defendant makes the motion on the grounds Defendant
previously served three subpoenas and Notices of Deposition on Dr. Eskenazi,
which he failed to respond to; at the most recent deposition, Defendant had to
take a Certificate of Non-Appearance for Dr. Eskenazi’s failure to appear at the
deposition; and Dr. Eskenazi has been completely unresponsive regarding this
deposition. 
 
Any party may obtain discovery, subject to restrictions, by taking the
oral deposition of any person, including any party to the action. (CCP §
2025.010.) A party desiring to take an oral deposition shall give a notice in
writing which states the specification of reasonably particularly of any
materials to be produced by the deponent. (CCP § 2025.220(a)(4).) A properly
served deposition notice is effective to require a party to attend and to
testify, as well as to produce documents for inspection and copying. (CCP §
2025.280(a).) The party served with a deposition notice waives any error or
irregularity unless that party promptly serves a written objection at least
three calendar days prior to the date for which the deposition is scheduled. (CCP
§ 2025.410(a).)  
 
“If, after service of a deposition notice, a party to the action …
without having served a valid objection … fails to appear for examination, … or
to produce for inspection any document, … described in the deposition notice,
the party giving the notice may move for an order compelling the deponent's
attendance and testimony, and the production for inspection of any document …
described in the deposition notice.” (CCP § 2025.450(a).)   
 
Defendant Hernandez argues they have made substantial efforts in
attempting to take Dr. Eskenazi’s deposition. First, Defendant served Dr.
Eskenazi with a valid Subpoena and Notice of Deposition on September 5, 2023.
(Latson Decl. ¶3; Exh. A.) Defendant served Dr. Eskenazi with a second Subpoena
and Notice of Deposition on September 11, 2023. (Latson Decl. ¶4; Exh. B.) On
September 15, 2023, Defendant again served Dr. Eskenazi with a valid Subpoena
and Notice of Deposition for a deposition on October 4, 2023. (Latson Decl. ¶7;
Exh. D.) On October 4, 2023, Defense Counsel took a Certificate of
Non-Appearance for Dr. Eskenazi’s failure to appear at his deposition. (Latson
Decl. ¶11; Exh. G.) Since October 4, 2023, Defendant has tried to work with Dr.
Eskenazi’s office to no avail. (Latson Decl. ¶¶ 12–17.) Defendant Hernandez
contends Dr. Eskenazi’s testimony is relevant given that he is one of
Plaintiff’s two known treating neurologists. Dr. Eskenazi treated Plaintiff on
January 7, 2021. Specifically, Plaintiff reported injuries and symptoms to Dr.
Eskenazi, the substance of which will reasonably assist Hernandez in evaluating
Plaintiff’s case. In addition, Dr. Eskenazi made various medical
recommendations, the details of which are also necessary for Hernandez to
evaluate Plaintiff’s allegations.
 
Due to Dr. Eskenazi’s failure to appear for the properly noticed
deposition and Dr. Eskenazi’s complete failure to respond to Defendant’s
attempts to resolve this issue, the court GRANTS Defendant Hernandez’s motion
to compel the deposition of Dr. Jonathan Eskenazi. As noted by Defendant, Dr.
Eskenazi’s deposition is relevant to issues in this matter and necessary for
Defendant’s defense. 
 
Dr. Eskenazi is ordered to appear for his deposition within 20 days. 
 
II.                 
DEFENDANT MANUEL HERNANDEZ’S MOTION TO
CONTINUE TRIAL AND ALL RELATED DATES 
 
Defendant Manuel Hernandez moves this court for an order continuing
the existing trial date currently set for January 6, 2025 to 120 days or any
date thereafter that is convenient for the court. Defendant also requests that all
trial related deadlines, such as all related expert and non-expert discovery
and motion dates be continued to coincide with the new trial date. 
 
Although continuances of trials are disfavored, each request for a
continuance must be considered on its own merits.  (CRC Rule
3.1332(c).)  The court may grant a continuance only on an affirmative
showing of good cause requiring the continuance.  (CRC Rule 3.1332(c).)
The court may look to the following factors in determining whether a trial
continuance is warranted:  (1) proximity of the trial date; (2) whether
there was any previous continuance of trial due to any party; (3) the length of
the continuance requested; (4) the availability of alternative means to address
the problem that gave rise to the motion; (5) the prejudice that parties or
witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance; and (6) whether trial
counsel is engaged in another trial.  (See generally, CRC Rule
3.1332(d)(1)-(11).)  Additional factors for the court to consider include:
a party’s excused inability to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other
material evidence despite diligent efforts; whether all parties have stipulated
to a continuance; and any other fact or circumstance relevant to the fair
determination of the motion or application.  (CRC Rule 3.1332(c),
(d).) 
 
Defendant Hernandez seeks a trial continue on the grounds the
testimony of Dr. Eskenazi is vital to the defense’s trial preparation. As noted
in Defendant Hernandez’s motion to compel deposition, Dr. Eskenazi is one of
only two known neurologists that Plaintiff has treated with and Defendant Hernandez
has diligently and patiently attempted to work with Dr. Eskenazi’s office as
well as Plaintiff’s counsel to take the deposition of Dr. Eskenazi. Moreover,
Defendant is requesting a brief continuance and no alternative means are
available to remedy this issue.
 
Based on the foregoing, the court finds that there is good cause to
continue the trial date due to a necessary witness’s inability to comply with
the deposition subpoena. Defendant Hernandez has demonstrated the failure to
depose Dr. Eskenazi is through no fault of their own. The court finds the
interests of justice would be served for Defendant conduct essential discovery
and prepare for trial. The court also GRANTS Defendant’s request that all trial
related deadlines, including related expert and non-expert discovery and motion
dates be continued to coincide with the new trial date. 
 
For this reason, Defendant Hernandez’s Motion to Continue Trial and
All Related Dates is GRANTED. The court continues the date from January 6,
2025. Discovery cutoff are to follow the new trial date. The court will discuss
the new trial date at the hearing.   