 Case Number:  23SMCV03547    Hearing Date:   August 6, 2024    Dept:  O Case Number: 23SMCV03547   Hearing Date: August 5, 2024     Dept: O  Case Name:  Celious v. Nustats LLC, et al.Case No.:23SMCV03547Complaint Filed:8-3-23Hearing Date:8-6-24Discovery C/O:N/ACalendar No.:7Discovery Motion C/O:N/APOS:OK Trial Date:NoneSUBJECT:                 DEMURRER WITH MOTION TO STRIKEMOVING PARTY:   Defendants Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority; and Marco GarciaRESP. PARTY:         Plaintiff Aaron Celious TENTATIVE RULING            Defendants Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority, and Marco Garcia’s Demurrer is SUSTAINED as to Government Claims Act Compliance, and as exhausting administrative remedies prior to filing the Complaint. Defendants Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority, and Marco Garcia’s Demurrer is OVERRULED as to the argument that the Government Claim form was defective for lack of standing as to Plaintiff Aaron Celious.             Defendant Marco Garcia’s Motion to Strike Punitive Damages is GRANTED I.                Govt Claims Act (“GCA”) Compliance – SUSTAINED as to all causes iof action.            Compliance with the [GCA] claims statutes is mandatory; and failure to file a claim is fatal to the cause of action,” (City of San Jose v. Superior Court (1974) 12 Cal.3d 447, 454.)            “A claim relating to any other cause of action [other than for death or for injury to person, personal property or growing crops] shall be presented as provided in Article 2 (commencing with Section 915) not later than one year after the accrual of the cause of action.” (Gov. Code, § 911.2.)            “In general, a claim accrues upon the occurrence of the last element essential to the cause of action, even if the plaintiff is unaware of the cause of action. Under the “delayed discovery rule,” however, the accrual date of a cause of action is delayed until the plaintiff is aware of his or her injury and its cause. The plaintiff is charged with this awareness as of the date he or she suspects or should suspect that the injury was caused by someone's wrongful act. The period of limitations, therefore, will begin to run when the plaintiff has a “suspicion of wrongdoing”; in other words, when he or she has notice of information of circumstances to put a reasonable person on inquiry.” (Brandon G. v. Gray (2003) 111 Cal.App.4th 29, 35.)            “[U]nder the delayed discovery rule, a cause of action accrues and the statute of limitations begins to run when the plaintiff has reason to suspect an injury and some wrongful cause, unless the plaintiff pleads and proves that a reasonable investigation at that time would not have revealed a factual basis for that particular cause of action. In that case, the statute of limitations for that cause of action will be tolled until such time as a reasonable investigation would have revealed its factual basis.” (Fox v. Ethicon Endo-Surgery, Inc. (2005) 35 Cal.4th 797, 803.) “The discovery rule does not encourage dilatory tactics because plaintiffs are charged with presumptive knowledge of an injury if they have information of circumstances to put [them] on inquiry or if they have the opportunity to obtain knowledge from sources open to [their] investigation.” (Id., at pp. 807–808.)            “In order to adequately allege facts supporting a theory of delayed discovery, the plaintiff must plead that, despite diligent investigation of the circumstances of the injury, he or she could not have reasonably discovered facts supporting the cause of action within the applicable statute of limitations period.” (Id., at p. 809, emphasis added.)            “[F]ailure to allege facts demonstrating or excusing compliance with the claim presentation requirement subjects a claim against a public entity to a demurrer for failure to state a cause of action.” (State of California v. Superior Court (2004) 32 Cal.4th 1234, 1239.)            Plaintiff Aaron Celious (“Celious”) fails to plead that a reasonable investigation would not have revealed a factual basis to support the causes of action in the complaint.            The causes of action accrued in 2014 when Maroon was allegedly replaced with another subcontractor, meaning that Celious would have needed to file a Government Claim at some point in 2015. Celious alleges that the discovery rule tolls the accrual period to 8-22-22 upon the google search revealing the final element of the alleged breach. However, the discovery rule only tolls the cause of action until the Plaintiff “suspects or should suspect that the injury was caused by someone's wrongful act,” not until all elements of the cause of action are realized. (Brandon G., supra, 111 Cal.App.4th at p. 35.) Unless Celious pleads that a google search would not have put him on notice earlier than 8-22-22, the cause of action does not successfully plead the discovery rule. (See Fox, supra, 35 Cal.4th at pp. 803, 807–809.)            Additionally, the FAC alleges if the Discovery Rule does not reach the necessary tolling, than Celious requests the Court to utilize equitable tolling. “Under California law, a plaintiff must meet three conditions to equitably toll a statute of limitations: “(1) defendant must have had timely notice of the claim; (2) defendant must not be prejudiced by being required to defend the otherwise barred claim; and (3) plaintiff's conduct must have been reasonable and in good faith.” (Fink v. Shedler (9th Cir. 1999) 192 F.3d 911, 916, as amended on denial of reh'g and reh'g en banc (Dec. 13, 1999).) Celious conclusively alleges all the elements of equitable tolling in the FAC, however, in the opposition Celious does not provide any authority that equitable tolling has been utilized when a cause of action technically accrued over eight years prior to filing, nor that equitable tolling can be used to toll a government claim filing. (See FAC, ¶¶ 40–43.) California Courts have rarely, if ever, utilized Equitable Tolling to toll a filing of a government administrative claim filing. (See Willis v. City of Carlsbad (2020) 48 Cal.App.5th 1104, 1121 [“We conclude the doctrine of equitable tolling cannot be invoked to suspend section 911.2's six-month deadline for filing a prerequisite government claim.”]; Bjorndal v. Superior Court (2012) 211 Cal.App.4th 1100, 1109 [“equitable tolling has never been applied to allow a plaintiff to extend the time for pursuing an administrative remedy by filing a lawsuit. Despite broad language used by courts in employing the doctrine, equitable tolling has been applied almost exclusively to extend statutory deadlines for judicial actions, rather than deadlines for commencing administrative proceedings.”].)  The Court declines to apply equitable tolling here. II.             Demurrer to the entire claim since the government claim form was defective - OVERRULED            “A claim shall be presented by the claimant or by a person acting on his or her behalf and shall show all of the following” (Gov. Code, § 910.)            Metro argues that the Government Claim was not filed correctly since Celious does not have standing to sue for Maroon Society, Inc. (“Maroon”), as it is Maroon’s rights that are alleged to have been violated. (See Demurrer, p. 5.) The Court does not find this argument persuasive. Metro does not include any authority for the argument that a person cannot file a claim in place of another when the code specifically states “or by a person acting on his or behalf.” (See Gov. Code, § 910.) The Government Claim is attached to the FAC as Ex. 1. Attached to the Government Claim is the Claim for Damages, and in the first paragraph Celious states he bringing the claim “on behalf of Maroon Society, Inc.” (FAC, Ex. 1 at p. 26.) The claim for damages put Metro on notice that the Celious was filing the claim on behalf of Maroon. (See Stockett v. Association of Cal. Water Agencies Joint Powers Ins. Authority (2004) 34 Cal.4th 441, 446 [“the purpose of the claim is to give the government entity notice sufficient for it to investigate and evaluate the claim, not to eliminate meritorious actions.”].)            Thus, Metro’s Demurrer to the Complaint arguing the Government Claim Form was Defective for Lack of Standing as to Celious is OVERRULED.III.           Demurrer to Complaint - Celious has No Right of Action Against Metro other Than a Writ—SUSTAINED.            Metro argues that since Celious brought this action as a violation of Gov. Code § 4100 [which is now under Pub. Contract Code, § 4107], or the Subletting and Subcontracting Fair Practices Act (the “Act”), Celious can only maintain a cause of action against the prime contractor, Co-Defendant Nustats, LLC (“Nustats”), and not against Metro as the awarding authority. Metro argues Celious’ only remedy against Metro is to file a writ of mandamus against Metro in order to exhaust his administrative remedies. (See Demurrer, pp. 6–7.)              “Under the Act, a general contractor submitting a bid on a public contract must list each subcontractor that will perform more than one-half of one percent of the total bid.” (E. F. Brady Co. v. M. H. Golden Co. (1997) 58 Cal.App.4th 182, 188, citing Gov. Code § 4104, subd. (a).) “Once the general contractor's bid is accepted, however, the general contractor has a statutory duty to use the listed subcontractor, unless one of seven statutory enumerated circumstances exist.” (Ibid.)            “The Act thus binds a contractor to its listed subcontractors, even though the parties have not yet entered into a contractual relationship . . . . If the named subcontractor is unlawfully removed or substituted for a reason not authorized by the statute, the “removal permits the subcontractor to maintain a cause of action against the prime contractor.” (Id., at p. 189, citing Interior Systems, Inc. v. Del E. Webb Corp. (1981) 121 Cal.App.3d 312, 315.)            The Act, “confers the right on the listed subcontractor to perform the subcontract unless statutory grounds for a valid substitution exist. Moreover, that right may be enforced by an action for damages against the prime contractor to recover the benefit of the bargain in listed subcontractor would have realized had he not wrongfully been deprived of the subcontract.” (Southern California Acoustics Co. v. C. V. Holder, Inc. (1969) 71 Cal.2d 719, 727.) “[T]here is no statutory provision for the recovery of damages against a public entity for its consenting to a substitution of subcontractors in violation of” the Act. (Ibid.)            “A party must exhaust its administrative remedies before a court will act . . . . This doctrine of exhaustion of administrative remedies may not be circumvented by bringing actions other than administrative mandamus . . .” (Interior Systems, Inc. v. Del E. Webb Corp. (1981) 121 Cal.App.3d 312, 319 [Subcontractor cannot sue public agency for damages based on improper substitution without first challenging the public agency's decision via a writ of mandamus].            Celious argues that since “Metro held no quasi-judicial process and violated their ministerial duty to provide Plaintiff notice and hearing, a writ of mandamus would be improper,”   (Oppo., p. 9:12–15.) Celious pleads Metro failed to take the proper steps to replace or substitute a subcontractor “including the requisite notice to allow Maroon and Plaintiff a hearing.” (FAC, ¶¶ 97iii, 105, 112.) Celious pleads he filed a government tort claim on 1-16-23, and on 2-2-23 “the County Board of Supervisors mailed [Celious] a notice of rejection of all his claims.” (FAC, ¶¶ 23, 25.) However, Celious does not plead that upon receiving the rejection letter Celious filed a writ of mandamus to appeal the decision by the County Board of Supervisors as statutorily mandated. Celious must exhaust his administrative remedies prior to filing a claim with the Courts, so without allegation of Celious’s exhaustion of remedies the claims against Metro cannot stand.            Thus, Metro’s Demurrer to the Complaint for lack of pleading Administrative Exhaustion via a writ of mandamus is GRANTED.IV.           Garcia’s Motion to Strike – GRANTED.            CC §3294(a) provides, “In an action for the breach of an obligation not arising from contract, where it is proven by clear and convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice, the plaintiff, in addition to the actual damages, may recover damages for the sake of example and by way of punishing the defendant.” (Cal Civ. Code § 3294, subdiv., (a).)                        “[E]ven though certain language pleads ultimate facts or conclusions of law, such language when read in context with the facts alleged as to defendants' conduct may adequately plead the evil motive requisite to recovery of punitive damages.” (Monge v. Superior Ct., (1986)176 Cal. App. 3d 503, 510.)Furthermore, “[m]alice and oppression may be inferred from the circumstances of a defendant's conduct.” (Id., at p. 511.)            Defendant Marco Garcia (“Garcia”) individually moves to strike Celious’s punitive damages claim on grounds that punitive damages claims are not assignable. Celious argues that he has standing to claim punitive damages “as a third-party beneficiary to the contract, as a party harmed by the fraud by omission by Defendant Garcia, and as an individual deprived of his constitutional right to equal protection and due process.” (Oppo., at p. 3:15–17.)            The Court agrees with Garcia that claims providing for the recovery of punitive damages are not assignable. (See MTS, p. 2; see also Dagher v. Ford Motor Co. (2015) 238 Cal. App. 4th 905, 926 ["Any potential rights to recover damages for ... punitive damages are not assignable (because they are " " `founded upon wrongs of a purely personal nature' " ' ")]; Essex Ins. Co. v. Five Star Dye House, Inc. (2006) 38 Cal. 4th 1252, 1263 ["damages for emotional distress and punitive damages, are not assignable."].)  Plaintiff does not provide any authority to support his contention that an assigned claim for punitive damages can be sought where one subcontractor assigns their rights to another subcontractor in order to sue on their behalf.            Garcia’s Motion to Strike is GRANTED. 