 Case Number:  22STCV05360    Hearing Date:   July 18, 2024    Dept:  N TENTATIVE RULINGDefendant Invasix, Inc. dba InMode’s Motion to Stay Entire Action Pending Disposition of Defendant Dr. Sabour’s Bankruptcy Action is DENIED.Defendant Invasix, Inc. dba InMode to give notice. REASONINGDefendant Invasix, Inc. dba InMode (“Invasix”) moves to stay this entire action pending disposition of Defendant Abedelmajid Sabour, M.D. aka Majid Sabour, M.D.’s bankruptcy proceeding on the ground that Dr. Sabour is indispensable to this action because Plaintiffs Suzanne Swerner and Hana Sabour (“Plaintiffs”) are seeking to hold the non-debtor Defendants liable for Dr. Sabour’s conduct, and vice versa, Plaintiffs’ claims arise from the alleged joint conduct and concurrent representations of Dr. Sabour and Defendant Claire Jimeno, who was acting as an agent for Invasix, during the cosmetic procedures at issue in this action. Plaintiffs oppose the issuance of a stay.  As a general matter, the automatic stay of judicial proceedings against a debtor in bankruptcy does not apply to non-debtor codefendants, and “[i]t is clearly established that the automatic stay does not apply to non-bankrupt co-defendants of a debtor even if they are in a similar legal or factual nexus with the debtor.” (Seiko Epson Corp. v. Nu-Kote International, Inc. (Fed.Cir. 1999) 190 F.3d 1360, 1364-1365, quotation marks omitted.)  There are narrow exceptions in unique circumstances, such as “when there is such identity between the debtor and the third-party defendant that the debtor may be said to be the real party defendant and that a judgment against the third-party defendant will in effect be a judgment or finding against the debtor.” (A.H. Robins Co. v. Piccinin (4th Cir. 1986) 788 F.2d 994, 999.) However, the Court is not convinced that this case represents the sort of unusual situation requiring a stay of the entire action as to all defendants. First, Invasix provides no evidence that Dr. Sabour’s participation is necessary to allow Invasix to fully present its defenses. Second, Invasix’s arguments that Dr. Sabour will need to participate and be considered for apportionment of damages is not well taken because this would essentially eliminate the rule that bankruptcy stays are limited only to the debtor because a significant number of cases are brought against many parties, and if apportionment is a basis to stay the whole action, this would be evident in legal authority. The fact that the claims are intertwined is also not a reason in itself to stay the action as to all defendants, and Invasix’s arguments as to equity are not convincing, i.e., it is not clear that results will be inconsistent given the doctrine of collateral estoppel, and Plaintiffs will be prejudiced if they are required to wait to litigate their claims when there is no imminent end date to Dr. Sabour’s bankruptcy proceeding. Accordingly, Defendant Invasix, Inc. dba InMode’s Motion to Stay Entire Action Pending Disposition of Defendant Dr. Sabour’s Bankruptcy Action is DENIED.The Court reminds Plaintiffs’ counsel to include page numbers on all future filings in compliance with rule 2.109 of the California Rules of Court.