 Case Number:  SC022567    Hearing Date:   July 18, 2024    Dept:  N TENTATIVE RULINGAssignee of Record SMS Financial XI, LLC’s Motion for Assignment Order Re: Rights to Payment of Money Due or to Become Due [Rockrose Capital LLC] is GRANTED. The rights to payment of money due or to become due from Rockrose Capital LLC, whether located at 999 Avenue of the Stars, 11th Floor, Los Angeles, California 90067, or elsewhere, are hereby assigned to Assignee of Record SMS Financial XI, LLC until such time the judgment of the present action has been fully satisfied. Further, Rockrose Capital LLC and its constituent members shall pay any sums due or to become due to Defendants/Judgment Debtors Eric Cutujian and Roger Cutan, from Rockrose Capital LLC, whether located at 999 Avenue of the Stars, 11th Floor, Los Angeles, California 90067, or elsewhere, directly to Aires Law Trust Account fbo SMS Financial XI LLC, 6 Hughes, Suite 205, Irvine, California 92618 until such time the judgment of the present action has been fully satisfied.Assignee of Record SMS Financial XI, LLC to give notice. REASONINGRequest for Judicial NoticeAssignee of Record SMS Financial XI, LLC (“Assignee”) requests judicial notice of the Articles of Organization for Rockrose Capital LLC filed with the California Secretary of State on August 8, 2022, and the Statement of Information for Rockrose Capital LLC filed with the California Secretary of State on September 9, 2022. Assignee’s request is GRANTED pursuant to Evidence Code section 452, subdivision (c).AnalysisCode of Civil Procedure section 708.510, subdivision (a)(4), states, in part:Except as otherwise provided by law, upon application of the judgment creditor on noticed motion, the court may order the judgment debtor to assign to the judgment creditor or to a receiver appointed pursuant to Article 7 (commencing with Section 708.610) all or part of a right to payment due or to become due, whether or not the right is conditioned on future developments, including but not limited to . . . [r]oyalties.Code of Civil Procedure section 708.510, subdivision (c), further provides:. . . [I]n determining whether to order an assignment or the amount of an assignment pursuant to subdivision (a), the court may take into consideration all relevant factors, including the following:(1) The reasonable requirements of a judgment debtor who is a natural person and of persons supported in whole or in part by the judgment debtor.(2) Payments the judgment debtor is required to make or that are deducted in satisfaction of other judgments and wage assignments, including earnings assignment orders for support.(3) The amount remaining due on the money judgment.(4) The amount being or to be received in satisfaction of the right to payment that may be assigned.The judgment creditor may also apply “for an order restraining the judgment debtor from assigning or otherwise disposing of the right to payment that is sought to be assigned.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 708.520, subd. (a).) In its discretion, the Court may require the judgment creditor to provide an undertaking. (Code Civ. Proc., § 708.520, subd. (b).) The judgment debtor may make a claim of exemption, which requires a noticed motion and a declaration complying with Code of Civil Procedure section 703.520. (Code Civ. Proc., § 708.550.) The declaration must include the claimant’s information, a description of the property claimed to be exempt, a financial statement, and facts to support the claim. (See Code Civ. Proc., §§ 703.520; 703.530.) Assignee moves the Court for an order requiring that the rights to payment of money due or to become due from Rockrose Capital LLC, whether located at 999 Avenue of the Stars, 11th Floor, Los Angeles, California 90067, or elsewhere, be assigned to Assignee until such time the judgment of the present action has been fully satisfied. Assignee also moves the Court for an order requiring that Rockrose Capital LLC and its constituent members shall pay any sums due or to become due to Defendants/Judgment Debtors Eric Cutujian and Roger Cutan (“Defendants”), from Rockrose Capital LLC, whether located at 999 Avenue of the Stars, 11th Floor, Los Angeles, California 90067, or elsewhere, directly to Aires Law Trust Account fbo SMS Financial XI LLC, 6 Hughes, Suite 205, Irvine, California 92618 until such time the judgment of the present action has been fully satisfied.Assignee has provided proof of its judgment renewed against Defendants on May 9, 2023, in the amount of $755,590.55. (Mot., Aires Decl. ¶ 3, Ex. A.) Assignee has also provided evidence that Defendants are members of Rockrose Capital LLC, as the Articles of Organization and Statement of Information for that entity bear signatures which appears to have been drawn by the same hand as the signatory to the declaration of Eric Cutujian filed with this Court on November 8, 2023. (Mot., Req. for Judical Notice, Exs. 1, 2; Aires Decl. ¶¶ 4, 5.) As of the date of entry of this order, neither Defendant has filed a claim of exemption, nor have they filed an opposition to this motion. Accordingly, Assignee of Record SMS Financial XI, LLC’s Motion for Assignment Order Re: Rights to Payment of Money Due or to Become Due [Rockrose Capital LLC] is GRANTED. The rights to payment of money due or to become due from Rockrose Capital LLC, whether located at 999 Avenue of the Stars, 11th Floor, Los Angeles, California 90067, or elsewhere, are hereby assigned to Assignee of Record SMS Financial XI, LLC until such time the judgment of the present action has been fully satisfied. Further, Rockrose Capital LLC and its constituent members shall pay any sums due or to become due to Defendants/Judgment Debtors Eric Cutujian and Roger Cutan, from Rockrose Capital LLC, whether located at 999 Avenue of the Stars, 11th Floor, Los Angeles, California 90067, or elsewhere, directly to Aires Law Trust Account fbo SMS Financial XI LLC, 6 Hughes, Suite 205, Irvine, California 92618 until such time the judgment of the present action has been fully satisfied.