 Case Number:  23TRCV01664    Hearing Date:   February 28, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿ 
¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 February 28, 2024
¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                  23TRCV01664
¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Adam
Bouzoubaa Abderrahman; Serine Limo v. General Motors LLC, et al.
¿¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                
Plaintiffs, Adam Bouzoubaa Abderrahman & Serine Limo Inc.
¿¿ 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Defendant,
General Motors, LLC 
 
TRIAL DATE:                        September 23, 2024
¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Motion to Compel Further
Responses to Plaintiff’s Request for Production of Documents, Set One
 
Tentative Rulings:                   (1) CONTINUED to March 20,
2024, with parties ordered to meet and confer in light of guidance by the Court
and an amended separate statement to be submitted by Plaintiffs as discussed
below
¿¿ 
¿ 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿ 
¿¿ 
A. Factual¿¿ 
¿ 
On
February 5, 2021, Plaintiffs, Adam Bouzoubaa Abderrahman and Serine Limo Inc.
(collectively “Plaintiffs”) filed a Complaint against Defendant, General
Motors, LLC, and DOES 1 through 10. The Complaint alleges causes of action for:
(1) Violation of Civil Code § 1793.2(d); (2) Violation of Civil Code §
1793.2(b); (3) Violation of Civil Code § 1793.2(a)(3); (4) Breach of Express –
Civil Code § 1791.2(a); § 1794; and (5) Breach of The Implied Warranty of
Merchantability – Civil Code § 1791.1, § 1794.
 
On
August 4, 2023, Plaintiffs note that they propounded Requests for Production of
Documents, Set One on Defendant seeking documents relating to GM’s internal
investigations and analysis of the defects allegedly plaguing Plaintiff’s
vehicle and establishing GM previously knew of such defects but nevertheless
refused to repurchase the vehicle. Plaintiffs note that after granting a
two-week extension, responses were due on September 19, 2023. However,
Plaintiff asserts that Defendant GM did not serve responses until September 27,
2023, which were unverified, and not Code-compliant. Plaintiffs also notes that
Defendant’s initial document production were independently received on October
25, 2023, and thus argues that its motion is timely. Plaintiff contends that no
proof of service was sent to Plaintiff, and on October 20,2023, Plaintiff
agreed to enter into a stipulated protective order to facilitate discovery. On
November 1, 2023, Plaintiff notes Defendant supplemented its document
production, but that no Code-compliant further responses were provided. Moreover,
Plaintiff asserts that no documents relating to internal investigations and
analysis of the so-called electrical defect were ever produced. 
 
B. Procedural¿¿ 
¿ 
            On December 12, 2023 Plaintiffs filed a Motion to Compel
Further Responses to Plaintiffs’ Requests for Production of Documents, Set One.
On February 14, 2024, Defendant GM filed an opposition. On February 21, 2024,
Plaintiffs filed a reply brief. 
¿ ¿¿ 
¿II. MEET
AND CONFER 
 
            Code of Civil Procedure § 2025.450(b)(2) requires that a
motion to compel a part deponent to appear or produce documents “shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration
under Section 2016.040, or, when the deponent fails to attend the deposition
and produce the documents, electronically stored information, or things
described in the deposition notice, by a declaration stating that the
petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire about the
nonappearance.”  (C.C.P. §2025.450(b)(2).) The attempt to resolve
informally may be made either by conferring “in person, by telephone, or by
letter with an opposing party or attorney.”  (C.C.P. §2023.010(i),
[failure to make such attempt constitutes “misuse of discovery process”].)
 
            Here, the
Court notes the parties have sufficiently met and conferred in good faith.  
 
III. ANALYSIS¿ 
¿ 
A.   
Legal
Standard 
“Unless otherwise limited by order
of the court in accordance with this title, any party may obtain discovery
regarding any matter, not privileged, that is relevant to the subject matter
involved in the pending action or to the determination of any motion made in
that action, if the matter either is itself admissible in evidence or appears
reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.” (Code
of Civ. Proc. § 2017.010.) For discovery purposes, information is regarded as
relevant “if it might reasonably assist a party in evaluating the case,
preparing for trial, or facilitating settlement thereof.” (City of Los
Angeles v. Superior Court (2017) 9 Cal.App.5th 272, 288.)  
A motion to compel further
responses to a demand for inspection or production of documents (“RFP”) may be
brought based on: (1) incomplete statements of compliance; (2) inadequate,
evasive, or incomplete claims of inability to comply; or (3) unmerited or
overly generalized objections.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310(c).) A
motion to compel further production must set forth specific facts showing good
cause justifying the discovery sought by the inspection demand. (See Code Civ.
Proc., § 2031.310(b)(1).) In Digital Music News LLC v Superior Court
(2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 216 at 224, the Court defined “good cause” as a showing
that there “a disputed fact that is of consequence in the action and the
discovery sought will tend in reason to prove or disprove that fact or lead to
other evidence that will tend to prove or disprove the fact.” If the
moving party has shown good cause for the requests for production, the burden
is on the objecting party to justify the objections. (Kirkland v. Sup.Ct
(2002) 95 Cal. App.4th 92, 98.) ¿ 
"The court shall limit the
scope of discovery if it determines that the burden, expense, or intrusiveness
of that discovery clearly outweighs the likelihood that the information sought
will lead to the discovery of admissible evidence." (Cal. Code of Civ.
Proc. § 2017.020(a).) Generally, objections on the ground of burden require the
objecting party to produce evidence of (a) the propounding party's subjective
intent to create burden or (b) the amount of time and effort it would take to
respond. (See West Pico Furniture Co. of Los Angeles v. Superior Court In
and For Los Angeles County (1961) 56 Cal.2d 407, 417.) However, no such
evidence is necessary where discovery is obviously overbroad on its face. (See Obregon
v. Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 424, 431.)
B.     Discussion 
 
Plaintiffs
seek to compel further responses to Requests for Production of Documents (“RFP”)
16 through 21. Plaintiffs argue that because Defendant served untimely
responses, it waived all objections, and should not be allowed to submit
boilerplate objections. Plaintiffs also contend that their requests are
directly relevant to Plaintiff’s claims under the Song-Beverly Act. 
 
Preliminarily,
this Court notes that the purpose of a Separate Statement in a discovery motion
is to make it easier, not harder, for the Court to rule on Requests for Production
categories. Regurgitating arguments, points, authorities, and citations from a
moving or opposing brief in a separate statement, especially to the extent done
by Plaintiffs, violates the page limitations of briefs supporting or opposing a
motion. The Court notes that there are six (6) RFPs at issue in this motion,
but Plaintiffs’ attached separate statement is 52 pages. Defendant’s Separate Statement
is 16 pages long.  Further, Plaintiffs’
arguments made as to each of the six (6) requests are virtually identical. The
Court urges the parties to take note of this as the Court will not rule on
Motions to Compel Further Responses with excessive separate statements but
instead will send the issues back to the party to further meet and confer. The
Court will continue the hearing but give the parties guidance on how it views
the 6 discovery requests presented by this motion.  
 
For purposes of enabling counsel to prepare for the continued
hearing and supplemental Separate Statements, the Court sets forth below some basic
parameters for what it typically orders with respect to certain of the
discovery requests embraced by this motion. 
The Court typically orders and limits production of documents including
ESI in a Song-Beverly single-vehicle case as follows:      
1.      Purchase
and/or lease contract concerning the subject vehicle must be produced.
2.      Repair
orders and invoices concerning the subject vehicle must be produced, including
the “accounting” copies showing the hours and dates of activity by dealer
personnel.
3.      Communications
between the plaintiff and the warrantor/manufacturer and/or its servicing dealers,
and communications between Plaintiff and the manufacturer’s factory
representative and/or call center concerning the subject vehicle.
4.      Warranty
claims submitted to and/or approved by Defendant concerning the subject
vehicle.
5.      The
applicable Warranty Policy and Procedure Manual published by defendant and
provided to its authorized repair facilities, within the State of California,
for the year the lawsuit was filed.  If a
separate written policy, procedure, or manual exists regarding repurchases or
buy backs appliable to vehicles sold or leased in California, that would also
be required to be produced for the year the lawsuit was filed and/or the year
Plaintiff contends the vehicle became qualified for repurchase (such as upon
satisfaction of the Presentation Element of a Song-Beverly cause of action
under Section 1793.2(d)(2) or 1793.22). 
Such documents would be produced subject to a protective order.
6.      Any
internal analysis and/or investigation regarding the primary or other recurring
alleged defects claimed by plaintiff in her/his vehicle, applicable to the same
year, make and model of the subject vehicle. 
The Court tends to focus on the claimed symptom experienced by the
plaintiff as described in the dealers’ repair records, rather than a broad and
vague characterization of the claimed defect as described by counsel in the
litigation.  For example, if the customer
experienced a black Infotainment screen when shifting in reverse, or a harsh engagement
or clunk of the transmission when accelerating from 2nd to 3rd
gear, or has had cellular phone calls dropped from time to time, or has the
navigation function occasionally freeze when driving, those symptoms rather
than an overly broad and nebulous characterization or definition of an “Infotainment
Defect” would be the narrowing of scope of such internal analysis or
investigation to be produced.  
7.      Other
customers’ complaints similar to the alleged defects claimed by plaintiff,
limited to vehicles purchased in California for the same year, make and model
of the subject vehicle.  The other
customer complaints again would be limited in scope to the description of the
symptom as shown on the dealer repair records. 
The Court typically discusses with counsel the type of documents that
may be required and the format for a production of documents such as in a
sortable Excel spreadsheet that lists a compilation or summary of voluminous
documents.
8.      Technical
Service Bulletins and/or Recall Notices for vehicles purchased in California
for the same year, make and model of the subject vehicle, whether mentioned in
the repair history of the subject vehicle or not.
In
addition, in this specific case, some of the issues raised by the original
motion may have been mooted by GM’s written response and subsequent production
of documents.   The scope of this motion
may well have been narrowed.  The Court is
concerned that the defined term “Electrical Defect” is overly broad and burdensome,
resulting in a multiply compound definition and vagueness when the “any other
concerns” language is included and resulting in a request for documents that
would not be reasonably calculated to lead to evidence that might be admissible
at trial. Had Plaintiffs limited the definition to “dead/damaged battery,” the
definition would still be problematic given the dozens of different issues that
may lead to a dead or damaged battery, rather than the issues that actually
existed in the subject vehicle. Similarly, the phrase “malfunction of
infotainment system” is also vague and overbroad, given the number of different
repair issues that could have manifest in a complained-of symptom in or with the
infotainment system. Given the Plaintiffs’ discovery requests seeking evidence
including emails of GM employees generally and ESI relating to other vehicles
besides Plaintiffs’ with any of the combination of possible repair complaints
not only in California but in any other state, this set of requests seems unduly
burdensome, taking into account the needs of this single-vehicle case, the
amount in controversy, and the importance of the issues at stake in this
litigation. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 2019.030(a)(2).)
 
            The record presented here shows that
Defendant has untimely served their written responses, and would normally have
waived their objections.  But still, the Court
must fashion an appropriate discovery order and the problematic definitions
noted above make the preparation (and potential enforcement) of such an order quite
difficult.  
 
            Accordingly, the Court continues the
hearing on this motion to March 20, 2024. 
Plaintiff is ordered to submit an Amended Separate Statement by March
13, 2024, containing only the language of the discovery request and the
language of the written response(s).  The
Amended Separate Statement shall not contain any legal argument, briefing, or
reasons why the Court should compel a further response.  The Court also orders counsel to meet and
confer, in light of the parameters noted in this Tentative Ruling, to see if the
parties can agree on a narrowing of the definitions, geographic restriction,
and other aspects of the requested categories. 
If the parties agree to a narrowing of scope but issues remain to be
resolved, then Plaintiff’s Amended Separate Statement shall contain a short,
succinct statement of what narrowing has been agreed upon and what issue or
issues remain for the Court to resolve.  If
GM so desires, it may but is not required to submit a Supplemental Statement containing
only the issues GM contends remain to be resolved at the March 20, 2024
hearing.  
 
            Unless waived, notice of this ruling
shall be served by Plaintiffs.  
 