  Case Number:  19TRCV00989    Hearing Date:   March 28, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 March 28, 2024
¿¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                  19TRCV00989
¿¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                        DML Enterprises, LLC
v. Augustin Moreno, et al.     
¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant, DML
Enterprises, LLC
¿ 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Defendant/Cross-Complainant,
Pedersen Family Trust Dated March 9, 2018
¿¿¿ ¿¿¿ 
TRIAL DATE:                         January 27, 2025
¿¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Plaintiff’s Motion for
Leave to File First Amended Complaint 
¿¿ 
Tentative Rulings:                  (1) DENIED without
prejudice to being re-filed with a proposed amended complaint that complies
with the Rule of Court requirements.  It
must also be labeled a “First Amended Complaint” ¿ 
 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
A. Factual¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
This action arises out of a property line
dispute between Plaintiff DML Enterprises, LLC (“Plaintiff”) and Defendants
Augustin Moreno, Robert Pedersen, and DOES 1 through 100 (collectively,
“Defendant”).   Plaintiff
now seeks to file an “amendment to Complaint.”
 
B. Procedural¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
The original complaint in this matter was
filed on November 5, 2019, with seven causes of action alleged and 45 numbered
paragraphs.   On February 13, 2024, Plaintiff filed a Motion
for an Order for Leave to File an Amendment. On March 4, 2024,  this motion was continued. On March 21, 2024,
Defendant/Cross-Complainant, Pedersen Family Trust Dated March 9, 2018
(“Pederson”) filed a Declaration in Opposition.  An Amendment to Complaint was filed on
September 21, 2022 adding a Doe defendant, but which does not appear to have
been signed by the judge then presiding over the case.  The current proposed “Amendment to Complaint”
alleges 8 causes of action spanning over 127 numbered paragraphs.  
 
¿II. ANALYSIS¿¿ 
 
A.    Legal Standard 
 
 Leave to amend is permitted
under Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (a) and section 576. The
policy favoring amendment and resolving all matters in the same dispute is “so
strong that it is a rare case in which denial of leave to amend can be
justified. . ..” “Although courts are bound to apply a policy of great
liberality in permitting amendments to the complaint at any stage of the
proceedings, up to and including trial [citations], this policy should be
applied only ‘where no prejudice is shown to the adverse party . . .. [citation]. 
A different result is indicated ‘where inexcusable delay and probable prejudice
to the opposing party’ is shown. [Citation].” (Magpali v. Farmers Group (1996)
48 Cal.App.4th 471, 487.)  
 
A motion for leave to amend a pleading must also
comply with the procedural requirements of California Rules of Court, Rule
3.1324, which requires a supporting declaration to set forth explicitly what
allegations are to be added and where, and explicitly stating what new evidence
was discovered warranting the amendment and why the amendment was not made
earlier. The motion must also include (1) a copy of the proposed and numbered
amendment, (2) specifications by reference to pages and lines the allegations
that would be deleted and added, and (3) a declaration specifying the effect,
necessity and propriety of the amendments, date of discovery and reasons for
delay. (See Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324, subds. (a), (b).) 
 
B.     Discussion 
 
Here, Plaintiff moves for leave to file an “Amendment to Complaint.”  The moving papers assert that the proposed
amendment seeks declaratory relief regarding the related laws of the City of
Palos Verdes.  Plaintiff asserts the amendment
is necessary for Plaintiff and/or this Court to be able to address various intervening
events related to the subject property, and because the City has not taken any
action since the City issued a fourth notice related to the unpermitted
construction on the subject house about four years ago. Although the Court is
familiar with the liberal policy for granting leave to amend, the Court notes
that the motion is devoid of what new evidence was discovered warranting the
amendment and why the amendment was not made earlier. Defendant Pedersen notes
that Plaintiff has known of the existence and potential involvement of the
defendant he proposes to add by way of the instant motion, City of Rancho Palos
Verdes, since the inception of this case. In fact, Pedersen contends that at the
CMC held on August 23, 2023, Plaintiff advised the Court he intended to add the
City as a defendant, and the Minute Order reflects the Court’s order for Plaintiff
to file the motion to add the Defendant so that the orderly process and
procedure be followed.  A plaintiff is
entitled to amend the complaint once without leave of court to add new parties or
allegations but not after an answer has been filed.  The Court’s thinking at the time is that with
the lawsuit having been initially filed in 2019, an amendment to add a new
defendant might well be barred by the statute of limitations, might be alleged to
result in prejudice or expand the issues involved in the action, might be
challenged for other reasons embraced by the Legislature’s grant of
discretionary authority to permit an amendment under Code of Civil Procedure §473(a)(1).   
Leave of court is required to amend any pleading except as
provided by Code of Civil Procedure§ 472, 474, 473(a), and 576.  The flexibility in permitting amendments usually
prevails, so “leave to amend a pleading should be
liberally granted as long as there is no timeliness problem under a statute of
limitations or prejudice to the opposing party.”  (Harris v. City of Santa Monica (2013)
56 Cal.4th 203, 240.)  It has repeatedly been
said that “even if a good amendment is proposed in proper form, unwarranted
delay in presenting it may—of itself—be a valid reason for denial. The cases
indicate that the denial may rest upon the element of lack of diligence in
offering the amendment after knowledge of the facts, or the effect of the delay
on the adverse party.”  (Roemer v.
Retail Credit Co. (1975) 44 Cal.App.3d 926, 939–940; see Huff v. Wilkins
(2006) 138 Cal.App.4th 732, 746 (plaintiff ailed to offer any explanation for
his delay in seeking leave to amend; P&D Consultants, Inc. v. City of
Carlsbad (2010) 190 Cal.App.4th 1332, 1345 (plaintiff did not seek leave to
amend until after the trial readiness conference, the proposed amendment would
require additional discovery and result in a demurrer or other pretrial motion,
and Plaintiff offered no explanation for the delay; Duchrow v. Forrest
(2013) 215 Cal.App.4th 1359, 1381 (the amendment of the complaint in the middle
of trial prejudiced the defendant in many ways, leading the Second District to
reverse the judgment and remand for a new trial on the belatedly added cause of
action.)  
Here,
the proposed amendment is not in proper form. 
Plaintiff has not merely amended the 2019 Complaint in 2024 to add a new
party; instead, it has added at least one cause of action and has enlarged its allegations
by 80 numbered paragraphs.  Given the
delay in making the amendment, the time for an existing or added defendant to
investigate, conduct discovery and prepare to respond to all these new allegations
has been dramatically compressed given the trial looming 10 months away.  Further, one can anticipate that the proposed
new defendant will demur or make a motion to dismiss if it is added and served
with a First Amended Complaint, a consequence that will further compress time.  The Opposition argues that Plaintiff was
aware of the City’s involvement since the outset of this litigation, suggesting
that it is more likely that the City would file a pleading motion if leave to
amend is granted and the City were served, further compressing time.  


Further,
the motion fails to comply with California Rules of Court rule 3.1324 in many respects: the copy of the proposed
amendment is not a numbered amendment, and there are no specifications by page
number and line to the allegations that would be deleted or added.  Counsel’s declaration in support of the motion
does specify the effects of the proposed amendment in some detail, but the
Court cannot overlook the length of time it took Plaintiff to file this
amendment without explanation nor the lack of compliance with the Rules of
Court. 
            
III. CONCLUSION 
 
For
the foregoing reasons, Plaintiff’s Motion for Leave to File an Amended
Complaint is DENIED, without prejudice to Plaintiff remedying the shortcomings
identified, labeling the document a “First Amended Complaint,” and complying
with Rule 3.1324.  
 
            Pedersen is ordered to give notice.