 Case Number:  20STCV41794    Hearing Date:   July 11, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27 
 
MOTION FOR SUMMARY ADJUDICATION 
Hearing Date: 7/11/24 
CASE NO./NAME: 20STCV41794 DEEANNA
LINSMAIER vs WAIL BUSHARA, et al.
Moving Party: Plaintiff 
Responding Party: Defendant Wail Bushara
Notice: Sufficient 
Ruling: MOTION FOR SUMMARY ADJUDICATION 
OF ISSUES 1-3 IS GRANTED
MOTION FOR SUMMARY ADJUDICATION OF ISSUE 4 IS DENIED
 
Background
On November 2, 2020, Plaintiff Deeanna Linsmaier filed her
complaint alleging that she was injured while a passenger in a car operated by
Defendant Bushara. Bushara’s car was side-swiped by another vehicle operated by
the now deceased Matthew Muldoon.
On April 24, 2024, Plaintiff, in pro se, filed her motion for
summary adjudication on Issues 1-9. Issues 1-4 pertain to Defendant's
affirmative defenses of Plaintiff's contributory negligence, failure to state a
claim, statute of limitations, and third-party contributory negligence. Issues
5-9 pertain to Defendant’s various claims for damages. On July 5, 2024,
Plaintiff withdrew her requests for adjudication of Issues 5-9 concerning her
claims for damages; thus, her motion now addresses only Issues 1-4.
Legal Standard 
 
In reviewing a motion for summary judgment, courts must
apply a three-step analysis: “(1) identify the issues framed by the pleadings;
(2) determine whether the moving party has negated the opponent’s claims; and
(3) determine whether the opposition has demonstrated the existence of a
triable, material factual issue.”¿(Hinesley
v. Oakshade Town Center (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289,
294.) 
  
“[T]he initial burden is always on the moving party to make
a prima facia showing that there are no triable issues of material fact.”¿(Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005)
128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.)¿A defendant moving for summary judgment or summary
adjudication “has met his or her burden of showing that a cause of action
has no merit if the party has shown that one or more elements of the cause of
action . . . cannot be established, or that there is a complete defense to the
cause of action.”¿(Code Civ. Proc., §
437c, subd. (p)(2).)¿If the moving
party fails to carry its burden, the inquiry is over, and the motion
must be denied. (See Id.; see also Consumer Cause, Inc.
v. SmileCare (2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 454, 468.)¿Even if the moving party does carry
its burden, the non-moving party will still defeat the motion by presenting
evidence of a triable issue of material fact. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield
Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 849-50.) 
  
To meet this burden of showing a cause of action cannot
be established, a defendant must show not only “that the plaintiff does
not possess needed evidence” but also that “the plaintiff cannot
reasonably obtain needed evidence.”¿(Aguilar, supra, 25
Cal.4th at p. 854.)¿It is insufficient for
the defendant to merely point out the absence of evidence.¿(Gaggero v. Yura (2003)
108 Cal.App.4th 884, 891.)¿The defendant “must also produce evidence that the
plaintiff cannot reasonably obtain evidence to support his or her claim.”¿(Ibid.)¿The supporting evidence can be in the
form of affidavits, declarations, admissions, depositions, answers to
interrogatories, and matters of which judicial notice may be taken.¿(Aguilar, supra, 25
Cal.4th at p. 855.) 
  
“Once the defendant … has met that burden, the burden
shifts to the plaintiff … to show that a triable issue of one or more material
facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 437c, subd. (p)(2).) The plaintiff may not merely rely on allegations or
denials of its pleadings to show that a triable issue of material fact exists,
but instead, “shall set forth the specific facts showing that a triable issue
of material fact exists as to the cause of action.”¿(Ibid.)¿“If the plaintiff cannot do so,
summary judgment should be granted.”¿(Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente
Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.) 
  
The court must “liberally construe the
evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve all
doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party,” including “all inferences reasonably drawn
therefrom.” (Yanowitz v. L’Oreal USA, Inc. (2005) 36 Cal.4th 1028,
1037; Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at pp. 844-45.) “On a
summary judgment motion, the court must therefore consider what inferences
favoring the opposing party a factfinder could reasonably draw from
the evidence. While
viewing the evidence in this manner, the court must bear in mind that its
primary function is to identify issues
rather than to determine issues. [Citation.] Only when the inferences are indisputable may the
court decide the issues as a matter of law.  If the evidence is in conflict,
the factual issues must be resolved by trial.” (Binder v. Aetna Life Ins. Co. (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832, 839.) Further, “the trial court may not weigh the
evidence in the manner of a factfinder to determine whose version is
more likely true. [Citation.] Nor may the trial court grant summary
judgment based on the
court’s evaluation of credibility. [Citation.]” (Id. at p. 840; see
also Weiss v. People ex rel. Department of Transportation (2020)
9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts deciding motions for summary judgment or summary
adjudication may not weigh the evidence but must instead view it in the light
most favorable to the opposing party and draw all reasonable inferences in
favor of that party”].)
Discussion
Issues 1-3
Defendant concedes that
summary adjudication should be granted in Plaintiff's favor on Defendant’s
affirmative defenses of Plaintiff's contributory negligence, failure to state a
claim, and the running of the statute of limitations (Issues 1-3). Defendant
does not dispute Plaintiff’s undisputed material facts and supporting evidence.
Considering the evidence presented by Plaintiff and Defendant's concession, the
Court grants summary adjudication on Issues 1-3, namely, Defendant’s
affirmative defenses of Plaintiff's contributory negligence, failure to state a
claim, and the running of the statute of limitations.
Issue 4
Plaintiff failed to meet
her initial burden for summary adjudication of Defendant’s third-party
contributory negligence affirmative defense (Issue 4). Under the principles of comparative
fault, a person's negligent conduct [is] assigned a share of fault greater than
zero percent ... when the conduct was a substantial factor in the causation of
the pertinent injuries. [Citations.]” (Pfeifer v. John Crane, Inc. (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 1270, 1287.) “ ‘[L]iability
for damage will be borne by those whose negligence caused it in direct
proportion to their respective fault.’ [Citation.]” (Aidan Ming–Ho Leung v. Verdugo Hills
Hosp. (2012) 55 Cal.4th
291, 303.) “The comparative fault doctrine ‘is designed to permit the trier of
fact to consider all relevant criteria in apportioning liability. The doctrine
“is a flexible, commonsense concept, under which a jury properly may consider
and evaluate the relative responsibility of various parties for an injury
(whether their responsibility for the injury rests on negligence, strict
liability, or other theories of responsibility), in order to arrive at an
‘equitable apportionment or allocation of loss.’ ” [Citation.]’ [Citation.]” (Pfeifer v. John Crane, Inc., supra, 220 Cal.App.4th at p. 1285.) 
In order for Plaintiff to
negate Defendant’s affirmative defense of third-party negligence, Plaintiff
needs to show that the third party, Muldoon, is not negligent at all or 0
percent at fault. However, Plaintiff’s evidence does not establish this.[1] 
In response to Plaintiff’s
RFA No. 11, Defendant Bushara, against his attorney's wishes, admits that he is
95 percent at fault. (Plf’s Ex. 2.) Significantly, Defendant Bushara does not
admit that he is 100 percent liable, or that Muldoon is 0 percent liable. To
negate Defendant’s affirmative defense of third-party negligence, Plaintiff
needs to show that Defendant Bushara is 100 percent at fault. Defendant's
responses to RFAs 2-6, cited by Plaintiff as supporting evidence, all relate to
Defendant's own negligence and do not show the non-negligence of Muldoon.
Plaintiff then points to
Defendant's responses to Form Interrogatories Nos. 15.1 and 20.8 in which Defendant
responded that: "Responding Party Defendant Bushara, who was driving
westbound on Olympic Boulevard, stopped for a red light at the intersection of
Olympic Boulevard and Beverly Glen for approximately 10 seconds. Responding
Party started a lane change to the left, when the other car was approaching at
a high rate of speed, then stopped. The driver of the car approaching from the
rear attempted to veer to the left, but collided with the left rear of
Responding Party's vehicle." (Plf’s Ex. 3.) This response suggests that
Muldoon may have had some level of responsible for the accident by approaching
the red light at a high rate of speed and failing to stop before colliding with
Defendant Bushara’s car. 
Plaintiff also introduces her
own deposition testimony and declaration and Nancy Zepeda’s declaration
essentially stating that Defendant Bushara is responsible for the incident by
making a last-minute lane change to the left turn lane and thereby causing the
resulting collision with Muldoon’s car that was coming up from behind. (Linsmaier
Decl.¶4, 202, 203, 204, 210, 216; Zepeda Decl. ¶ 8, 9; Linsmaier Depo. P. 22:12-17; 23:4-10 & 17-19.) Again, this evidence addresses Defendant
Bushara’s negligence in the sudden lane change but not Muldoon ‘s lack of
negligence. It does not address Defendant’s earlier responses that Muldoon was
driving at a high speed and failed to stop in time.
The only evidence
introduced by Plaintiff relating to Muldoon's non-negligence are two insurance
investigative reports stating that the insurance investigators found Defendant Bushara
to be 100 percent liable (Plf’s Ex. 4). The reports did not cite any facts in
support of that conclusion. Evidence such as affidavits in support of a motion
for summary judgment must cite evidentiary facts, not just legal conclusions. (Hayman
v. Block (1986) 176 Cal.App.3d 629, 638–639.) The insurance reports contain
only conclusory remarks on Defendant’s liability without any factual basis
stated as support and therefore lack foundation for their conclusions. 
As a whole, Plaintiff's
evidence showed that Defendant Bushara was negligent in causing the accident.
However, based on the foregoing analysis, Plaintiff failed to establish there
is no triable issue of fact regarding Muldoon’s lack of negligence. Thus,
Plaintiff failed to meet her initial burden. Accordingly, summary adjudication
as to Issue No. 4, Defendant’s affirmative defense of comparative negligence,
is denied.
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿The body of the email must include the hearing date and
time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting. 
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿You should assume that others may appear at the hearing
to argue. 
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion.


