  Case Number:  20STCV24984    Hearing Date:   July 11, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27
 
MOTION FOR RELIEF FROM DISMISSAL 
Hearing Date: 7/11/24 
CASE NO./NAME: 20STCV24984 AMY XU vs F4
STARHOUSE INC.
Moving Party: Plaintiff
Responding Party: Unopposed
Notice: Sufficient 
Tentative ruling: Denied
On July 2, 2020,
Plaintiff filed the present personal injury case. On December 5, 2023, the
court held an Order to Show Cause Re: Dismissal for Plaintiff's Failure to
Bring the Case to Trial Within Three Years, Order to Show Cause Re: Failure to
File Default Judgment, and a Status Conference Re: Court's Ruling on Default
Judgment. Plaintiff’s counsel did not appear and did not communicate with the
court regarding the absence. The court dismissed the case with prejudice for
failure to prosecute and bring the case to judgment within three years. On June
4, 2024, Plaintiff moved the court to vacate its order dismissing the case.
Plaintiff’s counsel
contends that it was counsel’s miscalendaring that led to the non-appearance on
behalf of Plaintiff; however, this argument misses the mark. The court’s minute
order reflects that the case was dismissed not due to counsel's absence at the
OSC but pursuant to CCP §§ 583.410 and 583.420(a)(2)(A), CRC Rule 3.110(g)-(i),
and CRC Rule 3.740 for failing to timely prosecute the case and failing to
bring the case to judgment within three years. This case was filed on July 2,
2020, more than four years ago, and Plaintiff failed to file a proper default
judgment package within that time span.
Furthermore, CCP §
473(b) requires “a copy of the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed
therein; otherwise, the application shall not be granted”. No default judgment
package was attached to the present motion.
Based on the foregoing
analysis, Plaintiff’s motion is denied.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿The body of the email must include the hearing date and
time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿You should assume that others may appear at the hearing
to argue.
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion.