 Case Number:  22STCV29213    Hearing Date:   July 11, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27
 
MOTION TO COMPEL DEPOSITION
Hearing Date: 7/11/24 
CASE NO./NAME: 22STCV29213 JOHN LUNDGREN vs
MARK ALAN WALSH
Moving Party: Defendant Mark Walsh
Responding Party: Unopposed
Notice: Sufficient 
Ruling: MOTION TO COMPEL DEPOSITION IS
GRANTED 
 
Legal Standard 
¿¿¿¿ 
Any party may obtain any discovery
of information, documents, land, property, or electronically stored information
so long as the discoverable matter is not privileged, is relevant to the
subject matter and can lead one to admissible evidence.¿(Code Civ. Proc. § 2017.010.)¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿¿ 
Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450¿provides in pertinent part the
following:¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿¿ 
“(a) If, after service of a
deposition notice, a party to the action or an officer, director, managing
agent, or employee of a party, or a person designated by an organization that
is a party under Section 2025.230, without having served a valid objection
under Section 2025.410, fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it,
or to produce for inspection any document, electronically stored information,
or tangible thing described in the deposition notice, the party giving the
notice may move for an order compelling the deponent's attendance and
testimony, and the production for inspection of any document, electronically
stored information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice.¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
(b) A motion under subdivision (a)
shall comply with both of the following:¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿ 
(1) The motion shall set forth specific facts showing
good cause justifying the production for inspection of any document,
electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the
deposition notice.¿¿¿¿¿ 
 
(2) The motion shall be accompanied by a meet and
confer declaration under Section 2016.040¿or, when the deponent fails to
attend the deposition and produce the documents, electronically stored
information, or things described in the deposition notice, by a declaration
stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire about the nonappearance. 
  
Discussion
On April 10, 2024,
April 30, 2024, and June 5, 2024, Defendant made multiple attempts to take
Plaintiff’s deposition. Plaintiff repeatedly failed to appear for his scheduled
depositions and did not serve any objections. On June 5, 2024, Plaintiff did
not attend his scheduled deposition and Defense counsel took a certificate of
nonappearance. Thereafter, Defendant called Plaintiff's counsel to inquire
about Plaintiff's nonappearance. Defense counsel was told that Plaintiff's
counsel was assisting another caller and left a voice message as requested. As
of the time of filing this motion, Plaintiff's counsel has not returned Defense
counsel's phone call.
Plaintiff did not serve
objections to Defendant’s deposition notice and did not attend the deposition
scheduled for June 5, 2024. Furthermore, Defendant’s counsel inquired into
Plaintiff’s nonappearance and received no responses. All requirements to compel
Plaintiff’s deposition have been met .and no opposition was filed. Thus, the Court
GRANTS Defendant’s motion to compel – Plaintiff is to appear for deposition as
noticed within the next 20 days.  
Defendant did not
request sanctions.