 Case Number:  BS170239    Hearing Date:   July 11, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27 
 
MOTION TO COMPEL SECOND IME AND REQUESTS FOR EVIDENTARY SANCTIONS
Hearing Date: 7/11/24¿ 
CASE NO./NAME: BS170239 DANIEL GEOULLA VS
CALIFORNIA AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE COMPANY¿ 
Moving Party: Respondent CALIFORNIA AUTOMOBILE
INSURANCE COMPANY¿ 
Responding Party: Claimant 
Notice: Sufficient¿ 
Ruling:  
MOTION TO COMPEL SECOND IME AND REQUESTS FOR EVIDENTARY SANCTIONS IS DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE
 
Background
 
The
claimant's uninsured motorist claim arises out of a rear-end accident that
occurred on October 3, 2013. As a result of the accident, the claimant alleges
injuries to his neck, back, knees, ankle, and wrist, with ongoing cervical
complaints and a surgical recommendation from his treating orthopedic surgeon,
Dr. Fardad Mobin.
Claimant
was examined by Dr. Weinstein for his first IME in 2017. On May 3, 2024,
Claimant produced two reports from Dr. Andrew Fox reflecting Claimant’s visits
with Dr. Fox in 2020. In the reports, Dr. Fox compared Claimant’s images taken
in July 2020 with Claimant’s prior images and noted changes in the claimant's
cervical spine. Dr. Fox stated that Claimant most likely needed definitive
treatment, including surgery, which would cost upwards of $200,000. Based on
learning of changes in the condition of Claimant’s cervical spine and the
passage of time between the first IME in 2017, Respondent moves the Court for a
second IME.
Legal Standard
 
Except for defense physicals in personal injury cases (in which
one examination is permitted as a matter of course) and exams arranged by
stipulation, a court order is required for a physical or mental examination.
Such order may be made only after notice and hearing, and for “good cause
shown.” (CCP §2032.320(a).) 
The examination will be limited to whatever
condition is “in controversy” in the action. (CCP §2032.020(a).) This means the
examination must be directly related to the specific injury or condition that
is the subject of the litigation. Roberts v. Superior Court (1973) 9
Cal.3d 330, 337. Often, a party's pleadings put his or her mental or physical
condition in controversy ... as when a plaintiff claims continuing mental or
physical injury resulting from defendant's acts: “A party who chooses to allege
that he has mental and emotional difficulties can hardly deny his mental state
is in controversy.” See Vinson v. Superior Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833,
837, wherein the plaintiff claimed ongoing emotional distress from sexual
harassment by former employer. Discovery responses can also frame the issues
regarding the injuries and damages alleged.
 
The burden is on the moving party to show (by declarations or
other evidence) that the examinee's condition is “in controversy” in the
action. The moving party must also establish good cause for the examination(s)
sought. A court order for physical or mental examination must be based on a
showing of “good cause” (CCP § 2032.320(a)): (1) relevancy to the subject
matter; and (2) specific facts justifying discovery: i.e., allegations showing
the need for the information sought and lack of means for obtaining it
elsewhere. (Vinson v. Superior Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833, 840.) 
 
The notice of motion must state the time, place, identity and
specialty of the examiner, and the “manner, conditions, scope and nature of the
examination.” (CCP § 2032.310(b).) The requirement for specification of the
“manner, conditions, scope and nature of the examination” apparently requires
disclosure of whatever diagnostic tests and procedures will be utilized
(x-rays, blood and urine samples, etc.). (See CCP § 2032.220(c).) The notice of
motion must be accompanied by a separate document setting forth the discovery
request, the Declarations must state facts showing that “a reasonable and good
faith attempt” to arrange the examination by stipulation was unsuccessful. (CCP
§ 2032.310(b).) 
 
Discussion
 
Respondent's motion is deficient because it fails to specify the
manner, condition, scope, and nature of the examination. Respondent merely
requests Daniel Geoulla to appear for a second physical examination by Michael
P. Weinstein, M.D., an orthopedic surgeon at 360 San Miguel, Suite 701, Newport
Beach, California 92660 without specifying the diagnostic tests and procedures
that will be utilized. The court is uncertain whether Respondent seeks a second
IME solely related to the cervical spine or to all areas of the body in
question. Additionally, this lack of information denies Claimant an opportunity
to object to the scope and manner of the physical examination. Respondent’s
Request for a second IME is denied without prejudice.
 
Having said that, the Court finds good cause
for a second IME based on the facts of this case. “Good cause” may be found
where Plaintiff claims additional injuries or that Plaintiff's condition is
worsening, or simply because of a lapse of time (e.g., if it has been 3 or 4
years since the first exam and Plaintiff claims continued symptoms, another
physical examination before trial may be proper). (Cal. Prac. Guide Civ. Pro.
(The Rutter Group, 2022) ¶ 8:1546.) The first IME was conducted in 2017, seven
years ago, and the parties do not dispute that Plaintiff’s condition,
especially with regards to the cervical spine, is worsening. Dr. Fox’s report
points out that there was a Modic change in the condition of the cervical spine
in its 2020 report. Claimant argues that multiple reports recommend surgery and
Dr. Fox's report is not different, and a second IME will not come to a
different conclusion. However, a second IME will provide information on the
current status of the injury.  Given the
passage of time and change in condition, a second IME is appropriate for that
assessment.
 
Furthermore, the Court disagrees with
Claimant’s reading of Shapira v. Superior Court (1990) 224 Cal.App.3d
1249 or the rendition of the law that multiple examinations are only permitted
when there is [1] a showing of good cause and [2] when the Claimant’s injuries
are “complex.” The Court in Shapira held that where Claimant’s injuries
are complex, such as in cases where experts in different fields are required to
examine the injuries, this is one circumstance in which there is a showing of
good cause for multiple examinations. The Court did not hold that this is
required for a showing of good cause or the only circumstance where good cause
can be found.
 
The Court declines Respondent’s request
to impose evidentiary sanctions against Claimant.  Claimant did not disclose Dr. Fox as one of
Plaintiff’s treating physicians in Claimant’s discovery request because Dr. Fox
is not a treating physician but a retained expert whose report was voluntarily
disclosed to Defendant to facilitate settlement. The Court does not find
Claimant to have misused the discovery process. 
 
Although the Court denies the present motion
without prejudice on procedural grounds, given the Court’s inclinations in the
foregoing analysis, the Court ORDERS the parties to meet and confer within 10
calendar days regarding the requested second IME.
 
MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION 
Moving Party: Claimant Daniel Geoulla 
Responding Party: Respondent ¿ 
Notice: Sufficient¿¿ 
Ruling: MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION IS
GRANTED.¿ 
 
Legal Standard 
 
The California UM/UIM Motorist Law is set
forth in Insurance Code §11580.2. Insurance Code §11580.2(i) provides:¿ 
¿ 
(1) No cause of action shall accrue to the insured under any policy
or endorsement provision issued pursuant to this section unless one of the
following actions have been taken within two years from the date of the
accident:¿ 
(A) Suit for bodily injury has been filed against the uninsured
motorist, in a court of competent jurisdiction.¿ 
(B) Agreement as to the amount due under the policy has been
concluded.¿ 
(C) The insured has formally instituted arbitration proceedings by
notifying the insurer in writing sent by certified mail, return receipt
requested. Notice shall be sent to the insurer or to the agent for process
designated by the insurer filed with the department.¿ 
¿ 
(2) Any arbitration instituted pursuant to this section shall be
concluded either:¿ 
(A) Within five years from the institution of the arbitration
proceeding.¿ 
(B) If the insured has a workers' compensation claim arising from
the same accident, within three years of the date the claim is concluded, or
within the five-year period set forth in subparagraph (A), whichever occurs
later.¿ 
¿ 
(3) The doctrines of estoppel, waiver, impossibility,
impracticality, and futility apply to excuse a party's noncompliance with the
statutory timeframe, as determined by the court.¿ 
¿ 
(4) Parties to the insurance contract may stipulate in writing to
extending the time to conclude arbitration.¿ 
 
(Cal. Ins. Code § 11580.2.)¿ 
 
Discussion
 
In
April 2021, the case was dismissed for failure to prosecute and subsequently
appealed and reinstated in 2024. The five-year statutory deadline is currently
set for September 4, 2024. On 7/1/24, the parties stipulated to continue the
arbitration to December 9, 2024, a mutually convenient time for both parties
and when Mr. Forgey, parties’ preferred arbitrator, is available. Based on the
stipulation, the Court GRANTS the motion to set December 9, 2024 as a firm date
by which the arbitration is to occur. Further, the Court extends the
arbitration deadline to December 9, 2024, on the basis of impracticability and
orders the parties to complete the arbitration before that date.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿The body of the email must include the hearing date and
time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿You should assume that others may appear at the hearing
to argue.
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion.
 
 
 
 
 
 