  Case Number:  23AVCV01017    Hearing Date:   September 10, 2024    Dept:  A14 Background This is a personal injury action. Plaintiff Vertis Bayne, a minor by and through his Guardian Ad Litem, Trevale Tucker (“Plaintiff”) alleges that on or about May 12, 2023, he was on the basketball court at Palmdale High School, located at 2137 East Avenue R, Palmdale, California 93550 (the “Premises”), during school hours when a staff member of Defendant Antelope Valley Union High School District (“Defendant”) ran over Plaintiffwith a golf cart. On September 08, 2023, Plaintiff filed his Complaint alleging one cause of action for Negligence. On October 30, 2023, Defendant filed its Answer. On July 03, 2024, an Informal Discovery Conference (“IDC”) was held. On August 13, 2024, Plaintiff filed three motions: (1) Motion to Compel Further Discovery Responses to Special Interrogatories, Set One; (2) Motion to Compel Further Discovery Responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One; and (3) Motion to Compel Further Discovery Responses to Requests for Production of Documents (“RFPs”), Set One. On August 28, 2024, Defendant filed its Opposition. On September 03, 2024, Plaintiff filed his Replies. -----        I.            Legal Standard Standard for Compelling Further Responses to Requests for Production (“RFPs”) – “Unless otherwise limited by order of the court in accordance with this title, any party may obtain discovery regarding any matter, not privileged, that is relevant to the subject matter involved in the pending action or to the determination of any motion made in that action, if the matter either is itself admissible in evidence or appears reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.” (Cal. Code of Civ. Proc. § 2017.010.)¿For discovery purposes, information is regarded as relevant “if it might reasonably assist a party in evaluating the case, preparing for trial, or facilitating settlement thereof.” (City of Los Angeles v. Superior Court¿(2017) 9 Cal.App.5th 272, 288.)¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ ¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ A motion to compel further responses to a demand for inspection or production of documents (“RFP”) may be brought based on: (1) incomplete statements of compliance; (2) inadequate, evasive, or incomplete claims of inability to comply; or (3) unmerited or overly generalized objections.¿ (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §¿2031.310(a).)¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ ¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ Notice of the motion must be given within 45 days of the verified response, or any supplemental verified response, or on or before any specific later date to which the demanding party and the responding party have agreed in writing. (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.310(c).)¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ ¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ A motion to compel further production must set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the discovery sought by the inspection demand. (See Cal. Code Civ. Proc., §¿2031.310(b)(1).) In¿Digital Music News LLC v Superior Court¿(2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 216 at 224, the Court defined “good cause” as a showing that there¿is¿“a disputed fact that is of consequence in the action and the discovery sought will tend in reason to prove or disprove that fact or lead to other evidence that will tend to prove or disprove the fact.”¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ ¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ If the moving party has shown good cause for the requests for production, the burden is on the objecting party to justify the objections. (Kirkland v.¿Sup. Ct¿(2002) 95 Cal. App.4th 92, 98.)¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ ¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ “The court shall limit the scope of discovery if it determines that the burden, expense, or intrusiveness of that discovery clearly outweighs the likelihood that the information sought will lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.” (Cal. Code of Civ.¿Proc. § 2017.020(a).) Generally, objections on the ground of burden require the objecting party to produce evidence of (a) the propounding party’s subjective intent to create burden, or (b) the amount of time and effort it would take to actually respond. (See¿West Pico Furniture Co. of Los Angeles v. Superior Court In and For Los Angeles County¿(1961) 56 Cal.2d 407, 417.) However, where discovery is obviously overbroad on its face, no such evidence is necessary. (See¿Obregon v. Superior Court¿(1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 424, 431.)¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ ¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ Trial courts are vested with “wide discretion” to allow or prohibit discovery. (Williams v. Superior Court¿(2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 540.)¿  -----  Standard for Compelling Further Interrogatories –Under Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.300, a court may order a party to serve a further response to interrogatories when the court finds that any of the following apply:¿¿(1) an answer to a particular interrogatory is evasive or incomplete; (2) an exercise of the option to produce documents under Section 2030.230 is unwarranted or the required specification of those documents is inadequate; and (3) an objection to an interrogatory is without merit or too general.¿(Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.300(a).)¿Notice of the motion must be given within 45 days of the verified response, or any supplemental verified response, or on or before any specific later date to which the demanding party and the responding party have agreed in writing. (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.300(c).)¿¿”Each answer in a response to interrogatories shall be as complete and straightforward as the information reasonably available to the responding party permits.” (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.220(a).) If an interrogatory cannot be answered completely, it shall be answered to the extent possible and, if the responding party does not have personal knowledge sufficient to respond fully to an interrogatory, that party shall so state, but shall make a reasonable and good faith effort to obtain the information by inquiry to other natural persons or organizations, except where the information is equally available to the propounding party. (Id. at (b)-(c).) “If only a part of an interrogatory is objectionable, the remainder of the interrogatory shall be answered. (Cal. Code Civ. Proc § 2030.240(a).) If an objection is made to an interrogatory or to a part of an interrogatory, the specific ground for the objection shall be set forth clearly in the response. If an objection is based on a claim of privilege, the particular privilege invoked shall be clearly stated. If an objection is based on a claim that the information sought is protected work product under Chapter 4 (commencing with Section 2018.010), that claim shall be expressly asserted. (Id. at (b).)  -----  Meet and Confer Requirement – Before filing a motion to compel further, the moving party is required to meet and confer with the party to engage in a reasonable and good faith attempt at an informal resolution of each issue presented by the motion. (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §§ Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.300(b), 2033.290(b), 2016.040.)  A meet and confer declaration in support of a motion shall state facts showing such an attempt occurred. (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 2016.040.)    All declarations filed with the corresponding motions by Plaintiff’s counsel, Hazel S. Chang (“Chang”), discuss meet and confer attempts and the IDC held by this Court. The Court’s Minute Order for the IDC shows that no agreement was reached. (See 07/03/2024 Minute Order.)   ----- Discussion Application – As an initial matter, the Court notes that Defendant’s Oppositions do not include a separate statement. As such, Defendant’s Oppositions are procedurally defective. (See Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1345.) However, the Court has reviewed the Oppositions which are concise and cite to Cal. Educ. Code.[1]  As such, the Court considers the Oppositions. The following Form Interrogatories are at issue: 1.      Form Interrogatory 12.1 which asks for witness information;2.      Form Interrogatory 12.2 which asks for information regarding individuals who were interviewed;3.      Form Interrogatory 12.3 which asks for information regarding individuals who made written or recorded statements;4.      Form Interrogatory 12.4 which asks for information regarding individuals who know of any photographs, films, or video tapes depicting any place, object, or individual concerning the incident; and5.      Form Interrogatory 12.6 which asks for information regarding individuals who made a report for the incident. Regarding Form Interrogatory 12.1, Plaintiff argues that Coito v. Superior Court (2012) 54 Cal.4th 480 (“Coito”) overrules the holding of Nacht & Lewis Architects, Inc. v. Superior Court (1996) 47 Cal.App.4th 214, cited by Defendant in its Response, and that the identities of any witnesses, including the names of students involved and those involved in the investigation are necessary. Regarding Form Interrogatory 12.2, Plaintiff argues reiterates the Coito argument; argues that he is seeking foundational facts, including the identities of any witnesses; and presents that if any reports or statements are being withheld under the basis of privilege, a privilege log should be provided. The argument for Form Interrogatory 12.2 is used for the remainder of Form Interrogatories at issue. Defendant argues that it cannot release information concerning student witnesses under Cal. Educ. Code § 49073 et seq. Defendant highlights that Cal. Educ. Code § 49076(a) requires written parental consent and Cal. Educ. Code § 49073.5(b) expresses that school districts need to minimize the release of pupil telephone numbers in the absence of express parental consent. Defendant also argues that there is a video of the incident;  that the video cannot be produced because it depicts minor students; and if the video is required to be produced that there is no need for the names of the minor students who were nearby the incident. In Reply, Plaintiff argues that the Curt can order such information disclosed as such information is integral to the case as these students are witnesses and may provide testimony, that there is very little burden or expense on Defendant when compared to the need to disclose, and that there is no less intrusive manner to obtain this information. Defendant’s Opposition conveniently omits Cal. Educ. Code § 49077 which reads: (a) Information concerning a pupil shall be furnished in compliance with a court order or a lawfully issued subpoena. The school district shall make a reasonable effort to notify the pupil’s parent or legal guardian and the pupil in advance of compliance with a lawfully issued subpoena and, in the case of compliance with a court order, if lawfully possible within the requirements of the order.(b) Once a court order or lawfully issued subpoena is issued to obtain a pupil’s contact information, the school district shall make a reasonable effort to enter into an agreement with the entity that obtained the court order or subpoena requiring that the pupil contact information be maintained in a confidential manner.(c) Notwithstanding the content or existence of any agreement with a school district, a party that obtains pupil contact information pursuant to this section shall not use or disseminate that information for any purpose except as authorized by the court order or subpoena. A school district such as Defendant is prohibited from disclosing pupil “directory information" to private entities (with some exceptions that are not relevant here.) (Cal. Educ. Code § 49073.) Directory information includes a pupil's name, address, and telephone number. (Cal. Educ. Code § 49061(c).) Despite the prohibition on disclosure of pupil contact information, Defendant must disclose the information when ordered by the court. (Cal. Educ. Code § 49077.) The statute requires a school district to make a reasonable effort to enter into an agreement with the party who obtained the court order to maintain the pupil contact information in a confidential manner. (Cal. Educ. Code §49077(b).) Even without such an agreement, the party obtaining the contact information “shall not use or disseminate that information for any purpose except as authorized by the court order or subpoena.” (Educ. Code §49077(c).) The court does make such an order here because the identity of witnesses is specifically discoverable under the Discovery Act. (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 2017.010.) Plaintiff is not seeking “pupil records” (see Cal. Educ. Code § 49076), but rather the identities of students who witnessed the underlying incident to this action and their relevant contact information. When Defendant is ordered to disclose pupil information, it must “make a reasonable effort to notify the parent or legal guardian and the pupil in advance of compliance with...a court order.” (Cal. Educ. Code § 49077.) As these codes are the basis for Defendant’s Opposition to all relevant discovery motions, the Court’s analysis applies to the Motion to Compel Further Discovery Responses to Special Interrogatories, Set One, and the Motion to Compel Further Discovery Responses to the RFPs, Set One. As to the Special Interrogatories, they are relatively similar to the Form Interrogatories and seek witness information, bet they school employees or students. Defendant’s argument that it provided documents also concedes that such documents have been redacted by Defendant to what Defendant believes is proper. As to school employees, it appears that Defendant believes that Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 1985.6 applies and no notice was given to said employees. The Court inquires into this matter as Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 1985.6 is not addressed in Plaintiff’s Separate Statement. As to Special Interrogatory No. 20 [“Identify all school employees who were on duty at the time of the INCIDENT and provide their job titles and responsibilities”], the Court limits this to the school in question, Palmdale High School. As to RFPs, it appears that the Court’s analysis of the relevant Cal. Educ. Code sections addresses the issue. As to all discovery responses, there are appear to be boiler plate objections regarding English words such as “incident” (see Special Interrogatory No. 1, see also Form Interrogatory 12.1, see RFP No. 4), “report” (see RFP No. 2), and the like. For all common English words, the plain definition is used. Such objections are overruled. For objections in which privilege has been asserted, (1) a privilege log is not codified for interrogatories (see Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.240), and (2) a privilege log must be provided for RFPs (see Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.240). Accordingly, the Court rules as follows: Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further Discovery Responses to Special Interrogatories, Set One is GRANTED. Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further Discovery Responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One is GRANTED. Motion to Compel Further Discovery Responses to Requests for Production of Documents, Set One is GRANTED. All orders are subject to limitations discussed, ante. The Court notes that the motions do not request sanctions and the Court believes that Defendant’s actions have justification as it appears that the goal was to protect the privacy of minor students. -----  Conclusion Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further Discovery Responses to Special Interrogatories, Set One is GRANTED. Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further Discovery Responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One is GRANTED. Motion to Compel Further Discovery Responses to Requests for Production of Documents, Set One is GRANTED. The responses are subject to limitations discussed within the Court’s Statement of Decision. Defendant is to provide responses within 30 days of this Court Order.