 Case Number:  24AVUD01056    Hearing Date:   September 10, 2024    Dept:  A14 Background
 
This is a forcible detainer
action. Plaintiff Cla-Mar, L.P., a Limited Partnership, dba Grecian Isle (“Plaintiff”)
presents that it entered into a lease agreement on or about February 01, 2011
with park-approved tenant Kenneth Thompson (“Thompson”) and said lease
agreement included Defendant Wayne E. Ybarra (“Defendant”) as guest without
rights of tenancy for 4444 East Avenue R, Space 9, Palmdale, CA 95552 (the
“Premises”). Plaintiff further presents that on or about May 2024, Defendant
informed it of Thompson’s death in December 2023; Plaintiff obtained Thompson’s
death certificate on May 23 2024 which showed Thompson died on or about July
07, 2023; Defendant’s right to occupy the premises under Cal. Civ. Code §
798.34 terminated upon Thompson’s death; after becoming aware of Thompson’s
death, Plaintiff did not accept money order payments as Defendant did not apply
for nor obtained approval for tenancy; and Defendant remains in possession of
and occupies the Premises without Plaintiff’s approval or consent. 
 
On August 01, 2024, Plaintiff
filed its Complaint for Forcible Detainer.
 
On August 20, 2024, Defendant
filed this Demurrer. 
 
On August 23, 2024, Plaintiff
filed (1) its Opposition; and (2) an Ex Parte Application requesting an order
shortening time to hear Defendant’s Demurer. 
 
On August 27, 2024, Defendant
filed a Notice of Non-Stipulation stating that he would not stipulate to a
commissioner hearing this case and the case was reassigned from Commissioner
Lim to Judge Morgan in Department A14 at Michael Antonovich Antelope Valley
Courthouse.
 
After the reassignment, a hearing
was held on the Ex Parte Application in which the Ex Parte Application was denied;
however, the Court advanced the hearing at the request of the moving party and
the September 18, 2024 hearing date was advanced and continued to September 10,
2024. 
 
On September 03, 2024, Defendant
filed his Reply.
 
-----
 
Legal Standard
 
Standard for Demurrer – A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether
the complaint states a cause of action.¿ (Hahn v.¿Mirda¿(2007) 147 Cal.
App. 4th 740, 747.) ¿When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations
liberally and in context.¿ (Taylor v. City of Los Angeles Dept. of Water and
Power¿(2006) 144 Cal. App. 4th 1216, 1228.)¿ In a demurrer proceeding, the
defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or by proper judicial
notice.¿ (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 430.30(a).)¿A demurrer tests the pleadings
alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters.¿ (SKF Farms v.
Superior Court¿(1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.)¿ Therefore, it lies only
where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially
noticed.¿¿(Ibid.)¿¿The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is
whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters,
states a cause of action.¿ (Hahn,¿supra,¿147 Cal.App.4th at
747.)¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
A general demurrer admits the truth of all
factual, material allegations properly pled in the challenged pleading,
regardless of possible difficulties of proof.¿¿(Blank v. Kirwan (1985)
39 Cal.3d 311, 318.)¿ Thus, no matter how unlikely or improbable, plaintiff’s
allegations must be accepted as true for the purpose of ruling on the
demurrer.¿¿(Del E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials Co.¿(1981) 123
Cal.App.3d 593, 604.)¿ Nevertheless, this rule does not apply to allegations
expressing mere conclusions of law, or allegations contradicted by the exhibits
to the complaint or by matters of which judicial notice may be taken.¿¿(Vance
v. Villa Park¿Mobilehome¿Estates¿(1995) 36 Cal.App.4th 698, 709.)¿A general
demurrer does not admit contentions, deductions, or conclusions of fact or law
alleged in the complaint; facts impossible in law; or allegations contrary to
facts of which a court may take judicial notice.¿¿(Blank,¿supra,
39 Cal.3d at p. 318.)¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
Pursuant to¿Code Civ. Proc.¿§430.10(e), the
party against whom a complaint has been filed may object by demurrer to the
pleading on the grounds that the pleading does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action.¿ It is an abuse of discretion to sustain a
demurrer without leave to amend if there is a reasonable probability that the
defect can be cured by amendment.¿¿(Schifando¿v. City of Los Angeles¿(2003)
31 Cal.4th 1074, 1082,¿as modified (Dec. 23, 2003).)¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
-----¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿¿ 
Meet and Confer Requirement – Before filing a demurrer or a motion to strike, the demurring or
moving party is required to meet and confer with the party who filed the
pleading demurred to or the pleading that is subject to the motion to strike
for the purposes of determining whether an agreement can be reached through a
filing of an amended pleading that would resolve the objections to be raised in
the demurrer.¿ (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §§ 430.41 and 435.5.)¿¿¿ 
¿ 
There is no declaration filed with the
Demurrer. The demurrer is procedurally defective. (See Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §
430.41(a).) However, as “[a] determination by the court that the meet and
confer process was insufficient shall not be grounds to overrule or sustain a
demurrer,” the Court addresses the Demurrer on its merits. (See Cal. Code Civ.
Proc. §430.41(a)(4).) 
 
-----
 
Discussion
 
Application – Defendant
presents that Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 1160(a) provides that forcible detainer is
brought by a person who: (1) by force, or by menaces and threats of violence,
unlawfully holds and keeps the possession of any real property, whether the
same was acquired peaceably or otherwise; or (2) who, in the night-time, or
during the absence of the occupant of any lands, unlawfully enters upon real
property, and who, after demand made for the surrender thereof, for the period
of five days, refuses to surrender the same to such former occupant. Defendant
argues that Plaintiff has not alleged facts showing that Defendant engaged in
any form of violence to satisfy Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §1160(a)(1), and that
Plaintiff has not alleged facts showing that it was an occupant or party in
possession of the property under Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §1160(a)(2).
 
Defendant’s arguments do not
address the California Mobilehome Residency Laws that are alleged in the
Complaint to apply to this action.
 
Cal. Civ. Code § 798.75 provides:

 
(a) An escrow, sale,
or transfer agreement involving a mobilehome located in a park at the time of
the sale, where the mobilehome is to remain in the park, shall contain a copy
of either a fully executed rental agreement or a statement signed by the park's
management and the prospective homeowner that the parties have agreed to the
terms and conditions of a rental agreement.
 
(b) In the event the
purchaser fails to execute the rental agreement, the purchaser shall not have
any rights of tenancy.
 
(c) In the event
that an occupant of a mobilehome has no rights of tenancy and is not otherwise
entitled to occupy the mobilehome pursuant to this chapter, the occupant is
considered an unlawful occupant if, after a demand is made for the surrender of
the mobilehome park site, for a period of five days, the occupant refuses to
surrender the site to the mobilehome park management. In the event the unlawful
occupant fails to comply with the demand, the unlawful occupant shall be
subject to the proceedings set forth in Chapter 4 (commencing with Section
1159) of Title 3 of Part 3 of the Code of Civil Procedure.
 
(d) The occupant of
the mobilehome shall not be considered an unlawful occupant and shall not be
subject to the provisions of subdivision (c) if all of the following conditions
are present:
 
(1) The occupant is
the registered owner of the mobilehome.
 
(2) The management
has determined that the occupant has the financial ability to pay the rent and
charges of the park; will comply with the rules and regulations of the park,
based on the occupant's prior tenancies; and will comply with this article.
 
(3) The management
failed or refused to offer the occupant a rental agreement.
 
(Emphasis added.) 
 
Here, Defendant is an occupant on
the lease. (See Complaint, Exh. 1.) Because of this, it is alleged that
Defendant had no right of tenancy. (See id. at ¶ 6.) There is no
evidence that Plaintiff himself ever requested a rental application. Rather, it
is alleged and Defendant does not provide argument to contradict that he did
not inquire about applying for a tenancy, submit an application for tenancy, or
execute a rental agreement and, because of that, Plaintiff has had no
opportunity to determine the financial ability of Defendant to pay the rent and
other charges of the mobilehome park or even offer a rental agreement to
Defendant; and Defendant did not acquire or purchase the mobilehome as a
registered owner. (See id. at ¶¶ 9-11, Exh. 3.) Exhibit 3 to the
Complaint evidences this allegation. 
 
The plain language of Cal. Civ.
Code § 798.75 incorporates Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 1160 into the Mobilehome
Residency Laws, providing a basis for Plaintiff to bring an action of forcible
detainer against an “occupant of a mobilehome has no rights of tenancy and is
not otherwise entitled to occupy the mobilehome.” (See Cal. Civ. Code §
798.75(c).) Plaintiff is a mobilehome park management company (see Exh. 1) and
Defendant is an “occupant of a mobilehome has no rights of tenancy and is not
otherwise entitled to occupy the mobilehome” and considered an unlawful
occupant as Plaintiff provided the demand specified in Cal. Civ. Code §
798.75(c) on May 03, 2024 (see Exh. 4) and Defendant remains in possession and
occupancy of the Premises, exceeding the statutory five-day period. 
 
Thus, Plaintiff there is no
defect on the face of the Complaint as Plaintiff has met the elements of
forcible detainer as a mobilehome park management company. 
 
Plaintiff’s Opposition emphasizes
Defendant’s lack of discussion of the Mobilehome Residency Laws, arguing that
it is detrimental to the Demurrer. This is in line with the Court’s analysis, ante,
and the Court’s opinion remains unchanged.
 
Accordingly, the Demurrer is
OVERRULED.
 
-----
 
Reply
 
Defendant’s Reply argues that
Plaintiff does not dispute that it brought an action for forcible detainer,
reiterates Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 1160(a), and argues that Plaintiff’s
representation is inconsistent with Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §§ 798.60 and 798.75,
the Complaint, a treatise, and the summons. 
 
The Court believes its analysis
of Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 1160 with Cal. Civ. Code § 798.75 addresses the
issues relevant to this Demurrer.
 
The Court’s opinion remains
unchanged.
 
-----
 
Conclusion
 
Defendant Wayne E. Ybarra’s Demurrer is OVERRULED.