 Case Number:  23BBCV02223    Hearing Date:   December 8, 2023    Dept:  NCB  
 
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
stacey
  heselton, et al.,
                        Plaintiffs,
            v.
 
flock
  freight, inc., et al.,
                        Defendants.


 
  Case No.:  23BBCV02223
 
  Hearing Date:  December 8, 2023
 
[TENTATIVE] order RE:
motion to quash service of the summons
  and complaint
 



 
BACKGROUND
A.   
Allegations 
Plaintiffs Stacey and LaNette Heselton (“Plaintiffs”)
allege that on September 26, 2021, they were involved in a motor vehicle
accident with Defendants Pedro Espinoza (“Espinoza”), Flock Freight, Inc. (“Flock”),
and Roline Express, Inc. (“Roline”).  Plaintiffs
allege that Espinoza was employed by Roline as a truck driver and that Roline
and Flock had the right to control the means, methods, and details of how
Espinoza performed his work.  
Plaintiffs allege that on September 26,
2023 at approximately 5:59 a.m., “Plaintiff” was operating a police vehicle
that was rightfully stopped on the shoulder of Interstate 70 in the State of
Illinois with the emergency lights activated on his vehicle.  (Compl., ¶14.)  Plaintiffs allege that around that time,
Espinoza was driving a tractor trailer (originally from Los Angeles, California
to Sunbury, Pennsylvania), ran off the roadway in the County of Fayette in the
State of Illinois, ran off the roadway, and struck the rear of Plaintiff’s
vehicle.  (Id., ¶15.)  As a result, Plaintiffs allege that Stacey
Heselton suffered severe and permanent injuries.  Plaintiff LaNette Heselton alleges that she
has been deprived of the services, support, assistance, etc. from her spouse as
a result of the accident.  
The complaint, filed September 25, 2023,
alleges causes of action for: (1) negligence against Espinoza; (2) vicarious
liability against Roline and Flock; and (3) negligent hiring, training, retention,
entrustment, supervision, agency, joint enterprise and venture against Flock
and Roline.  
B.    
Motion on Calendar 
On November 13, 2023, Defendant Flock
Freight, Inc. filed a motion to quash service of the summons and complaint.  
On November 27, 2023, Plaintiffs filed an
opposition brief. 
On November 30, 2023, Defendant filed a
reply brief. 
DISCUSSION

Flock moves to quash service of the summons and
complaint, arguing that the Court lacks jurisdiction over Flock as a result of
a previously filed case in the United States District Court for the Southern
District of Illinois, involving the same parties, the same case and
controversy, and identical claims against Flock.  Flock argues that it had filed a motion to
dismiss the second amended complaint in the federal court action on September
1, 2023, bringing the recently decided Ye v. GlobalTranz Enterprises, Inc. (7th
Cir. 2023) 74 F.4th 453 to Plaintiffs’ attention, and that Plaintiffs
thereafter “opportunistically” are seeking to file their case in California to
rely on the Ninth Circuit’s approach in Miller v. C.H. Robinson Worldwide, Inc.
(9th Cir. 2020) 976 F.3d 1016.  (Reply at
p.2.)  
Flock argues that the federal court case (Heselton
et al. v. Espinoza et al., Civil Action No. 3:21-cv-1592 DWD) has been
pending since December 2021.  (Pavlovich Decl.,
¶2.)  Flock’s counsel, Jeffrey Pavlovich,
states that the U.S. District Court previously entered a scheduling order in
the federal case set for March 2024, the parties have engaged in discovery and
motion practice, and Plaintiffs have filed multiple amended complaints against
Flock in the federal case (most recently the SAC on July 11, 2023).  (Id., ¶¶3-4.)  Mr. Pavlovich states that the federal court
entered an order on October 24, 2023 granting Plaintiffs’ motion to dismiss without
prejudice, but Flock intends to appeal the decision with jurisdiction remaining
in federal court until a final determination is made on appeal.  (Id., ¶5.)  Flock argues that this is an improper attempt
to forum shop and find a more favorable venue by Plaintiffs in California and
outside the Seventh Circuit Court of Appeal. 

In opposition, Plaintiffs argue that the motion is
untimely, this Court has personal and subject matter jurisdiction over the
action, Flock has waived any claim to a stay and a stay would be inappropriate
where the other pending action was dismissed without prejudice. 
First, Plaintiffs argue that Flock had until October
28, 2023 to file this motion (i.e., 30 days from the date of service on September
28, 2023), but that Flock filed the motion on November 13, 2023.  (See CCP § 418.10(a)(1).)  The Court may allow a further time to file
the motion for good cause.  While this particular
argument has not been addressed by Flock in the reply brief, the Court will
hear the motion on its merits as the parties have each addressed the
substantive merits of the motion. 
Turning to the substantive merits of the motion, the
Court denies the motion to quash.  While this
may be an attempt by Plaintiffs to forum shop, this Court technically has jurisdiction
over the matter.  The parties do not
dispute that Defendants are located in California.  Flock and Roline are headquartered in
California and Espinoza is domiciled in California.  The complaint alleges common law negligence
causes of action arising out of a motor vehicle accident that occurred between
Plaintiffs in Illinois with Defendants who are domiciled/headquartered in California.
 Thus, the Court has personal and subject
matter jurisdiction over the parties and claims in this action.  
In addition, the federal court action has now been
dismissed, such that there are no issues regarding concurrent state and federal
court actions.  As there is only one
pending action, there is no risk of conflicting judgments.  While Flock states that it has filed an
appeal regarding the federal court action, staying this case pending the appeal
would result in a delay of this California case and the appeal does not
necessarily encompass the matters at issue before this Court.  As pointed out by Plaintiffs, denying this
motion to quash on the basis that an appeal has been filed could effectively
and prematurely foreclose Plaintiffs’ ability to bring this action in
California (particularly in the event if the Seventh Circuit affirms the
dismissal in the federal case).  
For the first time in the reply brief, Flock argues that
the physicians, and police witnesses are all located in Illinois.  The inconvenience of witnesses was not raised
in the initial motion papers and there is no evidence to support this argument
(by way of declarations of the witnesses, traffic collision reports, or any
other documentary evidence).  Thus, the Court
is not aware of how many witnesses there are or that would potentially be called.
 Nevertheless, witnesses may be compelled
to attend the trial and there are means to conduct discovery and depositions
remotely.  Objections by Plaintiff to the
admissibility of discovery that would have been admissible in the Federal
Action will be closely scrutinized.  Likewise, the Court does not expect that a
progression of law and motion that has already been worked through in Federal
Court will once again be worked through in this Court. 
For the reasons discussed above, the motion to quash
is denied.  
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
            Defendant Flock Freight, Inc.’s motion
to quash the service of the summons and complaint is denied. 
Defendant shall
provide notice of this order. 
Warning regarding
electronic appearances:  All software for remote or electronic
appearances is subject to malfunction based on system weakness and human error,
which can originate from any of the multiple parties participating each
morning. The seamless operation of the Court’s electronic appearance software
is dependent on numerous inconstant and fluctuating factors that may impact
whether you, or other counsel or the Court itself can be heard in a particular
case. Not all these factors are within the control of the courtroom staff. For
example, at times, the system traps participants in electronic purgatories
where they cannot be heard and where the courtroom staff is not aware of their
presence. If you call the courtroom, please be respectful of the fact that a
court hearing is going on, and that the courtroom staff is doing their best to
use an imperfect system. If it is truly important to you to be heard, please
show up to the courtroom in the normal way.