 Case Number:  23BBCV00882    Hearing Date:   December 8, 2023    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District 
Department B
 



 
end of the rose,
  llc,   
 
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
deinstitutionalized,
  llc, et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


 
  Case
  No.: 23BBCV00882
 
  Hearing Date:  December 8, 2023
 
 [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
motion to Compel arbitration



 
BACKGROUND
A.   
Allegations 
Plaintiff End of
the Rose, LLC (“Plaintiff”) alleges that it entered into a written contract on
September 28, 2016 with Defendants Deinstitutionalized, LLC (“Deinstitutionalized”)
and Christopher Ray (“Ray”).  
According to
Exhibit A of the complaint, the agreement was entered between
Deinstitutionalized and Sinjin Rosa, LLC (investor, Plaintiff’s former
name).  The parties agreed that Sinjin
would become an executive producer of a Webisode tentatively entitled, “Fractured”
whereby Sinjin agreed to invest $300,000. 
In return, Deinstitutionalized (producer) guaranteed Sinjin a return on
investment of 20% of investment or $60,000 and after recoupment and ROI, the
balance of gross receipts shall be considered “net receipts” and would be
shared as follows: 50% of 100% to Sinjin and 50% to Deinstitutionalized.  
Plaintiff
alleges that on March 30, 2021, Defendants failed to pay $300,000 recoupment,
$60,000 return on investment, and 50% of the net receipts estimated at
$200,000, and failing to provide accurate reports each time monies were due and
payable.  Total, Plaintiff alleges it
suffered damages in the amount of $681,291.20. 

            The
complaint, filed April 21, 2023, alleges causes of action for: (1) breach of
contract; (2) common counts; and (3) fraud. 
            On November 1, 2023, Plaintiff filed
an Amendment to Complaint naming William Fitzgerald Webb as Doe 1.  
B.    
Motion on Calendar 
On July 7, 2023,
Defendants filed a motion to compel arbitration. 
On November 27,
2023, Plaintiff filed an opposition brief.
On December 1,
2023, Defendants filed a reply brief.  
DISCUSSION 
            Defendants
move to compel Plaintiff
to submit to arbitration.  
Defendants
argue that arbitration is proper pursuant to the arbitration provisions
contained in the parties’ September 28, 2016 agreement between Plaintiff and
Deinstitutionalized.  The agreement is
attached as Exhibit A to the complaint and states in relevant part: 
            6.
PARTNERSHIP
            It is
agreed and understood that this Agreement constitutes a Partnership. For this
first season of the Webisode. If any future agreements shall be negotiated in
good faith when the time arises. If web is picked up for a second season or run
SINJIN ROSA, LLC will have first right of refusal. Any disputes that may
arise shall be handled by binding arbitration in the State of California.
Prevailing party shall be entitled to recovery of their reasonable attorneys
fees. No more than $10,000.  
(Compl., Ex. A [9/28/16 Agreement at ¶6]
[emphasis added].) 
            Defendants argue that the agreement
specifically calls for the parties to resolve their disputes through
arbitration through paragraph 6.  They
argue that they have not waived their right to compel arbitration as this
motion is their first filing in the case. 

            In
opposition, Plaintiff argues that the contract at issue is invalid due to
Defendant’s fraudulent conduct, including misrepresentations and promise
without intent to perform the agreement. 
Plaintiff also argues that the arbitration language is procedurally and
substantively unconscionable. 
             The Court will first address Plaintiff’s
arguments regarding unconscionability.  Unconscionability is a valid reason for refusing to enforce
an arbitration agreement under CCP § 1281 because it is a reason for refusing
to enforce contracts generally.  (Armendariz v. Found. Health Psychcare Servs.
(2000) 24 Cal. 4th 83, 113 to 127.)  A
contract will be found to be unconscionable when: (1) it is adhesive, in that
all or part of the contract falls outside the reasonable expectations of the
weaker party; and (2) equitably, the terms unreasonably favor the other
party.  (Stirlen v. Supercuts (1997) 51 Cal.App.4th 1519, 1530-33.)  Unconscionability has both a
"procedural" and a "substantive" element.  Both procedural and substantive elements must
be present in order for a Court to exercise its discretion to refuse to enforce
a contract or clause under the doctrine of unconscionability.  (Id. at 1532.) 

            Procedural unconscionability has to do with matters
relating to freedom of assent.  (Id.)  The procedural element focuses on two
factors: oppression and surprise.  (Id.) 
"Oppression" arises from an
inequality of bargaining power which results in no real negotiation and an
absence of meaningful choice.  (Id.) 
"Surprise" involves the extent to
which the supposedly agreed-upon terms of the bargain are hidden in the printed
form drafted by the party seeking to enforce the disputed terms.  (Id.)  
            Plaintiff
argues that the agreement is procedurally unconscionable because the
arbitration term is inconspicuously added at the end of the provision of
paragraph 6 entitled “PARTNERSHIP” and it is unclear whether the arbitration
provision applies to the sixth paragraph only or the entirety of the
agreement.  The agreement itself is only
2 pages in length and is thus relatively short. 
The arbitration provision is stated under the section entitled
“PARTNERSHIP.”  Despite its odd and
inartful placement, the arbitration term clearly states that any disputes shall
be handled by binding arbitration.  The
arbitration term is short, but this is a short contract. 
Moreover, there is
no evidence that the agreement or the arbitration term were non-negotiable or
that Plaintiff made any attempt to negotiate
such terms and was denied.  (See Bolanos v. Khalatian (1991) 231
Cal.App.3d 1586 [holding that arbitration agreement was enforceable because the
plaintiff’s declaration did not say that she could not read or understand the
agreement and because she did not offer any evidence that she was forced or
tricked into signing the agreement].) Plaintiff has not included any
declaration in support of the opposition to the motion that it (or its
principal/agent) attempted to ask questions about or negotiate the terms of the
agreement or the arbitration term and that he or she was denied such requests.  There is no evidence by Plaintiff showing that
the signatory on Plaintiff’s behalf was misled by the terms or unable to
understand/read the 2-page agreement.  There
is also no evidence showing who drafted the agreement and whether there was an inequality
of bargaining power.  Thus, the Court
finds that there is no procedural unconscionability present. 
            Substantive unconscionability considers whether the
agreement reallocates the risks of the bargain in an objectively unreasonable
or unexpected manner.  (Stirlen, supra, 51 Cal.App.4th at 1532.) 
Substantive unconscionability involves the
imposition of harsh or oppressive terms on one who has assented freely to
them.  (Id.)  It focuses on the terms of the agreement and whether those
terms are so one-sided as to “shock the conscience”.  (Morris
v. Redwood Empire Bancorp (2005) 128 Cal. App. 4th 1305, 1322-23.) 
            Plaintiff argues that the arbitration language unfairly
benefits Defendants as it limits recovery of attorney’s fees to $10,000 where
Plaintiff has already performed under the contract by tendering $300,000 to Defendants,
thereby discouraging Plaintiff from taking costly legal action that is likely
to exceed $10,000.  Plaintiff also argues
that an arbitrator may not be able to compel non-parties for deposition and
other discovery available in civil litigation. 

            Absent any evidence to the contrary, the term limiting attorney’s
fees to $10,000 is mutually beneficial or mutually concerning to both parties.  While Plaintiff argues that this limits its
attorney’s fees to $10,000, this equally limits Defendant’s ability to recover
attorney’s fees from Plaintiff in the event it prevails in arbitration (or at
trial).  It may very well be that the
attorney’s fees provision was included to encourage settlement and arbitration
of the matter.  In addition, while the
breadth of discovery may be limited in arbitration, the Code of Civil Procedure
still provides means for the parties to conduct depositions (CCP § 1283) and
the rules of the arbitrator too will provide discovery parameters.  
            For these reasons, the Court finds that Plaintiff has not
shown the existence of procedural and substantive unconscionability in the
arbitration term.  
            As discussed above, the agreement includes an explicit
arbitration provision.  While the
arbitration clause is not as artfully pled as most other arbitration
provisions, this in itself does not invalidate the provision. 
            Thus, the Court grants the motion to compel
arbitration.  However, the Court will
compel the 1st and 2nd causes of action for breach of
contract and common counts will be compelled to arbitration.  The scope of the arbitration provision
states: “Any disputes that may arise shall be handled by binding arbitration in
the State of California.”  The claims
that arise out of the agreement are the breach of contract and common count
claims.  However, the 3rd
cause of action for fraud does not “arise out of” the agreement.  (For example, had the scope of the
arbitration term been broader to include “any and all claims that arise out of
or are related to the agreement,” then the fraud claim would arguably have been
included in the arbitration provision.)  As
such, the 3rd cause of action shall be stayed pending the outcome of
the arbitration.  
            Lastly, Plaintiff argues that the motion should be
denied, arguing the agreement
is invalid due to Defendants’ purported fraud in inducing Plaintiff to enter
the agreement.  While this is potentially
a ground to oppose the motion, Plaintiff has produced no evidence to show that
the arbitration agreement was procured by fraud.  Because of the peculiar wording of the
contract, the Court is not ordering the fraud claims to arbitration. 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
Defendants’
motion to compel arbitration is granted. 
The 1st and 2nd causes of action will be compelled
to arbitration and the 3rd cause of action will be stayed pending
the arbitration.  The arbitration shall
take place through the American Arbitration Association and the commercial
rules shall apply for this commercial dispute. 

The
Court sets a Status Conference re: Status of Arbitration for June 5, 2024 at
8:30 a.m.
Plaintiff shall provide notice of this
order.
 
 
Warning regarding
electronic appearances:  All software for remote or electronic
appearances is subject to malfunction based on system weakness and human error,
which can originate from any of the multiple parties participating each
morning. The seamless operation of the Court’s electronic appearance software
is dependent on numerous inconstant and fluctuating factors that may impact
whether you, or other counsel or the Court itself can be heard in a particular
case. Not all these factors are within the control of the courtroom staff. For
example, at times, the system traps participants in electronic purgatories
where they cannot be heard and where the courtroom staff is not aware of their
presence. If you call the courtroom, please be respectful of the fact that a
court hearing is going on, and that the courtroom staff is doing their best to
use an imperfect system. If it is truly important to you to be heard, please
show up to the courtroom in the normal way. Parking is free or reasonable
in Burbank.
 