  Case Number:  20STCV18606    Hearing Date:   December 8, 2023    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District 
Department B
 



 
RYAN LARSON, et al.,
                        Plaintiffs,
            v.
 
LYFT, INC., et al.,
                        Defendants.


 
  Case No.: 20STCV18606
  
  Hearing Date:  December 8, 2023
 
[TENTATIVE] order RE:
motion for summary adjudication
 



 
BACKGROUND
A.   
Allegations 
Plaintiffs Ryan Larson and Matthew
Hinerfeld (“Plaintiffs”) allege that on December 19, 2019, Plaintiffs used
Defendant Lyft, Inc.’s (“Lyft”) app to request transportation to Hinerfeld’s
work Christmas party.  Plaintiffs allege
that Defendant Ian Woeber (“Woeber”) arrived in a Toyota Corolla and, upon
entering the vehicle, they observed a noticeable smoke smell that could not
readily be identified as marijuana. 
Plaintiffs allege that though they were concerned Woeber was drunk, they
relied on Lyft’s zero-tolerance policy for the consumption of drugs and alcohol
while driving.  As Woeber was driving, Plaintiffs
allege that he hit the brakes and slammed into a Lexus Sedan in front of
him.  Thereafter, Plaintiffs allege that
Woeber engaged the child locks on the doors, preventing Plaintiffs from exiting
the vehicle, and he started to drive away from the scene of the collision.  They allege Woeber let them out about 100
feet from the collision site and fled the collision site.  
The third amended complaint (“TAC”), filed
June 2, 2022, alleges causes of action for: (1) negligence against Lyft and
Woeber; (2) negligence per se against Woeber; (3) negligent hiring,
supervision, or retention against Lyft; (4) common carrier negligence against
Lyft; (5) willful and wanton negligence against Woeber; (6) intentional
misrepresentation by Mr. Hinerfeld against Lyft; (7) negligent misrepresentation
by Mr. Hinerfeld against Lyft; (8) breach of contract against Lyft; and (9) strict
products liability against Lyft.    
B.    
Motion on Calendar 
On September 21, 2023, Lyft filed a motion
for summary adjudication against Plaintiff Matthew Hinerfeld on the 6th
and 7th causes of action for intentional misrepresentation and
negligent misrepresentation from the TAC, arguing that Lyft did not make misrepresentations
about its zero-tolerance policy, Mr. Hinerfeld never relied on the
zero-tolerance policy as the law requires, and any generic statements regarding
safety are properly characterized as advertising statements.  
On December 1, 2023, Lyft filed a notice
of non-opposition, stating that it was not in receipt of an opposition brief
from Mr. Hinerfeld.  
DISCUSSION
            Lyft moves for summary adjudication
as to the 6th and 7th causes of action in the TAC for
intentional misrepresentation and negligent misrepresentation asserted by Mr.
Hinerfeld against Lyft.  
To allege a cause of action for fraud, the
requisite elements are: (1) a representation,
usually of fact, which is false; (2) knowledge of its falsity; (3) intent to defraud; (4) justifiable reliance upon the misrepresentation;
and (5) damage resulting from that justifiable reliance.  (Stansfield
v. Starkey (1990) 220 Cal. App. 3d 59, 72-73.)  To allege a cause of action for negligent misrepresentation, the requisite elements are: (1) a misrepresentation of a past or existing material fact; (2) without
reasonable grounds for believing it to be true; (3) with intent to induce
another's reliance on the fact misrepresented; (4) ignorance of the truth and
justifiable reliance thereon by the party to whom the misrepresentation was
directed; and (5) damages.  (B.L.M. v. Sabo & Deitsch (1997)
55 Cal. App. 4th 823, 834.)  Negligent
misrepresentation, unlike fraud, does not require knowledge of falsity.  (Apollo
Capital Fund, LLC v. Roth Capital Partners, LLC (2007) 158 Cal.App.4th 226,
243.) 
            In support of its initial burden on
the motion for summary adjudication, Lyft provides the following facts based on
the allegations of the TAC.  Mr.
Hinerfeld alleges in the TAC that this action arises out of a motor vehicle
accident that occurred at around 7:05 p.m. on December 19, 2019 involving
Plaintiffs who were passengers of the Toyota Corolla driven by Woeber.  (Lyft Fact 1, 5.)  Mr. Hinerfeld alleges that the Lyft app
paired and connected him with Woeber for a ride.  (Id. at 2.)  Mr. Hinerfeld alleges that during the ride
they were involved in a collision with another vehicle and that Woeber was
under the influence of drugs or alcohol in violation of Lyft’s zero-tolerance
policy.  (Id. at 3-4.)  In support of the 6th and 7th
causes of action against Lyft, Mr. Hinerfeld alleges that Lyft made
representations to him and the general public that “safety is Lyft’s top
priority”, “Lyft’s goal is to make every ride safe, comfortable, and reliable”,
Lyft’s “services were safe”, Lyft would provide “Plaintiffs with a safe ride to
their destination”, and that Lyft “has a zero-tolerance policy for its drivers
regarding consumption of drugs or alcohol.” 
(Id. at 6.)  Mr. Hinerfeld
alleges he chose to request a rideshare with Lyft (as opposed to other options)
because he recalled Lyft’s zero-tolerance policy and had no knowledge of Lyft’s
failure to enforce the policy, Lyft’s representations were a material fact that
induced him to order a rideshare using Lyft’s services that day, and he got
into Woeber’s vehicle because he reasonably relied on Lyft’s representations
that its drivers would be sober and transport patrons safety.  (Id. at 7-9.)  Mr. Hinerfeld alleges that it became clear
during the ride that Woeber was driving while impaired because his care had a
noticeable smoke smell that may have been marijuana, Woeber was veering into
other lanes of truck, and the subject collision was caused by Woeber’s reflexes
being too slow to react in time.  (Id.
at 10.)  He alleges that he immediately
reported to Lyft that Woeber appeared to be under the influence that impaired
his driving in violation of Lyft’s zero-tolerance policy.  (Id. at 12.)  
            First, Lyft argues that Mr.
Hinerfeld cannot satisfy the element of actual/justifiable reliance for both
causes of action because though he asserts that he relied on Lyft’s
zero-tolerance policy when deciding whether or not to participate in Lyft’s
rideshare service, he continued to use Lyft after the subject accident.  Lyft relies on Facts 1-17 on this first
issue, which includes the general facts summarized above and the following
material facts: Less than 30 minutes after the accident, at around 7:27 p.m.,
Mr. Hinerfeld requested and obtained a ride through the Lyft app to take
Plaintiffs to a work holiday party; and that same evening at 10:17 p.m., he
again requested and obtained a ride through Lyft.  (Lyft Fact, 14-15.)  Mr. Hinerfeld continued to use Lyft to
request and obtain rides over 528 days after filing the lawsuit including a
ride on September 9, 2021 and October 26, 2021. 
(Id. at 16.)  In 2018, he
used Lyft 4 times.  (Id. at
17.)  Lyft argues that its material facts
show that Mr. Hinerfeld did not rely on the zero-tolerance policy
because he continued to use Lyft on the same night of the subject accident even
though he suspected or knew Woeber had been driving under the influence, as
well as in subsequent rides in 2021 (which is after the filing of the lawsuit,
May 15, 2020).  (See Engalla
v. Permanente Medical Group, Inc. (1997) 15 Cal.4th
951, 976 [“Actual reliance occurs when a misrepresentation is an immediate
cause of [a plaintiff's] conduct, which alters his legal relations, and when,
absent such representation, he would not, in all reasonable probability, have
entered into the contract or other transaction.”] [internal quotation marks
omitted].)  Here, Lyft has shown that Mr.
Hinerfeld cannot satisfy the element of reliance for his fraud causes of
action.  
            In support of the
second issue that Lyft did not make any intentional or negligent
misrepresentations about its zero-tolerance policy, Lyft provides Facts
18-20.  It states that it is required to
maintain the zero-tolerance policy by the California Public Utilities
Commission, decision 13-09-045, Safety Requirement (d).  (Lyft Fact 18.)  Lyft does not work with drivers who have
previously been convicted for driving under the influence.  (Id. at 19.)  It states that Mr. Hinerfeld does not have
any evidence that Lyft ever made any misrepresentations related to its
zero-tolerance policy.  (Id. at
20.)  
            Lyft
relies on the Court’s July 21, 2023 order on Mr. Hinerfeld’s motion for summary
adjudication against Lyft on Lyft’s affirmative defenses for opinion and
puffery.  (Liu Decl., Ex. 3 [7/21/23
Order].)  The Court stated in relevant
part: 
The
TNC [Transportation Network Companies] Decision states that TNCs shall
institute a zero-tolerance policy with respect to its drivers such that: (1)
the TNC shall include on its website, mobile
application and riders’ receipts, notice/information on the TNC’s
zero-tolerance policy and the methods to report a driver whom the rider
reasonably suspects was under the influence of drugs or alcohol during the
course of the ride; (2) the website and mobile application must include a phone
number or in-app call function and email address to contact to report the
zero-tolerance complaint; (3) promptly after a zero-tolerance complaint is
filed, the TNC shall suspend the driver for further investigation; and (4) the
website and mobile application must also include the phone number and email
address of the Commission’s Passenger Section. 
…
At
most, Plaintiffs have only provided a portion of Lyft’s website from 2019.  At that time, Lyft’s Zero-Tolerance Policy
states: “Lyft maintains a zero-tolerance drug and alcohol policy for Lyft
drivers. To report suspicions of intoxicant use by a Lyft driver, let us know
in your ride review, contact us by email, or get a call from our Critical
Response Team [link].”  (Jafari
Decl., Ex. E [Lyft 2019 Website].)  Based
on what little information the Court has, it appears that Lyft has satisfied
its requirements under the TNC Decision by including on its website the method
to report a driver who a rider reasonably suspects was under the influence of
drugs or alcohol during the ride and includes a link to make such a
complaint/report. …
Technically,
Lyft’s statements that it “has” a zero-tolerance policy are not opinion and
puffery; this is because Lyft does in fact have a zero-tolerance policy on its
website and mobile app.  (Lyft’s
Additional Material Facts [AMF] at 18.)[Footnote omitted]  However, Plaintiffs appear to want to take
this TNC Decision requirement to maintain and disclose a zero-tolerance policy
and create a new duty over Lyft that does not exist—i.e., that it should be
implemented in a manner so that no Lyft drivers are under the influence of
alcohol or drugs.  As pointed out by Lyft
in the opposition papers, the TNC Decision only requires that TNCs have a
zero-tolerance policy for its drivers (i.e., that if a driver is found to be under
the influence of alcohol or drugs, then that driver may be reported,
investigated, and suspended) and that TNCs promptly resolve any violations of
the zero-tolerance policy.  The TNC
Decision does not require that TNCs like Lyft represent that their
zero-tolerance policy will ensure that all drivers are free from
alcohol/drug-use.  In other words, the
TNC Decision merely requires that Lyft have a zero-tolerance policy and make
the policy known to the public.   As Lyft
argued in its opposition, it has represented to the public the existence of the
policy, but the “existence of such a policy does not equate to representations
about the quality or effectiveness of that policy, including promises of
accident-free rides or promises that riders will never be paired with a driver
who could be under the influence of drugs or alcohol.”  (Opp. at p.5; Lyft’s AMF at 15 and 19.)  As such, the Court cannot grant summary
adjudication in favor of Hinerfeld on the 19th and 20th
affirmative defenses as asked. 
(7/21/23
Order at pp. 7-9.)
            Similar to the Court’s analysis in
its prior order, Lyft has similarly shown here that it did not make
misrepresentations regarding its zero-tolerance policy.  While Lyft drafted and provided the terms of
its zero-tolerance policy for the public on its website/app, that appears to be
the only requirement of the TNC Decision. 
Mr. Hinerfeld has not opposed the motion to show that more was
required—i.e., that merely having a policy creates a new duty or that Lyft was
required to enforce the policy in a certain manner. 
            Finally, in support of the third
issue that any Lyft representations concerning the safety of its platform
cannot constitute a basis to support an intentional or negligent
misrepresentation claim, as any such statements would be allowable advertising
statements, Lyft provides the following material Facts 21-23: Mr. Hinerfeld
alleges that Lyft’s website represents that “safety is our top priority” and
“safety is built into every stage of your journey.”  (Lyft Fact 21.)  Mr. Hinerfeld alleges that Lyft represented
to him and the general public that safety is Lyft’s top priority and its goal
is to make every ride, safe, comfortable, and reliable.  (Id. at 22.)  In support of the 6th and 7th
causes of action, Mr. Hinerfeld alleges that Lyft made various representations
as cited in Fact 6.  (Id. at
23.)  
            Lyft argues that these statements
were not definitive statements of fact, but rather a promise/hope on Lyft’s
part that did not amount to a prediction, warranty, or guarantee of a specific
outcome.  “[E]xpressions of opinion are not
generally treated as representations of fact, and thus are not grounds for a
misrepresentation cause of action. [Citations.] Representations of value are
opinions. [Citation.]”  (Gentry v. eBay, Inc. (2002) 99 Cal.App.4th 816,
835; see e.g., Pulvers v. Kaiser Foundation Health Plan, Inc. (1979) 99 Cal.App.3d 560, 565 [stating that brochure language that doctors
would provide “high standards” of medical service did not warrant them to a
high standard that the language relied on by plaintiffs was more similar to
generalized puffing to the effect that the foundation's doctors would exercise
good judgment in their care”].)  Lyft has
shown that the language advertised on its app and website amount to statements
of opinion or puffery, common in advertisements.  As the motion is not opposed, Mr. Hinerfeld
has not shown that the statements were actionable representations for fraud
claims.  
            Lyft
has upheld its initial burden in summary adjudication on the 6th and
7th causes of action.  Thus,
the burden shifts to Plaintiff to raise triable issues of material facts.  However, as indicated above, Plaintiff has
not filed an opposition to the motion.  
            As
such, the motion for summary adjudication is granted. 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER  
Defendant Lyft,
Inc.’s motion for summary adjudication as to Plaintiff Matt Hinerfeld’s 6th
and 7th causes of action in the third amended complaint is
granted.  
Defendant shall provide notice of this order. 
 
Warning regarding
electronic appearances:  All software for remote or electronic
appearances is subject to malfunction based on system weakness and human error,
which can originate from any of the multiple parties participating each
morning. The seamless operation of the Court’s electronic appearance software
is dependent on numerous inconstant and fluctuating factors that may impact
whether you, or other counsel or the Court itself can be heard in a particular
case. Not all these factors are within the control of the courtroom staff. For
example, at times, the system traps participants in electronic purgatories
where they cannot be heard and where the courtroom staff is not aware of their
presence. If you call the courtroom, please be respectful of the fact that a
court hearing is going on, and that the courtroom staff is doing their best to
use an imperfect system. If it is truly important to you to be heard, please
show up to the courtroom in the normal way. 
   