 Case Number:  21BBCV00674    Hearing Date:   December 8, 2023    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
DBIK
  construction & design, inc.,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
FOUR JOY INVESTMENT
  LLC,
                        Defendants.


 
Case
  No.: 21BBCV00674
 
  Hearing Date:  December 8, 2023
 
 [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
motion to compel further responses 
 



 
BACKGROUND
A.   
Allegations 
            Plaintiff DBIK Construction &
Design, Inc. (“DBIK”) alleges that it entered into a construction agreement
with Defendant Four Joy Investment LLC on April 30, 2019, in which DBIK agreed
to provide certain improvements to real property located at 1200 E Huntington
Dr., Duarte, CA 91010 including the renovation of the exterior and roof of a
67-unit hotel building, the exterior renovation of a separate 8-unit commercial
building, and landscaping of the entire property.  In exchange, Defendants agreed to pay
Plaintiff a total of $945,000.  In the
next 4 months, structural safety concerns were discovered with respect to the
commercial building, which necessitated the addition of a central column in the
building and other design changes. 
During the construction, supervision costs escalated due to increased
scope of work, COVID-19 pandemic challenges, involvement of third-party
contractors hired by Four Joy Investment LLC, etc.  DBIK alleges that for the additional
supervision, it is entitled to a project management fee of $828,823.31, or
approximately 20%.  DBIK alleges that the
total change order between the parties increased the contract amount by
$3,899,454.44, resulting in an adjusted contract amount of $4,844,454.44.  DBIK alleges it made a demand for
$4,844,454.44 and Defendants have failed to pay $1,776,084.08 of that amount.   
            The complaint, filed July 30, 2021,
alleges causes of action for: (1) breach of contract; (2) open book account;
(3) account stated; (4) reasonable value of labor and materials furnished; and
(5) foreclosure of mechanic’s lien. 
            On October 1, 2021, DBIK filed an
Amendment to Complaint, naming Doe 1 as “Four Joy One LLC a California limited
liability company.”  On October 8, 2021, DBIK
filed an Amendment to Complaint, correcting the name of “Four Joy Investment
LLC, a California Corporation” to “Four Joy Investment LLC, a California
Limited Liability Company.”  
            On October 24, 2023, DBIK dismissed
without prejudice Four Joy One LLC as to the complaint. 
B.    
Cross-Complaints
On July 11, 2022, Cross-Complainants DBIK and
Danny Hung Cheng filed a cross-complaint against Cross-Defendants Angel
Development, Inc., N Pro Electric, and Albert Harding Butcher Jr. dba Harding
Construction for: (1) implied indemnity; (2) contribution and indemnity; (3)
declaratory relief; and (4) negligence. 
On September 21, 2023, the default of N Pro Electric, Inc. was entered
upon the request of DBIK and Cheng. 
On January 20, 2023, Four Joy Entities
filed a cross-complaint against Cross-Defendant Angel Development, Inc. for:
(1) intentional misrepresentation (fraud/deceit); (2) negligent
misrepresentation; (3) breach of contract; (4) breach of implied covenant of
good faith and fair dealing; (5) negligence; and (6) recovery of payments made
to unlicensed subcontractors pursuant to Business & Professions Code, §
7031(b).  That same day, the Four Joy
Entities filed an Amendment to Cross-Complaint naming Roe 1 as DC International
Design & Construction, Inc. 
On February 17, 2023, Cross-Complainants
Four Joy Investment, LLC and Four Joy One, LLC (“Four Joy Entities”) filed a
First Amended Cross-Complaint (“Four Joy FAXC”) against Cross-Defendants DBIK
and “Danny” Hung Cheng for: (1) violation of Business & Professions Code,
§§ 7125.2 and 7031(b) (disgorgement action against unlicensed contractor); (2)
violation of Business & Professions Code, § 7160 (statutory fraud by
unlicensed contractor); (3) (deceit) intentional misrepresentation; (4) deceit
(negligent misrepresentation); (5) negligence; and (6) violation of Business
& Professions Code, § 17200 et seq.  On September 14, 2023, the Four Joy FAXC was
dismissed without prejudice.
C.    
Motion on Calendar
On September 12,
2023, Defendant Four Joy Investment, LLC (“Four Joy”) filed a motion to compel
Plaintiff DBIK’s further responses to Special interrogatories, set 2 (“SROG”).  Four Joy seeks sanctions against DBIK and its
counsel of record in the amount of $3,267.36. 

On November 27,
2023, DBIK filed an opposition brief.  
On December 1,
2023, Four Joy filed a reply brief. 
DISCUSSION

            Four Joy moves to compel DBIK’s
further response to SROG No. 32.  
            SROG No. 32 asks DBIK to
state the services provided by each and every “CONTRACOTR[sic]” identified.  In the SROG requests’ definitions,
“CONTRACTOR” is defined as “General contractor or subcontractor or workers
retained for the construction work retained by DBIK relating to the Hotel
Huntington project.”  (Mot., Ex. 1.)  In response, DBIK stated it was unable to
respond to the request because “CONTRACOTR” was not a defined term and it is
not aware of any responsive information. 

            Four Joy argues that a further
response is required because DBIK did not timely serve responses, thereby
waiving all objections.  Four Joy argues
that the parties met and conferred about any ambiguity of the terms and the
misspelled word “CONTRACOTR,” but DBIK failed to provide a response without
objection despite Four Joy clarifying the correct spelling of the word.  
            In opposition, DBIK argues that it
inadvertently failed to timely provide a response because Four Joy’s counsel
refused to include DBIK’s counsel’s calendaring staff in his emails.  DBIK states that it has elected to respond to
the SROGs without objections as opposed to filing a motion for relief from
waiver of objections, but with respect to SROG No. 32, DBIK lacks any factual
information due to the way it was written. 
DBIK argues that No. 32 is ambiguous because it references the term
“CONTRACOTR” and that this term has not been defined, though the term
“CONTACTOR” was defined.  DBIK states
that it responded to SROG Nos. 31, 33, 34, and 35, which correctly spelled
“CONTRACTOR,” but it could not respond to No. 32 because the term “CONTRACOTR”
was ambiguous. 
            It is apparent that the term
“CONTRACOTR” was a simple misspelling of the word “CONTRACTOR.”  If there was any ambiguity as to the term,
the parties should have discussed this during meet and confer efforts and DBIK should
have provided a further response.  DBIK
argues that Four Joy should have re-propounded SROG No. 32 and if Four Joy had
done so, DBIK would have had an unambiguous response to the SROG.  (Opp. at p.3.)  
            The motion to compel further
responses to SROG No. 32.  DBIK is
ordered to respond to SROG No. 32 as clarified as follows: “State the services
provided by each and every CONTRACTOR identified.”  
            Four Joy seeks $3,267.36 in
sanctions against DBIK.  In opposition,
DBIK seeks $1,110 against Four Joy.  The
Court grants Four Joy’s request for sanctions in the reasonable sum of
$1,000.  The parties should have been
more cooperative during meet and confer efforts such that this motion and
discovery delays by both parties could have been avoided.  As discussed above, the typographical error
was minor and DBIK should have responded to the SROG upon clarification. 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
Defendants Four Joy
Investment, LLC’s motion to compel further responses to SROG No. 32 is
granted.  Plaintiff DBIK Construction
& Design, Inc. is ordered to provide a further response, without objection,
within 20 days of notice of this order to SROG No. 32 as clarified as follows: “State
the services provided by each and every CONTRACTOR identified.”  
Plaintiff and its counsel
of record, jointly and severally, are ordered to pay monetary sanctions in the
amount of $1,000 to Defendant Four Joy Investment, LLC, by and through counsel,
within 20 days of notice of this order.
Defendant shall
give notice of this order. 
Warning regarding
electronic appearances:  All software for remote or electronic
appearances is subject to malfunction based on system weakness and human error,
which can originate from any of the multiple parties participating each
morning. The seamless operation of the Court’s electronic appearance software
is dependent on numerous inconstant and fluctuating factors that may impact
whether you, or other counsel or the Court itself can be heard in a particular
case. Not all these factors are within the control of the courtroom staff. For
example, at times, the system traps participants in electronic purgatories
where they cannot be heard and where the courtroom staff is not aware of their
presence. If you call the courtroom, please be respectful of the fact that a
court hearing is going on, and that the courtroom staff is doing their best to
use an imperfect system. If it is truly important to you to be heard, please
show up to the courtroom in the normal way. Parking is free or reasonable
in Burbank.
 
