 Case Number:  23BBCV02059    Hearing Date:   December 8, 2023    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
maricela rangel,
 
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
ford motor
  company, et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


 
  Case No.:  23BBCV02059
 
Hearing
  Date:  December 8, 2023
 
 [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
demurrer
 



 
BACKGROUND
A.   
Allegations 
Plaintiff Maricela Rangel (“Plaintiff”) allege
that on February 19, 2022, Plaintiff entered into a warranty contact with
Defendant Ford Motor Company (“FMC”) regarding a 2022 Ford Ranger vehicle.  Plaintiff alleges that the warranty contract contained various warranties, including but not limited to the
bumper-bumper warranty, powertrain warranty, emission warranty, etc.  Plaintiff alleges that the defects and
nonconformities to the warranty manifested themselves during the applicable
warranty period, including but not limited to, transmission defects,
infotainment defects, electrical defects, body defects, among other defects and
non-conformities.  Plaintiff alleges that
FMC failed to replace the vehicle or make restitution.  
Plaintiff
alleges that she delivered the vehicle to Defendant Sunrise Ford of North
Hollywood (“Sunrise”) for substantial repair on at least one occasion, but
Sunrise failed to use ordinary care and skill to properly store, prepare, and
repair the subject vehicle.  
The complaint, filed September 7, 2023,
alleges causes of action for: (1) violation of Civil Code, § 1793.2(D); (2) violation
of Civil Code, § 1793.2(B); (3) violation of Civil Code, § 1793.2(A)(3); (4)
breach of the implied warranty of merchantability (Civil Code, §§ 1791.1, 1794,
and 1795.5); (5) fraudulent inducement – concealment; and (6) negligent repair.
    
B.    
Demurrer on Calendar 
On October 4, 2023, Defendants Ford and Sunrise
filed a demurrer to the complaint.  
On November 27, 2023, Plaintiff filed an
opposition brief. 
On November 30, 2023, Defendants filed a
reply brief. 
DISCLOSURE
John Kralik was an associate of the Law
Firm of Hughes Hubbard & Reed from 1979-87 and a partner in Hughes Hubbard
& Reed from 1988-93. During that time he worked on Ford Motor Company
matters. Ford was a major client during his partnership with the firm, and so
some portion of his partner draw would have originated with Ford. The Court
does not feel that it is biased in this matter but recognizes that the parties
may have a different perception. If any party feels that the Court’s prior work
at Hughes Hubbard creates an appearance of bias, please file an appropriate
request for the Court to recuse prior to the next hearing in this matter. 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
            The
Court continues the hearing on the demurrer to December 15, 2023 at 8:30 a.m.,
in Department B.  Prior to the hearing,
counsel should discuss with their respective clients the Court’s disclosure and
whether recusal is necessary. 
The parties are
encouraged to attend the December 8, 2023 hearing if they have had an opportunity
to speak with their clients and discussed the Court’s disclosure.  If they have not had time to do so, the
parties are each ordered to file a notice with the Court indicating their
position on the Court’s disclosure by the end of the business day on December
11, 2023.  This notice should state
whether their client will waive any possible conflict or will be seeking to
file an
appropriate request for the Court to recuse itself prior to the next hearing in
this matter. 
Defendants shall give notice of
this order.  
Warning regarding
electronic appearances:  All software for remote or electronic
appearances is subject to malfunction based on system weakness and human error,
which can originate from any of the multiple parties participating each
morning. The seamless operation of the Court’s electronic appearance software
is dependent on numerous inconstant and fluctuating factors that may impact
whether you, or other counsel or the Court itself can be heard in a particular
case. Not all these factors are within the control of the courtroom staff. For
example, at times, the system traps participants in electronic purgatories
where they cannot be heard and where the courtroom staff is not aware of their
presence. If you call the courtroom, please be respectful of the fact that a
court hearing is going on, and that the courtroom staff is doing their best to
use an imperfect system. If it is truly important to you to be heard, please
show up to the courtroom in the normal way. Parking is free or reasonable
in Burbank.
 
