 Case Number:  23BBCV00921    Hearing Date:   December 8, 2023    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
natalie ruxton,
    
 
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
tyler anne
  smith, et
  al.,  
 
                        Defendants.


 
  Case
  No.: 23BBCV00921
 
  Hearing Date:  December 8, 2023 
 
 [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
motion to strike 



 
BACKGROUND

A.    Allegations

Plaintiff Natalie
Ruxton (“Plaintiff”) alleges on July 1, 2022, Defendants Tyler Anne Smith and
Cheyenne Hawk were operating their vehicle on the US-101 Northbound freeway in
the City of Los Angeles.   She alleges
she was driving directly to the left of Tyler Anne Smith.  Plaintiff alleges that Tyler Anne Smith
negligently, carelessly, recklessly, and unlawfully entrusted, managed,
controlled, maintained, drove, and operated the vehicle so as to swerve left and
impact Plaintiff’s vehicle with great force, causing Plaintiff injuries.  
            The
first amended complaint (“FAC”), filed September 18, 2023, alleges causes of
action for: (1) negligence; and (2) punitive and exemplary damages. 
B.     Motion
on Calendar 
On
October 3, 2023, Defendant Tyler Anne Smith (“Smith”) filed a motion to strike
the entire 2nd cause of action (paragraphs 13-16) and the prayer for
damages at paragraph 6 from the FAC.  
On October 16,
2023, Plaintiff filed an opposition brief.   
On December 1,
2023, Smith filed a reply brief. 
DISCUSSION
Smith moves to strike the allegations for
punitive damages in paragraphs 13-16 and the prayer for relief at paragraph 6
from the FAC.  The request for punitive
damages is sought in connection with the sole cause of action for negligence.

A complaint including a request for punitive
damages must include allegations showing that the plaintiff is entitled to an
award of punitive damages.  (Clauson
v. Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255.)  A
claim for punitive damages cannot be pleaded generally and allegations that a
defendant acted "with oppression, fraud and malice" toward plaintiff
are insufficient legal conclusions to show that the plaintiff is entitled to an
award of punitive damages.  (Brousseau
v. Jarrett (1977) 73 Cal.App.3d 864, 872.)  Specific factual
allegations are required to support a claim for punitive damages.  (Id.)
Civil Code § 3294
authorizes a plaintiff to obtain an award of punitive damages when there is
clear and convincing evidence that the defendant engaged in malice, oppression,
or fraud.  Section 3294(c) defines the terms in the following manner:
(1)  
"Malice" means conduct which is
intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable
conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious
disregard of the rights or safety of others.
(2)  
"Oppression" means despicable
conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious
disregard of that person's rights.
(3)  
"Fraud" means an intentional
misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the
defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving
a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury. 
Smith argues
that the complaint lacks specific facts supporting a claim for punitive damages
and that the allegations are conclusory. 

The 2nd
cause of action for punitive/exemplary damages incorporates the prior allegations
in the negligence cause of action.  (FAC,
¶13.)  It alleges that Smith was guilty
of malice, fraud, and oppression because she “knowingly and intentionally
consumed a substantial amount of alcohol to the point of becoming heavily
intoxicated and, therefore, unfit both physically and legally to operate a
motor vehicle.”  (Id., ¶14.)  She alleges that Smith worked at her normal
shift at a bar called Hot Motha Clucker in Hollywood as a bartender, got off
work at 7:00 p.m., and consumed 7 tequila shots of Casa Amigos Tequila from 7
p.m. to 9:30 p.m.  (Id.,
¶15.)  Plaintiff alleges that Smith knew
she was intoxicated and under the influence and knowingly and intentionally got
into her vehicle, began to drive, caused the car crash, and was arrested.  (Id.) 
Plaintiff alleges that Smith’s Blood Alcohol Concentration was .17,
which is beyond the legal limit of .08. 
(Id., ¶16.)  Plaintiff
alleges that despite her intentional excessive consumption of alcohol and
knowledge of her unfitness to operate a motor vehicle, she nevertheless
purposefully drove the motor vehicle at the time of the collision in reckless
disregard for the safety of others.  (Id.)  
Taylor v. Superior
Court
(1979) 24 Cal.3d 890 is instructive with respect to this set of facts.  In Taylor,
the Supreme Court fell short of holding that punitive damages are always
appropriate in cases involving driving while intoxicated, finding that “the act
of operating a motor vehicle while intoxicated may constitute an act of
‘malice’ under section 3294 if performed under
circumstances which disclose a conscious disregard of the probable dangerous
consequences.”  (Id. at p. 892.)  In the
subsequent decision of Dawes v. Superior
Court (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 82, the Supreme Court held that driving while
intoxicated does not always give rise to a claim for punitive damages.  Specifically, the Court stated that “the risk
created generally by one who becomes intoxicated and decides nevertheless to
drive a vehicle on the public streets is the same as the risk created by an
intoxicated driver’s decision to zigzag in and out of traffic at 65 miles per
hour in a crowded beach recreation area at 1:30 in the afternoon on a Sunday in
June.  The risk of injury to others from
ordinary driving while intoxicated is certainly foreseeable, but it is not
necessarily probable.”  (Id. at p. 89.)  
Previously, the
Court granted with leave to amend Smith’s motion to strike the punitive damages
from the initial complaint.  The Court
stated:  
Based on the rules set forth in both Taylor and Dawes, the Court finds that the allegations in the complaint
regarding Smith’s intoxication are insufficient to support the imposition of
punitive damages.  The description of
Smith’s conduct can be applicable to almost any situation wherein a person
consumes alcohol and then decides to drive. 
The fact that the complaint alleges that Smith consumed excessive amount
of alcohol prior to driving does not necessarily show that she acted
maliciously or oppressively.  As
discussed in Taylor and Dawes, specific factual circumstances
must be alleged which show that the risk of injury was probable, such as
weaving through lanes of traffic, a previous
conviction for driving under the influence of alcohol, or driving while
simultaneously drinking alcohol.  The
fact that an accident occurred and Smith was found to be intoxicated, without
more, has the character of ordinary negligent driving and does not show
aggravating circumstances warranting punitive damages. 
The
motion to strike punitive damages from the complaint is granted.  
(August
4, 2023 Order at pp. 3-4.)  
            Defendant Smith argues that the
punitive damages allegations should be stricken because the request must be
plead with the requisite particularity and there must be ultimate facts (not
mere conclusions) to support this request. 
Smith argues that the allegations that she knowingly consumed alcohol in
an excessive level and then purposefully drove her car in a reckless manner are
not specifically pled.  
Plaintiff has added further facts to
support her claim for punitive damages against Smith.  The FAC alleges that Smith drove the vehicle,
knowing she was intoxicated and under the influence with reckless abandon and
in reckless disregard to the safety of others. 
(FAC, ¶16; Peterson v. Superior Court (1982) 31 Cal.3d 147, 162 [“The complaint alleges that defendant drove the
vehicle with knowledge that probable serious injury to other persons would
result and in conscious disregard of the safety of plaintiff.”] [finding that
the complaint with a request for punitive damages was proper where it was
alleged that defendant “became intoxicated and thereafter drove a car while in
that condition, despite his knowledge of the safety hazard he created thereby.”].)  Whether these facts can be proven by evidence
will be determined at a later stage in the proceedings.  However, at the pleading stage where the
allegations are taken as true, there are sufficient facts to allege that Smith
knowingly consumed alcohol to excess levels and knowingly or recklessly
operated her vehicle in reckless disregard to the safety of others. 
At the pleading
stage, the Court finds that the FAC alleges sufficient facts to support a claim
for punitive damages.  Accordingly, the
motion to strike is denied. 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
            Defendant Tyler Anne Smith’s motion
to strike the allegations for punitive damages in the first amended complaint
is denied.  Defendant is ordered to
answer. 
            Defendant shall provide notice of
this order. 
 
