 Case Number:  23BBCV00009    Hearing Date:   December 8, 2023    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
charlie rhyne,
 
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
does 1 through
  100,
   
 
                        Defendants.


 
  Case No.:  23BBCV00009
 
  Hearing Date: December 8, 2023
 
 [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
motion to quash summons and complaint 



 
BACKGROUND
A.   
Allegations
Plaintiff Charlie Rhyne (“Plaintiff”) alleges
that she was born on May 20, 1961 and is bringing a claim for childhood sexual
abuse, sexual battery, and sexual assault. 
Plaintiff alleges that in 1968 and 1969, she was age 7 and 8 at that
time and was a student of Doe 1 in Sunland and that Doe 2 was a unified school
district.  Plaintiff alleges that she was
subjected to multiple instances of childhood sexual abuse, battery, and assault
by an employee of the local school district and she was sexually molested on
multiple times by Doe 3, a janitor and an agent/employee of Does 1 and 2.  
The complaint, filed January 3, 2023,
alleges causes of action for: (1) sexual assault (CCP § 340.1); (2) negligence
(vicarious liability and negligent supervision, hiring, and retention); and (3)
IIED. 
B.    
Motion on Calendar 
On November 3,
2023, Defendant Los Angeles Unified School District (“LAUSD”) filed a motion to
quash the service of the summons and complaint. 

The Court is not
in receipt of an opposition brief. 
DISCUSSION
A.    Certificate of Merit, Proof of Service and 
On January 30,
2023, Plaintiff filed a Certificate of Merit as to Doe 2, which includes the
declaration of Plaintiff’s counsel Steven Zelig.  Mr. Zelig states that he was unable to obtain
consultation because he was recently hired on January 2, 2023 such that it was
impossible for him to arrange a consult before December 31, 2022.  There are no other facts supporting the
Certificate of Merit.  
On February 28,
2023, Judge Frank M. Tavelman in Department A heard Plaintiff’s ex parte
application as the Court in Department B was dark.  Judge Tavelman granted Plaintiff’s ex parte
application for an order filing under seal the Certificates of Merit.  On March 6, 2023, Judge Tavelman signed the
Order on Plaintiff’s Ex Parte Application to File Certificates of Merit Under
Seal. 
The proof of
service of the summons (filed September 12, 2023) states that Defendant Los
Angeles Unified School District (Doe 2) was personally served on September 5,
2023 at 1:37 p.m. by serving the documents on Alberto M. Carvalho –
Superintendent at 333 S Beaudry Ave Fl 24, Los Angeles, CA 90017-5017.  The documents were thereafter mailed on September
6, 2023.  Service was effectuated by V.
Enrique Mendez, a registered California process server.   
B.     Discussion of Merits 
LAUSD moves to quash the summons and
complaint purportedly served on it, arguing that service was defective on its face
because LAUSD has not been properly identified as a defendant in this action
such that the Court lacks personal jurisdiction over it. 
CCP § 340.1 states
in relevant part: 
(f) Every plaintiff 40 years of age or older at the
time the action is filed shall file certificates of merit as specified in
subdivision (g).
…
(i) In any action subject to subdivision
(f), a defendant shall not be served, and the
duty to serve a defendant with process does not attach, until the court has reviewed the certificates of merit filed
pursuant to subdivision (g) with respect to that defendant, and has found, in
camera, based solely on those certificates of merit, that there is reasonable
and meritorious cause for the filing of the action against that defendant.
At that time, the duty to serve that defendant with process shall attach.
…
(l) In any action
subject to subdivision (f), a defendant shall be
named by “Doe” designation in any pleadings or
papers filed in the action until there
has been a showing of corroborative fact as to the charging allegations against
that defendant.
(m) At any time
after the action is filed, the plaintiff may apply to the court for permission
to amend the complaint to substitute the name of the defendant or
defendants for the fictitious designation, as follows:
(1) The
application shall be accompanied by a certificate of corroborative fact
executed by the attorney for the plaintiff. The certificate shall declare that
the attorney has discovered one or more facts corroborative of one or more of
the charging allegations against a defendant or defendants, and shall set forth
in clear and concise terms the nature and substance of the corroborative fact.
If the corroborative fact is evidenced by the statement of a witness or the
contents of a document, the certificate shall declare that the attorney has
personal knowledge of the statement of the witness or of the contents of the
document, and the identity and location of the witness or document shall be
included in the certificate. For purposes of this section, a fact is
corroborative of an allegation if it confirms or supports the allegation. The
opinion of any mental health practitioner concerning the plaintiff shall not
constitute a corroborative fact for purposes of this section.
(2) If the application to name a defendant is made before that
defendant's appearance in the action, neither the application nor the
certificate of corroborative fact by the attorney shall be served on the
defendant or defendants, nor on any other party or their counsel of record.
(3) If the application to name a defendant is made after
that defendant's appearance in the action, the application shall be served on
all parties and proof of service provided to the court, but the certificate of
corroborative fact by the attorney shall not be served on any party or their
counsel of record.
(CCP
§ 340.1.)  
LAUSD argues that Plaintiff has not
applied to the Court for permission to amend the complaint to substitute the
name of the defendant for any fictitious designation, there are no amendments
to the complaint, and no FAC filed.  LAUSD
also argues that Plaintiff has not filed a certificate of corroborative facts
(which is separate from a certificate of merit).  (See CCP § 340.1.)  In addition, LAUSD argues that Plaintiff has
not made any showing under CCP § 474 (re defendant designated by fictitious
name) that Plaintiff was ignorant of LAUSD’s name and that amendment of the
complaint is proper to properly name it as a defendant in the action.  
Based on the Court’s review of the
documents filed in this action, Plaintiff has not complied with the code to
properly name LAUSD as a defendant (Doe 2) in this action, either pursuant to
CCP § 340.1 or CCP § 474.  
Further, as
pointed out by LAUSD, the Certificates of Merit attached to the complaint and
filed separately with the Court fail to comply with any of the requirements of
CCP § 340.1(g).  Subsection (g) states: 
(g) Certificates
of merit shall be executed by the attorney for the plaintiff and by a
licensed mental health practitioner selected by the plaintiff declaring,
respectively, as follows, setting forth the facts which support the
declaration:
(1) That the attorney
has reviewed the facts of the case, consulted with at least one mental health
practitioner who the attorney reasonably believes is knowledgeable of the
relevant facts and issues involved in the particular action, and concluded on
the basis of that review and consultation that there is reasonable and
meritorious cause for the filing of the action.
(2) That the mental health
practitioner consulted is licensed to practice and practices in this
state and is not a party to the action, that the practitioner is not treating
and has not treated the plaintiff, and that the practitioner has interviewed
the plaintiff and is knowledgeable of the relevant facts and issues involved in
the particular action, and has concluded, on the basis of the practitioner's
knowledge of the facts and issues, that in the practitioner's professional
opinion there is a reasonable basis to believe that the plaintiff had been
subject to childhood sexual abuse.
(3) That the attorney was unable to obtain
the consultation required by paragraph (1) because a statute of limitations
would impair the action and that the certificates required by paragraphs (1)
and (2) could not be obtained before the impairment of the action. If a
certificate is executed pursuant to this paragraph, the certificates required
by paragraphs (1) and (2) shall be filed within 60 days after filing the
complaint.
(CCP
§ 340.1(g).)  As summarized above,
Plaintiff’s Certificate of Merit as to Doe 2 is merely a 3-paragraph
declaration by Mr. Zelig stating his inability to comply with the statute.  There are not statements by counsel or a
licensed mental health practitioner stating their reasonable belief of the
relevant facts and issues and that they believe there is a reasonable and
meritorious cause for filing the action. 
This prerequisite was not properly complied with and it does not appear
that Plaintiff has made any attempts to comply with section 340.1(g), even if
belated.  
            LAUSD’s motion to quash service of
the summons and complaint is granted. 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
            Defendant Los Angeles Unified
School District’s motion to quash the service of the summons and complaint is
granted.  
LAUSD shall
provide notice of this order. 
 
 
Warning regarding
electronic appearances:  All software for remote or electronic
appearances is subject to malfunction based on system weakness and human error,
which can originate from any of the multiple parties participating each
morning. The seamless operation of the Court’s electronic appearance software
is dependent on numerous inconstant and fluctuating factors that may impact
whether you, or other counsel or the Court itself can be heard in a particular
case. Not all these factors are within the control of the courtroom staff. For
example, at times, the system traps participants in electronic purgatories
where they cannot be heard and where the courtroom staff is not aware of their
presence. If you call the courtroom, please be respectful of the fact that a
court hearing is going on, and that the courtroom staff is doing their best to
use an imperfect system. If it is truly important to you to be heard, please
show up to the courtroom in the normal way. Parking is free or reasonable
in Burbank.
 
 