  Case Number:  23SMCV01152    Hearing Date:   March 1, 2024    Dept:  205    Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles – West District  Beverly Hills Courthouse / Department 205   BENJAMIN FRIEDMAN,    Plaintiff, v.  PAUL TOUTONGHI, et al.,   Defendants.    Case No.:  23SMCV01152     Hearing Date:  March 1, 2024   [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE:   DEFENDANT’S MOTION FOR LEAVE TO    FILE CROSS-COMPLAINT AGAINST    TURO, INC.    BACKGROUND   This case arises out of damage to Plaintiff Benjamin Friedman’s McLaren 570S sportscar (“McLaren”).  Plaintiff rented the McLaren to Defendant Paul Toutonghi on a website owned by Defendant Turo, Inc.  Toutonghi was involved in a collision with the McLaren.   Plaintiff took the McLaren to an autobody shop for repairs, which later submitted three repair invoices to Turo.  Turo failed to pay the third repair invoice.  As a result, the McLaren remained in the body shop for over five months.  Plaintiff is alleging $309,396 in loss of use damages.   On March 15, 2023, Plaintiff filed a complaint against Toutonghi seeking in part $309,396 in damages for loss of use of the McLaren.  On June 22, 2023, Plaintiff filed an amendment to his complaint, adding Turo as a named defendant.  The Court granted Plaintiff’s request to dismiss Turo on September 20, 2023. This hearing is on Toutonghi’s motion for leave to file a cross-complaint against Turo.   Toutonghi claims Turo is responsible for the majority of Plaintiff’s loss of use damages, and thus, there exists good cause for the amendment, and there will be no prejudice to Plaintiff if leave to file a cross-complaint is granted as Plaintiff is well aware of Turo’s involvement in the case.  No opposition was filed as of the posting of this tentative ruling.   LEGAL STANDARD California Code of Civil Procedure section 428.50 states, “(a) A party shall file a cross-complaint against any of the parties who filed the complaint or cross-complaint against him or her before or at the same time as the answer to the complaint or cross-complaint. (b) Any other cross-complaint may be filed at any time before the court has set a date for trial. (c) A party shall obtain leave of court to file any cross-complaint except one filed within the time specified in subdivision (a) or (b).¿ Leave may be granted in the interest of justice at any time during the course of the action.”¿ A cross-complaint is compulsory when a related cause of action existed at the time of serving the defendant’s answer to the complaint.¿ (Code Civ. Proc. § 426.30, subd. (a); see also Crocker Nat. Bank v. Emerald (1990) 221 Cal.App.3d 852, 864.)¿ A related cause of action is “. . . a cause of action which arises out of the same transaction, occurrence, or series of transactions or occurrences as the cause of action which the plaintiff alleges in his complaint.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc. § 426.10, subd. (c).)¿ Leave must be granted to file a compulsory cross-complaint when the defendant is acting in good faith.¿ (Code Civ. Proc. § 426.50.)¿ DISCUSSION The Court concludes that leave to file a cross-complaint should be granted.  The cross-complaint is¿compulsory because it arises out of the same occurrence, namely, the loss of use of the McLaren.  “Cross-complaints for comparative¿equitable indemnity would appear virtually always transactionally related to the main action.”  (Time for Living, Inc. v. Guy Hatfield Homes (1991) 230 Cal.App.3d 30, 38.)  Thus, there must be substantial evidence that Toutonghi acted in bad faith to justify a denial of the motion to file a cross-complaint.  No party has opposed this motion, and thus there is no evidence of bad faith. Therefore, the motion must be granted. CONCLUSION The Court GRANTS Defendant Paul Toutonghi’s motion for leave to file cross-complaint against Turo, Inc.      DATED: March 1, 2024     ___________________________ Edward B. Moreton, Jr. Judge of the Superior Court 