  Case Number:  21STCV28966    Hearing Date:   December 10, 2024    Dept:  39  TENTATIVE RULING
 



DEPT:


39




HEARING DATE:


December 10, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV28966




MOTION:  


Motion to Compel Mental Examination




MOVING PARTIES:


Defendant Bartlett Loft Association




OPPOSING PARTY:


No Opposition Filed



            
MOTION
Defendant Bartlett
Loft Association (“Defendant”) moves to compel Plaintiff Ryan Erickson (“Plaintiff”)
to submit to a mental examination with Zachary D. Torry, M.D. (“Dr. Torry”), who
is a psychiatrist.  
ANALYSIS
Pursuant to  Code of Civil Procedure section 2032.310, a
party that seeks to require another party to submit to a mental examination
must obtain leave of court.  The motion
to compel a mental examination must specify the time, place, manner,
conditions, scope, and nature of the examination, as well as the identity and
specialty of the person who will perform the examination.  (Code Civ. Proc., §2032.310.)  The Court must grant the motion if the moving
party shows good cause for the mental examination.  (Code Civ. Proc., §2032.320, subd. (a).) 
Plaintiff contends,
because Defendant failed to adequately address Plaintiff’s disruptive neighbor,
Plaintiff suffered emotional distress.  To
date, Plaintiff has not stipulated Plaintiff is not seeking compensation for
mental or emotional distress beyond that typically associated with his underlying
claims.  (See Code Civ. Proc., §2032.320,
subds. (b)-(c).)  As such, Plaintiff’s
claims of emotional distress are good cause to compel Plaintiff to submit to an
examination with Torry.  
However,
Defendant’s motion is procedurally defective in that Defendant does not specify
which psychological tests Dr. Torry intends to perform on Plaintiff.  (See Declaration of Cooper R. McHatton,
Exhibit A; see also Carpenter v. Superior
Court (2006) 141 Cal.App.4th 249, 260 (Carpenter)
[“The plain meaning of section 2032.320, therefore, is that the court is to describe
in detail who will conduct the examination, where and when it will be
conducted, the conditions, scope and nature of the examination, and the
diagnostic tests and procedures to be employed. 
The way to describe these ‘diagnostic tests and procedures’ — fully
and in detail — is to list them by name”] (emphasis in original).)  In the instant case, the notice only
provides, without specificity, a neuropsychological interview and psychological
testing will be conducted.  Additionally,
the notice states “neuropsychological and psychological testing will be
administered with tests selected as necessary (emphasis added).”  (McHatton Decl., Exhibit  A.)  This is insufficient.  “[T]he need to identify the ‘diagnostic tests
and procedures’ with specificity furthers the evident purpose of [section
2032.320],”  for example, by mitigating “the
risks of unwarranted intrusion upon the plaintiff against the defendant’s need
for a meaningful opportunity to test the plaintiff’s claims . . . [and] will also
aid the examiner in understanding and complying with the parameters
imposed by the court.”  (Carpenter, supra,
141 Cal.App.4th at p. 261.)  
Therefore, the
Court denies the motion without prejudice. 

Defendant is ordered
to provide notice of this order and to file proof of service of same.
 