 Case Number:  22STCV16831    Hearing Date:   December 10, 2024    Dept:  39        TENTATIVE RULING
 



DEPT:


39




HEARING DATE:


December 10, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV16831




MOTION:  


Motion to Quash Subpoena




MOVING PARTY:


Defendants S.S.L. Investments, LLC and 9419 Mason
  Partners, LLC




OPPOSING PARTY:


Plaintiffs Original Balboa Caregivers, Inc. and Basil
  Bailey



 
MOTION
            Plaintiffs
Original Balboa Caregivers, Inc. (“Balboa Original Caregivers”) and Basil
Bailey (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) served a subpoena on H. Troy Farahmand of
the Law Offices of H. Troy Farahmand (collectively, “Farahmand”).  Defendants S.S.L. Investments, LLC (“SSL”) and
9419 Mason Partners, LLC (collectively, “Defendants”) objected to the subpoena because
Plaintiff was seeking attorney-client privileged documents.  Defendants now move to quash the subpoena,
and Plaintiffs oppose the motion.  
The Court
previously considered the matter and, in its order of March 29, 2024, the Court
continued it to provide an opportunity for Farahmand to oppose the motion, and
to set an evidentiary hearing.  In its
order of September 9, 2024, the Court placed the evidentiary hearing off
calendar based on the representations of counsel.
ANALYSIS
If a subpoena
requires the production of documents, the Court may quash the subpoena entirely
or modify it. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1, subd. (a).)  In ruling on a motion to quash, “the Court may
in its discretion award the amount of the reasonable expenses incurred in
making or opposing the motion, including reasonable attorney's fees, if the
court finds the motion was made or opposed in bad faith or without substantial
justification or that one or more of the requirements of the subpoena was
oppressive.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.2, subd. (a).)
Farahmand is a
member of Defendants.  He is also an
attorney.  Defendants contend Farahmand
acted as their attorney.  Farahmand
denies that he did so.  “California law
is settled that a client's subjective belief that an attorney-client
relationship exists, standing alone, cannot create such a relationship, or a
duty of care owed by the attorney to that plaintiff.  This is because a plaintiff cannot
unilaterally establish an attorney-client relationship, and its hindsight ‘beliefs’
that such a relationship existed are thus legally irrelevant.  Instead, it is the intent and conduct of the
parties that controls the question as to whether an attorney-client
relationship has been created.”  (Zenith
Ins. Co. v. O'Connor (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 998, 1010, internal citations
omitted.)  
This case concerns
the termination of the business relationship between Plaintiffs and
Defendants.  Plaintiffs challenge the
terms of agreements by which Plaintiffs terminated their business venture with
Defendants.  Farahmand negotiated,
drafted, and edited the termination agreements. 
(See, e.g., Declaration of Michael Forman, Exhibit C; Declaration of
Michael Yedidsion, ¶ 12.)  This is not
dispositive, however.  Non-attorneys can
and do draft such agreements.  
In its order of March
29, 2024, this Court stated, “The Court is troubled by two issues, though
neither is dispositive. First, H. Troy Farahmand used his law firm’s email
account—htf@htflawfirm.com—to communicate with the other members concerning
these legal documents.  The fact that
Farahmand was communicating in the name of his law firm—instead of using a
personal email account, which is readily available to anyone—may suggest that
he was communicating in his capacity as an attorney or it may simply have been
the result of Farahmand keeping this email account after he closed his practice
because it had all of his contacts.  Second,
Farahmand held SSL’s funds in his client-trust account.  Pursuant to the parties’ termination
agreement, the plaintiff in Case Number 20STCV21278 would be Balboa Original
Caregivers but any funds collected from the lawsuit would go to SSL.  The agreement states that these payments for
SSL shall be deposited into the attorney client trust account for the
designated lawyer of S.S.L.  Funds from
that lawsuit ultimately were collected and deposited into Farahmand’s
attorney-client trust account.”  (March
29, 2024 Minute Order, internal quotations and citations omitted.)  
Farahmand submits
a declaration in connection with his opposition to the motion.  In it, Farahmand states he used his law firm’s
email account for all “personal and business-related matters” since
approximately 2012.  (Declaration of
Hootan Troy Farahmand, ¶ 2.)  Further,
Farahmand declares he placed funds for the benefit of Original Balboa
Caregivers in his client trust account but never placed funds for the benefit
of SSL in that account.  (Id., ¶¶
20-21.)  This evidence satisfies the
Court that Farahmand was not acting as Defendants’ attorney, even if Defendants
may have subjectively perceived Farahmand to be acting in that capacity.
Further,
Defendants fail to show the subpoena calls for documents that are attorney-client
privileged.  A client has a privilege to
refuse to disclose, and to prevent another from disclosing, a confidential
communication between the client and the lawyer.  (Evid. Code, § 954.)  “‘[C]onfidential communication between client
and lawyer’ means information transmitted between a client and his or her
lawyer in the course of that relationship and in confidence by a means which,
so far as the client is aware, discloses the information to no third persons
other than those who are present to further the interest of the client in the
consultation or those to whom disclosure is reasonably necessary for the
transmission of the information or the accomplishment of the purpose for which
the lawyer is consulted, and includes a legal opinion formed and the advice
given by the lawyer in the course of that relationship.”  (Evid. Code, § 952.)  
Except for Demand
No. 5, the requests would not fall within the attorney-client privilege, even
if Farahmand represented Defendants. 
Documents are not subject to the attorney-client privilege merely
because they are in the possession of an attorney.  For example, in Demand No. 1, Plaintiffs request
all documents pertaining to Plaintiff Original Balboa, including “any
agreements, marketing material, financial records, bank account records, and
corporate documents.”  (See Separate
Statement in Support of Motion to Quash Deposition Subpoena, p. 1.)  Such documents are not confidential
attorney-client communications.  
However, as Defendants
point out, in Demand No. 2, Plaintiffs request tax returns. Federal and state
tax returns are privileged from disclosure.  (Webb v. Standard Oil Co. of Cal. (1957)
49 Cal.2d 509, 513-514.)  Accordingly,
the Court grants the motion to quash Demand No. 2 to the extent it seeks tax
returns.
Defendants also
argue the document requests in the subpoena are “wildly compound, vague, and
overbroad.”  (Motion to Quash Deposition
Subpoena, p. 7.)  A party propounding a
deposition subpoena must seek documents by “reasonably particularizing each
category.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.410,
subd. (a).)  The categories of documents Plaintiffs
seek are reasonably particularized such that Farahmand can respond.  The document requests are also not
overbroad.  “[I]t is difficult to define
at the discovery stage what evidence will be relevant at trial. Therefore, the
party seeking discovery is entitled to substantial leeway.”  (Norton v. Superior Court (1994) 24
Cal.App.4th 1750, 1761.)
Defendants are to give notice of this order and to file
proof of service of same.
 