 Case Number:  24STLC00642    Hearing Date:   January 15, 2025    Dept:  26 Davidson v. Albertsons Companies, Inc. et al.,TENTATIVE RULING:Defendant Albertsons Companies, Inc. dba Pavilions’ Demurrer to the Complaint is OVERRULED. DEFENDANT IS TO FILE AND SERVE AN ANSWER TO THE COMPLAINT WITHIN 20 DAYS OF THIS ORDER.ANALYSIS:On January 29, 2024, Plaintiff Lisa Davidson (“Plaintiff”) filed the Complaint in this action against Defendant Albertsons Companies, Inc. dba Pavilions (“Defendant”). On December 13, 2024, Defendant filed the instant Demurrer to the Complaint. Plaintiff filed an opposition on January 2, 2025 and Defendant replied on January 7, 2025.DiscussionDefendant’s purported demurrer is an improper combination of the demurrer and venue statutes. The Motion first cites Code of Civil Procedure section 430.30 for the proposition that an objection to a complaint may be taken by demurrer when the grounds for the objection appear on the face of the complaint or on any matter of which the court may take judicial notice. (Citing Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd. (a).) Defendant goes on to argue that the Court lacks jurisdiction over this action, which is a basis for demurrer under Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10, subdivision (a). However, only general demurrers are permitted in the limited jurisdiction court. (Code Civ. Proc., § 92, subd. (c).) A demurrer for lack of subject matter jurisdiction is a special demurrer, which the Court cannot consider. (See Workmen's Comp. Appeals Bd. v. Small Claims Court (1973) 35 Cal.App.3d 643, 645 n. 3; Middlecoff v. Superior Court of Los Angeles County (1934) 220 Cal. 410, 414.)The “demurrer” is alternatively brought as a motion to dismiss under Code of Civil Procedure section 392 on the grounds that it concerns property located in Ventura County, and therefore, must be heard in the Ventura County Superior Court. The address of the property that is the subject of this action is 1135 Lindero Canyon Road, Thousand Oaks, California 91362. (Compl., ¶2.) Defendant contends that the subject property is in Ventura County but offers no admissible evidence of this fact. Also, Defendant does not demonstrate either by reference to the Complaint, nor to matters of which the Court may take judicial notice, that the property in this action is located in Ventura County. Plaintiff disputes that the address is in Ventura County and contends it is in Los Angeles County by providing a copy of the Court’s online filing locator. (Opp., Exh. 1.) The Court’s filing locator indicates that the relevant zip code is within both Los Angeles and Ventura Counties and directs parties to file limited civil cases in the Stanley Mosk Courthouse. (Ibid.)Even if the Court were to find that the subject property is in Ventura County, Plaintiff has not shown that venue is proper under Code of Civil Procedure section 392, which states in relevant part:(a) Subject to the power of the court to transfer actions and proceedings as provided in this title, the superior court in the county where the real property that is the subject of the action, or some part thereof, is situated, is the proper court for the trial of the following actions:  (1) For the recovery of real property, or of an estate or interest therein, or for the determination in any form, of that right    or interest, and for injuries to real property.  (2) For the foreclosure of all liens and mortgages on real property.(Code Civ. Proc., § 392, subd. (a).) Defendant overreaches by arguing that the statute expressly states any action that involves real property must be filed in the county where the real property is located. This action, however, does not concern the recovery of real property, or of an estate or interest in said property, for injuries to the real property, or for the foreclosure of all liens and mortgages on the property. Instead, it is for an action pertaining injuries that occurred on the subject property. Defendant offers no authority that an action for injuries sustained on real property is subject to this venue provision. The motion to dismiss, erroneously brought as a demurrer, therefore, is without merit.ConclusionDefendant Albertsons Companies, Inc. dba Pavilions’ Demurrer to the Complaint is OVERRULED. DEFENDANT IS TO FILE AND SERVE AN ANSWER TO THE COMPLAINT WITHIN 20 DAYS OF THIS ORDER.Court clerk to give notice.