 Case Number:  24STCP01366    Hearing Date:   January 15, 2025    Dept:  26 Westlake Direct, LLC v. Williams et al., TENTATIVE RULING:Petitioner Westlake Direct, LLC’s Petition to Correct Arbitration Award is DISMISSED.ANALYSIS:On April 29, 2024, Petitioner Westlake Direct, LLC (“Petitioner”) filed a Petition to Confirm Arbitration Award (the “Petition”) against Respondent Dirahn D. Williams (“Respondent”). The Petition to Confirm came for hearing on September 26, 2024, at which time the Court denied the Petition without prejudice to filing an amended petition that conforms to the statutory requirements. (Minute Order, 09/26/24.) Specifically, the Court ruled that the Petitioner was not a party to the arbitration because the arbitration award referred to “Westlake Services, LLC d/b/a Westlake Financial Services and Coastline Recovery Services.” (Ibid [citing Pet. to Confirm, Attachment 8(c)].) The Court also ruled that no proof of service of the Petition and Notice of Hearing had been filed. (Ibid.) Petitioner was instructed to give notice. (Ibid.)On November 13, 2024, Petitioner filed the instant Petition to Correct Arbitration Award. No proof of service of, nor response to, the Petition to Correct has been filed to date.Legal Standard“Any party to an arbitration in which an award has been made may petition the court to confirm, correct or vacate the award. The petition shall name as respondent all parties to the arbitration and may name as respondents any other persons bound by the arbitration award.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1285.) “If a petition or response under this chapter is duly served and filed, the court shall confirm the award as made, whether rendered in this state or another state, unless in accordance with this chapter it corrects the award and confirms it as corrected, vacates the award or dismisses the proceeding.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1286.)A response to a Petition to Confirm Arbitration Award that seeks to vacate or correct the award must be served and filed no later than 100 days after the date of the service of a signed copy of the award on the respondent. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1288.2.)DiscussionAs with the initial Petition, no proof of service of the Petition to Correct and Notice of Hearing has been filed as required by Code of Civil Procedure section 1290.4. Code of Civil Procedure, section 1290.4 requires that the Petition and Notice of Hearing be served on Respondent “in the manner provided in the arbitration agreement for the service of such petition and notice” or “[i]f the arbitration agreement does not provide the manner in which such service shall be made . . . [s]ervice within this State shall be made in the manner provided by law for the service of summons in an action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1290.4, subds. (a), (b).) The arbitration agreement does not provide for the manner of service of the Petition and Notice of Hearing, which therefore must be served in the manner of service for a summons. (Pet., Attachment 4(b).) Accordingly, the Court finds that the requirements of Code of Civil Procedure section 1290.4 remain unsatisfied.ConclusionPetitioner Westlake Direct, LLC’s Petition to Correct Arbitration Award is DISMISSED.Court clerk to give notice.