 Case Number:  24STLC04524    Hearing Date:   January 15, 2025    Dept:  26 Chapman et al., v. IWorld of Travel, Ltd., et al.,TENTATIVE RULING:Defendant IWorld of Travel Limited’s Motion to Dismiss or Stay Action is DENIED. DEFENDANT IS TO FILE AND SERVE ITS RESPONSE PLEADING WITHIN 20 DAYS OF THIS ORDER.ANALYSIS:On June 24, 2024, Plaintiffs Howard Chapman and Kathryn Chapman (“Plaintiffs”) filed the Complaint in this action against Defendants IWorld of Travel Ltd. (“Defendant”) and American Express National Bank, which was subsequently dismissed.On November 15, 2024, Defendant filed the instant Motion to Dismiss or Stay Action. Plaintiffs filed an opposition on December 23, 2024 and Defendant replied on January 8, 2025.DiscussionDefendant’s Motion to Dismiss or Stay Action is brought pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 410.30, which states in relevant part: “When a court upon motion of a party or its own motion finds that in the interest of substantial justice an action should be heard in a forum outside this state, the court shall stay or dismiss the action in whole or in part on any conditions that may be just.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 410.30, subd. (a).) This statute codifies the doctrine of forum non conveniens, which “authorizes a court to decline to exercise its jurisdiction in appropriate instances on the ground that the plaintiff has unfairly or unreasonably invoked the jurisdiction of an inconvenient forum.” (Furda v. Superior Court (1984) 161 Cal.App.3d 418, 425, n. 3.) The doctrine of forum non conveniens is an appropriate means of enforcing a forum selection clause. (Ibid.)Defendant presents the following evidence that the parties entered in a forum selection clause in which New York is the exclusive jurisdiction concerning disputes regarding the parties’ agreement. Plaintiff purchased a luxury vacation package online through Defendant’s website. (Motion, Gelber Decl., ¶6 and Exh. B.) When a customer pays online, they are taken to a webpage to fill in the necessary information to process the payment. (Id. at ¶7.) During this process, the customer is presented with additional acknowledgments, as well as the Terms and Conditions that govern Defendant’s relationship with its customers. (Id. at ¶8.) Plaintiffs acknowledged the Terms and Conditions, which provide that the exclusive venue for disputes over the trip is the Superior Court of New York, New York County (Manhattan). (Id. at Exh. C.)Plaintiffs’ opposition, however, disputes that they acknowledged the Terms and Conditions attached to the Gelber declaration. Plaintiffs contend they booked the trip through their travel agent, Paula Fortner, who made the arrangements over telephone and email in November 2022. (Motion, Fortner Decl., ¶2; Chapman Decl., ¶¶2-3.) Fortner did not book Plaintiff’s trip through Defendant’s website and was not provided with any terms and conditions at the time of booking. (Fortner Decl., ¶2.) On November 18, 2022, Defendant emailed Fortner Plaintiffs’ itinerary, which Fortner then forwarded to Plaintiffs. (Id. at ¶3 and Exh. 1; Chapman Decl., ¶2 and Exh. 1.) Plaintiffs revised the itinerary in May 2023 with Fortner’s assistance and were provided with a revised itinerary that included the same terms and conditions as previously provided. (Motion, Chapman Decl., ¶3 and Exh. 2.) The terms and conditions provided to Fortner and Plaintiffs in November 2022 and May 2023 did not include a forum selection clause. (Motion, Chapman Decl., Exhs. 1, 3; Fortner Decl., Exh. 1.) Also, when Plaintiffs first initiated this disputed in October 2023 and made a charge back request of American Express, Defendant challenged the charge back request with a copy of the same terms and conditions, which did not include a forum selection clause. (Id. at ¶4 and Exh. 3.) Upon receipt of the declaration in support of Defendant’s Motion, Plaintiff Howard Chapman went to Defendant’s website and reviewed the terms and conditions posted therein. (Id. at ¶8.) Those terms and conditions included the forum selection clause but indicated a “time of publishing” as “12/6/2023.” (Id. at ¶8 and Exh. 5.)In reply, Defendant now offers a different explanation of the terms and conditions to which it contends Plaintiffs agreed. Defendant’s officer now declares that Plaintiffs agreed to two different terms and conditions. (Reply, Gelber Decl., ¶¶5-8.) The first was upon payment of the initial deposit and the second was upon full payment. (Ibid.) The second terms and conditions included the forum selection and attorney’s fees clauses. (Id. at ¶¶7-8 and Exh. B.) The second terms and conditions document is not publicly available and is only accessible by password by customers who have paid for the full package. (Ibid.)The Court does not find Defendant’s evidence demonstrates Plaintiffs agreed to the terms and conditions that contained the forum selection clause. Defendant’s first supporting declaration lacks credibility in light of the new and different facts raised in the second Gelber declaration. Gelber initially incorrectly declared that Plaintiffs booked their trip through the website and made no mention of two different terms and conditions documents. Furthermore, Defendant’s evidence speaks in general terms of what Plaintiffs would have agreed to upon making the initial deposit and full payment but does not provide evidence of any specific communications with Plaintiffs or their travel agent, nor screen shots of the password protected landing page that purportedly gave Plaintiffs access to the second terms and conditions.Therefore, Defendant has not demonstrated that this action should be dismissed or stayed pursuant to a contractually agreed upon forum selection clause.ConclusionDefendant IWorld of Travel Limited’s Motion to Dismiss or Stay Action is DENIED. DEFENDANT IS TO FILE AND SERVE ITS RESPONSE PLEADING WITHIN 20 DAYS OF THIS ORDER.Court clerk to give notice.