 Case Number:  24VECV02670    Hearing Date:   November 5, 2024    Dept:  107 


 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
  CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
NORTHWEST DISTRICT
 




 
Yvette Gur-Arie,
 
Plaintiff,
 
       
   v.
 
Brookdale Gardens of Tarzana, et
  al.
 
Defendants.
 


 
 
   Case Number             Department
   24VECV02670           107




 
 
COURT’S [TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: 
 
Motion
  to Compel Arbitration
                        



 
[THE FOLLOWING IS A TENTATIVE RULING IN THE ABOVE CASE]:  Denied
 
Defendants Brookdale Gardens of Tarzana
and BLC Gardens-Tarzana, L.P. move to compel arbitration of the claims brought
by Plaintiff Yvette Guar-Arie.
 
I.               
BACKGROUND
Plaintiff Yvette Gur-Arie received
care at Brookdale Gardens of Tarzana, a Residential Care Facility for the
Elderly, and Tarzana Medical Center aka Providence Cedars-Sinai Medical Center.
(Complaint ¶ 1.) On June 7, 2024, Plaintiff Yvette Gur-Arie filed a complaint
against Defendants Brookdale Gardens of Tarzana, BLC Gardens-Tarzana, L.P.,
Providence Cedars-Sinai Tarzana Medical Center, Tarzana Medical Center, LLC,
Oren N. Hirsch, MD, Sharon George, MD., Shannon M. Smith, MD, and Does 1
through 200, alleging two causes of action for elder abuse/neglect and
negligence/professional negligence. 
 
On October 3, 2024, Defendants
Brookdale Gardens of Tarzana and BLC Gardens-Tarzana, L.P. (“Defendants”) filed
a motion to compel arbitration. On October 23, 2024, Plaintiff filed an
opposition. On October 29, 2024, Defendants filed a reply. 
 
II.            
DISCUSSION
 
Under both the Federal Arbitration Act and California
law, arbitration agreements are valid, irrevocable, and enforceable, except on
such grounds that exist at law or equity for voiding a contract. (Winter v.
Window Fashions Professions, Inc. (2008) 166 Cal.App.4th 943, 947.) “[T]he
right to arbitration depends upon contract; a petition to compel arbitration is
simply a suit in equity seeking specific performance of that contract.” (Marcus
& Millichap Real Estate Inv. Brokerage Co. v. Hock Inv. Co. (1998) 68
Cal. App.4th 83, 88.) 
 
The petitioner bears the burden of proving the
existence of a valid arbitration agreement by the preponderance of the
evidence, the party opposing the petition then bears the burden of proving by a
preponderance of the evidence any fact necessary to demonstrate that there
should be no enforcement of the agreement, and the trial court sits as a trier
of fact to reach a final determination on the issue. (Rosenthal v. Great
Western Financial Securities Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 413; Provencio
v. WMA Securities, Inc., 125 Cal.App.4th 1028, 1031.) The court is
empowered by California Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.2 to compel
parties to arbitrate disputes pursuant to an agreement to do so. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 1281.2.)
   
“California law incorporates many of the basic policy
objectives contained in the Federal Arbitration Act, including a presumption in
favor of arbitrability.” (Engalla v. Permanente Medical Group, Inc.
(1997) 15 Cal.4th 951, 971–72.) “This strong policy has resulted in the general
rule that arbitration should be upheld ‘unless it can be said with assurance
that an arbitration clause is not susceptible to an interpretation covering the
asserted dispute.’” (Coast Plaza Doctors Hospital v. Blue Cross of
California (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 677, 686.) Notwithstanding that strong
policy, the United States Supreme Court has held, “[A]rbitration is a matter of
contract and a party cannot be required to submit to arbitration any dispute
which he has not agreed so to submit.” (AT & T Technologies, Inc.
v. Communications Workers of America (1986) 475 U.S. 643, 648.)
 
The hearing and determination of a petition to compel
arbitration “in the manner and upon the notice provided by law for the making
and hearing of motions” generally means that “the facts are to be proven by
affidavit or declaration and documentary evidence with oral testimony taken
only in the court's discretion.” (Sonic-Calabasas A, Inc. v. Moreno
(2013) 57 Cal.4th 1109, 1157.)
 

Existence
     of an Arbitration Agreement

 
The petitioner bears the burden of
proving the existence of a valid arbitration agreement by a preponderance of
the evidence. (Rosenthal v. Great Western Financial Securities Corp., supra,
14 Cal.4th 394, 413.)
 
Defendants argue Plaintiff must
arbitrate their dispute because, at the time of Plaintiff’s admission to
Brookdale Gardens, Plaintiff’s representative, Joshua Gur-Arie, executed an
arbitration agreement. (Motion p. 3.)
 
Defendants submit the Residency
Agreement (the “Agreement”) that was signed by Joshua Gur-Arie on March 25,
2019. (Ex. A p. 18.) The Agreement contains an arbitration provision, which
states:
 
Any and all claims or controversies
arising out of, or in any way relating to, this Agreement or your stay at the
Community, excluding any action for eviction, and including disputes regarding
interpretation of this Agreement, whether arising out of State or Federal law,
whether existing or arising in the future, whether for statutory, compensatory
or punitive damages and whether sounding in breach of contract, tort or breach
of statutory duties, irrespective of the basis for the duty or the legal theories
upon which the claim is asserted, shall be submitted to binding arbitration, as
provided below, and shall not be filed in a court of law. The parties to
this Agreement further understand that a jury will not decide their
case. The California Code of Civil Procedure 1280 et seq. concerning
arbitration shall govern the procedure, except if inconsistent with this
Arbitration Provision or expressly stated otherwise in this Agreement. Further,
nothing in this Agreement is to be construed to contradict any applicable
California statutory or regulatory grievance, challenge or mediation procedure.
Any party who demands arbitration must do so for all claims or controversies
that are known, or reasonably should have been known, by the date of the demand
for arbitration, and if learned of during the course of the arbitration
proceeding shall amend the claims or controversies to reflect the same. All
current damages and reasonably foreseeable damages arising out of such claims
or controversies shall also be incorporated into the initial demand or
amendment thereto.
 
(Ex. A. pp. 9-10.)
 
Defendants also submit the Durable
General Power of Attorney, which granted Joshua Gur-Arie “full legal authority
to handle all financial and business affairs for [Yvette B. Gur-Arie]” and the
power to “sign, seal, execute, deliver, create and acknowledge any documents on
behalf of [Yvette V. Gur-Arie.]” (Ex. 2 pp. 1-2.) Joshua Gur-Arie acknowledges
that his signature is on the Agreement. (Joshua Gur-Arie Declaration ¶ 5.)
 
In Harrod v. Country Oaks
Partners, LLC (2024) 15 Cal.5th 939, 956, the Court stated “[t]he power to
make decisions about ‘claims and litigation,’ moreover, includes the power to
“submit to arbitration ... with respect to a claim or litigation” and to
‘execute and file or deliver a ... waiver, ... agreement, or other instrument
in connection with the prosecution, settlement, or defense of a claim or
litigation.’” Here, although the Durable Power of Attorney did not reference
“claims and litigation” it granted Joshua Gur-Arie “full authority to handle
all financial and business affairs” and the power to “sign, seal,
execute, deliver, create and acknowledge any documents on behalf of [Yvette V.
Gur-Arie.]” (Ex. 2 pp. 1-2.) Moreover, Plaintiff does not dispute that the
Durable Power of Attorney gave Joshua Gur-Arie the authority to sign the
Agreement on behalf of Plaintiff. 
 
Accordingly, Defendants have met
their burden of proving a valid arbitration agreement exists. 
 

Plaintiff’s Arguments

 
Plaintiff argues the Agreement is
substantively and procedurally unconscionable. Plaintiff also argues the
Agreement is against public policy and therefore void. (Opposition p. 12.)
Finally, Plaintiff argues this court should exercise its discretion to refuse
to enforce the Agreement because this action involves third parties who were
not parties to the Agreement.
 

Unconscionability

 
The doctrine of unconscionability
applies to arbitration agreements. (Peng v. First Republic Bank (2013)
219 Cal.App.4th 1462, 1469.) Civil Code section 1670.5, subdivision
(a) provides, “If the court as a matter of law finds the contract or any
clause of the contract to have been unconscionable at the time it was made the
court may refuse to enforce the contract.” 
 
“Unconscionability has both a
‘procedural’ and a ‘substantive’ element, the former focusing on ‘oppression’
or ‘surprise’ due to unequal bargaining power, the latter on ‘overly harsh’ or
‘one-sided’ results. The prevailing view is that procedural and substantive
unconscionability must both be present in order for a court to
exercise its discretion to refuse to enforce a contract or clause under the
doctrine of unconscionability. But they need not be present in the same degree.
The more substantively oppressive the contract term, the less evidence of
procedural unconscionability is required to come to the conclusion that the
term is unenforceable, and vice versa.” (Peng v. First Republic Bank, supra,
219 Cal.App.4th at p. 1469, internal citations omitted, emphasis original.)
“Ordinary contracts of adhesion, although they are indispensable
facts of modern life that are generally enforced, contain a degree of
procedural unconscionability.” (Baltazar v. Forever 21, Inc. (2016)
62 Cal.4th 1237, 1244.)
 


Substantive Unconscionability


 
Plaintiff argues the Agreement is unfairly one-sided because
it “requires residents to give up their constitutional right to a jury trial
without reciprocity as to Brookdale and its owners/operators.” (Opposition p.
8.) But the Agreement states that “[a]ny and all claims or controversies” are
subject to arbitration and does not expressly limit arbitration to claims
brought by Plaintiff. (Ex. A. p. 9.) Accordingly, this court finds that the
Agreement is not unfairly one-sided.
 
Next, Plaintiff argues the Agreement illegally limits damages
because it “requires each party to bear its own attorney fees and costs, and
‘expressly waive any right to recover attorney fees or costs.’” (Opposition p.
9.) Plaintiff cites Bickel v. Sunrise Assisted Living (2012) 206
Cal.App.4th 1, 10, where the Court of Appeal upheld a trial court’s ruling that
“a waiver of recovery of attorney fees and costs in connection with arbitration
of elder abuse claims . . .  was contrary
to public policy.” The Court cited California Welfare and Institutions Code
section 15657, which states “Where
it is proven by clear and convincing evidence that a defendant is liable for
physical abuse as defined in Section 15610.63, neglect as defined
in Section 15610.57, or abandonment as defined in Section
15610.05, and that the defendant has been guilty of recklessness,
oppression, fraud, or malice in the commission of this abuse, the following
shall apply, in addition to all other remedies otherwise provided by law: (a)
The court shall award to the plaintiff reasonable attorney's fees and costs.”
The Court stated that “the rights established in Section 15657 were unwaivable
and, as a result, the arbitration agreement in the instant case could not be
used as a vehicle for the waiver of such important statutory rights.” (Bickel
v. Sunrise Assisted Living, supra, 206 Cal.App.4th at p. 12.) The Court
held “[w]here a provision in an arbitration agreement seeks to waive such
rights, as was the case here, the provision is contrary to public policy and
may be severed.” (Id.) 
 
Plaintiff’s complaint alleges a cause of action for elder
abuse/neglect. (Complaint p. 1.) Like Bickel, the Agreement here
contains a waiver of attorneys’ fees, stating “[t]he parties shall bear their
own attorneys’ fees and costs and hereby expressly waive any right to recovery
attorney fees or costs, unless otherwise provided for by state or federal statute.”
(Ex. A, pp. 10-11.) Accordingly, the Agreement’s attorneys’ fees provision
violates Bickel.
 
Finally, Plaintiff
argues the Agreement unlawfully requires the arbitration proceedings to remain
confidential. (Opposition p. 3.) Plaintiff cites Code of Civil Procedure
section 2017.310(a), which states “Notwithstanding any other provision of law,
it is the policy of the State of California that confidential settlement
agreements are disfavored in any civil action the factual foundation for which
establishes a cause of action for a violation of the Elder Abuse and Dependent
Adult Civil Protection Act (Chapter 11(commencing with Section 15600) of Part 3 of Division 9 of the Welfare and
Institutions Code).” Plaintiff also cites Code of Civil Procedure
section 2017.320(f), which states “A stipulated protective order may not be
recognized or enforced by the court to prevent disclosure of information filed
with the court pursuant to subdivision (b), absent a showing of any of the
following: (1) The information is privileged under existing law. (2) The
information is not evidence of abuse of an elder or dependent adult as
described in Sections 15610.30, 15610.57, and 15610.63 of the Welfare and
Institutions Code. (3) The party seeking to uphold the confidentiality
of the information has demonstrated that there is a substantial probability
that prejudice will result from the disclosure and that the party's interest in
the information cannot be adequately protected through redaction.” (Opposition
p. 4.) 
 
The Agreement states
“[t]he arbitration provision shall remain confidential in all respects . . .”
(Ex. A. p. 12.)  This
court finds that the Agreement’s confidentiality provision is disfavored under
section 2017.310(a) and is also unenforceable, absent a showing of the
requirements set forth in section 2017.320(f).
 
Plaintiff argues the unconscionable provisions should not be
severed from the arbitration agreement.
 
“The overarching inquiry is whether ‘the interests of justice
. . . would be furthered’ by severance.” (Martinez v. Master Protection
Corp. (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th 107, 119.) “If the central purpose of the
contract is tainted with illegality, then the contract as a whole cannot be
enforced. If the illegality is collateral to the main purpose of the contract,
and the illegal provision can be extirpated from the contract by means of
severance or restriction, then such severance and restriction are appropriate.”
(Id.) 
 
In Martinez v. Master Protection Corp., supra, 118
Cal.App.4th at p. 119, the arbitration agreement contained an unlawful
provision shortening the statute of limitations, a cost-sharing provision, and
an unconscionably unilateral arbitration clause. The Court noted that the
defects “indicate a systematic effort to impose arbitration on an employee . .
. as an inferior forum that works to the employer’s advantage.” (Id.)
The Court held that the provisions could not be cured “by striking or limiting
application of [the] provisions . . . [r]ather, the arbitration agreement is so
‘permeated’ by unconscionability it could only be saved, if at all, by a
reformation beyond our authority.” (Id.) 

 
In contrast to Martinez, the attorneys’ fees and
confidentiality provisions do not permeate the agreement and can be cured by
striking those provisions from the Agreement. Accordingly, this court finds
that the attorneys’ fees and confidentiality provisions can be severed from the
Agreement. 
 


Procedural Unconscionability


 
Plaintiff argues the Agreement is procedurally unconscionable
because it was signed under oppressive and coercive conditions. (Opposition p.
5.) Plaintiff argues the conditions were oppressive and coercive because Joshua
Gur-Arie signed the Agreement the day after Plaintiff was admitted to Brookdale
and “[b]y delaying presentation of the agreement until after her move-in date,
Brookdale ensured that [Plaintiff’s] move was already complete, such that the
burden to negotiate any of its provisions and/or cancel the admission
altogether (the only leverage available) would have been too high.” (Opposition
p. 5.)
 
“A procedural unconscionability
analysis ‘begins with an inquiry into whether the contract is one of adhesion.”
(OTO, L.L.C. v. Kho, (2019) 8 Cal.5th 111, 116.) “An adhesive
contract is standardized, generally on a preprinted form, and offered by the
party with superior bargaining power ‘on a take-it-or-leave-it basis.” (Id.)
Procedural unconscionability also “focus[es] on oppression and surprise due
to unequal bargaining power.” (Swain v. LaserAway Medical Group, Inc.
(2020) 57 Cal.App.5th 59, 69.) “[O]pression occurs where a contract
involves lack of negotiation and meaningful choice, surprise where the
allegedly unconscionable provision is hidden within a prolix printed form.” (Id.)

 
The Agreement appears to be standardized, on a preprinted
form, and offered by Defendants, who were the party with superior bargaining
power. (Ex. A.) Accordingly, the Agreement is an adhesive contract.
 
However, Plaintiff’s argument that the Agreement is
procedurally unconscionable because it was signed the day after Plaintiff’s
admission and Plaintiff’s representative therefore had no choice but to agree
is unpersuasive. The Agreement contained an opt-out provision, stating “[i[f
you or your legal representative chooses to opt out of [the arbitration
provision] of this Agreement please indicate by signing below.” (Ex. A. p. 11.)
Further, the Agreement stated “[e]ven if you or your legal representative chooses
not to opt out of the arbitration provisions above, you may withdraw your
agreement to arbitrate within thirty (30) days after signing this Agreement by
giving written notice of your withdrawal to us.” (Ex. A. p. 11.) Accordingly, Plaintiff’s
representative could have opted out of the arbitration provision without
cancelling Plaintiff’s admission to the facility. 
 
Thus, this court finds that there is a small degree of
procedural unconscionability because the Agreement is an adhesion contract but
finds Plaintiff’s argument that Plaintiff had no choice but to agree to the
arbitration provision meritless. 
 

Public Policy

 
Plaintiff argues that pursuant to Harris v. University Village
Thousand Oaks, CCRC,
LLC (2020) 49 Cal.App.5th 847 and Code of Civil Procedure section
1953(a)(4), the Agreement is void as against public policy.
 
Civil Code section 1953(a) states
“Any provision of a lease or rental agreement of a dwelling by which the lessee
agrees to modify or waive any of the following rights shall be void as contrary
to public policy . . . [including her] procedural rights in litigation in any
action involving [her] rights and obligations as a tenant.” 
 
In Harris v. University Village
Thousand Oaks, CCRC, LLC (2020) 49 Cal.App.5th 847, 850-851,
residents filed an action against a continuing care retirement community, alleging
“false representations regarding facility security, the amount of future
increases in monthly fees, and whether monthly fees included the cost to charge
electric vehicles.” (Id. at 851.) The residents later appealed from a
judgment confirming an arbitration award. (Id. at 850.) On Appeal, the
Court noted that “Civil Code section 1953, subdivision (a)(4), ‘establishes
the general rule that a tenant of residential premises cannot validly
agree, in a residential lease agreement, to binding
arbitration to resolve disputes regarding [their] rights and obligations as a
tenant.’” (Id. at p. 852.) The Court held that section 1953 “applies to
the continuing care contracts here because the fees paid by appellants include
payment for the right to live in a residence” and “[b]ecause the allegations in
the complaint . . . include violations of ‘rights and obligations as a tenant’
[citation] the arbitration agreements are void.” (Id. at 853.) 
 
Defendants argue Harris does not apply here because
the arbitration agreement exempts eviction and Plaintiff’s causes of action “do
not relate to her tenancy, but, rather, to the services and care she received
while residing at the Brookdale facility.” (Reply p. 10.) 
 
Plaintiff argues Harris applies here because the
complaint alleges Defendants failed to supervise Plaintiff, causing her to
sustain four broken bones, and Defendants failed to report changes in
Plaintiff’s changes to Plaintiff’s physician and unauthorized representatives.
(Opposition p. 4.) 
 
Unlike Harris, this case does not involve Plaintiff’s tenant’s
rights. In contrast, Plaintiff alleges claims for elder abuse/neglect and
negligence/professional negligence which are based on Defendants’ failure to
supervise and care for Plaintiff and Defendants’ failure to report Plaintiff’s
injuries. (Complaint p. 1, ¶¶
18, 20, 21-30.)
Accordingly, this court finds that Harris is distinguishable and does
not apply here.
 

Third Parties

 
Plaintiff argues this court “may refuse to enforce the arbitration agreement, and
may order joinder of all parties into a single action if it determines that a
party to the arbitration agreement (i.e., the Brookdale Defendants) is also a
party to a pending court action with a third party (i.e. the Tarzana Medical
Center Defendants), arising out of the same transaction or series of related
transactions, and there is a possibility of conflicting rulings on a common
issue of law or fact.” (Opposition p. 10.) Plaintiff further argues “there is a
substantial risk of an arbitrator and jury arriving at conflicting findings of
fact.” (Opposition p. 11.) Plaintiff suggests “the trier(s) of fact will have
to decide the extent to which each of the defendants contributed to the cause
of Mrs. Gur-Arie’s injuries, and the factual findings made by the different
triers of fact may conflict.” (Opposition p. 11.) For example, an arbitrator
could determine the Tarzana Medical Center Defendants . . . are liable for the
injuries suffered by [Plaintiff]; whereas, at trial, the jury could determine
that the Brookdale Defendants . . . were the responsible tortfeasors.” And
“[b]ecause §1431.2 dictates that each defendant only bears liability for its
proportionate share of non-economic damages, [Plaintiff] could even be deprived
of any favorable verdict – despite a finding of wrongdoing – because the respective
triers of fact could come to inconsistent verdicts.” (Opposition p. 11.)
 
Defendants argue inconsistent
verdicts and duplication of efforts are unlikely because “[t]he alleged acts of
negligence by each defendant pose different lines of inquiry.” (Reply p. 12.)
Defendants argue that Plaintiff alleges the Brookdale Gardens Defendants’
negligence resulted in Plaintiff’s fractures and their subsequent failure to
administer care increased Plaintiff’s pain and suffering. (Reply p. 12.) In
contrast, Defendants argue the Tarzana Medical Center Defendants negligently
failed to diagnose Plaintiff’s condition. (Reply p. 12.) Accordingly, Defendants
argue that “the determination of liability for the physicians’ failure to
diagnose two broken legs is not impacted by anything that Brookdale Gardens is
alleged to have done.” (Reply p. 14.)
 
“On petition of a party to an arbitration agreement alleging
the existence of a written agreement to arbitrate a controversy and that a
party to the agreement refuses to arbitrate that controversy, the court shall order the petitioner
and the respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an
agreement to arbitrate the controversy exists, unless it determines that: . . .
A party to the arbitration agreement is also a party to a pending court action
or special proceeding with a third party, arising out of the same transaction
or series of related transactions and there is a possibility of conflicting
rulings on a common issue of law or fact.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2(c).)
 
In Birl v. Heritage Care, LLC (2009) 172 Cal.App.4th
1313, 1315-1316, a patient underwent surgery at a Kaiser Permanente Hospital
(“Kaiser”). The patient was transferred to Brier Oak Terrace Care Center
nursing facility (“Brier”) where he developed an infection. (Id at 1316.)
The patient was then readmitted to Kaiser, where Plaintiffs alleged he was
improperly cared for. (Id.) The patient was transferred to the Fountain
View Subacute and Nursing Center, where “he was again allegedly improperly
cared for and developed another infection.” (Id.) He was later
transferred back to Kaiser’s emergency room. (Id.) He was later
discharged and admitted to Heritage nursing facility (“Heritage”). (Id.)
Heritage personnel failed to care for the patient. (Id.) The patient was
then transferred to Harbor-UCLA Hospital, where he later died. (Id.)  The patient’s successors in interest filed a
complaint alleging various causes of action. (Id. at p. 1317.) Heritage
filed a petition to compel arbitration, which the trial court denied. (Id.)

 
On appeal, Heritage argued the trial court abused its
discretion in refusing to compel arbitration because there was a possibility of
conflicting rulings on a common issue of law or fact. (Birl v. Heritage
Care, LLC, supra, 172 Cal.App.4th 1313, 1319.) The Court of Appeal upheld
the trial court’s ruling. (Id. at p. 1323) The Court first noted that
some of the defendants were third parties to the arbitration agreement with
Heritage. (Id. at p. 1319.) Next, the Court noted that the Kaiser and
Kaiser affiliate defendants were involved in the same transaction as Heritage
because the Kaiser and Kaiser affiliate doctors were the patient’s physicians
at Heritage. (Id. at pp. 1316, 1320.) Further, the Court noted that all
codefendants were involved in a series of related transactions because their
“tortious conduct . . . all contributed to the injuries suffered by [the
patient] prior to his death.” (Id. at 1320.) The Court noted that “It is
of no consequence that Heritage's services were separated by time from the
sequential services provided by the other long-term care facilities. A temporal
separation does not necessarily negate the existence of the requisite “series
of related transactions.” [Citation] Likewise, all the codefendants contributed
to the cause of the injuries suffered by [the patient’s] wife and two
daughters, as alleged in their individual causes of action for loss of
consortium and the negligent infliction of emotional distress.” (Id.)
 
Here, Defendants are party to a pending proceeding with third
parties, Providence Cedars Sinai Tarzana Medical Center, Tarzana Medical
Center, LLC, Oren N. Hirsch MD, Sharon George, MD, and Shannon M. Smith, MD,
who were not parties to the arbitration agreement. (Complaint p. 1; Ex. A.) Thus,
section 1281.2, subdivision (c)’s first element is satisfied.
 
Further, this case involves a
series of related transactions involving all of the defendants. Plaintiff
alleges Defendants neglected Plaintiff, resulting in Plaintiff suffering two
broken legs. (Complaint ¶ 4.) Plaintiff also alleges Defendants “fail[ed] to
advise Tarzan Medical Center staff that any traumatic event had occurred” and
Defendants’ “failure to provide such information significantly delayed an
accurate diagnosis regarding the cause of [Plaintiff’s] swollen legs and her
pain.” (Complaint ¶ 31.) Next, Plaintiff alleges Defendants Providence
Cedars-Sinai Tarzana Medical Center and Tarzana Medical Center employed personnel
who provided services to Plaintiff. (Complaint ¶ 6.) Plaintiff alleges
Providence Cedars-Sinai Tarzan Medical Center, Tarzana Medical Center, LLC,
Oren N. Hirsch, MD, Sharon George, MD, and Shannon M. Smith, MD provided health
care to Plaintiff during her admission to Tarzana Medical Center from June 18,
2023 through June 23, 2023 and failed to properly diagnose, care, and treat
Plaintiff’s two broken legs. (Complaint ¶¶ 64-67.) Accordingly, like Birl, this
case involves a series of related transactions where Plaintiff alleges all
codefendants contributed to injuries resulting from her two broken legs.
(Complaint ¶¶ 47, 58.) Accordingly, this court finds that this case
involves a series of related transactions.
 
This court also finds there is a
possibility of conflicting rulings on a common issue of law or fact. 
The Court noted in Birl that “if the trier of fact is
the same for all defendants, as would occur if all defendants are joined in the
court action, then the possibility of conflicting rulings concerning fault and
apportionment of damages [citation] would not occur.” (Birl v. Heritage
Care, LLC, supra, 172 Cal.App.4th at p. 1321.) Likewise, here, Plaintiff is
seeking special damages for medical and related expenses. (Complaint p. 20.) If
the trier of facts is the same for all defendants, then that trier of fact can
apportion each Defendants’ responsibility for damages according to each
Defendants’ liability. If the trier of facts is different, then Plaintiff could
receive duplicate damages for her medical expenses. Alternatively, if the trier
of facts is different, Plaintiff could receive no damages if each trier of
facts finds that defendant(s) –  who are
not before that trier of fact – are responsible for Plaintiff’s injuries and
damages. 
 
This creates a risk of conflicting rulings on common issues
of law or fact. Accordingly, this court finds that section 1281.2(c) applies. 
 

Federal Arbitration Act

 
“The Federal Arbitration Act (FAA)
(9 U.S.C. § 1 et seq.) does not include a provision comparable to section
1281.2(c) and therefore requires courts to enforce written arbitration
agreements even if there is pending litigation involving a third party that may
result in conflicting rulings.” (Acquire II, Ltd. v. Colton Real Estate Group (2013)
213 Cal.App.4th 959, 968.)
 
Defendants argue the Federal Arbitration Act (“FAA”) applies
here because “the parties’ Residency Agreement contains a Pharmacy Services
Agreement, which describes medications that were obtained from other states.”
(Ex. A; Ex.C; Motion p. 7.) Defendants further argue “the facility indisputably obtained
supplies and medical equipment from vendors outside of California, accepted
residents from outside of California, and advertised on the internet, just like
the defendant in Scott.” (Motion p. 7.) 
 
In Scott v. Yoho, (2016) 248
Cal.App.4th 392, 395, the plaintiffs filed a complaint after a patient
consulted with defendants for plastic surgery procedures, underwent the
procedure, and died following the surgery. The Court of Appeal held that there
was a sufficient nexus with interstate commerce and the FAA applied to the
arbitration agreement because there was “uncontroverted evidence” that
showed 20 percent of the medical supplies were shipped from out of state, the
doctor used materials during the procedure that originated from outside
California, the defendants advertised on the internet and communicated with
out-of-state patients by telephone, mail, and email, about 5 percent of
defendants’ patients were from out-of-state, and the doctor’s declaration
stated “My practice contracted (via U.S. mail or the internet) with
approximately 15 companies, insurance providers, entities and/or other public
or private corporations whose places of business are outside the State of
California. My practice regularly sends and/or receives letters, drafts,
checks, inquiries, and written and telephonic communications from outside of
California, and from various other states, which represents approximately 10%
of all such communications in my practice.” (Id. at 401-402.)
 
The defendants in Scott v. Yoho
relied on “evidence” and a declaration by the doctor showing “the contracts
evidenced a transaction involving interstate commerce.” (Scott v. Yoho,
supra, 248 Cal.App.4th at 397.) Here, Defendants argue the Pharmacy
Services Agreement describes medications obtained from other states. (Ex. C.) But
the Pharmacy Services Agreement does not mention where Defendants obtained the
medications. (Ex. C.) Defendants further argue “the facility indisputably
obtained supplies and medical equipment from vendors outside of California,
accepted residents from outside of California, and advertised on the internet.”
(Motion p. 7.) But Defendants cite no evidence supporting these contentions. Accordingly,
this court cannot determine that the Agreement has a sufficient nexus with
interstate commerce. 
 

Federal Preemption

 
However, even if the FAA applied here, it would not preempt
section 1281.2(c) because the Agreement shows that the parties agreed to
arbitrate their disputes in accordance with California law.
 
Citing Volt Info. Sciences v. Leland Stanford Jr. U. (1989)
489 U.S. 468, 474-476, Plaintiff argues the Federal Arbitration Act (the “FAA”)
does not preempt Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.2(c). (Opposition p. 13.)

 
Defendants argue Volt does not apply because the
Agreement “is specific to where California law will apply, once the arbitration
process has begun” and “[a]pplication of the FAA will not impact that.” (Reply
pp. 14-15.)
 
In Volt, the arbitration provision “contained a
choice-of-law clause providing that ‘[t]he Contract shall be governed by the
law of the place where the Project is located.’” (Volt Info. Sciences v.
Leland Stanford Jr. U., supra, 489 U.S. at p. 470.) The Supreme Court noted
that it was undisputed the contract fell under the FAA because it involved
interstate commerce, but stated that “even if  §§ 3 and 4 of the FAA are fully applicable in
state-court proceedings, they do not prevent application of Cal. Civ. Proc.
Code Ann. § 1281.2(c) to stay arbitration where, as here, the
parties have agreed to arbitrate in accordance with California law.” (Id. at
p. 477.)
 
In Acquire II, Ltd. v. Colton Real Estate Group, supra,
213 Cal.App.4th at p. 969, an arbitration agreement contained three
provisions referencing California law. First, the arbitration agreement stated
“[j]udgment entered upon the award rendered may be enforced by appropriate
judicial action pursuant to the California Code of Civil
Procedure.” (Id.) Second, the arbitration
agreement stated, “[b]y executing this Agreement you are agreeing to
have any dispute arising out of this Agreement included in the arbitration of
disputes provision decided by neutral arbitration as provided by California law.” (Id.) Third, the
arbitration agreement stated “[i]n any event each Tenant shall be entitled to
discovery in accordance with California Code of Civil Procedure Section
1283.05.” (Id.) The Court held that “These repeated references to
California's procedural rules on arbitration establish the parties
intended section 1281.2(c) to apply in this case; a specific
reference to section 1281.2(c) was not
required.” (Id.)
 
Like the arbitration agreement in Acquire II, Ltd.,
the Agreement here repeatedly references California law. First, the Agreement
states that “The California Code of Civil Procedure 1280, et seq. concerning
arbitration shall govern the procedure, except if inconsistent with this
arbitration provision or expressly stated otherwise in this agreement.” (Ex. A.
p. 10.)  The Agreement further states
that “[d]iscovery in the arbitration proceeding shall be governed by the
California Code of Civil Procedure” and “[t]he arbitrator shall apply the
California Code of Evidence and California Code of Civil Procedure except where
otherwise stated in this agreement.” (Ex. A p. 10.) Finally, the Agreement
provides that “the arbitrator shall apply, and the arbitration decision shall
be consistent with, California law except as otherwise stated in this
Arbitration Provision.” (Ex. A p. 10.) 
The Agreement is silent as to the FAA. (Ex. A.)
 
Defendants argue the Agreement’s references to California law
only “go into effect once arbitration begins” and do not “indicate what applies
when, as here, one party refuses to arbitrate.” (Reply p. 14.) However, the
provisions in Acquire II, Ltd. could also be read as only applying
during and after arbitration. For example, one provision in Acquire II, Ltd.
provided that “by executing this Agreement you are agreeing to have any
dispute arising out of this Agreement included in the arbitration of
disputes provision decided by neutral arbitration as provided by California law.” (Acquire II, Ltd. v.
Colton Real Estate Group, supra, 213 Cal.App.4th at p. 969 (Emphasis
added).) 
 
Accordingly, because the parties agreed to arbitrate in
accordance with California law, (Ex. A, p. 10) the FAA does not preempt
applying 1281.2(c) to this case.
 
III.          
CONCLUSION
 
Accordingly, this court denies
Defendants’ motion to compel arbitration.
 
 
Dated:             November 5, 2024                                                      _______­­­­­­­­­­___________________________                                                                                                                  Hon.
Eric Harmon
                                                                                                            Judge of the Superior Court