 Case Number:  23VECV02971    Hearing Date:   November 5, 2024    Dept:  107 


 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE
  STATE OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
NORTHWEST DISTRICT
 




Marilyn
  Freeman,
Plaintiff.
 
   v.
EZ
  Storage of Van Nuys, LP and Does 1 to 100
Defendant.
 


 
 
   Case Number             Department
       23VECV02971                             107




 
 
COURT’S [TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE:       
Demurrer with Motion to Strike
 
 



[THE FOLLOWING IS A TENTATIVE RULING IN THE ABOVE CASE]: 
 
Sustain with leave to amend.
¿ 
Defendant
EZ Storage of Van Nuys, LP demurs to Plaintiff Marilyn Freeman’s first amended
complaint.
 
This
court sustains the demurrer with leave to amend.
 
I.               
BACKGROUND¿ 
 
On July 10, 2023,
Plaintiff Marilyn Freeman (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Defendant EZ
Storage of Van Nuys and Does 1 to 100 (collectively, “Defendants”) alleging
causes of action for breach of contract, fraud, and intentional infliction of
emotional distress. 
On April 23, 2024,
Plaintiff filed a first amended complaint alleging causes of action against
Defendants for breach of contract, fraud, intentional infliction of emotional
distress, negligence, and negligent infliction of emotional distress.  
On July 30, 2024,
Plaintiff filed a second amended complaint alleging causes of action against
Defendants for breach of contract, fraud, intentional infliction of emotional
distress, and general negligence and negligent infliction of emotional
distress. (Second Amended Complaint “SAC”.) 
On September 20, 2024,
Defendant EZ Storage of Van Nuys (“Defendant”) demurred to Plaintiff’s first
amended complaint. No opposition has been filed.
II.            
PROCEDURAL
REQUIREMENTS
 

Timeliness

“A person against whom a complaint or
cross-complaint has been filed may, within 30 days after service of the
complaint or cross-complaint, demur to the complaint or cross-complaint.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 430.40(a).) 
The parties
stipulated to Defendant filing a responsive pleading by September 20, 2024.
(09/16/24 Minute Order; Gasparian Declaration ¶
6.) Accordingly, Defendant’s demurrer is
timely.

Meet and Confer

California Code of Civil
Procedure §¿430.41, subdivision (a) requires parties to “meet and confer” in
good faith before the filing of a demurrer to attempt to informally resolve the
objections raised in the demurrer.¿The demurring party is required to file and
serve with the demurrer a declaration either confirming that parties were
unable to resolve the issues raised by the demurrer despite having met and
conferred or that the opposing party failed to meet and confer with the
demurring party in good faith. (Code Civ. Proc. §¿430.41(a)(3).)¿
 
Defendant’s
counsel submits a declaration stating counsel met and conferred with Plaintiff
and “Plaintiff maintained her position that the SAC was sufficiently plead and
that she will leave it to the court to make a determination.” (Gasparian
Declaration ¶ 7.) Defendant’s counsel also sent a meet and confer
letter to Plaintiff outlining the bases for Defendant’s demurrer and motion to
strike. (Gasparian Declaration ¶
8.)
 
This
court finds that Defendant has satisfied the meet and confer requirement.
 
III.          
LEGAL
STANDARD¿ 
¿¿¿ 
As a general matter, in
a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading
or via proper judicial notice.¿(Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004)
116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)¿“A demurrer tests the pleading alone, and not the
evidence or the facts alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc. v. Accountants, Inc.
Servs. (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) As such, the court assumes the
truth of the complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual allegations. (Id.)
The only issue a demurrer is concerned with is whether the complaint, as it
stands, states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147
Cal.App.4th 740, 745.)¿A complaint is sufficient if it contains
“[a]¿statement¿of the¿facts¿constituting the cause of action, in ordinary and
concise language.” (Code Civ. Proc. §¿425.10(a)(1).) Under this standard, a
“complaint ordinarily is sufficient if it alleges ultimate rather than
evidentiary facts.” (Doe v. City of Los Angeles (2007) 42 Cal.4th 531,
550.)
 
A party may demur to a
complaint because the complaint “does not state facts sufficient to constitute
a cause of action.” (Code
Civ. Proc., §
430.10(e).) A party may also demur to a complaint because “[t]he
pleading is uncertain.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10(f).) “’[U]ncertain’ includes ambiguous
and unintelligible.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10(f).)
 
Demurrer
for uncertainty are strictly construed, because discovery can be used for
clarification. (Khoury v. Maly’s of Cal., Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th
612, 616.) Against a demurrer, a plaintiff is required only to “set forth in [her]
complaint the essential facts of [her] case with reasonable precision and with
particularity sufficiently specific to acquaint the defendant of the nature,
source, and extent of [her] cause of action.” (Elder v. Pac. Bell Tel. Co.
(2012) 205 Cal.App.4th 841, 858.)
 
IV.          
DISCUSSION¿ 
 
Defendant
demurs to Plaintiff’s first, second, and third causes of action.
 

Breach of Contract

 
Defendant
argues Plaintiff’s second amended complaint fails to state a claim for breach
of contract. (Demurrer p. 10.)
 
The
elements of a breach of contract claim are: (1) existence of a contract; (2)
plaintiff’s performance or excuse for nonperformance; (3) defendant’s breach;
and (4) resulting damage. (Wall Street
Network, Ltd. v. N. Y. Times Co. (2008) 164 Cal.App.4th 1171, 1178.)
 
Plaintiff
alleges the existence of a contract by alleging that “[i]n or about December
30, 2015, Plaintiff Marilyn Freeman entered into a contract with Defendant EZ
Storage of Van Nuys, LP and Does 1 to 100 regarding Plaintiff’s rental of
Storage Unit #140 which is located at 15330 Hattaras Street, Van Nuys, CA
91411.” (SAC p. 6.)
 
Plaintiff
alleges she performed under the contract or she had an excuse for her
nonperformance by alleging “[e]ach month, plaintiff provided to defendant(s) a
letter stating that she was excused from said rental payments pursuant to the
city, county and state regulations put into effect during the Covid-19 pandemic
and because she was ill due to Covid-19” and “[o]ne such law was Article 14.05
of the City of Los Angeles Municipal Code: Temporary Protection of Occupants of
Self-Storage Facilities During the Covid-19 Pandemic.” (SAC p. 6.) Plaintiff
also alleges “Plaintiff has performed all obligations to defendant except those
obligations plaintiff was prevented or excused form performing.” (Complaint p.
10.)
 
Plaintiff
alleges Defendant breached the covenant of good faith and fair dealing by
letting “Plaintiff’s storage unit become infested with mice, failed to notify
Plaintiff that there could possibly be mice in her storage unit and sought to
cover up the presence of said mice/rodents.” Plaintiff also alleges “Defendant
pressured Plaintiff to pay rent despite the Covid-19 rent moratorium on
self-storage units[,] Defendant sought to sell Plaintiff’s possessions three
times in 2022[, and] Defendant did this in violation of the covenant of good
faith and fair dealing.” (SAC p. 9.) 
 
Plaintiff
further alleges Defendant breached the covenant to abide by laws of the
governing jurisdictions by alleging Defendant “did not follow the laws of the
City of Los Angeles.” (Complaint p. 10.) Plaintiff further alleges “Defendant
did not follow Article 14.05 Of the City of Los Angeles Municipal Code . . .
Defendant repeatedly attempted to collect money that Plaintiff was temporarily
excused from paying, locked Plaintiff out of her storage locker, disabled
Plaintiff’s gate code so she could not open the gate to freely access the
premises and repeatedly instituted proceedings to sell her possessions in
violation of Article 14.05 and in violation of the contract/rental agreement.”
(Complaint p. 10.) 
 
Plaintiff
also alleges that “[a]t some point in 2021, defendants put their padlock on
plaintiff’s storage unit so plaintiff could not access her possessions” and
[t]his padlock was on Plaintiff’s storage locker throughout most of 2021.
Plaintiff’s code no longer worked to open the entrance gate to the facility.
Plaintiff was locked out of her storage unit and was deprived of the use and
enjoyment of her possessions . . . Defendant did not respond to plaintiff’s
demands that she be allowed access to her possessions.” (SAC p. 7.)
 
Finally,
Plaintiff alleges damages including $300,000.00 for replacement of damaged and
loss possessions, damages in excess of $400,000 for each violation of Article
14.05, and $350,000 in punitive damages.
 
Defendant
argues the Occupancy Agreement (the “Agreement”) shows that Plaintiff stated
she stored less than $7,500.00 worth of goods in the storage unit, she is
solely responsible for the goods, and the Agreement states that the “[o]wner
has no duty of care, custody or control over, nor management of, nor responsibility
for, nor knowledge of such goods.” (Demurrer p. 5.)  Defendant also states the Agreement states the
owner is not responsible or liable for loss or damage to the property “from any
cause whatsoever.” (Demurrer p. 5.) Defendant argues “Plaintiff’s outrageously
high claims of property loss is directly inconsistent with the limited value of
property specifically provided in the Agreement and bargained for component of
the low monthly rent in exchange for releasing the Owner from liability;
coupled with Plaintiff’s election to not obtain insurance Plaintiff assumed the
risk of potential damage to her property and cannot now allege deliberate
fraudulent conduct on the part of Defendant.” (Demurrer p. 6.) The Agreement is
attached to Plaintiff’s second amended complaint as Exhibit A. This court finds
that to the extent there is a dispute over the amount of Plaintiff’s damages,
that is not the proper subject of a demurrer. 
 
Defendant
further argues that Article 14.05 was repealed on June 23, 2022, and “[a]ny
communications by Owner regarding payment of rent began in the summer of 2022
and Notices of Lien Sale were sent in August and October 2022, after Article
14.05 was repealed and Plaintiff acknowledges that the lien sales did not
actually proceed.” (Demurrer p. 6.) However, Plaintiff alleges Defendant put a
padlock on her storage unit in 2021, which was before Plaintiff alleges Article
14.05 was repealed.
 
Finally,
Defendant argues that Plaintiff improperly alleges a breach of the covenant of
habitability. The covenant of habitability applies to residential leases. (See Green
v. Superior Court (1974) 10 Cal.3d 616, 629 [“For the reasons discussed at
length above, we believe that the traditional common law rule has outlived its usefulness;
we agree with the Hinson court’s determination that modern conditions compel
the recognition of a common law implied warranty of habitability in residential
leases.”]) Here, the Agreement provided that “[t]he Space [was] to be used for
storage only.” (Ex. A. p. 2.) Accordingly, this court finds that Plaintiff’s
allegations that Defendant breached the covenant of habitability are
inapplicable here.
 
Accordingly,
this court finds that Plaintiff has sufficiently alleged a breach of contract
cause of action by alleging the existence of a contract, Plaintiff’s
performance or excuse for non-performance, Defendant’s breach of the contract
by placing a padlock on Plaintiff’s storage unit in 2021, and damages.
 

Fraud

 
Defendant
argues Plaintiff’s second amended complaint fails to state a claim for fraud.
(Demurrer p. 11.)
 
The elements of fraud
are: (1) a misrepresentation; (2) knowledge of falsity; (3) intent to defraud;
(4) justifiable reliance; and (5) resulting damage. (Beckwith v. Dahl (2012)
205 Cal.App.4th 1039, 1060.) Fraud elements must be alleged with particularity.
(Id.) “This particularity requirement necessitates pleading facts which
‘show how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the representations were
tendered.” (Robinson Helicopter Co., Inc. v. Dana Corp. (2004) 34
Cal.4th 979, 993.)
 
Plaintiff alleges
Defendant made a misrepresentation, by alleging Defendant represented it “would
keep [the] premises clean, safe and mice-free, rodent-free and pest-free” but
“[t]hese representations were in fact false.” (SAC p. 13.)  Plaintiff further alleges that Defendant had
knowledge of its falsity because, when Defendant made the representation,
“defendant knew they were false.”  (SAC
p. 11.) Plaintiff also alleges that Defendant had an intent to defraud,
alleging “Defendant made the representations with the intent to defraud and
induce plaintiff to act as described[.]” (SAC p. 11.) Plaintiff alleges she
justifiably relied on Defendant’s misrepresentation by alleging “[d]ue to
Defendant’s fraud and fraudulent representations, Plaintiff was induced to
enter into the rental agreement, to pay rent on the storage unit and to store
her possessions there.” (SAC p. 13.) Finally, Plaintiff alleges resulting
damages, alleging that “Plaintiff has suffered the loss of her personal
property in the amount of $300,000.00. (SAC p. 13.)
 
However, Plaintiff’s
allegations are not plead with particularity. Plaintiff alleges Defendant made
a misrepresentation, but she does not allege how, when, where, and by what
means. 
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff
has not sufficiently alleged a fraud cause of action.
 

Intentional Infliction of
     Emotional Distress

 
Defendant
argues Plaintiff’s second amended complaint fails to state a claim for
intentional infliction of emotional distress. (Demurrer p. 14.)
 
¿“The elements of a
cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional distress are (1) the
defendant engages in extreme and outrageous conduct with the intent to cause,
or with reckless disregard for the probability of causing, emotional distress; (2)
the plaintiff suffers extreme or severe emotional distress; and (3) the
defendant's extreme and outrageous conduct was the actual and proximate cause
of the plaintiff's extreme or severe emotional distress.” (So v. Shin (2012)
212 212 Cal.App.4th 652, 671.) 
 
A defendant’s conduct is
“outrageous” when it is so “extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually
tolerated in a civilized community.” (Hughes v. Pair (2009) 46 Cal.4th
1035, 1051.) Behavior may be considered outrageous if a defendant: (1) “abuses
a relation or position which gives him power to damage the plaintiff’s interest”;
(2) “knows the plaintiff is susceptible to injuries through mental distress”;
or (3) “acts intentionally or unreasonably with the recognition that the acts
are likely to result in illness through mental distress.” (McDaniel v. Gile (1991)
230 Cal.App.3d 363, 372.)
 
Plaintiff
alleges “Defendant[‘s] conduct was extreme, outrageous and reckless.” (SAC p.
15.) Plaintiff incorporates Paragraphs 1 through 15 of her second amended
complaint to the third cause of action. (SAC p. 15.) Paragraphs 1 through 15
allege Defendant put a padlock on Plaintiff’s storage unit, violated Article
14.05 by attempting to collect unpaid rent and sending Plaintiff Notices of
Liens of Sale, and by allowing mice to infest the storage facility. (SAC pp. 6-9.) Liability
for intentional infliction of emotional distress “does not extend to mere
insults, indignities, threats, annoyances, petty oppressions, or other
trivialities.” (Hughes v. Pair, supra, (2009) 46 Cal.4th at p. 1051.)
Further, “[s]evere
emotional distress means ‘emotional distress of such substantial quality or
enduring quality that no reasonable [person] in civilized society should be
expected to endure it.’” (Id.) This court finds that Plaintiff’s
allegations do not rise to the level of extreme or outrageous conduct.
 
Plaintiff
further alleges she “suffered severe emotional distress” and “Defendant[‘s]
conduct was a substantial factor in causing plaintiff’s emotional distress.”
(SAC p. 15.)
 
Plaintiff
has not alleged Defendant’s conduct was extreme or outrageous. Accordingly,
Plaintiff has not sufficiently alleged an intentional infliction of emotional
distress cause of action.
 

Uncertainty

 
Defendant
further argues Plaintiff’s first, second, and third causes of action fail
because they are uncertain. (Demurrer pp. 9-13.)
 
“Even
as against a special demurrer, a plaintiff is required only to ‘set forth in [her]
complaint the essential facts of [her] case with reasonable precision and with
particularity sufficiently specific to acquaint the defendant of the nature,
source, and extent of [her] cause of action.’” (Elder v. Pac. Bell Tel. Co.,
supra, 205 Cal.App.4th at p. 858.) 
 
This
court finds that Plaintiff has set forth the essential facts in her second
amended complaint with reasonable precision and with particularity sufficiently
specific to acquaint Defendant with the nature, source, and extent of her cause
of action. Thus, Plaintiff’s second amended complaint is not uncertain.
 
V.             
LEAVE
TO AMEND
 
Where a demurrer is
sustained, leave to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable
possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18
Cal.3d 335, 349.) “If there is any reasonable possibility that the plaintiff
can state a good cause of action, it is error to sustain a demurrer without
leave to amend.” (Youngman v. Nevada Irrigation Dist. (1969) 70 Cal.2d
240, 245.) “If the plaintiff has not had an opportunity to amend the complaint
in response to the demurrer, leave to amend is liberally allowed as a matter of
fairness, unless the complaint shows on its face that it is incapable of amendment.”
(City of Stockton v. Superior Court (2007) 42 Cal.4th 730, 747.) Courts
generally allow at least one time to amend a complaint, after sustaining a
demurrer, even without any request for leave to amend. (McDonald v. Superior
Court (1986) 180 Cal. App. 3d 297, 303-304.)¿ 
 
This
court finds that there is a reasonable possibility that Plaintiff can
successfully amend the complaint. Accordingly, this court grants Plaintiff
leave to amend.
 
VI.          
MOTION
TO STRIKE
 
Defendant
seeks an order striking portions of Plaintiff’s second amended complaint,
including Plaintiff’s request for punitive damages. (Motion to Strike p. 2.)
This court has sustained Defendant’s demurrer. Accordingly, the motion to
strike is moot.
 
VII.        
CONCLUSION 
 
For
the foregoing reasons, this court sustains the demurrer and grants Plaintiff ten
days leave to amend. This court denies Defendant’s motion to strike because it
is now moot.
 
 
 
 
Dated:                          November 5, 2024                                           _______­­­­­­­­­­___________________________                                                                                                                  Hon. Eric Harmon
                                                                                                             Judge of the Superior
Court