 Case Number:  22STCV32352    Hearing Date:   March 27, 2024    Dept:  34 SUBJECT:        Motion for
Order Compelling Plaintiff Kevin Guidry to Appear for Deposition Remotely and
for Costs, Including Reasonable Attorneys’ Fees
 
Moving Party: Defendants
Mercury Insurance Company and California Automobile Insurance Company 
Resp. Party:    None
 
 
SUBJECT:        Motion for
Order Compelling Plaintiff Eunice Guidry to Appear for Deposition Remotely and
for Costs, Including Reasonable Attorneys’ Fees
 
Moving Party: Defendants
Mercury Insurance Company and California Automobile Insurance Company 
Resp. Party:    None
 
 
The Motions to Compel Deposition are GRANTED. Plaintiffs shall make
themselves available for deposition within fifteen (15) days of the issuance of
this Order. 
 
        Monetary
sanctions are AWARDED in favor of Moving Defendants and against Plaintiffs and
Plaintiffs’ Counsel, jointly and severally, in the total amount of $915.00.
 
BACKGROUND:
 
On October 3,
2022, Plaintiffs Eunice Guidry and Kevin Guidry filed their Complaint against
Defendants Mercury Insurance Company, California Automobile Insurance Company,
AAuto-Home Specialists, Inc., Warren Man-Paen Tan, Susan S. Looi, and Jun
“Vincent” Li on causes of action for professional negligence, intentional
concealment, and vicarious responsibility. 
 
On January
30, 2023, Defendants Mercury Insurance Company and California Automobile
Insurance Company filed their Answer to the Complaint. 
 
On February
9, 2023, Defendants Mercury Insurance Company and California Automobile
Insurance Company filed their Amended Answer to the Complaint. 
 
On February
24, 2023, Defendants AAuto-Home Specialists, Inc., Warren Man-Paen Tan, Susan
S. Looi, and Vincent Lee filed their Answer to the Complaint. 
 
On February
28, 2024, Defendants Mercury Insurance Company and California Automobile
Insurance Company (“Moving Defendants”) filed: (1) Motion for Order Compelling
Plaintiff Kevin Guidry to Appear for Deposition Remotely and for Costs,
Including Reasonable Attorneys’ Fees; and (2) Motion for Order Compelling
Plaintiff Eunice Guidry to Appear for Deposition Remotely and for Costs,
Including Reasonable Attorneys’ Fees. (Below, these motions will collectively
be called “Motions to Compel Depositions.”)
 
No
oppositions or other responses have been filed regarding the Motions to Compel
Depositions. 
 
ANALYSIS:
 
I.         
Legal
Standard
 
“If, after service of a deposition
notice, a party to the action or an officer, director, managing agent, or
employee of a party, or a person designated by an organization that is a party
under Section 2025.230, without having served a valid objection under Section
2025.410, fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce
for inspection any document, electronically stored information, or tangible
thing described in the deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move
for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the
production for inspection of any document, electronically stored information,
or tangible thing described in the deposition notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2025.450, subd. (a).)
 
“If a motion under subdivision (a)
is granted, the court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7
(commencing with Section 2023.010) in favor of the party who noticed the
deposition and against the deponent or the party with whom the deponent is
affiliated, unless the court finds that the one subject to the sanction acted
with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition
of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (g).)
 
II.      
Discussion
 
A. 
    The
Requests for Depositions
 
Moving Defendants ask the Court to order Plaintiffs to appear for their
depositions within fifteen days of the hearing on the Motions to Compel
Depositions, without objection. (Motions to Compel Depositions, p. 10:22–24.)
 
Counsel for Moving Defendants declares that notices for these
depositions were initially served on December 1, 2023 for December 21 and 22,
2023, but that the depositions have not yet occurred. (Motions to Compel
Depositions, Decl. Bhatia, ¶¶ 8–9, 19.)
 
        Plaintiffs do not oppose or otherwise
respond to the Motions to Compel Depositions. 
 
        Parties to the action have the right to
obtain discovery by deposing other parties to the action. (Code Civ. Proc., §
2025.010.) The Court has not been presented with any evidence that would
indicate that the depositions have occurred or that there is a sufficient
reason for why these depositions have not occurred. 
 
        The Court GRANTS the Motions to Compel
Depositions.  Plaintiffs shall make
themselves available to sit for a deposition within fifteen (15) days of the
issuance of this Order. 
 
B. 
    The
Requests for Monetary Sanctions
 
Moving Defendants request monetary sanctions against Plaintiffs and
Plaintiff’s Counsel. (Motions to Compel Deposition, p. 11:1–4.)
 
The Court does not have any evidence before it that would indicate
Plaintiffs timely made themselves available for depositions. Further, the Court does not have any evidence before it that would
indicate there is substantial justification or other circumstances that would
make the imposition of a sanction unjust. Thus, the Court must impose a
monetary sanction. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (g).) 
 
        Moving Defendants request
$1,385.00 in monetary sanctions for each of the motions. According to Counsel
for Moving Defendants, this accounts for: (1) an hourly rate of $265.00; (2)
five hours of work (for each of the motions); and (3) a $60.00 filing fee (for
each of the motions). (Motions to Compel Depositions, Decl. Bhatia, ¶ 22.)
 
        The hourly rate and costs
claimed are reasonable, but the number of hours is not. The Motions to Compel
Depositions were simple, unopposed, and duplicative. The Court awards a total
of three hours of work at the requested hourly rate, plus all of the requested
costs. 
 
III.    
Conclusion 
 
The Motions to Compel Deposition are GRANTED. Plaintiffs shall make
themselves available for deposition within fifteen (15) days of the issuance of
this Order. 
 
        Monetary
sanctions are AWARDED in favor of Moving Defendants and against Plaintiffs and Plaintiffs’
Counsel, jointly and severally, in the total amount of $915.00.
 