 Case Number:  22STCV15959    Hearing Date:   April 22, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposing and reply papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
May 13, 2022, Plaintiff Kaveh Kavian (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against
Defendants Paul Moseley (“Paul Moseley”), Joseph Moseley (“Joseph Moseley”),
Ralphs Grocery Company, Coreland Company (“Coreland”), Pacific Development
Group (“Pacific Development Group”), Universal Protection Services LP dba
Allied Universal Security Services (“Universal”), Future Motion, Inc. (“Future
Motion”), and Does 1-100 for negligence, premises liability, strict liability,
failure to warn, and negligent design. 
On
June 21, 2022, Universal filed an answer and a cross-complaint against
Cross-Defendants Paul Moseley, Joseph Moseley, Future Motion, and Moes 1-20 for
implied indemnity, contribution, and declaratory relief. 
On
July 27, 2023, Paul Moseley and Joseph Moseley filed an answer to Universal’s
cross-complaint. 
On
August 3, 2023, the Court dismissed Future Motion from Universal’s
cross-complaint without prejudice at Universal’s request. 
On
June 24, 2022, Defendant Ralphs Grocery Company dba Ralphs (incorrectly named
and served as Ralphs Grocery Company) (“Ralphs”) filed an answer and a
cross-complaint against Cross-Defendants Coreland, Pacific Development Group,
Future Motion, Universal, Paul Moseley, Joseph Moseley, and Roes 1-10 for
breach of contract, express indemnity, equitable indemnity, apportionment of
fault, and declaratory relief. On June 16, 2023, Paul Moseley and Joseph
Moseley filed an answer to Ralphs’s cross-complaint. On July 20, 2023, Future
Motion filed an answer to Ralphs’s cross-complaint. On July 26, 2023, Defendant
Foothills Pacific Venture I (erroneously sued and served as Pacific Development
Group) (“Foothills Pacific Venture”) filed an answer to Ralphs’s cross-complaint. 
On
July 1, 2022, Paul Moseley and Joseph Moseley filed an answer to the complaint.
On February 14, 2023, Future Motion filed an answer to the complaint. 
On
February 1, 2023, the Court dismissed Coreland from the complaint without
prejudice at Plaintiff’s request. 
On
July 5, 2023, the clerk entered Pacific Development Group’s default on
Plaintiff’s complaint. 
On
July 26, 2023, Foothills Pacific Venture (erroneously sued and served as
Pacific Development Group) filed an answer to Plaintiff’s complaint. 
On
January 26, 2024, Paul Mosely and Joseph Mosely (“Moving Defendants”) filed a
motion for determination of good faith settlement, to be heard on April 22, 2024.  On April 9, 2024, Future Motion filed an
opposition.  On April 15, 2024, Moving
Defendants filed a reply. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for November 6, 2024. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Moving
Defendants asks the Court to find that their settlement with Plaintiff is in
good faith. 
Future
Motion asks the Court to deny the motion or, in the alternative, continue the
hearing “until after Plaintiff’s deposition has been taken, additional
documents related to his damages and liability claims have been obtained, if
necessary, and the true nature of Plaintiff’s alleged injuries and damages can
be ascertained.” 
LEGAL STANDARD  
Code
of Civil Procedure section 877.6, subdivision (a), provides: 
“(a) (1) Any party to an action in which it is alleged
that two or more parties are joint tortfeasors or co-obligors on a contract
debt shall be entitled to a hearing on the issue of the good faith of a
settlement entered into by the plaintiff or other claimant and one or more
alleged tortfeasors or co-obligors, upon giving notice in the manner provided
in subdivision (b) of Section 1005. Upon a showing of good cause, the court may
shorten the time for giving the required notice to permit the determination of
the issue to be made before the commencement of the trial of the action, or
before the verdict or judgment if settlement is made after the trial has
commenced. 
“(2) In the alternative, a settling party may give
notice of settlement to all parties and to the court, together with an
application for determination of good faith settlement and a proposed order.
The application shall indicate the settling parties, and the basis, terms, and
amount of the settlement. The notice, application, and proposed order shall be
given by certified mail, return receipt requested, or by personal service.
Proof of service shall be filed with the court. Within 25 days of the mailing
of the notice, application, and proposed order, or within 20 days of personal
service, a nonsettling party may file a notice of motion to contest the good
faith of the settlement. If none of the nonsettling parties files a motion
within 25 days of mailing of the notice, application, and proposed order, or
within 20 days of personal service, the court may approve the settlement. The
notice by a nonsettling party shall be given in the manner provided in
subdivision (b) of Section 1005. However, this paragraph shall not apply to
settlements in which a confidentiality agreement has been entered into
regarding the case or the terms of the settlement.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6,
subd. (a).) [1]
“The
issue of the good faith of a settlement may be determined by the court on the
basis of affidavits served with the notice of hearing, and any
counteraffidavits filed in response, or the court may, in its discretion,
receive other evidence at the hearing.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6, subd. (b).)  
“The
party asserting the lack of good faith shall have the burden of proof on that
issue.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6, subd.
(d).) 
          In
Tech-Bilt, Inc. v. Woodward-Clyde & Associates (1985) 38 Cal.3d 488,
499 (Tech-Bilt), the California Supreme Court identified the following
nonexclusive factors courts must consider in determining if a settlement is in
good faith under Code of Civil Procedure section 877.6: “a rough approximation
of plaintiffs' total recovery and the settlor's proportionate liability, the
amount paid in settlement, the allocation of settlement proceeds among
plaintiffs, and a recognition that a settlor should pay less in settlement than
he would if he were found liable after a trial. Other relevant considerations
include the financial conditions and insurance policy limits of settling
defendants, as well as the existence of collusion, fraud, or tortious conduct
aimed to injure the interests of nonsettling defendants.” 
The
evaluation of a settlement is “made on the basis of information available at
the time of settlement.”  (Tech-Bilt,
supra, 38 Cal.3d at p. 499.) 
DISCUSSION 
A.   Plaintiff’s total recovery and settlors’ proportionate
liability 
Joseph
Moseley, age 16, rode his motorized skateboard into Plaintiff, a pedestrian,
injuring Plaintiff. The skateboard was a gift from Joseph Moseley’s father,
Paul Moseley. These facts suggest that Moving Defendants face the possibility
of being found liable at a trial for Plaintiff’s injuries. 
Moving
Defendants have accepted Plaintiff’s policy limits demand of $300,000.00 to
settle the case. 
Plaintiff
is a Cal Optima patient and his total medical bills including an EMS/ambulance
bill is $181,565.98.  The adjusted amount
is $169,340.36. 
Moving
Defendants assert that when they received Plaintiff’s policy limits,
time-limited demand, they had only medical records and bills from Care
Ambulance Service and medical records, film reports and bills from Memorial
Care Saddleback Medical Center from the date of Plaintiff’s admission to the
hospital on December 26, 2021 to Plaintiff’s discharge on January 4, 2022.  Plaintiff’s policy limits demand provided no
information or documents about (1) Plaintiff’s need for future care, lost wages
or loss of earning capacity, (2) any unsafe conditions at the premises, or (3) a
defective design or defective construction of the skateboard or a failure to
provide adequate warnings. 
Therefore,
Moving Defendants argue, when they accepted Plaintiff’s policy limits,
time-limited demand, they had no information other than the medical records,
film reports and bills to evaluate Plaintiff’s claim of special and general
damages and no information about Plaintiff’s claims against the other
defendants in the case.  Based on the
information available to them, Defendants argue, the settlement was reasonable. 
In
opposition, Future Motion argues: “The Moseleys most certainly were aware [that
Plaintiff’s medical bills] as of July 28, 2022, when Plaintiff served his
policy limits demand, were not the complete set of bills since he was to treat
after his hospital stay. Although they may not have had those records and
bills, they knew they existed. They were also aware he was missing work since he was hospitalized and undoubtedly would
not be able to return to work for some period of time given the nature of his
injuries. The Moseleys apparently stuck their head in the sand, did not inquire
further as to the full extent of Plaintiff’s damages, and quickly acquiesced to
the policy limits demand.”  (Opposition pp.
5-6.) 
Future
Motion’s speculation about what Moving Defendants may have known does not carry
its burden of showing the settlement was not in good faith. The evaluation of a settlement is “made on the basis
of information available at the time of settlement.”  (Tech-Bilt, supra, 38 Cal.3d at
p. 499.)  Future Motion has cited no
authority to support its suggestion that a settling party has an obligation to
seek out evidence about the Plaintiff’s damages before agreeing to a settlement
demand. 
B.   Allocation of Settlement 
The
entire settlement will be allocated to Plaintiff. 
C.   Financial considerations 
At
the time of the accident, Paul Moseley had an auto insurance policy with United
Services Automobile Association. The bodily injury policy limits for the policy
are $300,000/$500,000 and the property damage limits are $100,000. Paul Moseley
did not have any available excess or umbrella insurance policies at the time of
the accident. 
Paul
Mosely has been employed full-time at Anduril Industries for the last 4 years
and his salary is $165,000 a year but he not eligible for bonuses. 
Paul
Moseley has two active checking accounts and one savings account. The combined amounts in
each of these accounts are as follows: 
On 12/18/23:
Checking account balance of $2,011.21.
On 1/12/24:
Checking account balance of $51.71.
On 12/31/23:
Savings account balance of $85.03.
On 1/9/24:
Savings account balance of $16.68.
The
total of all accounts is $2,164.63. 
Paul
Moseley had a retirement account with a balance of $60,454.39 at the end of the
statement period of December 2023. 
At
the time of the incident, the Moseley family rented a home at 21 Tresaunce Way
in Foothill Ranch. While living in this home, they had a Renter’s Insurance
Policy and a Personal Property Insurance Policy for jewelry and firearms in the
amount of $10,000.00. 
In
2022, Paul Moseley and Kaelin Moseley moved their family to Reno, Nevada where
they rented a condominium from July 2022 to January 2023. In January 2023, they
separated and started divorce proceedings. Paul Mosley purchased a home for his
former wife and children as a part of the divorce settlement for approximately
$568,000.00 after putting $15,000.00 down via a VA loan. The mortgage payment is
about $3,800.00 a month and home prices in the neighborhood are stagnant. 
The
divorce with Kaelin Moseley (now known as Kaelin Wilson) was finalized on
September 1, 2023. Defendant Paul Moseley shares
custody of his two boys (Joseph Mosley, age 20 & Benjamin Moseley, age 15)
with his former wife. The divorce settlement required Paul Moseley to pay a
substantial monetary settlement and he was ordered to assume 100% of his former
wife’s debts or about $50,000.00.  In addition, Paul Moseley is required to pay for
his former wife’s housing for the next 5 years (at $3,800.00 per month).  Paul Moseley lives and rents a nearby
apartment for $2,000.00 per month. Paul Moseley is solely responsible for
supporting himself, the divorce settlement agreement and his two children
including paying for their housing, food, insurance, education, and living
expenses. 
Joseph
Mosely is a full-time college student at Truckee Meadows Community College in
Reno, Nevada. Once he has earned enough college credits, he plans to transfer
to a university.  Joseph Moseley does not
own any homes or property and he is unemployed. 
D.   Collusion or fraud 
There
is no evidence of fraud or collusion. 
E.   Weighing the Tech-Bilt factors 
The
Court has weighed the Tech-Bilt factors and concludes that Moving
Defendants’ settlement with Plaintiff was in good faith based on the
information available to Moving Defendants when they agreed to the
settlement.  The Court denies Future Motion's request for a continuance.  The Court grants
the motion. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court GRANTS the motion of Defendants Paul Moseley and Joseph Moseley for a
good faith settlement determination and finds that their settlement with
Plaintiff Kaveh Kavian was made in good
faith.  The Court dismisses all pending
and future claims against Defendants Paul Moseley and Joseph Moseley by the
parties served with this motion (to the extent those claims arise from the
facts giving rise to this case), including cross-complaints for equitable
indemnity.
 The Court DENIES Defendant Future Motion, Inc.'s request for a continuance.
Moving
parties are ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
parties are ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.


