 Case Number:  21STCV36112    Hearing Date:   April 22, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
September 30, 2021, Plaintiff Bernadette Garcia (“Plaintiff”) filed this action
against Defendants Dmitry Bochin (“Bochin”), National Cement Company, Inc., and
Does 1-50 for negligence. 
On
June 29, 2022, Defendant National Ready Mixed Concrete Co. (incorrectly named
and served as National Cement Company, Inc.) (“Ready Mixed”) filed an answer
and a cross-complaint against Plaintiff and Roes 1-10 for negligence and motor
vehicle tort. 
On
July 12, 2022, Bochin filed an answer to the complaint. 
On
March 21, 2023, the clerk entered Plaintiff’s default on Ready Mixed’s
cross-complaint. On September 13, 2023, the Court dismissed Ready Mixed’s
cross-complaint with prejudice at its request. 
On
February 26, 2024, Defendants National Ready Mixed Concrete Co. and Dmitry
Bochin (“Defendants”) filed a motion for terminating sanctions asking the Court to dismiss Plaintiff’s complaint with prejudice or, in the alternative, grant evidence sanctions
and monetary sanctions.  The motion was set for hearing on April 22, 2024.  Plaintiff has not filed an opposition. 
The
trial is currently set for June 25, 2024. 
PARTY’S REQUEST 
Defendants
ask the Court to grant terminating sanctions dismissing Plaintiff’s complaint
with prejudice or, in the alternative, to grant evidence sanctions and monetary
sanctions. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
A.   Monetary, issue, evidentiary, and terminating
sanctions 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 2023.030 provides in part: 
“To the extent authorized by the chapter governing any
particular discovery method or any other provision of this title, the court,
after notice to any affected party, person, or attorney, and after opportunity
for hearing, may impose the following sanctions against anyone engaging in
conduct that is a misuse of the discovery process: 
“(a) The court may impose a monetary sanction ordering
that one engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or any attorney
advising that conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses, including
attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct. The court may
also impose this sanction on one unsuccessfully asserting that another has
engaged in the misuse of the discovery process, or on any attorney who advised
that assertion, or on both. If a monetary sanction is authorized by any provision
of this title, the court shall impose that sanction unless it finds that the
one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust. 
“(b) The court may impose an
issue sanction ordering that designated facts shall be taken as established in
the action in accordance with the claim of the party adversely affected by the
misuse of the discovery process. The court may also impose an issue sanction by
an order prohibiting any party engaging in the misuse of the discovery process
from supporting or opposing designated claims or defenses. 
“(c) The
court may impose an evidence sanction by an order prohibiting any party
engaging in the misuse of the discovery process from introducing designated
matters in evidence. 
“(d) The court may impose a terminating sanction by
one of the following orders: 
“(1) An order striking out the pleadings or parts of
the pleadings of any party engaging in the misuse of the discovery process. 
“(2) An order staying further proceedings by that
party until an order for discovery is obeyed. 
“(3) An order dismissing the action, or any part of
the action, of that party. 
“(4) An order rendering a judgment by default against
that party. 
“(e) The court may impose a contempt sanction by an
order treating the misuse of the discovery process as a contempt of court. 
“(f) (1) Notwithstanding subdivision (a), or any other
section of this title, absent exceptional circumstances, the court shall not
impose sanctions on a party or any attorney of a party for failure to provide
electronically stored information that has been lost, damaged, altered, or
overwritten as the result of the routine, good faith operation of an electronic
information system. 
“(2) This subdivision shall not be construed to alter
any obligation to preserve discoverable information. 
(Code Civ.
Proc., § 2023.030.)         

B.   Sanctions for failure to comply with Court order to
respond to demand for inspection 
          Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.300, subdivision (c),
provides in part: 
“If
a party . . . fails to obey [an] order [under Code of Civil Procedure section
2031.300, subdivision (b)] compelling a response [to a demand for inspection,
copying, testing, or sampling], the court may make those orders that are just,
including the imposition of an issue sanction, an evidence sanction, or a
terminating sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010). In
lieu of or in addition to this sanction, the court may impose a monetary
sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010).” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300,
subd. (c).)               
C.   Sanctions for failure to comply with Court order to
respond to interrogatories 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 2030.290, subdivision (c), provides in part: 
“If
a party then fails to obey an order [under Code of Civil Procedure section
2030.290, subdivision (b)] compelling answers [to interrogatories], the court
may make those orders that are just, including the imposition of an issue
sanction, an evidence sanction, or a terminating sanction under Chapter 7
(commencing with Section 2023.010). In lieu of or in addition to that sanction,
the court may impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with
Section 2023.010).” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (c).) 
A
violation of a discovery order supports the imposition of terminating
sanctions. (Collison & Kaplan v. Hartunian (1994) 21 Cal.App.4th
1611, 1620.) Terminating sanctions are appropriate when a party persists in
disobeying the court's orders. (Deyo v. Kilbourne (1978) 84 Cal.App.3d
771, 795-796 (Deyo).) 
A
terminating sanction is a "drastic measure which should be employed with
caution." (Deyo, supra, 84 Cal.App.3d at p. 793.) "A
decision to order terminating sanctions should not be made lightly. But where a
violation is willful, preceded by a history of abuse, and the evidence shows
that less severe sanctions would not produce compliance with the discovery
rules, the trial court is justified in imposing the ultimate sanction." (Mileikowsky v. Tenet Healthsystem (2005)
128 Cal.App.4th 262, 279-280 (Mileikowsky).)   
DISCUSSION 
On January 18, 2024, the Court granted Defendants’ unopposed
motion to compel responses to supplemental request for production of documents
and ordered Plaintiff to provide code-compliant verified responses and to
produce the documents, electronically stored information, and/or other things
requested without objections by February 16, 2024.  In addition, the Court granted Defendants’ unopposed
motion to compel responses to supplemental interrogatories and ordered
Plaintiff to provide code-compliant verified responses to the interrogatories
without objections by February 16, 2024.  The Court granted Defendants’ requests for
sanctions and ordered Plaintiff and her counsel to pay Defendants $765.00 by
February 16, 2024. 
Plaintiff has not complied with the Court’s January
18, 2024 order.  Defendants ask the Court,
as a result, to issue terminating sanctions and dismiss the case or, in the alternative, to impose evidence sanctions preventing Plaintiff from introducing “evidence of
any new treatment and/or medical bills that has not previously been claimed
pursuant to the discovery process prior to February 16, 2024, which was the
Court-ordered date for plaintiff to provide responses to supplemental
interrogatories and supplemental requests for production.”  (Motion p. 8.) 
The Court denies Defendants’ request for terminating
sanctions.  Plaintiff has violated one
discovery order to date.  Defendants have
not shown that less severe sanctions would be ineffective in producing
compliance with the discovery rules. (See Mileikowsky, supra, 128
Cal.App.4th at pp. 279-280.) 
The Court grants Defendants’ request for evidence sanctions
and orders that Plaintiff may not present evidence of any medical treatment or
medical bills which Plaintiff did not disclose to Defendants in discovery
responses by February 16, 2024. 
Defendants request monetary sanctions of $920.00
based on four hours of attorney’s time at a rate of $215.00 per hour and one
$60.00 filing fee. Counsel spent two hours preparing the motion and
anticipated spending one hour to review any opposition and prepare a reply and
one hour to prepare for the hearing. 
The Court grants $490.00 in sanctions based on two
hours of attorney time and one filing fee. 
CONCLUSION 
The Court GRANTS IN PART the motion of Defendants
National Ready Mixed Concrete Co. and Dmitry Bochin for terminating sanctions
or, in the alternative, evidence and monetary sanctions.  The Court orders that Plaintiff Bernadette
Garcia may not present evidence of any medical treatment or medical bills which
Plaintiff did not disclose to Defendants National Ready Mixed Concrete Co. and
Dmitry Bochin in discovery responses by February 16, 2024.  The Court also orders Plaintiff Bernadette
Garcia and her counsel to pay Defendants National Ready Mixed Concrete Co.
and Dmitry Bochin $490.00 in sanctions by May 21, 2024. In all other respects,
the Court DENIES the motion. 
Moving
parties are ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
parties is ordered to file a proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.