 Case Number:  22STCV05699    Hearing Date:   September 23, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


September
  23, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV05699




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Compel Attendance of a Neurological Examination




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant Arie Genchel




OPPOSING PARTY:


None



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
            On February 15, 2022, Plaintiff Kristy
Castro (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Defendant Arie Genchel
(“Defendant”) for negligence regarding an alleged motor vehicle/ pedestrian collision.

 
            Defendant
now moves to compel Plaintiff to submit to a neurological examination. No
opposition has been filed.  
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
“If any
party desires to obtain discovery by a physical examination other than that
described in Article 2 (commencing with Section 2032.210), or by a mental
examination, the party shall obtain leave of court.  A motion for an examination under subdivision
(a) shall specify the time, place, manner, conditions, scope, and nature of the
examination, as well as the identity and the specialty, if any, of the person
or persons who will perform the examination. The motion shall be accompanied by
a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.”  (Civ. Proc., §
2032.310, subds. (a)-(b).)  
 
“The court
shall grant a motion for a physical or mental examination under Section
2032.310 only for good cause shown.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.320, subd.
(a); see also Sporich v. Superior Court (2000) 77 Cal.App.4th 422, 427
[“the good cause which must be shown should be such that will satisfy an
impartial tribunal that the request may be granted without abuse of the
inherent rights of the adversary”].) A showing of good cause generally requires
“that the party produce specific facts justifying discovery and that the
inquiry be relevant to the subject matter of the action or reasonably
calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.” (Vinson v.
Superior Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833, 840.)  And “[a] party who chooses
to allege that he has mental and emotional difficulties can hardly deny his
mental state is in controversy.”  (Id. at p.
839.)   
 
The examination
will be limited to whatever condition is “in controversy” in the action.¿ (Code
Civ. Proc. §2032.020(a).)¿ This means the examination must be directly related
to the specific injury or condition that is the subject of the litigation.¿ (Roberts
v. Superior Court (1973) 9 Cal.3d 330, 337.)¿ Often, a party's pleadings
put his or her mental or physical condition in controversy ... as when a
plaintiff claims continuing mental or physical injury resulting from
defendant's acts: “A party who chooses to allege that he has mental and
emotional difficulties can hardly deny his mental state is in controversy.”¿
(See Vinson v. Superior Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833, 837, wherein the
plaintiff claimed ongoing emotional distress from sexual harassment by former
employer.)¿ Discovery responses can also frame the issues regarding the
injuries and damages alleged.¿¿ 
 
MEET
AND CONFER
 
The Declaration of Vincent H. Brunello, counsel for Defendant, states
the following: “The parties have met and conferred regarding the need to take a
neurological examination. Unfortunately, Plaintiff will not submit to an exam
with Dr. Nudleman despite her neurological complaints.” (Brunello Decl. ¶ 12.) 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Defendant seeks to have Plaintiff examined by Dr. Kenneth L. Nudleman,
a board-certified neurologist. 
 
Here, Plaintiff has already submitted to two prior medical
examinations with an orthopedic surgeon and an oral surgeon for injuries to her
jaw. Plaintiff has claimed the following relevant injuries: loss of
consciousness, headaches, nausea and vomiting, and cognitive issues with speech
and memory. (Brunello Decl. ¶ 4, Exh. B, Castro Depo. 57:7-18, 61:2-64:25.) 
 
The Court finds good cause for the neurological examination.
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, Defendant Arie
Genchel’s Motion to Compel Attendance of a Neurological Examination is GRANTED.
Plaintiff shall appear for a neurological examination, as set forth in the
demand, by Dr. Nudleman within 30 days.   
 
Defendant shall provide notice of the Court’s order and file a proof
of service of such. 