 Case Number:  22STCV31914    Hearing Date:   September 23, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


September
  23, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV31914




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Compel Deposition of Plaintiff 




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant J.B. Hunt Transport, Inc. 




OPPOSING PARTY:


Plaintiff
  Jesus Cuevas Hernandez 



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
            Defendant
J.B. Hunt Transport, Inc. (“Defendant”) moves to compel Plaintiff Jesus Cuevas Hernandez’s
(“Plaintiff”) deposition. Defendant also seeks monetary sanctions. On September
16, 2024 and September 17, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition and supplemental
opposition respectively. The Court notes that an opposition to this motion was
due September 10, 2024. Nevertheless, the Court will exercise its discretion to
review the opposition papers absent prejudice to Defendant. No reply has been
filed. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
“If, after service of a deposition notice, a party to the
action . . . , without having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410,
fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for
inspection any document . . . described in the deposition notice, the party
giving the notice may move for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance
and testimony, and the production for inspection of any document . . .
described in the deposition notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (a).) 
 
“A motion under subdivision (a) [above] shall comply with
both of the following: 
 
1. The motion
shall set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the production for
inspection of any document, electronically stored information, or tangible
thing described in the deposition notice. 
2. The motion
shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040,
or, when the deponent fails to attend the deposition and produce the documents,
electronically stored information, or things described in the deposition
notice, by a declaration stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent
to inquire about the nonappearance.” 
 
(Code Civ.
Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (b).) 
 
If a motion is granted, the court shall impose a monetary
sanction in favor of that party unless the court finds that the one subject to
the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances
make the sanction unjust. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.450 (g).)
 
MEET
AND CONFER
 
The Declaration of Austin Smith, Defendant’s counsel, sets forth facts
that he inquired about Plaintiff’s non-appearance. (Smith Decl. ¶ 25.)
Therefore, the meet and confer requirement is met. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
On March 7, 2024, Defendant served a notice of deposition, set for
March 29, 2024, which was agreed to by Plaintiff’s counsel. (Smith Decl. ¶ 4-6,
Exh. A.) On March 26, 2024, Plaintiff claimed there was a “calendar conflict”,
and the deposition was reset. 
 
On March 27, 2024, Defendant served a Notice of Continuance of Taking
Deposition, set for May 13, 2024. (Smith Decl. ¶ 10.) On May 9, 2024, Plaintiff
claimed there was a “last minute scheduling issue” and the deposition was
reset. 
 
On May 22, 2024, Defendant served a second notice of continuance for
June 4, 2024. (Id. ¶ 14.) On June 2, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel
cancelled, stating they were engaged in urgent matters. Afterward, Defendant
noticed a third notice of continuance for July 3, 2024. On June 28, 2024,
Plaintiff’s counsel claimed he could not attend due to two mediations on that
date. As a result, Defendant served a fourth notice of continuance for July 26,
2024, which was agreed to by Plaintiff. Then, on July 17, 2024, Plaintiff’s
counsel asserted he would not produce Plaintiff unless Defendant produced its
own witnesses for deposition on the same week. (Id. ¶ 21.) 
 
On July 26, 2024, Plaintiff failed to appear at his deposition, and a
Certificate of Non-Appearance was obtained. (Smith Decl. ¶ 23-24, Exh. K.) 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff asserts this motion is moot since his
deposition was taken on August 27, 2024. (Agarwal Decl., Exh. A.) 
 
No reply has been filed. Therefore, since it appears Plaintiff’s
deposition was taken, the motion to compel is denied as moot. 
 
According to Plaintiff’s supplemental opposition, it appears this
motion may still be on calendar for sanctions. 
 
Defendant requests $3,687.75 in monetary sanctions against Plaintiff
and his attorney of record, representing a $225 hourly rate and $2,112.75 for
the court reporter, videographer, and Spanish interpreter. (Smith Decl., Exh. M.)
Monetary sanctions may be imposed against one engaging in the misuse of the
discovery process, or any attorney advising that conduct, for “reasonable
expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that
conduct.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2023.030(a).) Here, the Court does not find that
Plaintiff or Plaintiff’s counsel acted with substantial justification or that
other circumstances make the imposition of a sanction unjust. (See id.)
Accordingly, the Court finds that reasonable attorney’s fees are warranted for
bringing the motion. (Cal. R. Ct. 3.1348 [“The court may award sanctions under
the Discovery Act in favor of a party who files a motion to compel discovery,
even though … the requested discovery was provided to the moving party after
the motion was filed.”].) However, there is no evidence that the court
reporter, videographer, or Spanish interpreter were a result of Plaintiff’s
conduct, as counsel advised Defendant a week prior that Plaintiff would not be
produced, which appears to be sufficient time to cancel without incurring fees.
Accordingly, the Court grants monetary sanctions in the amount of $450 (2 hours
of attorney time to prepare the motion).
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s
Motion to Compel Deposition of Plaintiff is denied as moot. 
 
Plaintiff and counsel of record, jointly and severally, are ordered to
pay $450 to counsel for Defendant within 30 days.
 
Defendant shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof
of service of such. 
 