 Case Number:  23STCV11541    Hearing Date:   September 23, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



DEPARTMENT


32




HEARING DATE


September 23, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23STCV11541




MOTION


Motion to Place Confidential Settlement Declaration of
  Anna-Patrice Harris Under Seal




MOVING PARTY


Defendant Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation
  Authority 




OPPOSING PARTY


Defendants On Time Rooter & Plumbing Guys, Inc. and
  Jorge Carlos Castro 



 
MOTION
 
            On May 22, 2023, Plaintiff Tamera
Pinelo (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Los Angeles County Metropolitan
Transportation Authority and Does 1 to 20 for negligence related to a motor
vehicle accident.      
 
            On July 17, 2023, Plaintiff filed
amendments to the complaint, substituting Jorge Carlos Castro as Doe 1, and On
Time Rooter & Plumbing Guys, Inc. as Doe 4.
 
Defendant Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority (“LACMTA”)
moves for an order placing the Confidential Settlement Declaration of
Anna-Patrice Harris, filed concurrently with its Application for Determination
for Good Faith Settlement, under Court seal. 
 
            Co-Defendants On Time Rooter &
Plumbing Guys, Inc. and Jorge Carlos Castro have filed a limited opposition. No
reply has been filed. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
To grant a motion to seal, the court must expressly find
that: (1) an overriding interest exists that overcomes the right of public
access to the record; (2) the overriding interest supports sealing the records;
(3) a substantial probability exists that the overriding interest will be
prejudiced if the record is not sealed; (4) the proposed sealing is narrowly
tailored; and (5) no less restrictive means exist to achieve the
overriding interest.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.550(d); see¿McGuan v.
Endovascular Technologies, Inc.¿(2010) 182 Cal.App.4th 974, 988.)  
 
Unless confidentiality is required by law, court records
are presumed to be open to the public, pursuant to a potent “open court” policy
undergirded by the First Amendment and favoring the public nature of court
proceedings.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.550(c); see NBC
Subsidiary (KNBC-TV), Inc. v. Superior Court (1999) 20
Cal.4th 1178, 1199-10.)  Consequently, pleadings, motions, discovery
documents, and other papers may not be filed under seal merely by stipulation
of the parties; filing under seal requires a court order.  (Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 2.551(a); see H.B. Fuller Co. v. Doe¿(2007) 151
Cal.App.4th 879, 888.) “Policy reasons to restrict access are ‘anything which
tends to undermine that sense of security for individual rights, whether of
personal liberty or private property, which any citizen ought to feel has a
tendency to be injurious to the public or the public good.’ [Citation.]” (Copley
Press, Inc. v. Superior Court (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 367, 373.)
 
In Hinshaw v.
Superior Court (1996) 51 Cal.App.4th 233, 242, the court found that
private, non-governmental parties have a privacy interest in maintaining
confidentiality of settlement agreements that contain personal financial
information. The court has also found that the public at large may have an
interest in knowing settlement terms when a public entity settles a lawsuit,
especially when it involves how public funds are spent. (See Copley Press,
Inc. v. Superior Court (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 367, 376.) 
 
A sealing order must be sought by means of a motion (or
application) and accompanied by a memorandum of points and authorities, as well
as evidence and testimony containing facts sufficient to justify the mandatory
findings required to support a sealing order.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rules
2.550(d) and 2.551(b).)  The proponent of the sealing order must also
conditionally lodge the unredacted matter to be sealed with the
court.  (Id., rule 2.551(b)(4).) 
 
DISCUSSION
 
             Here, LACMTA and Plaintiff have settled. As a
result, on August 13, 2024, LACMTA filed an Application for Determination of
Good Faith Settlement which includes the “Confidential Settlement Declaration
of Anna-Patrice Harris.” LACMTA contends that the settlement agreement contains
a provision that requires the settlement remain confidential between the
parties. As a result, LACMTA asks the Court to seal the entire declaration. 
 
            In their limited opposition,
Co-Defendants On Time Rooter & Plumbing Guys, Inc. and Jorge Carlos Castro seek
“confirmation from this Court that, if the declaration in support is deemed
confidential and sealed, that Defendants will still be entitled to a set-off
from any verdict at trial under joint and several liability for the full amount
of the settlement between LACMTA and Plaintiff.” (Opp., 3.)
 
LACMTA has lodged an unredacted copy of the “Confidential Settlement
Declaration of Anna-Patrice Harris.” with the Court.[1]
 
However, the Court notes that LACMTA is a public entity. LACMTA’s
motion does not discuss what effect this has on the motion to seal, or the public’s
“legitimate interest in knowing how public funds are spent and how claims
(formal or informal) against public entities are settled.” (Copley
Press, Inc. v. Superior Court (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 367, 376.) Additionally, the
proposed sealing does not appear to be narrowly tailored since LACMTA is asking
the entire Declaration to be confidential. Furthermore, the only reason
provided for the settlement to be sealed is that a confidentiality provision
exists in the agreement; yet, LACMTA provides no reason why this provision was
included. Accordingly, Defendant has not provided sufficient information for
the Court to make the required findings under California Rules of Court 2.550
and 2.551.
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court DENIES Defendant Los Angeles County Metropolitan
Transportation Authority’s motion to Place Confidential Settlement Declaration
of Anna-Patrice Harris Under Seal. The materials will be returned to counsel at
the hearing on this motion, or if no personal appearance is made, they will be
destroyed.
 
Moving party shall give notice of the Court’s order, and file proof of
service of such.
 


