 Case Number:  22STCV17219    Hearing Date:   September 23, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


September
  23, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV17219




MOTIONS:  


Compel
  Further Responses to Special Interrogatories, Set Two




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant Barbara J. Rawashdeh 




OPPOSING PARTY:


Plaintiff
  Michael Jazz 



 
 
BACKGROUND
            
            On April 11, 2024, Defendant
Barbara J. Rawashdeh (“Defendant”) served Special Interrogatories, Set Two on
Plaintiff Michael Jazz (“Plaintiff”). (Zelner Decl. ¶ 2, Exh. 1.) Plaintiff
served responses on May 14, 2024. (Id. ¶ 3, Exh. 2.) 
 
            On June 14, 2024, Defendant filed
the instant motion to compel further responses to Special Interrogatories, Set
Two. Defendant also seeks monetary sanctions. 
 
            On August 20, 2024, an informal
discovery conference (“IDC”) was held, but counsel for Plaintiff failed to
appear. Defendant met his IDC obligation under the Eighth Amended Standing
Order. (Min. Order, 8/20/24.) 
 
            Plaintiff opposes this motion, and
Defendant replies.  
 
 
ANALYSIS
 
The
Court’s Eighth Amended Standing Order for Procedures in the Personal Injury Hub
requires counsel to participate in an Informal Discovery Conference (“IDC”)
before the Court will hear any motion to compel further responses to discovery,
and provides that PI Hub Courts may deny or continue any motion if parties fail
to schedule and complete an IDC before the scheduled hearing. 
 
Although an IDC
was scheduled, the Court notes that Defendant did not file a Separate Statement
in connection with this motion. (See Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1345(a)(2) [“Any
motion involving the content of a discovery request or the responses to such a
request must be accompanied by a separate statement. The motions that require a
separate statement include a motion: . . . (2) 
To compel further responses to interrogatories.”].) Additionally, there
is an inadequate discussion of the merits of the motion in the supporting
memorandum of points and authorities. 
 
In opposition,
Plaintiff’s counsel admits he received Defendant’s IDC statement but his staff
failed to prepare a responsive statement, and he failed to follow-up, resulting
in a mis- calendaring of the IDC. (Matusek Decl. ¶ 11.)
 
The
Court therefore continues the motion in order for an IDC to be held with the
parties. The parties are ordered to meet and confer in person or by telephone
and attempt to resolve the issues. If the issues cannot be resolved informally,
Defendant must reserve an IDC date and file a joint status report. The parties
are ordered to meet and confer to prepare the joint status report. The report
shall indicate the specific discovery request at issue, the response, and the
parties’ positions regarding why a further response should or should not be
compelled. The joint status report must be filed at least 5 days prior to the
scheduled IDC. 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court continues the motion to November 18, 2024 at 1:30
p.m. in Department 32 of the Spring Street Courthouse. Defendant shall schedule
and complete an IDC promptly in order for the motion to be heard. 
 
Defendant is ordered to provide notice of the Court’s orders and file
a proof of service of such.