  Case Number:  21STCV13188    Hearing Date:   October 26, 2023    Dept:  40 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



MARICRUZ SANTIAGO,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
SUBARU OF AMERICA, INC.; SUBARU OF GLENDALE; and DOES 1 through
  10, inclusive,
                        Defendants.


 Case No.:          21STCV13188
 Hearing Date:   10/26/23
 Trial Date:        11/14/23
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Defendants Subaru
  of America, Inc. and Universal Auto Group, Inc.’s Motion to Compel the
  Deposition of Plaintiff’s Experts, or in the Alternative, for an Order to
  Exclude Plaintiff’s Expert’s Testimony at Trial, and Request for Monetary
  Sanctions.



 
Background
On April 7, 2021, Plaintiff
Maricruz Santiago brought this action against Defendants Subaru of America, Inc.,
Universal Auto Group, Inc. (dba Subaru of Glendale), and Does 1 through 10
pursuant to (1)-(5) five Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act claims and (6) one
Fraud claim.
The claims arise from allegations
that in December 2014, Plaintiff purchased a 2015 Subaru Forester from Subaru
of Glendale, which was purchased pursuant to express and implied warranties
from Subaru of America, only for the vehicle to develop defects related to,
among many other things, the continuously variable transmission (CVT), the
transmission, a performance recall defect, and the illumination of the ABS
light, VDC light, and/or hill assist light, all of which Subaru of America and
its representatives were unable to conform to warranty after a reasonable
number of opportunities.
On May 1, 2023 and June 22, 2023
Plaintiff designated Randall Bounds, William F. Rucker, and Dan Calef as her
expert witnesses in this matter.
On May 2, 2023, Defendants served a
notice of deposition for Randall Bounds, William F. Rucker, and Dan Calef to
occur on May 19, 23, and 25, 2023. At the same time, a meet and confer letter
was served regarding Plaintiff’s purportedly duplicate expert testimony and setting
a date for Plaintiff’s experts’ depositions.
On May 15, 2023, Plaintiff served
objections stating that the expert witnesses would not be produced and that
Plaintiff’s counsel would meet and confer with Defendants’ counsel regarding
deposition dates.
On July 1, 2023 Defendants followed
up on the May 2, 2023 meet and confer letter.
On July 24, 25, and 28 2023,
Defendants followed up on their meet and confer correspondences via email. Also
on July 24, 2023, Defendants served their amended notices of depositions for
Randall Bounds, William F. Rucker, and Dan Calef to occur on August 7, 2023. A
second meet and confer letter regarding Plaintiff’s designations of duplicate
experts and setting a date for Plaintiff’s experts’ depositions was served in
conjunction with the notices.
 
On August 4, 2023, Plaintiff served
objections to the amended notices of depositions stating that the expert
witnesses would not be produced and Plaintiff’s counsel would meet and confer
with Defendants’ counsel regarding deposition dates.
On August 7, 2023, September 26 and
29, 2023, Defendants followed up on their meet and confer correspondences.
On October 6, 2023, Defendants
moved to compel a deposition of one of Plaintiff’s experts or, in the
alternative, the exclusion of Plaintiff’s experts’ testimony at trial.
Defendants also sought monetary sanctions. The motion was set for hearing on
December 13, 2023.
On October 19, 2023, Defendants
filed an ex parte application to advance the hearing on the motion to compel.
On October 20, 2023, the Court
heard and granted the ex parte, advancing the hearing to October 26, 2023 and
extending the expert discovery cutoff as to the expert witnesses to November 3,
2023. The Court permitted the electronic filing of an opposition by October 24,
2023 and the filing of a reply by October 25, 2023.
On October 24, 2023, Plaintiff
opposed the motion to compel.
On October 25, 2023, Defendants
replied to the opposition.
Defendants’ motion to compel is now
before the Court.
 
Motion to Compel Deposition

Legal Standard
If, [1] after service of a
deposition notice, [2] a party to the action or an officer, director, managing
agent, or employee of a party, or a person designated by an organization that
is a party under Section 2025.230, [3] without having served a valid objection
under Section 2025.410, [4] fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with
it, or to produce for inspection any document, electronically stored
information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice, [5] the
party giving the notice may move for an order compelling the deponent’s
attendance and testimony, and the production for inspection of any document,
electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the
deposition notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (a) [Arabic numerals
added for clarity].)
Although Code of Civil Procedure
section 2025.450 does not apply to nonparties and section 2025.480 does not
address attendance, courts regularly consider and grant motions to compel
nonparties to attend depositions. (See, e.g., Terry v. SLICO (2009) 175
Cal.App.4th 352, 355 [court considered motion to compel nonparty to attend
deposition; Sears, Roebuck, & Co. v. National Un. Fire Ins. (2005)
131 Cal.App.4th 1342, 1351 [court held that subpoenaing party can move to
compel when nonparty deponent does not appear or produce documents at
deposition]; Brun v. Bailey (1994) 27 Cal.App.4th 641, 645-646 [court
considered motion to compel nonparty to attend deposition].)
The motion shall set forth specific
facts showing good cause justifying the production for inspection of any
document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the
deposition notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (b)(1).)
The motion shall also be
accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040, or, when
the deponent fails to attend the deposition and produce the documents,
electronically stored information, or things described in the deposition
notice, by a declaration stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent
to inquire about the nonappearance. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd.
(b)(2).)
If the proposed deponent made some
response to the deposition notice, then a separate statement must accompany any
motion to compel deposition attendance or production. (See Cal. Rules of Court,
rule 3.1345, subd. (a)(1)-(7), (b).)
Order Compelling Deposition(s):
MOOT.
In their motion, Defendants seek an
order compelling the deposition of one of Plaintiff’s designated experts—Randall
Bounds, William F. Rucker, or Dan Calef—on a date specified by the Court. In
support, Defendants argue that they “have made numerous attempts to coordinate
Plaintiff’s Experts’ depositions for over five months,” that “Plaintiff has
failed to respond to any of Defendants’ requests to provide mutually convenient
dates to conduct Plaintiff’s Experts’ depositions,” and that “Plaintiff’s
attorneys have not, and cannot, articulate any meritorious objection as to why
one of the depositions of her own designated Experts should not go forward.”
(Mot., Notice, p. 2; Motion, p. 3 [quoted language]; Mot., Haroutunian Decl.,
¶¶ 2-10, Exs. A-H; but see Opp’n, p. 4 [pointing out alleged deficiencies in
Haroutunian declaration].)
In opposition, Plaintiff argues
that this motion has been mooted by the parties’ October 20, 2023 agreement to
have Plaintiff’s expert Randall Bounds deposed on October 27, 2023. Plaintiff
also argues that this motion is uncertain and overbroad because it seeks to
achieve inconsistent and unrelated objectives, i.e., to elicit expert discovery
while also attempting to exclude the same or similar information at trial.
Plaintiff last argues that Defendants did not confer in good faith and that the
Haroutunian declaration should be disregarded because it is missing some of the
paragraphs and exhibits referenced in Defendants’ briefing. (Opp’n, pp. 2-4;
Opp’n, Campbell Decl., ¶¶ 5-6, Ex. A.) (The Court notes that the challenged
paragraphs and exhibits of the Haroutunian declaration were properly filed with
the Court.)
In reply, Defendants argue that
this motion has not been mooted because issues remain as to monetary sanctions
and a finding of discovery abuse against Plaintiff. Defendants also argue that
the relief sought in their motion is not inconsistent, that Defendants met and
conferred in good faith, and that defense counsel’s declaration is complete in
its paragraphs and exhibits. (Reply, pp. 2-5.)
After review, the Court determines that
the portion of this motion seeking an order compelling the deposition of at
least one Plaintiff’s experts has been MOOTED by the parties’ October 20, 2023
agreement to have Randall Bounds’s deposition take place one day after this
hearing, thus satisfying Defendants’ request for a deposition of one of
Plaintiff’s designated experts on a specified date.
Sanctions: GRANTED.
If a motion under subdivision (a)
is granted, the court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7
(commencing with Section 2023.010) in favor of the party who noticed the
deposition and against the deponent or the party with whom the deponent is affiliated,
unless the court finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with
substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of
the sanction unjust. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (g)(1).)
The court may award sanctions under
the Discovery Act in favor of a party who files a motion to compel discovery,
even though no opposition to the motion was filed, or opposition to the motion
was withdrawn, or the requested discovery was provided to the moving party
after the motion was filed. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1348, subd. (a).)
In their motion, Defendants argue
that they are entitled to $2,100 in monetary sanctions from Plaintiff and
Plaintiff’s attorneys because “Plaintiff has engaged in repeated discovery
misconduct by repeatedly failing to respond to Defendants numerous meet and
confer efforts and by failing to provide dates for one of Plaintiff’s Expert’s
Depositions.” (Mot., p. 4.)
In opposition, Plaintiff asks that
sanctions be denied with no separate explanation for why sanctions should be
denied. (Opp’n, p. 5.)
In reply, Defendants argue that
this motion is not moot as to a determination of monetary sanctions and a
finding of discovery abuse by Plaintiff and that Plaintiff has not provided an
adequate explanation for Plaintiff’s conduct in refusing to permit deposition
of her experts. (Reply, p. 2.) 
After review, the Court finds that
sanctions are appropriate here.
Plaintiff has failed to make at
least one of her experts available for deposition since May 2023. (Mot.,
Haroutunian Decl., ¶¶ 2-10.) While Plaintiff was within her rights to object to
dates that were selected by the other side (who nevertheless simultaneously expressed
willingness to meet and confer to select new dates), Plaintiff never did follow
up with any proposed new dates. Defendants had to follow up with Plaintiff by
means of letter, email, or notice of deposition no less than seven times between
the date Plaintiff objected to the initial notices and the date they filed their
Motion to Compel. This is a misuse of the discovery process in accordance with
the Code. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010, subds. (d) [failing to respond or
submit to an authorized form of discovery] and (f) [making an evasive response
to discovery].) Plaintiff’s opposition provides no valid explanation for
failing to proffer some alternative dates for the depositions of her expert or experts
to go forward prior to the filing of this motion. (See Opp’n, pp. 2-4.)
Accordingly, the Court GRANTS
sanctions in the amount of $2,100 against Plaintiff Santiago and her counsel of
record, Strategic Legal Practices. This sanction amount is reasonably comprised
of six hours preparing this motion at a rate of $240 per hour, 1.5 hours
expended replying to the opposition at a rate of $240 per hour, one hour
appearing at the hearing at a rate of $240 per hour, and a $60 filing fee.
(Mot., Haroutunian Decl., ¶ 11.) 
Conclusion
Defendants Subaru of America, Inc.
and Universal Auto Group, Inc.’s Motion to Compel the Deposition of Plaintiff’s
Experts, or in the Alternative, for an Order to Exclude Plaintiff’s Expert’s
Testimony at Trial is MOOT.
Defendants Subaru of America, Inc.
and Universal Auto Group, Inc.’s Request for Monetary Sanctions is GRANTED in
the amount of $2,100 against Plaintiff Maricruz Santiago and her counsel of
record, Strategic Legal Practices.
Plaintiff Maricruz Santiago and her
counsel of record, Strategic Legal Practices, are ORDERED, jointly and
severally, to pay $2,100 in monetary sanctions to Defendants Subaru of America,
Inc. and Universal Auto Group, Inc. within 30 days of this ruling.
Moving party to give notice.