  Case Number:  20STCV38741    Hearing Date:   September 9, 2024    Dept:  T Motion to Provide Access to Juror Information Moving Party: Defendants Edmond Trapp; Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority (LACMTA)Responding Party: Plaintiff Juan Andres Espinoza Torres Tentative Ruling: DENYBACKGROUNDThis is a personal injury case arising from Plaintiff’s motorcycle collision with a pickup truck driven by a LACMTA employee. The jury returned a verdict in favor of Plaintiff and awarded $750,000 solely for past and future noneconomic damages. At trial, there was evidence admitted about Plaintiff's medical expenses, but Plaintiff waived economic damages before resting his case. During closing argument, Plaintiff's attorney argued for a minimum $7,000,000 verdict whereas Defendants’ counsel argued for a verdict of $100,000. The jury awarded $375,000 past pain and suffering and $375,000 for future pain and suffering.When trial concluded, the Court informed the jury that they could wait outside the courtroom hallway doors if they wanted to speak with the attorneys. When Defendants’ counsel went out to the courtroom doors, no jurors were present in the hallway. Defendants’ counsel looked for the jurors near the elevator and waited on the first floor for “a short time for the jurors to leave the courthouse, but none came.” (Defendants’ Motion to Release Juror Information p. 7.)MOVING PARTY POSITIONDefendants argue they should be allowed to make a reasonable inquiry about what the jury discussed and considered during deliberations in order to evaluate whether any juror misconduct occurred. Defendants argue they should be allowed to inquire into how the jury arrived at said sums and whether they improperly considered inadmissible and irrelevant evidence of Plaintiff's medical bills before any post-trial motion is heard by the Court and before memoranda of points and authorities are filed.OPPOSITIONPlaintiff argues that Defendants’ application lacks veracity and presents no exigent circumstance justifying emergency relief. Plaintiff argues Defendants lacked diligence in seeking juror information when counsel left the courthouse without speaking to any of the jurors, including those Plaintiff’s counsel spoke with in the hallway. Moreover, Plaintiff points to Defendants’ inaction in the following several weeks to find the jurors and secure an order releasing the jurors’ private information.REPLYNo reply has been filed.ANALYSISI. Motion to Release Juror InformationCalifornia Code of Civil Procedure § 237(a)(1) states that the names of jurors “shall be made available to the public upon request unless the court determines that a compelling interest, as defined in subdivision (b), requires that this information should be kept confidential or its use limited in whole or in part.” A petition for juror information must be supported by a declaration that “includes facts sufficient to establish good cause for the release of the juror’s personal identifying information.” (C.C.P., § 237(b); Eng v. Brown (2018) 21 Cal.App.5th 675, 709.) “Good cause, in the context of a petition for disclosure to support a motion for a new trial based on juror misconduct, requires ‘a sufficient showing to support a reasonable belief that jury misconduct occurred....’ Good cause does not exist where the allegations of jury misconduct are speculative, conclusory, vague, or unsupported.”  People v. Cook (2015) 236 Cal.App.4th 341, 346 (internal citations omitted).  As a preliminary matter, the Court notes that six of the twelve jurors have objected to the disclosure of their contact information.  Regarding the merits of the motion, Defendants have not established good cause for the release of jurors’ personal information. Defendants wish to contact jurors to determine whether they “considered the irrelevant evidence of the purported necessity and/or reasonableness of Plaintiff's medical bills after Plaintiff withdrew that damage claim.” (Motion to Provide Access to Juror Information p. 10.) However, Defendants provide nothing beyond unsupported speculation to suggest that the amount of the verdict included medical bills or that a higher amount was awarded based on consideration of the medical bills.  Moreover, given that pain, suffering and inconvenience associated with past and future medical treatment and procedures was recoverable, jury deliberations concerning past and future treatment would not have been improper.  Given the lack of a showing of misconduct and given that the jurors could have properly considered the past and future medical treatment, the Court finds there is no good cause to disclose the jury’s contact information.  RULINGDefendants’ motion to provide access to juror information is DENIED.