 Case Number:  23SMCV03260    Hearing Date:   May 2, 2024    Dept:  O Case  Name:               BSI Group LLC, et  al. v. Samoska    Case No.:                    23SMVC03260    Complaint Filed:                   7-19-23      Hearing Date:            5-2-24    Discovery C/O:                     None     Calendar No.:            8   Discover Motion C/O:          None     POS:                           OK   Trial Date:                             None    SUBJECT:                 DEMURRER TO  FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT MOVING  PARTY:   Defendant William Samoska  RESP.  PARTY:         Plaintiffs BSI Group,  LLC and International Business Solutions Group LLC   TENTATIVE  RULING             Defendant  William Samoska’s Demurrer to the First Amended Complaint is OVERRULED.               Defendant’s  Request for Judicial Notice of the Civil Cover Sheet and Complaint filed in BSI  Group LLC, et al. v. EZ Banc Corp, et al., Case No. 3:23-CV-01270BSM is  GRANTED.   I.   California Commercial Code §11101, et seq. (“UCC4”)                 Defendant  argues California Commercial Code §11101, et seq. (“UCC4”) “preempts” all of  Plaintiff’s causes of action.  Defendant  relies on Zengen, Inc. v. Comerica Bank (2007) 41 Cal.4th 239  for this assertion.  However, Zengen  is factually distinguishable.  In Zengen,  Plaintiff’s CFO embezzled funds from the company by directing four fraudulent  funds transfers from the company account to an account he controlled.  (Zengen, Inc., supra, 41 Cal.4th  at 243.)  “The ultimate question in this  litigation is who must bear this loss:   the bank that honored the fraudulent payment orders or the company that  employed the embezzler.”  (Id. at 243.)                 Here,  Plaintiffs are not attempting to hold their banks liable for honoring what  appeared to be a transfer of funds authorized by Plaintiffs.  Plaintiffs are seeking to hold the recipient  of funds allegedly misappropriated by their banks from their accounts.  Samoska is not a bank and there is no  allegation that he was a “receiving bank” that accepted a “payment order,” as  the alleged defendant did in Zengen.   Zengen’s conclusion that the plaintiff’s claims were “preempted”  or “displaced” by UCC4 was based on the specific factual scenario before the  Supreme Court and the relevant sections discussed all pertained to liability  and obligations of a “receiving bank” in response to a “payment order.”  (Id. at 251-255.)  That analysis simply would not apply here,  and Defendant does not provide his own analysis as to why Plaintiffs’ causes of  action are displaced by UCC4.                            Defendant  also cites to AG4 Holding, LLC v. Regency Title & Escrow Servs., Inc. CL-2017-13211  (Va. Cir. Ct. Jan. 24, 2018) in support of his preemption/displacement  argument.  However, the Court is not  bound by out of state authority.   Defendant also cites to RJN, Ex. 3 but there is no Exhibit 3 to the RJN  filed on December 26, 2023 in support of this Demurrer.                 Defendant  fails to establish that under the allege facts. California Commercial Code  §11101, et seq. “preempts” or “displaces” Plaintiffs’ common law causes of  action. Defendants’ demurrer to the entire complaint based on “UCC4” is  overruled.     II.  1st cause of action for Money had  and received               “A cause of action is stated for  money had and received if the defendant is indebted to the plaintiff in a  certain sum ‘for money had and received by the defendant for the use of the  plaintiff.  This common count is available  in a great variety of situations and lies wherever one person has received  money which belongs to another, and which in equity and good conscience should  be paid over to the latter.”  (Gutierrez  v. Girardi (2011) 194 Cal.App.4th 925, 937.)                 Defendant argues there are no facts to support  Plaintiffs’ allegation that he received funds that were intended to be used for  Plaintiffs’ benefit.  At the pleading  stage, a plaintiff need only allege ultimate facts sufficient to apprise the  defendant of the factual basis for the claim against him. (Semole v.  Sansoucie (1972) 28 Cal. App. 3d 714, 721.) The court assumes the truth of  the complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual allegations. (E-Fab,  Inc. v. Accountants, Inc. Servs. (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.)   Plaintiffs’  allegation that Defendant received money originating from Plaintiffs’ bank  accounts that “was intended to be used for the exclusive benefit of Plaintiffs”  is itself an allegation of ultimate fact.   (FAC, ¶The intended use of the funds is itself a fact that must be  accepted as true on demurrer.     Moreover,  Plaintiffs allege that Defendant explicitly acknowledge that the funds he held  “belonged to Plaintiffs and would be returned to them.”  (FAC, ¶60.)   The intent to benefit Plaintiffs can also be inferred from Defendant’s  alleged acknowledgement of Plaintiffs’ ownership of the funds and their right  to have the funds returned to them.     Defendant  also argues he was holding the funds due to a pending investigation into  Plaintiffs’ suspicious activity and whether Plaintiffs were in violation of  federal law, specifically the Venezuela Sanctions Regulations.  Defendant argues this precludes a finding  that the funds were transferred to Defendant for the intended use or benefit of  Plaintiff.     Defendant’s  claim that he was holding the funds pending federal investigation into  Plaintiffs’ activities is outside the scope of this demurrer.  A “demurrer based on an affirmative defense  cannot properly be sustained where the action might be barred by the defense,  but is not necessarily barred.”  (CrossTalk  Productions, Inc. v. Jacobson (1998) 65 Cal.App.4th 631, 635.) There is  nothing on the face of the complaint establishing that the funds were being  held pending investigation into Plaintiffs, as opposed to transferred to  Defendant with the intent to benefit them.   Defendant’s  demurrer to the first cause of action for money had and received is overruled.   III.  2nd cause of action for Conversion                 Conversion is the wrongful  exercise of dominion over the property of another.  (Farmers Ins. Exchange v. Zerin (1997)  53 Cal.App.4th 445, 451.)  The elements  of a claim for conversion are (1) the plaintiff's ownership or right to  possession of the property at the time of the conversion, (2) the defendant's  conversion by a wrongful act or disposition of property rights, and (3)  damages.  (Id.)  It is not necessary that there be a manual  taking of the property, only an assumption of control or ownership over the  property, or that the alleged converter has applied the property to his or her  own use.  (Id. at pp. 451–452.)  A mere contractual right of payment, without  more, is insufficient.  (Id. at p.  451.)  “A cause of action for conversion  of money can be stated only where a defendant interferes with the plaintiff's  possessory interest in a specific, identifiable sum, such as when a trustee or  agent misappropriates the money entrusted to him.” (Kim v. Westmoore  Partners, Inc. (2011) 201 Cal.App.4th 267, 284.)                 Defendant argues there is no allegation that he ever took  control or ownership over the Trust Assets or that he applied them to his own  personal use.  Plaintiffs allege that the  funds were transferred to Defendant, Plaintiffs contacted him about them  demanding their return, Defendant acknowledged Plaintiffs’ ownership over the  funds and that the funds would ultimately be returned to them, Defendant never  returned the funds to them and instead, Defendant transferred the funds to a  third party.  (FAC, ¶¶48-51, 56-57.)  Plaintiffs sufficiently allege that Defendant  assumed control over the property by refusing to return the funds to them  despite acknowledging that they belonged to Plaintiffs and then transferring  the funds to a third party without Plaintiffs’ knowledge or consent.                 Defendant claims he cannot be held liable for merely  receiving and holding funds transferred to him by his client EZBanc.  Plaintiffs have alleged much more than the  mere receipt and holding of funds against Defendant.  Plaintiffs have alleged that Defendant held  the funds knowing they belonged to them, refused to return them despite demand  and then subsequently transferred them to a third party.  This is precisely the scenario that the court  in Shopoff & Cavallo LLP v. Hyon (2008) 167 Cal.App.4th  1489 used as an example of conversion, as distinguished from holding funds and  then interpleading them when faced with competing claims of ownership:     “Where  Hyon's conversion cause of action patently founders, however, is in the failure  to assert the essential elements that Shopoff exercised dominion over the  Recovery proceeds and converted them to his own use. Shopoff, as trustee of the  Recovery proceeds, retained and interpled the funds precisely to avoid  potential liability for conversion. If he had disbursed the funds to an  improper party—whether that was Hyon or anyone else—with knowledge that another  claimant had lawful contractual rights to the proceeds, an action for  conversion against him may have been appropriate.”  (Shopoff & Cavallo LLP v. Hyon  (2008) 167 Cal.App.4th 1489, 1508 (emphasis added).)    Defendant’s  demurrer to the second cause of action for conversion is overruled.     IV.  3rd cause of action for Unjust  enrichment               There is a split amongst California courts regarding  whether unjust enrichment is an independent cause of action.  (O’Grady v. Merchant Exchange Productions,  Inc. (2019) 41 Cal.App.5th 771, 791 (recognizing there are  decisions holding that unjust enrichment is not a cause of action, “but this  appellate district appears split on the issue).)  Although some California courts have  suggested the existence of a separate cause of action for unjust enrichment,  other courts have held that there is no cause of action in California for  unjust enrichment.  (Peterson v.  Cellco Partnership (2008) 164 Cal.App.4th 1583, 1593 (listing elements of  unjust enrichment claim); Levine v. Blue Shield of Cal. (2010) 189  Cal.App.4th 1117, 1138, quoting Durell v. Sharp Healthcare (2010) 183  Cal.App.4th 1350, 1370 (no independent cause of action for unjust enrichment;  unjust enrichment equivalent of restitution cause of action).) Whether unjust  enrichment is a recognized as a cause of action is “largely academic because  this district [First] has long taken the position that, even if unjust  enrichment does not des describe an actual cause of action, the term is  synonymous with restitution, which can be a theory of recovery.”  (O’Grady v. Merchant Exchange Productions,  Inc. (2019) 41 Cal.App.5th 771, 791.)  Unjust enrichment is synonymous with a claim  for restitution.  (McBride v. Boughton  (2004) 123 Cal.App.4th 379, 387.)   Moreover, a general demurrer must be overruled if the allegations state  any claim, even one not intended by the plaintiff.  (Sheehan v. San Francisco 49ers, Ltd.  (2009) 45 Cal.4th 992, 998 (general demurrer may be upheld “only if the  complaint fails to state a cause of action under any possible legal theory”).) “There are  several potential bases for a cause of action seeking restitution. For example,  restitution may be awarded in lieu of breach of contract damages when the  parties had an express contract, but it was procured by fraud or is  unenforceable or ineffective for some reason. Alternatively, restitution may be  awarded where the defendant obtained a benefit from the plaintiff by fraud,  duress, conversion, or similar conduct. In such cases, the plaintiff may choose  not to sue in tort, but instead to seek restitution on a quasi-contract theory  (an election referred to at common law as ‘waiving the tort and suing in  assumpsit’).”  (McBride, supra,  123 Cal.App.4th  at 388.)               Plaintiffs sufficiently allege that  Defendant was unjustly enriched.   Plaintiffs allege Defendant held onto their funds and then transferred  to funds to a third party. (FAC, ¶72.)   Plaintiffs sufficiently allege that Defendant benefitted unjustly by  holding dominion and control over funds that did not belong to Defendant and  then transferring it, at its discretion without Plaintiffs’ consent, to a third  party.  “Benefit means any type of  advantage.”  (American Master Lease  LLC v. Idanta Partners, Ltd. (2014) 225 Cal.App.4th 1451,  1484.)                 Defendant’s demurrer to the 3rd  cause of action for unjust enrichment is overruled.     V.  4th cause of action for violation  of Penal Code §496               Penal Code §496(c) remedies are  only available where the specific elements of an offence under Penal Code  §496(a) are clearly pled.  “While section  496(a) covers a spectrum of impermissible activity relating to stolen property,  the elements required to show a violation of section 496(a) are simply that (i)  property was stolen or obtained in a manner constituting theft, (ii) the  defendant knew the property was so stolen or obtained, and (iii) the defendant  received or had possession of the stolen property.”  (Switzer v. Wood (2019) 35 Cal.App.5th  116, 126.)               “No  specific intent is required.  However, if  from the moment of receiving stolen property a defendant intends to return it  to its rightful owner, the defendant has no criminal intent and is thus  absolved of guilt.  The defendant need  not have taken the property for personal gain; it is enough that the defendant  took control over the property.”  (2  Witkin, Ca. Crim. Law (4th ed. 2000), §78.)                 “Theft”  under Penal Code §496(a) is an essential element of a claim for treble damages  under Penal Code §496(c).  (Siry  Investment, L.P. v. Farkhondehpour (2022) 13 Cal.5th 333, 361.)  However, “not all commercial or consumer  disputes alleging that a defendant obtained money or property through fraud,  misrepresentation or breach of a contractual promise will amount to a  theft.”  (Id. at 361-362.)                 “Actual  knowledge of the stolen character of the property is required in all  cases—whether the charge is buying, receiving, concealing, selling, or  withholding. (P.C. 496(a).”  (Id.  at §87.)  “Under California's broad  statute it is not necessary to show knowledge at the time of receipt; it is  sufficient that the defendant conceals or withholds the property after  acquiring the knowledge.”  (Id.)               Defendant  argues Plaintiffs fail to “demonstrate” that the funds were stolen as opposed  to frozen in response to a federal investigation.  Defendant also argues there are no facts  alleged demonstrating his criminal intent.               Plaintiffs  are not required to “demonstrate” anything at this point.  Plaintiffs are only required to allege that  the funds were stolen from them.   Plaintiffs sufficiently allege that the funds were taken within their  consent from their EZBanc accounts and transferred without their consent to  Defendant, who was informed that the funds were taken without their consent.  (FAC, ¶¶44-53.)                 Plaintiffs  also sufficiently allege the requisite intent to state a claim for violation of  Penal Code §496 does not require specific intent.  (2 Witkin, Ca. Crim. Law (4th  ed. 2000), §78.)   Plaintiffs allege facts from which  the Court can reasonably infer that Defendant knew the funds were taken without  Plaintiffs’ consent, that they belonged to Plaintiffs and were to be returned  to Plaintiffs.  (FAC, ¶¶44-53.)  Despite this knowledge, Defendant did not  return the funds to Plaintiffs and instead exercised dominion and control over  them, ultimately transferring them to a third party without Plaintiffs’ consent  and in the face of a pending Application for Writ of Attachment.  (FAC, ¶¶54-58.)                 Defendant’s  demurrer to the 4th cause of action for violation of Penal Code  §496(b) is overruled.    VI.  5th cause of action for breach of  fiduciary duty               Defendant  argues he did not owe Plaintiffs any fiduciary duty, because they were not his  client.  However, Plaintiffs are not  alleging fiduciary duty based on an attorney-client relationship.  Plaintiffs are alleging that Defendant was  their fiduciary, because he was holding their funds, he acknowledged that he  was holding their funds and he also acknowledged and agreed that those funds  would be returned to Plaintiffs.  (FAC,  ¶¶48-49, 83.)                 Plaintiffs  has sufficiently alleged a fiduciary duty owed Defendant owed to Plaintiff by  virtue of Defendant’s holding of money for the  benefit of Plaintiff. Johnston v. State Bar (1966) 64 Cal. 2nd  153, 155-56.                  Defendant’s  demurrer to the fifth cause of action for breach of fiduciary duty is overruled.     VII.  6th cause of action for  professional negligence               For  the same reasons stated in connection with the breach of fiduciary duty claim,  Plaintiffs sufficiently allege a claim for professional negligence.                 Defendant’s  demurrer to the sixth cause of action for professional negligence is overruled.   VIII.  Indispensable parties and Plaintiffs’ federal  case against EZ Banc, Evolve and Solid               Defendant  argues that EZBanc, Evolve and Solid are necessary parties and asks that the  Court stay this action pending resolution of Plaintiffs’ federal action against  EZBanc, Evolve and Solid.  The Court  addressed these arguments in its April 9, 2024 order denying Defendant’s prior  Motion to Dismiss for Failure to Join Indispensable Parties.  For the same reasons stated in the April 9,  2024 order, the Court overrules Defendant’s demurrer based on indispensable  party.    