  Case Number:  23SMCV01291    Hearing Date:   July 25, 2024    Dept:  P Tentative Ruling 
Halley, et al. v.
California Fair Plan Ass’n. et al., Case No. 23SMCV01291
Hearing Date 7/25/24

Defendants’
Demurrer to First Amended Complaint/Motion to Strike Punitive Damages
 
Plaintiff Halleys’
house and guest house were damaged in the 2018 Woolsey fire. They received insurance
compensation for damage to the house from defendant California Fair Plan. Plaintiffs
allege defendant O’Shea Insurance Agency opened two separate insurance policies
for the house and guest house but failed to inform plaintiffs. FAC 13, 16, 18. Plaintiffs
allege they thought they were making a claim for both the house and the guest
house but later discovered there were two polices and made a claim for the
guest house. FAC 21, 22. Plaintiffs allege defendant Fair Plan wrongfully
denied their claim for the guest house. Defendant Fair Plan demurred to the
complaint, sustained with leave to amend on 2/16/24. Fair Plan now demurs to
the FAC, filed 2/26/24, and moves to strike punitive damages allegations. 
 
First Cause of
Action for Breach of Contract
To allege a cause
of action for breach of contract, plaintiff must either attach the contract,
plead its terms verbatim or set forth the legal effect of the relevant terms. E.g.,
Const. Protective Servs., Inc. v. TIG Specialty Ins. Co. (2002) 29 Cal.4th
189, 198-199.
 
Plaintiffs’ FAC
alleges the claim was not time barred, since they believed they made a claim
for loss of the guest house via their initial claim. FAC 13, 16. Whether this
was a reasonable belief cannot be decided on demurrer. Likewise, whether
plaintiffs should have known they had two policies, not one, because, inter
alia, they paid two premiums, is a question of fact the court cannot decide on
demurrer. At this point, plaintiffs have alleged a cause of action for breach
of contract. OVERRULED.
 
Second Cause of Action
for Breach of the Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing 
Plaintiffs allege
Fair Plan failed to inform them of the separate policy for the guest house. FAC
18. Whether Fair Plan had a duty to do so, of course, cannot be determined on
demurrer. But at this point, plaintiffs allege breach of the covenant of good
faith and fair dealing sufficient to withstand demurrer. OVERRULED.
 
Motion to Strike
Punitive Damages re Second Cause of Action
As to the motion
to strike punitive damages, the only allegations are Fair Plan’s alleged
failure to disclose policy information (that there were two policies, not one)
and improper denial of the claim. No allegations were made as to any malice,
fraud or oppression by Fair Plan. FAC 43 contains only conclusory allegations
that defendant engaged in “intentional, malicious, oppressive, deceitful,
vexatious and fraudulent conduct” without any specific factual allegations. At
this point, there are insufficient factual allegations to sustain a claim for
punitive damages, so such are STRICKEN without prejudice. 