 Case Number:  24STCV17141    Hearing Date:   December 13, 2024    Dept:  37 HEARING DATE:                 Friday, December 13, 2024
CASE NUMBER:                   24STCV17141
CASE NAME:                        Nomi Abadi v. Daniel Elfman
MOVING PARTY:                 Defendant Daniel Elfman
OPPOSING PARTY:             Plaintiff Nomi Abadi
TRIAL DATE:                        Not Set
PROOF OF SERVICE:           OK

                                                                                                                                                            

PROCEEDING:                      Special Motion to
Strike (CCP § 425.16.)
OPPOSITION:                        25 November 2024
REPLY:                                  3
December 2024
 
TENTATIVE:                         Defendant Elfman’s special motion to
strike is denied. 

                                                                                                                                                

 
Background
 
On July 10, 2024, Nomi
Abadi (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against Daniel Elfman (“Defendant”) and
Does 1 to 10, alleging a single cause of action for defamation per se. The
Complaint alleges that famed film and music composer, Defendant Elfman, defamed
Plaintiff in a July 29, 2023, Rolling Stone article in which Defendant
painted Plaintiff as a spurned lover who retaliated against Defendant by making
false sexual misconduct allegations against him. 
 
Defendant Elfman has
filed this Special
Motion to Strike under CCP § 425.1. Plaintiff opposes the Motion. The matter is
now before the court. 
 
Request
for Judicial Notice
 
The
Court may take judicial notice of “facts and propositions that are not
reasonably subject to dispute and are capable of immediate and accurate
determination by resort to sources of reasonably indisputable accuracy.” (Evid.
Code § 452(h).) The Court may take judicial notice of records of any court of
record of the United States. (Id. at § 452(d)(2).) However, the court
may only judicially notice the existence of the record, not that its contents
are the truth. (Sosinsky v. Grant (1992) 6 Cal.App.4th 1548,
1565.) 
 
Defendant
Elfman requests judicial notice of the following: 
 
Exhibit 1: Nomi
Abadi’s Wikipedia page, which is available at:
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nomi_Abadi#:~:text=Nomi%20Abadi%20is%20an%20American%20born%20SyrianEgyptian%20Jewish%20pianist,%20vocalist,#:~:text=Nomi%20Abadi%20is%20an%20American
%20born%20Syrian- Egyptian%20Jewish%20pianist,%20vocalist. 
 
Granted.
“While we may take judicial notice of the existence of the audit report, Web
sites, and blogs, we may not accept their contents as true.” (Ragland v.
U.S. Bank National Assn. (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th 182, 193.) 
 
Exhibit 2:
An article published by The Hollywood Reporter, dated December 10, 2021,
entitled “#MeToo Missed Us: Female Composers Speak Out,” which is available at https://www.hollywoodreporter.com/news/music-news/female-composers-metoo-missed-us1235058603/?fbclid=IwAR2EP327M6cW7jl3xm_0J0YObMXgwgRNOql1Kh3PUKCBHJtHD_UYLsA_h4.

 
Granted.
(See Ragland, supra, 209 Cal.App.4th at p. 193.) 
 
Exhibit 3:
An article published by The Guardian, dated February 21, 2023, entitled
“The Hollywood crisis #MeToo missed: ‘Every female composer has been through
it,’” which is available at https://www.theguardian.com/film/2023/feb/20/film-scoring-hollywood-misconductabuse-harassment-metoo.

 
Granted.
(See Ragland, supra, 209 Cal.App.4th at p. 193.) 
 
Exhibit 4:
An article published by Voice of OC, dated January 5, 2023, entitled
“Residents Demand Investigation Into Sexual Abuse Allegations at OC School of
the Arts,” which is available at https://voiceofoc.org/2023/01/residents-demand-investigation-into-sexual-abuseallegations-at-oc-school-of-the-arts/.

 
Granted.
(See Ragland, supra, 209 Cal.App.4th at p. 193.) 
 
Exhibit 5:
An article published by Rolling Stone, dated February 4, 2023, entitled
“Sexual Assault Survivors Call Out Music Industry Ahead of Grammys,” which is
available at https://www.rollingstone.com/music/music-news/sexual-assault-survivors-grammys-1234673714.

 
Granted.
(See Ragland, supra, 209 Cal.App.4th at p. 193.) 
 
Exhibit 6:
An article published by Variety, dated February 3, 2023, entitled
“Sexual Assault Survivors Speak Out on Grammy Weekend: ‘The Music Industry is
the Catholic Church on Steroids,’” which is available at https://variety.com/2023/music/news/sexual-assault-jeff-anderson-nick-carter-marilyn-manson-1235512594/.  
 
Granted.
(See Ragland, supra, 209 Cal.App.4th at p. 193.) 
 
Exhibit 7:
An article published by the OC Register, dated November 3, 2022,
entitled “OSCA lunch break met by demonstrators alleging sexual misconduct,”
which is available at https://www.ocregister.com/2022/11/03/osca-lunch-break-met-by-demonstrators-alleging-sexualmisconduct.  
 
Granted.
(See Ragland, supra, 209 Cal.App.4th at p. 193.) 
 
evidentiary
objections
 
Defendant
Elfman’s Evidentiary Objections to the Declaration of Plaintiff Nomi Abadi:
            Objections 1 to 44 are
overruled. 
 
Plaintiff’s
Evidentiary Objections to the Declaration of Melisa McGregor:
            Objection No. 1 is sustained
due to lack of personal knowledge. 
            Objection No. 2 is overruled.

 
Plaintiff’s
Evidentiary Objections to the Declaration of Christopher O’Riley:
            Objections Nos. 3, 6, 10, 11, and
12 are overruled. 
            Objections Nos. 4, 8, and 9
are sustained due to lack of foundation. 
            Objection Nos. 5, and 7
are overruled due to hearsay. 
 
Plaintiff’s
Evidentiary Objections to the Declaration of Rose Ruin: 
            Objections Nos. 13, 16, 17, 19,
21, 22, 24-27, and 29 are sustained due to hearsay. 
Objection No. 15 is
overruled as to the statement “My impression from Ms. Abadi’s statements and
text messages was that she had romantic ambitions with Mr. Elfman” but
sustained as to the statement: “For instance, Ms. Abadi stated that her
communications with Mr. Elfman were ‘Just fun loving. Don’t sense any
flirtation from him.’”
Objection Nos. 14, 18, 20, 23,
and 28 are overruled as the statements are admissible
as a party admission. 
 
Plaintiff’s
Evidentiary Objections to the Declaration of Defendant Daniel Elfman: 
Objection Nos. 30, 31, 33, 
37, 43,  and 45
are overruled. 
Objection No. 39 as
to Paragraph 12:8-9 is overruled, sustained as to lines 8 to 9 as to  the sentence: 
“I learned that she began making wild accusations to various people
about me, and expressed a deep anger toward me” due lack of foundation.
Paragraph 12:10 to 12: “For instance, I understand that Ms. Abadi told a close
friend that she wasn’t sure whether she wanted to destroy me or take my money”
is sustained due to hearsay. 
Objection No. 32 is sustained due to lack of
foundation for asserted fact. 
Objection Nos. 35 to 36 and 42
are sustained as the Declarant is testifying about the contents of a writing in
violation of the Best Evidence Rule. (Evid. Code, §§ 1521, 1523.) 
Objection 41
is overruled as to the statement in Paragraph 14:24-15: “Therefore, in 2018, I
entered a Settlement Agreement with Ms. Abadi, agreeing to make installment
payments until December 2022. Objection 41 is sustained as to the objection to
Paragraph 14:25-17: “This agreement also included terms for confidentiality,
non-disparagement, arbitration for disputes, and liquidated damages for any
breach” because the Declarant is testifying to the contents of a writing in
violation of the Best Evidence Rule. (Evid. Code, §§ 1521, 1523.) 
 
Plaintiff’s
Evidentiary Objections to the Declaration of Rebecca Kaufman: 
            Objection Nos. 46, 48, and 49
are overruled. 
Objection No. 47
is sustained as the Declarant is testifying as to the contents of the writing
in violation of the Best Evidence Rule. (Evid. Code, §§ 1521, 1523.) 
 
anti-slapP motion 
I.         Legal
Standard
CCP § 425.16 sets forth the procedure governing anti-SLAPP
motions.¿ In pertinent part, the statute provides: “A cause of action against a
person arising from any act of that person in furtherance of the person’s right
of petition or free speech under the United States Constitution or the California
Constitution in connection with a public issue shall be subject to a special
motion to strike, unless the court determines that the plaintiff has
established that there is a probability that the plaintiff will prevail on the
claim.” (CCP, § 425.16, subd. (b)(1).) “[A]n anti-SLAPP motion, like a
conventional motion to strike, may be used to attack parts of a count as
pleaded.” (Baral v. Schnitt¿(2016) 1 Cal.5th 376, 393.) The purpose of
the statute is to identify and dispose of lawsuits brought to chill the valid
exercise of a litigant’s constitutional right of petition or free speech. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 425.16, subd. (a); Sylmar Air Conditioning v. Pueblo
Contracting Services, Inc. (2004) 122 Cal.App.4th 1049, 1055-1056.)¿¿¿¿¿ 
 
Courts employ a two-step process to evaluate anti-SLAPP
motions. (Equilon Enterprises v. Consumer Cause, Inc. (2002) 29 Cal.4th
53, 61.) To invoke the statute's protections, the defendant must first show
that the challenged lawsuit arises from protected activity, such as an act in
furtherance of the right of petition or free speech. (Ibid.) From this
fact, courts “‘presume the purpose of the action was to chill the defendant’s
exercise of First Amendment rights.¿ It is then up to the plaintiff to rebut
the presumption by showing a reasonable probability of success on the merits.’”
(Ibid.) In determining whether the plaintiff has carried this burden,
the trial court considers “the pleadings, and supporting and opposing
affidavits stating the facts upon which the liability or defense is based.”
(CCP, § 425.16, subd. (b)(2); see Soukup v. Law Offices of Herbert
Hafif (2006) 39 Cal.4th 260, 291.)¿¿¿¿ 
 
II.        Discussion
 
Defendant Elfman has filed this special motion to strike because
he asserts that this action arises from protected activity and should be
dismissed. 
 
The Complaint alleges that on July 29, 2023, Rolling Stone published
an article entitled “Danny Elfman Settled a Sexual-Harassment
Allegation for $830,000” (the “July 2023 Article”). (Compl, ¶¶ 3, 4, 10, 25,
70.) In the Rolling Stone article, Defendant Elfman alleged that
Plaintiff’s allegations were “‘vicious and wholly false,’” the “‘intention was
to break up [his] marriage and replace [his] wife,’” and as a spurned lover,
Plaintiff  retaliated via “fabricated
sexual harassment allegations to make him ‘pay for rejecting her,’ and that
‘[Defendant has] ‘done nothing indecent or wrong.’” (Compl., ¶ 11; RJN Ex. 2 at
pp. 3-4.) 
 
The
July 2023 Article in Rolling Stone stated that Plaintiff had sued Elfman
for failing to pay pursuant to a settlement agreement. (Elfman, Decl., ¶ 20,
Ex. 15 [July 2023 Article].) The Rolling Stone article stated that
“Elfman provided a starkly different account of the nature of his and Abadi’s
relationship.” (Id.) “In a lengthy response to Rolling Stone’s
inquiries, Elfman, through an attorney, denied all of Abadi’s allegations,
including claims that he’d ever exposed himself to Abadi or masturbated in front
of her.” (Id.) The Rolling Stone quoted Defendant Elfman as
stating: 
 
“How do I respond to
accusations so serious that being innocent is not a valid defense? It is
excruciating to consider that a 50-year career may be destroyed in one news
cycle as a result of vicious and wholly false allegations about sexual
misconduct,” Elfman says in a statement to Rolling Stone. “Ms. Abadi’s
allegations are simply not true. I allowed someone to get close to me without
knowing that I was her ‘childhood crush’ and that her intention was to break up
my marriage and replace my wife. When this person realized that I wanted
distance from her, she made it clear that I would pay for having rejected her.
I allowed an ill-advised friendship to have far-reaching consequences, and that
error in judgment is entirely my fault. I have done nothing indecent or wrong,
and my lawyers stand ready to prove with voluminous evidence that these
accusations are false. This is the last I will say on this subject.”
 
(Elfman
Decl., ¶ 20, Ex. 15.) 
 
Step
1:            Defendant
Elfman’s Alleged Wrongful Conduct Arose out of A Protected Activity  
 
“In
ruling on a defendant's anti-SLAPP motion, the trial court engages in a
two-step analysis.” (Navellier v. Sletten (2002) 29 Cal.4th 82, 88.)
First, the court determines “whether the defendant has made a threshold showing
that the challenged cause of action is one arising from protected activity,”
which includes the defendants’ right of petition, or free speech, under the
constitution, in connection with issues of public interest. (Ibid; CCP,
§ 425.16.)¿“[T]he moving defendant must identify the acts alleged in the
complaint that it asserts are protected and what claims for relief are
predicated on them. In turn, a court should examine whether those acts are
protected and supply the basis for any claims.” (Bonni v. St. Joseph Health
System (2021) 11 Cal.5th 995, 1010 (Bonni I).)  
 
Defendant
Elfman asserts that his statements made to Rolling Stone are protected
because they were expressly made in anticipation of litigation. (Dove Audio,
Inc. v. Rosenfeld, Meyer & Susman (1996) 47 Cal.App.4th 777, 784
[“communications preparatory to or in anticipation of the bringing of an action
or other official proceeding are within the protection of the litigation
privilege” and “are equally entitled to the benefits of section 425.16.”].)
While Plaintiff disputes that the statements made to Rolling Stone are
prelitigation activity, Plaintiff fails to dispute Defendant Elfman’s second
contention, that his statements are protected activity because they concern
issues of public interest. 
 
Section
425.16(e)(4) protects any conduct in furtherance of the exercise of free speech
or petition rights “in connection with a public issue or an issue of public
interest[.]” (CCP § 425.16(e)(3)-(4).) “To fall within the scope of subdivision
(e)(3) and (4) of the anti-SLAPP statute, a defendant must establish: (1) that
the challenged statement or conduct implicates a public issue or a matter of
public interest; and (2) that the speech or conduct was made “in connection
with” a public issue or a matter of public interest.” (Bernstein v. LaBeouf
(2019) 43 Cal.App.5th 15, 22 citing CCP § 425.16(e)(3)-(4).) 
 
“In
articulating what constitutes a matter of public interest, courts look to
certain specific considerations, such as whether the subject of the speech or
activity ‘was a person or entity in the public eye’ or ‘could affect large
numbers of people beyond the direct participants’ [citation]; and whether the
activity ‘occur[red] in the context of an ongoing controversy, dispute or
discussion’ [citation], or ‘affect[ed] a community in a manner similar to that
of a governmental entity.’ ” (FilmOn.com Inc. v. DoubleVerify Inc.
(2019) 7 Cal.5th 133, 145-146, 246 (FilmOn).) “First, we ask what
‘public issue or ... issue of public interest’ the speech in question
implicates—a question we answer by looking to the content of the speech.
[Citation.] Second, we ask what functional relationship exists between the
speech and the public conversation about some matter of public interest.” (Id.
at pp. 149–150.) “‘We hold likewise: that a statement is about a person or
entity in the public eye may be sufficient, but is not necessary, to establish
the statement is ‘free speech in connection with a public issue or an issue of
public interest.’ [Citations.] ” (Wilson v. Cable News Network, Inc.
(2019) 7 Cal.5th 871, 902.) A public figure is someone with “general fame or
notoriety in the community, and pervasive involvement in the affairs of
society[.]” (Gertz v. Robert Welch, Inc. (1974) 418 U.S. 323, 352.) 


The
Complaint asserts that Defendant Elfman is: 
 
[A]n
internationally-known American film and television composer with millions of
fans worldwide. Formerly the frontman and writer of new wave ska rock band
Oingo Boingo from 1979-1995, Elfman has composed over 100 feature film scores
(including The Nightmare Before Christmas, Alice In Wonderland, Spider-Man
1-3), and composed for television (The Simpsons, Wednesday), and various
concert works. Elfman has received a Grammy award, three Emmy awards and four
Oscar nominations. 
 
(Compl.,
¶ 29.) This fact is not disputed by Defendant Elfman. (Elfman Decl., ¶ 30, RJN
Exs. 2-7.) 
 
Plaintiff’s
opposition fails to dispute that Defendant Elfman is a public figure. The Rolling
Stone article highlights Defendant Elfman's involvement as a matter of
public interest due to his status as a renowned film composer entangled in
public allegations of sexual misconduct. Furthermore, sexual misconduct is a
public issue of great public concern given the prominence of the #MeToo
movement and the increase in allegations within the film and television
industry. (See Dickinson v. Cosby (2019) 37 Cal.App.5th 1138, 1161 (Dickinson)
[Asserting that sexual misconduct allegations against a public figure “was a
topic of considerable public interest.”]; Coleman v. Grand
(E.D.N.Y. 2021) 523 F.Supp.3d 244, 259.) 
 
Defendant
Elfman satisfies his burden under the first step of the Anti-SLAPP statute
because he is a public figure involved in a topic of considerable public
interest. Therefore, the court need not decide if Defendant Elfman’s statements
are protected under the litigation privilege under the first part of the
anti-SLAPP analysis. 
 
Step 2:            Plaintiffs’
Reasonable Probability of Success on the Merits 
 
“The
plaintiff need only establish that his or her claim has ‘minimal merit’
[citation] to avoid being stricken as a SLAPP.” (Soukup, supra,
39 Cal.4th at p. 291.) “The trial court merely determines whether a prima facie
showing has been made that would warrant the claim going forward.” (HMS
Capital, Inc. v. Lawyers Title Co.¿(2004) 118 Cal.App.4th 204, 212.) “The
court considers the pleadings and evidence submitted by both sides but does not
weigh credibility or compare the weight of the evidence. Rather, the court's
responsibility is to accept as true the evidence favorable to the
plaintiff¿[citation] and evaluate the defendant's evidence only to determine if
it has defeated that submitted by the plaintiff as a matter of law.¿[Citation.]
The trial court merely determines whether a prima facie showing has been made
that would warrant the claim going forward.”¿(Id. at p. 212.)¿¿¿ 
 
“The elements of a defamation
claim are (1) a publication that is (2) false, (3) defamatory, (4)
unprivileged, and (5) has a natural tendency to injure or causes special
damage.” (Jackson v. Mayweather (2017) 10 Cal.App.5th 1240, 1259 (Jackson)
[internal citation omitted].) “In general, leaving aside certain qualifications
that are not relevant in this case, a written communication that is false, that
is not protected by any privilege, and that exposes a person to contempt or
ridicule or certain other reputational injuries, constitutes libel.” (Shively
v. Bozanich (2003) 31 Cal.4th 1230, 1242.) 
 
First,
for Plaintiff to prevail on her defamation claim, she must show that the
statement was not privileged, meaning that the litigation privilege does not
apply to Defendant Elfman’s statement. Defendant Elfman claims that the
allegedly defamatory statements made in the July 2023 Article are protected by
the litigation privilege because they were made pursuant to a demand letter
contemplating a lawsuit against Rolling Stone. (See Dickinson, supra,
17 Cal.App.5th at p. 683 [Noting “[t]here is some dispute in the case law as to
which party bears the burden of proof on an affirmative defense in the context
of an anti-SLAPP motion” but “regardless of the burden of proof, the court must
determine whether plaintiff can establish a prima facie case of prevailing, or
whether defendant has defeated plaintiff's evidence as a matter of law.”].) 
 
i.                
Background on Prior
Suits Involving the Parties
 
The
Parties do not dispute that on or about February 2018, Defendant Elfman
received a demand letter from Plaintiff’s attorney accusing Defendant Elfman of
intentional infliction of emotional distress. (Elfman Decl., ¶ 13, Ex. 11 [Feb.
2018 Demand Letter].) Fearing backlash given the #MeToo movement, Defendant
Elfman entered into a Settlement Agreement with Plaintiff that included
“included terms for confidentiality, non-disparagement, arbitration for
disputes, and liquidated damages for any breach.” (Id., ¶ 14.) Defendant
Elman asserts that in early 2023, he was contacted by Rolling Stone regarding
the allegations Plaintiff had made against Defendant Elfman. (Id., ¶ 16;
Abadi Decl., ¶ 26.) 
 
Defendant
Elfman states that to prevent the story from becoming public “and in
anticipation of potential litigation against Rolling Stone and those
responsible if I was defamed”, Elfman’s counsel sent a letter to Rolling
Stone on March 6, 2023 (the “March 2023 Letter”) denying Plaintiff’s
allegations. (Elfman Decl., ¶ 17.) Elfman asserts “[t]he function of the March
2023 Letter was, in significant part, to put Rolling Stone on notice of the
existence of facts controverting Ms. Abadi’s allegations, in anticipation of
potential litigation against Rolling Stone for defamation if it published her
false allegations.” (Ibid.) “When the March 2023 Letter was sent to
Rolling Stone, I was seriously contemplating litigation against that magazine
if it published a defamatory article about me based on Ms. Abadi’s allegation.”
(Id. at p. 19.) “The March 2023 Letter was sent, in part, in preparation
for such a litigation.” (Ibid.)
 
Defendant
Elfman’s counsel, Rebecca Kaufman, confirms Elfman’s statements that the March
2023 Letter sent by her to Rolling Stone was “an effort to
prevent publication of those false and defamatory allegations—and in
anticipation of potential litigation against Rolling Stone and other culpable
parties should those allegations be published[.]” (Kaufman Decl., ¶ 4, Ex. 12
[March 2023 Letter].)  Defendant Elfman
initially believed the March 2023 Letter had been effective, until Rolling
Stone published the article in July 2023 (“July 2023 Article”). (Elfman
Decl., Ex. 15.) Elman admits that “[t]he July 2023 Article quoted from the
March 2023 Letter and noted my denial of the allegations” and was published by Rolling
Stone in relation to the lawsuit Plaintiff filed against Elfman  for breach of the Settlement Agreement. (Id.,
¶ 20.) 
 
Kaufman
states the March 2023 Letter “was directed to, among other persons, Rolling
Stone’s deputy general counsel.” (Kaufman Decl., ¶ 6.) Specifically, the letter
is addressed to Judith Margolin, the Senior Vice President, Deputy General
Counsel, and Noah Shachtman the Editor of Rolling Stone. (Id.,
Ex. 12.) The March 2023 Letter bears the letterhead of Defense Counsel
“Bergeson LLP” and bears the statement “Personal
& Confidential”  and “NOT
FOR PUBLICATION.” (Id., Ex. 12 [emphasis original].) The Letter begins:

 
Dear Ms. Margolin
& Mr. Shachtman: 
 
We respond to
allegations from Nomi Abadi that our client famed musician and composer Danny
Elfman engaged in sexual misconduct. 
 
(Kaufman
Decl., Ex. 12 at p. 1.) 
 
The
March 2023 Letter states in relevant part: 
 
Mr. Elfman’s
responses to Rolling Stone’s questions conclude this letter. As we discussed,
Mr. Elfman is providing some statements on the record, some off the record, and
some on background. Statements marked in green are on the record and should be
attributed to “a spokesperson for Mr. Elfman.” Statements marked in yellow are
for background. Statements not marked in color are off the record. 
 
The following
statement is the only on-the-record statement that may be directly
attributed to Mr. Elfman: 
 
“How do I respond to
accusations so serious that being innocent is not a valid defense? It is
excruciating to consider that a 50-year career may be destroyed in one news
cycle as a result of vicious and wholly false allegations about sexual
misconduct. Ms. Abadi’s allegations are simply not true. I allowed someone to
get close to me without knowing that I was her “childhood crush” and that her
intention was to break up my marriage and replace my wife. When this person
realized that I wanted distance from her, she made it clear that I would pay
for having rejected her. I allowed an ill-advised friendship to have far
reaching consequences, and that error in judgment is entirely my fault. I have
done nothing indecent or wrong, and my lawyers stand ready to prove with
voluminous evidence that these accusations are false. This is the last I will
say on this subject.”
 
(Kaufman
Decl., Ex. 12 at p. 12 [highlight and emphasis in original].) Defendant
Elfman’s statement made on the record in the March 2023 Letter was later quoted
by Rolling Stone in the July 2023 Article, which forms the basis of
Plaintiff’s defamation claim. (Elfman Decl., Ex. 15.) 
 
Defendant
Elfman maintains that the March 2023 Letter, including the statements Elfman
consented to be made on the record, are protected statements due to the
litigation privilege because they were made in anticipation of litigation. (See
Nguyen v. Proton Technology Corp. (1999) 69 Cal.App.4th 140, 148
[finding prelitigation communications, such as a demand letter, relate to an
anticipated lawsuit are protected by the litigation privilege.”]) 
 
Indicia
that the March 2023 Letter was filed in anticipation to a lawsuit against Rolling
Stone include the following statements: 
 
The false allegations
Rolling Stone intends to publish about Mr. Elfman regarding sexual misconduct
constitute actionable defamation per se, and he need not show special damages
to prevail should he file a lawsuit against your publication. [Citations] The
magazine can be held liable for publishing the allegations regardless of
whether it is only repeating the statements of sources. [Citations.] Presenting
false accusations, even if presented with the subject’s denial, can still
amount to actionable defamation. [Citation.] 

 
[ . . . ] 
 
If Mr. Elfman pursues
a defamation claim, the reliability of Ms. Abadi and her claims will be the
paramount issue, both in defending against an anticipated anti-SLAPP motion and
at trial. We are confident she will prove so unreliable and biased that Mr. Elfman
will overcome his burden of proving actual malice against Rolling Stone.
[Citation] The same goes for the magazine’s reliance on Ms. Abadi’s six
friends. Again, whether Ms. Abadi told six or sixty people, none of them
possess firsthand or contemporaneous knowledge. [Citation.]
 
[ . . . ] 
 
We caution against
publishing Ms. Abadi’s false allegations, as similar ones against other
innocent people have proven the death knell to reputations and careers, and Mr.
Elfman will have no choice other than to seek redress should Rolling Stone harm
his career. 
 
[. . .]
 
Please let us know if
you have further questions. We look forward to meeting with your reporter and
sharing numerous documents that demonstrate what really happened and Ms.
Abadi’s true motives.
 
(Kaufman
Decl., Ex. 12.) 
 
Ms.
Kaufman asserts that after the July 2023 Rolling Stone Article was
published, Defendant Elfman sent a Retraction Demand. (Kaufman Decl., ¶ 9, Ex.
16.) The Retraction Demand requested retraction of the sexual misconduct claims
attributed to Plaintiff made against Elfman, and not of the statements Elfman
made to Rolling Stones about the falsity of Plaintiff’s claims. (Id.)
The litigation privilege “is absolute in nature, applying ‘to all
publications, irrespective of their maliciousness.’ ” (Action Apartment
Assn., Inc. v. City of Santa Monica (2007) 41 Cal.4th 1232, 1241 (Action
Apartment Assn.)  [italics original]
citing  Silberg v. Anderson (1990)
50 Cal.3d 205, 216, 266.) “The privilege ‘is not limited to statements made
during a trial or other proceedings, but may extend to steps taken prior
thereto, or afterwards.’” (Action Apartment Assn. at p. 1241 citing Rusheen
v. Cohen (2006) 37 Cal.4th 1048, 1057.) 
 
ii.              
The Litigation
Privilege Does Not Apply to Defendant Elfman’s Statements
 
Plaintiff
asserts that this action is not based on Defendant Elfman’s comments to Rolling
Stone but what Rolling Stone published with Elfman’s consent. For
the litigation privilege to apply, the communication “must be ‘in furtherance
of the objects of the litigation’” and “‘be connected with, or have some
logical relation to, the action, i.e., that it not be extraneous to the
action.’ ” (Feldman v. 1100 Park Lane Associates (2008) 160 Cal.App.4th
1467, 1486.) Defendant Elfman asserts that the purpose of the March 2023 Letter
was to dissuade Rolling Stones against publishing Plaintiff’s false
allegations due to possible legal action, but fails to explain how authorizing Rolling
Stone to publish his statements was conduct done in furtherance of his
litigation goals against Rolling Stone. (Elfman Decl., ¶ 17; Kaufman
Decl., ¶ 6.) 
 
“A
prelitigation communication is privileged only when it relates to litigation
that is contemplated in good faith and under serious consideration.” (Action
Apartment Assn., supra, 41 Cal.4th at p. 1251.) The record before
the court does not support the finding that the statements contained in the
March 2023 Letter were prelitigation communications relating to litigation that
was contemplated in good faith and under serious consideration. First, the
March 2023 Letter was addressed to both Rolling Stone’s general counsel
and its editor. Second, Defendant Elfman expressly went on the record and
consented to Rolling Stone publishing his alleged defamatory statements.
Third, the March 2023 Letter did not state it was a “demand letter” nor does
such an indication appear on the face of the letter. The substance of the
letter appears to be Defendant Elfman’s response to Rolling Stone’s
request for comment regarding Plaintiff’s breach of contract suit and prior
lawsuit by Plaintiff regarding sexual misconduct allegations. (Kaufman Decl.,
Ex. 12.) In responding to Rolling Stone’s inquiry and authorizing Rolling
Stone to publish a certain statement, Defendant Elfman’s March 2023 Letter
functions as a press release rather than a demand letter. 
 
The
litigation privilege “does not encompass publication to the general public
through the press.” (Susan A. v. County of Sonoma (1991) 2 Cal.App.4th
88, 94.) “The litigation privilege does not protect press releases.” (Paglia
& Associates Construction, Inc. v. Hamilton (2023) 98 Cal.App.5th 318,
323.) “In sum, we hold that the litigation privilege should not be extended to
‘litigating in the press.’” (Rothman v. Jackson (1996) 49 Cal.App.4th
1134, 1149.) “Such an extension would not serve the purposes of the privilege;
indeed, it would serve no purpose but to provide immunity to those who would
inflict upon our system of justice the damage which litigating in the press
generally causes: poisoning of jury pools and bringing disrepute upon both the
judiciary and the bar.” (Ibid; see also Argentieri v. Zuckerberg
(2017) 8 Cal.App.5th 768; Hawran v. Hixson (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th 256,
281.) 
 
The
contents of the March 2023 Letter reveal that the letter function more as a
means of rebutting allegations of sexual misconduct rather than a prelitigation
demand. (Kaufman Decl., Ex. 12.) The fact that Defendant Elfman went on the
record and expressly consented to Rolling Stone publishing the
statements at issue, convert the March 2023 Letter to a press release rather
than a prelitigation communication protected by the litigation privilege. To
allow Defendant Elfman to make statements and permit their publication while
hiding behind the litigation privilege would decimate the purpose of the
privilege. For this reason, the court does not find that the March 2023 Letter was
sent in connection with litigation contemplated in good faith and under serious
consideration.   
 
Second,
the court is not persuaded that litigation against Rolling Stone was
seriously contemplated. In Dickinson v. Cosby (2017) 17 Cal.App.5th 655,
attorneys for the former comedian and actor Bill Cosby, sent a demand letter to
media outlets and a press release characterizing the rape allegations made by
Janice Dickinson as false. (Id. at p. 660.) Dickinson filed a complaint
for defamation as to both the demand letter and the press release. (Id.
at p. 665.) Defendant Cosby filed an anti-SLAPP motion and, as to the demand
letter, “Cosby argued that Dickinson could not prevail to the extent her causes
of action were based on the demand letter, because the demand letter was a
prelitigation communication protected by the absolute litigation privilege.” (Id.
at p. 667.) While the trial court agreed that the demand letter was protected
by the litigation privilege, the court of appeal disagreed. “Instead, these
facts suggest that the demand letter was a bluff intended to frighten the media
outlets into silence (at a time when they could still be silenced), but with no
intention to go through with the threat of litigation if they were uncowed.” (Id.
at p. 684.)
Facts
that the Dickinson Court found dispositive as to whether the demand
letter seriously contemplated litigation was the fact that the demand letter
did not seriously contemplate litigation. “The demand letter, which was clearly
captioned as a confidential demand letter, stated that Dickinson's allegations
were a recently fabricated defamatory lie, and threatened litigation if the
outlets were to go ahead with their planned coverage of Dickinson's
allegations.” (Dickinson, supra, 17 Cal.App.5th at pp. 683-684.)
Defendant Elfman’s March 2023 Letter was similar to Cosby’s demand letter which
was intended “‘to place those media outlets on notice of the falsity of Ms.
Dickinson's accusations, and to inform them that the publication of Ms.
Dickinson's false and defamatory accusations would be actionable.’ ” (Id.
at p. 684.) Here, Defendant Elfman sought to put Rolling Stone on notice
of the falsity of Plaintiff’s claims and allow for the publication of a statement
informing the public that Plaintiff’s allegations are false. (Kaufman Decl.,
Ex. 12.) The Dickinson Court further found that “Cosby never sued any
media outlet which ran the story, give rise to an inference that the demand
letter was not sent in connection with litigation contemplated in good faith
and under serious consideration.” (Ibid.) Like Cosby, Defendant Elfman
did not undertake any action against Rolling Stone. 
 
The
March 2023 Letter does not contain the words “demand letter” and while it did
“caution against publishing Ms. Abadi’s false allegations,” and did warn Rolling
Stone that the allegations of “misconduct constitute actionable defamation per
se,” the Letter does not explicitly state that Defendant Elfman will pursue
litigation. (Kaufman Decl., Ex. 12.) The Cosby demand letter:
 
[E]xplicitly
threatened litigation: “If Good Morning America proceeds with its
planned segment with Ms. Dickinson and recklessly disseminates it instead of
checking available information demonstrating its falsity, all those involved
will be exposed to very substantial liability. [¶] You proceed at your peril.
[¶] This does not constitute a complete or exhaustive statement of all of my
client's rights or claims. Nothing stated herein is intended as, nor should it
be deemed to constitute a waiver or relinquishment, of any of my client's
rights or remedies, whether legal or equitable all of which are hereby
expressly reserved. This letter is a confidential legal communication and is
not for publication.”
 
(Dickinson,
supra, 17 Cal.App.5th 655 at p. 663.) 
 
Here,
the court fails to find that Defendant Elfman seriously contemplated litigation
because the demand letter serves more as press release given Elfman’s consent
that certain portions of the letter published. (“‘No public policy supports
extending a privilege to persons who attempt to profit from hollow threats of
litigation.’” (Action Apartment Assn., supra, 41 Cal.4th at p.
1251.) By authorizing Rolling Stone to publish statements attributed to
Defendant Elfman as contained in the March 2023 Letter, Defendant Elfman sought
to shield his actions from liability by hiding behind the litigation privilege.
The March 2023 Letter was more than just an attempt to dissuaded Rolling
Stone from republishing allegations of sexual misconduct by Elfman. It was
an effort to litigate the issue before the court of public opinion, permitting
Elfman to publicly deny the veracity of Plaintiff’s claims while preemptively
hiding behind the litigation privilege to prevent any defamation claim. 
 
As
the statements authorized for publication in the March 2023 Letter were not
connected any purported defamation claim against Rolling Stone¸ the
Letter functions as an authorized press release, and litigation against Rolling
Stone was not seriously contemplated in good faith and under serious
consideration, the court finds that the litigation privilege does not apply to
the statements published in the July 2023 Article. 
 
iii.            
Action is Not Barred
by the One-Year Statute of Limitations
 
Defendant
Elfman asserts that Plaintiff’s claims are barred by the one-year statute of
limitations because the statements are premised on the statements made to Rolling
Stone in March 2023. (CCP, § 340(c).) The Complaint, however, expressly
states that this action was filed as a result of the July 19, 2023, Rolling
Stone article and not because of the contents in the March 2023 demand
letter. (Compl., ¶ 10.) Consequently, this action was timely filed on July 10,
2024. 
 
iv.             
The Privileges of
Self-Defense and Consent Do Not Apply 
 
Defendant
Elfman asserts that his statements were made in self-defense and consented to
by Plaintiff due to her orchestrating the publication of the July 2023 Article.
(See Royer v. Steinberg (1979) 90 Cal.App.3d 490, 498 [“One of the
oldest and most widely recognized defenses to the publication of defamatory
matter is the doctrine of consent, which has been classified as a form of absolute
privilege.”].) The fact that the July 2023 Article was published shortly
after Plaintiff filed her second suit for breach of contract suit, does not
support the inference that Rolling Stone published the article at
Plaintiff’s inducement because the filing of a lawsuit is public knowledge. 
 
Defendant
Elfman presents no evidence that Plaintiff consented to the publication of the
July 2023 Article. Plaintiff states that she was approached by Rolling Stone
but she declined to answer questions and did not consent to the publication
of Defendant Elfman’s statements. (Abadi Decl., ¶¶ 27-29.) The July 2023
Article in Rolling Stone further states that Plaintiff declined to
comment and that it relied on other sources for information. (Elfman Decl., Ex.
15 at p. 3.) 
 
In
considering the evidence in an Anti-SLAPP motion “[w]e accept the plaintiff's
evidence as true and consider the defendant's evidence only to determine
whether it defeats the challenged claim as a matter of law.” (Bishop v. The
Bishop's School (2022) 86 Cal.App.5th 893, 904.) Based on the record before
the court, there is insufficient evidence to find that Plaintiff consented to
the publication of the defamatory statements in the July 2023 Article. 
 
v.               
Plaintiff Establishes
a Prima Facie Case for Defamation
 
Plaintiff’s
action asserts that the statements Defendant Elfman made in the July 2023
Article constitute facts rather than opinions: 
 
“How do I respond to
accusations so serious that being innocent is not a valid defense? It is
excruciating to consider that a 50-year career may be destroyed in one news
cycle as a result of vicious and wholly false allegations about sexual
misconduct . . . Ms. Abadi’s allegations are simply not true. I allowed someone
to get close to me without knowing that I was her ‘childhood crush’ and that
her intention was to break up my marriage and replace my wife. When this person
realized that I wanted distance from her, she made it clear that I would pay
for having rejected her. I allowed an ill-advised friendship to have
far-reaching consequences, and that error in judgment is entirely my fault. I
have done nothing indecent or wrong, and my lawyers stand ready to prove with
voluminous evidence that these accusations are false. This is the last I will
say on this subject.”
 
(Elfman
Decl., Ex. 15.) 
 
Defendant
Elfman asserts that the statements in the March 2023 Letter, republished in the
July 2023 Article, are an opinion based on his view of what transpired between
himself and the Plaintiff, and that conclusions about Plaintiff’s conduct and
motives are opinions. Defendant Elfman also asserts that what is considered
“wrong or indecent” is also a matter of opinion. (See McGarry v. University
of San Diego (2007) 154 Cal.App.4th 97, 117 [“concepts [of morality] are
infinitely debatable, and their precise meaning is extremely elusive.”]; Partington
v. Bugliosi (9th Cir. 1995) 56 F.3d 1147, 1157 [something “inherently
subjective” is “not susceptible of being proved true or false.”].) 
 
“Statements
of opinion do not enjoy blanket protection. [Citation.] The issue is whether
the statement of opinion implies a statement of fact.”  (Dickinson, supra, 17
Cal.App.5th at p. 685.) Simply couching statements in terms of opinions does
not dispel their false defamatory implications when the speaker implies “‘a
knowledge of facts which lead to the [defamatory] conclusion.’” (McGarry,
supra, 154 Cal.App.4th at p. 112.) 
 
“In
determining whether a statement is libelous we look to what is explicitly
stated as well as what insinuation and implication can be reasonably drawn from
the communication.” (Forsher v. Bugliosi (1980) 26 Cal.3d 792, 803.) “‘[I]f
the defendant juxtaposes [a] series of facts so as to imply a defamatory
connection between them, or [otherwise] creates a defamatory implication ... he
may be held responsible for the defamatory implication, ... even though the
particular facts are correct.’” (Issa v. Applegate (2019) 31 Cal.App.5th
689, 703 (Issa) [citations omitted].) “The ‘pertinent question’ is
whether a ‘reasonable fact finder’ could conclude that the statements ‘as a
whole, or any of its parts, directly made or sufficiently implied a false
assertion of defamatory fact that tended to injure’ plaintiff's
reputation. (Id. at p. 703 citing James v. San Jose Mercury News, Inc.
(1993) 17 Cal.App.4th 1, 13.) 
 
Defendant
Elfman cannot allege that certain allegations are mere opinions when the
statements taken as a whole imply a statement of fact concerning the Plaintiff,
that her allegations are false. “Whether a statement declares or implies a
provably false assertion of fact is generally a question of law to be decided
by a court.” (Bishop, supra, 86 Cal.App.5th at pp. 909–910.) “We
apply a ‘totality of the circumstances’ test to determine whether a statement
is fact or opinion, and whether a statement declares or implies a provably
false factual assertion; that is, courts look to the words of the statement
itself and the context in which the statement was made. [Citation.]” (Issa,
supra, 31 Cal.App.5th at p. 703.) 


The
court finds that a reasonable fact finder could conclude that the entire
published statement made by Defendant Elfman declares or implies a provable
false assertion of fact, that “Ms. Abadi’s allegations are simply not true” and
that she has made “wholly false allegations about [Elfman’s] sexual misconduct”
because Elfman rejected her advances and Plaintiff wanted Elfman to “pay for
having rejected her.” (Elfman Decl., Ex. 15.) The court finds that such a
statement constitutes a provable false assertion of fact and not a mere opinion
about Plaintiff’s relationship with Elfman. Moreover, Plaintiff provides
testimony that the statements in the July 2023 Article harmed her reputation
and career aspirations. (Abadi Decl., ¶¶ 31-36.) Defendant Elfman fails to
provide evidence that Plaintiff suffered no reputation harm or career setbacks.

 
Defendant Elfman
further asserts that Plaintiff’s defamation claim fails because as a limited
public figure, she cannot show malice. Where, as here, the plaintiff
is a limited public figure, she must prove both that the challenged statement
is false, and that the defendant made the libelous statement with ‘actual
malice.’” (Edward v. Ellis (2021) 72 Cal.App.5th 780, 790.) “‘If the
person defamed is a public figure, he cannot recover unless he proves, by clear
and convincing evidence ..., that the libelous statement was made with actual
malice—that is, with knowledge that it was false or with reckless disregard of
whether it was false or not.’ ” (Jackson v. Mayweather (2017) 10
Cal.App.5th 1240, 1260 [ [internal citations omitted].) 
 
Plaintiff does not dispute that
she is required to show malice. In response to an anti-SLAPP motion,
“defamation plaintiffs need not establish malice by clear and convincing
evidence.” (Collins v. Waters (2023) 92 Cal.App.5th 70, 80.) The
plaintiff “must meet their minimal burden by introducing sufficient facts to
establish a prima facie case of actual malice.” (Ibid.)  “In other words, they must establish a
reasonable probability they can produce clear and convincing evidence showing
that the statements were made with actual malice.” (Id.)


Plaintiff’s evidence is
composed solely of her testimony and snippets of texts sent between Plaintiff
and Elfman. (See e.g. Abadi Decl.) Meanwhile, Defendant Elfman characterizes
his relationship with Elfman as being “platonic and social” and asserts he
decided not to renew his friendship with Plaintiff due to a political
disagreement. (Elfman Decl., ¶¶ 5, 6, 8.) Elfman also asserts that the
allegation that he masturbated in Plaintiff’s presence is “categorially false.”
(Id. ¶ 13.) Plaintiff asserts that Elfman masturbated with her on
several occasions. (Abadi Decl., ¶¶ 11, 16, 18, 25.) 
 
However, the Parties
do not dispute that a nude photo session involving Plaintiff took place in
Paris, France in October 2015. (Abadi Decl., ¶ 11, Ex. D; Elfman Decl., ¶ 7.)
Plaintiff also provides evidence of texts reflecting that Elfman shared nude
photographs of his body with Plaintiff, with Plaintiff’s consent. (Abadi Decl.,
¶ 8, Ex. B.) Texts between Elfman and Plaintiff stated she was coming over and
Elfman stated that “Maybe I’ll even be good and put some clothes on . . . A
rarity around here late.” (Id. ¶ 14, Ex. F.) Plaintiff stated that
because of her “eczematic skin issues” Elfman “won’t see me in such a light
tonight.” (Ibid.) While Elfman provides texts attributed to Plaintiff,
showing that she intended to pursue a relationship with Elfman that was not purely
“platonic,” (see Rubin Decl., Ex. 8; Abadi Decl., Ex. C), Plaintiff’s evidence
does show that some her claims have merit and are not “wholly false” as claimed
by Elfman. 
 
Moreover, Elfman’s
admission that he engaged in “naked romping” with Plaintiff in Paris permit the
finding that Defendant Elfman’s outright denial of all of Plaintiff’s claims
was knowingly false. (Abadi Decl., ¶ Ex. D; Elfman Decl., ¶ 3.) More
importantly, Elfman’s denial about masturbating in front of Plaintiff and
disrobing in front of her do not disprove Plaintiff’s allegations and provide
no basis for the court to find Plaintiff’s claims lack merit and are wholly
false. “The ‘burden of establishing a probability of prevailing is not high: We
do not weigh credibility, nor do we evaluate the weight of the evidence.
Instead, we accept as true all evidence favorable to the plaintiff and assess
the defendant's evidence only to determine if it defeats the plaintiff's
submission as a matter of law.’” (Issa, supra, ) 31 Cal.App.5th
at p. 702 citing Overstock.com, Inc. v. Gradient Analytics, Inc. (2007)
151 Cal.App.4th 688, 699–700.)
 
While Defendant
Elfman and Plaintiff disagree as to the nature of their
“relationship/friendship,” Plaintiff’s evidence supports a finding that her
claims about sexual misconduct are not “wholly false” and have minimal merit.
“Claims with at least minimal merit may proceed.” (Bishop, supra,
86 Cal.App.5th at p. 904.) Moreover, Plaintiff’s texts with Elfman establish a
probability that Plaintiff can produce clear and convincing evidence that
Elfman knowingly made a false statement by categorizing all of Plaintiff’s
sexual misconduct allegations as “wholly false.” 
 
Lastly, Defendant
Elfman asserts that Plaintiff fails to plead special damages, but Plaintiff’s
claim is premised on defamation per se. (See Compl., ¶¶ 63-73.) “A libel which
is defamatory of the plaintiff without the necessity of explanatory matter,
such as an inducement, innuendo or other extrinsic fact, is said to be a libel
on its face. Defamatory language not libelous on its face is not actionable
unless the plaintiff alleges and proves that he has suffered special damage as
a proximate result thereof.” (Bartholomew v. YouTube, LLC. (2017) 17
Cal.App.5th 1217, 1226.) As Plaintiff’s claims are based on defamation per se
rather than defamation per quad, Plaintiff is not required to allege and prove
special damages. (See Barker v. Fox & Associates (2015) 240
Cal.App.4th 333, 351.) Even if Plaintiff was required to allege and prove
special damages, Plaintiff’s complaint pleads special damages, and her
declaration also asserts she suffered special damages. (Compl, ¶¶ 27, 73; Abadi
Decl., ¶¶ 30-36.) 
 
The special motion to
strike is denied. 
 
Conclusion
 
Defendant
Elfman’s special motion to strike is denied. 
 
 