 Case Number:  23CHCV00510    Hearing Date:   January 7, 2025    Dept:  F47 Dept. F-47
Date: 1/7/25                                                                
TRIAL DATE: 4/28/25
Case #23CHCV00510
 
SUMMARY
JUDGMENT
 
Motion filed on 10/9/24.
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant City of Santa Clarita 
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff Elizabeth E. Bence
NOTICE: ok
 
RELIEF REQUESTED: An order
granting
summary judgment in favor of Defendant City of Santa Clarita and against Plaintiff
Elizabeth E. Bence on her First Amended Complaint.  

 
RULING: The motion is denied.  
 
SUMMARY OF FACTS & PROCEDURAL HISTORY
 
This action arises out Plaintiff Elizabeth E. Bence’s (Plaintiff)
claim that she sustained injuries on 9/9/22 when she tripped and fell over a
raise in the sidewalk across the street from 
her house at 28569 Meadow Heights Court in the City Santa Clarita.  (Separate Statement (SS) 3).  Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint alleges a
cause of action against Defendant City of Santa Clarita (Defendant/City) for
dangerous condition of public property under Government Code 835 and a cause of
action against City employees under Government Code 840.2.  (SS 1). 
  
 
Plaintiff has lived across the street from the location
of her fall for over 14 years.  (SS 2).  During the 2 years prior to her fall,
Plaintiff typically walked across the street from her house on the subject
sidewalk a few times per month; however, Plaintiff never noticed the sidewalk
uplift, offset, or any other condition. 
(SS 5-6).  Prior to Plaintiff’s
fall, like Plaintiff, neither her husband nor her son, who live at the same
residence, noticed the offset in the sidewalk and none of them reported the
condition to Defendant.  (SS 7-10).  Defendant has a Sidewalk Repair &
Replacement Policy.  (SS 12).  Prior to Plaintiff’s fall, Defendant did not
receive any complaints or claims for damages for any other incident at the subject
location.  (SS 10-11).  
 
Defendant performed inspections of the subject sidewalk
on 7/19/17, 8/13/18, 8/12/19, 12/23/20, 10/14/21 and 7/14/22.  (SS 13). 
None of the inspections reported a condition of the subject sidewalk
over ¾ inch needing repair or replacement. 
(SS 14).  On 9/12/22, Defendant
inspected and photographed the location of Plaintiff’s fall and contends the
offset to be 1 ½ inches while Plaintiff contends the offset is 1 5/8
inches.  (SS 15).  The evidence shows that tree roots
contributing to the sidewalk uplift were from an ash tree almost 20 feet away
which is not on public property or owned by Defendant.  (SS 18).
 
On 10/9/24, Defendant filed and served the instant motion
which seeks an order granting summary judgment in favor of Defendant and
against Plaintiff on her First Amended Complaint.  Plaintiff has opposed the motion and
Defendant has filed a reply to the opposition. 
  
ANALYSIS
 
Evidentiary Objections
 
Plaintiff’s objection (number 1) to the declaration of Daniel
Pilar is sustained.  The Court notes that
Plaintiff has only submitted a proposed order (which includes the objection)
regarding the objection.  See CRC
3.1354(c)
 
Defendant’s evidentiary objections (numbers 1-4) to the
declaration of Gary M. Gsell are overruled. 
Additionally, the objections are not in one of the two accepted formats
set forth in CRC 3.1354(b).  Defendant
has also failed to submit a proposed order for the objections.  CRC 3.1354(c).  
 
1st cause of action – Liability of A Public
Entity for Injury Caused by a Dangerous Condition of Public Property –
Government Code 835
 
A statutory basis must exist to impose tort liability on
a public entity such as Defendant.  Guerrero
(2003) 114 CA4th 264, 273.  A public
entity may be held liable for a dangerous condition of public property which is
defined as “a condition of property that creates a substantial (as
distinguished from a minor, trivial or insignificant) risk of injury when such
property or adjacent property is used with due care in a manner in which it is
reasonably foreseeable that it will be used.” 
Government Code 830(a).  What
constitutes a dangerous condition depends on the facts of each case.  Fackrell (1945) 26 C2d 196, 206.  Unless the evidence establishes that
“reasonable minds can come to but one conclusion,” whether a dangerous
condition exists is a question of fact.  Peterson
(1984) 36 C3d 799, 810.
 
With regard to imposing liability for a dangerous
condition of public property, Government Code 835 provides: 
 
“Except as provided by statute, a
public entity is liable for injury caused by a dangerous condition of its
property if the plaintiff establishes that the property was in a dangerous
condition at the time of injury, that the injury was proximately caused by the
dangerous condition, that the dangerous condition created a reasonably
foreseeable risk of the kind of injury which was incurred and either: 
 
(a) A negligent or wrongful act or
omission of an employee of the public entity within the scope of his employment
created the dangerous conditions; or 
 
(b) The public entity had actual or
constructive notice of the dangerous condition under Section 835.2 and
sufficient time prior to the injury to have taken measures to protect against
the dangerous condition.”
 
Here, Plaintiff makes no argument that an employee of
Defendant created the uplift in the sidewalk over which Plaintiff tripped and
fell.  Government Code 835(a).  Nor does Plaintiff argue that Defendant had
actual notice of the uplift in the sidewalk. 
As such, Defendant’s liability turns on whether the uplift in the
sidewalk constituted a dangerous condition and, if so, whether Defendant had
constructive notice of same. 
 
Dangerous Condition
 
Under the circumstances, an uplift in a sidewalk of
between 1 5/8 inches, as claimed by Plaintiff, or 1 ½ inches as claimed by
Defendant, cannot be deemed trivial so as to not constitute a dangerous
condition as a matter of law.  See
Stack (2023) 91 CA5th 102, 106-107, 112-114; Fielder (1977) 71
CA3d 719, 726.  Similarly, the fact that
Plaintiff and her family lived across the street from the subject sidewalk for
several years and never had an issue before Plaintiff’s fall does not establish
that the uplift in the sidewalk was trivial. 
Stack, supra at 106-107, 120-121.  Defendant’s own policy and procedure
regarding sidewalk repair and replacement indicates that deficiencies of more
than ¾ inch should be repaired to mitigate trip hazards.  (See Pilar Decl. ¶10, Ex.K).
 
Based on the 
foregoing, the Court finds that a triable issue of material fact exists
as to whether the uplift in the sidewalk over which Plaintiff tripped and fell
constituted a dangerous condition.  
 
Constructive Notice 
    
With regard to constructive notice, Government Code 835.2(b)
provides: 
 
“A public entity had constructive
notice of a dangerous condition within the meaning of subdivision
(b) of Section 835 only if the plaintiff establishes that the
condition had existed for such a period of time and was
of such an obvious nature that the public entity, in the exercise of due care,
should have discovered the condition and its dangerous character. On the
issue of due care, admissible evidence includes but is not limited to evidence
as to:
(1) Whether the existence of the
condition and its dangerous character would have been discovered by an
inspection system that was reasonably adequate (considering the practicability
and cost of inspection weighed against the likelihood and magnitude of the
potential danger to which failure to inspect would give rise) to inform the
public entity whether the property was safe for the use or uses for which the
public entity used or intended others to use the public property and for uses
that the public entity actually knew others were making of the public property
or adjacent property.
(2) Whether the public entity
maintained and operated such an inspection system with due care and did not
discover the condition.”
 
The evidence establishes Defendant conducted an
inspection of the subject sidewalk on 7/14/22, less than 2 months before the
incident, which did not note the uplift over which Plaintiff tripped.  (SS 13, 14). 
The fact that Defendant’s inspection did not note the uplift does not
establish as a matter of law that it did not exist at that time.  Defendant’s rely on the opinion of Daniel
Pilar, a Supervisor in Public Works for Defendant, to support Defendant’s
conclusion that “a sidewalk displacement can occur quickly for a variety of
factors” while at the same time attacking the qualifications of Gary Gsell, a
municipal infrastructure assessment consultant and former Street Services
Superintendent II for the City of Los Angeles who holds a variety of
certifications, who holds the opinion, relied on by Plaintiff, that “it is
highly unlikely that the height of the lifted sidewalk panel would have
increased from less than ¾” (the height the City has deemed a hazardous
condition requiring repair) to 1-5/8”, a difference of 7/8”, in only 57 days.”  (SS 14).
 
Based on the foregoing, the Court finds that it is a
question of fact as to whether the uplift in the sidewalk over which Plaintiff
tripped and fell existed for a sufficient time to give Defendant constructive
notice of same.  See Erfurt
(1983) 141 CA3d 837, 844-845; Carson (1984) 36 C3d 830, 843.  
 
The Court also finds that a triable issue of material
fact exists as to whether the uplift in the sidewalk was of such an obvious
nature that Defendant, in the exercise of due care, should have discovered the
condition and its dangerous character.  While
Defendant had an inspection procedure in place and the evidence establishes
that an inspection of the area took place less than 2 months before the
incident, a triable issue of material fact exists as to whether Defendant’s
employee/employees carried out that inspection with due care.  
 
As noted above, Defendant’s own policy and procedure
indicate that a deficiency of more than ¾ inch should be addressed to mitigate
a trip hazard.  (Pilar Decl. ¶10,
Ex.K).  Additionally, there is evidence
that inspections of the area prior to the 7/14/22 inspection were conducted by two
individuals while the evidence regarding the 7/14/22 inspection implies that it
was conducted only by one individual.  (See
Reply, p.8:11-15 and footnotes 1 and 2). 

 
This case is distinguishable from Heskel (2014)
227 CA4th 313, relied on by Defendant.  In
Heskel, the defendant relied, in part, on the fact that city workers who
had been in the area conducting routine work unrelated to the alleged dangerous
condition did not discover same.  Id.
at 319.  Here, the evidence establishes
that Defendant conducted a specific inspection of the area less than two months
before Plaintiff tripped and fell over the uplift in the sidewalk.  (SS 13-14). 
As such, whether or not having one inspector conduct a drive-by
inspection of the subject sidewalk constitutes due care under the circumstances
presents a triable issue of material fact. 
(See Gsell Decl. ¶¶19-21). 
 
2nd cause of action – Liability of City
Employees under Government Code 840.2
 
With regard to Plaintiff’s 2nd cause of
action, Government Code 840.2 provides:     
 
“An employee of a public entity is
liable for injury caused by a dangerous condition of public property if the
plaintiff establishes that the property of the public entity was in a dangerous
condition at the time of the injury, that the injury was proximately caused by
the dangerous condition, that the dangerous condition created a reasonably
foreseeable risk of the kind of injury which was incurred, and that either:
(a) The dangerous condition was
directly attributable wholly or in substantial part to a negligent or wrongful
act of the employee and the employee had the authority and the funds and other
means immediately available to take alternative action which would not have
created the dangerous condition; or
(b) The employee had the authority
and it was his responsibility to take adequate measures to protect against the
dangerous condition at the expense of the public entity and the funds and other
means for doing so were immediately available to him, and he had actual or
constructive notice of the dangerous condition under Section
840.4 a sufficient time prior to the injury to have taken measures to
protect against the dangerous condition.”
 
For the same reasons a triable issue of material fact
exists as to Defendant’s liability for a dangerous condition of public
property, a triable issue of material fact exists with regard to the liability
of Defendant’s employees under Government Code 840.2(b).  See also Government Code 840.4
(regarding constructive notice of a public employee); (Plaintiff’s Additional
Facts 9-21, 35-40).  Additionally, Defendant
has only moved for summary judgment and not summary adjudication; therefore,
the Court could not summarily adjudicate the 2nd cause of action.  See Maryland Casualty Co.
(1990) 221 CA3d 961, 974; Jimenez (1992) 8 CA4th 528, 534-535
 
CONCLUSION
 
The motion is denied. 
 
   
 
 
 