  Case Number:  23TRCV03465    Hearing Date:   January 10, 2024    Dept:  B 
LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT – SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 




 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                                                Wednesday, January 10, 2024
Department B                                                                                                                             Calendar No. 3  



 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Michael
Forbes v. Select Portfolio Services, Inc., et al.  
23TRCV03465
1.     
Michael Forbes’ Application
for Preliminary Injunction 
 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Michael Forbes’ Application for a Preliminary
Injunction is denied pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure § 526.
 
Background
 
Plaintiff’s Complaint was filed on October 18, 2023. Plaintiff
alleges the following facts. Plaintiff is the owner of the subject property
located at 3818 Newton Street, Torrance, CA 90505. Due to the Covid-19
pandemic, the renters on the property were unable to pay rent. As a result, Plaintiff
missed payments on the loan and Defendant failed to provide any forbearance
relief. Plaintiff alleges the following causes of action: 1. Violation of Cal.
Civ. Code § 3273, et seq. 2. Unfair Business Practices.   
 
Application for Preliminary Injunction
 
“In determining whether to issue a preliminary
injunction, the trial court considers two related factors: (1) the likelihood
that the plaintiff will prevail on the merits of its case at trial, and (2) the
interim harm that the plaintiff is likely to sustain if the injunction is
denied as compared to the harm that the defendant is likely to suffer if the
court grants a preliminary injunction. 
The latter factor involves consideration of such things as the
inadequacy of other remedies, the degree of irreparable harm, and the necessity
of preserving the status quo.”  14859 Moorpark Homeowner’s Assn. v. VRT
Corp. (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 1396, 1402.
 
Plaintiff moves for a preliminary injunction to
restrain the foreclosure sale of the subject property. The Court finds that
Plaintiff has failed to meet his burden to demonstrate a likelihood that
Plaintiff will prevail on the merits of his case at trial.  Plaintiff has failed to submit competent
evidence to establish that Defendants committed a material violation of Cal.
Civil Code section 3273 et seq. and/or Bus. & Prof. Code 17200 et seq. or that
Defendant is seeking to conduct a wrongful foreclosure. 
 
Civil Code § 3273.10 states, in relevant part: “If a
mortgage servicer denies a forbearance request made during the effective time
period, the mortgage servicer shall provide written notice to the borrower that
sets forth the specific reason or reasons that forbearance was not provided.”
Plaintiff argues that no such written notice was provided by Defendant. 
 
Cal. Civ. Code 3273.1(b) states that: ““Effective time
period” means the time period between the operational date of this title and December
1, 2021.” On its face, Plaintiff’s cause of action for violation of Civ. Code §
3273.10 fails because Plaintiff alleges a denial of forbearance in September
2022 outside the effective time period. 
 
Plaintiff also alleges SPS violated Civ. Code §
3273.11 because “SPS did not comply with federal guidelines.” However, Civ.
Code § 3273.11 specifically provides that such guidelines must be met following
a COVID-19 related forbearance. As noted above, no such forbearance was
provided. In addition, Defendant provided competent evidence that it reviewed
Plaintiff for loan assistance options on several occasions and offered loan
mitigation options and payment plans. Plaintiff submitted no competent evidence
that Defendant’s actions were not consistent with federal guidelines. 
 
Plaintiff’s cause of action for Violation of Business
and Professions Code section 17200 et seq. is derivative and based on the same
violations noted above. 
 
Thus, Plaintiff failed to demonstrate that he is
likely to succeed on the merits. 
Therefore, the interim harm that Defendant may suffer if the injunction
is granted is greater than Plaintiff’s relative harm.  
 
Thus, the application for a preliminary injunction is
denied. 
 
The temporary restraining order is hereby dissolved.
 
Defendant is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 