


[1]
Anatoly is now Larisa’s ex-husband.


[2]
At that hearing, Anatoly apparently challenged Plaintiff’s ability to retain
counsel, file the Complaint, or seek injunctive relief because the members did
not unanimously agree to it. (Declaration of Stone, Exhibit D.) The court
explored the merits of this argument, relying on Anmaco, Inc. v. Bohlken (1993) 13 Cal.App.4th 891 (Anmaco) (concluding that the proper
vehicle for shareholder-president to bring action against another equal
shareholder was a derivative action on behalf of the corporation). (Ibid.) The court determined that under Anmaco, Kopytov cannot cause Plaintiff
to sue Anatoly directly and Sprengel v.
Mohr (2012) CV 11-8742-MWF(SPx), 2012 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 195928 at *8-9 is
federal authority that Kopytov cannot retain counsel on behalf of Plaintiff to
do so. (Ibid.) The court concluded
that “To sue Anatoly, Kopytov must proceed by a derivative action and retain
his own counsel to do so.” (Ibid.)


[3]
Plaintiff proposes that Moving Party could move to intervene under CCP Sec.
387(d)(1)-(2) or file a collateral injunctive action to seek to disqualify Michelman.
(Machado v. Superior Court (2007) 148
Cal.App.4th 875, 881.) Plaintiff also highlights that Moving Party waited over
100 days after being dismissed from the case to bring the instant motion. This
goes to Plaintiff’s additional argument that tactical abuse underlies Moving
Party’s motion. However, Moving Party raised this issue, and briefed it, at the
May 2023 TRO/OSC hearing. Moving Party counters that Michelman’s delay in
filing a notice of entry of dismissal impacted his ability to file the instant
motion and that he had initially reserved a hearing date for August 17, 2023.
However, Moving Party undermines his own position that this motion is not
tactical because his reply indicates that if Plaintiff had agreed to reimburse
his legal fees, then “this motion and the forthcoming request for fees would
not be necessary.” (Reply 6:28-7:2.) The court can only read this to mean that
Moving Party opposes Michelman’s continued representation because Plaintiff
will not pay his legal fees (spanning approximately 3 months of actively
participating in the litigation). If this is not tactical, the court does not
know what would be.


[4]
Assuming that Section 6.1 provided Kopytov with the authority to sue Larisa, as
a former employee, it does not provide authority for suit against Anatoly. This
also assumes that such a suit against Larisa is part of the ordinary course of
business. 
 


[5]
The court can allay Plaintiff’s concern that it will never retain counsel
because it will always be deadlocked. The court may appoint a provisional
director to defeat a deadlock. (Corp. Code § 308; In re Annrhon, Inc. (1993) 17 Cal.App.4th 742, 751.)

