 Case Number:  23STCV08034    Hearing Date:   October 30, 2023    Dept:  51 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Upinder S.
Kalra, Department 51
 
HEARING DATE:   October
30, 2023                                
 
CASE NAME:           Warner Park Recovery Center, LLC v.
Larisa Krichevsky, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                23STCV08034

 
MOTION
TO DISQUALIFY MICHELMAN & ROBINSON, LLP AS COUNSEL FOR WARNER PARK RECOVERY
CENTER, LLC

 
MOVING PARTY:  Defendant
Anatoly Krichevsky
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiff Warner Park Recovery
Center, LLC
 
REQUESTED RELIEF: 
 
1.      An
order disqualifying Michelman & Robinson, LLP as counsel for Plaintiff.
 
TENTATIVE RULING: 
 
1.      Motion
to disqualify Michelman & Robinson, LLP is GRANTED.
 
STATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS: 
 
On April 11, 2023, Plaintiff filed a Complaint against
Defendants Larisa Krichevsky (Larisa), Anatoly Krichevsky (Anatoly), and Launch
to Wellness Psychotherapy, Inc. (LTW). The Complaint alleges nine causes of
action for: (1) violation of the California Comprehensive Computer Data Access
and Fraud Act (Penal Code § 502); (2) interference with contract, (3)
interference with economic relations; (4) breach of the fiduciary law of
loyalty; (5) breach of an employment agreement; (6) aiding and abetting
interference with contract; (7) aiding and abetting interference with economic
relations; (8) aiding and abetting breach of the fiduciary duty of loyalty, and
(9) unfair competition (Bus. & Prof. Code § 17200 et seq.).
 
According to the Complaint, Plaintiff is a behavioral
outpatient treatment center in Woodland Hills. Larisa is a former employee and
Anatoly is her husband.[1]
Plaintiff alleges that Larisa accessed Plaintiff’s confidential and sensitive
business and patient information and used it to begin a competing business,
LTW. Plaintiff alleges that Larisa recruited Plaintiff’s employees to work for
LTW. Plaintiff alleges that Anatoly helped Larisa access Plaintiff’s
confidential information that Larisa could not access, contributed capital, and
contributed services to LTW.
 
Anatoly filed an Answer on May 12, 2023.
 
On May 24, 2023, Plaintiff brought an ex parte application for TWO/OSC.[2]
The court denied the TRO but issued an OSC why Anatoly should not be compelled
to (1) restore Plaintiff’s access to Larisa’s Warner Park email account with
emails preserved, and (2) provide administrative access of the email system to
Oberlander.
 
Moving Defendant filed the instant motion on October 5,
2023. Plaintiff filed a timely opposition on October 17, 2023. Moving Defendant
filed a timely reply on October 23, 2023.
 
LEGAL STANDARD: 
 
“A judge’s authority to disqualify an attorney has its
origins in the inherent power of every court in the furtherance of justice to
control the conduct of ministerial officers and other persons in pending
judicial proceedings.”¿(Neal v. Health
Net, Inc.¿(2002) 100 Cal.App.4th 831, 840;¿see also¿Code Civ. Proc., § 128,
subd. (a)(5) [“Every court shall have the power to . . . control in furtherance
of justice, the conduct of its ministerial officers, and of all other persons
in any manner connected with a judicial proceeding before it, in every matter
pertaining thereto”].) “The power is frequently exercised on a showing that
disqualification is required under professional standards governing avoidance
of conflicts of interest or potential adverse use of confidential
information.”¿(Responsible Citizens v.
Superior Court¿(1993) 16 Cal.App.4th 1717, 1723-1724.)¿ 
¿ 
“Motions to disqualify counsel present competing policy
considerations. On the one hand, a court must not hesitate to¿disqualify an
attorney when it is satisfactorily established that he or she wrongfully
acquired an unfair advantage that undermines the integrity of the judicial
process and will have a¿continuing effect on the proceedings before the court.
[Citations.] On the other hand, it must be kept in mind that disqualification
usually imposes a substantial hardship on the disqualified attorney’s innocent
client, who must bear the monetary and other costs of finding a replacement. A
client deprived of the attorney of his [or her] choice suffers a particularly
heavy penalty where ... his [or her] attorney is highly skilled in the relevant
area of the law.”¿(Gregori v. Bank of
America (1989) 207 Cal.App.3d 291, 300.) “The paramount concern must be to
preserve public trust in the scrupulous administration of justice and the
integrity of the bar. The important right to counsel of one’s choice must yield
to ethical considerations that affect the fundamental principles of our
judicial process.”¿(People ex rel. Dept.
of Corporations v. SpeeDee Oil Change Systems, Inc. (1999) 20 Cal.4th 1135,
1145.) Generally, the disqualification of an attorney vicariously disqualifies
his or her firm.¿(William H. Raley Co. v.
Superior Court (1983)¿149 Cal.App.3d 1042, 1048–1049.)¿ 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
As a threshold matter, the court notes that Moving Party has
standing to bring the instant motion because he is a has a pending motion for
attorney’s fees and therefore maintains an interest in the pending litigation.[3]
(See CCP § 1032(a)(4).) 
 
Lack of Authority
 
Moving Party argues that Plaintiff’s members did not
unanimously agree to retain the Michelman & Robinson, LLP (Michelman) and
so they lack authority to represent Plaintiff. Additionally, Moving Party argues that the
ethical considerations in Jarvis
apply here. There, the Court determined that the attorney for the partnership
was hired by one of the partners, and thus, the attorney might not adequately
represent the partnership. (Jarvis v.
Jarvis (2019) 33 Cal.App.5th 113, 140.) Plaintiff contends it
validly retained Michelman to pursue claims in the ordinary course of its
business. Moving Party replies that Michelman was retained to pursue claims
against its members, which is prohibited.
 
An LLC’s operating agreement governs (1) relations among the
members as members and between the members and the LLC, (2) the rights and
duties of a person in the capacity of a manager, (3) the activities of the LLC
and the conduct of those activities, and (4) the means and conditions for
amending the operating agreement. (Corp. Code § 17701.10(a).) If an LLC is
member-managed, no member acting in the capacity as member is an agent of the
LLC or can bind it to an obligation. (Corp. Code § 17703.01(b)(1).) Every
manager is an agent of the LLC and can bind it to an obligation unless the
manager has no authority to do so. (Corp. Code § 17703.01(b)(2).) Except as
otherwise provided in the Revised Uniform Limited Liability Company Act
(RULLCA), any matter related to the activities of the LLC is decided
exclusively by the managers. (Corp. Code § 17704.07(c)(1).) However, the
consent of all members is required to (A) sell, lease, exchange, or otherwise
dispose of all, or substantially all, of the limited liability company’s
property, with or without the goodwill, outside the ordinary course of the
limited liability company’s activities; or (B) except as otherwise provided in
Corp. Code § 17710.01 et seq., any
act outside the ordinary course of the LLC’s activities. (Corp. Code §
17704.07(c)(4).) 
 
Here, Article 6 of the LLC Operating Agreement states in
pertinent part:
·        
6.1 AUTHORITY OF MANAGERS. All of the
business and affairs of the Company shall be managed exclusively by the
unanimous agreement of Managers. Notwithstanding anything herein to the
contrary, the Managers shall have the full and exclusive right, power and
authority to manage the affairs of the Company and to bind the Company, to make
all decisions thereto, and to do or cause to be done any and all acts or things
deemed by the Managers to be necessary, appropriate, or desirable to carry out
or further the Business of the Company, including,  . . . .
·        
6.1(e) Manage and control the LLC in all
of its affairs as allowed by the law of the State of California.
·        
6.2 LIMITATION OF AUTHORITY OF THE
MANAGER. The following actions shall require the unanimous consent of the
Members:
·        
6.2(c) incurring a contractual obligation
or making a capital expenditure; 
·        
6.2(g) incurring debts that are not in the
ordinary course of business. (Declaration of Finkelshteyn, Exhibit 1.) 
Plaintiff’s contention that Section 6.1 gave Kopytov
authority to hire Michelman is misplaced. Section 6.2 specifically limits
Kopytov’s power by requiring unanimous consent of the members before the LLC
may enter into contracts, make capital expenditures, or incur debts that are
not in the ordinary course of business. (Declaration of Finkelshteyn, Exhibit
1.) Retaining counsel to sue one of its members falls within Section 6.2 of the
Operating Agreement and requires unanimous agreement from Plaintiff’s members.[4]
(Corp. Code § 17704.07(c)(4).) Indeed, the August 15, 2022 letter from Michelman
to Anatoly and Finkelshteyn indicate that “[t]his firm has been retained by
[Plaintiff]” not by Kopytov as an individual “to investigate and, where
appropriate, pursue claims against the Company’s minority Members, namely
the two of you . . . .” (Declaration of Safyan, Exhibit 2.) (emphasis
added.) On its face, the demand letter does not show Plaintiff’s intention to
sue employees, but to sue its members which, as the court has already held, is
outside the ordinary course of business. Since Anatoly and Finkelshteyn did not
consent to such retention, it is invalid.[5]
(Declaration of Finkelshteyn ¶ 6.; Declaration of Anatoly ¶ 4.)
 
Accordingly, there is good cause to disqualify Michelman.
 
Duty of Loyalty
 
Moving Party contends that Michelman breached its duty of
loyalty to Plaintiff, a corporate entity, because it took sides in an ownership
dispute between equal membership factions over control of the business.  Plaintiff contends that Michelman has only
ever represented Plaintiff and has never represented Manager Kopytov in his
individual capacity. 
 
The court declines to pursue this avenue to disqualify Michelman
because it is already disqualified due to lack of authority.
 
CONCLUSION:
 
            For
the foregoing reasons, the Court decides the pending motion as follows: 
 
1.      Motion
to disqualify Michelman & Robinson, LLP is GRANTED.
 
Moving party is to give notice. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED. 
 
Dated:             October
30, 2023                    __________________________________                                                                                                                Upinder
S. Kalra
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 


