


[1]
There’s a discrepancy between the FACC named parties and the captioned parties
in the demurrer papers: they omit Herair Garboushian.The Declaration of Ellis
F. Raskin submitted in support includes Herair Garboushian as a Cross-Complainant.


[2]
There was a lawsuit in 2020 that Plaintiffs dismissed without prejudice
pertaining to the same issue.


[3]
The court will not address this final argument because Cross-Complainants did
allege that Resolution No. 191 is arbitrary, it violates fundamental public
policies, and imposes a burden on the use of affected land (FACC ¶ 48, 49
[alleging that Resolution 191 was not adopted in accordance with the procedures
set forth in Section 9 of Declaration No. 23 of the Protective Restrictions].
Reading the FACC allegations as true, as the court must on demurrer, Cross-Complainants
also allege suspicious timing in the adoption of Resolution 191 because it
shortly followed Plaintiff/Cross-Defendants’ dismissal of their 2020 Complaint after
the Defendants demurred on the grounds that the Restrictions only allowed
adjoining property owners to enforce the tree-trimming provision. (FAC ¶ 17, 18.)
The business judgment rule argument similarly fails here because
Cross-Complainants allege that Resolution 191 was not adopted in accordance
with PVHA’s own procedures on modifying the Restrictions.  
 


[4]
Cross-Complainants proffer two additional arguments. First, they argue that
Cross-Defendants’ own complaint seeks declaratory relief that the
Cross-Complainants are violating Resolution 191 and so they waived any contrary
argument. Second, they argue that Cross-Defendants only attack part of the
fourth cause of action – the part addressing the facial validity of Resolution
No. 191. 
 


[5]
The court is not persuaded by Cross-Defendants’ argument because it ignores
that the subject properties are part of a common interest development, subject
to a homeowners’ association, and subject to restrictions, conditions,
covenants, reservations, liens, and charges. (FACC ¶ 1, 5, 6, 7, Exhibit 1 to
FACC “Declaration of Establishment.”)

