 Case Number:  23STCV22554    Hearing Date:   June 12, 2024    Dept:  39  TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPARTMENT


39




HEARING DATE


June
  12, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23STCV22554




MOTION


Motion
  to Quash Service of Summons and Complaint 




MOVING PARTIES


Defendant Sun Plaza LLC




OPPOSING PARTY


None



 
 
BACKGROUND
Defendant Sun
Plaza LLC (“Defendant”) moves to quash service of summons.  Plaintiff Anthony Bouyer (“Plaintiff”) has
not opposed the motion. 
 
ANALYSIS
A party may serve an entity through its
designated agent for service of process. 
(See Code Civ. Proc., § 416.10, subd. (b) [“A summons may be served on a
corporation by delivering a copy of the summons and the complaint  . . . (a) to the person designated as agent
for service of process . . . (b) To the president, chief executive officer, or
other head of the corporation . . . or a person authorized by the corporation
to receive service of process”]; Corps. Code, § 17701.13, subd. (a)(2) [“A
limited liability company shall designate and continuously maintain in this
state . . . an agent for service of process”].) 

Defendant asserts its designated agent for
service of process is Shalizeh Bashirian, and his and Defendant’s address is
7800 Berger Avenue, Playa Del Rey, California 90293.[1]  Plaintiff filed a proof of service concerning
the summons and complaint which reflects Plaintiff served Sohail Bashirian at
1428 W. 47th Street in Los Angeles through substituted service of a co-occupant
who refused service.  (See Proof of Service of Summons, filed January 2, 2024.)  This proof of service does not reflect proper
service on Defendant through its designated agent for service of process.  Further, in a declaration submitted in
support of Defendant’s motion, Sohail Bashirian asserts he has “no roles or
responsibilities” with Defendant, and he has never been authorized to accept
service on Defendant’s behalf.[2]  (Declaration of Sohail Bashirian, ¶ 6.)  
“When a defendant challenges . . . jurisdiction by bringing
a motion to quash, the burden is on the plaintiff to prove the existence of
jurisdiction by proving, inter alia, the facts requisite to an effective
service.”  (Dill v. Berquist
Construction Co.) (1994) 24 Cal.App.4th 1426, 1439-1440.)   Despite
the reference to Sohail Bashirian being affiliated in some way with Defendant, Plaintiff
has not satisfied his burden of demonstrating Sohail Bashirian is a designated
agent for service of process or is otherwise a person authorized to accept
service on Defendant’s behalf, whether personally or through substitute
service.  Accordingly, the motion to quash is granted.
Defendant is ordered to provide notice of
this order and to file proof of service of same.


