  Case Number:  23STCV19198    Hearing Date:   October 26, 2023    Dept:  52 Defendant LAD-N, LLC dba Nissan of
Downtown LA’s Demurrer to Complaint
Defendant LAD-N,
LLC doing business as Nissan of Downtown LA demurs to the entire complaint by
plaintiff Ana P. Quintana.
Failure to File Proof of Service of Opposition
            Plaintiff
filed an opposition to this demurrer by did not file any proof she served her
opposition on defendant.  When a party
files anything in court, that party must also send a copy to the other parties,
which is known as serving the document.  (See
Code Civ. Proc., §§ 1005 & 1010.)  That
party must also file proof of service with the court.  (See Code Civ. Proc., §§ 1013a-1013b; Cal.
Rules of court, rule 3.1300(c).)  Plaintiff
must not file documents in court without both serving a copy on defendant and
filing a proof of service with the court.
Uncertainty
            Defendant demurs to plaintiff’s complaint
for uncertainty.  “ ‘ “Demurrers for uncertainty are
disfavored, and are granted only if the pleading is so incomprehensible that a
defendant cannot reasonably respond.” ’ 
[Citations.]”  (A.J. Fistes
Corp. v. GDL Best Contractors, Inc. (2019) 38 Cal.App.5th 677, 695,
alterations omitted.)  The complaint must
sufficiently apprise defendants of the claims against them.  (Ibid.)
The complaint does not adequately apprise defendant
of the claims against them.  It alleges
plaintiff bought a “2021 Nissan Sentra on 11/18/22” that “started giving [her]
problems with the electrical since the beginning.”  (Comp., p. 1.)  It further alleges plaintiff
“called” a law office “to discuss a possible Lemon Law case with them.”  (Ibid.)  
The
“lemon law” is a common term for the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act.  (Civ. Code, § 1790 et seq.)  The Song-Beverly Act provides consumers with
several types of causes of action for different violations, such as failure to
repair a vehicle to “conform with the applicable express warranties … within a
reasonable time” (Civ. Code, § 1793.2, subd. (b)) or failure to “repair the
[vehicle] to conform to the applicable express warranties after a reasonable
number of attempts” (id., subd. (d)(1)). 
Plaintiff’s complaint does not sufficiently identify which type of
violation she alleges.    
Sufficient
Factual Allegations
The
complaint also does not allege sufficient facts to constitute a cause of
action.  A party may demur to a complaint for failing to state facts sufficient
to constitute a cause of action. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e).)  In ruling on a demurrer, courts “assume
that the complaint’s properly pleaded material allegations are true and give
the complaint a reasonable interpretation by reading it as a whole and all its
parts in their context” but do not “assume the truth of contentions,
deductions, or conclusions of fact or law.” (Moore v. Regents of University
of California (1990) 51 Cal.3d 120, 125.)
Plaintiff
does not allege all elements necessary for any cause of action.  As discussed above, the complaint refers to the
“Lemon Law,” meaning the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act.  That law generally applies to any “new motor
vehicle,” defined as “a new motor vehicle that is bought or used primarily for
personal, family, or household purposes.” 
(Civ. Code, § 1793.22, subd. (e)(2).) 
The law also requires that “the manufacturer has made an express
warranty” for the vehicle.  (Civ. Code, §
1793.2, subd. (a).)  
Plaintiff
does not allege she purchased the vehicle new and did so for personal, family,
or household purposes.  She also does not
allege it fails to conform to the manufacturer’s express warranty.  Moreover, plaintiff does not explicitly
allege she purchased the vehicle from defendant or that she took to “the
manufacturer’s service and repair facility” (Civ. Code, § 1793.2, subd. (c)) to
be repaired.  
Disposition
            Defendant LAD-N, LLC dba Nissan of Downtown LA’s demurrer to plaintiff Ana P.
Quintana’s complaint is sustained with 30 days’ leave to amend.  Plaintiff must file a first amended complaint
to cure the defects described above within 30 days.