..................... ..................... ..................... ......
The summary displayed below was created by an LLM named 'llama3-8b-8192':
Here is the summary in YAML format:

```
Case Number: 23STCV18778
Plaintiff's Name: Philip A. Lewis
Defendant's Name: New Mount Pleasant Missionary Baptist Church
People-Names: Philip A. Lewis, Judge
Company-Names: New Mount Pleasant Missionary Baptist Church
Places: 
Dates: December 6, 2023, September 30, 2024, May 23, 2025, June 3, 2025
Events: Demurrer, Court Hearing
Money: 
Intentions: 
Facts: 
Disputes: 
Acts: 
Agreements: 
Laws: 
Case Citations: 
Statutes: 
Roles: Judge, Plaintiff, Defendant
Significant Statements: 
  - The ministerial exception doctrine is based on the notion a church's appointment of its clergy, along with such closely related issues as clerical salaries, assignments, working conditions and termination of employment, is an inherently religious function because clergy are such an integral part of a church's functioning as a religious institution.
  - The ministerial exception precludes the application of legislation "to claims concerning the employment relationship between a religious institution and its ministers."
  - The Court must liberally construe the allegations of the complaint and draw inferences favorable to the plaintiff.
  - The Court has overruled the demurrer to the first cause of action and sustained the demurrer to the second cause of action without leave to amend.
```

And here is the English-text summary:

The tentative ruling by the Judge in the case of Philip A. Lewis v. New Mount Pleasant Missionary Baptist Church addresses a demurrer filed by the defendant to the plaintiff's amended complaint. The plaintiff, a minister, alleges breach of an employment agreement and breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing by the defendant, his former employer. The Judge holds that the ministerial exception doctrine applies, which precludes secular courts from intervening in issues related to the hiring, firing, discipline or administration of clergy. The Judge overrules the demurrer to the first cause of action, which alleges that the defendant terminated the plaintiff without following the proper procedures in the contract and bylaws. However, the Judge sustains the demurrer to the second cause of action, which alleges breach of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing, as this would require the Court to stray from procedural issues and become involved in religious matters. The Judge sets a series of dates for subsequent hearings and orders the parties to comply with certain pretrial procedures.
