 Case Number:  23STCV18778    Hearing Date:   December 6, 2023    Dept:  39 Philip
A. Lewis v. New Mount Pleasant Missionary Baptist Church
Case
No. 23STCV18778
Demurrer
 
BACKGROUND
 
            Plaintiff
Philip A. Lewis (“Plaintiff”), a minister, filed this action against his
employer, New Mount Pleasant Missionary Baptist Church (“Defendant”), asserting
causes of action for breach of an employment agreement and breach of the
implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing.  Previously, the Court sustained a demurrer to
these causes of action with leave to amend. 
Plaintiff amended these causes of action, to which Defendant
demurs.  The Court overrules the
demurrer.  
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
“It is black letter law that a
demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of the allegations in a complaint.”
 (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  In
ruling on a demurrer, the court must “liberally construe[]” the allegations of
the complaint.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 452.) 
“This rule of liberal construction means that the reviewing court draws
inferences favorable to the plaintiff, not the defendant.”  (Perez v.
Golden Empire Transit Dist. (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th 1228, 1238.)
 
DISCUSSION 
 
            There is no
dispute that Plaintiff was a pastor and that Defendant is a church.  This implicates the “ministerial exception”
to the state’s employment laws.  “The
First Amendment guarantees to a religious institution the right to decide
matters affecting its ministers’ employment, free from the scrutiny and
second-guessing of the civil courts.  (Schmoll
v. Chapman University (1999) 70 Cal.App. 1434, 1436.)  “The ministerial exception doctrine is based
on the notion a church’s appointment of its clergy, along with such closely
related issues as clerical salaries, assignments, working conditions and
termination of employment, is an inherently religious function because clergy
are such an integral part of a church’s functioning as a religious
institution.”  (Henry v. Red Hill
Evangelical Lutheran Church of Tustin (2011) 201 Cal.App.4th 1041,
1053.)  The ministerial exception
precludes the application of legislation “to claims concerning the employment
relationship between a religious institution and its ministers.”  (Sumner v. Simpson University (2018)
27 Cal.App.5th 577, 585, quoting Hosanna-Tabor Evangelical Lutheran Church and
School v. EEOC, 565 U.S. 171, 188 (2012).) 
Accordingly, secular courts cannot intervene in issues related to “the
hiring, firing, discipline or administration of clergy.”  (Henry, supra, 201 Cal.App.4th at p.
1053.)    
 
            The first
and second causes of action implicate different issues.  In Hosanna-Tabor, the U.S. Supreme
Court decided only that the First Amendment “precludes application of such
legislation to claims concerning the employment relationship between a
religious institution and its ministers.” 
(Hosanna-Tabor, supra, 565 U.S. at p. 188.)  The U.S. Supreme Court stated: “We express no
view on whether the exception bars other types of suits, including actions by
employees alleging breach of contract or tortious conduct by their religious
employers.”  (Id., p. 196.)  The Third District recently addressed this
issue in Sumner v. Simpson University (2018) 27 Cal.App.5th 577.  In that case, the Court held that the
ministerial exception does not categorically bar common law contractual and
tort claims.  Rather, the issue depends
on whether the contractual dispute would require the Court to “excessively
entangle [itself] in religious matters,” like reviewing Plaintiff’s “religious
qualifications” or “performance as a religious leader.”  (Id., pp. 581, 593-594.)  
 
            Plaintiff
alleges that Defendant terminated him without following the proper procedures
in the contract and bylaws.  (First
Amended Complaint, ¶¶ 8, 11.)  The first
amended complaint is not predicated upon any alleged issues with Plaintiff’s
performance or qualifications. 
Therefore, the only inquiry is whether Defendant followed an objective
set of procedural requirements, which does not implicate religious matters.  For this reason, the demurrer to the first
cause of action is overruled.  
 
            However,
the Court sustains the demurrer to the second cause of action.  The first cause of action is predicated
exclusively on the issue whether Defendant followed the required procedures in
terminating him.  Any additional theories
would be barred by the ministerial exception doctrine.  Given the objective nature of the claim,
there is no basis to assert a claim for breach of the covenant of good faith
and fair dealing: Either Defendant followed the required procedures or
Defendant failed to do so.  Plaintiff
cannot assert a claim against Defendant for having followed the required
procedures in bad faith.  Not only does
the complaint not allege any facts in support of such a theory, such a claim
would require the Court to stray from procedural issues and become involved in
religious matters.  Therefore, the Court
sustains the demurrer to the second cause of action without leave to amend.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
            Based upon
the foregoing, the Court orders as follows:
 
            1.         The Court overrules the demurrer to the
first cause of action.  
 
            2.         The Court sustains the demurrer to the
second cause of action without leave to amend.
 
            3.         Defendant shall file an answer within
thirty (30) days.
 
            4.         Pursuant to the parties’ stipulation,
the Court held the case management conference in advance of the answer having
been filed.
 
            5.         The Court sets the following dates:
 
            Post-Mediation
Status Conference:    September 30, 2024,
at 8:30 a.m. 
 
Final Status Conference:                    May 23, 2025, at 9:00 a.m. 
 
Trial:                                                   June 3, 2025, at
9:30 a.m.       
 
6.         The Court orders that jury fees shall be posted within ten
(10) days or the parties shall waive jury.
 
7.         The Court orders the parties to follow all pretrial
procedures for Department #39.
 
8.         The Court shall determine the trial estimate at the final
status conference.  
 
9.         The Court orders the parties to file joint trial documents
on or before May 16, 2025.  The list of joint trial documents may be found
on the Court’s website (www.LACourt.org) on
the “Civil” page in the “Courtroom Information” section.  The Court orders
the parties to identify all witnesses they intend to call in their respective
cases-in-chief, and identify and produce all exhibits they intend to introduce
in their respective cases-in-chief, on or before May 16, 2025.
 
10.       Defendant’s counsel shall provide notice and file proof of
such with the Court.  
 