 Case Number:  22STCV11182    Hearing Date:   December 6, 2023    Dept:  39 Perry Lazar v.
First American Title Insurance Company, et al.
Case No.
22STCV11182
Motions to Compel
Further Discovery Responses
 
            Plaintiff
moves to compel further discovery responses to certain Requests for Admission
(“RFAs”), as well as Form Interrogatory (“FROG”) Number 17.1, from Defendant
First American Title Company (“FATCO”) and Defendant First American Title
Insurance Company (“FATIC”).  The parties
met-and-conferred but require rulings on Defendant’s response to FROG #17.1
with respect to certain RFAs.  
 
            FROG #17.1
requires that the responding party address the following issues for each
response to an RFA that is not an unqualified admission: (a) State the number
of the request, (b) State all facts upon which you base your response, (c)
State the names, addresses, and telephone numbers of all persons who have
knowledge of those facts, and (d) Identify all documents and tangible tings
that support your response and state the name, address, and telephone number of
the person who  has each document or
thing.  
 
            The Court
rules as follows:
 
            RFA #5 – Denied.  The response correctly references Exhibit
D.  
 
            RFA #12 – Granted.  The response does not address the RFA.
 
            RFA #19 – Denied.  The response states that FATCO did not remove
the relevant language and stated that any alteration was done without its
authorization.
 
            RFA #20 –
Denied.  See above.
 
            RFA #21 –
Granted.  The response does not address
the RFA.  
 
            RFA #24 – Granted.  The response does not address the RFA.
 
            RFA #27 – Granted.  The response does not address the RFA.
 
            RFA #40 – Granted.  The response does not address the RFA.
 
            RFA #57 –
Denied.  The response states that FATCO
did not prepare the document and therefore did not create the defect.
 
            RFA #58 – Denied.  See above.
 
            RFA #61 – Granted.  The response references Exhibit D, not
Exhibit G.  
 
            RFA #64 – Denied.  The response correctly references Exhibit H.
 
            RFA #65 –
Denied.  The response correctly
references Exhibit G
 
            RFA #66 –
Denied.  The response states that FATCO
did not prepare the document and therefore did not create the defect.
 
            RFA #67 – Denied.  The response states that FATCO did not have
actual knowledge of errors in Exhibit D because it did not prepare that
exhibit.  
 
            RFA #68 – Granted.  The response is confusing because it does not
clarify which exhibit(s) it is referencing. 
  
 
            RFA #72 – Granted.  The response does not address whether FATCO
was required to include the legal description. 

 
            RFA #89 –
Denied.  The response is sufficient.
 
            RFA #90 –
Denied.  The response is sufficient. 
 
            RFA #91 –
Denied.  The response is sufficient.
 
            RFA #92 – Denied.  The RFA asks FATCO to admit that it approved
the legal description before issuing the title policy.  FATCO responded that it does not issue title
policies.  Plaintiff’s RFA is poorly
drafted.
 
            RFA #93 – Granted.  The RFA asks FATIC to admit that it approved
the legal description before issuing the title policy.  The response does not address this issue.
 
            RFA #94 –
Denied.  See RFA #92.
 
            RFA #95 –
Granted.  See RFA #93.
 
            RFA #97 – Denied.
 
            RFA #98 – Denied.  
 
Based upon the foregoing, the Court orders as follows:
 
            1.         Plaintiff’s motion to compel further
responses to the Requests for Admission is denied as moot.
 
            2.         Plaintiff’s motion to compel further
responses to FROG #17.1 is granted in part and denied in part.
 
            3.         Defendants shall serve supplemental
verified responses without objections, consistent with this order, within 45
days.
 
            4.         The Court denies all requests for
sanctions.
 
            5.         Plaintiff’s counsel shall provide
notice and file proof of such with the Court. 

 