 Case Number:  23STCV06375    Hearing Date:   December 6, 2023    Dept:  39 US 1902 Wilshire
Owner, LLC v. Juang Jan Thiankham, et al.
Case No.
23STCV06375
Motion to Set
Aside Defaults and Default Judgment
Case Management
Conference
Motion for
Reconsideration
 
Plaintiff US 1902 Wilshire Owner,
LLC (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendants Juang Jan Thiankham;
Kamolnut Thiankham; Songpon Thiankham; Thai Dishes, Inc.; and TD Wilshire, Inc.
(collectively, “Defendants”). 
Plaintiff’s counsel filed five proofs of service on April 7, 2023,
indicating that the three individual defendants were served personally, and the
two entity defendants were served through the agent for service of process.  Plaintiff’s counsel used registered process
servers for service of process. 
Plaintiff then obtained entry of defaults and a default judgment in the
amount of $630,468.89. 
 
Defendants filed an ex parte
application to stay enforcement of the judgment under Code of Civil Procedure
section 918(a) and to return all funds that were seized from Defendants’ bank
accounts.  The Court granted the ex parte
application with respect to staying enforcement of the judgment but denied the
ex parte application with respect to returning the funds.  Instead, the Court ordered that any levied
funds shall be held in Plaintiff’s counsel’s client trust account.
 
Defendants’ counsel represented
that he would file a motion to vacate the defaults and default judgment.  (See Defendants’ Ex Parte Application, p. 3:11-12.)  The Court advanced the hearing date on the
motion, but Defendants’ counsel did not file the motion.  Therefore, the Court orders as follows:
 
1.         The
Court continues the hearing on the motion to vacate default/default judgment to
February 2, 2024, at 8:30 a.m.  The Court
orders Defendants’ counsel to file and serve the motion sufficiently in advance
to provide statutory notice.
 
2.         The
Court continues the case management conference to February 2, 2024, at 8:30
a.m. 
 
3.         The
Court notices its own motion for reconsideration of its order of October 31,
2023.  Based upon Defendants’ failure to
file a motion to vacate the defaults and default judgment, there may no longer
be good cause to stay enforcement of the default judgment and to require
Plaintiff’s counsel to retain all levied funds. 

 
4.         The
Court shall hear its own motion for reconsideration on February 2, 2024, at
8:30 a.m.  Defendants’ counsel may file
an opposition, and Plaintiff’s counsel may file a reply, based upon statutory
deadlines.  The Court provides notice: If
Defendants do not file a motion to vacate their defaults/default judgments
pursuant to this order, absent good cause, the Court will vacate its order of
October 31, 2023.  Doing so would permit
Plaintiff’s counsel to seek to enforce the default judgment and would not
require him to retain levied funds in his client’s trust account.    
 
4.         The
Court’s clerk shall provide notice.    