 Case Number:  23STCV31322    Hearing Date:   March 28, 2024    Dept:  15 [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE
MOTIONS TO STAY
            On December 20, 2023, Plaintiffs
William Sweet and Tammie Sweet filed this action alleging William Sweet
developed mesothelioma as a result of exposure to asbestos.  Defendants Nissan North America, Inc. and
Toyota Motor Sales U.S.A. Inc. filed motions to stay this case pursuant to the
doctrine of forum non conveniens.
            “Forum
non conveniens is an equitable doctrine invoking the discretionary power of a
court to decline to exercise the jurisdiction it has over a transitory cause of
action when it believes that the action may be more appropriately and justly
tried elsewhere.”  (Stangvik v. Shiley
Inc. (1991) 54 Cal.3d 744, 751.)  When a court finds “in the interest of
substantial justice an action should be heard in a forum outside this state,”
it “shall stay or dismiss the action in whole or in part on any conditions that
may be just.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §
410.30(a).)
            Under
the traditional forum non conveniens analysis, a court must first “determine
whether a suitable alternative forum exists.”  (National Football League v. Fireman's Fund
Insurance Co. (2013) 216 Cal.App.4th 902, 917.)  A suitable alternative forum is one where the
defendant is subject to jurisdiction (or otherwise stipulates) and the statute
of limitations would not bar the plaintiff's case in that forum.  (Stangvik, supra, 54 Cal.3d at
752 n.3.)  Generally the moving party
must show that all defendants are subject to the other state’s jurisdiction.  (American
Cemwood Corporation
v. American Home Assurance Company (2001) 87 Cal.App.4th 431, 440.)  However, in cases with a large number of
defendants, it may be “unreasonable to expect the moving defendant to prove all
defendants are subject to jurisdiction in a particular alternative forum.”  (Hansen v. Owens-Corning Fiberglas
Corporation (1996) 51 Cal.App.4th 753, 759.)  In that situation, staying the action “pending
a determination that all defendants are subject to jurisdiction” in the
alternative forum may be appropriate.  (Ibid.)
            If
there is a suitable alternative forum, the court proceeds to the next step of
balancing “the private interests of the parties and the public interest in
keeping the case in California.”  (National
Football League, supra, 216 Cal.App.4th at 917.)  These factors must be balanced flexibly, and
no single factor should be unduly emphasized.  (Stangvik, supra, 54 Cal. 3d at
753.)  An action should “be dismissed or
stayed if a suitable alternative exists and the balance of private and public
interest factors weigh in favor of the litigation proceeding in an alternative
forum.  (Hansen, supra, 51
Cal.App.4th at p. 758.)
            “[T]he
defendant, as the moving party, bears the burden of proof on a motion based on
forum non conveniens.  (Stangvik, supra,
54 Cal.3d at 751.)  The court is not
required to accept the allegations in the complaint as true, but rather, “must
consider and review all the declarations, papers and data which are submitted
in connection with the motion[.]”  (Hemmelgarn v. Boeing Co. (1980) 106 Cal. App. 3d 576, 587.)
A.                
Suitable Alternative
Forum
            Defendants argue Oregon is a
suitable alternative forum because the Oregon statute of limitations does not
bar Plaintiffs’ claims, most of the defendants are subject to jurisdiction in
Oregon, and William Sweet’s exposure occurred in Oregon.  (Motion at p. 1.) 
            Currently, twenty-four defendants
remain in this case – 3M Company; Block Drug Company, Inc.; Chattem, Inc.; DAP,
Inc.; Estee Lauder, Inc.; Genuine Parts Company; Harley Davidson, Inc.; Henry
Company LLC; Himmel Management Co., LLC; Honeywell International, Inc.; Johnson
& Johnson; Kaiser Gypsum Company; Kelly-Moore Paint Company, Inc.; LTL
Management LLC; Morse Tec LLC; Nissan North America, Inc.; Pfizer, Inc.; Presperse
Corporation; Presperse International Corp.; The Estee Lauder Companies, Inc.;
The Hartz Mountain Corporation; The Pep Boys Manny Moe & Jack of
California; Toyota Motor Sales U.S.A., Inc; Union Carbide Corporation; and
Volkswagen Group of America, Inc. 
            Five defendants filed joinders to
this motion – 3M Company; Chattem, Inc; Honeywell International, Inc.; Union
Carbide Corporation; and Volkswagen Group of America, Inc.  That means seventeen defendants have not
agreed to jurisdiction in Oregon.  The
fact that these defendants have not opposed the motion is not equivalent to
stipulating to Oregon’s jurisdiction. 
Defendants argue
that most of the defendants are subject to Oregon’s jurisdiction, citing
Plaintiffs’ complaint and responses to interrogatories stating William Sweet
was exposed to asbestos in Oregon. 
Exposure to a product in a state does not automatically give that state
jurisdiction over a defendant.  A
nonresident defendant may be subject to the specific jurisdiction of the forum “if
the defendant has purposefully availed himself or herself of forum benefits [citation],
and the ‘controversy is related to or “arises out of” a defendant’s contacts with
the forum.’  [Citations.]”  (Vons Companies,
Inc. v. Seabest Foods, Inc. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 434, 446.)  Defendants did not show for each defendant,
or most of the defendants, that they purposefully availed themselves of
Oregon’s benefits and the controversy arises out of or relates to each
defendant’s contacts with Oregon. 
Indeed, Defendants said nothing specific about seventeen of the
defendants.
Defendants argue they do
not have to show Oregon’s jurisdiction over all of the defendants, citing Hansen.  However, Hansen did not hold that when
a moving party shows jurisdiction over only 30% of the defendants, the other
jurisdiction is suitable for the other 70% of the defendants, or that the case
should be stayed pending a determination about where jurisdiction is suitable
for all the other defendants.  Also, this
case with twenty-four defendants is categorically different from Hansen where
there were 200 defendants.  (Hansen,
supra, 51 Cal.App.4th at p. 759.)  It is
not unreasonable to expect the moving defendant to prove that most of twenty-four
defendants are subject to jurisdiction in Oregon.
            B.        Balancing
of Private and Public Interest Factors
            “The private interest factors are those that make trial
and the enforceability of the ensuing judgment expeditious and relatively
inexpensive, such as the ease of access to sources of proof, the cost of
obtaining attendance of witnesses, and the availability of compulsory process
for attendance of unwilling witnesses.”  (Strangvik, supra, 54 Cal.3d at p.
751.)  “The public interest factors
include avoidance of overburdening local courts with congested calendars,
protecting the interests of potential jurors so that they are not called upon
to decide cases in which the local community has little concern, and weighing
the competing interests of California and the alternate jurisdiction in the
litigation.”  (Ibid.)
            The Judicial Council comments to
Code of Civil Procedures section 410.30 list the following factors to be
considered in this balancing:  (1) Where
the residence or the principal place of business of each party is located; (2)
Whether some or all of the parties regularly conduct business or other
activities in this state; (3) Whether the situation, transaction or events out
of which the action arose exists, occurred in, or had a substantial
relationship to this state; (4) Whether any party would be substantially
disadvantaged in having to try the action (a) in this state or (b) in the forum
in which the moving party asserts it ought to be tried; (5) Whether any
judgment entered in the action would be enforceable by process issued or other
enforcement proceedings undertaken in this state; (6) Whether witnesses would
be inconvenienced if the action were prosecuted (a) in this state or (b) in the
forum in which the moving party asserts it ought to be prosecuted; (7)   The
relative expense to the parties of maintaining the action (a) in this state and
(b) in the state in which the moving party asserts the action ought to be
prosecuted; (8) Whether a view of premises by the trier of fact will or might
be necessary or helpful in deciding the case; (9) Whether prosecution of the
action will or may place a burden on the courts of this state which is unfair,
inequitable or disproportionate in view of the relationship of the parties or
of the cause of action to this state; (10) Whether the parties participating in
the action, other than those of their own volition, have a relationship to this
state which imposes upon them an obligation to participate in judicial
proceedings in the courts of this state; (11) The interest, if any, of this
state in providing a forum for some or all of the parties to the action; (12)
The interest, if any, of this state in regulating the situation or conduct
involved; and (13) The avoidance of multiplicity of actions and inconsistent
adjudications.  The court addresses these
factors below.
            (1)-(2)  William Sweet lives in Oregon.  (Thai Decl., Ex. 2.)  He resided in Oregon, between 1973 through
2005 and 2014 to the present.  (Thai
Decl., Ex. 3 at pp. 2-3, 7-8.)  He lived
in California from 1971 to 1973.  (Id.
at pp. 2-3.)  Seven of the twenty-four
defendants consented to Oregon’s jurisdiction.  Defendants did not
provide evidence that any defendants are incorporated in or
have a principal place of business in Oregon, have any kind of facility or
presence in Oregon, or do business in Oregon.  Defendants Toyota Motor Sales, USA, Inc., Henry
Company LLC, The Pep Boys Manny Moe & Jack of
California LLC, and Kelly-Moore Paint Company Inc. are California companies.  (Seitz Decl., Exs. D, F, G, H.)  Defendants Kaiser Gypsum, Kelly-Moore, and
Union Carbide had facilities located in California.  (Id., Ex. A at p.69; B at p. 73, Ex. C.)
 Regarding Plaintiffs’ location, this
factor weighs in favor of Oregon.  Regarding
the defendants’ locations and places of doing business, the factor weighs in
favor of California. 
            (3)  Plaintiffs allege exposure to asbestos in both
Oregon and California, for a longer time in Oregon.  This factor weighs equally because Plaintiff
was exposed in both locations. 
            (4)-(5)  The parties did not present evidence of or
argument about these factors.
            (6)  Defendant argues Plaintiffs, Sweet’s medical
providers, and persons with knowledge of damages are located in Oregon.  (Motion at p. 4.)  The witnesses in Oregon would not be subject
to trial subpoenas in California.  Depositions
can be conducted remotely thereby lessening the inconvenience, and the parties
can agree to remote trial testimony.  Based
on the court’s experience handling hundreds of asbestos cases, the court has
rarely seen parties depose treating physicians or have them testify at trial.  Medical records and Plaintiffs’ other records
are produced in discovery via the document service provider, Lexitas, pursuant
to the case management order.  The
defendants’ witnesses are outside of Oregon. 
This factor weighs slightly in favor of Oregon. 
            (7)  Defendants did not present evidence of or
argument about this factor.  The
expense of prosecuting this action in California or in Oregon is likely to be
comparable.  This factor is neutral.
            (8)  This factor is
irrelevant. 
            (9)-(12)  Defendants
argue California has an interest in avoiding undue congestion of its courts and
Oregon has an interest in applying its own laws and regulations to
corporations’ conduct within its state involving it citizens.  (Motions at pp. 11-13.)  California has “little or no interest in
litigation involving injuries incurred outside of California by non-residents.”
 (Hansen, supra, 51
Cal.App.4th at p. 760.)  However, here the alleged harm also
occurred in California while Plaintiff lived here.  Some of the defendants are California
corporations, and California has an interest in regulating businesses
incorporated in California.  There is no
evidence that any defendant is incorporated, located, or doing business in Oregon.  While Oregon has more of an interest in
protecting Plaintiff’s rights because she currently lives there, California has
more of an interest in regulating at least some of the defendants’
activities.  Thus,
this factor is neutral. 
            (13)  Seven of the
twenty-four defendants consented to personal jurisdiction in Oregon. Several
defendants are incorporated or located in California.  Defendants did not provide any information
about many of the defendants.  Moving the
case to Oregon is likely to lead to multiple actions.  Thus, this factor weighs in favor of
California. 
            Because Defendant did not show Oregon is a suitable
alternative forum for 70% of the defendants, and because California has an
interest in regulating activities of and preventing damages caused by
California businesses, the balance weighs in favor of California. 
            Therefore, the motion is DENIED.  The moving party is to give notice. 