  Case Number:  21STCV35939    Hearing Date:   January 4, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Background
Facts
Plaintiff, Martin Delgado filed
this action against Defendant, Super Center Concepts, Inc. on 9/29/21 for
damages arising out of a fall Plaintiff sustained while shopping at Defendant’s
store.  Specifically, Plaintiff alleges
he was using a mobility scooter and, upon standing to exit the scooter, the scooter
seat base broke and/or detached from its base, causing Plaintiff to sustain
injuries.
 
On 11/22/21, Defendant answered the
complaint and filed a cross-complaint against Amigo Mobility International,
Inc. for indemnification and related claims. 
Amigo is the entity that manufactured the scooter on which Plaintiff fell.  
 
2.     Motion
for Leave to Amend
a.    
Relief Requested
Plaintiff filed this motion on
6/21/23.  Plaintiff seeks a court order
permitting him to amend his complaint to add a cause of action for products
liability against Amigo.  
 
b.    
Opposition
Amigo opposes the motion.  It argues Plaintiff is no stranger to
litigation and has no evidence to support his claim that the scooter on which
he fell malfunctioned.  It contends Plaintiff’s
proposed amended complaint is a basic judicial council form complaint and does
not allege any specific facts against it showing how or why the scooter was
defective.  It contends Plaintiff waited
to file the motion and the motion should be denied.  
 
c.    
Law Governing Motions for Leave to Amend 
The court may, in furtherance of
justice, and on such terms as may be proper, allow a party to amend any
pleading.  (CCP §§473 and 576.)  Judicial policy favors resolution of all
disputed matters between the parties and, therefore, leave to amend is
generally liberally granted.  Ordinarily,
the court will not consider the validity of the proposed amended pleading in
ruling on a motion for leave since grounds for a demurrer or motion to strike
are premature.  However, the court does
have discretion to deny leave to amend where a proposed amendment fails to
state a valid cause of action as a matter of law and the defect cannot be cured
by further amendment.  (California
Casualty General Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (1985) 173 Cal.App.3d 274, 281.)  
 
The application for leave to amend
should be made as soon as the need to amend is discovered.  The closer the trial date, the stronger the
showing required for leave to amend.  If
the party seeking the amendment has been dilatory, and the delay has prejudiced
the opposing party, the Court has the discretion to deny leave to amend.  (Hirsa v. Superior Court (1981) 118
Cal.App.3d 486, 490.)  Prejudice exists
where the amendment would require delaying the trial, resulting in loss of
critical evidence, or added costs of preparation such as an increased burden of
discovery.  (Magpali v. Farmers Group,
Inc. (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 471, 486-488.)
 
d.    
Analysis
Amigo’s primary argument is that
Plaintiff, despite conducting discovery in this litigation over the past two
years, has not identified any specific facts to establish the scooter was
deficient.  A motion for leave to amend
is a pleading motion.  Plaintiff does not
need to provide evidence to support his claims at the pleading stage.
 
Amigo also argues the proposed
amended complaint does not allege specific facts showing the scooter was
defective.  As set forth above, the Court
is justified in denying the motion if and only if it finds the proposed amended
complaint is defective AND could not be cured by further amendment.  The Court is not holding that the proposed
amended complaint, as drafted, is defective; the Court is holding only that, to
the extent there are defects, they could be cured by further amendment.
 
Amigo contends Plaintiff waited too
long to file this motion.  The action has
been, indeed, pending for over two years. 
The standard, however, is delay coupled with prejudice.  Amigo has been named as a cross-defendant in
this action since November of 2021.  The
addition of Amigo as a direct defendant does nothing to expand the scope of liability
or discovery in the action, and therefore there is no prejudice if Amigo is
added as a direct defendant to the litigation. 
Notably, trial is not set until June of 2024, which gives all parties
ample time to file any necessary motions, obtain discovery, etc., prior to the trial
date.  
 
e.    
Conclusion
The motion for leave to amend is
granted.  Plaintiff is ordered to file a
separate copy of his amended complaint within ten days.  Amigo is ordered to file a responsive pleading
within the statutory time thereafter. 
Super Center need not file a responsive pleading unless it chooses to do
so; its response to the original complaint will be deemed its response to the amended
complaint.  
 
f.      Notice
Plaintiff is ordered to give
notice.  
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative as
directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the tentative
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed off calendar.  If a party submits on the tentative, the
party’s email must include the case number and must identify the party
submitting on the tentative.  If the parties
do not submit on the tentative, they should arrange to appear remotely.