 Case Number:  23LBCV00093    Hearing Date:   January 4, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Complaint
Plaintiff, Dean W. Drulias, as administrator
of the Estate of Robert E. Long, and as co-trustee of the Robert E. Long Trust,
filed this action against Defendants, Elizabeth Scott Wise, individually and as
trustee of her trust, Onslow Bay Financial, LLC, BG Consolidated LLC, and the
California Franchise Tax Board for partition of real property, accounting,
injunctive relief, and damages for breach of fiduciary duty, ouster, waste, breach
of contract, and financial elder abuse.  Plaintiff
alleges he and Wise are co-owners of the subject property, and Wise has
committed waste and other acts on the property, such that it needs to be
partitioned.  One of the issues posed by
way of the complaint is whether Defendant has improperly made a claim for 100%
of insurance proceeds per a claim on the property, when in reality the parties are
entitled to split those proceeds.
 
2.     Cross-Complaint
Defendant filed a cross-complaint
against Dean W. Drulias, individually and as administrator of the Estate of
Robert E. Long, and as co-trustee of the Robert E. Long Trust and Alfred E.
Wise, Jr., individually and as co-trustee of the Robert E. Long Trust on 4/21/23.  The cross-complaint includes causes of action
for implied equitable indemnity, equitable indemnity, contribution,
apportionment of fault, declaratory relief, malicious prosecution, abuse of
process, and IIED.  The malicious
prosecution and abuse of process claims all arise out of Cross-Defendants’
prosecution of 19LBUD02619 against Cross-Complainant.  
 
3.     Prior
Ruling on Motion to Strike
On 8/08/23, the Court heard and
granted Cross-Defendants; special motion to strike made pursuant to CCP §425.16,
California’s anti-SLAPP statute.  The
Court found the causes of action for malicious prosecution and abuse of process
in the cross-complaint were subject to the anti-SLAPP statute, and because Cross-Complainant
failed to oppose the motion, she necessarily failed to meet her burden to show
a probability of success on the merits.
 
The Court noted that
Cross-Defendants indicated they intend to move to recover their attorneys’
fees, and indicated fees would be awarded assuming a proper and timely motion
was made.  
 
4.    
Motion for Attorneys’ Fees
On 10/09/23, Cross-Defendants
timely filed this motion for attorneys’ fees. 
CRC 3.1702, 8.104.  Cross-Defendants
seek to recover a total of $11,077.50 in fees incurred in connection with the
anti-SLAPP motion.  Pursuant to CCP
§425.16(c), a defendant who prevails on an anti-SLAPP motion is entitled to
recover his attorneys’ fees as a matter of course.  The Court is charged with using the lodestar
method to award a reasonable fee to the prevailing party.  Frym v. 601 Main Street LLC (2022) 82
Cal.App.5th 613, 620-622.  
 
Cross-Defendants support their
motion with the declaration of their attorney, Allen Michel.  Michel declares he billed Cross-Defendants a
total of 21.1 hours in connection with the motion, including 13.9 hours to
draft the motion, 2.1 hours to prepare for the hearing, and 5.1 hours in
connection with the fee motion.  Michel
bills at the rate of $525/hour.  The Court
finds all time billed objectively reasonable, and also finds the billing rate reasonable.  In light of the lack of timely opposition to
the motion, the motion is granted in full. 

 
Cross-Defendants are ordered to
give notice.  
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative as
directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the tentative
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed off calendar.  If a party submits on the tentative, the
party’s email must include the case number and must identify the party
submitting on the tentative.  If the parties
do not submit on the tentative, they should arrange to appear remotely.