 Case Number:  23LBCV01452    Hearing Date:   January 4, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Petition
vs. Complaint
Petitioner, Juan Carlos Osorio
filed this action against Respondent, Platinum Construction on 8/01/23.  Petitioner’s initial pleading was a petition
for release of property from lien pursuant to CCP §8480.  Petitioner filed the case as a civil action (see
civil case cover sheet, filed on 8/01/23 with the complaint), but should have
filed it as a petition; this resulted in the application of a civil case number
instead of a civil petition number, and the setting of a Case Management
Conference.  A petition is a summary
proceeding, which requires only a hearing on the petition.  The Court will treat the matter as a
petition, and will refer to the parties as “Petitioner” and “Respondent.”
 
2.     Allegations
of Petition
Petitioner’s petition alleges
Respondent recorded a mechanics lien on Petitioner’s property on 12/28/22.  Petitioner alleges Respondent has taken no
action to enforce the lien, but has also failed to respond to demands to remove
the lien.  He therefore seeks a court
order removing the lien.
 
3.     Procedural
Issues
On 8/30/23, Petitioner filed a
proof of service, which indicates the “petition and related docs” were served
on Respondent by delivering the documents to Respondent’s agent for service of
process at his home on 8/24/23.  On
9/14/23, for reasons that are not clear, Petitioner filed another proof of
service.  The 9/14/23 POS also indicates Petitioner
served Respondent copies of the “petition and related docs” by serving
Respondent’s agent for service of process at his home on 8/24/23.  
 
CCP §417.10(f) provides, “All proof
of personal service hall be made on a form adopted by the Judicial Council.”  Petitioner did not use mandatory judicial
council form POS-010.  The Court is
denying the petition based on this failure. 
This is not a matter of putting form over substance.  The required form, at ¶2, requires the
serving party to specifically detail each document that was served on the
responding party.  Petitioner’s proof of service,
as noted above, indicates only that the “petition and related docs” were
filed.  There are no fewer than six
documents that were all filed on 8/01/23 that needed to be served, as well as a
notice of case management conference from 8/02/23, as well as the notice of
hearing on petition filed on 8/07/23.  The
Court cannot ascertain, from the proof of service documents filed, whether all of
the documents were served on Respondent.
 
Because Respondent has not filed a response
to the petition, the Court is denying the petition without prejudice for
failure to properly serve.  If Petitioner
wishes to have the petition heard, Petitioner must secure a new hearing date,
file a new notice of hearing, and file proof of service, on the required Judicial
Council form, making clear that all documents filed in this action have been
served on Respondent.  
 
4.     OSC
re: Proof of Service and Petition Hearing Date
The Court sets an OSC re: proof of
service and re: scheduling of a hearing on the petition for Tuesday, 2/06/24 at
8:30 a.m. in Department S27.  If
Petitioner has filed proof of service and has rescheduled the hearing prior to
2/06/24, the OSC may be taken off calendar. 
Petitioner must call the courtroom to request that the OSC be taken off calendar
if these actions are taken prior to the hearing.
 
Petitioner is ordered to give notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative as
directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does
not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the tentative and
there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed off calendar.
 If a party submits on the tentative, the
party’s email must include the case number and must identify the party submitting
on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the tentative, the party should
make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing on this matter.   
 