 Case Number:  23LBCV00744    Hearing Date:   January 4, 2024    Dept:  S27 
Background Facts

Plaintiffs, Digital Planet Studio,
Inc. and Irfan Merchant filed this action for breach of contract and related
claims against Defendants, Thunder Studios, Inc., Roderic M. David, Rolando
Nichols, Candela Rebot, and Leslie Sorrentino. 
The action is complicated, but the crux of the action is that Plaintiffs
entered into a partly written, partly oral, and partly implied by conduct agreement
with Thunder, pursuant to which Digital would move to Thunder and Thunder would
ultimately acquire Digital’s Mobile Motion Mocap (“MMM”) unit.  On 2/15/21, Thunder and Digital entered into
a written MOU, the terms of which are set forth at ¶10 of the complaint.  Ultimately, Digital alleges Thunder breached
the agreement by not paying for services rendered, keeping all rights to the content
produced, never buying Digital’s assets, and instead converting the assets for
its own use, and failing to enter into a long-term employment contract with
Digital’s principal, Merchant.  
 
Ultimately, in August of 2021,
Defendants locked Merchant out of the offices, refusing to return his personal
property to him, and told him his services were no longer needed.  Plaintiffs allege Defendants never intended
to comply with the parties’ agreements, and instead merely intended to steal
their business, their employees, and their trade secret information.  
 
The complaint includes causes of action
for:
·        
Breach of Oral, Implied-in-fact, and written
contracts (Thunder);
·        
Breach of the Implied Covenant of Good Faith and
Fair Dealing (All Defendants);
·        
Intentional Misrepresentation (Thunder and
David);
·        
Concealment (Thunder and David);
·        
False Promise (Thunder and David);
·        
Negligent Misrepresentation (Thunder and David);
·        
Conversion (Thunder, David, and Rebot);
·        
Trespass to Chattels (Thunder and David);
·        
Intentional Interference with Contracts
(Thunder, David, Nichols, and Sorrentino);
·        
Breach of Fiduciary Duty to Use Reasonable Care
(Thunder and David);
·        
Breach of Fiduciary Duty of Loyalty (Thunder and
David);
·        
Breach of Fiduciary Duty of Confidentiality
(Thunder and David);
·        
Misappropriation of Trade Secrets (Thunder and
David).
 

Demurrers to Complaint

a.     Legal
Standard on Demurrer
A demurrer is a pleading used to test
the legal sufficiency of other pleadings. It raises issues of law, not fact,
regarding the form or content of the opposing party’s pleading.  It is not the function of the demurrer to
challenge the truthfulness of the complaint; and for purpose of the ruling on
the demurrer, all facts pleaded in the complaint are assumed to be true, however
improbable they may be.
 
A demurrer can be used only to
challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack; or from
matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. Blank v. Kirwan 39
Cal.3d 311 (1985). No other extrinsic evidence can be considered (i.e., no
“speaking demurrers”). A demurrer is brought under CCP § 430.10 [grounds], §
430.30 [as to any matter on its face or from which judicial notice may be
taken], and § 430.50(a) [can be taken to the entire complaint or any cause of
action within].  Specifically, a demurrer
may be brought per CCP § 430.10(e) if insufficient facts are stated to support
the cause of action asserted.  Per CCP
§430.10(a) a demurrer may be brought where the court has no jurisdiction of the
subject of the cause of action alleged in the pleading.  Furthermore, demurrer for uncertainty will be
sustained only where the complaint is so bad that the defendant cannot
reasonably respond.  CCP §
430.10(f).  
 
However, in construing the
allegations, the court is to give effect to specific factual allegations that
may modify or limit inconsistent general or conclusory allegations. Financial
Corporation of America v. Wilburn, 189 Cal.App.3rd 764, 769 (1987). And, if the
facts pled in the complaint are inconsistent with facts which are incorporated
by reference from exhibits attached to the complaint, the facts in the
incorporated exhibits control. Further, irrespective of the name or label given
to a cause of action by the plaintiff, a general demurrer must be overruled if
the facts as pled in the body of the complaint state some valid claim for
relief. Special demurrers are not allowed in limited jurisdiction courts. (CCP
§ 92(c).)
 
Leave to amend must be allowed
where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. Goodman v.
Kennedy, 18 Cal.3d 335, 348 (1976). The burden is on the complainant to show
the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.) 
 
Finally, CCP section 430.41
requires that “[b]efore filing a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the demurring
party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party who filed
the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining whether
an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in
the demurrer.” (CCP § 430.41(a).) The parties are to meet and confer at least
five days before the date the responsive pleading is due. (CCP § 430.41(a)(2).)
Thereafter, the demurring party shall file and serve a declaration detailing
their meet and confer efforts. (CCP § 430.41(a)(3).)
 
b.     Meet
and Confer
Defense Counsel declares the parties
met and conferred via email.  Defendant
then filed these demurrers.  Notably,
there are three demurrers on calendar, but each demurrer was filed by the same
attorney, who is representing all of the defendants in the action.  This ruling applies to each of the three
demurrers.  
As noted above, the Code requires a
meet and confer by telephone or in person. 
Sending an email does not satisfy the meet and confer requirements.  The Court has reviewed the parties’ meet and
confer correspondence, and finds it is cursory at best.  Counsel did not engage in a detailed
discussion of the various complicated legal issues presented by way of the
demurrers.  
 
The Court will continue the hearing
on the demurrers to require the parties to meaningfully meet and confer.  The Court notes that Plaintiff, in connection
with the opposition to Thunder’s demurrer, seeks leave to amend the complaint
to add a claim for quantum meruit.  The Court
asks Counsel, when meeting and conferring, to focus on two issues: first, if
the complaint is alleging breaches of multiple contracts, would the complaint
be clearer if the breaches of each contract were set forth in separate causes
of action?  Second, if the contract
claims cannot be asserted for any reason, could Plaintiff’s proposed claim for
quantum meruit be pled in lieu of the contract claims?  
 
While the foregoing issues appear to
be the fundamental issues on the demurrers, the Court recognizes there are
numerous other issues presented, and Counsel must meet and confer concerning
each and every issue before the continued hearing date.      
 
The Court asks the parties to meet and
confer in good faith over the phone or in person concerning the remaining
issues.  The hearing on the demurrer is continued
for one month, to Tuesday, 2/06/24 at 8:30 a.m. in Department S27.  
 
If the parties successfully resolve
the issues, they must take the demurrers off calendar.  If they fail to resolve the issues, they must
each file a brief (no more than ten pages) and declaration, at least five court
days prior to the continued hearing date, stating what meet and confer efforts
were made, what resolution was reached, and what issues remain outstanding for
resolution by way of a ruling on the demurrers. 

 

CMC 

The parties are reminded that there
is a Case Management Conference on calendar concurrently with the hearing on
the demurrer.  The Court asks the parties
to make arrangements to appear remotely at the CMC and hearing on the
demurrer.  