 Case Number:  22LBCV00352    Hearing Date:   January 4, 2024    Dept:  S27 NATURE OF ACTION:  
 
Civil Lawsuit
 
PETITION TO APPROVE COMPROMISE FILED:          
 
11/3/23, amendment filed 11/17/23
 
NOTICE TO STATE AGENCIES WHEN PROPOSED TRUST IS AN SNT:
 
When seeking approval of a special needs trust (SNT), notice
of the hearing and service of the petition must be made upon three state
agencies including the Dept. of Mental Health, Dept. of Developmental Services,
and Dept. of Health Care Services. 
(Probate Code sections 3602(f), 3611(c).). A proof of service indicates
that service and notice is complete.  
 
PLAINTIFF:       
 
Brian Bundi, age 52, Disabled
 
PETITIONER:   
 
Frida Bundi, spouse and GAL
 
GROSS AND NET SETTLEMENT (Petition, p. 6, sections 15 and
16f):           
 
Gross $950,000, Net $403,750 after $403,750 allocation to
petitioner/spouse
 
PROPOSED RECIPIENT OF SETTLEMENT PROCEEDS (Petition, pp.
8-9, sec. 18):
 
Petitioner propose to fund the entire net settlement into a
new special needs trust (SNT).
 
An SNT is used to receive the settlement funds in these situations
so that plaintiff does not lose benefits eligibility for Medi-Cal, SSI, and
other benefits.  Historically, a person
receiving Medi-Cal or SSI benefits could have only up to $2,000 in non-exempt
assets, and any additional non-exempt assets over $2,000 would cause the loss
of benefits eligibility under the relevant federal and state law.  Funds held in a valid SNT, however, are
exempt assets that do not count toward the $2,000 asset limit for purposes of
calculating benefits eligibility.  On
July 1, 2022, the Medi-Cal asset qualification limit was raised to $130,000 for
individuals while the asset qualification for other benefits, like SSI, did not
change.  
 
SCOPE OF REVIEW:
 
This referral to the probate department is limited to the
review of the proposed trust instrument and a suggestion of how to move forward
regarding administration of the trust. 
This memorandum therefore does not address the advisability of the
compromise amount/terms or related concerns including attorney’s fees and
costs. 
 
BRIEFING REGARDING TRUST ISSUES:
 
Petitioner did not provide briefing regarding trust issues.
 
PROPOSED TRUST INSTRUMENT:
 
Petitioner provides the proposed trust instrument at Attachment
18b(4), court’s pdf at p. 35.
 
The trust instrument includes a mandatory payback provision
to require, upon the death of the trust beneficiary, that the trust pay back
states that have provided medical assistance to the trust beneficiary, up to
the amount of remaining trust assets: 
Yes
 
The trust instrument provides that upon the death of the
trust beneficiary/plaintiff, any trust assets remaining after payback of
medical assistance to the states shall be distributed to the trust
beneficiary’s heirs at law and not to any specific persons:  Yes
 
The trust makes itself subject to the continuing
jurisdiction and supervision of the court: 
Yes
 
The main requirements for court created or funded trusts are
set forth at California Rules of Court (CRC) rule 7.903(c) and LASC rule
4.116(b).  The proposed trust
instrument meets those requirements and is ready for approval for creation
and/or funding.
 
The trust instrument indicates that the initial trust
funding will be $1,175,23.50 and will include an annuity purchased for $110,396.88
that will pay into the trust at a specified rate.  (First page of the proposed trust instrument,
court’s pdf at p. 35.). Those figures, however, do not match the gross and net
settlement figures set forth at Section 18 of the petition, and there is no
allegation at Section 18 of the funding of an annuity.  Also, petitioner does not provide any annuity
contract or terms in an attachment for court review as is customary.  It is suggested that the court inquire about
the discrepancy in the figures and, if the figures set forth in the trust instrument
are a typo, then the court should continue the hearing for petitioner to
provide a corrected proposed trust instrument.
 
FINDINGS WHEN THE PROPOSED TRUST IS AN SNT:
 
When approving the establishment or funding of a SNT from
settlement proceeds, the court must make the following findings pursuant to
Probate Code section 3604(b) (there are factual allegations in the Petition to
Approve Compromise and its attachments supporting the settlement that generally
cover the requisite findings):
 

The SNT beneficiary has a
     disability which substantially impairs the individual’s ability to provide
     for her own care or custody and constitutes a substantial handicap;
The SNT beneficiary is
     likely to have special needs that will not be met without the trust; 
The money to be paid to
     the trust does not exceed the amount that appears reasonably necessary to
     meet the SNT beneficiary’s special needs.

 
TRUSTE AND BOND:
 
The proposed
initial trustee is Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. 
Normally, bond must be required of a trustee unless the trustee is a
corporate fiduciary.  (California Rules
of Court, Rule 7.903(c)(5), Probate Code section 2320.)  The proposed trustee meets that requirement
and the court should not require bond.  
 
ORDERS/PROPOSED ORDER:
 
Proposed Order received stamp date:  11/3/23
General trust orders are not
made (approval of trust instrument, appointment of trustee, etc.  Need corrected order with attachment. 
Trust terms included in order as
required (Probate Code section 3604(a): 
Yes
Required Probate Code 3604(b) findings
made in order:  Only one of the three findings
is made at Section 13 of the form order. 
Need correction.  
Order requires first trust
accounting in one year and sets 14 month calendar due date:  No, need correction.  
Order requires filing of a
Notice of Commencement of Proceedings for a Court Supervised Trust on LASC Form
PRO 044 within 60 days:  No, need
correction.  
Order sets OSC in this civil
department in approximately 60 days to ensure funding of settlement, submission
of bond if required, purchase of annuity if relevant, and filing of LASC Form
PRO 044 to open trust supervision action in probate:  No, need correction.  
RECOMMENDATIONS:
 
·        
Approve settlement, fees, etc.:  Court’s discretion
·        
Approve creation and funding of proposed trust: No,
need correction regarding funding amounts. 

·        
Make the Probate Code section 3604(b) findings: Yes
·        
Require trustee bond: No
·        
Require first trust accounting in one year and
set calendar due date for filing in 14 months.
·        
Set OSC in civil department in approximately 60
days to ensure funding of settlement, submission of bond if required, purchase
of annuity if relevant, and filing of LASC Form PRO 044 to open trust
supervision action in probate.
·        
Proposed Order: Corrections Needed 
 