  Case Number:  24CHCP00070    Hearing Date:   March 8, 2024    Dept:  F43 Dept. F43
Date: 3-8-24
Case # 24CHCP00070,
Daniel D. Spencer vs. Logix Federal Credi Union
Trial Date: N/A
 
PETITION FOR RELIEF FROM FINANCIAL OBLIGATION DURING
MILITARY SERVICE
 
MOVING PARTY: Petitioner
Daniel D. Spencer
RESPONDING
PARTY: No response has been filed
 
SUMMARY OF
ACTION
Petitioner
Daniel D. Spencer (Petitioner) is an active duty military service member
currently serving from June 8, 2023, until July 12, 2024. Using Forms MIL-010
and MIL-015, Petitioner has requested that the Court grant his Petition for
relief from his mortgages for his residence located at 24313 La Montura Drive,
Santa Clarita, CA 91354. Petitioner filed this petition pursuant to Military
and Veterans Code § 409.3.
 
Section 409.3
reads in relevant part:
 
“(a) A service member may, at any time during their most
current period of military service or within six months thereafter, petition a
court for relief in respect of any obligation or liability incurred by the
service member before the effective date of the orders for their most current
period of military service or in respect of any tax or assessment whether
falling due before or during their most current period of military service…
(d) If, after notice and hearing, the
court finds the ability of the service member to comply with the terms of any
such obligation or liability…has been materially affected by reason of their
most current period of military service as defined in this chapter, the court
may grant the following relief:
(1) In the case of an obligation
payable in installments under a contract for the purchase of real estate, or
secured by a mortgage or other instrument in the nature of a mortgage upon real
estate, a deferment of the payments due on the obligation for a period of time equal to the period of military service,
even if the service member requests the relief after the start of their current
period of military service, subject to subdivision (a), and even if such
payments extend beyond the termination of the period of military service. The
obligation shall be extended, except as specified in subdivision (f), for the
period of time that payments were deferred, and the deferred payments shall be
paid in equal installments during the combined period at the rate of interest
on the unpaid balance prescribed in the contract, or other instrument
evidencing the obligation, for installments paid when due, and subject to any
other terms as may be just. Penalties shall not be imposed on the nonpayment of
principal or interest during this period. Interest shall not be charged or
accumulated during the period of deferment unless otherwise ordered by the
court…
(e) (1) When any court has
granted a deferment as provided in this section, no fine or penalty shall
accrue during the period the terms and conditions of the deferment are complied
with by reason of failure to comply with the terms or conditions of the
obligation, liability, tax, or assessment in respect of which the deferment was
granted, including penalties on the nonpayment of principal or interest during
this period. Interest shall not be charged or accumulated during the period of
deferment unless otherwise ordered by the court. Foreclosure or repossession of
property on which payment has been deferred shall not take place during the
period specified in this section.”
 
In this case,
Petitioner’s income is considerably less than what it was before he entered
active duty service. His current pretax bimonthly income is $7,089.94, which
includes non-taxable allowances for subsistence, housing, hardship duty, family
separation, and imminent danger/hostile fire pay. Prior to mobilization, his
pretax bimonthly income was $10,833.33. Petitioner represents that his income
has been negatively and materially affected by his current period of military
service.
 
The current
amounts due on both of his mortgages, including overdue payment, are $5,801.50
and $4,895.28. (Spencer Decl., Ex. B.) The Court finds that Petitioner’s
ability to comply with the terms of these mortgages has been materially
affected by his current period of military service. Payments on his mortgages
will be deferred for a period of time equal to the period of military service,
pursuant to Military and Veterans Code § 409.3(d)(1).
 
Petitioner’s
Petition for Relief from Financial Obligation is granted.