  Case Number:  23STCV06368    Hearing Date:   August 6, 2024    Dept:  37 HEARING DATE:                 Tuesday, August 6, 2024
CASE NUMBER:                   23STCV06368
CASE NAME:                        Angel Gallego-Botello, et al v. Architectural Surfaces, Inc.,
et al
MOVING PARTY:                 Defendant Caesarstone Ltd 
OPPOSING PARTY:             Plaintiffs Angel Gallegos-Botello
and Araceli Mejia
TRIAL DATE:                        Not Set
PROOF OF SERVICE:           OK

                                                                                                                                                            

PROCEEDING:                      Motion to Strike First
Amended Complaint
OPPOSITION:                        24 July 2024
REPLY:                                  None
filed. 
 

TENTATIVE:                         Defendant
Caesarstone Ltd.’s motion to strike is denied. Defendant to give notice.                                                                                                                                                       

 
Background
 
On March 22, 2023, Angel
Gallegos-Botello and Araceli Mejia (collectively “Plaintiffs”) filed a
Complaint against various Defendants alleging six causes of action: (1)
negligence, (2) strict liability – warning defect, (3) strict liability -
design defect, (4) fraudulent concealment, (5) breach of implied warranties,
and (6) loss of consortium. This is a toxic torts action wherein Plaintiff
Angel Gallegos-Botello alleges he developed silicosis and other injuries due to
his work with stone products manufactured, distributed, and/or supplied by
various named Defendants.  
 
On November 8, 2023,
Caesarstone USA, Inc. filed a Cross-Complaint against Roes 1 to 100 for (1)
Implied Indemnity, (2) Equitable Indemnity, (3) Contribution, and (4)
Declaratory Relief. 
 
On December 28, 2023, Defendant
Lowe’s Home /centers, LLC (previously Doe 4) filed a Cross-Complaint against
Zoes 1 to 100 for (1) Equitable Indemnity, (2) Contribution/Apportionment, (3)
Declaratory Relief, and (4) Express Contractual Indemnity. 
 
On January 29, 2024, Euro Stone
America International, Inc. filed a Cross-Complaint for (1) Equitable
Indemnity, (2) Implied Equitable Indemnity and Comparative Contribution, and
(3) Declaratory Relief. 
On November 16, 2023,
Plaintiffs filed the operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) alleging the
same causes of action in the original Complaint. 
 
On June 24, 2024, Defendant Caesarstone
Ltd (“Caesarstone Ltd”) filed a motion to strike the FAC. Plaintiff opposes the
Motion. The matter is now before the court. 
 
motion to
strike the first amended complaint[1]
 
I.         Legal Standard
 
¿Any party, within the time
allowed to respond to a pleading may serve and file a notice of motion to
strike the whole or any part thereof. (CCP, § 435(b)(1); CRC, rule 3.1322(b).)
The court may, upon a motion or at any time in its discretion and upon terms it
deems proper: (1) strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted
in any pleading; or (2) strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or
filed in conformity with the laws of California, a court rule, or an order of
the court. (CCP, § 436(a)-(b); Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767,
782 [“Matter in a pleading which is not essential to the claim is surplusage;
probative facts are surplusage and may be stricken out or
disregarded”].)¿¿¿¿ 
 
“Where the defect raised by a
motion to strike or by demurrer is reasonably capable of cure, leave to amend
is routinely and liberally granted to give the plaintiff a chance to cure the
defect in question.” (CLD Construction, Inc. v. City of San Ramon (2004)
120 Cal.App.4th 1141, 1146.) The burden is on the complainant to show the Court
that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976)
18 Cal.3d 335, 348.)¿¿¿ 
 
II.        Discussion
 
Defendant
Caesarstone Ltd requests that the following be stricken from the FAC: 
 
1)    
Page 20, Line 4: 
 
“And other crystalline products to be
identified during the course of discovery.” 
 
2)    
FAC, ¶ 736: 
 
“Defendants’
conduct in exposing Plaintiff to said toxic and fibrogenic stone products
without adequate warnings of their toxic hazards and without adequate
instructions for safe handling and use of their toxic and lethal products was
despicable, malicious, oppressive, and perpetrated in conscious disregard of
the rights and safety of Plaintiff, entitling Plaintiff to punitive damages.”
 
3)    
FAC, ¶ 753: 
“Defendants’ conduct in exposing Plaintiff to said
toxic and fibrogenic stone products without adequate warnings of their toxic
hazards and without adequate instructions for safe handling and use of their
toxic and lethal products was despicable, malicious, oppressive, and
perpetrated in conscious disregard of the rights and safety of Plaintiff,
entitling Plaintiff to punitive damages.”
 
4)    
FAC, ¶ 865: 
 
“Defendants’
conduct in exposing Plaintiff to said toxic and fibrogenic stone products
without adequate warnings of their toxic hazards and without adequate
instructions for safe handling and use of their toxic and lethal products was
despicable, malicious, oppressive, and perpetrated in conscious disregard of
the rights and safety of Plaintiff, entitling Plaintiff to punitive damages.”
 
5)    
FAC, Prayer For
Damages, Page 305, No. 4: 
 
“For punitive damages
according to proof.” 
 
 
Defendant
Caesarstone Ltd. asserts the FAC fails to allege sufficient facts to show that
Caesarstone Ltd. acted with malice, oppression, or fraud. (CCP, § 3294(c).) In Bockrath v. Aldrich Chemical Co., Inc. (1999) 21 Cal.4th 71, the California Supreme Court considered what a plaintiff would
have to allege in their revised complaint to meet the “substantial factor” test
of proving that the defendant’s conduct contributed to the plaintiff’s injury.
(Id. at p. 79.) 
 
The California
Supreme Court held that: 
 
1) Plaintiff must allege
that he was exposed to each of the toxic materials claimed to have caused a
specific illness. An allegation that he was exposed to “most and perhaps all”
of the substances listed is inadequate.
 
(2) He must identify each
product that allegedly caused the injury. It is insufficient to allege that the
toxins in defendants' products caused it.
 
(3) He must allege that as
a result of the exposure, the toxins entered his body.
 
(4) He must allege that he
suffers from a specific illness, and that each toxin that entered his body was
a substantial factor in bringing about, prolonging, or aggravating that
illness.
 
(5) Finally, except in a
case (unlike this one) governed by the principle of liability based on market
share for a uniform product that we outlined in Sindell v. Abbott Laboratories (1980)
26 Cal.3d 588, 612, 163 Cal.Rptr. 132, 607 P.2d 924, he must allege that each
toxin he absorbed was manufactured or supplied by a named defendant.
 
(Id. at p. 80.) 
 
Defendants maintain that the allegation of “[a]nd other crystalline products to be
identified during the course of discovery is too conclusory and not in conformity with the
pleading standard set out in Bockrath. (See FAC at p. 20:4.) 
 
Plaintiffs argue their allegation is
sufficient under Bockrath because the Supreme Court asserted that: 
 
If the plaintiff does not
believe the requisite evidence exists, but does actually believe that it is
likely to be discovered later, ‘after a reasonable opportunity for further
investigation or discovery’ (Code Civ. Proc., § 128.7, subd. (b)(3)), the complaint
must so state (ibid.).
 
(Bockrath, supra, 21 Cal.4th at p. 82.) Plaintiffs
therefore argue that the allegation on Page 20 line 4 is properly plead as
discovery may help the Plaintiff identify other stone slab products that caused
his silicosis and other medical conditions. Moreover, although the FAC stated
that other Caesarstone Ltd. products may be identified through discovery, the
FAC does put Defendant on notice of other specific products that Plaintiff
believes caused him harm: “Caesarstone
Classico, Caesarstone Concetto, Caesarstone Metropolitan, Caesarstone Motivo,
and Caesarstone Supernatural.” (FAC, at pp. 19:27-20:3.) 
 
The court agrees that discovery procedures will clarify for
Defendant Caesarstone Ltd. what specific products it sold to Plaintiff’s
employer and what is the Plaintiffs’ basis for liability. Plaintiffs must then amend the pleadings  to encompass the newly discovered information
or else the allegations will not be part of the record if Defendants move for
summary judgment. (See Hutton v. Fidelity National Title Co. (2013) 213
Cal.App.4th 486, 493 [On summary judgment the defendant need only negate the
plaintiff’s theories as alleged in the complaint].) 
 
Accordingly, the motion to strike Page 20, Line 4 is denied. 
 
Defendant Caesarstone Ltd moves to strike Paragraphs 736, 752,
865, and the Prayer for Punitive Damages on the basis that the FAC fails to
allege malice, fraud, or oppression with the requisite specificity.  Plaintiffs assert that because the fourth
cause of action for fraudulent concealment is properly plead, the request for
punitive damages against Caesarstone Ltd. survives. Fraud means “an intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or
concealment of a material fact known to the defendant with the intention on the
part of the defendant of thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights
or otherwise causing injury.” (Civ. Code, § 3294(c)(3).)
 
The court agrees that the FAC properly alleges the managing agents
of Caesarstone Ltd knew about its hazardous stone products. (FAC, ¶¶ 179, 202,
264.) The FAC alleges that Caesarstone concealed the true nature and severity
of the hazards of its products by providing misleading statements in its Safety
Data Sheet. (FAC, ¶¶ 192-194, 196, 197, 210-220.) In this manner, Caesarstone
Ltd. concealed from Plaintiff and employees the true nature and severity of its
stone products by making misleading statements. (FAC, 769-776.) As Defendant
Caesarstone Ltd. has not demurred to the fourth cause of action, the court
finds the fourth cause of action is properly pled and supports a claim for
punitive damages. 
 
Based on the above, Caesarstone Ltd.’s motion to strike is denied.

 
Conclusion
 
Defendant Caesarstone
Ltd.’s motion to strike is denied. Defendant to give notice. 


