 Case Number:  23STCV00692    Hearing Date:   February 14, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


February
  14, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23STCV00692




MOTIONS


(1)  
  Motion to Quash Service of Summons
(2)  
  Motion for Sanctions




MOVING PARTIES


(1)  
  Defendant Sergey Menshikov (specially appearing)
(2)  
  Defendant DH Distribution Inc.




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff
  Fred Behfarin 



 
BACKGROUND
 
Plaintiff Fred Behfarin (Plaintiff) brought suit against Defendants Sergey
Menshikov (“Menshikov”); Lucy Menshikova (“Lucy”); and Larisa Menshikova
(“Larisa”) (the “Individual Defendants”); DH Distribution Inc. (“DHD”); Beverly
Hills Escrow, Inc. (“BHE”) (collectively, “Defendants”) stemming from a real
property dispute.  
 
DHD is operated by Individual Defendants, Menshikov (the sole shareholder
of DHD) and his daughters Larisa (DHD’s agent for service of process and former
officer and director of DHD) and Lucy.  (Notice
of Related Case, Attachment 1h, [hereinafter, “NRC”] ¶ 2; First Amended
Complaint [hereinafter “FAC”] ¶¶ 3, 5-6.) 

 
The Individual Defendants previously moved to quash service.  The Court denied the motion as to Larisa, who
resides and works in California, finding Larisa was validly served by
substitute service at her usual place of business, but granted the motion as to
Menshikov and Lucy, who Plaintiff claimed to have served in California, after
the Court found that both Menshikov and Lucy actually reside in the Russian
Federation, and therefore must be served in accordance with the Hague Service Convention.  (September 14, 2023 Minute Order.)  In so holding, the Court rejected Plaintiff’s
arguments that (1) the defendants waived any objection to the Court’s
jurisdiction by voluntarily appearing in the related case; and (2) the
Statement of Information for DHD filed with the California Secretary of State
on August 9, 2022, which lists an address for Menshikov address in California
should control and Menshikov should be held to accept service of process at
that California address.  (Ibid.)
 
Subsequent to the Court’s September 14, 2023 Order, Larisa filed a new
Statement of Information for DHD on October 4, 2023, listing a new address in West
Hollywood, California for both herself, as agent for service of process for
DHD, and for Menshikov.  Plaintiff subsequently
attempted service of Menshikov at that new West Hollywood address, and filed a
proof of substitute service on Menshikov, indicating service was effectuated on
November 16, 2023.
 
Menshikov moves to quash service, and DHD moves for sanctions against
Plaintiff and the process server for violating the Court’s September 14, 2023
Order by again attempting to effectuate service against Menshikov in California
as opposed to serving Menshikov in Russia through the Hague Service Convention.  
 
Plaintiff opposes each motion, and the moving defendants have filed a
combined reply.
 
LEGAL
STANDARDS
 
For service on persons within California, generally, service of
summons and complaint must be done by personal service.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 415.10.)  However, “[i]f a copy of the summons and
complaint cannot with reasonable diligence be personally delivered to the
person to be served,” they may be served by leaving a copy of the summons and
complaint at the person’s dwelling house, usual place of abode, usual place of
business, or usual mailing address with a competent member of the household or
person apparently in charge of the office, place of business, or usual mailing
address, at least 18 years old, by informing them of the contents, and
thereafter mailing a copy to the person at the place where the copy was
left.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 425.20, subd.
(b).)
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure section 413.10, subdivision (c), a
summons shall be served on a person “[o]utside the United States, as provided
in this chapter or as directed by the court in which the action is pending, or,
if the court before or after service finds that the service is reasonably
calculated to give actual notice, as prescribed by the law of the place where
the person is served or as directed by the foreign authority in response to a
letter rogatory.  These rules are subject
to the provisions of the Convention of the ‘Service Abroad of Judicial and
Extrajudicial Documents’ in Civil or Commercial Matters (Hague Service
Convention).”  (Code Civ. Proc., §
413.10, subd. (c).)  The methods
enumerated in section 413.10, subdivision (c) for serving defendants abroad all
require transmission of documents abroad, and therefore are preempted by the
Hague Conventions as to defendants in signatory countries.  (Kott v. Superior Court (1996) 45
Cal.App.4th 1126, 1136.)
 
“The ‘primary innovation’ of the Hague Service Convention—set out in
Articles 2–7—is that it ‘requires each state to establish a central authority
to receive requests for service of documents from other countries.’”  (Water Splash, Inc. v. Menon (2017)
581 U.S. 271, 275.)  “Submitting a
request to a central authority is not, however, the only method of service
approved by the Convention. For example, Article 8 permits service through
diplomatic and consular agents; Article 11 provides that any two states can
agree to methods of service not otherwise specified in the Convention; and
Article 19 clarifies that the Convention does not preempt any internal laws of
its signatories that permit service from abroad via methods not otherwise
allowed by the Convention.”  (Ibid.)  Article 10 of the Convention provides: 
 
Provided the State of destination does not
object, the present Convention shall not interfere with—
 
(a)   the
freedom to send judicial documents, by postal channels, directly to persons
abroad,
 
(b)   the
freedom of judicial officers, officials or other competent persons of the State
of origin to effect service of judicial documents directly through the judicial
officers, officials or other competent persons of the State of destination,
 
(c)   the
freedom of any person interested in a judicial proceeding to effect service of
judicial documents directly through the judicial officers, officials or other
competent persons of the State of destination.”
 
(Ibid.)  The Supreme Court has interpreted Article
10(a) as permitting service by mail within signatory countries that have not
objected to it.  (Id. at 284.)
 
A state may also exercise jurisdiction over an individual who consents
to such jurisdiction.  (Nobel Floral,
Inc. v. Pasero (2003) 106 Cal.App.4th 654, 658.)  “Express consent to a court's jurisdiction
will occur by generally appearing in an action or by a valid forum-selection
clause designating a particular forum for dispute resolution regardless of
residence.”  (Ibid. [cleaned
up].)  “Consent to a court's jurisdiction
may also be implied by conduct.”  (Ibid.)  For example, a nonresident plaintiff who commences
an action thereby submits to that court’s personal jurisdiction on any
cross-complaint filed against him by the defendant.”  (Ibid.)  “Similarly, a
nonresident plaintiff who has filed a suit in California against particular
parties has consented to jurisdiction in California when these same parties
later sue him in a related action.”  (Sea
Foods Co., Ltd. v. O.M. Foods Co., Ltd. (2007) 150 Cal.App.4th 769, 786, as
modified (May 23, 2007).)  “By choosing a
particular forum, [the] plaintiff is considered to have voluntarily submitted
to the court's jurisdiction ‘for all purposes for which justice to the
defendant requires his presence.”  (Sea
Foods Co., supra, 150 Cal.App.4th at p. 786.)

 
ANALYSIS
 
Motion to Quash
 
Plaintiff contends that, in reliance upon the new October 4, 2023
Statement of Information, Plaintiff assumed that in the two weeks between the
Court’s September 19, 2023 Order and the October 4 new Statement of Information
filing, Menshikov was somehow able to resolve the issues previously preventing
him from obtaining a visa, that he in fact obtained such a visa, and moved back
to California.  Moreover, Plaintiff
resurrects and expands upon the argument previously made in connection with the
first motion to quash, that regardless of where Menshikov actually works and resides,
he should be held to accept service of process at the address listed on DHD’s
Statement of Information.
 
Menshikov has provided a new declaration clarifying that he still
resides in the Russian Federation, he has not attempted to receive another visa
since his most recent denial on November 7, 2022, and he has not returned to
the United States since he last left on November 23, 2019.  (Menshikov Decl. ¶¶ 4-6.)  
 
The statute is clear that service on persons outside the United States
must comport with the Hague Service Convention rules.  While the new Statement of Information for
DHD is some evidence that Menshikov might have moved back to the United States
since the last hearing, Menshikov’s own declaration is stronger evidence that
he did not.  And although the address
listed on DHD’s statement of information is the address at which DHD has
consented to receive service of process, it is not dispositive as to where Menshikov
may be properly served.  Here, the weight
of the evidence demonstrates that Menshikov still resides in the Russian
Federation and has not returned to the United States since he last left in
November of 2019.  As such, the statutory
provisions governing service on persons “outside the United States” control.
 
As the Court previously explained, Russia is a signatory to the Hague Service
Convention, and it has objected to service under Article 10.[1]  Thus, the only ways for this Court to
exercise jurisdiction over Menshikov is via proper service through the central
authority, pursuant to the Convention, or via Menshikov’s consent.  As such, the attempted substitute service on
Menshikov at an address in West Hollywood, California is improper, and the
Court grants Menshikov’s motion to quash.[2]
 
Sanctions
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 177.5 provides:
 
A judicial officer shall have the power to impose reasonable money
sanctions, not to exceed fifteen hundred dollars ($1,500), notwithstanding any
other provision of law, payable to the court, for any violation of a lawful
court order by a person, done without good cause or substantial justification.
This power shall not apply to advocacy of counsel before the court. For the purposes
of this section, the term “person” includes a witness, a party, a party’s
attorney, or both.
 
Sanctions pursuant to this section shall not be imposed except on
notice contained in a party’s moving or responding papers; or on the court’s
own motion, after notice and opportunity to be heard. An order imposing
sanctions shall be in writing and shall recite in detail the conduct or
circumstances justifying the order.
 
            Plaintiff seeks the
maximum allowable sanctions ($1,500) against both process server Jocelyn Calero
and Plaintiff Fred Behfarin.
 
As a threshold matter, there is no indication in the record that
Plaintiff served the motion for sanctions on process server Jocelyn Calero.  As such, it would be a violation of procedural
due process for the Court to issue sanctions as to the process server.  
 
However, with respect to Plaintiff, the Court agrees that the
proffered explanation strains credulity. 
It seems unlikely that Menshikov would have been somehow able to obtain
a new visa, despite the still-ongoing conflict in Ukraine, move back to the
United States, and file a new corporate statement of information, all within
two weeks of the Court’s prior hearing on the first motion to quash.  
 
Nor has Plaintiff offered sufficient evidence to support the position
that Plaintiff relied in good faith on a new statement of information in
forming the opinion that Menshikov indeed moved back to California.  First, Schulman’s declaration is
unsigned.  Second, even if it were
signed, the Schulman declaration does not lay the requisite foundation for many
of its representations.  Thus, there are
substantial issues with Plaintiff’s proffered evidence, calling into question
the weight and authenticity of Plaintiff’s already-tenuous position.
 
Moreover, Plaintiff previously relied on a similar corporate statement
to establish Menshikov’s “California Address” in November 2023, and this Court
already stated in response to this argument in connection with the first motion
to quash that the corporate statement of information does not outweigh
Menshikov’s declaration that he resides outside of the United States.  
 
Thus, the Court agrees that sanctions are warranted under the
circumstances.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
            The Court grants Menshikov’s motion
to quash service of the summons and complaint on Menshikov.  
 
            The Court further grants in part and
denies in part DHD’s motion for sanctions. 
The motion is denied as to process server Jocelyn Calero.  The motion is granted in part as to Plaintiff
Fred Behfarin.  The Court orders
Plaintiff Fred Behfarin to pay monetary sanctions to the Clerk of the Court in
the amount of $500.00 (five hundred dollars) within 20 days of notice of the
Court’s order.
 
            The Clerk of the Court shall provide
notice of the Court’s order.
 
 
DATED:  February 14, 2024                                                  ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court
 


