  Case Number:  23PSCV01202    Hearing Date:   March 26, 2024    Dept:  O Tentative Ruling
 
FULTON
BOOKS, INC.’S MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION is GRANTED.
 
Background
 
This is a
contractual fraud case. Plaintiff Mary Louise James-Agee alleges the following
against Defendants FULTON BOOKS, EBAY, WALMART, BARNES AND NOBLE, AMAZON, and
GOOGLE[1]:
In 2019, Plaintiff entered into a contract with Defendant Fulton Books to
publish her book. Despite being told her books haven’t sold, she claims they
have and thus is entitled to royalties. 
 
On July 11,
2023, Plaintiff filed a first amended complaint (FAC). 
 
On August 17,
2023, Plaintiff filed a second amended complaint (SAC) asserting the following
causes of action (COA):
 
1.     Breach of Contract
2.     Fraud & Deceit
3.     Negligent Misrepresentation
4.     Negligence  
 
On September
18, 2023, Fulton Books filed its answer. 
        
On November 17, 2023, Amazon was dismissed without
prejudice (per stipulation). 
 
On January 17, 2024, the court conducted a CMC wherein
the minute order notes that there was no appearance by Defendant Ebay. (OSC Re:
Failure to Appear set for 3/26/24.) 
 
On February 13, 2024, Plaintiff filed a dismissal of
Barnes and Nobles.  
 
On February 29, 2024, Fulton Books filed the instant
motion to compel arbitration. 
 
On March 11, 2024, Plaintiff filed her opposition. 
 
On March 19, 2024, Fulton Books filed its reply in
support of its motion. 
 
Legal
Standard
 
Fulton Books
(hereinafter “Defendant”) brings forth this motion pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 1281.2. 
 
In turn, the
statute provides that a petition to compel arbitration must allege both (1) a
“written agreement to arbitrate” the controversy, and (2) that a party to that
agreement “refuses to arbitrate” the controversy. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2.) 
 
In answering
the first prong, “[d]oubts as to whether an arbitration clause applies to a
particular dispute are to be resolved in favor of sending the parties to
arbitration.” (United Transp. Union v. Southern Cal. Rapid Transit Dist.
(1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 804, 808); see also Lamps Plus, Inc. v. Varela
(2019) 587 U.S. __ [139 S.Ct. 1407, 1418] [“ambiguities about the scope of an
arbitration agreement must be resolved in favor of arbitration.”]; Motion p. 9,
quoting Chiron Corp. v. Ortho Diagnostic Systems, Inc., 207 F.3d 1126,
1131 (9th Cir. 2000) [“little doubt that the dispute [was] subject to
arbitration” where agreement covered “[a]ny dispute, controversy or claims”].)
Thus, “only the most forceful evidence” (AT&T Technologies, Inc. v.
Communications Workers of Amer., 475 U.S. 643, 650 (1986) can overcome said
principles.   
 
In answering
the second prong, once the defendant moves to compel arbitration of a claim
within the scope of the written arbitration clause, the burden shifts to the
opposing party to put the making of that agreement in issue. (See Perry
v. Thomas, 482 U.S. 483, 492 (1987); see also Motion p. 8, quoting Cable
Connection, Inc. v. DIRECTV, Inc., 44 Cal. 4th 1334, 1343 (2008) [“The CAA,
like the FAA, provides that arbitration agreements are ‘valid, enforceable and
irrevocable, save upon such grounds as exist for the revocation of any contract.’”].)
The general principles of California contract law help guide the court in
making this determination. (Mendez v. Mid-Wilshire Health Care Center
(2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 534, 541.) This does not mean, however, that a state
court may apply rules that derive their meaning from the fact that an agreement
to arbitrate is at issue. (Viking River Cruises, Inc. v. Moriana (2022)
596 U.S. 639, 649; see also AT&T Mobility v. Concepcion (2011) 563
U.S. 333, 344 (Concepcion) [Generally applicable contract
defenses, such as fraud, duress, or unconscionability provide grounds for
invalidating an arbitration agreement if they are enforced evenhandedly and do
not “interfere[ ] with fundamental attributes of arbitration.”].) 
 
Ultimately, the FAA preempts a state rule that
“singles out arbitration agreements for disfavored treatment.” (Kindred Nursing Centers L.P. v.
Clark (2017) 581 U.S. 246, 248.) The United States Supreme Court has
repeatedly emphasized this point in that state laws which interfere with
fundamental attributes of arbitration are inconsistent with and thus preempted by the FAA.
(See e.g., DIRECTV, Inc. v. Imburgia (2015) 577 U.S. 47, 53 [“Supremacy
Clause forbids state courts to dissociate themselves from federal law because
of disagreement with its content or a refusal to recognize the superior
authority of its source. . . . The Federal Arbitration Act is a law of the
United States, and [AT&T Mobility v. Concepcion (2011) 563 U.S. 333] is an
authoritative interpretation of that Act. Consequently, the judges of every
State must follow it.”], emphasis added.) 
 
Discussion
 
The agreement[2]
contains a written arbitration provision,[3]
which provides in relevant part: “Any dispute, controversy, or claim between
Publisher and Author regarding this Agreement will be submitted to mandatory
and binding arbitration under the terms of the rules of the American
Arbitration Association as then in effect.” The Arbitration Agreement provides
that “[a]ny issue concerning the applicability, interpretation, or
enforceability of these procedures, including any contention that all or parts
of the procedures are invalid or unenforceable, will be governed by the Federal
Arbitration Act.” (See 3/21/24 Barnhart Decl., Ex. A, p. 8 of 11 of PDF.) 
 
As for
whether the claims fall under the arbitration agreement, the arbitration provision
employs broad language to render any and all claims or differences
subject to arbitration. The complaint on its face demonstrates that Plaintiff’s
claims arise out of and relate to the agreement because each of Plaintiff’s
four causes of action asserted against Fulton Books are contract-based
claims, founded on Defendant’s alleged conduct as related to the agreement. 
 
For example,
Plaintiff’s 1st COA for breach of contract alleges that Fulton Books
has failed to provide an adequate accounting of the publication and
sales of Plaintiff’s book (i.e., publication and distribution);
failed to provide royalty payments due to Plaintiff due on Plaintiff’s book (i.e.,
publication and distribution); and marketed Plaintiff’s book
without her consent (i.e., publication and distribution). 
 
Similarly,
the 2nd, 3rd, and 4th COAs for fraud/deceit,
negligent misrepresentation, and negligence, respectively, which incorporate
the breach of contract claims, are all predicated upon the alleged
conduct and obligation of Fulton Books as related to the agreement to publish
and distribute Plaintiff’s works. 
 
Therefore,
Defendant has met its burden to show that the parties entered into a contract
that contains an arbitration provision covering the claims at issue. 
 
To the extent
an opposition is filed, it is remiss in articulating what legal grounds
Plaintiff relies upon in attempting to invalidate the arbitration provision and
fails to provide a legal analysis or authority to support whatever cognizable
contract defense Plaintiff is attempting to put forth. 
 
 1.     Unconscionability
 
The California Supreme Court has stated the following regarding the
general principles of unconscionability. 
 
 A contract is unconscionable if one of the
parties lacked a meaningful choice in deciding whether to agree and the
contract contains terms that are unreasonably favorable to the other party. Under
this standard, the unconscionability doctrine has both a procedural and a
substantive element. The procedural element addresses the
circumstances of contract negotiation and formation, focusing on oppression or
surprise due to unequal bargaining power. Substantive unconscionability
pertains to the fairness of an agreement's actual terms and to assessments of
whether they are overly harsh or one-sided. Both procedural and substantive
unconscionability must be shown for the defense to be established, but they
need not be present in the same degree. Instead, they are evaluated on ‘a
sliding scale.’ [T]he more substantively oppressive the contract term, the less
evidence of procedural unconscionability is required to conclude that the term
is unenforceable. Conversely, the more deceptive or coercive the bargaining
tactics employed, the less substantive unfairness is required … The
ultimate issue in every case is whether the terms of the contract are
sufficiently unfair, in view of all relevant circumstances, that a court
should withhold enforcement. (OTO, L.L.C. v. Kho (2019) 8 Cal.5th 111,
125-126, internal citations omitted, emphasis added.) 
 
In short, unconscionability has both a
procedural and substantive element, and the party asserting the defense bears the burden of proving both by
a preponderance of the evidence. (Pinnacle Museum
Towers Assn. v. Pinnacle Market Development (US), LLC (2012) 55 Cal.4th
223, 246-247.) 
  a.     Procedural Unconscionability
 
In
determining procedural unconscionability, the “pertinent question is whether
circumstances of the contract's formation created such oppression or surprise
that closer scrutiny of its overall fairness is required. Oppression occurs
where a contract involves lack of negotiation and meaningful choice, surprise
where the allegedly unconscionable provision is hidden within a prolix printed
form.” (OTO, L.L.C. v. Kho (2019) 8 Cal.5th 111, 125-126, internal
citations omitted, italics original). To determine the presence of such
circumstances, there are five considerations to examine: “(1) the amount of
time the party is given to consider the proposed contract; (2) the amount and
type of pressure exerted on the party to sign the proposed contract; (3) the
length of the proposed contract and the length and complexity of the challenged
provision; (4) the education and experience of the party; and (5) whether the
party's review of the proposed contract was aided by an attorney.” (Id.
at pp. 126-128.)
  i.       Adhesion Contract[4]
 
Plaintiff
states that the arbitration clause is unenforceable “because it is adhesive.”
(Opp. p. 3:25-26.)[5]

 
“The term ‘adhesion contract’ refers to standardized contract forms
offered to consumers of goods and services on essentially a ‘take it or leave
it’ basis without affording the consumer a realistic opportunity to bargain and
under such conditions that the consumer cannot obtain the desired product or
services except by acquiescing in the form contract.” (Victoria v. Superior
Court (1985) 40 Cal.3d 734, 743.) Effectively, an adhesion contract is one
wherein the parties do not bargain nor enjoy equal bargaining strength. (Madden
v. Kaiser Foundation Hospitals (1976) 17 Cal.3d 699, 710-711; see also Baltazar
v. Forever 21, Inc. (2016) 62 Cal.4th 1237, 1245 [“An adhesive contract is
standardized, generally on a preprinted form, and offered by the party with
superior bargaining power ‘on a take-it-or-leave-it basis.’”.].) 
 
A contract that is adhesive in
nature “is sufficient to establish some degree of procedural
unconscionability.” (Sanchez v. Valencia Holding Co., LLC (2015) 61
Cal.4th 899, 915, emphasis and underline added.) 
 
However, aside from the adhesive nature of the
contract, the court finds no other indications of procedural unconscionability. (See Performance Team Freight
Systems, Inc. v. Aleman (2015) 241 Cal.App.4th 1233, 1248 [““Absent any
evidence, we cannot just assume there was procedural unconscionability.”].)
 
If anything,
Plaintiff’s declaration undermines a finding of procedural
unconscionability because despite her contention that she was “ever given an
opportunity to modify any of the terms of the contract, at any time” (Agee
Decl., p. 3), Plaintiff had the right to “cancel” the agreement “for any reason
within three (3) days of Author’s signature hereto.” (Reply p. 4.) Plaintiff
has set forth no evidence that she was “lied to, placed under duress, or
otherwise manipulated into signing the arbitration provision.” (Reply p. 5.) 
What is more,
the arbitration provision is not “hidden on a back-page of a document,
in fine-print, or buried amongst pages and pages of non-negotiated forms.”
(Reply p. 4:14-18.) Instead, the arbitration provision—found on a mere
4-page document that is largely dedicated to the scope of the agreement and
less filled with legalese—is the last paragraph, right above the
signature line, in its own paragraph, in the same type and size font as
the rest of the contract language. Thus, as Plaintiff had the opportunity to
review and consider the arbitration provision (i.e., a meaningful choice),
there is no evidence of surprise or oppression. 
 
To the extent
that Plaintiff argues that she was not advised of the arbitration
agreement, this argument fails on two fronts. 
 
First,
“simply because a provision within a contract of adhesion is not read or
understood by the nondrafting party does not justify a refusal to enforce it.”
(Reply p. 4, quoting Gutierrez v. Autowest, Inc. (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th
77, 88.) Second, a drafting party “[is] under no obligation to highlight the
arbitration clause of its contract, nor [is] it required to specifically call
that clause to [the nondrafting party’s] attention.” (Reply p. 4, quoting Sanchez
v. Valencia Holding Co., LLC (2015) 61 Cal.4th 899, 911.) 
 
Therefore, absent adequate evidence, Plaintiff had sufficient
notice of the forum clause before signing the agreement.
  b.     Substantive Unconscionability
 
Even with an adhesion contract, “a finding of procedural
unconscionability does not mean that a contract will not be enforced, but
rather that courts will scrutinize the substantive terms of the contract to
ensure they are not manifestly unfair or one-sided.” (Concepcion,
supra, 563 U.S. at p. 340, emphasis added.)
 
Plaintiff’s “primary
objection” is that it seeks jurisdiction in the State of Pennsylvania, which is
where Fulton’s offices are located.[6]
Specifically, Plaintiff states the following relevant statements in her
declaration:
 
I was born on December 20, 1940. I am now 83 years old. I have various
medical conditions, that cause me to be confined to a wheelchair or a walker
with a seat. Travel is very difficult for me, even under the best
circumstances. I am retired, with a fixed-income from Social Security. I can
not afford to travel to Pennsylvania to resolve my dispute with Fulton Books,
even if I was physically able to make the trip, which I'm not. I cannot afford
to retain counsel in the State of Pennsylvania. I do not want to
appear remotely in my case. I want to be there in person. I
do not have a computer, and am not able to appear remotely. If Fulton Books
wants to appear remotely, from Pennsylvania, I have no objection to the
proceeding being conducted in California, where I can participate in person,
and where Fulton Books participates remotely from wherever they would like.
(James-Agee Decl., p. 2, emphasis added.) 
 
While the court is
mindful and cognizant of Plaintiff’s age and medical conditions (though she
does not specifically list her illnesses), Plaintiff has not established that
Pennsylvania is an unreasonable forum. 
 
As explained in Smith, Valentino & Smith, Inc. v.
Superior Court (1976)
17 Cal.3d 491 (Smith), which Defendant relies upon, the California State
Supreme Court stated the following:
 
The party's burden on a motion to enforce a mandatory
forum selection clause is to demonstrate that the contractually selected forum
would be unavailable or unable to accomplish substantial justice or that no
rational basis exists for the choice of forum. [internal citation omitted]. Neither inconvenience nor the additional
expense of litigating in the selected forum are factors to be considered.
[internal citation omitted.] However, a forum selection clause will not be
enforced if to do so would bring about a result contrary to the public policy
of this state. (emphasis and underline added.) 
 
Thus, according to
the Smith court, “forum selection
clauses are valid and may be given effect, in the court's discretion and in the
absence of a showing that enforcement of such a clause would be unreasonable.” (Id. at p.
496.) In Smith, the parties were two corporations (petitioner a
California corporation and real party in interest a Pennsylvania corporation)
who entered into a contract regarding insurance policies. (Id. at pp.
493-494.) “The contract included a reciprocal forum selection clause whereunder
Smith agreed to bring all actions arising out of the agency agreement only in
Philadelphia, and Assurance in turn agreed to bring all such actions only in
Los Angeles.” (Id. at p. 494.) Despite the clause, Smith filed an action
in Los Angeles and the defendant moved for dismissal on the basis of the forum
selection clause. In finding that the trial court did not abuse its discretion
in finding that Pennsylvania was the proper forum, the court reasoned that
“both Smith and Assurance reasonably can be held to have contemplated in
negotiating their agreement the additional expense and inconvenience
attendant on the litigation of their respective claims in a distant forum; such
matters are inherent in a reciprocal clause of this type.” (Id. at
496, emphasis added.)
 
Here, while the case is distinguishable because (i) only Defendant is a
corporation (i.e., both are not sophisticated parties); (ii) there is no
evidence that parties engaged in negotiations; and (iii) this agreement does
not include a reciprocal clause, the ultimate facts between the cases
are similar in that there is no showing of unreasonableness. 
 
As further clarified by the court in Intershop Communications v. Superior Court (2002) 104 Cal.App.4th 191 (Intershop)
(another cased cited by Defendant), when the forum
selection clause plainly says the selected forum, then a plaintiff has full
notice that she is agreeing to said selected forum as the place of trial, even
though he may have chosen not to read the four-page contract. 
 
Here, similarly, the Arbitration Provision plainly
identifies the selected forum such that Plaintiff had full notice that she was
agreeing to have her claims arbitrated in Pennsylvania. 
 
Furthermore,
relying upon Carnival Cruise Lines, Inc. v. Shute (1991) 499 U.S. 585 (Carnival),
Defendant, who, by the nature of its work, is engaged in an industry that could
subject it to litigation in several different fora,
then Defendant has an interest in arbitrating the matter in the state where its
offices are located. 
 
To the extent that Plaintiff objects as to Pennsylvania as the forum
because it is difficult for her to travel there, she does not need to travel as
she can participate remotely from California, which would also alleviate any
concerns with hiring new counsel licensed in Pennsylvania. 
 
To the extent that Plaintiff argues that she cannot participate remotely
because she does not have a laptop, there are resources to temporarily use an
electronic device (e.g., her attorney’s laptop; laptop in a public library, a
phone, etc.). 
 
To the extent that Plaintiff argues she does not want to
participate remotely such that Defendant should be subject to the conditions of
her preference, the court’s accommodation of that request would
be unreasonable.  
 
Conclusion
 
Based on the
foregoing, abiding by the well-established rule that forum selection clauses are valid and may be given effect in the court's
discretion and in the absence of a showing that enforcement of such a clause
would be unreasonable, and here, there is no showing of unreasonableness
by Plaintiff participating remotely, the motion is GRANTED.  
 


