  Case Number:  19STCV45102    Hearing Date:   September 6, 2024    Dept:  57 DEFENDANT'S MOTIONS IN LIMINE Motions in Limine 1 and 2 are GRANTEDMotions in Limine 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, and 8 are DENIEDWITNESS LISTBased on the time estimates for each witness on the witness list, the total amount of the estimated hours for the trial is 95.5 hours, not including jury selection.  This Court generally has on average only about 4.5 hours per day to devote to the trial (10:30 to noon in the morning and 1:30-4:30 in the afternoon).  That means that the trial is estimated to last 21 days, meaning more than four weeks.  And there may be some days during the estimated time period of the trial that the Court will be unable to hold the trial.  The Court firmly believes that this case, which now involves just a single claim, should not be, and cannot be, a four-plus week trial.    Indeed, the Plaintiff's case  management conference statement filed in October 2023 estimated that the trial on the single claim would last 14 days, or just shy of three weeks.  In the Court's view, even just shy of three weeks is unnecessarily long for the trial in this case. EXHIBIT LISTThere are nearly 250 exhibits on the exhibit list.  The Court's procedures for the preparation of documents for the final status conference require the parties to indicate on the exhibit list whether there are stipulations to the authenticity of each document on the exhibit list.  Here, the joint exhibit list that the parties to this case submitted contains no indication at all as to any such stipulations.  Presumably, this does not mean that each side is contesting the authenticity/admissibility of every one of the other side's exhibits.  And presumably it does not mean that there is an agreement to the authenticity/admissibility of every exhibit.  The Court use will the final status conference to get the lay of the land from the parties on the authenticity/admissibility of exhibits.JURY INSTRUCTIONS The Court will discuss at the final status conference the parties' dispute over the adverse employment action instruction, CACI 2509, and, relatedly, the use of the term "adverse employment action" in other instructions.  The Court is inclined to accept the Plaintiff's propose use of the "cat's paw" instruction, CACI 2511.VERDICT FORMThe Court will table the discussion of the disputes over the proposed verdict form until the first day of trial.MINI-OPENING STATEMENTS PRIOR TO VOIR DIREThe Court is fine with the parties' proposal to give mini-openings prior to voir dire, in lieu of the Court's recitation of a statement of the case.CONDUCT OF VOIR DIREThe Court will discuss at the final status conference the manner in which the Court conducts its voir dire, including the Court's questions to prospective jurors.   In particular, the Court will have questions for jurors tailored to this employment discrimination case. 