

 
 
 
SERVICE:  
 
[X] Proof of Service Timely Filed (CRC,
rule 3.1300)                      OK
[X] Correct Address (CCP §§ 1013, 1013a)
                                     OK
[X] 16/21 Court Days Lapsed (CCP §§ 12c,
1005(b))                       OK
 
OPPOSITION:          None filed as of August
6, 2024.                    [   ] Late                      [X]
None
REPLY:                     None filed as
of August 6, 2024.                    [   ] Late                      [X] None
 
ANALYSIS:
 
I.                   
Background
 
On June 10, 2024,
Petitioner Miami New Times, LLC (“Petitioner”) filed a Petition to Compel Answers
to Questions Not Answered at Deposition (“Petition”) against Respondent Erik
Laibe (“Respondent”).
 
On June 25, 2024,
Scott D. Ponce, Esq. (“Ponce”) filed the instant Application to Appear Pro Hac
Vice (“Application”) for Petitioner Miami New Times, LLC, in association with
Counsel of Record Lindsay E. Catt (“Catt”). 
No opposition has been filed.
 
On July 17,
2024, the Court found that the following cases, 24STCP01890 and 22STCP03790,
are related within the meaning of California Rules of Court, rule 3.300(a).
22STCP03790 is the lead case.  Both cases
were assigned to Commissioner Karine Mkrtchyan in Department 25 at Spring
Street Courthouse.
II.                
Legal Standard
 
California Rules
of Court rule 9.40 provides that an attorney in good standing in another
jurisdiction may apply to appear as counsel pro hac vice in the State of
California by filing a verified application together with proof of service by
mail of a copy of the application and notice of hearing on all parties who have
appeared in the case and on the State Bar of California at its San Francisco
office, with payment of a $50.00 fee, so long as that attorney is not a
resident of the State of California, and is not regularly engaged in
substantial business, professional, or other activities in the State of
California.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
9.40.)
 
“The application
must state: (1) the applicant’s residence and office addresses; (2) the courts
to which the applicant has been admitted to practice and the dates of
admission; (3) that the applicant is a member of good standing in those courts;
(4) that the applicant is not currently suspended or disbarred in any court;
(5) the title of each court and cause in which the applicant has filed an
application to appear as counsel pro hac vice in this state in the preceding
two years, the date of each application, and whether or not it was granted; and
(6) the name, address, and telephone number of the active member of the State
Bar of California who is attorney of record in the local action.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 9.40(d).)
 
III.             
Discussion 
 
Counsel Scott D.
Ponce (“Ponce”) has submitted the instant verified Application to appear as
counsel pro hac vice for Petitioner Miami New Times, LLC, in association
with Counsel of Record Lindsay E. Catt. 
(Ponce Decl. ¶ 12.)  He has also
submitted Proof of Service indicating that Respondent and the State Bar of
California have been served with the Notice, Application, and supporting
documents by UPS overnight delivery and electronic transmission on June 2, 2024.  (App. p. 8.)
 
Counsel Ponce
declares that he has been admitted to practice in several jurisdictions and has
provided the dates of admission.  (Ponce
Decl. at ¶¶ 3-4.)  He is a member
of good standing in all jurisdictions and is “not currently suspended or
disbarred in any court.”  (Ibid.
at ¶¶ 5-7.)  Counsel is not regularly
engaged in the practice of law or other business in the State of California;
however, on March 15, 2023, he was admitted pro hac vice in a related
case, Charlie Ehrlich v. Miami Times, LLC, 22STCP0370, in Los Angeles
Superior Court.  (Ibid. at ¶¶
8-9.)  He has provided his residence and
home addresses, which are both located in the state of Florida.  (Ibid. at ¶¶ 1-2.)  Finally, Counsel provides the name, address,
and telephone number of Petitioner’s attorney of record, Lindsay E. Catt, who is
an active member of the State Bar of California.  (Ibid. ¶ 12.)  In her declaration, Catt states that she
served a copy of this Application on the San Francisco offices of the State Bar
California with the necessary fee.  (Catt
Decl. ¶ 7.)
 
Counsel has complied with all requirements
for the instant Application to be Admitted Pro Hac Vice.  Accordingly, Counsel Ponce’s Application to
Appear Pro Hac Vice is granted.
 
 
IV.             
Conclusion & Order
 
For the
foregoing reasons,
 
Counsel Scott
D. Ponce’s Application to Appear as Counsel Pro Hac Vice for the Petitioner is
GRANTED.
 
The Court sets
an Order to Show Cause Re:  Pro Hac Vice
Status of Scott D. Ponce, Esq. / Pro Hac Vice Renewal Fees is set for
08/07/2025 at 9:30 a.m. in Department 25 of the Spring Street Courthouse.
 
Moving party is
ordered to give notice.