 Case Number:  22SMCV02765    Hearing Date:   January 17, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE
RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


January
  17, 2024




CASE NUMBER


22SMCV02765




MOTION


Motion
  for a Protective Order




MOVING PARTY


Plaintiff
  Anita Pourshalimy




OPPOSING PARTY


none



 
MOTION
 
Plaintiff Anita Pourshalimy (“Plaintiff”) seeks a protective order preventing
a non-party to the action, Markel Insurance Company (“Markel”), which is a
respondent in an arbitration proceeding pertaining to the same motor vehicle
incident, “from conducting additional Defense Medical Examinations without
leave of Court, as additional Defense Medical Examinations beyond the eight
that have been conducted to date and/or a second Mental Defense Examination
would be harassing and oppressive to Plaintiff.”  Plaintiff also seeks monetary sanctions.  
 
Markel filed an untimely opposition.
 
ANALYSIS
 
1.     
Procedural
Issues
 
The proof of service for the
Motion indicates that Markel was served electronically by email.  However, Markel is a non-party to the action
which has not yet appeared in or made any filing in this action.  Moreover, there is no consent to electronic
service on record with the Court.  Therefore,
service of the Motion on Markel was not proper.
 
Code of Civil Procedure
section 1005, subdivision (b) provides, “All papers opposing a motion […] shall
be filed with the court and a copy served on each party at least nine court
days, and all reply papers at least five court days before the hearing.”  The court has discretion whether to consider
late-filed papers.  (California Rules of
Court, rule 3.1300(d).)   
 
Because the Motion was not
properly served on Markel, the Court exercises its discretion and considers
Markel’s untimely opposition.
 
2.     
Substance
of Motion
 
The California Arbitration Act
grants arbitrators authority of discovery in arbitration proceedings.  (McConnell v. Advantest America, Inc. (2023)
92 Cal.App.5th 596, 608.)  
 
Here, the underlying dispute
between Plaintiff and Markel is currently in arbitration proceedings, and the
Court notes that the arbitration was not ordered as part of the underlying
action.  Moreover, Markel is not a party
to this action.  As such, Plaintiff’s
request, which seeks a protective order from discovery arising from the
arbitration proceeding, is not justiciable before this Court and should be brought
before the arbitrator.[1]

 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, the Court denies Plaintiff’s motion for a protective
order.   
 
Plaintiff shall provide notice of the Court’s order and file a proof
of service of such. 


