  Case Number:  22SMCV01313    Hearing Date:   January 17, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


January 17, 2024




CASE NUMBER


22SMCV01313




MOTIONS


Demurrer and Motion to Strike Portions of Second Amended
  Complaint




MOVING PARTIES


Defendants Pacific Source Insurance Agency and Antoinette
  Turner




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff Glenn Vallecillos, M.D., Inc.



 
MOTIONS
 
This case stems from a dispute over the remodel of Plaintiff Glenn
Vallecillos, M.D., Inc.’s (“Plaintiff”) surgical center.  Plaintiff’s Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”)
alleges sixteen causes of action: (1) breach of written contract; (2) unjust
enrichment; (3) intentional misrepresentation; (4) negligent misrepresentation;
(5) unfair business practices; (6) negligence; (7) declaratory relief; (8)
disgorgement of money paid to unlicensed contractor; (9) recovery on
contractors bond; (10) conversion; (11) violation of penal code § 496; (12)
negligence – ins broker; (13) action on bond – ins broker; (14) intentional
misrepresentation – ins broker; (15) negligent misrepresentation – ins broker;
and (16) conspiracy to commit fraud.
 
As to moving Defendants Pacific Source Insurance Agency (“Pacific”)
and Antoinette Turner (“Turner”), who is the Chief Executive Officer,
Secretary, Chief Financial Officer, and Director of Pacific (collectively, “Defendants”),
Plaintiff alleges only the second, twelfth, fourteenth, fifteenth, and
sixteenth causes of action.
 
Defendants demur to the fourteenth, fifteenth, and sixteenth causes of
action for intentional misrepresentation, negligent misrepresentation, and
conspiracy to commit fraud, respectively, for failure to state facts sufficient
to constitute a cause of action pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section
430.31, subdivision (e).  Defendants also
move to strike Plaintiff’s prayer for punitive damages.
 
Plaintiff opposes both the demurrer and motion and Defendants reply.
 
MEET
AND CONFER REQUIREMENT
 
            Code of Civil Procedure section
430.41, subdivision (a) requires that “Before filing a demurrer pursuant to
this chapter, the demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by
telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for
the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would
resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.”  
 
The statute further requires “As part of the meet and confer process,
the demurring party shall identify all of the specific causes of action that it
believes are subject to demurrer and identify with legal support the basis of
the deficiencies.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.41, subd. (a)(1).)  “The party who
filed the complaint, cross-complaint, or answer shall provide legal support for
its position that the pleading is legally sufficient or, in the alternative,
how the complaint, cross-complaint, or answer could be amended to cure any
legal insufficiency.”  (Ibid.)
 
“The parties shall meet and confer at least five days before the date
the responsive pleading is due.  (Code
Civ. Proc. § 430.41, subd. (a)(2).)  “The
demurring party shall file and serve with the demurrer a declaration stating
either” the means by which the parties met and conferred, or that the party who
filed the pleading subject to demurrer failed to respond to the meet and confer
request.  (Id., subd.
(a)(3).)  
 
Here, Defendants provided an attorney declaration indicating that Defendants’
counsel sent Plaintiff’s counsel an email on November 27, 2023 requesting a
meet and confer, and that upon Plaintiff’s counsel’s request to put the
arguments of the demurrer in writing, Defendants’  counsel sent the written arguments to
Plaintiff’s counsel via email on December 8, 2023.  Plaintiff’s counsel responded on December 12,
2023, the same day Defendants filed the demurrer and motion to strike.  (Waldberg Decl. ¶¶ 2-6.)
 
Plaintiff argues that Defendants did not meet and confer in good
faith, because Defendants filed the demurrer and motion to strike on the same
day Defendants purportedly received Plaintiff’s written response, instead of
further discussing the issues with Plaintiff. 
Plaintiff also provided an attorney declaration, with copies of the
written meet and confer correspondences. 
(Glaubiger Decl. ¶¶ 2-5 and Exs. A-B.) The written correspondence
demonstrates that the parties outlined their respective positions in detail
prior to Defendants’ filing of the demurrer and motion.  
 
Defendants counter that Plaintiff refused to meet and confer
telephonically.
 
Under the circumstances, the Court finds that further telephonic meet
and confer efforts would not be fruitful. 

 
REQUEST
FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
            Defendants request the Court to take
judicial notice of the Court’s November 3, 2023 Minute Order on Defendants’
Demurrer to the First Amended Complaint.
 
Judicial notice may be taken
of records of any court in this state. 
(Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (d)(1).) 
Because the November 3, 2023 Minute Order is part of the Court’s record
for this case, the Court may take judicial notice of it.  (Ibid.)   However, “while courts are free to take
judicial notice of the existence of each document in a court file, including
the truth of results reached, they may not take judicial notice of the truth of
hearsay statements in decisions and court files.  Courts may not take judicial notice of
allegations in affidavits, declarations and probation reports in court records
because such matters are reasonably subject to dispute and therefore require
formal proof.”  (Lockley v. Law Office
of Cantrell, Green, Pekich, Cruz & McCort (2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 875,
882 [cleaned up].)  
 
Accordingly, the Court takes
judicial notice of the November 3, 2023 Minute Order, including the truth of
results reached, but not the truth of any hearsay statements contained therein.  
 
ANALYSIS
 
1.      DEMURRER
 
“It is black letter law that a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of
the allegations in a complaint.”  (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015)
235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  In testing the sufficiency of a cause of
action, a court accepts “[a]s true all material facts properly pled and matters
which may be judicially noticed but disregard contentions, deductions or
conclusions of fact or law.  [A court
also gives] the complaint a reasonable interpretation, reading it as a whole
and its parts in their context.”  (290
Division (EAT), LLC v. City & County of San Francisco (2022) 86
Cal.App.5th 439, 450 [cleaned up]; Hacker v. Homeward Residential, Inc.
(2018) 26 Cal.App.5th 270, 280 [“in considering the merits of a demurrer,
however, “the facts alleged in the pleading are deemed to be true, however
improbable they may be”].)
 
Further, in ruling on a demurrer, a court must “liberally construe”
the allegations of the complaint “with a view to substantial justice between
the parties.”  (See Code Civ. Proc., §
452.)  “This rule of liberal construction
means that the reviewing court draws inferences favorable to the plaintiff, not
the defendant.”  (Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist. (2012) 209
Cal.App.4th 1228, 1238.)   
 
In summary, “[d]etermining whether the complaint is sufficient as
against the demurrer on the ground that it does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action, the rule is that if one consideration of all the
facts stated it appears the plaintiff is entitled to any relief at the hands of
the court against the defendants the complaint will be held good although the
facts may not be clearly stated, or may be intermingled with a statement of
other facts irrelevant to the cause of action shown, or although the plaintiff
may demand relief to which he is not entitled under the facts alleged.”  (Gressley v. Williams (1961) 193
Cal.App.2d 636, 639.)
 
A.   
FAILURE TO STATE A CAUSE OF ACTION
 
                                                                   
i.           
Fourteenth
Cause of Action – Intentional Misrepresentation
 
“The elements of intentional misrepresentation are (1) a
misrepresentation, (2) knowledge of falsity, (3) intent to induce reliance, (4)
actual and justifiable reliance, and (5) resulting damage.” (Aton Center,
Inc. v. United Healthcare Ins. Co. (2023) 93 Cal.App.5th 1214, 1245.) 
 
“In California, fraud must be pled specifically; general and
conclusory allegations do not suffice.” (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996)
12 Cal.4th 631, 645.)  “This
particularity requirement necessitates pleading facts which show how, when,
where, to whom, and by what means the representations were tendered.”  (Ibid.)  
 
Defendants contend Plaintiff fails to plead the elements for a cause
of action for intentional misrepresentation against them with the requisite
particularity. Specifically, Defendants contend (1) the SAC only alleges
representations Defendant Keyes made and fails to allege the moving Defendants
made any representation to Plaintiff; (2) the SAC does not allege how
Defendants knew at the time they issued the initial Certificate of Insurance (“COI”)
that Keyes lacked workers’ compensation coverage; (3) Plaintiff fails to allege
reliance and the SAC contradicts facts alleged in the FAC in contravention of
the sham pleading doctrine; and (4) Plaintiff fails to allege damages caused by
the alleged misrepresentation.  The Court disagrees.  
 
Misrepresentation,
Knowledge, and Reliance
 
With respect to
misrepresentations, knowledge, and reliance, the SAC alleges:
 
16.       Prior to agreeing to hire defendant
Keyes, plaintiff provided defendant Keyes with a copy of the TIPG.  Defendant Keyes represented to plaintiff that
he could and would comply with all of Welltower’s rules and regulations, e.g.
provide proof of workers compensation (wc) insurance.  Defendant Keyes tendered the following
representations:
 
1.     
He was a
properly licensed contractor.
 
2.     
He had
fully reviewed the remodel plans and specifications.
 
3.     
He was
fully capable of and would make all repairs set forth in the plans and
specifications.
 
4.     
He and
his employees/workers were covered by policy of workers compensation insurance.
 
5.     
He would
add plaintiff as an additional insured on his workers compensation policy.
 
17.       Pursuant thereto, in order to ‘fake’ defendant Keyes’
compliance with the above pre-conditions and representations regarding workers
compensation coverage, etc., defendants Keyes, Pacific and Turner entered into
an agreement whereby defendants Pacific and Turner would create false insurance
documentation stating defendant Keyes was covered by a policy of worker’s
compensation insurance when, in reality, he had no such coverage.  Plaintiff is further informed and believes
that, in return for falsifying such insurance documentation, defendant Keyes
paid money to defendants Pacific and Turner. 
Pursuant to this agreement, defendants Pacific and Turner “created” the
below identified false Certificates of Insurance (“COI”).
 
18.       On June 17, 2021, defendants Turner and Pacific created a COI
falsely representing that “Global Ocean and Land Construction” (defendant
Keyes) carried worker’s compensation policy no. 9217479.  The Description of Operations section of the
COI includes the exact language specified in Welltower’s TIPG:
 
“405 Bedford LP and Healthcare
Property Managers of America, LLC and its affiliates, subsidiaries and
corporations owned, controlled, or coming under its active management, are
listed as additional insured for work performed at 9675 Brighton Way, Beverly
Hills, CA 90210…”
 
Additionally, the certificate
holder is exactly as specified in Welltower’s TIPG.”  Based on the language defendants Pacific and
Turner chose to include in the COI, it is clear that defendants Pacific and
Turner had a copy of Welltower’s TIPG prior to creating the COI.  A copy of this COI is attached hereto as Exhibit C.
 
19.       Plaintiff is informed and believes that defendants Turner and
Pacific provided copies of the COI dated June 17, 2021 to Welltower.  Thereafter, Welltower informed Plaintiff that
defendant Keyes had complied with Welltower’s rules and regulations and was
approved to perform the plaintiff’s remodel, e.g. defendant Keyes provided the
requisite proof of workers compensation insurance.  In reliance thereon, plaintiff agreed to hire
defendant Keyes to perform the remodel.
 
20.       On or about June 25, 2021, plaintiff
signed a construction contract with defendant Keyes calling for the remodel of
the Subject Property.  Thereafter and
continuing to believe defendant Keyes had truthfully qualified to perform the
remodel, plaintiff agreed to, accepted and signed a series of change
orders.  True and correct copies thereof
are attached hereto as Exhibit
D.
 
[…]
 
22.       On or about March 18, 2022, defendants
Turner and Pacific created another COI again falsely representing that “Global
Ocean and Land Construction” carried worker’s compensation policy no.
9217479.  The Description of Operations
section of the COI includes the exact language specified in Welltower’s TIPG and identifies plaintiff:
 
“405
Bedford LP and Healthcare Property Managers of America, LLC and its affiliates,
subsidiaries and corporations owned, controlled, or coming under its active
management, are listed as additional insureds for work performed at 9675
Brighton Way, Beverly Hills, CA 90210, Project: Glenn Vallecillos MD Inc 9675 Brighton Way Beverly Hills, CA.”
 
Additionally,
the certificate holder is also exactly as specified in Welltower’s TIPG.  Thereafter, Welltower informed Plaintiff that
defendant Keyes had again complied with Welltower’s rules and regulations and
was approved to continue performing the plaintiff’s remodel, e.g. defendant
Keyes provided the requisite proof of workers compensation insurance.  In reliance thereon, plaintiff agreed to
allow defendant Keyes to continue performing the plaintiff’s remodel.  A copy of the COI dated March 18, 2022 is
attached hereto as Exhibit F.
 
23.       On or about April 1, 2022, defendants
Turner and Pacific created another COI again falsely representing that “Global
Ocean and Land Construction” carried worker’s compensation policy no.
9217479.  Additionally, the certificate
holder is plaintiff.  A copy thereof is
attached hereto as Exhibit G.
 
[…]
 
25.       During this period of time and under the
mistaken belief that defendant Keyes carried workers compensation insurance and
had qualified to perform the remodel per the TIPG, plaintiff paid defendant
Keyes upwards of $258,000.  All of these
monies were paid by plaintiff within the three years preceding the filing of
this suit.  Proof of such payment is
attached hereto as Exhibit H.
 
[…]
 
29.       On or about August 1, 2022, after
plaintiff had paid defendant Keyes upwards of $250,000, defendants Turner and
Pacific provided another COI to plaintiff. 
This COI identified the insured as “Global Ocean and Land Construction”
and identified plaintiff as an additional insured BUT omitted all mention of workers
compensation insurance.  A copy thereof is attached hereto as Exhibit I.
 
30.       After filing the lawsuit, plaintiff
obtained records from STATE FUND. 
According to those records, STATE FUND policy no. 9217479 does
exist.  However, this policy does not
belong to defendant Keyes dba Global
Ocean and Land Construction, nor is defendant Turner and/or defendant
Pacific the broker of record.  In reality, the policy belongs to another
company with a similar name, Global
Ocean and Land Developers Instern. and the broker of
record is Dickerson Insurance Services, 1918 Riverside Drive.  In effect, defendants Keyes, Turner and
Pacific ‘hijacked’ an existing policy from a company with a similar name
(clearly intending to use the name-similarities to mask the deception.)  Copies of the STATE FUND documents are
attached hereto as Exhibit J.
 
31.       Plaintiff also learned that, according to
CSLB records, defendant Keyes did not carry workers compensation insurance
during the period of August 2003 through August 2022.  The period of construction was June 2021 through
April 2022.  See attached Exhibit K.
 
(SAC
¶¶ 16-21, 22-23, 25, 29-31.)
 
            Therefore,
the SAC adequately alleges Defendants made several misrepresentations on the
COIs, which they knew to be false when made by virtue of the fact that the
matching language suggests they had copies of the TIPG, outlining the worker’s
compensation requirements, and Plaintiff relied upon these misrepresentations in
determining Keyes was qualified to perform the remodel and ultimately hiring
Keyes to do so.
 
            Sham Pleading
 
Plaintiff also contends that
the SAC is a sham pleading because it contradicts the FAC in the following
respects: (1) the FAC alleged Plaintiff reasonably relied on the April 1, 2022
COI that was issued nearly a year after Keyes was hired and months after Keyes
allegedly abandoned the project in December 2021 (FAC ¶¶ 17, 93); (2) the
SAC now alleges that non-party Welltower relied on a different certificate not
initially included in the FAC; and (3) the SAC omits the prior allegations that
Keyes abandoned the project in December 2021.
 
“Under the sham pleading
doctrine, plaintiffs are precluded from amending complaints to omit harmful
allegations, without
explanation, from previous
complaints to avoid attacks raised in demurrers or motions for summary
judgment.”  (Deveny v. Entropin, Inc.
(2006) 139 Cal.App.4th 408, 425 [emphasis added].)
 
Here, at the hearing on
Defendants’ demurrer to the FAC, Plaintiff’s counsel explained that the
December 2021 date was erroneous. 
Therefore, the exclusion of the December 2021 date, which Plaintiff’s
counsel has already explained was erroneous, does not make the SAC a sham
pleading.  Moreover, the allegations of
additional COIs serve to provide additional detail and further clarify
Plaintiff’s allegations of fraud.  The
inclusion of additional clarifying information does not inherently contradict a
prior pleading that did not include those details.
 
Therefore, the SAC is not a
sham pleading.
 
Causation and Damages
 
Defendants further argue that
the damages Plaintiff alleges stem from construction defects, not from
Defendants’ alleged misrepresentations. 
The Court disagrees.
 
Plaintiff alleges that in
reliance upon Defendant’s repeated knowing misrepresentations that Defendant
Keyes complied with the requirements of the TIPG by, among other things,
carrying worker’s compensation insurance, Defendant hired and paid Keyes
$258,000, before Keyes ultimately abandoned the project, and the work Keyes did
perform contained numerous construction defects, causing an additional $100,000
in remediation costs.  (See SAC ¶¶ 24-28.)
 
Therefore, the Court overrules
Defendants’ demurrer to the fourteenth cause of action.
 
                                                                 
ii.           
Fifteenth
Cause of Action – Negligent Misrepresentation
 
“The essential elements of a count for negligent misrepresentation are
the same except that it does not require knowledge of falsity but instead
requires a misrepresentation of fact by a person who has no reasonable grounds
for believing it to be true.” (Chapman v. Skype Inc. (2013) 220
Cal.App.4th 217, 230-231.) Like intentional misrepresentation, causes of action
for negligent misrepresentation sound in fraud, and must also, therefore, be
pleaded with particularity. (Ibid.)
 
Therefore, the same allegations supporting Plaintiff’s fourteenth
cause of action for intentional misrepresentation also support Plaintiff’s
fifteenth cause of action for negligent misrepresentation.
 
As such, the Court overrules Defendant’s demurrer to the fifteenth
cause of action.
 
                                                               
iii.           
Sixteenth Cause of Action – Conspiracy to
Commit Fraud
 
“The elements of an action for civil conspiracy are (1) formation and
operation of the conspiracy and (2) damage resulting to plaintiff (3) from a
wrongful act done in furtherance of the common design.” (Prakashpalan v.
Engstrom, Lipscomb & Lack (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 1105, 1136
(hereinafter Prakashpalan).) “There is no separate tort of civil
conspiracy and no action for conspiracy to commit a tort unless the underlying
tort is committed and damage results therefrom.” (Ibid.) “The
significance of a conspiracy theory of liability is that each member may be
held jointly liable as a tortfeasor, even though he or she may not have
participated directly in the underlying tort.” (Ibid.)
 
Moreover, “[w]here fraud is alleged to be the object of the
conspiracy, the claim must be pleaded with particularity.” (Prakashpalan,
supra, 223 Cal.App.4th at 1136.)
 
Defendants argue that Plaintiff fails to state a cause of action for
conspiracy to commit fraud because (1) Plaintiffs fail to adequately allege the
underlying fraud tort; (2) Plaintiff fails to allege a conspiracy with
requisite specificity.
 
As discussed above, the Court finds that Plaintiff adequately alleged
the underlying fraudulent and negligent misrepresentation torts.
 
With respect to conspiracy, the Court notes that many of Plaintiff’s
conspiracy allegations are alleged on information and belief.  (See SAC ¶¶ 32-33; 126-128; 131.)  “[I]t is not sufficient to allege fraud or
its elements upon information and belief unless the facts upon which the belief
is founded are stated in the pleading.” (Dowling v. Spring Val. Water Co.
(1917) 174 Cal.218, 221.)
 
However, as discussed above, Plaintiff
has provided factual detail suggesting that Keyes provided Defendants with a
copy of the TIPG, suggesting at least one meeting occurred prior to Defendants’
issuance of the COIs.  
 
Moreover, “[o]ne of the
purposes of the specificity requirement is notice to the defendant, to furnish
the defendant with certain definite charges which can be intelligently
met.”  (Alfaro v. Community Housing
Improvement System & Planning Assn., Inc. (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1356,
1384.)  As such, less specificity is
required “when it appears from the nature of the allegations that the defendant
must necessarily possess full information concerning the facts of the
controversy[.]”  (Ibid.)  “Even under the strict rules of common law
pleading, one of the canons was that less particularity is required when the
facts lie more in the knowledge of the opposite party.” (Ibid.) 
 
The details of meetings
between and among the defendants in furtherance of a conspiracy would naturally
lie more within their knowledge than Plaintiff’s.
 
Therefore, the Court finds
that Plaintiff adequately alleges a conspiracy to commit fraud.
 
2.      MOTION
TO STRIKE
 
Any party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading, may serve
and file a motion to strike the whole pleading or any part thereof.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(1); Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1322, subd. (b).) 
On a motion to strike, the court may: (1) strike out any irrelevant,
false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (2) strike out all or
any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of
California, a court rule, or an order of the court.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a)-(b); Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767,
782.)  Here, Chan moves to strike from the complaint,
references to and claims for punitive damages. 
  
 
In ruling on a motion to strike punitive damages, “judges read
allegations of a pleading subject to a motion to strike as a whole, all parts
in their context, and assume their truth.” 
(Clauson v. Superior Court
(1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255.)  To
state a prima facie claim for punitive damages, a plaintiff must allege the
elements set forth in the punitive damages statute, Civil Code section 3294.  (College
Hosp., Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 721.)  Per Civil Code section 3294, a plaintiff must
allege that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.  (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a).)   As set forth in the Civil Code, 
 
(1) “Malice” means conduct which is intended
by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which
is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard
of the rights or safety of others.  (2)
“Oppression” means despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and
unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person's rights.  (3) “Fraud” means an intentional
misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the
defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving
a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.
 
(Civ.
Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(1)-(3), emphasis added.)  
 
Further, a plaintiff must assert facts with specificity to support a
conclusion that a defendant acted with oppression, fraud or malice.  To wit, there is a heightened pleading
requirement regarding a claim for punitive damages.  (See Smith v. Superior Court (1992) 10
Cal.App.4th 1033, 1041-1042.)  “When
nondeliberate injury is charged, allegations that the defendant’s conduct was
wrongful, willful, wanton, reckless or unlawful do not support a claim for
exemplary damages; such allegations do not charge malice.  When a defendant must produce evidence in
defense of an exemplary damage claim, fairness demands that he receive adequate
notice of the kind of conduct charged against him.” (G. D. Searle & Co.
v. Superior Court (1975) 49 Cal.App.3d 22, 29 [cleaned up].)  In Anschutz Entertainment Group, Inc. v.
Snepp, the Court of Appeal noted that the plaintiffs’ assertions related to
their claim for punitive damages were “insufficient to meet the specific
pleading requirement.”  (Anschutz
Entertainment Group, Inc. v. Snepp (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 598, 643
[plaintiffs alleged “the conduct of Defendants was intentional, and done
willfully, maliciously, with ill will towards Plaintiffs, and with conscious
disregard for Plaintiff's rights. Plaintiff's injuries were exacerbated by the
malicious conduct of Defendants. Defendants' conduct justifies an award of
exemplary and punitive damages”]; see also Grieves
v. Superior Court (1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 159, 166 [“The mere allegation an
intentional tort was committed is not sufficient to warrant an award of
punitive damages.  Not only must there be
circumstances of oppression, fraud, or malice, but facts must be alleged in the
pleading to support such a claim”].)   
            
Here, as discussed above, Plaintiff has adequately pleaded the
fraud-based causes of action.  As such,
Plaintiff’s allegations adequately support a claim for punitive damages.  
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
For the reasons stated, the Court overrules Defendants’ Demurrers to
the Fourteenth, Fifteenth, and Sixteenth Causes of Action in their
entirety.  
 
The Court also denies Defendants’ motion to strike punitive damages
from the second amended complaint.    
 
Further, the Court orders Defendants to file and serve an Answer to
the Second Amended Complaint on or before February 2, 2024.
 
Defendants shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof
of service regarding the same.  
 
 
DATED:  January 17, 2024                                                    ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court