  Case Number:  24CHCV00587    Hearing Date:   December 3, 2024    Dept:  F51 
DECEMBER 2, 2024
 

DEMURRER

Los Angeles Superior Court Case
# 24CHCV00587

 
Demurrer
Filed: 8/5/24
 
MOVING
PARTY: Defendant
Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority (“Moving Defendant”)
RESPONDING
PARTY: Plaintiff
Nathan Lewellen (“Plaintiff”)
NOTICE:
OK
 
RELIEF REQUESTED: Moving Defendant demurs against Plaintiff’s complaint.

 
TENTATIVE
RULING: The
demurrer is sustained without leave to amend.
 
EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS: The
Court
 
BACKGROUND
 
This is a premises liability action in which Plaintiff
alleges that on 8/13/23, “Plaintiff's motorcycle crashed as a result of his motorcycle
encountering a dangerous condition of public property.” (Compl. ¶ 2.)
 
On 2/26/24, Plaintiff filed his complaint against nonmoving defendants
County of Los Angeles, State of California, and Caltrans, alleging the
following causes of action: (1) Dangerous Condition of Public Property; and (2)
General Negligence.
 
On 5/22/24, Plaintiff filed an amendment to his complaint to
designate Moving Defendant as previously unnamed Doe defendant 77. On 8/5/24, Moving
Defendant filed the instant demurrer. On 9/30/24, Plaintiff filed his
opposition thereto. On 11/4/24, Moving Defendant filed its reply.
 
On 11/12/24, Plaintiff’s counsel filed a supplemental
declaration in support of Plaintiff’s opposition. On 11/18/24, Moving Defendant
filed its objections thereto.
//
//
//
ANALYSIS
 
As a general matter,
a party may respond to a pleading against it by demurrer on the basis of any
single or combination of eight enumerated grounds, including that “the pleading
does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e).) In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be
apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice.¿(Donabedian
v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)¿
 
“A demurrer tests
the pleading alone, and not the evidence or facts alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc.
v. Accountants, Inc. Servs. (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) As such,
the court assumes the truth of the complaint’s properly pleaded or implied
factual allegations. (Ibid.) The only issue a demurrer is concerned with
is whether the complaint, as it stands, states a cause of action. (Hahn v.
Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) 
 
Here, Moving Defendant demurs to
Plaintiff’s entire complaint on the basis that Plaintiff “does not allege
presenting a government claim for damages to the MTA,” and therefore has not
alleged facts sufficient to support his claims against Moving Defendant. (Dem. 5:1–2.)
 
A.   
Meet
and Confer
 
Before filing its
demurrer, “the demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone
with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the
purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve
the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 430.41, subd.
(a).) The demurring
party must file and serve a meet and confer declaration stating either: “(A)
The means by which the demurring party met and conferred with the party who
filed the pleading subject to demurrer, and that the parties did not reach an
agreement resolving the objections raised in the demurrer;” or “(B) That the
party who filed the pleading subject to demurrer failed to respond to the meet
and confer request of the demurring party or otherwise failed to meet and
confer in good faith.” (Id. at subd. (a)(3).)
 
Here, Moving Defendant’s
counsel declares that on 8/5/24, he telephoned Plaintiff’s counsel in an
attempt to resolve the issues raised in the instant demurrer, but was unable to
reach Plaintiff’s counsel. (Decl. of Allen L. Thomas 6:11–15.) As this effort
was made on the same date that the instant demurrer was filed, the Court finds
that counsel did not sufficiently meet and confer. However, “a determination by
the court that the meet and confer process was insufficient shall not be
grounds to overrule or sustain a demurrer.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 430.41, subd.
(a)(4).)
 
B.    
Claims
Presentation
 
Actions brought against
government entities are subject to the Government Claims Act, which typically
requires written claims for damages against the public entity to be timely
presented to that entity for resolution prior to filing suit. (Gov. Code § 900
et seq.; Gov. Code § 911.2, subd. (a).) To satisfy the exhaustion of administrative
remedies requirement, “the exact issue raised in the lawsuit must have been
presented to the administrative agency so that it will have had an opportunity
to act and render the litigation unnecessary.” (Harrington v. City of Davis
(2017) 16 Cal.App.5th 420, 441.)
 
In his complaint, Plaintiff
alleges the following: “On or about January 15, 2024, Plaintiff timely served
all known relevant governmental entities herein, and specifically Defendant
County of Los Angeles, State of California/Caltrans with a Claim for Damages
pursuant to California Government Code § 910
and 911, et seq., and that said claims have each been denied, or will have been
denied by said public entities, or have been, or will be, deemed denied and/or
rejected by operation of law pursuant to Government Code § 912.4, and/or applicable Federal codes.” (Compl. ¶
29.)
 
Here, Moving Defendant argues
that Plaintiff has not satisfied the claims presentation requirement because Plaintiff
“does not allege presenting a government claim for damages to the MTA. Failure
to comply with the claims statute is fatal and bars plaintiff from pursuing his
action against the MTA.” (Dem. 5:1–3.)
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues
that “Plaintiff did file a claim against the MTA on August 13, 2024, as
evidenced by Exhibit ‘A’ attached hereto. Defendant MTA failed to respond to
that Government Notice for a period in excess of 45 days. Therefore, that claim
was denied by operation of law thereby giving Plaintiff the right wo [sic]
serve MTA with this complaint. (Pl.’s Opp. 4:7–11, citing Ex. A to Decl. of
Michael R. Rhames.) 
 
In reply, Moving Defendant
maintains that any purported claim presented to Moving Defendant has not been
alleged within Plaintiff’s complaint. The Court agrees. Even if the Court were
to consider the claim proffered by Plaintiff in his opposition, this claim appears
to have been filed after the statutory deadline to do so, and after the instant
demurrer was served. (Gov. Code § 911.2, subd. (a) [A personal injury claim
must be presented within six months of the accrual of the cause of action].)
The Court therefore declines to consider any evidence extrinsic to the “four
corners” of Plaintiff’s complaint or properly before the Court via a request
for judicial notice. (Cal Rules of Ct., rule 3.1113(l).)
 
Furthermore, the Court agrees
with Moving Defendant that Plaintiff’s counsel’s supplemental declaration
amounts to an unauthorized sur-reply, a practice which is disfavored by this
Court. Accordingly, the Court disregards this supplemental declaration. Based
on the foregoing, the Court finds that Plaintiff has failed to allege facts
sufficient to support his claims against Moving Defendant. Accordingly, the
demurrer is sustained.
 
C.   
Leave
To Amend
 
Where a demurrer is sustained,
leave to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of
successful amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.)
The burden is on the plaintiff to show the court that a pleading can be amended
successfully. (Id.; Lewis v. YouTube, LLC (2015) 244 Cal.App.4th
118, 226.) However, “[i]f there is any reasonable possibility that the
plaintiff can state a good cause of action, it is error to sustain a demurrer
without leave to amend.” (Youngman v. Nevada Irrigation Dist. (1969) 70
Cal.2d 240, 245).
 
Here, the Court notes that Plaintiff
makes no showing of a reasonable possibility that he may successfully remedy
the underlying deficiencies in the complaint, namely that he presented a timely
government claim to Moving Defendant prior to filing suit. Accordingly, the
demurrer is sustained without leave to amend.
 
CONCLUSION
 
The
demurrer is sustained without leave to amend.