 Case Number:  22NWCV00913    Hearing Date:   August 8, 2024    Dept:  C LOPEZ v. SUBWAY RESTAURANTS, LLC 
CASE NO.:  22NWCV00913 
HEARING:  08/08/24
 
#6
 
Defendant SUBWAY RESTAURANTS, LLC’s Motion for Summary
Judgment is CONTINUED to Thursday, November 21, 2024 at 10:30 a.m. in
Dept. SE-C. 
 
Opposing Party to give notice. 
 
 
This product liability action was filed by Plaintiff KARINA
LOPEZ (“Plaintiff”) on September 8, 2022. On October 31, 2023, the operative
First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) was filed. 
 
Plaintiff alleges the following, relevant facts: “On May 31,
2021, Plaintiff, a pregnant young woman, was dining inside Defendants’
PREMISES, and unbeknownst to Plaintiff, one of the chairs inside Defendants’
PREMISES was defective, and as Plaintiff sat down on one of those chairs, the
(‘CHAIR’) ‘collapsed’ and as a result Plaintiff fell onto the hard floor.
Plaintiff was injured as a result of the traumatic incident.” (FAC ¶11.) 
 
Defendant SUBWAY RESTAURANTS, LLC moves for summary
judgment. 
 
In Opposition, Plaintiff argues that good cause exists to
continue the subject Motion because there is essential discovery relevant to the
Opposition that must be completed before the Motion is heard.  
 
“If it appears from the affidavits submitted in opposition
to a motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication, or both, that facts
essential to justify opposition may exist but cannot, for reasons stated, be
presented, the court shall deny the motion, order a continuance to permit
affidavits to be obtained or discovery to be had, or make any other order as
may be just. The application to continue the motion to obtain necessary
discovery may also be made by ex parte motion at any time on or before the date
the opposition response to the motion is due.” (CCP §437c(h).) 
 
Plaintiff’s Counsel states: “Attached hereto as Exhibit A is
a true and correct copy of the Notice of Deposition of Kristine Zaniewski. The
deponent was never produced for deposition, despite the fact that we were told
that dates would be provided. No dates have ever been provided.” (Agarwal
Decl., ¶2.) “Attached hereto as Exhibit C is a true and correct copy of the
Special Interrogatories, Set 4, served on defense counsel on June 13, 2024. At
the time of the drafting of this opposition, we have not received responses.
This discovery goes right to the issues being brought in the moving party’s MSJ
and this opposition. Plaintiff is at a disadvantage due to moving party’s
failure to timely respond to these sets of discovery.” (Agarwal Decl., ¶4.) 
 
The subject Motion is potentially dispositive against the moving party.
The Court finds that the information to be derived from the outstanding
discovery is important to Plaintiff’s Opposition. In the interests of justice,
and in favor of adjudicating this matter on the merits, the Motion is CONTINUED
as indicated above. 
 
A Supplemental Opposition and Reply to the Supplemental Opposition may
be filed and served per Code in accordance with the new hearing date. 
 