 Case Number:  22NWCV01016    Hearing Date:   August 8, 2024    Dept:  C KRAMER v. MARTINEZ
CASE NO.:  22NWCV01016
HEARING:  08/08/24
 
#7
 
Defendant RICARDO OROSCO MARTINEZ’s Moton to Compel MARCUS
MARTINEZ to (1) Provide Verified Responses to Request for Production of
Documents (set one); and (2) to Compel Compliance with Responses to Request for
Production of Documents (set one) is GRANTED. 
 
Moving Party to give Notice. 
 
Defendant RICARDO OROSCO MARTINEZ (“Ricardo”) moves to
compel Defendant MARCUS MARTINEZ’s (“Marcus”) to verify his responses to
Request for Production of Documents (set one); and to compel Marcus’ compliance
with his responses agreeing to produce documents to Request for Production of
Documents (set one). 
 
The relevant facts are as follows: Ricardo served document
demands on July 24, 2023. In unverified responses served on September 12, 2023,
Marcus agreed to produce documents to Request Nos. 1, 2, 4, 6, 7, 8, 9, and 10
by October 26, 2023. (Martinez Decl., ¶8.)  To date, Marcus, has not produced a
verification or documents in response to Request for Production of Documents
(set one). 
 
As of August 5, 2024, no Opposition and no Reply has been
filed/lodged with the Court. 
 
“The party to whom the demand for inspection, copying,
testing, or sampling is directed shall sign the response under oath unless the
response contains only objections.” (CCP §2031.250(a).) Where verification is
required, an unverified response is equivalent to no response at all. (See
Appleton v. Sup. Ct. (1988) 206 Cal.App.3d 632. 636.) Marcus served hybrid
response which contained objections and some substantive answers. Marcus’
hybrid responses are not verified. The Motion to Compel Verified discovery responses
is GRANTED. 
 
Marcus is ORDERED to provide the outstanding verification(s)
to Request for Production of Documents (set one) by no later than 10 days from
the date of the Court’s issuance of this Order .
 
“(a) Any documents or category of documents produced in
response to a demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling shall be
identified with the specific request number to which the documents respond. (b)
The documents shall be produced on the date specified in the demand… unless an
objection has been made to that date. If the date for inspection has been
extended… the documents shall be produced on the date agreed to pursuant to
that section.” (CCP §2031.280 (a-b).) 
 
It is undisputed that, to date, Marcus has failed to produce
documents that he had agreed to produce. 
 
The Motion is GRANTED. Marcus is ORDERED to produce documents
responsive to Request for Production of Documents (set one) by no later than 10
days from the date of the Court’s issuance of this Order. 
 
“The court may impose a monetary sanction ordering that one
engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or any attorney advising that
conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees,
incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct.” (CCP §2023.030(a).) “Except as
provided in subdivision (d), the court shall impose a monetary sanction…
against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a
motion to compel compliance with a demand, unless it finds that the one subject
to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (CCP §2031.320(b).) 
 
The Court finds that reasonable sanctions in favor of Defendant
Ricardo Orosco Martinez are warranted. Defendant Marcus Martinez is ORDERED to pay Defendant Ricardo Orosco
Martinez and their counsel of record reasonable sanctions in the total amount
of $650.00 ($325/hr. x 2) by no later than 30 days from the Court’s issuance
of this Order. 
 
 