 Case Number:  22STCV26524    Hearing Date:   August 8, 2024    Dept:  C TRUJEQUE v. VICTORY OUTREACH
CASE NO.:  22STCV26524 
HEARING:  05/30/24
 
#3
 
     I.       
Defendant VICTORY OUTREACH INTERNATIONAL’s
Demurrer to Plaintiffs’ First Amended Complaint is OVERRULED.

 
    II.       
Defendant VICTORY OUTREACH INTERNATIONAL’s
Motion to Strike Portions of Plaintiffs’ First Amended Complaint is DENIED.

 
  III.       
Defendant INNER CITY RECOVERY HOMES
INTERNATIONAL, INC. dba Victory Homes International’s (erroneously sued as
VICTORY HOMES INTERNATIONAL) Demurrer to Plaintiffs’ First Amended Complaint is
OVERRULED.
 
 IV.       
Defendant INNER CITY RECOVERY HOMES
INTERNATIONAL, INC. dba Victory Homes International’s (erroneously sued as
VICTORY HOMES INTERNATIONAL) Motion to Strike Portions of Plaintiffs’ First
Amended Complaint is DENIED.
 
   V.       
Defendant INNER CITY RECOVERY HOMES
INTERNATIONAL, INC.’s Demurrer to Plaintiffs’ First Amended Complaint is OVERRULED.
 
 VI.       
Defendant INNER CITY RECOVERY HOMES
INTERNATIONAL, INC.’s Motion to Strike Portions of Plaintiffs’ Complaint is DENIED.
 
VII.       
Defendants VICTORY OUTREACH; VICTORY OUTRACH
EAGLE ROCK; ROGER SOTO; JASMINE GALVES; AUGIE BARAJAS; and MARIE BARAJAS’
Demurrer to Plaintiffs’ First Amended Complaint is OVERRULED as to
Victory Outreach and Victory Outreach Eagle Rock; and SUSTAINED with 20 days
leave to amend as to Roger Soto, Jasmine Galves, Augie Barajas, and Marie
Barajas. 
 
VIII.       
Defendants VICTORY OUTREACH; VICTORY OUTRACH
EAGLE ROCK; ROGER SOTO; JASMINE GALVES AUGIE BARAJAS; MARIE BARAJAS’ Motion to
Strike Portions of Plaintiffs’ First Amended Complaint is DENIED as to
Victory Outreach and Victory Outreach Eagle Rock; and GRANTED with 20 days
leave to amend as to Roger Soto, Jasmine Galves, Augie Barajas, and Marie
Barajas.
 
 
Plaintiffs to give notice. 
 
This personal injury action was filed by Plaintiffs DAVID
TRUJEQUE and ROSA TRUJEQUE (“Plaintiffs”) against Defendants VICTORY OUTREACH;
VICTORY OUTREACH EAGLE ROCK; ROGER SOTO; JASMINE GALVEZ; AUGIE BARAJAS; and
MARY BARAJAS (collectively “Defendants”) on August 16, 2022. On February 20,
2024, this action was transferred from Dept. 31 of the Spring Street Courthouse
to the Southeast District. 
 
The operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) was filed on
November 13, 2023. 
 
The relevant facts, as alleged, are as follows: “On or
around July 2, 2021, Decedent JUSTIN TRUJEQUE moved into a home owned, leased,
operated, managed and/or controlled by each of the Defendants. Such home…was a
residential facility for individuals that were battling drug and/or alcohol
problems.” (FAC ¶12.) “Decedent was living at the subject home from
approximately July 2, 2021, until the date of his death on May 11, 2022, when
he died in the subject home unattended. Decedent did not have a cell phone, and
Plaintiffs could only visit their son, Decedent when there was an
accountability person from the subject home in attendance. Further, Defendants
and each of them represented that in the event there was a situation where
Decedent left the home unsupervised, Plaintiffs would be immediately
contacted.” (Id. ¶27) “Defendants, and each of them negligently and carelessly
failed to supervise the activities of Decedent in and around May of 2022, such
that Decedent was allowed to leave the home, by himself, on May 8, 2022, and/or
vicariously liable for the negligence of the other named Defendants. Defendants
further negligently and carelessly failed to notify Plaintiffs that Decedent
left the subject home unsupervised. The next day, on May 9, 2022, Plaintiffs learned
that Decedent had left the home unsupervised, and had taken drugs. Defendants
then picked Decedent up from a location outside the subject home; and Decedent
was brought back to the home.” (Id. ¶29.) “During the evening of May 9, 2022,
and over the course of the next two days, Decedent complained of significant
chest pain, and also vomited extensively. Despite clear objective factors that
Decedent had taken drugs/narcotics, and was having significant medical
problems, Defendants negligently and carelessly did not bring Decedent in for
medical treatment, did not seek appropriate medical care or treatment for
Decedent, nor did they notify Plaintiffs.” (Id. ¶30.) “After the foregoing days
of Decedent being very ill, subsequent to his departure from the home,
Defendants, and each of them, negligently and carelessly left Decedent in the
subject home alone, and unsupervised. Defendants knew that Decedent had used
drugs when he left the home and was complaining of medical issues in the days
that followed the time when he returned to them home. Defendants further knew
that Decedent did not have a cell phone and could not dial 911 for emergency
medical assistance. During the time that Decedent was alone in the subject
home, he died.” (Id. ¶46.) 
 
Plaintiffs FAC asserts the following causes of action: 
 
(1) Negligence/Gross
Negligence/Wrongful Death; 
(2) Survival
Action; 
(3) Fraud/Intentional
Misrepresentation; 
(4) Fraud/Negligent
Misrepresentation; 
(5) Fraud
– Concealment; and 
(6) Fraud
– False Promise
 
Defendant Victory Outreach International generally demurs to
the first, third, fourth, fifth, and sixth causes of action. 
 
Defendant Inner City Recovery Homes
International, Inc. dba Victory Homes International, which was erroneously sued
as Victory Homes International, specially and generally demurs to the first,
third, fourth, fifth, and sixth causes of action. 

 
Defendant Inner City Recovery Homes International, Inc.
specially and generally demurs to the first, third, fourth, fifth, and sixth
causes of action. 
 
Defendants Victory Outreach; Victory Outreach Eagle Rock;
Roger Soto; Jasmine Galvez; Augie Barajas; and Mary Barajas specially and
generally demur to the first, second, third, fourth, fifth, and sixth causes of
action. 
 
Uncertainty 
 
Defendants argue that Plaintiffs’ claims are fatally uncertain.
This argument lacks merit because “[a] special demurrer for uncertainty is not
intended to reach the failure to incorporate sufficient facts in the pleading
but is directed at the uncertainty existing in the allegations actually made.”
(Butler v. Sequeira (1950) 100 Cal.App.2d 143, 145-146.) Moreover,
demurrers for uncertainty are disfavored and will only be sustained where the
pleading is so bad that the defendant cannot reasonably respond, i.e., he or
she cannot reasonably determine what issues must be admitted or denied, or what
counts or claims are directed against him or her. (Khoury v. Maly’s of
Calif. Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.) A demurrer for uncertainty is
strictly construed, even where a complaint is in some respects uncertain,
because ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery procedures.” (Ibid.)
Here, it is clear from Defendants’ other arguments that they understand what Plaintiffs
at least attempt to allege, and there is no true uncertainty. The demurrer is
not sustained on the basis of uncertainty.
 
First Cause of Action – Negligence/Gross
Negligence/Wrongful Death
 
“ ‘Gross negligence’ long has been defined in California and
other jurisdictions as either a ‘want of even scant care’ or ‘ an extreme
departure from the ordinary standard of conduct.’” (City of Santa Barbara v.
Sup. Ct. (2007) 47 Cal.4th 747, 754.) Gross negligence is pled by alleging
the traditional elements of negligence: duty, breach, causation, and damages,
along with an allegation of extreme conduct on the part of the defendant. (Rosencrans
v. Dover Images, Ltd. (2011) 192 Cal.App.4th 1072, 1082.) 
 
Plaintiffs allege “Defendants breached their duty of care
when they carelessly and negligently: (1) failed to have any written policies
and procedures in place of what to do if a resident exhibited signs of drug
withdrawal, and/or health related issues, that posed a risk of injury or death
to persons such as Decedent, (2) failed to properly train personnel and the
residence was not properly staffed which included the presence of volunteers
who were not properly supervised, qualified, competent or trained in handling,
supervising, and protecting physically and disabled individuals such as
Decedent, (3) failed to provide personnel qualified and competent to assess,
evaluate, and/or perform risk assessments to detect injuries including but not
limited to life threatening injuries due to drug addiction, (4) failed to
properly provide any training on what protocols to follow in the event of drug
withdrawal and/or health related issues and/or how to recognize such withdrawal
symptoms, and (5) failed to have any Narcan (naloxone) in the residence and
available for administration to residents in the event of an emergency.” (FAC
¶56.) 
 
Here, Plaintiffs have alleged as part of the negligence
claim that “[t]he foregoing conduct of Defendants…was grossly negligent, and a
complete departure from the care exercised by other facilities that provide the
same services.” (FAC ¶59.) This allegation is sufficient to support a claim for
gross negligence against Defendants at this this stage in the litigation.
Defendants’ arguments raise factual determinations inappropriately resolved at
this time, and impose higher pleading requirements than necessary to maintain
this claim. The demurrer to the first cause of action is OVERRULED. 
 
Second Cause of Action – Survival Action 
 
The demurrer to the second cause of action is OVERRULED.
Plaintiffs have standing to assert separate causes of action which belonged to
the Decedent, and survive death by statute. Such claims—such as negligence— are
enforceable by the Decedent’s successor(s) in interest. (CCP §377.30.) The
interests protected under this theory are limited to the loss or damage that
the decedent sustained or insured before death, including penalties or punitive
or exemplary damages that the decedent would have been entitled to recover had
the decedent lived, and do not include damages for pain, suffering, or
disfigurement. (CCP §377.34; Grant v. McAuliffe (1953) 41 Cal.2d 859,
864.) 
 
Third, Fourth, Fifth, and Sixth Causes of Action – Fraud:
Intentional Misrepresentation; Negligent Misrepresentation; Concealment; and
False Promise 
 
The elements of a cause of action for intentional misrepresenation
are 1) misrepresentation (false representation, concealment, or nondisclosure);
2) knowledge of falsity (scienter); 3) intent to defraud or induce reliance; 4)
justifiable reliance; and 5) damages. (See Cal. Civ. Code §1709.)
 
“The elements of negligent misrepresentation are (1) the
misrepresentation of a past or existing material fact, (2) without reasonable
ground for believing it to be true, (3) with intent to induce another’s
reliance on the fact misrepresented, (4) justifiable reliance on the
misrepresentation, and (5) resulting damage…. [T]he allegations of reliance,
must be specifically pleaded.” (National Union Fire Ins. Cor. Of Pittsburgh,
PA v. Cambridge Integrated Services Group, Inc. (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 35,
50.) 
 
“[T]he elements of a cause of action for fraud and deceit
based on concealment are: (1) the defendant must have concealed or suppressed a
material fact, (2) the defendant must have been under a duty to disclose the
fact to the plaintiff, (3) the defendant must have intentionally concealed or
suppressed the fact with the intent to defraud the plaintiff, (f) the plaintiff
must have been unaware of the fact and would not have acted as he did if he had
known of the concealed or suppressed fact, and (5) as a result of the
concealment or suppression of the fact, the plaintiff must have sustained
damage.” (Marketing West, Inc. v. Sanyo Fisher (USA) Corp. (1992) 6
Cal.App.4th 603, 612-613.) 
 
The elements of a claim for fraudulent false promise are:
(1) a promise made regarding a material fact without any intention of performing
it; (2) the existence of the intent at the time of making the promise; (3) the
promise was made with intent to deceive or with intent to induce the party to
whom it was made to enter into the transaction; (4) the promise was relied on
by the party to whom it was made; (5) the party making the promise did not
perform; (6) the party to whom the promise was made was injured. (Muraoka v.
Budget Rent-A-Car, Inc. (1984) 160 Cal.App.3d 107, 119.) 
 
Whether intentional or negligent in nature, fraud actions
are subject to strict requirements of particularity in pleading. (Committee
on Children’s Television, Inc. v. General Foods Corp. (1983) 35 Cal.3d 197,
216.) “Fraud must be pleaded with specificity… [t]o withstand a demurrer, the facts
constituting every element of the fraud must be alleged with particularity, and
the claim cannot be salvaged by references to the general policy favoring the
liberal construction of pleadings. (Goldrich v. Natural Y Surgical
Specialties, Inc. (1994) 25 Cal.App.4th 772, 782.) “This particularity
requirement necessitates pleading facts which ‘show how, when, where, to whom,
and by what means the representations were tendered.’” (Stansfield v.
Starkey (1990) 220 Cal.App.3d 59, 73.) “The requirement of specificity in a
fraud action against a corporation requires the plaintiff to allege the names
of the persons who made the allegedly fraudulent representations, their
authority to speak, to whom they spoke, what they said or wrote, and when it
was said or written.” (Tarmann v. State Farm Mut. Auto Ins. Co. (1991) 2
Cal.App.4th 153, 157.) 
 
Plaintiffs allege that “Defendant ROGELIO A. SOTO, on behalf
of Defendants made representations of immaterial fact, including but not
limited to representations that the home was a ‘residential sober living
facility’ operated by Defendants, which proved to be false. Such
misrepresentation was made to JUSTIN TRUJEQUE as he was filling out the intake
form on July 2, 2021. Additionally, Defendant ROGELIO A. SOTO made representations
and promises that if Justin Trujeque experienced any negative symptoms from substance
abuse, he would be referred to a medical facility, which was not done, and such
failure proximately led to his death. Finaly, Defendant ROGELIO SOTO made a representation
to Plaintiff, DAVID TRUJEQUE that ‘we will get him fixed/we will get him
right.’ (FAC ¶75.) “At the time the misrepresentations were made, Defendants,
including Defendant ROGER SOTO and Eli Barajas knew that Defendants’ staff
members and/or employees, agents, independent contractors, and volunteers did
not receive any medical training, including training regarding Fentanyl or the
withdrawal effects from using that drug or other drugs. At the time of
Decedent’s death, Defendants knew that Fentanyl and other drugs were dangerous,
and knew they made a promise to refer Decedent to a medical facility in the
event of a relapse but failed to do so. [¶] Plaintiffs… allege that Defendants
through their staff members…. Intentionally grossly understated and
misrepresented the above facts with the intent to induce Decedent to sign the
written agreement and gain the monetary consideration thereof. In consideration
of the agreement, Decedent… agreed to sign over his public assistance checks
(ATM card) to offset the cost for his room and board and was forced to agree to
work at the Victory Outreach ‘fundraisers and/or life skills trainings’ for
free.” (FAC ¶¶79-80.) Plaintiffs allege that the residential sober living
facility was owned, leased, operated, managed, and/or controlled by all named
defendants. (See FAC ¶¶8-11.) Plaintiffs also allege that “[t]he directors of
such home were Defendants, ROGER [or Rogelio] SOTO and JASMINE GALVEZ….
Defendants AUGIE BARAJAS and MARY BARAJAS are either the owners, pastors,
officers, and/or directors of the home and responsible for the residents
thereof, and/or vicariously liable for the acts and/or omission of the
directors of the home.” (FAC ¶12.) 
 
The Court finds that Plaintiffs adequately allege that
Defendant Rogelio Soto, on behalf of all entity defendants, made a number of
oral misrepresentations in order to induce the Decedent to sign the client
intake form on July 2, 2021 for money. These facts, as alleged, are sufficient
to withstand the demurrer stage. The demurrer to the third, fourth, fifth, and
sixth causes of action is OVERRULED as to Defendants Victory Outreach
International; Defendant Inner City Recovery Homes International, Inc. dba Victory
Homes International, which was erroneously sued as Victory Homes International;
Defendant Inner City Recovery Homes International, Inc.; Defendants Victory
Outreach; and Victory Outreach Eagle Rock. 
 
However, the demurrer to the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth
causes of action is SUSTAINED with 20 days leave to amend as to Defendants Roger
Soto; Jasmine Galvez; Augie Barajas; and Mary Barajas. Plaintiffs have not
alleged sufficient facts against these defendants to support a finding of their
liability for claims of fraud in their individual capacities. 
 
Motions to Strike 
 
The Motions to Strike punitive damages are DENIED as to the
entity defendants— Defendants  Victory
Outreach International; Defendant Inner City Recovery Homes International, Inc.
dba Victory Homes International, which was erroneously sued as Victory Homes
International; Defendant Inner City Recovery Homes International, Inc.;
Defendants Victory Outreach; and Victory Outreach Eagle Rock, given the Court’s
ruling on the fraud claims above. 
 
The Motion to Strike punitive damages is GRANTED with 20
days leave to amend as to Defendants Roger Soto; Jasmine Galvez; Augie Barajas;
and Mary Barajas based on the Court’s ruling on the fraud claims as to them, in
their individual capacities, above. 
 
 