  Case Number:  19NWCV00820    Hearing Date:   August 8, 2024    Dept:  C BLAINE HOLDING
& DEVELOPMENT, LLC v. VIVERA PHARMACEUTICALS, INC.
CASE NO.: 19NWCV00820
HEARING:  08/08/24
 
#1
 
Plaintiff/Judgment Creditor BLAINE HOLDING &
DEVELOPMENT, LLC’s Motion for Attorney’s Fees Pursuant to CCP §128.5 is DENIED.

 
Opposing Party to give notice. 
 
This action for unlawful detainer was filed by
Plaintiff/Judgment Creditor BLAINE HOLDING & DEVELOPMENT, LLC (“Plaintiff”
or “Blaine”) on September 15, 2021. Default was entered against Defendant LOS
ANGELES PARTYWORKS, INC. (“Defendant” or “LA Partyworks”) on November 12, 2019,
and Default Judgment was entered against Defendant on September 15, 2021. 
 
On April 11, 2024, this Court DENIED Defendant LA
Partyworks’ Motion to Set Aside Default and Default Judgment. 
 
On April 23, 2024, Blaine filed and served the subject Motion
for Attorney’s Fees pursuant to CCP §128.5. Blaine argues that it is entitled
to attorney’s fees under CCP §128.5 due to LA Partyworks “frivolous” Motion to
Set Aside Default and Default Judgment. 
 
Subdivision (a) of CCP §128.5 provides in relevant part: “A trial court may order a
party, the party’s attorney, or both, to pay the reasonable expenses, including
attorney’s fees, incurred by another party as a result of actions or tactics,
made in bad faith, that are frivolous or solely intended to cause unnecessary
delay.” 
 
Subdivision (f)(1)(B) provides: “If the alleged action or
tactic is the making… of a written motion…that can be withdrawn or
appropriately corrected, a notice of motion shall be served as provided in
Section 1010, but shall not be filed with or presented to the court, unless 21
days after service of the motion or any other period as the court may
prescribe, the challenged action or tactic is not withdrawn or appropriately
corrected.” 
 
The Motion is DENIED. Blaine was required to comply with CCP
§128.5’s safe harbor provision, and they did not. CCP §128.5(f)(1)(B) requires
that a Motion for Sanctions under CCP §128.5 be served at least 21 days before
filing, allowing for a safe harbor period to withdraw or correct the challenged
action or tactic. That was not done here. Here, Blaine did not serve this motion
21 days before filing it. They filed and served it the same day—April 23,
2024—and after the Motion to Set Aside Default and Default Judgment had been
heard and denied. The Court cannot grant a motion for sanctions under CCP
§128.5 under these circumstances.  
 
Although denied on procedural grounds, the Motion would be
properly denied on the merits. 
 
Under CCP §
128.5(a)(b)(2), a “frivolous” action is one that is “totally and completely
without merit or for the sole purpose of harassing an opposing party.”  The fact
that a motion or motions lack merit is not enough by itself to justify an award
of sanctions under Section 128.5. It is error to award sanctions if it was not
unreasonable for the moving party to think the issues raised were arguable, and
there is no evidence of subjective bad faith or improper motive. (Garcia v.
Sterling (1985) 176 Cal.App.3d 17, 20.) “[A] showing that a party’s action
or tactic is totally and completely without merit does not settle the issue of
whether the action or tactic was in bad faith. Such a showing is certainly
evidence that the action is brought in bad faith [Citation], because a trial
court is entitled to infer from the utter lack of merit that the party knew
that it lacked such merit, and yet continued to pursue the action for some
ulterior motive. However, the trial court may not be willing to draw the
inference if it is convinced that, despite the complete lack of merit, the
party was acting in the good faith (albeit erroneous and even unreasonable)
belief that the action was meritorious. Thus, the inference of bad faith is one
which the trial court may make, but it is not mandatory that it do so.” (Summers
v. City of Cathedral City (1990) 225 Cal.App.3d 1047, 1073.) 
 
Blaine argues that Partyworks’ CEO and attorney lied when, in support of
the motion to set aside default, they represented to the Court that they did
not become aware of the default until August 2023.  Blaine submits evidence that Blaine’s
enforcement counsel communicated with Partyworks’ CEO and attorney about the
default as early as April and May 2023.  
 
Misrepresentations to the Court
are taken seriously.  In his February 15,
2024, declaration in support of the motion to set aside default, Mr. Elkaim
stated he became aware of the UD Case “sometime around August 2023”. (Elkaim
Decl., ¶10.) The evidence submitted by Plaintiff proves this statement is
false.  The issue here, however, is
whether Plaintiff has established that Partyworks’ motion to set aside default
was wholly without merit and made in bad faith or with improper motive.  In this regard, Plaintiff has failed to
address Partyworks’ main argument in support of its motion -- that it did not
receive actual notice of the UD case in time to defend.  Moreover, Partyworks gained nothing from misrepresenting
when it learned of the default.  Relief
under CCP § 473.5 was denied because Partyworks did not file the motion on or
before September 15, 2023. (4/11/24 Minute Order.) Whether Partyworks
discovered the default in April 2023 or August 2023 was immaterial to the
Court’s ruling.  While a party must
demonstrate diligence in seeking equitable relief, the Court determined
Partyworks was ineligible for equitable relief because it presented no evidence
of extrinsic fraud or mistake to show that Plaintiff deliberately concealed the
action from Defendant, or that Defendant should be excused from its failure to
respond to the action. (Id.) Thus, on the merits, Plaintiff has not
established entitlement to relief under CCP §128.5.  
 
Accordingly, the motion for
attorney’s fees is DENIED.  
 
 