 Case Number:  22STCV12586    Hearing Date:   October 6, 2023    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  SHAUNT MIRIKIAN, Plaintiff(s),  vs.  CHIPOTLE MEXICAN GRILL, INC., ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 22STCV12586  [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: MOTIONS TO COMPEL  Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  October 6, 2023  I. Motions to Compel¿ Defendant Chipotle Mexican Grill, Inc., (“Defendant”) propounded on Plaintiff Shaunt Mirikian (“Plaintiff”) the following discovery requests:  (1) special interrogatories, set two, on August 23, 2022;  (2) request for production of documents (“RPDs”), set two, on January 10, 2023; and  (3) RPDs, set three, on February 6, 2023.  After granting Plaintiff’s request for an extension, Plaintiff has not served responses to any of the above discovery. Defendant therefore seeks an order compelling Plaintiff to respond, without objections, to the outstanding discovery and to pay sanctions.  In lieu of filing an opposition, Plaintiff’s counsel filed a declaration as to Defendant’s motion to compel RPD, set three. Plaintiff’s counsel declares that Plaintiff served verified responses to RPDs, set three, on July 14, 2023. In reply, Defendant argues Plaintiff did not serve substantive responses. Defendant provides a copy of Plaintiff’s responses to RPDs, set three, served on July 14, 2023, which was absent from Plaintiff’s counsel’s declaration. For a motion to compel initial discovery responses, all a propounding party must show is that it properly served its discovery requests, that the time to respond has expired, and that the party to whom the requests were directed failed to provide a timely response. (See Leach v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 902, 905 906.) Where a party fails to serve timely responses to discovery requests, the court may make an order compelling responses. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300; Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390, 403.)  A party that fails to serve timely responses waives any objections to the request, including ones based on privilege or the protection of attorney work product. (Code Civ. Proc., §2030.290, subd. (a); §2031.300, subd. (a).)  Pertinent only to Defendant’s RPDs, set three, Plaintiff responds in the same manner as to each document request: “After diligent search and reasonable good faith effort, Plaintiff is unable to comply with this demand as Plaintiff has never been in the possession, custody, control of the documents sought.” (Def. Reply; Exh. 1.) Defendant contends these responses are not in substantial compliance with the Discovery Act. For the purposes of a motion to compel, the motion to compel RPDs, set three is moot because responses were served prior to the hearing. Defendant may schedule an informal discovery conference (“IDC”) and file a motion to compel further to elicit further responses. In terms of Defendants’ other propounded discovery, there is no evidence that Plaintiff properly served responses to RPDs, set two, and special interrogatories, set two. Therefore, because the evidence shows Plaintiff was properly served with discovery and failed to respond to RPDs, set two, and special interrogatories, set two, Defendant’s motions are GRANTED. Plaintiff is ordered to serve verified responses to Defendant’s special interrogatories, set two, RPDs, set two, without objections, within twenty (20) days. (CCP §§ 2030.290(a),(b), 2031.300(a),(b).)  II. Sanctions¿ Sanctions are mandatory against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response, unless a court makes certain findings.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290(c), 2031.300(c).)¿ Plaintiff did not file any opposition to the motions to compel special interrogatories, set two, and RPDs, set two. However, sanctions may be awarded, even though no opposition was filed pursuant to CRC 3.1348(a). Defendant seeks sanctions in the amount of $480 for each motion. Even though the motion to compel RPDs, set three, is moot, Defendant is still entitled to sanctions because responses were served after Defendant had filed its motion to compel. Defendant is awarded 1 hour to prepare each motion to compel and one hour to appear at the hearing- but is awarded this time only once- all at the requested rate of $200 per hour, for a total of $800 in attorney fees.    Sanctions are imposed against Plaintiff and Plaintiff’s attorney of record, jointly and severally.  Plaintiff and/or Plaintiff’s counsel are ordered to pay sanctions to Defendant, by and through counsel of record, in the total amount of $800, within twenty (20) days.  Defendant is ordered to give notice.    PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 5th day of October 2023      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court   