  Case Number:  19STCV34893    Hearing Date:   October 6, 2023    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  ARACELI SANCHEZ, Plaintiff(s),  vs.  ALICIA RIVERA, ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 19STCV34893  [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: MOTION TO COMPEL SECOND EXAMINATION OF PLAINTIFF   Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  October 6, 2023  I. Background Plaintiff Araceli Sanchez (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendant Alicia Rivera (“Defendant”) for damages arising from a motor vehicle incident.  At this time, Defendant moves for an order compelling Plaintiff to appear for an examination with board-certified neurologist Barry Ludwig, M.D. (“Dr. Ludwig”) at 2811 Wilshire Boulevard, Suite 508, Santa Monica, CA 90403 on October 10, 2023 at 9:00 a.m. Defendant contends a neurological examination is necessary because Plaintiff claims her headache and neurological condition was caused by the incident.    Any opposition was due on or before September 25, 2023; none was filed.    II. Motion to Compel Examination  Except for defense physicals in personal injury cases (in which one examination is permitted as a matter of course) and exams arranged by stipulation, a court order is required for a physical or mental examination. Such order may be made only after notice and hearing, and for “good cause shown.”  (CCP §2032.320(a).)   The examination will be limited to whatever condition is “in controversy” in the action.  (CCP §2032.020(a).)  This means the examination must be directly related to the specific injury or condition that is the subject of the litigation.  (Roberts v. Superior Court (1973) 9 Cal.3d 330, 337.)  Often, a party's pleadings put his or her mental or physical condition in controversy ... as when a plaintiff claims continuing mental or physical injury resulting from defendant's acts: “A party who chooses to allege that he has mental and emotional difficulties can hardly deny his mental state is in controversy.”  (See Vinson v. Superior Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833, 837, wherein the plaintiff claimed ongoing emotional distress from sexual harassment by former employer.)  Discovery responses can also frame the issues regarding the injuries and damages alleged.  Where the plaintiff's injuries are complex, several exams may be necessary by specialists in different fields. There is no limit on the number of physical or mental exams that may be ordered on a showing of good cause.  The good cause requirement checks any potential harassment of the plaintiff.  (See Shapira v. Superior Court (1990) 224 Cal.App.3d 1249, 1255.)   Plaintiff previously appeared for her medical examination with Defendant’s orthopedic expert, Dr. Arya Nick Shamie. Defendant seeks a second examination of Plaintiff related to her claim for traumatic brain injury. Defendant argues Plaintiff intends to present a neurological injury case resulting in life-long care for Plaintiff, because Plaintiff designated Dr. Jonathan Eskenazi, a neurologist, who is to offer an opinion as to the nature and extent of Plaintiff’s neurological injuries sustained in the collision. Defendant argues the parties had agreed to meet and confer to schedule Plaintiff’s examination with a neurologist. However, despite the agreement, Defendant avers Plaintiff’s counsel has failed to respond to meet and confer efforts concerning the neurology examination, and that defense counsel never received a response from Plaintiff’s counsel. On July 31, 2023, Defendant served Plaintiff a demand to appear for an examination with Dr. Ludwig, and Plaintiff did not serve a response.  Plaintiff did not file any opposition to the motion or otherwise dispute that Plaintiff has put her mental condition at issue, such that her claimed injuries necessitate an additional examination by a neurologist. There is no evidence that Plaintiff objected to Defendant’s demand for physical examination served on July 31, 2023, for an examination with Dr. Ludwig set for October 10, 2023. Based on the foregoing, the Court thus finds good cause for the neurological examination sought.   CCP § 2032.320(d) requires the moving party to specify the “diagnostic tests and procedures, conditions, scope, and nature of the examination.”  Defendant indicates the nature and scope of the examination in the moving papers: “The examination will consists [sic] of a clinical interview and the administration of some, or all, of the following tests: a clinical interview with Dr. Ludwig regarding Plaintiff’s prior relevant medical history, review of systems, family medical history, and social history. Dr. Ludwig will also conduct a physical examination to test Plaintiff’s strength, coordination, reflexes, gait, and sensation. Finally, the examination will conclude with a brief mental state exam.” (Mot. p. 4, lines 27-28; p. 5, lines 1-4.) The list of potential tests in the moving papers is sufficient to permit Plaintiff to prepare for the examination. Moreover, Plaintiff did not oppose the motion or otherwise object to scope of the examination or any of the listed tests. The Court therefore finds Defendant has met her obligation in this regard.    Based on the foregoing, Defendant’s motion to compel Plaintiff’s neurological examination is GRANTED. However, the Court is concerned that compelling Plaintiff to appear for an examination on October 10, 2023 is insufficient notice to Plaintiff, because the proposed examination date is only 2 calendar days from date of the Order.    Therefore, Plaintiff is ordered to appear for a mental examination with Barry Ludwig, M.D. at 2811 Wilshire Boulevard, Suite 508, Santa Monica, CA 90403 on another date and time. Defendant is to reschedule the date of the examination. Defense counsel must meet and confer with Plaintiff’s counsel to determine the date and time for the examination; if Plaintiff does not meaningfully participate in the meet and confer process, Defendant may unilaterally set the date and time for the examination with at least ten days’ notice to Plaintiff (extended per Code if by other than personal service).      Defendant is ordered to give notice.    PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the Court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 5th day of October 2023      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court   