  Case Number:  22VECV01458    Hearing Date:   December 4, 2024    Dept:  W KIMBERLY
DAVIS, et al. v. PAIGE HEMMIS, et al.
 
brief: re stay
of proceedings, bifuraction and mediation 
 
Date of Hearing:        December
4, 2024                             Trial
Date:       None
set. 
Department:              W                                                        Case No.:        22VECV01458
 
BACKGROUND
 
On February 6, 2024, Plaintiffs
Kimberly Davis and Jonathan Davis filed a third amended complaint against
Defendants Paige Hemmis, Jason Short, Ameka Benton, Scott Fields, Hallmark Cards,
Inc., Crown Media Holdings, Inc., Paige Hemmis, Inc., Aria Music Group, The
Oaks of Calabasas Homeowners Association, Melissa Improta, Jason Improta, and Compass
California, Inc. for 1) Intentional Interference with Contract; 2) Negligence; 3)
Trespass; 4) Violations of Civil Code § 1798.93; 5) Breach of Fiduciary Duty; 6)
Professional Negligence; 7) Unfair Business Practices; 8) Fraudulent
Concealment; 9) Negligent Misrepresentation; 10) Fraud; 11) Slander of Title; 12)
Constructive Fraud; 13) Wrongful Eviction; 14) Quiet Title; and 15) Conversion.
 
Plaintiffs allege about September 15,
2019, when Plaintiffs were absent from the subject property, Defendants Hemmis
and Short unlawfully entered upon the subject property and remained in
possession of the property until early July 2022. While Defendants Hemmis and
Short were in possession of the property, Plaintiffs were engaged in a dispute
with their mortgage lender, US Bank, related to a settlement agreement that was
entered into to address the pay off of a mortgage loan. Plaintiffs further
allege at some point prior to September 12, 2019, Defendants Hemmis, Short, Improta
and Compass engaged in a conspiracy to attempt to steal title to the
Plaintiffs’ home. On this point, Plaintiffs claim Hemmis and Short fraudulently
forged a lease that purported to have Kimberly Davis' signature on it. As a
result of Defendants’ actions, Plaintiffs have been damaged. Plaintiff
dismissed Defendants Ameka Benton and Scott Fields. 
 
On March 24, 2023, this action was
related to Kimberly Davis v. Nationstar, et al. (23VECV01125). On August
18, 2023, Paige Hemmis and Jason Short filed a cross-complaint against Kimberly
Ann Davis, Compass California, Inc. dba Compass, Melissa Improta, and Jason
Improta for breach of contract, money had and received, implied
indemnification, express indemnification, and comparative contribution. Cross-Complainants
dismissed their cause of action for express indemnification. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
The request
for a stay is granted, except as to the attorney fee motions, currently set for
hearing in December.  The remainder of
the case is stayed, pending the resolution of the current appeals, including
all discovery.   
 
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
Plaintiffs
request this court take judicial notice of declarations filed by Plaintiffs in
this instant action in support of their opposition to Defendant Hallmark Media
United States, LLC’s Special Motion to Strike (RJN, Exhs. 1, 2.) The court
GRANTS the request as to the existence of these documents. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
On October 9, 2024, the Court ordered
the parties to file briefs on the issue of whether the case should be stayed in
whole or in part, whether the action should be bifurcated, and the parties’
willingness to engage in private mediation. Plaintiffs Kimberly Davis and
Jonathan Davis, Hallmark Defendants, The Oaks HOA, Defendants Paige Hemmis and
Jason Short, and Defendants Compass California, Inc. dba Compass, Melissa
Improta and Jason Improta all filed briefs. Each take their own position on the
issues inquired by this Court.  
 
Defendants Paige Hemmis and Jason Short
 
Defendants Paige Hemmis and Jason Short
argue a stay of all trial court proceedings should be invoked, including all
discovery and depositions, pending the completion of the appellate process.
Defendants contend (1) the filing of the appeals by Hallmark Defendants and
Plaintiffs created an automatic stay; (2) the automatic stay is to the entire
action as the SLAPP motion sought to have stricken all causes of action against
Hallmark Defendants and a simple reading of the TAC shows that all the
allegations and claims factually overlap; and (3) the resulting burden and
expense of not staying the entire action as to all Defendants will be
significant. 
 
As for bifurcation, Defendants oppose
the idea as to require Defendants to participate in more than one jury trial
will be expensive, unduly burdensome, and unfair. 
 
Defendants agree to private mediation. 
 
The Oaks HOA
 
The Oaks HOA argues there should be a
full stay of the action as the allegations against the various defendants are
intertwined to the degree that all causes of action are affected by the appeals
filed by Hallmark Defendant and Plaintiffs. In addition, the interests of
judicial efficiency and economy will best be served by staying the entire
action. The Oaks HOA maintains there is no way to exclude any one cause of
action or party from the mandatory stay without running the risk that there would
be substantial interference with the appellate court’s jurisdiction. Moreover,
to allow the matter to proceed in part would be at odds with the policy and
purpose of the anti-SLAPP statute as the causes of action are “inextricably
intertwined”. Thus, to allow the action to proceed against the non-appealing defendants
and make a finding on the merits of the inter-related claims prior to
disposition of the pending appeals would substantially interfere with the appellant
court's ability to conduct the appeal and could result in irreconcilable outcomes
or results. 
 
The Oaks HOA also does not wish for the
claims against it to be bifurcated at this time. The Oaks HOA note all
Plaintiffs’ allegations against them are based on allegations that it conspired
with the other defendants to create, approve or ratify a fraudulent lease and
to bifurcate the claims would require a duplication of judicial resources.  
 
The Oaks HOA is agreeable to private
mediation. 
 
Compass California, Inc. dba Compass,
Melissa Improta and Jason Improta
 
Compass California, Inc. dba Compass,
Melissa Improta and Jason Improta (“Real Estate Defendants”) submitted their
brief in support of an order staying all trial-court proceedings as to all
parties in this action or, in the alternative, an order staying all discovery
as to all parties in this action until the resolution of the pending appeals.
Defendants assert the automatic stay on further trial-court proceedings applies
to all parties as each of Plaintiffs’ causes of action are based on the same
set of operative facts alleging a supposed conspiracy between the multiple defendants
and Plaintiffs’ pleading has made it so that it is virtually impossible to have
proceedings on the nine causes of action without crossing into the domain of
the six causes of action on appeal. Moreover, Defendants argue the parties
currently do not know what the outcome of the appeals will be and it would be
the most cost effective to stay all proceedings until the resolution of the appeals.
Defendants contend this would save judicial time and resources as well as save
the parties time and resources by preventing unnecessary costs from being
incurred like costs of duplicative depositions. However, if the court finds a
stay on all proceedings is not feasible, Defendants seek a stay on all discovery.

 
As for bifurcation, Defendants argue
against bifurcation as it would not resolve the issues presented and would be
impossible. It would ultimately result in duplicative trials, needless
duplication of resources, duplicative time spent by all parties to prepare for
the trials and attend the trials, duplicative costs and fees associated with
the trials, and a waste of already limited judicial resources.
 
Defendants are willing to participate
in mediation.   
 
Plaintiffs Kimberly Davis and Jonathan
Davis 
 
Plaintiffs note the action is stayed as
to the Hallmark Defendants but argue the other defendants’ reasons for staying
the entire action as to them are unavailing. Nonetheless, Plaintiffs would be
agreeable to a stay of the instant action on the condition that all proceedings
are stayed, including the Plaintiff's pending fee motion and the Defendants'
fee motion. The reason for this is that the Plaintiffs would prefer to avoid
further unnecessary appeals. Plaintiffs contend it is well-settled law that a court
may rule on a request for attorney's fees in connection with an anti-SLAPP
motion after the appeal is resolved. (Carpenter v. Jack in the Box Corp. (2007)
151 Cal. App. 4th 454.) Indeed, the Court of Appeals would either eliminate the
need for this court to rule on the fee motion or provide substantial guidance
on what the outcome of those motions should be. Plaintiffs briefly note that
the Hallmark Fee Motion itself wouldn’t past muster but nonetheless, if the
court were to grant Hallmark’s Fee Motion, Plaintiffs would engage in
substantial briefing and litigation to appeal the decision or post a bond which
could all be avoided upon waiting on the Court of Appeals’ decision.
Accordingly, Hallmark Defendants would not suffer any prejudice by the approach
suggested above. 
 
Plaintiffs also briefly argue if the
court is not inclined to stay the entire case – including fee motions – it
should permit the Plaintiff to continue with prosecuting the case, including
propounding discovery and filing a motion for summary judgment as to Paige
Hemmis' cross-complaint, which would have the benefit of establishing one of
the most critical issues in this litigation – that Ms. Hemmis had no right to
be in the Plaintiff's home. 
 
Plaintiffs go on to argue why all the
other remaining defendants’ contentions that the court should stay the case
against them are not well taken. As for Hemmis/Short Defendants, Plaintiffs
argue a stay does not suspend the trial court proceedings with respect to
claims asserted against nonappealing parties. (Hedwall v. PCMV, LLC
(2018) 22 Cal.App.5th 564, 580, fn. 11.) Moreover, Hemmis/Short Defendants
filed a cross-complaint asserting their own claims for affirmative relief
arising out of the same general set of facts. Staying the entire action,
including the cross-complaint, is clearly not a matter embraced in this appeal
nor would continued litigation on the cross-complaint affect Hallmark's pending
appeal in any meaningful way. Moreover, Hemmis/Short Defendants’ provide no
authority for their contention that the action must be stayed in its entirety
since the allegations of agency and relationship necessarily ties into the
Plaintiff's argument against Hemmis. 
 
As for the Real Estate Defendants’
contention, Plaintiffs argue the problem with their argument is that virtually
all of the cited allegations pertain to a conspiracy between Real Estate
Defendants and Hemmis/Short, or with other Defendants, not including Hallmark. Accordingly,
the resolution of the appeal does not impact the Real Estate Defendants’
liability. Moreover, any notice that Hallmark Defendants may depose them
in the future is speculative and there is nothing wrong with wishing this case
to proceed. If the court were to stay only as to discovery, Plaintiffs would
potentially have to respond to a motion for summary judgment without complete
discovery. 
 
Turning to The Oaks HOA, Plaintiffs
argue nothing the Hallmark Defendants did has any bearing on the Oaks of HOA
liability. Their liability stems from improperly providing Ms. Hemmis with
access to the Plaintiff's property and conspiring with the other defendants. The
Oaks cannot legitimately point to anything in the Hallmark Defendants appeal
that has anything to with their liability. 
 
Plaintiffs aver each defendant claimed
Plaintiffs would suffer no prejudice by staying the matter; however, Ms. Davis
has repeatedly stated she cannot obtain a new loan so long as this case remains
pending and Ms. Hemmis’ cloud on the title remains. 
 
As for bifurcation, Plaintiffs oppose
the notion as trying this case twice would be inordinately expensive, costly,
and time-consuming. In addition, Plaintiffs would certainly have to re-call
Paige Hemmis as a witness as her conduct in wrongfully occupying the home,
which the Hallmark Defendants allegedly ratified, is highly relevant for
punitive damages and other purposes. 
 
Plaintiffs agree to mediation on the
condition that all parties will attend. 
 
Hallmark Defendants
 
Hallmark Defendants argue because they
are the ones who appealed the SLAPP Order, the case is automatically stayed as
to the them. However, the Hallmark Defendants oppose any stay as to the other
Defendants or related to the Hallmark Fee Motion. Hallmark Defendants contend the
issues to be tried as to the Hallmark Defendants and all of the other
Defendants are unlikely to overlap. Furthermore, the claims that remain against
the Hallmark Defendants are narrow. Specifically, the SLAPP Order effectively
eliminated the Alleged Real Estate Fraud theory as to the Hallmark Defendants
finding that there was not “sufficient evidence to find that Hallmark Media
ratified the alleged forgery by Ms. Hemmis of a deed or lease or the alleged
interference with contract”. (Order, p. 10.) As a result, Hallmark Defendants
claim if the Court of Appeals finds in favor of Hallmark on the remaining claims
and on timeliness, then the case against the Hallmark Defendants will be dismissed.
If the Court of Appeal upholds the Court’s order as to the remaining causes of
action against the Hallmark Defendants, and Hemmis is not found liable in the interim,
a similar result will occur. And in the event that Hemmis is found liable in
the interim, the only issue remaining after appeal will be whether Hemmis was acting
as the Hallmark Defendants’ agent and if so, whether the Hallmark Defendants’
ratified her conduct by continuing to display the AHWOF Videos after this
lawsuit commenced. 
 
Hallmark Defendants further argue the
HOA’s argument that a stay “would be at odds” with” the policy of the SLAPP statute”
is unfounded. The Legislature enacted the SLAPP statute to promote the “fast
and inexpensive unmasking and dismissal” of lawsuits, like this one, that
target the exercise of free-speech rights about matters of public interest.
Hallmark Defendants claim allowing the causes of action to proceed would serve
that end because it would substantially narrow the issues while the appeal is
pending and any duplicative discovery is unnecessary. Hallmark Defendants also
argue in a footnote on p. 8 that Plaintiffs request is untimely because if they
are requesting a complete stay, the request had to be filed by 11/4 (Per Court
Order).
 
Hallmark Defendants also argue that the
Hallmark Fee Motion should be resolved as calendared. Hallmark Defendants assert
“an appeal does not stay proceedings on ancillary or collateral matters which
do not affect the judgment [or order] on appeal,” (Varian Medical Systems,
Inc. v. Delfino (2005) 35 Cal. 4th 180, 191) and courts consistently have
held that prevailing SLAPP defendants can bring fee motions under Section
425.16(c) while a plaintiff appeals the underlying ruling. (See e.g. Carpenter
v. Jack in the Box (2007) 151 Cal. App. 4th 454, 461.) In this case, there
is no basis to delay a hearing on the Hallmark Fee Motion because deciding the
motion now while the merits of the motion already are briefed and the facts
relating to the underlying merits of the SLAPP Motion
are still fresh with the Court will lead to the most expedient and just
outcome. Furthermore, the outcome will have no impact on the number appeals in
this case or adversely impact the judicial economy of the case. Plaintiffs can
either appeal after final judgment or stay enforcement by posting an
appropriate bond. 
 
As for bifurcation, Hallmark Defendants
argue the trial should be bifurcated in the interest of judicial economy.
According to Hallmark Defendants, bifurcation is appropriate because (1) if
Hemmis and Short are found not liable, there can be no liability for the
Hallmark Defendants, potentially avoiding the need for trial as to Hallmark
altogether; (2) if Hemmis and Short are found liable on only a subset of the
claims against Hallmark, the required evidence and trial would be significantly
narrowed; and (3) even if liability is found as to Hemmis and Short as to all
of the claims alleged against Hallmark, the issues to be tried as to the
Hallmark Defendants and all of the other defendants are not significantly
overlapping. Specifically, the TAC alleges no facts to show that the Hallmark
Defendants were involved in any the underlying conduct or were involved in a
conspiracy with the other Defendants. Notably, there are no facts pled in the
TAC that the Hallmark Defendants are vicariously liable for the acts of
Compass, the Improtas, or the HOA. Moreover, none of the allegations show the
Hallmark Defendants were involved in the underlying conduct or conspiracy. 
 
In reply, Real Estate Defendants argue
because every cause of action incorporates the allegations that the defendants
allegedly conspired together and moreover, that every act of Defendants Hemmis
and Short was allegedly done within the scope of their agency relationship with
the Hallmark Defendants, the issues in this case are all inextricably tied
together necessitating a stay. 
 
Plaintiffs also filed a reply as to
Hallmark Defendants’ brief. Plaintiffs maintain Hallmark cannot enjoy the
benefit of the stay and then attempt to participate in this case by making
substantive requests (arguing the other parties must litigate against each
other and the action should be bifurcated). (See CCP §916.) Because Hallmark
has no standing to file a motion to bifurcate, the request should be denied.
Plaintiffs go on to argue why bifurcation is not appropriate in this matter
including having to call witnesses multiple times, Plaintiffs’ claim for
trespass is not dependent on agency and ratification, and Hallmark Defendants
have not come close to meeting its burden of establishing that Plaintiff would
not be prejudiced. 
 
Hallmark Defendants are open to private
mediation. 
 
Stay the Action
 
Based on the arguments above as well as
the authority provided to this court, the court grants the request to stay the
action in whole. 
 
“Except as provided in Sections 917.1
to 917.9, inclusive . . . the perfecting of an appeal stays proceedings in the
trial court upon the judgment or order appealed from or upon the matters
embraced therein or affected thereby, including enforcement of the judgment or
order, but the trial court may proceed upon any other matter embraced in the
action and not affected by the judgment or order.” (CCP § 916(a).)  
 
The trial court is divested of subject
matter jurisdiction over any matter embraced in or affected by the appeal
during the¿pendency of that appeal. (See Varian Medical Systems, Inc. v.
Delfino¿(2005) 35 Cal.4th 180, 197.) Subsequent trial court proceedings on
matters embraced in or affected by the appeal are void. (Id. at
198.)  “The purpose of the automatic stay
provision of section 916, subdivision (a) ‘is to protect the appellate court's
jurisdiction by preserving the status quo until the appeal is decided. The
[automatic stay] prevents the trial court from rendering an appeal futile by
altering the appealed judgment or order by conducting other proceedings that
may affect it.’” (Id. at 189.) 
 
“[W]hether a matter is ‘embraced’ in or
‘affected’ by a judgment within the meaning of section 916 depends upon whether
postjudgment trial court¿proceedings on the particular matter would have any
impact on the ‘effectiveness' of the appeal. If so, the proceedings are stayed;
if not, the proceedings are permitted.” (City of Santa Monica v. Stewart¿(2005)
126 Cal.App.4th 43, 79,¿as modified on denial of reh'g (Feb. 28, 2005)
(Stewart).)
 
The court finds that a stay is
appropriate in this case as to the entire matter because of the substantial
interrelationship between the claims involving Halmark, currently on appeal,
and claims that remain as to the other defendants.  As plead in the operative complaint, the
claims are “inextricably intertwined,” alleging conspiracies and agency
relations between all of the groups of defendants.   To allow the case to proceed against certain
defendants, without the Hallmark Defendants, would lead to redundancy,
inefficiency, and expense.   As just one
example, to allow discovery to proceed but to exclude Hallmark from that
process could require that all that discovery be redone should Hallmark return
to active status in the case after the current appeal is concluded.   While it is true that a trial as to the
Hemmis defendants and a jury exoneration of those defendants could relieve
Hallmark of any further liability, the converse is also true.  If the jury finds against the Hemmis
defendants, Hallmark would not be bound by that finding but would be permitted
to its own trial on those same issues.  
 
The court sees no reason, however, to
stay resolution of the attorney fee motions. 
Those motions are briefed and set to be heard in the near future.  They are ancillary to the current
appeal.  Further, if the court rules on
those motions, and either party disagrees with the court’s ruling, an appeal
can be taken and likely consolidated with the current appeal, ensuring that the
entire issue of the anti-SLAPP motion is resolved once and for all, rather than
broken up into piecemeal appeals.  
 