 Case Number:  23VECV03069    Hearing Date:   December 4, 2024    Dept:  W JOSE MERA, et
al. vs MARINE AMIRKHANYAN
 
plaintiff’s motion
to compel defendant’s further discovery responses
 
Date of Hearing:        December
4, 2024                 Trial Date:       February 3, 2025  
Department:              W                                            Case
No.:        23VECV03069
 
Moving Party:             Plaintiff LZB
Retail Inc.  
Responding Party:     Defendant
SWZ, LLC 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On July 17,
2023, Plaintiff LZB Retail, Inc. filed a complaint against Defendant SWZ, LLC
for breach of lease, breach of covenant of good faith and fair dealings,
promissory estoppel, negligence and negligent misrepresentation. Plaintiff
alleges as the Tenant, entered into a written Lease Agreement with Defendant,
as the Landlord whereby Plaintiff agreed to lease a commercial space. Plaintiff
further alleges Defendant breached the agreement by failing to give possession
at the time agreed upon in the Lease Agreement and upon finally obtaining
possession, Plaintiff’s contractor discovered that Defendant had failed to
properly seal the Property’s slab. Plaintiff further alleges Defendant has
refused to pay Plaintiff towards the cost of the construction of “Tenant’s
Work” as agreed upon and Defendant has failed to provide Plaintiff with a sign
panel as agreed upon. On October 26, 2023, Plaintiff filed a First Amended
Complaint adding a cause of action for false promise. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Plaintiff’s
Motion to Compel Defendant SWZ, LLC to Further Respond to Special
Interrogatories, Set One is GRANTED, in part. 
 
Plaintiff’s
Motion to Compel Defendant SWZ, LLC to Further Respond to Form Interrogatories,
Set One is GRANTED, in part. 
 
Plaintiff’s
Motion to Compel Defendant SWZ, LLC to Further Respond to Request for
Admissions, Set One is MOOT. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
Plaintiff
moves the court for an order compelling further responses from Defendant SWZ,
LLC to Plaintiff’s Special Interrogatories (Set One), Nos. 1 -53; Form
Interrogatories (Set One), Nos. 12.1, 12.6, 12.7, 15.1, and 17.1; and Request
for Admissions (Set One), Nos. 3, 8, 12, 13, 14 and 16. 
 
The court
notes an IDC was held October 10, 2024 whereby this court advised Defendant
that there should be supplemental responses to the disputed discovery. SWZ
served supplemental responses. In light of Defendant’s supplemental responses
to the Request for Admissions, Plaintiff withdraws the motion to compel as to
the RFA but does not withdraw its request for sanctions. Plaintiff further
argues WZ’s supplemental responses to the disputed SROGs and FROGs continue to
be deficient and require further supplementation. 
 
As for the
SROGs, the court finds the supplemental responses sufficient as to certain
responses. Plaintiff notes that some of the SROGs inadvertently cited the
original complaint rather than the FAC but claims the SROG nonetheless contained
sufficient detail and an unambiguous request for all facts supporting the
contention. The court disagrees. Plaintiff may serve supplemental discovery
requests citing the correct paragraphs and language of the FAC. Moreover,
responses where Defendant’s response is “the parties” is sufficient. The term
‘parties’ is defined. 
 
However, the
court agrees where the Defendant gives one word responses to the
interrogatories, such as “operative fact,” 
the response is insufficient. As noted by Plaintiff, “if a question does
require the responding party to make reference to a pleading or document, the
pleading or document should be identified and summarized so the answer is fully
responsive to the question.” (Deyo v. Kilbourne (1978) 84 Cal.App.3d
771, 784.) As such, Defendant should identify where in the operative FAC
supports the contention. Moreover, the court agrees the responses such as “no
documents were identified” (see SROG 29 and 30) are evasive. 
 
As for the
FROGs, the court finds the responses to FROG 15.1(a) and 15.1(b) sufficient.
Plaintiff notes that the responses are not “complete and straightforward”
because Defendant will state that it is asserting the affirmative defense as a
matter of right and certain claims may be barred by statute of limitations, may
contain speculative damage, and so on. However, this is sufficient. Defendant
has stated why they are asserting these affirmative defenses in the first
sentence. For 15.1(b), the term ‘parties’ is defined and the parties have the
addresses and telephone numbers. Moreover, 15.1(c) only asks the responding
party to identify the documents and the information of the person who has each
document. Defendant has done so. Lastly, Plaintiff has demonstrated the
responses were not sufficiently supplemented as to FROG 17.1. 
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s
Motion to Compel Defendant SWZ, LLC to Further Respond to Special
Interrogatories, Set One is GRANTED, in part. Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel
Defendant SWZ, LLC to Further Respond to Form Interrogatories, Set One is
GRANTED, in part. Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Defendant SWZ, LLC to Further
Respond to Request for Admissions, Set One is MOOT.
 
Sanctions
 
Plaintiff
seeks the following monetary sanctions against Defendant and its counsel for
having to bring the following motions: $6,860.00 for having to bring their
motion to compel further responses to Special Interrogatories, Set One;
$4,860.00 for having to bring their motion to compel further responses to Form
Interrogatories, Set One; and $3,660.00 for having to bring their motion to
compel further responses to Requests for Admissions, Set One. 
 
The court
GRANTS the request for sanctions in the reduced amount as follows: 
 
$1660.00 for
having to move to compel further responses to Plaintiff’s SROG, Set One. 
$!060 for
having to move compel further responses to Plaintiff’s FROG, Set One. 
$860.00 for
having to move to compel further responses to Plaintiff’s RFA, Set One. 
 