 Case Number:  24VECV03148    Hearing Date:   December 4, 2024    Dept:  W VINCENT LEMUS,
et al. vs HI DESERT MOBILE HOME PARK, LP
 
defendant hi
desert mobile home park, lp’s motion to strike portions of plaintiff’s
complaint 
 
Date of Hearing:        December 4, 2024                             Trial Date:       None
set. 
Department:              W                                                        Case No.:        24VECV03148
 
Moving Party:            Defendant
Hi Desert Mobile Home Park, LP 
Responding Party:     Plaintiffs
Vicente Lemus, Rose Dodd, Juliet Lemus by and through her guardian ad litem
Rose Dodd, Ivory Lemus by and through her guardian ad litem Rose Dodd, and
Isiah Lemus by and through his guardian ad litem Rose Dodd  
Meet and Confer:      Yes
(Mintesnot Decl. ¶2.) 
 
BACKGROUND
 
This is a habitability case. On July 2,
2024, Plaintiffs Vicente Lemus, Rose Dodd, Juliet Lemus by and through her
guardian ad litem Rose Dodd, Ivory Lemus by and through her guardian ad litem
Rose Dodd, and Isiah Lemus by and through his guardian ad litem Rose Dodd filed
a complaint against Hi Desert Mobile Home Park, LP for (1) Breach of Warranty
of Habitability; (2) Breach of Warranty of Quiet Enjoyment; (3) Nuisance; (4)
Violations of Civil Code section 1941.1, et seq. and (5) Negligence. Plaintiffs
allege shortly after taking possession of an apartment from Defendant,
Plaintiffs began to experience multiple substandard conditions including deteriorated
flooring, cracked walls and ceilings; defective cabinets; faulty and defective
electrical wiring and outlets; lack of hot water; improper sewage/garbage
disposal, inoperable doors and windows, excessive odors and lack of sanitation in
the common areas and infestations of roaches and vermin. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Defendant Hi Desert Mobile Home Park, LP’s Motion to Strike
Portions of Plaintiffs’ Complaint is DENIED. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Defendant Hi Desert Mobile Home Park LP moves the court for an
order striking portions of Plaintiffs Vicente
Lemus, Rose Dodd, Juliet Lemus by and through her guardian ad litem Rose Dodd,
Ivory Lemus by and through her guardian ad litem Rose Dodd, and Isiah Lemus by
and through his guardian ad litem Rose Dodd complaint. 
 
The court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion,
and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper
matter inserted in any pleading. (CCP § 436(a).) The court may also strike all
or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of
this state, a court rule, or an order of the court. (CCP § 436(b).) The grounds
for a motion to strike are that the pleading has irrelevant, false or improper
matter, or has not been drawn or filed in conformity with laws. (CCP § 436.)
The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by
way of judicial notice. (CCP § 437.) Punitive damages may be imposed where
it is proven by clear and convincing evidence that the defendant has been
guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice. (Civ. Code § 3294(a).) A plaintiff must assert facts with specificity to support a
conclusion that a defendant acted with oppression, fraud, or malice.¿ To wit,
there is a heightened pleading requirement regarding a claim for punitive
damages.¿(Smith v. Superior Court (1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 1033,
1041-1042.).)¿¿ 
 
Defendant argues Plaintiffs’ complaint seeks punitive damages, but
Plaintiffs have pled no facts to establish that any conduct by Defendant was
performed with malice, oppression or fraud. Specifically, Plaintiffs have made
broad allegations and blanket characterizations of Defendant’s conduct without
explaining how such conduct arises to the requisite level of culpability to
impose punitive damages. At most, Plaintiffs' allegations might rise to the
level of negligence. 
 
In opposition, Plaintiffs argue they have pled sufficient facts to
support their request for punitive damages. The court agrees the allegations
are sufficient for the purposes of a motion to strike. The complaint alleges
Defendant knew or should have known of the substandard conditions of the
subject property and intentionally rented the substandard unit to Plaintiffs. (Compl.
¶34, 43, 60.)  Moreover, when complained
to Defendants about the deplorable conditions of the unit, Defendants would
make promises to fix but either ignored the complaints or when attempted to
fix, Defendants failed to correctly fix the issues.  (Compl. ¶45,63.) Plaintiffs assert this was
done intentionally, recklessly, maliciously and with oppression. Taken as a
whole and assuming the truth of the well-pleaded allegations, the foregoing is sufficient
to defend against a motion to strike. 
 
Accordingly, Defendant Hi Desert Mobile Home Park, LP’s Motion to
Strike Portions of Plaintiffs’ Complaint is DENIED. 