  Case Number:  19STCV46508    Hearing Date:   October 18, 2024    Dept:  45 Superior Court of
California
County
of Los Angeles
 



 
JOEL
  ARTIGA,
 
                             Plaintiff,
 
                              vs.
WASTE
  MANAGEMENT, INC., WASTE MANAGEMENT OF CALIFORNIA, INC., USA WASTE OF
  CALIFORNIA, INC., NICHOLAS MORENO, AND DOES 1-100,
 
                              Defendants.


Case No.: 19STCV46508 
DEPARTMENT
  45
 
 
 
[TENTATIVE] RULING
 
 
 
Action
  Filed: 12/23/2019 
1st
  Amended Complaint Filed: 5/26/2020
Trial
  Date: 4/8/2024 



 
Hearing date:
October 18, 2024  
Moving Party: Plaintiff
Joel Artiga 
Responding
Party: Defendant USA Waste of California, Inc. 
Motion
to Compel Further Discovery Responses from Defendant USA Waste of California,
Inc.’s Response to Plaintiff’s Special Interrogatories, Set Three
The Court
considered the moving papers, opposition, and reply.
            The
motion to compel Defendant’s further responses to special interrogatories, set
three, is moot. 
            Plaintiff’s
request for monetary sanctions is denied. 
            Defendant’s
request for monetary sanctions is denied.
Background
            On
May 26, 2020, Joel Artiga (Plaintiff) filed a first amended complaint (FAC)
against Waste Management, Inc., Waste Management of California Inc., USA Waste of
California, Inc., and Nicholas Moreno. The FAC alleges causes of action for (1)
age discrimination, (2) harassment based on age, (3) failure to prevent
harassment and discrimination, (4) wrongful termination in violation of public
policy, (5) violation of Labor Code section 1102.5, (6) negligent hiring and
supervision, and (7) intentional infliction of emotional distress. The FAC
alleges Plaintiff was wrongfully harassed and terminated based on his age after
twenty years of working as a driver for the defendants. 
            On
February 2, 2024, Plaintiff filed the instant motion to compel further
responses from USA Waste of California, Inc. (Defendant) to Plaintiff’s special
interrogatories, set three. Plaintiff also moves for sanctions in the amount of
$2,000. Plaintiff files this motion after Defendant responded with objections
to the special interrogatories sent on September 15, 2023.  
            On
October 7, 2024, Defendant filed an opposition. Defendant opposes this motion
on the grounds that Plaintiff’s counsel failed to properly meet and confer and
that the matter is moot because Defendant provided further responses on September
27, 2024. Defendant requests monetary sanctions in the amount of $1,740.
Legal
Standard
Where responses
to interrogatories have been served but the requesting party believes that they
are deficient because the answers are evasive or incomplete, or, because an
objection is without merit, that party may move for an order compelling a
further response. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.300 subd. (a).) The motion must be
made within 45 days after service of verified responses in question, or any
verified supplemental responses. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.300 subd. (c).) The
motion must be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration in compliance with Code
of Civil Procedure section 2016.040 subd. (b).)
“If a party to
whom interrogatories are directed fails to serve a timely response…the party to
whom the interrogatories are directed waives any right to exercise the option
to produce writings under Section 2030.230, as well as any objection to the
interrogatories, including one based on privilege or on the production for work
product.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.290 subd. (a)(1).) The court may relieve the
party from this waiver if (1) the party has subsequently served code compliant
responses and (2) the failure was a result of mistake, inadvertence, or
excusable neglect. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.300 subd. (a).) 
“The court shall
impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7…against any party, person, or attorney
who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a further response to
interrogatories, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted
with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition
of the sanction unjust. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2023.300 subd. (d).) “The court may
impose a monetary sanction ordering that one engaging in the misuse of the
discovery process, or any attorney advising that conduct, or both pay the
reasonable expenses, including attorney's fees, incurred by anyone as a result
of that conduct.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2023.030 subd. (a).)
Discussion
            Motion to Compel Further Responses
            Plaintiff
moves for an order compelling Defendant’s further responses to special
interrogatories, set three. 
            Meet and Confer 
            Plaintiff
has not properly met and conferred. On October 11, 2023, counsel for Defendant
Danielle S. Zobel requested an extension for the response to special
interrogatory set three. (Zobel Decl.,
¶ 3.) Plaintiff’s counsel did not
respond, and Defendant submitted objection-only responses to the special
interrogatories to preserve Defendant’s rights. (Zobel Decl., ¶ 4.) On November 13th and November 28, 2023, Plaintiff’s counsel
sent meet and confer letters. (Gallagher Decl., ¶¶ 4-5.) Defendant’s
counsel responded and set up a meet and confer call for December 21, 2023. (Zobel Decl., ¶ 5.) Plaintiff’s counsel missed the call. (Zobel Decl., ¶ 5.) Both parties agreed to extend the motion to compel deadline
to February 14, 2024. (Zobel Decl., ¶ 6; Gallagher Decl., ¶
7.) Plaintiff filed its motion to compel on February 14, 2024. On March 7,
2024, Defendant’s counsel asked if Plaintiff’s counsel would withdraw the
motion if Defendant provided supplemental responses.
(Zobel Decl., Exh. F.) Plaintiff’s counsel declined to do so. (Zobel Decl., Exh. F.) After Defendant submitted supplemental responses on
September 27, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel did not respond to further inquiries
asking to withdraw the motion. (Zobel Decl., ¶ 10.) As a result of
missing the phone call, Plaintiff’s counsel’s meet and confer efforts were
limited to letters scheduling and extending the motion. Therefore, Plaintiff
did not properly comply with the meet and confer requirement. 
Motion
to Compel Further Responses
            Plaintiff
argues good cause exists for the special interrogatories, set three, because it
requests the identities and contact information of Defendant’s other employees.

Defendant
provided supplemental responses to the special interrogatories, set three, on
September 27, 2024. Defendant provided a verified response to all special
interrogatories at issue including the identities and contact information of
the relevant employees. (Zobel Decl., Exh. G.) Accordingly, the motion to compel further responses to
special interrogatories, set three, is moot.
            Requests for Monetary Sanctions
            Plaintiff
requests monetary sanctions in the amount of $2,000 on the grounds that Code of
Civil Procedure section 2031.300 provides that the Court shall award sanctions
against a party who unsuccessfully opposes the motion. Defendant argues that
sanctions are not warranted because the motion is moot and because Plaintiff’s
counsel failed to meet and confer in good faith. 
            Here,
Defendant’s counsel acted with substantial justification when it timely
responded with objections after Plaintiff’s counsel did not respond to requests
for extension. (Zobel Decl., Exh. C.) Plaintiff’s counsel further failed to
meet and confer in good faith. Plaintiff’s counsel did not respond to
Defendant’s requests to take this hearing off calendar after Defendant provided
responses. (Zobel Decl., ¶ 10.) Accordingly, Plaintiff’s request for sanctions is denied. 
            Defendant
requests sanctions in the amount of $1,740. Defendant argues there is no justification
for the instant motion after Defendant supplied further responses. 
            Here,
the Court found that the motion to compel further responses was moot because
Defendant provided further responses before the hearing. Plaintiff’s motion to
compel further responses was not unsuccessfully made. Therefore, Defendant’s
request for monetary sanctions is denied. 
            It
is so ordered.
 
Dated: October 18, 2024
 
_______________________
MEL RED RECANA
Judge of the
Superior Court
 