  Case Number:  20STLC00111    Hearing Date:   September 11, 2024    Dept:  26  
Mold Masters, Inc. v. Lahiji, et al.LEAVE
TO AMEND PLEADING(CCP §§ 473(a), 576; CRC Rule 3.1324)
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Plaintiff Mold Masters, Inc.’s
Motion for Leave to File an Amended Complaint is GRANTED. PLAINTIFF IS TO FILE
AND SERVE THE FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT WITHIN 20 DAYS OF THIS ORDER.
 
 
ANALYSIS:
 
Plaintiff Mold
Masters, Inc (“Plaintiff”) filed the instant action against Defendant Nahid
Lahiji, individually, and as Trustee of the Nahid Lahiji Trust dated September
22, 2017, (“Defendant”) on January 7, 2020. On December 13, 2021,
Defendant filed an answer to the Complaint. 
 
Plaintiff filed
the instant Motion for Leave to File an Amended Complaint on July 3, 2024. No
opposition has been filed to date. 
 
Discussion
 
The Complaint alleges causes of action for breach of contract,
common counts, and foreclosure of mechanic’s lien with respect to mold remediation services Plaintiff provided Defendant.
(Compl., ¶¶6-8.) Plaintiff now moves for leave to file a First Amended
Complaint under Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (a) and
section 576. Specifically, Plaintiff
seeks to make non-substantive changes to the Complaint by correcting certain
typographical errors and attaching the correct contract. 
 
A motion for leave to amend a
pleading must comply with the procedural requirements of California Rules of Court, Rule
3.1324, which requires a supporting declaration to set forth explicitly what
allegations are to be added and where, and explicitly stating what new evidence
was discovered warranting the amendment and why the amendment was not made
earlier. The motion must also include (1) a copy of the proposed and numbered
amendment, (2) specifications by reference to pages and lines of the
allegations that would be deleted and added, and (3) a declaration specifying
the effect, necessity and propriety of the amendments, date of discovery and
reasons for delay. (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1324, subds. (a), (b).)
 
Plaintiff’s Motion is supported by a declaration
explaining that the errors in the original Complaint were discovered in
June 2024 and setting forth what allegations are to be added and where with “specifications
by reference to pages and lines of the allegations that would be deleted and
added.” (Motion, Stiefler
Decl., p. 2:3-26.) The policy favoring amendment and resolving all
matters in the same dispute is “so strong that it is a rare case in which
denial of leave to amend can be justified. . . .” (Magpali v. Farmers Group
(1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 471, 487.) However, “[a] different result is indicated
‘where inexcusable delay and probable prejudice to the opposing party’ is
shown. [Citation].” (Ibid.) Here, Plaintiff seeks leave to amend the
Complaint to make non-substantive corrections such as referring to the contract
as the “second contract” instead of the “first contract” and changing the
numbering in the prayer for damages. (Motion, Stiefler Decl., p. 2:3-26.) Nor is there any indication
of excusable delay nor prejudice to Defendant, who has not opposed the Motion.
All the requirements for leave to amend, therefore, are satisfied.
 
Conclusion
 
Plaintiff Mold Masters, Inc.’s
Motion for Leave to File an Amended Complaint is GRANTED. PLAINTIFF IS TO FILE
AND SERVE THE FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT WITHIN 20 DAYS OF THIS ORDER.
 
 
Moving party to give notice. 