 Case Number:  24STLC02554    Hearing Date:   September 11, 2024    Dept:  26   
Delta
Elevator Co., Inc. v. Tulum Wellness, LLC, et al.DEMURRER
(CCP § 430.10, et seq.)
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Defendants
Greenleaf RB, LLC and Behrokh Tabibian aka Ben Tabibian’s Demurrer to the First
Amended Complaint is OVERRULED. MOVING DEFENDANTS ARE TO FILE AN ANSWER TO THE
FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT WITHIN 20 DAYS OF THIS ORDER.
 
 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 

On April 8, 2024, Plaintiff Delta
Elevator Company, Inc. (“Plaintiff”) filed the instant action against
Defendants Tulum Wellness, LLC, Greenleaf RB, LLC (“Defendant Greenleaf”) and Behrokh
Tabibian aka Ben Tabibian (“Defendant Tabibian”). The First Amended Complaint
alleging (1) breach of contract; and (2) enforcement of mechanic’s lien, was
filed on June 3, 2024. 
 
Defendants Greenleaf and Tabibian
filed the instant Demurrer to the First Amended Complaint on July 29, 2024. Plaintiff
filed an opposition on August 26, 2024 and Cross-Defendant replied with
evidentiary objections on August 29, 2024. 
 
Discussion
 
The Demurrer is accompanied by a
meet and confer declaration as required by Code of Civil Procedure section
430.41. (Demurrer, Zadeh Decl., ¶¶3-6.) Moving Defendants
demur on the grounds that the First Amended Complaint fails to allege facts
sufficient to state a cause of action and is uncertain. (Citing Code Civ.
Proc., § 430.10, subds. (e), (f).) Special demurrers, however, are not
permitted in the limited jurisdiction court. (Code Civ. Proc., § 92, subd. (c).)
Therefore, the Court will not consider the demurrer for uncertainty. 
 
Evidentiary Objections
 
Plaintiff’s evidentiary
objections are ruled on as follows. 
 
·        
Objections
to the declaration of Mansour Jafarian, nos. 1-6 are sustained.
·        
Objections
to portions of the Demurrer, nos. 7-12 are overruled. 
 
Allegations in the First
Amended Complaint
 
The First Amended Complaint
alleges the following facts: Plaintiff was an elevator installer and Defendant
Greenleaf was an entity formed by Defendant Tabibian. (FAC, ¶¶1-2.) Defendant
Greenleaf was the owner of certain real property located at 10742 Riverside Dr,
North Hollywood, California (“the Property”). (Id. at ¶3.) Moving
Defendants entered into a contract with Plaintiff to “furnish and install one
hydro passenger elevator at the Property.” (Id. at ¶4 and Exh. I.)
Plaintiff partially fulfilled its obligations and issued an invoice of December
27, 2019, charging Moving Defendants for services and materials totaling
$31,392.00. (Id. at ¶7 and Exh. III.) Moving Defendants did not settle
the invoice but made consistent assurances they would do so by February 2021,
and again by June 2021. (Ibid.) However, Moving Defendants did not do so
such that there was a payment conflict as of June 2021. (Ibid.) Despite
Plaintiff’s repeated demands, no portion of the contract price has been
remitted. (Id. at ¶8.) The amount of $31,392.00, plus interest of ten
percent per annum is owed to Plaintiff. (Ibid.) Defendant Greenleaf sold
the Property to Defendant Tulum in May 2022. (Id. at ¶9.) Plaintiff
filed a mechanic’s lien against the Property in December 2023. (Id. at
¶9 and Exh. IV) Notice of the mechanic’s lien was served on Defendant Tulum on
December 22, 2023 and recorded on January 23, 2024. (Id. at ¶¶10-11 and
Exh. V.) No notice of completion or cessation has been recorded with respect to
the contract to date. (Id. at ¶12.)
 
1st Cause of Action for Breach
of Contract
 
A cause of action for breach of
contract must allege “(1) the existence of the contract, (2) plaintiff’s
performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3) defendant’s breach, and (4) the
resulting damages to the plaintiff.” (D’Arrigo Bros. of California v. United
Farmworkers of America (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 790, 800.) Defendant
Greenleaf argues it is not a party to, nor in privity with any party to, the
contract. In support, it points to the first page of the contract attached to
the First Amended Complaint, which names the parties as Plaintiff and Defendant
Tabibian. (FAC, Exh. I, p. 1.) In opposition, however, Plaintiff argues that
the contract was signed by Defendant Tabibian on behalf of Defendant Greenleaf.
(Id. at Exh. I, p. 4.) In the signature block to the contract Defendant
Greenleaf is listed as the contractor and it appears Defendant Tabibian signed
on Defendant Greenleaf’s behalf. (Ibid.) This comports with the
allegation in the First Amended Complaint that Defendant Greenleaf is a party
to the contract. 
 
Moving Defendants also argue that
the first cause of action is barred by the statute of limitations, which
expired four years after work was completed and payment was due, on December
27, 2019. (Citing Code Civ. Proc., § 337.) However, the First Amended Complaint
does not allege with that work was completed, or that payment was due, on that
date. Plaintiff alleges that an invoice for partial work was sent to Moving
Defendants on December 27, 2019. (FAC, ¶7 and Exh. III.) It goes on to allege
that Moving Defendants made promises to pay by February 2021, and then by June
2021. (Ibid.) To sustain a demurrer based on a statute of limitations
defense “[i]t must appear clearly and affirmatively that, upon the face of the
complaint, the right of action is necessarily barred.” (Leasequip, Inc. v.
Dapeer (2002) 103 Cal.App.4th 394, 400.) The statute of limitations on a
breach of contract cause of action runs from the date of breach. (Piedmont
Capital Management, L.L.C. v. McElfish (2023) 94 Cal.App.5th 961, 964.)
Moving Defendants have not shown that the date of breach is clearly alleged to
have occurred more than four years prior to the filing of this action. 
 
Therefore, the Demurrer to the
first cause of action is overruled.
 
2nd Cause of Action for Enforcement
of Mechanic’s Lien
 
Moving Defendants first demur to
the second cause of action on the grounds that before recording a mechanics
lien, a subcontractor must serve a 20-day preliminary notice upon the owner,
the contractor, and the construction lender. (Citing Kim v. JF Enterprises
(1996) 42 Cal.App.4th 849, 854.) Certain exceptions to the 20-day preliminary
notice rule exist for “(1) ‘one under direct contract with the owner’, or (2)
one performing actual labor for wages.” (Ibid.) 
 
Moving Defendants contend that
Plaintiff is a subcontractor subject to the preliminary notice requirement
because it signed under the line “acceptance of subcontract.” (See FAC, Exh. I,
p. 4.) However, “The rationale for excepting those under direct contract with
the owner from serving a preliminary notice is that ‘the owner is generally
apprised of potential lien claims by those with whom he deals directly, whereas
it is difficult for him to learn of potential liens by those not under direct
contract. [Citation.]’ (Truestone, Inc. v. Simi West Industrial Park II, supra,
163 Cal.App.3d at p. 722, 209 Cal.Rptr. 757.)” (Id. at 855.) Here,
Plaintiff alleges, and the attached contract demonstrates, that Plaintiff
directly contracted with Moving Defendants such that they were apprised of
potential lien claims. Plaintiff is not required to allege compliance with the
preliminary notice requirement. 
 
Finally, Moving Defendants demur
on the basis that Plaintiff did not file and record the mechanic’s lien within
90 days’ completion of the work of improvement. Again, Moving Defendants
mischaracterize the First Amended Complaint, which does not allege that the
work was completed by Defendant 27, 2019. Plaintiff specifically alleges that
the work was only partially completed and that the entire project remains
unfinished. (FAC, ¶25.) The Demurrer to the second cause of action, therefore,
is also overruled.
 
Conclusion
 
Defendants
Greenleaf RB, LLC and Behrokh Tabibian aka Ben Tabibian’s Demurrer to the First
Amended Complaint is OVERRULED. MOVING DEFENDANTS ARE TO FILE AN ANSWER TO THE
FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT WITHIN 20 DAYS OF THIS ORDER.
 
 
Court clerk to give notice. 
 
 