 Case Number:  23STCV29408    Hearing Date:   April 30, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Safeco Insurance Company of America,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23STCV29408




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




Blue Legacy Construction, Inc.,


 
 
 
Defendant.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date: April 30, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice Leiter
Demurrer to Complaint
Moving Party: Defendant Blue Legacy Construction,
Inc.
Responding Party: Plaintiff Plaintiff Safeco Insurance
Company of America
 
T/R:     DEFENDANT’S DEMURRER IS OVERRULED.
 
DEFENDANT TO FILE AND SERVE AN ANSWER
TO THE COMPLAINT WITHIN 20 DAYS OF NOTICE OF RULING.
 
DEFENDANT TO NOTICE.
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please
email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing.
The Court considers the moving papers
and opposition. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On December 1, 2023, Plaintiff Safeco
Insurance filed a complaint against Defendant Blue Legacy Construction, Inc.,
asserting causes of action for (1) negligence and (2) negligence per se.
Plaintiff alleges Defendant negligently performed roof work with a torch or
other heating device, causing fire damage at property owned by Plaintiff’s
insured.
 
 
 
 
ANALYSIS
 
A demurrer to a complaint may be taken to the whole complaint or to any
of the causes of action in it.  (CCP §
430.50(a).)  A demurrer challenges only
the legal sufficiency of the complaint, not the truth of its factual
allegations or the plaintiff's ability to prove those allegations.  (Picton v. Anderson Union High Sch. Dist. (1996)
50 Cal. App. 4th 726, 732.)  The court
must treat as true the complaint's material factual allegations, but not
contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.  (Id. at 732-33.)  The complaint is to be construed liberally to
determine whether a cause of action has been stated.  (Id. at 733.)
 
Defendant demurs to the complaint on the grounds that Plaintiff has
failed to allege negligence and that negligence per se is not a cause of
action. To plead a cause of action for negligence, one must allege (1) a legal
duty owed to plaintiffs to use due care; (2) breach of duty; (3) causation; and
(4) damage to plaintiff. (County of Santa Clara v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2006)
137 Cal. App. 4th 292, 318.) Plaintiff alleges Defendants breached their duty
to perform roofing work with reasonable care by negligently operating a torch
or other heating device, causing fire damage. This is sufficient to allege a
cause of action for negligence. Plaintiff may allege negligence per se as an
alternative theory of liability.
 
Defendant’s demurrer is OVERRULED.


 