 Case Number:  20STCV36739    Hearing Date:   October 13, 2023    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposing and reply papers, the Court rules as follows. 
PROCEDURAL BACKGROUND 
On
September 25, 2020, Plaintiff Casey Curley (“Plaintiff”) filed this action
against Defendants Bonita Unified School District (“District”), Bonita High
School (“High School”), Kelly O’Grady (“O’Grady”), Chae Mireles (“Mireles”),
Justis Mireles-Torres (“Mireles-Torres”), and Does 1-50 for premises liability
(Gov. Code, §§ 835, 840, Cal. Const., art. 1, § 28, subd. (c)) and failure of a
school to provide adequate supervision of students (Cal. Const., article 1, § 28,
subd. (c), Gov. Code, § 815.2, Cal. Code Regs. Title 5, § 5552, Cal. Educ. Code,
§§ 44807, 49370). 
On
May 10, 2021, District filed an answer. On May 27, 2021, O’Grady, Mireles, and
Mireles-Torres filed an answer. 
On
January 3, 2023, District, O’Grady, Mireles, and Mireles-Torres (“Moving
Defendants”) filed a motion for summary judgment or, in the alternative,
summary adjudication, to be heard on September 7, 2023. On August 24, 2023,
Plaintiff filed an opposition. On August 30, 2023, Moving Defendants filed a
reply. On September 13, 2023, Plaintiff filed a supplemental opposition. The
Court continued the hearing on the motion to October 13, 2023. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for January 3, 2024. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Moving
Defendants request that the Court grant summary judgment or, in the alternative,
summary adjudication. 
Plaintiff
requests that the Court deny the motion. 
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS 
Moving Defendants’ objections:
Overruled
Plaintiff’s objections: Overruled 
LEGAL STANDARD 
“‘[F]rom
commencement to conclusion, the party moving for summary judgment bears the
burden of persuasion that there is no triable issue of material fact and that
he is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.’”  (LAOSD Asbestos
Cases (2023) 87 Cal.App.5th 949, 945, quoting Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.
(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850 (Aguilar)) “[T]he party moving for summary judgment
bears an initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing of the
nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact; if he carries his burden of
production, he causes a shift, and the opposing party is then subjected to a
burden of production of his own to make a prima facie showing of the existence
of a triable issue of material fact.”  (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at
p. 850.) 
When
the moving party is a defendant, it must show that the plaintiff cannot
establish at least one element of the cause of action.  (Aguilar,
supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 853.) “The defendant has shown that the plaintiff
cannot establish at least one element of the cause of action by showing
that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, needed
evidence.”  (Id. at p. 854.) The defendant must “present evidence,
and not simply point out that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably
obtain, needed evidence.”  (Ibid.) Thus, “the defendant must ‘support[
]’ the ‘motion’ with evidence including ‘affidavits, declarations, admissions,
answers to interrogatories, depositions, and matters of which judicial notice’
must or may ‘be taken.’ [Citation.] The defendant may, but need not,
present evidence that conclusively negates an element of the plaintiff’s cause
of action. The defendant may also present evidence that the plaintiff does not
possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence—as through admissions by
the plaintiff following extensive discovery to the effect that he has
discovered nothing.”  (Id. at p. 855, original emphasis.) 
“Supporting
and opposing affidavits or declarations . . . shall set forth admissible
evidence.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (d).) “Matters which would be
excluded under the rules of evidence if proffered by a witness in a trial as
hearsay, conclusions or impermissible opinions, must be disregarded in
supporting affidavits.”  (Hayman v. Block (1986) 176 Cal.App.3d 629,
639.) 
In
addition, a party moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication must
support the motion with “a separate statement setting forth plainly and
concisely all material facts which the moving party contends are undisputed. Each
of the material facts stated shall be followed by a reference to the supporting
evidence.” (Parkview Villas Assn. v. State Farm Fire & Casualty Co. (2006)
133 Cal.App.4th 1197, 1209 (Parkview Villas), quoting Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (b)(1) [motion for summary
judgment]; see Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(2) [motion for summary
adjudication “shall proceed in all procedural respects as a motion for summary
judgment”].) The party opposing the motion must file with the opposition papers
“a separate statement that responds to each of the material facts contended by
the moving party to be undisputed, indicating whether the opposing party agrees
or disagrees that those facts are undisputed. The statement also shall set
forth plainly and concisely any other material facts that the opposing party
contends are disputed. Each material fact contended by the opposing party to be
disputed shall be followed by a reference to the supporting evidence.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (b)(3).)  If either party fails to comply
with the applicable separate statement requirement, that failure may in the
court’s discretion constitute a sufficient ground to decide the motion
adversely to the offending party. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subds. (b)(1),
(3).)  
In
ruling on the motion, the court must view the evidence and the inferences reasonably
drawn from it in the light most favorable to the opposing
party.  (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 843.) 
DISCUSSION 
A.   The complaint 
The
complaint alleges the following: 
On
November 14, 2018, Plaintiff, a high school student, was at her cheerleading practice
at Bonita High School.  While practicing
a new flying stunt routine as a cheerleader, Plaintiff was thrown approximately
eleven feet high.  However, the “base”
students did not catch the Plaintiff.  Plaintiff
fell and landed on the hardwood flooring of the gym, sustaining serious
injuries. The floor was not covered by mats and no safety measures to prevent
injuries of this kind were in effect. After Plaintiff fell, she was picked up
from the ground without first assessing her injuries, against concussion
protocol. 
District
and High School owned, operated, controlled, maintained and managed Bonita High
School.  O’Grady,
Mireles, and Mireles-Torres were employees of District and High School and
were acting in the course and scope of their employment.  At the time of the incident, O’Grady,
Mireles, and Mireles-Torres failed to supervise Plaintiff. 
B.   Undisputed facts 
On
November 14, 2018, Plaintiff was a student at Bonita High School. Plaintiff was
under the age of 18.  District owned and
operated High School.  O’Grady, Mireles, and
Mireles-Torres were District employees. 
          Plaintiff had been practicing and performing as a “flyer”
for a number of years before the incident. Plaintiff
was aware there were risks associated with cheerleading, including the risk of
falling and the risk of injury. 
On
November 14, 2018, Plaintiff was practicing a new stunt sequence with a new
acro stunt group which was not composed of the same members with whom she was
comfortable practicing and performing. At
the time of Plaintiff’s fall, the stunt group was practicing a new stunt
sequence which included a “lib” stunt. Plaintiff
had practiced and performed a “lib” prior to November 14, 2018. However, she
had not practiced and performed a “lib” with the new acro stunt group with whom
she was practicing a new stunt sequence which included a “lib” stunt on
November 14, 2018. 
At
the time of Plaintiff’s fall, there were no mats covering the hardwood floor. 
C.   Motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication 
1.    Release (express assumption of the risk) 
a.    Legal authority 
Moving
Defendants argue Plaintiff’s action is barred by the express waiver and release
signed by Plaintiff’s mother as a condition of participation in cheerleading. 
“ ‘[C]ontract
principles apply when interpreting a release, and ... normally the meaning of
contract language, including a release, is a legal question, not a factual
question. [Citation.]” (Brown v. El Dorado Union High School Dist.
(2022) 76 Cal.App.5th 1003, 1023 (Brown), quoting Solis v. Kirkwood
Resort Co. (2001) 94 Cal.App.4th 354, 360.) 
“When
an individual signs an express waiver of liability, he ‘promises not to
exercise the right to sue for harm caused in the future by the wrongful
behavior of a potential defendant, eliminating a remedy for wrongdoing.’ ” (Brown,
supra, 76 Cal.App.5th at p. 1023, quoting Coates v. Newhall Land
& Farming, Inc. (1987) 191 Cal.App.3d 1, 7 (Coates).) “Similarly,
in signing an express assumption of risk, ‘the potential plaintiff agrees not
to expect the potential defendant to act carefully, thus eliminating the
potential defendant's duty of care, and acknowledging the possibility of
negligent wrongdoing. Both agreements permit behavior that normally would be
actionable as tortious, although an express assumption of risk goes further,
more clearly authorizing this behavior.’” (Ibid., quoting Coates,
supra, 191 Cal.App.3d at pp. 7-8.) 
“ ‘ “In
its most basic sense, assumption of risk means that the plaintiff, in advance,
has given his express consent to relieve the defendant of an obligation of
conduct toward him, and to take his chances of injury from a known risk arising
from what the defendant is to do or leave undone .... The result is that the
defendant is relieved of legal duty to the plaintiff; and being under no duty,
he cannot be charged with negligence.” (Prosser & Keeton on Torts [(5th ed.
1984)] § 68, pp. 480-481, fn. omitted, second italics added.)’ ” (Brown, supra, 76 Cal.App.5th at p. 1023,
quoting Knight v. Jewett (1992) 3 Cal.4th 296, 338, fn. 4 (Knight).) 
“ ‘[C]ases
have consistently held that the exculpatory provision may stand only if it does
not involve ‘the public interest.’ ” (Brown, supra, 76
Cal.App.5th at p. 1023, quoting Tunkl v. Regents of University of Cal.
(1963) 60 Cal.2d 92, 96.) “Releases of negligence claims are not per se against
the public interest.”  (Ibid.,
citing Solis v. Kirkwood Resort Co. (2001) 94 Cal.App.4th 354, 360.)  “Similarly, ‘[e]xculpatory agreements in the
recreational sports context do not implicate the public interest and therefore
are not void as against public policy.’ ” (Id. at p. 1024, quoting Benedek
v. PLC Santa Monica (2002) 104 Cal.App.4th 1351, 1356-1357 (Benedek).) 
“However,
‘an agreement made in the context of sports or recreational programs or
services, purporting to release liability for future gross negligence,
generally is unenforceable as a matter of public policy.’ ” (Brown, supra, 76 Cal.App.5th at p. 1024, citing
City of Santa Barbara v. Superior Court (2007) 41 Cal.4th 747, 751.) “Thus,
in the recreational context, while a waiver of liability and assumption of risk
can serve as a bar to liability based on negligence, it cannot serve as a bar
to liability based on gross negligence.” 
(Ibid.) 
“ ‘California
courts require a high degree of clarity and specificity in a Release in order
to find that it relieves a party from liability for its own negligence. The
release must “clearly, explicitly and comprehensibly set forth to an ordinary
person untrained in the law that the intent and effect of the document is to
release his claims for his own personal injuries and to indemnify the
defendants from and against liability to others which might occur in the future
as a proximate result of the negligence of [the] defendants ....” ’ ” [Citation
omitted.]” (Brown, supra, 76 Cal.App.5th
at p. 1024, quoting Cohen
v. Five Brooks Stable (2008) 159
Cal.App.4th 1476, 1488-1489, italics omitted.) “ ‘To be effective, a release
need not achieve perfection; ... It suffices that a release be clear,
unambiguous, and explicit, and that it express an agreement not to hold the
released party liable for negligence. [Citation.]’ ” (Ibid., quoting Nat'l
& Internat. Bhd. of St. Racers, Inc. v. Superior Court (1989) 215
Cal.App.3d 934, 938.) 
“ ‘
“It is only necessary that the act of negligence, which results in injury to
the releasor, be reasonably related to the object or purpose for which the
release is given.” ’  [Citation.] The
issue is not whether the particular risk of injury is inherent in the
recreational activity to which the release applies, but rather the scope of the
release. [Citations.] An act of negligence is reasonably related to the object
or purpose for which the release was given if it is included within the express
scope of the release. [Citation.]” (Brown, supra, 76 Cal.App.5th
at p. 1024, quoting Benedek, supra, 104 Cal.App.4th at pp.
1357-1358.) 
In Brown,
the release stated in part: 
“In consideration for EDUHSD, allowing the above-named
students to participate in the school-related activity/ies specified above,
I/we voluntarily agree to release, waive, discharge, and hold harmless the
EDUHSD and its trustees, officers, employees, and agents from any and all
claims of liability arising out of their negligence, or any other act or
omission which causes the above-named student illness, injury, death or damages
of any nature in any way connected with the student’s participation in the school-related
activity/ies. I/We also expressly agree to release and discharge EDUHSD, its
trustees, officers, employees, and agents from any act or omission of
negligence in rendering or failing to render any type of emergency or medical
services.”  
(Brown, supra,
76 Cal.App.5th at p. 1010.) 
The
Court of Appeal affirmed the trial court’s order granting the defendant’s
motion for summary judgment, observing that the release signed by the student’s
father “covered all allegedly negligent acts by coaches, and any other employee
or volunteer, while they were engaged in ‘coach[ing], train[ing], instruct[ing],
or supervis[ing]’ in football” and “also applied to negligent acts by coaches,
and any other employees or volunteers, involved in diagnosing and/or treating [the
plaintiff] for potential injuries suffered while he was engaged in playing
football.” (Brown, supra,
76 Cal.App.5th at p. 1024.) 
b.    The waiver/release 
In
support of Moving Defendants’ motion for summary judgment, Moving Defendants
provided the declaration of Matthew Wien (“Wien”), the Interim Superintendent
for the Bonita Unified School District (“District”). As custodian of records
for the District, Wien is authorized to certify on the District’s behalf that
the records attached to his declaration are true and complete copies of records
maintained in the regular course and scope of the District’s business. 
In
his declaration, Wien stated that a true and correct copy of acknowledgements,
releases, and waivers electronically signed by Plaintiff and her mother Natalie
Curley on August 21, 2018 was attached to Wien’s declaration as Exhibit 1. Wien
declared: 
·      
 The District maintains these documents in the
regular course and scope of business.
·      
 The acknowledgement, releases, and waivers
signed by Plaintiff and Natalie Curley include an express acknowledgment of the
risks inherent in participation in a sport or activity, including cheerleading,
and an express waiver of any claims arising out of any injuries from
participation in the sport or activity.
·      
Plaintiff’s
participation in cheerleading activities on November 14, 2018 came after Plaintiff
and Natalie Curley signed the documents attached as Exhibit 1, including the
acknowledgment and waiver of any claims for injuries resulting from Plaintiff’s
participation in athletic activities, including cheerleading. 
 The
waiver or release provides: 
“PARENT/GUARDIAN CONSENT & VOLUNTARY SPORT/ACTIVITIE
WAIVER
I realize that this activity is voluntary as part of
the Bonita Unified School District Extra-Curricular program(s). I am aware that
participating in a school sport(s)/activity can be dangerous activity involving
MANY RISKS OF SERIOUS ILLNESS AND/OR INJURYAND/OR DEATH. I understand that the
dangers and risks of participating in a school sport(s) / activity include, but
are not limited to: death, serious neck injury and spinal injuries that may
result in complete or partial paralysis, brain damages, serious injury to any
and all bones, joints, ligaments, muscles, tendons, other aspects of the
muscular-skeletal system, any and all internal organs; serious injury and
impairments to other aspects of the student's body, general health and well-being.
I further understand that the dangers and risks of participating in a school
activity and/or sport(s) may result in not only serious injury or death, but in
a serious impairment of the student's future abilities to earn a living, engage
in other business, social, employment and recreational activities and generally
enjoy life. For and in consideration of the opportunity for my child/ward to
try out for or participate in a school activity and/or sport(s), I assume all
risks for illness, injury and/or death and do hereby agree to indemnify and
hold harmless the Bonita High School and Bonita Unified School District, its
officers, agents and employees, from any and all liability, claims, actions,
loss, debt, or damage that may arise out of or in connection with my child's participation
in a school activity and/or sport(s). In the event of illness or injury, I
hereby consent to whatever x-ray, examination, anesthetic, medical, surgical,
or dental diagnosis or treatment and hospital care are considered necessary in
the best judgement of the attending physician, surgeon, or dentist and
performed by or under the supervision of a member of the medical staff of the
hospital or facility furnishing medical or dental services. California
Education Code Section 35330 provides, in pertinent part as follows: "All
persons making a field trip or excursion shall be deemed to have waived all
claims against the district or the State of California for injury, accident,
illness, or death occurring during or by reason of the field trip or
excursion". I fully understand that participants are to abide by all rules
and regulations governing conduct during athletic events and/or activities. Any
violation of these rules and regulations may result in that individual being
disciplined and/or sent home at his/her and/or parent/guardian's expense. I
ASSUME ALL RISKS FOR ILLNESS AND/OR INJURY AND/OR DEATH. By agreeing to this
form, WE fully understand the risks involved in high school activities and
athletics, hold harmless the Bonita High School and Bonita Unified School
District and agree to follow Bonita Unified School District’s Athletic Code
(the Athletic Code is on a separate page included in the Clearance Packet). If
any of the above is not completely understood, please contact your coach and/or
site administrator for further explanation and information.” 
(Declaration of Matthew Wien,
Exh. 1.) 
c.     Analysis 
Unlike
the release at issue in Brown, the release here does not “clearly,
explicitly and comprehensibly set forth to an ordinary person untrained in the
law that the intent and effect of the document is to release his claims for his
own personal injuries and to indemnify the defendants from and against
liability to others which might occur in the future as a proximate result of
the negligence of [the] defendants ....” ’ ” [Citation omitted.]” (Brown,
supra, 76 Cal.App.5th at p. 1024.) 
The release does not mention or purport to release the District, High
School, or their employees from the results of their negligence.  Without any reference to negligence, the release
cannot serve as a basis for barring Plaintiff’s action. 
Therefore,
Moving Defendants have not carried their initial summary judgment burden on
this issue. 
2.    Assumption of the risk 
a.    Legal authority 
Whether
the doctrine of primary assumption of the risk applies to a negligence claim “is
a legal question involving the duty of care . . . .” (Nigel B. v. Burbank Unified School Dist. (2023) 93 Cal.App.5th 64, 72 (Nigel B.).)
“ ‘ “Although
persons generally owe a duty of due care not to cause an unreasonable risk of
harm to others (Civ. Code, § 1714, subd. (a)), some activities—and,
specifically, many sports—are inherently dangerous. Imposing a duty to mitigate
those inherent dangers could alter the nature of the activity or inhibit
vigorous participation.” [Citation.] The primary assumption of risk doctrine, a
rule of limited duty, developed to avoid such a chilling effect. [Citations.]
Where the doctrine applies to a recreational activity, operators, instructors
and participants in the activity owe other participants only the duty not to
act so as to increase the risk of injury over that inherent in the activity.’ ”
(Nigel B., supra, 93 Cal.App.5th at p. 72, quoting Nalwa v.
Cedar Fair, L.P. (2012) 55 Cal.4th 1148, 1154 (Nalwa).) 
“ ‘[T]he
primary assumption of risk doctrine is not limited to activities classified as
sports, but applies as well to other recreational activities “involving an
inherent risk of injury to voluntary participants ... where the risk cannot be
eliminated without altering the fundamental nature of the activity.”
[Citation.] [¶] The primary assumption of risk doctrine rests on a
straightforward policy foundation: the need to avoid chilling vigorous
participation in or sponsorship of recreational activities by imposing a tort
duty to eliminate or reduce the risks of harm inherent in those activities. It
operates on the premise that imposing such a legal duty “would work a basic
alteration—or cause abandonment” of the activity.’ ” (Nigel B., supra,
93 Cal.App.5th at p. 72, quoting Nalwa, supra, 55 Cal.4th at p.
1156.) 
“Thus,
courts have applied the primary assumption of risk doctrine to a range of
school activities including extracurricular programs (see Cann v. Stefanec
(2013) 217 Cal.App.4th 462, 470–471, 158 Cal.Rptr.3d 474 [mandatory weight
lifting session for members of college swim team]; Lilley v. Elk Grove
Unified School Dist. (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 939, 945–946, 80 Cal.Rptr.2d 638
[after-school wrestling program]; Aaris v. Las Virgenes Unified School Dist.
(1998) 64 Cal.App.4th 1112, 1119, 75 Cal.Rptr.2d 801 [cheerleading practice])
and elective classes (see Fortier v. Los Rios Community College Dist.
(1996) 45 Cal.App.4th 430, 432–433, 440, 52 Cal.Rptr.2d 812 [Fortier]
[plaintiff enrolled in advanced football class]). In each of these examples, a
plaintiff, in the first instance, voluntarily participated in an activity
(which may have required the undertaking of certain related tasks), such that
application of the doctrine was appropriate. (See, e.g., Swigart v. Bruno
(2017) 13 Cal.App.5th 529, 537, 220 Cal.Rptr.3d 556, italics added [“Primary
assumption of risk is a defense that relieves a defendant of any duty to the
plaintiff when the plaintiff is injured due to a risk that is inherent in an
activity in which the plaintiff chose to participate”]; Jimenez v. Roseville
City School Dist. (2016) 247 Cal.App.4th 594, 600, 202 Cal.Rptr.3d 536,
italics added [“ ‘Primary assumption of risk occurs where a plaintiff
voluntarily participates in a sporting event or activity involving certain
inherent risks’ ”]; Rosencrans v. Dover Images, Ltd. (2011) 192 Cal.App.4th
1072, 1082, 122 Cal.Rptr.3d 22, italics added [“Primary assumption of the risk
means that the plaintiff has voluntarily participated in a sport that includes
various inherent risks, and therefore, the defendant is relieved of his or her
duty to use due care to avoid the plaintiff suffering an injury as a result of
those inherently risky aspects of the sport”].)”  (Nigel B., supra, 93
Cal.App.5th at pp. 72-73.) 
b.    Moving Defendants have carried their initial summary
judgment burden 
It
is undisputed that Plaintiff participated voluntarily in the activity that led
to her injury, referred to in the complaint as cheerleading practice and in
Plaintiff’s summary judgment papers as the “Spirit Class.”  (See Exh. 6, response to request for
admission number 58 [Plaintiff admits she “voluntarily engaged in cheerleading
practice at the time of the INCIDENT”].) It is also undisputed that Plaintiff was
aware that the activity involved inherent risks.  (See Exh. 7, p. 132 [at deposition, Plaintiff
agrees that, prior to incident, she understood there were risks of injury
inherent in cheerleading].) 
The
Court finds that Moving Defendants have carried their initial burden on summary
judgment of proving that Plaintiff’s claims are barred by the primary assumption
of the risk doctrine.  (See Fortier, supra, 45 Cal.App.4th at p. 434 [“Primary assumption of the risk occurs when a party
voluntarily participates in a sporting event or activity involving inherent
risk. [Citation.] Primary assumption of the risk is a complete bar to recovery”];
id. at pp. 434-437 [primary assumption of the risk doctrine barred plaintiff’s
claims for injuries suffered during community college’s advanced football class
because injuries were inherent in the sport of football].) 
The
burden shifts to Plaintiff. 
c.     Plaintiff has raised a triable issue regarding whether
Moving Defendants increased the risk inherent in Plaintiff’s activity 
Plaintiff
argues that Moving Defendants increased the risk of harm involved in Plaintiff’s
activity by failing to provide mats to cover the floor at the time of the
accident. 
“Instructors, like commercial operators of
recreational activities, ‘have a duty to use due care not to increase the risks
to a participant over and above those inherent in the sport. Thus, although a
ski resort has no duty to remove moguls from a ski run, it clearly does have a
duty to use due care to maintain its towropes in a safe, working condition so
as not to expose skiers to an increased risk of harm. The cases establish that
the latter type of risk, posed by a ski resort’s negligence, clearly is not a
risk (inherent in the sport) that is assumed by a participant.’ (Knight,
supra, 3 Cal.4th at p. 316; accord, [Ferrari v. Grand Canyon Dories
(1995) 32 Cal.App.4th 248, 254] [commercial operator of rafting trip owed
plaintiff duty not to increase the risks inherent in the sport of white water
rafting].)
 “. . . [In Galardi v. Seahorse Riding Club
(1993) 16 Cal.App.4th 817 (Galardi) and Tan v. Goddard (1993) 13
Cal.App.4th 1528 (Tan)] an instructor acted in such a way as to increase the
risk of harm inherent in the sport. In Galardi, the instructor directed
his student to jump her horse over fences which were unreasonably and
unnecessarily high and improperly designed, located and spaced. (16 Cal.App.4th
at p. 819); in Tan, the injured jockey was directed to ride a lame horse
in the wrong direction on a track that was itself unsafe. (13 Cal.App.4th at p.
1531.) Galardi and Tan stand for the proposition that when an
instructor acts so as to increase the risk of harm inherent in a particular
sport, the instructor may not thereafter rely on primary assumption of the
risk.” 
(Fortier, supra,
45 Cal.App.4th at pp. 435-436.) 
“ ‘Under
primary assumption of risk, the defendant has a duty not to increase the risks
inherent in the sport, not a duty to decrease the risks.’ ” (Aaris v. Las
Virgenes Unified School Dist. (1998) 64 Cal.App.4th 1112, 1120,
quoting Balthazor v. Little League Baseball, Inc. (1998) 62 Cal.App.4th
47, 52 [11-year-old little leaguer assumed risk of being struck by wild
pitch].)  
Plaintiff
has presented evidence, including expert declarations, which raise a triable
issue of fact concerning whether Moving Defendants increased the risks inherent
in Plaintiff’s activity by not requiring the use of floor mats and not
providing other types of training and equipment to Plaintiff.  Moving Defendants have not carried their summary
judgment burden on the assumption of risk issue. 
3.    Open and obvious risk 
“
‘Generally, if a danger is so obvious that a person could reasonably be
expected to see it, the condition itself serves as a warning, and the landowner
is under no further duty to remedy or warn of the condition.’ [Citation.] In
that situation, owners and possessors of land are entitled to assume others
will ‘perceive the obvious’ and take action to avoid the dangerous condition.
[Citation.]” (Kaney v. Custance (2022) 74 Cal.App.5th 201, 215 (Kaney).) 
Moving
Defendants have carried their initial burden on summary judgment of showing the
risk of falling on the wooden floor was open and obvious, shifting the burden
to Plaintiff. 
“An
exception to th[e] general rule exists when ‘it is foreseeable that the danger
may cause injury despite the fact that it is obvious (e.g., when necessity
requires persons to encounter it).’ [Citation.] In other words, while the
obviousness of the condition and its dangerousness may obviate the landowner's
duty to remedy or warn of the condition in some situations, such obviousness
will not negate a duty of care when it is foreseeable that, because of
necessity or other circumstances, a person may choose to encounter the condition.”
(Kaney, supra, 74 Cal.App.5th at p. 215.) 
Here,
Plaintiff has raised a triable issue of fact regarding whether it was
foreseeable that Plaintiff would choose to encounter the dangerous condition
despite its obviousness.  Plaintiff has
presented evidence, for example, that her grades were based at least in part on
her participation in the Spirit class. 
Therefore, the Court denies Moving Defendants’ motion for summary
judgment. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court DENIES the motion for summary judgment or, in the alternative, summary adjudication
filed by Defendants Bonita Unified School District, Chae Mireles, Kelly O’Grady,
and Justis Mireles-Torres. 
Moving
parties are ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
parties are ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.