 Case Number:  20STCV15016    Hearing Date:   October 13, 2023    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
April 20, 2020, Plaintiff Adela Gutierrez Soto (“Plaintiff”) filed this action
against Defendants Osman Rauf Dost (“Dost”) and Does 1-30 for motor vehicle
tort. On August 14, 2021, Plaintiff amended the complaint to include Defendant
Shield National Security Inc. (“Shield”). 
On
May 10, 2021, Defendants Dost and Shield filed an answer. 
On
June 8, 2023, Intervenor Infinity Insurance Company (“Intervenor”) filed a motion for leave to intervene to be heard on October 13, 2023. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for December 6, 2023. 
INTERVENOR’S REQUEST 
Intervenor
requests that the Court grant it leave to intervene on behalf of Dost. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 387, subdivision (d)(2) provides: “The court may,
upon timely application, permit a nonparty to intervene in the action or
proceeding if the person has an interest in the matter in litigation, or in the
success of either of the parties, or an interest against both."  
Under
Code of Civil Procedure section 387, subdivision (d)(1), "[t]he court
shall, upon timely application, permit a nonparty to intervene in the action or
proceeding if either of the following conditions is satisfied: (A) A provision
of law confers an unconditional right to intervene.  (B) The person
seeking intervention claims an interest relating to the property or transaction
that is the subject of the action and that person is so situated that the
disposition of the action may impair or impede that person's ability to protect
that interest, unless that person's interest is adequately represented by one or
more of the existing parties." 
"A
nonparty shall petition the court for leave to intervene by noticed motion or
ex parte application.  The petition shall include a copy of the proposed
complaint in intervention or answer in intervention and set forth the grounds
upon which intervention rests."  (Code Civ. Proc., § 387, subd. (c).)
DISCUSSION
Intervenor requests leave to join this action because it was acting as Dost's insurer at the time of the incident. Intervenor has not been able to contact or communicate with Dost for months.  If Dost fails to present a defense, Intervenor may be liable to satisfy any judgment entered against Dost. Intervenor has a right to join the action. IC § 11580. The Court grants the motion.
CONCLUSION
  The Court
GRANTS Intervenor Infinity Insurance Company’s motion for leave to file a
complaint-in-intervention.   Intervenor Infinity Insurance Company is
ordered to file its complaint-in-intervention within 15 days of the hearing on
this motion. 
Intervenor is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Intervenor is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.