 Case Number:  20STCV25568    Hearing Date:   October 13, 2023    Dept:  28  Having considered the moving,
opposing and reply papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
 On July 7, 2020, Plaintiff
Eric Cottrell (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendants Jose Castro
(“Castro”), Caliber Bodyworks, Inc., RCB Equities South Bay, LLC (“RCB”), and
Does 1-20 for negligence and negligence: premises liability. 
 On September 3, 2020, Defendants and
Cross-Complainants Caliber Bodyworks, Inc., and Castro filed an answer and a
cross-complaint against Cross-Defendants Roes 1 through 500 for implied
contractual indemnity, total indemnity, equitable indemnity, negligence and
contribution. 
 On December 2, 2020,
Defendant and Cross-Complainant RCB filed an answer and a cross-complaint
against Cross-Defendants Caliber Bodyworks, Inc. and Roes 1-20 for equitable
indemnity, express indemnity, apportionment of fault, breach of contract and
declaratory relief. 
 On August 12, 2021, Plaintiff
amended the complaint to include Defendant EMCOR Facilities Services, Inc.
(“EMCOR”) as Doe 1.  On November 10,
2021, the Court dismissed EMCOR without prejudice at Plaintiff’s request. 
 On December 9, 2021,
Plaintiff amended the complaint to include Defendant Caliber Holdings
Corporation as Doe 2.  On January 28,
2022, Defendant Caliber Holdings LLC, formerly Caliber Holdings Corporation
(“Caliber Holdings”) filed an answer. 
 On April 22, 2022, and May
10, 2022, Defendants and Cross-Complainants Caliber Holdings, Caliber Bodyworks
LLC, formerly known as Caliber Bodyworks, Inc. (“Caliber”), Castro, and RCB
filed a cross-complaint against Cross-Defendant The Terminix International
Company Limited (“Terminix”) for express contractual indemnity, equitable
indemnity, contribution, breach of contract, declaratory relief (duty to
defend) and declaratory relief (duty to indemnify). 
 On August 31, 2022, Terminix
filed an answer to the cross-complaint. 
 On January 25, 2023, Caliber,
Caliber Holdings, RCB and Castro (“Moving Defendants”) filed a motion for
summary judgment to be heard on October 9, 2023. On September 19, 2023,
Plaintiff filed an opposition. On October 2, 2023, Moving Defendants filed a reply. On October 9, 2023, the Court heard argument and continued the hearing on the summary judgment motion to October 13, 2023. 
 Trial is currently set for
December 6, 2023. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
 Moving Defendants request that the Court grant summary judgment. 
 Plaintiff requests that the
Court deny summary judgment. 
PLAINTIFF’S EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS 
Sustained:  5, 6, 7 
Overruled: 1, 2, 3, 4 
LEGAL STANDARD 
 A.   Summary judgment 
 “‘[F]rom commencement to
conclusion, the party moving for summary judgment bears the burden of
persuasion that there is no triable issue of material fact and that he is
entitled to judgment as a matter of law.’” 
(LAOSD Asbestos Cases (2023) 87 Cal.App.5th 949, 945, quoting Aguilar v.
Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850 (Aguilar).) “[T]he party
moving for summary judgment bears an initial burden of production to make a
prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact;
if he carries his burden of production, he causes a shift, and the opposing
party is then subjected to a burden of production of his own to make a prima
facie showing of the existence of a triable issue of material fact.”  (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 850.)  
 When the moving party is a
defendant, it must show that the plaintiff cannot establish at least one
element of the cause of action. 
(Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 853.) “The defendant has shown that
the plaintiff cannot establish at least one element of the cause of action by
showing that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain,
needed evidence.”  (Id. at p. 854.) The
defendant must “present evidence, and not simply point out that the plaintiff
does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence.”  (Ibid.) Thus, “the defendant must ‘support[
]’ the ‘motion’ with evidence including ‘affidavits, declarations, admissions,
answers to interrogatories, depositions, and matters of which judicial notice’
must or may ‘be taken.’ [Citation.] The defendant may, but need not, present
evidence that conclusively negates an element of the plaintiff’s cause of
action. The defendant may also present evidence that the plaintiff does not
possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence—as through admissions by
the plaintiff following extensive discovery to the effect that he has
discovered nothing.”  (Id. at p. 855,
original emphasis.)  
 “Supporting and opposing
affidavits or declarations . . . shall set forth admissible evidence.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (d).) “Matters which would be excluded under the
rules of evidence if proffered by a witness in a trial as hearsay, conclusions
or impermissible opinions, must be disregarded in supporting affidavits.”  (Hayman v. Block (1986) 176 Cal.App.3d 629,
639.) 
 In addition, a party moving
for summary judgment or summary adjudication must support the motion with “a
separate statement setting forth plainly and concisely all material facts which
the moving party contends are undisputed. Each of the material facts stated
shall be followed by a reference to the supporting evidence.” (Parkview Villas
Assn. v. State Farm Fire & Casualty Co. (2006) 133 Cal.App.4th 1197, 1209
(Parkview Villas), quoting Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (b)(1) [motion for
summary judgment]; see Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(2) [motion for
summary adjudication “shall proceed in all procedural respects as a motion for
summary judgment”].) The party opposing the motion must file with the
opposition papers “a separate statement that responds to each of the material
facts contended by the moving party to be undisputed, indicating whether the
opposing party agrees or disagrees that those facts are undisputed. The
statement also shall set forth plainly and concisely any other material facts
that the opposing party contends are disputed. Each material fact contended by
the opposing party to be disputed shall be followed by a reference to the
supporting evidence.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (b)(3).)  If either party fails to comply with the
applicable separate statement requirement, that failure may in the court’s
discretion constitute a sufficient ground to decide the motion adversely to the
offending party. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subds. (b)(1), (3).)   
 In ruling on the motion, the
court must consider all of the evidence and all of the inferences reasonably
drawn from it and must view such evidence and inferences in the light most
favorable to the opposing party.  (Aguilar,
supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 843.)  
 B.   Privette doctrine 
 In Privette v. Superior Court
(1993) 5 Cal.4th 689 (Privette), our Supreme Court considered whether a
landowner could be liable for injuries sustained when an independent
contractor's employee fell off a ladder while carrying hot tar up to a roof
during a roof installation. (Gonzalez v. Mathis (2021) 12 Cal.5th 29, 41
(Gonzalez), citing Privette, supra, 5 Cal.4th at pp. 691-692.)  The Court held that “the doctrine of peculiar
risk — which provides that landowners are vicariously liable for injuries to
third parties resulting from the negligence of independent contractors in
performing inherently dangerous work on the landowners’ property — does not
apply to injuries sustained by the contractor's own employees. (Ibid., citing
Privette, supra, 5 Cal.4th at pp. 691-692.) 
DISCUSSION 
 A.   Undisputed facts 
 Caliber operates a collision
repair center in Gardena, California (the “Gardena Center”). Caliber Holdings
is the employer of the Caliber employees who work at the Gardena Center. Castro
was the General Manager of the Gardena Center at the time of the incident.  RCB owns the property where the Gardena
Center operates. 
 On October 1, 2018, Caliber
Holdings entered into a Master Services Agreement with EMCOR in which EMCOR
agreed to provide facilities maintenance services for certain Caliber
locations, including the Gardena Center. 
 Sometime prior to June 5,
2020, a Caliber employee submitted a “ticket” into the Caliber ticketing system
for maintenance services because the Caliber Gardena Center was experiencing a
problem with rodents.  (UMF 2.) Once the
ticket was entered, EMCOR was notified and engaged Terminix to provide pest
extermination services at Caliber’s Gardena Center.  (UMF 3.) 
 On June 5, 2020, Plaintiff
arrived at Caliber’s Gardena Center where Castro, the manager, showed him the
problem areas.  Plaintiff asked Castro
for access to the roof.  (UMF 6 and
response.)  Castro told Plaintiff that
the rodents were coming down from wiring in the ceiling of the substructure in
the lunchroom.  (UMF 6 and response.)  Plaintiff asked Castro how he could get up
there and Castro pointed to a ladder affixed to the substructure.  (UMF 6 and response.) 
 Plaintiff climbed the ladder
and soon afterward fell through the surface of the substructure's mezzanine
area.  (UMF 8 and response.) 
 Plaintiff has obtained
workers’ compensation benefits for his injuries.  (UMF 10.) 
 B.   Analysis 
 Moving Defendants argue that
liability is barred by the Privette doctrine. The Privette doctrine presumes
that, with some exceptions, the hirer of an independent contractor delegates
responsibility for workplace safety to the independent contractor. 
 Alvarez v. Seaside
Transportation Services LLC (2017) 13 Cal.App.5th 635 (Alvarez) explained how
the Privette doctrine affects the parties’ respective burdens on a motion for
summary judgment.  (Miller v. Roseville Lodge
No. 1294 (2022) 83 Cal.App.5th 825, 834 (Miller).)  When a person or organization hires an
independent contractor, the hirer presumptively delegates to the contractor the
responsibility to do the work safely. 
(Miller, supra, 83 Cal.App.5th at p. 834, quoting Sandoval v. Qualcomm
Incorporated (2021) 12 Cal.5th 256, 269.) The Alvarez court referred to this as
the “‘Privette presumption.’”  (Ibid.,
quoting Alvarez, supra, 13 Cal.App.5th at p. 642.)  “It held the Privette presumption arises once
the defendant establishes the requisite factual foundation—namely, that it
hired an independent contractor to perform certain work, and the independent
contractor's worker was injured in the course of that work.” (Ibid., citing
Alvarez, supra, 13 Cal.App.5th at p. 644.) 
“Once the presumption arises, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to
raise a triable issue of fact as to whether one of the exceptions to the
Privette doctrine applies, and if it cannot, the defendant is entitled to
summary judgment. (Ibid., citing Alvarez, supra, 13 Cal.App.5th at p. 644.)  
  Here, Caliber Holdings hired
Terminix, an independent contractor, to perform certain work.  Plaintiff, Terminix’s employee, was injured
in the course of that work.  These facts
invoke the Privette assumption, shifting the burden to Plaintiff to raise a
triable issue of fact regarding whether an exception to the doctrine applies. 
 The Supreme Court has
identified two limited exceptions to the Privette doctrine. (Gonzalez, supra,
12 Cal.5th at p. 38.)  First, in Hooker
v. Department of Transportation (2002) 27 Cal.4th 198 (Hooker), the Court held
that a hirer may be liable when it retains control over any part of the
independent contractor's work and negligently exercises that retained control
in a manner that affirmatively contributes to the worker's injury. (Gonzalez,
supra, 12 Cal.5th at p. 38, citing Hooker, supra, 27 Cal.4th at p. 202.) The
Court “made clear in Hooker that this exception to Privette is not met solely
because a hirer is aware that there is an unsafe condition on the worksite or
knows that the contractor is engaging in an unsafe work practice. (Id. at p.
42, citing Hooker, supra, 27 Cal.4th at pp. 214–215.) “Something more is
required, such as “ ‘ “inducing injurious action or inaction through actual
direction” ’ ” (ibid., quoting Hooker, supra, 27 Cal.4th at p. 211); directing
“ ‘ “the contracted work be done by use of a certain mode” ’ ” (ibid., quoting
Hooker, supra, 27 Cal.4th at p. 215); or interfering with “ ‘the means and
methods by which the work is to be accomplished” ’ ” (ibid., quoting Hooker,
supra, 27 Cal.4th at p. 215). The Court “found that the hirer in Hooker did not
exercise its retained control in a manner that affirmatively contributed to the
injury where it merely permitted vehicles to use the overpass and knew that, in
order to allow vehicles to pass through, the contractor's crane operator was
required to engage in the unsafe practice of retracting the crane's stabilizing
outriggers.” (Ibid, citing Hooker, supra, 27 Cal.4th at pp. 214–215.) But the
Court did find that the hirer in Hooker’s companion case, McKown v. Wal-Mart
Stores, Inc. (2002) 27 Cal.4th 219 (McKown), “exercised its retained control in
a manner that affirmatively contributed to the injury where it requested the
independent contractor to use the hirer's own defective equipment in performing
the work.”  (Ibid., citing McKown, supra,
27 Cal.4th at p. 225.)  
 The evidence here does not
support application of the Hooker exception. Castro told Plaintiff where the
rodents were coming from, gave Plaintiff permission to inspect the area, and
showed Plaintiff a ladder he could use to climb into the mezzanine.  However, Plaintiff has presented no evidence
that Moving Defendants or their employees told Plaintiff to inspect the
mezzanine, directed the method which he used to accomplished his task, or
retained control in a way that effectively contributed to Plaintiff’s injuries. 
 Second, in Kinsman v. Unocal
Corp. (2005) 37 Cal.4th 659 (Kinsman), the Court held that a landowner who
hires an independent contractor may be liable if the landowner knew, or should
have known, of a concealed hazard on the property that the contractor did not
know of and could not have reasonably discovered, and the landowner failed to
warn the contractor of the hazard. (Gonzalez, supra, 12 Cal.5th at p. 38,
citing Kinsman, supra, 37 Cal.4th at p. 664.) 
 In Miller, the independent
contractor’s employee was injured because the equipment he was using to perform
his work, a scaffold, was unsafe unless its wheels were locked.  (Miller, supra, 83 Cal.App.5th at p. 839.)  The employee argued the unsafe scaffold was a
concealed hazard the defendant should have warned him about.  The Court of Appeal rejected the argument,
holding the hazardous condition was not concealed and the exception did not
apply even if the defendant knew of the hazardous condition and failed to warn
the independent contractor and employee. 
The appellate court reasoned, “the fact that the scaffold had wheels was
not concealed.  [The independent
contractor and his employee] could have discovered their existence had they
simply inspected the scaffold before [the employee] climbed onto it. [The
employee] argues that whether a condition is concealed is an issue of fact that
cannot be decided on summary judgment. Given the evidence in this case, we
disagree.”  (Id. at pp. 839-840.) The Court of Appeal in Miller
also held that the employee did not create an issue of fact by contending the
room where the accident occurred was dark. (Miller, supra, 83 Cal.App.5th at p.
840.)  “Again, a concealed hazard is a
hazard ‘that the contractor does not know exists and could not reasonably
discover without the hirer's disclosure.’ [Citation omitted.] That the room may
have been dark does not establish that [the independent contractor and his
employee] could not reasonably  discover
that the scaffold had wheels unless [the defendant’s agent] pointed that
out—all they had to do to discover the wheels was simply to look at the
scaffold deploying adequate lighting.” 
(Ibid.) 
 Plaintiff argues the Court
should deny summary judgment because improperly spaced joists in the mezzanine
constituted a concealed hazard that Moving Defendants knew of but did not warn
Plaintiff about.  Plaintiff has presented
evidence that the improperly spaced joists caused or contributed to the
accident and that Plaintiff could not have discovered this defect because the
joists were not visible.  This case,
therefore, is unlike Miller because Plaintiff could not have prevented the
accident by making a reasonable inspection.  In Blaylock v. DMP 250 Newport Center, LLC (2023) 92 Cal.App.5th 863, 872-73, the Court of Appeal held “the fact that neither Blaylock [the independent contractor's employee] nor his coworkers noticed any safety concerns in the crawl space, and none had recognized the panel Blaylock fell through as a 'trap door,' is not sufficient to suggest the trap door was concealed from the perspective of ACS [the independent contractor]. ACS had a duty to inspect the work premises for potential safety hazards; Blaylock offers no evidence that any such inspection occurred.”  Blaylock is distinguishable because Plaintiff here has presented evidence that a reasonable inspection would not have revealed the improperly spaced joists and the safety hazard they created.  
 The Court concludes that
Plaintiff has raised a triable issue of fact, under Kinsman, concerning
whether Defendants knew or should have known about a concealed hazard on the
property that Plaintiff and Terminix did not know of and could not reasonably have
discovered and failed to warn Plaintiff and Terminix of the hazard.  The Court therefore denies the motion for
summary judgment. 
CONCLUSION 
 The Court DENIES the motion
for summary judgment filed by Defendants Caliber Holdings, LLC, Jose Castro,
Caliber Bodyworks, LLC, and RCB Equities South Bay, LLC. 
 Moving parties are ordered to
give notice of this ruling. 
 Moving parties are ordered to
file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court within five days.