  Case Number:  21STCV18257    Hearing Date:   October 13, 2023    Dept:  D TENTATIVE RULINGCalendar: 4 Date: 10/13/2023 Case No: 21 STCV18257  Trial Date: January 27, 2025Case Name: Cui v. Snow Joe, LLC, et al.    MOTION TO COMPEL MEDICAL EXAMINATIONMoving Party: Defendant Snow Joe, LLC   Responding Party:  Plaintiff Tracy Cui      REQUEST TO ORDER EXAM OF: Plaintiff Tracy Cui  FACTUAL BACKGROUND:Plaintiff Tracy Cui alleges that in September of 2020, plaintiff was operating a Snow Joe Electric 3-in-1 Blower/Vacuum/Mulcher in a foreseeable manner while vacuuming up leaves in her yard, when, suddenly, her hair became sucked into hidden air intake valves, causing her hair to be ripped out of her scalp as she struck her head against the subject product, knocking her unconscious. The complaint alleges that defendant Snow Joe LLC is the manufacturer, designer, and/or distributor of the subject product, and defendant Home Depot, Inc. is the distributor and/or retailer of the subject product. The complaint alleges causes of action for strict product liability—defective design, negligence, strict product liability—failure to warn, and strict product liability—defective manufacturing. The file shows that on February 21, 2023, Department 30 of the Personal Injury court determined that this action was complicated and ordered the case reassigned to this Department. The file also shows that in February of 2023, the parties entered into a Stipulation Re Good Faith Settlement and Mutual Waiver of Indemnity Claims, which was entered as the order of the court and filed on February 21, 2023.  On February 24, 2023, plaintiff filed a Request for Dismissal of the action with prejudice as to Home Depot only, which was entered as requested the same date. ANALYSIS: By this motion, defendant Snow Joe, LLC seeks to compel plaintiff to submit to a medical examination. Under CCP section 2032.220, any defendant may demand one physical examination of plaintiff “[i]n any case in which a plaintiff is seeking recovery for personal injuries...”   This exam must satisfy two conditions; it must be conducted within 75 miles of the plaintiff’s residence, and it must not include “any diagnostic test or procedure that it painful, protracted, or intrusive.” CCP Section 2032.220(a)(1).   Once a demand is served on plaintiff, the plaintiff “shall respond to the demand by a written statement that the examinee will comply with the demand as stated, will comply with the demand as specifically modified by the plaintiff, or will refuse, for reasons specified in the response, to submit to the demanded physical examination.”  CCP section 2032.230(a). Under CCP Section 2032.230(b), such a response shall be served on defendant and the other parties “within twenty days after service of the demand...”   Under CCP section 2032.240:“(a) If a plaintiff to whom a demand for a physical examination under this article is directed fails to serve a timely response to it, that plaintiff waives any objection to the demand.”Under subdivision (b):“The defendant may move for an order compelling response and compliance with a demand for a physical examination.” Here, the moving papers establish a Second Amended Notice of Independent Medical Examination of Plaintiff with Dr. Michael Gold was served on plaintiff on April 28, 2023 for an examination to take place on June 28, 2023. [Lee Decl., para. 9, Ex. E].    Plaintiff on May 11, 2021 served a timely objection to the demand, indicating plaintiff would present herself for the examination, on condition discovery was open, and subject to several enumerated conditions.  [Lee Decl., para. 10, Ex. F]. The moving papers suggest that the parties met and conferred concerning the conditions included in the objection, including the objection that no mental examination would be allowed, and that there would be only one physical examination conducted in this case.  [See Ex. F, paras. 12, 14].  The meet and confer indicates that the parties agreed that the neurological expert would conduct an examination of a neurological nature, “as well as of a mental examination to the extent that it would be similar to the “mental status” testing that your neurologist expert Dr. Eskenazi performed when he conducted his IME of Plaintiff.”  [Lee Decl., para. 11, Ex. G]. However, the parties were unable to reach agreement on plaintiff’s request that defendant agree that the Dr. Gold examination would be the only IME conducted in this case.  [Ex. G].  Defendant accordingly seeks an order from this court compelling plaintiff to submit to the medical examination proposed at Dr. Gold’s next available date on October 30, 2023, without the condition that the examination be the only examination in this matter but preserving defendant’s right to seek further examinations based on a showing of good cause.  This response is appropriate under CCP section 2023.250, which provides:“(a) If a defendant who has demanded a physical examination under this article, on receipt of the plaintiff's response to that demand, deems that any modification of the demand, or any refusal to submit to the physical examination is unwarranted, that defendant may move for an order compelling compliance with the demand. This motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.” It is undisputed that plaintiff is seeking recovery for personal injuries in this case and is claiming neurological damage.   Defendants have noticed a physical examination, at an office in Santa Monica, and there is no showing this is not within 75 miles of plaintiff’s residence.  Although a timely objection was filed, defendant under CCP section 2032.240 (b) and CCP section 2032.250 (a) may file a motion to compel attendance over objection.  Plaintiff in opposition argues that what defendant failed to disclose to the court in the moving papers is that plaintiff in fact appeared for her medical examination as noticed on June 28, 2023.   Plaintiff indicates that since she did not receive notice of cancellation of the examination or a motion to compel examination despite her objections, she assumed her objections and conditions had been found acceptable.  [Kayne Decl., para. 5].  Upon arrival for the examination, plaintiff was informed by Dr. Gold’s office that the examination had been cancelled and rescheduled.  [Kayne Decl., para. 8].  Plaintiff appears to argue that she has accordingly appeared for one examination, and so defendant’s motion is improper, as it must establish good cause for plaintiff to appear for a second medical examination. It appears from the opposition that no medical examination was in fact conducted on June 28, 2023.  This situation is an unfortunate circumstance, as the parties had reached an impasse, but it could have been made clearer that the examination was being cancelled and a motion being filed, or that the examination was being conducted without agreement to the objection concerning the subject examination being the only one permitted.  It could have also been made clearer in the moving papers that plaintiff in fact appeared for the June 28, 2023 examination, as this motion was filed on June 29, 2023, after the appearance had already occurred.   However, the court does not find that plaintiff is being requested to submit to a second medical examination under the circumstances, when no initial examination was in fact conducted.  Even if plaintiff’s appearance at the noticed time and place could constitute submission to one medical examination, there is sufficient good cause to compel the examination established here. Plaintiff indicates in her opposition that as for any further examination in October, defendant has not filed a demand for such an examination pursuant to CCP section 2032.220.  Plaintiff indicates that had such a demand been received, plaintiff would have made an appropriate objection, and if plaintiff’s objections were unwarranted, defendant could have then moved for an order compelling plaintiff’s appearance at that medical examination, and the parties with the court’s assistance could have resolved their disagreements.  Plaintiff argues that given defendant’s failure to comply with CCP section 2032.220, the motion should be denied. What is sought here is compliance with the Second Amended Notice, and its terms, which are set forth verbatim in the Notice and again in the declaration in support of the motion, but on a different date.  [See Lee para. 12].  As noted above, plaintiff has already filed objections to that notice, and agreed that the only remaining point of contention between the parties is the condition that plaintiff will submit to one and only one medical examination in this matter.  The court accordingly orders plaintiff to appear for a continued examination as noticed, and subject to plaintiff’s previously served objections, with the exceptions noted below. Plaintiff seems to argue that her objection concerning prohibiting any second medical examination is proper.  Plaintiff acknowledges that defendant is entitled to one examination under CCP section 2023.220, which will be the current examination. Both sides also recognize that under CCP section 2032.310 (a), if a second physical examination or mental examination is sought by any party, “the party shall obtain leave of court,” and that under CCP section 2032.320 (a), the court shall grant such a motion “only for good cause shown.”  Weil & Brown note in connection with mental and physical exams, the court may order more than one examination, each to be justified by “good cause:”“Where plaintiff’s injuries are complex, several exams may be necessary by specialists in different fields.  There is no limit on the number of physical or mental exams that may be ordered on a showing of good cause.  The good cause requirement checks any potential of harassment of plaintiff.  [Shapira v. Sup. Ct. (Sylvestri) (1990) 224 Cal.App.3d 1249, 1255… (citing text)—second mental examination may be ordered.” Civ. Proc. Before Trial (The Rutter Group, 2023 rev.) 8:1558.5 (italics in original). Both sides cite to Shapira, in which the court of appeal vacated a trial court order denying a motion to compel a second mental examination by a different mental specialist, finding that there was no limitation on the number of mental examinations which could be ordered, and directing the trial court to determine if good cause had been established for the second exam.There is no motion currently before this court to conduct a second examination, other than the one defendant to which the defendant is entitled to as a matter of right, so the issue of good cause is not before the court with respect to any other examinations.  As noted above, even if the motion were to require good cause for the initial examination, the court would have found such good cause has been established given the nature of the injuries plaintiff is claiming, and the fact that no previous examination actually commenced or was conducted.  Defendant does not seek a second or third examination by this motion, which relief would require the service of demands for examination on plaintiff, and, if the parties do not stipulate, separate noticed motions showing good cause.  Defendant seeks by this motion to obtain an order to preserve its right to request further examinations, and bring further motions, if necessary.  Defendant seeks to keep the record clear that defendant is not proceeding with the examination as noticed in agreement with plaintiff’s written objection that, “This will be the only physical examination conducted in this case.”  [Ex. F, para. 14].    Given the procedural right to seek further examinations, the court orders the examination noticed by the Second Amended Notice to be conducted on a date certain but the court overrules plaintiff’s objection that the examination will be the only physical examination. The order is without prejudice to plaintiff objecting to, or arguing that, any further examination, if sought, are not warranted by good cause.  The court has also noted that the meet and confer correspondence indicates that the parties have agreed that with respect plaintiff’s written objection that “No mental examination will be allowed,” that the neurological expert will conduct an examination of a neurological nature, “as well as of a mental examination to the extent that it would be similar to the ‘mental status’ testing that [plaintiff’s] neurologist expert Dr. Eskenazi performed when he conducted his IME of Plaintiff.”  [Ex. F, para. 12, Ex. G].  The opposition does not argue that this objection should not be properly so limited, and the result is reasonable.  The examination is ordered to proceed according to this agreement. The motion and opposition do not challenge any of the other provisions of the Second Amended Notice or plaintiff’s objections.   RULING:Defendants Snow Joe, LLC’s Motion to Submit to an Independent Medical Examination is GRANTED:Good cause appearing, plaintiff Tracy Cui is ordered to comply with the Second Amended Notice of Independent Medical Examination of Plaintiff with Dr. Michael Gold, served on April 28, 2023, and in accordance with Plaintiff’s Response to Demand for Physical Examination, as limited by the following:Objection 12 (“No mental examination will be allowed”) is OVERRULED in part and SUSTAINED in part.  The parties are ordered to proceed as agreed according to their meet and confer on this objection, that is, that the neurological expert Dr. Gold will conduct an examination of a neurological nature, as well as a mental examination to the extent the examination is similar to the mental status testing that neurologist expert Dr. Eskenazi performed when he conducted his IME of plaintiff. Objection 14 (“This will be the only physical examination conducted in this case”) is OVERRULED.  Objection is overruled without prejudice to plaintiff objecting to any future different examination demanded by defendant or argument in opposition to a motion to permit conducting a future examination. Examination is to be conducted on October 30, 2023. DEPARTMENT D IS CONTINUING TO CONDUCT AND ENCOURAGE AUDIO OR VIDEO APPEARANCESPlease make arrangement in advance if you wish to appear via LACourtConnect by visiting www.lacourt.org to schedule a remote appearance.  Please note that LACourtConnect offers free audio and video appearances.  However, ADVANCE REGISTRATION IS REQUIRED. If no appearance is set up through LACourtConnect, or no appearance is otherwise made, then the Court will assume the parties are submitting on the tentative. 