  Case Number:  19STCV25368    Hearing Date:   May 2, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers, the Court rules as
follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
July 19, 2019, Plaintiff Joanne King (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against
Defendants Anza Management Company (“Anza”), 15025 Saticoy Street, Inc.
(“Saticoy”) and Does 1-50 for negligence and negligence: premises liability. 
On
October 25, 2019, the clerk entered the defaults of Saticoy and Anza
(“Defendants”).  On November 20, 2019, Defendants
filed an answer.  On November 21, 2019,
the Court set aside Defendants’ defaults based on the parties’ stipulation. 
On
August 8, 2023, Plaintiff’s counsel filed a declaration stating that Plaintiff
had died. 
On
January 30, 2024, Defendants filed a motion to dismiss the action and for
sanctions, to be heard on March 28, 2024. 
On January 31, 2024, Defendants filed an amended motion.  On March 15, 2024, Plaintiff filed an
opposition.  On March 28, 2024, the Court
continued the hearing to May 9, 2024 “to give the Court an opportunity to
consider Plaintiff’s counsel’s anticipated motion to substitute a
successor-in-interest in place of the deceased Plaintiff.”  (March 28, 2024 minute order.)  On April 8, 2024, Defendants filed a reply. 
Also
on April 8, 2024, CourtneyAnne Rodriguez Ramirez (“Rodriguez”), in her capacity
as successor-in-interest to Plaintiff, filed a motion to be substituted into
the case for Plaintiff and for leave to file a first amended complaint, to be
heard on May 2, 2024.  On
April 17, 2024, Defendants filed an opposition. On April
25, 2024, Rodriguez filed a reply. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for June 6, 2024. 
REQUESTS 
Rodriguez
asks the Court (1) to substitute her into the case in place of Plaintiff and (2) for
leave to file and serve a first amended complaint. 
Defendants
ask the Court to deny the motion. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
A.   Motion to amend complaint         
“The
court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow
a party to amend any pleading or proceeding by adding or striking out the name
of any party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake
in any other respect; and may, upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or
demurrer. The court may likewise, in its discretion, after notice to the
adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an amendment to any
pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may upon like terms allow an
answer to be made after the time limited by this code.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 473,
subd. (a)(1).) 
“Any
judge, at any time before or after commencement of trial, in the furtherance of
justice, and upon such terms as may be proper, may allow the amendment of any
pleading or pretrial conference order.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 576; see Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324.) 
“ ‘While
a motion to permit an amendment to a pleading to be filed is one addressed to
the discretion of the court, the exercise of this discretion must be sound and
reasonable and not arbitrary or capricious. [Citations.] And it is a rare case
in which “a court will be justified in refusing a party leave to amend his
pleadings so that he may properly present his case.” [Citations.] If the motion
to amend is timely made and the granting of the motion will not prejudice the
opposing party, it is error to refuse permission to amend and where the refusal
also results in a party being deprived of the right to assert a meritorious
cause of action or a meritorious defense, it is not only error but an abuse of
discretion. [Citations.]’ ”  (Redevelopment
Agency v. Herrold (1978) 86 Cal.App.3d 1024, 1031, quoting Morgan v.
Superior Court (1959) 172 Cal.App.2d 527, 530.) 
“[I]t
is an abuse of discretion to deny leave to amend where the opposing party was
not misled or prejudiced by the amendment.” (Kittredge Sports Co. v.
Superior Court (1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1048 (Kittredge).)  “Prejudice exists where the amendment would
result in a delay of trial, along with loss of critical evidence, added costs
of preparation, increased burden of discovery, etc.”  (L. Edmon & C. Karnow, Cal. Practice
Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (Rutter 2023) ¶ 6:656, p. 6-193 (Cal.
Practice Guide).) 
“Ordinarily,
the judge will not consider the validity of the proposed amended pleading in
deciding whether to grant leave to amend. . . . After leave to amend is
granted, the opposing party will have the opportunity to attack the validity of
the amended pleading.” (Cal. Practice Guide, supra, ¶ 6:644, pp. 6-189
to 6-190.) 
B.   Substitution of a decedent’s successor-in-interest 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 377.31 provides: 
“On motion after the death of a person who commenced
an action or proceeding, the court shall allow a pending action or proceeding
that does not abate to be continued by the decedent’s personal representative
or, if none, by the decedent’s successor in interest.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 377.31.) 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 377.32 provides: 
“(a) The person who seeks to commence an action or
proceeding or to continue a pending action or proceeding as the decedent’s
successor in interest under this article, shall execute and file an affidavit
or a declaration under penalty of perjury under the laws of this state stating
all of the following: 
“(1) The decedent’s name. 
“(2) The date and place of the decedent’s death. 
“(3) 'No proceeding is now pending in California for
administration of the decedent’s estate.' 
“(4) If the decedent’s estate was administered, a copy
of the final order showing the distribution of the decedent’s cause of action
to the successor in interest. 
“(5) Either of the following, as appropriate, with
facts in support thereof: 
“(A) 'The affiant or declarant is the decedent’s
successor in interest (as defined in Section 377.11 of the California Code of
Civil Procedure) and succeeds to the decedent’s interest in the action or
proceeding.' 
“(B) 'The affiant or declarant is authorized to act on
behalf of the decedent’s successor in interest (as defined in Section 377.11 of
the California Code of Civil Procedure) with respect to the decedent’s interest
in the action or proceeding.' 
“(6) 'No other person has a superior right to commence
the action or proceeding or to be substituted for the decedent in the pending
action or proceeding.' 
“(7) 'The affiant or declarant affirms or declares
under penalty of perjury under the laws of the State of California that the
foregoing is true and correct.' 
“(b) Where more than one person executes the affidavit
or declaration under this section, the statements required by subdivision (a)
shall be modified as appropriate to reflect that fact. 
“(c) A certified copy of the decedent’s death
certificate shall be attached to the affidavit or declaration.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 377.32.) 
DISCUSSION 
A.   The complaint 
The
complaint alleges the following. 
Plaintiff
was a tenant of an apartment building located at 15025 Saticoy Street, Van
Nuys, California 91405 (“premises”). 
Defendants owned, operated, occupied, controlled, oversaw daily
operations, maintained, improved and/or repaired the premises. 
On
or about January 28, 2019, Plaintiff tripped and fell due to “hazardous
conditions of the ground” while she was walking near the stairway leading to
her apartment.  As a result, Plaintiff
suffered injuries. 
Defendants
knew or should have known about the dangerous condition but failed to fix it or
warn Plaintiff. 
B.   Rodriguez’s motion to be substituted into the case for
Plaintiff and for leave to file a first amended complaint 
Rodriguez
has moved to be substituted into the case for Plaintiff, who is deceased, and for
leave to file a first amended complaint.  The first amended complaint would specify that the case is now a survival
action, would substitute Rodriguez for the deceased Plaintiff, would refer to the deceased Plaintiff as
“decedent,” and would remove the claims for pain, suffering, and emotional
distress.
In
support of the motion, Rodriguez has filed a declaration stating under penalty
of perjury: 
“1. I am the Plaintiff’s successor in interest in the
instant action and I am an adult over the age of eighteen.  I have personal
knowledge of the matters contained in this declaration and, if called as a
witness to testify, could and would competently testify to them. 
“2. This declaration is filed in support of
Plaintiff’s Ex Parte Application for Motion for Leave to Amend Complaint,
pursuant to California Rules of Court 3.1200 and Code of Civil Procedure
sections 473 and 576. 
“3. I am the biological and natural daughter of
Plaintiff Joanne King (“Decedent”). 
“4. On July 19, 2019, Decedent filed a complaint
initiating this lawsuit against Anza Management Company and 15025 Saticoy
Street, Inc. ('Defendant’s'). 
“5. On February 27, 2023, Decedent passed away in Van
Nuys, California. Attached hereto as Exhibit A is a copy of Decedent’s Death
Certificate. 
“6. Presently, there is no ongoing legal proceeding in
California, for administration of Decedent’s estate. “7. I am Decedent’s successor in interest and succeed
to the Decedent’s interest in the instant action against Defendant’s.
“8. No other person possessed a superior entitlement
to initiate this action or to stand in substitution of the decedent in this
instant action.” 
Rodriguez
argues that amendment of the complaint will not prejudice Defendants because
the amendments only substitute Rodriguez, as successor-in-interest, for the deceased Plaintiff and
modify the language to recognize the case is now a survival action.  According to Rodriguez, the amendments will
not delay trial because discovery has already closed and no additional
discovery will be needed. 
Defendants oppose the motion, arguing that Rodriguez’s declaration does not demonstrate that she is the deceased Plaintiff’s
successor-in-interest because the declaration is “deficient.”  Defendants assert:
“The problem with Plaintiff’s Motion for Leave to Amend is that there is no
admissible evidence to support any of the factual arguments made in the
Plaintiff’s Motion. Moreover, there is zero documentation supporting [Rodriguez’s]
contention that she is in fact the successor in interest.”  (Opposition p. __ [unnumbered].) [1]

 Specifically,
Defendants contend that paragraph 8 of Rodriguez’s declaration is not
code-compliant, but they do not explain why. 
The Court concludes that paragraph 8 of the declaration provides the
information specified in Code of Civil Procedure section 377.32, subdivision (a)(6). 
In
addition, Defendants argue that Rodriguez’s declaration “fails to address” Code
of Civil Procedure section 377.32, subdivision (a)(5), which requires the
declaration to state “[e]ither of the following, as appropriate, with facts in
support thereof: 
“(A) ‘The affiant or declarant is the decedent’s
successor in interest (as defined in Section 377.11 of the California Code of
Civil Procedure) and succeeds to the decedent’s interest in the action or
proceeding.’ 
“(B) ‘The affiant or declarant is authorized to act on
behalf of the decedent’s successor in interest (as defined in Section 377.11 of
the California Code of Civil Procedure) with respect to the decedent’s interest
in the action or proceeding.’ ” 
          Rodriguez’s declaration states that she is the deceased Plaintiff's successor-in-interest and succeeds to the deceased Plaintiff's interests in this case.  (Rodriguez dec. ¶ 7.)  The declaration states, as a supporting fact,
that Rodriguez is “the biological and natural daughter of Plaintiff Joanne King
(“Decedent”).”  (Rodriguez dec. ¶ 3.)  The declaration satisfies the requirements of
Code of Civil Procedure section 377.32, subdivision (a)(5).  The
statute on its face does not require the declarant to provide evidence
supporting this fact.  Defendants have
cited no statutory or case authority for the proposition that the declarant must provide
evidence supporting facts stated under Code of Civil Procedure section 377.32,
subdivision (a)(5). The Court grants the motion. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court GRANTS Successor-In-Interest CourtneyAnne Rodriguez Ramirez’s motion to
be substituted into the case in place of the deceased Plaintiff, Joanne King, and for leave to file a
first amended complaint. 
Successor-In-Interest CourtneyAnne Rodriguez Ramirez
is ordered to file and serve a first amended complaint within 30 days of the
hearing on this motion. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days. 


