 Case Number:  22STCV27428    Hearing Date:   May 2, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
A.   Case number 22STCV27428 
On
August 23, 2022, Plaintiffs Estate of Wyndham Wayne Chow by and through its personal
representative Josie Tang, Kou Keola Arikawa by and through his guardian ad litem
Kazumi Arikawa, and Anzu Olina Arikawa by and through her guardian ad litem Kazumi Arikawa filed an action against
Defendants California Department of Transportation (Caltrans), City of La Canada
Flintridge (“City”), and Does 1-100 for statutory liability/dangerous condition
of public property, statutory liability/negligent acts of public employees, and
negligence.  (Case number 22STCV27428.) 
On August
24, 2022, the Court appointed Kazumi
Arikawa to serve as guardian ad litem for Plaintiff Kou Keola Arikawa. 
On August 26, 2022, the Court appointed Kazumi Arikawa to serve as guardian
ad litem for Plaintiff Anzu Olina Arikawa. 
On
November 10, 2022, the Court dismissed the second cause of action without
prejudice at Plaintiffs’ request. 
On
November 14, 2022, the City filed an answer. 
On November 15, 2022, the City filed a cross-complaint against
Cross-Defendants Debra Ariana Claro, California Department of Transportation (Caltrans),
and Roes 1-50 for apportionment, indemnification, and contribution.  On December 13, 2022, The People of the State
of California, acting by and through the Department of Transportation,
erroneously sued as California Department of Transportation (Caltrans)
(“State”) filed an answer to the City’s cross-complaint. 
On
December 1, 2022, the State filed an
answer to Plaintiffs’ complaint and a cross-complaint against Cross-Defendants
Debra Ariana Claro and Zoes 1-50 for equitable
indemnity, comparative indemnity, and declaratory relief.   
B.   Case number 22STCV28812 
On
September 2, 2022, Plaintiff Oliver Chow, by and through his guardian ad litem Terry
Kung, filed an action against the State, the City, and Does 1-30 for statutory
liability/dangerous condition of public property and negligence.  (Case number 22STCV288212.) 
On January
4, 2023, the State filed an answer.  On
January 5, 2023, the City filed an answer. 
C.   The Court relates and consolidates the cases. 
On
February 1, 2023, the Court found that case numbers 22STCV27428 and 22STCV28812 are related within
the meaning of California Rules of Court, rule 3.300(a).  Case number 22STCV27428 became the lead case. The
cases were assigned to Department 28 at the Spring Street Courthouse for all
purposes. 
On
March 14, 2023, the Court granted the parties’ stipulated request to
consolidate the cases for all purposes. Case number 22STCV27428 remained the
lead case. 
D.   Motion to continue trial 
On
April 2, 2024, the parties that have appeared in the case filed a motion to
continue the trial and related dates, to be heard on May 2, 2024.  No opposition has been filed. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for August 20, 2024.
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
The parties
that have appeared in the case ask the Court to continue the trial to November
4, 2024 and to continue all related dates. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
A.   Motion to continue trial 
California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1332 provides: 
“(a) Trial dates are firm 
“To ensure the prompt disposition of civil cases, the
dates assigned for a trial are firm. All parties and their counsel must regard
the date set for trial as certain. 
“(b) Motion or application 
“A party seeking a continuance of the date set for
trial, whether contested or uncontested or stipulated to by the parties, must
make the request for a continuance by a noticed motion or an ex parte
application under the rules in chapter 4 of this division, with supporting
declarations. The party must make the motion or application as soon as
reasonably practical once the necessity for the continuance is discovered. 
“(c) Grounds for continuance 
“Although continuances of trials are disfavored, each
request for a continuance must be considered on its own merits. The court may
grant a continuance only on an affirmative showing of good cause requiring the
continuance. Circumstances that may indicate good cause include: 
“(1)  The
unavailability of an essential lay or expert witness because of death, illness,
or other excusable circumstances; 
“(2)  The
unavailability of a party because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances; 
“(3)  The
unavailability of trial counsel because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances; 
“(4)  The
substitution of trial counsel, but only where there is an affirmative showing
that the substitution is required in the interests of justice; 
“(5)  The
addition of a new party if: 
“(A)  The new
party has not had a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for
trial; or 
“(B)  The other
parties have not had a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare
for trial in regard to the new party's involvement in the case; 
“(6)  A party's
excused inability to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other material
evidence despite diligent efforts; or 
“(7)  A
significant, unanticipated change in the status of the case as a result of
which the case is not ready for trial. 
“(d) Other factors to be considered 
“In ruling on a motion or application for continuance,
the court must consider all the facts and circumstances that are relevant to
the determination. These may include: 
“(1)  The
proximity of the trial date; 
“(2)  Whether
there was any previous continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial due to
any party; 
“(3)  The length
of the continuance requested; 
“(4)  The
availability of alternative means to address the problem that gave rise to the
motion or application for a continuance; 
“(5)  The
prejudice that parties or witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance; 
“(6)  If the
case is entitled to a preferential trial setting, the reasons for that status
and whether the need for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay; 
“(7)  The
court's calendar and the impact of granting a continuance on other pending
trials; 
“(8)  Whether
trial counsel is engaged in another trial; 
“(9)  Whether
all parties have stipulated to a continuance; 
“(10)  Whether
the interests of justice are best served by a continuance, by the trial of the
matter, or by imposing conditions on the continuance; and 
“(11)  Any other
fact or circumstance relevant to the fair determination of the motion or
application.” 
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1332.) 
B.       Request
to continue or reopen discovery 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2024.020 provides: 
“(a) Except
as otherwise provided in this chapter, any party shall be entitled as a matter
of right to complete discovery proceedings on or before the 30th day, and to
have motions concerning discovery heard on or before the 15th day, before the
date initially set for the trial of the action. 
“(b) Except
as provided in Section 2024.050, a continuance or postponement of the trial
date does not operate to reopen discovery proceedings.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.020.) 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2024.050 provides: 
“(a) On
motion of any party, the court may grant leave to complete discovery
proceedings, or to have a motion concerning discovery heard, closer to the
initial trial date, or to reopen discovery after a new trial date has been set.
This motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section
2016.040. 
“(b) In
exercising its discretion to grant or deny this motion, the court shall take
into consideration any matter relevant to the leave requested, including, but
not limited to, the following: 
“(1) The
necessity and the reasons for the discovery. 
“(2) The
diligence or lack of diligence of the party seeking the discovery or the
hearing of a discovery motion, and the reasons that the discovery was not
completed or that the discovery motion was not heard earlier. 
“(3) Any
likelihood that permitting the discovery or hearing the discovery motion will
prevent the case from going to trial on the date set, or otherwise interfere
with the trial calendar, or result in prejudice to any other party. 
“(4) The
length of time that has elapsed between any date previously set, and the date
presently set, for the trial of the action. 
“(c) The
court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section
2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or
opposes a motion to extend or to reopen discovery, unless it finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.050.) 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2016.040 provides: “A
meet and confer declaration in support of a motion shall state facts showing a
reasonable and good faith attempt at an informal resolution of each issue
presented by the motion.” 
DISCUSSION 
The Court
has reviewed the motion and supporting papers and finds good cause to continue
the trial and to continue discovery and related dates.  The Court grants the motion. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court GRANTS the motion to continue the trial and related dates.  The Court continues the trial to November 4,
2024, at 8:30 a.m. in Department 28 of the Spring Street Courthouse. The Final
Status Conference is October 21, 2024, at 10:00 a.m. in Department 28 of the
Spring Street Courthouse. All discovery and related dates will be based on the
new trial date. 
Moving
parties are ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
parties are ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.