  Case Number:  22AHCV00286    Hearing Date:   April 11, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



MARITSA HERRERA, 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
AMERICAN
   HONDA MOTOR COMPANY, INC.,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  22AHCV00286
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES AND DOCUMENTS

 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.

April
   11, 2023




 


 


 



 
          Plaintiff Marita
Herrera (“Plaintiff”) moves for an order compelling Defendant American Honda
Motor Company, Inc. (“Defendant”) to provide further responses to Requests for
Production of Documents (Set One), Nos. 16, 19, 20, 21, 32, and 42. 
In its opposition brief, Defendant
states that it will provide further responses and produce all responsive
documents to RFP Nos. 32 and 42, but argues that further responses for RFP Nos.
16, 19, 20, and 21 should not be ordered because Plaintiff is not entitled to
information about other vehicles and consumer claims. Based on Defendant’s
representation, the Court will only address the merits of the remaining 4
document requests: RFP Nos. 16, 19, 20, and 21. 
For background, Plaintiff alleges that
she purchased a 2021 Honda Pilot (“Subject Vehicle”) which suffered from a
defective audio system, defective electrical system, and defective braking
system. (Compl., ¶ 12.) Plaintiff requests documents, ESI, and electronic mail
relating to any internal analysis or investigation of the “Electrical Defect”
in vehicles of the same year, make, and model as the Subject Vehicle. (RFP No.
16.) Plaintiff also requests all documents, ESI, and electronic mail regarding
customer complaints. Claims, reported failures, and warranty claims related to
the “Electrical Defect” as well as all documents concerning Defendant’s
response to each complaint, claim or reported failure. (RFP No. 19.) Plaintiff
additionally seeks documents “regarding the failure rate of vehicles of the
same year, make, and model as the Subject Vehicle as a result of the Electrical
Defect” in addition to “any fixes for the Electrical Defect in vehicles of the
same year, make, and model.” (RFP Nos. 20, 21.) 
As an initial matter, the Court notes
that the objection based on any pending motion to compel arbitration is
meritless. Defendant’s discovery obligations were not placed on hold merely by
filing a motion to compel arbitration. Defendant did not seek a stay order
while the motion to compel arbitration was pending and the Court did not enter
one. 
Defendant also objects to these
requests on the grounds that they are vague and overbroad and argues that Plaintiff
is not entitled to information about other vehicles. The Court rejects this
view. First, the terms used, such as “analysis”, “fixes”, “failures”, and
“defects” are not vague or ambiguous. Second, evidence of problems in other
vehicles which are similar to those observed in the Subject Vehicle are
relevant and reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible
information about Defendant’s compliance with the Song-Beverly Consumer
Warranty Act and whether it acted in good faith. Information about whether
other vehicles exhibited similar problems is also probative of whether the
Subject Vehicle was in fact defective and if Defendant was aware that it had no
means of fixing it. 
Defendant also objects to Plaintiff’s
definition of the term “Electrical Defect” as vague, ambiguous, and overly
broad. Plaintiff’s definition of “Electrical Defect” includes “defects which
result in symptoms of: failure of the windows to roll up when the vehicle is in
accessory mode, flickering of the lights when the vehicle is off and the brake
pedal is being engaged, the infotainment screen turning black, the infotainment
screen turning green, the cruise control being inoperable, the brake message
illuminating spontaneously while the vehicle is in motion, flickering of the
dashboard when taking phone calls, Apple CarPlay being unavailable at times,
the gauge cluster flickering, malfunction of apple CarPlay, premature battery
failure; and any other concern identified in the repair history for the subject
2021 Honda Pilot; Vehicle identification #5FNYF6H27MB004774.” This list of
symptoms tracks the allegations of the Complaint because Plaintiff alleges that
her vehicle suffers from a defective audio system, electrical system, and
braking system. (Compl., ¶ 12.) In fact, if Plaintiff did not provide this list
of symptoms, Defendant would likely object on the grounds that the phrase
“Electrical Defect” is vague and ambiguous. The Court is unpersuaded by Defendant’s
claim that it would have to expend a “vast amount of time and resources” to
produce documents in response to Plaintiff’s document requests because
Defendant provides no evidence describing how this effort would be overly
burdensome, such as identifying the number of hours it would take to gather or
review documents which would potentially be responsive. 
In light of the foregoing, the Court overrules
Defendant’s objections and GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion.  Defendant is ordered to serve further
responses to RFP Nos. 16, 19-21, 32, and 42 within 20 days of the date of this
Order and produce all responsive documents in its possession, custody, and
control. 
Dated
this 11th
day of April, 2024
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 