  Case Number:  22STCV36561    Hearing Date:   December 13, 2023    Dept:  54 


Superior Court
  of California
County of Los
  Angeles




 
Saul Larner, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
22STCV36561




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
Christopher
  Sorley, et al. 


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date: December 13, 2023
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion for Reconsideration
Moving Party: Plaintiff Saul Larner
Responding Party: Defendants Christopher Sorley and
Michele Dobson
 
T/R:     PLAINTIFF'S MOTION IS DENIED.
 
PLAINTIFF TO
NOTICE.
 
If the parties wish to submit on the
tentative, please email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing.
The Court considers the moving papers
and oppositions.
 
BACKGROUND
 
On November 21, 2022, Plaintiff Saul
Larner sued Defendants Christopher Sorley and Michele A. Dobson, asserting a
cause of action for malicious prosecution and SLAPP-back. Plaintiff alleges
that Defendants, who were counsel for the defendants in related case
22STCV12097, maliciously brought anti-SLAPP motions in the related case. The
Court denied the motions on October 25, 2022.
 
On July 7, 2023, the Court sustained
Defendant Sorley’s demurrer to the complaint without leave to amend.
 
On September 18, 2023, the Court
granted Defendant Dobson’s motion for terminating sanctions.
 
 
ANALYSIS
 
A non-prevailing party may make a
motion to reconsider and enter a different order under the following
conditions: (1) brought before the same judge that make the order sought to be
reconsidered; (2) made within 10 days after service upon the party of the
notice of entry of the order; (3) based on new or different facts,
circumstances or law than those before the court at the time of the original
ruling; (4) supported by a declaration stating the previous order, by which
judge it was made, and the new or different facts, circumstances or law claimed
to exist; and (5) the motion must be made and decided before entry of
judgment.  (CCP § 1008.)
 
Plaintiff moves for reconsideration of
the Court’s September 18, 2023 order granting monetary and terminating
sanctions against Plaintiff. The Court found that Plaintiff’s maintenance of
the instant action was frivolous, based on clear statutory provisions
contradicting Plaintiff’s claims for relief. Plaintiff argues the order should
be reconsidered because Plaintiff did not act in bad faith. 
 
The Court already has rejected
Plaintiff’s arguments in its September 18, 2023 order. Plaintiff does not
provide any new or different facts, circumstances, or law to support
reconsideration. Plaintiff’s motion is DENIED.
 
                                                
 