 Case Number:  23STCV16872    Hearing Date:   December 13, 2023    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Nomi Abadi,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23STCV16872




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
Danny Elfman, 


 
 
 
Defendant.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date: December 13, 2023
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion to Compel Arbitration 
Moving Party: Defendant Danny Elfman
Responding Party: Plaintiff Nomi Abadi
 
T/R:     DEFENDANT’S
MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION IS GRANTED. 
DEFENDANT TO NOTICE.
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please
email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing.
 
The Court considers the moving papers,
opposition, and reply. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On July 19, 2023, Plaintiff Nomi Abadi sued
Defendant Danny Elfman, asserting one cause of action for breach of contract. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
“On petition of a party to an
arbitration agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement to
arbitrate a controversy and that a party thereto refuses to arbitrate a
controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to
arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement to arbitrate the
controversy exists….”  (CCP §
1281.2.)  The right to compel arbitration
exists unless the court finds that the right has been waived by a party’s
conduct, other grounds exist for revocation of the agreement, or where a
pending court action arising out of the same transaction creates the
possibility of conflicting rulings on a common issue of law or fact.   (CCP § 1281.2(a)-(c).)  “The party seeking arbitration bears the
burden of proving the existence of an arbitration agreement, and the party
opposing arbitration bears the burden of proving any defense, such as
unconscionability.”  (Pinnacle Museum
Tower Assn. v. Pinnacle Market Development (US), LLC (2012) 55 Cal.4th 223,
236.) 
 
A.           Existence of
Arbitration Agreement 
 
Defendant moves to compel arbitration
based on the arbitration provision in the settlement agreement executed in
2018. The agreement provides, “This Settlement Agreement
shall be construed in accordance with, and be governed by, the laws of the
State of California. If any dispute arises relating to the enforcement or
interpretation of this Settlement Agreement following its execution, the Parties
agree that such a dispute shall be subject to arbitration in Los Angeles,
California at ADR Services, Inc. and its arbitration rules will govern. If Hon.
Carla Woehrle (Ret.) is still with ADR Services, Inc. if and when a dispute
arises, she will preside if reasonably available. Otherwise the Parties will
agree on an available arbitrator at ADR Services, Inc. Following arbitration,
the prevailing party shall recover reasonable attorney's fees and costs
relating to the dispute. The Parties shall, however, retain the right to seek
to injunctive relief in the state or federal court located in Los Angeles
County, California, which court shall have exclusive jurisdiction over any such
dispute and the Parties hereby consent to such jurisdiction and waive any right
to object to the exercise of such jurisdiction.” (Decl. Elfman ¶ 5.) 
 
Defendant has met his burden to
establish an agreement to arbitrate. The burden shifts to Plaintiff to
establish any defenses to enforcement.
 
B. Enforceability of Agreement
 
Plaintiff argues that the arbitration
provision in the settlement agreement does not apply because Plaintiff seeks
injunctive relief -- specific performance of the settlement provision requiring
Defendant to make payments to a charitable gift fund -- and the provision exempts
injunctive relief from mandatory arbitration. Defendant asserts that Plaintiff’s
claim is entirely predicated on the nonpayment of money, and the prayer for
relief seeks payment of money. According to Defendant, Plaintiff claims to seek
“injunctive relief” only to escape the arbitration agreement.
 
The Complaint is for breach of contract.
It states that Defendant was required to “make payments in four different
categories in various installments over the course of 5 years totaling $830,000.”
Defendant allegedly breached the agreement by “[f]ailing to make payments to [the]
charitable account category on two separate occasions.” The complaint states
that “Plaintiff seeks injunctive relief for recovery of the outstanding
payments totaling $85,000.”
 
Generally, in determining whether a
complaint states a legal or equitable claim, the Court looks to the “gist” of
the action. “The legal or equitable ‘gist’ of the
action is ordinarily determined by the mode of relief to be afforded, though
the prayer for relief is not conclusive. Money damages are ordinarily the earmark of a legal claim.”
Berg v. Pulte Home Corp. (2021) 67 Cal.App.5th 277, 289 (internal
citations omitted). The Complaint here plainly seeks “recovery” of money. Adding
the phrase “injunctive relief” does not alter the nature of the claim. 
 
Because the Complaint seeks monetary relief for
breach of the settlement agreement, it is a “dispute…relating to the
enforcement or interpretation of this Settlement Agreement.” It is governed by
the arbitration clause.
 
Defendant’s motion to compel
arbitration is GRANTED.


 