 Case Number:  23STCV00420    Hearing Date:   October 23, 2023    Dept:  20
Tentative Ruling
Judge Kevin C. Brazile

Department 20

Hearing Date:                         Monday, October 23, 2023
Case Name:                             Perez, et al. v.
General Motors LLC
Case No.:                                23STCV00420                        
Motion:                                  Motion to Compel
Further Responses to Request for Production (Set One); Request for Monetary Sanctions
in the Amount of $3,210.00
Moving Party:                         Plaintiffs Enrique Perez and
Jennifer Perez (jointly, “Plaintiffs”)
Responding Party:                  Defendant General Motors
(“Defendant”)
Notice:                                    OK

 

 
Ruling:                                    The Motion to
Compel Further Responses is granted in part.
 
Plaintiffs to give
notice.
 
If counsel do not
submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by
LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic.

 

 
            This is a lemon law action.
Plaintiffs Enrique Perez and Jennifer Perez seek to compel Defendant General
Motors LLC to provide further responses to their requests for production, set
one.
The Motion is granted in part as to
request nos. 16, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, and 32, which
relate to GM’s general policies and procedures relied upon when handling
vehicle repurchase or replacement requests and calculating repurchase offers
and accordingly, Defendant’s compliance with the Song-Beverly Act. These
requests will be limited to documents potentially applicable to the subject
vehicle. These requests will also exclude emails.
The Motion is granted as to request nos.
37, 38, and 39, which merely seek documents identifying OBDII, symptom, and
repair codes for the subject vehicle. This is basic information, and Defendant’s
objections lack merit.
The Motion is granted in part as to
request nos. 40 and 41, which seek documents identifying complaint and labor
operation codes. These requests will be limited to documents potentially
applicable to the subject vehicle.
The Motion is denied as to request nos. 45
and 46, which seek complaints and repair information as to vehicles other than
the subject vehicle. These requests are overbroad, over-burdensome, and not
commensurate with the scope of this action. 
In
sum, the Motion is granted in part as set forth herein„ Further responses are
to be served within sixty days. Given the mixed results, the Court declines to
award sanctions.
Plaintiffs to give notice.
            If counsel do not submit on the
tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than
in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic.
 
