  Case Number:  21STCV37370.    Hearing Date:   October 23, 2023    Dept:  20
Tentative Ruling
Judge Kevin C. Brazile

Department 20

Hearing Date:                         Monday, October 23,
2023
Case Name:                             Gearhart v.
Critter Busters Inc., et al.
Case No.:                                21STCV37370
Motion:                                  Motions to be
Relieved as Counsel (2x)
Moving Party:                         The Law Offices of John
W. Fagerholm, Ltd.
Responding Party:                  Unopposed
Notice:                                    OK

 

 
Ruling:                                    The Motions
are GRANTED.
 
Moving Party to
give notice.
 
If counsel do not
submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect
rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic.

 

 
The Law Offices of John W.
Fagerholm, Ltd. seek to be relieved as counsel for Defendants David Charles San
Filippo and Critter Busters Inc.The Motions
are granted because they meet all requirements of Cal. Rules of Court, Rule
3.1362. 
The Court notes that Defendant Critter
Busters Inc. is a corporate entity. A corporation, unlike a
natural person, cannot represent itself before courts of record in proper
personia, nor can it represent itself through a corporate officer, director, or
other employee who is not an attorney. (CLD Const., Inc. v. City of San
Ramon (2004) 120 Cal.App.4th 1141, 1145.) Accordingly, an OSC Re:
Representation will be set for fourteen days from hearing. At that time, Critter
Busters Inc. must be prepared to appear with substitute counsel,
and substitute counsel must be prepared to update the court as to counsel’s
readiness to proceed to trial.  
The motion is GRANTED.
Moving party to give notice.
Attorneys are relieved as counsel of
record for client effective upon the filing of the proof of service for the
Court order (form MC-053) upon the clients.
            If counsel do not submit on the
tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than
in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic.
 
 
