  Case Number:  23CHCV00247    Hearing Date:   September 4, 2024    Dept:  F43 Robert
Facio, Jr. vs. Nissan North America, Inc., et al.
Trial
Date: N/A
 
MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER DISCOVERY RESPONSES
 
MOVING
PARTY: Plaintiff Robert Facio, Jr.
RESPONDING
PARTY: Defendant Nissan North America, Inc.
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Further
Responses to Defendant’s Answers to Plaintiff’s Requests for Production
 
RULING:
Parties are ordered to conduct a meaningful meet and confer.
SUMMARY
OF ACTION AND ANALYSIS
On February 15, 2024, Plaintiff Robert Facio, Jr. (Plaintiff)
filed this lemon law case against Defendant Nissan North America, Inc.
(Defendant). 
 
Plaintiff
propounded discovery on Defendant on March 29, 2024, including requests for
production. Defendant served responses to Plaintiff’s requests for production. Plaintiff
argues that the responses that Defendant served asserted boilerplate objections
that were not Code-compliant. Plaintiff also argues that Defendant failed to
produce many of the responsive documents requested. Specifically, Plaintiff
seeks further responses to Request Nos. 30 and 31. Plaintiff also claims that he
sent detailed meet and confer letters to Defendant, but Defendant failed to
respond. 
 
There
appears to be a dispute between the parties over the sufficiency of the meet
and confer. Plaintiff claims that Defendant failed to respond, but Defendant
claims in its opposition that Plaintiff’s counsel ignored Defendant’s request
for a telephone conference. Plaintiff argues in his reply that Defendant failed
to address every point that Plaintiff’s attorney made in the meet and confer
letter. Regardless, it appears that there was a lack of meet and confer between
the parties as to the relevant requests for production.
 
The
Court has reviewed the documents related to this motion and will not decide the
motion on the merits at this time. The Court orders the parties to meet and
confer directly, not by email or letter. Additionally, the parties are ordered
to file a joint statement of remaining issues by a date to be set by the Court.
The joint statement should briefly describe the matters in dispute, followed by
Plaintiffs’ arguments, then Defendant’s arguments. 
 
Prior
to meeting and conferring, the parties should refer to the Court’s discovery
order for lemon law cases for this motion and any future discovery motions that
may be filed in this case. There is a section in that order for the production
of documents. The Court’s discovery order is posted online, along with this
Department’s courtroom information and Final Status Conference Order, all of
which the parties are ordered to review.
 
ORDER

1.
The parties are ordered to conduct a meaningful meet and confer.
 
2.
The parties shall submit a joint statement of the remaining issues as described
above. The format should be as follows: the parties should recite the specific discovery
request at issue, followed by the moving party’s statement of why it should be
compelled, followed by the opposing party’s statement of why it should not be
compelled. To the extent that an argument is repeated for a subsequent request,
the party shall simply refer to the section where the argument was previously
made.
 
3.
The dates for the status report and continued hearings will be set at the hearing
on this motion.
 
4.
Moving party to provide notice.