 Case Number:  22STCV31694    Hearing Date:   June 18, 2024    Dept:  C SOKOL v. NORWALK COMMUNITY  HOSPITAL, et al. CASE NO.:  22STCV31694 HEARING:   6/18/24  @ 9:30 A.M.    #5 TENTATIVE RULING   Defendants  THC Orange County, LLC dba Kindred Hospital Westminster and Kindred Healthcare  Operating, LLC’s demurrer to Plaintiffs’ complaint for damages is SUSTAINED without  leave to amend as to the first cause of action.      Moving Parties to give NOTICE.       The operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”)  was filed on October 5, 2023.  The FAC alleges  that Lester Dale Biles (“Decedent”) “was admitted to  Defendant, KINDRED HOSPITAL WESTMINSTER, from April 29, 2021, through May 16,  201. During this admission … DECEDENT developed a Stage IV wound to his left  hip, and wounds to his right hip, left ankle, right heel, right medial foot,  right lateral foot, and right thigh.” (FAC ¶ 35.) “Pursuant to prior medical  history and assessments performed on the DECEDENT at the time of his admissions  to the facilities, Defendants knew that the DECEDENT was at high risk for  developing pressure sores or ulcers, and/or worsening of pressure sores or  ulcers, due to his prior medical history and presenting symptoms at the  facilities, and if he was not adequately turned or repositioned while at the  facilities.” (FAC ¶ 36.) “Defendants failed to properly reposition the DECEDENT  during his stays at the facilities, failed to keep the DECEDENT clean and dry,  failed to perform wound care and change his dressings daily or as needed, and  failed to turn or reposition the DECEDENT properly or adequately, among others,  resulting in the development and/or worsening of pressure ulcers as described  herein.” (FAC ¶ 39.) “The acts, omissions and conduct of Defendants, and each  of them, as alleged herein, caused or contributed to the death of LESTER DALE  BILES on May 16, 2021.” (FAC ¶ 44.)    Plaintiff Teresa Sokol (“Plaintiff”) sues Defendants  Norwalk Community Hospital; Alta Los Angeles Hospitals, Inc.; Bellflower Post  Acute; 9710 Artesia, LLC; Mesa Verde Post Acute; Mesa Verde Convalescent  Hospital, Inc.; Joel Lautenschleger; Kindred Hospital Westminster; THC – Orange  County, LLC; Kindred Healthcare Operating, LLC; Lakewood Regional Medical  Center; and Hago Hospital, asserting causes of action for the following:   1.     Negligence  2.     Elder Abuse  3.     Willful Misconduct  4.     Wrongful Death    Defendants THC Orange County, LLC dba Kindred  Hospital Westminster and Kindred Healthcare Operating, LLC (“Defendants”)  demur to the negligence cause of action on the grounds that it is barred by the  one-year statute of limitations.   Meet and Confer   The parties adequately met-and-conferred. (Decl.  Ly, ¶¶ 6-7, Ex. 4; Code.  Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a).)    First Cause of Action for Negligence   The statute of limitations for ordinary  negligence is two years pursuant to CCP § 335.1.      The  statute of limitations for a claim based upon professional negligence is “three  years after the date of injury or one year after the plaintiff discovers, or  through the use of reasonable diligence should have discovered, the injury,  whichever occurs first.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 340.5.)   The  issue before this court is whether the first cause of action, as pleaded in the  complaint, is governed by Code of Civil Procedure section 335.1 or Code of Civil  Procedure section 340.5.   Decedent  passed away on May 16, 2021, and the Complaint was filed on September 28, 2022,  which is one year and four months after Decedent’s death.   Defendants  contend that the Code of Civil Procedure section 340.5 applies because they are  “health care providers.”   Civil  Code section 3333.1, subdivision (c) provides:   (1) "Health care  provider" means any person licensed or certified pursuant to Division 2  (commencing with Section 500) of the Business and Professions Code, or licensed  pursuant to the Osteopathic Initiative Act, or the Chiropractic Initiative Act,  or licensed pursuant to Chapter 2.5 (commencing with Section 1440) of Division  2 of the Health and Safety Code; and any clinic, health dispensary, or  health facility, licensed pursuant to Division 2 (commencing with Section 1200)  of the Health and Safety Code. "Health care provider" includes  the legal representatives of a health care provider;    (2) "Professional  negligence" means a negligent act or omission to act by a health care  provider in the rendering of professional services, which act or omission is  the proximate cause of a personal injury or wrongful death, provided that such services  are within the scope of services for which the provider is licensed and which  are not within any restriction imposed by the licensing agency or licensed  hospital.”    Additionally,  Health & Safety Code section 1250 provides:    As used in this  chapter, "health facility" means any facility, place, or building  that is organized, maintained, and operated for the diagnosis, care,  prevention, and treatment of human illness, physical or mental, including  convalescence and rehabilitation and including care during and after pregnancy,  or for any one or more of these purposes, for one or more persons, to which the  persons are admitted for a 24-hour stay or longer, and includes the following  types: …   (c) (1) "Skilled  nursing facility" means a health facility that provides skilled nursing  care and supportive care to patients whose primary need is for availability  of skilled nursing care on an extended basis.   Plaintiff,  however, contends that Code of Civil Procedure section 335.1 is the controlling  statute because Plaintiff pleaded an ordinary negligence cause of action. According  to Plaintiff, no notice of intention to sue under Code of Civil Procedure  section 364 was served which would have been required if she, in fact, intended  to bring an action for professional negligence.  (See Code Civ. Proc., § 364, subd. (a).)   This  court is persuaded by the Supreme Court decision in Flores v. Presbyterian  Intercommunity Hospital (2016) 63 Cal.4th 75.  Flores involved a patient’s injury when  he fell from a hospital bed when the rail collapsed.  There, the trial court determined that CCP §  340.5 applied, and the appellate court disagreed.  The Supreme Court reversed the appellate  court ruling, holding that CCP § 340.5 applied because the facility failed to  implement the doctor’s order.  The court  analyzed, “The text and purposes  underlying § 340.5 instead  require drawing a distinction between the professional obligations of  hospitals in the rendering of medical care to their patients and the  obligations hospitals have, simply by virtue of operating facilities open to  the public, to maintain their premises in a manner that preserves the  well-being and safety of all users… an injury resulting from a hospital's breach of a generally  applicable obligation to maintain its equipment and premises in a safe  condition does not fall within section 340.5. Rather,  the special statute of limitations for professional negligence actions against  health care providers applies only to actions alleging injury suffered as a  result of negligence in rendering the professional services that hospitals and  others provide by virtue of being health care professionals: that is, the  provision of medical care to  patients… When a doctor or other health care professional makes a judgment to  order that a hospital bed's rails be raised in order to accommodate a patient's  physical condition and the patient is injured as a result of the negligent use  or maintenance of the rails, the negligence occurs in the rendering of  professional services and therefore is professional negligence for purposes  of Code Civ.  Proc., § 340.5.  (Flores v. Presbyterian  Intercommunity Hospital (2016) 63 Cal.4th 75, 87-89.)   Here,  the allegations in the FAC concern Defendants’ failure to render professional  medical services, not the breach of any duty under the ordinary  negligence.  Therefore, the one-year  statute of limitations pursuant to CCP § 340.5 applies, and the action is  time-barred.   Plaintiff  cites Delaney v. Baker (1999) 20 Cal.4th 23, but Delaney addresses  an Elder Abuse cause of action.   Defendants are not demurring to the Elder Abuse claim.   Accordingly, the demurrer to the first  cause of action is SUSTAINED.     Leave  to Amend   Defendants  argue the demurrer should be sustained without leave to amend because the Court  already sustained a demurrer to the First Cause of Action in the original  complaint on September 19, 2023.   Plaintiff argues that the demurrer to the original complaint was brought  by a different facility (Bellflower Post Acute, LLC) and the FAC adds certain  paragraphs.  However, the newly added  paragraphs in the FAC also sound in professional negligence, as opposed to  general negligence.     Accordingly,  the demurrer is sustained without leave to amend.  SOKOL v. NORWALK COMMUNITY
HOSPITAL, et al.CASE NO.:  22STCV31694HEARING:   6/18/24
@ 9:30 A.M. #5TENTATIVE RULING Defendant
Mesa Verde Convalescent Hospital Inc. dba Mesa Verde Post Acute Care Center’s
demurrer to Plaintiff’s amended complaint for damages is SUSTAINED in part and
OVERRULED in part.  Moving Party to give NOTICE.  Defendant
Mesa Verde Convalescent Hospital Inc., dba Mesa Verde Post Acute Care Center
(“Defendant”) demurs to all four causes of
action on the grounds that they fail to state facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action and are uncertain.  The Complaint alleges that Lester Dale Biles
(“Decedent”) suffered ulcers and wounds while in the care of Defendants,
resulting in his death.  Plaintiff Teresa Sokol (“Plaintiff”) sues Defendants
Norwalk Community Hospital; Alta Los Angeles Hospitals, Inc.; Bellflower Post
Acute; 9710 Artesia, LLC; Mesa Verde Post Acute; Mesa Verde Convalescent
Hospital, Inc.; Joel Lautenschleger; Kindred Hospital Westminster; THC – Orange
County, LLC; Kindred Healthcare Operating, LLC; Lakewood Regional Medical
Center; and Hago Hospital, asserting causes of action for the following: 1.   
Negligence 2.   
Elder Abuse 3.   
Willful Misconduct 4.   
Wrongful Death. Paragraph 23 alleges
that “Decedent accidentally shot himself and suffered a brain injury, among
others. Decedent received custodial care at the facilities following his
accident.”  Paragraph 33 alleges that “DECEDENT
was admitted to Defendant, MESA VERDE CONVALESCENT HOSPITAL from April 12,
2021, through April 20, 2021. During this admission, DECEDENT’s aforementioned
wounds continued to worsen as a result of this Defendant’s neglect.” Paragraph
36 alleges, “Pursuant to prior medical history and assessments performed on the
DECEDENT at the time of his admissions to the facilities, Defendants knew that
the DECEDENT was at high risk for developing pressure sores or ulcers, and/or
worsening of pressure sores or ulcers, due to his prior medical history and
presenting symptoms at the facilities, and if he was not adequately turned or
repositioned while at the facilities.”  Paragraphs
38-40 further allege that Defendants failed to “assess and document his
condition,” failed to “reposition the Decedent,” failed to “properly keep the
Decedent clean and dry,” “failed to “perform daily wound care and dressings,”
and failed to provide Decedent with the assistance he needed to perform
activities for daily living. Defendant argues
that the allegations are bald, conclusory, devoid of fact, speculative,
improper lay opinion, and or statements of ultimate fact or law. Defendant
further argues that the second and fourth causes of action do not meet
heightened pleading requirements. Defendant also argues that the allegations
are not sufficient to establish causation, a key element of each cause of
action.  Defendant further
argues that there are no specific facts about Defendant, and the allegations
consist of general, non-specific, factually devoid allegations of “collective
wrongdoing” by all the defendants, such that Defendant cannot distinguish or
ascertain what improper acts or omissions are attributable to it. The same
applies to allegations of injury and damages.  MEET AND CONFER The parties adequately met-and-conferred. (Decl.
Fischler, ¶¶ 3-4, Ex. C; Code.
Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a).)  FIRST CAUSE OF ACTION To state a claim
for negligence, Plaintiff must allege the elements of (1) “the
existence of a legal duty of care,” (2) “breach of that duty,” and (3)
“proximate cause resulting in an injury.” (McIntyre v. Colonies-Pacific, LLC
(2014) 228 Cal.App.4th 664, 671.)  As to causation, Plaintiff alleges
the following: “During
the time that the DECEDENT was a patient of and cared for in the facilities,
said Defendants breached their duties of due care to the DECEDENT in various
ways including, but not limited to, the following: Defendants failed to hire
properly qualified personnel, failed to hire sufficient staff to meet the needs
of the patients at the facilities, failed to properly train personnel at the
facilities, failed to properly supervise personnel at the facilities, failed to
provide sufficient resources to the facilities so that the needs of the
patients could be met in accordance with the federal and state
laws/regulations, failed to properly assess and monitor the DECEDENT’S physical
and mental care needs, failed to provide the DECEDENT with proper nourishment
and hydration, failed to assist the DECEDENT with personal hygiene and failed
to evaluate and report the DECEDENT’S condition to appropriate medical
personnel and/or his family.” (FAC, ¶ 49.)  The
Court finds the First Cause of Action is adequately pleaded. Less particularity
is required in matters of which defendant has superior knowledge. (Thomas v.
Regents of Univ. of Calif. (2023) 97 Cal.App.5th 587, 611.) The
complaint will be upheld so long as it gives notice of the issues sufficient to
enable preparation of a defense. (Doe v. City of L.A. (2007) 42 Cal.4th
531, 549-550.) As a health care provider, Defendant has superior knowledge of the
care it provided the decedent.  The
Court OVERRULES the demurrer as to the First Cause of Action.  SECOND
CAUSE OF ACTION The
Elder Abuse and Dependent Adult
Civil Protection Act (Welf. & Inst. Code, § 15600 et seq.) provides for
steep penalties against those who abuse an elder or a dependent adult.
Dependent adult abuse includes physical abuse, neglect, isolation, deprivation
by a care custodian of necessary goods or services, and financial abuse. (Welf.
& Inst. Code, § 15610.07, subd. (a).) Plaintiff pleads that Decedent was
subject to physical abuse, neglect, abandonment, and isolation. (FAC, ¶ 60.) Also,
Plaintiff seeks the enhanced remedies of attorney fees and costs and damages
for the decedent’s predeath pain and suffering. (See Welf. & Inst. Code, §
15657.)            Neglect Neglect
includes failure to assist in personal hygiene, failure to provide medical care
for physical and mental health needs, and failure to protect from health and
safety hazards. (Welf. & Inst. Code, § 15610.57, subd. (b).)   [S]everal
factors [] must be present for conduct to constitute neglect within the meaning
of the Elder Abuse
Act and thereby trigger the enhanced remedies available under the Act. The
plaintiff must allege (and ultimately prove by clear and convincing evidence)
facts establishing that the defendant: (1) had responsibility for meeting the
basic needs of the elder or dependent adult, such as nutrition, hydration,
hygiene or medical care; (2) knew of conditions that made the elder or
dependent adult unable to provide for his or her own basic needs; and (3)
denied or withheld goods or services¿necessary to meet the elder or dependent
adult’s basic needs, either with knowledge that injury was substantially
certain to befall the elder or dependent adult (if the plaintiff alleges
oppression, fraud or malice) or with conscious disregard of the high
probability of such injury¿(if the plaintiff alleges recklessness). The
plaintiff must also allege (and ultimately prove by clear and convincing
evidence) that the neglect caused the elder or dependent adult to suffer
physical harm, pain or mental suffering. Finally, the facts constituting the
neglect and establishing the causal link between the neglect and the injury
“must be pleaded with particularity,” in accordance with the pleading rules
governing statutory claims.  (Carter
v. Prime Healthcare Paradise Valley LLC¿(2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 396,
406-407.) To allege “neglect,” the plaintiff must begin by
alleging that the defendant had “care or custody” of the victim. (Winn v. Pioneer Medical Group, Inc. (2016) 63 Cal. 4th 148.)  Winn
explained that in determining whether a defendant has care or custody
requires “a robust caretaking or custodial relationship - that is a
relationship where a certain party has assumed a significant measure of
responsibility for attending to one or more of an elder's basic needs that an
able-bodied and fully competent adult would ordinarily be capable of managing
without assistance.” (Id. at 158.)  Defendant
pleads, “….Defendants
neglected the DECEDENT by, in part, failing to assist in personal hygiene
and/or in the provision of food, clothing or shelter, failing to provide
medical care for the DECEDENT’s physical and mental health needs, failing to
protect from health and safety hazards, failing to prevent malnutrition and/or
dehydration, and/or failing to ensure adequate supervision of the DECEDENT who
was left unsupervised, unmonitored and unassisted on many occasions and who
suffered the development and/or worsening of pressure injuries as described
hereinabove (in the first cause of action). The Defendants also failed to
document accurately; failed to have a comprehensive care plan; failed to update
the care plan; failed to assess and address metabolic laboratory levels; failed
to provide immediate adequate and appropriate nutrition with increased protein,
Vitamin C and Zinc, to help the healing process of the DECEDENT’s beginning
and/or continuing skin breakdown; failed to provide adequate nutritional care
to facilitate the prevention and healing of skin breakdown; failed to provide
an effective and complete nutritional care plan with timely appropriate
nutritional interventions; failed to recognize/assess and appreciate that the
DECEDENT was at risk for the development of skin breakdown and pressure ulcers
secondary to his multiple medical conditions and/or if he was not turned or
repositioned regularly; failed to protect the DECEDENT from harm; failed to
assess the DECEDENT; failed to follow doctor’s orders; and, failed to notify
the DECEDENT’s doctors, as described in detail herein.” (FAC, ¶¶ 61-62.)
 Plaintiff also pleads, “Defendants
failed to comply with one or more of the following regulatory standards (which
describe the standard of care owed by Defendants) including but not limited to:
(1) 22 California Code of Regulations (“Cal. C. Regs.”) § 87705(c)(4); (2) 22
Cal. C. Regs. § 87459(a)(3)(A&B); (3) 22 Cal. C. Regs. § 87211(a)(1)(D);
(4) 22 Cal. C. Regs. § 72001 et seq.; (5) 22 Cal.C.Regs. § 72301 et seq.; (6)
22 Cal. C. Regs. § 72501(e); (7) 42 CFR § 483.1 et seq.; (8) Health &
Safety Code § 1417 et seq.; (9) Health & Safety Code §1599.65 et seq.; (10)
Health & Safety Code § 1276.5; (11) 42 USC § 1396r; (12) 42 USC § 483.1 et
seq.; (13) 42 USC § 1395i-3(b); and/or (14) Penal Code § 368.” (FAC, ¶ 64.)  Plaintiff further
pleads, “The nursing facilities herein accepted or retained the DECEDENT as a
patient although they could not provide adequate care.” (FAC, ¶ 66.)  Plaintiff also pleads,
“…. Defendants, and each of them, recklessly and with deliberate indifference
to the DECEDENT’s health and safety failed to provide the DECEDENT adequate
care, in part, as follows:  a) Defendants, and each
of them, were entrusted with the sole custodial care of DECEDENT, but failed to
provide DECEDENT with necessary health and medical care; b) Defendants, and each
of them, failed to ensure that a resident or patient having pressure sores
receives necessary treatment and services to promote healing, prevent
infection, and prevent new sores from developing; c) Defendants, and each
of them, failed to appropriately assess DECEDENT's medical needs; d) Defendants, and each
of them, failed to reassess DECEDENT's skin wounds; e) Defendants, and each of
them, failed to provide accurate medical assessments of the DECEDENT; f) Defendants, and each
of them, failed to create a comprehensive assessment of DECEDENT’s needs using
the Resident Assessment Instrument specified by the State of California; g) Defendants, and each
of them, failed to notify physicians of the changes in DECEDENT’s physical
and/or mental/emotional condition; h) Defendants, and each
of them, failed to maintain acceptable parameters of nutritional status, such
as body weight and protein levels; i) Defendants, and each
of them, failed to provide a therapeutic diet when a nutritional problem or
issue arose which concerned the DECEDENT; j) Defendants, and each
of them, failed to provide comprehensive care plans for the DECEDENT; k) Defendants, and each
of them, failed to maintain a complete, accurately documented, readily
accessible, systematically organized medical record concerning the DECEDENT; l) Defendants, and each
of them, failed to administer medications and treatment as prescribed; m) Defendants, and each
of them, failed to ensure that their residents, including DECEDENT in
particular, was free from abuse or neglect while he was a resident.” (FAC, ¶
68.)  Plaintiff pleads, “Based
on the Decedent’s prior medical history and assessments, and due to his
multiple medical conditions, Defendants knew that the Decedent was at high risk
for developing pressure ulcers if he was not provided with needed supervision,
as well as needed medical care, nutrition, and services. Nevertheless, the Decedent
was left lying in his bed, unattended and unassisted, for excessively long
periods of time during which time his needs were ignored and disregarded. At
times, Defendants’ staff failed to respond to Decedent’s alarms when he needed
assistance with toileting and/or it would take the Defendants’ staff excessive
periods of time to respond to Decedent’s call lights.” (FAC, ¶ 78.)  Plaintiff also pleads,
“On frequent occasions, the DECEDENT was left lying in his own excrement and/or
urine soaked linens for excessively long periods which not only caused him
severe emotional distress, but also caused him to develop unnecessary pressure
ulcers which went untreated such that the ulcers became severely infected and
ate through multiple layers of soft tissue structures, exposing deep muscle
tissue and bone. The Defendants’ staff failed to reposition or turn the
DECEDENT, and the DECEDENT was not turned adequately even after the wound was
demonstrated to extend into the subcutaneous tissues and eventually to the
bone.” (FAC, ¶ 79.)  Plaintiff further
pleads, “Defendants knew the DECEDENT’s pressure ulcers were getting worse but
the Defendants continually failed to follow the patient care plan or reassess
his condition and implement a new care plan based on his worsening condition.
Further, although the Defendants knew that DECEDENT could not feed or hydrate
himself (or adequately do so) and, therefore, was dependent on the Defendants
for his nutrition and hydration, the Defendants failed to provide DECEDENT with
the assistance he required with these activities.” (FAC, ¶ 80.)            Causation  Without a natural inference of causation from the
allegations of duty and breach, specific facts affording such an inference that
the breach caused injury or harm must be alleged. (Berkley v. Dowds (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 518, 528.) Plaintiff alleges, “All
of these acts and omissions caused Decedent to suffer extreme and unnecessary
emotional and physical pain and suffering and were caused, in part, by rapid
turnover of nursing staff, staffing shortages, inadequate training of employees
and a failure to establish and implement policies and procedures mandated by
law. As a result of said Defendants’ continued and repeated failure to provide
the minimal amount of physician care, services and supervision which the law
required them to provide, the DECEDENT’s rights were violated and he suffered
needless physical pain and mental suffering.” (FAC, ¶ 81-82.)  Based
thereon, the Court determines that Plaintiff has adequately pleaded the Second
Cause of Action for Elder Abuse.   THIRD
CAUSE OF ACTION Willful
misconduct is not a separate tort from negligence, but rather an aggravated
form of negligence, differing in quality rather than degree from ordinary lack
of care. (Doe v. United States Youth Soccer Association, Inc. (2017) 8
Cal.App.5th 1118, 1140; Berkley v. Dowds (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 518,
526; see also New v. Consolidated Rock Products Co. (1985) 171
Cal.App.3d 681, 689.)    In
order to establish willful misconduct, a plaintiff must prove not only the
elements of a negligence cause of action, that is, duty, breach of duty,
causation, and damage, but also (1) actual or constructive knowledge of the
peril to be apprehended, (2) actual or constructive knowledge that injury is
probable, as opposed to a possible, result of the danger, and (3) conscious
failure to act to avoid the peril.  (Doe, supra, 8 Cal.App.5th at
1140.)  Willful misconduct is not marked by a mere absence of care,
rather, it involves a more positive intent to harm another or to do an act with
a positive, active, and absolute disregard of its consequences.  (Ibid.) 
Willful misconduct's pleading requirements are like negligence but
stricter.  (Berkley, supra, 152 Cal.App.4th at 526.)  “The act
or omission must be even more specifically described to raise it to the level
of willful misconduct. No claim of willful misconduct can be stated without
alleging the specific act or omission that caused the injury.” (Id. at 528.)  Here,
because willful misconduct is not a recognized independent cause of action, but
instead an enhanced pleading of negligence, the demurrer to the third cause of
action should be sustained on that sole basis. In the interest of expediting
this matter the Court will also discuss the validity of the willful misconduct
allegations.  The FAC alleges that Defendants knew that if
they failed to provide adequate staffing levels, failed to adequately supervise
the Decedent, failed to provide needed medical care and services, failed to
turn or reposition the Decedent in a timely manner so as to prevent skin
breakdown, that the Decedent was at risk for developing and/or worsening of
pressure ulcers and would likely develop ulcers that could become severely
infected and eat through multiple layers of soft tissues structures, exposing
deep muscle tissue and bone. (FAC, ¶ 114.) Further, Defendants knew that if
they failed to provide acceptable parameters of nutritional/hydration status,
that Decedent would suffer from weight loss, dehydration, and/or malnutrition. (FAC,
¶ 114.)  The FAC also alleges
that Defendants knew that the injury to Decedent was a probable, if not merely
a possible, consequence of the peril. (FAC, ¶ 116.) They knew that the Decedent
was at risk for the development and/or worsening of pressure ulcers and that he
would develop pressure ulcers and/or his pressure ulcers would worsen if staffing levels
were inadequate, if staff were inadequately trained or not trained at all in
the prevention and treatment of decubitus ulcers and deep tissue
injuries/wounds, if the Decedent was not turned and repositioned in a timely
manner, and if he was not properly monitored and cared for. (FAC, ¶ 116.) Defendants
knew that the Decedent would or could become malnourished and/or lose weight if
he was not eating properly and if he was not given adequate nourishment and
adequate assistance with eating meals. (FAC, ¶ 116.) The FAC further alleges
that given Decedent’s age, condition and diagnoses, Defendant had actual or
constructive knowledge that if wound care prevention and
preventative/corrective measures were not instituted or followed, that the
decedent’s condition would deteriorate or continue to deteriorate, he would
suffer skin breakdown, he would develop pressure sores, the bedsores would not
heal and would develop into advanced bedsores. (FAC, ¶ 120.)  The FAC does not
include any specific facts to show that Defendant was aware of the risks of
Decedent’s condition, or what risks Defendant was aware of concerning his
condition so Defendant knew or should have known that it was probable, instead
of merely possible, that Decedent would be harmed. There are no allegations
supporting that Defendant intended to harm Decedent or did any act with
absolute disregard of its consequences. Plaintiff only alleges that Defendant
knew Decedent was at risk and that Defendant did not take the appropriate
measures.  Defendant’s
demurrer is sustained as to the third cause of action.  FOURTH
CAUSE OF ACTION “The elements of a
cause of action for wrongful
death are a tort, such
as negligence, and resulting death.” (Lopez v. City of L.A. (2011)
196 Cal.App.4th 675, 685.)  Contrary to what Defendant
argues, there is no higher pleading standard for the wrongful death cause of
action.  Because the Court overruled the
negligence cause of action on the issue of causation, it also overrules the
wrongful death cause of action.   









































































































































































































































          