 Case Number:  24NWCV00571    Hearing Date:   June 18, 2024    Dept:  C Firpo Wycoff Carr, DR, PhD vs Bellflower Self
Storage, LTD, et al
Case No.: 24NWCV00571
Hearing Date: June 18, 2024 @ 10:30 a.m. 
 
#10
Tentative Ruling 
I.            
Defendants’ Demurrer is SUSTAINED with 20
days leave to amend as to the Sixth, Seventh, Eighth, Ninth, and Tenth Causes
of Action, and SUSTAINED without leave to amend as to the Second and Fourth
Causes of Action.  
II.           
Defendants’ Demurrer is OVERRULED as to
the First, Third and Fifth Causes of Action. 
III.         
Defendants’ Motion to Strike is GRANTED as
to attorney’s fees and DENIED as to punitive damages.  
Defendants to give notice. 
 
Defendants Bellflower Self Storage, LTD, Kimberly Cabrera,
Roque Carrera, and Cheri Tomayo (collectively “Defendants”) demur to Plaintiff
Firpo Wycoff Carr’s (“Plaintiff”) Complaint on the grounds that it fails to
state sufficient facts to support the causes of action, and the causes of
action are impermissibly uncertain.
The Complaint filed on February 23, 2024, alleges that Plaintiff
Dr. Firpo Wycoff Carr, Ph.D., is an elderly African-American male academic who
researches health psychology and specializes in mental health and the
well-being of surgeons. (¶15.) For 25 years, Plaintiff has been a tenant at the
storage facility operated by Defendant Bellflower Self-Storage, LTD. (¶19.).
Plaintiff maintains an office and library there. (¶28.) On May 31, 2023, Plaintiff
was assaulted at the storage facility by “three Latino males” who threatened,
robbed, and physically assaulted him. They also called him a racial slur. (¶¶19,
27.) Plaintiff identifies his three assailants as Carlos Armando Ceballos, Luis
Ceballos (Carlos’s brother), Xsavier Fragoso (Carlos’s friend). (¶27.) Carlos
Ceballos is a tenant at the storage facility whom Plaintiff accused of stealing
valuable items from his storage unit. (¶26.) The theft allegations led to
Ceballos’s arrest on October 7, 2020. (Ibid.) Plaintiff believes the May
31, 2023 assault was an act of revenge for Ceballos’s October 7, 2020 arrest. (¶27.)
Plaintiff alleges Defendants failed to terminate Ceballos’s rental agreement
after his October 7, 2020 arrest, and Defendants failed to provide a safe
environment for Plaintiff. (¶26.) Defendants Kimberly Cabrera and assistant
manager Cheri Tamayo arrived on the scene after Plaintiff was assaulted.  Defendant Kimberly Cabrera blamed Plaintiff
for the assault and prevented law enforcement from arresting the three assailants.
(¶35.) On January 27, 2024, Defendant Roque Carrera used his loud buzzsaw
purposely close to Plaintiff’s storage unit. (¶55.) 
On February 23, 2024, Plaintiff filed this lawsuit alleging:
(1) violation of the Unruh Civil Rights Act, (2) Elder Abuse, (3) violation of
the Bane Act, (4) violation of Penal Code § 32, (5) Intentional Infliction of
Emotional Distress, (6) Negligence, (7) Negligent Hiring, (8) Defamation, (9)
Declaratory Relief, and (10) Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress. 
Demurrer 
Meet and Confer
In a Declaration filed on May 2,
2024, Plaintiff states that Counsel for Defendants failed to properly meet and
confer because only an email was sent to Plaintiff. (Carr Decl., ¶ 5.)
Plaintiff also states that he was not given adequate time to meet and confer.
(Carr Decl., ¶ 13.) Finally, Plaintiff states he was never put on notice that
Counsel was also representing Defendant Tamayo. (Carr. Decl., ¶ 35.) 
In support of the demurrer, Counsel
for Defendants addresses the lack of a substantive meet and confer process.
Counsel states that on April 17, 2024, Counsel sent Plaintiff a
meet and confer letter that included availability to discuss the matter by
phone. (Chun Decl., ¶ 5; Ex. A.) Counsel further states that on April 22, 2024,
she called Plaintiff but was unable to reach him. (Chun Decl., ¶ 7.) Finally,
on April 24, 2024, Counsel indicates she called Plaintiff to meet and confer and
Plaintiff contended that the declaration regarding extension of time to file
responsive pleading pursuant to C.C.P § 430.41(a)(2) was inappropriate, and Plaintiff
declined to meet and confer regarding the possible demurrer and motion to strike.
(Chun Decl., ¶ 9.) 
CCP §430.41(a) states that, before filing a demurrer, the
moving party must engage in a specified meet and confer process with the party
who filed the pleading at issue for the purpose of determining whether an
agreement can be reached as to the filing of an amended pleading that would
resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer/motion to strike. “[T]he
demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party
who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of
determining whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the
objections to be raised in the demurrer. (CCP §430.41(a).) A declaration
setting forth such meet and confer efforts must accompany the demurrer. (CCP §
430.41(a)(3).)   
Here, by Plaintiff’s own
admission, he received Counsel’s April 17, 2024 letter (Carr Decl., ¶ 17), her April
22, 2024 voicemail (Carr Decl., ¶ 30), and her April 24, 2024 phone call (Carr
Decl., ¶ 35.). Further, as to Plaintiff’s contention that he was never made
aware of Counsel’s representation of Defendant Tamayo, Counsel clearly states in
her April 17, 2024 letter that “our office has been retained to represent the
interests of Defendants Bellflower Self Storage, LTD, and Cheri Tamayo.” (Chun
Decl., Ex. A.) Although the parties were not able to reach an agreement during
these meet and confer efforts, the Court finds that Defendants made sufficient efforts
to discuss the Complaint and possible demurrer with Plaintiff.  
Having attended to the issue of
meet and confer the Court now turns to the substantive issues brought by the
Demurrer. 
Legal Standard 
The party against whom a
complaint has been filed may object to the pleading, by demurrer, on several
grounds, including the ground that the pleading does not state facts sufficient
to constitute a cause of action. (CCP § 430.10(e).) A party may demur to an
entire complaint, or to any causes of action stated therein. (CCP § 430.50(a).)
Discussion 
I.            
Unruh Civil Rights Act 
In order to assert a prima facie claim based on a denial of
full and equal accommodations, a plaintiff must allege that: (1) the defendant
denied, aided, or incited a denial of full and equal accommodations to
plaintiff; (2) a substantial motivating reason for defendant's conduct was its
perception of plaintiff's race, (3) plaintiff was harmed; and (4) the
defendant's conduct was a substantial factor in causing plaintiff's harm. (CACI
No. 3060, "Unruh Civil Rights Act—Essential Factual Elements"; Civ.
Code §§ 51; 52; Harris v. Capital Growth Investors XIV (1991) 52 Cal.3d
1142, 1149 (intentional discrimination is required for Unruh Act violations and
is encompassed in the motivating reason element).)
Plaintiff alleges Defendants have denied him equal
treatment because they have tried to “evict [him], an elderly Black man, under
false pretenses while allowing Carlos, a Latino with a criminal history … is
permitted to remain in good standing as a tenant at Bellflower Self Storage.”
(¶124.) “[Plaintiff] and others of his race and/or national origin are singled
out by Defendants’ employees as inherently suspicious, fraudulent,
necessitating closer monitoring, hovering, and obstruction while at the
facility.” (¶126.) Defendants “sought to intimidate Plaintiff through close
monitoring, and not being polite and/or courteous to him, as with other
customers of different races.” (Complaint, ¶ 128.) 
Defendant argues Plaintiff’s allegations are conclusory, Plaintiff
fails to allege any facts indicating that his race or age was a substantial
motivation for Defendants’ acts, and Plaintiff fails to allege specific facts
that he was denied full and equal accommodation, what the equal accommodation
was, and how defendants failed to provide such accommodation.
Taking the allegations in the Complaint as true, the Court
finds that Plaintiff has sufficiently alleged that he was denied full and equal
usage of the storage facility (¶126), the motivation behind the denial was
Plaintiff’s race (¶124), Plaintiff was harmed by being evicted (¶135), and
Defendants’ actions caused the harm (¶133). 
 
Accordingly, the demurrer to the first cause of action is
OVERRULED. 
II.           
Elder Abuse 
To plead a cause of action for elder abuse under the Act
based on neglect, a plaintiff must allege facts establishing that the
defendant: “(1) had responsibility for meeting the basic needs of the elder or
dependent adult,” “(2) knew of conditions that made the elder or dependent
adult unable to provide for his or her own basic needs”; and “(3) denied or
withheld goods or services necessary to meet the elder or dependent adult’s
basic needs, either with knowledge that injury was substantially certain…or with
conscious disregard for the high probability of such injury….” (Carter v. Prime
Healthcare Paradise Valley, LLC (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 396, 405-407.) A
plaintiff must also allege facts demonstrating that the neglect caused the
elder or dependent adult to suffer physical harm, pain, or mental suffering
such that the causal link between the neglect and injury is specifically
alleged. (Id at 407.) 
Plaintiff alleges that “he and at least one other elderly
Black man who was a tenant, Lonnie, are singled out by Defendants’ employees as
inherently suspicious and fraudulent, necessitating closer monitoring,
hovering, and obstruction while at the facility.” (¶139.) 
Plaintiff’s cause of action for elder abuse must fail
because the Complaint does not allege Defendants had responsibility for meeting
Plaintiff’s basic needs and Plaintiff was unable to provide for his own basic
needs.  
Accordingly, the demurrer as to the second cause of action
is SUSTAINED without leave to amend.
III.         
Violation of the Bane Act 
Civil Code section 52.1 bans interference with an
individual's rights by threat, intimidation, or coercion and states: If a
person or persons, whether or not acting under color of law, interferes by
threat, intimidation, or coercion, or attempts to interfere by threat,
intimidation, or coercion, with the exercise or enjoyment by any individual or
individuals of rights secured by the Constitution or laws of the United States,
or of the rights secured by the Constitution or laws of this state, the Attorney
General, or any district attorney or city attorney may bring a civil action for
injunctive and other appropriate equitable relief in the name of the people of
the State of California, in order to protect the peaceable exercise or
enjoyment of the right or rights secured. (Civil Code § 52.1 (b).) In addition
to claims brought by the Attorney General, district attorneys, and city
attorneys, Civil Code section 52.1 (c) allows individuals whose exercise or
enjoyment or rights has been interfered with to bring claims on their own
behalf.
"The essence of a Bane Act claim is that the
defendant, by the specified improper means (i.e., "threats, intimidation
or coercion"), tried to or did prevent the plaintiff from doing something
he or she had the right to do under the law or to force the plaintiff to do something
that he or she was not required to do under the law." (Austin B. v.
Escondido Union Sch. Dist. (2007) 149 Cal. App. 4th 860, 883.)
Among other things, Plaintiff alleges that Defendants have
interfered with Plaintiff’s rights by “threats of eviction without “just
cause,” harassment and intimidation through emails and letters.” (¶152.) 
Defendants argue that the Complaint fails to provide
specific facts to show a discriminatory motive on the part of Defendants to
sustain a cause of action under the Bane Act. 
As discussed in more detail with respect to the fifth cause
of action, Plaintiff’s assertion that Defendants
threatened a retaliatory eviction is sufficient to state a cause of action under
the Bane Act.
Accordingly, the demurrer to the
third cause of action is OVERRULED.  
IV.        
Accessory After the Fact in Violation of Penal
Code § 32. 
Penal Code § 32 states: "Any person who, after a
felony was committed, harbors, conceals or aids a principal in such felony,
with the intent they may avoid or escape from arrest, trial, conviction or
punishment, having knowledge they had committed such felony or charged a felony
or convicted thereof, is an accessory to such felony."
Plaintiff alleges that Defendants “attempted to prevent
[Carlos’s] arrest and protected at least one of the vehicles that was used to
block Plaintiff’s access to his four units.” (¶163.)
The Court determines that the Complaint does not state a
cause of action for Accessory After the Fact because there are no facts tending
to show Defendants knew that a felony had been committed or charged.  Moreover, Penal Code § 32 proscribes criminal
conduct, it does not create a civil cause of action enforceable by a private
citizen in a civil proceeding.  
Accordingly, the demurrer to the fourth cause of action is
SUSTAINED without leave to amend.  
V.          
Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress 
To state a cause of action for IIED, the plaintiff must
allege: (1) outrageous conduct by the defendant; (2) the defendant's intention
of causing or reckless disregard of the probability of causing emotional
distress; (3) the plaintiff's suffering severe or extreme emotional distress;
and (4) actual and proximate causation of the emotional distress by the
defendant's outrageous conduct. (Yau v. Santa Margarita Ford, Inc.
(2014) 229 Cal.App.4th 144, 161) For conduct to be outrageous for purposes of
IIED, the conduct must be so extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually
tolerated in a civilized society. (Id.) 
Defendants argue that the
Complaint only cites “buzzwords and phrases” and lacks factual allegations. The
only factual allegation provided by Plaintiff in the complaint are
"harassing" emails. These allegations against Defendants do not rise
to the requisite level of "outrageousness" required to support a
claim for IIED. 
Plaintiff alleges that Bellflower Self-Storage fabricated
reasons to terminate Plaintiff’s rental agreement by claiming Plaintiff had not
paid rent, when in fact he was current on his rent payments. (¶¶75-76.) Defendants
tried to evict him because he complained about “dirty, filthy, unhealthy, rat-infested
units”. (¶73.) Plaintiff alleges he was
emotionally distressed by emails stating that he would have to remove his items
in the self-storage facility and to bring rent current, and that these e-mails
caused Plaintiff to “suffer anxiety, depression, fear, grief, and humiliation.”
(¶74.) 
The Court determines that
Plaintiff has stated facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action for Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress.  Plaintiff
alleges that Defendants fabricated their demand for rent because Plaintiff
complained about unsanitary conditions at the facility.  Where a landlord-tenant relationship exists,
a cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional distress may be based
upon retaliatory eviction. (Aweeka v. Bonds (1971) 20 Cal.App.3d 278,
281-282.) Although Plaintiff rented a storage unit, not a residence, Plaintiff
has rented the space for 25 years and uses it as an office where he keeps
valuables.  Therefore, Plaintiff’s assertion that he was subject to retaliation
is sufficient to state a cause of action for Intentional Infliction of
Emotional Distress. 
Accordingly, the demurrer to the fifth
cause of action is OVERRULED. 
VI.        
Negligence 
To bring a cause of action for negligence, Plaintiff must
establish: (1) a duty owed by Defendant to the Plaintiff; (2) Defendant's
breached that duty; (3) Plaintiff suffered injury; (4) Defendant's breach of
duty was the legal cause of Plaintiff's injury; and (5) Defendant's breach of
duty was the proximate cause of Plaintiff's injury. (Ladd v. County of San
Mateo (1996) 12 Cal.4th 913, 917-18.)
In support of the cause of action for negligence, Plaintiff
relies upon allegations he made in relation to the fourth cause of action for
Accessory After the Fact and the tenth cause of action for Negligent Infliction
of Emotional Distress.  The Court has sustained
the demurrer with respect to those causes of action. 
Accordingly, the demurrer to the sixth cause of action is
SUSTAINED with 20 days leave to amend.  
VII.       
Negligent Hiring,
Supervision, or Retention of Employee 
The elements of a cause of action for negligent hiring,
retention, or supervision are: (1) the employer’s hiring, retaining, or
supervising an employee; (2) the employee was incompetent or unfit; (3) the
employer had reason to believe undue risk of harm would exist because of the
employment; and (4) harm occurs. (Evan F. v. Hughson United Methodist Church
(1992) 8 Cal.App.4th 828, 836-837.)
Plaintiff alleges that Bellflower Self-Storage is negligent
in its supervision of its employees because tenants are permitted to sell
various items on the premises in violation of its own policy. (¶¶109-10.) 
The Court determines that the Complaint does not adequately
allege that Plaintiff suffered harm because of Defendants’ negligent
supervision.  Plaintiff’s “severe
anxiety, heart palpitations, depression, stress, shame, and humiliation” (¶115)
is not reasonably related to the sales conducted by other tenants or Defendants’
lack of supervision.
Accordingly, the demurrer to the seventh cause of action is
SUSTAINED with 20 days leave to amend.  
VIII.     
Defamation 
“The elements of a defamation claim are (1) a publication
that is (2) false, (3) defamatory, (4)
unprivileged, and (5) has a natural tendency to injure or causes special
damage.”  (John Doe 2 v. Superior Court
(2016) 1 Cal.App.5th 1300, 1312.)
 
Plaintiff alleges that in a
letter dated July 13, 2023, Howard Levin falsely accused him of violating a
policy which prohibits taking photos and video on the premises. Kimberly
Cabrera emailed the letter to Plaintiff and Roque Carrera hand delivered the
letter to Plaintiff. (¶99.) Plaintiff argues the email is defamatory because
there is no proof of the violation. (¶100.) Plaintiff states that the alleged
violation is a fabrication to “impugn his excellent character and is intended
to lay groundwork for sham reasons for terminating his rental agreement or
somehow evicting him.” (¶102.)
The Court determines that the
Complaint fails to state a cause of action for defamation because it does not
allege that the email was published to a third party.  Plaintiff only alleges that the email was sent
to himself. 
Accordingly, the demurrer to the eighth
cause of action is SUSTAINED with 20 days leave to amend.
IX.        
Declaratory Relief
Declaratory
relief is intended to resolve controversies that may result in future
litigation. (Mefford v. City of Tulare (1951) 102 Cal.App.2d 919,
922.)  Here, the parties’ controversy has already resulted in litigation;
a declaration regarding the controversy would merely overlap with what
Plaintiff seeks to adjudicate.  Any issues that Plaintiff might request a
declaration about could be determined under his legal claims.  (See,
e.g., Jolley v. Chase Home Finance LLC (2013) 213 Cal.App.4th 872,
909-10 (declaratory relief operates prospectively and is unnecessary when an
ordinary legal action for damages would suffice); Allstate Ins. Co. v.
Fisher (1973) 31 Cal.App.3d 391, 394 (“The object of the [declaratory
relief] statute is to afford a new form of relief where needed and not to furnish
a litigant with a second cause of action for the determination of identical
issues.”); General of America Ins. Co. v. Lilly (1968) 258 Cal.App.2d 465, 470-471 (an action in declaratory
relief will not lie where the issue to be determined is the same as that in a
pending action at law between the same parties).)   
Accordingly,
the demurrer to the ninth cause of action is SUSTAINED with 20 days leave to
amend.
X.          
Negligent Infliction
of Emotional Distress
“[N]egligent causing of emotional distress is not an
independent tort but the tort of negligence. The traditional elements of duty,
breach of duty, causation, and damages apply.” (Eriksson v. Nunnink (2015) 233
Cal.App.4th 708, 729.) 
The elements for a claim of negligent infliction of
emotional distress are: (1) Defendant engaged in negligent conduct; (2)
Plaintiff suffered serious emotional distress; and (3) Defendant’s conduct was
a cause of the serious emotional distress. (CACI No. 1620.)
Plaintiff alleges that Bellflower Self Storage failed to meet
requirements for inspecting fire extinguishers, which caused Plaintiff to suffer
intense fear and anxiety that his library would be engulfed by a potential
fire. (¶94.) Further, he alleges two men unloaded “industrial-sized cylindric
canisters” into a unit directly across from his units, which caused emotional
distress that the canisters could be volatile. (¶95.) Plaintiff also alleges
that marijuana smoke from another unit caused him to develop a headache. (¶97.)

The Court determines that the Complaint does not adequately
allege causation.  “A substantial factor
in causing harm is a factor that a reasonable person would consider to have
contributed to the harm.  It must be more
than a remote or trivial factor.  It does
not have to be the only cause of the harm.” (CACI No. 430.)
Here, Plaintiff’s intense fear and emotional distress are
not reasonably related to Defendants’ conduct. 
Plaintiff merely speculates as to what might occur.  As to the marijuana smoke, Plaintiff only
alleges trivial injury (a headache). 
Also, Plaintiff fails to allege what duty Defendants owed to Plaintiff
to prevent marijuana from being used on the premises.  
Accordingly, the demurrer to the tenth
cause of action is SUSTAINED with 20 days leave to amend.  
Motion
to Strike 
Legal Standard 
Upon motion, or at any time in its own discretion, a court
may grant a motion to strike any of the following material: (1) irrelevant,
false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (2) all or any part of
any pleading not drawn in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule,
or an order of the court. (Code Civ. Proc. §436.) These provisions also
authorize “the striking of a pleading due to improprieties in its form or in
the procedures pursuant to which it was filed.” (Ferraro v. Camarlinghi,
(2008) 161 Cal.App.4th 509, 528.)
Punitive Damages
To recover punitive damages, plaintiff must allege facts
showing that defendant engaged in oppression, fraud, or malice as those terms
are defined in California Civil Code section 3294(c). (Grieves v. Superior
Court (1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 159, 166.) Punitive damages are neither
compensatory nor awarded as a matter of right. Consequently, an allegation of
mere negligence is an insufficient basis for an imposition of punitive damages.
Punitive damages are proper only when the "tortious conduct rises to
levels of extreme indifference to the plaintiff's rights, a level which decent
citizens should not have to tolerate." (Scott v. Phoenix Schools, Inc.,
(2009) 175 Cal.App.4th 702, 716.) Thus, even an act of gross negligence
does not warrant the imposition of exemplary damages. (Ebaugh v. Rabkin, (1972),
22 Cal.App.3d 891, 894.)
To recover such damages against an employer, plaintiff must
also allege facts showing that an officer, director, or managing agent engaged
in, authorized, or ratified the oppression, fraud, or malice or hired the
individual who engaged in these actions, with advance knowledge of the
individual's unfitness for the job and nonetheless hired said individual in
conscious disregard of the rights and safety of others. See Cal. Civ. Code, §
3294(b).
Civil Code section 3294(c) contains the applicable
definitions of "oppression," "fraud," and
"malice." "Oppression" is defined in subdivision (c)(2) as
"despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in
conscious disregard of that person's rights." "Fraud" is defined
in subdivision (c)(3) as "an intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or
concealment of a material fact known to the defendants with the intention on
the part of the defendants of thereby depriving a person or property or legal
rights or otherwise causing injury." "Malice" is defined in subdivision
(c)(1) as "conduct which is intended by the defendants to cause injury to
the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendants with
a willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others."
Defendants contend that Plaintiff has not pled sufficient
facts to show that Defendants acted with recklessness, oppression, fraud, or
malice.
The Court has determined that the Complaint sufficiently
alleges a cause of action for Intentional Infliction of Emotional
Distress.  The Complaint also alleges
corporate ratification. (¶10.) 
Accordingly, the motion to strike Plaintiff’s request for
punitive damages is DENIED. 
Attorney Fees 
In California, a party is not entitled to attorney's fees
unless expressly provided for by statute or by contract between parties to the
action. This rule is codified in California Code of Civil Procedure § 1021,
which states "[e]xcept as attorney's fees are specifically provided for by
statute, the measure and mode of compensation of attorneys and counselors at
law is left to the agreement, express or implied, of the parties; but parties
to actions or proceedings are entitled to their costs, as hereinafter
provided." (Code Civ. Proc. § 1021; see also Trope v. Katz (1995) 11
Cal.4th 274, 278, 279; 6 Witkin, Summary of Cal. Law (10th), Torts, §1655.)
Plaintiff requests “an award of reasonable equivalent
attorney’s fees for Plaintiff in Pro Se” pursuant to Civil Code § 52(a) and CCP
§ 1021.5.”  However, neither of these
sections authorize attorney’s fees to litigants appearing in pro per.  
Accordingly, the motion to strike Plaintiff’s request for
attorney’s fees is GRANTED.  