 Case Number:  22STCV20842    Hearing Date:   October 23, 2023    Dept:  26  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department 26
 



 
ce-gh urbanite fund
  2, llc,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
DAVID BELFORD, et
  al.
                        Defendants


 
  Case No.: 
  22STCV20842
 
  Hearing Date:  October 23, 2023
 
[TENTATIVE] order RE:
application for an
  order permitting andrew R. Kurland to appear as counsel pro hac vice
 
 



 
Andrew R. Kurland (“Kurland”) applies
to appear as counsel pro hac vice for Defendants
DigitalBridge Group, Inc. and DigitalBridge Group Advisors, LLC.  The application is unopposed. 
Under California Rules of Court, Rule 9.40,
attorneys licensed and in good standing in other states may, upon the
California court’s approval, appear as counsel pro hac vice in a pending case if an active member of the state bar
is associated as attorney of record. 
(CRC 9.40(a).)  Kurland is an active
member, in good standing, of the State Bar of New York.  (Kurland Decl. ¶¶ 5, 7.)  Kurland is also admitted to practice and is
in good standing for Supreme Court of the State of New York, Appellate
Division, First Judicial Department since 2010, the U.S. Court of Appeals,
Second Circuit since 2016, the U.S. District Court, Southern District of New
York since 2010, the U.S. District Court, Eastern District of New York since 2010,
and the U.S. District Court, Western District of New York since 2010.  (Kurland Decl. ¶¶ 6-7.)  In addition, Kurland states that he resides
in Brooklyn, New York and has an office in New York, New York.  (Kurland Decl. ¶¶ 2-4.)  Kurland
states that, within the last two years, he has not applied to appeared pro
hac vice in any other California actions. 
(Kurland Decl. ¶ 8.)  Thus, Kurland satisfies the eligibility
requirements of CRC 9.40(a).
Kurland’s
application successfully address all six content
requirements outlined in CRC 9.40(d). 
Specifically, Kurland provides
in his application: (1) his residence and office address (Kurland
Decl. ¶¶ 3-4); (2) the courts to which Kurland
has been admitted to practice and the dates of admission
(Benenati Decl. ¶ 6); (3) that Kurland is a member in good standing in those courts (Kurland
Decl. ¶ 7); (4) that he is not currently
suspended or disbarred in any court (Kurland Decl. ¶ 7); (5) the title of each court and
cause in which the applicants have filed an application to appear as
counsel pro hac vice in this state in the preceding two years,
and whether or not it was granted if any (Kurland Decl. ¶ 8); and (6) the name, address, and
telephone number of an active member, Daniel A. Saunders of the State Bar of
California who is the current counsel of record for Defendants DigitalBridge
Group, Inc. and DigitalBridge Group Advisors, LLC.  (Kurland Decl. ¶ 9.)
Furthermore, Kurland demonstrates that he has
met the requirement of CRC 9.40(c)(1). That rule
provides: “a person desiring to appear as counsel pro hac vice in a superior court must file with the court a
verified application together with proof of service . . . of a copy of the
application and of the notice on all parties who have appeared in the cause and
on the State Bar of California at its San Francisco office.”  (See Saunders Decl. ¶ 3.)
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
The application of Andrew R. Kurland to appear as counsel pro hac vice for Defendants DigitalBridge Group, Inc.
and DigitalBridge Group Advisors, LLC is GRANTED.
Moving
Parties are to
give notice and file proof of service of such.
 
DATED: October ___, 2023                                                  ___________________________
                                                                                          Elaine
Lu
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court