  Case Number:  20STCV35045    Hearing Date:   October 23, 2023    Dept:  26  
 
 
 
 
 
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department 26
 



 
MICHAEL TALLEY,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
                 
RAMON CARTZNES dba PRECISION
  CONSTRUCTION EXPERTS, INC.; STEPHAN ANDREW MYERS; PRECISION CONSTRUCTION
  EXPERTS, INC.; ALLIANCE INSURANCE COMPANY; OLD REPUBLIC SURETY COMPANY;
  CALIFORNIA AUTOMOBILE; et al.,  
                        Defendants.


 
 Case No.:  20STCV35045
 
 Hearing Date:  October 23, 2023
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE:
DEFENDANTS
  RAMON CARTZNES, STEPHEN ANDREW MEYERS, AND PRECISION CONSTRUCTION EXPERTS,
  INC.’S MOTION TO BIFURCATE TRIAL



 
Procedural
Background
On September 14, 2020, Plaintiff Michael Talley (“Plaintiff”) filed
the instant breach of construction contract action against defendants Ramon
Cartznes dba Precision Construction Experts, Inc. (“Cartznes”), Precision
Construction Experts, Inc. (“Precision”), Stephen Andrew Myers (“Myers”),
Alliance Insurance Company, Old Republic Surety Company, and Leon Krous
Drilling, Inc.[1]  
            On November 10, 2021, Plaintiff
filed the operative Fifth Amended Complaint (“5AC”) against Cartznes,
Precision, Myers, Business Alliance Insurance Company (“BAIC”), Old Republic
Surety Company, and Leon Krous Drilling, Inc. 
The 5AC asserts five causes of action for (1) Breach of Contract against
Defendants Cartznes, Precision, and Myers; (2) Unfair Practices against
Defendants Cartznes, Precision, and Myers; (3) Penal Code § 496 against
Defendants Cartznes, Precision, and Myers; (4) Negligence against Defendants
Cartznes, Precision, and Myers; and (5) Foreclosure on Surety Bonds against
Defendants Cartznes, Precision, Myers, BAIC, and Old Republic Surety Company.[2]

            On September 28, 2023, Defendants
Cartznes, Precision, and Myers (collectively “Moving Defendants”) filed the
instant motion to bifurcate trial.  On October
13, 2023, Plaintiff filed a response.  No
reply has been filed.
 
Legal Standard
“The court, in
furtherance of convenience or to avoid prejudice, or when separate trials will
be conducive to expedition and economy, may order a separate trial of any cause
of action, including a cause of action asserted in a cross-complaint, or of any
separate issue or of any number of causes of action or issues, preserving the
right of trial by jury required by the Constitution or a statute of this state
or of the United States.”  (CCP §
1048(b).)  Whether there shall be a
severance and separate trials of issues in a single action is a matter within
the trial court’s discretion.  (McArthur
v. Shaffer (1943) 59 Cal.App.2d 724, 727.)
Where a separate trial is ordered on the issue of liability, the
procedure is commonly referred to as “bifurcation.”  The objective of bifurcation is to avoid
wasting time and money on the trial of damages issues if the liability issue is
resolved against plaintiff.  (Horton v. Jones (1972) 26 Cal.App.3d
952, 954.)  Granting or denying of a
motion for bifurcation lies within the trial court’s sound discretion and is
subject to reversal on appeal only for clear abuse.  (Grappo
v. Coventry Financial Corp. (1991) 235 Cal.App.3d 496, 503-504.)  
 
Discussion
            Moving Defendants seek to bifurcate
trial as to the prayer  for punitive
damages.
 
Right to Bifurcate Punitive
Damages for Trial
            Pursuant to Civil Code section 3295(d), “[t]he court
shall, on application of any defendant, preclude the admission of evidence of
that defendant's profits or financial condition until after the trier of fact
returns a verdict for plaintiff awarding actual damages and finds that a defendant
is guilty of malice, oppression, or fraud in accordance with Section 3294.
Evidence of profit and financial condition shall be admissible only as to the
defendant or defendants found to be liable to the plaintiff and to be guilty of
malice, oppression, or fraud. Evidence of profit and financial condition shall
be presented to the same trier of fact that found for the plaintiff and found
one or more defendants guilty of malice, oppression, or fraud.”  (Id.) 
“While the statute refers only to evidence of the defendant's financial
condition, in practice bifurcation under this section means that all evidence
relating to the amount of punitive damages is to be offered in
the second phase, while the determination whether the plaintiff is entitled to
punitive damages (i.e., whether the defendant is guilty of malice, fraud or
oppression) is decided in the first phase along with compensatory
damages.”  (Holdgrafer v. Unocal Corp. (2008)
160 Cal.App.4th 907, 919.)
            “As an evidentiary restriction, section 3295(d) requires
a court, upon application of any defendant, to bifurcate a trial so that the
trier of fact is not presented with evidence of the defendant's wealth and
profits until after the issues of liability, compensatory damages, and malice,
oppression, or fraud have been resolved against the defendant. Bifurcation
minimizes potential prejudice by preventing jurors from learning of a
defendant's ‘deep pockets’ before they determine these threshold issues.”  (Torres v. Automobile Club of So.
California (1997) 15 Cal.4th 771, 777–778.)  
            Here, Plaintiff seeks punitive damages against Moving
Defendants.  (See e.g., 5AC ¶ 30,
5AC Prayer ¶¶ 2, 7.)  Accordingly, Moving
Defendants are entitled to a bifurcation of trial such that evidence of the Moving
Defendants’ wealth, profits, and financial condition is not heard until after
the issues of liability, compensatory damages, and malice, oppression, or fraud
have been resolved against Moving Defendants. 
(Torres, supra, 15 Cal.4th at pp.777–778.)  Moreover, Plaintiff has responded that
Plaintiff does not oppose the instant motion. 



CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
            Based on the foregoing, Defendants Ramon Cartznes dba
Precision Construction Experts, Inc., Precision Construction Experts, Inc., and
Stephen Andrew Myers’ motion to bifurcate is GRANTED.  
            Plaintiff Michael Talley’s prayer for punitive damages is
bifurcated for purposes of trial, and evidence regarding Defendants Ramon
Cartznes dba Precision Construction Experts, Inc., Precision Construction
Experts, Inc., and Stephen Andrew Myers’ financial condition is precluded
unless and until a verdict is reached awarding actual damages on Plaintiff’s
claims seeking punitive damages and finding that Defendant acted with
oppression, fraud, or malice.
 
DATED:
October ___, 2023                                                  ___________________________
                                                                                          Elaine
Lu
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court

