  Case Number:  22STCV32100    Hearing Date:   October 31, 2023    Dept:  68 Motion for Security
Joseph Chang vs. Marshal Tashiro, et al., 22STCV32100
Moving Party: Plaintiff and Cross-Defendant Joseph Chang

Responding Party: Defendant and
Cross-Complainant DRC Capital, LLC

Background
            Plaintiff
and Cross-Defendant Joseph Chang (Chang) filed this motion for security
pursuant to Cal. Corporations Code § 17709.02. That section provides that in
the context of a derivative action, a defendant “may move the court for an
order, upon notice and hearing, requiring the plaintiff to furnish security”
for the action based upon grounds that “there is no reasonable possibility that
prosecution of the cause of action alleged in the complaint against the moving
party will benefit the limited liability company or its members.” (Cal. Corp.
Code § 17709.02(b)(1).) Further, “[i]f the court determines, after hearing
evidence adduced by the parties, that the moving party has established a
probability in support of any of the grounds upon which the motion is based,
the court shall fix the nature and amount of the security, not to exceed fifty
thousand dollars ($50,000), to be furnished by the plaintiff for reasonable
expenses, including attorney’s fees, that may be incurred by the moving party
and the limited liability company in connection with the action.” (Cal. Corp.
Code § 17709.02(c)(2).)
            In its
First Amended Cross-Complaint (FACC), Defendant and Cross-Complainant DRC
Capital, LLC (DRC Capital) has brought derivative claims for Unjust Enrichment
and Aiding and Abetting Breach of Fiduciary Duty on behalf of Avant Luxury SFR
Fund, LLC (SFR Fund). DRC Capital is a member of the SFR Fund. Avant
Development, LLC is the only Managing Member of the SFR Fund, and Chang was the
Chief Operating Officer of Avant Development. Chang previously entered into a
Separation and Release Agreement related to his interest in the Avant
Development and the SFR Fund.
            Chang is
arguing in this motion that there is no reasonable possibility that prosecution
of DRC Capital’s derivative claims will benefit the SFR Fund because of the
Separation and Release Agreement between him and Avant Development and the SFR
Fund. Chang argues that because the SFR Fund cannot pursue claims against him
because of the Release, then members of the LLC cannot pursue derivative claims
on its behalf. Because of this, Chang argues that the Court should fix security
in the amount of $50,000 to cover his expenses in defending against these
claims.
            DRC Capital
argues in its opposition that the direct and derivative claims are intertwined,
and Chang provides no evidence of the reasonable expenses or attorney’s fees that
he will incur. Further, DRC Capital argues that the Separation and Release
Agreement does not apply to unknown claims; therefore, it does not apply to its
claims.
            In his
reply, Chang argues that DRC Capital’s contention that its claims are a mix of
direct and derivative claims is without merit and does not warrant denial of
the requested security. Chang also argues that the evidence shows that DRC
Capital’s derivative claims were known to the SFR Fund at the time the
Separation Agreement was executed. The derivative claims are based on the
following wrongdoing on the part of Avant/Chang: approving/receiving
“kickbacks” amounting to approximately $45,000 from transactions where the SFR
Fund purchased properties; distributing/approving distribution of $800,000 in
equity from the sale of one of the SFR Fund’s properties to investors in the
fund; receiving $31,000 from the SFR Fund for rent payments; and receiving
$225,000 for Chang’s indirect interest in the SFR Fund. Chang points to
evidence in his reply that all of these things were known to the SFR Fund at
the time it entered into the Separation and Release Agreement with Chang.
Analysis
            Cal. Corp.
Code § 17709.02(b) reads as follows:
“In any action referred to in
subdivision (a), at any time within 30 days after service of summons upon the
limited liability company or upon any defendant who is a manager of the limited
liability company or held that position at the time of the acts complained of,
the limited liability company or the defendant may move the court for an order,
upon notice and hearing, requiring the plaintiff to furnish security as
hereinafter provided. The motion shall be based upon one or both of the
following grounds:
(1)   That
there is no reasonable possibility that the prosecution of the cause of action
alleged in the complaint against the moving party will benefit the limited
liability company or its members.”
Based on the Separation and Release
Agreement that Chang signed with the SFR Fund, the Court is inclined to order DRC
to furnish security. There is no reasonable possibility that the LLC will be able
to benefit from DRC Capital’s claims, as the SFR Fund released all its claims
against Chang. The evidence also shows that the claims that DRC Capital is
making against Chang are for things that were known to the SFR Fund at the time
the Agreement was signed.
While the Court will order
security, Chang needs to provide evidence for why $50,000 is reasonable
security for his attorney fees. Cal. Corp. Code § 17709.02(c)(1) provides that
“At the hearing upon any motion pursuant to subdivision (b), the court shall
consider evidence, written or oral, by witnesses or affidavit, as may be
material to the ground upon which the motion is based, or to a determination of
the probable reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, of the limited
liability company and the moving party that will be incurred in the defense of
the action.” 
The amount of security may be adjusted
at the discretion of the Court if the security furnished is inadequate or
excessive, but $50,000 is the maximum. (Cal. Corp. Code § 17709.02(c)(2).)
Chang should provide evidence as to why he requires the statutory maximum for
security.
Order
1.      Defendant
Chang’s motion for security is GRANTED.
2.      However,
the Court orders Chang to provide evidence for why he requires $50,000 in
security before the Court shall set the amount of the security.