  Case Number:  23STCV23077    Hearing Date:   June 28, 2024    Dept:  48 SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



DARRAL SCOTT, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES, et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 23STCV23077
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING IN PART MOTION
  TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
June 28, 2024



 
On September 25, 2023, Plaintiff
Darral Scott filed this action against Defendant County of Los Angeles and others.
On
February 22, 2024, Plaintiff filed a motion to compel further responses.
FILING FEES:  Plaintiff Must Pay Two Additional Filing Fees
Plaintiff’s
single motion seeks to compel production pursuant to three discovery requests: Request
for Production of Documents (Set One), Request for Production of Documents (Set
Two), and Form Interrogatories (Set One).
Each
set of discovery should have been filed as a separate motion, with separate filing
fees and hearing reservations.  Despite being
scheduled as only one motion and one hearing, the total substance is that of three
motions.  This unfairly allows Plaintiff to
take only one hearing reservation (instead of three) and results in an inaccurate
projection and accounting of the Court’s workload, inconveniencing both the Court
and other litigants.  All parties are ordered
not to do this and are warned that continued action of this type may result in monetary
sanctions under Code of Civil Procedure section 177.5.
For
any future discovery motions, the parties must file a separate motion for each discovery
request, or the Court may strike or deny the motions for being improperly filed.
Plaintiff
is ORDERED to pay two additional filing fees within 10 days.
A
Non-Appearance Case Review Re: Payment of Additional Filing Fees is scheduled for
July 10, 2024 at 9:00 a.m.
DISCUSSION
A.        Requests for Production of Documents.
A
party may move to compel a further response to a demand for production of documents
if the demanding party deems that the statement of compliance with the demand is
incomplete; the representation of inability to comply is inadequate, incomplete,
or evasive; or an objection in the response is without merit or too general.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (a).)  The motion must set forth specific facts showing
good cause justifying the discovery sought by the demand.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (b)(1).)
1.     
Plaintiff’s Motions to Compel Further
Production of Documents is Timely.
Defendant
argues that Plaintiff did not timely move to compel after Defendant’s initial objections,
so “Plaintiff’s time to object to Defendant’s timely asserted privileges has passed.”  (Def. Suppl. Memo. at p. 3.)  A motion to compel further responses must be filed
within 45 days of the service of the verified response or any supplemental verified
response or else “the demanding party waives any right to compel a further response
to the demand.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310,
subd. (c).)  The statute does not state that
the demanding party waives the right to challenge portions of the supplemental response
that is repeated from the initial responses. 
The motion must just be filed within 45 days of the supplemental response
in order to “compel a further response to the demand.”  Plaintiff timely filed this motion after Defendant’s
supplemental responses, which again included objections.  Plaintiff is now challenging aspects of Defendant’s
supplemental responses.
2.     
Defendant’s Objections Other than
Privilege and Personnel File as to RFPs are Overruled.
For
RFP Nos. 4, 15, 17, and 21, Defendant responded that it was producing “all non-privileged
responsive documents in responding Defendant’s possession, custody or control,”
and it identified the documents by Bates number.  Defendant’s objections other than privilege are
overruled.  The motion is granted for RFP
Nos. 4, 15, 17, and 21 with respect to production of a privilege log.
For
RFP Nos. 10, 18, and 27, Defendant provided only boilerplate objections.  Defendant’s objections other than privilege are
overruled.  The motion is granted for RFP
Nos. 10, 18, and 27.
RFP
No. 20 requests “The complete personnel file for each INDIVIDUAL DEFENDANT.”  Defendant’s objections based on Evidence
Code section 1040 et seq. and Penal Code section 832.5 (personnel file
objections) are sustained.  The proper method
for obtaining these documents is through a Pitchess motion, not a request
for production of documents.  The motion is
denied for RFP No. 20.
RFP
No. 26 requests “All COMMUNICATIONS that YOU sent or received from any person not
employed or retained by YOU relating to the SUBJECT INCIDENT.”  In addition to boilerplate objections, Defendant
responded, “Plaintiff’s Government Claim, Defendant’s denial and Plaintiff’s complaint
are already in Plaintiff’s possession and equally available to Plaintiff. Discovery
and investigation continue.”  This is not
responsive to the request.  Defendant’s objections
other than privilege are overruled.  The motion
is granted for RFP No. 26.
B.        Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further
Responses to Form Interrogatories is Granted.
A
party may move to compel a further response to interrogatories if the demanding
party deems an answer to be evasive or incomplete, if an exercise of the option
to produce documents is unwarranted or inadequate, or if objection is without merit
or too general.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300,
subd. (a).)
Form
Rog No. 15.1 requests information about Defendant’s denial of each material allegation
and each special or affirmative defense. 
After objecting, Defendant responded, “Responding Party filed a general denial
based upon its statutory right to do so. 
The County’s affirmative defenses were pled as a matter of right in order
to protect its right to assert such defenses in the event discovery and investigation
reveal a basis or bases for them.  Defendant
has not had a reasonable opportunity to conduct a complete investigation of the
facts or discovery of plaintiff’s injuries and damages.”  Defendant then provided only one set of responses
to (a), (b), and (c), although it asserted thirty-one affirmative defenses in its
answer.  (The Court notes that some of the
purported “affirmative defenses”—such as “Attorneys’ Fees and Costs”—are not, in
fact, defenses.)
Form
Rog No. 16.1 requests information about Defendant’s contention, if any, that a third
party contributed to the incident or injuries. 
Defendant objected, in part, that “the interrogatories in section 16.0, Defendant’s
Contentions–Personal Injury, should not be used until the defendant has had a reasonable
opportunity to conduct an investigation or discovery of plaintiff’s injuries and
damages.”  However, Defendant asserted affirmative
defenses of Comparative Fault (Eleventh Affirmative Defense) and Contributory Negligence
of Others (Twelfth Affirmative Defense), pleading that Plaintiff’s injuries were
caused by others.
The
answer to a complaint must contain the “general or specific denial of the material
allegations of the complaint controverted by the defendant” and a “statement of
any new matter constituting a defense.”  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 431.30, subds. (b)(1)-(2).) 
The same pleading of “ultimate facts” rather than evidentiary matter or legal
conclusions is required as in pleading a complaint.  The answer must aver facts “‘as carefully and
with as much detail as the facts which constitute the cause of action and are alleged
in the complaint.’”  (FPI Development,
Inc. v. Nakashimi (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 367, 384.)  Affirmative defenses therefore should not be pleaded
“in the event discovery and investigation reveal a basis or bases for them.”  Additionally, if Defendant has not yet had a “reasonable
opportunity to conduct an investigation or discovery of plaintiff’s injuries and
damages” and cannot state any facts in response to Form Rog Nos. 15.1 and 16.1,
then Defendant lacks a basis to assert the affirmative defenses of comparative fault
and contributory negligence of others.
Defendant
is wrong in arguing that its pleading of affirmative defenses without knowledge
of any supporting facts is necessary to avoid waiving those defenses.  Waiver is the “intentional relinquishment of
a known right” (St. Agnes Medical Center v. PacifiCare of California (2003)
31 Cal.4th 1187, 1195, fn. 4; Engalla v. Permanente Medical Group, Inc.
(1997) 15 Cal.4th 951, 983; Platt Pacific, Inc. v. Andelson (1993) 6
Cal.4th 307, 314) and does not apply here because Defendant is apparently
unaware of any facts supporting its affirmative defenses or is withholding
those facts in responding to discovery.  
If
Defendant does not already have a factual basis for its affirmative defenses, then
they are improperly pleaded.  The Court will
set an OSC regarding whether any affirmative defenses should be stricken on this
basis.
The
motion is granted for Form Rog Nos. 15.1 and 16.1.
Form
Rog No. 16.2 requests information about Defendant’s contention, if any, that Plaintiff
was not injured in the incident.  After objecting,
Defendant responded, “Defendant has not had a reasonable opportunity to conduct
discovery regarding Plaintiff’s damages. 
Defendant has no knowledge that Plaintiff sustained any injuries based on
the body worn video of this incident.  Discovery
and investigation continue.  Defendant reserves
the right to amend/supplement this response.” 
This qualified response, limited to Defendant’s knowledge “based on the body
worn video,” does not fully answer the question posed.  The motion is granted for Form Rog No. 16.2.
CONCLUSION
The
motion is GRANTED IN PART and DENIED IN PART as set forth above.  Defendant is ordered to provide supplemental responses
within 30 days.  For any objections based
on privilege, Defendant must provide a privilege log.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.240, subd. (c).)
An
Order to Show Cause Re: Why Defendant’s Affirmative Defenses Should Not Be Stricken
for Failure to Plead Facts as Required by Law is scheduled for August 20, 2024 at
8:30 a.m.
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 28th day of June 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 
 
 