  Case Number:  23VECV05238    Hearing Date:   January 16, 2025    Dept:  107 SUPERior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles – Northwest District
DEPARTMENT
107
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



  Vagan Kirakosyan, et
  al. 
 
         v.
 
13961 Oxnard, LLC, et al.
 


 Case No.:  23VECV05238
 
 TENTATIVE
  RE Demurrer 
 without Motion to Strike
 



 
[Tentative Ruling]:            Sustain and grant Plaintiffs leave
to amend.

I.               
BACKGROUND 
 
This is a
landlord-tenant dispute concerning 13961 Oxnard St. Unit 9, Van Nuys,
California (the “Subject Property”). (Complaint ¶ 18.) On November 27, 2023, Plaintiffs Vagan
Kirakosyan, Marine Shadoyan, Ani Kirakosyan, a minor by and through her
guardian ad litem, Marine Shadoyan, and Irina Kirakosyan, a minor by and
through her guardian ad litem, Marine Shadoyan (“Plaintiffs”) filed a complaint
against Defendants 13961 Oxnard, LLC, Michael Zehavi, R & E Management,
Inc., and Does 1 to 100, alleging causes of action for: (1) property damage;
(2) general negligence; (3) violation of Cal. Civ. Code section 1940.2; (4)
violation of Cal. Civ. Code section 1942.5; (5) violation of Cal. Civ. Code
section 1954, subdivision (a)(2); (6) intentional infliction of emotional
distress; (7) negligent infliction of emotional distress; (8) breach of implied
covenant of quiet enjoyment; (9) breach of implied covenant of habitability;
(10) constructive eviction; (11) violation of Cal. Bus. & Prof. Code
section 17200, et seq.; and (12) conversion.
On
September 30, 2024, Defendants 13961 Oxnard, LLC, R & E Management, Inc.
and Michael Zehavi (“Defendants”) demurred to the complaint. No opposition has
been filed.
II.            
PROCEDURAL
MATTERS
 

Timeliness

“A person against whom a complaint or cross-complaint
has been filed may, within 30 days after service of the complaint or
cross-complaint, demur to the complaint or cross-complaint.” (Code Civ. Proc.,
§¿430.40(a).)
 
Per California Code of Civil Procedure section¿1005,
subdivision (b), moving papers should be filed at least 16 court days before
they are set for hearing, oppositions thereto should be filed at least nine
court days before the set hearing, and replies to any oppositions should be
filed at least five court days before the set hearing.
 
On April
17, 2024, Defendants 13961 Oxnard, LLC and R & E Management, Inc. filed a
declaration of demurring or moving party in support of automatic extension.
Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41, subdivision (a)(2) states:
 
If the parties
are not able to meet and confer at least 5 days before the date the responsive pleading is due, the
demurring party shall be granted an automatic 30-day extension of time within
which to file a responsive pleading, by filing and serving, on or before the
date on which a demurrer would be due, a declaration stating under penalty of
perjury that a good faith attempt to meet and confer was made and explaining
the reasons why the parties could not meet and confer. The 30-day extension
shall commence from the date the responsive pleading was previously due, and
the demurring party shall not be subject to default during the period of the
extension. Any further extensions shall be obtained by court order upon a
showing of good cause.
 
Plaintiffs filed no proof of service for Defendant Michael Zehavi.
Defendants R & E Management, Inc. and 13691 Oxnard, LLC were served by
substituted service on March 7, 2024, and the documents were mailed that same
day. Defendants filed the demurrer over five months later, on September 30,
2024.  Accordingly, the demurrer was
untimely under section 430.40. But this court will exercise its discretion and
consider it. (Jackson v. Doe (2011) 192 Cal.App.4th 742, 749 [“[T]he
trial court ha[s] discretion to consider [a] defendant’s untimely demurrer.”])
 
The demurrer was timely filed under section 1005.
 

Meet and Confer

 
California Code
of Civil Procedure section¿430.41, subdivision (a) requires parties to “meet
and confer” before the filing of a demurrer to attempt to informally resolve
the objections raised in the demurrer.¿The demurring party is required to file
and serve with the demurrer a declaration either confirming that parties were
unable to resolve the issues raised by the demurrer despite having met and
conferred or that the opposing party failed to meet and confer with the
demurring party in good faith. (Code Civ. Proc. §¿430.41(a)(3).)¿
 
Defendants’
counsel submits a declaration stating counsel met and conferred with
Plaintiffs’ counsel. (Abramson Declaration ¶ 3.)
 
This court
finds that Defendants satisfied the meet and confer requirements.
 
III.          
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
As a general
matter, in a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of
the pleading or via proper judicial notice.¿(Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co.
(2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)¿“A demurrer tests the pleading alone, and not
the evidence or the facts alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc. v. Accountants, Inc.
Servs. (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) As such, the court assumes the
truth of the complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual allegations. (Id.)
The only issue a demurrer is concerned with is whether the complaint, as it
stands, states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147
Cal.App.4th 740, 745.)¿A complaint is sufficient if it contains
“[a]¿statement¿of the¿facts¿constituting the cause of action, in ordinary and
concise language.” (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §¿425.10(a)(1).) Under this standard,
a “complaint ordinarily is sufficient if it alleges ultimate rather than
evidentiary facts.” (Doe v. City of Los Angeles (2007) 42 Cal.4th 531,
550.)¿
 
A party may
demur to a complaint because it “does not state facts sufficient to constitute
a cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10(e).)¿ A party may also
demur because “[t]he pleading is uncertain.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10(f).)
“’[U]ncertain’ includes ambiguous and unintelligible.” (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 430.10(f).)  
¿ 
Against a
demurrer, a plaintiff is required only to “set forth in his complaint the
essential facts of his case with reasonable precision and with particularity
sufficiently specific to acquaint the defendant of the nature, source, and
extent of his cause of action.” (Elder v. Pac. Bell Tel. Co. (2012) 205
Cal.App.4th 841, 858.)¿ 
 
IV.          
DISCUSSION
 
Defendants
argue each of Plaintiffs’ twelve causes of action fail to state facts
sufficient to constitute causes of action and the causes of action are
ambiguous and uncertain. (Demurrer pp. 3-6.)
 

Property Damage

 
Based on the
complaint, it is unclear to this court how the elements of Plaintiffs’ property
damage cause of action differ from a negligence cause of action. Accordingly,
this court will evaluate the property damage cause of action as a negligence
cause of action.
 
The elements of
a negligence cause of action are: (1) a legal duty to use due care; (2) a
breach of such legal duty; and (3) the breach was the proximate or legal cause
of the resulting injury. (Ladd v. County of San Mateo (1996) 12 Cal.4th
913, 917-918.)
 
Plaintiffs
allege they “suffered loss of use of property, general damage, and property
damage” and “Defendants’ conduct directly and proximately caused economic and
non-economic damages to Plaintiffs” but Plaintiffs do not specifically allege
that Defendants owed Plaintiffs a duty to use due care or breached said duty.
(Complaint ¶¶ 50, 53.)
 
Thus, this
court sustains the demurrer on this ground.
 

General
     Negligence

 
The elements of
a negligence cause of action are: (1) a legal duty to use due care; (2) a
breach of such legal duty; and (3) the breach was the proximate or legal cause
of the resulting injury. (Ladd v. County of San Mateo, supra, 12 Cal.4th
at pp. 917-918.)
 
Plaintiffs
allege they “suffered property damage, physical injury, and emotional distress”
and “Defendants’ conduct directly and
proximately caused economic and non-economic damages to Plaintiffs” but
Plaintiffs do not specifically allege that Defendants owed Plaintiffs a duty to
use due care or breached said duty. (Complaint ¶¶ 50, 56.)
 
Thus, this
court sustains the demurrer on this ground.
 

Violation of Cal. Civ. Code
     section 1940.2

 
Civil Code
section 1940.2 states: 
 
(a)  
It is unlawful for a landlord to
do any of the following for the purpose of influencing a tenant to vacate a
dwelling:
 
(1) Engage in conduct that
violates subdivision (a) of Section 484 of the Penal Code.
(2) Engage in conduct that
violates Section 518 of the Penal Code.
(3) Use, or threaten to use,
force, willful threats, or menacing conduct constituting a course of conduct
that interferes with the tenant's quiet enjoyment of the premises in violation
of Section 1927 that would create an
apprehension of harm in a reasonable person. Nothing in this paragraph requires
a tenant to be actually or constructively evicted in order to obtain relief.
(4) Commit a significant and
intentional violation of Section 1954.
(5) Threaten to
disclose information regarding or relating to the immigration or citizenship
status of a tenant, occupant, or other person known to the landlord to be
associated with a tenant or occupant. This paragraph does not require a tenant
to be actually or constructively evicted in order to obtain relief.
 
Subdivision (c) states: “An oral or
written warning notice, given in good faith, regarding conduct by a tenant,
occupant, or guest that violates, may violate, or violated the applicable
rental agreement, rules, regulations, lease, or laws, is not a violation of
this section. An oral or written explanation of the rental agreement, rules,
regulations, lease, or laws given in the normal course of business is not a
violation of this section.”  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 1940.2(c).)
 
Plaintiffs allege:
 
Defendants, 13961 OXNARD, LLC, R&A, and DOES 1 through 100,
inclusive, engaged in a course of conduct meant to interfere with the
Plaintiffs’ quiet enjoyment of their home of 10 years through conduct,
including but not limited to: refusing to inspect, repair, maintain, or prevent
plumbing pipes from leaking and bursting; hiring unlicensed day laborers to
remove personal property from the kitchen and bathroom and protect them from
exposure to mold and asbestos; delaying repairs to prevent a timely return of
Plaintiffs’ family into their home; threatening to evict the Plaintiffs,
issuing a frivolous, baseless, and retaliatory Notice to Vacate; refusing to
offer Plaintiffs’ family to reside in one of Defendants’ vacant properties
while repairs to the Subject Property were made, and; causing to be posted a
defamatory and pretextual Notice of Belief of Abandonment in which a public
allegation of failure to pay rent was made.
 
(Complaint ¶ 60.)
 
Accordingly,
Plaintiffs allege that Defendants 13961 Oxnard, LLC and R & A issued a
frivolous, baseless, and retaliatory notice to vacate meant to interfere with
Plaintiffs’ quiet enjoyment of the home. However, Plaintiffs do not
specifically allege that Defendants 13961 Oxnard, LLC and R & A issued the
notice to vacate with the intent to influence Plaintiffs to vacate the
dwelling.
 
Thus, this
court sustains the demurrer on this ground.
 

Violation of Cal. Civ. Code
     section 1942.5.

 
Civil Code
section 1942.5, subdivision (a) states:
 
If the lessor retaliates against
the lessee because of the exercise by the lessee of the lessee's rights under
this chapter or because of the lessee's complaint to an appropriate agency as
to tenantability of a dwelling, and if the lessee of a dwelling is not in
default as to the payment of rent, the lessor may not recover possession of a
dwelling in any action or proceeding, cause the lessee to quit involuntarily,
increase the rent, or decrease any services within 180 days of any of the
following:
 
(1) After the date upon which
the lessee, in good faith, has given notice pursuant to Section 1942, has provided notice of a
suspected bed bug infestation, or has made an oral complaint to the lessor
regarding tenantability.
(2) After the date upon which
the lessee, in good faith, has filed a written complaint, or an oral complaint
which is registered or otherwise recorded in writing, with an appropriate
agency, of which the lessor has notice, for the purpose of obtaining correction
of a condition relating to tenantability.
(3) After the date of an
inspection or issuance of a citation, resulting from a complaint described in
paragraph (2) of which the lessor did not have notice.
(4) After the filing of
appropriate documents commencing a judicial or arbitration proceeding involving
the issue of tenantability.
(5) After entry of judgment or
the signing of an arbitration award, if any, when in the judicial proceeding or
arbitration the issue of tenantability is determined adversely to the lessor.
 
Plaintiffs
allege that the Subject Property had various issues including mold. (Complaint ¶¶ 24, 26-27.) Thus, Plaintiffs allege there was an issue relating
to tenantability. 
 
Plaintiffs also
allege Zehavi asked Plaintiffs to move out of the Subject Property “because of
a work order on the premises, and its uninhabitable condition” and Plaintiffs
moved out on December 15, 2021. (Complaint ¶¶ 32-33.) Finally, Plaintiffs
allege that Defendants “placed a notice on the Plaintiffs’ unit door a ‘notice
of eviction notice of eviction for not paying
rent and abandonment without giving Plaintiffs verification of any remediation
work performed on the premises, or a reasonable opportunity to Plaintiffs to
inspect the property.” (Complaint ¶ 43.) Thus, Plaintiffs allege
they quit the Subject Property involuntarily.
 
However, section
1942.5 prohibits a lessor from causing the lessee to quit involuntarily,
increase the rent, or decrease services within 180 days of the lessee’s actions
listed in section 1942.5, subdivision (a). Plaintiffs have not alleged when
they informed Defendants of the issues with the Subject Property. Also,
Plaintiffs have not clearly alleged a timeline showing Defendants took
retaliatory action within 180 days of Plaintiffs’ taking one of the actions
listed in section 1942.5, subdivision (a).
 
Thus, this
court sustains the demurrer on this ground.
 

Violation of Cal. Civ. Code
     section 1954, subdivision (a)(2)

 
Civil Code section 1954, subdivision (a) states:
A landlord may
enter the dwelling unit only in the following cases: (1) In case of emergency. (2) To make necessary or agreed repairs,
decorations, alterations or improvements, supply necessary or agreed services,
or exhibit the dwelling unit to prospective or actual purchasers, mortgagees,
tenants, workers, or contractors or to make an inspection pursuant to subdivision (f) of Section 1950.5. (3) When the tenant has
abandoned or surrendered the premises. (4) Pursuant to court order. (5) For the
purposes set forth in Chapter 2.5 (commencing with Section
1954.201). [or] (6) To comply with the
provisions of Article 2.2 (commencing with Section 17973) of Chapter 5 of Part 1.5 of Division 13 of the
Health and Safety Code.
Although Plaintiffs allege the day laborers were not providing
“necessary or agreed repairs [or] necessary or agreed services” section 1954,
subdivision (a) provides that there are five other circumstances when a
landlord may enter a dwelling unit. Plaintiffs have not alleged Defendants’
entering the unit violated the remaining provisions in section 1954,
subdivision (a). Plaintiffs
allege the day laborers were hired to fix the Subject Property’s mold problems.
This court is not persuaded by Plaintiffs’ allegation that, because the day
laborers performed their work poorly, the day laborers were not present in the
unit to make “necessary or agreed repairs[.]” However, because Plaintiffs do
not allege that the landlord was also violating the other sections in
subdivision (a), it is not necessary to reach this issue.
 Thus, Plaintiffs’ allegation that the landlord
violated Civil Code section 1954, subdivision (a)(2) is insufficient.
 
Thus, this
court sustains the demurrer on this ground.
 

Intentional Infliction of
     Emotional Distress

 
¿“The elements
of a cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional distress are (1)
the defendant engages in extreme and outrageous conduct with the intent to
cause, or with reckless disregard for the probability of causing, emotional
distress; (2) the plaintiff suffers extreme or severe emotional distress; and
(3) the defendant's extreme and outrageous conduct was the actual and proximate
cause of the plaintiff's extreme or severe emotional distress.” (So v. Shin (2013)
212 Cal.App.4th 652, 671.)¿ To be outrageous, the conduct must be “so extreme
as to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized society.” (Huntingdon
Life Sciences, Inc. v. Stop Huntingdon Animal Cruelty USA, Inc. (2005) 129
Cal.App.4th 1228, 1259.) 
 
Plaintiffs
allege that “Even though ZEHAVI, 13961 OXNARD,
LLC, and R&A knew that Vagan was often coming to the Subject Property to
protect their family’s belongings, ZEHAVI, 13961 OXNARD, LLC, and R&A
purposefully and maliciously concealed from the Plaintiffs that the Subject
Property was still positive for asbestos and mold. ZEHAVI, 13961 OXNARD, LLC,
and R&A acted with malice aforethought and with a conscious disregard for
the health, safety, and rights of the Plaintiffs.” (Complaint ¶ 73.) Purposefully concealing the presence of mold and asbestos
could be interpreted as extreme and outrageous conduct. Accordingly, Plaintiffs
have alleged the first element of intentional infliction of emotional distress.
 
Plaintiffs also
allege they “suffer[d] humiliation, mental anguish, stress, anxiety, sadness,
extreme emotional and physical distress.” (Complaint ¶ 70.) Thus, Plaintiffs
allege they suffered extreme or severe emotional distress.
 
Finally,
Plaintiffs allege that “Plaintiffs have also suffered extreme emotional
distress as a result of the DEFENDANTS’ actions and inactions.” (Complaint ¶
51.)
 
However, although
Plaintiffs allege Defendants acted “with a conscious disregard for the health,
safety, and rights of the Plaintiff” and that Defendants’ conduct caused
Plaintiffs extreme emotional distress, Plaintiffs have not alleged that
Defendants engaged in the extreme and outrageous conduct “with the intent to
cause, or with reckless disregard for the probability of causing, emotional
distress.” (So v. Shin,
supra, 212 Cal.App.4th at p. 671.)¿
 
Thus, this
court sustains the demurrer on this ground.
 

Negligent Infliction of
     Emotional Distress

 
The elements of
a negligent infliction of emotional distress cause of action are: (1) legal
duty to use care; (2) breach of such legal duty; (3) damage or injury; and (4)
cause of the resulting damage or injury. (Huggins
v. Longs Drug Stores California, Inc. (1993) 5 Cal.4th 148, 151.)
 
Plaintiffs
allege that they suffered “humiliation, mental anguish, stress, anxiety,
sadness, extreme emotional and physical distress” and “Plaintiffs have also suffered
extreme emotional distress as a result of the DEFENDANTS’ actions and
inactions”, but Plaintiffs have not alleged Defendants owed them a legal duty
to use care or breached said duty. (Complaint ¶¶ 51, 70.)
 
Thus, this
court sustains the demurrer on this ground.
 

Breach of the Implied Covenant
     of Quiet Enjoyment

 
The elements of
a breach of the implied covenant of quiet enjoyment cause of action are: (1) A
lease agreement between plaintiff and defendant; (2) absence of language
contrary to the implied covenant that tenant shall have quiet enjoyment and
possession; (3) act or omission of the landlord, or anyone claiming under the
landlord, which substantially interferes with a tenant’s right to use and enjoy
the premises for purposes contemplated; and (4) an applicable remedy. (Andrews v. Mobile Aire Estates (2005) 125
Cal.App.4th 578, 588-591.) The plaintiff must also allege either: (a) the
tenant remains in possession and was damaged; or (b) tenant surrendered
possession and is relieved of obligation to pay rent. (Id.)
 
Plaintiffs
allege that “At all times herein mentioned, Plaintiffs were the residents in
lawful possession of the rental property located at 13961 Oxnard St. Unit 9,
Van Nuys, California, pursuant to a written Lease-Rental Agreement.” (Complaint
¶ 10.) Plaintiffs also allege that “DEFENDANTS ZEHAVI,
13961 OXNARD, LLC, R&E, and DOES 1-100 are, and at all times herein
mentioned were the owners of records, managers, lessors, and agents responsible
for maintaining and operating that certain real property located at 13961
Oxnard St. Unit 9, Van Nuys, California.” (Complaint ¶ 9.) Thus, Plaintiffs allege a
lease agreement between the Plaintiffs and Defendants.
 
Plaintiffs allege
that “R&A employees would not, on a
regular basis, come into the Subject Property to inspect the interior of the
Subject Property. Even though R&A would log the necessary repairs to be
done of the Subject Property among other things, R&A would not order
repairs or make the repairs be performed by a licensed contractor” and
“Defendants also prohibited the Plaintiffs from using the Subject Property
after the Marine’s report to R&A.” (Complaint ¶¶ 79-80.) And “As a
result of these actions, in addition to the above-referenced actions and
inactions committed by Defendants ZEHAVI, 13961 OXNARD, LLC, and R&A, there
was substantial interference with the Plaintiffs’ use and enjoyment of the
Subject Property.” (Complaint ¶ 81.) Thus, Plaintiffs allege
an act or omission by the landlord that substantially interfered with
Plaintiffs’ right to use and enjoy the premises. 
 
Plaintiffs have
not alleged the absence of
language contrary to the implied covenant that Plaintiffs shall have quiet
enjoyment and possession. (See Andrews v. Mobile Aire Estates, supra, 125
Cal.App.4th at pp. 588-591 [“In the absence of language to the contrary, every
lease contains an implied covenant of quiet enjoyment, whereby the landlord
impliedly covenants that the tenant shall have quiet enjoyment and possession
of the premises.”]) Plaintiffs have also not attached the lease to the
complaint as an exhibit.
 
Thus, this
court sustains the demurrer on this ground.
 

Breach of the Implied Covenant
     of Habitability

 
The elements of
a breach of the implied warranty of habitability claim are: (1) the existence
of a material defective condition affecting the premises' habitability; (2)
notice to the landlord of the condition within a reasonable time after the
tenant's discovery of the condition; (3) the landlord was given a reasonable
time to correct the deficiency; and (4) resulting damages.  (Erlach v.
Sierra Asset Servicing, LLC (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 1281, 1297.)
 
Plaintiffs
allege that “On November 28, 2021, Marine and Vagan noticed the paint on the
bathroom walls of his rental property bubbling. Shortly after, Plaintiffs found
a “bouquet” of mushrooms growing on the bathroom wall near the sink cabinet.
The walls of the same bathroom were wet again. Vagan notified R&A about
this.” (Complaint ¶ 26.) Plaintiffs also allege that “ZEHAVI
sent a group of people (the ‘day laborers’) to look into this” and “[t]he interior
of the bathroom walls was covered with a thick layer of dark-colored mold.”
(Complaint ¶ 27.) Plaintiffs allege that “DEFENDANTS failed to perform
their duties owed to the Plaintiffs to remediate mold infestations and address
the issue of asbestos within the Subject Property.” (Complaint ¶ 42.)  Accordingly,
Plaintiffs allege the existence of a material defective condition affecting the
Subject Property’s habitability and, based on the fact Defendant Zehavi sent
persons to repair the issue, one can infer that Defendants had notice.
 
Plaintiffs also
allege that “Notwithstanding the notification
and actual knowledge of the existence of the defective conditions set forth in
this Complaint, Defendants continued to demand payment (indeed, full payment)
of rent from Plaintiffs” and “Plaintiffs seek compensatory damages, punitive
damages, special damages, and attorneys’ fees and costs.” (Complaint ¶¶ 45, 85.) Thus, Plaintiffs allege resulting damages.
 
Plaintiffs have
not clearly alleged a timeline showing Defendants were given a reasonable time
to correct the deficiencies. Plaintiffs also have not specifically alleged that
Defendants were given a reasonable time to correct the deficiency.
 
Thus, this
court sustains the demurrer on this ground.
 

Constructive Eviction

 
The elements of
a constructive eviction cause of action are: (1) the landlord’s acts or
omissions or disturbance or interference with the tenant’s possession; and (2)
causing either a substantial portion of the premises to be unfit for the
purposes for which it was leased, or causing the tenant to be deprived of the
beneficial enjoyment or use of the premises for a substantial time. (Groh v.
Kover’s Bull Pen, Inc. (1963) 221 Cal.App.2d 611, 639.) 
 
Plaintiffs
allege that “The day laborers installed commercial drying fans to dry the
interiors of the kitchen walls without proper insolation of the kitchen from
other rooms. As such, mold-infested air was being circulated in the air of the
Subject Property” and “The Defendants’ acts and refusal to act caused a
permanent interference with the Plaintiffs’ possession of the Subject
Property.” (Complaint ¶¶ 29, 87.) 
 
Plaintiffs also
allege that “From December 15, 2021, the
Defendants have deprived the Plaintiffs of the beneficial enjoyment and use of
the Subject Property.” (Complaint ¶ 88.)
 
Accordingly,
Plaintiffs sufficiently allege a constructive eviction cause of action.
 

Violation of Cal. Bus. &
     Prof. Code section 17200

 
“An unlawful
business practice under [Business and Professions Code] section 17200 is ‘an
act or practice, committed pursuant to business activity, that is at the same
time forbidden by law.” (Durell v. Sharp Healthcare (2010) 183
Cal.App.4th 1350, 1361.) “Virtually any law – federal, state or local – can
serve as a predicate for an action under Business and Professions Code section
17200.” (Id.)   To have standing a party must “(1) establish a
loss or deprivation of money or property sufficient to qualify as injury in
fact, i.e., economic injury, and (2) show that that economic injury was
the result of, i.e., caused by, the unfair business practice or false
advertising that is the gravamen of the claim.” (Lagrisola v. North American
Financial Corp. (2023) 96 Cal.App.5th 1178, 1187.)  “A plaintiff alleging unfair business
practices under these statutes must state with reasonable particularity the
facts supporting the statutory elements of the violation.” (Khoury v. Maly’s
of California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 619.)
 
Plaintiffs
allege that “Defendants ZEHAVI, 13961 OXNARD,
LLC, and R&A failed to comply with Cal. Health & Safety Code §25249.6
and its related 27 C.C.R. § 25601 and §25605.2 notice requirements, when
ZEHAVI, 13961 OXNARD, LLC, and R&A failed to inform the Plaintiffs that the
Subject Property tested ‘hot’ for asbestos, mold, and possibly lead paint.
Defendants ZEHAVI, 13961 OXNARD, LLC, and R&A continue to endanger their
current tenants by failing to post clear and reasonable warnings of the same
chemicals.” (Complaint ¶ 96.) Plaintiffs also allege that “On
March 21, 2022, Vagan received a ‘Limited Asbestos & Lead Survey’ report
from ‘Clear Air Environmental, LLC’ providing that Asbestos was found in the
samples taken from the interior walls of the Subject Property” and “Defendants
were notified about the existence of Asbestos on the premises of the Subject
Property and failed to take any measures to fix the hazard.” (Complaint ¶¶ 40-41.)  Thus, Plaintiffs
allege Defendants engaged in an unlawful business practice.
 
Plaintiffs also
allege that “Plaintiffs have been personally
aggrieved by Defendants’ unfair and unlawful business acts and practices
alleged herein by the loss of money or property.” (Complaint ¶ 102.)
 
However, an unfair
business practices cause of action requires a plaintiff to “state with
reasonable particularity the facts supporting the statutory elements of the
violation.” (Khoury v. Maly’s of
California, Inc., supra, 14 Cal.App.4th at p. 619.) Plaintiffs’ allegations
here are insufficient to meet this standard. For example, Plaintiffs have
not alleged when Defendants were notified about the existence of asbestos,
mold, and lead paint. And it is unclear how Plaintiffs’ alleged damages are
connected to Defendants’ failure to comply with the cited statutes.
 
Thus, this court
sustains the demurrer on this ground.
 

Conversion

 
The elements of
a conversion cause of action are: “(1) the plaintiff’s ownership or right to
possession of the property; (2) the defendant’s conversion by a wrongful act or
disposition of property rights; and (3) damages.” (Welco Electronics, Inc.
v. Mora (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 202, 108.)
 
Plaintiffs
allege that “Defendants, and each of them, wrongfully took and destroyed
Plaintiffs’ money or property, without permission or authorization, for their
own personal and wrongful use. Defendants, and each of them, were direct
beneficiaries of the conversion as they obtained financial benefits including
but not limited to, the payment of personal and business debts and
liabilities.” (Complaint ¶ 106.) 
Plaintiffs also allege that “As a result of the Legal Conversion by
Defendants, Plaintiffs have suffered damages, including but not limited
to, the amount of money converted, as well as the time and money expended to
recover said wrongfully converted fund, damaged properties, including but not
limited to, attorneys’ fees and costs.” (Complaint ¶ 107.) Accordingly, Plaintiffs
allege an ownership or right to possession of property and damages.
 
However, the only
factual allegation that can reasonably be tied to the legal conclusion that
Defendants took Plaintiffs’ property is the allegation that “Many of
Plaintiff’s personal property went missing during the presence of the day
laborers on the Subject Property.” (Complaint ¶ 31.) The fact property went
missing does not suggest that property went missing because of “defendant’s
conversion by a wrongful act or disposition of property rights.” (Welco Electronics, Inc. v. Mora, supra, 223 Cal.App.4th at p. 108.) Also,
this allegation suggests the day laborers took Plaintiffs’ property, not
Defendants. Accordingly, Plaintiffs have alleged no facts showing Defendants’
conversion by wrongful act or disposition of property rights. 
 
Thus, this
court sustains the demurrer on this ground.
 

Ambiguous and Uncertain

The complaint sets
forth factual allegations in paragraphs 18 through 51. The causes of actions
are in paragraphs 52 through 108. 
For most of the
causes of action, it is not clear to the court what factual allegations
Plaintiffs allege satisfy the elements of each cause of action. Accordingly, the complaint is not well
drafted in this sense. But this court does not find that it rises to the level
of unintelligible. The complaint is sufficiently clear to put
Defendants on notice of the nature, source, and extent of Plaintiffs’ causes of
action. This court overrules the demurrer on the grounds the complaint is
uncertain. 
V.             
LEAVE
TO AMEND
“Where the
defect raised by a motion to strike or by demurrer is reasonably capable of
cure, ‘leave to amend is routinely and liberally granted to give the plaintiff
a chance to cure the defect in question.’” (CLD Construction, Inc. v. City
of San Ramon (2004) 120 Cal.App.4th 1141, 1146.)¿
This court
finds there is a reasonable possibility Plaintiffs can cure the defects in the
complaint. Accordingly, Plaintiffs are granted leave to amend.
VI.          
CONCLUSION
For the
foregoing reasons, this court sustains the demurrer and grants Plaintiffs leave
to amend
Dated: January 16,
2025                     





  