  Case Number:  23STCV04105    Hearing Date:   October 2, 2023    Dept:  56  
 
 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



JENNIFER MCBRIDE, 
 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
STEFANI J. GERMANOTTA, et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


 


     
  CASE NO.:  23STCV04105
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: DEMURRER 
 
Date: October 2, 2023
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
Judge: Holly J. Fujie
 



 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant
Stefani J. Germanotta (“Moving Defendant”)
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff 
 
The Court has considered the moving, opposition and reply papers.
 
BACKGROUND
The currently operative first amended complaint (the “FAC”) alleges:
(1) breach of contract; (2) fraud by false promise; and (3) fraud by
misrepresentation. 
 
In relevant part, the FAC alleges: After two of Moving Defendant’s
pet bulldogs were taken from her dog walker at gunpoint, Moving Defendant
offered to pay a reward of $500,000 in exchange for the return of her
dogs.  (See FAC ¶¶ 10, 12, 13.) 
 
Plaintiff alleges in the FAC that she was “in no way involved” in the
theft of Moving Defendant’s dogs and “had no knowledge of said theft or its
planning before its occurrence.” 
(FAC, ¶ 11, emphasis added.)  Notably,
she never alleges that she was unaware that the bulldogs had been stolen after
they were stolen or at the time that she received them.  Plaintiff also alleges that: “Plaintiff
understood that Defendant LADY GAGA [Moving Defendant] would pay the reward
money of $500,000.00 upon the safe return of her bulldogs ‘no questions asked’,
regardless of the fact that said bulldogs were stolen from Defendant’s dogwalker.”
 (FAC, ¶ 19, emphasis added.)  The FAC then alleges that after learning of
Moving Defendant’s reward offer and with knowledge that the bulldogs were stolen
from Moving Defendant, Plaintiff “took possession of Defendant’s bulldogs for
the specific purpose of ensuring their protection and safely returning them to
Defendants.”  (FAC, ¶ 20, emphasis added.)  Plaintiff then alleges that “On February 26,
2021, Plaintiff accepted Defendants’ unilateral offer by contacting
Defendants and delivering LADY GAGA’s bulldogs to Defendants at the Los
Angeles Police Department Olympic Community Police Station.”  (FAC, ¶ 21, emphasis added.)  The FAC proceeds with a recitation of the
alleged damages and emotional distress Plaintiff claims she incurred as the
result of having subsequently been investigated and charged and entering a “no
contest” plea to the charge of receiving stolen property under California Penal
Code § 496.  (FAC, ¶ 22-26.)
 
Moving Defendant filed a demurrer (the “Demurrer”) on the ground that
the FAC fails to state sufficient facts to constitute a cause of action. 
 


 
REQUEST
FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
            The Court has taken judicial
notice of the documents included in the Request for Judicial Notice filed by
Moving Defendant in support of her demurrer to Plaintiff’s original Complaint.[1]  While the Court takes judicial notice of the
existence and legal effect of court documents, it does not take notice of the
truth of the matters stated therein.  (Fremont
Indemnity Co. v. Fremont General Corp. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97,
113.)  
 
DISCUSSION
Meet and Confer
The meet and
confer requirement has been met.
 
Legal Standard
A demurrer tests
the sufficiency of a complaint as a matter of law.  (Durell
v. Sharp Healthcare (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 1350, 1358.)  The court accepts as true all material
factual allegations and affords them a liberal construction, but it does not
consider conclusions of fact or law, opinions, speculation, or allegations
contrary to law or judicially noticed facts. 
(Shea Homes Limited Partnership v.
County of Alameda (2003) 110 Cal.App.4th 1246, 1254.)  With respect to a demurrer, the complaint
must be construed liberally by drawing reasonable inferences from the facts
pleaded.  (Rodas v. Spiegel (2001) 87 Cal.App.4th 513, 517.)  A demurrer will be sustained without leave to
amend if there exists no reasonable possibility that the defect can be cured by
amendment.  (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.)  
 


 
Impact of Plaintiff’s Criminal
Conviction on Allegations of the Complaint
            Under
Civil Code, Section 3517, no one can take advantage of his own wrong.  (Civ. Code § 3517.)  The unclean hands doctrine demands that a
plaintiff act fairly in the matter for which he seeks a remedy.  (Mendoza v. Ruesga (2008) 169
Cal.App.4th 270, 278-79.)  A plaintiff
must come into court with clean hands, and keep them clean, or be denied
relief, regardless of the merits of the claim. 
(Id. at 279.)  The unclean
hands doctrine is not a legal or technical defense to be used as a shield
against a particular element of a cause of action.  (Id.)  Rather, it is an equitable rationale for
refusing a plaintiff relief where principles of fairness dictate that the
plaintiff should not recover, regardless of the merits of their claim.  (Id.) 
Whether the defense applies in particular circumstances depends on the
analogous case law, the nature of the misconduct, and the relationship of the
misconduct to the claimed injuries.  (Fladeboe
v. American Isuzu Motors, Inc. (2007) 150 Cal.App.4th 42, 56.)  
 
Although the
application of the unclean hands defense is usually a question of fact, under
appropriate circumstances it may be determined as a matter of law.  (East West Bank v. Rio School Dist.
(2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 742, 752.)  A
party to a contract who acts wrongfully in entering or performing the contract
is not entitled to thereafter benefit from their wrongdoing by seeking to
enforce the contract.  (See Filet
Menu, Inc. v. C.C.L. & G., Inc. (2000) 79 Cal.App.4th 852, 864.)  
 
In relevant part, Penal Code, Section 496, subdivision (a) provides that
every person who buys or receives any property that has been stolen or that has
been obtained in any manner constituting theft or extortion, knowing the
property to be so stolen or obtained, or who conceals, sells, withholds, or
aids in concealing, selling, or withholding any property from the owner,
knowing the property to be so stolen or obtained, shall be punished by
imprisonment in a county jail for not more than one year, or imprisonment
pursuant to subdivision (h) of Penal Code section 1170.  (Pen. Code § 496, subd. (a).)  A plea of guilty or nolo contendere admits all matters
essential to the conviction.  (People
v. Arwood (1985) 165 Cal.App.3d 167, 171.) 
The plea is not conclusive evidence; it is merely evidence against the
party and the party may contest the truth of the matters admitted by his plea
and explain why he entered the plea.  (Rusheen
v. Drews (2002) 99 Cal.App.4th 279, 284.)
 
In its July 10, 2023 order,
the Court found that Plaintiff’s claims alleged in the original Complaint were
barred under the unclean hands doctrine as a result of Plaintiff’s no contest
plea to the Penal Code § 496 charge.  The
Court finds that nothing alleged in the FAC changes this conclusion.  
 
In the FAC, Plaintiff alleges as an attempted explanation of why she
entered a “no contest” plea to the criminal charge that “said plea afforded
Plaintiff the opportunity to resolve her criminal case without admitting
guilt and because Plaintiff, for a variety of reasons, felt that a
resolution of the criminal complaint under terms of the prosecutor’s offer was
in her ‘best interests.’”  (FAC, ¶ 28,
emphasis in text.)  (See FAC
¶¶ 27-29.)  In other words, she
accepted the plea because it was in her best interest, not because she was not
guilty of the charge.  Notwithstanding
the no contest plea, Plaintiff alleges that she “in fact, did not commit the
act of receiving stolen property because she only received Defendants [sic]
bulldogs for the purposes of ensuring their protection and safely returning
them to Defendants in reliance on Defendants’ offer to pay a reward of
$500,000.00 ‘no questions asked.’” (FAC, ¶ 29, emphasis added.)  In other words, she claims that she “did not
commit the act or receiving stolen property” -- not because she did not know
that the bulldogs were stolen property when she received them -- but because
her alleged motivation was to return the stolen dogs safely to their rightful
owner.  This motivation is not relevant
to the analysis of this claim, as the FAC admits all elements of Plaintiff’s
crime of receiving stolen property.
 
The Court specifically
finds that the allegations in the FAC regarding the circumstances of
Plaintiff’s no contest plea do not actually “contest the truth of the
matters admitted by [her] plea” so much as they admit the truth of those
matters.  While Plaintiff alleges that
she was not involved in the prior planning or the commission of the theft of
Moving Defendant’s bulldogs, she does not deny that at the time she claimed the
reward she knew that they were stolen from Moving Defendant, nor does she deny that
she received them with that knowledge. 
In fact, Plaintiff alleges that she was aware that the bulldogs belonged
to Moving Defendant, that they were stolen from Moving Defendant and that when Plaintiff
received the bulldogs and contacted Moving Defendant she was attempting to
obtain $500,000.00 from Moving Defendant for property she knew was stolen.  Although Plaintiff alleges that her
motivation was to protect the bulldogs (and also to collect $500,000.00), this
alleged motivation does not negate her guilt of the charge because she has
admitted receiving the bulldogs with knowledge that they were stolen
property.  If anything, the FAC makes even clearer than
did the original Complaint that Plaintiff has unclean hands that prevent her
from profiting from her actions.  
 
All three causes of
action alleged in the FAC rely upon the allegations referenced above. (FAC, ¶¶
9, 34 and 48.) The Court thus finds that all of Plaintiff’s claims as alleged
in the FAC are barred under the unclean hands doctrine as a result of
Plaintiff’s no contest plea to the Penal Code § 496 charge.  The Court also specifically finds that there exists
no reasonable probability that the defects noted above can be cured by
amendment.  Therefore, Moving Defendant’s
Demurrer to the FAC is SUSTAINED without leave to amend.
 
Moving party is ordered to give notice of this
ruling. 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to
the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed by the instructions provided on
the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive
an email and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed
off calendar. 
 
  Dated
this 2nd day of October 2023
 



  






Hon. Holly J. Fujie 
Judge of the Superior Court 
 



 
 


