 Case Number:  22PSCV00477    Hearing Date:   December 11, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE
NAME:  Amilkar
Frausto v. Arch Telecom, Inc. 
Plaintiff
Amilkar Frausto’s Motion for Terminating Sanctions Striking Defendant’s Answer
and for an Order Finding That Time and Pay Data Produced for Mediations Can be
Used in a Future Default Judgment; or in the Alternative, for an Order
Compelling Compliance with the Court’s May 1, 2024 Orders, and Continuing the
Trial for a Period of Six Months After Defendant Complies with the Court’s
Orders 
TENTATIVE
RULING 
The Court DENIES Plaintiff Frausto’s motion for terminating
sanctions. The Court GRANTS in part Plaintiff’s alternative request to continue
trial. The continued trial and related dates will be determined at the hearing. 
The Court further GRANTS Plaintiff Frausto’s request for monetary
sanctions in the reduced amount of $2,000.00. Defendant and its counsel of
record must pay said monetary sanctions to Plaintiff’s counsel within 20 days
of the Court’s order. 
Plaintiff is ordered to give notice of the Court’s ruling within
five calendar days of this order. 
BACKGROUND 
This is a Private Attorneys General Act employment action. On May
19, 2022, plaintiff Amilkar Frausto (Plaintiff) filed this action against defendant
Arch Telecom, Inc. (Defendant) and Does 1 through 50, alleging causes of action
for failure to provide employment records, overtime/double time, meal/rest
breaks, minimum wage, accurate/itemized wage statements, reporting time, split
shifts, all wages paid on time, all wages paid on discharge/termination,
failure to reimburse, and seeking civil penalties. 
On November 7, 2024, Plaintiff moved for terminating sanctions, or
in the alternative, for an order compelling compliance with the Court’s May 1,
2024 orders and continuing the trial for six months. On November 26, 2024,
Defendant opposed the motion. On December 4, 2024, Plaintiff replied. 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
The court is
authorized, after notice and an opportunity for hearing, to impose the
following sanctions against anyone engaging in conduct that is a misuse of the
discovery process: monetary sanctions, issue sanctions, evidence sanctions, terminating
sanctions, and contempt. (Code Civ. Proc., §¿2023.030, subds. (a)-(e).) A terminating
sanction may be imposed by an order dismissing the action of the party that
brought the action. (Ibid., § 2023.030, subd. (d)(3).)   
“The
discovery statutes evince an incremental approach to discovery sanctions,
starting with monetary sanctions and ending with the ultimate sanction of
termination. [Citation.]” (Doppes v. Bentley Motors, Inc.¿(2009)
174 Cal.App.4th 967, 992 (Doppes); see J.W. v. Watchtower Bible and
Tract Society of New York, Inc.¿(2018) 29 Cal.App.5th 1142, 1169.) If a
lesser sanction fails to curb misuse, a greater sanction is warranted. (Doppes, supra, 174
Cal.App.4th at p. 992.) “Discovery sanctions ‘should be appropriate to the dereliction, and should not
exceed what is required to protect the interests of the party entitled to but
denied discovery.’ [Citation.]” (Ibid.) “But where a violation is
willful, preceded by a history of abuse, and the evidence shows that less
severe sanctions would not produce compliance with the discovery rules, the
trial court is justified in imposing the ultimate sanction.” (Ibid., quoting
Mileikowsky v. Tenet
Healthsystem (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 262,
279-280; Creed-21 v. City of Wildomar¿(2017) 18 Cal.App.5th 690, 702,
quoting Doppes and Mileikowsky.)   
The court
should consider the totality of the circumstances, including conduct of the
party to determine if the actions were willful, the determent to the
propounding party, and the number of formal and informal attempts to obtain
discovery. (Lang v. Hochman (2000) 77 Cal.App.4th 1225, 1246.)
Terminating sanctions should not be ordered lightly, but are justified where a
violation is willful, preceded by a history of abuse, and there is evidence
that less severe sanctions would not produce compliance with the discovery
rules. (Doppes, supra, 174 Cal.App.4th at p. 992.) 
Before any
sanctions may be imposed the court must make an express finding that there has
been a willful failure of the party to serve the required discovery responses.
(Fairfield v. Superior Court for Los Angeles County (1966) 246
Cal.App.2d 113, 118.) The party who failed to comply with discovery obligations
has the burden of showing that the failure was not willful. (Deyo v.
Kilbourne (1978) 84 Cal.App.3d 771, 788; Cornwall v. Santa Monica Dairy
Co. (1977) 66 Cal.App.3d 250, 252-253.)  
Code of Civil
Procedure section 2023.010, subdivisions (d) and (f), provide that a misuse of
the discovery process includes, but is not limited to, “[f]ailing to respond or
to submit to an authorized method of discovery” and “[m]aking
an evasive response to discovery.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010, subds. (d),
(f).) 
DISCUSSION 
Meet and Confer 
The Court finds Plaintiff’s efforts to meet and confer sufficient.
(Gonzalez Decl., ¶ 11.) 
Summary of Arguments 
Plaintiff seeks terminating sanctions based on Defendant’s failure
to provide any responses to Plaintiff’s discovery requests as ordered by the
Court on May 1, 2024. Plaintiff indicates that despite many attempts to meet
and confer with Defendant, Plaintiff has not received a single response to
those discovery requests. Plaintiff contends Defendant has engaged in egregious
misuse of the discovery process given Defendant’s failure to comply with the
Court’s May 1, 2024 order. Plaintiff states the original discovery was served
in March 2023, but still no responses have been served, which has severely
prejudiced Plaintiff’s ability to prepare for the trial in January 2025. Plaintiff
contends terminating and/or issue sanctions should be imposed. Plaintiff
further contends the documents produced at mediation are not subject to the
mediation privilege and can be used in a future default because the documents
requested, e.g., time and pay records and handbooks, were not created for
meditation, but were instead kept in the regular course of Defendant’s
business. Plaintiff also contends monetary sanctions are warranted. 
In opposition, Defendant contends terminating sanctions are not
warranted because Defendant has substantially complied with its discovery
obligations by recently producing verified, code-compliant responses without
objections to the specified discovery requests, including documents. Defendant
contends it had already produced approximately 4,000 pages of documents, and
that the recently produced documents encompass all remaining responsive
documents. Defendant contends any delay was not willful or in bad faith because
of logistical challenges associated with collecting, reviewing, and producing a
large volume of documents, and that Defendant had initially focused on
providing a representative sample of documents for the mediation as agreed upon
with Plaintiff. Defendant contends that Plaintiff has not suffered irreparable
prejudice and that lesser sanctions, namely monetary sanctions, are
appropriate. 
In reply, Plaintiff contends that Defendant’s last-minute
production has severely prejudiced Plaintiff’s ability to prepare for trial on
January 6, 2025, i.e., just one month away. Plaintiff contends Defendant’s
recent production also asserted objections instead of providing substantive
responses to some of the requests, and that Defendant’s informal production for
mediation is no substitute for discovery responses. Plaintiff contends that
logistical challenges are no excuse for Defendant’s delayed production. Plaintiff
notes that Defendant concedes monetary sanctions are appropriate, and that
Defendant does not oppose a trial continuance. 
Analysis 
The Court finds Plaintiff is not entitled to terminating sanctions,
as they are a last resort to be used only when lesser sanctions will not
produce compliance. (Doppes, supra, 174 Cal.App.4th at
p. 992; see also Sauer v. Superior Ct. (1987) 195 Cal.App.3d 213,
228 [imposition of sanctions lies within the court’s discretion].) Defendant ultimately did comply with the Court’s May 1, 2024 order
and produced documents to Plaintiff, albeit very late. (Chen Decl., ¶ 9.)
Accordingly, the Court DENIES Plaintiff’s motion for
terminating sanctions. The Court nevertheless admonishes Defendant and
its counsel of record to comply with discovery obligations, and warns that any
further misconduct in this regard may result in greater sanctions. (Lopez v.
Watchtower Bible & Tract Soc'y of New York, Inc. (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th
566, 604 [discovery statutes evince an incremental approach to sanctions].) 
To the extent
that Plaintiff contends Defendant asserted improper objections or otherwise
provided improper responses, Plaintiff will need to address those issues separately
in a motion to compel further responses after an Informal Discovery Conference.
(Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.300, subd. (a)(3), 2031.310, subd. (a)(3); Dept. 6
Courtroom Information, bold in original [“No motion to compel further discovery,
or the other above-described discovery motions will be heard until an
IDC is conducted”].) 
The Court further finds that Defendant’s delayed
production of documents on November 26, 2024, i.e., a year and a half after
service of the original responses, six months after the Court ordered
responses, and one month before trial, is unduly prejudicial to Plaintiff. (Gonzalez
Decl., ¶¶ 2, 5-6; Chen Decl., ¶ 9; see Morgan v. Ransom
(1979) 95 Cal.App.3d 664, 669 [prejudice resulting from delayed discovery
responses is a factor for the court’s consideration in a motion for terminating
sanctions].) The Court notes that part of this delay can be attributed to
Plaintiff, as it is unclear why Plaintiff waited one year to bring the original
motions to compel responses or five months to bring this motion for terminating
sanctions. (See Gonzalez Decl., ¶¶ 5-12.) That being said, Defendant clearly
failed to abide by the time limits of the Court’s May 1, 2024 order, and has effectively
sandbagged Plaintiff’s ability to meaningfully prepare for trial by producing
thousands of documents one month before the trial is scheduled to begin. (See
Chen Decl., ¶ 9; Order re Tentative Ruling (5/1/24).) Accordingly, the Court
will GRANT in part Plaintiff’s alternative request for a trial continuance. The
continued trial date and related dates will be determined at the hearing on
this motion. 
Finally, the Court does find that Plaintiff is entitled to
monetary sanctions, which Defendant does not dispute. (Opp., 7:23-8:2.)
Defendant’s vague assertion of “logistical challenges” does not provide any
meaningful explanation for the severe delay here. (Chen Decl., ¶¶ 7-8.)
Accordingly, the Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s request for monetary sanctions in the
reduced amount of $2,000.00, comprised of 3.0 hours preparing the motion and
reviewing and responding to the opposition, plus 1.0 hour for appearing at the
hearing on the motion, for a total of 4.0 hours, multiplied by the hourly rate
of $500.00.[1] 
CONCLUSION 
The Court DENIES Plaintiff Frausto’s motion for terminating
sanctions. The Court GRANTS in part Plaintiff’s alternative request to continue
trial. The continued trial and related dates will be determined at the hearing. 
The Court further GRANTS Plaintiff Frausto’s request for monetary
sanctions in the reduced amount of $2,000.00. Defendant and its counsel of
record must pay said monetary sanctions to Plaintiff’s counsel within 20 days
of the Court’s order. 
Plaintiff is ordered to give notice of the Court’s ruling within
five calendar days of this order.


