 Case Number:  22TRCV01267    Hearing Date:   September 6, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative
Ruling 
¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 September 6, 2024 
¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                   22TRCV01267
¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Anthony Hall v. Creative 1 Works, et al. 
¿ ¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                (1) Plaintiff, Anthony Hall
                                                (2)
Specially-Appearing Party, Chris Brown
(3)
Specially-Appearing Party, Peter Hernandez P/K/A Bruno Mars
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       (1) Estate of Richard Lawrence Grobl, Aaron Joseph Bolden (aka)
Imani Walker, Derek Bolden, Robert White, Pharrell Williams, Creative Works,
LLC (No Opposition)
                                                (2)
Plaintiff, Anthony Hall
(3)
Plaintiff, Anthony Hall
 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Plaintiff’s Motion for Default Judgment 
                                                (2) Motion to Quash 
                                                (3) Motion to
Quash  
 
Tentative Rulings:                  (1) Motion for Default Judgment is DENIED
                                                (2) Motion to Quash is
GRANTED
                                                (3) Motion to Quash is
GRANTED
 
 
I. BACKGROUND¿ 
¿ 
A. Factual¿ 
¿¿ 
            On November 17, 2022, Plaintiff,
Anthony Hall filed, in pro per, a Complaint against Defendants, Creative 1
Works, Amani Walker, Roberto Appling, Robert White, Robert Daniels, Freddie
Rome, and DOES 1 through 20. On November 18, 2022, Plaintiff filed a First
Amended Complaint. On June 6, 2023, Plaintiff filed a Second Amended Complaint.
On July 3, 2023, Plaintiff filed a Third Amended Complaint. On November 13,
2023, Plaintiff filed a Fourth Amended Complaint (“4AC” ) which has the
following Defendants listed: Creative 1 Works, LLC, Right Now Productions, LLC,
Estate of Richard Lawrence Grobel, Brett M. Rubin, Aaron Joseph Bolden aka
Imani Walker, Rober White, Robert Appling, Derek Bolden, Robert Daniels,
Freddie D. Rhone, Pharrell Williams, Robin Thicke, Aubry Drake Graham aka
Drake, Bruno Mars, Chris Brown, Justin Bieber, Ahmad Balshe aka Belly, and DOES
1 through 20. 
 
            The 4AC alleges causes of action
for: (1) Fraud – Intentional Misrepresentation; (2) Negligent
Misrepresentation; (3) Breach of Contract; and (4) Tort of Another. 
 
 
Plaintiff,
Anthony Hall, now seeks default judgment on Defendants, Estate of Richard Lawrence Grobl, Aaron
Joseph Bolden (aka) Imani Walker, Derek Bolden, Robert White, Pharrell
Williams, and Creative Works, LLC. 
 
Further, Specially-Appearing
Defendant Chris Brown as well as Specially-Appearing Defendant Peter Hernandez
p/k/a Bruno Mars both now seek to quash Service of Summons and the Complaint. 
 
B. Procedural  
 
On
July 9, 2024, Plaintiff filed a Default Package. Further, on August 29, 2024,
Plaintiff filed a document entitled, “Plaintiff’s Written Testimony RE (CCP
585; CRV 3 1800(C)(8) Exhibits. To date, no opposition brief has been filed but
on September 5, 2024, Defendant Pharrell Williams filed evidentiary objections
to much of Plaintiff’s written testimony in support of the default motion.  
 
Further,
on August 5, 2024, Specially-Appearing Defendant, Chris Brown and
Specially-Appearing Defendant, Peter Hernandez p/k/a Bruno Mars filed a Motion
to Quash. On August 14, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition brief as to both
motions. On August 29, 2024, both Specially-Appearing Defendants filed a reply
brief. 
 
II. ANALYSIS ¿ 
¿ 
A.   
Plaintiff’s Motion for Default Judgment 
 
                                    
i.         
Legal
Standard 
Code of Civil Procedure Section 585
permits entry of a judgment after a Defendant fails to timely answer following
proper service of process. A party seeking judgment on the default by the Court
must file a Request for Court Judgment, and provide: (1) a brief summary of the
case; (2) declarations or other admissible evidence in support of the judgment
requested; (3) interest computations as necessary; (4) a memorandum of costs
and disbursements; (5) a proposed form of judgment; (6) a dismissal of all parties
against whom judgment is not sought; (7) a dismissal of all parties against
whom judgment is not sought or an application for separate judgment under CCP §
579, supported by a showing of grounds for each judgment; (8) exhibits as
necessary; and (9) a request for attorneys’ fees if allowed by statute or by
the agreement of the parties. (C.R.C., Rule 3.1800.) Typically, the Plaintiff will also file a statement of
damages summarizing the categories of claimed harm and the amounts claimed as
to each, as required by Code of Civil Procedure section 425.11, using the
mandatory judicial council form CIV-050. 

There was no allegation as to the dollar amount
of Plaintiff’s claims in the operative complaint.  The Fourth Amended Complaint (“FAC”) alleges in
the prayer the right to recover “general, specific, compensatory, incidental, and
consequential damages according to proof,” but no dollar amount is specified.   Nor
was there a statement of damages filed here, such as to given notice to the
defendants of the amounts being sought for the different categories of alleged
harm. A complaint’s allegation of general damages alone is insufficient.
(Jones v. Interstate Recovery Service (1984) 160 Cal.App.3d 925,
929-930.) The amount of the default judgment “cannot
exceed that demanded in the complaint, in the statement required by Section
425.11, or in the statement provided for by Section 425.115.” (Code of Civil
Procedure § 580, subd. (a).)  With no
amount alleged in the FAC, the defendants have no idea how much is being sought
against them, and whether they should allow a default to be entered against
them or to formally appear and contest the case.  This shortcoming is fatal to the requested
money judgments by default.   Further, the Plaintiff’s testimony as to the
number of units sold or the value of a “unit” lacks foundation, as the Cour
GRANTS the evidentiary objections filed by Defendant Williams.  While many persons rely on Wikipedia or
Internet sources for information, the rigors of litigation require more of a
foundation than a number appearing on some website.  
  “A complaint must state
the amount of money damages or other relief it seeks. (§ 425.10.) An exception
applies where a complaint seeks damages for personal injury or wrongful death.
(§ 425.11.) In these cases, the nature and amount of money damages must not be
stated in the complaint, but must be stated in a separate statement described
in section 425.11. (Ibid.; § 425.10.) The statement must be served in
the same manner as a summons, before a default may be entered on the
underlying complaint. (§ 425.11, subd. (d)(1).) 
[¶]  Together, the statutes
require that, before a default may be entered, the defendant must be served, in
the same manner as a summons, with notice of the amount of money damages or
other relief sought. (§§ 425.10, 425.11, 585.)” 
(Schwab v. Southern California Gas Co. (2004) 114 Cal.App.4th
1308, 1320.)
These statutes preserve a defendant's right to contest an action
and protect the defendant from unlimited liability. “Section 580, and related
sections 585, 586, 425.10 and 425.11, aim to ensure that a defendant who
declines to contest an action does not thereby subject himself to open-ended
liability.” (Greenup v. Rodman (1986) 42 Cal.3d 822, 826.)   This is
a fundamental fairness issue, concerning Due Process rights of persons being
sued.  “It is precisely when there is no
trial ... that formal notice, and therefore the
requirement of section 425.10, become[s] critical. Notice
is at the heart of the provision, as the Legislature underscored by
adding section 425.11....” (Greenup, supra, 42 Cal.3d at pp. 826–827
(italics added.) “Section 580 constitutes a statutory
expression of the mandates of due process, which require ‘formal notice of
potential liability.’ ” (Parish v. Peters (1991) 1 Cal.App.4th
202, 207.)
                                  
ii.         
Discussion

 
Proof of Service of Process: Proofs of Service via Personal and/or Substituted
Service were filed as follows: (1) Estate of Richard Lawrence Grobl – Served on
January 14, 2024 via Personal Service on Brett Ruben – Authorized Agent for
Service; (2) Aaron Joseph Bolden a/k/a Imani Walker – Served on January 22,
2024 via substituted service on Giselle Bolden, his mother; (3)  Derek Bolden – Served on August 25, 2023 substituted
service on Giselle Bolden, his mother; (4) Robert White – Served on November
23, 2022 via substituted service on Jack White, his father; (5) Pharrell
Williams – Served on December 1, 2022 via personal service on Nathan Vedrani –
Registered Agent for Service; and (6) Creative Works, LLC – Served on August
29, 2023 via Personal Service on Brett Rubin – Registered Agent for Service. 
 
The Request for Court
Judgment filed on July 9, 2024 notes that the CIV-100 was served by mail on June
4, 2024. 
 
Request for Entry of Default: The Requests for Entry of Default as to
each of the Defendants is as follows: (1) Estate of Richard Lawrence Grobl – Filed
on June 10, 2024, was not entered, but subsequently filed on July 9, 2024, has
not been entered; (2) Aaron Joseph Bolden a/k/a Imani Walker – Filed on June
10, 2024, has been entered; (3)  Derek
Bolden – Filed on June 10, 2024, has been entered; (4) Robert White – Filed on
June 10, 2024, has been entered; (5) Pharrell Williams – Filed on June 10,
2024, was not entered, but subsequently filed on July 9, 2024, has not been
entered; (6) Creative Works, LLC – Filed on June 10, 2024, was not entered, but
subsequently filed on July 9, 2024, has not been entered. 
 
Prove Up: Plaintiff seeks entry of money judgments in
the combined amount of over $1.6 Billion against multiple Defendants. The original through fourth amended
complaint allege that Plaintiff has suffered: (1) general, specific,
compensatory, incidental and consequential damages according to proof as a
result of the fraud and misrepresentation sustained by Plaintiff in an amount
according to proof; (2) for disgorgement and restitution of all profits and
gains obtained by the unlawful and fraudulent acts and omissions alleged
herein; according to proof; (3) an award to Plaintiff of the profits, gains and
advantages derived by the Defendants as a result of the willful copyright
infringement, in addition to punitive damages and compensation for the damages
sustained by plaintiff in an amount according to proof; (4) an award to
Plaintiff of the profits, gains, and advantages derived by the Defendants in an
amount according to proof; and (5) The Defendants pay to Plaintiff all costs
that may be incurred as attorney fees, and for such other and further relief as
may be just and proper. 
 
While the various
pleadings allege the above, there is no dollar amount claimed in the Complaint
and no Statement of Damages was filed. 
Further, Plaintiff has failed to dismiss the  Doe defendants, and other defendants listed in
the various complaints which are required before a court can enter a money
judgment by default.  
 
The Court has reviewed the Default
Package, and Plaintiff’s written testimony. Attached to those declarations are exhibits
which contain purported song values based on units allegedly sold worldwide
(which are incomplete), Defendants’ alleged net worths, earnings from music,
and screenshots of Google searches. Although these exhibits may lend themselves
to show how much profit was allegedly made from these songs, they lack foundation
as discussed above.  Further, these
exhibits certainly do not evidence the claimed fraud – intentional
misrepresentation, negligent misrepresentation, breach of contract, or “tort of
another” causes of action – another requirement that must be met before a court
can enter a money judgment. Does Plaintiff have a copy of the contract? Does
Plaintiff have proof of fraud? Does Plaintiff have proof of his alleged writings
and recordings that show his copyright? Without more, the proof attached does
nothing to prove Plaintiff’s alleged claims against these various defendants. 
 
However, even if Plaintiff’s evidence did
prove each of the required elements of each of the alleged causes of action,
such proof could not cure the failure to allege an amount of damages in the FAC.
Because this is a Due Process requirement, the Court cannot enter a default
judgment on the record before this Court. 

 
Plaintiff’s Motion for Default Judgment
is DENIED. 
 
B.   
Specially-Appearing
Defendant, Chris Brown’s Motion to Quash
 
                                    
i.         
Legal
Standard 
 
“When a
defendant challenges the court’s personal jurisdiction on the ground of
improper service of process ‘the burden is on the plaintiff to prove the
existence of jurisdiction by proving, inter alia, the facts requisite to an
effective service.’” (Summers v. McClanahan¿(2006) 140 Cal.App.4th 403,
413.) A proof of service containing a declaration from a registered process
server invokes a presumption of valid service.  (See¿American Express
Centurion Bank v. Zara¿(2011) 199 Cal.App.4th 383, 390; see also Evid. Code
§ 647.) This presumption is rebuttable. (See¿id.) The party seeking to
defeat service of process must present sufficient evidence to show that the
service did not take place as stated. (See Palm Property Investments, LLC v.
Yadegar¿(2011) 194 Cal.App.4th 1419, 1428; cf.¿People v. Chavez¿(1991)
231 Cal.App.3d 1471, 1483 [“If some fact be presumed, the opponent of that fact
bears the burden of producing or going forward with evidence sufficient to
overcome or rebut the presumed fact.”].) Merely denying service took place
without more is insufficient to overcome the presumption.  (See¿Yadegar,
supra, 194 Cal.App.4th at 1428.)  
 
                                  
ii.         
Discussion

 
Previously, this Court notes that on May
2, 2024, this Court GRANTED Specially-Appearing Defendant, Chris Brown’s (“Brown”)
Motion to Quash, noting that the evidence before the Court, failed to show that
Chris Brown had been properly served with the lawsuit papers. The Court further
noted that delivery of suit papers to a lawyer who does transactional legal
work for Mr. Brown is not sufficient on the record presented in the case at
bar. However, since then, Brown notes that Plaintiff has ignored the deficiencies
in his previous failed attempt to effect substituted service on Brown, on July
15, 2024, Plaintiff filed a second Proof of Service, stating that he had
effectuated service on Brown via substitute service by serving “Jaime Masuda –
Agent for Process.” Despite this, Brown argues that Plaintiff’s July 15, 2024
Proof of Service again fails to effect personal jurisdiction over Brown as
Plaintiff did not satisfy the stringent procedural requirements for substitute
service which renders such service fatally defective. Accordingly, Brown has
again requested that this Court quash the Proof of Service. Further, Brown has
also requested this Court issue an Order to Show Cause regarding the
misrepresentation in the Proof of Service, including the statement that Jaime
Masuda – who per Brown’s Motion papers has no working relationship with Brown –
is somehow Brown’s Registered Agent for Service. 
 
This time, Brown argues that Plaintiff’s
alleged substituted service is ineffective for at least two reasons: (1) First,
on its face, the proof of service Plaintiff filed on behalf of Brown fails to demonstrate
reasonable diligence such that Plaintiff was permitted to attempt to substitute
service. Brown notes that Plaintiff did not attach a declaration of diligence
stating the actions taken to first attempt personal service directly on Brown;
and (2) Second, Plaintiff claims to have served Brown by delivering the summons
and complaint to “Jamie Masuda – Agent for Process.” However, Brown asserts
that Jaime Masuda is not Brown’s registered agent, has no working relationship
with Brown and, thus, has no authority to accept service on behalf of Brown. 
 
Brown has concurrently filed the
Declaration of Jaime Masuda as well as Katy Rodriguez, executive assistant at
the business management firm, David Weise & Associates. In Jaime Masuda’s
declaration (“Masuda Decl.”), Masuda notes that he is a partner of the business
management firm, David Weise & Associates. (Masuda Decl., ¶ 1.) Masuda also
notes that he is not Brown’s Agent for Process, that he does not work with
Brown in any capacity, and that he has no authority to accept service on
Brown’s behalf. (Masuda Decl., ¶¶ 4-6.) Moreover, the declaration of Katy
Rodriguez (“Rodriguez Decl.”) states that she is an executive assistant at the
business management firm, David Weise & Associates. (Rodriguez Decl., ¶ 1.)
Rodriguez also notes that Plaintiff’s Proof of Service filed on July 15, 2024,
includes a “Due Diligence Declaration” which states that she “stated that [her]
firm (NKSFB) is the agent of process for Chris Brown,” but that this
conversation never occurred. (Rodriguez Decl., ¶¶ 3-4.) Rodriguez notes that
she did not inform the unregistered process server that NKSFB was Chris Brown’s
“agent of process,” as that would be a false statement. (Rodriguez Decl., ¶ 4.)
Instead, Rodriguez notes that a female, who identified herself as a private
investigator, requested to speak with Jaime Masuda, and when Rodriguez
indicated that Jaime was not available, the woman left a couple of envelopes
for Rodriguez to provide to Masuda. (Rodriguez Decl., ¶ 5.)
 
In opposition, Plaintiff notes that he
has attached the declaration of Karen White, his private investigator. In
White’s declaration (“White Decl.”), she notes that on May 6, 2024, she was
hired by Plaintiff to locate and serve defendants on this case, and that they
were difficult to serve. In her research, White contends that she discovered
information on the Defendant, Ahmad Balshe agent for service and located Jaime
Masuda and served Katy Rodriguez. White asserts that she inquired about Chris
Brown’ agent of service, and Katy Rodriguez stated Chris Brown is also their
client for agent of service. White notes that she then served Katy Rodriguez
and is shocked by Katy Rodriguez’s false claims alleging the conversation never
occurred. 
 
In Brown’s reply brief, he argues that
both Plaintiff and White should be ordered to show cause as to why, given this
Court’s previous instructions, that they should not be sanctioned. The Court
will hear oral argument on this issue at the hearing. However, this Court
tentatively GRANTS Brown’s motion to quash and denies the requested sanctions.
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure Section 415.20, subdivision (b), Plaintiff
failed to attach a declaration of due diligence, demonstrating that after
exercising reasonable diligence the summons and complaint could not be served
personally upon Brown, thus necessitating substitute service. Moreover, even if
this declaration were attached, the Court would still grant the motion as the
individuals served with substituted service are shown by the moving papers to not
be the registered agents or agents for process of Brown. 
 
The Motion is GRANTED, and this Court
will hear oral argument as to the issues of an OSC re sanctions. 
 
C.   
Specially-Appearing
Defendant, Peter Hernandez’s p/k/a Bruno Mars’ Motion to Quash
 
                                    
i.         
Legal
Standard 
 
As noted above, “[w]hen a defendant challenges the court’s personal
jurisdiction on the ground of improper service of process ‘the burden is on the
plaintiff to prove the existence of jurisdiction by proving, inter alia, the
facts requisite to an effective service.’” (Summers v. McClanahan¿(2006)
140 Cal.App.4th 403, 413.) A proof of service containing a declaration from a
registered process server invokes a presumption of valid service.  (See¿American
Express Centurion Bank v. Zara¿(2011) 199 Cal.App.4th 383, 390; see also
Evid. Code § 647.) This presumption is rebuttable. (See¿id.) The party
seeking to defeat service of process must present sufficient evidence to show
that the service did not take place as stated. (See Palm Property
Investments, LLC v. Yadegar¿(2011) 194 Cal.App.4th 1419, 1428; cf.¿People
v. Chavez¿(1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 1471, 1483 [“If some fact be presumed, the
opponent of that fact bears the burden of producing or going forward with
evidence sufficient to overcome or rebut the presumed fact.”].) Merely denying
service took place without more is insufficient to overcome the
presumption.  (See¿Yadegar, supra, 194 Cal.App.4th at 1428.)  
 
                                  
ii.         
Discussion
 
Here, Specially-Appearing Defendant,
Peter Hernandez p/k/a Bruno Mars (“Mars”) also filed a motion to quash service
of summons. The moving papers note that on June 28, 2024, Plaintiff filed a
purported Proof of Service, stating that he had effectuated substitute service
on Mars by serving “Deridra Moten c/o Matthew Ivanik Agent-for-Process.”
However, Mars argues that Plaintiff’s attempted substitute service was
ineffective for at least two reasons: (1) First, on its face, the proof of
service Plaintiff filed on behalf of Mars fails to demonstrate reasonable
diligence such that Plaintiff was permitted to attempt to substitute service. Mars
notes that Plaintiff’s “Due Diligence Declaration” relates to Plaintiff’s
attempt to serve a different defendant – Justin Bieber – not Mars; and (2)
Second, Plaintiff claims to have served “Matthew Ivanick Agent-for-Process,”
but that Ivanick is not Mars’ registered agent for service, but is merely an
accountant that has performed accountant services for Mars.  Defendant Mars asserts that Ivanick has no
authority to accept service on behalf of Mars, and that service on Ivanick
failed as the requirements are clear that the summons and complaint must be
left “at the person’s dwelling house, usual place of abode, usual place of
business, or usual mailing address…[or] in the presence of a competent member
of the household or person apparently in charge…” (Code Civ. Proc., § 415.20,
subd. (b).) However, Mars argues that the purported service on Ivanick failed
to satisfy any of those requirements. 
 
In his opposition, Plaintiff again cites
to a declaration prepared by White, his private investigator. White’s
declaration states that she completed a background searches to confirm Mars
agent for service and located Ivanick. White states that she contacted Ivanick
and identified herself as a private investigator and explained the reason for
her call. White also notes that she told him that she had court documents to
serve to Mars. White states that Ivanick told her he works from home and
instructed her to drop off the documents to the receptionist at his office,
where she left the service documents with Deirdra Moten, Ivanick’s receptionist.

 
For similar procedural reasons listed
above, namely Code of Civil Procedure Section 415.20, subdivision (b), the
Court notes that the motion can be granted as service was procedurally incorrect.
However, further, Mars has included in his moving papers, the filing of the
declaration of Matthew Ivanick (“Ivanick Decl.”) where he has confirmed that he
is not Mars’ “Agent for Process,” and instead has performed accountant services
on behalf of Mars. (Ivanick Decl., ¶ 4.) The Court notes that because Plaintiff
has failed to show that reasonable diligence was exercised in attempting to
personally serve Mars with the summons at a proper place, the motion can be
GRANTED on these grounds alone. As such, the Court GRANTS Mars’ motion to quash
service as it is procedurally defective and Ivanick has confirmed that he is
not the agent for process for Mars. 
 
III. CONCLUSION¿ 
 
            Based on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s
Motion for Default Judgment is DENIED. 
 
Both
Specially-Appearing Defendants; Motion to Quash are GRANTED. 
 
Per
Specially-Appearing Defendant, Chris Brown’s Motion to Quash, the parties are
required to argue whether this Court will be setting an OSC re Sanctions. 
 
            Specially-Appearing Defendants are
ordered to give notice. 
 
 