 Case Number:  24STCV09279    Hearing Date:   May 23, 2024    Dept:  82 Artuozo Neihule,
et al. v. Bianca Hillier
Case No.
24STCV09279
Ex Parte
Application for Temporary Restraining Order
 
            Plaintiffs
Artuozo Neihuele Yvonne Neihule (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) filed this action
against Bianca Hillier (“Defendant”) seeking damages and injunctive relief for
breach of an easement agreement and nuisance. 
The parties are neighbors, and there is an easement permitting
Plaintiffs to build a new driveway to connect their house to the existing
driveway.  Plaintiffs showed Defendant
the plans in advance, and she signed next to a line stating “Agreed be.”  (See Artuozo Neihule, ¶ 5 & Exh. 2.)  Defendant observed the concrete work and
indicated her satisfaction with the work, sending a text: “LOOKING soo
goooood.”  (See id., ¶ 16  & Exh. 7.)  Then, after the work was completed, Defendant
raised a concern that some of the new driveway fell onto approximately 485
square feet of her land, which was located outside the easement area.  Defendant argues that Plaintiffs did not
properly survey the land and did not provide a surveyor’s map when she agreed
to the project.  Defendant then placed
four poles with “No Parking” signs with a rope fence on the disputed land, which
has narrowed the usable driveway so much that Plaintiffs cannot access their
house by car.  Plaintiffs filed an ex
parte application for a temporary restraining order to remove the signs and not
install anything that prevents vehicles from using the driveway.  The ex parte application is granted in part
and denied in part.  
 
The purpose of a temporary restraining order and preliminary
injunction is to preserve the status quo pending a decision on the merits.  (Major
v. Miraverde Homeowners Ass’n. (1992) 7 Cal. App. 4th 618, 623.)  In deciding whether or not to grant a
preliminary injunction, the court looks to two factors, including “(1) the
likelihood that the plaintiff will prevail on the merits, and (2) the relative
balance of harms that is likely to result from the granting or denial of
interim injunctive relief.”  (White v. Davis (2003) 30 Cal.4th 528,
553-54.)  The factors are interrelated,
with a greater showing on one permitting a lesser showing on the other.  (Dodge,
Warren & Peters Ins. Services, Inc. v. Riley (2003) 105 Cal.App.4th
1414, 1420.)  However, the party seeking
an injunction must demonstrate at least a reasonable probability of success on
the merits.  (IT Corp. v. County of Imperial (1983) 35 Cal.3d 63, 73-74.)  The party seeking the injunction bears the
burden of demonstrating both a likelihood of success on the merits and the
occurrence of irreparable harm.  (Savage v. Trammell Crow Co. (1990) 223
Cal.App.3d 1562, 1571.) Irreparable harm may exist if the plaintiff can show an
inadequate remedy at law.  (Code Civ.
Proc. § 526(a).)
 
The court finds a reasonable probability of success on the
merits.  It is undisputed that Defendant
signed the plans and observed the exact location of the driveway, raising an
objection only after the project was completed. 
Defendant states: “I informed [Plaintiffs] that the Driveway documents
do not show any of the information that I needed to reasonable evaluate the new
driveway Plaintiffs desired to construct on my property pursuant to the
Easement, including, but not limited to, the exact location of where the new
driveway would be build . . . .” 
(Declaration of Bianca Hillier, ¶ 6.) 
If so, Defendant should not have signed the plans next to an “Agreed by”
line; Defendant should not have sent an approving text during the construction;
and Defendant should have raised an objection before the project was
built.  For purposes of provisional
relief, Plaintiffs have made the requisite showing. 
 
Plaintiffs have demonstrated sufficient irreparable harm and
that the balancing of hardships favors them. 
Plaintiffs cannot effectively access their house by car without use of
the driveway.  (See Declaration of Artuozo
Neihule, ¶ 12.)  Plaintiffs also note
that at least one person has been injured attempting to navigate the signs and
fence between them.  (Id., ¶ 13.)   By contrast, Defendant demonstrates no harm
in allowing vehicles to traverse the disputed land.  Indeed, the driveway has been completed, and
the concrete will not be removed until after the case, assuming Defendant
prevails.  Thus, the balancing of harms
favors Plaintiffs.
 
Based upon the
foregoing, the court orders as follows:
 
1.         Plaintiffs’ ex parte application is
granted in part and denied in part. 
 
2.         The court
orders Defendant to remove the signs and fence and not to block any part of the
driveway during the pendency of this litigation.
 
3.         The court
orders that Plaintiffs may use the driveway to access their house.
 
4.         The court
denies the ex parte application insofar as Plaintiffs are not permitted to park
their vehicles on the disputed land. 
 
5.         The court
issues an Order to Show Cause why a preliminary injunction should not issue on
these terms.  Plaintiffs may file any
supplemental pleadings on or before _________, 2024.  Defendant may file any supplemental
opposition on or before __________, 2024. 
Plaintiffs may file a reply brief on or before ________, 2024.  The hearing shall be held on ________, 2024,
at 9:30 a.m.
 
6.         Plaintiffs’
counsel shall provide notice and file proof of service with the court.   
 