  Case Number:  23STCV01199    Hearing Date:   January 26, 2024    Dept:  62 CASE NAME: Maria
De Dios v. Rapid Anodizing LLC, et al.
CASE NUMBER:  23STCV01199
HEARING
DATE:    January 26, 2024
DEPT: 62
Hon. Rolf
M. Treu
                                                                                                            

SUBJECT: Demurrer
to Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant
TRM Gamma Aerospace Acquisition, LLC
RESP. PARTY: Plaintiff – Maria De Dios 
 
PARTIES 
Plaintiff Maria De Dios filed this wrongful
termination action on January 19, 2023 against Defendants Rapid Anodizing LLC
(“Rapid”), Marcos Baca, Benjamin Torres, and Does 1 to 100, inclusive, alleging
eight causes of action.
 
Defendant TRM Gamma Aerospace
Acquisition, LLC was added in the First Amended Complaint on September 8, 2023.

 
On November 17, 2023, Defendant TRM
filed its demurrer without a motion to strike. 
 
On January 12, 2024, Plaintiff
filed her opposition. 
 
On January 19, 2024, Defendant TRM filed
its reply. 
 
Tentative Ruling: Sustained with 20 days leave to amend
 
ALLEGATIONS
The First Amended Complaint (“FAC”)
includes detailed allegations of Plaintiff’s employment at Rapid. (FAC ¶ 8.) She
names the Rapid employees who supervised her and allegedly participated in the
harassment, retaliation, and discrimination Plaintiff claims to have
experienced. (Id. at ¶¶ 8, 10–21.) Specifically, Plaintiff alleges that
her supervisor at Rapid asked her out a few times, but she turned him down. (Id.
at ¶¶ 11, 12.) Plaintiff claims her supervisor at Rapid allegedly raised
performance concerns as a pretext for discriminating against Plaintiff due to
her rejection of his advances. (Id. at ¶ 21.) Plaintiff further alleges
that she lodged a complaint with Rapid regarding her supervisor’s alleged
behavior. (Id. ¶¶ 15, 18.)
 
CAUSES OF ACTION 
1.      Discrimination
on the Basis of Gender (Government Code § 12940(A))
2.      Sexual
Harassment – Quid Pro Quo (Government Code §§ 12923, 12940(J))
3.      Failure
to Prevent Discrimination and Harassment (Government Code § 12940(J), (K))
4.      Retaliation
(Government Code § 12940(H))
5.      Negligent
Supervision, Hiring, and Retention
6.      Breach
of Implied-In-Fact and/or Oral Contract Not to Terminate Employment without
Good Cause
7.      Wrongful
Termination of Employment in Violation of Public Policy (Government Code §
12940(H))
8.      Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress.
 
TRM Gamma Aerospace Acquisition,
LLC demurs to every alleged cause of action on the grounds of failure to state
sufficient facts to support the causes of action. (Not. of Mot. p.2-3.) Moreover,
Defendant argues that the claims are barred by the doctrine of successor
nonliability. (Dem. p.1-3.) 
 
JUDICIAL NOTICE 
Defendant
TRM Gamma Aerospace Acquisition, LLC’s (“TRM”) requests judicial notice of (1) Exhibit A Asset
Purchase Agreement with Secured Creditor and Debtor. (Dem., RJN, Exhs. A.)  
            Plaintiff objects
to this document and states that “it would be improper for a
court to take judicial notice of the meaning of a document, submitted by the
demurring party, based on the document alone without allowing the parties an
opportunity to present extrinsic evidence of the meaning of the document.” (Opp.
to Def. Judicial Notice p.3.) Plaintiff also argues that the Asset Purchase Agreement
is hearsay. (Reply p.3.) A court may take judicial notice of official acts of the
legislative, executive, and judicial departments of the United States; records
of any court of the State of California, the United States, or any State of the
United States; facts of such common knowledge that they are not reasonably the
subject of dispute; and facts capable of immediate and accurate determination
by resort to source of reasonably indisputable accuracy. (Evid. Code, §452 (c),
(d), (g), (h)). The Plaintiff’s objections are well taken
because the Asset Purchase Agreement is subject to dispute.
Thus, its
request is DENIED.
   
MEET AND CONFER
Before filing a demurrer, “the demurring
party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party who
filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining
whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be
raised in the demurrer.” (emphasis added, CCP § 430.41(a).) 
 
Here, on November 1, 2023,
and November 6, 2023, Defendant’s counsel met and conferred telephonically with
Plaintiff’s counsel. (Dec. Siddiqui ¶ 4.) Thus, the meet and confer requirement
was satisfied. 
 
ANALYSIS 
Doctrine of Successor Nonliability
Defendant argues that the doctrine of successor nonliability
bars Plaintiff’s attempt to link TRM to the alleged wrongdoings by Rapid Anodizing,
LLC. (Dem. p.1.) “‘The general rule of successor nonliability provides that where a
corporation purchases, or otherwise acquires by transfer, the assets of another
corporation, the acquiring corporation does not assume the selling
corporation's debts and liabilities.’¿[Citation.] However, in¿Ray v. Alad
Corp.¿(1977) 19 Cal.3d 22, 136 Cal.Rptr. 574, 560 P.2d 3, the Supreme Court
noted four exceptions to this rule: When “(1) there is an express or implied
agreement of assumption, (2) the transaction amounts to a consolidation or
merger of the two corporations, (3) the purchasing corporation is a mere
continuation of the seller, or (4) the¿transfer of assets to the purchaser is
for the fraudulent purpose of escaping liability¿for the seller's debts.”¿[Citation.]”
(Daniell v. Riverside Partners I, L.P.¿(2012) 206 Cal.App.4th 1292, 1300-1301.) 
 
Plaintiff’s opposition claims that she “alleges that TRM is
a successor in interest in her FAC,” which “sufficiently imputes Rapid’s liability
onto TRM” if the Court doesn’t “referenc[e] the [Asset Purchase Agreement] APA.”
(Opp. at 5-6.) In support, Plaintiff cites to the boilerplate language in FAC ¶
6(f) which fails to provide any facts about how or when TRM allegedly became a
successor in interest. Plaintiff failed to provide facts to any exception of
the successor nonliability doctrine. Significantly, the FAC does not contain a
single allegation that TRM purchased Rapid or Gamma or continued their business.

 
Based on the foregoing, Defendants’ demur to all causes of
actions based on this ground is SUSTAINED, with leave to amend. 
 
Nevertheless,
the merits of the causes of actions on the grounds of failure to state
sufficient facts will also be analyzed below. 
 
Failure
to State Sufficient Facts For All Causes of Actions 
 
1.      Discrimination
on the Basis of Gender - SUSTAINED with leave to amend. 
Defendant argues that Plaintiff fails to allege facts
sufficient to state a cause of action for discrimination on the basis of gender.
(Dem. p.1.) In opposition, Plaintiff argues that paragraphs 5 and 6 sufficiently
impute liability to TRM. (Opp. p.5.) To prove gender discrimination under FEHA,
“[t]he plaintiff must generally show that: he or she was a member of a
protected class; was qualified for the position he sought; suffered an adverse
employment action, and there were circumstances suggesting that the employer
acted with a discriminatory motive.” (Jones v. Dep’t of Corr. & Rehab.,
152 Cal. App. 4th 1367, 1379 (2007).)
 
      The complaint alleges
“[a]ll Defendants, including but not limited to Rapid, Baca, Torres, and all
DOE Defendants, directly and/or indirectly employed Plaintiff, as defined under
the regulations, statutes and interpreting case law, including but not limited
to California Government Code section 12926(d).” (First Amended Complaint “FAC”
¶ 5-6.) Moreover, the complaint alleges that “each of the Defendants sued under
fictitious names is in some manner responsible for the wrongs and damages
alleged below . . ..” (Id.) These alleged facts are insufficient to
state a cause of action for Discrimination on the Basis of Gender against TRM
Gamma Aerospace Acquisition, LLC because of their conclusory and boilerplate
nature.
 
Thus, the Court sustains the demurrer for the discrimination
on the basis of gender cause of action against TRM with leave to amend. 
 
2.      Sexual
Harassment – Quid Pro Quo- SUSTAINED with leave to amend. 
Defendant argues that Plaintiff fails to allege facts
sufficient to state a cause of action for sexual harassment – quid pro quo. (Dem.
p.1.) In opposition, Plaintiff argues that paragraphs 5 and 6 sufficiently
impute liability to TRM. (Opp. p.5.) Plaintiff also argues that paragraph 42 also
specifically alleges TRM’s liability for this cause of action. (Id.)
 
The sexual harassment cause of action elements are: “(1)
plaintiff belongs to a protected group; (2) plaintiff was subject to unwelcome sexual
harassment; (3) the harassment complained of was based on sex; (4) the
harassment complained of was sufficiently pervasive so as to alter the
conditions of employment and create an abusive working environment; and (5) respondeat
superior.” (Fisher v. San Pedro Peninsula Hospital (1989) 214 Cal.App.3d
590, 608.) 
 
The complaint alleges the same language mentioned above. (FAC
¶ 5-6.) Additionally, paragraph 42 states “[a]t all relevant times, Defendants
Baca and Torres were principals, employees, and/or agents of Rapid, and/or of
DOES 1 through 100, inclusive, and were acting within the scope of such
employment and/or agency.” (FAC ¶ 42.) These alleged facts are insufficient to
state a cause of action for sexual harassment against TRM Gamma Aerospace
Acquisition, LLC because of their conclusory and boilerplate nature. For
instance, it does not provide facts that Gamma Aerospace Acquisition, LLC employed
Plaintiff. 
 
Thus, the Court sustains the demurrer for the sexual harassment
cause of action against TRM with leave to amend. 
 
3.      Failure
to Prevent Discrimination and Harassment- SUSTAINED with leave to amend.
Defendant argues that Plaintiff fails to allege facts
sufficient to state a cause of action for failure to prevent discrimination and
harassment. (Dem. p.1.) In opposition, Plaintiff argues that paragraphs 5 and 6
sufficiently impute liability to TRM. (Opp. p.5.)
 
Government Code section 12940(k) provides in relevant part
that “[i]t is an unlawful employment practice . . . [f]or an employer . . . to
fail to take all reasonable steps necessary to prevent discrimination and
harassment from occurring.” (Govt. Code, § 12940(k).) There can be no claim for
failure to take reasonable steps necessary to prevent sexual harassment or
discrimination when liability for harassment or discrimination has not been established.
(Dickson v. Burke Williams, Inc., 234 Cal. App. 4th 1307, 1316 (2015),
as modified on denial of reh’g (Mar. 24, 2015); see also Scotch v. Art Inst.
of California, 173 Cal. App. 4th 986, 1021 (2009).) 
 
The complaint alleges “[a]ll Defendants, including but not
limited to Rapid, Baca, Torres, and all DOE Defendants, directly and/or
indirectly employed Plaintiff, as defined under the regulations, statutes and
interpreting case law, including but not limited to California Government Code
section 12926(d).” (Complaint ¶ 5-6.) Moreover, the complaint alleges that “each
of the Defendants sued under fictitious names is in some manner responsible for
the wrongs and damages alleged below . . ..” (Id.) These alleges facts
are insufficient to state a cause of action for failure to prevent discrimination
and harassment because they are conclusory. The conclusory language prevents
the Court from determining TRM’s liability. 
 
Thus, the Court sustains the demurrer for the failure to
prevent discrimination and harassment cause of action against TRM with leave to
amend. 
 
4.      Retaliation
(Government Code § 12940(H)) - SUSTAINED with leave to amend. 
Defendant argues that Plaintiff fails to allege facts
sufficient to state a cause of action for retaliation. (Dem. p.1.) In opposition,
Plaintiff argues that paragraphs 5 and 6 sufficiently impute liability to TRM.
(Opp. p.5.) 
 
Under California case law, “to establish a prima facie case
of retaliation under the FEHA, a plaintiff must show (1) he or she engaged in a
‘protected activity,’ (2) the employer subjected the employee to an adverse
employment action, and (3) a causal link existed between the protected activity
and the employer’s action. (Jones v. Dep’t of Corr. & Rehab., 152
Cal. App. 4th 1367, 1380 (2007) (citing Yanowitz v. L’Oreal USA, Inc.,
36 Cal.4th 1028, 1042 (2005).)
 
The complaint alleges the same language above. (Complaint ¶
5-6.) For the same reasons mentioned above, these facts are insufficient to
state a cause of action for retaliation against TRM. Thus, the Court sustains
the demurrer for the retaliation cause of action with leave to amend. 
 
5.      Negligent
Supervision, Hiring, and Retention- SUSTAINED with leave to amend. 
Defendant argues that Plaintiff fails to allege facts
sufficient to state a cause of action for negligent supervision, hiring, and
retention. (Dem. p.1.) In opposition, Plaintiff argues that paragraphs 5 and 6 sufficiently
impute liability to TRM. (Opp. p.5.) “[A]n employer can be liable to a third
person for negligently hiring, supervising, or retaining an unfit employee.” (Doe
v. Capital Cities (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 1038, 1054.) To establish a cause
of action for negligent hiring, retention, or supervision, a plaintiff must
show that the employer knew or should have known that hiring the employee
created a particular risk or hazard and that particular harm occurs. (See Z.V.
v. County of Riverside (2015) 238 Cal.App.4th 889, 902; Doe, supra,
50 Cal.App.4th at 1054.)   
 
The complaint alleges the same language above. (FAC ¶ 5-6.) For
the same reasons mentioned above, these facts are insufficient to state a cause
of action for negligent supervision, hiring, and retention against TRM. Thus,
the Court sustains the demurrer for the negligent supervision, hiring, and
retention cause of action with leave to amend.  
 
6.      Breach
of Implied-In-Fact and/or Oral Contract Not to Terminate Employment without
Good Cause- SUSTAINED with leave to amend.
Defendant argues that Plaintiff fails to allege facts
sufficient to state a cause of action for breach of implied-in-fact and/or oral
contract not to terminate employment without good cause.  (Dem. p.1.) In opposition, Plaintiff argues
that paragraphs 5 and 6 sufficiently impute liability to TRM. (Opp. p.5.) 
 
Plaintiffs bear the threshold burden of proving that they and
the employer had an “actual understanding” contrary to the statutory at-will
presumption. (Guz v. Bechtel Nat’l Inc., 24 Cal. 4th 317, 319.) Factors
that indicate an implied-in-fact agreement might include (1) “the personnel
policies or practices of the employer,” (2) “the employee’s longevity of
service,” (3) “actions or communications by the employer reflecting assurances
of continued employment,” and (4) “the practices of the industry in which the
employee is engaged.” (Id. at 336–37.)
 
The complaint alleges the same language above. (FAC ¶ 5-6.) For
the same reasons mentioned above, these facts are insufficient to state a cause
of action for breach of implied or oral contract not to terminate employment
without good cause against TRM. Thus, the Court sustains the demurrer for this cause
of action with leave to amend.  
 
7.      Wrongful
Termination of Employment in Violation of Public Policy (Government Code §
12940(H)) - SUSTAINED with leave to amend.
Defendant argues that Plaintiff fails to allege facts
sufficient to state a cause of action for
wrongful
termination of employment in violation of public policy. (Dem. p.1.) In opposition,
Plaintiff argues that paragraphs 5 and 6 sufficiently impute liability to TRM.
(Opp. p.5.) 
 
“The elements of a claim for wrongful discharge in violation
of public policy are (1) an employer-employee relationship, (2) the employer
terminated the plaintiff’s employment, (3) the termination was substantially
motivated by a violation of public policy, and (4) the discharge caused the
plaintiff harm.” (Nosal-Tabor v. Sharp Chula Vista Medical Center (2015)
239 Cal.App.4th 1224, 1234-35 (quoting Yau v. Allen (2014) 229 Cal.App.4th
144, 154).) “A discharge is actionable as against public policy if it violates
a policy that is: ‘(1) delineated in either constitutional or statutory
provisions; (2) ‘public’ in the sense that it ‘inures to the benefit of the
public’ rather than serving merely the interests of the individual; (3) well
established at the time of discharge; and (4) ‘substantial’ and ‘fundamental.”
(Id. at 1238-39 (quoting Carter v. Escondido Union High School
District (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 922, 929).)  
 
The complaint alleges the same language above. (Complaint ¶
5-6.) For the same reasons mentioned above, these facts are insufficient to
state a cause of action for wrongful termination against TRM. Thus, the Court sustains
the demurrer for this cause of action with leave to amend.  
 
8.      Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress- SUSTAINED with leave to amend.
Defendant argues that Plaintiff fails to allege facts
sufficient to state a cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional
distress. (Dem. p.1.) In opposition, Plaintiff argues that paragraphs 5 and 6 sufficiently
impute liability to TRM. (Opp. p.5.) 
 
 To state a cause of
action for intentional infliction of emotional distress, a plaintiff must show:
“(1) extreme and outrageous conduct by the defendant with the intention of
causing, or reckless disregard of the probability of causing, emotional
distress; (2) the plaintiff’s suffering severe or extreme emotional distress;
and (3) actual and proximate causation of the emotional distress by the
defendant’s outrageous conduct.” (Faunce v. Cate, 222 Cal. App. 4th 166,
172 (2013) (citing Christensen v. Superior Ct., 54 Cal. 3d 868, 903 (1991).)
Outrageous conduct must be “beyond the bounds of human decency.” (Janken v.
GM Hughes Elecs., 46 Cal. App. 4th 55, 80 (1996); see also Davidson v.
City of Westminster, 32 Cal. 3d 197, 209 (1982) (outrageous conduct “must
be so extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized
community”) (citation omitted).)
 
The complaint alleges the same language above. (FAC ¶ 5-6.) For
the same reasons mentioned above, these facts are insufficient to state a cause
of action for intentional infliction of emotional distress against TRM. For
instance, all of the allegations concern Rapid employees, and the FAC does not
plead any facts supporting the allegation that TRM is related to Rapid. (FAC ¶¶
5, 6, 87–94.) Thus, the Court sustains the demurrer for this cause of action
with leave to amend.  
 
 
 
 
 
 