 Case Number:  23STCV16750    Hearing Date:   April 3, 2024    Dept:  26 Plaintiff’s request for  entry of default judgment is CONTINUED. The request for default judgment cannot be granted at this time for the following reasons: 1.  The Closing Statement indicates an  outstanding balance of $300,287.00.  However, Plaintiff is requesting principal damages in the amount of $399,473.  Plaintiff fails to provide evidence proving  up the requested amount of principal damages.  2.  Plaintiff submits a declaration regarding  interest that fails to provide the period of interest accrual or a clear  interest rate supported by the contract.   Plaintiff indicates that a 15% prejudgment interest rate was applied  based on the contract.  However, the  contract does not provide for a 15% interest rate.  (Summary of Case, Daneshrad Dec., Ex. A.)  The contract provides for a 10% interest rate  for “the unpaid amount for the period after the October 7, 2018 [sic].”  (Id.)   The Closing Statement also indicates a 15% “Late Fee,” not interest  rate.  (Id. at Ex. B.)   Plaintiff must submit an  interest declaration that clearly sets forth (1) the rate of interest; (2) the  basis for the rate of interest; (3) the period of interest accrual; and (4) the  calculation of interest.  In addition, if  Plaintiff seeks prejudgment interest at a rate greater than the rate allowed  for under the usury laws (10%), then Plaintiff must submit briefing that would  allow Plaintiff to charge such a rate.  3.   The  evidence submitted does not establish the basis for liability of Defendant  Rosana A. Torres or damages caused by Defendant Rosana A. Torres. Here, the  only evidence submitted in support of the request for default damages is the  declaration of Plaintiff M.S.S.C., LLC’s Counsel of record – Michelle  Daneshrad.  Nothing in Attorney Michelle Daneshrad’s declaration sets  forth that she is percipient witness of the alleged loan.    The  OSC re entry of default judgment is continued to May 8, 2024, at 8:30 a.m.   