 Case Number:  24STCP00051    Hearing Date:   April 3, 2024    Dept:  26 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department 26
 



Ce-GH Urbanite
  fund 2, llc,
 
                        Plaintiffs,
            v.
 
cni cENTURY
  PLAZA GP, LLC; and DOES 1-100,
 
                        Defendants.
 


 
  Case No.:  24STCP00051 
[Notice of Related Case
  Filed re Related Cases 22STCV20842 (Lead Case) and 23STCV02554]
  Hearing Date:  April 3, 2024
 
 [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
Applications for an order permitting sheron korpus as counsel pro hac vice 
 



 
            Sheron
Korpus (“Korpus”) applies as counsel pro
hac vice for Respondent CNI Century Plaza GP, LLC.  His application is unopposed. 
Under CRC Rule 9.40, attorneys licensed and in good standing in other
states may, upon the California court’s approval, appear as counsel pro hac vice in a pending case if an
active member of the state bar is associated as attorney of record.  (CRC 9.40(a).)  Korpus is a member, in good standing, of the US District
Courts for the Supreme Court of the State of New York, the U.S. District Courts
of the Southern and Eastern Districts of New York, the U.S. Court of Appeals, Second,
Third and Federal Circuits, and District of Columbia and the United States
Supreme Court.  (Korpus
Application, ¶ 7.)  In addition, Korpus states that he is a
resident of New York, NY. (Id. at ¶ 1.)
 Korpus states that in the past two years
he has filed pro hac vice applications in the following California state actions:  CE-GH Urbanite Fund 2, LLC v. Belford, Case
No. 22STCV20842 and CE-GH Urbanite Fund 2, LLC v. DigitalBridge Group, Inc.,
et al. Case No. 23STCV20554.  (Id. at ¶ 9.)  Korpus states he is currently admitted to
practice before the Courts of the State of New York.  (Id. at ¶6.)  Korpus states he is a member of good standing
in all the courts to which he is admitted. 
(Id. at ¶8.)  
Korpus’s application successfully addresses five content requirements
outlined in CRC 9.40(d).  Specifically,
he provides in his application: (1) his residence and office address (Korpus
Application ¶¶ 3 and 4); (2) the courts to which he has been admitted to
practice and the dates of admission (Id.
at ¶ 7); (3) that he is a member in good standing in those courts (Id. at
¶ 8.); (4) that he is not currently suspended or disbarred in any court (Id. at ¶ 8); (5)  identifies those California actions in which
he has filed an application to appear as counsel pro hac vice in this
state in the preceding two years (Id.
at ¶ 9); and (6) the name, address, and telephone number of the active member
of the State Bar of California who is attorney of record (Id. at ¶ 13; M. Manacek Dec., ¶¶1-4.).  
Furthermore, Matthew S. Manacek, counsel of record of Respondent CNI
Century Plaza GP, LLC, submits a declaration that they have complied with the
requirements of CRC 9.40(c)(1) and (e). That rule provides: “a person desiring
to appear as counsel pro hac vice in
a superior court must file with the court a verified application together with
proof of service . . . of a copy of the application and of the notice on all
parties who have appeared in the cause and on the State Bar of California at
its San Francisco office.” (Manacek Decl., ¶ 2.)
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
The application of Sheron Korpus to appear as counsel pro hac vice for Respondent CNI Century
Plaza GP, LLC is GRANTED.
The moving parties
are ordered to provide notice of this order and file a proof of service of
such.
 
DATED: April 3,
2024                                                           ___________________________
                                                                                          Yolanda
Orozco
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court