 Case Number:  BC610365    Hearing Date:   April 3, 2024    Dept:  26 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department 26
 



 
city
  of los angeles, et
  al.
                        Plaintiffs,
            v.
 
geoFFrey
  h. palmer, et
  al.,
                        Defendants.


 
  Case No.: BC610365
 
  Hearing Date:  April 3, 2024
 
  [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
defendants GEOFFREY H. PALMER, GEOFFREY H. PALMER d/b/a GH PALMER
  ASSOCIATES, and PALMER TEMPLE STREET PROPERTIES, LLC’s motion to bifurcate



 
Procedural
Background
Plaintiff Lewis
Brisbois Bisgaard & Smith LLP initiated this action against Geoffrey H.
Palmer, Geoffrey H. Palmer dba GH Palmer Associates, Palmer Temple Street
Properties, LLC, and Palmer Temple Street Properties (collectively “Palmer”)
seeking damages Plaintiff sustained when an arson at Palmer’s
large-construction site led to fire, heat, smoke, ashes, debris; damage to,
inhabitability of, and closure of Palmer’s law offices; and interference with
Plaintiff’s business relations.  On February
23, 2023, the instant action was transferred to the instant department.  (Minute Order 2/23/23.)
On October 9, 2023, the Court denied
without prejudice the motion to bifurcate filed by Geoffrey H. Palmer, Geoffrey
H. Palmer d/b/a GH Palmer Associates, and Palmer Temple Street properties, LLC
(hereinafter collectively “Palmer”) on September 14, 2023.  
On March 7, 2024, Palmer filed the instant
motion to bifurcate trial.  On March 20,
2024, Cross-Defendant State of California (the “State”) filed an
opposition.  On March 26, 2024, Palmer
filed a reply.
 
Legal
Standard
“The court, in furtherance of convenience
or to avoid prejudice, or when separate trials will be conducive to expedition
and economy, may order a separate trial of any cause of action, including a
cause of action asserted in a cross-complaint, or of any separate issue or of
any number of causes of action or issues, preserving the right of trial by jury
required by the Constitution or a statute of this state or of the United
States.”  (CCP § 1048(b).)  Whether there shall be a severance and
separate trials of issues in a single action is a matter within the trial
court’s discretion.  (McArthur v. Shaffer (1943) 59 Cal.App.2d
724, 727.)
Where a separate
trial is ordered on the issue of liability, the procedure is commonly referred
to as “bifurcation.”  The objective of
bifurcation is to avoid wasting time and money on the trial of damages issues
if the liability issue is resolved against plaintiff.  (Horton
v. Jones (1972) 26 Cal.App.3d 952, 954.) 
Granting or denying of a motion for bifurcation lies within the trial
court’s sound discretion and is subject to reversal on appeal only for clear
abuse.  (Grappo v. Coventry Financial Corp. (1991) 235 Cal.App.3d 496,
503-504.) 
Discussion
            Palmer Defendants seek to bifurcate
trial to have (1) Phase One be a bench trial on the issue of duty (“Phase 1”),
and (2) Phase Two to be jury trial on the remaining issues (“Phase 2”).  Palmer asserts that proceeding with a jury
trial without first determining the issue of duty by the court could result in
undue prejudice by allowing the jury to be exposed to irrelevant or
inapplicable evidence.  Palmer also
states that bifurcating the trial would serve the interests of judicial economy
and efficiency because it could significantly narrow the issues for the jury
trial and reduce the length.  Palmer also
asserts that they complied with the requirements for filing their motion to
bifurcate and argues that the motion is timely and proper.  Finally, Palmer points out that the State has
waived any right to oppose the current motion for bifurcation because it did
not oppose their previous motion to bifurcate and did not appear at the hearing
for that motion. 
            In opposition, the State argues that
bifurcation is unnecessary because the Court has already ruled on the issue of
Palmer’s duty in its motion for summary judgment ruling.  The State also states that Palmer has not
demonstrated that they would suffer prejudice without a bifurcated trial or
that bifurcation would result in a shorter jury trial.  Rather, the State points out that bifurcation
could lead to duplication of witness testimony since the issues pertaining to
Palmer’s equitable indemnity cause of action against Caltrans are closely
intertwined with its negligence cause of action.  Further, the State argues that Palmer’s
motion to bifurcate is untimely and unfairly prejudicial to Caltrans,
highlighting procedural deadlines and the additional burdens placed on the
State to the timing of the motion. 
Finally, the State refutes Palmer’s claim that it waived any opposition
to the motion by not opposing a previous motion to bifurcate, emphasizing that
the previous motion was denied and that circumstances have changed since then.
            In reply, Palmer clarifies that
their prior motion to bifurcate was not denied on its merits but deferred by
the Court to the trial judge, indicating that the issue of duty has not been
decided yet, contrary to the State’s representation.  Palmer also argues that their motion to
bifurcate is timely and proper, initially filed well in advance of the trial
and re-filed as instructed by the Court during a pre-trial hearing.  As to the issue of duty, Palmer maintains
that this is a legal issue for the Court to decide, not a jury.  They argue that this is especially true in
cases involving a property owner’s duty to protect against third-party criminal
acts, which requires an extraordinarily high degree of foreseeability.  Palmer also asserts that they will be
prejudiced if the trial is not bifurcated because the jury would be exposed to
irrelevant or prejudicial evidence if duty is not determined by the Court
first.  They also contend that
bifurcation will promote judicial efficiency by narrowing the issues for the
jury trial, potentially reducing its length.  
The Motion is
Untimely, But the Court Exercises its Discretion to Consider the Merits
            This motion was untimely filed
despite Palmer’s contention of timeliness. 
Trial is set for April 15, 2024, but Palmer did not file the motion
until March 7, 2024, with the hearing set for April 3, 2024.  An order for bifurcation must be made no
later than 30 days before trial.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 598.)  Although Palmer
contends that their initial motion to bifurcate filed on September 14, 2023 was
continued, the Court notes that it was denied without prejudice.  Notwithstanding this procedural defect, the
Court will consider the merits of Palmer’s motion given its inherent authority
to separate trials at any time.  (See
Code Civ. Proc., § 1048.)  
The State Did
Not Waive Opposition to the Instant Motion
            Given that the October 9, 2023
ruling on Palmer’s motion to bifurcate was to deny without prejudice rather
than continue, the Court finds that the State did not waive its right to oppose
a subsequently filed motion to bifurcate by failing to oppose the first motion
filed on September 14, 2023. 
The Issue of Duty
has Not Been Determined
            The State contends that the issue of
duty has already been determined because the Court previously denied Palmer’s
motion for summary adjudication motion of the issue of duty.  The Court – presided by the Honorable David
Sotelo – ruled on Palmer’s motion for summary adjudication of duty, where the
Court found that: “[Palmer was] aware that parking signs across the street were
set on fire. The Court finds that this is a ‘prior similar incident’ to the
arson that occurred at the Da Vinci Project.” 
(Lynch Decl. ¶ 8, Ex. C.)  This
is the same issue of duty that Palmer seeks to have determined in Phase One of
the proposed bifurcated proceeding.  (See
e.g., Motion at pp.6:8-12, [“[T]he State is required to make a sufficient
showing that Palmer owed a duty to it to take different or additional measures
to guard against a third party’s arson. The State is required to set forth
facts establishing that Palmer had knowledge of prior, similar acts of arson
occurring at the Da Vinci Project. As explained above, notice of prior acts is
required to trigger any duty by Palmer to undertake such enhanced security
measures. Indeed, prior to the incident, there were no arson attempts committed
at or directed toward the Da Vinci Project.”].) 

            While this is the same issue that
has been previously addressed in the denial of Palmer’s motion for summary
adjudication, “[d]enial of a motion for summary judgment does not establish any
fact or resolve any issue; it merely determines that the issues will be decided
later, at the time of trial.”  (Emerald
Bay Community Assn. v. Golden Eagle Ins. Corp. (2005) 130 Cal.App.4th 1078,
1086.)  Therefore, the issue of duty must
still be resolved at trial. 
Palmer Fails
to Show That Bifurcation Would Promote the Convenience of Witnesses, Ends of
Justice, or the Economy and Efficiency of Handling the Litigation
The Court finds that Palmer has failed to make a
sufficient showing of the prejudice they would suffer without a bifurcated
trial.  Palmer asserts that the jury
would improperly hear testimony and consider evidence such as melted parking
signs, which they claim is not related to the trespass from the freeway onto
the project and intentional arson on December 8, 2014.  Palmer fails to sufficiently explain that
such evidence would result in irreversible prejudice to Palmer.  The Court recognizes that bifurcation may
result in a shorter jury trial, but this argument also is not sufficiently
supported with evidence.  It is unclear
for example which witnesses or how many would not be required for Phase 2.  Thus, there is a strong possibility that
bifurcation would result in the duplication of testimony and would not promote
the convenience, ends of the justice, or the economy and efficiency of handling
the litigation.  
The State points out that regardless of whether the
issue of Palmer’s duty is bifurcated, Palmer will have to present evidence,
including witness testimony, that there either were, or were not, similar acts
or circumstances that either did or did not make the Caltrans ROW fence and the
Da Vinci Apartment construction site inherently dangerous.  Thus, the interests of witness economy and
judicial efficiency weigh in favor of denying Palmer’s motion. 
CONCLUSIONS AND
ORDER
Based on the foregoing, Defendant Geoffrey
H. Palmer, Geoffrey H. Palmer d/b/a GH Palmer Associates, and Palmer Temple Street
properties, LLC’s motion to bifurcate trial is DENIED.
Moving
Party is to give notice and file proof of service of such.
 
DATED:
April 3, 2024                                                           ___________________________
                                                                                          Yolanda
Orozco
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court