  Case Number:  22STCV06775    Hearing Date:   April 3, 2024    Dept:  26 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department 26
 



 
KEOINA FORD,
 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
GENERAL MOTORS LLC, ET AL.
 
                        Defendants.


 
 Case No.: 
  22STCV06775 
 Hearing Date: April 3, 2024 
[TENTATIVE] order RE:
(1) PLAINTIFF’S MOTION FOR LEAVE TO
  AMEND
 
(2) DEFENDANT’S MOTION FOR SUMMARY
  JUDGMENT, OR IN THE ALTERNATIVE, SUMMARY ADJUDICATION 
 



 
Background
            On November 4, 2020, Plaintiff
purchased a 2019 Chevrolet Impala, VIN # 1G11Z5SA2KU123817.  Plaintiff alleges the vehicle was delivered
to Plaintiff with serious defects and nonconformities and developed other
serious defects and nonconformities. 
Plaintiff delivered the vehicle to Defendant for repair on the
nonconformities.  Plaintiff alleges  Defendant wrongfully denied warranty coverage
for certain nonconformities and was unable to conform the vehicle to the
applicable express warranties after a reasonable number of attempts.  Despite being unable to conform the vehicle
to the express warranties after a reasonable amount of time as set forth in the
Song Beverly Act (“SBA”), Defendant allegedly failed to either promptly replace
the new motor vehicle or promptly make restitution under the SBA.  
            On February 24, 2022, Plaintiff
filed a complaint against Defendant General Motors, LLC (“GM”) as the
manufacturer of the vehicle alleging (1) SBA—Breach of Express Warranty; (2)
SBA—Breach of Implied Warranty; and (3) SBA-Civil Code §1793.2.
            On February 14, 2023, GM filed the
instant Motion for Summary Judgment, or in the alternative Summary
Adjudication.  On September 13, 2023,
Plaintiff filed an Opposition to GM’s Motion for Summary Judgment or
Adjudication.  On September 20, 2023, GM
filed a Reply to Plaintiff’s Opposition. 
On September 20, 2023, Plaintiff also filed a Motion for Leave to File
First Amended Complaint.  
            On September 27, 2023, GM’s Motion
For Summary Judgment came on for hearing, as well as Plaintiff’s Ex Parte
Application to Advance the Hearing Date on Plaintiff’s Motion for Leave to
Amend.  The Court granted the Ex Parte in
part, setting Plaintiff’s Motion for Leave to File FAC for December 7,
2023.  The Court continued GM’s Motion
for Summary Judgment to April 3, 2024.  
            On January 2, 2024, the Court continued
the Plaintiff’s Motion for Leave to File FAC to April 3, 2024 to be heard with
GM’s Motion for Summary Judgment. 
Parties were instructed to brief the applicability of the California
Supreme Court’s opinion reviewing Rodriguez v. FCA US, LLC (2022) 77
Cal.App.5th 209 (“Rodriguez”).
GM’S MOTION FOR
SUMMARY JUDGMENT, OR IN THE ALTERNATIVE, SUMMARY ADJUDICATION 
Request for
Judicial Notice 
Plaintiff’s RJN of the California Supreme Court’s
grant of review of Rodriguez is GRANTED.
Objections to
Evidence 
Plaintiff’s
Evidentiary Objections Nos. 1-12 are OVERRULED. 

Legal Standard
            Summary judgment is proper “if all
the papers submitted show that there is no triable issue as to any material
fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.”
(Code of Civil Procedure §437c(c).) From commencement to conclusion, the party
moving for summary judgment bears the burden of persuasion that there is no
triable issue of material fact and that he is entitled to a judgment as a
matter of law. There is a triable issue of material fact if, and only if, the
evidence would allow a reasonable trier of fact to find the underlying fact in
favor of the party opposing the motion in accordance with the applicable
standard of proof.  (Aguilar v.
Atlantic Richfield Company (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 855.)
            Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
§437c(f)(1), a party may properly seek summary adjudication of one or more
causes of action, one or more affirmative defenses, the issue of punitive
damages or the issue of duty.  (CCP §437c(f)(1).)
“A motion for summary adjudication shall be granted only if it completely
disposes of a cause of action, an affirmative defense, a claim of damages or an
issue of duty.”  (Id.)
            Where a defendant seeks summary
judgment or adjudication, he must show that either “one or more elements of the
cause of action, even if not separately pleaded, cannot be established, or that
there is a complete defense to that cause of action.”  (CCP §437c(o)(2).)  A defendant may satisfy this burden by
showing that the claim “cannot be established” because of the lack of evidence
on some essential element of the claim. 
(Union Bank v. Superior Court (1995) 31 Cal.App.4th 574,
590.)  Once the defendant meets this
burden, the burden shifts to plaintiff to show that a “triable issue of one or
more material facts exists as to that cause of action or defense thereto.”  (Id.)  
            “A party is entitled to summary
judgment only if it meets its initial burden of showing there are no triable
issues of fact and the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.
This is true even if the opposing party fails to file any opposition. The
court's assessment of whether the moving party has carried its burden—and
therefore caused a shift—occurs before the court's evaluation of the opposing
party's papers. Therefore, the burden on the motion does not initially shift as
a result of what is, or is not, contained in the opposing papers.”  (Mosley v. Pacific Specialty Insurance
Company (2020) 49 Cal.App.5th 417, 434–435 (landlord’s failure to address
issue of whether they were aware of their tenant’s marijuana growing operation
was not grounds to grant summary judgment where moving party failed to satisfy
its initial burden as to the issue); Thatcher v. Lucky Stores, Inc.
(2000) 79 Cal.App.4th 1081, 1086-1087 (court cannot grant summary judgment
based merely on lack of opposition; court must first determine if the moving
party has satisfied its burden).)
            In addition, the evidence and
affidavits of the moving party are construed strictly, while those of the
opponent are liberally read.  (Government
Employees Ins. Co. v. Sup. Ct. (2000) 79 Cal.App.4th 95, 100. “All doubts
as to the propriety of granting the motion (whether there is any issue of
material fact [Code of Civil Procedure] § 437c) are to be resolved in favor of
the party opposing the motion (i.e., a denial of summary judgment).” (Hamburg
v. Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 497, 502.)
Discussion
I.  Parties’
Positions
            GM’s Motion for Summary Judgment 
            GM
argues Plaintiff’s second cause of action for breach of implied warranty fails
for three reasons.  GM argues (1) under
California law, Plaintiff cannot maintain an action for breach of implied
warranty because the vehicle was purchased used; and (2) Plaintiff cannot
demonstrate any damages from the alleged breach, i.e. the difference between
the value of the goods at the time and place of acceptance and the value of the
goods had they been warranted.  GM argue
Plaintiff has failed to identify any damages in discovery.
            GM
argues Plaintiff’s first and third causes of action for breach of express
warranty fails, because she did not buy a “new motor vehicle” and she did not
receive any new or additional warranty coverage from GM.  GM relies on Rodriguez, which it
argues is directly on point.  
            GM
argues that, if any of the causes of action were to withstand summary judgment,
it asks that the Court grant adjudication on specific items of damage.  GM argues it has no obligation to reimburse
Plaintiff for the optional, non-GM products she bought with the vehicle as a
matter of law.
            Plaintiff’s Opposition 
            Plaintiff argues GM failed to submit
admissible evidence that she purchased the vehicle as a “used” vehicle.  Plaintiff argues none of the documentary
exhibits are properly authenticated, because GM’s counsel lacks personal
knowledge to authenticate documents like the Retail Installment Contract.  
            Plaintiff argues Rodriguez is not binding authority.  Plaintiff
argues the Court should follow Jensen v. North America, Inc. (1995) 35 Cal.App.4th 112 (“Jensen”) instead.  Plaintiff argues Jensen expressly found that vehicles sold with a
balance remaining on the manufacturer's new motor vehicle warranty are included
in the SBA definition of “new motor vehicle.” 

            Plaintiff argues GM’s new car warranty is also
specifically extended to all subsequent owners. 
Plaintiff argues a trier of fact could determine that the vehicle was
sold with a “new” car warranty. 
Plaintiff argues the jury must determine whether the vehicle qualifies
for relief under the SBA.
            GM’s Reply
            GM
argues Plaintiff did not dispute any of its material facts with evidence.  GM argues Plaintiff merely responded to the
separate statement with evidentiary objections. 
GM argues it has satisfied its burden on summary judgment with
admissible evidence.
            GM
argues that based on the undisputed evidence, Plaintiff purchased her vehicle
used.  GM argues Plaintiff therefore
cannot sue for breach of implied warranty based on Nunez or breach of
express warranty under the SBA based on Rodriguez.  
II.  Based
on the undisputed facts, Defendant is entitled to summary judgment on
Plaintiff’s Complaint
            GM
establishes that the vehicle was sold used to Plaintiff.  Plaintiff produced a copy of the Retail
Installment Sales Contract in response to discovery.  (Yaragachian Dec., ¶5, Ex. A.)  Plaintiff therefore admitted that the RISC
attached as Exhibit A is the RISC she signed to purchase the vehicle and cannot
object to it based on lack of authentication. 
Based on Exhibit A, the vehicle sold was clearly “used,” as the RISC
identifies it as such, and the odometer had 34,179 miles on it at the time of
sale.  (Id.)
            In
response, Plaintiff does not deny that the vehicle was “used” when sold.  Plaintiff’s only objection is that no one
with personal knowledge authenticated the RISC. 
However, Plaintiff verified in response to discovery that Exhibit A was
the RISC.  Ford does not deny that the
RISC attached as Exhibit A is the RISC pursuant to which she purchased the
vehicle.  The VIN number and contract
date also match the allegations regarding purchase in Plaintiff’s
complaint.  (Complaint, ¶7.)  As such, Plaintiff fails to raise any issue
of fact as to whether the vehicle was purchase as a “used” vehicle. 
            Second
cause of action for breach of implied warranty—GRANT
            Because
Plaintiff purchased her vehicle used, GM as the manufacturer cannot be held
liable for breach of implied warranty under the SBA.  (Nunez v. FCA US LLC (2021) 61
Cal.App.5th 385, 398.)  “In
this case, plaintiff's implied warranty claim fails as a matter of law, because
in the sale of used consumer goods, liability for breach of implied warranty
lies with distributors and retailers, not the manufacturer, where there is
no evidence the manufacturer played any role in the sale of the used car to
plaintiff.”  (Id.) 
            “It
is evident from these provisions that only distributors or sellers of used
goods—not manufacturers of new goods—have implied warranty obligations in the
sale of used goods. (See § 1795.5.) As one court has put it, the Song-Beverly
Act provides similar remedies (to those available when a manufacturer sells new
consumer goods) ‘in the context of the sale of used goods, except that the
manufacturer is generally off the hook.’” 
(Id. at 399.) 
Plaintiff offers no evidence that GM’s role in the relevant events was
as anything other than the manufacturer. 
(Id.)  As such, Plaintiff’s
second cause of action for breach of implied warranty under the SBA fails as a
matter of law.  A manufacturer whose sole
role in a vehicle transaction is as a manufacturer does not have any implied
warranty obligations in the sale of used goods. 
(Civ. C. §1795.5; Nunez, supra, 61 Cal.App.5th
at 399.) 
            First
and Third Causes of Action for Breach of Contract and Civil Code §1793.2—GRANT
            There
is currently a split in authority on the issue of whether the SBA’s express
warranty provisions apply to sale of “used” vehicles, as acknowledged by the
California Supreme Court in order granting review of Rodriguez v. FCA US,
LLC.  (Plaintiff’s RJN, Ex. A.)  “Pending review, the opinion of the Court of
Appeal, which is currently published at 77 Cal.App.5th 209, may be
cited, not only for its persuasive value, but also for the limited purpose of
establishing the existence of a conflict in authority that would in turn
allow trial courts to exercise discretion under Auto Equity Sales, Inc. v.
Superior Court (1962) 57  Cal.2d 450,
456, to choose between sides of any such conflict…The requests for an order
directing depublication of the opinion are denied.”  (Id.) 

            Applying
these principles, the Court finds the reasoning of Rodriguez persuasive
and finds Jensen distinguishable. 
Because Plaintiff purchased the vehicle used, the SBA’s express warranty
provisions do not apply and Defendant’s motion for summary judgment is granted
as to the first and third causes of action for breach of express warranty and Civil
Code §1792.
            The
precise same situation here was presented in Rodriguez.  The plaintiffs purchased a used vehicle with
a balance remaining on an express warranty from the manufacturer when it was
sold to them.  (Rodriguez, supra,
77 Cal.App.5th at 219.)  The
plaintiffs maintained the vehicle qualified as a “new motor vehicle” under the
“a dealer-owned vehicle and a ‘demonstrator’ or other motor vehicle sold with a
manufacturer’s new care warranty” prong of Civil Code §1793.22(e)(2).  (Id.) 

            The
Court of Appeals agreed with the manufacturer’s position that “other motor
vehicle sold with a manufacturer’s new car warranty” refers to “vehicles
that…have not been previously sold and are sold with new or full
warranties.”  (Id. at 219.)  “To begin with, the phrase appears in a
definition of new motor vehicles. That fact alone strongly suggests the
Legislature did not intend the phrase to refer to used (i.e., previously sold)
vehicles.”  (Id. at 220.)  
            Rodriguez
also found that the “a dealer-owned vehicle and a ‘demonstrator’ or other motor
vehicle sold with a manufacturer’s new care warranty” prong of Civil Code
§1793.22(e)(2) was intended to apply to a “narrow category of basically new
vehicles—they have never been previously sold to a consumer and they come with
full express warranties” and the “most natural interpretation of the phrase
‘other motor vehicle sold with a manufacturer’s new car warranty’ is that it,
too, refers to vehicles that have never been previously sold to a consumer and
come with full express warranties.”  (Rodriguez,
supra, 77 Cal.App.5th at 220.)      
            Rodriguez
also distinguished Jensen.  “Jensen
involved a lease by a manufacturer-affiliated dealer who issued a full new car
warranty along with the lease. The issue was whether the leased car qualified
as a ‘new motor vehicle’ under the Act.” 
(Id. at 223.)  The crucial
distinction was that the car in Jensen was leased with a “full
manufacturer’s warranty issued by the manufacturer’s representative.”  (Id. at 224.)  Jensen was never presented with the
question raised in Rodriguez and here—“whether a used care with an
unexpired warranty sold by a third party reseller qualifies as a ‘new motor
vehicle.’”  (Id.)  Rodriguez noted that this was an issue
of first impression and answered in the negative.  This Court agrees.  
            Plaintiff’s
vehicle does not qualify as a “new motor vehicle” as defined under Civil code
§1793.22 and based on the undisputed facts. 
Pursuant to the reasoning of Rodriguez, GM’s motion for summary
judgment of the first and third causes of action for breach of express warranty
and Civil Code §1793.2 is granted.  
 
PLAINTIFF’S MOTION
FOR LEAVE TO FILE A FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT
Legal Standard
            “A party may amend its pleading
once without leave of the court at any time before the answer, demurrer, or
motion to strike is filed, or after a demurrer or motion to strike is filed but
before the demurrer or motion to strike is heard if the amended pleading is
filed and served no later than the date for filing an opposition to the
demurrer or motion to strike.” (CCP §472.)
            “The court may, in furtherance of
justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to amend any pleading
or proceeding by adding or striking out the name of any party, or by correcting
a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any other respect; and may,
upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or demurrer. The court may
likewise, in its discretion, after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any
terms as may be just, an amendment to any pleading or proceeding in other
particulars; and may upon like terms allow an answer to be made after the time
limited by this code.”  (CCP §473(a)(1).)
            The policy favoring amendment is so
strong that it is a rare case in which denial of leave to amend can be
justified:  “If the motion to amend is
timely made and the granting of the motion will not prejudice the opposing
party, it is error to refuse permission to amend; and, where the refusal also
results in a party being deprived of the right to assert a meritorious cause of
action or a meritorious defense, it is not only error but an abuse of
discretion.”  (Morgan v. Sup.Ct.
(1959) 172 Cal.App.2d 527, 530 (emphasis added).)  Courts are bound to apply a policy of great
liberality in permitting amendments to the complaint "at any stage of the
proceedings, up to and including trial," absent prejudice to the adverse
party. (Atkinson v. Elk Corp. (2003) 109 Cal.App.4th 739, 761.)
            Prejudice exists where the amendment
would require delaying the trial, resulting in loss of critical evidence or
added costs of preparation, increased burden of discovery, etc.  (Magpali v. Farmers Group, Inc. (1996)
48 Cal.App.4th 471, 486-488.)  Delay
alone is insufficient grounds for denial of leave of amend.  If the delay in seeking the amendment has not
misled or prejudiced the other side, the liberal policy of allowing amendments
prevails. Indeed, it is an abuse of discretion to deny leave in such a case
even if sought as late as the time of trial. 
(Higgins v. Del Faro (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 558, 564-565.)
Analysis
I.  Parties’ Positions
            Plaintiff’s Position
            Plaintiff asks that the Court grant
leave to file a First Amended Complaint adding a cause of action under the
federal Magnuson Moss Warranty Act. 
Plaintiff argues the amended complaint would be based on the exact same
facts as alleged in the original complaint and will not prejudice Defendant for
that reason.
            Defendant’s Position
            Defendant argues leave to amend
should be denied because Plaintiff’s cannot prevail on the three causes of
action alleged in the complaint regardless of whether an action under the Magnuson
Moss Warranty Act can be stated.  Defendant
argues that leave to amend including these three causes of action under the SBA
would be futile.  Defendant argues leave
to amend should also be denied because Plaintiff waited two years to seek leave
and Plaintiff provides no excuse for doing so. 
Defendant argues the motion for leave to amend is merely an attempt to
avoid its motion for summary judgment.  
            Plaintiff’s
Reply 
            Plaintiff argues leave to amend should be granted liberally.  Plaintiff argues there has been no ruling on
Defendant’s MSJ, and it should not be assumed that Plaintiff cannot prevail on
the three SBA claims alleged in the complaint. 
Plaintiff also argues a Magnuson Moss claim can be pursued independently
of SBA claims.  Plaintiff argues no
prejudice will result if leave to amend is granted.  Plaintiff argues leave to amend must be
granted.  
II.  Plaintiff’s
Motion for Leave to File FAC is GRANTED in part and DENIED in part
            Any
claims of prejudice asserted by Defendant have been resolved by the Court’s
ruling on the motion for summary judgment. 
Summary judgment is granted on Plaintiff’s three claims under the SBA.  Plaintiff’s motion for leave to file an FAC
that includes the three SBA claims is denied.
            However,
Defendant fails to establish prejudice if leave is granted as to the proposed
Magnuson Moss cause of action.  Defendant
argues Plaintiff inexcusably delayed in seeking leave.  Delay alone is insufficient grounds to deny
leave to amend, and Defendant does not establish any prejudice if leave is
granted as to the Magnuson Moss claim, e.g. delay in trial, loss of critical
evidence, or increased discovery burden.[1]  If required, a trial continuance can also be
requested.  
            Moreover,
nearly the identical procedural situation was presented in Dagher v. Ford
Motor Co. (2015) 238 Cal.App.4th 905.  The plaintiff in Dagher filed a motion
for leave to amend in addition to an opposition to a pending defense motion for
summary judgment.  The trial court heard
both plaintiff’s motion for leave and the defendant’s motion for summary
judgment together, and granted the motion for summary judgment and denied the
motion for leave.  The Court of Appeals
affirmed the order granting summary judgment but reversed the order denying
leave to amend as an abuse of discretion. 
(Dagher, supra, 238 Cal.App.4th at 929.)  
            Plaintiff’s
Motion for Leave to File a First Amended Complaint is GRANTED as to the
proposed Magnuson Moss claim and DENIED as to the claims under the SBA.  Plaintiff is ordered to file a FAC that
reflects the following:  (1) Paragraphs
9-49 of the Proposed FAC should be omitted; (2) the “Fourth Cause of Action”
should be retitled “First Cause of Action”; and (3) the caption of the FAC
should only reflect a single cause of action for violation of the Magnuson-Moss
Warranty Act.  Any reference to or claim
under the SBA should be omitted from the FAC. 

Conclusion and ORDER
            Defendant GM’s Motion for Summary
Judgment of the Complaint is GRANTED.
            Plaintiff Ford’s Motion for Leave to
File FAC is GRANTED as to the claim under Magnuson-Moss Warranty Act (Fourth
Cause of Action in FAC) and DENIED as to the claims under the SBA (First
through Third Causes of Action in FAC).  
            Moving Party to give notice within
seven (7) days.
 
DATED:  April 3, 2024                                                          ___________________________
                                                                                          Yolanda
Orozco
                                                                                                Judge
of the Superior C


