 Case Number:  23VECV00884    Hearing Date:   November 8, 2023    Dept:  W HONGMAISUI INTERNATIONAL V SIMON ALEXANDER WEST
 
MOTION TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO DEPOSITION SUBPOENA FOR
PRODUCTION OF BUSINESS RECORDS TO A3 ARTISTS AGENCY, LLC and request for
monetary sanctions
 
Date of Hearing:        November 8, 2023                            Trial Date:       None Set.
Department:              W                                                        Case No.:        23VECV00884
 
Moving Party:            Plaintiff
Hongmaisui International A/K/A Hongmaisui International Culture (Beijing) Co.,
Ltd
Responding Party:     No opposition. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On February 27, 2023, Plaintiff Hongmaisui International A/K/A Hongmaisui
International Culture (Beijing) Co., Ltd filed a complaint against Defendant
Simon Alexander West for alter ego liability and damages. Plaintiff alleges Plaintiff
hired Wychwood Productions, Inc. who in turn hired Defendant Simon Alexander
West (sole officer, director, and shareholder of Wychwood) to direct a movie in
the People’s Republic of China. Plaintiff paid $2.5 million to Wychwood
Productions, Inc., for the services of Defendant West. However, the contract
was not performed and Wychwood Productions, Inc. returned $2 million to
Plaintiff, retaining $500,000 for work Defendant West claimed to have performed
in furtherance of the contract. Plaintiff demanded return of the entire amount
paid but Defendant refused to do so, and arbitration was initiated. After
hearing, the Arbitration tribunal awarded Plaintiff the sum of $200,000;
however, no payment has been made. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Plaintiff Hongmaisui International
a/k/a Hongmaisui International Culture (Beijing) Co., Ltd’s Motion to Compel
Responses to Deposition Subpoena for Production of Business Records to A3
Artists Agency, LLC and Request for Monetary Sanctions is DENIED. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Plaintiff Hongmaisui International
a/k/a Hongmaisui International Culture (Beijing) Co., Ltd moves to compel
responses to Plaintiff’s deposition subpoena for production of business
documents in which no code-compliant responses, documents or objections were
ever provided or served at any time to Plaintiff in response to the subpoena. Plaintiff
further seeks a request for monetary sanctions against A3 Artists Agency, LLC
in the sum of $2,460.00 for attorney fees and costs incurred in bringing forth
this motion.
 
If a deponent fails to answer any question or to produce any
document, the party seeking discovery may move the court for an order
compelling that answer or production. (CCP § 2025.480(a).) This motion must be
made no later than sixty (60) days after completion of the deposition record. (CCP
§ 2025.480(b).) If the court determines that the answer or production sought is
subject to discovery, it shall order that the answer be given or the production
be made on the resumption of the deposition. (CCP § 2025.480(i).)  Unless
the deposing party seeks electronically-stored information (CCP § 2025.480(f)),
there is no “good cause” requirement to compel a deponent’s further answers or
production at deposition.
 
A3 is the talent agent for Defendant. Plaintiff contends it duly
served the deposition subpoena on A3 and the compliance date was set for May
31, 2023. (Berke Decl. ¶2, Exh. A.) On May 31, 2023, Plaintiff’s counsel
engaged with A3’s manager, April Perroni, who informed Plaintiff they did not
represent Defendant in this matter and referred Plaintiff’s counsel to Mr.
West’s attorney. (Berke Decl. ¶3.) No objections were actually served to the
deposition subpoena. (Berke Decl. ¶7.) 
 
First, the court notes objections were never served on the
subpoena deposition and therefore, the 60-day deadline has not been triggered.
Second, the court notes Plaintiff met and conferred with A3 to discuss the lack
of production of documents. (CCP §2025.480(b).) However, Plaintiff has not
satisfied the service requirements described in Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1346, which provides that a “written notice and all moving papers supporting
a motion to compel answer to a deposition question…from a nonparty deponent
must be personally served on the nonparty deponent unless the nonparty deponent
agrees to accept service by mail or electronic service.” Here, Plaintiff served
notice to A3 by mail. Plaintiff does not confirm A3 agreed to accept
service by mail or electronic service at an address or electronic service
address specified on the deposition record. Because this motion does not meet
procedural requirements, the motion is denied. 
 