 Case Number:  24CHCV00067    Hearing Date:   May 14, 2024    Dept:  F49    Dept.    F49      Date:    5/14/24     Case    Name: Jorge Gorgonio; David Gorgonio v. Carson Alan Cotton; and Does 1-50     Case    # 24CHCV00067      LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT NORTH VALLEY DISTRICT DEPARTMENT F-49    MAY 14, 2024    MOTION TO STRIKE PORTIONS OF PLAINTIFFS’  FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT  Los Angeles Superior  Court Case # 24CHCV000067    Motion  filed: 3/27/24   MOVING PARTY: Defendants Carson Alan Cotton  (“Defendant”)  RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiffs Jorge Gorgonio and  David Gorgonio (“Plaintiffs”) NOTICE: OK    RELIEF  REQUESTED: An  order from this Court striking the Fourth Cause of Action for punitive damages,  in its entirety.    TENTATIVE  RULING: The  motion is GRANTED.   BACKGROUND   This action arises from alleged personal injuries caused by  an automobile accident that occurred on February 21, 2022. (FAC, ¶¶ 7, 42.)   On January 8, 2024, Plaintiffs initiated the action.  Subsequently, on February 28, 2024, Plaintiffs filed the operative First  Amended Complaint (“FAC”) against Defendant and Does 1 through 50, alleging  four causes of action: (1) Negligence; (2) Negligence Per Se; (3) Statutory  Liability; and (4) Punitive Damages.   On March 27, 2024, Defendant filed the instant Motion to Strike Portions  of the FAC (the “Motion”).   Subsequently, on May 1, 2024, Plaintiffs filed their Opposition.  Defendant replied on May 2, 2024.                ANALYSIS   The court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its  discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or  improper matter inserted in any pleading.   (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a); Stafford  v. Shultz, 42 Cal. 2d 767,  782 (1954) [“Matter in a pleading which is not essential to the claim is  surplusage; probative facts are surplusage and may be stricken out or  disregarded”].)    An immaterial or  irrelevant allegation is one that is not essential to the statement of a claim  or defense; is neither pertinent to nor supported by an otherwise sufficient  claim or defense; or a demand for judgment requesting relief not supported by  the allegations of the complaint.  (Code  Civ. Proc., § 431.10, subd. (b).)  The grounds  for moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of  judicial notice.  (Code Civ. Proc., §  437.)   A.     Procedural  Requirements   1.       Meet and Confer   “Before filing a motion to strike ... the moving party shall  meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading  that is subject to the motion to strike for the purpose of determining if an  agreement can be reached that resolves the objections to be raised in the  motion to strike.”  (Code Civ. Proc. §  435.5, subd. (a).)  If no agreement is  reached, the moving party shall file and serve with the motion to strike a  declaration stating either: (1) the means by which the parties met and  conferred and that the parties did not reach an agreement, or (2) that the  party who filed the pleading failed to respond to the meet and confer request  or otherwise failed to meet and confer in good faith.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 435.5, subd. (a)(3).)     Here, Defendant’s counsel attests  that he emailed Plaintiffs’ counsel on March 25, 2024, to outline the deficiencies  in the FAC. In response, Plaintiffs’ counsel posited that the FAC had enough  facts to support the claim for punitive damage. As a result, the parties were unable  to reach a resolution prior to the filing of the Motion. (Mendoza Decl., ¶ 2.)    Accordingly, the Court finds  that the requirement for meet and confer declaration has been met, pursuant to  Code of Civil Procedure section 435.5, subdivision (a)(3)(B).    2.      Timeliness   “A party served with a cross-complaint may within 30 days  after service move, demur, or otherwise plead to the cross-complaint in the  same manner as to an original complaint.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 432.10)     “Any party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading  may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the whole or any part thereof [e.g.,  30 days after the service of the complaint or cross-complaint unless extended  by court order or stipulation.]” (Code Civ. Proc. § 435, subd. (b)(1).)”    “Any period of notice, or any right or duty to do any act or  make any response within any period or on a date certain after the service of  the document, which time period or date is prescribed by statute or rule of  court, shall be extended after service by electronic means by two court days,  but the extension shall not apply to extend the time for filing any of the  following[.] [inapplicable here]” (Code Civ. Proc., §1010.6, subd. (a)(3)(B).)    Here, the case record does not reflect a filed Proof of  Service for the FAC. Additionally, Plaintiffs do not contest the issue of  timeliness. Furthermore, the Motion was served and filed on March 27, 2024, assumed  to be within 30 days of the service of the FAC filed on February 28, 2024.   Based on the above records, the Court proceeds to examine  the merits of the Motion, operating under the assumption that the filing is  timely.   A.    Motion  to Strike the Fourth Cause of Action   Defendant moves for the Court to  strike the Fourth Cause of Action for Punitive Damages in its entirety,  comprising the following paragraphs:   “As additional damages against Defendants CARSON ALAN  COTTON, an individual, and DOES 1 THROUGH 50, Inclusive, and each of them  (“Defendants”), Plaintiffs allege that Defendants were guilty of malice and  oppression within Civil Code Section 3294, and that Plaintiffs should  recover punitive damages in addition to actual and general damages.” (FAC, ¶  40.)   “The facts supporting Plaintiffs’ claims for punitive  damages against Defendants CARSON ALAN COTTON, an individual, and DOES 1  THROUGH 50, Inclusive, is as follows:” (FAC, ¶ 41.)    “On February 21, 2022, at or near INTERSTATE 5 near  unincorporated community of Castaic, County of Los Angeles, Defendant  knowingly, willfully, recklessly and wantonly drove an automobile on a public  road while in an unsafe manner, at excessive speed, crashing into Plaintiffs,  and then failed to stop and fled the scene, willfully disregarding the safety  of persons or property of others around them, in violation of California  Vehicle Code Sections 12500, 22350, 20001, 20002, and 23123. Based on  information and belief, Defendant CARSON ALAN COTTON, left the scene right  after the impact, causing the alleged car crash. It is Plaintiffs’ belief that  Defendant COTTON was cited and arrested for a Misdemeanor Hit & Run under CCP  20002.” (FAC, ¶ 42.)    “The Defendant willfully fled the scene of the accident well  knowing that there were more likely than not injured people as a result of this  crash, as it was by no means a minor impact but a very serious and powerful  crash as it can be seen by looking at Plaintiffs’s damaged vehicle.” (FAC, ¶  43.)     “Witnesses at the scene saw the Defendant leave his vehicle  and run away right after the impact. The Defendant was later found by law  enforcement and arrested. “ (FAC, ¶ 44.)   “As a result of Defendant’s actions and omissions in blatant  disregard for the laws and safety of others on the road, Defendant caused great  bodily injury to Plaintiffs.” (FAC, ¶ 45.)    “The Defendant failed to provide reasonable assistance to  any of the other drivers and/or passengers involved in the incident. The  Defendant could have made a reasonable effort to attempt to assist the people  he had injured by calling law enforcement or for medical services but instead  decided to run away and leave every other injured person behind.” (FAC, ¶ 46.)    “Defendants knew that it was reckless to operate a motor  vehicle at excessive speed, failing to stop at the scene, in violation of California  Vehicle Code Sections 12500, 22350, 20001, 20002, and 23123.” (FAC, ¶ 47.)    “Defendants acted with knowledge that probable serious  injury to others would result from driving at excessive speed, and failing to  stop at the scene on public roads where other cars and individuals were  present, and in willful and conscious disregard of the probable dangerous  consequences of his actions.” (FAC, ¶ 48.)    “Despite having the knowledge that probable serious injury  to others would result from driving at excessive speed, and failing to stop at  the scene on public roads where others are present, Defendant willfully failed  to avoid such consequences.” (FAC, ¶ 49.)    “Defendants acted with willful and with conscious disregard  that serious injury to others would result from their actions, specifically,  Defendant operated his vehicle while knowing that driving at excessive speed,  and failing to stop at the scene, on INTERSTATE 5, a major thoroughfare, was  dangerous, and did so operate their vehicle knowing that such conduct was  dangerous.” (FAC, ¶ 50.)    “In acting and in failing to act as aforementioned, the  Defendants acted in a negligent, reckless, careless and improper manner, and  with gross negligence, and conscious disregard, and that Defendants were  otherwise careless and negligent in the instance.” (FAC, ¶ 51.)     “In addition, it is alleged that each and every Defendant  which will be found to have been an owner, registrant, lessor, lessee, bailor  and/or bailee of the aforementioned FORD negligently entrusted said FORD to the  driver thereof, and that said Defendants were otherwise careless and negligent  in the instance.” (FAC, ¶ 52.)     “In contrast at said time and place, Plaintiffs was [sic] acting  with due caution, attention and care and did not in any way contribute to or  cause the incident and/or injuries as described hereinafter.” (FAC, ¶ 53.)     “As a proximate result of said acts of the Defendants, and  each of them, Plaintiffs was [sic] hurt and physically injured, sustaining  medical bills, loss of earnings/earnings capacity, pain, suffering, loss of  enjoyment of life and other damages, loss of use, and other associated charges  and damages, and will continue to sustain such damages in the future.” (FAC, ¶  54.)     “The Plaintiffs’ general and special damages are in an  amount in excess of the jurisdictional limits of all lower Courts, which will  be shown according to proof at time of trial.” (FAC, ¶ 55.)     “By reason of the foregoing, Plaintiffs have been damaged in  a sum which exceeds the jurisdictional limits of all lower Courts, which would  otherwise have jurisdiction.” (FAC, ¶ 56.)      “Plaintiffs requests punitive damages against all Defendants.”  (FAC, ¶ 57.)     1)      Improper  Labeling for the Fourth Cause of Action   In California, it is settled  there is no separate cause of action for punitive damages. (McLaughlin v. National Union Fire Ins. Co. (1994) 23  Cal.App.4th 1132, 1164.) Instead, a claim for punitive damages is merely an additional remedy that is dependent on a viable cause of action for an underlying tort. (Brewer v. Second Baptist Church  of Los Angeles (1948) 32 Cal.2d 791, 801-802; Prakashpalan v. Engstrom, Lipscomb & Lack (2014)  223 Cal.App.4th 1105, 1137.)              Here, the FAC improperly alleges the Fourth Cause of  Action for Punitive Damages against All Defendants, which is not a legally  recognizable cause of action according to established California law.               Moreover, the first paragraph under the Fourth Cause of  Action asserts, “ [a]s additional damages  against Defendants CARSON ALAN COTTON, an individual, and DOES 1 THROUGH 50,  Inclusive, and each of them (“Defendants”), Plaintiffs allege that Defendants  were guilty of malice and oppression within Civil Code Section 3294, and  that Plaintiffs should recover punitive damages in addition to actual and  general damages.” (Underlines added.)   It is  evident that punitive damages are additional damages Plaintiffs seek to recover  when asserted in parallel with “actual and general damages.”    Furthermore,  Civil Code Section 3294 explicitly provides that “[i]n an action for the breach  of an obligation not arising from contract, where it is proven by clear and  convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or  malice, the plaintiff, in addition to the actual damages, may recover  damages for the sake of example and by way of punishing the defendant.”  (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a).) (Underlines added.)    Notably,  Civil Code “Division 4. General Provisions” encompass sections 3274 to 9566,  where the particular section 3294 is under “Part 1. Relief,” “Title 2  Compensatory Relief,” and “Chapter 1 Damages in General.”    Thus,  based on its own language and structural placement in the code, it is clear  that the statute does not create a cause of action but provides additional  relief for damages.                Plaintiffs argue that their  allegations contain sufficient substantive factual allegations to establish a  relief for punitive damages, without regard to the issue of labeling it as a  separate cause of action. (Opp’n., at pp. 7-8.) Plaintiffs maintain that case  law sets forth that an attack on the pleading may not be sustained based on  grounds of the uncertainty of mislabeling a cause of action, citing Willaims  v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 135, 139.    The Court agrees that mislabeling a cause of action,  by itself, is not grounds to strike the factual pleadings within it.    Consequently, the Court concludes  that the heading of the “Fourth Cause of Action For Punitive Damages Against  All Defendants” should be stricken, pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section  436, subdivision (a).   The Court now proceeds to examine whether punitive  damages are supported by sufficient factual allegations as a remedy in the FAC.   2)       Punitive  Damages   i.                     Punitive  Damages Based on Negligence   “Mere negligence, even gross negligence,  is not sufficient to justify such an award” for punitive damages.  (Kendall  Yacht Corp. v. United California Bank (1975) 50 Cal.App.3d 949, 958.)   The allegations supporting a request for punitive damages must be alleged with  specificity; conclusory allegations without sufficient facts are not  enough.  (Smith v. Superior Court (1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 1033,  1041-1042.)   A motion to strike punitive damages is  properly granted where a plaintiff does not state a prima facie claim for  punitive damages, including allegations that defendant is guilty of oppression,  fraud or malice.  (Turman v. Turning Point of Cent. California, Inc.  (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 53, 63.)     “Malice” is defined as conduct intended  by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct carried  on with a willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.  (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(1).) “‘Punitive damages are proper only when the  tortious conduct rises to levels of extreme indifference to the plaintiff’s  rights, a level which decent citizens should not have to tolerate.’  [Citation.]” (Lackner v. North (2006) 135 Cal.App.4th 1188, 1210.)    “Oppression” is defined in as “despicable conduct subjecting  a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person’s  rights.” (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(2).) The term “despicable” has been  defined in the case law as actions that are “base,” “vile,” or “contemptible.”  (See, e.g., Shade Foods, Inc. v. Innovative Products Sales & Marketing,  Inc. (2000) 78 Cal. App. 4th 847, 891.)   Here, the FAC asserts that “[i]n acting and in failing to act as aforementioned, the  Defendants acted in a negligent, reckless, careless and improper manner, and  with gross negligence, and conscious disregard, and that Defendants were  otherwise careless and negligent in the instance.” (FAC, ¶ 51.)   However,  such conclusory allegations do not meet the threshold required for punitive  damages for the First and Second Causes of Action based on Negligence.   Therefore,  the Court finds Defendant’s argument to be persuasive, warranting the striking  punitive damages on this basis.   ii.                   Punitive Damages Based on Violation of California  Vehicle Code   Here,  Plaintiffs argue that Defendant’s intentional violation of the California  Vehicle Code sections 22350 (not driving at an excess speed), 20001 (hit and  run), 20002 (hit and run), 21658 (not changing lanes in an unsafe manner), and  23123 (not using phone while driving), raises to the level of malice and  oppression as defined in California Civil Code section 3294, based on the  finding of willful and reckless disregard for the safety of others. (Opp’n., at  p. 6.)   In  response, Defendant argues that Plaintiff must allege the hit and run caused  additional damages beyond those incurred from the accident itself to warrant  punitive damages, citing Brooks v. E. J. Willing Truck Transp. Co.  (1953) 40 Cal.2d 669, 679 (Brooks), and Karl v. C.A. Reel Lumber Co.  (1969) 275 Cal.App.2d 358, 361.)    Notably, the Court observes that Brooks did not address whether  punitive damages can be imposed based on a hit  and run. It did, however, affirm that such an act  only constitutes a tort if the act itself causes the plaintiff additional  damages above and beyond the damages caused by the accident that precedes the hit and run. (Brooks,  supra, 40 Cal.2d at p. 679.)   Here, the FAC alleges that “witnesses at the scene saw  the Defendant leave his vehicle and run away right after the impact. The  Defendant was later found by law enforcement and arrested” (FAC, ¶ 44); that  “[t]he Defendant failed to provide  reasonable assistance to any of the other drivers and/or passengers involved in  the incident. The Defendant could have made a reasonable effort to attempt to  assist the people he had injured by calling law enforcement or for medical  services but instead decided to run away and leave every other injured person  behind” (Id., ¶ 46); and that “[a]s a result of Defendant’s actions and  omissions in blatant disregard for the laws and safety of others on the road,  Defendant caused great bodily injury to Plaintiffs.” (Id., ¶ 45.)    The  Court finds the allegations to be insufficient to state that Defendant’s  failure to stop and render aid after the automobile accident resulted in  liability for the aggravation of injuries sustained in the accident or  additional injuries incurred after it. (Cf. Brooks, supra,  40 Cal.2d at 681 [for example, the plaintiff’s amended complaint contained  specific factual showing regarding the additional damage, by alleging, including  other things, that “[the defendant] drove away from the scene of the accident leaving [the plaintiff] lying  on the highway in a helpless condition, and thereafter [the plaintiff] was  struck and run over by another vehicle and died as a result thereof.”])   Consequently, the Court concludes that the FAC has  not met the threshold, as outlined in Brooks, to show that Defendant’s  violation of Vehicle Code gives rise to separate civil liabilities beyond those  associated with negligence claims. (See Brooks,  supra; see also People v. Corners (1985) 176 Cal.App.3d 139, 148.)    The Court further notes that even assuming that Plaintiffs  have met the burden and specified the additional damages resulting from the  Defendant’s failure to stop and render aid, the FAC’s allegations do not rise  to the level of malice, fraud, or oppression, as defined by the Code of Civil  Procedure section 3294.     Based on the foregoing, the Court  GRANTS WITH LEAVE TO AMEND the Motion to Strike.   CONCLUSION   The  Motion to Strike is GRANTED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND.   Plaintiffs  are ordered to serve and file their Second Amended Complaint within 20 days.   Moving  party is ordered to give notice.