  Case Number:  20STCV21526    Hearing Date:   July 12, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27¿ ¿ HEARING ON THIRD PARTY CLAIM Hearing Date: 7/12/24¿¿ CASE NO./NAME: 20STCV21526 ADAM COULTER vs STEFANIE AFTON WALL et al. Moving Party: Non-Party - Law Offices of Melissa B. Buchman¿ Responding Party: Plaintiff Notice: Sufficient¿¿ Ruling: Creditor’s Lien is Valid; Court Will Hear Further Argument re Claim of Exemption Background On June 8, 2020, Plaintiff Adam Coulter filed the present case. On January 30, 2024, and April 26, 2024, non-party and judgment creditor Law Offices of Melissa B. Buchman filed two notices of lien for $80,539.65 and $18,552.28, respectively, against judgment debtor and plaintiff Adam Coulter. The notices of lien are based on two orders for attorney’s fees against Mr. Coulter from Los Angeles Superior Court Case No. KF 015144, In re Matter of Christina Chacon vs. Adam Coulter, a confidential parentage action.  On April 26, 2024, the parties in this action filed a notice of settlement. The judgment creditor argues that since the creditor’s lien has not been satisfied, pursuant to CCP § 708.440, judgment in favor of the debtor cannot be enforced and no settlement may be entered without the creditor’s authorization. The creditor further argues that the debtor failed to file a claim of exemption within 30 days after receiving notice of the lien in this case; therefore, debtor Mr. Coulter has waived his claim of exemption.  Debtor argues that the lien creditor impermissibly attached an order when filing the  notice of lien and further argues that he made an appropriate claim of exemption to the liens. Legal Standard CCP § 708.440 provides that “(a) unless the judgment creditor’s money judgment is first satisfied or the lien is released, the judgment recovered in the action or special proceeding in favor of the judgment debtor may not be enforced by a writ or otherwise, and no compromise, dismissal, settlement, or satisfaction of the pending action or special proceeding or the judgment procured therein may be entered into by or on behalf of the judgment debtor, without the written consent of the judgment creditor or authorization by order of the court obtained under subdivision (b).” CCP § 708.450 states “(a) If a lien is created under this article, the judgment debtor may claim that all or any portion of the money or property that the judgment debtor may recover in the action or special proceeding is exempt from enforcement of a money judgment. The claim shall be made by application on noticed motion to the court in which the action or special proceeding is pending, filed, and served on the judgment creditor not later than 30 days after the judgment debtor has notice of the creation of the lien. Service shall be made personally or by mail ... The failure of the judgment debtor to make a claim of exemption under this section constitutes a waiver of the exemption.” Discussion Validity of Notice of Lien Debtor first contends that creditor impermissibly attached an order when filing a notice of lien. He argues that although the word "judgment" under the statute means “a judgment, order, or decree entered in a court of this state” (CCP § 680.230), litigants do not have license to substitute the word "order" everywhere the word "judgment" appears in the Enforcement of Judgments Law (EJL), regardless of the circumstances or statutory intent. (See Lucky United Properties Investment, Inc. v. Lee (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 125, 143-44).  He further argues that Creditor only attached an order and failed to show that there is no judgment; therefore, the lien is defective. Creditor filed a reply declaring that a judgment in Los Angeles Superior Court Case No. KF 015144, In re Matter of Christina Chacon vs. Adam Coulter, was entered on June 24, 2019. The two liens relate to post-judgment orders for attorney’s fees. The Court finds that just as pre-judgment orders for monetary sanctions are enforceable under the EJL when there is no judgment, post-judgment orders are similarly enforceable when there is already a judgment. Since the judgment in KF 015144 was entered in 2019, there is no separate judgment relating to the attorney’s fees. Debtor’s argument would entail that any modifications or orders made post judgment would not be capable of being enforced. Furthermore, the purpose of section 708.410 et seq., like the purpose of lien statutes generally, is to secure creditors' rights to money they are owed, and the statute is liberally construed. (Gilman v. Dalby (2021) 61 Cal.App.5th 923.) Debtor then argues that Creditor failed to serve the January 30, 2024, Notice of Lien on one of Mr. Coulter’s counsel, McNicholas & McNicholas, and therefore Plaintiff has preserved its right to claim exemption. However, the Court is not persuaded because Debtor served the notice of lien by mail to Eric Panitz of Panitz Law, Plaintiff’s original attorney of record. Debtor does not dispute this nor does he dispute that he had actual notice of the lien but contests the validity of the service because the notice of lien was not served on all law firms representing him. As Adaimy v. Ruhl (2008) 160 Cal.App.4th 583, 588 points out, service is effective if made on one of multiple attorneys representing a party. Similarly, here, Debtor does not argue that service of the lien on Eric Panitz was defective or that Debtor had no actual notice of the lien, only that one law firm representing Plaintiff was not served. But, Panitz Law was served, and Panitz Law has represented Plaintiff since the inception of the case, and McNicholas & McNicholas only became associated with the case in July 2022. Accordingly, the Creditor’s notice of lien is valid in this case. Claim of Exemption Debtor/Plaintiff argues that after Plaintiff’s counsel was served with the April 26, 2024, Notice of Lien for $18,552.28, Plaintiff’s co-counsel, Panitz Law Group APC, timely served a Claim of Exemption on March 5, 2024. The court does not see how it is conceivable to file a claim of exemption in March against a notice of lien served in April. In any event, the Court will hear from the parties regarding the claim of exemption. PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:  If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.  Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.  If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.  