 Case Number:  21STCV45806    Hearing Date:   July 12, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27¿ ¿ MOTION FOR TERMINATING SANCTIONS Hearing Date: 7/12/24¿ CASE NO./NAME: 21STCV45806 DELIA RAMIREZ vs MOKHTAR ZHOOBIN, et al. Moving Party: Defendant Mokhtar Zhoobin Responding Party: Unopposed Notice: Sufficient¿ Ruling: MOTION FOR TERMINATING SANCTIONS IS DENIED.  Background This matter arises from an alleged fall at the residence located at 7101 Oso Ave #7, Winnetka, CA 91306. Plaintiff Delia Ramirez was a resident of a facility operated by Defendant Tarzana Treatment Centers, Inc., which leased the home from Defendant Mokhtar Zhoobin. On November 10, 2023, Defendant Mokhtar Zhoobin propounded Form Interrogatories (Set Two) upon Plaintiff Delia Ramirez. No responses were provided by the statutory deadline. On February 7, 2024, Defendant filed a Motion to Compel Initial Responses to Defendant’s Form Interrogatories, Set Two, and Requests for Sanctions. On April 11, 2024, the Court granted Defendant’s motion, ordering Plaintiff to serve initial responses and pay sanctions within 20 days. On April 18, 2024, Defendant served the notice of ruling on Plaintiff, but Plaintiff failed to provide any responses.  On May 13, 2024, Defendant sent a meet and confer letter via certified mail, requesting responses to the discovery propounded by Defendant. As of June 6, 2024, the date of this motion, Defendant has not received any response to the meet and confer letter nor any verified responses. Defendant Zhoobin now moves the Court to issue terminating sanctions against Plaintiff. Legal Standard The Civil Discovery Act provides for an escalating and “incremental approach to discovery sanctions, starting with monetary sanctions and ending with the ultimate sanction of termination.” (Lopez v. Watchtower Bible & Tract Society of New York, Inc.¿(2016) 246 Cal.App.4th 566, 604.)¿Discovery sanctions should be appropriate to and commensurate with the misconduct, and they “should not exceed that which is required to protect the interests of the party entitled to but denied discovery.” (Doppes v. Bentley Motors, Inc.¿(2009) 174 Cal.App.4th 967, 992.) “If a lesser sanction fails to curb misuse, a greater sanction is warranted: continuing misuses of the discovery process warrant incrementally harsher sanctions until the sanction is reached that will curb the abuse.” (Ibid.; see also, e.g.,¿Mileikowsky v. Tenet Healthsystem¿(2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 262, 279-280.)¿“Generally, ‘[a] decision to order terminating sanctions should not be made lightly.¿ But where a violation is willful, preceded by a history of abuse, and the evidence shows that less severe sanctions would not produce compliance with the discovery rules, the trial court is justified in imposing the ultimate sanction.’” (Los Defensores, Inc. v. Gomez (2014) 223 Cal. App. 4th 377, 390 [citation omitted].)¿ ¿ The primary purpose of discovery sanctions is to obtain compliance with the Civil Discovery Act and the Court’s orders. It is not to punish. (Newland v. Super. Ct.¿(1995) 40 Cal.App.4th 608, 613;¿Ghanooni v. Super Shuttle of Los Angeles¿(1993) 20 Cal.App.4th 256, 262.) A discovery sanction should not create a “windfall” for a party or place a party in a better position than it would have been if the opposing party had simply complied with its obligations under the Court’s orders and the Civil Discovery Act. (Rutledge v. Hewlett-Packard Co.¿(2015) 238 Cal.App.4th 1164, 1194; see also 2 Weil & Brown, California Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (The Rutter Group 2023), ¶¶¿8:2214-2220.)¿“[T]the trial court has broad discretion in selecting the appropriate sanction, and we must uphold the trial court's determination absent an abuse of discretion.” (Dept. of Forestry & Fire Protection v. Howell (2017) 18 Cal.App.5th 154, 19.)  Discussion The Court examined all the evidence submitted and declines to grant terminating sanctions at this moment for the following reasons: The Discovery Act mandates an escalating and incremental approach to discovery sanctions. In this case, Defendant moved from monetary sanctions, as ordered by the Court's April 11, 2024 minute order, straight to the ultimate sanctions. This approach contradicts the incremental sanctions framework envisioned by the Discovery Act, which aims to progressively enforce compliance through increasingly severe penalties. There is no history of discovery abuses. Defendant cited the Court's April 11, 2024 order as the only violation by Plaintiff and failed to provide evidence of any other court order violation. A pattern of repeated non-compliance would typically justify harsher sanctions, but in this instance, Defendant has not demonstrated such a pattern. The Court's April 11, 2024 order was issued approximately three months ago. This relatively short time period, combined with the absence of lesser sanctions, suggests that lesser sanctions could still be effective. The Discovery Act presumes that escalating penalties will eventually achieve compliance, and there has not been enough time or intermediate steps taken to conclude otherwise. Plaintiff's counsel was only recently relieved. Given more time, there is a possibility that Plaintiff would engage more fully in the discovery process. The Court examined the docket and found that Plaintiff had been actively engaged in the discovery process when represented by counsel.  However, the Court notes that Plaintiff did not oppose the present motion. The Court may reconsider its position if additional efforts to determine Plaintiff’s willingness to engage are made –- here, the only effort to engage Plaintiff prior to filing the terminating sanctions motion was to send a letter to Plaintiff -- and Plaintiff continues to refuse to engage in the discovery process. At this time, the Court denies the terminating sanctions motion without prejudice.  PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:¿ ¿ If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿ ¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿ ¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion.¿  