 Case Number:  23STCV08150    Hearing Date:   July 12, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27¿ ¿ MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER AND REQUESTS FOR SANCTIONS Hearing Date: 7/12/24¿ CASE NO./NAME: 23STCV08150 EDITHA MENDOZA MORALES vs DAN DEUTSCH Moving Party: Defendant Dan Deutsch  Responding Party: Plaintiff Notice: Sufficient¿ Ruling: MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER AND REQUESTS FOR SANCTIONS ARE DENIED  On July 14, 2023, Defendant served Request for Production of Documents Set No. One on Plaintiff. On September 22, 2023, Plaintiff served untimely responses. The parties met and conferred but were not able to resolve their differences as to RFP numbers 6, 7, 8, 20, 21, and 22. On April 25, 2024, Defendant moved the Court to compel Plaintiff to provide further responses to the RFPs at issue. On June 5, 2024, the parties attended an IDC in Department 31. The minute order stated that: “the issues were resolved and further responses were to be served by June 20, 2024. The moving party is to take the motion off calendar when further responses are served. If the moving party wishes to go forward with the motion, a declaration must be filed at least five (5) court days before the hearing date. Said declaration is to indicate which discovery issues remain.” On June 20, 2024, Plaintiff provided further responses. The parties met and conferred, and Defendant sought further responses. On July 5, 2024, Plaintiff provided further responses. On July 5, 2024, Defendant filed a declaration, and on July 8, 2024, Defendant filed an updated declaration stating that “the substance of the responses is now in compliance with the California code and this Court’s order; however, Plaintiff has still included improper objections and requests sanctions.” (Updated Zang Decl.¶11.) Because Defendant concedes that the substance of the responses is now in compliance with the California code and this Court’s order, no discovery issues remain with regard to the subject of the motion to compel further. If Defendant wishes to contest the content of Plaintiff’s further responses, Defendant needs to meet and confer and attend an IDC prior to filing a new motion to compel further. Furthermore, the Court looked at the objection in question, in which Plaintiff states, “Objection: Asked and answered, and harassing. Subject to the foregoing objections, the Responding Party provides the following further response.” These objections do not limit or qualify Plaintiff’s responses in any substantive way. Thus, it is the Court’s opinion that Defendant should have taken the motion off calendar pursuant to the June 5, 2024 minute order when he received code-compliant responses. The Court therefore denies the present motion and denies Defendant’s requests for sanctions. PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:  If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.  Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿  If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion. 