 Case Number:  22STCV26278    Hearing Date:   July 12, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27 ¿¿ MOTION TO SEAL Hearing Date: 7/12/24¿¿ CASE NO./NAME: 22STCV26278 LEANNA PALOMINO, et al. vs 123 MOVING & STORAGE LLC, et al. Moving Party: Defendant 123 Moving & Storage LLC and Rafael Rodriguez Sanchez Responding Party: Unopposed Notice: Sufficient Ruling: MOTION TO SEAL IS GRANTED.  Background  This case arises out of a series of collisions that occurred on I-110 S/B, south of Adams Blvd., Los Angeles, CA 90007, on August 12, 2020. Plaintiffs were first rear-ended by Defendants Daveonta Louis Robinson and Donshel Zomalt-Robinson, causing a spin-out. Defendant 123 Moving & Storage LLC Rafael Rodriguez Sanchez’s vehicle then collided with Plaintiffs' vehicle, resulting in serious injuries and damages.  Plaintiffs and Settling Defendants, 123 Moving & Storage LLC and Rafael Rodriguez Sanchez, reached a settlement agreement. The Settlement Agreement includes an express contractual obligation to maintain the confidentiality of the terms of the settlement, including but not limited to the settlement amount. The confidentiality provision was a material term of the settlement, which Settling Defendants specifically considered when agreeing to settle with Plaintiffs.  Settling Defendants now move the Court to seal and maintain the confidentiality of the terms of the settlement, including but not limited to the settlement amount. Specifically, Settling Defendants request the Court to:  Seal Defendants’ Motion for Determination of Good Faith Settlement, or portions of the moving, opposition, and reply papers filed in connection with Defendants’ Motion for Determination of Good Faith Settlement that discuss confidential settlement terms, including but not limited to the confidential settlement amount. Seal Plaintiffs’ Petitions for Approval of Compromise of Claim of Minor, or portions of it, that discuss confidential settlement terms, including but not limited to the confidential settlement amount. Seal all related Orders Approving Compromise of Claim of Minor containing confidential information regarding the terms of the settlement, including but not limited to the confidential settlement amount. Direct the Robinson Defendants and their attorneys to maintain the confidentiality of the sealed records by (a) not disseminating the sealed records or information contained therein to third parties or attorneys in their office that are not directly working on this matter, (b) placing the word “CONFIDENTIAL” on any correspondence regarding the sealed records, and (c) following the requirements of Rule 2.550 in connection with any court-filed documents.  Discussion  Pursuant to California Rules of Court Rule 2.550 the court may seal a record “only if it expressly finds facts that establish: (1) There exists an overriding interest that overcomes the right of public access to the record; (2) The overriding interest supports sealing the record; (3) A substantial probability exists that the overriding interest will be prejudiced if the record is not sealed; (4) The proposed sealing is narrowly tailored; and (5) No less restrictive means exist to achieve the overriding interest.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.550(d).)  The contractual obligation not to disclose certain information constitutes an overriding interest within the meaning of Rule 2.550(d). (Publicker Industries, Inc. v. Cohen (3d Cir. 1984) 733 F.2d 1059, 1073; NBC Subsidiary (KNBC–TV), Inc. v. Superior Court (1999) 20 Cal.4th 1178, 1222, fn. 46.)  Here, disclosure of the terms of the settlement agreement would violate the confidentiality clause within the agreement, thus breaching the parties' contractual obligation not to disclose certain information, an overriding interest. The motion is narrowly tailored, as it only seeks to seal the portions of the public document that reveal the confidential terms of the settlement agreement. The parties are not requesting to seal more than what is necessary to protect their agreed-upon confidentiality.  Moreover, no less restrictive means exist to achieve the overriding interest of maintaining the confidentiality of the settlement terms. Any attempt to disclose these terms would compromise the confidentiality agreement and the parties' contractual obligations. All the requirements under Rule 2.550(d) of the California Rules of Court are met. Plaintiff did not file an opposition. Therefore, the Court grants the present motion.  PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:¿ ¿ If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.  Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.  If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿¿After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.  