 Case Number:  20STCV24719    Hearing Date:   July 12, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27¿ ¿ MOTION TO REOPEN DISCOVERY¿ Hearing Date: 7/12/24¿¿ CASE NO./NAME: 20STCV24719 JOSHUA PAYTON vs LOS ANGELES COUNTY METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY Moving Party: Plaintiff¿ Responding Party: Defendant LOS ANGELES COUNTY METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY Notice: Sufficient¿¿ Ruling: MOTION TO REOPEN DISCOVERY¿IS GRANTED IN PART AND DENIED IN PART  Background On June 30, 2020, Plaintiff filed the present case. On September 3, 2020, Defendants filed their answer. The trial date and discovery deadlines have been continued numerous times. On November 27, 2023, the Court continued the trial date to February 21, 2024, and reset all discovery deadlines based on that new trial date.  The trial has since been continued several times, both at the parties' request and due to the unavailability of courtrooms; however, discovery remained closed. Plaintiff now moves the Court to reopen discovery to depose Defendants’ PMK, obtain Defendants’ sub rosa discovery, and designate a toxicology expert. Legal Standard Except as otherwise provided, “any party shall be entitled as a matter of right to complete discovery proceedings on or before the 30th day, and to have motions concerning discovery heard on or before the 15th day, before the date initially set for trial of the action.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.020(a).)¿ “[A] continuance or postponement of the trial date does not operate to reopen discovery proceedings” unless a motion to reopen discovery is filed and granted pursuant to CCP section 2024.050.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.020(b); Pelton-Shepherd Industries, Inc. v. Delta Packaging Products, Inc. (2008) 165 Cal.App.4th 1568.)¿ CCP section 2024.050 provides that “[o]n motion of any party, the court may grant leave to complete discovery proceedings, or to have a motion concerning discovery heard, closer to the initial trial date, or to reopen discovery after a new trial date has been set.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.050(a).)¿ ¿ “The purpose of imposing a time limit on discovery is to expedite and facilitate trial preparation and to prevent delay.¿ Without a cutoff date, the parties could tie up each other and the trial court in discovery and discovery disputes right up to the eve of trial or beyond. Furthermore, . . . to be effective the cutoff date must be firm or some litigants will manipulate the proceedings to avoid the cut-off date.”¿ (Beverly Hosp. v. Superior Court¿(1993) 19 Cal.App.4th 1289, 1295.)¿ The reopening of discovery is a matter that is committed to the trial court’s sound discretion.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.050(a), (b).)¿ In exercising that discretion, the trial court considers “any matter relevant to the leave requested,” including: The necessity and the reasons for the discovery. The diligence or lack of diligence of the party seeking the discovery or the hearing of a discovery motion, and the reasons that the discovery was not completed or that the discovery motion was not heard earlier. Any likelihood that permitting the discovery or hearing the discovery motion will prevent the case from going to trial on the date set, or otherwise interfere with the trial calendar, or result in prejudice to any other party. The length of time that has elapsed between any date previously set, and the date presently set, for the trial of the action. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.050(b).)¿¿ Discussion PMK Depositions In February 2024, Defendants designated both Shonda Breland and Demetrius Jones as non-retained experts. Plaintiff requested that Defendants’ non-retained expert witnesses be produced for deposition. Defendants communicated to Plaintiff that both Breland and Jones were mistakenly designed as experts when they are both PMKs for Defendant. On February 5, 2024, Defendants’ counsel agreed to produce Jones and Breland as in an email exchange between the parties. (Plf’s Ex. C.) Plaintiff subsequently scheduled Jones and Breland’s depositions, but Defendants subsequently canceled the depositions and refused to produce the PMKs. If Breland or Jones are listed as PMKs for Defendants and are expected to testify at trial, then Plaintiff should have the opportunity to depose them, especially when Defendant already agreed to produce the PMKs for deposition. Fairness and due process require that both parties have an equal chance to prepare for trial. Further, the Court does not find Plaintiff to have been tardy, as Plaintiff was unable to take the depositions due to the confusion from Defendant’s initial mis-designation. Defendants contend that Jones is no longer an employee and will not testify at trial. If true, Plaintiff would only need to depose Breland. However, if Jones might testify, Plaintiff should be allowed to depose him as well. Therefore, the Court grants Plaintiff’s request to reopen discovery for this limited purpose. Designation Of Toxicology Expert Plaintiff seeks to reopen discovery under Code of Civil Procedure § 2024.050. However, this statute pertains to the reopening of fact discovery only. The designation of expert witnesses, including a toxicology expert, does not fall under the category of fact discovery and is therefore outside the scope of this motion. Sub-rosa Discovery Plaintiff argues that reopening discovery is necessary to conduct supplemental discovery on Defendant’s sub rosa surveillance on Plaintiff and Plaintiff’s social media. The Court is unmoved by this argument for the following reasons: First, if this line of reasoning is accepted, it would imply that discovery could never truly close due to the perpetual potential for a party to conduct further surveillance. Such an approach undermines the finality of the discovery process. Second, Plaintiff is not prejudiced by the potential existence of sub rosa surveillance. Plaintiff has full control over his social media presence and complete knowledge of his own whereabouts and activities. Therefore, there is no basis for an ambush at trial. Plaintiff has the ability to anticipate and address any surveillance-related evidence based on his own actions and postings. Third, Plaintiff has not demonstrated diligence in pursuing supplemental discovery. Plaintiff does not dispute that the last time he served any discovery requests to Defendants was in May 2023. However, when the Court issued its November 27, 2023, minute order continuing the trial date, it explicitly stated that no further continuances would be granted. This order established a final discovery cut-off date of January 21, 2024. Plaintiff's failure to seek supplemental discovery near the discovery cut off demonstrates a lack of diligence.  Conclusion The court GRANTS the present motion in part for the limited purpose of taking PMQ depositions.  All other aspects of the motion are denied. PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:  If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.  Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.  If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.  