  Case Number:  20SMCV01355    Hearing Date:   September 27, 2023    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           GSI Exchange
v. Cowper
CASE NO.:                20SMCV01355
MOTION:                  Motion
to Compel Compliance 
HEARING DATE:   9/27/2023

 
Legal
Standard
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.320 provides in
relevant part, “If a party filing a response to a demand for inspection,
copying, testing, or sampling…thereafter fails to permit the inspection,
copying, testing, or sampling in accordance with that party's statement of compliance,
the demanding party may move for an order compelling compliance.” (CCP §
2031.320(a).) The court shall impose a monetary against any party, person,
or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel compliance
with a demand, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with
substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of
the sanction unjust. (CCP § 2031.320(b).)   
 
Analysis
      
            Defendant Mark Cowper moves for an
order compelling Plaintiff GSI Exchange to produce certain documents it agreed
to produce in its Responses to Request for Production of Documents, set 2,
dated April 7, 2023. (Belshaw Decl., Ex. B.) Defendant asserts that GSI failed
to produce the documents despite the written demand and agreement to do so,
specifically, responsive documents to categories 3 and 4 pertaining to profit
and loss statements for 2021 and 2022.
 
            Plaintiff contends that the instant
motion is moot. On August 27, 2023, counsel for GSI served defendant's counsel,
via email, all responsive documents to categories 3 and 4. The Court agrees
that the motion is moot. 
 
Plaintiff also argues that the
motion should be substantively denied because Defendant did not comply with the
separate statement requirement. However, California Rules of Court, rule 3.1345
only requires separate statements when the motion involves the content
of a request or response. This motion does not involve the content of the
response, only production pursuant to the response. Thus, this does not provide
a reason to deny the motion.
 
Monetary sanctions are mandatory,
unless the imposition of sanctions would be unjust or the party subject to the
sanctions acted with substantial justification. Plaintiff failed to justify
their belated production. Plaintiff claims that it forwarded the documents
responsive to Defendant’s demand as soon as the documents were in its
possession or control. However, Plaintiff provided a response that the
documents would be produced and does not explain why they did not provide a
timely response. In other words, Plaintiff does not explain why it did not have
custody or control of the documents in question until recently. Since Plaintiff
was able to get the documents, it appears that Plaintiff did have custody or
control of the documents.
 
Defendant requests sanctions in the
amount of $787.50 against Plaintiff and counsel of record. However, Defendant
does not properly notice the sanctions request. Defendant mentions sanctions in
the caption of the notice, but otherwise does not state any amount of sanctions
or parties to be sanctioned. Likewise, in the memorandum, Defendant only requests
sanctions of $787.50 without stating the party to be sanctioned. It is not
until the final paragraph of counsel’s declaration that Defendant notices
sanctions against GSI and counsel of record Robert E. Thompson. In light of
this due process error, the Court is not inclined to grant sanctions.
 
 
 