 Case Number:  22SMCV02512    Hearing Date:   September 27, 2023    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Rosenbaum v. Lebowsky,
et al.
CASE NO.:                22SMCV02512
MOTION:                  Demurrer
and Motion to Strike 
HEARING DATE:   9/27/2023

 
Legal
Standard
 
            A
demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action.
(Hahn v. Mirda (2007)
147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When considering demurrers, courts read the
allegations liberally and in context. In a demurrer proceeding, the defects
must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co.
(2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not
the evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the
defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed. (CCP §§
430.30, 430.70.) At the pleading stage, a plaintiff need only allege ultimate
facts sufficient to apprise the defendant of the factual basis for the claim
against him. (Semole v. Sansoucie
(1972) 28 Cal. App. 3d 714, 721.) A “demurrer does not, however, admit
contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law alleged in the pleading,
or the construction of instruments pleaded, or facts impossible in law.” (S. Shore Land Co. v. Petersen
(1964) 226 Cal.App.2d 725, 732, internal citations omitted.)
 
            A
special demurrer for uncertainty is disfavored and will only be sustained where
the pleading is so bad that defendant cannot reasonably respond—i.e., cannot
reasonably determine what issues must be admitted or denied, or what counts or
claims are directed against him/her. (CCP § 430.10(f); Khoury v. Maly’s
of Calif., Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.) Moreover, even if
the pleading is somewhat vague, “ambiguities can be clarified under modern
discovery procedures.” (Ibid.)

 
            Any party, within the time allowed
to respond to a pleading may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the
whole or any part thereof. (CCP § 435(b)(1); Cal. Rules of Court, Rule
3.1322(b).) The court may, upon a motion or at any time in its discretion and
upon terms it deems proper: (1) strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper
matter inserted in any pleading; or (2) strike out all or any part of any
pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of California, a court
rule, or an order of the court. (CCP §§ 436(a)-(b); Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767, 782 [“Matter in a
pleading which is not essential to the claim is surplusage; probative facts are
surplusage and may be stricken out or disregarded”].)
 
            “Liberality in permitting amendment
is the rule, if a fair opportunity to correct any defect has not been given.” (Angie
M. v. Superior Court (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1217, 1227.) It is an abuse of
discretion for the court to deny leave to amend where there is any reasonable
possibility that plaintiff can state a good cause of action. (Goodman v.
Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349.) The burden is on plaintiff to
show in what manner plaintiff can amend the complaint,
and how that amendment will change the legal effect of the
pleading. (Id.)
 
Analysis
 
First Cause of
Action: Breach of Fiduciary Duty
 
Defendant Lebowski demurs to the fiduciary duty cause of action arguing
that there is no breach of duty or damages alleged.  The elements for a breach of fiduciary duty
cause of action are “the existence of a fiduciary relationship, its breach, and
damage proximately caused by that breach.” (Thomson v. Canyon (2011) 198
Cal.App.4th 594, 604.) “‘The attorney-client relationship is a fiduciary
relation of the very highest character imposing on the attorney a duty to
communicate to the client whatever information the attorney has or may acquire
in relation to the subject matter of the transaction.’” (Slovensky v.
Friedman (2006) 142 Cal.App.4th 1518, 1534.) “‘The scope of an attorney’s
duty may be determined as a matter of law based on the Rules of Professional
Conduct which, ‘together with statutes and general principles relating to other
fiduciary relationships, all help define the duty component of the fiduciary
duty which an attorney owes to his [or her] client.’’” (Id. at 1534-35.)
 
Lebowsky argues that the complaint
does not allege that he ever personally had custody, possession, or control
over any of the disputed funds. He further asserts that sending “confusing
e-mails” or asserting a right to be paid does not constitute a breach of
fiduciary duty. Examining the allegations of the complaint, a breach is alleged
concerning the disputed funds. The facts show that Lebowsky
attempted to charge an unreasonable fee, causing the disputed funds to be
retained. 
 
The complaint alleges that Lebowsky
breached his fiduciary duty to Plaintiff by charging an unreasonable fee in
excess of the agreed upon fee, causing Plaintiff damages in the form of the
retained disputed portion of the settlement sum. The underlying matter was
settled at a mediation on August 18, 2021, where Plaintiff would receive 60% of
the settlement funds, with 40% of the gross settlement going to the contingency
fee per the retainer. (Compl., ¶ 10.) However, Lebowsky refused to honor his
representations and retainer agreement, and insisted on being paid 65% of the
settlement sum, ultimately demanding to be paid more than Plaintiff would even
receive. (¶ 11.) According to the complaint, Lebowsky sought to use Plaintiff’s
status as an elder to manipulate Plaintiff into paying him more than due, and
the full settlement sum has been improperly withheld from Plaintiff. (¶ 12.) This
included sending confusing emails, failing to fully explain said emails, and
insisting that the emails somehow constituted a change in the parties’
agreement. (¶ 12.) Lebowsky therefore breached his fiduciary duty to Plaintiff
by refusing to turn over the Disputed Portion of the Settlement Sum, misleading
Plaintiff while intending to demand more than the Contingency Fee, disregarding
the agreed-upon fee, and sending confusing correspondence to Plaintiff without
fully and clearly explaining such correspondence. (¶ 16.) Plaintiff alleges
that he was damaged by the wrongful retention of the disputed portion of the
settlement sum, in an amount greater than $25,001.00. (¶¶ 12, 17, 24.) 
 
The Court agrees that further facts
are required regarding causation and damages. While the complaint alleges that
Lebowsky charged an unreasonable fee, causing the disputed funds to be
retained, there are no specific facts regarding how Lebowsky’s conduct caused
the disputed funds to be retained. Plaintiff needs to clarify this point to
establish the retention of the disputed funds as damages. For example, did
Lebowsky retain the funds himself, or did he inform a third party not to
disburse the funds.
 
Accordingly, the demurrer is SUSTAINED
with leave to amend as to the first cause of action.
 
Second Cause of
Action: Fraud
 
Lebowsky demurs to the fraud cause
of action on the grounds that the complaint does not allege how any statement
made by Lebowsky was false, made with an intent to defraud, or that Plaintiff
was justified in relying on those statements.
 
The elements of fraud are: “(a)
misrepresentation (false representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (b)
knowledge of falsity (or ‘scienter’); (c) intent to defraud, i.e., to induce
reliance; (d) justifiable reliance; and (e) resulting damage.” (Charnay v.
Cobert (2006) 145 Cal.App.4th 170, 184.) In California, fraud, including
negligent misrepresentation, must be pled with specificity. (Small v. Fritz
Companies, Inc. (2003) 30 Cal.4th 167, 184.) “The particularity demands
that a plaintiff plead facts which show how, when, where, to whom, and by what
means the representations were tendered.” (Cansino v. Bank of America
(2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 1462, 1469.)  
 
The complaint alleges that in
December 2016, Nagler informed Plaintiff that he had engaged Lebowsky as
co-counsel in the underlying matter. (Compl., ¶¶ 9, 20.) On December 14, 2016,
Lebowsky emailed Plaintiff, making the following representation: “As [Nagler]
informed you, he and I plan to share the fee you agreed upon with him, and my
involvement will not increase the attorney’s fees you pay under the agreement
with [Nagler]”. (¶ 9.) Thus, the parties did not enter into another written fee
agreement. (Id.) In justifiable reliance on the representation, Plaintiff
allowed Lebowsky to assist Nagler in connection with the underlying matter and
did not insist that the parties enter into a separate written retainer
agreement. (¶ 21.) However, the complaint alleges that the representation was
false because Lebowsky already intended to demand attorneys’ fees be provided
exclusively to him in excess of the Contingency Fee. (¶ 22.) Plaintiff was
ignorant of the falsity of the representation and could not have discovered the
falsity sooner with reasonable diligence. (¶ 23.) Plaintiff has not received
the Disputed Portion of the Settlement Sum. (¶ 24.) 
 
The above allegations establish, as
matters of fact, that Lebowsky’s representation was false and that Plaintiff
justifiably relied on the representation. Lebowsky intended to demand
attorneys’ fees beyond the retainer agreement with Nagler, rendering false his
statement Plaintiff would not have to pay increased fees. Plaintiff alleges
that he relied on Lebowsky’s representation to allow Lebowsky to join in on the
prosecution of the underlying action. This is a question of fact, not well
suited to demurrer. (Furla v. Jon Douglas Co.
(1998) 65 Cal.App.4th 1069, 1077 [whether
or not reliance was justifiable is a question of
fact].) These is no indication that Plaintiff’s reliance on this representation
would be unreasonable in light of the circumstances. (See Seeger v. Odell
(1941) 18 Cal.2d 409, 414-415 [reliance that is manifestly unreasonable in light of a
plaintiff’s own intelligence or information is not justifiable].) Damages are also alleged in the form of the
retention of the disputed sum.
 
 That said, the Court agrees that the complaint
fails to allege an intent to defraud and resulting damages. Simply put, the
Complaint does not allege the necessary element of an intent to induce
reliance. Therefore, further facts are required regarding Lebowsky’s intent to
induce reliance on his statement. Further, damages are not specifically pled.
While Plaintiff claims damages in the form of the disputed portion of the
settlement sum, Plaintiff does not explain how Lebowsky caused the funds to be
retained. 
 
Accordingly, the demurrer is
SUSTAINED with leave to amend.
 
Third Cause of Action: Contract Interference
 
Lebowsky argues that the complaint
does not allege any facts showing that Lebowsky’s acts were intentionally
designed to induce a breach or disruption of the contractual relationship
between Plaintiff and Nagler, or that there was a breach or disruption of the
contractual relationship.    
 
Intentional interference with
contract requires proof of (a) a valid and existing contract, (b) knowledge of
the contract and intent to induce breach, (c) breach of contract, (d) breach
caused by defendant’s unjustified or wrongful conduct, and (e) damages. (Dryden
v. Tri-Valley Growers (1977) 65 Cal.App.3d 990, 995.)
 
According to the complaint, Lebowsky
knew of the existence of the Retainer between Plaintiff and Nagler, and that
the Retainer set forth the contracting parties’ true understanding as to the
Contingency Fee and any amounts otherwise due. (Compl., ¶ 27.) In an effort to
interfere with the Retainer, Lebowsky cajoled Plaintiff into “agreeing” to
confusing emails, demanded outrageous payments and insisting in bad faith that
he had a legitimate attorney’s lien. (¶28.) Lebowsky intended to deceive
Plaintiff into paying unconscionable amounts more than contemplated in the
Retainer. (¶ 29.) 
 
The Complaint does not allege sufficient
facts showing that Lebowsky’ induced a breach or disruption of the contractual
relationship between Plaintiff and Nagler. The Complaint does not explain how
Lebowsky caused any disruption. Plaintiff points to the fact that the Retainer
was breached because the money “has not been paid” to Plaintiff. This passive
phrasing is insufficient, since it does not establish how Lebowsky’s conduct
caused the money to not be paid. 
 
Accordingly, the demurrer is
SUSTAINED with leave to amend.
            
Fourth Cause of Action: Elder Abuse
 
Lebowsky argues that the elder
abuse cause of action fails to establish that he took or has anything belonging
to Plaintiff.  Financial elder abuse
occurs when a person takes the property of an elder for a wrongful use or with
intent to defraud or by undue influence. (Welf. & Inst. Code §
15610.30(a).) A person is deemed to have taken the property when he or she has
deprived an elder of any property right. (§ 15610.30(c).) Although bad faith or
intent to defraud is not required, wrongful use of property must still be
alleged. (Stebley v. Litton Loan Servicing, LLP (2011) 202 Cal.App.4th
522, 527-28.) “A person . . . shall be deemed to have taken . . . property for
a wrongful use if . . . the person  . . .
takes  . . . the property and the person
. . . knew or should have known that this conduct is likely to be harmful to
the elder . . . .” (§ 15610.30(b).)  Thus, wrongful use turns on whether the
alleged abuser knew or should have known that the taking of an elder’s property
is likely to be harmful to the elder. (§ 15610.30(b).)
 
Here, further facts are required to
establish that Lebowsky took or assisted in taking the disputed sum. As noted
above, the complaint fails to specifically allege how Lebowsky caused the sum
to be retained from Plaintiff.
 
Accordingly, the demurrer is
SUSTAINED with leave to amend.
 
Sixth Cause of Action: Declaratory Relief
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 1060 provides that a person
may bring an action for declaratory relief if he or she “desires a declaration
of his or her rights or duties with respect to another, or in respect to, in,
over or upon property . .
..” (CCP § 1060.) To state a declaratory
relief claim, the plaintiff must allege a proper subject of declaratory relief
and an actual controversy involving justiciable questions relating to the
party’s rights or obligations. (Jolley v. Chase Home Finance, LLC (2013)
213 Cal.App.4th 872, 909.)
While declaratory relief operates
prospectively, a proper action for declaratory relief can redress past wrongs.
(Travers v. Louden (1967) 254 Cal.App.2d 926, 931.) “In general, if a complaint for declaratory relief alleges
the existence of an actual controversy . . ., the court should not sustain a general demurrer on the
theory that any declaration would necessarily be adverse to the plaintiff.” (Teachers Management & Investment
Cop. v. City of Santa Cruz (1976) 64 Cal.App.3d 438, 449.)
 
Here, Plaintiff alleges an actual controversy over a proper subject
of declaratory relief.
A controversy
exists between Plaintiff and Lebowsky concerning their respective rights and
duties under their retainer agreement. On one hand, Plaintiff contends that
Nagler is owed no more than a 40% Fee and that the fee was to be split between
Nagler and Lebowsky. (Compl., ¶ 45.) On the other, Lebowsky claims that he is
owed a 65% fee and that Nagler is owed nothing. (¶ 46.)  In addition, Nagler disputes Lebowsky’s claim
that he is not entitled to any portion of the Settlement. (Id.)
Plaintiff therefore requests the court declare the rights and duties of all
parties in connection with the Settlement Sum. The rights and duties of the
parties to a contract is a proper matter for declaratory relief.
 
Accordingly,
the demurrer is OVERRULED as to this cause of action.
 
Motion to
Strike
 
The
motion to strike is MOOT pursuant to the Court’s granting leave to amend.
 
Plaintiff
is ordered to file an amended complaint within 10 days.