Here is the summary in YAML format:

```
Case Number: 24SMCV01828
Plaintiff's Name: Yaron Levy and Yael Levy, Trustees, Yaron and Yael Levy Revocable Trust
Defendant's Name: Hillcrest Country Club
People-Names: 
Company-Names: Hillcrest Country Club
Places: 
Dates: 
Events: 
Money: 
Intentions: 
Facts: 
Disputes: 
Acts: 
Agreements: 
Laws: 
Case Citations: Lewis v. Safeway, Inc., Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co., Aubry v. Tri-City Hosp. Dist., Moore v. Regents of University of California, Code Civ. Proc., ยง 436, subd. (a), (b), (c), Goodman v. Kennedy, Kong v. City of Hawaiian Gardens Redevelopment Agency, Vaccaro v. Kaiman, Blank v. Kirwan, Ralphs Grocery Co. v. Victory Consultants, Inc., City of San Jose v. Superior Court
Statutes: Code Civ. Proc., ยง 436, subd. (a), (b), (c), Code of Civil Procedure ยง 527, subd. (c)
Roles: Judge, Plaintiff, Defendant
Significant Statements: The Judge's tentative ruling sustains the defendant's demurrer to the first cause of action, overrules the demurrer to the third cause of action, denies the motion to strike portions of the plaintiff's complaint, and orders the defendant to file and serve an answer to the complaint within 10 days.
```

And here is a summary of the judge's tentative ruling in English text:

The judge has issued a tentative ruling on the case. The defendant, Hillcrest Country Club, has demurred to the first and third causes of action in the plaintiff's complaint and moved to strike certain portions of the complaint. The judge has sustained the demurrer to the first cause of action, which alleges wrongful discharge of surface water, without allowing the plaintiff to amend the complaint. The judge has overruled the demurrer to the third cause of action, which alleges trespass, finding that it is a question of fact for the trier of fact to determine whether the defendant's conduct rises to the level of trespass. The judge has denied the motion to strike certain portions of the complaint, including the plaintiff's references to general damages and temporary restraining orders. The defendant is ordered to file and serve an answer to the complaint within 10 days.