

 
BACKGROUND: 
 
This action
involves sexual harassment and other employment law related claims. 
 
On July 12,
2024, Attorney Neil Pedersen (Pedersen) of Pedersen Law, specially appearing
for Plaintiff’s counsel John McCarty (McCarty), filed an ex parte application
to continue the trial and other hearing dates due to McCarty’s health
condition. 
 
On July 15,
2024, the Court held a hearing on the ex parte application. The Court set a
motion to continue trial hearing date for August 6, 2024, with the ex parte
application serving as the moving papers. The Court ordered oppositions filed
by July 23, 2024, and replies by July 30, 2024. 
 
On July 23,
2024, Defendants Fashion Logistics, Inc. and Franco Vago L.A. Inc.
(collectively, Defendants) filed a partial opposition to the motion.
 
On July 30,
2024, Pedersen, specially appearing for McCarty, filed a reply. 
 
DISCUSSION:
 
 “Although continuances of trials are disfavored, each
request for a continuance must be considered on its own merits. The Court may
grant a continuance only on an affirmative showing of good cause requiring the
continuance.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332, subd. (c).) The Court may look
to the following factors in determining whether a trial continuance is
warranted: (1) proximity of the trial date; (2) whether there was any previous
continuance of trial due to any party; (3) the length of the continuance
requested; (4) the availability of alternative means to address the problem
that gave rise to the motion; (5) the prejudice that parties or witnesses will
suffer as a result of the continuance; and (6) whether trial counsel is engaged
in another trial.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332, subds. (d)(1)-(11).)
Additionally, factors for the Court to consider include: a party’s excused
inability to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other material evidence
despite diligent efforts; whether all parties have stipulated to a continuance;
and any other fact or circumstance relevant to the fair determination of the
motion or application. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332, subds. (c),
(d).) 
 
McCarty filed a declaration in
support of the motion, attesting to the following facts:  “I am presently dealing with incapacitating
physical and emotional issues that require my focused attention.” (Ex Parte
Application, McCarty Decl., ¶ 3.) “I have a history of cancer and have presently been
diagnosed with four confirmed melanomas that require surgeries and other
treatment. My doctor has told me that he is worried that one or more of my
melanomas have metastasized or I have new cancer issues. Testing is needed but
I have delayed those tests because of the press of client needs.” (McCarty Decl.,
5.) “I also have a history of heart problems including a heart attack, multiple
stents placed because of great occlusion in my coronary arteries, Coronary Slow
Flow Phenomenon, Afibrillation, a small Ventricular Septal Defect – a hole in
the Ventricular wall along with a history of bacterial endocarditis – which can
be deadly or cause a stroke - such that I need protection from it happening
again. I also have had a stroke, presently have out-of-control diabetes,
asthma, orthopedic injuries, Gird, nerve damage and many more
maladies/injuries. Multiple doctors have been saying for a long time that if I
do not stop working these long, stressful hours and/or if I do not follow up on
all of these medical matters, I will die. In fact, one doctor ‘fired me’ for
not following up on these ‘life and death’ matters (as it has been called)
saying he did not want me to ‘die on his watch.’ For too long, I have had the
need – and still do – to follow up on multiple additional cancer surgeries,
nerve damage surgery, orthopedic surgery and other procedures, but could not
get to them with my long hours and not getting the help I needed from my
present and prior law firms. If that was not enough, I am assisting in the care
of a deaf elderly loved one.” (McCarty Decl., ¶ 6.) “Emotionally, I was recently hospitalized because of my
emotional condition.” (McCarty Decl., ¶ 10.)
 
McCarty further testifies that he
has sent messages to other employment lawyers and four top employment lawyers
have responded and agreed to take over one or more of his cases. (McCarty
Decl., ¶ 10.)
McCarty will be leaving his current firm but will work with those lawyers to
the extent that he can. (McCarty Decl., ¶ 11.) Pedersen (an employment law specialist and professor
with decades of experience) will be making special appearances in many of
McCarty’s cases to help assist with the transition process. (McCarty Decl., ¶ 11.)
 
Defendants do not dispute that there
is good cause to continue the trial date given McCarty’s current health
condition. 
 
However, they ask that the Court only
continue the discovery cut-off date for some (not all) forms of discovery.
 
They also ask the Court to set a
further status conference in early September regarding whether McCarty has been
able to find an attorney to replace him in this matter. 
 
 
The Court finds good cause to
continue the trial date given McCarty’s health records. 
 
The Court also finds it will be more
efficient and less confusing for the parties to continue all trial-related
dates instead of carving out deadline exceptions for some discovery.  Therefore, Defendants’ request to continue the
discovery cut-off dates for some discovery but not others is denied. 
 
However, while the Court grants the
unopposed request to continue the trial, the Court sets new discovery cut-off
dates:  Discovery must be completed no
later than the 60th day before the new trial date.  The last date for hearing a discovery motion will
be the 30th day before the new trial date.  
 
The Court
also sets a status conference on September 30, 2024 at 8:30 a.m. in Dept. 58.
 
The Court therefore
grants Plaintiff’s motion to continue trial and all related dates. The date for
Trial is advanced and continued to _______________, 2025, at 9:00 a.m., Dept.
58, Stanley Mosk Courthouse.  The Final
Status Conference is advanced and continued to ____.
 
The date for
the hearing on Defendants’ motion for summary judgment is not changed: it
remains on October 10, 2024.  
 
 
 