  Case Number:  22STCV07064    Hearing Date:   August 6, 2024    Dept:  58 Judge Bruce G. Iwasaki     

Department 58

Hearing Date:             August 6, 2024
Case Name:                Nataly Consuelo v. Lyneer Staffing Solutions, LLC et
al.
Case No.:                    22STCV07064
Matter:                        Motion
to Quash Service of Summons
Moving Party:             Specially Appearing Defendants Franco Vago S.p.A.
and Nippon Express Italia S.p.A. 
Responding Party:      Plaintiff Nataly Consuelo
Tentative
Ruling:        The motion to quash service
of summons is granted. 

 

 
            This
is a wrongful termination action alleging fourteen causes of action. On
February 25, 2022, Plaintiff Nataly Consuelo filed the complaint against
Defendants Lyneer Staffing Solutions, LLC.; Employers HR LLC; Fashion
Logistics, Inc.; Franco Vago L.A. INC.; Franco Vago SpA, an Italian Joint Stock
Company; Nippon Express Italia SpA, an Italian Joint Stock Company; Joseph
Lopez; Jose Arciega; and DOES 1-2000.  
 
On
June 6, 2024, Franco Vago SpA and Nippon Express Italia SpA
(Italian Defendants) specially appeared and moved to quash service of summons based
on lack of personal jurisdiction. 
 
On
July 23, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition. On July 30, 2024, Specially
Appearing Defendants filed a Reply. 
 
Plaintiff
relies on inapplicable law and fails to present any evidence that the Italian Defendants
are subject to personal jurisdiction in this Court. The motion to quash service
of summons is granted.
 
Evidentiary
Objections 
 
The Court sustains
all of Specially Appearing Defendants Franco Vago SpA and Nipon Express Italia
SpA’s evidentiary objections to the Declaration of John C. McCarty.  His declaration – a rambling, disorganized,
53-page screed – fails to establish any personal knowledge of the facts asserted.
And to the extent it relies on Plaintiff’s own discovery responses, those
responses similarly lacks foundation and are inadmissible hearsay. 
 
Discussion
 
Legal Principles
of Personal Jurisdiction
 
            “The Due Process clause of the
Fourteenth Amendment constrains a State’s authority to bind a nonresident
defendant to a judgment of its courts. [Citation.] [A] nonresident generally
must have ‘certain minimum contacts . . . such that the maintenance of the suit
does not offend “traditional notions of fair play and substantial justice.” ’ ”
(Walden v. Fiore (2014) 571 U.S. 277, 283 (Walden).)  Personal jurisdiction may be either general
or specific.  For general jurisdiction, a
defendant’s forum contacts must be “so ‘continuous and systematic’ as to render
[the defendant] essentially at home in the forum State.”  (Daimler AG v. Bauman (2014) 571 U.S.
117, 139.)  The paradigm of general
jurisdiction for a corporation is its state of incorporation or principal place
of business. (Id. at p. 137.) 
 
            Specific or case-linked jurisdiction
“ ‘focuses on “the relationship among the defendant, the forum, and the
litigation.” ’ ”  (Walden, supra,
571 U.S. at pp. 283-284.) In particular, “the defendant’s suit-related conduct
must create a substantial connection with the forum State.”  (Id. at p. 284.)  There are three requirements for a court to
exercise specific jurisdiction over a nonresident defendant: “First, the
defendant must have purposefully availed himself or herself of forum benefits
or purposefully directed activities at forum residents.  Second, the controversy must relate to or
arise out of the defendant’s forum-related activities.  Third, the exercise of jurisdiction must
comport with traditional notions of fair play and substantial justice.” (David
L. v. Superior Court (2018) 29 Cal.App.5th 359, 366.)  The plaintiff has the initial burden to
establish the first two requirements. 
Only after doing so does the burden shift to the defendant to show that
exercising jurisdiction would be unreasonable. 
(Id. at p. 367.)  The
plaintiff must do more than merely allege jurisdictional facts.  “ ‘It must present evidence sufficient to
justify a finding that California may properly exercise jurisdiction over the
defendant.’ ”  (Zehia v. Superior
Court (2020) 45 Cal.App.5th 543, 552.)
 
“
‘[P]urposeful availment occurs where a nonresident defendant “ ‘purposefully
direct[s]’ [its] activities at residents of the forum” [citation], “ ‘purposefully
derive[s] benefit’ from” its activities in the forum [citation], “create[s] a ‘substantial
connection’ with the forum” [citation], “ ‘deliberately’ has engaged in
significant activities within” the forum [citation], or “has created ‘continuing
obligations’ between [itself] and residents of the forum” [citation]. By
limiting the scope of a forum’s jurisdiction in this manner, the “ ‘purposeful
availment’ requirement ensures that a defendant will not be haled into a
jurisdiction solely as a result of ‘random,’ ‘fortuitous,’ or ‘attenuated’
contacts … .” [Citation.] Instead, the defendant will be subject to personal
jurisdiction only if “ ‘it has clear notice that it is subject to suit there,
and can act to alleviate the risk of burdensome litigation by procuring
insurance, passing the expected costs on to customers, or, if the risks are too
great, severing its connection with the state.’ ” [Citations.]’ ”  (HealthMarkets, Inc. v. Superior Court (2009)
171 Cal.App.4th 1160, 1168 (HealthMarkets).)
 
            In Walden, the U.S. Supreme
Court emphasized two important principles underlying the jurisdictional
inquiry: “First, the relationship must arise out of contacts that the
‘defendant himself’ creates with the forum State. [Citation.]  Due process limits on the State’s
adjudicative authority principally protect the liberty of the nonresident
defendant – not the convenience of plaintiffs or third parties.”  (Walden, supra, 571 U.S. at p. 284.)  “Second, our ‘minimum contacts’ analysis
looks to the defendant’s contacts with the forum State itself, not the
defendant’s contacts with persons who reside there.” (Id. at p.
285.)  “[T]he plaintiff cannot be the
only link between the defendant and the forum. 
Rather, it is the defendant’s conduct that must form the necessary
connection with the forum State that is the basis for its jurisdiction over
him.”  (Ibid.)  Therefore, “mere injury to a forum resident
is not a sufficient connection to the forum.” 
(Id. at p. 290.)  “The
proper question is not where the plaintiff experienced a particular injury or
effect but whether the defendant’s conduct connects him to the forum in a
meaningful way.”  (Ibid.)
 
The Court lacks
personal jurisdiction over Defendants
 
Plaintiff alleges she
was subjected to sexual, racial, disability and other types of harassment,
discrimination, retaliation, failure to protect from such, and intentional
misconduct in violation of the FEHA by Defendants including Franco Vago SpA and
Nippon Express Italia SpA. (Compl., ¶ 1.) Italian Defendants argue that there
is no general or specific jurisdiction over them because they are two Italian
entities based entirely in Italy without any minimum contacts with California
and have not purposefully availed themselves to California. (Mot. at pp. 4-5.)
In response, Plaintiff further argues that general jurisdiction can be
established by the “Representative Services” Doctrine, “Alter Ego” Doctrine,
and the “Single Enterprise” Doctrine. (Opp. at p.2.) 
 
Plaintiff seeks a four-month
continuance to engage in jurisdictional discovery. She does not explain why
this discovery was not done during the two and one-half years the case has been
pending, and more important, Plaintiff fails to make any showing that discovery
would elicit facts to support her allegations regarding personal jurisdiction.
The discovery request is denied. 
 
a.
Representative Services Doctrine 
 
Plaintiff contends
that the representative services doctrine supports imposition of general
personal jurisdiction over the Italian Defendants.  The representative services doctrine was an
approach for subjecting a foreign parent corporation to general jurisdiction when
its local agent exists solely to further the business of the parent. The theory
rested on the idea that were it not for the local agent’s existence, the parent
would be performing those functions in the forum itself. 
 
Plaintiff fails
even to cite the United States Supreme Court’s decision in Daimler AG v. Bauman
(2014) 571 U.S. 117, which all but eliminated this theory of agency as a basis
for imposing general jurisdiction over a foreign corporation. The Supreme Court
unanimously reversed the Ninth Circuit’s use of this doctrine when it imposed general
jurisdiction over a foreign corporation because its local subsidiary “performs
services that are sufficiently important to the foreign corporation that if it
did not have a representative to perform them, the corporation’s own official would
undertake” them.  (Id. at p. 134.)
 
The high court rejected the assumption underlying
the representative services doctrine. Even if one assumed that the local subsidiary
was subject to general jurisdiction, and further that the subsidiary’s California
contacts were imputable to the foreign corporation, “there would still be no
basis to subject [the foreign corporation] to general jurisdiction in
California, for [its] slim contacts with the State hardly render it at home
there.” (Daimler, supra, 571 U.S. at p. 136.)  
 
After the U.S. Supreme Court decision in Daimler, our Court of Appeal recognized that Daimler effectively
eliminated the agency theory underlying the representative services
doctrine.  In Young v. Daimler AG (2014)
228 Cal.App.4th 855, 866-867, the Court concluded that in Daimler, the Supreme Court held that no theory of agency, including the
provision of services as a representative of a foreign principal, was a proper
basis for general jurisdiction.  
 
Plaintiff’s reliance on the representative services
theory fails to consider applicable precedent. 
Accordingly, this basis for imposing jurisdiction over the Italian Defendants
fails.
 
b. Alter Ego
Doctrine
 
“The alter ego
doctrine arises when a plaintiff comes into court claiming that an opposing
party is using the corporate form unjustly and in derogation of the plaintiff's
interests. [Citation.] In certain circumstances the court will disregard the
corporate entity and will hold the individual shareholders liable for the
actions of the corporation.” (Ming-Hsiang Kao v. Holiday (2020) 58
Cal.App.5th 199, 205.) Whether to invoke alter ego liability depends on both:
(1) “such unity of interest and ownership that the separate personalities of
the corporation and the individual no longer exist,” and (2) whether “adherence
to the fiction of separate existence would, under the circumstances, promote
fraud or injustice. On the second score it is sufficient that it appear that
recognition of the acts as those of a corporation only will produce inequitable
results. [Citations.]” (Id.) 
 
The court may
consider factors including but not limited to: “Commingling of funds and other
assets, failure to segregate funds of the separate entities, and the
unauthorized diversion of corporate funds or assets to other than corporate
uses; the treatment by an individual of the assets of the corporation as his
own; the failure to obtain authority to issue stock or to subscribe to or issue
the same; the holding out by an individual that he is personally liable for the
debts of the corporation; the failure to maintain minutes or adequate corporate
records, and the confusion of the records of the separate entities….” (Associated
Vendors, Inc. v. Oakland Meat Co. (1962) 210 Cal.App.2d 825, 838.)
 
Here, Plaintiff
fails to provide any evidence that her alter ego theory applies. As noted, Plaintiff’s
counsel’s declaration offers his beliefs and opinions, but no facts based on personal
knowledge. McCarty’s declaration merely echoes the Complaint’s conclusory averments
that Defendants are a “single enterprise.” Because she offers no specific
evidence, Plaintiff’s alter ego theory fails. 
 
c. Single
Enterprise Doctrine
 
For the same reasons,
Plaintiff’s third theory, asserting that the Defendants are all part of a “single
enterprise,” cannot be sustained.  “Two
conditions are generally required for the application of the [single
enterprise] doctrine to two related corporations: (1) such a unity of interest
and ownership that the separate corporate personalities are merged, so that one
corporation is a mere adjunct of another or the two companies form a single
enterprise; and (2) an inequitable result if the acts in question are treated
as those of the corporation alone.”  (Tran v. Farmers Group, Inc.
(2002) 104 Cal.App.4th 1202, 1219.) 
 
Again, because Plaintiff’s
counsel’s declaration was stricken, Plaintiff has no evidence and thus cannot
meet her burden. In contrast, Italian Defendants submit the Declaration of
Davide Gori. Gori states that Nippon Express Italia S.p.A. is an Italian
corporation with a principal place of business at Via 8 Marzo, 6 - 50018 Badia
a Settimo, Scandicci, Firenze, Italy. (Declaration of Davide Gori [“Gori
Decl.”], ¶ 2.) Franco Vago S.p.A is the same entity as Nippon Express Italia
S.p.A. and is not a separate legal entity. (Gori Decl., ¶ 6.) Nippon Express
Italia S.p.A. is in the business of international shipping, logistics, and
distribution. (Id. at ¶ 3.) Neither Franco Vago S.p.A. nor Nippon
Express Italia S.p.A. do any business in the State of California, nor have they
ever applied for a California business license. (Id. at ¶ 7.)  Neither Franco Vago S.p.A. nor Nippon Express
Italia S.p.A. have a bank account in the United States of America or had
employees in the State of California. (Id. at ¶ 8-9.) Moreover, neither
specially appearing defendant has or ever operated any offices in the State of
California or own real estate in the State of California. (Id. at ¶¶
10-11.) Neither Franco Vago S.p.A. nor Nippon Express Italia S.p.A. jointly
conduct business with Defendants Lyneer Staffing Solutions, LLC, Employers HR
LLC, Fashion Logistics, Inc., or Franco Vago L.A. Inc. (Id. at ¶ 13.)
 The only evidence before the Court
demonstrates that Plaintiff’s single enterprise theory also fails.
 
Conclusion 
  Italian
Defendants’ motion to quash for lack of personal jurisdiction is granted.  They are dismissed from this case.Judge Bruce G. Iwasaki
Department
58


