 Case Number:  24PSCV00762    Hearing Date:   June 27, 2024    Dept:  O Tentative Ruling
 
DEFENDANT
TESLA, INC.’S MOTION TO COMPEL BINDING ARBITRATION is GRANTED. 
 
Background
 
This is a
lemon law case.
 
On March 13,
2024, Plaintiff filed suit against Tesla, Inc. Dba Tesla Motors, Inc. for
violations of the SBA.
 
On April 16,
2024, Defendant filed the instant motion. 

 
On June 13,
2024, Plaintiff filed his opposition.
 
On June 20,
2024, Defendant filed its reply. 
 
Discussion
 
Defendant
moves to compel arbitration based upon two agreements that Plaintiff signed
relating to the vehicle: (1) the Order Agreement, the terms of which Plaintiff
agreed to when he placed their order for the Vehicle online, and (2) the Sale
Contract, which Plaintiff signed just prior to delivery. (Motion p. 3.) Both
agreements require that this matter be submitted to binding arbitration. 
 
The Order
Agreement, which is a six-page document that contains terms and conditions,
contains an arbitration agreement on the third page. That agreement reads, in
relevant part: 
 
Agreement to Arbitrate. Please carefully read this provision, which
applies to any dispute between you and Tesla, Inc. and its affiliates,
(together “Tesla”)…. You may opt out of arbitration within 30 days after
signing this Agreement by sending a letter to: Tesla, Inc.; P.O. Box 15430;
Fremont, CA 94539-7970, stating your name, Order Number or Vehicle
Identification Number, and intent to opt out of the arbitration provision. If
you do not opt out, this agreement to arbitrate overrides any different arbitration
agreement between us, including any arbitration agreement in a lease or finance
contract. (Motion p. 5, citing Order Agreement, Kim Decl., Ex. 1.)
 
The Retail Contract contains the following relevant
language:
 
ARBITRATION PROVISION” and “PLEASE REVIEW – IMPORTANT – AFFECTS YOUR
LEGAL RIGHTS” 1. EITHER YOU OR WE MAY CHOOSE TO HAVE ANY DISPUTE BETWEEN US
DECIDED BY ARBITRATION AND NOT IN COURT OR BY JURY TRIAL. 2. IF A DISPUTE IS
ARBITRATED, YOU WILL GIVE UP YOUR RIGHT TO PARTICIPATE AS A CLASS
REPRESENTATIVE OR CLASS MEMBER ON ANY CLASS CLAIM YOU MAY HAVE AGAINST US
INCLUDING ANY RIGHT TO CLASS ARBITRATION OR ANY CONSOLIDATION OF INDIVIDUAL
ARBITRATIONS. 3. DISCOVERY AND RIGHTS TO APPEAL IN ARBITRATION ARE GENERALLY
MORE LIMITED THAN IN A LAWSUIT, AND OTHER RIGHTS THAT YOU AND WE WOULD HAVE IN
COURT MAY NOT BE AVAILABLE IN ARBITRATION. Any claim or dispute, whether
in contract, tort, statute or otherwise (including the interpretation and scope
of this Arbitration Provision, and the arbitrability of the claim or dispute),
between you and us or our employees, agents, successors or assigns, which
arises out of or relates to your credit application, purchase or condition
of this vehicle, this contract or any resulting transaction or
relationship (including any such relationship with third parties who do not
sign this contract) shall, at your or our election, be resolved by neutral,
binding arbitration and not by a court action. […] (Kim Decl., Ex. 2, p. 19 of
21 of PDF, emphasis added.) 
 
Here, Plaintiff’s claims fall squarely within the scope
of the arbitration clauses. First, the claims—warranty violations— arise out of
Tesla’s manufacture of the Vehicle, the sale of the Vehicle to Plaintiff by
Tesla, Tesla warranting the Vehicle, and Tesla’s repairs to the Vehicle, all of
which arise out of and relate to the purchase and condition of the Vehicle, as
well as the relationship between the parties. (Motion pp. 7-8.) 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues that the arbitration
agreements are both procedurally and unconscionable. The court disagrees. 
 
1.     Procedural Unconscionability 
 
Procedural unconscionability concerns the manner in which
the contract was negotiated and the respective circumstances of the parties at
that time, focusing on the level of oppression and surprise involved in the
agreement. (Kinney v. United Healthcare Services, Inc. (1999) 70
Cal.App.4th 1322, 1329. 
 
Plaintiff argues that the purchase was a pre-printed
consumer sales contract qualifies as an adhesion contract and that Plaintiff
had no meaningful opportunity to negotiate with Tesla regarding any of the
terms. (Opp. p. 5.)
 
However, for one, Plaintiff has not provided an analysis
that this is an adhesion contract, especially given that Plaintiff had the
freely exercisable option of opting-out of the agreement to arbitrate. (Reply
p. 3:22-25.) Furthermore, even if an adhesion contract, the Supreme Court of
California in Sanchez v. Valencia Holding Co., LLC (2015) 61 Cal.4th 899
explained that “Although the contract was standardized, ‘no presumption is
warranted that Plaintiff had no choice or power to negotiate as to the terms of
their purchase agreement or that they could not obtain comparable or superior
terms.” (Id. at p. 931.) Similarly, here, Plaintiff was not forced to
purchase the subject vehicle and could have decided to purchase another vehicle
elsewhere that was not subject to the instant agreement. 
 
To the extent that Plaintiff argues that Plaintiff lacked
bargaining power, he does so conclusively without providing facts. 
 
To the extent that Plaintiff argues that arbitration
agreement is unconscionable because it does not include the entire set of rules
for the American Arbitration Association, Plaintiff does not provide adequate
cases. For example, Plaintiff cites to Samaniego v. Empire Today LLC
(2012) 205 Cal.App.4th 1138 and Harper v. Ultimo (2003) 113 Cal.App.4th
1402 for its proposition that procedural unconscionability found to exist
because plaintiffs were not provided with a copy of the arbitration rules
referenced in the clause. But that case was disapproved of
in Wallace v. Red Bull Distributing Co. (2013) 958 F.Supp.2d 811,
823. “These cases, however,
set out stricter rules for arbitration agreements than those that apply to
other types of contracts…Because the FAA preempts rules that treat
incorporation by reference in arbitration agreements differently than in
contracts generally, [plaintiff] has failed to show that the incorporation by
reference in the [] Agreement is procedurally unconscionable.” Even if there is
some procedural unconscionability, the failure to attack the AAA rules, standing
alone, is insufficient grounds to support a finding of procedural
unconscionability. (See Lane v. Francis Capital Management LLC
(2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 676, 690, 691.)[1]

Therefore, the court finds minimal
showing of procedural unconscionability. With a minimal degree of procedural,
applying the sliding scale approach, Plaintiff must next establish a large degree of substantive
unconscionability for the court to refuse to enforce a contract under the
doctrine of unconscionability. (Pinnacle Museum Tower Assn. v.
Pinnacle Market Development (US), LLC (2012) 55 Cal.4th 223, 247.) 
 
2.     Substantive Unconscionability 
 
Substantive unconscionability exists when the terms of
the contract are unduly harsh, oppressive, or one-sided and outside the
expectations of non-drafting party. (Sanchez, supra, 61 Cal.4th at 911.)

 
Here, aside from citing cases, Plaintiff seemingly argues
that the arbitration provision is substantively unconscionable because binding
arbitration in and of itself is unconscionable. (See also Reply p. 4.) Subscribing
to Plaintiff’s position would have this court violate federal law (and state
law) which allows for arbitration. As discussed by Defendant, Sanchez,
supra, and Felisilda v. FCA US LLC (2020) 53 Cal.App.5th 486 make
clear that arbitration provision is valid and enforceable with respect to
Song-Beverly claims such as this, and Plaintiff has not provided a single case
that has held otherwise. (Reply p. 4.) In fact, as aptly noted by Defendant,
per Plaintiff’s own cited authority to Chavarria v. Ralphs Grocery Co.
(9th Cir. 2013) 733 F.3d 916, 923—which held that the agreement to arbitrate in
that matter was unconscionable because it did not allow for a neutral selection
process as to the actual arbitrator, not the arbitration organization—here, the
arbitration provision does allow for the parties to utilize AAA as an
arbitration organization, which utilizes a neutral arbitrator selection
process. 
 
Therefore, the court finds
minimal if any showing of substantive unconscionability. 
 
JAMS v. AAA
 
In opposition, Plaintiff states that if Plaintiff must
arbitrate their claims, then Plaintiff elects to arbitrate at JAMS rather than
AAA. (Opp. p. 9:6-7.) However, as noted in Reply, the FAA and CAA both require
that arbitrator selection clauses be enforced according to their terms. (9
U.S.C. § 5 [“If in the agreement provision be made for a method of naming or
appointing an arbitrator … such method shall be followed.”]; Code Civ. Proc. §
1281.6 [“If the arbitration agreement provides a method of appointing an
arbitrator, that method shall be followed.” (Reply pp. 4-5.) 
 
Therefore, the court compels arbitration but denies
selection of JAMS because arbitration clause provided for AAA. 
 
Conclusion
 
Based on the foregoing, as the claims brought forth in
Plaintiff’s Complaint are subject to binding arbitration and the agreements are
not unconscionable, the motion is granted; the action is stayed pending outcome
of arbitration.[2]



