 Case Number:  22STCV22553    Hearing Date:   March 26, 2024    Dept:  74 Michael Benincaso v. Luke Rottman 
 
Specially Appearing Cross-Defendant Francesco
Benincaso’s Motion to Quash Service of Summons and Cross-Complaint
 
The
court considered the moving papers. No opposition was timely
filed. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1005, subd. (b)
[“All papers opposing a motion . . . shall be filed with the court and a copy
served on each party at least nine court days . . . before the hearing.”].)
BACKGROUND
            This action arises from a
contractual dispute.
            On
July 12, 2022, Michael Benincaso filed a complaint against Luke Rottman. The
complaint alleges breach of contract and intentional misrepresentation. 
            On
March 21, 2023, Luke Rottman filed a cross-complaint against Michael Benincaso
and Francesco Benincaso. 
            On
February 13, 2024, Francesco Benincaso filed this motion to quash the service
of the summons and cross-complaint.
LEGAL STANDARD
            “A
defendant, on or before the last day of his or her time to plead or within any
further time that the court may for good cause allow, may serve and file a
notice of motion for one or more of the following purposes: (1) To quash
service of summons on the ground of lack of jurisdiction of the court over him
or her.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 418.10, sudd. (a).)
DISCUSSION
            In support of his motion to quash,
Francesco Benincaso argues substituted service on him was defective. Substituted
service requires, in part, that the summons and complaint be left at the
person’s dwelling house, usual place of abode, usual place of business, or
usual mailing address. (Code Civ. Proc., § 415.20, subd. (b).) Luke Rottman’s
process server left the summons and cross-complaint at the home of Michael
Benincaso’s wife. (Michael Benincaso Decl., ¶ 3; Ex. 1.) However, this location
is not Francesco Benincaso’s dwelling house, usual place of abode, usual place
of business, or usual mailing address. (Francesco Benincaso Decl., ¶ 4; Michael
Benincaso Decl., ¶ 5.) Thus, substituted service on Francesco Benincaso was
defective.
CONCLUSION
             The court grants Specially Appearing
Cross-Defendant’s motion to quash service of the summons and cross-complaint.
            Plaintiff
shall give notice.