 Case Number:  22AHCV00729    Hearing Date:   December 6, 2023    Dept:  X    Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Joel L. Lofton,
Department X
 
 
HEARING DATE:      December 6, 2023                               TRIAL DATE: March 5, 2024
                                                           
CASE:                         MIKE MARGULLIS, an
individual, v. GENERAL MOTORS LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, and
DOES 1 through 10, inclusive.  
 
CASE NO.:                 22AHCV00729
 
            
 
MOTION
TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES

 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff Mike Margullis
 
RESPONDING PARTY:      No
response filed. 
 
SERVICE:                              Filed October 25, 2023
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED 
 
             Plaintiff moves for an order
compelling Defendant to provide further responses to his requests for the
production of documents. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
            This case arises out of Plaintiff
Mike Margullis’s (“Plaintiff”) lemon law claim for a 2018 Chevrolet Silverado,
Vehicle Identification Number 3GCPCREC7JG322418 (“Subject Vehicle”). Plaintiff
filed a first amended complaint (“FAC”) on January 17, 2023, alleging four
causes of action against Defendant General Motors LLC (“Defendant”) for (1)
violation of the Song-Beverly Act – Breach of Express Warranty, (2) violation
of the Song-Beverly Act – Breach of Implied Warranty, (3) violation of the
Song-Beverly Act section 1793.2, and (4) Fraud – Fraudulent Inducement –
Concealment.
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Plaintiff’s
motion to compel further responses is denied without prejudice. Plaintiff may
resubmit this motion with a code-compliant separate statement within 10 days of
this order.
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
On receipt of a response to discovery requests, the party requesting may
move for an order compelling further responses for interrogatories (Code Civ.
Proc. 2030.300), requests for admission (Cod. Civ. Proc. section 2033.290), and
request for production (Code Civ. Proc. section 2031.310). “Unless notice of
this motion is given within 45 days of the service of the verified response, or
any supplemental verified response, or any specific later date to which the
requesting party and the responding party have agreed in writing, the
requesting party waives any right to compel further response to the requests
for admission.” (Code Civ. Proc. section 2033.290, subd. (c).)
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Plaintiff
moves for an order compelling Defendant to produce further responses to their
requests for the production of documents. Plaintiff provides that he served
written discovery on July 28, 2023. (Jacobson Decl. ¶
29.) Plaintiff provides that Defendant produced boilerplate responses on August
31, 2023. (Id. ¶ 30.) 
 
The court recognizes that Defendant has responded to Plaintiff’s
discovery requests at issue in the present motion with boilerplate objections
that do not specifically address the request at issue. However, similarly,
Plaintiff has submitted a motion to compel further with a separate statement
containing only copy-pasted language that fails to address the specifics of the
discovery sought.
 
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1345 requires a separate
statement to include “[a] statement of the factual and legal reasons for
compelling further responses, answers, or production as to each matter
in dispute”. While Plaintiff facially complies with this requirement by
including a “statement of insufficiency” next to each discovery request,
Plaintiff merely includes stock language claiming that Defendant’s objections
are meritless and boilerplate. Much like Defendant’s boilerplate objections are
unhelpful to Plaintiff, Plaintiff’s boilerplate statements of insufficiency are
not helpful to this court to determine whether further responses should be
ordered as to the specific discovery requests. 
 
Plaintiff’s separate statements fail to
adequately establish a proper reason for this court to compel further responses
as to the specific discovery request. Plaintiff merely repeats language
regarding general principles of Song-Beverly claims but fails to demonstrate
why further responses should be ordered as to each matter. Plaintiff
submitted a 500-page separate statement for 70 requests for the production of
documents with the only unique language consisting of the discovery request at
issue and parts of Defendant’s response. 
 
Plaintiffs’ motion to compel further
responses is denied. Plaintiff may file another motion to compel further with a
code-compliant separate statement. 
 
CONCLUSION
 
            Plaintiff’s
motion to compel further responses is denied without prejudice. Plaintiff may
resubmit this motion with a code-compliant separate statement within 10 days of
this order.
 
            Moving
party to provide notice. 
 
            
Dated:   December 6, 2023                                         ___________________________________
                                                                                    Joel
L. Lofton
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court


Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the court
indicating their 
intention to submit.  alhdeptx@lacourt.org
