

 
BACKGROUND
            
            On
September 22, 2022, Plaintiff Raul Garcia (“Plaintiff”) filed this action
against Defendants Kathleen Miyashiro (“Miyashiro”), Ana Francisca Beltran
Gomez (“Gomez”), John Doe, and Does 1 to 5, asserting two causes of action for
(1) motor vehicle and (2) general negligence. 
 
            The Attachment
to the Complaint for the second cause of action alleges the following. On
September 26, 2020, Defendant John Doe negligently owned, operated, maintained,
controlled, and/or drove their motor vehicle at a dangerously high speed. As John
Doe approached the traffic ahead of them in lane “#5,” they abruptly changed
into lane #4, rear-ending Defendant Gomez’s vehicle and causing it to spin out
of control towards Defendant Miyashiro’s vehicle in lane #5. Miyashiro evaded Gomez’s
vehicle by moving to the right onto lane #6 and, in doing so, caused her
vehicle to collide with a vehicle in front of them in which Plaintiff was a
passenger. As a direct and proximate result of that collision, Plaintiff was
severely injured. 
 
            On August
11, 2023, Armen Shaghzo, Esq. (“Counsel”) filed the instant motion to be
relieved as Plaintiff’s counsel of record. 
 
            As of
November 9, 2023, no opposition to the motion has been filed. 
 
            A non-jury
trial is scheduled for March 21, 2024, and an Order to Show Cause Re: Failure
to File Proof of Service on September 25, 2025. 
 
MOVING PARTY’S
POSITION
 
            Counsel
states there has been a breakdown in communication between him and Plaintiff. If
the Court desires further information, Counsel asks the Court to have an
in-camera hearing outside the presence of all other parties to protect
attorney-client privilege.  
 
OPPOSITION
 
            None.
 
REPLY
 
            None. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
I.          MOTION TO
RECLASSIFY CASE AS UNLIMITED 
A.        Legal
Standard 
Under
California Rules of Court, rule 3.1362, an attorney moving to be relieved as
counsel must do the following:
 
(1)  
File a notice of
motion and motion directed to the client (made on the Notice of Motion and
Motion to be Relieved as Counsel -- Civil form (MC-051));
 
(2)  
Submit a declaration
stating in general terms and without compromising the confidentiality of the
attorney-client relationship why a motion under Code of Civil Procedure section
284(2) is brought instead of filing a consent under Code of Civil Procedure
section 284(1) (made on the Declaration in Support of Attorney’s Motion to Be
Relieved as Counsel -- Civil form (MC-052)); 
 
(3)  
Serve the notice of
motion and motion, declaration, and proposed order on the client and on all
other parties who have appeared in the case; and 
 
(4)  
Lodge a proposed order
relieving counsel (prepared on the Order Granting Attorney’s Motion to be
Relieved as Counsel -- Civil form (MC-053)).
 
B.        Discussion 
 
Counsel
states that there has been a breakdown in his communications with Plaintiff.
Specifically, Plaintiff has failed to contact Counsel after a year of Counsel’s
attempts to reach him at his last known address and phone number. (Declaration
in Support of Attorney’s Motion to be Relieved as Counsel-Civil (MC-052), Item
3c.) 
 
The Court
finds that Counsel has provided a valid reason for withdrawal. (See Cal. Rules
Prof. Conduct, rule 1.16(b)(4) [allowing an attorney to withdraw from
representing if “the client by other conduct renders it unreasonably difficult
for the lawyer to carry out the representation effectively …”].) 
 
The Court
also finds that Counsel has complied with California Rules of Court, rule
3.1362, by filing the required forms. The Court notes that Counsel put in his
moving papers that the hearing date for this motion was September 26, 2023. At
the time of filing of the motion, that was correct. The Court, on its own
motion, continued the hearing to its current date of November 15, 2023. (See
Minute Order, dated September 21, 2023 [asking the clerk to give notice of the
continued hearing to Plaintiff and ordering Plaintiff to give notice to other
parties].) 
 
In light
of the findings above and the fact that there is no evidence that Counsel’s
withdrawal will prejudice Plaintiff, the Court finds it proper to grant the
motion.
 
II.        CONCLUSION 
            
            Armen Shaghzo, Esq.’s
Motion to be Relieved as Counsel is GRANTED. Counsel will be relieved as
counsel of record for Plaintiff Raul Garcia upon counsel filing a proof of service
of the signed “Order Granting Attorney’s Motion to be Relieved as Counsel –
Civil.”
 
Moving party to give notice.  