

 
BACKGROUND
            
            On March
15, 2023, Plaintiff Western Surety Company (“Plaintiff” or “Western”) filed
this action against Defendants The Big Company, Inc. dba Capo Fireside, KS
Construction and Design, Inc., CB Design Build, LLC fka Caymus Builders, LLC,
Walter Schild, and Does 1 through 75, inclusive, asserting one cause of action
for interpleader. 
 
            The
Complaint alleges the following, among other things. On or about January 2016,
Defendants The Big Company, Inc. dba Capo Fireside and Does 1 through 5,
inclusive, made a written application to Plaintiff for a surety bond pursuant
to Business and Professions Code section 7071.6. (Compl., ¶ 6.) “In consideration of
said [surety application] and the payment of a premium, [Plaintiff] issued … Bond
No. 71353669 in the penal sum of $15,000, effective on or about January I,
2016.” (Compl., ¶ 7.) It is alleged by claimants to the bond that Defendants The
Big Company, Inc. dba Capo Fireside and Does 1 through 5 have committed some
act giving rise to liability on the bond. (Compl., ¶ 8.) However, those defendants have denied
liability and have not authorized Plaintiff to pay the bond to the claimants.
(Compl., ¶ 8.) Therefore, Plaintiff seeks a judgment ordering all defendants to
interplead and litigate their respective rights and claims against the bond.
(Compl., p. 4:17-18.) 
 
            On May 30, 2023, Defendant KS
Construction and Design, Inc. filed its Answer. 
 
            On July 28, 2023, Plaintiff filed
the instant motion to deposit by stakeholder. Also, on that day, Plaintiff
dismissed Defendant Walter Schild. 
 
            On August 16, 2023, Plaintiff
amended the Complaint to substitute Steve Shpilsky for the defendant sued
fictitiously as Doe 6 and Jennifer Shpilsky for the defendant sued as Doe 7
(collectively, the “Shpilsky Defendants”). 
 
On October 16, 2023, the Court continued the hearing for
the instant motion to deposit to October 16, 2023, and ordered Plaintiff to
serve the moving papers on the Shpilsky Defendants. 
 
On October 30, 2023, Plaintiff filed proofs of service,
indicating that it had served the Shpilsky Defendants with the Summons,
Complaint, instant motion, and other documents. That same day, Plaintiff
dismissed KS Construction and Design, Inc. 
 
            As of November 11, 2023, no opposition
or reply has been filed. 
 
MOVING PARTY’S
POSITION
 
Plaintiff moves for an order (1) for
deposit, (2) restraining order, and (3) interpleader and attorney’s fees. Specifically,
Plaintiff asks the Court to make the following order:
 
1.     
WESTERN [shall] deposit with the Court the full penalty
of Bond No. 71353669 in the sum of $15,000 issued on behalf of THE BIG COMPANY,
INC., dba CAPO FIRESIDE, a corporation (hereinafter referred to as ‘CAPO
FIRESIDE’) in accordance with the terms and provisions of Section 7071.6 of the
Business and Professions Code less those sums that the Court may award WESTERN
in reasonable attorney’s fees and costs.
2.     
Upon the deposit of said funds, WESTERN [shall] be
discharged from all liability asserted against it with respect to said bond by
the claimants designated herein and by all other persons.
3.     
Upon deposit of said funds, all claimants designated
herein, and all persons [are] ordered to interplead their claims in this
action; and [are] further restrained from instituting or prosecuting in any
other court, any proceedings affecting the rights and obligations of WESTERN
with respect to all claimants under Bond No. 71353669 issued on behalf of CAPO
FIRESIDE.
4.     
Any legal actions pending against the proceeds of said
bond on behalf of any claimant referenced herein to be dismissed as to WESTERN.
5.     
WESTERN be awarded its reasonable attorney's fees and
court costs in the sum of $1,800 as allowance for its expenses incurred in this
proceeding by the filing of its Complaint in Interpleader and in preserving the
penalty of said bond for all claimants on an equal basis.
 
Motion, p. 2:3-18.
 
The requested order is based on the
fact that (1) Plaintiff has no interest in the $15,000 bond it issued to The
Big Company Inc. dba Capo Fireside, (2) the defendant claimants have asserted
conflicting demands on Plaintiff for the bond and Plaintiff cannot determine
which demand is valid, (3) Plaintiff is entitled to a permanent restraining
order pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 386, subdivision (f), and (4)
Plaintiff is entitled to an allowance for its reasonable attorney’s fees and
court costs in accordance with the provisions of Code of Civil Procedure
section 386.6. 
 
OPPOSITION
 
            None. 
 
 
REPLY
 
            None. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
I.          MOTION TO
DEPOSIT BY STAKEHOLDER 
A.        Legal
Standard 
“An interpleader action is
traditionally viewed as two suits: one between the stakeholder and the
claimants to determine the stakeholder’s right to interplead, and the other
among the claimants to determine who shall receive the funds interpleaded.” State
Farm Fire & Cas. Co. v. Pietak (2001) 90 Cal.App.4th 600, 612; see Code
Civ. Proc., § 386, subd. (a) (“Section 386”) (“Any person, firm, corporation,
association or other entity against whom double or multiple claims are made, or
may be made, by two or more persons which are such that they may give rise to
double or multiple liability, may bring an action against the claimants to
compel them to interplead and litigate their several claims”).  
 
“Code of Civil Procedure section 386.5 (section 386.5) governs discharge
of a stakeholder.” Hood
v. Gonzales (2019) 43
Cal.App.5th 57, 81 (“Hood”). 
 
“It provides: ‘Where
the only relief sought against one of the [parties] is the payment of a stated
amount of money alleged to be wrongfully withheld, such [party] may, upon
affidavit that … [1] [it] is a mere stakeholder with no interest in the
amount or any portion thereof and [2] that conflicting demands have been
made upon … [it] for the amount by parties to the action, upon
notice to such parties, apply to the court for an order discharging …[it] from
liability and dismissing … [it] from the action … [upon] depositing with the
clerk of the court the amount in dispute and the court may, in its discretion,
make such order.’ (§ 386.5.)” Hood, supra,
43 Cal.App.5th at p. 81 (emphasis added).
 
B.        Discussion 
 
            Plaintiff’s
counsel has submitted an affidavit in support of the instant motion, attesting
to the following facts. 
 
“The subject matter of this
Motion is a $15,000 Contractor’s State License Bond issued to THE BIG COMPANY,
INC., da CAPO FIRESIDE, a corporation (hereinafter ‘CAPO FIRESIDE’), as
principal. The bond was issued pursuant to Business and Professions Code
Section 7071.6 and is in the penal sum of $15,000. The penal sum of the bond
was increased from $7,500 to $10,000 in accordance with California law on or
about January 1, 2004 for the benefit of homeowner/claimants who qualify to be
paid under Business & Professions Code Section 7071.5 (a). The penal sum of
the bond was increased from $10,000 to $12,500 in accordance with California
law on or about January 1, 2007 for the benefit of homeowners/claimants who
qualify to be paid under Business & Professions Code Section 7071.5(a). The
penal sum of the bond was increased from $12,500 to $15,000 in accordance with
California law on or about January 1, 2016 for the benefit of homeowners/claimants
who qualify to be paid under Business & Professions Code Section 7071.5(a).
In view of the homeowner claims, the maximum liability for all claims is
$15,000 as provided for by the bond and by the Code.” Motion, declaration of
Carlos E. Sosa (“Sosa Decl.”), ¶ 2.
 
“A verified
Complaint in Interpleader was filed by WESTERN naming various claimants.” Sosa Decl., ¶ 3. 
 
The
following claimants have been served with the Summons and Complaint in this
action: (1) the Big Company dba Capo Fireside, (2) KS Construction and Design,
Inc., (3) CB Design Build, LLC fka Caymus Builders, LLC, and (4) Walter Schild.
Sosa Decl., ¶ 4. As stated above in the
background section of this tentative, Plaintiff also served the Shpilsky
Defendants with the Summons and Complaint. 
 
“WESTERN has
no interest in the proceeds of Bond No. 71353669 and is a mere stakeholder with
respect thereto pursuant to CCP 386.5. WESTERN denies liability to all
claimants.” Sosa Decl., ¶ 8. 
 
The Court finds
that Plaintiff has satisfied the requirements of Code of Civil Procedure
section 386.5 for discharge by (1) providing an affidavit stating that (a) Plaintiff
is merely a stakeholder with no interest in the amount or any portion of the
bond at issue and (b) that conflicting demands have been made upon it for the
amount by parties to the action, and (2) providing notice of the moving papers
to the other parties. See Motion, the second to the last page – Proof of
Service by Mail (showing that on July 28, 2023, Plaintiff served the moving
papers on all named defendants in this action, except Walter Schild, who was
dismissed on the day of service). No opposition has been filed disputing that
Plaintiff is merely a stakeholder and that conflicting demands for the bond
have been made upon it. 
 
Accordingly,
the Court grants Plaintiff’s request “for an order discharging [it] from
liability and dismissing [it] from [this] action on [its] depositing with the
clerk of the court the amount in dispute ….” Code Civ. Proc., § 386.5. 
 
“After … [a] complaint … in
interpleader has been filed, the court in which it is filed may enter its order
restraining all parties to the action from instituting or further prosecuting
any other proceeding in any court in this state affecting the rights and
obligations as between the parties to the interpleader until further order of
the court.” Code Civ. Proc., § 386, subd. (f).
 
Here, Plaintiff seeks an order
restraining all claimants in this action from instituting or prosecuting in any
court proceedings affecting Plaintiff’s rights and obligations to the claimants
with respect to the bond. Plaintiff’s
counsel testifies that a permanent restraining order of further litigation
relating to the bond is necessary to protect Plaintiff from further expense and
potential harassment. Sosa
Decl., ¶ 9. 
 
The Court grants
Plaintiff’s request for a restraining order. 
 
Finally,
Plaintiff seeks attorney’s fees and costs of only $1,800 even though counsel
testifies (and has attached itemized statements showing) that Plaintiff
incurred fees and costs exceeding that amount. Sosa Decl., ¶
6; Exhibit 1 – copies of the itemized billing statements.
 
“To obtain attorney fees under section 386.6, an
interpleader plaintiff … must follow all the requirements of section 386 and
386.5, including [1] disavowing any interest in the amount or property being
interpleaded; [2] depositing that amount with, or delivering said property to,
the court; and [3] seeking and obtaining a discharge from liability.” Hood, supra, 43 Cal.App.5th at pp. 81-82; see
also UAP-Columbus JV 326132 v. Nesbitt (1991) 234 Cal.App.3d 1028, 1036 (Under
“[s]ection 386.6 subdivision (a) … ‘A party to an action who follows the
procedure set forth in Section 386 or 386.5 may insert in his ... complaint ...
a request for allowance of his costs and reasonable attorney fees incurred in
such action. In ordering the discharge of such party, the court may, in its
discretion, award such party his costs and reasonable attorney fees from the
amount in dispute which has been deposited with the court’” (emphasis
added)). 
 
Here, Plaintiff has
followed the requirements of Sections 386 and 386.5 of the Code of Civil
Procedure. The Court also finds the requested attorney’s fees and costs
reasonable. 
 
Accordingly, the Court
grants Plaintiff’s request for attorney’s fees and costs of $1,800.  
 
II.        CONCLUSION 
            
            Plaintiff Western Surety
Company’s Motion to Deposit by Stakeholder, for Discharge of Stakeholder, and
Request for Attorney’s Fees is GRANTED. The Court makes the following order:
 
1.     
Plaintiff shall deposit with the Court the full penalty
of Bond No. 71353669 in the sum of $15,000 issued on behalf of The Big
Company, Inc., dba Capo Fireside, a corporation (hereinafter referred to as
“Capo Fireside”) in accordance with the terms and provisions of Section 7071.6
of the Business and Professions Code less $1,800 that the Court has
awarded the Plaintiff as attorney’s fees and costs.
2.     
Upon depositing said funds and filing and serving a proof
of service showing that it has deposited such funds, Plaintiff shall be
discharged from all liability asserted against it with respect to said bond by
the claimants designated in this case and by all other persons.
3.     
Upon Plaintiff’s depositing said funds and filing and
serving a proof of service showing that it has deposited such funds, all
claimants designated in this case, and all other persons are ordered to
interplead their claims in this action; and are further restrained from
instituting or prosecuting in any other court, any proceedings affecting
Plaintiff’s rights and obligations with respect to all claimants under Bond No.
71353669 issued on behalf of Capo Fireside.
4.     
Any legal actions pending against the proceeds of said
bond on behalf of any claimant referenced herein to be dismissed as to
Plaintiff.
 The Court sets an Order to Show Cause Re:  Disbursement of Funds for 01/16/2024 at 9:30 a.m. in Department 25 of the Spring Street Courthouse.
Moving party to give to give notice. 