


 
BACKGROUND
 
On December 29, 2021, Plaintiff Labor Commissioner, State
of California (“Plaintiff” or “Labor Commissioner”) filed an action against
Defendants Benbaroukh, LLC (“Benbaroukh”), Elias Shokrian (“Shokrian”), and
Edward Villegas aka Eduardo Villegas (“Villegas”), (collectively “Defendants”),
for (1) foreclosure of mechanic’s lien, (2) unpaid regular wages, (3) overtime
wages (Labor Code § 510), (4) liquidated damages (Labor Code § 1194.2), (5)
waiting time penalties (Labor Code § 203), (6) unreimbursed business expenses
and attorney’s fees (Labor Code § 2802), (7)¿itemized wage statements (Labor
Code § 226), and (8) late payment of wages (Labor Code § 210). 
 
On September 22, 2022, Defendants Benbaroukh, LLC, and
Shokrian, filed a joint Answer to the Complaint. 
 
Defendant Benbaroukh also filed a Cross-Complaint for
breach of contract against Cross-Defendants Fredy E. Donato Duarte (“Duarte”)
and Oscar Antonio Beltran Pineda (“Pineda”) and for declaratory relief against
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Labor Commissioner and Cross-Defendants Duarte and
Pineda. 
 
            On August 29
and 30, 2023, Plaintiff filed motions to compel attendance at deposition and
production of documents for Defendants Elias Shokrian and Benbaroukh, LLC.
 
            To date, no
oppositions have been filed.
 
MOVING PARTY
POSITION
 
            Plaintiff
requests orders compelling Elias Shokrian and Person Most Knowledgable at
Benbaroukh, LLC to appear for examination at their deposition and to produce
the documents specified in the deposition notice and for monetary sanctions.
Defendant failed to serve a valid objection under Section 2025.410, and failed
to attend their deposition, forcing Labor Commissioner to now move this Court
for an order to compel, as authorized by statute. (Diaz-Weaver Decl. at ¶¶
16-17.)
 
OPPOSITION
 
            None.
 
REPLY
 
            None.
ANALYSIS
 
I.          Motion
to Compel Attendance at Deposition 
A.               
Legal Standard 
Code of Civil Procedure §
2025.450(a) provides:  
 
“If, after service of a deposition notice, a party to the
action or an officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a party, or a
person designated by an organization that is a party under Section 2025.230,
without having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails to appear
for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for inspection any
document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the
deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move for an order compelling
the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the production for inspection of
any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in
the deposition notice.” 
 
The motion shall “(1) set forth
specific facts showing good cause justifying the production for inspection of
any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in
the deposition notice” and “(2) be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration
under Section 2016.040, or, when the deponent fails to attend the deposition
and produce the documents, electronically stored information, or things
described in the deposition notice, by a declaration stating that the
petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire about the
nonappearance.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.450(b)(2).) 
 
A court shall impose monetary
sanctions in favor of the moving party if the motion to compel is granted,
unless “the one subject to sanction acted with substantial justification or
that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust. 
(Code. Civ. Proc., § 2025.450(g)(1).)  
 
B.                
Analysis
 
a.     
Defendant Elias Shokrian
 
In April
2023, Labor Commissioner propounded discovery on Defendant Elias Shokrian including
a notice for deposition of Defendant and production of documents at deposition.
(Diaz-Weaver Decl. at ¶ 4.) On May 11, 2023, Defendant asked for an extension
on the deposition and all written discovery. (Diaz-Weaver Decl. at ¶ 5.) Due to
the trial originally being set on June 28, 2023, Labor Commissioner told
Defendant that the only way extensions could be agreeable was with a continued
trial date. (Diaz-Weaver Decl. at ¶ 6.) However, Plaintiff informed Defendant
that if there was not a continuance, then Plaintiff would be present at the
deposition set for May 16, 2023. (Id.) Defendant agreed to prepare and
file a stipulation to continue trial, however the stipulation was not drafted. (Diaz-Weaver
Decl. at ¶ 7.) On May 13, 2023, Plaintiff informed Defendant that she did not
receive a stipulation, nor notice of an ex parte hearing to continue the trial
and therefore would be attending the deposition set for May 16, 2023, because
the court reporter had to be confirmed. (Id.) Defendant failed to appear
at the first noticed deposition and produce documents. (Id. ¶ 8.)
Plaintiff agreed to reschedule the deposition.
On July 14,
2023, Plaintiff propounded on Defendant Elias Shokrian, via email, a notice for
deposition, to take place on August 8, 2023. (Diaz-Weaver Decl. at ¶ 14.) The
deposition notice also instructed the deponent to produce for inspection
numerous documents related to the time keeping records, payments, personnel
records, and payroll records of the Defendant. (Id.) The documents
described in the deposition notices were substantially identical to the
documents requested in the Plaintiff’s Requests for Production of Documents to
Defendant. (Id.)
On July 20,
2023, Defendant’s counsel responded to Plaintiff’s email and stated that he would
withdraw as counsel the following day. (Diaz-Weaver Decl. at ¶ 15.) That same
day, Plaintiff responded and confirmed the depositions were to stay on
calendar, provided the link for the virtual depositions, and resent the
deposition notices. (Id.) Defendant did not object or communicate
further with Labor Commissioner regarding the deposition set for August 8,
2023. (Id. at ¶¶ 16-17.) On August 8, 2023, Labor Commissioner attended
the noticed deposition and waited over an hour for Defendant’s appearance. (Id.
at ¶ 17.) Defendant did not appear. (Id.)
Labor
Commissioner sent Defendant’s counsel an email to attempt to meet and confer
regarding outstanding discovery and the missed depositions on August 11, 2023.
(Diaz-Weaver Decl. at ¶ 18.) Defendant’s counsel responded the same day stating
that the motions would be going out that day. (Diaz-Weaver Decl. at ¶ 19.)
Plaintiff assumes counsel was referring to the motions to withdraw.
(Diaz-Weaver Decl. at ¶ 20.)
As to good cause, Plaintiff argues the documents in the
deposition are relevant and discoverable. Plaintiff’s suit is based on the fact
that Defendants failed to pay earned wages for works of permanent improvement
upon a piece of real property. (Diaz-Wever Decl. at ¶ 3.) Plaintiff brought a
number of causes of action based on these allegations, including foreclosure of
the mechanic’s lien, regular wages, liquidated damages, and waiting time
penalties. The deposition notices instructed the deponent to produce for
inspection numerous documents related to the time keeping records, personnel
records, payment records, and the construction work at the property owned by Defendant. (Diaz-Weaver Decl. at ¶ 4,
14.) The documents described in the deposition notices were substantially
identical to the documents requested in the Plaintiff’s Requests for Production
of Documents to each of the respective defendants. (Id.)
Plaintiff has submitted evidence
that Defendant was served with a Notice of Taking Deposition and attempts to
meet and confer regarding outstanding discovery and the missed deposition. Plaintiff
further demonstrates good cause for seeking to compel production of documents
at the deposition. Plaintiff provides that the documents requested are calculated
towards determining the work done by the employees on Defendant’s property, the
work agreements, the times they worked, and any payments made by Defendants to
the workers—all matters material to Plaintiff’s causes of action.  
For these reasons, the Court
finds that Plaintiff has satisfied the requirements of Code of Civil Procedure
§ 2025.450 and is, thus, entitled to compel Defendant’s attendance at
deposition and production of documents. 
 
b.     
Defendant Benbaroukh, LLC
In April
2023, Labor Commissioner propounded discovery on Defendant, including a notice
of Defendant and production of documents at deposition. (Diaz-Weaver Decl. at ¶
4.) On May 11, 2023, Defendant asked for an extension on the deposition and all
written discovery. (Diaz-Weaver Decl. at ¶ 5.) Due to the trial originally
being set on June 28, 2023, Labor Commissioner told Defendant that the only way
extensions could be agreeable was with a continued trial date. (Diaz-Weaver
Decl. at ¶ 6.) However, Plaintiff informed Defendant that if there was not a continuance,
then Plaintiff would be present at the deposition set for May 16, 2023. (Id.)
Defendant agreed to prepare and file a stipulation to continue trial, however
the stipulation was not drafted. (Diaz-Weaver Decl. at ¶ 7.) On May 13, 2023,
Plaintiff informed Defendant that she did not receive a stipulation, nor notice
of an ex parte hearing to continue the trial and therefore would be attending the
deposition set for May 16, 2023, because the court reporter had to be
confirmed. (Id.) Defendant failed to appear at the first noticed
deposition and produce documents. (Id. ¶ 8.) Plaintiff agreed to
reschedule the deposition.
On July 14,
2023, Plaintiff propounded on Defendant Benbaroukh, LLC via email, a notice for
deposition, to take place on August 8, 2023. (Diaz-Weaver Decl. at ¶ 14.) The
deposition notice also instructed the deponent to produce for inspection of
numerous documents related to the time keeping records, payments, personnel
records, and payroll records of the Defendant. (Id.) The documents
described in the deposition notices that were substantially identical to the
documents requested in the Plaintiff’s Requests for Production of Documents to
Defendant. (Id.)
On July 20,
2023, Defendant’s counsel responded to Plaintiff’s email and stated that he would
withdraw as counsel the following day. (Diaz-Weaver Decl. at ¶ 15.) That same
day, Plaintiff responded and confirmed the depositions were to stay on
calendar, provided the link for the virtual depositions, and resent the
deposition notices. (Id.) Defendant did not object or communicate
further with Labor Commissioner regarding the deposition set for August 8,
2023. (Id. at ¶¶ 16-17.) On August 8, 2023, Labor Commissioner attended
the noticed deposition and waited over an hour for Defendant’s appearance. (Id.
at ¶ 17.) Defendant did not appear. (Id.)
Labor
Commissioner sent Defendant’s counsel an email to attempt to meet and confer
regarding outstanding discovery and the missed depositions on August 11, 2023.
(Diaz-Weaver Decl. at ¶ 18.) Defendant’s counsel responded the same day stating
that the motions would be going out that day. (Diaz-Weaver Decl. at ¶ 19.)
Plaintiff assumes counsel was referring to the motions to withdraw.
(Diaz-Weaver Decl. at ¶ 20.)
As to good cause, Plaintiff argues the documents in the
deposition are relevant and discoverable. Plaintiff’s suit is based on the fact
that Defendants failed to pay earned wages for works of permanent improvement
upon a piece of real property. (Diaz-Wever Decl. at ¶ 3.) Plaintiff brought a
number of causes of action based on these allegations, including foreclosure of
the mechanic’s lien, regular wages, liquidated damages, and waiting time
penalties. The deposition notices instructed the deponent to produce for
inspection numerous documents related to the time keeping records, personnel
records, payment records, and the construction work at the property owned by Defendant. (Diaz-Weaver Decl. at ¶ 4,
14.) The documents described in the deposition notices were substantially
identical to the documents requested in the Plaintiff’s Requests for Production
of Documents to each of the respective defendants. (Id.)
Plaintiff has submitted evidence
that Defendant was served with a Notice of Taking Deposition and attempts to
meet and confer regarding outstanding discovery and the missed deposition.
Plaintiff further demonstrates good cause for seeking to compel production of
documents at the deposition. Plaintiff provides that the documents requested
are calculated towards determining the work done by the employees on Defendant’s
property, the work agreements, the times they worked, and any payments made by Defendants
to the workers—all matters material to Plaintiff’s causes of action.  
For these reasons, the Court
finds that Plaintiff has satisfied the requirements of Code of Civil Procedure
§ 2025.450 and is, thus, entitled to compel Defendant’s attendance at
deposition and production of documents. 
 
c.      
Monetary Sanctions
 
Code of Civil Procedure §
2023.030(a) provides, in pertinent part, that the court may impose a monetary
sanction on a party engaging in the misuse of the discovery process to pay the
reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result
of that conduct.  A misuse of the discovery process includes failing to
respond or to submit to an authorized method of discovery.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2023.010(d).)  In addition, a court shall impose monetary
sanctions if a motion to compel a deposition is granted unless “the one subject
to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  (Code. Civ.
Proc. § 2025.450(g)(1).) 
 
The Court awards sanctions in the amount of
$700 per motion, which is based on a reasonable hourly rate of $350, with 1
hour for preparing the motion and 1 hour for attending the hearing.
 
III.       Conclusion 
            
In
light of the foregoing, the Court (1) GRANTS Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Defendant Elias Shokrian’s
Attendance and Testimony and production of documents at Deposition; and (2) GRANTS Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel the
Attendance and Testimony of the Person Most Knowledgeable of Defendant
Benbaroukh, LLC’s and production of documents at Deposition. 
 
The Person Most Qualified
for Benbaroukh, LLC and Elias Shokrian shall appear for their 
Deposition and produce
documents as noticed and set forth in a subpoena by Plaintiff’s counsel.
 
The
Court awards sanctions in the total amount of $1,400 against Defendant and
Defendant’s counsel of record, Neil Evans, joint ant severally, payable within
30-days of the date of this court’s order.

 
            Moving
party to give notice. 