

 
BACKGROUND
 
This case stems from an online interaction
between Tom Maksemous (“Plaintiff”) and Jazmin Escobar (“Defendant”). Plaintiff
filed an initial Complaint on June 16, 2022, which was followed by a First
Amended Complaint (“FAC”), here the operative Complaint, on February 10, 2023.
Plaintiff and Defendant were classmates at the same high school and reconnected
on the internet dating site “okcupid.com”. (FAC, ¶ 1.) 
 
Plaintiff alleges that Defendant made the
claim that if Plaintiff did not visit her on her birthday, Defendant would
“masturbate herself into a coma”. (Id.) Plaintiff then alleges that
several months later, he repeated the statement in jest, along with a
recommendation that Defendant seek a gastrectomy. (Id.) Plaintiff then
alleges that Defendant posted a screenshot of the conversation on her Tumblr
blog which was accessible via a Google search. (FAC, ¶ 2-3.) 
 
After Plaintiff was notified by colleagues,
family, and friends, Plaintiff requested that Defendant and Automattic Inc., –
owner of the Tumblr website – remove the post, but to no avail. (FAC, ¶ 3.)
Plaintiff then filed suit. The FAC contains seven causes of action:
 
1.      Violation Of California Penal Code § 632.7
2.      Intrusion Into Private Affairs In Violation
Of §1708.8
3.      False Light In Violation Of § 1802
4.      Public Disclosure Of Private Facts In
Violation Of § 1801
5.      Misappropriation Of Plaintiff’s Name And Likeness
At Common Law
6.      Intentional Infliction Of Emotional Distress
In Violation Of § 1600
7.      Civil Extortion In Violation Of California Penal
Code § 524
 
The seventh cause of action was struck in the
Court’s prior ruling on the Special Motion to Strike filed pursuant to the
anti-SLAPP statute. Automattic Inc., was later dismissed, leaving Jazmin
Escobar, as the only defendant. Defendant filed the instant Motion for Judgment
on the Pleadings (“MJOP”) on July 13, 2023. Plaintiff filed his Opposition
Papers on August 4, 2023, and Defendant filed her Reply Papers on August 11,
2023.  
 
PRELIMINARY
MATTERS
 
Request for Judicial Notice
 
Defendant requests this Court take judicial
notice of the following:
 
1.                 
the
Notice of Ruling for Defendant’s anti-SLAPP motion, filed April 28, 2023;
2.                 
a copy
of Plaintiff’s motion to transfer, dated May 9, 2023; and
3.                 
a copy of Plaintiff’s opposition to Defendant’s fee
motion, dated June 27, 2023.
 
Pursuant to CEC § 452(d)(1),
the Court will grant the request for judicial notice as to all three
items.           
 
 
MOVING PARTY
POSITION
 
Defendant argues that because of this Court’s holding in the
anti-SLAPP Motion to Strike Order dated April 26, 2023, the six causes of
action that remain from Plaintiff’s FAC all fail because this Court noted that
Plaintiff did not have an “objectively reasonable” expectation of privacy when
sending his messages (citing Flanagan v. Flanagan (2002) 27 Cal.4th
766, 774.)
 
OPPOSITION
 
Plaintiff’s Opposition Papers argue that the Frio
test should apply to the messages exchanged, which would entitle Plaintiff to
have a reasonable expectation of privacy, and therefore, his six remaining
causes of action would stand. 
             
REPLY
 
In her Reply
Papers, Defendant reiterates that the Court has already decided that an
“objectively reasonable” expectation of privacy did not exist, therefore the
six causes of action fall to the instant Motion. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Legal Standard
 
“The grounds for a motion for judgment on the
pleadings must appear on the face of the complaint or from a matter of which
the court may take judicial notice.” (Richardson-Tunnell v. School Ins.
Program for Employees (2007) 157 Cal.App. 4th 1056, 1061,
disapproved on other grounds by Quigley v. Garden Valley Fire Prot. Dist.
(2019) 7 Cal. 5th 798, 815 n.8. Accord  Bufil
v. Dollar Financial Group, Inc. (2008) 162 Cal.App.4th 1193,
1202,  disapproved on other grounds by
Noel v. Thrifty Payless, Inc. (2019) 7 Cal. 5th 955, 986; Saltarelli
& Steponovich v. Douglas (1995) 40 Cal.App.4th 1, 5.) 
 
A motion for judgment on the pleadings
involves the same type of procedures that apply to a general demurrer. (Richardson-Tunnell
v. School Ins. Program for Employees (2007) 157 Cal.App. 4th
1056, 1061,  disapproved on other
grounds by  Quigley v. Garden
Valley Fire Prot. Dist. (2019) 7 Cal. 5th 798, 815 n.8; Burnett v.
Chimney Sweep (2004) 123 Cal. App. 4th 1057, 1064.) In considering a motion
for judgment on the pleadings, courts consider whether properly pled factual
allegations, assumed to be true and liberally construed, are sufficient to
constitute a cause of action. (Stone Street Capital, LLC v. Cal. State
Lottery Com'n (2008) 165 Cal.App.4th 109, 116; Fire Ins. Exchange v.
Sup. Ct. (2004) 116 Cal. App. 4th 446, 452-53.) A motion for judgment on
the pleadings does not lie as to only part of a cause of action. (Fire
Ins. Exch. v. Sup. Ct. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 446, 452.) “[A] motion for
judgment on the pleadings performs the office of a general, not a special,
demurrer...” Fabbro v. Dardi & Co. (1949) 93 Cal. App. 2d 247, 252.)
 
Analysis
 
Before addressing the parties’ contentions,
the Court will reiterate the ruling made on the Special Motion to Strike (Defendant’s
Anti-SLAPP Motion) on April 26, 2023. Specifically, that it would not be
“objectively reasonable” for Plaintiff to believe the conversation was private
at the time he sent the messages. With this in mind, we must acknowledge that
any cause of action with privacy as an element will fall to the instant Motion.
Therefore, as explained below, the Court will grant the Motion in part, and
deny the Motion in part. The instant Motion is granted as to causes of action
one, two, four, five and six, however, it is denied as to the third cause of
action for false light. 
 
The causes of action for (1) Violation of
California Penal Code § 632.7 (2) Intrusion into Private Affairs, (4) Public
Disclosure of Private Facts fail.
 
Causes of action one, two, and four all fail
because each has an element that there be a reasonable expectation of privacy. 
 
California Penal Code § 632.7 reads in
pertinent part: 
 
“Every person who, without the consent of all
of the parties to a communication, intercepts or receives and intentionally
records, or assists in the interception or reception and intentional
recordation of, a communication transmitted between two cellular radio
telephones, a cellular radio telephone and a landline telephone, two cordless
telephones, a cordless telephone and a landline telephone, or a cordless
telephone and a cellular radio telephone, shall be punished by a fine not
exceeding two thousand five hundred dollars…”

As this Court noted in its ruling on the anti-SLAPP motion, Plaintiff cites to
no case authority addressing how the screenshotting and then posting of
messages exchanged on a dating website fall within its purview. Therefore, the
cause of action fails. 
 
Intrusion into private affairs and public
disclosure of private facts both contain the element of privacy. “The common
law cause of action for invasion of privacy based upon intrusion ‘has two
elements: (1) [intentional] intrusion into a private place, conversation or
matter, (2) in a manner highly offensive to a reasonable person.’” (Marich
v. MGM/UA Telecommunications, Inc. (2003) 113 Cal.App.4th 415,
422.) 
 
To prevail on a claim for invasion of privacy by means of
the publication of private facts, plaintiff must prove (1) public disclosure (2)
of a private fact (3) which would be offensive and
objectionable to a reasonable person and (4) which is not of legitimate public
concern. (Morrow v. Los Angeles Unified School Dist. (2007) 149
Cal.App.4th 1424, 1440.)
 
As noted, it would not be “objectively
reasonable” for Plaintiff to believe the conversation was private when he sent
those messages to Defendant. Therefore, both the cause of action for intrusion
into private affairs and public disclosure of private facts are missing the
privacy element and must fail. 
 
The fifth cause of action for
misappropriation fails because there is no sufficient allegation of Defendant
obtaining a commercial advantage or otherwise
 
“To sustain a common law cause of action for commercial
misappropriation, a plaintiff must prove: (1) the defendant’s use of the
plaintiff’s identity; (2) the appropriation of plaintiff’s name or likeness to
defendant’s advantage, commercially or otherwise; (3) lack of consent; and (4)
resulting injury.” (Stewart v. Rolling Stone LLC (2010) 181 Cal.App.4th
664, 679, quotation marks omitted.) California law also provides a statutory
claim for commercial misappropriation under Civil Code section 3344, which
requires that the plaintiff “prove all the elements of the common law cause of
action” as well as “allege a knowing use by the defendant as well as a direct
connection between the alleged use and the commercial purpose.” (Stewart v.
Rolling Stone LLC, supra, 181 Cal.App.4th at p. 679.)
 
Defendant argues that Plaintiff will be
unable to demonstrate lack of consent or resulting injury. First, Plaintiff has
made clear that he did not consent to Defendant using his name nor screenshots
of the conversation on her Tumblr blog. (See generally the FAC and Opposition
Papers.) Second, the resulting injury is one that is speculative in nature,
however, in awarding future damages, a fact finder necessarily engages in a
certain degree of speculation, but speculation cannot be solely relied upon.
(See 23 Cal. Jur. 3d Damages § 29.) Plaintiff alleges that he has
suffered emotional, monetary, and vocational damages as a result of the Tumblr
post. (See Opposition Papers, pg. 2.) In awarding damages, it is possible that
the fact finder may rely on whether Plaintiff’s future earning may be affected.
(Burr v. Gross (1949) 91 Cal.App. 2d 351, 356.) Damages that are
speculative, remote, imaginary, contingent, or merely possible cannot serve as
a legal basis for recovery. (Regalado v. Callaghan (2016) 3 Cal.App.5th
582, 602.) However, here, not only is it possible that the damages may be
ascertained with some degree of certainty, but monetary damages are not the
only remedy Plaintiff is requesting. Plaintiff also requests an injunction,
requiring Defendant to take down the post. (See FAC, Prayer for Relief.) 
 
The fifth cause of
action does not fail for reasons of failure to demonstrate lack of consent or
resulting injury, it fails because Plaintiff has not alleged in which way
Defendant has benefited, commercially or otherwise. In his Opposition Papers,
Plaintiff argues that “The incomplete and out-of-context conversation puts
Defendant Escobar in an advantageous position because she appears to be
rejecting Plaintiff’s advances.” This fails to satisfy the second element to
this cause of action. Therefore, the Motion will be granted as to this cause of
action.  
 
The sixth cause of action for intentional
infliction of emotional distress fails
 
“The elements of a prima facie case for the tort of
intentional infliction of emotional distress are: (1) extreme and outrageous
conduct by the defendant with the intention of causing, or reckless disregard
of the probability of causing, emotional distress; (2) the plaintiff’s
suffering severe or extreme emotional distress; and (3) actual and proximate
causation of the emotional distress by the defendant’s outrageous conduct.
Conduct to be outrageous must be so extreme as to exceed all bounds of that
usually tolerated in a civilized community.” (Wilson v. Hynek (2012) 207 Cal.App.4th 999, 1009, citation and
ellipses omitted.)
 
This cause of action fails because it does not allege any
facts demonstrating extreme and outrageous conduct. A defendant's conduct is
considered to be outrageous if “it is so ‘ “ ‘extreme as to exceed all bounds
of that usually tolerated in a civilized community.’ ” ’ ” (Hughes v. Pair,
supra, 46 Cal.4th at p. 1051, 95 Cal.Rptr.3d 636, 209 P.3d 963; see Potter
v. Firestone Tire & Rubber Co. (1993) 6 Cal.4th 965, 1001, 25
Cal.Rptr.2d 550, 863 P.2d 795; see also Rest.2d Torts, § 46, com. d, p. 73.)
California's definition of extreme and outrageous conduct is based on comment d
to section 46 of the Restatement Second of Torts. Generally, the case is one in
which the recitation of the facts to an average member of the community would
arouse his resentment against the actor, and lead him to exclaim, ‘Outrageous!’
” (Rest.2d Torts, § 46, com. d, p. 73.) (Also see Crouch v. Trinity
Christian Center of Santa Ana, Inc., (2019), 39 Cal.App.5th 995
at 1007.)
 
Here, Defendant screenshotted messages of her
conversation with Plaintiff and posted them on a public blog. Plaintiff points
to no caselaw that demonstrates this, or any similar act is considered
outrageous or that it exceeds all bounds usually tolerated in a civilized
community. Therefore, as this first element remains unsatisfied, the cause of
action falls to the instant Motion. 
 
            The
third cause of action for false light withstands the instant Motion
 
“One who gives publicity to a matter
concerning another that places the other before the public in a false light is
subject to liability to the other for invasion of his privacy, if (a) the false
light in which the other was placed would be highly offensive to a reasonable
person, and (b) the actor had knowledge of or acted in reckless disregard as to
the falsity of the publicized matter and the false light in which the other
would be placed.” (Daniel v. Wayans (2017)
8 Cal.App.5th 367, 397, quotations marks omitted.)
 
Although false light is a species of invasion
of privacy, the elements do not require that the information being cast falsely
be enclosed with an objectively reasonable expectation of privacy. Contrary to
what Defendant argues here, just because the Court found there to be no
reasonable expectation of privacy between the parties’ conversation, does not
mean that the cause of action for false light must fail. The Supreme Court case
of Masson v. New Yorker Magazine, Inc. (1991) 501 U.S. 496 (“Masson”)
is instructive here. In Masson, a psychoanalyst sued a magazine for
misquoting passages from a recorded interview and omitting a portion of
another. (Masson, supra, at 502.) The Masson Court concluded that
an exact quotation out of context can distort the meaning. (Id. at 505.)
Those quotations were already public. Balla v. Hall (2021) 59 Cal.App.5th
652, which cites Masson follows suit. When two city council members
brought a case against an opponent who unsuccessfully ran and argued that the
campaign advertisement used by the opponent quoted language out of context, the
Balla Court agreed, even though the language had already been made
public. 
 
Here, the Court can analogize Masson
and Balla to the instant case. Although there was no expectation of
privacy in the conversation, Plaintiff alleges that the sexual comments
directed at Defendant were in jest and were first made by Defendant towards
Plaintiff. A motion for judgment on the pleadings involves the same type of
procedures that apply to a general demurrer, meaning the Court must take the
facts plead as true. Here, the first element has been satisfied, Plaintiff
argues that the out-of-context screenshot makes Plaintiff seem cruel and
sexually perverted. Defendant’s post implies the same: “I was really struggling
with this response today. I went to high school with Tom Maksemous. He was
always kind. He found me on OKC and when I didn’t want to be his sexual play
thing, THIS is how he treat me. #BYFELIPE.” 
 
The second element is fulfilled if, as
alleged, Defendant in fact knew that she had made the comment first and that
Plaintiff was simply repeating it in jest. Therefore, the third cause of action
for false light withstands the instant Motion.    
 
Conclusion
 
Accordingly, Defendant Jazmin Escobar’s
Motion on the Pleadings is GRANTED
in part and DENIED in part. The
Motion is granted as to the first, second, fourth, fifth, and sixth causes of
action. It is denied as to the third cause of action.  
 
Counsel for the Moving Party is ordered to give notice.
 
            