 Case Number:  22SMCV02010    Hearing Date:   April 24, 2024    Dept:  I The court is inclined to DENY the motion for a referee.  This is so for a number of reasons.
 
First, when the court made the earlier comment, there were
more motions pending than the court could count.  But they do appear to have been taken off
calendar.  The court, without more, will
assume that this is because of a real effort made by both sides to work things
out.  Given that, the court does not know
that there are “exceptional circumstances” justifying such an appointment, as
the statute requires.  Second, trial is
about five and a half months away.  The
time necessary to appoint a referee and then review the referee’s
recommendations could be such that the appointment could jeopardize the trial
date.  Third, defendant contends it will
have difficulty affording a referee, although that showing has not really been
made.  But before appointing a referee
where costs are divided or potentially divided, the court would have to be sure
that it would not impose an undue hardship on the defense.
 
That said, the court assumes that the privilege log has been
served by now.  If not, it will be served
no later than 24 hours from now and it will be sufficient to make out a prima
facie case of privilege as to any document withheld.  Further, if supplements have been promised,
they will be provided—verified—within 48 hours from now.  And all responsive documents that are to be
produced will be produced at the same time with a verification that all
responsive documents have been produced or, if not, a verified statement
consistent with section 2031.230.  If
that is not done, then it would be a violation of the prior orders and this
order as well.  Sanctions other than
monetary ones will be on the table.  The
court also assumes, as defendant has stated, that there is now a deposition
schedule that has been agreed upon by the parties.  The court warns the parties not to mess with
that schedule unilaterally.  Given the
difficulties of this case, a unilateral change absent compelling reasons
(usually something like hospitalization) would be viewed poorly by the
court.  If it becomes clear that the
defense is still not complying with its discovery obligations, the court will
entertain a renewal of this motion.
 
The court notes that it has had concerns about the discovery
from both parties—not just plaintiff.
 