 Case Number:  22SMCV00598    Hearing Date:   April 24, 2024    Dept:  I Before the court today are three matters: (1) Fireman’s
Fund’s demurrer; (2) Plaintiffs’ motion for sanctions; and (3) the motion to
seal.  The court will take them in reverse order.
 
As to the motion to seal, the court is inclined at this time
to allow the sealing only of aspects of the papers that actually disclose
Spacey’s medical records or conditions from third parties—that is, individuals
not a party to this case and not Spacey.  The court is not inclined to
allow the sealing of the agreement between Spacey and plaintiffs.  As the
court warned earlier, the public has a right to know what happens in court and
also the bases for the court’s rulings.  For that reason, a document might
well be sealed when it is initially filed—for example a complaint—but not
later.  That is because although the party seeking the sealing order’s
interest is unchanged, the public’s interest does change.  When a
complaint is filed, the court has taken no action.  The public has a right
to know what is going on in court, but that right is of less weight than when
the court is actually making a decision based on the sealed document.  The right is not to be a voyeur.  When
the court makes contested rulings, over-sealing means that the public will not
know the court’s thinking or have a full understanding of proceedings absent
the document.  Of course, even with that heightened interest, some records
ought to remain sealed during motion or pretrial proceedings, and potentially
even at trial.  But with each stage, the public’s interest grows stronger
in the balance.
 
Here, plaintiffs and Spacey reached an accord.  Under
the accord, Spacey has agreed to cooperate with plaintiffs in their effort to
obtain insurance coverage.  To that end, he has agreed to make his medical
records available and do other things that would assist plaintiffs.  The
defense still demurs, contending that the insurance policy at issue does not
cover what happened in this case.  That puts Spacey’s cooperation and
condition directly at issue for purposes of the demurrer.  Moreover, while
the court recognizes that Spacey is not a party to the instant action, he has
inserted himself into it voluntarily.  By entering into a cooperation
agreement with plaintiffs in return for good and sufficient consideration from
plaintiffs, he is no longer a stranger to these proceedings.  By that
action, Spacey’s privacy interest is less than it was before he signed that
contract.  The court is not criticizing the contract or Spacey or
plaintiffs.  There are many good reasons for the contract and an agreement
by Spacey to cooperate with plaintiffs hardly strikes the court as illegal or
unethical.  But what it does do is to make the argument that Spacey’s
private life ought to remain private and not become public by virtue of this
case weaker.
 
The parties are directed to re-file the papers conditionally
under seal redacted per the above.  The unredacted papers can then be
filed under seal.  But if the parties (or
some of them or Spacey) wish to file further briefing, the court notes that
there is another sealing motion set for May 16 2024, and the court may continue
the motion until that time to so allow.
 
The next motion is the motion for sanctions. 
Apparently, when defendant filed its papers, counsel attempted to redact
materials consistent with the parties’ confidentiality agreement (which this
court entered as an order).  However, defense counsel did the redaction in
such a way that a savvy person could go on line and see the redacted
material.  Immediately upon being made aware of this, defendant moved ex
parte to re-file the redacted materials (this time properly).  That
application was, of course, unopposed and was granted.  Even so,
plaintiffs contend that the damage was done.  The information had leaked
out into the press and was now available on the internet.  Plaintiffs seek
sanctions for the breach of the confidentiality stipulation.  The court is
convinced by defendant’s declaration that the filing was an accident and not a
deliberate attempt to circumvent or violate the court’s order.  As soon as
defendant was made aware of the problem, it did an investigation as to what
happened and how, and it took immediate steps to rectify the problem. 
While the court does believe counsel needs to be more careful, a punitive
sanction is not appropriate.  A compensatory sanction would be appropriate
were there any evidence as to any monetary harm to plaintiffs from the
violation.  In other words, if there were evidence that, because of the
violation, plaintiffs were fined or had to pay some fee, the court might direct
the defense to reimburse plaintiffs.  But there is no evidence of that
other than the time plaintiffs’ counsel spent working with the defense to solve
the problem.  The court recognizes that there may have been some harm to
Spacey, but Spacey is not a party to the confidentiality agreement or the
court’s order; he has no standing to seek a compensatory sanction nor has he
put in any evidence that would support one were he to have standing. 
Accordingly, the motion for sanctions is DENIED.
 
Which brings the court to the main course: the
demurrer.  The court is likely to take the matter under submission at the
end or argument.  But the court does have the following questions to help
guide the parties during argument.  These are in no particular order and
by no means are they intended to limit the parties’ discussion today.
 

What is the interplay
     between conduct that would give rise to Spacey’s termination and the
     notion that the conduct might be the result of an illness?
Is it even possible for
     both to be true here, as a matter of contract, given some of the
     contractual language at issue in the arbitration? 

The arbitration
      concerned two different contracts.  One of the contracts at issue,
      the EPA, differentiates between incapacity and default. 
      “Incapacity” is defined therein as a situation where Spacey is prevented
      from performing by reason of his “illness,” “mental, physical or other
      incapacity.” The EPA goes on to say that an “event of ‘default’ ” exists
      where Spacey breaches a material provision of the contract “other than by
      reason of Artist’s Incapacity.”
The FFIC policy states
      that it will pay “such loss . . . you directly and solely sustain by
      reason of any covered person in connection with an insured production,
      being necessarily prevented by their death, injury or sickness . . . from
      commencing or continuing or completing their respective duties or
      performance(s) in an insured production.” 

If the termination is
     based on the conduct and the fact that the conduct was caused by an
     illness was discovered after the termination, what effect does that have
     on coverage? 
What is the alleged
     precise inconsistency between the allegations here and the allegations
     elsewhere (meaning both prior pleadings in this action and the
     arbitration)?
If there is an
     inconsistency, is it sufficient to explain that inconsistency by saying
     that when the prior allegations were made, plaintiffs did not have access
     to Spacey’s records or Spacey’s cooperation? 
What, precisely, was the
     carrier’s alleged duty to investigate?  Assuming the carrier sought
     Spacey’s cooperation but was refused, what further obligations did it
     have?  Did it have an obligation to sue Spacey?  Could it have
     sued Spacey to have sought injunctive relief and access to his medical
     records?  If not, then what is the basis for the bad faith
     allegation?
If the court accepts all
     of the present allegations as true, is it also true that Spacey could not
     have been allowed to continue working on the set due to safety concerns
     relating to others on the set?
Does the insured have
     any duty to continue cooperating with the carrier after the carrier has
     denied coverage?  Does the answer change if the only way to challenge
     the coverage denial is to take an action that undermines subrogation?
What effect, if any,
     does the after-acquired knowledge doctrine have on this case or on
     coverage?

Can plaintiffs properly
      plead that Spacey was “necessarily prevented” from continuing to perform
      where they terminated him based on conduct, at a time where plaintiffs
      had no firm diagnosis that the conduct was due to an illness? 
Along the same lines,
      can plaintiffs properly plead that the loss was “solely and directly” as
      a result of Spacey’s illness where he was terminated due to an
      investigation of his conduct by an investigator and attorney?  Plaintiffs seem only to have learned of
      the illness after the termination.

Are these really the
     sorts of questions best answered at the pleading stage as opposed to on
     summary judgment?

 
The court views the demurrer, at least at present, as a
close matter.