 Case Number:  SC123657    Hearing Date:   April 24, 2024    Dept:  I The court will discuss the matter further with counsel.  The court has received the courtesy copy of
the FSC materials.
Joint Statement of the Case.  Parties disagree.  They need to confer more.  Generally, there is no debate about things
like this.  If necessary, the court will
decide, but the parties ought to give it some serious thought first.
Joint Witness List.  27 witnesses. 
46.5 direct, 33 hours cross. 
Defendants also object to 6 witnesses and provided no cross estimate.  The court finds the witness list is NOT
SUFFICIENT; ESTIMATES FOR CROSS MUST BE GIVEN. 
The court notes that this is now close to 90 hours of testimony.  The court is looking at 25 hours per side all
in, which the parties agreed was proper at the prior hearing absent
extraordinary circumstances.  The parties
are held to that agreement, although, again, the court understands that
sometimes unforeseen events occur that will require more time.  The court also understands that witness lists
are documents of preclusion, meaning that there is a danger of not including a
witness that needs to be called, which in turn leads parties—understandably—to
err on the side of over-inclusiveness. 
The revised list must be filed no later than April 25, 2024, at
noon.  To be clear, providing the
estimate is not a waiver of defendants’ position that the witness ought not be
allowed to testify.
Joint Exhibit List.  232 for plaintiff.  59 for defense.  Lots of refusals to agree to authenticity of
things like articles of incorporation. 
The court cannot force parties to stipulate, but notes that to the
extent that time is spent or witnesses called for that purpose—authenticity—the
entire time will be charged against the party refusing to stipulate, and it is
not necessarily impossible that the jury will figure out which side forced that
time drain.  The objection column is
blank.  Either that means that there are
no objections or the parties have failed to meet and confer.  The exhibit list is not ready.  A revised exhibit list will be filed no later
than April 26, 2024, at noon.  The
parties are advised not to “solve” the problem by putting boilerplate
objections to each document.  The
objections need to be those that the objecting party truly believes are
appropriate and the parties must meet and confer before hand to discuss those
objections and see if any can be withdrawn.
Jury Instructions.  Each party objects to a slew of proposed
instructions, many being CACI instructions. 
The court does not believe that the parties have spent sufficient time
meeting and conferring to try and minimize their differences.  The parties will therefore meet and confer as
to each of the objected-to instructions. 
If it is a wording difference, the parties will provide a red-line to
the court with a brief not to exceed 20 lines of text per instruction per side
(starting with the proposing party) to justify its position.  If the objection is more fundamental—the
instruction should not be given at all—the parties will submit a joint
statement not to exceed 1 page per side per instruction justifying its position.  This document will be filed no later than
April 26, 2024, at noon.
Joint Verdict Form.  The parties are to meet and confer
further.  They will provide a red-line to
the court, plaintiff against defendant. 
They will provide a joint statement not to exceed 3 pages per side
explaining why the proponent’s instruction form is proper.  This document will be filed no later than
April 26, 2024, at noon.
A revised FSC binder will be provided to the court with the
above materials no later than April 26, 2024, at noon.  The court expects a good faith meet and
confer to start now and continue for as long as it takes to reach agreement,
consistent with the above schedule.  By
good faith meet and confer, the court anticipates that lead counsel will do the
meeting and conferring.  It is not a good
faith meet and confer to have the person participating either not have the
authority to reach a deal then and there or to fear being second-guessed if a
deal is reached.
The case does not appear ready for trial.  The court will therefore CONTINUE the trial
readiness conference and FSC to Tuesday, April 30, 2024 at 10:30 am.  The trial will be advanced to this date and
CONTINUED to May 6, 2024 at 10:30 am.  If
the case is worth litigating, it is worth litigating properly.  The court reminds the parties that time
before the jury is precious.  They are
essentially being forced to volunteer their time ($15.00/day hardly seems a
living wage) to decide this case.  They
will do so—it is their civic duty—but the court does not want to waste their
time while the parties attempt to get their act together, nor does the court
anticipate suspending the jury trial for a day or two so that the court and
parties can do that which ought to have been done before hand.  While the court is aware that the defense has
retained new counsel, new counsel came on board in February; counsel has had
time to do that which needed to be done before now.  The court is somewhat concerned because it
appears that we are moving backwards, not forwards, meaning that the case
seemed closer to being ready for trial a year ago than it is now (although the
court could be viewing history through rose-colored memory).