 Case Number:  23SMCV03700    Hearing Date:   April 24, 2024    Dept:  I The court has reviewed the opposition filed April 19, 2024,
but dated April 11, 2024.  In it,
plaintiff states that it is willing to amend its complaint to address the
issues in the demurrer.  According to
plaintiff, counsel had to reschedule the meet and confer and had offered to
extend the time for defendant to demur, but rather than reschedule, defendant
simply demurred.
 
The court has not reviewed the proposed amendment, which was
received 4/19/24 although plaintiff stated that it was filed on April 11,
2024—the date its opposition to the demurrer was due.  The court will discuss this with
counsel.  The court is inclined to allow
plaintiff to file the SAC and deem the demurrer moot, but the court will ask
how plaintiff believes that addresses the grounds of the demurrer.  The court’s cursory review suggests that
plaintiff has eliminated the personal liability claims against the individuals
for most of the FEHA causes of action. 
Further, it appears that the battery cause of action has been
eliminated.  The court notes that if it
allows the amendment and another demurrer is filed and sustained, the court
might well deny leave to amend again.  If
the court goes that route, the SAC must be filed no later than 4:00 pm on April
24, 2024.  Upon the filing, defendant
will have 30 days to answer or otherwise respond to the SAC.
 
The court also notes that while one can waive the right to
file an opposition, defendant is wrong to suggest that the failure to oppose a
demurrer or other motion suggests that the motion should be granted.  The rule the defense cites applies only in
appellate courts.  The case the defense
cites simply does not stand for that proposition.  Even without an opposition, the court has an
independent duty to determine if the motion has merit.  Of course, it is more likely that the court
will so find if there is no opposition, and the failure to file an opposition
waives oral argument by the opposing party, but it is not a concession that the
motion has merit.
 