  Case Number:  19SMCV01008    Hearing Date:   April 24, 2024    Dept:  I As to Albert, the court needs to know with some precision
what he is going to say.  Now that the
court has heard the testimony of Hirschkorn and Rybolt, the court has
concerns.  As the court understands it,
Albert is providing the numbers that will quantify the damages, and then Rybolt
does the math.  Thus, it is not fair to
say that Albert is not giving a numeric opinion on damages; he is.  It is just that his opinion is then run
through the calculation by Rybolt.  But
that means that Rybolt’s opinion is only as good as the numbers Albert
provides.  As was set forth in the last
tentative statement, the court has concerns here.
As to Hirschkorn, the court also has some worries.  The court agrees that he has some experience
selling things on Amazon.com and can talk about how the web site works.  But the court is concerned on a number of
fronts.  It is unclear to the court that
Hirschkorn has adequately teased out sales that result from plaintiff from
sales that result from models other than plaintiff wearing the same or similar
things.  The court is not convinced that
“blue” is generic enough to include all shades and versions of blue such that
numbers ought to be lumped together.  The
court is not sure that Hirschkorn has done used this precise methodology ever
in any use or capacity.
This is not necessarily a criticism of Hirschkorn in a
normative sense.  He has only the tools
that Amazon.com or others make available to him.  He cannot divide the data in a way that is
not in the data.  But even if the limits
are not his by choice, the limits have to be such that he can still provide an
opinion based on fact to get to the jury. 
Whether the jury agrees with the method is a different question, and not
one for the court.  But there must be
fact behind the analysis that answers the question that the law will put to the
jury.
As to Rybolt, he essentially takes numbers derived from
others.  In many senses, if those numbers
hold up, his analysis will as well.  That
is likely the case for his quantification of Albert I and Albert II.
But the court does have worries about what Rybolt calls the
“Jaeschke Effect” (although he does not like doing it).  As Rybolt himself said, he can see a
correlation, but he is not testifying as to causation.  If he is not testifying as to causation, then
the court’s question is: who is?  The
answer is Hirschkorn, but the court has questions there.  And is that testimony strong enough to allow
a jury, if it believes the expert, to so find? 
The question is important.  If the
court sees someone walking into court with a wet raincoat and wet umbrella, one
might well assume it is raining outside. 
And the correlation would be high: virtually every time the court sees
someone walking in like that, it is raining. 
But wearing a raincoat and taking an umbrella did not cause the
rain, and suing the person wearing the raincoat for maliciously causing it to
rain would be doomed to fail notwithstanding the correlation.  
The court notes that in its experience, one way to move from
correlation to causation is through a regression analysis.  That is a type of analysis that compares data
but controls for factors other than the one in question.  Even regression analysis, though, may not
fully establish causation.  But it is a
strong tool towards that end.  It was not
done here.
Thus, Rybolt assumes the impact and assumes
causation.  That is a problem.  Further, the court is not certain that his
groupings work.  The groups with Jaeschke
are not Jaeschke alone; it is (as the court understands it) Jaeschke and other
models as compared with groups that do not have Jaeschke.  But there is no analysis to see if the other
models are all the same in both groups, such that Jaeschke is the only
difference.  There is no analysis to
determine if Jaeschke is the reason for the difference as opposed to something
else because there was no control done to account for other variables, such as
whether the Jaeschke group was wearing more popular colors and styles.
As to Yates, the court has some questions, but the court
believes that perhaps it is better to await the deposition and determine
whether Yates is really going outside the bounds of what is permitted.  The court is inclined, then, to take this
matter up at the FSC or trial readiness conference.