  Case Number:  18STCV08570    Hearing Date:   October 9, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




anthony aiello

   , et al.;
 


   Plaintiffs,
 
 
vs.
 
 
sommer ray beaty

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


18STCV08570




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


October
   9, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[tentative]
  Order RE:
 
defendant’s motion to compel responses to
  requests for production of documents and for sanctions
 



 
MOVING PARTY:                 Defendant Sommer Ray Beaty           
 
RESPONDING PARTIES:    Plaintiffs Anthony Aiello and Anthony’s
Worldwide Promotions, LLC
Motion to Compel Responses to Requests for Production of Documents and
for Sanctions[1]
The court
considered the moving papers and opposing declaration filed in connection with
this motion.  No replay papers were
filed.
DISCUSSION
Defendant Sommer Ray Beaty (“Defendant”) moves the court for an order
(1) compelling plaintiffs Anthony Aiello and Anthony’s Worldwide Productions,
LLC (“Plaintiffs”) to serve responses to Defendant’s Requests for Production of
Documents, Set One, without objections, and (2) awarding monetary sanctions in
favor of Defendant and against Plaintiffs in the amount of $3,230.
If a party to whom a demand for inspection is directed fails to serve
a timely response, the party making the demand may move for an order compelling
response to the demand.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., §¿2031.300, subd. (b).)¿¿ 
Defendant asserts that she served Plaintiffs with her Requests for
Production of Documents, Set One, on April 25, 2024 by email.  The court notes that the proof of service of
this discovery, however, is incomplete and therefore defective because (1) it
states that the Requests for Production of Documents were served on counsel for
Plaintiffs by email, but (2) it does not state the email address to which the
discovery was served.  (Paine Decl., Ex. 1,
p. 8 [proof of service of discovery by email].) 
However, Plaintiffs do not dispute, in the declaration of their counsel
filed in support of their opposition, that they received Defendant’s discovery
on this date.  
Defendant asserts in her motion that Plaintiffs did not serve timely
responses to this discovery.  (Mot., p.
5:25-26.)  Plaintiffs do not appear to
dispute that they did not serve timely responses, and instead state that they
responded to this discovery “on July 8, 2024.” 
(Green Decl., ¶ 3.)  While
Plaintiffs attached a copy of an email purporting to attach the responses,
Plaintiffs did not submit a copy of the responses, such that the court can
verify that responses have been served to each document demand.  Moreover, Defendant has not filed a reply to
this motion confirming that it is moot. 
Thus, the court finds that Defendant is entitled to an order
compelling Plaintiffs to serve responses, without objections, to Defendant’s
Requests for Production of Documents, Set One, and therefore grants Defendant’s
motion.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300,
subd. (b).) 
The court grants Defendant’s request for monetary sanctions.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300, subd.
(c).)  The court finds that $850 (2 hours
x $425 hourly rate) is a reasonable amount of sanctions to impose against
Plaintiffs in connection with this motion. 
(Paine Decl., ¶ 6.) 
ORDER
            The court grants defendant Sommer
Ray Beaty’s motion to compel responses to requests for production of documents
and for sanctions as follows.
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.300, the court orders
plaintiffs Anthony Aiello and Anthony’s Worldwide Promotions, LLC (1) to serve
on defendant Sommer Ray Beaty full and complete verified responses, without
objections, to defendant Sommer Ray Beaty’s Requests for Production of
Documents, Set One, that comply with Code of Civil Procedure sections
2031.210-2031.250, and (2) to produce to defendant Sommer Ray Beaty all
documents and things in plaintiffs Anthony Aiello and Anthony’s Worldwide
Promotions, LLC’s possession, custody, or control which are responsive to those
requests, within 20 days of the date of service of this order.  
            The court orders plaintiffs Anthony
Aiello and Anthony’s Worldwide Promotions, LLC to pay monetary sanctions to
defendant Sommer Ray Beaty in the amount of $850 within 30 days of the date of
service of this order.
            The court orders defendant Sommer
Ray Beaty to give notice of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  October 9, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court


