 Case Number:  20STCV46671    Hearing Date:   October 9, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




annette turner

   , et al.;
 


   Plaintiffs,
 
 
vs.
 
 
aids healthcare foundation

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


20STCV46671




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


October
   9, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[tentative]
  Order RE:
 
defendant’s motion to compel mental
  examination of plaintiff tammy davis
 



 
MOVING PARTY:                 Defendant AIDS Healthcare
Foundation       
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiff Tammy Davis
Motion to Compel Mental Examination of Plaintiff Tammy Davis
The court
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers filed in connection with
this motion. 
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS
The court sustains plaintiff
Tammy Davis’s evidentiary objection to the declaration of Dr. Marc A. Cohen,
filed by defendant AIDS Healthcare Foundation on October 2, 2024 in support of
its reply to the motion to compel the mental examination of plaintiff Tammy
Davis, in its entirety, because new evidence is not permitted with reply
papers.  (City of Rocklin v. Legacy
Family Adventures-Rocklin, LLC (2022) 86 Cal.App.5th 713, 730.) 
DISCUSSION
Defendant AIDS Healthcare Foundation (“Defendant”) moves the court for
an order compelling plaintiff Tammy Davis (“Plaintiff”) to submit to a mental
examination.
“If any party desires to obtain discovery . . . by a mental
examination, the party shall obtain leave of court.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.310, subd.
(a).)  “A motion for examination . . .
shall specify the time, place, manner, conditions, scope, and nature of the
examination, as well as the identity and the specialty, if any, of the person
or persons who will perform the examination.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.310, subd. (b).)  The motion must also be accompanied by a meet
and confer declaration and be served on the person to be examined and all other
parties who have appeared in the action. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.310, subds. (b), (c).)  The court shall grant a motion for a mental
examination “for good cause shown.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.320, subd. (a).) 
As a threshold matter, the court notes that Plaintiff does not appear
to dispute that she has placed her mental state in controversy and does not
oppose sitting for a mental examination. 
(Opp., p. 3:2-3; Harings Decl., ¶ 2; 4AC ¶¶ 99, 112.)  Further, based on the arguments and evidence
presented by the parties, the court finds that Defendant (1) has submitted a
meet and confer declaration that substantially complies with Code of Civil
Procedure section 2016.040, and (2) has shown good cause to conduct a mental
examination of Plaintiff, limited in part as follows.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.320, subds. (a),
(b); Stern Decl., ¶¶ 5-7, 9.)
First, the court notes that Defendant has agreed to exclude examination
(1) relating to Plaintiff’s family medical history based on Plaintiff’s
representation that her family medical history is not at issue and will not be
the subject of her testimony or the testimony of any of her expert(s) at trial
in this matter, (2) regarding the specific terms of any prior settlements
between Plaintiff and Defendant, and (3) that would require Plaintiff to
describe her attorney/client communications with her attorneys.  (Reply, p. 8:3-12.)  Thus, the court finds that Plaintiff is not
required to answer questions on those topics at her examination. 
Second, the court finds that there is good cause to ask Plaintiff,
during the mental examination of Plaintiff, about (1) her substance use, (2)
her criminal history, (3) her psychiatric and mental health treatment history, and
(4) her medical history and current medications.  (Notice of Mot. p. 2:19-23; Opp., pp.
6:19-20, 7:4 [objecting to topics relating to substance use, criminal history,
and psychiatric treatment other than prescribed medications].)  However, the court finds that Defendant has
not shown good cause to examine Plaintiff regarding her sexual history and her
sexual conduct with any person other than defendant Tony Rositas, and therefore
denies Defendant’s motion to compel Plaintiff’s mental examination as to those
subjects.  
Third, the court denies Plaintiff’s request that she not be asked
“[q]uestions about facts and circumstances already covered in [Defendant’s]
deposition of” Plaintiff and in her interrogatory responses.  (Opp., p. 7:5-6.) 
Fourth, the court finds that Defendant’s motion has identified, with
the requisite particularity, the scope and nature of the examination, including
by setting forth the names of the tests and procedures to be performed.  (Notice of Mot., pp. 2:25-3:5.)  The court exercises its discretion to deny
Plaintiff’s request that the court order Defendant to produce to her “the
written questions and answers” from her mental examination.[1]  (Opp., p. 10:24-28; Code Civ. Proc., §
2032.310, subd. (b); Randy’s Trucking, Inc. v. Superior Court of Kern County
(2023) 91 Cal.App.5th 818, 834 [trial court has the discretion to order the
disclosure of written test questions and answers].)
Fifth, the court finds that Defendant has shown good cause to conduct
an eight-hour mental examination to ensure that the examiner has enough time to
examine and diagnose Plaintiff.  The
court therefore denies Plaintiff’s request that the court limit her mental
examination to four hours. 
Sixth, the court notes that Plaintiff requests an order permitting her
to audio record the examination.  However,
because Plaintiff is already authorized to record the examination by audio
technology, the court finds that Plaintiff has not shown that such a court
order is necessary.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2032.530, subd. (a) [“The examiner and the examinee shall have the right to
record a mental examination by audio technology”].)  Moreover, Defendant does not appear to oppose
Plaintiff’s recording the mental examination. 
(Reply, p. 12:14-17 [noting that Plaintiff has a statutory right to
record the examination and asserting that it “has never taken any position to
the contrary”].)  The court further
denies Plaintiff’s request that the court order Defendant to produce any and
all audio recordings within two business days of the examination and will
instead order Defendant to produce any and all audio recordings of her
examination within 15 court days. 
The court, however, finds that Defendant has not shown good cause
justifying, or cited law authorizing, the video recording of the mental
examination of Plaintiff.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2032.530, subd. (a) [authorizing the right to record the mental
examination only “by audio technology”] [emphasis added].)  The court therefore grants Plaintiff’s request
to preclude the video recording of her mental examination. 
Seventh, the court finds that Plaintiff did not present authority and
adequate argument establishing that the audio recordings and the test results should
be subject to a protective order that they be viewed only by counsel and
Plaintiff, and therefore denies that request. 
Finally, the court denies (1) Plaintiff’s request for monetary
sanctions against Defendant in the amount of $7,560, made in her opposition,
and (2) Defendant’s request for monetary sanctions against Plaintiff in the
amount of $1,000, made in its reply. 
ORDER
            The court grants in part defendant
AIDS Healthcare Foundation’s motion for the mental examination of plaintiff
Tammy Davis as follows. 
            The court orders that Dr. Marc A.
Cohen, M.D., M.S. shall conduct the mental examination of plaintiff Tammy Davis
at 333 S. Beverly Drive, Suite 200, Beverly Hills, California, 90212, on
__________________, 2024, to begin at 10:00 a.m. and to last no more than eight
hours, excluding breaks.   
At the mental examination, Dr. Marc A. Cohen, M.D., M.S. may (1) examine
plaintiff Tammy Davis regarding (i) her psychiatric and mental health treatment
history, (ii) substance use, (iii) criminal history, and (iv) medical history
and current medications, and (2) conduct the following psychological tests or
assessments: (i) Minnesota Multiphasic Personality Inventory (MMPI-2; MMPI-2RF;
MMPI-3), (ii) Millon Clinical Multiaxial Inventory (MCMI-IV),            (iii) Personality Assessment
Inventory (PAI), (iv) Structured Interview of Reported Symptoms (SIRS-2), (v)
Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MOCA), (vi) 15 Item Test (FIT), (vii) Morel
Emotional Numbing Test (MENT), (viii) Trauma Symptom Inventory (TSI-2), and
(ix) Test of Memory Malingering (TOMM).
The court orders that Dr. Marc A. Cohen, M.D., M.S may not examine
plaintiff Tammy Davis regarding (1) her sexual history and sexual conduct with
any person other than defendant Tony Rositas, (2) her family medical history,
(3) the specific terms of any prior settlement between plaintiff Tammy Davis
and defendant AIDS Healthcare Foundation, and (4) attorney-client
communications with her counsel. 
The court further orders that (1) no party may record the mental
examination of plaintiff Tammy Davis by video recording, and (2) defendant AIDS
Healthcare Foundation shall make available to counsel for plaintiff Tammy Davis
any audio recordings of the mental examination. 
            The court denies all requests for
monetary sanctions.
            The court orders defendant AIDS
Healthcare Foundation to give notice of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  October 9, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court


