 Case Number:  23STCV25232    Hearing Date:   October 9, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




global pond usa corporation

   ;
 


   Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
grab holdings limited

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


23STCV25232




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


October
   9, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[tentative]
  Order RE:
 
defendants’ motion to quash service of
  summons for lack of personal jurisdiction
 



 
MOVING PARTIES:              Defendants Grab Holdings Limited,
Grab Holdings Inc., and Grabtaxi Holdings PTE LTD                   
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiff Global Pond USA Corporation 
Motion to Quash Service of Summons for Lack of Personal Jurisdiction
The court
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers filed in connection with
this motion. 
DISCUSSION
Specially appearing defendants Grab Holdings Limited (“Grab Limited”),
Grab Holdings Inc. (“Grab Inc.”), and Grabtaxi Holdings PTE LTD (“Grabtaxi”) (collectively,
“Defendants”) move the court for an order quashing the service of summons by
plaintiff Global Pond USA Corporation (“Plaintiff”) on the ground that the
court lacks personal jurisdiction over Defendants.  (Code Civ. Proc.,¿§ 418.10, subd. (a)(1) [“A
defendant, on or before the last day of his or her time to plead or within any
further time that the court may for good cause allow, may serve and file a
notice of motion . . . [¶] (1)  To quash service of summons on the ground
of lack of jurisdiction of the court over him or her”].)   
“A court of this state may exercise jurisdiction on any basis not
inconsistent with the Constitution of this state or of the United
States.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §¿410.10.)  “Under those Constitutions,
jurisdiction is proper if a defendant has minimum contacts with California such
that a suit in the state does not offend traditional notions of fair play and
substantial justice.”  (Farina v. SAVWCL III, LLC (2020) 50
Cal.App.5th 286, 294.)  “‘Personal jurisdiction may be either general or
specific.  A nonresident defendant may be subject to the general
jurisdiction of the forum if his or her contacts in the forum state are
“substantial . . . continuous and systematic.”’”  (Jayone Foods, Inc.
v. Aekyung Industrial Co. Ltd. (2019) 31 Cal.App.5th 543, 553.) 
Alternatively, to determine whether specific jurisdiction exists, “‘courts
consider the “ ‘relationship among the defendant, the forum, and the
litigation.’ ”  [Citation.]’”  (Ibid.)  
“‘When a defendant moves to quash service of process on jurisdictional
grounds, the plaintiff has the initial burden of demonstrating facts justifying
the exercise of jurisdiction.  [Citation.]  Once facts showing
minimum contacts with the forum state are established, however, it becomes the
defendant’s burden to demonstrate that the exercise of jurisdiction would be
unreasonable.  [Citation.]’”  (Burdick v. Superior Court (2015)
233 Cal.App.4th 8, 17.)   
1.    
General Jurisdiction
            Plaintiff does not appear to argue,
and therefore has not met its burden, to establish that the court has general
jurisdiction over Defendants.  (Burdick,
supra, 233 Cal.App.4th at p. 17 [“‘the plaintiff has the initial burden
of demonstrating facts justifying the exercise of jurisdiction’”]; Opp., pp.
1:10-11 [asserting that the court has specific jurisdiction over
Defendants], 6:9 [same].)
            “A court has all-purpose
jurisdiction over defendants who are at home in the court’s forum.”  (Farina, supra, 50 Cal.App.5th
at p. 294.)  Thus, “[a] defendant is
subject to general jurisdiction when it has substantial, continuous and
systematic contacts in the forum state, i.e., its contacts with the forum are
so wide-ranging that they take the place of a physical presence in the
state.”  (Strasner v. Touchstone
Wireless Repair & Logistics, LP (2016) 5 Cal.App.5th 215, 222.)  “For a corporation, its domicile, place of
incorporation, and/or principal place of business within a state constitute the
paradigm bases for establishing general jurisdiction.”  (Ibid.)  Defendants have submitted evidence showing
that (1) defendant Grab Limited is organized under the laws of the Cayman
Islands and has registered offices in the Cayman Islands; (2) defendant Grab
Inc. is organized under the laws of the Cayman Islands and has registered
offices in the Cayman Islands; and (3) defendant Grabtaxi is organized under
the laws of Singapore and has its principal executive offices in
Singapore.  (Iyer Decl., ¶¶ 13-14, 24-25,
35-36.)  Moreover, Defendants do not have
offices in California, are not registered and have never been registered to do
business in California, do not conduct and have never conducted business
operations in California, do not own and have never owned bank accounts or real
property in California, and do not have and have never had employees in
California.  (Iyer Decl., ¶¶ 18-22, 29-33,
38-43.) 
Thus, the court finds that Defendants’ contacts with California are
not “substantial, continuous and systematic” so as to render them subject to
general jurisdiction.  (Strasner, supra,
5 Cal.App.5th at p. 222.) 
2.    
Specific Jurisdiction 
“‘A court may exercise specific jurisdiction over a nonresident
defendant only if: (1) “the defendant has purposefully availed himself or
herself of forum benefits” [citation]; (2) “the ‘controversy is related to or
“arises out of” [the] defendant’s contacts with the forum’ ” [citation]; and
(3) “ ‘the assertion of personal jurisdiction would comport with “fair play and
substantial justice” ’ ” [citation].’”  (Jayone Foods, Inc., supra,
31 Cal.App.5th at p. 553.)  
Plaintiff contends that Defendants purposefully availed itself of
California’s benefits as a result of the following conduct: (1) promising a
business partnership with Plaintiff, a California corporation; (2) Plaintiff’s
creation, in reliance on Defendants’ promises, of a prototype software product
platform in California; (3) stealing from Plaintiff, a California resident, its
app, technology, and intellectual property; (4) Grab Inc.’s raising of
$53,150,016.93 from California investors; (5) Grab Inc.’s signing and filing
with the State of California, Department of Business Oversight, multiple
Consent to Service of Process forms, in which Grab Inc. has authorized
California’s Commissioner of Business Oversight receive service on its behalf;
(6) Grab Limited’s listing of itself on an American stock exchange, including
the NASDAQ, which lists its shares for sale in California; (7) Grab Limited’s going
public with a market capitalization of over $14 billion, based on Defendants’
app, which includes the allegedly stolen intellectual property from Plaintiff;
(8) Defendants’ making available their app to download in California; and (9)
Defendants’ targeting of residents of California to download their app. 
            The court finds that Plaintiff has
not met its burden to show that (1) defendants Grab Limited and Grabtaxi have
purposefully availed themselves of the benefits of California, and   (2) this action arises out of defendant Grab
Inc.’s stock market activity in California. 
The court therefore finds that Plaintiff has not shown that the court
may exercise specific jurisdiction over Defendants.  (Burdick, supra, 233
Cal.App.4th at p. 17 [“‘the plaintiff has the initial burden of demonstrating
facts justifying the exercise of jurisdiction’”].) 
“A defendant purposefully avails itself of a forum’s benefits
if it intentionally directs its activities at a forum such that, by virtue of
the benefits the defendant has received, it should reasonably expect to be
haled into the forum’s courts.”  (Farina, supra, 50
Cal.App.5th at p. 294 [emphasis in original].)   “Thus,
purposeful availment occurs where a nonresident defendant purposefully
direct[s] [its] activities at residents of the forum [citations], purposefully
derive[s] benefits from its activities in the forum [citation], create[s] a
substantial connection with the forum [citation], deliberately has engaged in
significant activities within the forum [citation], or has created continuing
obligations between itself and residents of the forum [citation].”  (Jayone Foods, Inc., supra, 31
Cal.App.5th at p. 554 [internal quotation marks and citations omitted].) 
            First, Plaintiff has submitted the
declaration of its CEO, Chris Au (“Au”), in which Au asserts that (1) during
various meetings, the senior management of Defendants requested Plaintiff to
design and develop a software prototype for their product, with discussions of
a joint venture with Plaintiff to the launch the software; (2) Plaintiff, in
reliance on those promises of business, created the prototype; (3) Au presented
the prototype to the senior product design team in March and May of 2019; and
(4) in mid-2019, Defendants terminated their meetings with Au and Plaintiff, stating
that they did not want to pursue the project. 
(Au Decl., ¶¶ 6-7, 9, 12.)  
            As a threshold matter, the court
notes that it appears undisputed that the parties never executed a written
agreement.  (Iyer Decl., ¶ 52.)  However, it appears that Plaintiff has taken
the position that, as a result of the conduct described above, the parties
formed an oral or implied contract.  The
court has therefore evaluated whether the formation of a contract between
Defendants, non-residents of California, and Plaintiff, a California
corporation, shows that Defendants purposely availed themselves of California’s
benefits.  The court finds that, based on
the facts presented in opposition to this motion, it does not. 
            “[A] contract with a forum resident,
alone, is insufficient to establish jurisdiction.  [Citation.] 
Courts must scrutinize the underlying business transaction—past
negotiations, contemplated future consequences, contract terms, and the
parties’ actual course of dealing—to determine whether the defendant
purposefully established minimum contacts with the forum.”  (Farina, supra, 50 Cal.App.5th
at p. 299 [internal citation omitted].) 
            As set forth above, Plaintiff has
presented evidence describing the parties’ relationship and formation of an
agreement in which Plaintiff was to create a prototype of Defendants’ super app.  However, the evidence shows that (1) the
“contemplated future consequences” of development of the app would not concern
this forum, because Defendants have shown, and Plaintiff does not dispute, that
their services are available only in specific cities in Southeast Asia, and (2)
in discussing and performing this agreement, while Plaintiff performed much of
the work in California, Au “traveled back and forth from Southeast Asia to
California to perform this work[,]” Defendants did not “attend[] any meetings .
. . with [Plaintiff] in the United States, or in California specifically.”  (Iyer Decl., ¶¶ 7, 50; Au Decl., ¶¶ 10-11;  Farina, supra, 50 Cal.App.5th at
p. 299.) 
Moreover, Plaintiff did not present evidence showing that the
agreement (before it was allegedly breached) contemplated an “ongoing
contractual relationship[]” between the parties, and instead appears to have
contemplated a one-time creation of a super app and branding campaign by
Plaintiff.   (Rivelli v. Hemm (2021)
67 Cal.App.5th 380, 397 [finding that the ongoing contractual relationships
supported a finding of purposeful availment]; Jacqueline B. v. Rawls Law
Group, P.C. (2021) 68 Cal.App.5th 243, 255 [“it is well settled that a
discrete, shorter-term contract between an out-of-state defendant and a forum
resident ‘does not automatically establish purposeful availment in the
resident’s ‘home forum’”]; Jayone Foods, Inc., supra, 31
Cal.App.5th at p. 554 [purposeful availment occurs where a nonresident defendant
creates continuing obligations between itself and forum residents]; Au Decl., ¶
3.)  The court also notes that Plaintiff
did not present evidence that the parties orally, or by writing, agreed to
litigate any resulting disputes in California. 
(Farina, supra, 50 Cal.App.5th at p. 299 [“Choice of law
provisions are relevant to this inquiry”].) 
            Second, Plaintiff has submitted Au’s
declaration, in which Au states that Defendants’ GrabMart Super App “is
practically identical to the GrabMart Super App” that Plaintiff previously
developed for Defendants, such that Defendants copied the idea, technology, and
design of the prototype that Plaintiff created. 
(Au Decl., ¶¶ 15-16.)  The court
finds that Plaintiff did not present adequate argument to show that this
assertion of its CEO establishes that Defendants purposefully directed its
activities to California.  (Jayone
Foods, Inc., supra, 31 Cal.App.5th at p. 554.)  
            Although Plaintiff did not refer to
the effects test, it appears that Plaintiff is attempting to argue that Defendants
have purposefully availed themselves of the forum because the effect of their
wrongful conduct occurred in California, i.e., pursuant to the effects test.  However, because Plaintiff did not expressly assert
that the effects test governs this motion, Plaintiff therefore has not met its
burden to show that it applies. 
Moreover, the court notes that, even if Plaintiff had expressly raised application
of this test, Plaintiff’s evidence establishes only that Defendants engaged in
conduct directed to Plaintiff, and not California.  But “the effects test requires express aiming
at the forum (not necessarily the plaintiff).”  (Gilmore Bank v. AsiaTrust New Zealand
Ltd. (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 1558, 1570 [emphasis in original].)  Plaintiff did not present argument or evidence
establishing that Defendants’ conduct was targeted at California or that their
conduct created a substantial connection with California.  (David L. v. Superior Court (2018) 29
Cal.App.5th 359, 373 [finding that the correct test to apply is the Ninth
Circuit’s test, which provides that, “[e]ven if a defendant has individually
targeted conduct at a plaintiff he knows resides in the forum state, specific
jurisdiction now lies under the Ninth Circuit’s effects test only if his
suit-related conduct creates a substantial connection with that state”]
[emphasis in original].) 
            Third, Plaintiff has submitted six forms
entitled “Limited Offering Exemption Notices,” filed by defendant Grab Inc. with
the State of California, Department of Business Oversight, showing that Grab
Inc. sold securities in California. 
(Mazda Decl., Ex. B, p. 1 [sale of security in California with total
value of $10,000,001.66], Ex. C, p. 1 [sale of security in California with
total value of $23,375,004.57], Ex. D, p. 1 [sale of security in California
with total value of $6,500,000], Ex. E, p. 1 [sale of security in California
with total value of $11,625,004.32], Ex. F, p. 1 [sale of security in
California with total value of $100,005.38], Ex. G, p. 1 [sale of security in
California with total value of $1,550,014].) 
            The court finds that this evidence
(1) is insufficient to show that defendants Grab Limited and Grabtaxi
purposefully derived benefits from activities in California because those
defendants did not sell stock and therefore receive money from investors in
California, and (2) is sufficient to show that defendant Grab Inc. has
purposefully availed itself of forum benefits since it has engaged in the sale
of stock in California and therefore has received money (i.e., derived a
benefit from) California investors.  (Jayone
Foods, Inc., supra, 31 Cal.App.5th at p. 554.)  
However, the court finds that Plaintiff has not shown that this action
is related to or arises out of Grab Inc.’s contacts with California (i.e., with
its sale of stock in California).  (Jayone
Foods, Inc., supra, 31 Cal.App.5th at p. 554.)  Plaintiff has argued that Grab Inc. has
raised a significant amount of money from California investors, most of which
“was subsequent to” Defendants’ alleged theft of Plaintiff’s intellectual
property, such that this action arises from its conduct.  (Opp., pp.7:1-4, 8:13-15.)  The court disagrees.  Plaintiff has not presented adequate argument
establishing that its action arises from Grab Inc.’s sale of stock.  Instead, the wrongful acts complained of are based
on Grab Inc.’s alleged theft of Plaintiff’s intellectual property, which is
separate and independent of any sales of security by Grab Inc. in California.  (Compl., ¶¶ 27, 34-35, 45, 52, 59, 66, 73,
83, 85-86, 93.)  The court further finds
that Plaintiff has not presented competent evidence establishing that Grab
Inc.’s sale of stock is related to the theft of Plaintiff’s property.  (Mazda Decl., ¶ 20 [stating, in conclusory
fashion, that Grab Inc.’s sale of stock “is related to the technology and
intellectual property that Plaintiff developed and that Defendants stole from
Plaintiff”].) 
Thus, the court finds that Plaintiff has not met its burden to
establish the existence of “a substantial nexus or connection between” Grab
Inc.’s activity in the stock market in California and Plaintiff’s claims
relating to Grab Inc.’s alleged theft of its property.  (Jayone Foods, Inc., supra, 31
Cal.App.4th at p. 559-560 [internal quotation marks and citation omitted].) 
            Fourth, Plaintiff again relies on
Grab Inc.’s filing of the “Limited Offering Exemption Notices” forms with the
State of California, Department of Business Oversight, in which Grab Inc.
authorized the California Commissioner of Business Oversight of the State of
California, the Commissioner’s successor in office, or its attorney “to receive
service of any lawful process in any noncriminal suit, action or proceeding
against [Grab Inc.], or its successor, executor, or administrator which arises
under the California Corporate Securities Law of 1968 or any rule or order
there under [sic] after this consent has been filed, with the same force
and validity as if served personally on Grab Holdings Inc..”  (Mazda Decl., Ex. B, p. 2, Ex. C, p. 2, Ex.
D, p. 2, Ex. E, p. 2, Ex. F, p. 2, Ex. G, p. 3.)  Plaintiff has not presented argument
explaining how Grab Inc.’s authorization to receive service in certain actions
arising under the Corporate Securities Law establishes that Grab Inc. purposefully
availed itself of California’s benefits. 
Moreover, to the extent that Plaintiff has argued that these filings show
purposeful availment on the ground that Grab Inc. has sold securities in this
state, the court has concluded, for the reasons set forth above, that Plaintiff
did not meet its burden to show that its action arises from such activity. 
            Fifth, Plaintiff asserts that Grab
Limited has listed itself on an American stock exchange, which lists shares for
sale in California, and sells its shares to investors in California.  In support of that assertion, Plaintiff
cites, generally, to exhibits J, K, and L, which consist of, respectively, a
screenshot of a page from Yahoo Finance, Grab Limited’s Form 20-F, filed with
the United States Securities and Exchange Commission for the fiscal year ending
on December 31, 2022, and Grab Limited’s Form 20-F, filed with the United
States Securities and Exchange Commission for the fiscal year ending on
December 31, 2023.  (Mazda Decl., Exs.
J-L.)  However,  Plaintiff did not present adequate argument
establishing how Grab Limited’s listing itself on an American stock exchange
shows that it has purposefully availed itself of the benefits of California,
specifically.  The court notes that
counsel for Plaintiff has stated that “[o]bviously, the NASDAQ is a stock
exchange that sells shares to California residents” and that, with Grab
Limited’s market capitalization of $14.013 billion, “obviously there are
stockholders of Grab Holdings Limited that are California residents.”  (Mazda Decl., ¶¶ 13-14.)  But (1) Plaintiff did not submit, or cite to,
any evidence showing that Grab Limited has in fact sold shares to California
residents, and (2) counsel for Plaintiff did not lay a foundation for those conclusory
assertions.  
Thus, the court finds that Plaintiff has not shown that Grab Limited
purposefully availed itself of California’s benefits by listing itself on an
American stock exchange.
            Sixth, Au has stated, in their
declaration, that Defendants’ “app is available to download in
California.”  (Au Decl., ¶¶ 18, 24.)  But Plaintiff did not present evidence
disputing, just because the app may be available to download in California,
that Defendants have not offered their services to California residents.  Specifically, Defendants presented evidence
showing that “[t]he services procured using the Grab app are not available, and
have never been available, in the United States, or in the State of California
specifically.”  (Iyer Decl., ¶ 9.)  Plaintiff did not establish, even if the app
is able to be downloaded while in California, that California residents are
able to use the services offered by Defendants with their app.  Moreover, Plaintiff did not show that, by
making the app available for download in California (without making available
the use of their services), Defendants have targeted California residents.  (Jacqueline B., supra, 68
Cal.App.5th at p. 254.) 
            Finally, Plaintiff asserts that
Defendants have targeted residents of California who will be traveling to
Southeast Asia by advertising their app to them, relying on two online articles
in support of that contention.[1]  The court finds that these articles do not
establish that Defendants have targeted California residents. 
            “In assessing whether an
out-of-state defendant’s operation of a website constitutes purposeful
availment, [courts] examine (1) whether the website targets California
residents [citations], and, if it does not, (2) where the website falls on a
‘sliding scale’ of ‘interactivity’ with Internet users, with websites allowing
out-of-state defendants to conduct business with California residents at one
end of the scale and websites that passively make information available at the
other end [citations].”  (Jacqueline
B., supra, 68 Cal.App.5th at p. 254 [internal citations omitted].) 
            Neither article mentions California,
California residents, or the availability of Defendants’ services to use in
California.  (Au Decl., Exs. B, C.)  At most, the first article provides that (1)
the top source markets for travelers using their app include North America, and
(2) travelers may download and register for an account while in their home
country to help them plan ahead for their trips (including by exploring a city
in the app as if they were at the destination). 
(Au Decl., Ex. B, pp. 3, 4.)  The
second article does not mention North America or the availability of the app
for download to plan ahead for trips, and instead recites general information
about Defendants’ services and information about travel to Southeast Asia.  (Au Decl., Ex. C.)  Plaintiff did not present other evidence or
argument establishing that the articles target California residents (e.g., that
the articles are accessible only in California) or that they allow Defendants
to conduct business with California residents. 

The court finds that the language of these articles, without any
further evidence and standing on their own, does not show that Defendants have
(1) targeted California residents, or   (2)
used the articles to conduct business with California residents.  (Jacqueline B., supra, 68
Cal.App.5th at p. 254 [internal citations omitted].) 
3.    
Jurisdictional Discovery
Plaintiff has requested, if the court is inclined to grant Defendants’
motion, that the court continue the hearing on this motion to permit Plaintiff
to conduct jurisdictional discovery.
“‘A trial court has the discretion to continue the hearing on a motion
to quash service of summons for lack of personal jurisdiction to allow the
plaintiff to conduct discovery on jurisdictional issues.’  [Citation.] 
‘In order to prevail on a motion for a continuance for jurisdictional
discovery, the plaintiff should demonstrate that discovery is likely to lead to
the production of evidence of facts establishing jurisdiction.’”  (Preciado v. Freightliner Custom Chassis
Corporation (2023) 87 Cal.App.5th 964, 972 [internal citations omitted].) 
The court finds that Plaintiff has not demonstrated that discovery is
likely to lead to the production of evidence of facts establishing the court’s
jurisdiction over Defendants.  Plaintiff
has not specified the type of discovery that it intends to take and the
likelihood that it will establish jurisdiction. 
Instead, Plaintiff has merely requested leave to conduct discovery in
conclusory fashion.  The court therefore exercises
its discretion to deny Plaintiff’s request for a continuance to conduct
jurisdictional discovery. 
4.    
Conclusion
For the reasons set forth above, the court finds that Plaintiff has
not met its burden to prove personal jurisdiction over Defendants by a
preponderance of the evidence.  (Farina,
supra, 50 Cal.App.5th at p. 293.) 
The court therefore grants Defendants’ motion.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 418.10, subd. (a)(1).) 
ORDER
            The court grants specially appearing
defendants Grab Holdings Limited, Grab Holdings Inc., and Grabtaxi Holdings PTE
LTD’s motion to quash service of summons for lack of personal jurisdiction.
            The court orders that service of plaintiff
Global Pond USA Corporation’s summons and complaint in this action, on specially
appearing defendants Grab Holdings Limited, Grab Holdings Inc., and Grabtaxi
Holdings PTE LTD, is quashed.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 418.10, subd. (a)(1).)
            The court orders specially appearing
defendants Grab Holdings Limited, Grab Holdings Inc., and Grabtaxi Holdings PTE
LTD to prepare, serve, and lodge a proposed judgment of dismissal within 10
days of the date of this order.     
            The court sets an Order to Show
Cause re entry of judgment of dismissal for hearing on February 4, 2025, at
8:30 a.m., in Department 53. 
 
            The court orders specially appearing
defendants Grab Holdings Limited, Grab Holdings Inc., and Grabtaxi Holdings PTE
LTD to give notice of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  October 9, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court


