 Case Number:  23STCV14562    Hearing Date:   October 9, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




aysia a. rowe

   ;
 


   Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
artem gerashchenkov

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


23STCV14562




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


October
   9, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[tentative]
  Order RE:
 
defendant’s demurrer to second amended
  complaint
 



 
MOVING PARTY:                 Defendant NewRez LLC, d/b/a
Shellpoint Mortgage Servicing (on behalf of itself and erroneously sued as
Shellpoint Mortgage Servicing, a Delaware corporation)            
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiff Aysia A. Rowe
Demurrer to Second Amended Complaint
The court
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers filed in connection with
this demurrer. 
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
The court grants defendant
NewRez LLC, d/b/a Shellpoint Mortgage Servicing (on behalf of itself and
erroneously sued as Shellpoint Mortgage Servicing, a Delaware corporation)’s
request for judicial notice.  (Evid.
Code, § 452, subds. (c), (d).)  The
court, however, notes that it does not take judicial notice of the truth of the
matters stated therein.  (Herrera v.
Deutsche Bank National Trust Co. (2011) 196 Cal.App.4th 1366, 1375.) 
 
 
DISCUSSION
Plaintiff Aysia A. Rowe, as trustee of the Nubian Village Trust
(“Plaintiff”) filed the operative Second Amended Complaint in this action on
March 6, 2024, against defendants Shellpoint Mortgage Servicing and NewRez LLC,
alleging seven causes of action for (1) breach of contract; (2) promissory
estoppel; (3) breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing;
(4) violations of the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act (“RESPA”); (5)
negligence; (6) accounting; and (7) unfair business practices. 
Defendant NewRez LLC, d/b/a Shellpoint Mortgage Servicing (on behalf
of itself and erroneously sued as Shellpoint Mortgage Servicing, a Delaware
corporation) (“Defendant”) now moves the court for an order sustaining its
demurrer to each cause of action alleged in Plaintiff’s Second Amended
Complaint.  
The court overrules Defendant’s demurrer to the Second Amended
Complaint in its entirety on the ground that Plaintiff does not have standing
because Defendant has not met its burden to show that Plaintiff does not have
standing to bring this action.  (Code
Civ. Proc., §§ 430.10, subd. (e), 367 [“Every action must be prosecuted in the
name of the real party in interest, except as otherwise provided by statute”].)

Plaintiff’s causes of action are based on the alleged breach of the Loan
Modification Agreement entered into by and between Ditech, on the one hand, and
Plaintiff – as trustee of the Nubian Village Trust – on the other hand, on
December 11, 2018.  (SAC ¶¶ 59, 62, 65,
70, 80, 85-86, 91, 97.)  The court
acknowledges that Tonja J. Taylor, an unmarried woman (“Taylor”), was the only
trustor to the Deed of Trust securing the original December 17, 2007 promissory
note.  (RJN Ex. 1, p. 2.)  But Plaintiff has expressly alleged that (1)
she brings this action as the trustee of the Nubian Village Trust, which owns
the subject property, and (2) she, as trustee of the Nubian Village Trust, executed
the subject Loan Modification Agreement presented by Ditech.  (SAC p. 1:23-24; SAC ¶¶ 6, 7 [after Taylor
passed away on August 27, 2017, Plaintiff became the executor of the estate and
trustee of the Nubian Village Trust], 17; SAC Ex. C, Trust Transfer Deed, p. 1
[stating that Taylor, as Grantor, “transfers her interest in the property . . .
to Grantor’s revocable inter vivos trust” and listing as the Grantee Taylor, as
the trustee of the Nubian Village Trust dated July 31, 2008].)  
Thus, although Defendant has argued that the Nubian Village Trust is
not the borrower of the original loan, Defendant did not (1) cite any authority
establishing that Plaintiff could not, as the trustee of the trust that
obtained Taylor’s interest in the subject property, execute the Loan
Modification Agreement, or (2) present argument establishing that Plaintiff’s
causes of action are based on the alleged breach of the December 17, 2007
agreement, rather than the 2018 Loan Modification Agreement.  The court therefore finds that Defendant has
not shown that Plaintiff does not have standing to bring this action.
The court overrules Defendant’s demurrer to the Second Amended
Complaint on the ground that it does not state facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action as barred by issue preclusion because Defendant did not meet
its burden to prove each element of issue preclusion.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e); Williams
v. Doctors Medical Center of Modesto, Inc. (2024) 100 Cal.App.5th 1117,
1132 [“The party asserting issue preclusion has the burden of establishing the
above elements [of issue preclusion]”].) 
Specifically, Defendant did not set forth adequate argument showing that
(1) the issues sought to be precluded from relitigation in this action are
identical to those decided in Case No. 22STCV33786, (2) those issues were
actually litigated in the former proceeding, (3) the issues were necessarily
decided in the former proceeding, and (4) the decision(s) in the former
proceeding was final and on the merits. 
(Williams, supra, 100 Cal.App.5th at p. 1131.)  Instead, Defendant has stated, in conclusory
fashion and without adequate citation to the record, that “the exact same
issues, such as whether a subsequent servicer and beneficiary could be held
liable for failing to honor the purported modification with Ditech brought by”
Plaintiff was decided on the merits. 
(Dem., p. 14:21-27 [citing generally to RJN Exhibits 2, the 51-page
First Amended Complaint in Case No. 22STCV33786, and 7, Order of Judgment of
Dismissal].)  This is insufficient to
establish that each cause of action alleged by Plaintiff is barred by issue
preclusion. 
The court sustains Defendant’s demurrer to the first cause of action
for breach of contract because it does not state facts sufficient to constitute
a cause of action since Plaintiff has not alleged facts establishing the
existence of a contract between Plaintiff and Defendant.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e); Miles
v. Deutsche Bank National Trust Co. (2015) 236 Cal.App.4th 394, 402
[elements of cause of action for breach of contract].) 
The court notes that Plaintiff has alleged that (1) she executed the
Loan Modification Agreement, which contained inaccuracies but was presented on
a “‘take it or leave it’ basis with foreclosure as the only alternative” (SAC ¶
17), and (2) as the successor loan servicer, Defendant was obligated to honor
the Loan Modification Agreement pursuant to Civil Code section 2924.11 (SAC ¶
61).  The court also acknowledges that,
pursuant to Civil Code section 2924.11, subdivision (g), “[i]f a borrower has
been approved in writing for a first lien loan modification or other
foreclosure prevention alternative, and the servicing of that borrower's loan
is transferred or sold to another mortgage servicer, the subsequent mortgage
servicer shall continue to honor any previously approved first lien loan
modification or other foreclosure prevention alternative, in accordance with
the provisions of the act that added this section.”  (Civ. Code, § 2924.11, subd. (g).)  However, section 2924.11 applies only to a
first lien mortgage or deed of trust that is either secured by owner-occupied residential
property (i.e., property that is the principal residence of the borrower and is
security for a loan made for personal, family, or household purposes) containing
no more than four dwelling units, or is secured by residential real property
occupied by a tenant and contains no more than four dwelling units and meets
other statutorily-defined characteristics. 
(Civ. Code, § 2924.14, subd. (a)(1)(A), (a)(1)(B), (a)(2).)  Plaintiff did not allege facts establishing
that the Loan Modification Agreement meets those characteristics and therefore
has not alleged facts establishing that, under section 2924.11, Defendant was
required to honor the terms thereof, such that it may be held liable for its
breach. 
The court overrules Defendant’s demurrer to the second cause of action
for promissory estoppel because it states facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action since (1) Plaintiff has alleged that Defendant promised her
“that they would accurately service the Property loan by, among other things,
maintaining accurate records of payments and balances and sending accurate
monthly statements” (SAC ¶ 65), which is a promise that is clear and
unambiguous in its terms, and (2) Defendant has not shown that this cause of
action is necessarily barred by the statute of limitations because, although
Defendant asserts that a two-year statute of limitations applies for oral
promises, Defendant did not cite any allegations in the Second Amended
Complaint establishing that the subject promise was made orally, such that it
has not shown that this claim is barred. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 4301.10, subd. (e); Jones v. Wachovia Bank (2014)
230 Cal.App.4th 935, 945 [elements of claim for promissory estoppel]; Raja
Development Co., Inc. v. Napa Sanitary District (2022) 85 Cal.App.5th 85, 92
[“A demurrer based on a statute of limitations will not lie where the action
may be, but is not necessarily, barred”] [internal quotation marks and
citations omitted].) 
The court sustains Defendant’s demurrer to the third cause of action
for breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing because it
does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action since (1) the
court has found, for the reasons set forth above, that Plaintiff did not allege
the existence of a contract between Plaintiff and Defendant, and (2) “[a] claim
for breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing requires the
existence of a contract, whether express or implied.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e); Alameda
Health System v. Alameda County Employees’ Retirement Assn. (2024) 100
Cal.App.5th 1159, 1190.)  
            The
court sustains Defendant’s demurrer to the fourth cause of action for violation
of RESPA because it does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action since (1) under RESPA, a servicer must respond to a notice of error by
either (i) correcting the error(s) identified by the borrower, or (ii) conducting
a reasonable investigation and providing the borrower with a written
notification therefore that includes a statement that the servicer has
determined that no error occurred and other information required by statute,
and (2) Plaintiff has alleged only that Defendant did not correct the error that
she identified (SAC ¶ 81), which does not, alone, constitute a violation of
RESPA since a loan servicer may elect to respond by conducting a reasonable
investigation and notifying the borrower that the servicer has determined that
no error occurred.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.10, subd. (e); 12 C.F.R. 1024.35, subd. (e)(1) [response to notice of error
must either (A) correct the errors or (B) provide the borrower with
notification including a statement that the servicer has determined no error
has occurred].) 
 
            The court sustains Defendant’s
demurrer to the fifth cause of action for negligence because it does not state
facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action since Plaintiff has alleged
that Defendant had, and breached, a duty to accurately service the subject loan
(i.e., appearing to reference the Loan Modification Agreement), and therefore
this cause of action (1) sounds in contract and, (2) as such, is barred by the
economic loss rule.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.10, subd. (e); Sheen v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2022) 12 Cal.5th
905, 923 [claims for monetary losses are barred when they arise from, or are
not independent of, underlying contracts].) 
            The court overrules Defendant’s
demurrer to the sixth cause of action for accounting because it states facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action since Plaintiff has alleged that,
while Defendant accepted the Keep Your Home California program funds, it did
not apply them to Plaintiff’s account (SAC ¶ 92), such that Plaintiff has
sufficiently alleged the existence of a relationship between the parties that
requires an accounting.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e); Sass v. Cohen (2020) 10 Cal.5th 861, 869
[elements of accounting].) 
            The court overrules Defendant’s
demurrer to the seventh cause of action for unfair competition because it states
facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action since Plaintiff has alleged
sufficient facts establishing that (1) Defendant violated the unlawful, unfair,
and fraudulent prongs of the unfair competition law by generating unwarranted
fees, demanding and accepting payments for nonexistent debts, failing to apply
payments on the subject loan to the principal balance, and inflating the
amounts due on the subject loan (SAC ¶¶ 97, subds. (a)-(e), 104), and (2) Plaintiff
has lost money or property as a result of Defendant’s conduct (SAC ¶ 102).  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e); Beverage
v. Apple, Inc. (2024) 101 Cal.App.5th 736, 735 [“Functionally, [t]he UCL
operates as a three-pronged statute: Each of these three adjectives [unlawful,
unfair, or fraudulent] creates a separate and distinct theory of liability”]
[internal quotation marks and citations omitted].)  
ORDER
            The court sustains in part and
overrules in part defendant NewRez LLC, d/b/a Shellpoint Mortgage Servicing (on
behalf of itself and erroneously sued as Shellpoint Mortgage Servicing, a
Delaware corporation)’s demurrer to plaintiff Aysia A. Rowe’s Second Amended
Complaint as follows.
The court sustains defendant NewRez LLC, d/b/a Shellpoint Mortgage
Servicing (on behalf of itself and erroneously sued as Shellpoint Mortgage
Servicing, a Delaware corporation)’s demurrer to plaintiff Aysia A. Rowe’s
first, third, fourth, and fifth causes of action. 
The court overrules defendant NewRez LLC, d/b/a Shellpoint Mortgage
Servicing (on behalf of itself and erroneously sued as Shellpoint Mortgage
Servicing, a Delaware corporation)’s demurrer to plaintiff Aysia A. Rowe’s
second, sixth, and seventh causes of action.
The court grants plaintiff Aysia A. Rowe 20 days leave to file a Third
Amended Complaint that cures the defects in the first, third, fourth, and fifth
causes of action set forth in this ruling.
            The court orders defendant NewRez
LLC, d/b/a Shellpoint Mortgage Servicing (on behalf of itself and erroneously
sued as Shellpoint Mortgage Servicing, a Delaware corporation)  to give notice of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  October 9, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court