  Case Number:  24STCV11964    Hearing Date:   June 24, 2024    Dept:  01 Moving Party:             Plaintiffs  Shaw Capital, Shaw Property Development Corporation, Shaw, LLC, WPE LLC,  CarSource, Inc., Shaw Investments, LLC, and Shaw Investments III, LLC  Responding Party:      Defendants  Tin-Jon Syiau, Hometch Inc., and Joyce Lu (no response filed) Ruling:                        Preliminary  injunction will issue contingent on the posting of a $100,000 undertaking.   This action arises out of allegations by plaintiffs Shaw Capital, Shar  Property Development Corp., Shaw LLC, WPE LLC, CarSource, Inc., Shaw  Investments, LLC, and Shaw Investments III, LLC (Plaintiffs or the Shaw  Entities) against defendants Tin-Jon Syiau, Hometch Inc., Joyce Lu, and RAC  Development, Inc.  RAC Development is  currently in an involuntary Chapter 7 bankruptcy in the Central District of  California, and so an automatic bankruptcy stay exists as to it.  The other three defendants are referred to collectively  as Defendants.     On May 16, 2024, the Court (Hon. Stephen I. Goorvitch) issued a temporary  restraining order in this case against Syiau and RAC Development.  The case was later assigned to Department 1  (the undersigned Hon. Stuart M. Rice), which amended the temporary restraining  order to exclude RAC Development (due to the bankruptcy stay).     Legal  Standards   Code of Civil Procedure section 525 defines a (prohibitory)  injunction as “a writ or order requiring a person to refrain from a particular  act.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 525.) A court may grant an injunction in several  scenarios, including, in relevant part, “[w]hen it appears by the complaint or  affidavits that the commission or continuance of some act during the litigation  would produce waste, or great or irreparable injury, to a party to the action.”  (Id., § 526, subd. (a).) The other justifications for a preliminary  injunction pertain to the prevention of acts that would render the judgment in  the action ineffectual.   The court must consider two factors when deciding whether  to issue a preliminary injunction: “The first is the likelihood that the  plaintiff will prevail on the merits at trial. The second is the interim harm  that the plaintiff is likely to sustain if the injunction were denied as  compared to the harm that the defendant is likely to suffer if the preliminary  injunction were issued.” (IT Corp. v. County of Imperial (1983) 35  Cal.3d 63, 69-70.)   It is the moving party’s burden to present evidence of  these elements. (Loder v. City of Glendale (1989) 216 Cal.App.3d 777,  783.) The evidence may consist of “a verified complaint, or upon affidavits if  the complaint in the one case, or the affidavits in the other, show  satisfactorily that sufficient grounds exist therefor.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 527,  subd. (a).) “[T]he trial court is the judge of the credibility of the  affidavits filed in support of the application for preliminary injunction and  it is that court's province to resolve conflicts.” (Monogram Industries,  Inc. v. Sar Industries, Inc. (1976) 64 Cal.App.3d 692, 704.)    Discussion   Plaintiff seeks a preliminary injunction  providing that[1]:   (1)  Syiau, and all persons acting by, through, or on behalf of Syiau shall:  (a) immediately cease and  desist offering for sale, advertising for sale, or completing the sale of the  real property located at 386 Torrey Pines, Arcadia, CA 91006 or any other  property owned by Syiau or any entity owned or controlled by Syiau, including,  without limitation, the real property located at 229 Metropole Ave., Avalon, CA  90704 (owned by RAC Metropole, Inc., which is owned by Syiau) (collectively,  part of the “Syiau Property”); and (b) retain possession of such property until further Order of  the Court; and    (2) Syiau, and all persons acting by, through, or on behalf  of him, shall cease and desist from offering for sale, advertising for sale,  completing the sale of, or holding themselves out in any way as owning any  portion of any of the real property located at 763 N. Main St., Fort Bragg, CA  95437; 10573 E. Highway 20, Clearlake Oaks, CA 95423; 40598 Big Bear Blvd., Big  Bear Lake, CA 92315-2046; or 129 Whittley Ave., Avalon, CA 90704-3175  (collectively, the “Shaw Properties”).   I.                    Service   The Court ordered  on June 7, 2024 that Mr. Syiau be served with the Order to Show Cause re:  Preliminary Injunction by e-mail.  (See  Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1150(a) [OSC “must be served in the same manner as  a summons and complaint”]; Code Civ. Proc. § 413.10(c) [service on  out-of-country person “as directed by the court in which the action is  pending,” subject to requirements of Hague Convention]; Standard  Microsystems Corp. v. Winbond Electronics Corp. (2009) 179 Cal.App.4th  868, 897 [“Because Taiwan was not a signatory to the Hague convention, [defendant]  could be served by any method conforming to California law and consistent with  due process.”], disapproved
on other grounds in Even Zohar Construction & Remodeling, Inc. v.
Bellaire Townhouses, LLC (2015) 61 Cal.4th 830, 843-844.)    Mr.  Syiau makes use of the e-mail account used for service. (See Supplemental Decl.  of Andrew C. Spitser, Ex. I, Ex. Q; see also Id., Ex. L [service of OSC  on Mr. Syiau].)  The Court finds this  method of service is consistent with due process.  Mr. Syiau has filed no response to the  OSC.     II.                 Irreparable Harm    Irreparable harm to the moving party is a "necessary  element" of a preliminary injunction, such that the absence of irreparable  harm is fatal to the moving party’s request. (Loder v. City of Glendale  (1989) 216 Cal.App.3d 777, 786.) It consists of harm that “could not be  compensated adequately by money damages . . .” (Id., 785.)  "¿[T]he granting, denying, dissolving,  or refusing to dissolve a preliminary or temporary injunction rests in the  sound discretion of the trial court upon a consideration of all the particular  circumstances of each individual case.’ It is further the rule that ‘The  discretion, however should be exercised in favor of the party most likely to be  injured.’” (McCoy v. Matich (1954) 128 Cal.App.2d 50, 52.)    Plaintiffs have set forth a compelling  case that Mr. Syiau is in flight and may be seeking to dispose of assets and  potentially render himself judgment-proof.   As described in the declaration of John Shaw, Mr. Syiau appears to have  abandoned his office and his home, has put his home up for sale, and appears to  be using a device set to the same time as Taiwan, where he has  citizenship.  (See Ex Parte Application  for Temporary Restraining Order/Preliminary Injunction (TRO Application), pp.  6-7.)     The claims in Plaintiffs’ complaint are  largely monetary, but where a plaintiff asserts the defendant’s insolvency, a  preliminary injunction may properly be had to preserve the status quo.  (West Coast Construction Co. v. Oceano  Sanitary District (1971) 17 Cal.App.3d 693, 700, citing Lenard v.  Edmonds (1957) 151 Cal.App.3d 764, 768.)   The evidence creates at least an inference that Mr. Syiau is  insolvent.  Plaintiffs have therefore  shown that damages will not be an adequate remedy absent an injunction, as Mr.  Syiau may be unable to pay a damages judgment.    III.              Likelihood of Success on the Merits The grant of a preliminary injunction  requires “a reasonable probability that plaintiff will be successful in the  assertion of his rights.” (Continental Baking Co. v. Katz (1968) 68  Cal.2d 512, 528.) The two elements of a preliminary injunction are weighed on a  sliding scale, such that “the more likely it is that plaintiffs will ultimately  prevail, the less severe must be the harm that they allege will occur if the  injunction does not issue." (King v. Meese (1987) 43 Cal.3d 1217,  1227.) Thus, “a trial court's order with regard to a preliminary injunction may  be affirmed if either the balance-of-hardships analysis or plaintiffs'  likelihood of success considerations would alone support the ruling.” (Ibid.)    Plaintiffs assert six causes of action, which the Court will  address seriatim.   a.      Breach of Contract   “[T]he elements of a cause of action for breach of contract  are (1) the existence of the contract, (2) plaintiff's performance or excuse  for nonperformance, (3) defendant's breach, and (4) the resulting damages to  the plaintiff.”  (Oasis West Realty,  LLC v. Goldman (2011) 51 Cal.4th 811, 821.)     The Court has reviewed Plaintiffs’ evidentiary submissions,  and they are sufficient to meet the elements of this cause of action.  (Shaw Decl., ¶¶ 6-9 and Ex. 1-11.)  Defendants have filed no response to the  evidence.  Plaintiffs have therefore  shown a likelihood of prevailing as to this cause of action.   b.      Fraud   The elements of fraud are (a) a misrepresentation (false  representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (b) knowledge of the falsity of  the misrepresentation; (c) intent to induce reliance; (d) justifiable reliance;  and (e) resulting damage.  (Lazar v.  Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 638.)     Plaintiffs’ evidence supports their allegations.  (See Shaw Decl., ¶¶ 9-15.)  Defendants have filed no response to the  evidence.  Plaintiffs have therefore  shown a likelihood of prevailing as to this cause of action.   c.       Conversion   The elements of conversion are “(1) the plaintiff's ownership  or right to possession of personal property; (2) the defendant's disposition of  the property in a manner that is inconsistent with the plaintiff's property  rights; and (3) resulting damages.”  (Fremont  Indemnity Co. v. Fremont General Corp. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th  97, 119.)  “A ‘generalized claim for  money [is] not actionable as conversion.’”   (PCO, Inc. v. Christensen, Miller, Fink, Jacobs, Glaser, Weil &  Shapiro, LLP (2007) 150 Cal.App.4th 384, 395.)  “A cause of action for conversion requires  allegations of plaintiff's ownership or right to possession of property;  defendant's wrongful act toward or disposition of the property, interfering  with plaintiff's possession; and damage to plaintiff.  [Citation.] Money cannot be the subject of a  cause of action for conversion unless there is a specific, identifiable sum  involved, such as where an agent accepts a sum of money to be paid to another  and fails to make the payment. [Citation.]”   (Ibid.)   The Court is not convinced that Plaintiffs’ claims, i.e. that  Defendants induced them to make certain investments with a promise to provide  certain returns but failed to do so, state a cause of action for  conversion.  When conversion is properly  applied to a claim for money, the facts tend to disclose that the defendant  received money intended to be held as something other than an investment and  then failed to turn it over to the plaintiff.   (See, e.g., Haigler v. Donnelly (1941) 18 Cal.2d 674 [defendant  real estate broker received money from third party from sale of furniture and  rental of apartment but failed to turn over the full amount to which plaintiffs  were entitled]; Mendoza v. Continental Sales Co. (2006) 140 Cal.App.4th  1395 [“a commission merchant who sells pomegranates as a subagent for a grower  and keeps some of the proceeds received for the farmer's account from that sale  is liable for conversion.”]; Fischer v. Machado (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th  1069 [sales agent for farmers received money from sale of fruit but used it for  other purposes and never paid the farmers].)   Here, Plaintiffs allege that they gave their own money to Defendants,  which was to be invested, and then returns paid.  There was no requirement or understanding  that the sums paid be the sums paid back (and indeed, the point was to receive  a return on the investments).  (See  Complaint, ¶¶ 22-23.)     It therefore does not appear that Plaintiffs have shown a  likelihood of prevailing as to conversion, but this is of course not a binding  finding on the merits (and would not bar Plaintiffs from recovering on other  properly substantiated tort claims for the same losses).     d.      Slander of Title   “Slander or disparagement of title occurs when a person,  without a privilege to do so, publishes a false statement that disparages title  to property and causes the owner thereof ‘some special pecuniary loss or  damage.’ [Citation.]  The elements of the  tort are (1) a publication, (2) without privilege or justification, (3)  falsity, and (4) direct pecuniary loss.”   (Sumner Hill Homeowners Association v. Rio Mesa Holdings, LLC (2012)  205 Cal.App.4th 999, 1030.)     Plaintiffs have demonstrated that they own certain properties  in Fort Bragg, Clearlake Oaks, Big Bear Lake, and Avalon, which Defendants have  stated that they have the ability to sell interests in.  (Shaw Decl., ¶¶ 20-25.)  Plaintiffs have incurred attorney fees in  bringing this action and defending its title (see Shaw Decl., Ex. 40), and it  is subject to judicial notice that two of Plaintiffs have been sued in a civil  action pertaining to those properties in connection with the representations at  issue.  (See First Amended Complaint in Lee  v. Syiau et al., Los Angeles Superior Court Case No. 24NNCV01024, ¶¶ 29, 37  and April 19, 2024 Doe Amendments naming Shaw Investments, LLC and Shaw  Investments III, LLC.)  Defendants have  again presented no evidence.  Plaintiffs  have therefore shown a likelihood of prevailing on this cause of action.   e.       Fraudulent Transfer    Under the Uniform Voidable Transactions Act, also known as  the Uniform Fraudulent Transactions Act (UFTA), a transfer may be voidable as  fraudulent where “the  debtor did not receive reasonably equivalent consideration and either ‘(1) Was  engaged or about to engage in a business or a transaction for which  the remaining assets of the debtor were unreasonably small in relation  to the business or transaction; or (2) Intended to incur, or believed or  reasonably should have believed that he or she would incur, debts beyond his or  her ability to pay as they became due.’”   (Mejia v. Reed (2003) 31 Cal.4th 657, 669-670, citing  Civ. Code § 3439.04(b).)  A transfer may  also be voidable “as to an existing creditor if the debtor does not receive  reasonably equivalent value and ‘was insolvent at that time or  ... became insolvent as a result of the transfer....’”  (Id. at 670, citing Civ. Code §  3439.05.)  A creditor may obtain an  injunction to enjoin a further transfer of an asset by either the debtor or  transferee.  (Civ. Code §  3439.07(a)(3)(A).)     Plaintiffs do not identify any transaction which has occurred  which is voidable, and therefore cannot show a likelihood of prevailing on this  cause of action.  Nonetheless, this is  only one cause of action among several.   f.         Breach of Lease   Plaintiffs do not address this cause of action.   g.      Summary/Balance of  Hardships   “If the denial of an injunction would result in great harm to  the plaintiff, and the defendants would suffer little harm if it were granted,  then it is an abuse of discretion to fail to grant the preliminary injunction.”  (Robbins v. Superior Court (1985) 38  Cal.3d 199, 205.)  On balance, the Court  finds that the balance of harms favors Plaintiffs.  Although Plaintiffs have not shown a  likelihood of prevailing as to each cause of action, they have as to the bulk  of the claims for which injunctive relief may lie.  Defendants have made no showing that they  would suffer any injury from being enjoined as Plaintiffs request, and any harm  they might suffer is outweighed by the harm to Plaintiffs from being unable to  recover a judgment for their investments.      IV.              Bond   “On granting an injunction, the court or judge must  require an undertaking on the part of the applicant to the effect that the  applicant will pay to the party enjoined any damages, not exceeding an amount  to be specified, the party may sustain by reason of the injunction, if the  court finally decides that the applicant was not entitled to the injunction.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 529(a), emphasis added.)   The Court agrees that any damages from the inability to sell  interests in the properties subject to the injunction would be  speculative.  Those properties might  appreciate during the pendency of the injunction, or other circumstances not  known to the Court might affect their sale prices one way or another.  However, another component of an undertaking  is the attorney fees that might be incurred to defeat the injunction.  (See Russell v. United Pacific Insurance  Co. (1963) 214 Cal.App.2d 78, 88 [“It is now well settled that reasonable  counsel fees and expenses incurred in successfully procuring a final decision  dissolving the injunction are recoverable as ‘damages' within the meaning of  the language of the undertaking, to the extent that those fees are for services  that relate to such dissolution[.]”]; Abba Rubber Co. v. Seaquist (1991)  235 Cal.App.3d 1, 15 [same].)  The Court  is therefore inclined to require an undertaking in the amount of $100,000.  Plaintiff is welcome to present argument on  this issue at the hearing on the OSC.   Conclusion   For the foregoing reasons, the Court grants the  application for preliminary injunction.   The Court will issue the following preliminary injunction: (1) Syiau, and all persons acting by, through, or on behalf  of Syiau shall:  (a) immediately  cease and desist offering for sale, advertising for sale, or completing the  sale of the real property located at 386 Torrey Pines, Arcadia, CA 91006 or any  other property owned by Syiau or any entity owned or controlled by Syiau,  including, without limitation, the real property located at 229 Metropole Ave.,  Avalon, CA 90704 (owned by RAC Metropole, Inc., which is owned by Syiau)  (collectively, part of the “Syiau Property”); and (b) retain possession of such property until further Order of  the Court; and  (2) Syiau, and all  persons acting by, through, or on behalf of him, shall cease and desist from  offering for sale, advertising for sale, completing the sale of, or holding  themselves out in any way as owning any portion of any of the real property  located at 763 N. Main St., Fort Bragg, CA 95437; 10573 E. Highway 20,  Clearlake Oaks, CA 95423; 40598 Big Bear Blvd., Big Bear Lake, CA 92315-2046;  or 129 Whittley Ave., Avalon, CA 90704-3175 (collectively, the “Shaw  Properties”).   The  foregoing preliminary injunction is conditioned on the posting of an  undertaking in the amount of $100,000.   Plaintiff to lodge and serve on Mr. Syiau by e-mail a proposed  preliminary injunction conforming to this ruling and post the required  undertaking within 5 days of this ruling, during which time the Amended  Temporary Restraining Order shall remain in full force and effect.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1150(f).)  If the order is not lodged or the undertaking  is not posted within the time allowed, the Court may vacate the Amended  Temporary Restraining Order without notice.   Plaintiff to give notice of this ruling and to serve the ruling and the  entered preliminary injunction on Mr. Syiau by e-mail.       