 Case Number:  24STCV01047    Hearing Date:   July 10, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
EMILY ARRINGTON,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
CONTEMPORARY SERVICES
  CORP., et al., 
                        Defendants.
  


 
  Case No.:  24STCV01047
  Hearing Date:  July 10, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
Plaintiff’s motion to compel compliance
  with subpoena 




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On January 16, 2024, Plaintiff Emily
Arrington filed this action against Defendants Contemporary Services
Corporation and Daniel Larry Fernandez III. The complaint alleges that
Plaintiff suffered sexual harassment and sexual assault by her supervisor
(Defendant Fernandez) throughout her employment. The complaint specifically
alleges that on February 6, 2022, Plaintiff was drugged and assaulted by
Fernandez while working at the LA Coliseum.  
            On April 15, 2024, Plaintiff issued
a subpoena to the Los Angeles Police Department (LAPD) for the production of
records pertaining to the February 6, 2022 incident. LAPD has declined to
disclose the information due to the pending criminal investigation. 
            On June 4, 2024, Plaintiff filed the
instant motion to compel LAPD’s compliance with the subpoena. LAPD filed its
opposition on June 28, 2024. Plaintiff filed her reply on July 2, 2024.  
 
 
LEGAL STANDARD
“If a subpoena requires the attendance of
a witness or the production of books, documents, electronically stored
information, or other things …, the court, upon motion reasonably made by [a
party] . . . may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or
directing compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as the court shall
declare, including protective orders.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1(a), (b).) Good
cause must be shown to compel a nonparty to produce documents. (See Calcor
Space Facility, Inc. v. Superior Court (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 216, 224.)   
DISCUSSION
            “A public entity has a privilege to
refuse to disclose official information, and to prevent another from disclosing
official information, if the privilege is claimed by a person authorized by the
public entity to do so and either of the following apply:
(1) Disclosure is forbidden by an act of
the Congress of the United States or a statute of this state.
(2) Disclosure of the information is
against the public interest because there is a necessity for preserving the
confidentiality of the information that outweighs the necessity for disclosure
in the interest of justice; but no privilege may be claimed under this
paragraph if any person authorized to do so has consented that the information
be disclosed in the proceeding. In determining whether disclosure of the
information is against the public interest, the interest of the public entity
as a party in the outcome of the proceeding may not be considered.” 
(Evid.
Code, § 1040(b).) “As used in this section, ‘official information’ means
information acquired in confidence by a public employee in the course of his or
her duty and not open, or officially disclosed, to the public prior to the time
the claim of privilege is made.” (Id., § 1040(a).) 
            In applying the privilege, “[t]he
threshold determination is whether the information . . . was acquired in
confidence. If the information was acquired in confidence, the trial court next
must balance the interests to determine whether the necessity for preserving
the confidentiality of the information outweighs the necessity for disclosure
in the interest of justice.” (Marylander v. Superior Court (2000) 81
Cal.App.4th 1119, 1128-1129.) This involves “consideration of the consequences
to the litigant of nondisclosure and the consequences to the public of
disclosure.” (Id. at p. 1129.) “Consideration of the consequences to the
litigant of nondisclosure involves familiar issues concerning the importance of
the information to the fair presentation of the litigant's case, the
availability of the material to the litigant by other means, and the
effectiveness and relative difficulty of such other means. Consideration of the
consequences to the public involves matters relating to the effect of
disclosure on public processes and procedures.” (Ibid., internal
citations omitted.) 
            “Evidence gathered by police as part
of an ongoing criminal investigation is by its nature confidential.” (County
of Orange v. Superior Court (2000) 79 Cal.App.4th 759, 764.) Therefore, “the
contents of police investigative files sought in civil discovery must remain
confidential so long as the need for confidentiality outweighs the benefits of
disclosure in any particular case.” (Id. at p. 765.) 
            Plaintiff argues that the evidence
sought in the subpoena is critical to her case because it pertains to a sexual
assault that serves as a central basis of the lawsuit. The evidence is
pertinent to proving that the assault occurred and thus proving liability for
the claims alleged in the complaint. Plaintiff argues that she has no other
means to obtain material that could only be in LAPD’s possession, such as
reports, recordings, and physical evidence. 
            On the other hand, LAPD invokes the
public interest in the effective prosecution of crimes. Citing to County of
Orange, LAPD argues that “[r]eleasing LAPD’s investigation, notes, reports,
videos gathered thus far would greatly compromise the criminal prosecution of
the case, as well as, jeopardizing justice for the victim, the plaintiff herein.”
(Opp. 4:12-14.) In County of Orange, the parents of a deceased child
sued due to the way they were treated during the sheriff’s department
investigation. (County of Orange, supra, 79 Cal.App.4th at p. 762.) The
sheriff’s department refused to comply with a production demand for its
investigative file of the child’s death, asserting the official information
privilege. (Ibid.)
The court agreed with the County’s “compelling
picture of the dire consequences that could result from the disclosure of the
contents of an investigative file to the suspects in a possible murder.” (County
of Orange, supra, 79 Cal.App.4th at p. 766.) “There is an obvious danger
that they may learn crucial information that would enable them to avoid
apprehension. More specifically, permitting suspects to review materials in an
investigative file ‘will enable them to invent stories, explain away evidence
thus far gathered, and intimidate or otherwise influence potential witnesses.’”
(Ibid.) The court concluded that these dangers outweighed the parents’
interest in seeking vindication for their mistreatment. (Id. at pp.
767-68.)
Plaintiff argues in reply that LAPD has
presented no evidence of the dangers of disclosure in this case. Specifically,
LAPD cites to the declaration of Detective Kristina Montoya for its proposition
that disclosure would compromise the criminal investigation. (Opp. 4:12-14.)
Yet, Det. Montoya’s declaration was neither served on Plaintiff nor filed with
the Court. This appears to be a mere oversight. Assuming Det. Montoya’s
declaration states what LAPD claims it states, the Court would agree with LAPD
and County of Orange that the risks of disclosure during an ongoing
investigation outweigh Plaintiff’s interest in prosecuting her case. Thus, the
Court is inclined to deny the motion if LAPD files Det. Montoya’s declaration. 
CONCLUSION
            Plaintiff’s motion to compel
compliance with subpoena is DENIED on the condition that LAPD file Det.
Montoya’s declaration.   
 