 Case Number:  23STCV14103    Hearing Date:   July 10, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
STEPHANIE D. GONZALEZ,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
THE LEGACY LAWYERS, A PROFESSIONAL LAW
  CORPORATION, 
                        
                        Defendant. 


 
  Case No.:  23STCV14103
  Hearing Date:  July 10, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
plaintiff’s motion to compel compliance 




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On June 20, 2023, Plaintiff
Stephanie D. Gonzalez filed this action against Defendant The Legacy Lawyers, A
Professional Law Corporation, asserting causes of action for: (1) Labor Code
retaliation; (2) FEHA retaliation; (3) discrimination; (4) harassment; (5)
failure to prevent; (6) violation of equal pay; and (7) constructive discharge.

            The action stems from Plaintiff’s
assertion that she was paid less than her male coworkers. Plaintiff alleges
that after she complained about the disparity, Defendant began retaliating
against her. Plaintiff alleges that the working conditions became so intolerable
that she was forced to resign. 
            On June 11, 2024, Plaintiff filed
the instant motion to compel compliance with requests for production. Defendant
filed its opposition on June 26, 2024. Plaintiff filed her reply on July 2,
2024.
 
 
LEGAL STANDARD
“If a party filing a response to a demand
for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling . . . thereafter fails to permit
the inspection, copying, testing, or sampling in accordance with that party’s
statement of compliance, the demanding party may move for an order compelling
compliance.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.320(a).) 
DISCUSSION
            The instant motion concerns RFP Nos.
83, 90, and 93, which sought production of metadata related to certain key
documents in the case: a “coaching memo” issued to Plaintiff; and two policies
regarding job requirements and pay structure. (Demerjian Decl. ¶ 4.) Defendant
responded to these requests by agreeing to produce responsive documents. (Id.,
¶ 5, Ex. 1.) The discovery was propounded back in August 2023, and Defendant
served its responses in October 2023. (Id., ¶¶ 4-5.) To date, Defendant
has not produced the metadata requested by RFP Nos. 83, 90, and 93. (Id.,
¶ 10.)      
It is undisputed that Defendant agreed in
its responses to produce the subject metadata. It is further undisputed that
Defendant has not in fact produced the subject metadata in the eight months
since it served its responses. Thus, Defendant has “fail[ed] to permit the
inspection, copying, testing, or sampling in accordance with [its] statement of
compliance.” (See Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.320(a).) Accordingly, an order
compelling production is warranted. 
Defendant avers that it has not typically
used metadata in its documents and therefore is unfamiliar with how to secure,
save, and produce metadata. (Underwood Decl. ¶ 8.) Defendant believes that it
will have to engage an IT expert in order to properly extract the metadata. (Id.,
¶ 13.) Defendant also had to focus its efforts on an insurance coverage issue
related to the case that recently arose. (Id., ¶¶ 9-11.)
However, this does not justify the eight-month
delay since Defendant first served its responses promising to produce the
metadata. It is unclear why Defendant only realized now that it needs to retain
an IT expert to assist with extracting the metadata, when the discovery was
served back in August 2023. Furthermore, Plaintiff offered to accept the
original native files and then have her own expert extract the metadata, thus
obviating the need for Defendant to retain an IT expert. (Demerjian Reply
Decl., Ex. 2.) Defendant’s compliance and cooperation on other discovery matters
does not excuse its conduct with regards to the RFPs at issue in this motion.
The insurance issue has no bearing on Plaintiff’s right to obtain discovery.
Thus, Defendant has failed to articulate substantial justification for its
failure to produce documents. 
Sanctions are warranted, albeit in a
reduced amount. An hourly rate of $750 is not warranted for this type of
motion, nor are the 7 hours claimed. (See Demerjian Decl. ¶ 12.) The Court
instead awards $1,600 for 4 hours at a rate of $400. 
CONCLUSION
            Plaintiff’s motion to compel
compliance is GRANTED. Defendant shall produce documents responsive to RFP Nos.
83, 90, and 93 within 15 days of this order. The Court sanctions Defendant and
its counsel in the total amount of $1,600, to be paid within 30 days of this
order. 