  Case Number:  21STCV44410    Hearing Date:   April 5, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian Department 27 Tentative Ruling  Hearing Date:  4/5/2024 at 1:30 p.m. Case No./Name: 21STCV44410 MARCO CHAVIRA vs CALIFORNIA LANDMARK GROUP Motion: Motion for Summary Judgment/Summary Adjudication Moving Party: Defendant Robles Glass & Supplies Inc. Responding Party: Plaintiff Notice:   Sufficient Ruling: DEFENDANT'S MOTIONS FOR SUMMARY ADJUDICATION OF PLAINTIFF'S CAUSES OF ACTION OTHER THAN NEGLIGENCE ARE DENIED AS MOOT.  DEFENDANT'S MOTION FOR SUMMARY ADJUDICATION OF PLAINTIFF'S CAUSE OF ACTION FOR NEGLIGENCE IS DENIED.  BACKGROUND On December 6, 2021, Plaintiff filed the present action alleging the following eight causes of action against all Defendants, including Defendant Robles Glass and Supplies: (1) Breach of Implied Warranty of Habitability, (2) Premises Liability, (3) Negligence, (4) Nuisance, (5) Breach of Contract, (6) Breach of Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing, (7) Breach of Covenant of Quiet Enjoyment, (8) Violation of Business and Professions Code Section 17200 et seq. (Unfair Competition). Plaintiff alleges that a metal blind, located 14 feet above the ground, was negligently installed by Defendant Robles. Plaintiff further alleges that the blind fell on his head when he attempted to close it, causing traumatic brain injuries. Defendant Robles now moves the court for summary judgment or adjudication of all eight of Plaintiff’s causes of action. Plaintiff has agreed to dismiss all his claims against Robles, except for his negligence claim. Defendant contends that Plaintiff’s negligence claim should be dismissed on the grounds that the technician performing the installation was well-trained, the property management company inspected the installation and found no issue, and Defendant received no complaints from Plaintiff or anyone else regarding the installation. Plaintiff argues that Defendant had minimal prior experience in installing the blinds, the property management company did not actually inspect the installation, and Defendant was required to install four brackets for blinds of such dimensions, but only two brackets were installed.  SUMMARY ADJUDICATION AS TO ALL OTHER CAUSES OF ACTION BESIDES NEGLIGENCE In footnote 1 of Plaintiff’s opposition, Plaintiff states that he has agreed to dismiss all causes of action against Robles, except for his negligence cause of action. Thus, the summary adjudication motions to all of Plaintiff's causes of action other than negligence are moot and denied on that basis.   EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS Defendant’s objections Nos. 2, 3, 4, 5, and 14 are overruled. The Parties did not make any other objections to evidence that was material to Court’s ruling on the Motion for Summary Judgment.¿(CCP § 437c(q).)  LEGAL STANDARD  The purpose of a motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication “is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite its allegations, trial is in fact necessary to resolve its dispute.” Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal. 4th 826, 843. “Code of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal. App. 4th 1110, 1119.  A “defendant moving for summary judgment must show the plaintiff’s causes of action have¿no merit.” (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.¿(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 849, emphasis added.) In other words, summary judgment is not to be granted simply because a case is “weak” or because a “weak” showing was made in opposition. (Hagen v. Hickenbottom¿(1995) 41 Cal.App.4th 168, 187-188, superseded by statute on another point as recognized in¿Rice v. Clark¿(2002) 28 Cal.4th 89, 96;¿Mamou v. Trendwest Resorts, Inc.¿(2008) 165 Cal.App.4th 589, 722. [“to avoid summary judgment a showing need not be strong; it need only be sufficient to raise a triable issue of fact.”].)  “On a motion for summary judgment, the initial burden is always on the moving party to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues of material fact.” Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal. App. 4th 1510, 1519. A defendant moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication “has met his or her burden of showing that a cause of action has no merit if the party has shown that one or more elements of the cause of action . . . cannot be established, or that there is a complete defense to the cause of action.” CCP § 437c(p)(2). The elements of negligence are (1) a legal duty owed to plaintiffs to use due care; (2) breach of duty; (3) causation; and (4) damage to plaintiff. (County of Santa Clara v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2006) 137 Cal. App. 4th 292, 318.)  Defendant has two methods to shift the burden of proof. In addition to the standard method of presenting evidence that negates an essential element, the defendant may rely upon factually insufficient discovery responses by the plaintiff to show that the plaintiff cannot establish an essential element of the cause of action sued upon. (Union Bank v. Superior Court, supra, 31 Cal.App.4th at p. 590.)¿“Once the defendant . . . has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff . . . to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” (CCP § 437c(p)(2).)  ANALYSIS The elements for negligence are: (1) a legal duty owed to the plaintiff to use due care; (2) breach of duty; (3) causation; and (4) damage to the plaintiff. (County of Santa Clara v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2006) 137 Cal.App.4th 292, 318.)¿¿  Defendant’s Initial Burden  Factually Devoid Discovery Responses In meeting its initial burden for summary adjudication of Plaintiff’s negligence claim, Defendant contends that Plaintiff has no evidence that Robles was negligent with respect to the installation or its work at the Property. (UMF 14.) Defendant first introduces Plaintiff’s responses to Defendant’s Special Interrogatory No. 7 (Def’s Exhibit K), asking Plaintiff to “state all facts upon which YOU base the contention that Propounding Party is liable for negligence as alleged in YOUR COMPLAINT.” Plaintiff’s response consists of only objections. Defendant then introduced Plaintiff’s Responses to Defendant’s Request for Production No. 7 (Def’s Exhibit L), asking Plaintiff to provide “Any and all DOCUMENTS that support YOUR contention that Propounding Party is liable for negligence as alleged in YOUR COMPLAINT.” In response, Plaintiff directed Defendant to review Plaintiff’s entire document production. Plaintiff’s responses are not factually devoid. Objections are not treated the same as factually devoid interrogatories responses (Gaggero v. Yura (2003) 108 Cal.App.4th 884, 892-93). When the plaintiffs in¿Union Bank v. Superior Court (2005) 130 Cal.App.4th 378¿stated “mere¿beliefs”¿in response to a question requesting¿all facts¿supporting an element of their claims, the logical inference was that after discovery they possessed no facts to support that element. (Id.) However, no such logical inference of an absence of facts can be drawn from an objection even though it was not a proper objection. (Id.)¿ For summary judgment purposes, an objection is not the equivalent of a factually devoid response, and therefore cannot be used to shift the burden. (Id.)¿Furthermore, Plaintiff’s response to the request for production did not state that he lacks any documents; instead, it directed Defendant to review Plaintiff's document production. Defendant also did not provide Plaintiff’s entire document production nor a summary thereof, leaving the Court without a basis to assess the types of documentary evidence in Plaintiff’s possession or the lack thereof in order to shift Defendant’s initial burden. Thus, Defendant failed to show that Plaintiff’s discovery responses are factually devoid and therefore failed to shift its initial burden on this basis. Affirmative Showing Defendant introduced evidence showing that in September 2019, Robles Glass employees, including Jorge Mora, who installed the blinds in question, participated in a training session with Gene’s Industry, Inc. to learn how to install blinds. (Deposition of Joel Robles, Exhibit C, Pages 62-65, Lines 5-6.) CLG Management, the property management company for Plaintiff’s residence, inspected the blinds after the installation and did not find any problems with the installation. (Deposition of Jack Woolums, Exhibit G, Pages 92-93, Lines 12-16; Exhibit D to CLG Management, LLC’s verified responses to Request for Production of Documents, Set One propounded by Plaintiff - Exhibit I.) Defendant Robles Glass never received any complaints regarding the installation of the blinds at issue. (Deposition of Joel Robles, Exhibit C, Pages 138-139, Lines 19-17.) Furthermore, Plaintiff never reported any repair requests regarding the blinds in his unit. (Exhibit E to CLG Management, LLC’s verified responses to Request for Production of Documents, Set One propounded by Plaintiff, Exhibit J.) This evidence demonstrates that Defendant’s technician had blind installation training, and the installation was inspected by the property management company without issue, and no complaints were made about the installation or the blinds. Defendant has therefore met its initial burden. However, the Court will note that Defendant introduced only circumstantial evidence of its lack of negligence. Defendant did not introduce any evidence or undisputed material facts regarding details of the installation itself. Although Defendant has met its initial burden, the evidence presented does not constitute a strong showing. Triable Issue of Fact Plaintiff introduces new pieces of evidence raising a triable issue of material fact to counter Defendant's circumstantial evidence. First, employees of the property management company did not actually climb the ladder to inspect the shades; they do not possess knowledge of what proper installation of the shades would entail and did not engage an expert installer to verify the installation. (Woolums Depo., 93:22-95:24; 104:1-4, (Ganji Dec., Ex. D).) Second, Robles does not have any contractor license or professional license. (Robles PMK Depo, 47:6-13 (Ganji Dec., Ex. D)) Defendant only began installing shades starting in November 2019, just a couple of months before the installation at issue and CLG is the only customer for whom they install shades. (Robles PMK Depo, 53:19-59:8 (Ganji Dec., Ex. D).) Plaintiff did not raise concerns regarding the installation due to a lack of a ladder for inspection and absence of knowledge to determine what constitutes proper installation. (Plaintiff’s Dec. ¶ 3.) Plaintiff raises triable issues of fact regarding Defendant's technician's competence and whether the property management company actually inspected the property when its employees represented that there were no issues with the installation. Plaintiff also introduces evidence concerning the installation process, including expert witness testimony asserting that, based on the dimension of the shade, the industry standard requires the use of four mounting brackets. (Decl. of Patrick Kelley ¶ 5 & 6.) “Levolor roller shades and Hunter Douglas roller shades, to name just two of the leading manufacturers of such shades, require that four mounting brackets be used.” (Decl. of Patrick Kelley ¶ 6.)  However, only two mounting brackets were employed in the current installation (Ganji Dec., Ex. A), raising a triable issue of fact whether the installation has fallen below the standard of care. Accordingly, Defendant’s summary adjudication to Plaintiff’s cause of action for negligence is DENIED. ¿ PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: ¿ If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿ ¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿ ¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion. 