 Case Number:  23LBCV01618    Hearing Date:   September 24, 2024    Dept:  S25 AnalysisAn attorney in an action may be changed at any time before or after judgment or final determination upon the order of the court, upon the application of either client or attorney, after notice from one to the other. (Code Civ. Proc., § 284, subd. (2)). California Rules of Court, rule 3.1362 requires:1. Notice of motion and motion to be directed to the client (made on the Notice of Motion and Motion to be Relieved as Counsel Civil form (MC-051));2. A declaration stating in general terms, and without compromising the confidentiality of the attorney client relationship, why a motion under CCP §284(2), is brought instead of filing a consent under CCP §284(1) (made on the Declaration in Support of Attorney's Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel Civil form (MC-052));3. Service of the notice of motion and motion and declaration on all other parties who have appeared in the case; and4. The proposed order relieving counsel (prepared on the Order Granting Attorney's Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel Civil form (MC-053)).Defendants’ counsel’s notice of motion and motion to be relieved as counsel is made on the proper Judicial Council of California form MC-051. The notice of motion and motion complies with Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362(a). Defendants’ counsel provided a declaration providing that a breakdown in cooperation with attorney’s requests and advice. (Grundon Decl., ¶ 2.) Further, the declaration is on the proper Judicial Council of California form MC-052. The declaration complies with Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362(c).Defendants’ counsel has not provided proper proofs of service for the notice of motion and motion, the declaration, and the proposed order. Thus, service does not comply with Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362(d).No proposed order has been provided. As required under Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362(e), the proposed order must be prepared on the correct Judicial Council of California form MC-053 and must be lodged with the Court with the moving paper.Further, it is unclear whether Defense counsel is seeking to be relieved as counsel as to both Defendants or only Defendant RM Biltrite. The Notice of Motion and Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel only identifies RM Biltrite. Yet, both Defendants are mentioned in the Declaration in Support of Attorney’s Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel—Civil. It is also unclear which Defendant was served or if both were served by Defense Counsel. (See August 28, 2024 Decl., ISO Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel at p. 1 ¶ 3 [Service].)]Tentative RulingMotion to be Relieved is DENIED without prejudice for counsel to correct service and filing deficiencies.