 Case Number:  24STCP00050    Hearing Date:   July 25, 2024    Dept:  86 DEMURRER TO VERIFIED PETITION
FOR WRIT OF MANDATE
 
Date:               7/25/24 (1:30 PM) 
Case:                           Eric Pelton v. County of Los Angeles et al. (24STCP00050) 
  
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Respondent County of Los Angeles’ Demurrer to Verified
Petition for Writ of Mandate is SUSTAINED. 
 
Respondent’s requests to take judicial notice of the Los
Angeles County Charter and the Civil Service Rules of the County of Los Angeles
are GRANTED. (Morgado v. City and County of San Francisco (2017) 13
Cal.App.5th 1, 13, fn. 8 [court must take judicial notice of county and city
charters]; Olson v. County of Sacramento (1974) 38 Cal.App.3d 958, 964
[taking judicial notice of civil service commission rules].)
 
Petitioner Eric Pelton seeks a writ of mandate directing respondent
Civil Service Commission (“Commission”) to set aside the dismissal of his
appeal. (Pet. ¶ 6; Prayer ¶ 2.) In March 2022, while his appeal was pending,
petitioner retired. (Pet. ¶ 1.) On October 4, 2023, the Commission dismissed
the appeal, finding it had lost jurisdiction due to Pelton’s retirement in
March 2022. (Pet. ¶ 6.)

Petitioner’s retirement while his appeal before the Commission was pending
divested the Commission of jurisdiction. “A civil service commission created by
charter has only the special and limited jurisdiction expressly authorized by
the charter.” (Zuniga v. Los Angeles County Civil Service Com. (2006)
137 Cal.App.4th 1255, 1259, quoting Hunter v. Los Angeles County Civil
Service Com. (2002) 102 Cal.App.4th 191, 194.) Under the Los Angeles County
Charter, which applies in this case, once an employee voluntarily separates
from service, the Civil Service Commission is without jurisdiction to adjudicate
the merits of any appeal. (Zuniga, 137 Cal.App.4th at 1261.) This is the
case even if the employee was a current employee at the time of the appeal. (Ibid.;
see also County of Los Angeles Dept. of Health Services v. Civil
Service Com. of County of Los Angeles (Latham) (2009) 180
Cal.App.4th 391, 401 [“Zuniga stands for the bright line proposition
that, where an employee retires during the pendency of a civil service appeal,
her future status as an employee by definition is no longer at issue…. [T]he
Commission has authority to address only matters involving a member of the
civil service, and a person who has retired is no longer a member of the civil
service”].) 
 
Relying on Hudson v. County of Los Angeles (2014) 232
Cal.App.4th 392, petitioner contends that the Zuniga rule does not apply
because of purported “exigent circumstances.” (Pet. ¶ 5.) Hudson does
not set forth any exception from the Zuniga rule based on “exigent
circumstances.” In Hudson, pending an appeal from discharge from
employment, the public retirement system granted the employee deputy sheriff a
disability retirement and she withdrew her contributions after having been told
that she was ineligible due to lack of the required numbers of years of
service. (Hudson, 232 Cal.App.4th at 396-97.) The Court of Appeal found
that the bright line rule of Zuniga and Latham did not apply
under the circumstances presented in that case, including the Los Angeles
County Sheriff’s Department initiating the employee’s disability retirement,
the Commission ordering the employment restored, the Sheriff’s Department
agreeing and returning the plaintiff to work in an unsworn position pending her
appeal, the plaintiff actively seeking the public retirement system Los Angeles
County Employees Retirement Association’s (“LACERA”) reevaluation of its
finding of disability so that she could return to work, and LACERA’s refusal to
reevaluate the disability on the ground that the plaintiff was no longer a
member after having already withdrawn her retirement contributions. (Id.
at 396-99, 406.) Because the plaintiff’s status as an employee was at issue,
the Court of Appeal declined to apply the Zuniga/Latham rule. (Id.
at 413.) 
 
Here, there is no allegation in the Petition that
petitioner’s status as an employee was at issue. There is no allegation that
the Department of Parks and Recreation (“DPR”), petitioner’s employer, or the
Commission ever gave any indication that petitioner could return to employment.
Rather, the DPR terminated petitioner’s employer for not having registered with
Fulgent Genetics and having vaccinated against COVID-19. (Pet. ¶¶ 1, 8.) While
petitioner’s appeal was pending, he retired “[d]ue to exigent and financial
circumstances.” (Pet. ¶ 1.) While the employee in Hudson had withdrawn
her retirement contributions due to economic need (Hudson, 232
Cal.App.4th at 397), the Hudson court in no way indicated that economic
need would allow the Commission to retain jurisdiction of an appeal when the
employee has retired. (Deiro v. Los Angeles County Civil Service Commission
(2020) 56 Cal.App.5th 925, 933.) “The essence of the Zuniga/Latham rule
is that a plaintiff's future status as an employee is not at issue after he has
retired. In the ordinary case, this is…true…of retirees who choose to retire
after years of service: their future status as employees is not at issue,
unless they or their former employer choose to place it in issue.” (Id.
at 934.) “The existence of a case like Hudson…does not change the
general rule. It is the exception, on egregious facts—and it was clear
throughout the long saga that the plaintiff's future status as an employee was
at issue.” (Ibid.) There are no egregious facts alleged here. This is a
straightforward case where the Commission had “no authority to order
reinstatement or any other relief to a retired person whose future status as an
employee is not at issue.” (Id. at 927.) 
 
Petitioner alleges that he “was encouraged to retire…to
procure a minimal retirement benefit…with the explicit understanding that said
application would not impact [his] ability to be restored to service through
the Civil Service Commission processes, upon prevailing at hearing.” (Pet. ¶
1.) “An employee who claims that a resignation has been obtained by duress,
fraud, or undue influence, may appeal to the director of personnel, setting
forth in writing the facts substantiating the allegation, within 10 business
days of the acceptance of the resignation by the appointing power.” (RJN Ex. 2
at 117 [Civil Service Rule 18.09].) To the extent that petitioner contends that
his retirement was obtained by duress, fraud, or undue influence, petitioner
has not alleged that he appealed the acceptance of his retirement. Accordingly,
petitioner cannot argue that his retirement is void. 
 
The other cases on which petitioner relies are unavailing
because jurisdiction was defined under rules other than the Los Angeles County
charter and civil service rules at issue here. (Cf. SEIU, Local 1021 v.
County of San Joaquin (2011) 202 Cal.App.4th 449 [Memorandum of
Understanding between county and union]; Hughes vs. County of San Bernardino
(2016) 244 Cal.App.4th 542 [San Bernardino County personnel rules]; Hall-Villareal
vs. City of Fresno (2011) 196 Cal.App.4th 24 [Fresno City Charter].) 
 
Because the Court finds the Commission lost jurisdiction, petitioner
fails to allege in his second cause of action that there was a prejudicial
abuse of discretion, denial of a fair trial, or conduct without or in excess of
jurisdiction that would warrant administrative mandamus under CCP § 1094.5
arising from the Commission’s dismissal of petitioner’s appeal. Relatedly, because
the Commission had no jurisdiction to hear petitioner’s appeal, petitioner
fails to state a ministerial duty to support his claim for traditional mandamus
under CCP § 1085 in his first cause of action.
 
The demurrer is SUSTAINED in its entirety. Although
petitioner states that “leave to amend should be granted” (Opp. at 2),
petitioner fails to identify how the defects in the petition might be
reasonably cured by amendment.  Before
allowing leave to amend, the Court will hear a proffer from petitioner as to
how the petition can be amended to address the defects set forth herein.