 Case Number:  23STCP01994    Hearing Date:   July 25, 2024    Dept:  86 


 
LYNN WELK,  


 
 
 
 
 
Petitioner,


 
 
 
 
 
Case No.
 


 
 
 
 
 
23STCP01994




 
vs.
 
 
THE WELK GROUP, INC.,
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Respondent.
 


[TENTATIVE] RULING ON FIRST AMENDED PETITION FOR
  WRIT OF MANDATE
 
Dept. 86 (Hon. Curtis A. Kin)
 
 




 


 


 


 



Petitioner
Lynn Welk petitions for a writ of mandate directing respondent The Welk Group,
Inc. to produce: (1) a complete list of all bank account numbers and the
associated financial institution, including opening and closing date (if
applicable) associated with respondent; (2) the complete banking records (to
include deposit receipts, internal check requests, and internal correspondence
pertaining to deposit receipts and checks requests), complete bank statements,
and cancelled checks for all bank accounts associated with respondent; and (3) all
QuickBooks data held by respondent, its agents, accountants, or bookkeepers
pertaining to respondent. (See Proposed Order.) 
 
I.       Factual Background
 
            Petitioner Lynn Welk is a director
of respondent The Welk Group, Inc. (Lynn Welk Decl. ¶ 2.) On April 25, 2023, petitioner
sent a written books and records request to respondent, requesting certain
financial statements, tax returns, budget information, organizational charts,
board records, operating agreements, and articles of incorporation in her capacity
as a director of respondent. (Lynn Welk Decl. ¶ 3 & Ex. A; Baird Decl. ¶ 3
& Ex. A.)
 
On
August 8, 2023, respondent produced documents to petitioner. (Baird Decl. ¶ 12
& Ex. I.) The documents were again produced to petitioner’s counsel on
September 10, 2023, with several additional documents produced on September 18,
2023. (Baird Decl. ¶ 16, Ex. M.) Additional documents were produced on January
31, 2024. (Baird Decl. ¶ 20 & Ex. P.) 
 
            The parties dispute whether full and
complete production to petitioner’s request has been made. 
 
II.      Procedural History
 
            On
June 7, 2023, petitioner filed a Petition for Writ of Mandate. On July 10,
2023, petitioner filed the operative First Amended Petition for Writ of
Mandate.
 
            On
August 14, 2023, the instant case was deemed related to Lawrence L. Welk, Jr. v. Vanowen
Genpar, LLC et al.,
Case No. 23STCP02326.
 
            On
May 22, 2024, petitioner filed an opening brief.[1] On June
24, 2024, respondent filed an opposition. On July 10, 2024, petitioner filed a
reply. 
 
III.     Standard of Review
 
CCP
§ 1085(a) provides: “A writ of mandate may be issued by any court to any
inferior tribunal, corporation, board, or person, to compel the performance of
an act which the law specially enjoins, as a duty resulting from an office,
trust, or station, or to compel the admission of a party to the use and
enjoyment of a right or office to which the party is entitled, and from which
the party is unlawfully precluded by that inferior tribunal, corporation,
board, or person.”
 
“There
are two essential requirements to the issuance of a traditional writ of
mandate: (1) a clear, present and usually ministerial duty on the part of the
respondent, and (2) a clear, present and beneficial right on the part of the
petitioner to the performance of that duty.” (California Assn. for Health
Services at Home v. State Dept. of Health Services (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th
696, 704.) Corporate inspections are governed under CCP § 1085. (Wolf v. CDS
Devco (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 903, 912.) 
 
Corporations
Code § 1602 states: “Every director shall have the absolute right at any
reasonable time to inspect and copy all books, records and documents of every
kind and to inspect the physical properties of the corporation of which such
person is a director and also of its subsidiary corporations, domestic or
foreign.” “Upon refusal of a lawful demand for inspection, the superior court
of the proper county, may enforce the right of inspection with just and proper
conditions ….” (Corp. Code § 1603.)
 
“The
petitioner always bears the burden of proof in a mandate proceeding brought
under Code of Civil Procedure section 1085.” (California Correctional Peace
Officers Assn. v. State Personnel Bd. (1995) 10 Cal.4th 1133, 1154.)
 
IV.     Analysis
 
1.           
Joint
Opening Brief
 
The
opening brief is a joint opening brief for Lynn Welk, Jr. v. The Welk Group,
Inc., Case No. 23STCP01994, and Lawrence L. Welk, Jr. v. Vanowen Genpar,
LLC et al., Case No. 23STCP02326. While the two cases are related, they are
not consolidated. (8/14/23 Minute Order.) Accordingly, this ruling only
pertains to petitioner Lynn Welk’s case. 
 
2.           
Merits
 
It
is undisputed that petitioner is a director of respondent and has inspection
rights under Corporations Code § 1602. For petitioner to obtain the corporate
documents she seeks, she must show that she “made a demand for inspection,
which was refused.” (Fowler v. Golden Pacific Bancorp, Inc. (2022) 80
Cal.App.5th 205, 217, citing Corp. Code §§ 1602, 1603.)
 
As
noted above, respondent has produced documents. Petitioner still seeks: (1) a
complete list of all bank account numbers and the associated financial
institution, including opening and closing date (if applicable) associated with
respondent; (2) the complete banking records (to include deposit receipts,
internal check requests, and internal correspondence pertaining to deposit
receipts and checks requests), complete bank statements, and cancelled checks
for all bank accounts associated with respondent; and (3) all QuickBooks data
held by respondent, its agents, accountants, or bookkeepers pertaining to respondent.
(See Proposed Order.)
 
Petitioner
requested copies of the following documents:
 
1.
The Operating Agreement(s) for any L.L.C.’s to which W.G.I. [i.e.,
respondent] is, directly or indirectly, a party, other than those for VanOwen
and Wilshire, which I already have.
 
2.
The Articles of Incorporation, By-laws, and any shareholders agreement(s) of
W.G.I., or its subsidiaries, including, but not limited to, any amendments or
proposed amendments to each of the preceding documents.
 
3.
All board records for the past three years, including, but not limited to, any
materials provided to the Board of Directors before board meetings, and
complete copies of all minutes of every General and Special Board meeting(s).
 
4.
All organization charts or any other such documentation reflecting the entity
structure of W.G.I. and its wholly and partially owned subsidiaries.
 
5.
Any annual financial statements for W.G.I. and its wholly and partially owned
subsidiaries for each of the following years: 2019, 2020, 2021, 2022, and
interim 2023.
 
6.
A schedule of all intellectual property rights held by W.G.I., including, but
not limited to, the rights to the Lawrence Welk programs, music, trademarks,
and copyrights.
 
7.
Any records concerning any transaction(s) between or among W.G.I. on the one
hand and any Related Party on the other hand. For the purposes of this request,
a “Related Party” includes, but is not limited to, Jonathan Fredericks, Jeffrey
Welk, Stephen Baron, David Mack, Kevin Welk, and any entity owned or controlled
by each of these individuals.
 
8.
The budget for 2023 for W.G.I., including, but not limited to, any of its
subsidiaries.
 
9.
Any appraisals(s) for any real property in which W.G.I. has any interest.
 
10.
Any material agreements) that W.G.I. has with (1) any outside advisor or
manager, including any property manager; or (2) any party concerning its
non-real property assets; (3) any attorney or law firm; or (4) accountant or
accounting firm.
 
11.
All agreements relating to “other partnership income” as reported on account
9208001.
 
12.
W.G.I.’s federal and State tax returns, whether originally filed or amended,
for 2019, 2020, 2021, and 2022 including all statements, schedules, and
attachments.
 
(Lynn
Welk Decl. ¶ 3 & Ex. A.) 
 
            Petitioner does not cite which, if
any, of her requests encompass the documents sought in her proposed order. Notably,
bank records, bank statements, and checks are not listed in petitioner’s
requests. Nor are QuickBooks data. Accordingly, petitioner fails to show that
respondent refused to produce the documents which she seeks in her writ
petition. 
 
In
the reply, petitioner argues that respondent is narrowly interpreting her
requests to exclude QuickBooks records. Petitioner appears to argue that her
request for financial statements (No. 5), records of transactions between
respondent and any Related Party (No. 7), budgets (No. 8), and tax statements
including statements, schedules, and attachments (No. 12) include QuickBooks
data. (Reply at 3:27-4:4.) Petitioner provides no evidence that these documents
are contained in QuickBooks. (See Opening Br. at 7:22-23 [“QuickBooks is
widely used accounting software used by businesses to manage acceptance of
payments, payments of bills and invoices, and which includes payroll functions”].)
Moreover, as phrased in petitioner’s proposed order, petitioner seeks “all
QuickBooks data” held by respondent. Petitioner’s desire for QuickBooks data is
untethered to any request that she sent respondent in April 2023. The Court
declines to rewrite petitioner’s request for her in order to capture something
for which she did not ask.
 
Moreover,
in petitioner’s April 5, 2024 meet and confer letter, petitioner gave no
indication that any QuickBooks data was missing. Indeed, with respect to
financial statements and transactions between respondent and any “Related
Party,” as respondent represents, petitioner asked respondent to confirm that
all responsive documents were produced. (Baird Decl. ¶ 23 & Ex. R.) Petitioner
does not point to any communication to respondent indicating that, prior to the
filing of the Opening Brief, petitioner requested any QuickBooks data. Accordingly,
petitioner has not shown that respondent refused to produce QuickBooks data. 
 
Absent
a “refusal of a lawful demand for inspection,” no writ of mandate shall issue.
 
V.      Conclusion
 
The First Amended Petition is DENIED. Pursuant to
Local Rule 3.231(n), respondent The Welk Group, Inc. shall prepare, serve, and
ultimately file a proposed judgment.  
 


