 Case Number:  23STCP01672    Hearing Date:   July 25, 2024    Dept:  86 


 
LOS ANGELES SUNSHINE COALITION,


 
 
 
 
 
 
Petitioner,


 
 
 
 
 
Case No.
 


 
 
 
 
 
23STCP01672




 
vs.
 
 
CITY OF LOS ANGELES,
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Respondent.
 


[TENTATIVE] RULING ON VERIFIED PETITION FOR WRIT
  OF MANDATE
 
Dept. 86 (Hon. Curtis A. Kin)
 
 




 


 


 


 



Petitioner
Los Angeles Sunshine Coalition seeks a writ of mandate directing respondent
City of Los Angeles to make secondary employment forms for officers at
Hollywood Station from 2019, 2020, and 2021 available for inspection. 
 
I.       Factual Background
 
            In June 2021, petitioner Los Angeles Sunshine Coalition
submitted a request for public records pursuant to the California Public
Records Act (“CPRA”), Request 21-4348, to the Los Angeles Police Department
(“LAPD” or “Department”) through its agent and under a pseudonym. (Riskin Decl.
¶ 3 & Pet. Ex. 1.) The request sought secondary employment (i.e.,
moonlighting, paid details, or off-duty work) forms within the possession and
control of the LAPD for officers at Hollywood Station from 2019 through 2021. (Pet.
Ex. 1.)  Before engaging in off-duty,
secondary employment work, Department policies require LAPD personnel to submit
for review and approval “Permits for Secondary Employment” and, if in the film industry,
a “Motion Picture/Television Filming Work Permit” (collectively “Permits for
Secondary Employment” or “PSE”). (Gillani Dec. ¶ 2-5.)
 
Prior to the filing of
the instant Petition, respondent City of Los Angeles had failed to provide any
determination on petitioner’s request. (Pet. ¶ 9; Ans. ¶ 9.) Since the
initiation of this action, respondent responded with a determination that key
information sought in the request is exempt from disclosure due to privacy
(Gov. Code § 7927.700) and public interest (Gov. Code § 7922.000). (Hong Decl. ¶
2 & Ex. 101.) 
Respondent provided petitioner
with an Excel spreadsheet of multiple non-individualized responsive categories
of information extracted from responsive Permits for Secondary Employment:
officer rank, division, dates the permits were signed and approved, expiration dates,
the type of secondary employment, and the names of the commanding officers who
approved the permits. (Gillani Decl. ¶ 7.) Respondent withheld the actual
copies of responsive Permits for Secondary Employment, as well as all other
categories of information contained therein, including the officer’s name and
serial number, the secondary employer’s name, location, and contact information;
the days and hours of off-duty employment; and a description of secondary
employment duties to be performed. (Gillani Decl. ¶¶ 4, 5, 7.)
 
II.      Procedural History
 
            On
May 16, 2023, petitioner filed
a Verified Petition for Writ of Mandate. On June 21, 2023, respondent filed an
Answer. On May 28, 2024, petitioner filed an opening brief. On June 25, 2024, respondent
filed an opposition. On July 10, 2024, petitioner filed a reply. 
 
III.     Standard of Review
 
Pursuant to the CPRA,
individual citizens have a right to access government records. In enacting the
CPRA, the California Legislature declared that “access to information
concerning the conduct of the people’s business is a fundamental and necessary
right of every person in this state.” (Gov. Code § 7921.000; see also
Cal. Const. Art. I, Sec. 3(b); County of Los Angeles v. Superior Court (2012)
211 Cal.App.4th 57, 63.) 
 
“[E]very person has a
right to inspect any public record” of a state or local agency subject to
statutory exemptions. (Gov. Code § 7922.530(a); see also Gov. Code §
7920.510(h) [definition of “local agency” includes agent of a city].) The
California Constitution mandates that the CPRA be “broadly construed,” while
any statute “that limits the right of access” must be “narrowly construed.” (See
Cal. Const. Art. I, Sec. 3(b)(2); see also Nat’l Lawyers Guild v. City
of Hayward (2020) 9 Cal.5th 488, 507.) The CPRA “does not allow limitations
on access to a public record based upon the purpose for which the record is
being requested, if the record is otherwise subject to disclosure.” (Gov. Code
§ 7921.300.)
 
“Any person may institute
a proceeding…for a writ of mandate…to enforce that person’s right…to inspect or
receive a copy of any public record or class of public records.” (Gov. Code §
7923.000.) “To establish an agency has a duty to disclose under [the CPRA], the
petitioner must show that: (1) the record ‘qualif[ies] as [a] ‘public record[
]’ …; and (2) the record is ‘in the possession of the agency.’” (Anderson-Barker
v Sup.Ct. (2019) 31 Cal.App.5th 528, 538.) “Whether a record falls within
the statutory definition of a ‘public record’ involves a ‘distinct inquiry’
from whether the agency is in possession of that record…. The duty to disclose
applies only when the petitioner has satisfied both elements.” (Id. at
539.) 
 
CPRA exemptions must be
narrowly construed, and the agency bears the burden of showing that a specific
exemption applies. (Sacramento County Employees’ Retirement System v.
Superior Court (2013) 195 Cal.App.4th 440, 453.) A public agency also has
the burden to demonstrate that it properly withheld records on the grounds they
are non-responsive to a CPRA request or do not constitute public records. (ACLU
of Northern Cal. v. Sup. Ct. (2011) 202 Cal.App.4th 55, 83-86.) “Because
the agency has full knowledge of the contents of the withheld records and the
requester has only the agency's affidavits and descriptions of the documents,
its affidavits must be specific enough to give the requester ‘a meaningful
opportunity to contest’ the withholding of the documents.” (Id. at 83.) 
 
IV.     Analysis
 
A.          
Evidentiary
Matters
 
Respondent’s
evidentiary objections are OVERRULED. 
 
B.          
Public
Record
            
            The CPRA defines “public records” as
“any writing containing information
relating to the conduct of the public’s business prepared, owned, used, or
retained by any state or local agency regardless of physical form or
characteristics.” (Gov. Code § 7920.530(a).) “But
the mere possession by a public agency of a document does not make the document
a public record.” (Coronado Police Officers Ass’n v. Carroll (2003) 106
Cal.App.4th 1001, 1006.)
 
Relying
on Coronado, respondent contends that the PSEs sought by petitioner are
not public records because they pertain “only to private, off-duty functions
largely independent of public employment and do not shed light into how the
Department operates or fulfills its official duties.” (Opp. at 6:9-11.) In Coronado,
a police officers association sought access to a database created and
maintained by the San Diego Public Defender’s Office (“PDO”). The database was
“comprised of information contained in the Public Defender’s existing client
files that is supplemented with information gathered from other public
information sources, such as court files, civil service proceedings, peace
officer reports and newspaper articles.” (Coronado, 106 Cal.App.4th at
1005.) The database included impeachment evidence used and shared by PDO
defense attorneys. (Ibid.) The trial court denied the association’s CPRA
writ petition, and the Court of Appeal affirmed. The Court of Appeal held, in
part, that the database was not a public record, even though it was prepared,
used, and retained by a local agency. 
This was because the PDO’s core function—the representation of indigent
criminal defendants—is a private function, because “a public defender is not a
state agent, but rather acts as a private attorney when representing clients.”
(Id. at 1006-12, discussing Polk County v. Dodson (1981) 454 U.S.
312 [public defender does not act under color of state law when performing
lawyer’s tradition functions as defense counsel].) The Court thus reasoned that
the database at issue “represents a logical application of the traditional
functions of defense counsel” because the information therein is “retained and
used to assist in the defense of existing and future clients,” which are
“private functions to which the Public Defender is entitled to maintain a level
of independence equivalent to a private attorney.”  (Coronado, 106 Cal.App.4th at
1008-09.)
 
            As observed by the Coronado
court, the “critical question” in determining if a petitioner is seeking public
records is “whether the information contained therein relates to the conduct of
the ‘public’s business.’” (Coronado, 106 Cal.App.4th at 1006.)  Here, unlike the database in Coronado,
the PSEs at issue are directly related to the public’s business with respect to
the restrictions on a police officer’s employment set forth in Penal Code § 70.

 
Penal
Code § 70(a) prohibits state or local employees from asking, receiving, or
agreeing to receive any reward for doing an official act. However, Penal Code § 70(c)(1)
allows peace officers to obtain casual or part-time employment as a private security
guard or patrolman for a public entity while off duty provided that the
peace officer “is subject to reasonable rules and regulations of the agency for
which he or she is a peace officer.” Similarly, Penal Code § 70(d)(1) allows
peace officers to obtain casual or part-time employment as a private security
guard or patrolman for a private employer while off duty so long as
certain conditions are met, including: “(A) The peace officer is in his or
her police uniform. [¶] (B) The casual or part-time employment as a private
security guard or patrolman is approved by the county board of supervisors with
jurisdiction over the principal employer or by the board’s designee or by the
city council with jurisdiction over the principal employer or by the council’s
designee. [¶] (C) The wearing of uniforms and equipment is approved by the
principal employer. [¶] (D) The peace officer is subject to reasonable rules
and regulations of the agency for which he or she is a peace officer.” (Pen.
Code § 70(d)(1)(A-D).) 
 
            The Department requires its
personnel to submit a PSE before engaging in off-duty, secondary employment. (Gillani
Decl. ¶¶ 1, 2.) In its opposition, the Department described the process of
approval as follows:
 
In
compliance with legal requirements and Department policies, Supervisors and
Commanding Officers review and investigate new and renewal permit applications
to assure that off-duty, secondary employment is not prohibited with no
conflicts of interest or interference with primary employment responsibilities,
and that the employee officer is qualified and possesses any required licenses
or permits.
 
(Gillani
Decl. ¶ 2.) Thus, although a PSE may pertain to private employment, there can
be no serious doubt that the Department’s required submission, review, and approval
of PSEs pursuant to Department policies and legal requirements, including
review for interference with primary employment responsibilities (i.e.,
duties working as LAPD police officer), is a public function.  (See Commission on Peace Officer
Standards & Training v. Superior Court [“CPOST”] (2007) 42
Cal.4th 278, 288 n.3 [finding “undisputed” that records and information
possessed by the state agency Commission were public records that “related to
the public’s business” because “the Commission uses them to monitor the
compliance . . . with Commission regulations
 
Accordingly,
the Court finds that the PSEs requested by petitioner are public records. 
            
C.          
Exemptions
Claimed by Respondent
 
Respondent
argues that, even if PSEs are public records, such records may be withheld
because: (1) the records are considered “personal data” contained in a peace
officer’s confidential personnel file under Penal Code §§ 832.8(a)(1) and
832.7(a); (2) disclosure of the requested records would constitute an
unwarranted invasion of privacy; and (3) the public interest served by not
disclosing the records outweighs any public interest in disclosure. 
 
1.           
Personal
Data
 
The
CPRA “does not require disclosure of records, the disclosure of which is
exempted or prohibited pursuant to federal or state law, including, but not
limited to, provisions of the Evidence Code relating to privilege.” (Gov. Code
§ 7927.705.) 
 
Under
Penal Code § 832.7(a), “the personnel records of peace officers and custodial
officers and records maintained by a state or local agency pursuant to Section
832.5, or information obtained from these records, are confidential and shall
not be disclosed in any criminal or civil proceeding except by discovery
pursuant to Sections 1043 and 1046 of the Evidence Code.” (Pen. Code §
832.7(a).) “Personnel records” includes records relating to “[p]ersonal data,
including marital status, family members, educational and employment history,
home addresses, or similar information.” (Pen. Code § 832.8(a)(1).) 
 
Our
Supreme Court has examined what constitutes peace officer personnel records
exempt from CPRA disclosure and concluded that “only the types of information
enumerated in section 832.8” so qualifies. 
(CPOST, 42 Cal.4th at 293.) 
With respect to section 832.8(a)(1)’s “employment history . . . or
similar information,” the Court has adopted the view that such information
“refers only to information about the individual’s previous employment”
and not employment information that “relates to the officer’s then-current
status with [the] department.”  (Id.
at 294, emphasis in original.)  In so
holding, our Supreme Court quoted and adopted the Court of Appeal’s conclusion
in City of Los Angeles v. Superior Court (2003) 111 Cal.App.4th 883 that
section 832.8, subdivision (a):
 
presents
a list of general pieces of information that might be found on any resume or
job application, i.e., the subdivision (a) list would include basic
status or identifying information as he or she came to the job.  It does not include any information that
would be specific to the current job. . . Information that is specific to the
employee’s current status as a peace officer would not be “similar information”
to the other information covered by the statute.
 
(CPOST,
42 Cal.4th at 295, quoting City of Los Angeles, 111 Cal.App.4th at
891-92.)
 
In
light of such guidance, the PSE forms at issue, which are part of the process
for approval of simultaneous, secondary employment that is consistent with LAPD
polices, constitute information relating to an employee’s current status as a
peace officer.  As such, they do not
constitute a personnel record contemplated by section 832.8. Accordingly, the
information sought by petitioner is not privileged under Penal Code §§ 832.7(a)
or 832.8(a)(1) and cannot be exempted from CPRA disclosure on that basis.
 
2.           
Privacy
 
The
CPRA “does not require disclosure of personnel, medical, or similar files, the
disclosure of which would constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal
privacy.” (Gov. Code § 7927.700.)  As discussed
above, PSEs do not constitute personnel records. PSEs also do not constitute
medical files on their face. Accordingly, the question is whether PSEs are “similar
files, the disclosure of which would constitute an unwarranted invasion of
personal privacy.” 
 
            “The public’s interest in the qualifications
and conduct of peace officers is substantial, a circumstance that both
diminishes and counterbalances any expectation officers may have that their
names and employment as peace officers will be confidential.” (CPOST, 42
Cal.4th at 299.) Contending that secondary employment is separate from primary
employment with LAPD, respondent contends that the PSEs concern “private
economic affairs completely unrelated to the individual’s public employment
with the Department.” (Opp. at 14:5-7.) 
The Court disagrees.  For
secondary off-duty employment with a private employer, peace officers must be
in their police uniforms, have approval of the municipal governing body or its
designee, and be subject to the reasonable rules and regulations of LAPD. (Pen.
Code § 70(d)(1)(A), (B), (D).) Because peace officers work in uniform and are
subject to LAPD regulations and rules while engaged in secondary employment, secondary
employment implicates the qualifications and conduct of peace officers, in
which the public has an interest. 
 
The
PSEs do not constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy.
 
3.           
Balancing
of Interests
 
Government
Code § 7922.000 states: “An agency shall justify withholding any record by
demonstrating that the record in question is exempt under express provisions of
this division, or that on the facts of the particular case the public interest
served by not disclosing the record clearly outweighs the public interest
served by disclosure of the record.” 
 
            Respondent contends that disclosure
of the PSEs would allow members of the public to search the name of any officer
named in the PSEs in other databases to discover their domiciled city, county,
state, and zip code. (Bislig Decl. ¶ 2.) Respondent contends this would facilitate
locating the officer by any member of the public seeking to inflict harm. This
speculative concern is insufficient to warrant exemption from disclosure of the
PSEs. “‘A mere assertion of possible endangerment’ is insufficient to justify
nondisclosure.” (POST, 42 Cal.4th at 302, quoting CBS, Inc. v. Block
(1986) 42 Cal.3d 646, 652.) While undercover officers may be entitled to
anonymity (POST, 42 Cal.4th at 301), respondent does not discuss—let
alone persuade—that officers at the Hollywood Station require anonymity to
perform their duties or to protect themselves. Respondent thus fails to show
that disclosure of the names of officers engaged in secondary employment “would
increase the threat to officer safety presented by those with a generalized
hostility toward law enforcement officers.” (Id. at 303.) 
 
            On the other hand, as discussed
above, by virtue of the regulation of secondary employment under Penal Code §
70, the public has an interest in learning about secondary employment of peace
officers. As one example, the public has an interest in determining whether
secondary employment contributes to fatigue of officers or otherwise interferes
with or impairs the performance of their duties.  The public may also have an interest in which
officers may have an employment relationship with a person or entity that might
influence the actions or judgment of the officer.  Absent any particularized and concrete safety
concern posed by the disclosure of PSEs, the Court finds the public interest in
secondary employment subject to approval by LAPD for its officers outweighs any
interest in nondisclosure. 
 


V.      Conclusion
 
            Respondent having failed to
demonstrate the application of any exemption, the Court finds that petitioner
is entitled to inspect the requested PSEs, which are public records.  The petition is GRANTED. Pursuant to Local Rule
3.231(n), petitioner shall prepare, serve, and ultimately file a proposed
judgment and proposed writ of mandate.
 