 Case Number:  23STCP02326    Hearing Date:   July 25, 2024    Dept:  86 


 
LAWRENCE L. WELK, JR.,  


 
 
 
 
Petitioner,


 
 
 
 
 
Case No.
 


 
 
 
 
 
23STCP02326




 
vs.
 
 
VANOWEN GENPAR, LLC, et al., 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Respondents.
 


[TENTATIVE] RULING ON PETITION SEEKING A WRIT OF
  MANDAMUS 
 
Dept. 86 (Hon. Curtis A. Kin)
 
 




 


 


 


 



Petitioner
Lawrence L. Welk petitions for a writ of mandate directing respondents Vanowen
GenPar, LLC, WRE Vanowen L.P., Wilshire GenPar,
LLC,
WRE Wilshire L.P., Welk Real Estate, Inc., and Welk Group, Inc. to produce: (1)
a complete list of all bank account numbers and the associated financial
institution, including opening and closing date (if applicable) associated with
respondents; (2) the complete banking records (to include deposit receipts,
internal check requests, and internal correspondence pertaining to deposit
receipts and checks requests), complete bank statements, and cancelled checks
for all bank accounts associated with respondents; and (3) all QuickBooks data
held by respondents, their agents, accountants, or bookkeepers pertaining to respondents.
(See Proposed Order.) 
 
I.       Factual Background
 
            Petitioner Larry Welk is a member of
respondents Vanowen GenPar, LLC (“Vanowen LLC”) and WRE Wilshire, LLC (“Wilshire
LLC”), holding approximately 9% of the membership interest in each LLC. (Lawrence
Welk Decl. ¶ 2.) He is also a limited partner of respondents WRE Vanowen L.P.
(“Vanowen LP”) and WRE Wilshire L.P. (“Wilshire LP”), holding approximately 9%
of the limited partnership interests in each entity. (Lawrence Welk Decl. ¶ 3.)
The other member or limited partner in each entity is respondent Welk Real
Estate, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of respondent Welk Group, Inc.
(Lawrence Welk Decl. ¶ 4.)[1]
 
By
correspondence dated April 21, 2023, petitioner requested certain documents
from Vanowen LP, Vanowen LLC, Wilshire LP, and Wilshire LLC. (Lawrence Welk
Decl. ¶ 5 & Exs. A-D.) Petitioner’s requests of the two limited
partnerships (“LP”) were made as a limited partner, and his requests of the two
limited liability companies (“LLC”) were made as a member. The requests set forth
45 separate categories of documents for each of the four entities for the
periods 2017-2022 and interim 2023.
 
Respondents
produced responsive documents on July 19, 2023, with subsequent productions on
August 18, 2023, September 9-10, 2023, January 30-31, 2024, April 22, 2024, and
June 7, 2024. (Baird Decl. ¶¶ 10, 20 & Ex. 14.)
 
The
parties dispute whether full and complete production to petitioner’s requests
has been made. 
 
II.      Procedural History
 
            On
July 5, 2023, petitioner filed a Verified Seeking a Writ of Mandamus. On August
9, 2023, respondents filed a Verified Answer.
 
            On
August 14, 2023, the instant case was deemed related to Lawrence L. Welk, Jr. v. Vanowen
Genpar, LLC et al.,
Case No. 23STCP02326.
 
            On
May 22, 2024, petitioner filed an opening brief.[2] On June
24, 2024, respondents filed an opposition. On July 10, 2024, petitioner filed a
reply. 
 


III.     Standard of Review
 
CCP
§ 1085(a) provides: “A writ of mandate may be issued by any court to any
inferior tribunal, corporation, board, or person, to compel the performance of
an act which the law specially enjoins, as a duty resulting from an office,
trust, or station, or to compel the admission of a party to the use and
enjoyment of a right or office to which the party is entitled, and from which
the party is unlawfully precluded by that inferior tribunal, corporation,
board, or person.”
 
“There
are two essential requirements to the issuance of a traditional writ of
mandate: (1) a clear, present and usually ministerial duty on the part of the
respondent, and (2) a clear, present and beneficial right on the part of the
petitioner to the performance of that duty.” (California Assn. for Health
Services at Home v. State Dept. of Health Services (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th
696, 704.) Corporate inspections are governed under CCP § 1085. (Wolf v. CDS
Devco (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 903, 912.) 
 
The
rights of a member of an LLC to inspect and copy records of the LLC are set
forth in Corporations Code § 17704.10.[3]
Section 17704.10 provides in relevant part:
 
(a)
Upon the request of a member or transferee, for purposes reasonably related to
the interest of that person as a member or a transferee, a manager or, if the
limited liability company is member-managed, a member in possession of the
requested information, shall promptly deliver, in writing, to the member or
transferee, at the expense of the limited liability company, a copy of the
information required to be maintained by paragraphs (1), (2), and (4) of
subdivision (d) of Section 17701.13, and any written operating agreement of the
limited liability company.
 
(b)
Each member, manager, and transferee has the right, upon reasonable request,
for purposes reasonably related to the interest of that person as a member,
manager, or transferee, to each of the following:
 
(1) To
inspect and copy during normal business hours any of the records required to be
maintained pursuant to Section 17701.13.
 
(2) To
obtain in writing from the limited liability company, promptly after becoming
available, a copy of the limited liability company's federal, state, and local
income tax returns for each year….
….
 
(g)
In any action under this section or under Section 17713.07, if the court finds
the failure of the limited liability company to comply with the requirements of
this section is without justification, the court may award an amount sufficient
to reimburse the person bringing the action for the reasonable expenses
incurred by that person, including attorney's fees, in connection with the
action or proceeding.
 
The
rights of a limited partner of an LP to inspect and copy records of the LP are
set forth in section 15903.4, which provides in relevant part: 
 
(a)
On 10 days’ demand, made in a record received by the limited partnership, a
limited partner may inspect and copy any information required to be maintained
pursuant to Section 15901.11 during regular business hours in the limited
partnership’s principal office. The limited partner need not have any
particular purpose for seeking the information.
 
(b)
Subject to subdivision (g) [governing trade secrets and other information the
disclosure of which would be harmful to the limited partnership], during
regular business hours and at a reasonable location specified by the limited
partnership, a limited partner may obtain from the limited partnership, which
may be transmitted via electronic transmission, and inspect and copy true and
full information regarding the state of the activities and financial condition
of the limited partnership and other information regarding the activities of
the limited partnership as is just and reasonable if:
 
(1)
the limited partner seeks the information for a purpose reasonably related to
the partner’s interest as a limited partner;
 
(2)
the limited partner makes a demand in a record received by the limited
partnership, describing with reasonable particularity the information sought
and the purpose for seeking the information; and
 
(3)
the information sought is directly connected to the limited partner’s purpose. 
 
“The
petitioner always bears the burden of proof in a mandate proceeding brought
under Code of Civil Procedure section 1085.” (California Correctional Peace
Officers Assn. v. State Personnel Bd. (1995) 10 Cal.4th 1133, 1154.)
 


IV.     Analysis
 
1.           
Joint
Opening Brief
 
The
opening brief is a joint opening brief for Lynn Welk v. The Welk Group, Inc.,
Case No. 23STCP01994, and Lawrence L. Welk, Jr. v. Vanowen Genpar, LLC et
al., Case No. 23STCP02326. The reply is a joint reply for both cases.
 
While
the two cases are related, they are not consolidated. (8/14/23 Minute Order.) The
opening brief, supporting papers, and reply brief were only filed in the matter
involving the petition brought by Lynn Welk. Because the cases are not
consolidated, petitioner Lawrence L. Welk, Jr. was required to files his papers
in support of his petition in the instant case. 
Petitioner Lawrence L. Welk, Jr. failed to do so. 
 
Accordingly,
the Court finds that petitioner has failed to meet his burden on the instant
petition, unless, by no later than July 26, 2024, petitioner Lawrence L.
Welk, Jr. files in the instant case (23STCP02326) the same documents filed in
Case No. 23STCP01994, which are as follows: 
 
·        
Petitioner’s
Joint Opening Brief in Support of Writ of Mandate to Compel Complete Production
of Books and Records (filed 5/22/24)
·        
Declarations
of Lawrence Welk, Jr. and Lynn Welk in Support of Petitioners’ Joint Opening
Brief for Writ of Mandate to Compel Producton [sic] of Books and Records (filed
5/22/24)
·        
Declaration
of Timothy McGonigle in Support of Petitioners’ Joint Opening Brief for Writ of
Mandate to Compel Production of Books and Records (filed 5/22/24)
·        
Declaration
of Renee Smith in Support of Petitioners’ Joint Opening Brief for Writ of
Mandate to Compel Production of Books and Records (filed 5/15/24)
·        
[Proposed]
Order on Petitioners’ Respective Writs of Mandate to Compel Complete Production
of Books and Records (electronically received 5/22/24)
·        
Notice
of Errata to Correct Captions on Petitioner’s Opening Brief in Support of Writ
of Mandate to Compel Complete Production of Books and Records and Documents
(filed 5/22/24) 
·        
Petitioners’
Joint Reply Brief in Support of Writ of Mandate to Compel Complete Production
of Books and Records (filed 7/10/24) 
 
Because
the Court has reviewed the aforementioned papers filed in Case No. 23STCP01994,
as well as the opposition papers filed in the instant case, the Court rules as
follows in the event petitioner Lawrence L. Welk, Jr. timely files the papers
as discussed above.


 
2.           
Merits
 
It
is undisputed that petitioner is a member of Vanowen LLC and Wilshire LLC and
has inspection rights under section 17704.10. It is also undisputed that petitioner
is a limited partner of Vanowen LP and Wilshire LP and has inspection rights
under section 15903.4. 
 
For
petitioner to obtain the corporate documents he seeks, he must show that he “made
a demand for inspection, which was refused.” (Fowler v. Golden Pacific
Bancorp, Inc. (2022) 80 Cal.App.5th 205, 217, citing Corp. Code §§ 1602,
1603; see also McIntyre v. Sonoma Valley Unified School Dist. (2012) 206
Cal.App.4th 170, 180, quoting Fair v. Fountain Valley School Dist.
(1979) 90 Cal.App.3d 180, 186 [“’[T]he party who seeks a writ of mandate has
the burden of proving that the official body which fails to perform an act has
thus violated its duty toward him by denying him a clear and present right’”].)

 
As
a preliminary matter, the Court notes that petitioner also seeks an order
against respondents Welk Real Estate, Inc. and Welk Group, Inc. Petitioner never
served requests on these two respondents. (Lawrence Welk Decl. ¶ 5 & Exs.
A-D.) Petitioner does not respond to respondents’ contention that Welk Real
Estate, Inc. and Welk Group, Inc. appear to be improperly named as respondents.
(See Opp. at 1, fn. 1; see generally Reply.) Accordingly, it
appears these two respondents never refused any request to produce documents. 
 
With
respect to the two LLCs and the two LPs on whom petitioner served requests, respondents
have produced documents. Petitioner still seeks: (1) a complete list of all
bank account numbers and the associated financial institution, including
opening and closing date (if applicable) associated with respondents; (2) the
complete banking records (to include deposit receipts, internal check requests,
and internal correspondence pertaining to deposit receipts and checks requests),
complete bank statements, and cancelled checks for all bank accounts associated
with respondents; and (3) all QuickBooks data held by respondents, their
agents, accountants, or bookkeepers pertaining to respondents (See Proposed
Order.)
 
With
respect seeking a list of all bank account numbers and associated financial
institutions, petitioner does not cite to which of his requests the list
corresponds. (See Lawrence Welk Decl. ¶ 5 & Exs. A-D.) Nevertheless,
on May 13, 2024, petitioner asked respondents for a list of all bank account
numbers and the associated financial institution, including opening and closing
dates. (Baird Decl. ¶ 18 & Ex. 12.) Respondents maintain they provided
this information. (Opp. at 10.) However, respondents did not cite any evidence
indicating that they provided the requested information as they claim. “An
attorney’s argument in pleadings is not evidence.” (Hebberd-Kulow
Enterprises, Inc. v. Kelomar, Inc. (2013) 218 Cal.App.4th 272, 283.)  Because the list of bank accounts is arguably
within the scope of bank statements requested in No. 5 of petitioner’s requests,
and because respondents do not argue that petitioner never requested the list
of accounts, the Court orders respondents to provide the list sought in the
first category contained in petitioner’s proposed order.  
 
With
respect to petitioner’s contention that he is entitled to “complete banking
records,” the Court notes that, in No. 5 of petitioner’s requests, petitioner
requested “[b]ank records, bank statements, cancelled checks, savings accounts,
money-market accounts, investment accounts, books, records, general ledgers,
general journal and quarterly and annual profit and loss and balance sheet
financial statements” for the respective entity and/or the “Property,” defined
as any real property purchased, owned or controlled by the entity, “for the
periods 2017-2022 and interim 2023 whether internally prepared or prepared by
outside accountant(s).” (Lawrence Welk Decl. ¶ 5 & Exs. A-D [definition of
“Property” in No. 1].) 
 
            Petitioner contends that there were
references to certain bank accounts in records produced by respondents but that
the statements and cancelled checks for those accounts have not been received.
(McGonigle Decl. ¶ 4; Smith Decl. ¶¶ 3-6.) Petitioner does not explain how such
references indicate that the accounts are associated with respondents or the
Property. Without seeing the actual references to accounts, the Court cannot ascertain
whether the purportedly missing bank statements and checks are within the scope
of No. 5 in petitioner’s requests. 
 
Moreover,
petitioner now defines “banking records” to include deposit receipts, internal
check requests, and internal correspondence pertaining to deposit receipts and
check requests. Respondents contend such items were never requested. (Opp. at
10, fn. 6.) The Court agrees. (See Lawrence Welk Decl. ¶ 5 & Exs.
A-D.) Petitioner only now expands the definition of “banking records” after
having made his requests and having had opportunity to clarify.  The Court thus does not find that petitioner
has met his burden to demonstrate respondents should have understood his
request for “bank records” to include deposit receipts, “internal” check
requests, or “internal” correspondence relating to deposit receipts and check
requests. The Court will not order production of the second category of
documents contained in petitioner’s proposed order. 
 
            With respect seeking QuickBooks data,
in No. 20 of petitioner’s requests, petitioner requested “‘QuickBooks’ or other
electronic data file including passwords, if it exists, for the years 2017-2022 and interim 2023” for the
respective entity and/or the “Property,” defined as any real property
purchased, owned or controlled by the entity. (Lawrence Welk Decl. ¶ 5 &
Exs. A-D [definition of “Property” in No. 1].) Respondents contend that such
data is the property of third parties and is not in respondents’ possession,
custody, or control. (Baird Decl. ¶ 15 & Ex. 10.) Petitioner contends that such
data inputs “are not proprietary to or the property of any QuickBooks entity,
but rather the data inputted into QuickBooks is the property of the end user”
and therefore is readily available from respondents’ accountants or bookkeepers.
(Opening Br. 7:27-8:4.) 
 
In
the opposition, respondents represent that their “counsel previously informed petitioner’s
counsel ‘[a]s to the QuickBooks, any electronic accounting files are the
property of third parties and are not in Respondents’ possession, custody, or
control. The only electronic accounting files for these entities are those
created for them by the property manager (Lincoln Property Management Company,
f/k/a RiverRock) and other third parties.’” (Opp. at 11:1-5.) If that is the case, then it may be true that respondents
did not refuse to provide the requested QuickBooks data. Instead, it may be
that respondents were not able to produce the data inputs because a property
manager has possession, custody, and control over them. However, “[a]n attorney’s
argument in pleadings is not evidence.” (Hebberd-Kulow Enterprises, Inc. v.
Kelomar, Inc. (2013) 218 Cal.App.4th 272, 283.) Furthermore, respondents do
not state why they cannot obtain the QuickBooks data from the property manager,
who would appear to be their agent. Accordingly, the Court orders production of
the third category contained in petitioner’s proposed order.

 
            Lastly, the Court notes respondents’
assertion that no writ should issue because they are willing to perform without
coercion. (Opp. at 11:7-18; see Bruce v. Gregory (1967) 65 Cal.2d 666,
671 [“[The] remedy of Mandamus will not be employed where the respondents show
that they are willing to perform the duty without the coercion of the writ].”) Nonetheless,
because respondents have not sufficiently justified not producing certain documents
requested by petitioner, the Court will issue an order for respondents to
produce documents.
 
V.      Conclusion
 
Subject to the above condition that petitioner file
certain documents in this matter, the petition is GRANTED IN PART. Pursuant to
Local Rule 3.231(n), petitioner Lawrence L. Welk, Jr. shall prepare, serve, and
ultimately file a proposed judgment and proposed writ of mandate. In the event
petitioner fails to make his timely filings as directed, respondent shall prepare,
serve, and ultimately file a proposed judgment denying the writ petition.
 
With respect to the remaining fourth cause of
action for breach of contract, the Court will refer the case to Department 1
for reassignment insofar as petitioner indicates he still wishes to pursue that
claim.  
 


