  Case Number:  23LBCP00344    Hearing Date:   July 25, 2024    Dept:  86 MOTION FOR PROTECTIVE ORDER
 
Date:               7/25/24
(1:30 PM)
Case:                           Supporters
Alliance for Environmental Responsibility v. Long Beach, et al. (23LBCP00344)
 
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Petitioner Supporters Alliance for Environmental
Responsibility’s Motion for Protective Order is DENIED. 
 
Petitioner moves for a protective order that it not be
required to respond to a deposition notice propounded by real party in interest
Marina Shores Owner, LP for petitioner’s person(s) most qualified or that the
topics for inquiry and for document production be limited to the issue of
standing. (See Drury Decl. ¶ 3 & Ex. A.) Real party contends that
the deposition notice is probative of petitioner’s standing.
 
As an initial matter, the Court addresses petitioner’s
contentions regarding the limits of discovery in an action for administrative
mandamus.  Petitioner is correct that
“discovery under section 1094.5, unlike general civil discovery, cannot be used
to go on a fishing expedition looking for unknown facts to support speculative
theories.” (Pomona Valley Hospital Med. Ctr. v. Superior Court (1997) 55
Cal.App.4th 93, 102.)  Thus, discovery in
an administrative mandamus proceeding “may reasonably be limited to inquiries
calculated to yield evidence which through no fault of the offeror does not
appear in the administrative record,” including evidence improperly excluded at
the administrative hearing or evidence that could not have been produced at the
hearing with the exercise of reasonable diligence.  (Ibid.)  Here, however, real party does not seek to
augment the record with evidence that could not have been presented during the
administrative proceedings under CCP § 1094.5(e). Rather, real party seeks to
examine petitioner’s standing to bring the instant petition. Extra-record
evidence may be admitted to negate an affirmative defense of standing. (See
Western States Petroleum Assn. v. Superior Court (1995) 9 Cal.4th 559, 575,
fn. 5; Running Fence Corp. v. Superior Court (1975) 51 Cal.App.3d 400,
424, fn. 14.)
 
Petitioner appears not to dispute that discovery is allowed
in administrative mandamus proceedings on the issue of standing. (Mtn. at 8; Creed-21
v. City of Wildomar (2017) 18 Cal.App.5th 690, 702-03 [affirming trial
court’s imposition of issue sanction establishing that petitioner lacked
standing in CEQA action for failure to submit to deposition where real party
should inquire about standing].) However, petitioner does appear to dispute the
extent to which real party is entitled to examine petitioner’s standing. 
 
In the motion, petitioner notes that it has offered to
provide its Articles of Incorporation and By-laws, proof of corporate good
standing, and the name of at least one member living or working in Long Beach.
(Drury Decl. ¶ 9(b).) According to the Opposition, petitioner did so.  (Opp at 4; Friedman Decl. ¶ 2 & Exs.
A & B.) 
 
In terms of additional discovery, petitioner contends that
only the following topics set forth in the deposition notice are pertinent to
its standing: 
 
17. The bases of the allegations of
Paragraph 10 of SAFER’s First Amended Petition in this action, specifically,
that SAFER has “members who live and/or work in or near the City of
Long Beach.”
18. The following information
concerning each member of SAFER who SAFER contends lives and/or works in or
near the City of Long Beach: 
(a) The location of such place of
residence and/or place of work, as applicable;
(b) The distance from the member’s
place of residence and/or place of work, as applicable, and the PROJECT (as
defined below);
(c) The member’s knowledge about the
PROJECT;
(d) The member’s knowledge about the
allegations of SAFER’s First Amended Petition in this action; and
(e) All communications between the
member and SAFER, or between the member and any other person or entity,
concerning the Project.
 
Petitioner also contends that only the following document
requests are pertinent to its standing: 
 
REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION NO. 14: DOCUMENTS
sufficient to show the bases of the allegations of Paragraph 10 of SAFER’s
First Amended Verified Petition in this action, specifically, that SAFER has
“members who live and/or work in or near the City of Long Beach.”
 
REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION NO. 15:
As to each member who SAFER alleges lives and/or works in or near the City of
Long Beach, DOCUMENTS sufficient to show: 
(a) The location of such place of
residence and/or place of work, as applicable;
(b) The distance from the member’s
place of residence and/or place of work, as applicable, and the PROJECT (as
defined below);
(c) The member’s knowledge about the
PROJECT; and
(d) The member’s knowledge about the
allegations of SAFER’s First Amended Petition in this action.
 
Petitioner, however, cannot limit real party’s discovery
only to topics and documents petitioner deems relevant to standing.  In Creed-21 v. City of Wildomar (2017)
18 Cal.App.5th 690, the real party sought to take the deposition of the
petition’s person most qualified on the issue of standing. The real party was
informed and believed: (1) that the petitioner was a shell corporation, which
consisted of two members; (2) that the address used by petitioner was a law
corporation; (3) that the petitioner had no assets; and (4) that, in prior
lawsuits where money was awarded to the petitioner, the money was given to the
law corporation. (Creed-21, 18 Cal.App.5th at 693.) The trial court
ordered the petitioner to produce the person most qualified at deposition and
produce all requested documents. (Id. at 695.) After the petitioner
failed to produce the PMQ, despite multiple opportunities, the Court of Appeal
found that the trial court did not abuse its discretion in deeming the
petitioner to lack standing. (Id. at 702-03.)
 
As was the case in Creed-21, the Court finds that the
discovery sought by real party here is reasonably tailored based on the real
party’s information and belief. Topics such as petitioner’s
shareholders, directors, and corporate officers; compliance with corporate
formalities; the relationship and communications between a union and
petitioner; communications between petitioner and any person who testified in
support of petitioner’s objections during the public hearings; and objections to
development projects submitted by petitioner are probative of whether
petitioner is a shell corporation. Topics such as revenues and expenses of
petitioner; capitalization, assets, and liabilities of petitioner; and petitioner’s
bank accounts and financial statements are probative of whether petitioner has
any assets or is a mere shell. Topics such as distributions to shareholders and
other members, the number of lawsuits filed by petitioner, the breakdown of how
many lawsuits were resolved at trial versus settlement; the terms of
settlements; and monies obtained by petitioner in connection with lawsuits it
has filed are probative of whether petitioner receives monies awarded from the
cases it brings, as opposed to petitioner’s counsel or some other undisclosed
third party for which petitioner may be a mere instrumentality or shell. 
 
While a corporation may have a right of associational
privacy (see Britt v. Superior Court (1978) 20 Cal.3d 844, 852
[“[C]ompelled disclosure of an individual's private associational affiliations
and activities . . . frequently poses one of the most serious threats to the
free exercise of this constitutionally endowed right [of association]”]), any
corporate privacy right is outweighed by respondent’s right to conduct
discovery. (SCC Acquisitions, Inc. v. Superior Court (2015) 243
Cal.App.4th 741, 756 [“The discovery’s relevance to the subject matter of the
pending dispute and whether the discovery ‘“appears reasonably calculated to
lead to the discovery of admissible evidence” ’ is balanced against the
corporate right of privacy”].)
 
Discovery about settlements is not privileged under Evidence
Code § 1152 because it is not being admitted to prove liability for loss or
damage. (See Evid. Code § 1152(a).)
 
To the extent that questions asked at deposition or certain
responsive documents are subject to the attorney-client privilege, the proper remedy
is to object to the question at deposition or object to production of the
privileged document; it is not to bar the deposition and document production
altogether. Attorneys can instruct their clients not to answer based on
attorney-client privilege. (CCP § 2025.460(a).) The merit of an objection based
on privilege can be adjudicated in a motion to compel answer at deposition.
(CCP § 2025.480.)
 
While petitioner contends that certain evidence is
sufficient to establish standing, real party is entitled to “test the
pleadings.” (Burke v. Superior Court (1969) 71 Cal.2d 276, 281.) This
includes petitioner’s allegations of standing. (SAP ¶¶ 10, 11, 13; see, e.g.
SJJC Aviation Services, LLC v. City of San Jose (2017) 12 Cal.App.5th
1043, 1057-58 [“[W]here the claim of ‘citizen’ or ‘public interest’ standing is
driven by personal objectives rather than ‘broader public concerns,’ a court
may find the litigant to lack such standing….’”].) 
 
The motion is DENIED. 
 
 
 