  Case Number:  23TRCV02035    Hearing Date:   November 4, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
MARIA
  GUADALUPE OROZCO, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23TRCV02035




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
CITY
  OF LOS ANGELES, et al., 


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          November 4,
2024
 
Moving Parties:                      Defendant City of Los
Angeles, Los Angeles World Airports
Responding
Party:                  None
(1)  
Motion
to Compel Responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One
(2)  
Motion
to Compel Responses to Requests for Production of Documents
 
            The Court considered the moving papers.  No opposition was filed.
RULING
            The motions are GRANTED.
Plaintiff Maria Guadalupe Orozco is
ordered to respond without objections to defendant City of Los Angeles, Los
Angeles World Airports’ Form Interrogatories, Set One, within twenty days. 
Plaintiff Maria Guadalupe Orozco is
ordered (1) to serve on defendant a verified response without objections to
defendant’s Request for Production and Inspection (Set One) and (2) to produce
all documents and things in plaintiff’s possession, custody, or control, which
are responsive to defendant’s request, within twenty days.  
 
  
The Court orders that plaintiff Orozco
pay $960 in sanctions to defendant, within thirty days.
BACKGROUND
On June 22, 2023, plaintiff Maria
Guadalupe Orozco filed a complaint against City of Los Angeles, Los Angeles
World Airports, and Tom Bradley International Terminal Equipment Company for
(1) statutory liability – dangerous condition of public property, (2)
negligence – premises liability, and (3) negligence based on slip and/or trip
and fall on June 23, 2021.
On March 20, 2024, plaintiff filed
a FAC.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
Interrogatories
            If a party to whom interrogatories
are directed fails to serve a timely response, the propounding party may move
for an order compelling responses and for a monetary sanction.  CCP §2030.290(b).  The statute contains no time limit for a
motion to compel where no responses have been served.  All that need be shown in the moving papers
is that a set of interrogatories was properly served on the opposing party,
that the time to respond has expired, and that no response of any kind has been
served.  Leach v. Superior Court
(1980) 111 Cal. App. 3d 902, 905-906.  
            Request for Production of
Documents 
            Where there has been no timely
response to a CCP §2031.010 demand, the demanding party must seek an order
compelling a response.  CCP
§2031.300.  Failure to timely respond
waives all objections, including privilege and work product.  So, unless the party to whom the demand was
directed obtains relief from waiver, he or she cannot raise objections to the
documents demanded.  There is no deadline
for a motion to compel responses. 
Likewise, for failure to respond, the moving party need not attempt to
resolve the matter outside court before filing the motion.  Where the motion seeks only a response to the
inspection demand, no showing of "good cause" is required.  Weil & Brown, Civil Procedure Before
Trial, 8:1487.  
DISCUSSION
            Defendant
City of Los Angeles, Los Angeles World Airports requests that the Court compel
plaintiff Maria Guadalupe Orozco to respond to the initial form interrogatories
and request for production and inspection.
            Defendant
asserts that on March 22, 2024, defendant propounded written discovery requests
on plaintiff.  Plaintiff’s responses were
due on April 23, 2024.  On April 23,
plaintiff’s counsel requested an extension and defense counsel provided a
two-week extension to provide responses, making the new deadline May 7, 2024.  On May 7, plaintiff’s counsel requested an
extension to May 10, 2024, which defense counsel granted.  On May 16, 2024, defense counsel called
plaintiff’s counsel and informed him “of the lack of timely discovery
responses.”  To date, defense counsel has
not received responses.  
            There
is no opposition.
            The
Court finds that the discovery requests were properly served, and that
plaintiff failed to serve responses and thus has waived objections.  
            The
motions are thus GRANTED.
            Sanctions
Under CCP
§ 2023.030(a), “[t]he court may impose a monetary sanction ordering that one
engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or any attorney advising that
conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees,
incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct. . . . If a monetary sanction is
authorized by any provision of this title, the court shall impose that sanction
unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust.”  Under CCP § 2023.010, an
example of the misuse of the discovery process is “(d) Failing to respond or to
submit to an authorized method of discovery.” 
Sanctions are mandatory in
connection with motions to compel responses to interrogatories and requests for
production of documents against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel unless the court “finds that
the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that
other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  CCP §§ 2030.290(c), 2031.300(c).
Cal.
Rules of Court, Rule 3.1348(a) states: 
“The court may award sanctions under the Discovery Act in favor of a
party who files a motion to compel discovery, even though no opposition to the
motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn, or the requested
discovery was provided to the moving party after the motion was filed.”
Defendant
City requests $840 as to the motion regarding form interrogatories and $1440
for the motion regarding request for production in sanctions against plaintiff.  The Court finds that $960 ($240/hr. x 4 hrs.)
is a reasonable amount to be awarded against plaintiff in total for both
motions.
 
ORDER
The motions are GRANTED.
Plaintiff Maria Guadalupe Orozco is
ordered to respond without objections to defendant City of Los Angeles, Los
Angeles World Airports’ Form Interrogatories, Set One, within twenty days. 
Plaintiff Maria Guadalupe Orozco is
ordered (1) to serve on defendant a verified response without objections to
defendant’s Request for Production and Inspection (Set One) and (2) to produce
all documents and things in plaintiff’s possession, custody, or control, which
are responsive to defendant’s request, within twenty days.  
The Court orders that plaintiff
Orozco pay $960 in sanctions to defendant, within thirty days.
Defendant
is ordered to give notice of this ruling.