 Case Number:  24TRCV01853    Hearing Date:   November 4, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
ROBERTO
  ARROYO FIGUEROA, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
24TRCV01853




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
HYUNDAI
  MOTOR AMERICA, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendant.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          November
4, 2024
 
Moving
Parties:                      Defendant Hyundai Motor America
Responding
Party:                  Plaintiff Roberto Arroyo Figueroa
Motion
to Compel Arbitration
 
            The Court considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers.
RULING
            The motion is GRANTED.  The action is STAYED.
BACKGROUND
            On May 31, 2024, plaintiff Roberto
Arroyo Figueroa filed a complaint against defendant Hyundai Motor America for
Song-Beverly Act violations.
A
Digression
            Defendant has filed a Request for
Judicial Notice asking that this Court take judicial notice of the Plaintiff’s
Complaint.  It is not necessary to ask
the court to judicially notice the complaint filed in the action in which the
motion is made.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
Under CCP § 1281, a “written
agreement to submit to arbitration an existing controversy or a controversy
thereafter arising is valid, enforceable and revocable, save upon such grounds
as exist for the revocation of any contract.” 
Under CCP § 1281.2, “On petition of
a party to an arbitration agreement alleging the existence of a written
agreement to arbitrate a controversy and that a party thereto refuses to
arbitrate such controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the
respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement to
arbitrate the controversy exists, unless it determines that: . . . (c) A party
to the arbitration agreement is also a party to a pending court action . . .
with a third party, arising out of the same transaction or series of related
transactions and there is a possibility of conflicting rulings on a common
issue of law or fact. . . . (d) . . . . If the court determines that a party to
the arbitration is also a party to litigation in a pending court action . . .
with a third party as set forth under subdivision (c) herein, the court (1) may
refuse to enforce the arbitration agreement . . . ; (2) may order intervention
or joinder as to all or only certain issues; (3) may order arbitration among
the parties who have agreed to arbitration and stay the pending court action .
. . pending the outcome of arbitration proceeding; or (4) may stay arbitration
pending the outcome of the court action or special proceeding.”  
DISCUSSION
            Defendant
Hyundai Motor America requests an order compelling plaintiff to binding
arbitration. 
            The
complaint alleges that on January 25, 2023, plaintiff leased a 2023 Hyundai
Tucson.  These causes of action arise out
of warranty and repair obligations of Hyundai in connection with the subject
vehicle and for which Hyundai issued a written warranty.  Complaint, ¶8.  Hyundai warranted the subject vehicle and
agreed to preserve and maintain the utility or performance of the vehicle or to
provide compensation if there was a failure in such utility or
performance.  In connection with the
purchase, plaintiff received various warranties, including a five-year/60,000
mile express bumper to bumper warranty, a ten-year/100,000 mile powertrain
warranty, which covers the engine and transmission.  Id., ¶9. 
The subject vehicle was delivered to plaintiff with serious defects and
nonconformities, including engine, electrical, emission, and structural system
defects.  Id., ¶10.  Plaintiff first presented the vehicle for
repairs in May 2023 and reported oil leaking. 
Id., ¶11.  In August 2023,
plaintiff presented the vehicle again and reported low oil levels.  Id., ¶12. 
Plaintiff presented the vehicle in January 2024 and reported the front
speakers and rear seat belt malfunctioning. 
Additionally, plaintiff reported excessive oil consumption.  Id., ¶13. 
In April 2024, plaintiff presented the vehicle for repeated concerns
relating to excessive oil consumption. 
Id., ¶14.  Plaintiff revokes
acceptance of the lease agreement.  Id., ¶15.
 
Existence of an agreement to
arbitrate
“As stated in Cione v. Foresters Equity Services, Inc. (1997) 58 Cal. App. 4th
625, 634 ‘The right to arbitration depends upon contract; a petition to compel
arbitration is simply a suit in equity seeking specific performance of that
contract.  There is no public policy
favoring arbitration of disputes that the parties have not agreed to
arbitrate.’”  Lopez v. Charles Schwab & Co., Inc. (2004) 118 Cal. App. 4th
1224, 1229.
Defendant asserts that when
plaintiff purchased the subject vehicle on January 25, 2023, a Warranty
accompanied the purchase, which included an agreement to arbitrate on pages
12-14. The section is titled, “BINDING ARBITRATION FOR CALIFORNIA VEHICLES
ONLY.”  
It states in part:
“If you purchased or leased your
Hyundai vehicle in the State of California, you and we, Hyundai Motor America,
each agree that any claim or disputes between us (including between you and any
of our affiliated companies) related to or arising out of your vehicle
purchase, advertising for the vehicle, use of your vehicle, the performance of
the vehicle, any service relating to the vehicle, the vehicle warranty,
representations in the warranty, or the duties contemplated under the warranty,
including without limitation claims related to false or misleading advertising,
unfair competition, breach of contract or warranty, the failure to conform a
vehicle to warranty, failure to repurchase or replace your vehicle, or claims
for a refund or partial refund of your vehicle's purchase price (excluding
personal injury claims), but excluding claims brought under the Magnuson-Moss
Warranty Act, shall be resolved by binding arbitration at either your or our
election, even if the claim is initially filed in a court of law. If either you
or we elect to resolve our dispute via arbitration (as opposed to in a court of
law), such binding arbitration shall be administered by and through the
American Arbitration Association (AAA) under its Consumer Arbitration Rules.”
 
It further states:
“IF YOU PURCHASED OR LEASED YOUR
VEHICLE IN CALIFORNIA, YOUR WARRANTY IS MADE SUBJECT TO THE TERMS OF THIS
BINDING ARBITRATION PROVISION. BY USING THE VEHICLE, OR REQUESTING OR ACCEPTING
BENEFITS UNDER THIS WARRANTY, INCLUDING HAVING ANY REPAIRS PERFORMED UNDER
WARRANTY, YOU AGREE TO BE BOUND BY THESE TERMS. IF YOU DO NOT AGREE WITH THESE
TERMS, PLEASE CONTACT US AT OPT-OUT@HMAUSA.COM WITHIN THIRTY (30) DAYS OF YOUR
PURCHASE OR LEASE TO OPT-OUT OF THIS ARBITRATION PROVISION.”
Defendant also contends that on
January 25, 2023, plaintiff enrolled their vehicle in Hyundai’s Bluelink
service through the Dealer-Assisted Enrollment Process.  In order to enroll in Bluelink services,
customers must agree to the then-effective Connected Services Agreement
(“CSA”).  In order for plaintiff to have
enrolled in Hyundai’s Bluelink services, they would have had to click a box to
acknowledge that they “read and agreed to the Blue Link Terms & Conditions”
and then click the “Complete” button.  Defendant
points out that the CSA provides an arbitration provision, which states:  “Hyundai and you agree to arbitrate any and
all disputes and claims between us arising out of or relating to this
Agreement, Connected Services, Connected Services Systems, Service Plans, the
Vehicle . . . . This agreement to arbitrate is intended to be broadly
interpreted and to make all disputes and claims between us subject to
arbitration to the fullest extent permitted by law. . . . The agreement to
arbitrate otherwise includes, but is not limited to:  claims based in contract, tort, warranty,
statute, fraud, . . . .”  See Vijay Rao
decl., Exhs. 1, 2; Ali Ameripour decl., Exh. 3.
Defendant also argues that it has
standing to compel arbitration because it has provided the warranty directly to
plaintiff in connection with their purchase of the vehicle.  Defendant contends that given that plaintiff
has purchased the vehicle in California, is bringing this action pursuant to
the Warranty, and has alleged that repairs have been performed under the
Warranty, “it is clear that arbitration provision applies.”
In opposition, plaintiff argues
that defendant failed to submit admissible evidence of such clause because
Ameripour’s declaration does not authenticate the Owner’s Handbook.  Plaintiff further contends that the Federal
Trade Commission has expressly decided that binding mandatory arbitration of
any warranty claim is unlawful, even if the warranty claims arise under state
law.
In reply, defendant argues that it
has properly established the existence of the agreements to arbitrate and that
plaintiff has “not even remotely attempted to prove the falsity of the
purported agreements.”  See Ali Ameripour
second decl.
The Court finds that arbitration agreements
exist—in the 2023 Owner’s Handbook & Warranty Information and under the
Connected Services Agreement.  Plaintiff
has not shown the falsity of the arbitration provisions.  Although plaintiff did not sign the
arbitration provision in the Warranty, that is not dispositive because
plaintiff accepted the benefits found within the Warranty.  See Cavalry SPV I, LLC v. Watkins
(2019) 36 Cal. App. 4th 1070, 1081 (“[A] party may accept a contract
by conduct, as well as by words.”). 
 
Scope
Defendant argues that plaintiff’s
claims fall squarely within the scope of the arbitration clauses as they arise directly
out of the sale of the vehicle and the vehicle’s warranty.
In opposition, plaintiff argues
that the CSA’s arbitration provision does not apply to plaintiff’s claims
because the “clear language of the CSA indicates that arbitration only applies
to claims related to the ‘connected services’ that are the subject of the
agreement, not the statutory warranty claims brought by plaintiff.”  
The Court finds that the
arbitration provision in the “Owner’s Handbook & Warranty Information,”
specifically “Section 4 Hyundai Warranty Information” covers the scope of
plaintiff’s claims as it covers “all disputes and claims between us relating to
or arising out of . . . use or performance of your vehicle, or the vehicle
warranty.”  As alleged in the complaint,
Hyundai issued a written warranty and the claims asserted in the claim “arise
out of warranty and repair obligations” of Hyundai.  The arbitration provision in the CSA also
appears to encompass plaintiff’s claims (“The agreement to arbitrate otherwise
includes, but is not limited to:  claims
based in . . . warranty, statute, . . .”). 
 
Enforceability
            Unconscionable?
“Courts analyze the
unconscionability standard in Civil Code section 1670.5 as invoking elements of
procedural and substantive unconscionability. 
The procedural element of unconscionability focuses on whether the contract
is one of adhesion.  Procedural
unconscionability focuses on whether there is ‘oppression’ arising from an
inequality of bargaining power or ‘surprise’ arising from buried terms in a
complex printed form.  The substantive
element addresses the existence of overly harsh or one-sided terms.  An agreement to arbitrate is unenforceable
only if both the procedural and substantive elements are satisfied.  However, Armendariz
held, ‘[T]he more substantively oppressive the contract term, the less evidence
of procedural unconscionability is required to come to the conclusion that the
term is unenforceable, and vice versa.’ (Armendariz,
at 114).”  McManus v. CIBC World Markets Corp. (2003) 109 Cal. App. 4th 76, 87
(citations omitted).
In opposition, plaintiff argues
that the arbitration provision in the Owner’s Handbook is procedurally
unconscionable because plaintiff was never informed by South Bay Hyundai that
any warranty claims against defendant would be subject to binding arbitration
pursuant to an arbitration agreement that purportedly existed within the
Owner’s Handbook out of which plaintiff would be required to opt.  See plaintiff’s decl.  Plaintiff asserts that he never signed any
post-sale “arbitration agreement” because the subsequent “arbitration
agreement” does not require a consumer’s express consent or contain an actual
signature line.  Further, plaintiff
argues, the “arbitration agreements” are pre-printed adhesion contracts drafted
by defendant and that the provision in the Warranty’s Booklet was “buried” 
Plaintiff also argues that the
arbitration provisions are substantively unconscionable because they deprive
plaintiff of a right to a jury trial and that he would receive “extremely
limited due process” as discovery is limited. 
Moreover, plaintiff contends, the Song-Beverly Act’s anti-waiver
provision precludes arbitration because it would deprive plaintiff of a
fundamental right to an action under Civil Code §1794.
In reply, defendant argues that the
arbitration provisions are not unconscionable because plaintiff established
mutual assent in their complaint to be bound by the warranty.  Defendant also asserts that plaintiff not
only uses the warranty as a foundational basis for this action, but plaintiff
concedes to having accepted the benefits under the warranty, and thus agreed to
be bound by its terms.  Defendant further
argues that plaintiff is estopped from refusing to comply with the arbitration
provision that is contained in the warranty because he is attempting to enforce
the warranty for plaintiff’s benefit. 
Defendant also asserts that the arbitration provision is on the first
page of the “Hyundai Warranty information” section and is clearly labeled in
the table of contents.  Plaintiff was
under no obligation to purchase the vehicle, and he had the opportunity to opt
out.  Defendant also points out that
AAA’s Consumer Arbitration Rules do allow for discovery and the exchange of
information between the parties and that AAA’s Rule 22 allows for additional
discovery and states that the arbitrator may determine whether further
information is needed to provide for a fundamentally fair process.  See Ramirez v. Charter Communications,
Inc. (2024) 16 Cal. 4th 478 (analyzing same AAA rules).
The Court finds that even if the Warranty’s
arbitration provision is an adhesion contract, when there is no other
indication of oppression other than the adhesive aspect of an agreement, the
degree of procedural unconscionability is low. 
Serpa v. California Surety Investigations, Inc. (2013) 215 Cal.
App. 4th 695, 704.  Further,
plaintiff had the ability to opt out of the arbitration clause.  Moreover, as in Sanchez v. Valencia
Holding Co., LLC (2015) 61 Cal. 4th 899, 931, “there is no
reason in this case to conclude that plaintiff lacked power to bargain.  In general, nothing prevents purchasers of .
. . vehicles from bargaining with dealers, even though dealers use form
contracts, and nothing in the record shows that plaintiff could not bargain in
this case.”  Moreover, the arbitration
provision is not “buried” as the table of contents clearly identifies where the
arbitration provision can be found and the opt-out provision is conspicuous (in
bold and all capitals).   
As to substantive
unconscionability, the Court finds little to none as the arbitration provisions
do not lack mutuality.  The discovery
rules apply equally to both parties, for example.  
The motion is thus GRANTED. 
 
 ORDER
            The
motion to compel arbitration is GRANTED.
Defendant
is ordered to give notice of ruling.            
            Moving
party [or prevailing party] is ordered to give notice of ruling.