  Case Number:  22STCV40905    Hearing Date:   October 11, 2024    Dept:  O Tentative Ruling
 
(1)   Plaintiff’s
MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO PLAINTIFF’S DEMAND FOR PRODUCTION OF
DOCUMENTS – SET ONE is DENIED because Plaintiff has not demonstrated
good cause to overcome Defendant’s privacy objection, notably as there are no
allegations nor evidence that members of the tenure review process (aside from
Dean Helou) were aware of Plaintiff’s protected activities or that Dean Helou
attempted to taint the votes of the tenure review committee members. 
 
(2)  
Plaintiff’s MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE A FIRST
AMENDED COMPLAINT is DENIED; the proposed amendments would change the
tenor of the case from alleged denial of tenure based upon medical
discrimination and retaliation to Defendant’s alleged vicarious liability based
upon a sexual harassment claim that happened in 2017. 
 
Background
 
This is an employment action. Plaintiff NIKKI SHIPLEY
alleges the following against the University of La Verne: Plaintiff was an
assistant professor at the school. In one instance, Plaintiff reported a
professor for his alleged sexual harassment, to which the professor responded
by threatening and harassing Plaintiff. The dean did not investigate the matter
despite Plaintiff reporting it. The other incident involved Plaintiff reporting
an employee for unprofessional behavior; this employee and another worked on a
paper with Plaintiff. However, because of the reporting, the employees
requested to be removed from the paper, resulting in a plagiarism accusation by
the dean against Plaintiff. Ultimately, Plaintiff was denied tenure and
promotion. Due to stress and anxiety, Plaintiff took a medical leave of
absence, but upon her return, she was terminated. 
 
On December 29, 2022, Plaintiff filed suit asserting the
following four (14) causes of action: 
 
1.    
Failure To Engage In The Interactive Process
2.    
Failure To Accommodate Disability
3.    
Disability Discrimination
4.    
Violation Of The Cfra
5.    
Retaliation For Exercise Of Cfra
6.    
Retaliation For Engaging In Protected Activity
7.    
Whistleblower Retaliation
8.    
Failure To Prevent Discrimination And Retaliation
9.    
Breach Of Implied Convenant Of Good Faith And Fair
Dealing
10.  Constructive
Discharge In Breach Of Public Policy
11.  Wrongful
Termination In Violation Of Feha
12.  Wrongful
Termination In Violation Of Public Policy
13.  Unfair
Business Practices
14.  Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress
 
On April 14, 2023, Defendant filed its answer.
 
On November 30, 2023, the case was transferred to the Pomona
Courthouse South.  
 
On June 5, 2024, the parties attended an IDC; the issues
remain unresolved. 
 
On July 8, 2024, Plaintiff filed the instant discovery
motion. 
 
On August 27, 2024, the court held its hearing on the
discovery motion wherein it continued the hearing for supplemental hearing as
to the specific issue of “whether Plaintiff’s Retaliation COA predicated upon
FEHA (for reporting Kent Badger) warrants disclosure of the documents used in
her tenure review.” In its ruling, the court noted that allegations about
discrimination based upon Plaintiff’s medical condition was insufficient to
warrant disclosure of the tenure documents because Plaintiff disclosed that she
had Lupus after Plaintiff learned that the Dean and College Tenure
Review Committed recommended against granting Plaintiff tenure. (See 8/27/24
Ruling p. 4 of 6 of PDF.) 
 
On September 9, 2024, Plaintiff filed the instant motion for
leave to file a first amended complaint (FAC). 
 
On September 16, 2024, Defendant filed its supplemental
opposition to Plaintiff’s discovery motion.
 
On September 30, 2024, Plaintiff filed her supplemental
reply in support of her discovery motion. That same day, Defendant filed its
opposition to Plaintiff’s motion for leave to file a FAC.
 
On October 4, 2024, Plaintiff filed her reply in support of
her motion for leave to file a FAC. 
 
I. Discussion
Re: Further Discovery 
 
In the court’s 8/27/24 Ruling, the court continued the
hearing for supplemental briefing regarding the specific issue of whether
Plaintiff’s retaliation COA predicated upon FEHA (for reporting Kent Badger)
warrants disclosure of the documents used in her tenure review. After careful
consideration, the court determines that Plaintiff has not demonstrated good
cause to prevail over the university’s need for confidentiality. 
 
A
large portion of Plaintiff’s supplemental brief is dedicated to Dean Helou’s
purported failure to take corrective action with respect to the numerous
complaints made about Badger (dating back to 2014)[1]
and avoiding corrective and preventative action being taken against Badger. For
example, Dean Helou allegedly bribed an international student from South Korea
to withdraw their civil rights complaint against Badger. (See e.g., Plaintiff’s
Supp. Brief p. 9.) And Dean Helou allegedly bribed another student to drop
their ‘justice report’ with a grade of A- and the executive office of the
Provost accepted this handling of the matter for the purpose of finally
resolving it as a grade dispute. (Plaintiff’s Supp. Brief p. 7:6-8.) Plaintiff relies on these
incidents to suggest the following inference: had Plaintiff been given tenure,
“she would be in a better position to call attention to Badger’s conduct and by
extension also call attention to Helou’s failure to prevent that conduct and
active concealment of Badger’s conduct.” (Plaintiff’s Supp. Brief p.
7:21-23; see also Supp. Brief p. 9:12-15 [“This also explains why Plaintiff
getting tenure was an absolute red line for Helou since Plaintiff would then
have a greater platform to call attention to Badger and Helou and with
tenure Plaintiff would be extremely difficult to remove.”], emphasis added; see
also p. 10:14-17 [“The record clearly supports the inference that Dean Helou
made complaints against Badger disappear by making deals with the students and
faculty that reported him. Based upon these clearly established facts there can
be little doubt that Helou reasonably viewed Plaintiff as a threat to his
continuing in the position of the Dean in the event she was granted
tenure.”], emphasis added.) Accordingly,
Plaintiff is arguing that Plaintiff was denied tenure because of Helou’s self-interest
in preventing exposure of his purported concealment of Badger’s actions.
However, such an inference is attenuated. 
 
Any inference must be predicated upon more than what Badger
did and Dean Helou’s responsive actions/inactions, but on whether Dean Helou made
statements to the tenure committee or otherwise influenced the
tenure committee. Such evidence, however, is lacking. 
 
In her supplemental brief, Plaintiff argues that
“Defendant’s contention that Helou would have had to discuss Badger with a
member of the tenure committee essentially ignores the obvious fact that …. Helou
was no longer in a sufficiently independent neutral and objective position to
provide any input to the tenure committee about Plaintiff’s scholarship” such
that Helou’s compromised ‘integrity and credibility’ even seriously questions
the authenticity of the plagiarism allegation against Plaintiff. (Plaintiff’s
Supp. Brief p. 8:9-16.) The court is unpersuaded by Plaintiff’s claim for the
following reasons. 
 
First, the tenure process begins with review and
recommendation by the professor’s department chair and college level tenure and
promotion committee (here, the College of Business and Public Management),
followed by the college dean (here, Dean Helou), and then ultimately by the
university-level tenure and promotion committee. (Defendant Supp. Brief. p. 7
fn. 3.) Thus, the Faculty Personnel Committee Ballot was not necessarily
stating that Dean Helou made comments to the tenure committee, but that
the university-level tenure and promotion committee (i.e., the highest/last
step) reviewed the preceding tenure process documents, one happening
to be Dean Helou’s tenure review.[2]
 
Second, Plaintiff relies upon Clark v. Claremont University Center (1992)
6 Cal.App.4th 639 to support her position “if bias enters a promotion decision
at any phase, that bias can be deemed to have impacted the entire process.” But
Clark is strikingly distinguishable.[3]

 
In Clark, the plaintiff was
denied tenure because of his insufficient publication record and negative
student evaluations, but the plaintiff alleged it was because of his race. In
support of his allegation, the plaintiff happened to overhear the tenure review
process. (Id. at p. 652.) The plaintiff overheard one professor say
“white people have rights too”; another said “I
don't know how I would feel working on a permanent base [sic] with a black
man”; another said “Well, we are not under any obligation to have any blacks
because we are a private college. It's the public universities that are under
that constraint right now”; and another said “Well, one thing I will say. We
won't find another black with as much an effect as he has.” (Id. at pp.
652-653.) The conversation then turned to the question of whether the
school’s president would “go along with this,” in reference to the tenure
committee members’ attempt to manipulate the plaintiff’s qualifications. (Id.
at p. 653.) One of the members of the tenure committee who cast a negative
vote was one who told the plaintiff “to pass the dinner rolls, ‘boy’”
and another who called the plaintiff by the name
“Calhoun,” which was the name of a stereotypical black. (Id. at p. 648-655.)
Even as to the school’s reasoning that the plaintiff was denied tenure because
of an insufficient publication record, that did not hold true against the
evidence. For one, the school changed the publication standard to
justify denial of tenure to the plaintiff. (Id. at p. 668.)
Additionally, there was evidence that a tenure committee member misled the
plaintiff about publication requirements. (Id. at p. 666.) Furthermore,
one of the tenure committee members who cast a negative vote and who had put
together the plaintiff’s dossier “excluded several articles…which had been
accepted for publication….” (Id. at p. 654.) And even as to the student evaluations, most were favorable. “The
favorable student evaluations often described [the plaintiff] in glowing terms
as an enthusiastic, creative, energetic teacher who inspired and motivated his
students. But the negative evaluations reflected concern over his sudden mood
swings, rudeness, defensiveness, loss of temper, and shouting matches with
students who questioned or disagreed with his theories.” (Id. at pp.
651-652.) 
 
On appeal, the
school claimed that the jury's verdict that the plaintiff was denied tenure because
of his race is not supported by substantial evidence. (Id. at p. 661.)
The appellate court affirmed the judgment concluding that “This case is
unusual, not because of [the plaintiff’s claims, but because of [the
plaintiff’s] strong evidence of improper motive. Our own
computer-assisted research of tenure denial cases across the nation revealed
none involving university professors who made such blatant remarks as in
this case.” (Id. at p. 670, emphasis added.)[4]
 
Here, the facts are far less “blatant” than in Clark. While
the evidence as to what Badger and Dean Helou allegedly did may be blatant, the
inference drawn therefrom—that Dean Helou wanted to protect himself such that
he tainted the tenure review process—is attenuated. This determination that Plaintiff’s theory is
speculative is best illustrated by the totality of the allegations and evidence.

 
First, though Plaintiff argues that the plagiarism
accusation lodged against her by Dean Helou should be viewed with skepticism, Plaintiff
acknowledges she used other people’s work. (See e.g., Complaint ¶¶40, 41
[Plaintiff removed the names of Niles-Yokum and Tao even though they helped
with the paper].) 
 
Second, even if Plaintiff was not feeling well, she
acknowledges that she procrastinated in creating her portfolio. (See
e.g., Complaint ¶37 [“On or about September 2019, Plaintiff was experiencing
stress, anxiety and an aggravation or exacerbation of her lupus symptoms so she
requested additional time from University Dean Abe Helou to submit her tenure
portfolio which he denied even though he had made similar accommodations for
other faculty members.”].) 
 
Third, had Dean Helou wanted to retaliate against Plaintiff,
he had years prior to the 2019 tenure review to do so. (Defendant’s Supp. Brief
p. 8:19-21.)[5] 
 
Fourth, any inference that retaliatory motive tainted the
tenure process “is undermined by the fact that Plaintiff was removed from
probation, her annual contract was renewed, and she was put up for tenure after
she complained about Badger.” (Defendant Supp. Brief p. 8:11-13, italics
original; see also 8/26/24 Ruling, fn. 3.)[6] 
 
Furthermore,
given the time that elapsed between Plaintiff’s alleged protected activity in
2016 and her tenure review in 2019 (i.e., three years), the lack of
temporal proximity severely undermines a retaliation claim. (Defendant Supp.
Brief p. 8, citing Clark County Sch. Dist. v. Breeden (2001) U.S. 268,
273-274 [“The
cases that accept mere temporal proximity between an employer's knowledge of
protected activity and an adverse employment action as sufficient evidence of
causality to establish a prima facie case uniformly hold that the temporal
proximity must be “very close,” O'Neal v. Ferguson Constr. Co., 237 F.3d 1248, 1253 (C.A.10 2001). See, e.g., Richmond v. ONEOK, Inc., 120 F.3d 205, 209 (C.A.10 1997) (3–month
period insufficient); Hughes v. Derwinski, 967 F.2d 1168, 1174–1175 (C.A.7 1992) 4–month
period insufficient). Action taken (as here) 20 months later suggests, by
itself, no causality at all.”].)[7]

 
Ultimately, despite
two years of litigating the case and discovery, Plaintiff has not pointed to
evidence that anyone on the tenure and promotion committee had any information
regarding Plaintiff’s protected activities. (Defendant’s Supp. Brief p.
7:19-15.) While the court is cognizant that the discovery statutes must be
construed liberally in favor of disclosure such that doubts should generally be
resolved in favor of permitting discovery,[8]
there must be good cause to compel disclosure, which Plaintiff has
failed to show. Should the court subscribe to Plaintiff’s
theory, any professor who was denied tenure would be able to gain access to
tenure documents so long as the professor engaged in protected activity and was
subsequently, at some point in time, denied tenure. Doing so would “be fatal to the
proper functioning of this review process.” (Pomona College v. Superior
Court (1996) 45 Cal.App.4th 1716, 1726, fn. 9; see also Scharf v.
Regents of University of California (1991) 234 Cal.App.3d 1393, 1408
[“After balancing the interests in disclosure of particular academic employees
against a university's interest in confidentiality, courts have relied upon the
right of privacy not to grant but to deny disclosure
of information obtained in the peer review process.”].) 
 
Therefore, Plaintiff’s motion to compel further responses to
demand for production of documents (Set One) is DENIED. 
 
Plaintiff at the conclusion of its supplemental brief states
that should the court deny the motion based on Plaintiff’s FEHA retaliation
COAs, Plaintiff requests the Court consider Plaintiff’s motion for leave to
amend the complaint to add COAs for Gender Discrimination and Sexual Harassment
which may be cited as further grounds in support this motion. (Plaintiff’s
Supp. Brief. pp. 10-11.) The court declines to do so as the subject of the
motion and supplemental briefing was the FEHA retaliation COA. 
 
II.
Discussion Re: Motion for Leave to File FAC
 
The proposed amendments will add the following allegations
and causes of action: 
 
-       
Add Kent Badger as a named Defendant to caption; 
-       
Add a new paragraph 3, 27 and 28 and renumber
accordingly: 3. Defendant KENT BADGER (hereinafter referred to singularly as
“BADGER” and collectively as “Defendants”) is an individual residing in the
County of Los Angeles, State of California. As a tenured faculty member, BADGER
was Plaintiff’s supervisor and superior. BADGER acted on behalf of ULV and
caused the violations of the FEHA by sexually harassing, discriminating and
retaliating against Plaintiff on the basis of her gender and her reporting of BADGER.
27. “Kent Badger touched Plaintiff’s shoulder at work on two occasions in an
affectionate or sexual manner and Plaintiff was offended that Badger touched
her without her consent. 28. Plaintiff reported Badger’s inappropriate conduct
to Keith Schildt who said he would take care of it but later said nothing could
be done because of Badger’s tenure. 
-       
Add a new fourth cause of action for Gender
Discrimination 
-       
Adding a new fifth cause of action for Hostile Work
Environment Sexual Harassment. 
 
In opposition, Defendant advances numerous arguments
including that the amendment is (i) inexcusably delayed; (ii) the amendments
will prejudice Defendant; and (iii) that the amendments are futile, namely in
that Plaintiff did not (a) exhaust her administrative remedies,[9]
(b) the sexual harassment claim is time-barred, and (c) the gender
discrimination claim fails to state a viable claim. 
 
1.    
Delay 
 
As this factor, the court agrees with Defendant. 
 
Plaintiff in her motion states that May 2024 documents from
Badger’s personnel file revealed Badger’s conduct toward students and staff.
“After reviewing these documents, Plaintiff’s counsel then appreciated in a
new way a comment Plaintiff made in her April 18, 2024 deposition in this
case that ‘I reported a complaint that Kent Badger had a hard time keeping his
hands off of me.’” (Motion p. 6:16-18, emphasis added.) Counsel does not
explain what he means by “appreciated in a new way.”  
 
As observed by Defendant and acknowledged by Plaintiff,
these facts were known at the outset namely as Plaintiff first testified to
them in August 2020 during her Workers’ Compensation deposition.[10] What is more, since at least
January 2022 Plaintiff and her counsel contemplated a claim for harassment
based on gender because Plaintiff’s January 2022 FEHA complaint specifically
states that she experienced harassment based on sex/gender.[11]
(Opp. p. 10:21-24.) Plaintiff’s rebuttal arguments are unpersuasive. 
 
For one, Plaintiff argues that the new document production
provides “additional details and related facts,” (Reply pp. 5-6) but those are
as to other students; the crux of the motion is to file new COAs
based upon Badger’s conduct towards Plaintiff, which again were known by Plaintiff when they
happened in 2017. 
 
To the extent that the facts as to the other students may strengthen
the case, what happened to others is not necessary to assert
harassment or discrimination claim(s). 
 
To the extent that Plaintiff argues there is no unreasonable
delay because from December 2022 until November 2023 Plaintiff was obligated to
oppose Defendant’s motion to change venue and seal records (Reply p. 5:6-10),
again, what was known to Plaintiff did not require discovery. 
 
Therefore, the court finds this factor weighs in favor
denying the motion. Notwithstanding, as observed by the court in Magpali v. Farmers
Group, Inc. (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 471, a court need not be bound by
the policy of great liberality in permitting amendments to the complaint,
“where inexcusable delay and probable prejudice to the opposing party’
is shown.” (Id. at p. 487, emphasis added.) 
 
With that, the court turns to whether Defendant will be
prejudiced by permitting amendment. 
 
2.    
Prejudice
 
As to this factor, it again weighs in favor of Defendant. 
 
On the one hand, Plaintiff argues that Defendant knew of
this information from the outset. Plaintiff made the comment during part
two of her deposition, but Defendant declined to inquire about it at
Plaintiff’s deposition. (Motion p. 11:18-20.)
 
On the other hand, Defendant argues it will be prejudiced
because “the amendment would change the complexity of the case. (Opp. p.
12:1-2.)[12]

 
Here, the court finds
that the “tenor and complexity” of the complaint from its original focus will
change (Magpali, supra, 48 Cal.App.4th at p. 487) and that it will open
up an entirely new filed of inquiry” (Estate of Murphy (1978) 82
Cal.App.3d 304, 311). While the original complaint mentioned Badger and his
alleged sexual misconduct of other students, those allegations were used
to form the basis of one theory of liability[13]
against Defendant for retaliation in that Dean Helou knew of such misconduct
and concealed such misconduct such that when Plaintiff began voicing her
concerns about the misconduct and continued to speak out, Dean Helou tainted
the tenure review process so that Plaintiff was denied tenure. NOW, the focus
of the action is no longer Defendant’s alleged liability for denying tenor
based upon protected activities (i.e., DIRECT liability), but VICARIOUS
liability based upon Badger’s sexual harassment when Badger “touched
Plaintiff’s shoulder at work on two occasions in a sexual manner” sometime in
2017. (Proposed Amended Complaint ¶28.) 
 
In sum, though the court is cognizant that it is bound
to apply a policy of great liberality in permitting amendments to the complaint
at any stage of the proceedings, that is so absent prejudice to the
adverse party. (Atkinson v. Elk Corp. (2003) 109 Cal.App.4th 739, 761.) And
here, changing the facts and additional theories of liability would prejudice
Defendant. (See e.g., Hirsa v. Superior Court (1981) 118 Cal.App.3d 486
[leave to amend permissible to add an additional theory of liability against a previously
named defendant and a served defendant].)
 
Therefore, with a finding of delay and prejudice, the court
DENIES the motion for leave to amend. With that, the court need not address the
issue of whether the amendments would be futile. 
 
 
 


