 Case Number:  21STCV08955    Hearing Date:   February 14, 2024    Dept:  27  
 
 
         
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL
DISTRICT
 



RAYMOND GHERMEZIAN, 
                   Plaintiffs,
          vs.
 
INPALA,
  INC., ET AL.
 
                   Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 21STCV08955
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION TO COMPEL PLAINTIFF TO ATTEND DEPOSITION AND REQUEST FOR
  MONETARY SANCTIONS 
 
Dept.
  27
1:30
  p.m.
February
  14, 2024



This is a premises liability action
arising out of an accident on May 13, 2019.  On May 8, 2021, Plaintiff Mary Ghermezian
(“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendants Inpala, Inc. (“Inpala”),
Roche Bobois West Coast, Inc., and Does 1 through 100 for premises liability
and negligence.  On June 24, 2022,
Plaintiff filed a doe amendment naming European California Furniture
(“European”) as a defendant. On June 28, 2022, Inpala and European filed a
cross-complaint for equitable indemnity and declaratory relief against Roes 1
to 10.  On October 3, 2022, Inpala and
European filed a roe amendment naming City of West Hollywood (“City”) as a
cross-defendant.  On November 29, 2022,
City filed a cross-complaint against Moes 1 through 20 for implied indemnity,
contribution and indemnity, express indemnity, declaratory relief, breach of
contract, and duty to defend.
On October 2, 2023, Inpala filed a
motion to compel Plaintiff to attend deposition.  The motion is unopposed.
Compel Deposition Attendance
Any party may obtain discovery, subject
to restrictions, by taking the oral deposition of any person, including any
party to the action.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2025.010.)  A properly served deposition
notice is effective to require a party or party-affiliated deponent to attend
and to testify, as well as to produce documents for inspection and
copying.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.280,
subd. (a).)
The party served with a deposition
notice waives any error or irregularity unless that party promptly serves a
written objection at least three calendar days prior to the date for which the
deposition is scheduled.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2025.410, subd. (a).)  In
addition to serving this written objection, a party may also move for an order
staying the taking of the deposition and quashing the deposition notice.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.410, subd. (c).)
“If, after service of a deposition
notice, a party . . . without having served a valid objection . . . fails to
appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for inspection any
document . . . described in the deposition notice, the party giving notice may
move for an order compelling deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the
production . . . of any document . . . described in the deposition
notice.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450,
subd. (a).)
Inpala seeks an order from the Court
compelling Plaintiff to attend a deposition. 
Inpala indicates that it has duly noticed Plaintiff’s deposition on five
separate occasions in 2023, but that Plaintiff unilaterally canceled each
deposition appearance shortly before they were scheduled to occur.  (Arnall Decl., ¶¶ 2-7, Exs. 1-5.)  Plaintiff did not appear at any of those
depositions and did not serve any objections either.  (Arnall Decl., ¶¶ 8-9.)
The Court finds Inpala’s motion to be
well-taken.  Plaintiff’s failure to timely
object to any of the deposition notices or appear at any of the depositions is
grounds for granting a motion to compel Plaintiff’s attendance at a
deposition.  (See Code Civ. Proc., §
2025.450, subd. (a).)  The Court further
construes Plaintiff’s lack of opposition to this motion as a tacit admission
that it is meritorious.  (Holden
v. City of San Diego (2019) 43 Cal.App.5th 404, 418; C. Opposing
the Motion—and Rebutting the Opposition, Cal. Prac. Guide Civ. Pro. Before
Trial Ch. 9(I)-C, ¶ 9:105.10.)
Monetary Sanctions
Where a motion to compel a party’s
appearance and testimony at deposition is granted, the court shall impose a
monetary sanction in favor of the party who noticed the deposition and against
the deponent, unless the court finds the one subject to sanctions acted with
substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of
the sanction unjust.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2025.450, subd. (g)(1).)  On motion of a
party who, in person or by attorney, attended at the time and place specified
in the deposition notice in the expectation that the deponent’s testimony would
be taken, the court shall impose a monetary sanction in favor of that party and
against the deponent.  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2025.450, subd. (g)(2).)
Here, Inpala requests monetary
sanctions against Plaintiff and her attorney, Raymond Ghermezian, jointly and
severally, in the amount of $1200.00. 
The Court notes that Plaintiff’s motion is rather brief and straightforward,
and that the attached Court Reservation System receipt evidences a filing fee
of $60.00 rather than $90.00 as Inpala claims. 
In light of these factors, the Court GRANTS Inpala’s request in the
reduced amount of $600.00.
Conclusion
The Court GRANTS Defendant Inpala,
Inc.’s motion to compel Plaintiff Mary Ghermezian to attend deposition.  Plaintiff must appear for deposition within
twenty (20) days of the issuance of this order.
The Court further GRANTS Defendant
Inpala, Inc.’s request for monetary sanctions against Plaintiff Mary Ghermezian
and her attorney, Raymond Ghermezian, in the reduced amount of $600.00.  Plaintiff and her attorney must pay said
monetary sanctions to Defendant Inpala, Inc. within twenty (20) days of the
issuance of this order.
Moving party to give notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. 
Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to
appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the
hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you
receive a submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume
that others might appear at the hearing to argue.  If
the Court does not receive emails from the parties indicating submission on
this tentative ruling and there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court
may, at its discretion, adopt the tentative as the final order or place the
motion off calendar.
 
   Dated this 14th day of February 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Lee S. Arian
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 