 Case Number:  21STCV04367    Hearing Date:   February 14, 2024    Dept:  27  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL
DISTRICT
 



EDWIN SARGENTI, 
                   Plaintiff,
          vs.
 
CITY
  OF LONG BEACH, et al.,
 
                   Defendants.
 


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 21STCV04367
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION TO COMPEL COMPLIANCE WITH DEPOSITION SUBPOENA FOR PRODUCTION
  OF BUSINESS RECORDS; REQUEST FOR MONETARY SANCTIONS
 
Dept.
  27
1:30
  p.m.
February
  14, 2024



 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant and Cross-Complainant City of Long
Beach (“Defendant City”)
RESPONDING PARTY: Cross-Defendant ASM Global (“ASM”)   
 
 
 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
On
February 3, 2021, Plaintiff Edwin Sargenti (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint
against Defendants City of Long Beach (“Defendant City”), ASM Global (“ASM”),
and DOES 1 to 100 alleging causes of action for (1) premises liability and (2) general
negligence. The complaint alleges on or about January 27, 2020, Plaintiff fell
off a Lime scooter he was operating due to the hazardous condition of the
sidewalk negligently maintained by Defendants. 
On
March 22, 2021, Plaintiff filed the operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”)
against Defendants alleging causes of action for (1) premises liability and (2)
general negligence. 
On
April 14, 2021, Defendant City filed a Cross-Complaint against ROES 1 through
30, inclusive, alleging causes of action for (1) total equitable indemnity, (2)
comparative indemnity, (3) declaratory relief, (4) equitable apportionment of
fault, and (5) contribution.
On
September 1, 2022, pursuant to a request for dismissal filed by Plaintiff, ASM
was dismissed from this action.
On
September 27, 2023, Defendant City filed the operative First Amended
Cross-Complaint (“FAXC”) against Cross-Defendants ASM, the Grand Prix
Association of Long Beach, LLC (“Cross-Defendants”), and ROES 1 through 30,
alleging causes of action for (1) equitable indemnity, (2) comparative
indemnity, (3) declaratory relief, (4) equitable apportionment of fault, and
(5) contribution. 
Prior
to Defendant City filing the operative FAXC, on September 15, 2023, Defendant
City filed the instant motion to compel ASM’s compliance with the deposition
subpoena for production of business records served on May 25, 2023 (the
“Motion”). Pursuant to the Motion, Defendant City seeks monetary sanctions
against ASM and its attorneys, Vanessa Herzog and Bryan Martinez of Wood Smith
Henning & Berman, LLP in the amount of $2,475.00. 
On
January 9, 2024, ASM filed an opposition to the Motion, to which Defendant City
filed a reply on January 16, 2024. 
On
January 23, 2024, after hearing oral argument, the Court continued the hearing
on the Motion to allow for additional time to review ASM’s opposition to the
Motion. (01/23/24 Minute Order.) The Court continued the hearing on the Motion
to February 14, 2024. (01/23/24 Minute Order.) 
II.         
LEGAL
STANDARD 
In California, discovery statutes “must
be construed liberally in favor of disclosure unless the request is clearly
improper.” (Williams v. Superior Court
(2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 541.) “Under the discovery statutes, information is
discoverable if it is unprivileged and is either relevant to the subject matter
of the action or reasonably calculated to reveal admissible evidence.” (John
B. v. Superior Court (2006) 38 Cal.4th 1177, 1186.) “Discovery may relate
to the claim or defense of the party seeking discovery or of any other party to
the action.” (Ibid.) “When
discovery requests are grossly overbroad on their face, and hence do not appear
reasonably related to a legitimate discovery need, a reasonable inference can
be drawn of an intent to harass and improperly burden.” (Obregon v. Superior
Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 424, 431.)
          “If a
subpoena requires the attendance of a witness or the production of books,
documents, electronically stored information, or other things before a court,
or at the trial of an issue therein . . . the court, upon motion reasonably
made . . . may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or
directing compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as the court shall
declare, including protective orders.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1, subd. (a).)
A party to an action may bring a motion to compel compliance with a subpoena
for the production of documents. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1, subd. (b)(1).)
          If a deponent fails to answer any
question or to produce any document, electronically stored information, or
tangible thing under the deponent’s control that is specified in the deposition
notice or a deposition subpoena, the party seeking discovery may move the court
for an order compelling that answer or production. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.480,
subd. (a).) A motion made under Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.480(a) must “be made no
later than 60 days after the completion of the record of the deposition” and
must “be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.480, subd. (b).) The 60-day time period “begins to run
when the deponent serves objections on the party.” (Rutledge v.
Hewlett-Packard Co. (2015) 238 Cal.App.4th 1164, 1192.) 
 
 
III.       
DISCUSSION
ASM’s Procedural Arguments 
          ASM contends
that the Motion should be denied because Defendant City seeks to compel
third-party discovery against a party to this action and, as such, the Motion
is moot. ASM contends that Defendant City bases its motion on Code of Civil
Procedure section 2020.410, which governs subpoenas duces tecum used to
obtain documents from non-parties. (Opposition, 3:20-25.) ASM argues that Defendant
City should have made a request for production pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 2031.010. (Opposition, 4:4-5.)
          On May 25,
2023, Defendant City issued a Deposition Subpoena for Production of Business
Records (the “Subpoena”) to ASM. (Ochoa Decl., ¶ 8; Exhibit A.) On June 22,
2023, ASM provided blanket objections to Defendant City’s Subpoena. (Id.,
¶ 9; Exhibit B.) 
          The Court
finds that ASM’s contention is inaccurate. The Motion is not based on CCP § 2020.410 but, as set forth in the Notice of
Motion, is made pursuant to CCP §§ 1987.1 and 2025.480.  Defendant City contends that ASM has failed
to produce the documents requested in the Subpoena. It is undisputed that ASM
is the deponent toward whom the Subpoena was served. The Subpoena is for the
production of business and records and, as such, the Motion is proper under CCP
§§ 1987.1 and 2025.480. 
Further, even if the Subpoena and the
Motion were brought under CCP § 2020.410, the Court believes that would be
appropriate because ASM was, in fact, a non-party at the time both the subpoena
was issued and the motion was brought.  
Tthe Court finds that the Motion is
timely as ASM granted Defendant City until September 15, 2023 to file a motion
to compel. (Ochoa Decl., ¶¶ 13-14; Exhibit F.)
          Further, the
Court finds that the meet and confer requirement has been met pursuant to CCP §
2025.480 as Defendant City’s counsel attests to meet and confer efforts to
resolve the issues raised in the Motion. (Ochoa Decl., ¶¶ 10-14; Exhibits D, E,
and F.) 
          Accordingly,
the Court will address the merits of the Motion. 
Issue No.1: Appropriateness of Compelling Compliance with
the Subpoena
          ASM contends
that the Motion should be denied because the requests in the Subpoena are
vague, ambiguous, and overbroad. 
          Subpoena
Requests 
          The Subpoena
seeks the following categories of documents: (1) communications regarding any
asphalt work performed at or near the location at any time before and including
the date of the incident; (2) communications regarding any asphalt work
performed at or near the location at any time from the date of the incident;
(3) communications regarding any landscaping work performed at or near the
location at any time before and including the date of the incident; (4)
communications regarding any landscaping work performed at or near the location
at any time from the date of the incident; (5) communications regarding any
barriers located at or near the location of the incident from five (5) years
prior to, and including the incident; (6) communications regarding any barriers
located at or near the location of the incident; and (7) any agreements between
ASM and Defendant City which reference or reflect the location of the incident.
(Ochoa Decl., ¶ 8; Exhibit A.)
          Analysis
          In its
separate statement, Defendant City contends Plaintiff alleges that he fell off
his electric scooter when he avoided a large white barrier in his path on the
sidewalk and struck an asphalt patch located on the driveway portion of that
sidewalk. (Separate Statement, 4:4-6.) Plaintiff also alleges that a large
amount of tree debris obstructed his view. (Separate Statement, 4:6.) Defendant
City contends that the documents sought in the Subpoena directly relate to the
issues in this litigation. (Separate Statement, 4:3-4.) 
          The Court
does not doubt the relevance of the documents sought by the Subpoena; however, the
Court finds that the Subpoena is ambiguous and vague as to the location of the
incident. The term “location” is not defined in the Subpoena. Thus, based on a
review of the Subpoena, the Court cannot ascertain what the term “location”
means. Nor is it clear what “near” means. 
Each document request refers to the location of the incident and near
the location. (Ochoa Decl., ¶ 8; Exhibit A.) Reasonably, one could assert that
the location is referring to the location where Plaintiff fell off his scooter,
but subpoena requests should be drafted with sufficient care that there is no ambiguity.  These requests were not so drafted.  Frankly, the term “near” creates even more of
an issue.  If the recipient of this
subpoena decided to provide documents it deemed responsive but excluded documents
involving “asphalt work” whatever that means, that occurred more than 5 miles
from where the Plaintiff fell off his scooter, would the City contend that was
non-compliance with the subpoena?  Simply, the City has an obligation to seek
discovery through well-crafted requests. 
It has not done so here.  On its
face, the Subpoena is vague and ambiguous as to the meaning of numerous terms contained
within it.
          Accordingly,
the Court DENIES the Motion in its entirety. 
IV.    CONCLUSION 
Defendant City’s Motion to Compel ASM’s
compliance with its Deposition Subpoena for Production of Business Records and Request
for Sanctions is DENIED. 
 
Moving party is ordered to give notice.

 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. 
Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to
appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the
hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you
receive a submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume
that others might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive emails from the
parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
      Dated this 14th day of February 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon.
  Lee S. Arian 
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 