 Case Number:  23STCV15278    Hearing Date:   February 14, 2024    Dept:  27 Tentative
Ruling
 
Judge Lee
Arian, Department 27
 
 
HEARING DATE:     February 14, 2024                             TRIAL
DATE:  December 27, 2024
                                                           
CASE:                         Tomas Jesus Martinez v. Target
Corporation
 
CASE NO.:                 23STCV15278
 

 
MOTION FOR SUBSTITUTION OF THE PERSONAL REPRESENTATIVE
OF THE DECEASED PLAINTIFF

 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff’s counsel Michael
Yadegari on behalf of non-party Domitila Martinez
 
RESPONDING PARTY:      No
opposition
 
 
I.          BACKGROUND
 
            On June 30, 2023, Plaintiff Tomas
Jesus Martinez filed a complaint against Defendant Target Corporation for
injuries arising from a slip and fall on Defendant’s premises. Plaintiff filed the
operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) on July 5,
2023, alleging causes of action for negligence and premises liability.
 
            On October 13, 2023, the Court
granted Defendant’s unopposed motion to strike without leave to amend.
Plaintiff was instructed to file an amended complaint without reference to
punitive damages and attorney fees within 20 days of the order.
 
            On November 8, 2023, Plaintiff
belatedly filed his operative Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”). The SAC
added nine plaintiffs without leave to amend; these include: Domitila Martinez,
Juan Martinez, Paulina Martinez, Lupe Martinez, Sandra Martinez, Tomas
Martinez, Jesus Martinez, Jose Martinez, and Jorge Martinez (collectively
referred to as “the Estate of Tomas Jesus Martinez.”) Seemingly,
these newly added plaintiffs replaced Tomas Jesus Martinez, who is alleged to
be deceased. The SAC also alleges the following causes of action: (1)
negligence (wrongful death); (2) negligent entrustment and negligent
supervision; and (3) survival action.
 
On January 4, 2024, Plaintiff’s
counsel Michael Yadegari, on behalf of Domitila Martinez, Plaintiff’s widow,
filed the instant motion for substitution of plaintiff pursuant to CCP § 377.11.
Along with the motion, Yadegari filed a proposed order granting the motion.
 
On January 5, 2024, the Court
sustained in part Defendant’s demurrer to the SAC on the grounds that it
exceeded the Court’s October 13, 2023 order. Additionally, the Court
specifically stated that “if Plaintiff seeks leave to amend in order to
substitute parties or introduce new causes of action, then it must be done by
noticed motion.” (1.05.2024 Minute Order, p. 4.) 
 
The motion is unopposed.
 
II.        LEGAL
STANDARD
            Following
the death of a party, any legal action by that party may only proceed upon
substitution of the decedent’s personal representative or successor in interest
in her place.  (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 377.31, 367.)  California Code of
Civil Procedure section 377.31 states that, “[o]n motion after the death of a
person who commenced an action or proceeding, the court shall allow a pending
action or proceeding that does not abate to be continued by the decedent’s
personal representative or, if none, by the decedent’s successor in interest.”  
            California Code of Civil Procedure section 377.32,
subdivision (a) states:  “The person who seeks . . . to continue a pending
action or proceeding as the decedent’s successor in interest under this
article, shall execute and file an affidavit or a declaration under penalty of
perjury under the laws of this state stating all of the following:  
(1) The decedent’s
name.  
(2) The date and
place of decedent’s death.  
(3) ‘No proceeding
is now pending in California for administration of the decedent’s
estate.’  
(4) If the
decedent’s estate was administered, a copy of the final order showing the
distribution of the decedent’s cause of action to the successor in
interest.  
(5) Either of the
following, as appropriate, with facts in support thereof:  
      (A) ‘The affiant or declarant is the
decedent’s successor in interest (as defined in Section                              377.11 of the California Code of Civil
Procedure) and succeeds to the decedent’s interest                             in
the action or proceeding.’  
 
      (B) ‘The affiant or declarant is
authorized to act on behalf of the decedent’s successor in                               interest (as
defined in Section 377.11 of the California Code of Civil Procedure) with                            respect to the
decedent’s interest in the action or proceeding.’   
(6) ‘No other
person has a superior right to commence the action or proceeding or to be
substituted for the decedent in the pending action or
proceeding.’   
(7) ‘The affiant
or declarant affirms or declares under penalty of perjury under the laws of the
State of California that the foregoing is true and correct.’”  
            A certified copy of the decedent’s death certificate must
be attached to the declaration.  (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 377.32, subd, (c).)  
            California Code of Civil Procedure section 377.33 enables “[t]he
court in which an action is commenced . . . [to] make any order concerning
parties that is appropriate to ensure proper administration of justice in the
case.” 
 
III.      DISCUSSION
 
Here, the proposed order filed by
Plaintiff’s counsel on January 4, 2024 was rejected because it was missing a
stipulation. (See 1.04.2024 Notice of Rejection of Electronic Filing.) 
 
Moreover, the Domitila Martinez declaration is insufficient to comply with the CCP § 377.32(a)
requirements. It does not state 1) the location of Plaintiff’s death, 2) that
no proceeding is pending for the administration of Plaintiff’s estate, or 3)
that no other person has a superior right to commence the action or proceeding
or be substituted for the decedent, all of which are required. 
 
For the foregoing reasons, the
Court denies the motion to be substituted without prejudice. 
 
Moving party to give notice, unless
waived by the parties.  
 
Dated:   February 14,
2024                                ___________________________________
                                                                                    Lee Arian
                                                                                    Judge of the Superior Court
 
            Parties who intend
to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at
SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative as
directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org. 
Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to appear
at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the hearing and
argue the matter.  Unless you receive a submission from all other parties
in the matter, you should assume that others might appear at the hearing to
argue.  If the Court does not receive emails from the parties indicating
submission on this tentative ruling and there are no appearances at the
hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the tentative as the final
order or place the motion off calendar. 
 