  Case Number:  19STCV11651    Hearing Date:   February 14, 2024    Dept:  27  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL
DISTRICT
 



RICHARD IAN RAYNER, et al., 
                   Plaintiffs,
          vs.
 
LOS
  ANGELES COUNTY METROPOLITAN TRANSPORATION AUTHORITY, et al.,
 
                   Defendants.
 


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 19STCV11651
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION FOR PROTECTIVE ORDER REGARDING PLAINTIFFS’ DESIGNATION OF
  EXPERT WITNESSES
 
Dept.
  27
1:30
  p.m.
February
  14, 2024



 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant Los Angeles County Metropolitan
Transportation Authority (“LACMTA”)
RESPONDING PARTY: Unopposed    
 
 
 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
This
action arises from a fall on a bus which occurred on October 5, 2018. On April
3, 2019, Plaintiffs Richard Ian Rayner (“Rayner”) and Paivi Suvilehto
(“Plaintiffs”) filed a Complaint against Defendants Los Angeles County
Metropolitan Transportation Authority (“LACMTA”), Doe Bus Driver, and DOES 1
through 50, alleging causes of action for: (1) motor vehicle, (2) liability for
the wrongful act or omissions by public entity employees, and (3) loss of
consortium.
On
May 3, 2019, Defendant LACMTA filed an Answer to the Complaint. 
On
January 17, 2024, Defendant LACMTA filed and served the instant motion for a
protective order striking the section of Plaintiff Rayner’s January 3, 2024 Exchange
of Expert Witness Information and allowing Plaintiff Rayner five days to file
an Amended Exchange of Expert Witness Information listing no more than three
non-retained expert witnesses for Plaintiff Rayner (the “Motion”). Plaintiff filed
a late opposition on February 12, 2024; in its discretion, the Court will
consider the late opposition.  
The
Motion is made on the grounds that: (1) Plaintiff Rayner has imposed
oppression, undue burden, and expense on Defendant LACMTA by identifying 32
named non-retained experts; and (2) Plaintiff Rayner seeks to evade discovery
by concealing witnesses he expects to call among those he does not expect to
call. 
 
II.         
LEGAL
STANDARD 
In California, discovery statutes “must
be construed liberally in favor of disclosure unless the request is clearly
improper.” (Williams v. Superior Court
(2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 541.) “Under the discovery statutes, information is
discoverable if it is unprivileged and is either relevant to the subject matter
of the action or reasonably calculated to reveal admissible evidence.” (John
B. v. Superior Court (2006) 38 Cal.4th 1177, 1186.) “Discovery may relate
to the claim or defense of the party seeking discovery or of any other party to
the action.” (Ibid.) 
“A party who
has been served with a demand to exchange information concerning expert trial
witnesses may promptly move for a protective order. This motion shall be
accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2034.250, subd. (a).) “The court, for good cause shown, may make any
order that justice requires to protect any party from unwarranted annoyance,
embarrassment, oppression, or undue burden and expense.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2034.250, subd. (b).) 
“[T]he very
purpose of the expert witness discovery statute is to give fair notice of what
an expert will say at trial. This allows the parties to assess whether to take
the expert’s deposition, to fully explore the relevant subject area at any
deposition, and to select an expert who can respond with a competing opinion on
that subject area.” (Bonds v. Roy (1999) 20 Cal.4th 140, 146-47.) “[T]he
need for pretrial discovery is greater with respect to expert witnesses than it
is for ordinary fact witnesses.” (Id. at p. 147.) An exchange of expert
witness information must include: (1) a list setting forth the name and address
of a person whose expert opinion that party expects to offer in evidence at
trial; or (2) a statement that the party does not presently intend to offer the
testimony of an expert witness. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2034.260, subd.
(b)(1)-(2).) 
           
III.       
DISCUSSION
Meet and Confer Requirement
          The Court
finds that the meet and confer requirement has been met pursuant to CCP § 2034.250
as counsel for Defendant LACMTA, Paul O’Reilly (“O’Reilly”), sets forth the
meet and confer efforts to resolve the issues raised in the Motion. (O’Reilly
Decl., ¶ 4.)  
Issue No.1: Appropriateness of a Protective Order 
          Plaintiff
Rayner alleges that he fell inside a moving bus when it suddenly braked to
avoid a vehicle that changed lanes in front of it and then stopped at an
intersection. (O’Reilly Decl., ¶ 2.) Plaintiff Rayner claims injuries such as
head and cognitive injuries, traumatic brain injury, and subdural hematoma
among other injuries. (Id.) On January 3, 2024, Plaintiff served an
Exchange of Expert Witness Information. (Id., ¶¶ 3-4; Exhibit A.)
Plaintiff’s counsel has refused to provide an appropriate disclosure
identifying which non-retained expert witnesses Plaintiff Rayner expects to
call at trial. (Id., ¶ 5.) O’Reilly states that he lacks information
needed to determine which non-retained experts he needs to subpoena and depose.
(Id.) Counsel states that Plaintiff Rayner is hiding the identities of
intended witnesses. (Id., ¶ 6.) 
          Plaintiff
Rayner has identified 32 non-retained experts. The Court finds that Plaintiff
Rayner has designated “Beverly Hills Medical Imaging” as a non-retained expert
without identifying individual persons. (O’Reilly Decl., ¶ 3; Exhibit A.) This
is not in compliance with CCP § 2034.260.
However, Defendant LACMTA’s motion for
a protective order limiting Plaintiff to three expert witnesses is far too
restrictive in the Court’s view, even taking into account the defective
designation of Beverly Hills Imaging.[1].despite
such a defect. Plaintiff Rayner’s Exchange of Expert Witness Information clearly
states that Plaintiff Rayner expects to offer the opinions of the non-retained
experts into evidence at trial. (Id., ¶ 3; Exhibit A at 1:22-23.) 
With the exception of “Beverly Hills
Medical Imaging,” Plaintiff Rayner 
has complied with CCP § 2034.260(b)(1) which provides that
the exchange of expert witness information must set forth “the name and address
of a person whose expert opinion that party expects to offer into evidence at
trial.” The Court fails to see any support for Defendant LACMTA’s contention
that Plaintiff Rayner is hiding intended witnesses when all non-retained
experts have been identified in the Exchange of Expert Information and those
non-retained experts are treating health care providers.  
In sum, the Court finds that Defendant
LACMTA has not shown good cause for issuance of its requested protective order.
As such, the Motion is DENIED. 
III.    CONCLUSION 
Accordingly, Defendant LACMTA’s Motion
for a Protective Order regarding Plaintiffs’ Exchange of Expert Witness
Information is DENIED.  
 
Moving party is ordered to give notice.

 
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. 
Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to
appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the
hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you
receive a submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume
that others might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive emails from the
parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
      Dated this 14th day of February 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon.
  Lee S. Arian 
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 


