 Case Number:  20STCV25254    Hearing Date:   February 14, 2024    Dept:  27  
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL
DISTRICT
 



GLORIA WATSON,
                   Plaintiff,
          vs.
 
THE
  REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, et al., 
 
                   Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.: 20STCV25254
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEFENDANTS THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFRONIA, APARNA
  SRIDHAR, M.D., AND JENNY YANG MEI, M.D.’S MOTION TO EXCLUDE EXPERT TESTIMONY
 
 
Dept.
  27
1:30
  p.m.
February
  14, 2024



 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
On June 30, 2020, Plaintiff Gloria
Watson filed this action against Defendants Regents of the University of
California (The Regents), Aparna Sridhar, M.D. (Dr. Sridhar), and Jenny Yang
Mei, M.D. (Dr. Mei) (collectively, Defendants) for medical malpractice and
medical battery.  On December 31, 2020,
Plaintiff filed the operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) adding causes of
action for breach of fiduciary duty, fraudulent concealment, and intentional
infliction of emotional distress. 
          Plaintiff
alleges she scheduled a vaginal birth for her second child after delivering her
first child through a Caesarean section (“C-section”).  As used in the briefing before the Court,
this procedure is referred to as a “VBAC,” an acronym for Vaginal Birth After
Caesarean.  However, instead of
performing a VBAC, Plaintiff alleges that Dr. Sridhar and Dr. Mei performed an
unauthorized C-section delivery of her second child and, and, during the
delivery, ruptured, punctured, or perforated her small bowel, with numerous
consequences.  
On May 20, 2021, the defendants moved
for summary judgment. On September 27, 2021, the Court granted summary judgment
as to the third, fourth, and fifth causes of action and denied it as to the
first and second causes of action. 
On January 5, 2024, Defendants moved to
exclude Plaintiff’s expert witness Felice Gersh, M.D. from testifying at trial.

Plaintiff opposes and Defendants reply.
II.         
LEGAL STANDARDS
Code of
Civil Procedure section 2034.300 states that the trial court shall exclude from
evidence the expert opinion of any witness that is offered by any party who has
unreasonably failed to do any of the following: 
(a)
List that witness as an expert under Section 2034.260. 
(b)
Submit an expert witness declaration. 
(c)
Produce reports and writings of expert witnesses.
(d)
Make that expert available for a deposition.
Failure
to comply with expert designation rules may be found to be “unreasonable” when
a party's conduct gives the appearance of gamesmanship. (Staub v. Kiley (2014)
226 Cal.App.4th 1437, 1447.) This includes undue rigidity in responding to
expert scheduling issues. (Ibid.) The operative inquiry is whether the
conduct being evaluated will compromise the purposes of the discovery statutes:
“to assist the parties and the trier of fact in ascertaining the truth; to
encourage settlement by educating the parties as to the strengths of their
claims and defenses; to expedite and facilitate preparation and trial; to prevent
delay; and to safeguard against surprise.” (Ibid.) 
To have standing to
object to opposing expert testimony under Code of Civil Procedure section
2034.300, the objecting party must have “made a complete and timely compliance” with
all expert witness exchange requirements. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2034.300;
Staub v. Kiley (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 1437, 1446.) However, where the
objecting party attempts exchange but does not timely comply with exchange
requirements due to opposing party's “gamesmanship,” the trial court has the
inherent power to exclude testimony as sanctions for opposing party's
“egregious violation” of exchange requirements. (Cottini v. Enloe Med. Ctr. (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th
401, 424-425.) 
III.       
DISCUSSION
Defendants assert that Plaintiff
repeatedly did not make Dr. Gersh available for deposition and did not produce
her reports and writings prior to the close of expert discovery. 
A.  
Standing
On the issue of standing, Defendants do
not assert that they complied with all expert witness exchange requirements.
Nonetheless, the Court will adjudicate the merits of the instant motion. 
B.  
Deposition

Defendants assert that they noticed Dr.
Gersh’s deposition testimony five times: (1) November 5, 2021; (2) September 6,
2022; (3) September 21, 2022; (4) April 11, 2023; and (5) November 17, 2023. (Mot,
pg. 5; Decl. Aitelli, ¶¶ 7, 11, 13, 17, 20.) Defendants further assert that the
expert discovery deadline has passed; thus, Plaintiff has frustrated their
attempts at deposing Dr. Gersh. 
Defendants advance the declaration of
their counsel. He states that Defendants first noticed Dr. Gersh’s deposition
on November 5, 2021. (Decl. Aitelli, ¶ 7.) Plaintiff served a written objection.
(Decl. Aitelli, ¶ 8.) Defendants next noticed Dr. Gersh’s deposition on
September 6, 2022. (Decl. Aitelli, ¶ 11.) Plaintiff objected and offered an
alternate date of October 4, 2022. (Decl. Aitelli, ¶ 12.) Defendants noticed
Dr. Gersh’s deposition on September 21, 2022 for October 4, 2022. (Decl.
Aitelli, ¶ 13.) Plaintiff confirmed the October 4 date. (Decl. Aitelli, ¶ 14.)
However, Dr. Gersh’s deposition did not go forward[1]
(Decl. Aitelli, ¶ 14.) Plaintiff also did not offer an alternate date. (Decl.
Aitelli, ¶ 14.) Defendants noticed Dr. Gersh’s deposition on April 11, 2023. (Decl.
Aitelli, ¶ 17.) Plaintiff objected. (Decl. Aitelli, ¶ 18.) Defendants noticed
Dr. Gersh’s deposition again on November 17, 2023. (Decl. Aitelli, ¶ 20.)
Plaintiff again objected. (Decl. Aitelli, ¶ 21.) 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues that defendants
repeatedly did not meet and confer about scheduling Dr. Gersh’s deposition. (Opp.,
pg. 11.) The Court notes that Plaintiff does not support this assertion with
evidence. Plaintiff also argues that Dr. Gersh was unavailable in December 2023
for both personal and professional reasons, including a death in the family. (Opp.,
pg. 11; Decl. Gersh, ¶ 3.) In addition, Plaintiff argues that both Plaintiff’s
counsel and Defendant’s counsel were unavailable in December 2023. (Opp., pg. 11.)
The Court notes that Plaintiff does not assert this with admissible evidence. Plaintiff
also argues that Defendants cancelled the October 4, 2022, deposition at the
last minute. (Decl. Gersh, ¶ 4.) In addition, Plaintiff argues that she deposed
Dr. Gersh on January 22, 2024; thus, this motion is moot.[2]
(Mot, pgs. 8-9.) 
In reply, Defendants argue that the
parties mutually agreed to postpone the October 4, 2022, deposition given the
continuing of the trial. (Reply Mot., pg. 6.) Defendants also argue that on
three separate occasions, their counsel stated that they would be willing to
move the deposition date if the stated date was inconvenient for Plaintiff’s counsel
or for the witness. (Reply Mot., pg. 3; Decl. Aitelli, ¶¶ 11, 17, 20, Ex. G, K,
M.) Thus, they argue that they did not unilaterally set deposition on those
three occasions ¿ September 6, 2022, April 11, 2023, and November 17, 2023. Rhater,
those were starting points for discussion, but for some reason, even though Plaintiff
is responsible for making her expert available for deposition, her counsel
never made a concerted effort to set the deposition of that witness.
The Court finds Plaintiff’s conduct
unreasonable. Expert discovery closed on January 2, 2024. Defendants have not
had the opportunity to depose Dr. Gersh or, as discussed further below, learn
her opinions through her reports and writings. On three separate occasions,
Defendants’ counsel has communicated their flexibility in scheduling Dr. Gersh,
but Plaintiff offers no explanation for her rigidity, including any explanation
for why she could not reschedule a deposition upon receiving the deposition
notice on April 11, 2023. The Court notes that Plaintiff has only explained why
she could not reschedule the deposition notice served on November 17, 2023. In
addition, as referenced in footnote 2, the Court does not understand why
Plaintiff would depose her own expert after the close of expert discovery and
assert that the instant motion is moot. Accordingly, the Court grants the
motion. 
C.  
Reports
and Writings 
Separately, Defendants assert that they
requested reports and writings of Dr. Gersh, but Plaintiff has not produced
them. (Decl. Aitelli, ¶ 27.) Plaintiff asserts that Dr. Gersh has offered her
opinion in the declaration Plaintiff submitted in opposition to Defendants’
motion for summary judgment; thus, any further report and writing is
unnecessary. 
This is not what the code states. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2034.10.) A declaration cannot substitute for the expert’s reports
and writings under the code. Further, Plaintiff submitted Dr. Gersh’s
declaration as part of the motion for summary judgment. Defendants request Dr.
Gersh’s reports and writings for her expert opinion testimony at trial. The
declaration serves a different purpose than Dr. Gersh’s reports and writings.  
IV.        
CONCLUSION
For the foregoing reasons, the Court
grants the motion to exclude. 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. 
Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to
appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the
hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you
receive a submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume
that others might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive emails from the
parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
      Dated this 14th
day of February 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon.
  Lee S. Arian 
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 

[1]In their Reply,
Defendants acknowledge that the October 4 deposition did not go forward based
on a mutual agreement, which leads the Court to question why in his
Declaration, Defendants’ counsel stated, and even emphasized through the use of italics, that
Plaintiff did not produce Dr. Gersh for deposition on October 4.  (See
Decl. Aitelli, ¶ 14.)


[2] Much like defendants’
statement regarding Dr. Gersh not being made available referenced in footnote
1 is counterproductive to Defendants’ argument, this effort to thwart the rules
by taking a deposition of your own witness when discovery is closed is
counterproductive to Plaintiff’s argument. 
 

