  Case Number:  23PSCV01043    Hearing Date:   January 18, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE NAME:   Mohamad  Tavana v. John Dieterich1.    Amended Motion  for Order Compelling Plaintiff Mohamad Tavana to Answer and Service His  Verified, Objection Free Responses to Defendant’s Specially Prepared  Interrogatories Set One;2.    Amended  Motion for Order Compelling Plaintiff Mohamad Tavana to Answer and Service His  Verified, Objection Free Responses to Defendant’s Form Interrogatories Set One;  and        3.    Amended  Motion for Order Compelling Plaintiff Mohamad Tavana to [sic] Verified  Objection Free Responses to Request for Production of Documents Set One  TENTATIVE  RULING The Court GRANTS Defendant’s motions to compel responses to Form  Interrogatories Set One, Specially Prepared Interrogatories Set One, and  Request for Production of Documents Set One. Plaintiff must serve complete and verified  responses  to Defendant’s discovery requests, without objections, within 20 days of the Court’s order.  The Court further GRANTS Defendant’s requests for monetary  sanctions in the reduced amount of $751.65 for each motion. Plaintiff and  Plaintiff’s counsel, jointly and severally, must pay said monetary sanctions to  counsel for Defendant within 20 days of the Court’s order.                Defendant is ordered to give notice  of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.  BACKGROUND This is a defamation action. On April 10, 2023, plaintiff Mohamad  Tavana (Plaintiff) filed this action against defendant John Dieterich (Defendant)  and Does 1 through 25, alleging causes of action for Defamation and Slander,  Violation of Civil Code § 1708.7. Stalking [sic], Tortious Interference  with Contractual Relations, and Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress.  On December 7, 2023, Defendant filed motions to compel responses  to Form Interrogatories Set One, Specially Prepared Interrogatories Set One,  and Request for Production of Documents Set One. On December 14, 2023,  Defendant filed amended versions of those motions.[1] The motions are unopposed.  LEGAL  STANDARD             When a party to whom  interrogatories are directed fails to respond, under Code of Civil Procedure  section 2030.290(b), the party propounding the interrogatories may move for an  order compelling a response. A party who fails to provide a timely response  waives any objection, including one based on privilege or work product. (Code Civ.  Proc., § 2030.290,  subd. (a).) “The  court shall impose a monetary sanction… against any party, person, or attorney  who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a further response to  interrogatories, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted  with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition  of the sanction unjust.” (Id., § 2030.300, subd. (d).)  When a party  to whom an inspection demand is directed fails to respond under Code of Civil  Procedure section 2031.300(b), a party making the demand may move for an order  compelling a response to the inspection demand. A party who fails to provide  timely responses waives any objection, including one based on privilege or work  product. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300, subd.  (a).) “[T]he  court shall impose a monetary sanction… against any party, person, or attorney  who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel further response to a  demand, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with  substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of  the sanction unjust.” (Id., § 2031.310, subd. (h).)  DISCUSSION             Meet and Confer             Although the moving party is not  required under the Code of Civil Procedure to meet and confer before bringing a  motion to compel initial responses to discovery requests, (see, e.g., Code Civ.  Proc., §§ 2030.290, 2031.300), the Court does indicate in its Courtroom  Information document that parties are required to meet and confer before filing  any motion, (Courtroom Information, p. 1). Defendant indicates having attempted  to meet and confer with Plaintiff before bringing these motions, which the  Court finds sufficient. (Forberg Decls., ¶¶ 5-7.)              Analysis           Defendant  indicates having served Form Interrogatories Set One, Specially Prepared Interrogatories  Set One, and Request for Production of Documents Set One on Plaintiff on August  23, 2023.[2] (Forberg Decls., Exs. A.) When  Plaintiff failed to respond, Defendant attempted to obtain responses from  Plaintiff, but to no avail. (Forberg Decls., ¶¶ 5-7, Exs. B.) Defendant has not  received any responses as of the filing of these motions. (Id., ¶ 7.)  Based on the foregoing, the Court GRANTS Defendant’s motions to compel  responses.              With respect to monetary sanctions,  the Court grants Defendant’s requests in the reduced amount of $751.65 for each motion, comprised of 1.0  hours preparing each motion, 0.5 hours each for attending the hearing on the  motions, for a total of 1.5 hours, multiplied by the hourly rate of $460.00,  plus $61.65 for the filing fees.  CONCLUSION The Court GRANTS Defendant’s motions to compel responses to Form  Interrogatories Set One, Specially Prepared Interrogatories Set One, and  Request for Production of Documents Set One. Plaintiff must serve complete and verified  responses  to Defendant’s discovery  requests, without objections, within 20 days of the Court’s order.  The Court further GRANTS Defendant’s requests for monetary  sanctions in the reduced amount of $751.65 for each motion. Plaintiff and  Plaintiff’s counsel, jointly and severally,  must pay said monetary sanctions to counsel  for Defendant within 20 days of the Court’s order.                Defendant is ordered to give notice  of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.    