  Case Number:  21STCV36851    Hearing Date:   July 31, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



CYNTHIA
  JUAREZ 
                           
         vs.
 
COUNTY
  OF LOS ANGELES, et al. 
 


 Case No.: 
  21STCV36851
 
 
 
 Hearing
  Date: July 31, 2024



 
 
Defendants’ motion for summary judgment
is GRANTED. 
 
On 10/5/2021,
Plaintiff Cynthia Juarez (Plaintiff) filed suit against County of Los Angeles,
Billy Nettles, and Andrea Wood. On 3/18/2022, Plaintiff filed a first amended
complaint (FAC) alleging: (1) whistleblower retaliation; (2) civil rights: free
speech; (3) failure to provide a safe workplace; (4) failure to provide a safe
workplace; (5) failure to provide a safe workplace; and (6) defamation. 
 
On 9/13/2022,
Plaintiff dismissed the third, fourth, and fifth causes of action. 
 
            On
4/9/2024, Defendants moved for summary judgment, or, in the alternative,
summary adjudication, of Plaintiff’s Complaint. 
 
Evidentiary Objections 
 
CCP section
437c, subdivision (q) provides:
In granting or denying a
motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication, the court need rule only
on those objections to evidence that it deems material to its disposition of
the motion. Objections to evidence that are not ruled on for purposes of the
motion shall be preserved for appellate review.
 
            In
light of CCP section 437c, subdivision (q), the Court overrules Plaintiff’s
submitted objections. 
 
Discussion 
 
            Defendants
argue that Plaintiff cannot establish any of her claims. The Court addresses
each claim in turn.
 
I.                  
Whistleblower
Retaliation 
 
As a
preliminary matter, Defendants argue that Plaintiff cannot establish this claim
as to Ms. Woods and Mr. Nettles because Labor Code section 1102.5 does not
create individual liability for retaliation. 
 
Labor Code section
1102.5(b), in short, prohibits retaliation by “[a]n employer, or any person
acting on behalf of the employer, … against an employee for disclosing” certain
protected information. While this statute expressly prohibits “any person
acting on behalf of the employer” from engaging in the specified retaliation,
no published California decision has held that an individual employee, as
opposed to an employer, may be held liable under § 1102.
 
Moreover, the
California Supreme Court, however, has held that similar language in FEHA does
not impose liability on an individual who is not an employer. See Reno v.
Baird (1998) 18 Cal.4th 640, 663 (holding that the phrase “any person
acting as agent of an employer, directly or directly” was not intended to
impose liability for employment discrimination on an individual who is not the
plaintiff’s employer); see also Jones v. Lodge at Torrey Pines P’ship
(2008) 42 Cal.4th 1158, 1159 (holding that the phrase “any person acting as
agent of an employer, directly or indirectly,” did not impose liability on
individuals for retaliation).
 
After review,
the Court agrees with Defendants that the available legal authority does not
provide individual liability for a violation of Labor Code section 1102.5,
subdivision (b). Plaintiff did not persuasively show otherwise in opposition. Accordingly,
the Court limits its analysis only to Defendant County. 
 
Defendant
argues that Plaintiff cannot establish a claim for whistleblower retaliation
against it because Plaintiff did not make a protected disclosure, nor is there
is any evidence of a causal link between the alleged disclosure and the
retaliation. 
 
To establish
a claim for retaliation under Labor Code section 1102.5, “a plaintiff must show
that she engaged in protected activity, that she was thereafter subjected to
adverse employment action by her employer, and there was a causal link between
the two.” (Soukup v. Law Offices of Herbert Hafif (2006) 39 Cal.4th 260,
287-88 (citations omitted). The burden of proof first rests with the plaintiff
“to establish, by a preponderance of the evidence, that retaliation for an
employee’s protected activities was a contributing factor in a contested
employment action.” (Vatalaro v. Cty. of Sacramento (2022) 79
Cal.App.5th 367, 379.) 
 
Here, to show
that Plaintiff did not engage in protected activity, Defendant submitted
evidence that:
 
-        
Plaintiff is an Intermediate Typist
Clerk assigned to the Antelope Valley Juvenile Office in Lancaster, California.
As an Intermediate Typist Clerk, Plaintiff’s duties generally include clerical
work, such as answering phones, receiving files, sending files out, inputting
information from Court minute orders into the Probation Department’s system,
among other things. (SS 6-7)
 
-        
 Defendant Andrea Woods, Plaintiff’s coworker,
is also an Intermediate Typist Clerk assigned to the Antelope Valley Juvenile
Office in Lancaster, California. (SS 8)
 
-        
On or about May 22, 2018, Plaintiff
alleges that she was notified by her direct supervisor, Ms. Ramona Singleton,
that a minute order had been erroneously sent from the Antelope Valley Juvenile
Office to another Probation Department office. 
(SS 10)
 
-        
 Plaintiff alleges that she was initially
blamed for the error and threatened with potential discipline because her
initial, “J,” had been handwritten at the top of the document, suggesting that
Plaintiff had been the one who had received the document before it was
erroneously sent out. (SS 11)
 
-        
Generally, when minute orders are
delivered by the courier to their office, as a matter of practice, the clerk
who receives them will stamp the document with the date received and write
their initial at the top to reflect who received them. (SS 12)
 
-        
The initialing of the minute order is
simply a clerical function. (SS 13)
 
-        
Plaintiff alleges that the purported
minute order that was erroneously sent to another office was stamped with a
“received” date of May 18, 2018, when Plaintiff was off work. Plaintiff claims
she had not initialed the document. (SS 14-15) 
 
-        
Plaintiff claims, however, that she
suspected that Ms. Woods, her coworker, had initialed the document on
Plaintiff’s behalf, without her consent. (SS 16) 
 
-        
Accordingly, in May 2018, Plaintiff
disclosed her allegation regarding Ms. Woods to her supervisor, Ms. Singleton.
(SS 17)
 
-        
Although Plaintiff claims that Ms.
Singleton indicated she would inform the Probation Director, Mr. Nettles, about
it, Plaintiff never spoke with Mr. Nettles about her allegation. (SS 18)
 
-        
A few weeks later, having heard nothing
further about her allegation, Plaintiff alleges she informed a union attorney,
Mr. Dinome, who reportedly indicated to her that he would report the incident
to the Probation Department’s Internal Affairs on her behalf. (SS 19)
 
-        
Plaintiff alleges that a few weeks
after that, she then followed up with Internal Affairs and spoke with someone
by the name of “Ms. Matthews,” who transferred her to someone else, who then
referred Plaintiff back to her. (SS 20) 
 
-        
Plaintiff alleges she left another
message for Ms. Matthews, but never heard anything further about this incident.
(SS 21) 
 
-        
While Plaintiff claims the union
attorney reported the issue to the Probation Department’s Internal Affairs on
her behalf, Plaintiff admits she never personally submitted a complaint either
in writing or by phone to Internal Affairs (SS 22) 
 
-        
Plaintiff never discussed this issue
with anyone else in the County thereafter. (SS 23) 
 
An employee
engages in protected activity within the meaning of the statute when he or she
discloses information that “the employee has reasonable cause to believe …
discloses a violation of state or federal statute, or a violation of or
noncompliance with a local, state or federal rule or regulation…” (Labor Code §
1102.5(b).) 
 
Here,
Plaintiff’s claim is based on a contention that Ms. Woods wrote Plaintiff’s
initials on a documents. However, it is undisputed that when minute orders were
received at her office by courier, the clerk who received the minute orders
would, as a matter of practice, stamp and initial the document to identify that
he or she was the one that had received them. (SS 12.) In other words, the
initialing of the minute orders was simply a clerical function (SS 13) As such,
Defendant’s evidence supports a reasonable inference that in this context,
Plaintiff’s disclosure that she had not initialed the minute order but someone
else did, was more “akin to internal personnel or administrative disclosures,”
rather than a disclosure of a legal violation, which do constitute protected
activity under § 1102.5. (See Conn v. W. Placer Unified Sch. Dist.
(2010) 186 Cal.App.4th 1163, 1182 (teacher’s disclosure of errors in student’s
IEP report, among other things, constituted internal administrative actions not
actionable under § 1102.5); see also Patten v. Grant Joint Union High Sch.
Dist. (2005) 134 Cal.App.4th 1378, 1384-85 (teacher’s disclosure of
colleagues’ alleged misconduct constituted “internal personnel matters,” which
was not protected activity under § 1102.5); cf. McVeigh v. Recology S.F.
(2013) 213 Cal.App.4th 443, 471 (prima facie case of retaliation demonstrated
where “[plaintiff] did not merely refer the employees he suspected of [fraud]
to his superiors for personnel action … but took his reports to law
enforcement.”)
 
Moreover,
Defendant’s evidence supports a reasonable inference that Plaintiff’s
disclosure was not made in a “whistleblowing context” (Patten, supra,
134 Cal.App.4th at 1385 (noting that the plaintiff’s “disclosures were made in
an exclusively internal administrative context” and did not show any belief
“that she was disclosing a violation of state or federal law in any sort of
whistleblowing context, as required for a section 1102.5(b) whistleblowing
action.”). Rather, Defendant’s evidence supports a reasonable inference that
Plaintiff’s disclosure (i.e., that the initial on the document was not made by
her, but by someone else) was made in response to facing blame for the
purported error and to avoid any potential discipline, not to “blow the
whistle” on a violation of law.
 
Defendant
also submitted evidence to show that Plaintiff did not engage in any other
protected activity. For example, Plaintiff alleges that she engaged in
protected activity by reporting “misuse” of County “funds” by Ms. Woods and Ms.
Singleton (see Exhibit “A” [FAC], ¶ 51) However, when Plaintiff was asked about
her allegation that she had reported Ms. Singleton for “wasting” County funds
(see Exhibit “A” [FAC], ¶ 19), Plaintiff testified that she “didn’t know.” (See
Exhibit “D” [Plaintiff’s Depo., V2], at 195:4-16.) 
 
Plaintiff
also alleged that she engaged in protected activity “by reporting the vandalism
to her vehicle” (see Exhibit “A” [FAC], ¶ 52). While Plaintiff alleges in her
FAC that her vehicle was scratched by Ms. Woods (see Exhibit “A” [FAC], ¶ 30),
she later testified that this allegation was incorrect; it was not Ms. Woods
who Plaintiff had accused of scratching her vehicle, but another coworker who
Plaintiff alleges she had not spoken to since 2018 and has had no other issues
with since the purported scratching. (See Exhibit “D” [Plaintiff’s Depo., V2],
at 337:6-14, 349:19-350:7.)
 
Finally,
Plaintiff alleges she engaged in protected activity “by submitting complaints
of discrimination, harassment and retaliation” to the County’s Office of Equity
(see Exhibit “A” [FAC], ¶ 53). Plaintiff alleges that in late 2021, she was
reportedly instructed by Director Alim not to file more complaints or “he would
move her out of the office” (see Exhibit “A” [FAC], ¶ 39). However, Plaintiff
testified that she nevertheless continued to submit complaints thereafter and
was not moved from the office. (See Exhibit “D” [Plaintiff’s Depo., V2], at
304:22-305:2.)
 
To show that
there is no causal relationship between the alleged protected activity and the
alleged retaliatory conduct, Defendant submitted evidence that the vast
majority of the conduct took place several years before this alleged May 2018
disclosure, and Plaintiff’s workplace problems with Ms. Woods began several
years before Plaintiff’s May 2018 disclosure and, by Plaintiff’s own admission,
continue to this day. For example, Defendant notes the following incidents that
predate the May 2018 disclosure:
 
-        
Paragraph 41: that over 10 years ago,
the brake lines on Plaintiff’s vehicle were cut in the parking lot at the
office. (See Exhibit “A” [FAC], ¶ 41; Exhibit “D” [Plaintiff’s Depo., V2], at
389:11-389:24.)
 
-        
Paragraph 16: that on or about January
4, 2018, Mr. Nettles stated that a dispute between Plaintiff and Ms. Woods was
a “personal matter between two women.” (See Exhibit “A” [FAC], ¶ 16; Exhibit
“D” [Plaintiff’s Depo., V2], at 327:17-328:20.)
 
-        
Paragraph 21: that on or about January
5, 2018, Ms. Woods “bumped” Plaintiff with her elbow at the fax machine. (See
Exhibit “A” [FAC], ¶ 22; Exhibit “D” [Plaintiff’s Depo., V2], at
326:13-327:17.)
 
-        
Paragraph 21: that in January 2018, Ms.
Woods indirectly “threatened” Plaintiff. (See Exhibit “A” [FAC], ¶ 21; Exhibit
“D” [Plaintiff’s Depo., V2], at 329:4-330:19.)
 
-        
Paragraph 21: that before May 18, 2018,
Ms. Woods would go into Plaintiff’s cubicle and adjust her music. (See Exhibit
“A” [FAC], ¶ 21; Exhibit “B” [Plaintiff’s Depo., V1], at 77:14-23.)
 
-        
Paragraph 22: that at a February 9,
2018 meeting, one of Plaintiff’s coworkers told another coworker that Plaintiff
had stated she “smelled like a dog.” (See Exhibit “A” [FAC], ¶ 22; Exhibit “D”
[Plaintiff’s Depo., V2], at 332:21-334:5).
 
-        
Paragraph 28: that on April 27, 2021,
during a luncheon, the new Probation Director, Mr. Alim, incorrectly called
Plaintiff by her former married name, and when Plaintiff corrected him, the
Assistant Director, Ms. Nelson, stated, “Yeah, but you’re married to him!” (See
Exhibit “A” [FAC], ¶ 28.)
 
-        
Paragraph 29: that on April 29, 2021,
Plaintiff’s vehicle was scratched in the office parking lot. (See Exhibit “A”
[FAC], ¶ 29.)
 
-        
Paragraph 33: that after April 29,
2021, Ms. Woods defamed Plaintiff by telling coworkers that Plaintiff was
“hiding” work. (See Exhibit “A” [FAC], ¶ 23.)
 
-        
Paragraph 36: that in September 2021,
Ms. Woods falsely claimed that Plaintiff had made aggressive gestures towards
her as they passed each other in the hallway. (See Exhibit “A” [FAC], ¶ 36.)
 
-        
Paragraphs 38-39: that at a meeting in
October 2021, Director Alim told Plaintiff that he had received complaints about
her work and also instructed her not to file more complaints or she would be
moved. (See Exhibit “A” [FAC], ¶¶ 38-39.)
 
-        
Paragraph 19: that, “within the last
six months,” Eric Lim, who was assigned to the Valencia Office, was asked to
drive to Plaintiff’s office to perform a job that should have been done by
someone from her office. (See Exhibit “A” [FAC], ¶ 19.)
 
Clearly,
conduct which predates the May 2018 disclosure cannot support Plaintiff’s
whistleblower claim. (See, e.g., Kourounian v. Cal. Dep't of Tax & Fee
Admin (2023) 91 Cal.App.5th 1100, 1113 (“[a]s a matter of both logic and
law, acts of retaliation must occur after the protected activity.”). Moreover,
Defendant submitted evidence that Plaintiff cannot show that any of the alleged
perpetrators of the retaliatory conduct were even aware of her May 2018
disclosure. Apart from Plaintiff’s disclosure to Ms. Singleton and her
follow-up call with Internal Affairs a few weeks later, Plaintiff denies
discussing this issue with anyone else from the County. (SS 17- 23.) Moreover,
Ms. Woods attests that she was neither aware of Plaintiff’s allegation against
her, nor of any alleged report by Plaintiff of this allegation against her,
until Plaintiff filed her lawsuit. (Woods Decl., ¶ 4.)
 
Defendant’s
evidence supports a reasonable inference that she did not engage in protected
activity, and that there is no casual connection between any protected activity
and retaliatory conduct. Accordingly, the burden shifts to Plaintiff to
disclose a triable issue of material fact. 
 
In
opposition, Plaintiff failed to submit evidence which discloses a triable
issue. First, Plaintiff has not submitted any evidence which could support a
reasonable inference that her disclosures were made to report believed
violations of state or federal law. Rather, the only inference supported by
Plaintiff’s evidence is that she made personnel and/or administrative
disclosures regarding inter-personal conflict with another employee and to
avoid any potential discipline or blame for the administrative “forging” of
Plaintiff’s initials. (See Conn, supra, 186 Cal. App.4th at
p. 1182.) 
 
Second,
Plaintiff has not submitted any evidence which could show that her complaints
about Ms. Wood’s treatment towards her rose to the level of protected activity,
nor does Plaintiff adequately explain how those events can be temporally
related to her protected activity. Plaintiff argues that there is a triable
issue as to whether or not Ms. Wood’s conduct towards Plaintiff is causally
connected to her complaints against Ms. Wood. However, as noted above, there is
no individual liability for whistleblower retaliation. Second, even assuming
there was, Plaintiff has not submitted any case law which could show that
Plaintiff’s fear that “Woods would strike her” after she complained about Ms.
Wood rises to the level of adverse action which could support a claim for
whistleblower retaliation. 
 
II.              
Civil Rights:
Free Speech
 
Defendant
argues that Plaintiff cannot state a claim under Civil Code section 52.1 (the
Bane Act) because there is no evidence of intentional or attempted interference
with Plaintiff’s rights through threats, intimidation, or coercion. 
 
Civil Code §
52.1 (the Bane Act), authorizes a claim for relief against “against anyone who
interferes, or tries to do so, by threats, intimidation, or coercion, with an
individual’s exercise or enjoyment of rights secured by federal or state law.”
(Jones v. Kmart Corp. (1998) 17 Cal.4th 329, 331 (1998). The essence of
a Bane Act claim is that a defendant, through threats, intimidation, or
coercion, “tried to or did prevent the plaintiff from doing something he or she
had the right to do under the law ….” (King v. State of Cal. (2015) 242
Cal.App.4th 265, 294.) Speech alone “is insufficient to establish the requisite
threat unless it includes threat of violence.” (Julian v. Mission Cmty.
Hosp. (2017) 11 Cal.App.5th 360, 395; see also Civil Code § 52.1(k).
 
Here,
Plaintiff’s § 52.1 claim is premised on alleged violations of her “free speech”
rights under Article 1, Section 2 of the California Constitution. (SS 29.)
 
Defendants
argue that there is no evidence that Mr. Nettles or Ms. Woods ever attempted to
interfere with Plaintiff’s rights through threats, intimidation, or coercion.
Indeed, the only “wrongful” conduct Plaintiff specifically alleges as to Mr.
Nettles is that when Plaintiff “presented the evidence” of Ms. Woods “forging
her initials” to Mr. Nettles, he told her that “he was going to do nothing
regarding Ms. Wood[s] because it was a personal matter between two women.” (SS
30.)
 
Speech alone
“is insufficient to establish the requisite threat unless it includes threat of
violence.” (Julian, supra, 11 Cal.App.5th at p. 395.)
 
In
opposition, Plaintiff argues that the speech here includes a threat of violence.
However, the only evidence Plaintiff referenced in opposition to show this was
a September 8, 2022 incident where Plaintiff was confronted by Cunningham who
allegedly said “You don’t know who you’re fucking with!” (Opp., 22: 8-9.) This
single utterance which does not itself contain a threat of violence, is
insufficient as a matter of law to rise to the level of a threat of violence
that could support a Bane Act claim. 
 
III.           
Defamation
 
Plaintiff’s
sixth cause of action for defamation is asserted against Ms. Woods and the
County, only. Defendants argue that Plaintiff cannot establish a claim because
workplace communications are conditionally privileged, and there is no
admissible evidence that the statements were made. 
 
Pursuant to
Civil Code § 46, a slanderous statement is a false and unprivileged
publication, orally uttered,” which involves allegations of specific types of
improper behavior resulting in actual damage to the plaintiff. To prevail on a
claim for defamation, a plaintiff must show that a defendant made “(a) a
publication that is (b) false, (c) defamatory, and (d) unprivileged, and that
(e) has a natural tendency to injure or that causes special damage.” Taus v.
Loftus, 40 Cal.4th 683, 720 (2007)
 
Here,
Plaintiff alleges that Ms. Woods made “false defamatory statements regarding
Plaintiff, to her coworkers and superiors” “claiming that Plaintiff was unfit
or unable to perform the duties of her employment, that she hides her work and
the work of others, and that she undermines her coworkers’ work.” (SS 33.)
 
Defendant
contends that Plaintiff has no admissible evidence to establish that these
purported statements were made. Ms. Woods attests that she did not make any of
these statements, nor does she believe that she ever made any false statement
about Ms. Juarez or her work. (SS 34-35.) 
Moreover, with respect to the purported statements that she was “hiding”
work, Plaintiff testified that she never personally heard Ms. Woods or others
making those statements. (SS 36.) 
 
Second, even
if the statements had been made, they would be privileged under Civil Code §
47(c), which extends a conditional privilege against defamation claims to
communications made without malice on a subject of mutual interest. California
courts have consistently held that communications within a company are shielded
by this privilege. (See, e.g., Cuenca v. Safeway S.F. Emps. Fed. Credit
Union (1986) 180 Cal.App.3d 985, 995 (“Communications made in a commercial
setting relating to the conduct of an employee have been held to fall squarely
within the qualified privilege for communications to interested persons.”); King
v. United Parcel Serv. (2007) Inc., 152 Cal.App.4th 426, 440 (2007)
(“[B]ecause an employer and its employees have a common interest in protecting
the workplace from abuse, an employer’s statements to employees regarding the
reasons for termination of another employee generally are privileged.”)
 
      However, in
opposition, Plaintiff submitted a declaration stating that the alleged
statements by Woods were made. A plaintiff alleging defamation may rely on
hearsay statements because the statements are not offered to prove the
statements are true; the statements are operative acts.
 
Moreover,
Defendants concede that Civil Code § 47(c) is a conditional privilege, and only
applies where there is no evidence that the statements were made with “actual
malice” or were “motivated by hatred or ill will towards the plaintiff” (Noel
v. River Hills Wilsons, Inc. (2003) 113 Cal.App.4th 1363, 1370.) 
 
However, the
dispositive question of whether the
relevant statements in this case can be treated as defamatory “… is whether a
reasonable trier of fact would conclude that the statements imply a provably
false factual assertion.” (Seelig v.
Infinity Broadcasting Corp. (2002) 97 Cal.App.4th 798, 809.) Here, looking
at “the nature and meaning of the language used,
including the verifiability of the statements, and the context in which the
statements appeared,” the Court concludes that Plaintiff has not met its burden
to make a prima facie showing of defamation. (Moyer v. Amador Valley J. Union High School Dist. (1990) 225
Cal.App.3d 720, 725.) 
 
      Plaintiff’s claim here is based on
allegations that Ms. Woods made statements about Plaintiff, to her coworkers
and superiors “claiming that Plaintiff was unfit or unable to perform the
duties of her employment, that she hides her work and the work of others, and
that she undermines her coworkers’ work.” (SS 33.) 
 
As such, the
comments reflect a subjective evaluation of Plaintiff based on Ms. Wood’s
subjective experience of her. Like the unactionable comments in Botos, infra, stating that plaintiff attorney was “not qualified”
for judicial office, and “has not demonstrated the [necessary] experience and
competence,” or the unactionable teacher review in Moyor, infra, calling the teacher a “babbler” and “the worst
teacher at FHS,” the comments here that Plaintiff was incompetent or
undermining are a matter of subjective opinion. (See Botos v. Los Angeles County Bar Assn. (1984) 151 Cal.App.3d
1083, 1086; Moyer v. Amador Valley J.
Union High School Dist. (1990) 225 Cal.App.3d 720, 725.) Indeed, it is
difficult to see how an individual’s subjective experience of a
workplace environment and an individual within that environment could be
verified as true or false. Accordingly, the Court finds that Plaintiff has not met
her burden to make a prima facie showing of defamation. 
 
Based on the
foregoing, Defendants’ motion for summary judgment is granted.  
 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  July   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 