 Case Number:  23STCV27169    Hearing Date:   July 31, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



CARLOS O ZAVALA 
                           
         vs.
 
GENERAL MOTORS, LLC  
 


 Case No.: 
  23STCV27169 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  July 31, 2024
 



 
Plaintiffs’
motion to compel further responses is DENIED.
 
            On
12/12/2023, Plaintiff Carlos O Zavala (Plaintiff) filed suit against General
Motors, LLC alleging violations of the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act. 
 
            On
5/30/2024, Plaintiff moved to compel further responses from Defendants to their
Requests for Production.
 
            As
a preliminary matter, the Court requires that parties participate in an
informal discovery conference (IDC) prior to motions to compel further
responses are heard on the merits.
 
Second, the Court
has a standard order for what it believes to be discoverable in lemon law
cases. In addition to all requested materials related to Plaintiff’s car itself:
 
1.     
Defendant shall produce the “Warranty
Policy and Procedure Manual” published by Defendant and provided to its
authorized repair facilities, within the State of California, for the period of
purchase to present.
 
2.     
Defendant shall produce any internal
analysis or investigation regarding defects concerning the transmission defect
in vehicles for the same year, make, and model of the subject vehicle.
 
3.     
 Defendant shall produce any customer
complaints relating to defects that are similar to the alleged defects claimed
by plaintiff in vehicles within California for the same year, make, and model
of the subject vehicle, for the period of purchase to present.
 
4.     
 Defendant shall produce all documents
evidencing policies and procedures used to evaluate customer requests for
repurchase pursuant to the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act, for the period
of purchase to present.
 
5.     
 Technical Service Bulletins and Recall Notices
for vehicles purchased in California for the same year, make and model of the
subject vehicle. 
 
6.     
  All other requests for further
production are DENIED.
 
 
Based on the
foregoing, Plaintiff’s motion to compel further responses is denied. 
 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  July   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 