 Case Number:  23VECV01451    Hearing Date:   August 7, 2024    Dept:  T 23VECV01451 THEYS V
DIMATTIA
[TENTATIVE] ORDER:  Defendant Katie DiMattia’s Motion for Summary
Judgment is GRANTED.  Defendant Katie
DiMattia’s Alternative Motion for Summary Adjudication is MOOT.
Plaintiff Tristan Theys and
Defendant Katie DiMattia’s Evidentiary Objections are ruled upon separately.
Introduction 
Defendant Katie DiMattia
(Defendant) moved for summary judgment (MSJ) or alternatively summary
adjudication (MSA) against Plaintiff Tristan Theys’ (Plaintiff) Complaint.  The MSJ/MSA placed into issue the first cause
of action (COA) for negligence and the second COA for Statutory Strict
liability (Civ. Code, sec. 3342).  
[Note: Defendant’s MSJ/MSA
confuses the numbering of the two COAs and asserted that the first COA was for
“common law” strict liability and the second COA was for negligence.  Due to Defendant’s confusion, the analysis
identified the two COAs without their numerical identification.]
Discussion 
Defendant asserted that there is
no triable issue of fact as to “common law” strict liability and general
negligence because there is no issue as to a duty owed.  Defendant argued that there are no facts to
show actual or constructive knowledge of the dog’s prior vicious nature.  (Defendant’s Separate Statement of Facts
(DSSF) 9.)  Preliminarily, Defendant
misconstrued the claims made in the strict liability COA.  The Complaint expressly alleged that the
strict liability claim is based upon the statutory duty owed per Civil Code
section 3342.  (Compl. pgs. 1:14-15 and
4:6 and 13.)  Plaintiff did not allege
any “common law” strict liability claim. 
Defendant’s argument is inapplicable to the statutory strict liability
claim because statutory strict liability applies “regardless of the former
viciousness of the dog or the owner’s knowledge of such viciousness.”  (Civ. Code, sec. 3342(a); See also CACI no.
463.)  
As to the negligence COA,
Plaintiff’s claim is grounded upon both the actual bite and a failure to warn
of the dog’s prior vicious propensities. 
(Compl. pars. 15-18.)  The duty element
as to both claims necessarily require facts to show actual or constructive
knowledge of the dog’s prior viciousness. 
Defendant sufficiently met the burden of proof to show that no triable
issue of fact exists as to prior actual/constructive knowledge because
Defendant’s declaration attested to the dog’s lack of any aggressiveness/viciousness.  (DSSF 9: Defendant’s Declaration, pars. 3 and
6.)  The burden shifted to Plaintiff to
show that an issue of fact exists.  To
dispute the fact, Plaintiff the testimony of Canine Expert Ron Berman.  (Plaintiff’s Separate Statement of Fact
(PSSF) 9.)  Expert witness testimony is
limited to subject matter that is beyond common experience.  (Evid. Code, sec. 801.)  Whether a dog owner had actual/constructive
knowledge of the dog’s prior aggressiveness/viciousness is not seen as a
subject matter that is beyond common experience.  However, for the limited purposes of the
instant motion, the Court reviewed the expert testimony.  Mr. Berman testified that facts exist to show
that the dog had the prior propensity to be aggressive or vicious.  Specifically, Mr. Berman testifies that: (1)
the dog made direct eye contact with Plaintiff prior to the unprovoked bite;
(2) the dog clamped down with both upper and lower canines and held on for
10-15 seconds causing Plaintiff to sustain serious injuries; and (3) the 10
year old age of the dog.  (Plaintiff
Separate Statement of Facts (PSSF) 31: Berman Decl. par. 11.)  However, the pleading element at issue is not
whether the dog possibly possessed aggressive behavior but whether Defendant
had actual or constructive knowledge of the dog’s
aggressiveness/viciousness.  Mr. Berman’s
testimony did not, nor could it, attest to Defendant’s actual or constructive
knowledge.  Lacking in Mr. Berman’s
testimony are facts showing that the dog’s aggressiveness/viciousness were
witnessed by Defendant.  To make clear,
it is not whether Defendant saw the dog bite another person previously but
whether Defendant saw/witnessed actions which would alert Defendant to the dog
being potentially aggressive or vicious. 
Mr. Berman’s testimony is lacking as to Defendant actual or constructive
knowledge and is insufficient to show a triable issue of fact.  Plaintiff failed to meet his burden.  The motion is persuasive as to the negligence
COA.  
Defendant then argued that there
is no triable issue of material fact as to the Affirmative Defense (AD) of
primary assumption of risk (AOR) theory, specifically against the statutory
strict liability COA.  (Priebe v. Nelson
(2006) 39 Cal.4th 1112 (Priebe).) 
Plaintiff argued that the AOR is inapplicable because the AOR theory
only applied to professionals and Plaintiff argued that he is not a
professional since he is not licensed or insured as a dog walker or boarder and
since he does not advertise himself as such. 
(PSSF 12 and 15.)  However,
Plaintiff misconstrued the opinion of the Priebe Court.  It is noted that the Priebe Court identified
the AOR theory, commonly referred to as the “veterinarian’s rule”.  (Nelson v. Hall (1985) 165 Cal.App.3d 709,
710.)  However, the title is a slight
misnomer because it is also applied to kennel workers/volunteers and groomers,
as opined by the Priebe Court, as well as other cases.  The AOR theory is not seen to be limited to
those that are only professionals.  The
Priebe Court provided that the AOR bar applied to those who cared for or
handled dogs in a commercial capacity. 
(Priebe, supra, 39 Cal.4th at p. 1125; citing to Neighbarger v. Irwin
Industries, Inc. (1994) 8 Cal.4th 532.) 
Defendant admittedly provided a service for a fee (i.e., walking and
boarding the dog for over a month at his own apartment).  (DSSF 4-7 and PSSF 10, 13-14, and 24.)  Because Plaintiff provided a service for a
fee, Plaintiff cared for and handled the dog in a commercial capacity.  Plaintiff’s reliance on his lack of
professional capacity is unavailing. 
Plaintiff was in the best position to take the necessary safety
precautions and protective measures to avoid being bitten by a dog left in his
care and control.  A rationale in
excusing a dog owner’s duty of care under the AOR theory lies in the nature of
the activity.  Kennel workers routinely
risk being bitten by dogs under their care in the unfamiliar surroundings of a
boarding kennel, or in the instant case, Plaintiff’s apartment where he
conducts his business.  (Priebe, supra,
39 Cal.4th at p. 1125.)  The facts
presented by both parties show that there is no triable issue of fact as to the
AD on the AOR theory.  The AOR theory
works to bar Plaintiff’s statutory strict liability COA.  The Court finds the Priebe case to be
directly on point and persuasive to bar Plaintiff’s strict liability COA.  
The MSJ is GRANTED.  The MSA is MOOT.  
IT IS SO ORDERED, CLERK TO GIVE
NOTICE.