 Case Number:  22STCV25765    Hearing Date:   September 18, 2023    Dept:  31 TENTATIVE
 
Defendants Kaiser Foundation
Health Plan Inc., Kaiser Foundation Hospitals, and Southern California
Permanente Medical Group’s demurrer to the FAC is OVERRULED. Defendant’s motion to strike is
DENIED.
 
Legal
Standard
 
Demurrer
 
A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of
action.  (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)  When considering demurrers, courts read the
allegations liberally and in context. In a demurrer proceeding, the defects
must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial
notice.  (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968,
994.)  “A demurrer tests the pleadings
alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only
where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially
noticed.  (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 430.30,
430.70.)  At the pleading stage, a
plaintiff need only allege ultimate facts sufficient to apprise the defendant
of the factual basis for the claim against him. 
(Semole v. Sansoucie (1972) 28
Cal. App. 3d 714, 721.)  A “demurrer does
not, however, admit contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law
alleged in the pleading, or the construction of instruments pleaded, or facts
impossible in law.”  (S. Shore Land Co. v. Petersen (1964) 226
Cal.App.2d 725, 732 (internal citations omitted).)
 
Motion to Strike
 
The court may,
upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems
proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any
pleading.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436(a).)  The court may also strike all or any part of
any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a
court rule, or an order of the court.  (Id., § 436(b).)  The grounds for a motion to strike are that
the pleading has irrelevant, false or improper matter, or has not been drawn or
filed in conformity with laws.  (Id. § 436.)  The grounds for moving to strike must appear
on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice.  (Id.
§ 437.)  “When the defect which justifies
striking a complaint is capable of cure, the court should allow leave to
amend.”  (Vaccaro v. Kaiman (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 761, 768.) 
 
Meet and Confer
 
The demurrer and motion to strike are accompanied by the declaration of
David J. Ozeran, which satisfies the meet and confer requirements. 
 
Discussion 
 
I.                
Demurrer
Defendant Kaiser
demurs to the first cause of action for elder abuse, arguing that the complaint
does not give rise to a cause of action for elder abuse because (1) the facts
pled do not amount to the type of acts of egregious misconduct needed to
maintain the cause of action; and (2) Plaintiff has not pled facts amounting to
authorization or ratification on the part of an officer, director or managing
agent of the moving defendant, as is required to establish a cause of action for
elder abuse.
a. Egregious Misconduct for Elder Abuse
 
First,
Defendant Kaiser argues the facts pled do not amount to the type of acts of
egregious misconduct needed to maintain the cause of action for Elder Abuse. 
 
Case law is clear
that, “‘neglect’ within the meaning of Welfare and Institutions Code section
15610.57 covers an area of misconduct distinct from “professional negligence.” As used in the
Dependent Adult Abuse Act, neglect refers not to the substandard performance of
medical services but, rather, to the ‘failure of those responsible for
attending to the basic needs and comforts of elderly or dependent adults,
regardless of their professional standing, to carry out their custodial
obligations.’” (Covenant Care, Inc. v.
Superior Court (2004) 32 Cal.4th 771, 783.)
 
In order to distinguish dependent adult abuse from professional
negligence, there must be a showing of recklessness, fraud, malice, or
oppression. (See Covenant Care, Inc.,
supra, 32 Cal.4th at 783.) “Oppression, fraud, and malice involve intentional,
willful, or conscious wrongdoing of a despicable or injurious nature.” (Carter v. Prime Healthcare Paradise Valley LLC
(2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 396, 405 (internal quotation marks omitted).)
Recklessness requires deliberate disregard of a high degree of probability an
injury will occur. (Id.) The enhanced
remedies for Elder Abuse are only available for “acts of egregious abuse
against elder and dependent adults.” (Id.)
There must be an allegation of authorization or ratification on the part of a
managing agent in order to recover damages for dependent adult abuse against
corporate defendants. (See Civ. Code, § 3294; Cal. Welf. & Inst. Code, §
15657(c).) 
 
To plead elder abuse, the plaintiff must allege “facts establishing that
the defendant: (1) had responsibility for meeting the basic needs of the elder
or dependent adult, such as nutrition, hydration, hygiene or medical care
[citations]; (2) knew of conditions that made the elder or dependent adult
unable to provide for his or her own basic needs [citations]; and (3) denied or
withheld goods or services necessary to meet the elder or dependent adult’s
basic needs, either with knowledge that injury was substantially certain to
befall the elder or dependent adult (if the plaintiff alleges oppression, fraud
or malice) or with conscious disregard of the high probability of such injury
(if the plaintiff alleges recklessness) [citations].” (Carter v. Prime Healthcare Paradise Valley LLC (2011) 198
Cal.App.4th 396, 406-07.) “The plaintiff must also allege . . . that the
neglect caused the elder or dependent adult to suffer physical harm, pain or
mental suffering.” (Id. at 407.)
“[T]he facts constituting the neglect and establishing the causal link between
the neglect and the injury ‘must be pleaded with particularity,’ in accordance
with the pleading rules governing statutory claims.” (Id. (quoting Covenant Care,
Inc. v. Superior Court (2004) 32 Cal.4th 771, 790).) 
 
“If some care is
provided, that will not necessarily absolve a care facility of [elder or]
dependent abuse liability. For example, if a care facility knows it must
provide a certain type of care on a daily basis but provides that care
sporadically, or is supposed to provide multiple types of care but only
provides some of those types of care, withholding of care has occurred. In
those cases, the trier of fact must determine whether there is a significant
pattern of withholding portions or types of care. A significant pattern is one
that involves repeated withholding of care and leads to the conclusion that the
pattern was the result of choice or deliberate indifference.” (Sababin v. Superior Court (2006)
144 Cal.App.4th 81, 90.)
 
This is an allegation of statutory violations and thus must be pled with
particularity. (Fisher v. San Pedro
Penninsula Hospital (1989) 214 Cal.App.3d 590, 604.) 
 
The court
disagrees with Defendant’s contention. 
Plaintiff has alleged a pattern of withholding portions or types of
care. (FAC ¶¶ 26-31; See Sababin v.
Superior Court (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 81, 90 (finding that a significant
pattern—i.e., a repeated withholding of care—of failing to follow a care plan
may constitute recklessness); see also Fenimore,
supra, 245 Cal.App.4th at 1349-50 (discussing Sababin).)  
 
As such,
Plaintiff’s FAC states sufficient facts to amount to egregious conduct and
thus, sufficiently states a cause of action for elder abuse at this pleading
stage.
 
b.    
Authorization or Ratification by Officer, Director or Managing
Agent
 
Next, Defendant
argues that Plaintiff has not pled facts amounting
to authorization or ratification on the part of an officer, director or managing
agent of the moving defendant, as is required to establish a cause of action for
elder abuse
 
Welfare and
Institutions Code §15657(c) states, “The standards set forth in subdivision (b)
of Section 3294 of the Civil Code regarding the imposition of punitive damages
on an employer based upon the acts of an employee shall be satisfied before any
damages or attorney’s fees permitted under this section may be imposed against
an employer.”  
               
Civil Code
§3294(b) provides, “An employer shall not be liable for damages pursuant to
subdivision (a), based upon acts of an employee of the employer, unless the
employer had advance knowledge of the unfitness of the employee and employed
him or her with a conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others or
authorized or ratified the wrongful conduct for which the damages are awarded
or was personally guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice. With respect to a
corporate employer, the advance knowledge and conscious disregard,
authorization, ratification or act of oppression, fraud, or malice must be on
the part of an officer, director, or managing agent of the corporation.” 
Plaintiff has also sufficiently alleged
authorization or ratification of the neglect by an officer, director, or
managing agent. The FAC alleges that Kaiser by and through its corporate
officers, directors, and managing agents, presently unknown to Plaintiff and
according to proof at the time of trial, ratified the misconduct alleged herein
in that they were aware of the understaffing of their general acute care
hospital, in both number and training, the relationship between understaffing
and sub-standard provision of care to residents and patients of their general
acute care hospital, including Plaintiff, the unfitness of licensed and
unlicensed nursing personnel employed at their general acute care hospital, the
rash and truth of lawsuits against their general acute care hospital, and their
customary practice of not adequately responding to correct deficiencies
issued by the State of California’s Department of Public Health. That
notwithstanding this knowledge, these officers, directors, and/or managing agents
meaningfully disregarded the issues even though they knew the understaffing
could, would, and did lead to unnecessary injuries to the residents and
patients of their general acute care hospital, including Plaintiff. (FAC ¶ 9.) 
Defendant argues that allegations of a
failure to maintain specific staff-to-patient ratios to address the needs of
patients and ensure compliance with state and federal law, understaffing, and
inadequate training of staff is generally indicative of negligent undertaking
of medical services and not elder abuse. 
(Worsham v. O’Connor Hospital
(2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 331, 337-38.) 
However, allegations of understaffing and undertraining may be
sufficient to arise to recklessness when there is a showing of a knowing
pattern of violations of staffing regulations. 
(Fenimore v. Regents of the
University of California (2016) 245 Cal.App.4th 1339, 1349-50.)  For purposes of demurrer, the FAC
sufficiently alleges that there was a knowing pattern of violations of staffing
regulations and is thus sufficient.
Accordingly, the
court OVERRULES the demurrer as to the first cause of action for elder
abuse.  
 
II.
Motion to Strike
                
Civil Code section
3294 authorizes the recovery of punitive damages in non-contract cases where
“the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice . . . .”  (Civ. Code § 3294(a).)  “‘Malice’ means conduct which is intended by
the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is
carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the
rights or safety of others.”  (Id. § 3294(c)(1).)  “‘Oppression’ means despicable conduct that
subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that
person’s rights.”  (Id.,§ 3294(c)(2).)  A
plaintiff must establish the defendant was aware of the probable dangerous
consequences of his conduct and that he willfully and deliberately failed to
avoid those consequences to support an award of punitive damages based on
conscious disregard of the safety of others. 
(Penner v. Falk (1984) 153
Cal.App.3d 858, 867.)  Punitive damages
thus require more than the mere commission of a tort.  (Taylor
v. Superior Court (1979) 24 Cal.3d 890, 894-95.) Specific facts must be
pleaded in support of punitive damages. 
(Hillard v. A.H. Robins Co.
(1983) 148 Cal.App.3d 374, 391-92.)
 
Given the Court’s
ruling finding that Plaintiff has sufficiently alleged recklessness and the
authorization and ratification of the abuse by an officer, director, or managing
agent sufficient to state a cause of action for elder abuse, the Court finds
Plaintiff has also sufficiently alleged malice for punitive damages. ‘‘Recklessness’ refers to a subjective state of
culpability greater than simple negligence, which has been described as a
‘deliberate disregard’ of the ‘high degree of probability’ that an injury will
occur [citations]. Recklessness, unlike negligence, involves more than
‘inadvertence, incompetence, unskillfulness, or a failure to take precautions’
but rather rises to the level of a ‘conscious choice of a course of action …
with knowledge of the serious danger to others involved in it.’” (Worsham v. O’Connor Hospital (2014) 226
Cal.App.4th 331.)  
 
The
motion to strike is therefore DENIED.
 
Conclusion
 
Based
on the foregoing, Defendant’s demurrer to the FAC is OVERRULED. Defendant’s
motion to strike is DENIED.
 
Moving party is
ordered to give notice.
 