 Case Number:  21STCV03357    Hearing Date:   October 3, 2023    Dept:  31 TENTATIVE
 
Defendant’s motions to compel Plaintiff to provide responses to form interrogatories and requests for
production for documents are GRANTED. Plaintiff is ordered to provide responses
without objection to Defendant’s request for form interrogatories and request
for production within 30 days. Defendant’s request for sanctions is DENIED.
 
Legal Standard
 
Compel Interrogatories 
 
If a party to
whom interrogatories are directed fails to serve a timely response, the
propounding party may move for an order compelling responses and for a monetary
sanction.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290,
subd. (b).) The statute contains no time limit for a motion to compel where no
responses have been served. All that need be shown in the moving papers is that
a set of interrogatories was properly served on the opposing party, that the
time to respond has expired, and that no response of any kind has been
served.  (Leach v. Superior Court
(1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 902, 905–906.) 
 
Compel RPDs 
 
Where there has been no timely response to a demand for the
production of documents, the demanding party may seek an order compelling a response. 
(Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.300(b).)  Failure to timely respond waives all
objections, including privilege and work product.  (Code Civ. Proc. §
2031.300(a).)  Thus, unless the party to whom the demand was directed
obtains relief from waiver, he or she cannot raise objections to the documents
demanded.  There is no deadline for a motion to compel responses. 
Likewise, for failure to respond, the moving party need not attempt to resolve
the matter outside court before filing the motion. 
 
Sanctions
 
Sanctions are mandatory in connection with motions to compel
responses to interrogatories and requests for production of documents against
any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to
compel unless the court “finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with
substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of
the sanction unjust.”  (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 2030.290(c), 2031.300(c).) 
 
Under CCP section 2023.030(a), “[t]he court may
impose a monetary sanction ordering that one engaging in the misuse of the
discovery process, or any attorney advising that conduct, or both pay the
reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result
of that conduct. . . . If a monetary sanction is authorized by any provision of
this title, the court shall impose that sanction unless it finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances
make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  Failing to respond or to
submit to an authorized method of discovery is a misuse of the discovery
process.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 2023.010.) 
 
Discussion
On July 1, 2022, Defendant
propounded Form Interrogatories, Set One, and Request for Production of
Documents, Set One on plaintiff. (Powell Decl., ¶ 4; Exhs A.) Plaintiff’s
responses to defendant’s discovery were due no later than August 2, 2022.
Responses were never received. Thereafter, on December 8, 2022, counsel for
defendant wrote a letter to counsel for plaintiff indicating that responses to the
discovery were due on August 2, 2022 and that therefore objections had been
waived. (Id., ¶ 5; Exh. B.) Multiple extensions to respond were provided. As of
the date of the filing of this Motion, defendant has still not received any
discovery responses from plaintiff. (Id., ¶ 8.) 
As Defendant properly served discovery
requests and Plaintiff failed to serve responses, the Court finds Defendant is
entitled to a court order directing Plaintiff to provide verified responses
without objections to the discovery requests served on Plaintiff. 
Therefore, the motions are granted.
As for sanctions, Defendant has not
identified who it seeks sanctions against in the notice of motion. (CCP section
2023.040.) Thus, sanctions cannot be awarded.
Conclusion
 
Defendant’s motions to compel Plaintiff to provide responses to form interrogatories and requests for
production for documents are GRANTED. Plaintiff is ordered to provide responses
without objection to Defendant’s request for form interrogatories and request
for production within 30 days. Defendant’s request for sanctions is DENIED.
 
Moving party is ordered to give notice.  