  Case Number:  24CHCV00725    Hearing Date:   July 17, 2024    Dept:  F51 
JULY 16, 2024
 

DEMURRER WITH MOTION TO STRIKE

Los Angeles Superior Court Case
# 24CHCV00725

 
Demurrer
and Motion to Strike Filed: 4/18/24
 
MOVING
PARTY: Defendant
Elden Elms, LP, a California Limited Partnership (“Defendant”)
RESPONDING
PARTY: Plaintiffs
Joshua Lombardo, an individual; and Michael D. Everett, an individual
(collectively, “Plaintiffs”)
NOTICE:
OK
 
RELIEF REQUESTED: Defendant demurs against the sixth, eighth, and ninth causes
of action in Plaintiffs’ complaint. Defendant also moves to strike references
to punitive damages from Plaintiffs’ complaint.
 
TENTATIVE
RULING: The
unopposed demurrer is sustained, with 30 days leave to amend. The unopposed
motion to strike is granted with 30 days leave to amend.
 
ANALYSIS
 
This is a landlord-tenant action in which Plaintiffs are
tenants in a rental unit located at 1255 Elden Avenue, Los Angeles CA 90006, in
a residential property owned and operated by Defendant. (Compl. ¶ 1.)
Plaintiffs allege that the subject property holds numerous habitability
violations, and “resulting in ongoing bed bug infestations at the Subject
Property, Plaintiffs endured slum-type living conditions resulting in financial
loss, property loss, personal injury and presently ongoing emotional distress.”
(Id. at ¶ 3.)
 
On 3/7/23, Plaintiffs filed their complaint against
Defendant, alleging the following causes of action: (1) Breach of Warranty of
Habitability (Civil Code § 1941.1); (2) Breach of Warranty of Habitability
(Health & Safety § 17920.3); (3) Breach of Warranty of Habitability (Civil
Code § 1942.4); (4) Negligence; (5) Nuisance; (6) Intentional Infliction of
Emotional Distress; (7) Breach of Contract; (8) Unfair Business Practices; and
(9) Fraudulent Concealment.
 
On 4/18/24, Defendants filed the instant demurrer and motion
to strike. No opposition has been filed to date.
 
ANALYSIS
 
As a general matter,
a party may respond to a pleading against it by demurrer on the basis of any
single or combination of eight enumerated grounds, including that “the pleading
does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action” and is uncertain,
meaning “ambiguous and unintelligible.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subds. (e)
and (f).) In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of
the pleading or via proper judicial notice.¿(Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co.
(2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)¿
 
“A demurrer tests
the pleading alone, and not the evidence or facts alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc.
v. Accountants, Inc. Servs. (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) As such,
the court assumes the truth of the complaint’s properly pleaded or implied
factual allegations. (Ibid.) The only issue a demurrer is concerned with
is whether the complaint, as it stands, states a cause of action. (Hahn v.
Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) 
 
Here, Defendants demur to the sixth,
eighth, and ninth causes of action in Plaintiffs’ complaint on the bases that
Plaintiffs fail¿to allege facts sufficient to¿constitute those causes of
action, thereby rendering them fatally uncertain.
 
A.   
Meet
and Confer
 
Defendant’s counsel
declares that on 4/4/24, she sent Plaintiffs’ counsel a letter in an attempt to
resolve the issues raised in the instant demurrer and motion to strike. (Decl.
of Rochelle M. McKenzie ¶ 2.) On 4/16/24, counsel for the parties met and
conferred telephonically, but were unable to come to a resolution. (Id. at
¶ 3.) Accordingly, the Court finds that counsel has satisfied the preliminary meet
and confer requirements of Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41, subdivision
(a).
 
B.    
Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress
 
Plaintiffs’ sixth cause of
action alleges Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress against Defendant.
“The elements of a prima facie case for the tort of intentional infliction of
emotional distress are: (1) extreme and outrageous conduct by the defendant
with the intention of causing, or reckless disregard of the probability of
causing, emotional distress; (2) the plaintiff’s suffering severe or extreme
emotional distress; and (3) actual and proximate causation of the emotional
distress by the defendant’s outrageous conduct. Conduct to be outrageous must
be so extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized
community.” (Wilson v. Hynek (2012) 207 Cal.App.4th 999, 1009.) A mere
allegation that a plaintiff suffered severe emotional distress, without facts
indicating the nature or extent of any mental suffering incurred as a result of
the defendant’s alleged outrageous conduct, does not state a cause of action
for intentional infliction of emotional distress. (Pitman v. City of Oakland
(1988) 197 Cal.App.3d 1037, 1047–1048.)
 
Here, Plaintiffs allege that
although they “notified Defendants of the bed bug infestations, Defendants
knowingly, intentionally and willfully failed to abate the uninhabitable
conditions (bed bug infestations), maintaining a company policy of apathy
and/or denial. As such Plaintiffs were forced to live in uninhabitable
conditions (bed bug infestations) for an extended period as a result of
Defendants’ incessant failure to abide by their statutory duties to abate known
uninhabitable conditions.” (Compl. ¶ 139.) “As a direct and proximate result
thereof, Plaintiffs have endured and presently continue to endure many
sleepless nights and much emotional and mental distress, coupled with other
physical conditions associated with severe presently ongoing mental and emotional
distress.” (Id. at ¶ 143.)
 
Defendant argues that Plaintiffs’
allegations do not rise to the requisite level of outrageousness to support a
cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional distress because “Plaintiffs
do not reference any specific practices or maintenance by Defendant that led to
the habitability issues with the unit. In fact, the Plaintiffs resided in the
unit for over 2 years without any bed bug complaints from March 2021 until
April 2023 until the first issue arose.” (Dem. 4:6–9.) Defendant further argues
that Plaintiffs have not sufficiently alleged severe emotional distress
resulting from Defendant’s conduct. (Id. at 4:13–28, citing Wong v.
Jing (2010) 189 Cal.App.4th 1354.) 
The Court agrees and notes the Plaintiffs have failed to oppose this
demurrer.  
 
Based on the foregoing, the
demurrer against Plaintiffs’ sixth cause of action is sustained.
 
C.   
Unfair
Business Practices
 
Plaintiffs’ eighth cause of
action alleges that Defendant violated Business and Professions Code section
17200 et seq. (the “UCL”). To set forth a claim for unfair business practices
in violation of the UCL, a plaintiff must establish that the defendant was
engaged in an “unlawful, unfair or fraudulent business act or practice and
unfair, deceptive, untrue or misleading advertising” and certain specific acts.
(Bus. & Prof. Code, § 17200.) 
 
“In essence, an action based on
Business and Professions Code section 17200 to redress an unlawful business
practice ‘borrows’ violations of other laws and treats these violations, when
committed pursuant to business activity, as unlawful practices independently
actionable under section 17200 et seq. and subject to the distinct remedies
provided thereunder.” (People ex rel. Bill Lockyer v. Fremont Life Ins. Co.
(2002) 104 Cal.App.4th 508, 515.) A plaintiff alleging an “unfair” business
practice under the UCL must show that the defendant's conduct is “tethered to
an underlying constitutional, statutory or regulatory provision, or that it
threatens an incipient violation of an antitrust law, or violates the policy or
spirit of an antitrust law.” (Graham v. Bank of America, N.A. (2014) 226
Cal.App.4th 594, 613.) “‘Fraudulent,’ as used in the statute, does not refer to
the common law tort of fraud but only requires a showing members of the public
‘are likely to be deceived.’” (Olsen v. Breeze, Inc. (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th
608, 618.)
 
Here, Plaintiffs allege that “Defendants’
failure to maintain the Subject Property and failure to abate known
habitability violations while demanding rent constitutes an unlawful business
practice. … Moreover, … the unlawful practices of the Defendants violated
California Civil Code §§ 1941, 1941.1, 1942.4.” (Compl. ¶¶ 157–158.)
 
Defendant argues that “the
allegations that Defendant failed to maintain the property and abate the
habitability violations while demanding rent are insufficient to support a
cause of action for unfair business practices. There are no specific allegations that this was a
practice of the Defendant.” (Dem. 5:27–6:1.)
 
The Court once again, agrees and
notes Plaintiff failed to oppose this demurrer. Accordingly, the demurrer
against Plaintiffs’ eighth cause of action is overruled.
 
D.   
Fraudulent
Concealment
 
Plaintiffs’ ninth cause of
action alleges Fraudulent Concealment against Defendant. “The required elements
for fraudulent concealment are (1) concealment or suppression of a material
fact; (2) by a defendant with a duty to disclose the fact to the plaintiff; (3)
the defendant intended to defraud the plaintiff by intentionally concealing or
suppressing the fact; (4) the plaintiff was unaware of the fact and would not
have acted as he or she did if he or she had known of the concealed or
suppressed fact; and (5) plaintiff sustained damage as a result of the
concealment or suppression of the fact.” (Hambrick v. Healthcare Partners
Medical Group, Inc. (2015) 238 Cal.App.4th 124, 162.) Fairness requires
that allegations of fraud be pled “with particularity” so that the court can
weed out nonmeritorious actions before a defendant is required to answer.
(Small v. Fritz Companies, Inc. (2003) 30 Cal.4th 167, 184.) The particularity
requirement typically necessitates pleading facts that “show how, when, where,
to whom, and by what means the representations were tendered.” (Lazar v.
Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.)
 
Here, Plaintiffs allege that
prior to their April 2023 discovery of the bedbug infestation in their
apartment, “Defendants knew of widespread bed bug infestations at the Subject
Property and Plaintiffs’ Unit. However, Defendants intentionally withheld this
information from Plaintiffs.” (Compl. ¶ 163.) Specifically, Plaintiffs allege
that “Defendants knew that the Subject Property and Subject Unit was infested
with bedbugs and that prospective tenants would incur significant physical
injuries and severe emotional distress, along with property damage and economic
losses, and therefore intentionally did not notify Plaintiffs so that they
could ensure that the unit would be leased out by them.” (Id. at ¶ 168.)
“Such knowledge was materially relevant to Plaintiffs and Defendants, as, had
Plaintiffs known of the bedbugs within the unit, Plaintiffs would not have
leased the Subject Property.” (Id. at ¶ 165.)
 
Defendant argues that Plaintiff
fails to allege that Defendant owed them a duty to “disclose the presence of
bed bugs in other units that are not leased to Plaintiffs.” (Dem. 7:14–15.) Defendant
further argues that this cause of action is not pled with the requisite
specificity because “Plaintiffs have failed to include any such facts about the
specific representations made and at what point in time in the Complaint.” (Id.
at 7:22–23.) The Court agrees, and again notes that Plaintiffs have failed
to oppose the instant motion.
 
Based on the foregoing, the
Court finds that Plaintiffs have failed to allege facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action for fraudulent concealment. Accordingly, the
demurrer is sustained as to Plaintiffs’ ninth cause of action.
 
MOTION TO STRIKE 
 
The court may, upon a motion, or
at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any
irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 436, subd. (a).) The court may also strike all or any part of any
pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court
rule, or an order of the court. (Id., § 436, subd. (b).) The grounds for
moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial
notice. (Id., § 437.) 
 
A.   
Punitive
Damages
 
Punitive damages may be
recovered upon a proper showing of malice, fraud, or oppression by clear and
convincing evidence. (Civ. Code § 3294, subd. (a).) “Malice” is defined as
conduct intended to cause injury to a person or despicable conduct carried on with
a willful and conscious disregard for the rights or safety of others. (Id.
at subd. (c); Turman v. Turning Point of Cent. Cal., Inc. (2010) 191
Cal.App.4th 53, 63.) “Oppression” means despicable conduct subjecting a person
to cruel and unjust hardship, in conscious disregard of the person’s rights. (Ibid.)
“Fraud” is an intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a
material fact known by defendant, with intent to deprive a person of property,
rights or otherwise cause injury. (Ibid.)
 
Punitive damages must be
supported by factual allegations. Conclusory allegations, devoid of any factual
assertions, are insufficient to support a conclusion that parties acted with
oppression, fraud or malice. (Smith v. Superior Court (1992) 10
Cal.App.4th 1033, 1042; Anschutz Entertainment Group, Inc. v. Snepp
(2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 598, 643.)
 
Here, Defendant argues that punitive
damages are not warranted because “Plaintiffs only claim inaction in the form
of failing to abate bed bugs, which is not enough to support punitive damages.”
(MTS 2:20–21.) Defendant contends that “Plaintiffs[’] Complaint merely alleges
that Defendant failed to abate bed bugs. Nothing about the facts in the
Complaint suggest any intentional let alone malicious behavior other than
Plaintiffs[’] conclusory allegation, absent of specific notifications made,
that Defendant failed to address the alleged bed bugs.” (Id. at
4:16–19.)
 
Once again, the Court notes
Plaintiffs have failed to oppose the instant motion and grants the Motion to
Strike. 
 
LEAVE TO AMEND
 
Where a demurrer is sustained,
leave to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of
successful amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.)
The burden is on the plaintiff to show the court that a pleading can be amended
successfully. (Id.; Lewis v. YouTube, LLC (2015) 244 Cal.App.4th
118, 226.) However, “[i]f there is any reasonable possibility that the
plaintiff can state a good cause of action, it is error to sustain a demurrer
without leave to amend.” (Youngman v. Nevada Irrigation Dist. (1969) 70
Cal.2d 240, 245).
 
Here, the Court notes that this
is the first demurrer brought against Plaintiff’s original complaint. Therefore,
under the Court’s liberal policy of granting leave to amend, Plaintiff is
granted 30 days leave to amend the complaint to cure the defects set forth
above. Plaintiff is cautioned that “following an order sustaining a demurrer …
with leave to amend, the plaintiff may amend his or her complaint only as
authorized by the court's order. … The plaintiff may not amend the complaint to
add a new cause of action without having obtained permission to do so, unless
the new cause of action is within the scope of the order granting leave to
amend.” (Zakk v. Diesel (2019) 33 Cal.App.5th 431, 456.)
 
CONCLUSION
 
The
unopposed demurrer is sustained with 30 days leave to amend. The unopposed
motion to strike is granted with 30 days leave to amend.
 
 