Here is the summary in YAML format:

```
Case Number:  23STCV23202
Plaintiff's Name: Alicia Miranda Bojorquez
Defendant's Name: Vanderbilt Minerals, LLC
People-Names: Alicia Miranda Bojorquez, John Doe (brother-in-law)
Company-Names: Vanderbilt Minerals, LLC, DAP, Inc.
Places: California, Delaware, Connecticut
Dates: January 18, 2024, April 17, 2024
Events: Motion to quash service of summons, Hearing
Money: None mentioned
Intentions: Plaintiff seeks to exercise personal jurisdiction over Defendant
Facts: Plaintiff developed mesothelioma from exposure to asbestos in talc; Defendant allegedly supplied talc to DAP, Inc. in California; Plaintiff's brother-in-law's declaration identifies DAP, Paco, and UDG joint compound as well as DAP caulking and/or sealer products
Disputes: Whether Plaintiff has established minimum contacts with the forum state; Whether Defendant's alleged contacts with California are sufficient to establish specific jurisdiction
Acts: Defendant filed a motion to quash service of summons; Plaintiff responded with opposition and requested jurisdictional discovery
Agreements: None mentioned
Laws: California Code of Civil Procedure (§ 418.10, § 410.10, § 581), United States Constitution, Burger King Corp. v. Rudzewicz (1985), Asahi Metal Industry Co., Ltd. v. Superior Court of California, Solano County (1987), Jayone Foods, Inc. v. Aekyung Industrial Co. Ltd. (2019), Strasner v. Touchstone Wireless Repair & Logistics, LP (2016), Daimler AG v. Bauman (2014), Vons Companies, Inc. v. Seabest Foods, Inc. (1996), Ford Motor Co. v. Montana Eighth Judicial District Court (2021), CenterPoint Energy, Inc. v. Superior Court (2007)
Case Citations: [Citations]
Statutes: California Code of Civil Procedure (§ 418.10, § 410.10, § 581)
Roles: Judge, Plaintiff, Defendant
Significant Statements:
* "A court of this state may exercise jurisdiction on any basis not inconsistent with the Constitution of this state or of the United States." (Code Civ. Proc., § 410.10)
* "The Due Process Clause protects an individual's liberty interest in not being subject to the binding judgments of a forum with which he has established no meaningful 'contacts, ties, or relations.'" (Burger King Corp. v. Rudzewicz (1985))
* "A state court may not exercise personal jurisdiction over a party under circumstances that would offend 'traditional notions of fair play and substantial justice.'" (Asahi Metal Industry Co., Ltd. v. Superior Court of California, Solano County (1987))
* "The plaintiff must provide specific evidentiary facts, through affidavits and other authenticated documents, sufficient to allow the court to independently conclude whether jurisdiction is appropriate." (Strasner v. Touchstone Wireless Repair & Logistics, LP (2016))
* "A nonresident defendant may be subject to the specific jurisdiction of the forum 'if the defendant has purposefully availed himself or herself of forum benefits [citation], and the 'controversy is related to or "arises out of" a defendant's contacts with the forum.'" (Vons Companies, Inc. v. Seabest Foods, Inc. (1996))
* "When a corporation has 'continuously and deliberately exploited [a State's] market, it must reasonably anticipate being haled into [that State's] court[s]' to defend actions 'based on' products causing injury there." (Ford Motor Co. v. Montana Eighth Judicial District Court (2021))
* "In a case raising liability issues, a California court will have personal jurisdiction over a successor company if (1) the court would have had personal jurisdiction over the predecessor, and (2) the successor company effectively assumed the subject liabilities of the predecessor." (CenterPoint Energy, Inc. v. Superior Court (2007))
```

Here is a summary of the judge's tentative ruling in English text:

The judge is considering a motion to quash service of summons filed by defendant Vanderbilt Minerals, LLC, alleging lack of personal jurisdiction. The plaintiff, Alicia Miranda Bojorquez, alleges that she developed mesothelioma from exposure to asbestos in talc supplied by the defendant. The judge notes that the defendant is incorporated in Delaware and has its principal place of business in Connecticut, and therefore is not subject to California's general jurisdiction.

The defendant argues that it is not subject to California's specific jurisdiction unless the plaintiff can prove that she was exposed to asbestos in California in a specific product that contained talc from the defendant. The plaintiff argues that she was exposed to asbestos in DAP joint compound, which allegedly contained the defendant's asbestos-contaminated talc. The judge is ordering the parties to engage in jurisdictional discovery to obtain evidence about the contents of the DAP products to which the plaintiff was exposed.

The motion is continued to April 17, 2024, for discovery, and the parties are ordered to file supplemental opposition and reply briefs on regular notice.