 Case Number:  23STCV23202    Hearing Date:   January 18, 2024    Dept:  15 [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE MOTION TO QUASHPlaintiff Alicia Miranda
Bojorquez alleges she developed mesothelioma from exposure to asbestos in talc
mined and supplied by Defendant Vanderbilt Minerals, LLC.  Defendant filed a motion to quash service of
summons for lack of personal jurisdiction. 
A
defendant may move to quash service of summons on the ground of lack of
jurisdiction of the court over him or her.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 418.10, subd. (a)(1).)  The
court may dismiss without prejudice the complaint in whole, or as to that
defendant, when dismissal is made pursuant to Section 418.10.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 581, subd. (h).)
"A
court of this state may exercise jurisdiction on any basis not inconsistent
with the Constitution of this state or of the United States."  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 410.10.)  "The Due
Process Clause protects an individual's liberty interest in not being subject
to the binding judgments of a forum with which he has established no meaningful
'contacts, ties, or relations."'  (Burger King
Corp. v. Rudzewicz (1985) 471 U.S. 462, 471-472.)  A
state court may not exercise personal jurisdiction over a party under circumstances
that would offend "traditional notions of fair play and substantial
justice."  (Asahi Metal Industry Co., Ltd., v. Superior Court
of California, Solano County (1987) 480 U.S. 102, 113.)
When
a defendant moves to quash service of process on jurisdictional grounds, the
plaintiff has the initial burden of demonstrating facts justifying the exercise
of jurisdiction.  (Jayone
Foods, Inc. v. Aekyung Industrial Co. Ltd. (2019) 31 Cal.App.5th 543, 553.)  Once facts
showing minimum contacts with the forum state are established, the defendant
has the burden to demonstrate the exercise of jurisdiction would be
unreasonable.  (Ibid.)  "The plaintiff must provide specific evidentiary
facts, through affidavits and other authenticated documents, sufficient to
allow the court to independently conclude whether jurisdiction is appropriate.  [Citation.]  The plaintiff cannot rely on allegations in an
unverified complaint or vague and conclusory assertions of ultimate facts.  [Citation.]"  (Strasner
v. Touchstone Wireless Repair & Logistics, LP (2016) 5 Cal.App.5th 215,
222.)
A
defendant is subject to a state's general jurisdiction if its contacts
"are so continuance and systematic as to render [it] essentially at home
in the forum State." (Daimler AG v. Bauman (2014) 571 U.S. 117,
127.)  A
nonresident defendant may be subject to the specific jurisdiction of the forum
"if the defendant has purposefully availed himself or herself of forum
benefits [citation], and the 'controversy is related to or "arises out of'
a defendant's contacts with the forum.' [Citations.]"  (Vons
Companies, Inc. v. Seabest Foods, Inc. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 434, 446.)  This
test does not require a "causal relationship between the defendant's
in-state activity and the litigation." (Ford Motor Co. v. Montana
Eighth Judicial District Court (2021) 141 S.Ct. 1017, 1026.)  The
"arise out" of standard "asks about causation," but
"relate to" does not.  (Ibid.)  "[W]hen a corporation has 'continuously and
deliberately exploited [a State's] market, it must reasonably anticipate being
haled into [that State's] court[s]' to defend actions 'based on' products
causing injury there."  (Id.
at p. 1027.)
"In
a case raising liability issues, a California court will have personal
jurisdiction over a successor company if (1) the court would have had personal
jurisdiction over the predecessor, and (2) the successor company effectively
assumed the subject liabilities of the predecessor."  (CenterPoint
Energy, Inc. v. Superior Court (2007) 157 Cal.App.4th 1101, 1120.)
Defendant is incorporated
in Delaware and has its principal place of business in Connecticut.  (Motion at p. 5; Stewart Decl., ¶ 2.)  Therefore, it is not a resident of California
and not subject to its general jurisdiction.  Plaintiff does not dispute that there is no
general jurisdiction over Defendant. 
Defendant argues it is
not subject to California’s specific jurisdiction unless Plaintiff can prove
that she was exposed in California to asbestos in a specific product that
contained talc from Defendant.  (Motion
at p. 5.)  Defendant points to the
complaint which generally alleges that defendants, including Vanderbilt, were
engaged in in the business of manufacturing or selling asbestos-containing
products, but does not identify the particular products. 
Only in its opposition
does Plaintiff identify the product at issue – DAP joint compound that alleged contained
Defendant’s asbestos-contaminated talc.  (Opposition
at p. 2.)  Plaintiff cites her
brother-in-law’s declaration identifying DAP, Paco, and UDG joint compound as
well as DAP caulking and/or sealer products.  (Moreno Decl., ¶¶ 5-8.)  Plaintiff cites evidence that Defendant sold talc
to DAP, Inc. in California.  (Hunt Decl.,
Ex. G at pp. 173.)  Plaintiff also cites
evidence that DAP, Inc. used Defendant’s talc in its caulking products.  (Hunt Decl., Ex. C.) Plaintiff argues, but
does not provide evidence, that DAP, Inc. used Defendant’s talc in its joint
compound.  (Opposition at p. 4.)
            In
its reply, Defendant argues Plaintiff’s evidence shows the formulation for
caulk and window glazing, not Dap’s joint compound.  (Reply at p. 2.)  
            Plaintiff
requests jurisdictional discovery to obtain evidence that Defendant’s talc was
in the specific products to which she was exposed.  The motion is
CONTINUED to April 17, 2024 for discovery on the contents of the DAP products
to which Plaintiff was exposed during the period of her exposure. 
Plaintiff may file a
supplemental opposition and Defendant may file a supplemental reply on regular
notice.   
The moving party is
ordered to give notice.