 Case Number:  23STCV28081    Hearing Date:   January 18, 2024    Dept:  15 [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE MOTION TO QUASHPlaintiff Alfredo
Waltower filed this action alleging that he developed mesothelioma from
asbestos in talc mined and supplied by Defendant Vanderbilt Minerals, LLC. On
December 20, 2023, Defendant filed its motion to quash service of summons for
lack of personal jurisdiction. 
A
defendant may move to quash service of summons on the ground of lack of
jurisdiction of the court over him or her.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 418.10, subd. (a)(1).)  The
court may dismiss without prejudice the complaint in whole, or as to that
defendant, when dismissal is made pursuant to Section 418.10.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 581, subd. (h).)
"A
court of this state may exercise jurisdiction on any basis not inconsistent
with the Constitution of this state or of the United States."  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 410.10.)  "The Due
Process Clause protects an individual's liberty interest in not being subject
to the binding judgments of a forum with which he has established no meaningful
'contacts, ties, or relations."'  (Burger King
Corp. v. Rudzewicz (1985) 471 U.S. 462, 471-472.)  A
state court may not exercise personal jurisdiction over a party under circumstances
that would offend "traditional notions of fair play and substantial
justice."  (Asahi Metal Industry Co., Ltd., v. Superior Court
of California, Solano County (1987) 480 U.S. 102, 113.)
When
a defendant moves to quash service of process on jurisdictional grounds, the
plaintiff has the initial burden of demonstrating facts justifying the exercise
of jurisdiction.  (Jayone
Foods, Inc. v. Aekyung Industrial Co. Ltd. (2019) 31 Cal.App.5th 543, 553.)  Once facts
showing minimum contacts with the forum state are established, the defendant
has the burden to demonstrate the exercise of jurisdiction would be
unreasonable.  (Ibid.)  "The plaintiff must provide specific evidentiary
facts, through affidavits and other authenticated documents, sufficient to
allow the court to independently conclude whether jurisdiction is appropriate.
[Citation.] The plaintiff cannot rely on allegations in an unverified complaint
or vague and conclusory assertions of ultimate facts.  [Citation.]"  (Strasner
v. Touchstone Wireless Repair & Logistics, LP (2016) 5 Cal.App.5th 215,
222.)
A
defendant is subject to a state's general jurisdiction if its contacts
"are so continuance and systematic as to render [it] essentially at home
in the forum State." (Daimler AG v. Bauman (2014) 571 U.S. 117,
127.)  A
nonresident defendant may be subject to the specific jurisdiction of the forum
"if the defendant has purposefully availed himself or herself of forum
benefits [citation], and the 'controversy is related to or "arises out of'
a defendant's contacts with the forum.' [Citations.]"  (Vons
Companies, Inc. v. Seabest Foods, Inc. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 434, 446.)  This
test does not require a "causal relationship between the defendant's
in-state activity and the litigation." (Ford Motor Co. v. Montana
Eighth Judicial District Court (2021) 141 S.Ct. 1017, 1026.)  The
"arise out" of standard "asks about causation," but
"relate to" does not.  (Ibid.)  "[W]hen a corporation has 'continuously and
deliberately exploited [a State's] market, it must reasonably anticipate being
haled into [that State's] court[s]' to defend actions 'based on' products
causing injury there."  (Id.
at p. 1027.)
"In
a case raising liability issues, a California court will have personal
jurisdiction over a successor company if (1) the court would have had personal
jurisdiction over the predecessor, and (2) the successor company effectively
assumed the subject liabilities of the predecessor."  (CenterPoint
Energy, Inc. v. Superior Court (2007) 157 Cal.App.4th 1101, 1120.)
Defendant is incorporated
in Delaware and has its principal place of business in Connecticut.  (Stewart Decl., ¶ 2.)  Therefore, it is not a resident of California
and not subject to its general jurisdiction. 
Defendant argues it is
not subject to California’s specific jurisdiction unless Plaintiff can prove
that he was exposed in California to asbestos in a specific product that
contained talc supplied by Defendant.  (Motion at p. 5.)  Defendant correctly argues that the complaint
itself does not allege the specific products at issue.  (Id.)  
Only in its opposition papers
does Plaintiff identify the product – Sherwin Williams paint containing
Defendant’s asbestos-containing talc.  (Waltower
Decl., ¶ 2.)  Plaintiff argues Defendant
assumed the liability of R.T. Vanderbilt Company, which had a talc mine and
sales office in California.  (Opposition
at p. 2; Eyerly Decl., Ex. 3 at pp. 39-40.)  According to Plaintiff, the talc contained
asbestos.  (Eyerly Decl., Ex 3 at p. 166;
Ex. 4 at p. 126.)  R.T. Vanderbilt
supplied its talc to Sherwin-Williams.  (Eyerly
Decl., Ex 8 at p. 63.)
In its reply, Defendant
acknowledges it mined and sold talc in California.  (Reply at p. 2.) Thus, it availed itself of
the benefits of the forum.  However,
Defendant contends Plaintiff has no evidence that Defendant’s talc was in the
Sherwin-Williams paint to which Plaintiff was exposed.  (Reply at p. 5.)  Defendant cites deposition testimony of Sherwin-Williams’
corporate representative, Cathy Cole, where she testified Sherwin Williams
obtained talc from various entities, including Defendant.  (Kaplan Supp. Decl., Ex. 2 at pp. 39, 40.) 
Plaintiff requests
jurisdictional discovery to obtain evidence that Defendant’s talc was in the
Sherwin-Williams paint to which Plaintiff was exposed.  Defendant does not oppose Plaintiff’s request.
 (Reply at p. 5.)  Thus, the motion is
CONTINUED to April 17, 2024 for discovery on the contents of the type of
Sherwin-Williams paint to which Plaintiff was exposed during the period of his
exposure..  Plaintiff and Defendant may
file supplemental opposition and reply briefs based on regular notice.
            The
moving party is to give notice. 
            
 