  Case Number:  20STCV44120    Hearing Date:   January 18, 2024    Dept:  15 [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE MOTION FOR SUMMARY ADJUDICATION
            Plaintiffs
filed a motion for summary adjudication of various affirmative defenses alleged
by Defendant Squires-Belt Material Company. 
The parties then stipulated to withdraw parts of the motion and some of
the affirmative defenses, leaving only the ninth and twenty-ninth affirmative
defenses subject to the motion.
            A.        Ninth Affirmative Defense –
Alteration/Misuse of Products
            The
ninth affirmative defense alleges someone misused, abused, or altered the
products at issue, that misuse, abuse, or alternation was not foreseeable to
Defendant, and it caused the injury incurred by Plaintiffs.  As alleged, the affirmative defense is vague.  It is impossible to tell what Defendant is
alleging from reading the answer.
            This
affirmative defense arises when the product was misused or modified after it
left the defendant’s possession and the misuse or modification was so highly
extraordinary that it was not reasonably foreseeable to the defendant.  (CACI 1245.)
            Plaintiffs
argue Defendant’s discovery responses are factually devoid.  Plaintiffs served form interrogatories asking
for all facts supporting the affirmative defense, along with the names of
people with knowledge of those facts and identification of documents supporting
the affirmative defense.  (Ex. G at p. 6.)  Defendant responded that there is no evidence
Jose Martinez was exposed to asbestos from Defendant’s products because it
never sold raw asbestos, Monolite exterior stucco did not contain asbestos or
talc, it does not know if Riverside Cement contained asbestos, and Expo’s
products contained asbestos.  Defendant did
not identify specific documents or people with knowledge other than Brad Benson
and Robert Papera.  (Ex. H at pp. 3-6.)  
            This interrogatory
response does not make much sense.  It
does not identify the product from Defendant that Defendant claims was misused
or altered.  It does not state how the
product was misused or altered.  It does
not say who misused or altered the product. 
It does not present evidence that the misuse or modification was highly
extraordinary and not reasonably foreseeable. 
The response is factually-devoid. 
Plaintiffs shifted the burden.
            In its
opposition, Defendant contends it removed asbestos from its products in 1977,
and Jose Martinez mixed raw asbestos into the products he used.  (Opposition at pp. 9-10; Additional
Undisputed Material Fact (“AUMF”) 9.)  Defendant
cites Juan Martinez’s testimony that when he worked with his father, Jose Martinez,
they would stir asbestos into Riverside plastic cement from about 1978 to
1985.  (AUMF 9; Ex. 5 at pp. 15-16, 19.)  He testified that sometimes “Squires-Belt
would provide [bags of asbestos] to the jobs” and sometimes he would pick up
bags of asbestos from Defendant.  (Ex. 5
at pp. 23-24.)  Defendant delivered
cement, Monolite, stucco, and asbestos to the work sites.  (Id. at pp. 25, 27.)  
            Defendant’s
argument remains confusing.  Defendant’s
evidence and opposition still do not identity the particular products from
Defendant that were misused or modified. 
Also Defendant’s cited evidence (Juan Martinez’ testimony) shows that
Defendant provided bags of asbestos (among other products) to the work site.  Because Defendant was providing bags of
asbestos to the work site, it was not unforeseeable or highly extraordinary
that Juan Martinez was mixing that asbestos into other products.  Defendant did not submit evidence showing a
disputed issue concerning that element of the affirmative defense.  Therefore the motion is granted.
            B.        Twenty-Ninth Affirmative Defense
Intervening/Superseding Causes
            Defendant’s
twenty-ninth affirmative defense alleges Plaintiffs’ damages were “caused by an
unforeseeable, independent, intervening or superseding event beyond the
control, and unrelated to any conduct of Defendant.  Defendant’s actions, if any, was [sic]
superseded by the negligence and wrongful conduct of others.”
            This
defense requires that a third party’s conduct occurred after the conduct of the
defendant, a reasonable person would consider the third party’s conduct a
highly unusual or an extraordinary response to the situation, the defendant did
not know or have reason to expect the third party would act in a negligent
manner, and the harm resulting from the third party’s conduct was different
from the kind of harm that could have been reasonably expect from the
defendant’s conduct.  (CACI 432.) 
            Plaintiffs
again argue Defendant’s discovery responses are factually devoid.  In response to the interrogatory asking for
all facts supporting the affirmative defense, Defendant responded that there is
no evidence Jose Martinez was exposed to asbestos from Defendant’s products
because it never sold raw asbestos, Monolite exterior stucco did not contain
asbestos or talc, it does not know if Riverside Cement contained asbestos, and
Expo’s products contained asbestos.  It
did not identify specific documents or people with knowledge other than Brad
Benson and Robert Papera.  (Ex. H at pp.
3-6.)  Again this response does not
identity the third party that acted after Defendant’s conduct, explain how that
third party’s conduct was highly unusual or extraordinary, or state how the
resulting harm was different from the harm expected from Defendant’s
conduct.  The response is factually
devoid.  The burden shifted to Defendant.
            In
its opposition, Defendant argues that Jose Martinez worked as a plaster, used
various products, Defendant made asbestos-containing Monolite only until 1977, and
Jose Martinez’s employers were responsible for warning him about the dangers of
asbestos.  (Opposition at pp. 8-9.)  This argument is vague and not supported by
the evidence.  Defendant does not
identify (let alone provide evidence of) a third party that acted after
Defendant’s conduct to harm Plaintiffs, or that the unspecified third party’s
conduct was highly unusual or extraordinary. 
It seems that maybe Defendant is trying to argue that Jose Martinez’s
employers were the third parties and that their alleged failure to warn
Martinez was the intervening act.  Assuming
that is Defendant’s argument, Defendant did not submit evidence that failing to
warn was a highly unusual or extraordinary act. 
Indeed almost every asbestos case alleges the defendants failed to warn
the plaintiff, suggesting that failing to warn was quite common.
            Defendant
did not submit evidence showing a disputed issue concerning that element of the
affirmative defense.  Therefore the
motion is granted.
            Defendant
asks for a continuance under Code of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision
(h).  (Opposition at p. 14.)  Defendant’s opposition does not identify the
discovery Defendant needs.  Section 437c,
subdivision (h) requires an affidavit about the facts essential to justify
opposition that may exist but cannot be presented.  Defendant did not file any such
affidavit.  The request for a continuance
and additional discovery is denied.
            The
motion is GRANTED as to the ninth and twenty-ninth affirmative defenses.
            The
moving party is to give notice.