  Case Number:  23STCV13013    Hearing Date:   March 8, 2024    Dept:  30 Dept. 30
Calendar No.
Jackson et. al.
v. Equity Residential Management, LLC, et. al., Case No. 23STCV13013
 
Tentative Ruling
re:  Defendant’s Motion to Strike
 
Defendant Equity Residential
Management LLC moves to strike paragraphs, 4, 48, 65, and 67 in the First
Amended Complaint.  The motion is granted
with ten (10) days leave to amend.
 
            The court
may, upon motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems
proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any
pleading. (CCP § 436, subd. (a).) The court may also strike all or any part of
any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a
court rule, or an order of the court. (CCP § 436, subd. (b).) The grounds for a
motion to strike are that the pleading has irrelevant, false, or improper
matter, or has not been drawn or filed in conformity with laws. (CCP § 436.)
The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by
way of judicial notice. (CCP § 437.)
 
            CCP §
1786.50(b) provides: “If the court determines that the violation was grossly
negligent or willful, the court may, in addition, assess, and the
consumer may recover, punitive damages.” (emphasis added.) Gross negligence is
a want of even scant care or an extreme departure from the ordinary standard of
conduct. (City of Santa Barbara v. Superior Court (2007) 41.Cal.4th
747, 754.) Black’s Law Dictionary states that a voluntary act becomes willful,
in law, only when it involves conscious wrong or evil purpose on the part of
the actor, or at least inexcusable carelessness, whether the act is right or
wrong. (Black's Law Dictionary (11th ed. 2019), willful.) Therefore, the
inquiry before the Court is whether the FAC provides facts that fall within
these definitions. As explained below, the FAC does not.     
 
            Defendant’s
alleged violations include the fact that Defendant did not provide means by
which a consumer could indicate they wish to receive a copy of any report
prepared (FAC, ¶41), Defendant failed to notify the consumer in writing that an
investigative consumer report would be made within three days after the report
was requested (FAC, ¶ 43), and Defendant did not notify Plaintiffs of the
identity of the consumer reporting agency that would prepare the report. (FAC,
¶ 44.) Additionally, the FAC alleges numerous times that Defendant is a large corporation
that had access to legal advice and could have retained counsel to advise that
they must comply with the ICRAA. 
            None of
these allegations demonstrate an extreme departure from the ordinary standard
of conduct nor an act with evil purpose. Defendant points to Anderson v.
Fitness Internat., LLC (2016) 4 Cal.App.5th 867, 881 and argues that
“[M]ere nonfeasance such as the failure to discover a dangerous condition or to
perform a duty amounts to ordinary negligence” but not gross
negligence. The Court agrees, and Plaintiffs fail to provide caselaw in their
opposition papers demonstrating otherwise.  