 Case Number:  23CHCV00696    Hearing Date:   March 18, 2024    Dept:  F49    Dept.    F49      Date:    3/18/24     Case    Name: W.H.S. Humble & Associates, LLC, v. Wendy M. Taylor, et al.     Case    # 23CHCV00696      LOS  ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT NORTH  VALLEY DISTRICT DEPARTMENT  F49    MARCH 18,  2024    MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER  RESPONSES TO REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS, SET ONE  Los Angeles Superior Court Case # 23CHCV00696    Motion  filed: 2/13/24   MOVING PARTY: Defendant Wendy M. Taylor and Jag Tax  Management & Financial Services (“Defendants”)  RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff W.H.S. Humble &  Associates, LLC (“Plaintiff”)  NOTICE: ok    RELIEF  REQUESTED: An  order compelling Plaintiff to provide further verified responses, without  objections, to Request for Production of Documents, Set One, which was served  on Plaintiff on September 13, 2023; additionally, awarding Defendants monetary  sanctions in the amount of $5,311.65.    TENTATIVE  RULING: The  motion is GRANT IN PART. The request for sanctions is DENIED.   BACKGROUND   On March 8, 2023, Plaintiff initiated this action against  Defendants and Does 1 to 25, alleging the following causes of action: (1) breach  of contract; (2) intentional misrepresentation; 3) negligent; (4) breach of  fiduciary duty; (5) constructive fraud; (6) unfair business practices; and (7)  accounting. Subsequently, on May 10, 2023, Defendants filed their Answer to the  Complaint.   On February 13, 2024, Defendants file the instant Motion to Compel  Plaintiff’s Further Responses to their Request for Production of Documents, Set  One (the “Motion”), which was served on Plaintiff on September 13, 2023.  Additionally, Defendants seek monetary sanctions in the amount of 45,311.65.   Subsequently, on March 5, 2024, Plaintiff filed its Opposition to the  Motion. Following this, on March 11, 2024, Defendants replied.   ANALYSIS   Code of Civil Procedure section  2031.310 subdivision (a) provides, “On receipt of a response to a demand for  inspection, copying, testing, or sampling, the demanding party may move for an  order compelling further response to the demand if the demanding party deems  that any of the following apply: (1) A statement of compliance with the  demand is incomplete. (2) A representation of inability to comply is  inadequate, incomplete, or evasive. (3) An objection in the response is  without merit or too general.”   Code of Civil Procedure section  2031.310 subdivision (h) provides, in part, that “Except as provided in subdivision (j) [inapplicable here],  the court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing  with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who  unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel further response to a  demand, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with  substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of  the sanction unjust.”  A.     Procedural  Requirements   1.)     45-Day Rule “Unless notice of this motion  [to compel further responses to production of documents] is given within 45  days of the service of the verified response, or any supplemental verified  response, or on or before any specific later date to which the propounding  party and the responding party have agreed in writing, the propounding party  waives any right to compel a further response to the demand for productions.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (c).)   Plaintiff served its responses  to Defendants’ Request for Production of Documents, Set One, on November 29,  2023. (Sisco Decl., ¶ 3.) Subsequently, Plaintiff granted Defendants 30-day  extension to file the Motion to Compel (Id., Ex. “C”), establishing February  13, 2024, as the deadline for Defendants to file the motion under Code of Civil  Procedure section 2031.310 subdivision (c).    Defendant filed the instant  Motion on February 13, 2024, meeting the established deadline.  2.)     Meet and Confer A motion to compel further  responses to demand for productions must be accompanied by a meet and confer  declaration. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (b)(2).)             Defendant engaged in the required meet  and confer process with Plaintiff before filing the instant Motion. Efforts made  include several sessions of meet and confer before Plaintiff granted the 30-day  extension to file the motion to compel. (Sisco Decl., ¶ 3.) Furthermore, on  January 30, 2024, Defendant sent a meet and confer letter outlining the issues  related to the responses. (Id., ¶ 5.)                Therefore, the meet and confer  requirements as specified in Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.310  subdivision (b)(2) are satisfied.   3.)     Separate Statement A motion to compel further  responses to a demand for production must be accompanied by a separate  statement. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1345(a)(3).) “A separate statement is a  separate document filed and served with the discovery motion that provides all  the information necessary to understand each discovery request and all the  responses to it that are at issue.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1345(c).) Defendant  has met the above requirement by filing a separate statement explaining the demand  for production at issue, Plaintiff’s responses, and why further responses are  necessary.   B.      Code of  Civil Procedure Section 2031.280 Subdivision (a) Requirements   “Any documents or  category of documents produced in response to a demand for inspection, copying,  testing, or sampling shall be identified with the specific request number to  which the documents respond.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.280, subd. (a).)   In their  Motion, Defendants assert that Plaintiff produced over 900 pages of documents  but failed to properly identify the specific request number each document was responding  to. (Mot., at 9.) However, after the filing of the instant Motion, Plaintiff  produced a chart that clearly identifies each document and the individual  request it responds to. (Lake Decl., ¶ 2., Ex. “A,” Reply, at 2.)   Given this  development, the Court concludes that Plaintiff’s action in providing the chart  satisfied the requirements under Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.280  subdivision (a), rendering Defendants’ argument moot.    C.     Plaintiff’s Responses to Request for  Production of Documents Nos. 1-2, 4-6, 40-46, 54, 56-59, 67, 69, 71-72, 75-76,  79, and 85-86   Code of  Civil Procedure section 2031.220 provides that “A statement that the party to whom a  demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling has been directed will  comply with the particular demand shall state that the production, inspection,  copying, testing, or sampling, and related activity demanded, will be allowed  either in whole or in part, and that all documents or things in the demanded  category that are in the possession, custody, or control of that party and to  which no objection is being made will be included in the production.”   For Requests Nos. 1-2, 4-6, 40-46, 54, 56-59, 67, 69, 71-72,  75- 76, 79, and 85-86, Plaintiff’s responses state, “Responding Party  will produce the responsive documents in its possession, custody, or control.”   The Court  finds that such statements satisfy the requirements under Code of Civil  Procedure section 2031.220. Defendant has not contended that Plaintiff failed  to produce these documents as promised in compliance with the requests.  Therefore, the Court concludes that Plaintiff’s responses to the above-listed  Nos. are in compliance with the code.    Therefore,  the Court DENIES the Motion to Compel Further Responses to Request for  Production of Documents Nos. 1-2, 4-6, 40-46, 54,  56-59, 67, 69, 71-72, 75- 76, 79, and 85-86.   D.     Plaintiff’s Responses to Request for  Production of Documents Nos. 49, 51-53, 55, 60-66, 70, 73-74, and 77-78 Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.230 states, “A  representation of inability to comply with the particular demand for  inspection, copying, testing, or sampling shall affirm that a diligent search  and a reasonable inquiry has been made in an effort to comply with that demand.  This statement shall also specify whether the inability to comply is because  the particular item or category has never existed, has been destroyed, has been  lost, misplaced, or stolen, or has never been, or is no longer, in the  possession, custody, or control of the responding party. The statement shall  set forth the name and address of any natural person or organization known or  believed by that party to have possession, custody, or control of that item or  category of item.”               For  Nos. 49, Plaintiff answers, “Responding Party is unable to respond to this  request because there are no responsive documents in its possession, custody or  control, nor have any such documents ever been within Responding Party's  possession, custody, or control as payments were not made to Responding Party.”               For  Nos. 51, Plaintiff responds, “Responding Party is unable to respond to this  request because there are no responsive documents in its possession, custody or  control, nor have any such documents ever been within Responding Party's  possession, custody, or control as payments were not made to WENDY.”               For  Nos. 52, 53, Plaintiff’s responses are “Responding Party is unable to respond  to this request because there are no responsive documents in its possession,  custody or control, nor have any such documents ever been within Responding  Party's possession, custody, or control as payments were not made by Shared  Clients to Responding Party.”               For  Nos. 55, Plaintiff responds, “Responding Party is unable to respond to this  request because there are no responsive documents in its possession, custody or  control, nor have any such documents ever been within Responding Party's  possession, custody, or control as expenses were not incurred by  "RAPPORT" but rather by Responding Party.”               For  Nos. 60, Plaintiff’s response states, “Responding Party is unable to respond to  this request because there are no responsive documents in its possession,  custody or control, nor have any such documents ever been within Responding  Party's possession, custody, or control as there is no money due from  Responding Party.”               For  Nos. 61, Plaintiff answers, “Responding Party is unable to respond to this  request because there are no responsive documents in its possession, custody or  control, nor have any such documents ever been within Responding Party's  possession, custody, or control as expenses were not reimbursed to "RAPPORT"  but rather to Responding Party.”               For  Nos. 62, Plaintiff’s answer states, “Responding Party is unable to respond to  this request because there are no responsive documents in its possession,  custody or control, nor have any such documents ever been within Responding  Party's possession, custody, or control as expenses would not be due to  "RAPPORT" but rather to Responding Party.”               For  Nos. 63, Plaintiff responds, “Responding Party is unable to respond to this  request because there are no responsive documents in its possession, custody or  control, nor have any such documents ever been within Responding Party's  possession, custody, or control as money was not paid by "RAPPORT"  but rather to Responding Party.”               For  Nos. 64, Plaintiff’s response states, “Responding Party is unable to respond to  this request because there are no responsive documents in its possession,  custody or control, nor have any such documents ever been within Responding  Party's possession, custody, or control as money would not be due from "RAPPORT"  to Defendants.”               For  Nos. 65, Plaintiff responds, “Responding Party is unable to respond to this  request because there are no responsive documents in its possession, custody or  control, nor have any such documents ever been within Responding Party's  possession, custody, or control as "RAPPORT" would not reimburse  expenses to Responding Party.”               For  Nos. 66, Plaintiff’s response states, “Responding Party is unable to respond to  this request because there are no responsive documents in its possession,  custody or control, nor have any such documents ever been within Responding  Party's possession, custody, or control as "RAPPORT" would not owe  expenses to Responding Party.”               For  Nos. 70, Plaintiff responds, “Responding Party is unable to respond to this  request because there are no responsive documents in its possession, custody or  control, nor have any such documents ever been within Responding Party's  possession, custody, or control as "RAPPORT" would not communicate  with Responding Party.”               For  Nos. 73, 74, 77, 78, Plaintiff’s responses state, “Responding Party is unable  to respond to this request because there are no responsive documents in its  possession, custody or control, nor have any such documents ever been within  Responding Party's possession, custody, or control as none exist.”   Here,  the Court finds that Plaintiff’s responses are compliant with Code of Civil  Procedure section 2031.230, representing a code-compliant assertion of inability to comply  with the specified demands. These responses explicitly state that Plaintiff “is  unable to respond,” and they specify the reason for this inability to comply,  namely that the requested documents “have [never] been within its possession,  custody, or control.”  Therefore, the  Court DENIES the Motion to Compel Further Responses to Request for Production  of Documents Nos. 47-49, 51-53, 55, 60-66, 70, 73-74, and 77-78.   E.      Plaintiff’s Responses to Request for  Production of Documents Nos. 7-39, 47-48, and 84 For  Nos. 7-39, and 84, Plaintiff responds, “Responding Party will produce the  responsive documents in its possession, custody, or control if it is able to  access them. Access may not be possible as responsive documents, if they  exist, would be within Propounding Party's email system which Responding Party  no longer has access to.” (Underlines added.)   For  Nos. 47, 48, Plaintiff’s responses state, “There are no agreements to which  Responding Party is a party, but Responding Party will produce the responsive  documents to which Propounding Party is a party which are in its possession,  custody, or control if it is able to access them. Access may not be  possible as responsive documents, if they exist, would be within  Propounding Party's computer system which Responding Party no longer has access  to.” (Underlines added.)               The  Court finds that Plaintiff’s conditional statement of compliance does not meet  the requirements set forth under Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.220. Nor  do such conditional responses constitute a valid representation of Plaintiff’s inability  to comply under Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.230. When Plaintiff states  it will comply with the particular demand in part, a compliant response necessitates  that Plaintiff to identify the information it will comply with and affirm its  inability to comply with the remaining requests, providing specific reasons.  This approach is necessary to satisfy the requirements of both Code of Civil  Procedure sections 2031.220 and 2031.230.               Therefore,  the Court GRANTS the Motion to Compel Further Responses to Request for  Production of Documents Nos.  7-39,  47-48, and 84. F.      Plaintiff’s Responses to Request for  Production of Documents Nos. 3, 50, 68, and 80-83 Code of Civil  Procedure section 2031.240 subdivision (b) provides, in pertinent part, that:  “If the responding party objects to the demand for  inspection, copying, testing, or sampling of an item or category of item, the  response shall do both of the following:    (1) Identify with particularity any document,  tangible thing, land, or electronically stored information falling within any  category of item in the demand to which an objection is being made.    (2) Set forth clearly the extent of, and the  specific ground for, the objection. If an objection is based on a claim of  privilege, the particular privilege invoked shall be stated. If an objection is  based on a claim that the information sought is protected work product under  Chapter 4 (commencing with Section 2018.010), that claim shall be expressly  asserted.”   Plaintiff  objects to Request Nos. 3, 50, 68, and 80-83 in their entirety.   Plaintiff’s  objection to No. 3 states, “Responding Party objects to this request on the  grounds set forth in the General Objections as though fully set forth herein.  Responding Party further objects to this request on the grounds that it is  vague and ambiguous as drafted, including the undefined term  "communication." Responding Party further objects to this request on  the grounds that it is overbroad and unduly burdensome and made such by the use  of the defined terms and the absence of any subject matter. Responding Party  further objects to this request on the grounds that it seeks documents which  are neither relevant nor reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of  admissible evidence.”               Plaintiff  objects to Nos. 68, stating “Responding Party objects to this request on the  grounds set forth in the General Objections as though fully set forth herein.  Responding Party further objects to this request on the grounds that it is  vague and ambiguous as drafted, including its use of the term  "RAPPORT" which although capitalized is not defined. Responding Party  further objects to this request on the grounds that it is overbroad and unduly  burdensome and made such by the use of the defined terms. Responding Party  further objects to this request on the grounds that it seeks documents which  are neither relevant nor reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of  admissible evidence. Responding Party further objects to this request on the  grounds that it is overbroad and unduly burdensome in that it does not limit  itself in terms of time or subject matter.”               For  Nos. 3 and 68, Plaintiff contends, in its response, that the terms “communication”  and “RAPPORT” are not defined, arguing that the requests are therefore  overbroad and unduly burdensome. Contrary to Plaintiff’s assertion, the Court  notes that “communication” is explicitly defined as the first term under the  DEFINITIONS section of the Request for Production. (Sisco Decl., Ex. “A,” at  6.) Regarding “RAPPORT,” the Court finds that the term has an apparent meaning  in this context, referring to “Plaintiff’s principal, Andrew Rapport (‘Rapport’)”  as introduced in the Complaint. (Compl., at 2.) Despite “RAPPORT” not being listed  under the DEFINITIONS section of the Request for Production, the Court finds Plaintiff’s  argument – that use of its principal’s name in a demand renders the demand  vague or ambiguous – is unpersuasive. The Court concludes that Plaintiff should  be able to sufficient provide responses to Nos. 3 and 68, based on the defined  term or the apparent meaning of “RAPPORT”.                Accordingly,  the Court OVERRULES the objections and GRANTS the Motion to Compel Further  Responses to Request for Production of Documents Nos. 3, and 68.   Plaintiff’s  objection to Nos. 50, 80, 81, 82 states, “Responding Party objects to this  request on the grounds set forth in the General Objections as though fully set  forth herein. Responding Party further objects to this request on the grounds  that it is vague and ambiguous as drafted, including the phrase "after  Defendants were introduced to RAPPORT" and the term "RAPPORT"  which although capitalized is not defined. Responding Party further objects to  this request on the grounds that it is overbroad and unduly burdensome and made  such by the use of the defined terms. Responding Party further objects to this  request on the grounds that it seeks documents which are neither relevant nor  reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. Responding  Party further objects to this request on the grounds that it invades the rights  of privacy afforded to Responding Party and/or third-parties under the United  States Constitution, California Constitution and Federal and California  statutory law and case law.”   Plaintiff  objects to Nos 83, stating, “Responding Party objects to this request on the  grounds set forth in the General Objections as though fully set forth herein.  Responding Party further objects to this request on the grounds that it is  vague and ambiguous as drafted, including the phrase "YOUR opening an  account." Responding Party further objects to this request on the grounds  that it is overbroad and unduly burdensome and made such by the use of the  defined terms. Responding Party further objects to this request on the grounds  that it seeks documents which are neither relevant nor reasonably calculated to  lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. Responding Party further objects  to this request on the grounds that it invades the rights of privacy afforded  to Responding Party and/or third-parties under the United States Constitution,  California Constitution and Federal and California statutory law and case law.”               For Requests  Nos. 50, 80-83, Plaintiff further objects on the grounds of relevancy and privacy.  However, the Court finds these objections unsubstantiated.    Request No. 50 pertains to information about shared clients  of the joint venture between Plaintiff and Defendants. Request Nos. 80-83 relate  to transactions with a third-party financier/lender with whom the joint venture  opened a merchant service account. (Compl., ¶ 16.) Defendants argue that this  information is relevant and material to the business dispute and supporting  their affirmative defenses, particularly regarding Plaintiff’s conduct and  operations within the joint venture.    The Court determines that Defendants have met their burden  to show good causes exist for compelling responses as to Requests Nos. 50, and  80-83 (Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.310 subdivision (b)(1).)               Regarding  privacy, the Court references the criteria established in Hill v. National  Collegiate Athletic Assn. (1994) 7 Cal. 4th 1, which  necessitates a demonstrable legally protected privacy interest, an objectively  reasonable expectation of privacy in the given circumstances, and a serious  threat of intrusion. (Id., at 35-37.) Here, Plaintiff’s broad claim of  privacy interest falls short of these standards, failing to substantiate a  legally protected interest or a reasonable expectation of privacy.                Consequently, the Court GRANTS the  Motion to Compel Further Responses to Request for Production of Documents Nos.  50, and 80-83.   G.     Sanctions               Defendants  has requested monetary sanctions against Plaintiff pursuant to Code of Civil  Procedure sections 2023.010, 2023.030, and 2031.310. (Mot., at 11.)               Considering  the Court’s decision to GRANT IN PART and DENY IN PART the Motion, the mandatory  sanctions, under Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.310, against a party who  unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel further response does not  apply in this instance.               Furthermore,  the Court exercises its discretion by refraining from imposing permissive  sanctions under Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.030. This decision is due  to a lack of sufficient evidence of any misuses of the discovery process by the  parties.                Consequently,  Defendants’ Request for Monetary Sanctions is DENIED.   CONCLUSION   Defendant’s  Motion to Compel Further Responses to Request for Production of Documents, Set  One, is GRANTED IN PART.    Defendant’s  Request for Monetary Sanction is DENIED.   Plaintiff  is ordered to provide supplemental responses to Request for Production of  Documents, Set One, Nos. 3, 7-39, 47-48, 50, 68, and 80-84.   Moving  party is ordered to provide notice of this order.