  Case Number:  22STCV03806    Hearing Date:   September 6, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     September 6, 2024                 TRIAL DATE:
January 14, 2025
                                                           
CASE:                         Earl J. Washington et al. v. Wellington Yang, et al. 
 
CASE NO.:                 22STCV03806            
 
MOTION
FOR LEAVE TO FILE FOURTH AMENDED COMPLAINT

 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiffs Earl J.
Washington and Lola Mitsuk
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): No response on
eCourt as of 09/04/24
 
CASE
HISTORY:
·        
01/31/22: Complaint filed. 
·        
04/19/22: First Amended Complaint filed.
·        
08/30/23: Second Amended Complaint filed.
·        
03/15/24: Third Amended Complaint filed.
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
This is a landlord-tenant dispute. Plaintiffs allege that
Defendants have engaged in an ongoing campaign of harassment against them.
Plaintiffs assert claims for harassment, invasion of privacy, breach of
contract, negligence, and intentional infliction of emotional distress.
 
Plaintiffs move for leave to
file a Fourth Amended Complaint.         
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
            Plaintiffs’
Motion for Leave to File a Fourth Amended Complaint is GRANTED. 
 
            Plaintiffs
are ordered to file and serve a clean standalone copy of the Fourth Amended
Complaint within 10 days of this order. 
 
            Discovery
cutoffs shall be calculated based on the current trial date of January 14, 2025
for (1) allegations which were added in the Second Amended Complaint, pursuant
to the Court’s August 30, 2023 and March 1, 2024 Minute Orders, (2) for
allegations added in the Third Amended Complaint, pursuant to the Court’s March
14, 2024 Minute Order, and (3) for new allegations added in the Fourth Amended
Complaint. All other discovery shall remain closed. 
 
DISCUSSION:
 
            Plaintiff
moves for leave to file a Fourth Amended Complaint. 
 
Legal Standard
 
The Court may, “at any time before
or after commencement of trial, in the furtherance of justice, and upon such
terms as may be proper, . . . allow the amendment of any pleading.” (Code Civ.
Proc. § 576.) A motion to amend a pleading before trial must meet the following
requirements:
 
(a)
Contents of motion
 
A
motion to amend a pleading before trial must:
 
(1)
Include a copy of the proposed amendment or amended pleading, which must be
serially numbered to differentiate it from previous pleadings or amendments;
 
(2)
State what allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to be deleted, if
any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the deleted allegations
are located; and
 
(3)
State what allegations are proposed to be added to the previous pleading, if
any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the additional allegations
are located.
 
(b)
Supporting declaration
 
A
separate declaration must accompany the motion and must specify:
 
(1)
The effect of the amendment;
 
(2)
Why the amendment is necessary and proper;
 
(3)
When the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered; and
 
(4)
The reasons why the request for amendment was not made earlier.
 
(CRC 3.1324.)
Contents of
Motion
 
Plaintiffs included a clean copy of
the proposed Fourth Amended Complaint as required by Rule of Court
3.1324(a)(1). (Plaintiffs’ Exh. A.) Plaintiffs’ motion does not state which
allegations are proposed to be added or deleted by page, paragraph, and line
number, but Plaintiffs have also provided a redlined copy of the proposed Fourth
Amended Complaint which provides that information as required by subdivisions
(a)(2) and (a)(3). (Plaintiffs’ Exh. B.) The Court therefore finds that
Plaintiffs have substantially complied with the requirements of Rule 3.1324(a).
 
Supporting Declaration
 
The Declaration of Earl J.
Washington in support of the motion states that the effect of the proposed
amendment, as required by Rule 3.1324(b)(1), is to add nine additional
Defendants to this litigation who are subsequent purchasers of the property in
which Plaintiffs reside, to add allegations concerning these Defendants as
successors in interest to the current Defendants. (Declaration of Earl J.
Washington ISO Mot. ¶ 6.) Plaintiffs also seek to add new allegations and new
causes of action for violation of the Unruh Civil Rights Act, the Fair
Employment and Housing Act, and the Unfair Competition Law arising from the new
Defendants’ conduct since their purchase of the property, with accompanying
prayers for relief. (Id.) The Declaration states that the amendments are
necessary and proper, pursuant to subdivision (b)(2), because they identify
successors in interest and set forth allegations concerning subsequent conduct
related to the claims already at issue. (Id. ¶ 7.) The declaration states
that these facts were discovered by Plaintiffs on July 2, 2024, when Plaintiff
Washington learned the new entities’ plans concerning renovations to the common
areas of the property. (Washington Decl. ¶ 9.) This statement addresses
subdivision (b)(3) on its face and explains why this motion was not made
earlier, as required by subdivision (b)(4). Thus, the supporting Declaration demonstrates
compliance with Rule 3.1324(b).
 
Limitations on Discovery
 
            When
previous amendments to the pleadings were sought, the Court authorized
amendments subject to the limitation that discovery would remain closed as to
all allegations which predated the Second Amended Complaint. (See August 30,
2023 Minute Order.) All allegations from the Second Amended Complaint onward
would be subject to the January 14, 2025 trial date for calculation of
discovery deadlines. (See March 1, 2024 Minute Order.) Although the current
Defendants have not responded to this motion, the Court finds, based on the
history of this case, that it is appropriate to retain these limitations going
forward. 
 
CONCLUSION:
 
            Accordingly,
Plaintiffs’ Motion for Leave to File a Fourth Amended Complaint is GRANTED. 
 
            Plaintiffs
are ordered to file and serve a clean standalone copy of the Fourth Amended
Complaint within 10 days of this order. 
 
            Discovery
cutoffs shall be calculated based on the current trial date of January 14, 2025
for (1) allegations which were added in the Second Amended Complaint, pursuant
to the Court’s August 30, 2023 and March 1, 2024 Minute Orders, (2) for
allegations added in the Third Amended Complaint, pursuant to the Court’s March
14, 2024 Minute Order, and (3) for new allegations added in the Fourth Amended
Complaint. All other discovery shall remain closed. 
 
            Moving
parties to give notice. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  September 6,
2024                             ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 