 Case Number:  23STCV11095    Hearing Date:   September 6, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     September 6, 2024                 TRIAL DATE:
NOT SET
                                                           
CASE:                         Ana Pineda Aragon v. Ford Motor Co.
 
CASE NO.:                 23STCV11095            
 
MOTION
FOR PROTECTIVE ORDER

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant Ford Motor Co.
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiff Ana
Pineda Aragon
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is a lemon law action filed on May 16, 2023.  Plaintiff alleges that she purchased a 2017
Ford Escape which subsequently manifested unspecified defects. 
 
Defendant moves for a protective
order regarding the use and disclosure of certain materials. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Defendant’s Motion for Protective Order is GRANTED IN PART to the extent
described herein. 
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Defendant moves for a protective
order regarding the use and disclosure of certain materials. 
 
Legal Standard
 
Defendant’s motion is brought under Code of Civil Procedure
section 2031.060, which provides, in relevant part: 
 
(a) When an
inspection, copying, testing, or sampling of documents, tangible things,
places, or electronically stored information has been demanded, the party to
whom the demand has been directed, and any other party or affected person, may
promptly move for a protective order. This motion shall be accompanied by a
meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040. 
 
(b) The
court, for good cause shown, may make any order that justice requires to
protect any party or other person from unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment, or
oppression, or undue burden and expense. This protective order may include, but
is not limited to, one or more of the following directions: 
 
(1) That
all or some of the items or categories of items in the demand need not be
produced or made available at all. 
 
(2) That
the time specified in Section 2030.260 to respond to the set of demands, or to
a particular item or category in the set, be extended. 
 
(3) That
the place of production be other than that specified in the demand. 
 
(4) That
the inspection, copying, testing, or sampling be made only on specified terms
and conditions. 
 
(5) That a
trade secret or other confidential research, development, or commercial
information not be disclosed,
or be disclosed only to specified persons or
only in a specified way. 
 
(6) That
the items produced be sealed and thereafter opened only on order of the court. 
 
(Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.060(a)-(b).) 
 
Meet and Confer
 
            Before
filing a motion for a protective order, Defendant is required to file a
declaration stating its efforts to meet and confer with the opposing party to
resolve this dispute, showing a “reasonable and good faith attempt” to resolve
informally the issues presented by the motion before filing the motion. (Code
Civ. Proc. § 2016.040.)
 
            Defendant
has not filed a declaration which speaks to its efforts to informally resolve
this dispute with Plaintiff. Defendant has therefore failed to comply with its
statutory meet-and-confer obligations. Nevertheless, the Court will address the
motion on its merits to facilitate a speedy resolution of this dispute. 
 
Timing of Motion
 
            Plaintiff
objects to this motion as untimely. 
            Code of
Civil Procedure section 2031.060(a) states that a party may “promptly” move for
a protective order. The statute provides no specific window when such a motion
may be brought. Moreover, contrary to Plaintiff’s assertion, none of the
statutes which authorize protective orders require that a motion be made before
the expiration of the time required for a response. (Code Civ. Proc. §§
2030.090(a); 2031.060(a); 2025.420(a).) Plaintiff’s citation to Willis v.
Superior Court is not on point, as the footnote cited discusses the time to
object to discovery requests on the based on privacy interests, not the proper
timing to seek a protective order regarding the handling of confidential
information. (Willis v. Superior Court (1980) 112 Cal.App.3d 277, 289
n.5.) Plaintiff contends that the motion is not timely because Plaintiff served
discovery requests on Defendant on October 11, 2023, with responses provided on
November 28, 2023, and verifications on January 24, 2024. (Declaration of David
Polyakov ISO Mot. ¶¶ 2-4.) Plaintiff contends that Defendant was dilatory in
seeking this protective order by failing to bring the motion until June 27,
2024. The Court is not persuaded that Defendant’s motion should be denied on
this basis where the statute imposes no clear deadline and Plaintiff has made
no showing of prejudice by the delay.
 
Analysis
 
            Defendant
requests that the Court impose a protective order regarding the use and
disclosure of select documents which, according to Defendant, contain sensitive,
confidential information and trade secrets. During discovery, Defendant agreed
to produce its Warranty Policy & Procedure Manual, its Customer
Relationship Center Policies and Procedures, and its Reacquired Vehicle Policy
and Procedures. (Declaration of David Polyakov ISO Mot. ¶ 5.) Defendant
contends that these materials contain confidential, proprietary, or trade
secret information and materials. (Declaration of Jacob Doss ISO Mot. ¶¶ 9-12.)
To that end, Defendant requests that the Court issue a protective order,
derived from the Los Angeles Superior Court Model Protective Order, with modifications
to Paragraphs 7, 8, and 21. 
 
With
respect to Paragraph 7, Defendant’s revisions clarify that “affiliated attorneys” mean
attorneys in the same firm and provide that Plaintiff’s counsel’s office
personnel who have access to Defendant’s confidential documents must sign
Exhibit A. (See Polkyakov Decl. Exh. B.) Defendant also proposes a revision to sub-section (d) to
include videographers and litigation support companies (along with court
reporters), who may have access to Defendant’s confidential documents by virtue
of their retention in a case. (Id.) Defendant removed sub-section (f),
which permitted mock jurors to access Defendant’s confidential documents
because Defendant has no ability to identify such persons or ensure (or
confirm) their compliance. (Id.) Defendant also revised sub-section (g)
to include non-attorneys with experts, and to provide that Defendant’s
confidential documents may not be shown to competitors of Defendant. (Id.) Defendant contends that these
measures are necessary to limit the risk of unauthorized access to confidential
materials and establish records of compliance with the protective order. (Declaration
of Jacob Doss ISO Mot. ¶¶ 9-12.) 
 
Plaintiff opposes Defendant’s proposed revisions to this
paragraph on the basis that they are unnecessary and overly burdensome, arguing
that restricting access to confidential documents to attorneys within the same
firm is unnecessary, as are disclosure limitations to mock juries, as mock
juries under the Model Protective Order must sign a certification, thereby
ensuring their accountability. The Court is not persuaded by Plaintiff’s
arguments in opposition to these revisions. Clarification of the term “affiliated
attorneys” and exclusion of mock jurors from accessing confidential documents
do not, on their face, impose an undue burden on Plaintiff, and Defendant has
demonstrated the appropriateness of such measures to protect its confidential
and proprietary information. 
 
More persuasively, Plaintiff argues that a requirement that
all employees in Plaintiff’s counsel’s office must sign Exhibit A is
unnecessary and unduly burdensome. The Court concurs: under the Model Order, the
signature of Plaintiff’s counsel binds counsel, the firm, and its employees.
Requiring additional signatures of other employees merely imposes a heavier
administrative burden to no appreciable benefit. Further, given that all
documents document produced pursuant to the protective order are to be marked
with “Confidential” on each page, there is little risk that members or staff of
Plaintiff’s law firm will lose sight of the protected status of these documents
in the absence of individually signed affidavits.  
 
Moving onto Paragraph 8, Defendant’s revisions provide that the
receiving party may not post Defendant’s confidential documents to any website
or advertise Defendant’s documents for sale. (Polyakov Decl. Exh. B.) Defendant
contends that these provisions are reasonable and necessary to protect Ford’s
documents from improper dissemination. (Doss Decl. ¶¶ 9-12.)  Plaintiff argues that these revisions are
unnecessary, as the Model Protective Order strictly limits the use of these
materials to the litigation process. The Court does not share Plaintiff’s view.
An express prohibition against the posting or sale of Defendant’s confidential
documents on a website or internet-accessible repository forecloses a major
potential avenue for dissemination of Defendant’s confidential information and
imposes no burden on Plaintiff’s use of these materials in furtherance of this
action. 
 
Finally, with respect to Paragraph 21, Defendant’s revisions clarify the process for
Plaintiff’s counsel to return or destroy Defendant’s confidential documents at
the conclusion of the case and require that all of Defendant’s confidential
documents be returned or destroyed within 30 days of the case’s conclusion.
(Polyakov Decl. Exh. B.)  Defendant
argues that its proposals do not inhibit Plaintiff’s ability to litigate this
matter in any way because it continues to allow for disclosure to counsel for
use in this case and are necessary given Defendant’s interest in protecting its
confidential business and trade-secret information from unfettered disclosure. (See
Doss Decl. ¶¶ 9-12.) Plaintiff opposes this modification on the ground that
Plaintiff’s counsel should be permitted to retain a complete copy of the case
file subject to the protective order, as there is no risk of harm to Defendant.
The Court disagrees. The proposed modification provides a clear and enforceable
timeline for protection of Defendant’s confidential information at the
conclusion of the case. 
 
The Court therefore finds good cause for the issuance of a
protective order as proposed by Defendant, with the exception of the
requirement that each member of Plaintiff’s counsel’s office personnel sign the
certification attached as Exhibit A to the proposed order. 
 
CONCLUSION:

 
Accordingly, Defendant’s Motion for Protective Order is GRANTED IN PART to the extent
described herein. 
 
Moving Party to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  September 6,
2024                             ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 