  Case Number:  21SMCV00498    Hearing Date:   January 4, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


January
  4, 2024




CASE NUMBER


21SMCV00498




MOTION


Motion
  for Summary Adjudication




MOVING PARTY


Plaintiff
  Myriad Pictures, Inc.




OPPOSING PARTIES


1.  Defendants Infinity Films Holdings, LLC;
  Michael Ohoven; and Brandon Farm, LLC; 
 
2.  Defendants Jake Seal, PVS Studios, LLC, and
  Orwo Film Distribution, LLC;
 
3.  Independent Frame, LLC



 
MOVING PAPERS:
 

Notice
     of Motion and Motion for Summary Adjudication; Memorandum of Points and
     Authorities
Declaration
     of Kirk D’Amico
Declaration
     of Robert Paredes 
Notice
     of Lodging Exhibit 5, Exhibit 10, and Exhibit 14 conditionally under seal[1]
Request
     for Judicial Notice
Separate
     Statement of Undisputed Material Facts in Support of Motion for Summary Adjudication

 
OPPOSITION PAPERS:
 
            Defendants
Infinity Films Holdings, LLC; Michael Ohoven; and Brandon Farm, LLC
 

Opposition
     to Motion for Summary Adjudication; 
Declaration
     of Michael Ohoven
Separate
     Statement of Undisputed Material Facts in Opposition to Motion for Summary
     Adjudication

 
Defendants
Jack Seal, PVS Studios, LLC and Orwo Films Distribution, LLC [2]
 

Opposition
     to Motion for Summary Adjudication
Declaration
     of Jake Seal
Request
     for Judicial Notice

 
Defendant Independent Frame, LLC
 

Opposition
     to Motion for Summary Adjudication; 
Objection
     to Evidence
Declaration
     of Dawn N. Valentine
Request
     for Judicial Notice
Separate
     Statement of Undisputed Material Facts in Opposition to Motion for Summary
     Adjudication

                     
REPLY PAPERS:
 

Consolidated
     Reply in support of Plaintiff’s Motion for Summary Adjudication
Supplemental
     Declaration of Robert Paredes
Declaration
     of Kevin Forester
Notice
     of Lodging Exhibit 15 and Exhibit 16 conditionally under seal[3]
Declaration
     of Brandon M. Tesser 

 
BACKGROUND
 
This case arises from a dispute concerning the production and
distribution of the fourth movie in the “Jeepers Creepers” movie
franchise.  Plaintiff Myriad Pictures,
Inc. (“Plaintiff”) moves for summary adjudication on the single issue of
whether Defendants Infinity Films Holdings, LLC (“Infinity”) and Brandon Farm, LLC
(“Brandon”) owed a contractual duty to Plaintiff of the right of first
negotiation and last refusal to be the exclusive sales representative on
projects Infinity and Brandon control which are based on the “Jeepers Creepers”
motion picture franchise.  
 
Oppositions were filed on behalf of three groups of Defendants: (1)
Infinity, Brandon, and Defendant Michael Ohoven (“Ohoven”); (2) Defendants Jake
Seal (“Seal”), PVS Studios, LLC (“PVS”), and Orwo Film Distribution, LLC
(“Orwo”); and (3) Independent Frame, LLC (“Independent”).  Plaintiff has filed a consolidated reply.
 
LEGAL STANDARDS – SUMMARY ADJUDICATION
 
“[T]he party moving for
summary judgment bears the burden of persuasion that there is no triable issue
of material fact and that he is entitled to judgment as a matter of law[.]
There is a triable issue of material fact if, and only if, the evidence would
allow a reasonable trier of fact to find the underlying fact in favor of the
party opposing the motion in accordance with the applicable standard of proof.”
¿(Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850
(hereafter Aguilar).) ¿“[T]he party moving for summary judgment bears an
initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing of the nonexistence
of any triable issue of material fact; if he carries his burden of production,
he causes a shift, and the opposing party is then subjected to a burden of
production of his own to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a
triable issue of material fact.” ¿(Ibid.; Smith v. Wells Fargo Bank,
N.A. (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 1463, 1474 [summary judgment standards held by Aguilar
apply to summary adjudication motions].)  
 
Further, “the trial court
may not weigh the evidence in the manner of a factfinder to determine whose
version is more likely true.  Nor may the
trial court grant summary judgment based on the court's evaluation of credibility.”  (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th. at p. 840
[cleaned up]; see also Weiss v. People ex rel. Department of Transportation
(2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts deciding motions for summary judgment or
summary adjudication may not weigh the evidence but must instead view it in the
light most favorable to the opposing party and draw all reasonable inferences
in favor of that party”].)  
 
A party may move for
summary adjudication as to one or more causes of action, affirmative defenses,
claims for damages, or issues of duty if that party contends that there is no
merit to the cause of action, defense, or claim for damages, or if the party
contends that there is no duty owed.  (See Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(1).)  “A motion for summary adjudication shall be
granted only if it completely disposes of a cause of action, an affirmative
defense, a claim for damages, or an issue of duty.”  (Ibid.)  A cause of action has no merit if: (1) one or
more elements of the cause of action cannot be separately established, even if
that element is separately pleaded, or (2) a defendant establishes an
affirmative defense to that cause of action. 
(See Code Civ. Proc., §
437c, subd. (n); Union Bank v. Superior
Court (1995) 31 Cal.App.4th 573, 583.) 
Once the defendant has shown that a cause of action has no merit, the
burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a triable issue of material fact
exists as to that cause of action.  (See Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (o)(2); Union Bank v. Superior Court, supra, 31 Cal.App.4th at p.
583.)  Additionally, in line with Aguilar,
“[o]n a motion for summary adjudication, the trial court has no discretion to
exercise.  If a triable issue of material fact exists as to the challenged
causes of action, the motion must be denied. If there is no triable issue of
fact, the motion must be granted.”  (Fisherman's Wharf Bay Cruise Corp.
v. Superior Court (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 309, 320.) 
 
EVIDENCE
            
            Myriad Pictures’ Request for Judicial Notice
 
            Plaintiff
requests the Court take judicial notice of the January 12, 2022 Notice of
Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings.  
 
Judicial notice may properly
be taken of records of any court in this state. 
(Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (d)(1).) 
However, “while courts are free to take judicial notice of the existence
of each document in a court file, including the truth of results reached, they
may not take judicial notice of the truth of hearsay statements in decisions
and court files.  Courts may not take
judicial notice of allegations in affidavits, declarations and probation
reports in court records because such matters are reasonably subject to dispute
and therefore require formal proof.”  (Lockley
v. Law Office of Cantrell, Green, Pekich, Cruz & McCort (2001) 91
Cal.App.4th 875, 882 [cleaned up].)  
 
Accordingly, the Court takes
judicial notice of the existence of the January 12, 2022 Notice of Motion for
Judgment on the Pleadings, but not the truth of the allegations or arguments contained
therein.
 
            Defendants Jack Seal’s, PVS Studios’,
and Orwo Film’s Request for Judicial Notice
 
Defendants Jack Seal (“Seal”), PVS Studios, LLC (“PVS”), and Orwo Film
Distribution, LLC (“Orwo”) (collectively, the “Seal Defendants”) request the
Court to take judicial notice of the U.S. Trademark registration of Jeepers
Creepers, November 19, 2023, and as renewed thereafter.
 
Evidence Code section 452, subdivision (c) permits courts to take
judicial notice of “Official acts of the legislative, executive, and judicial
departments of the United States and of any state of the United States.”  However, “materials prepared by private
parties and merely on file with the state agencies” may not be properly
judicially noticed as an official act of a legislative, executive, or judicial
department of the United States or any state of the United States.  (People v. Thacker (1985) 175 Cal.App.3d
594, 598.)
 
Because the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office must approve
registrations before they become active, the Court therefore takes judicial
notice of the U.S. Trademark registration of Jeepers Creepers, and the legal
effect thereof, as an official act of the executive department of the United
States, pursuant to Evidence Code section 452, subdivision (c) and as a fact
confirmable from a source of reasonably indisputable accuracy, pursuant to subdivision
(h).  
 
Defendant Independent Frame’s Request for Judicial Notice
 
Independent requests the Court to take judicial notice of the
California Secretary of State website, indicating that Scoundrel Media, LLC was
suspended by and is not in good standing with both the Secretary of State and
Franchise Tax Board and has been inactive since May 9, 2018.  
 
Official notices, statements, and certificates made by the Secretary
of State and by the Franchise Tax Board are properly the subject of judicial
notice as documents reflecting official acts of the executive department of the
State of California pursuant to Evidence Code section 452, subdivision
(c).  (Friends of Shingle Springs
Interchange, Inc. v. County of El Dorado (2011) 200 Cal.App.4th 1470,
1483–1484.)            However, “materials
prepared by private parties and merely on file with the state agencies” may not
be properly judicially noticed as an official act of a legislative, executive,
or judicial department of the United States or any state of the United
States.  (People v. Thacker, supra,
175 Cal.App.3d at p. 598.)
 
            Here,
Independent requests the Court take judicial notice of the Secretary of State
website listing the entity’s status as suspended with the Secretary of
State and Franchise Tax Board, with an
inactive date of May 9, 2018, which constitutes an act of the executive
department of the State of California, and is therefore properly the subject of
judicial notice.
 
            Therefore,
the Court grants Independent’s request and takes judicial notice of the
Secretary of State’s website entry for Scoundrel Media, LLC.
 
            Independent’s Evidentiary Objection
 
            The
Court rules as follows with respect to Independent’s evidentiary objection to
Plaintiff’s evidence:  Overruled.
 
DISCUSSION
 
“[T]he concept of duty in
contract law may refer both to an overall contractual obligation or to a
requirement of performance under an agreement,” and “[t]he existence and scope
of a duty is a question of law for the court.”) 
(Linden Partners v. Wilshire Linden Associates (1998) 62
Cal.App.4th 508, 518, citation omitted.) 
Further, “[i]f, under the facts and circumstances of a given case, a
court finds it appropriate to determine the existence or non-existence of a
duty in the nature of a contractual obligation, it may properly do so by a
ruling on that issue presented by a motion for summary adjudication.”  (Id. at p. 519.)  
 
A.               
PLAINTIFF’S
EVIDENCE
 
Plaintiff has produced a copy
of the February 16, 2017 Term Sheet between Scoundrel Media LLC (“Scoundrel”)
on the one hand and Infinity and Brandon on the other hand, indicating:
 
In the
event Producer is [sic] controls the right to any subsequent productions,
Scoundrel shall be provided a right of first negotiation and last refusal
consistent with the October 24, 2001 agreements as between Myriad Pictures,
Inc. and Independent Frame LLC to act as the exclusive sales representative in
the Territory with respect to the exploitation of any subsequent productions
based upon the Picture (e.g., sequel, prequel, remake, spinoff, and/or
television series rights) to be a “rolling right” (as such term is customarily
used in the entertainment industry).  
 
Notwithstanding
the above, Myriad Picture’s ongoing rights to subsequent productions shall
remain in effect in accordance with the October 24, 2001 agreements as between
Myriad Pictures, Inc. and Independent Frame LLC.
 
(D’Amico Decl. ¶ 2 and Ex. A, ¶ 13.)
 
            Plaintiff
has also produced a copy of the December 18, 2018 Assignment of Scoundrel’s
rights under the Term Sheet from Scoundrel to Myriad.  (See D’Amico Decl. ¶ 2 and Ex. B.)
 
            Plaintiff
has further produced a copy of email correspondence from Michael Ohoven at
Infinity to Kirk D’Amico of Myriad, indicating “Please see attached offer I
received for the next two Jeepers.  I
didn’t have the chance to review our agreement with you thoroughly yet but I
know you always have matching rights.” 
(D’Amico Decl. ¶ 3 and Ex. C.)
 
            Plaintiff
has also produced a copy of a letter from the Law Offices of Lee Sacks, on
behalf of Infinity, to Mr. D’Amico, on behalf of Myriad, indicating, “This
letter is provided to Myriad Pictures (“Myriad”) in connection with Myriad’s
right of First Negotiation and last refusal to act as the exclusive sales
representative of any subsequent productions based upon Jeepers Creepers 3
(“the Picture”) as set forth in the Term Sheet [….]”  (D’Amico Decl. ¶ 4 and Ex. D.)  Attached to the Letter is a copy of Orwo’s
offer to market, sell and distribute Jeepers Creepers 4 & 5 (defined in the
letter as “Subsequent Productions”) and a copy of the script and deck synopsis for
Jeepers Creepers 4 “Reborn.”  (Ibid.)  The letter further indicates:  “The foregoing information and attachments
are adequate information for Myriad to assess whether it intends to exercise
its right of last refusal to act as the exclusive sales representative for
Jeepers Creepers 4.”  (Ibid.)
 
            Plaintiff has also attached as
exhibits to the Paredes declaration, various correspondences indicating that Infinity
did not want Myriad promoting the film, and proposing strategies to “deal with”
Myriad to “go away.”
 
Thus, the Court finds
that Plaintiff has met its burdens of production and persuasion to show there
is no triable issue of material fact that Infinity and
Brandon owed a contractual duty to Plaintiff of the right of first negotiation
and last refusal to be the exclusive sales representative on projects Infinity
and Brandon control which are based on the “Jeepers Creepers” motion picture
franchise.  Accordingly, the burden
of production shifts to Defendants to create a triable issue of material fact
as to whether a contractual duty exists between Plaintiff, Infinity and
Brandon.  
 
B.                
DEFENDANTS’
EVIDENCE
 
Defendants Infinity, Brandon,
and Ohoven have provided the declaration of Michael Ohoven, which indicates as
follows:  
 
a. Scoundrel, had a "right of first
negotiation and last refusal consistent with the October 24, 2001, agreement
between Myriad Pictures, Inc., and Independent Frame ("IFL
Agreement"), to act as the exclusive sales representative in the Territory
with respect to the exploitation of any subsequent productions based upon the
Picture .... " 
 
b. Further, at or about the time I executed the
proposed Scoundrel Term Sheet, Mr. D'Amico provided me with a copy of a Term
Sheet for Exclusive Sales Representation between Plaintiff and Odyssey Media
Releasing (US) Inc. (the "Odyssey Term Sheet") which did provide for
the first right of negotiation and last right of refusal to Myriad, which was a
party to the IFL Agreement. Again, Mr. D' Amico falsely, or negligently,
represented to me that Scoundrel, had the same rights as Myriad under the IFL
Agreement. Mr. D'Amico asked me to include the same language in the proposed
Scoundrel Term Sheet, as appeared in the Odyssey Term Sheet. I agreed to do so
only because I have known, and trusted, Mr. D' Amico for many years and
accepted his representation.  
 
c. Mr. D' Amico, either intentionally or by
negligent omission, failed to provide me with a copy of the IFL Agreement. Had
I been provided with a copy of the IFL Agreement, I would have ascertained that
Scoundrel was not a party to the IFL Agreement and would not have agreed to
provide Scoundrel with the rights of the first negotiation and last
refusal.  
 
d. Although, I executed the proposed Scoundrel
Term Sheet on or about February 16, 2017, I later learned the representation by
Mr. D'Amico set forth above was false. In fact, Scoundrel was not a party to
the IFL Agreement and did not have the rights of first negotiation and last
refusal referenced above. 
 
e. All of the correspondence, e-mails and
communications that I sent to Mr. D' Amico, the other Defendants in this
litigation and third parties concerning the purported rights of first  negotiation and last refusal held by
Scoundrel pursuant to the proposed Scoundrel Term Sheet were based upon the
false, and/or negligent, representation of Mr. D' Amico referenced above. Had I
been provided with the IFL Agreement, I would have ascertained that such
rights, to the extent such rights existed as of the execution of the Scoundrel
Term Sheet, were held by Myriad (and not Scoundrel) and those rights were
conditioned upon the satisfaction of numerous factors, which based upon
information subsequently provided to me, were not satisfied.
 
f.  The
Assignment Agreement dated December 18, 2018 (the “Effective Date”) attached as
Exhibit “B” to the D’Amico Declaration purported drafted ten (10) months after
I executed the Scoundrel Term Sheet, confirmed that Scoundrel, did not have the
rights of first right of negotiation and last right of refusal referenced
above.  Once again, D’Amico chose not to
provide me with a copy of the Assignment Agreement, either intentionally or by
negligent omission.  Consequently, I did
not accept the Assignment Agreement.  As
a result, in my view IFH and BF never formed a contractual relationship with
Myriad or Scoundrel.  I am also informed
by IFL that the proposed Scoundrel Term Sheet or the Assignment Agreement, were
not provided to, nor approved by, IFL.
 
g.  Had I
been provided with the IFL Agreement, I, or my counsel, would have noticed that
Scoundrel did not have the first and last rights under the IFL Agreement and I
would not have included that language in the proposed Scoundrel Term Sheet for
Scoundrel to serve as the Sales Representative for the Picture, nor would I
have written any communications or correspondence to Plaintiff or anyone
involved with the Picture confirming Scoundrel’s “purported rights of first and
last negotiation.”  
 
(Ohoven Decl. ¶¶ a-g.)
 
            Therefore, Infinity, Brandon, and
Ohoven have produced evidence that Mr. D’Amico made a material
misrepresentation to Mr. Ohoven, either intentionally or negligently, that may
have fraudulently induced Mr. Ohoven to include the first right of negotiation
and last right of refusal term in the Scoundrel Term Sheet.  They have also produced evidence casting
doubt on the validity of the Assignment of rights from Scoundrel to
Plaintiff.  As such, disputed issues of
material fact concerning the validity of both the Term Sheet and the Assignment
preclude the Court from granting Plaintiff’s motion for summary adjudication.
 
            Independent has also provided an
excerpt from Mr. D’Amico’s deposition testimony indicating that Scoundrel was
never a party to the October 24, 2001 agreement, nor were the rights under that
agreement ever subsequently assigned to Scoundrel, which corroborates the
Ohoven declaration.  (See Valentine Decl.
¶ 2 and Ex. B.)
 
            Furthermore, Independent has
provided additional evidence, through its request for judicial notice, indicating
that Scoundrel had been an inactive entity for over seven months when it
entered into the December 18, 2018 Assignment agreement.  Therefore, Independent has created an
additional disputed issue of material fact with regard to the validity of the
Assignment.
 
C.               
PLAINTIFF’S
REPLY EVIDENCE
 
Plaintiff argue in reply that
the only evidence offered in opposition to the motion are “self-serving”
declarations that contradict deposition testimony and other documents submitted
in support of the Motion.  The Court
disagrees.  The Ohoven declaration
provides sufficient detail of outside facts, including about the October 24,
2001 Agreement, and is corroborated by the D’Amico deposition testimony excerpt
provided by Independent to elevate it beyond a mere sham affidavit.  Thus, whether and the extent to which Mr.
Ohoven’s declaratory narrative can ultimately be reconciled with the totality
of the deposition testimony and correspondence evidence is an issue for the
trier of fact to resolve.  Moreover,
Scoundrel’s inactive date on the Secretary of State website is additional
non-declaratory evidence that creates a genuine issue of material fact
regarding the validity of the Assignment agreement.
 
            Plaintiff
also provides additional evidence, exhibits purportedly filed conditionally
under seal, in support of the Reply.  The
Court declines to consider that evidence as Defendants have not had an
opportunity to respond.  (San Diego
Watercrafts, Inc. v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2002) 102 Cal.App.4th 308, 316
[“Where a remedy as drastic as summary judgment is involved, due process
requires a party be fully advised of the issues to be addressed and be given
adequate notice of what facts it must rebut in order to prevail”]; see also Wall
Street Network Ltd. v. New York Times Co. (2008) 164 Cal.App.4th
1171.)  
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER 
 
            Considering
the competent evidence proffered by Plaintiff and Defendants, and viewing said
evidence most favorably to Defendants, the Court finds that genuine issues of
material fact preclude granting Plaintiff’s motion for summary
adjudication.  Specifically, the Court
finds that there exists factual issues related to whether Infinity and
Brandon owed a contractual duty to Plaintiff of the right of first negotiation
and last refusal to be the exclusive sales representative on projects Infinity
and Brandon control which are based on the “Jeepers Creepers” motion picture
franchise.  Consequently, the Court
cannot determine as a matter of law that Plaintiff was owed a contractual duty
as argued.
 
Therefore, the Court denies Plaintiff’s
motion for summary adjudication.  The
Court orders Plaintiff to give notice of the Court’s ruling, and to file a proof
of service of such.   
 
 
 
 
DATED:
January 4, 2024                                                       ___________________________
Michael E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court
 


