 Case Number:  22SMCV01839    Hearing Date:   January 4, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING
 
DEPARTMENT         207
HEARING DATE      January 4,
2024
CASE NUMBER       22SMCV10839
MOTION                    Motion
to Set Aside/Vacate Default
MOVING PARTIES  Defendants
Insight Multi-Strategy U.S. Partners, LLC; Insight Advisors, LLC; and Michael
Tito
OPPOSING PARTY  Plaintiff
Suzanne Tito
 
 
BACKGROUND
 
Defendants Insight Multi-Strategy U.S. Partners, LLC; Insight
Advisors, LLC; and Michael Tito (“Defendants”) move to set aside the default
entered against them on July 7, 2023.   
 
The Court twice previously continued the hearing on Plaintiff Suzanne
Tito’s (“Plaintiff”) October 5, 2023 Request for Default Judgment based on Defense
Counsel’s representations that a Motion to Set Aside the defaults was
forthcoming.  (See October 7, 2023 and
November 13, 2023 Minute Orders.)  On
November 13, the Court advanced the hearing on the Request for Default Judgment
and forthcoming Motion to Set Aside to January 4, and instructed Defendants to
file their Motion to Set Aside by December 7, indicating that if no motion to
set aside was filed by that date, the Court is inclined to grant Plaintiff’s
request for Default Judgment.  (See
November 13, 2023 Minute Order.)
 
Defendants served their Motion to Set Aside on Plaintiff on December
7, but did not actually file the motion with the Court until December 20.  Based on the file stamps, approximately three
and one half hours after Defendants filed the motion with the Court, Plaintiff
filed an opposition, indicating that Defendants had missed their December 7
deadline and that no motion appeared on the docket as of the time Plaintiff
filed the opposition.
 
LEGAL
STANDARD – SECTION 473 RELIEF
 
            Code of Civil procedure section 473
“includes a discretionary provision, which applies permissively, and a
mandatory provision, which applies as of right.” (Minick v. City of Petaluma
(2016) 3 Cal.App.5th 15, 25 (hereafter Minick).)  “Section 473 is a remedial statute to be
“applied liberally” in favor of relief if the opposing party will not suffer
prejudice.  Because the law strongly
favors trial and disposition on the merits, any doubts in applying section 473
must be resolved in favor of the party seeking relief from default.  Unless inexcusable neglect is clear, the
policy favoring trial on the merits prevails.” 
(Minick, supra, 3 Cal.App.5th at p. 24 [cleaned up].)  
 
The party or the legal
representative must seek such relief “within a reasonable time, in no case
exceeding six months, after the judgment, dismissal, order, or proceeding was
taken.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (b); see Rappleyea v. Campbell (1994) 8 Cal.4th 975, 980 [“because more than
six months had elapsed from the entry of default, and hence relief under
section 473 was unavailable”]; People v.
The North River Ins. Co. (2011) 200 Ca.App.4th 712, 721 [motion
for relief under section 473 must be brought “within a reasonable time, in no
case exceeding six months”]).  “The
six-month limit is mandatory; a court has no authority to grant relief under
section 473, subdivision (b), unless an application is made within the
six-month period.”  (Arambula v. Union Carbide Corp. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 333, 340,
citations omitted.)  
 
1.      DISCRETIONARY RELIEF
 
Per Code of Civil Procedure
section 473, subdivision (b), a court may “relieve a party or his or her legal
representative from a judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken
against him or her through his or her mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect.” 
 
2.      MANDATORY RELIEF 
 
Notwithstanding any other requirements of this
section, the court shall, whenever an application for relief is made no more
than six months after entry of judgment, is in proper form, and is accompanied
by an attorney's sworn affidavit attesting to his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect, vacate any
(1) resulting default entered by the clerk against his or her client, and which
will result in entry of a default judgment, or (2) resulting default judgment
or dismissal entered against his or her client, unless the
court finds that the default or dismissal was not in fact caused by the
attorney's mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect.
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (b).)  “In considering whether the trial court
properly denied relief under section 473(b), the first question is the
sufficiency of defendants' showing of attorney fault, if believed, to trigger
the mandatory relief provisions of that statute.”  (Standard Microsystems Corp. v. Winbond
Electronics Corp. (2009) 179 Cal.App.4th 868, 896, disapproved on other
grounds by Even Zohar Construction & Remodeling, Inc. v. Bellaire
Townhouses, LLC (2015) 61 Cal.4th 830 (hereafter Standard).)  “Under section 473(b), a party is entitled to
relief from a default and resulting judgment whenever, on timely application
for relief, his attorney ‘attest[s] to his or her mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or neglect’ in connection with the default or the judgment.”  (Ibid.)  
 
            In Standard, counsel for the
defendants attested that he believed the service of the summons on defendants
was defective and informed defendants that they were not required to answer the
summons under the laws of the United States. 
Defense counsel also did not advise the defendants to take any
affirmative action, for example move to quash the service of the summons.  Defense counsel also indicated that he
expected to “receive notice of any application for entry of default before
default was entered so that we could respond.”  “He also acknowledged that he was responsible
for advising defendants in connection with, and preparing, the first motion for
relief from the default; that in doing so he “believed that the Court would set
aside any default because of an invalid service of process”; and that he
omitted “any argument showing that there was a ‘mistake, inadvertence, surprise,
or excusable neglect’ in WEC and Winbond Israel's motions.” Although he did not
separately point it out, he also indisputably omitted from defendants' first
motion any invocation of the mandatory relief provisions of section 473(b), and
the required showing to support such an invocation.”  (Standard, supra, 179 Cal.App.4th at
p. 897.)   
 
            After considering the record before
the trial court, the appellate court held that “Counsel's mistakes, in
contrast, entitled them to relief . . . . 
[defense counsel's] affidavit and the record as a whole overwhelmingly
established that the default and ensuing judgment were the products of attorney
fault.”  (Standard, supra, 179
Cal.App.4th at p. 900.)   
 
            Further, “[t]he court's
determination of whether the default was caused by the attorney's mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or neglect is in part a credibility determination.  Credibility is an issue for the fact finder,
we do not reweigh evidence or reassess the credibility of witnesses.. When the
evidence gives rise to conflicting reasonable inferences, one of which supports
the findings of the trial court, the trial court's finding is conclusive on
appeal.”  (Cowan v. Krayzman
(2011) 196 Cal.App.4th 907, 915 [cleaned up].) 

 
ANALYSIS
 
            Timeliness of Motion
 
            Code of Civil Procedure section
1005, subdivision (b) requires that written notice of a motion be filed and
served at least 16 court days prior to the hearing, and all oppositions to be filed
and served at least 9 court days prior to the hearing, but permits a court to
prescribe a different time for the filing and service of motions and other
related papers.
 
            On November 13, 2023, the Court
ordered Defendants to file and serve their motion to set aside the defaults on
or before December 7, 2023.  (See
November 13, 2023 Minute Order.) 
 
Although Defendants served their Motion on Plaintiff on December 7,
Defendants did not actually file the motion with the Court until December 20, a
mere 9 court days prior to the hearing.  A
few hours after Defendants filed their motion, with the motion not yet
appearing on the Court’s docket, Plaintiff timely filed an opposition, assuming,
based on the information available to Plaintiff, that Defendants had never
actually filed their motion.
 
Moreover, the notice erroneously indicates that the hearing on the
motion to set aside is scheduled for January 5, not January 4.
 
Therefore, Defendants’ motion fails to comply with Section 1005 and
the Court’s November 13, 2023 order.
 
            Merits of Motion
            
            In support of the Motion, Defendants
have provided an attorney declaration which indicates, “As the Defendant’s
[sic] attorney, I swear that the default taken against the Defendants was the
direct result of my mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect.  I apologize for this, and respectfully
request that the Court vacate the default, and allow this matter to
proceed.”  (Hakala Decl. ¶ 4.)  
 
            Whether a consequence is a result of
an attorney’s mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect is a legal
determination to be made by the Court, not a factual issue to be established by
a  conclusory declaration.  Unfortunately, Defendants’ counsel has
provided no underlying factual detail to support the legal conclusion that the
default was a result of counsel’s mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect.
 
            Therefore, in addition to the
procedural defects, Defendants have provided no substantive factual basis to
support their request to set aside the defaults or the resulting default
judgment.
 
Conclusion
 
            Defendants’ Motion to Set
Aside the Defaults entered against them on July 7, 2023 is denied without
prejudice.  Consequently, the Court will
proceed with entering the default judgment against Defendants forthwith.    
 
            The
Clerk of the Court shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling.
 
 
 
DATED: January 4, 2024                                                       ___________________________
Michael E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court
 