 Case Number:  22SMCV02713    Hearing Date:   January 4, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


January 4, 2024




CASE NUMBER


22SMCV02713




MOTION


Motion to be Relieved as Counsel




MOVING PARTY


Afshin Eftekhari




OPPOSING PARTY


(none)



 
MOTION
 
            Afshkin Efetkhari of the Law Offices
of Murphy & Eftekhari, counsel for Plaintiff, Seyed Farid Hajimirsadeghi
(“Counsel”) moves to be relieved as counsel. 
The motion is unopposed.
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 284 provides “[t]he attorney in an
action or special proceeding may be changed at any time before or after
judgment or final determination as follows: 1. Upon the consent of both client
and attorney, filed with the clerk, or entered in the minutes; 2. Upon the
order of the court, upon the application of either client or attorney, after
notice from one to the other.”
 
Procedural Requirements
 
California Rules of Court, rule 3.1362, requires:
 
(1) the motion must be made on
form MC-051; (subd. (a)); 
 
(2) it must be accompanied by
a declaration on form MC-052 stating why the motion is brought under Code of
Civil Procedure section 284(2) instead of a consent brought under section
284(1); (subd. (c));
 
(3) a proposed order on form
MC-053 must be lodged with the court, specifying all hearing dates scheduled in
the action or proceeding, including the date of trial, if known; (subd. (e));
and 
 
(4) The documents must be
served on the client and on all parties that have appeared in the case. (subd.
(d).)
 
            If the notice is served by mail or
electronic service, it must be accompanied by a declaration indicating that the
address served is the current address, or in the case of service by mail, that
it was served on the last known address and a more current address could not be
located after reasonable efforts within 30 days before filing the motion.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362(d).)  The court may delay the effective date of the
order relieving counsel until proof of service of a copy of the signed order on
the client has been filed with the court.” 
(Ibid.)  
 
Substantive Requirements
 
Rules of Professional Conduct, rule 1.16(a) outlines the reasons a
lawyer must withdraw from representation of a client:
 
(1)   the
client is bringing an action, conducting a defense, asserting a position in
litigation, or taking an appeal, without probable cause and for the purpose of
harassing or maliciously injuring any person;
 
(2)   the
representation will result in violation of the Rules of Professional Conduct or
the State Bar Act;
 
(3)   the
lawyer’s mental or physical condition renders it unreasonably difficult to
carry out the representation effectively; or
 
(4)   the
client discharges the lawyer.
 
Rules of Professional Conduct, rule 1.16(b) outlines the reasons a
lawyer may withdraw from representation of a client:
 
(1)   the
client insists upon presenting a claim or defense in litigation, or asserting a
position or making a demand in a non-litigation matter, that is not warranted
under existing law and cannot be supported by good faith argument for an
extension, modification, or reversal of existing law;
 
(2)   the
client either seeks to pursue a criminal or fraudulent course of conduct or has
used the lawyer’s services to advance a course of conduct that the lawyer
reasonably believes was a crime or fraud;
 
(3)   the
client insists that the lawyer pursue a course of conduct that is criminal or
fraudulent;
 
(4)   the
client by other conduct renders it unreasonably difficult for the lawyer to
carry out the representation effectively;
 
(5)   the
client breaches a material term of an agreement with, or obligation, to the
lawyer relating to the representation, and the lawyer has given the client a
reasonable warning after the breach that the lawyer will withdraw unless the
client fulfills the agreement or performs the obligation;
 
(6)   the
client knowingly and freely assents to termination of the representation;
 
(7)   the
inability to work with co-counsel indicates that the best interests of the
client likely will be served by withdrawal;
 
(8)   the
lawyer’s mental or physical condition renders it difficult for the lawyer to
carry out the representation effectively;
 
(9)   a
continuation of the representation is likely to result in a violation of these
rules or the State Bar Act; or
 
(10)       
the lawyer believes in good faith in a proceeding
pending before a tribunal that the tribunal will find the existence of other
good cause for withdrawal.
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Counsel has filed forms MC-051,
MC-052, and MC-053.  The attorney
declaration (MC-052) indicates that the motion was filed instead of filing a consent
because of an “Unresponsive and unreachable client.  Diligent effort has been made to locate
Client, but to no avail.  It has become
unreasonably difficult for counsel to carry out his duties to client
effectively.”  
 
Rules of Professional Conduct, rule 1.16(b)(4) permits withdrawal
where “the client by other conduct renders it unreasonably difficult for the
lawyer to carry out the representation effectively[.]”  As such, the motion is substantively proper.
 
California Rules of Court, rule 3.1362(d) requires that all documents
(MC-051; MC-052; and MC-053) be served on the client and on all parties that
have appeared in the case. “The notice may be by personal service, electronic
service, or mail.”  
 
Here, the proof of service indicates that the client and counsel for
Defendant were served with the notice of motion and motion to be relieved as
counsel, declaration in support thereof, and proposed order by mail on November
22, 2023.   Paragraph 3 of the attorney declaration
(MC-052) indicates that the motion papers were mailed to the client’s last
known address in the United Kingdom, that Counsel has been unable to confirm
that the address is current or to locate a more current address for the client
after mailing the papers to the client’s last known address, return receipt
requested, and calling the client’s last known telephone number or
numbers.  
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 1005, subdivision (b) requires that moving
and supporting papers be served and filed at least 16 court days prior to the
hearing.  Code of Civil Procedure section
1013, subdivision (a) requires that for service by mail outside the United
States, such deadline shall be extended by 20 calendar days.
 
Sixteen (16) court days prior to the January 4 hearing is December
11.  Twenty (20) calendar days prior to
December 11 is November 21.  Therefore, service
on the client in the United Kingdom on November 22, 2023 did not provide the
client with adequate statutory notice of the motion.
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
            Therefore, the Court denies the
Motion to be Relieved as Counsel without prejudice for failure to provide the
client with adequate notice as required by Code of Civil Procedure sections
1005 and 1013.  
 
            Counsel shall provide notice of the
Court’s ruling and file a proof of service regarding the same.
 
            
 
 
DATED:  January 4, 2024                              ___________________________
                                                                  Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                  Judge
of the Superior Court
 