 Case Number:  23SMCV04870    Hearing Date:   January 4, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


January 4, 2024




CASE NUMBR


23SMCV04870




APPLICATION  


Application to Be Admitted Pro Hac Vice




MOVING PARTIES


Defendants Megaport (USA), Inc. and Megaport (Australia)
  Pty Ltd.




OPPOSING PARTY


(none)



 
 
APPLICATION
 
Defendants Megaport (USA), Inc. and Megaport (Australia) Pty Ltd.
(“Defendants”) move for a court order allowing James S. Yu (“Applicant”) to
appear as counsel pro hac vice for Defendants in this action.  The application is unopposed.
 
ANALYSIS
 
            California Rules of Court, rule 9.40
provides that an attorney in good standing in another jurisdiction may apply to
appear as counsel pro hac vice in the State of California by filing a verified
application together with proof of service by mail of a copy of the application
and notice of hearing on all parties who have appeared in the case and on the
State Bar of California at its San Francisco office, with payment of a $50.00
fee, so long as that attorney is not a resident of the State of California, and
is not regularly engaged in substantial business, professional, or other
activities in the State of California. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 9.40.)
 
The application must state: (1) the applicant’s residence and office
addresses; (2) the courts to which the applicant has been admitted to practice
and the dates of admission; (3) that the applicant is a member of good standing
in those courts; (4) that the applicant is not currently suspended or disbarred
in any court; (5) the title of each court and cause in which the applicant has
filed an application to appear as counsel pro hac vice in this state in the
preceding two years, the date of each application, and whether or not it was
granted; and (6) the name, address, and telephone number of the active member
of the State Bar of California who is attorney of record in the local action.
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 9.40(d).)
            
            The Court finds that neither Defendants nor Applicant have
advanced sufficient evidence to demonstrate compliance with California Rules of
Court, Rule 9.40(c).  Rule 9.40(c)(1)
provides:  “A person desiring to appear
as counsel pro hac vice in a superior court must file with the court a verified
application together with proof of service by mail in accordance
with Code of Civil Procedure section 1013a of a copy of the application and of
the notice of hearing of the application on all parties who have
appeared in the cause and on the State Bar of California at its San Francisco
office. The notice of hearing must be given at the time prescribed in
Code of Civil Procedure section 1005 unless the court has prescribed a
shorter period.”   (Cal. Rules of Court,
rule 9.40(c)(1), emphasis added.)  
 
            Here,
the proof of service indicate that the moving papers, including the notice of
application, were only served on counsel for Plaintiffs.  As such, the Court finds that Defendants and
Applicant have not established proper notice of the hearing to the State Bar of
California at its San Francisco office.  

 
Therefore, the Court denies
the pro hac vice application without prejudice as procedurally defective.  
Defendants shall provide
notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof of service regarding the
same.  
 
DATED: January 4, 2024                                                       ___________________________
Michael E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court
 