  Case Number:  23PSCV03534    Hearing Date:   August 7, 2024    Dept:  O Tentative Ruling
 
(1)            
Plaintiffs Chen Feng & Zhen Zhong Cao’s Motion For Summary
Judgement, Or In The Alternative, Summary Adjudication is CONTINUED/TBD.

(2)            
Plaintiffs’ Motion To Seal Confidential Settlement Agreement is CONTINUED/TBD.
 
Neither party filed a notice of related case. 
 
Background
 
This case
pertains to a settlement agreement. Plaintiffs Chen Feng and Zhen Zhong Cao
(collectively, “Plaintiffs”) allege the following against Defendants Blake Sing
Hon (“Hon”) and LV Cheyenne LLC (the “Company”): As a result of a settled
derivative action initiated by Plaintiffs against Hon and the Company, Hon
purchased all of Plaintiffs’ membership interest in the Company pursuant to a
Confidential Settlement Agreement and Release (the “Settlement Agreement”) and
Member Interest Purchase Agreement (the “Purchase Agreement”). Instead of
dividing up the assets of the Company and paying Plaintiffs their proportional
shares as required by the agreements, Hon directed the Company to pay himself a
“bonus” of $805,899.56 on the premise that he was entitled to this bonus. The
bonus provision, however, was to be triggered if the Company sold certain real
property, but no such sale occurred. 
 
On November
13, 2023, Plaintiffs filed suit against Defendant asserting the following
causes of action:
 
1.   Breach of Settlement Agreement
2.   Breach of Purchase Agreement
3.   Unjust Enrichment
4.   Declaratory Relief
 
On January
12, 2024, the Company filed its answer.
 
On January
22, 2024, Hon filed his answer.
 
On May 6,
2024, Plaintiffs filed the instant motion for summary judgment and motion to
seal the confidential settlement agreement.
 
On July 24,
2024, an opposition to the MSJ was filed. 
 
Discussion
 
The
hearings are continued/TBD because there appears to be a related case. 
According
to the complaint, following Hon’s refusal to make the Company documents
available, Plaintiffs initiated a derivative action against Hon and the Company
in the case of Chen Feng, et al. v. Blake Sing Hon, case no.
21STCV38166. Per California Rules of Court Rule 3.300 (‘Related Cases’), a
pending civil case is related to another civil case, even if, as here, the case
is dismissed without prejudice, if the cases:
(1)  Involve the same parties and are based on the same or similar
claims;
(2)  Arise from the same or substantially identical transactions,
incidents, or events requiring the determination of the same or substantially
identical questions of law or fact;
(3)  Involve claims against, title to, possession of, or damages to
the same property; or
(4)  Are likely for other reasons to require substantial
duplication of judicial resources if heard by different judges.
Here, the two cases involve the same parties, and the instant case is
directly predicated upon the finding(s) made in the first case. And “[w]henever
a party in a civil action knows or learns that the action or proceeding is
related to another action or proceeding pending, dismissed, or disposed of by
judgment in any state or federal court in California, the party must serve and
file a Notice of Related Case.” (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.300, subd. (b).)
However, no such notice has been filed. 
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, the hearing is continued/TBD, contingent upon
the filing of a notice of related case and respective determination.  
 
 
  
 