  Case Number:  23CHCV00694    Hearing Date:   February 20, 2024    Dept:  F49 Dept. F49  Date: 2/20/24 Case #23CHCV00694   LOS  ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT NORTH  VALLEY DISTRICT DEPARTMENT  F-49    FEBRUARY 20,  2024    MOTION TO COMPEL THE DEPOSITION  OF DEFENDANT’S PERSON MOST KNOWLEDGEABLE Los Angeles Superior Court Case # 23CHCV00694  Motion  filed: 10/31/23 MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff Claudia Aceves (“Plaintiff”)RESPONDING PARTY: Defendant General Motors, LLC (“Defendant”  or “GM”)NOTICE: ok RELIEF  REQUESTED: An  order compelling Defendant GM to produce a Person Most Qualified (“PMQ”) for  all categories in the Deposition Notice, within 10 calendar days. TENTATIVE  RULING: The  motion is GRANTED.   BACKGROUND   Plaintiff brings this action under the Song-Beverly Consumer  Warranty Act (Civil Code §§ 1790 et seq.) for a vehicle she purchased in 2019,  for which Defendant General Motors, LLC (“GM”) issued the manufacturer’s  express warranty. (Compl. ¶¶ 5, 9.)  On March 9, 2023, Plaintiff filed her Complaint, alleging  against Defendant the following causes of action: (1) Violation of Civil Code  section 1793.2, subdivision (d); (2) Violation of Civil Code section 1793.2,  subdivision (b); (3) Violation of Civil Code section 1793.2, subdivision  (a)(3); (4) Breach of Express Written Warranty; and (5) Breach of the Implied  Warranty of Merchantability. On 4/19/23, Defendant filed its Answer. On October 31, 2023, Plaintiff filed the instant motion (the “Motion”).    On February 2, 2024, GM filed its Opposition. Subsequently,  on February 8, 2024, Plaintiff filed the Reply.   ANALYSIS Any party may obtain discovery by taking in California the  oral deposition of any person.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.010.) If the  deponent is a party, the notice, by itself, compels  production of the documents. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.280, subd. (a).) “If, after service of a deposition  notice, a party to the action or an officer, director, managing agent, or  employee of a party, or a person designated by an organization that is a party  under Section 2025.230, without having served a valid objection under Section  2025.410, fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce  for inspection any document, electronically stored information, or tangible  thing described in the deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move  for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the  production for inspection of any document, electronically stored information,  or tangible thing described in the deposition notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., §  2025.450, subd. (a).) A.     All  Procedural Requirements Are Met 1.       No Separate  Statement Is Required. Defendant GM, in its Opposition, argues that the Motion is  procedurally defective due to the absence of a separate statement, citing  California Rules of Court rules 3.1345(a)4) and (a)(5). (Opp’n., at 9.) This  argument shall fail, as the requirement for a separate statement does not apply  in instances where GM failed to produce a deponent. According  to California Rules of Court rule 3.1345(a)(4), a separate statement is  required where a motion seeks to compel answers to questions that were asked at  deposition but not answered. Similarly, rule 3.1345(a)(5) applies when a motion  seeks the production of documents requested but not produced at deposition.             Here, given that GM did not  produce its deponent, it becomes impossible to know which questions would  remain unanswered or what documents would not be produced by the deponent. Consequently,  a separate statement could not feasibly list the full text of unasked questions  and non-responses, as required by California Rules of Court rule 3.1345(c).             Therefore, the Court concludes that the requirement for a  separate statement is not applicable in this context, given GM’s failure to  produce a deponent. 2.       Meet and Confer Efforts Were Sufficient. GM further  contends that Plaintiff failed to meet and confer with GM, as required.  (Opp’n., at 4.) According to GM’s counsel, Plaintiff sent emails on October 3  and October 19, 2023, solely demanding dates for the deposition of GM’s PMQ, but  did not attempt to address GM’s concerns with the Notice. (Gavrilescu Decl., ¶ 4.) This argument, however, is  misplaced. The meet and confer requirement, for the purpose of this Motion, is specifically  related to addressing the issue of GM’s deponent’s failure to appear and making  efforts to find a mutually agreeable time for the deposition. It is not  required to address the objection as the objection does not stay the taking of  the deposition.               Moreover, in GM’s written  objections, it agreed to produce its PMQ on Category Nos. 1-4, 7, and 10.  (Gavrilescu Decl., ¶ 4.) On October 3, Plaintiff’s counsel emailed GM’s counsel  seeking to arrange a mutually convenient time and place for Defendant’s deposition.  (Sue Decl., ¶ 11, Ex. “4.”) Subsequently, on October 19, 2023, after receiving  no response, Plaintiff followed up with another email to Defendant’s counsel requesting  again to set a mutually convenient time and place for Defendant’s deposition.  (Sue Decl., ¶ 12, Ex. “5.”) Despite these efforts, as of the date of filing of the  instant Motion, GM has not provided any responses. (Sue Decl., ¶ 13.)             Therefore, the Court finds that  Plaintiff has sufficiently met the meet and confer requirement by making efforts  to schedule a mutually agreeable time for the deposition. B.      GM Is  Required to Comply with the Notice of Deposition. 1.       GM’s Objection  Does Not Stay the Taking of the Deposition Code of  Civil Procedure section 2025.280 subdivision (a) provides that service of a  deposition notice “is effective to require any deponent who is a party to the  action [] to attend and to testify, as well as to produce any document,  electronically stored information, or tangible thing for inspection and  copying.” Defendant  GM argues, in its Opposition, that its written objection to Plaintiff on  September 14, 2023 (Gavrilescu Decl., ¶ 3), objected  to the Notice of Deposition on the grounds that the Categories is overly broad  and irrelevant. (Opp’n., at 6-7.) However, Defendant GM does not provide legal  authorities or legal analysis to justify its PMQ’s nonappearance at the  deposition based on its objection.   GM’s written objectin does not stay the taking of the  deposition. To do so, the objecting party should move to quash the deposition  notice and stay the taking of the deposition. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.410  (c).)             “In addition to serving this written  objection, a party may also move for an order staying the taking of the  deposition and quashing the deposition notice. The motion shall be accompanied  by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040. The taking of the  deposition is stayed pending the determination of this motion.” (Code Civ.  Proc., ¶ 2025.410, subd. (c).)             Here, GM has not filed a motion for  staying the taking of the deposition or quashing the deposition notice. Therefore, the Court finds GM’s argument lacks merit, and  GM should produce its deponent according to the deposition notice.             2.       GM Fails to  Show that Categories Sought for the Deponent’s Knowledge Are Irrelevant. Defendant GM argues that concerning Categories Nos. 6, 8,  9, 11, 12, 14, and 15, information about other vehicles “of the same year,  make, and model” of the Plaintiff’s vehicle are irrelevant to the pending  claims. (Opp’n., at 7.) Moreover, GM argues that Category No. 13, where Plaintiff  seeks testimony concerning GM’s third-party dispute resolution program, is also  irrelevant because, according to GM’s records, Plaintiff does not participate  in any such program. (Opp’n., at 8.) Furthermore, GM contends that with regard to Category Nos.  5 and 16-19, GM’s internal policies and procedures “have zero relevant to  whether GM was able to conform Plaintiff’s Blazer to its warranty within a  reasonable number of attempts.” (Ibid.) “[D]oubts as to  relevance should generally be resolved in favor of permitting discovery … An  appellate court cannot reverse a trial court’s grant of discovery under a  ‘relevancy’ attack unless it concludes that the answers sought by a given line  of questioning cannot as a reasonable possibility lead to the discovery of  admissible evidence or be helpful in preparation for trial.”  (Colonial Life & Accident Ins. Co. v.  Sup. Ct. (1982) 31 Cal. 3d 785, 790 (quoting Pacific Tel. & Tel. Co.  v. Sup. Ct. (1970) 2 Cal.3d 161, 173.)) Here, Plaintiff posits that evidence concerning issues and  resolutions involving third parties is directly relevant to demonstrating that  a manufacturer was previously aware of a defect, a critical element in  analyzing whether a manufacturer “willfully” fails to fulfill its obligations  under the Act. (Mot.’ at 8.)   Additionally, Plaintiff’s Complaint encompasses  claims under Civil Code sections 1793.2, subdivision (d) (relating to service  and repair, or replacement and reimbursement), 1793.2, subdivision (b)  (relating to service and repair), 1793.2, subdivision (a)(3) (relating to  service literature and replacement parts), alongside claims for breach of the  express warranty, breach of the implied warranty of merchantability, and  fraudulent concealment. It cannot be said that information sought under these  Categories precludes a reasonable possibility of leading to the discovery of  admissible evidence. Therefore, the Court finds GM’s argument unconvincing.  The Court finds that Plaintiff’s position is supported by the  established principles of discovery as outlined in precedents. GM acknowledges  that it “did agree to produce its PMQ on Category Nos. 1-4, 7, and 10.” (Gavrilescu  Decl., ¶ 3.) Furthermore, GM does not contest Plaintiff’s evidence showing that  Plaintiff’s counsel attempted to secure a mutually agreeable date for the  deposition, which GM failed to provide. 3.       Code of Civil  Procedure Section 2031.310(b)(1) Does Not Apply to This Motion. Defendant GM, in its Opposition, references Code of Civil  Procedure section 2031.310(b)(1) to assert that Plaintiff is required to  articulate specific facts demonstrating good cause for the discovery sought,  arguing that Plaintiff’s request is overly broad and seeks production of trade  secret material (Opp’n., at 4-5, 8.) The Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.310(b)(1) specifies  that “A motion under subdivision (a) shall comply with each of the  following...”) Additionally, subdivision (a) of the Code of Civil Procedure  section 2031.310 states, “On receipt of a response to a demand for  inspection, copying, testing, or sampling, the demanding party may move for  an order compelling further response to the demand ...” (Underlines added.) Here, it is explicitly stated in Plaintiff’s Motion and  proposed order that the Motion seeks only the deposition. Given that there is  no request for production for inspection involved, this section does not apply  to instant Motion. The  undisputed evidence presented to the Court demonstrates that GM did not produce  its PMQ as per the Notice of Deposition, and it failed to ever provide Plaintiff  with a mutually agreeable date for the deposition despite repeated requests. Based  on these facts, the motion has merit and is therefore granted.   CONCLUSION   Plaintiff’s motion to compel the deposition of GM’s person  most knowledgeable is granted. GM is ordered to produce its person most  knowledgeable on the categories identified in the notice of deposition at a  mutually agreeable time within twenty days of notice of this order. Plaintiff is ordered to provide notice of this order.  