 Case Number:  23CHCV02101    Hearing Date:   February 20, 2024    Dept:  F49 Dept. F49Date: 2/20/24Case #23CHCV02101
 
LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURTNORTH
VALLEY DISTRICTDEPARTMENT
F49 FEBRUARY 20,
2024
 

MOTION TO EXPUNGE LIS PENDENS
AND FOR ATTORNEY FEES AND COSTSLos Angeles Superior Court Case # 23CHCV02101

 
Motion
filed: 12/21/23
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant Brian Horvoth
RESPONDING PARTY: No opposing papers were received.
NOTICE: Proof of service NOT filed. 
 
“Proof of service of the moving papers must be filed no later
than five court days before the time appointed for the hearing.” (Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 3.1300(c).) 
 
Despite the absence of a filed proof of service, the Court
will proceed to review the motion on its merits, considering that Plaintiff
argued in a previous hearing on advancing this hearing date. (1/18/24 Minute
Order.) Consequently, it can be reasonably inferred that Plaintiff has been
served the motion. 
 
The Court directs the moving Defendant to comply with all
applicable California Rules of Court in future proceedings.
RELIEF
REQUESTED: An
order expunging the notice of pendency of action (lis pendens) that was recorded
on November 20, 2023, as document number #20230802141 in the office of the
County Recorder of Los Angeles and granting an award of attorney fees and
costs.
TENTATIVE
RULING: The
motion is GRANTED. The request for reasonable attorney’s fees and costs is
GRANTED IN PART.
 
BACKGROUND
 
On July 18, 2023, Plaintiff Agustin Heredia (“Plaintiff”)
filed his Complaint against Defendant Brian Horvoth (the “moving Defendant” or
“Horvoth”), Juan Orozco, and Does 1 to 50, alleging the following causes of
action: (1) Breach of Contract; (2) Fraudulent Misrepresentation; and (3)
Quantum Meruit.
On July 19, 2023, Plaintiff filed the Notice of Pendency of Action pursuant
to California Code of Civil Procedure Section 405.20 (Lis Pendens), for which proof
of service was submitted.
 
On December 11, 2023, Plaintiff submitted his application
for publication, which the Court granted and entered on December 12, 2023. 
 
On December 21, 2023, Defendant Horvoth filed the instant
Motion to Expunge Lis Pendens and for an award of attorney fees. 
 
As of the filing deadline in accordance with Code of Civil
Procedure section 1005 subdivision (b), no opposing papers have been received.
 
ANALYSIS
“At any time after a notice of
pendency of action has been recorded, any party ... with an interest in the
real property affected thereby, may apply to the court in which the action is
pending to expunge the notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 405.30.) A Lis Pendens may
be expunged either (i) if the pleadings do not contain a real property claim,
or (ii) if the court finds that the party claiming the Lis Pendens has not
established by a preponderance of the evidence the probable validity of the
real property claim. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 405.31, 405.32.)
 
The party claiming the Lis
Pendens has the burden of proof under Section 405.31 and Section 405.32. (Code Civ. Proc. § 405.30) The burden is to demonstrate that
their pleadings contain a real property claim and that the probable
validity of their real property claim can be established by a preponderance of
the evidence. (Code Civ. Proc., §405.31 (underline added); see
also McKnight v. Superior Court (1985) 170 Cal. App. 3d 291, 298 [“the
burden is upon the recording party to demonstrate by a preponderance of the
evidence that the action was commenced and prosecuted for a proper purpose and
in good faith”].) “Probable
validity” exists when “it is more likely than not that the claimant will obtain
a judgment on the claim.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 405.3.) 
 
1.     
The Notice of
Pendency of Action Is Void Under C.C.P. § 405.23.
Code of Civil Procedure section 405.23 provides that “Any
notice of pendency of action shall be void and invalid as to any adverse party
or owner of record unless the requirements of Section 405.22 are met for that
party or owner and a proof of service in the form and content specified in
Section 1013a has been recorded with the notice of pendency of action.”
Code of Civil Procedure section 405.22
provides, in part, that “the claimant shall, prior to recordation of the
notice, cause a copy of the notice to be mailed, by registered or certified
mail, return receipt requested, to all known addresses of the parties to
whom the real property claim is adverse and to all owners of record of the real
property affected by the real property claim as shown by the latest county
assessment roll. If there is no known address for service on an adverse party
or owner, then as to that party or owner a declaration under penalty of perjury
to that effect may be recorded instead of the proof of service required above,
and the service on that party or owner shall not be required. Immediately
following recordation, a copy of the notice shall also be filed with the court
in which the action is pending. Service shall also be made immediately and in
the same manner upon each adverse party later joined in the action.”
(Underlines added.)
The moving Defendant contends that the Notice of Pendency
of Action (the “Notice”) is void and invalid due to non-compliance with the
statutory service requirement. Specifically, the moving Defendant asserts that
the Notice was improperly served via United States Postal Service mail and by
electronic transmission, rather than through “registered or certified mail,
return receipt requested” as mandated by Code of Civil Procedure sections
405.22 and 405.23.
Upon reviewing the records, the Court notes that Plaintiff’s
proof of service of the Notice indicates that service was made through
Certified U.S. Mail at a residential address in California. However, it lacks
proof of “return receipt requested” compliance. Given that Plaintiff
acknowledges that the service address was Defendant’s “last known address”
(Mot., Ex. “1”), Plaintiff is required to adhere to the explicit requirement
under Code of Civil Procedure section 405.22, which necessitates the “return
receipt requested” for service. Therefore, Plaintiff’s proof of service is
noncompliant with Code of Civil Procedure section 405.22.
Furthermore, Plaintiff cannot mitigate this deficiency by
relying on his subsequent filing of the application for publication on December
11, 2023, asserting that “the defendant, BRIAN HORVOTH, cannot reasonably be
served by any other method despite exercise of reasonable diligence.” (12/11/23
Appl. for publication, at 1.) This claim is insufficient given the existence of
a known service address for the Defendant in California, and the declaration
fails to conclusively demonstrate that no address could be determined by “shown by the latest county assessment
roll.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 405.22.)
Therefore, the Court identifies a
procedural defect in Plaintiff's service of the Notice of Pendency of Action on
the moving Defendant, under Code of Civil Procedure section 405.22.
Consequently, the Notice is deemed void in accordance with Code of Civil
Procedures section 405.23. 
2.     
Plaintiff Fails
to Allege A Real Property Claim.
The Code of Civil Procedure section 405.4 provides that
“‘Real property claim’ means the cause or causes of action in a pleading which
would, if meritorious, affect (a) title to, or the right to possession of,
specific real property or (b) the use of an easement identified in the
pleading, other than an easement obtained pursuant to statute by any regulated
public utility.”
The
determining factor, as outlined in Campbell v. Superior Court. (2005)
132 Cal.App.4th 904, 919 (Compbell), is whether the action “seeks to
establish an interest in real property for the purpose of securing payment of
the money judgment ultimately sought by the action.” Under such circumstances,
recording a lis pendens is not permissible. (Ibid.)
Here,
Plaintiff’s Complaint seeks monetary compensations across all causes of action,
including the value of consideration per the agreement, actual, consequential,
and incidental financial losses, costs of suit, reasonable attorney’s fees,
punitive damages, and interest at the legal rate. None of these demands seeks
to establish an interest in real property.
Therefore, in
alignment with the precedent set in Campbell, the Court concludes that
Plaintiff has not alleged a real property claim, rendering the recording of a lis
pendens impermissible.
Accordingly,
the moving Defendant’s Motion to Expunge Lis Pendens is GRANTED.
 
3.     
Attorney Fees
Are Awarded.
Code of Civil Procedure section 405.38 provides that “the
court shall direct that the party prevailing on any motion under this chapter
be awarded the reasonable attorney’s fees and costs of making or opposing the
motion unless the court finds that the other party acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of attorney’s
fees and costs unjust.”
Given that the Court has granted the Motion to Expunge Lis
Pendens, the moving Defendant is entitled to an award of reasonable attorney’s
fees and costs in accordance with Code of Civil Procedure section 405.38.
The moving Defendant is requesting a monetary award in the
amount of $2,560.00, based on an hourly rate of $500.00 for 4 hours in
preparing and drafting the instant Motion and 1 hour allocated for hearing
attendance, plus a $60.00 cost. However, in the absence of opposition, the
Court adjusts the total hours to be 2 hours, comprising 1 hour for drafting the
Motion and 1 hour for attending the hearing. Consequently, the Court,
exercising its discretion, determines $1,000.00 to be a reasonable fee, which
is calculated at $500.00/hour X (1 hour of drafting the motion + 1 hour of
attending the hearing). Additionally, the Court grants an award for a
reasonable cost of $60.00, totaling $1,060.00.
 
CONCLUSION
Defendant Horvoth’s
Motion to Expunge Lis Pendens is GRANTED.
Plaintiff is ordered to make the payment of $1,060.00 to
Defendant Horvoth within 10 days of issuance of this order.
Moving party to give notice.