  Case Number:  19STCV23068    Hearing Date:   October 1, 2024    Dept:  W JINING ZHOU vs
SAID MOHAMADREZA SIADATAN, et al.
 
defendant’s
motion to compel further responses from plaintiff jining zhou 
 
Date of Hearing:        October
1, 2024                                Trial
Date:       None Set.
Department:              W                                                        Case No.:        19STCV23068
 
Moving Party:            Defendant
Shenshen New World II, LLC dba Sheraton Universal Hotel 
Responding Party:     Plaintiff
Jining Zhou 
Meet and Confer:      Yes. (Lee Decl. ¶¶6-8.)
 
BACKGROUND
 
On July 1, 2019, Plaintiff Jining Zhou
(“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendants Said Mohamadreza Siadatan,
Silverado Senior Living, Inc., Shenzhen New World II, LLC dba Sheraton
Universal Hotel (“the Sheraton”), Enterprise Rental, and Does 1 through 100 for
damages arising a motor vehicle v. pedestrian accident in a parking lot. On September
16, 2020, Plaintiff filed amendments to complaint naming Towne Park, LLC (“Towne”)
as Doe 1 and Mile Hi Valet Service, Inc. (“MHVS”) as Doe 2. The trial date is currently
set for December 30, 2024. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Defendant Shenzhen New World II, LLC’s
Motion to Compel Further Responses From Plaintiff Jining Zhou to Request for
Admissions, Set One is MOOT
 
Defendant Shenzhen New World II, LLC’s
Motion to Compel Further Responses From Plaintiff Jining Zhou to Form
Interrogatories, Set Two is MOOT
 
Defendant Shenzhen New World II, LLC’s
Motion to Compel Further Responses From Plaintiff Jining Zhou to Requests for
Production of Documents, Set Two is MOOT
 
DISCUSSION
 
The motions to Compel Further Responses
from Plaintiff Jining Zhou to Requests for Admissions, Set One; Compel Further
Responses from Plaintiff Jining Zhou to Form Interrogatories, Set Two; and
Compel Further Responses from Plaintiff Jining Zhou to Requests for Production
of Documents, Set Two are MOOT. Plaintiff Zhou served further responses on May
7, 2024. 
 
Defendant Sheraton still seeks
sanctions against Plaintiff Zhou and his counsel of record, jointly and
severally, in the amount of $3,497.50 per motion. Defendant Sheraton asserts they
were forced to file multiple motions because Plaintiff refused provide
non-deficient discovery responses to Sheraton's subject discovery. Although the
IDC was May 7, 2024, Sheraton’s deadline to file these motions was April 26,
2024 and thus, was forced to bring these motions due to Plaintiff’s delay in
bringing the responses promised. 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues Sheraton
fails to establish the relevant factors necessary for this court to exercise
its discretion in granting a large sanctions penalty. Moreover, the issue was
resolved and mooted before the IDC was had on May 7, 2024 yet Defendant
Sheraton pressed forwarded with the motions. 
 
The court finds sanctions warranted.
Although Plaintiff served responses before the IDC, Plaintiff was aware of
Sheraton’s deadline to file the instant three motions. Moreover, the original
responses were due over 4 months before Plaintiff served the responses.
However, the court agrees the request to pay over $10,492.50 in sanctions is
unreasonable. 
 
Accordingly, the court GRANTS the
request for sanctions in the reduced amount of $2,260.00 for the first motion
plus $335 for the second motion and $335 for the third motion. The court finds
the motions nearly identical. Moreover, only one appearance was necessary for
the motions and meeting and conferring was part of counsel’s statutory
obligations. 