 Case Number:  24VECV01947    Hearing Date:   October 1, 2024    Dept:  W ELIAS OLSON,
et al. vs DR. EUGENE DULA, MD
 
defendant
eugene dula, m.d.’s demurrer to the first and second causes of action in the
complaint 
 
Date of Hearing:        October
1, 2024                                Trial
Date:       None Set.
Department:              W                                                        Case No.:        24VECV01947
 
Moving Party:            Defendant Eugene Dula, M.D. 
Responding Party:     No
opposition  
Meet and Confer:      Yes. (McColgan Decl. ¶¶5-6.) 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On April 29, 2024, Plaintiffs Elias Olson and Rosalinda
Olson filed a complaint against Dr. Eugene Dula, M.D. for medical malpractice
and medical negligence. Plaintiffs allege Plaintiff Elias Olson is a patient of
Defendant Dr. Dula and on November 2, 2022, Mr. Olson underwent a computed
tomography scan at Defendant’s bequest for preventive testing purposes.
Plaintiff further alleges the next day, Dr. Dula received a comprehensive
report detailing the results of the CTscan and on November 19, 2022, Plaintiff
presented to the emergency room at Kaiser Hospital with severe abdominal pain.
Plaintiff discovered it was a mass. 
 
Since the demurrer was filed, plaintiff Rosalinda Olson has
filed a one page opposition, indicating that plaintiff Elias Olson passed away
on July 28, 2024 and she seeks to represent the estate.  Further, she indicates that she intends to
drop herself as a named plaintiff, and is looking for an attorney to help her
with all of this.   
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Defendant
Eugene Dula, M.D.’s Demurrer to the First and Second Causes of Action in the
Complaint is SUSTAINED. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Defendant
Eugene Dula, M.D. demurs to the first and second causes of action in the
complaint on the grounds there are no claims brought by Ms. Rosalinda Olson
although she is listed as a plaintiff in the caption of the lawsuit, the
complaint fails to allege facts sufficient to support a claim for medical
practice, Mr. Olson may only bring one cause of action to vindicate a primary
right, and the claims are time barred under the one-year provision of Code of
Civil Procedure section 340.5. Defendant Dr. Dula also moves to strike the
words “malicious” and “willful disregard” from the complaint. 
 
A demurrer
for sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn
v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When considering demurrers,
courts read the allegations liberally and in context. In a demurrer proceeding,
the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial
notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968,
994.) “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other
extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face
of the pleading or are judicially noticed. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 430.30,
430.70.) At the pleading stage, a plaintiff need only allege ultimate facts
sufficient to apprise the defendant of the factual basis for the claim against
him. (Semole v. Sansoucie (1972) 28 Cal. App. 3d 714, 721.) A “demurrer
does not, however, admit contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law
alleged in the pleading, or the construction of instruments pleaded, or facts
impossible in law.” (S. Shore Land Co. v. Petersen (1964) 226 Cal.App.2d
725, 732 (internal citations omitted).) 
 
Statute of
Limitations
 
Defendant Dr.
Dula demurs to the complaint on the grounds the claim is barred by the one-year
provision of Code of Civil Procedure section 340.5 applies. 
 
Code of Civil
Procedure section 340.5¿mandates that an action for injury or death against a
health care provider based on alleged professional negligence must be commenced
within three years after the date of injury or one year after the plaintiff
discovers or should have discovered the injury with reasonable diligence,
whichever comes first.¿ The statute emphasizes that “[i]n no event shall the
time for commencement of legal action exceed three years unless tolled for one
of three specific reasons (fraud, intentional concealment, or presence of a
foreign body).  (CCP. § 340.5.)   
 
Defendant Dr.
Dula argues the one year-provision applies because as alleged, on November 19,
2022, Mr. Olson was informed of the mass. (Compl. ¶20.) Because Plaintiff
discovered the injury on that date, the one-year provision applies. Therefore,
Plaintiff should have brought his complaint no later than November 19, 2023;
however, the complaint was not brought until April 29, 2024. The complaint also
alleges they served their Code of Civil Procedure section 364 Notice of Intent
on January 31, 2024. However, this was served after the statute of limitations
ran. Accordingly, the Notice did not extend the statute of limitations by 90
days per Section 364. 
 
Unless
Plaintiff proffers one of the exceptions to Code of Civil Procedure section
340.5, the court is inclined to sustain the demurrer without leave to
amend. The court will briefly address Defendant Dr. Dula’s other arguments
below. 
 
Mrs. Olson
 
Defendant Dr.
Dula demurs to the complaint on the grounds that although Mrs. Olson is listed
as a plaintiff in the caption of the lawsuit, no claims are brought on her
behalf. 
 
A complaint
filed by someone other than the real party in interest is subject to general
demurrer on the ground that it fails to state a cause of action. (Doe v.
Lincoln Unified School Dist. (2010) 188 Cal.App.4th 758.)
 
The only
allegations concerning Mrs. Olson are that Dr. Dula owed her a duty. (Complaint
¶10.) However, it long has been held that an essential element of a cause of
action for medical malpractice is a physician-patient relationship giving rise
to a duty of care. (Felton v. Schaeffer (1991) 229 Cal.App.3d 229, 235,
review den. Aug. 1, 1991; Keene v. Wiggins (1977) 69 Cal.App.3d 308,
313–314.) Because there are no allegations of a physician-patient relationship
or any other duty, the court finds Mrs. Olson’s claims fail to state a cause of
action against Dr. Dula. 
 
Accordingly,
the demurrer is SUSTAINED on these grounds. Ms. Olson has indicated she may be
withdrawing as a plaintiff in any event.  
If Olson intends to proceed as the personal representative or on behalf
of the estate, she must take appropriate steps to substitute into the case in
that capacity.   
 
Primary Right
 
Defendant Dr.
Dula next demurs to the complaint on the grounds Plaintiffs’ claims for medical
malpractice and medical negligence rely on the same facts in the complaint and
both involve the same primary right – the right to be free from negligent
medical treatment and care – violating the rule that a plaintiff is entitled to
a single recovery for "each item of compensable damage" despite the
number or nature of legal theories alleged. (Crowley v. Katleman (1994)
8 Cal.4th 666, 681, as modified Nov. 30, 1994.)
 
“The primary
right theory is a theory of code pleading that has long been followed in
California. It provides that a ‘cause of action’ is comprised of a ‘primary
right’ of the plaintiff, a corresponding ‘primary duty’ of the defendant, and a
wrongful act by the defendant constituting a breach of that duty. [Citation.]
The most salient characteristic of a primary right is that it is indivisible:
the violation of a single primary right gives rise to but a single cause of
action. [Citation.] … […] The primary right theory … is invoked … when a
plaintiff attempts to divide a primary right and enforce it in two suits. (Crowley,
supra, 8 Cal.4th at p. 681.) 
 
Defendant Dr.
Dula argues Mr. Olson can use different legal theories when seeking recovery
for a violation of a primary right. But where the theories of recovery arise
from the same primary right, as here, plaintiffs cannot “split” the cause of
action into separate claims. (Crowley, supra, 8 Cal.4th at
681-682.) In the instant case, the complaint does not allege facts sufficient
to establish two claims against Dr. Dula for medical malpractice and medical
negligence. 
 
The court
agrees each cause of action alleges invasion of the same “primary right”. The
court is not sure that this is the proper grounds for demurrer, however. Either
way, the causes of action are duplicative of one another.  The court therefore sustains the demurrer to
the claim for medical negligence, without leave to amend.  
 
 