  Case Number:  23GDCV00516    Hearing Date:   December 4, 2023    Dept:  15 [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE MOTIONS IN LIMINE
Plaintiffs’ MIL No. 1
            Plaintiffs
move to preclude evidence that Lorenzo Ruiz’ adult children threatened Plaintiffs
and are gang members.  This evidence is
irrelevant and more prejudicial than probative. 
The motion is granted.
Plaintiffs’ MIL No. 2
            Plaintiffs
move to exclude evidence of Lorenzo Ruiz’s exposure to Agent Orange when he
served in the military on the ground that it is irrelevant, did not cause his
mesothelioma, and is prejudicial because the U.S.’s use of Agent Orange in
Vietnam is controversial.  This evidence
could be relevant to life expectancy.  It
can be mentioned briefly at trial without delving into U.S. military policy and
actions in Vietnam.  The motion is denied
without prejudice to objections at trial.
Defendants’ MIL Nos. 1-7
            No
motions were filed.
Defendants’ MIL No. 8
Defendant Pneumo Abex LLC
seeks to exclude evidence from the Saranac experiments.  Pursuant to the July 8, 2022 CMO, this motion
is deemed made and granted.  Plaintiffs
did not show good cause to depart from that order.
            The
motion is granted.
Defendants’ MIL No. 9
Defendant Autozone West
moves to prevent experts from telling the jury the contents or titles of
hearsay documents.  The motion does not
specify any titles or publications to be excluded and therefore is too vague.  Also, some of the documents upon which the
experts rely may be otherwise admissible. 
And if an expert establishes the hearsay is general background
information of the type relied upon by experts in the field, the hearsay may be
admissible.  (People v. Veamatahau
(2020) 9 Cal.5th 16, 22.)  
            The
motion is denied without prejudice to objections at trial.
Defendants’ MIL No. 10
            No
motion was filed.
Defendants’ MIL No. 11
Defendant Autozone West
moves to exclude the use of the term “victim” contending the use of the term is
more prejudicial than probative. 
Plaintiffs do not identify any need to use the term “victim.”  The use of “victim” suggests someone at fault
for harming the victim.  Thus, while the
prejudice might not be great, the relevance is negligible.  The motion is granted.
Defendants’ MIL No. 12
            No
motion was filed.
Defendants’ MIL No. 13
Autozone West moves to
exclude the Don’t Blow It video and any evidence referring to the video as
hearsay, unscientific, and prejudicial. 
The video may be admissible at trial via an expert if the expert
establishes that it is general background information of the type relied upon
by experts in the field.  The claim that
the video is unscientific can be the subject of cross-examination and goes to
the weight to be given the video. 
Defendant contends the EPA updated its guidance in 2007 so the video is
outdated.  That too can be the subject of
cross-examination.
Defendant argues the video’s
references to an article and wives and children lack foundation.  That section of the video is irrelevant
because there is no claim in this case about injury to wives and children.  Similarly, smoking does not seem to be an
issue in this case.  If Plaintiffs
establish that the video is admissible, the portion of the video about the
magazine article, smoking, and wives and children are to be redacted.
            The
motion is granted in part and denied without prejudice to objections at trial.
Defendants’ MIL No. 14
            Defendant
Autozone West seeks to exclude evidence of a 1986 document prepared by the EPA
referred to as the Gold Book because a 2007 EPA publication replaced it and it
is hearsay.  The document could be
relevant to notice of the dangers of asbestos pre-2007.  If Plaintiffs seek to use the document to
show notice or knowledge, the documents may not be hearsay if it is not offered
for the truth of the matter asserted. 
Also, the contents of the document may be admissible at trial via an
expert if the expert establishes that it is general background information of
the type relied upon by experts in the field. 
That the document was based on unscientific sources can be the subject
of cross-examination and goes to the weight to be given the document and
whether an expert can establish it is the type of information relied upon by
experts.
            The
motion is denied without prejudice to a contemporaneous objection at trial.
Defendants’ MIL No. 15
Autozone West seeks to
exclude references to a 1989 proposed EPA ban that never went into effect
because it was invalidated by the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals as not
supported by sufficient evidence.  If
Defendant contends it did not know about the hazards of asbestos by 1989, this
evidence may go to notice or knowledge. 
Defendant can cross-examine the witness about the fact that the proposed
ban was never effective and was invalidated by the court for lack of evidence.  That cross-examination can be done
efficiently, which just a few questions and does not need to consume an undue
amount of time.
The motion is denied
without prejudice to contemporaneous objections at trial.
Defendants’ MIL No. 16
            No
motion was filed.
Defendants’ MIL No. 17
            Defendant
Western Auto Supply moves exclude a Friction Product Fiber Release Studies (MVA
1810) and a MVA Scientific Consultants Report as unreliable because they use
SEM and TEM technology, which Defendant contends are new technologies and
therefore subject to a Kelly/Frye analysis.  (Motion at p. 3.)  However, Defendant cites no evidence this is
new technology that has not been generally accepted.  Indeed, the publications Defendant seeks to
exclude are from 1997 and 2008, strongly suggesting they do not include new
technology.  Further, whether TEM is an
appropriate method “goes to the weight and not the admissibility of the
opinions” based on that technology.  (Strobel
v. Johnson & Johnson (2021) 70 Cal.App.5th 796, 811-812.)  That case discusses the various competing
expert views on whether the methodology is generally accepted, something Defendant’s
motion does not do.  (Id. at pp.
806, 811.)
            Defendant
argues the reports fail to address chain of custody and therefore are not
reliable.  That is a subject for
cross-examination.  
            Defendant
objects the reports are hearsay.  Experts
may rely on hearsay in forming their opinions, and if an expert establishes the
hearsay is general background information of the type relied upon by experts in
the field, the hearsay may be admissible. 
(People v. Veamatahau (2020) 9 Cal.5th 16, 22.)  The court cannot determine at this time
whether an expert may be able to establish the admissibility and relevance of
the reports.  
            The
motion is denied without prejudice to objections at trial.
Defendants’ MIL No. 18
            Defendant
Western Auto Supply moves to exclude studies and videos from Material
Analytical Sciences because the work simulations are not similar to Plaintiff’s
exposure.  Defendant argues the
simulations took place in small sealed chambers, used improper testing methods
such as TEM analysis not recognized by OSHA, and will be confusing to the jury
because the conditions are so different. 
Whether TEM is an appropriate method “goes to the weight and not the
admissibility of the opinions.”  (Strobel
v. Johnson & Johnson (2021) 70 Cal.App.5th 796, 811-812.)
            At
trial, Defendant can cross-examine the experts about the similarities and
differences of Plaintiff’s exposure to a small, sealed chamber and argue the
jury should give the videos no weight because of the different conditions.  The motion is denied without prejudice to
objections at trial.
Defendants’ MIL No. 19
            Western
Auto Supply moves to exclude photographs and documents related to Wizard
Guardian brakes because Plaintiffs have no evidence Lorenzo Ruiz was exposed to
Wizard brand brakes.  Plaintiffs appear
to concede that Ruiz did not use Wizard brand brakes.  Instead, Plaintiffs argue the evidence is
relevant because it shows Defendant should have been aware of the hazards of
asbestos in brakes.  
At this point, the motion
is too vague because it does not identify the specific evidence to be
excluded.  Evidence about brakes sold in
the 1950s is probably irrelevant because that was long before Ruiz was exposed
to brakes.  Evidence of Defendant’s sales
of asbestos-containing brakes closer to the time Ruiz was exposed to
Defendant’s brakes may be relevant.  For
example, if Defendant contends it had no knowledge that its brakes contained
asbestos or that the asbestos in brakes was hazardous, evidence of Wizard brand
brakes containing asbestos or containing asbestos warnings could be relevant.
            The
motion is denied without prejudice to objections at trial.
Defendants’ MIL No. 20
            Defendant
Wyeth Holdings moves to exclude documents dated after Lorenzo Ruiz’s last date
of exposure, including a 1992 document listing suppliers of asbestos-containing
products, because Ruiz worked on planes 20 years before that date.  However, the document does not state that it
listed only current (1992) suppliers. 
Rather, dates in the document’s attachment suggests it listed suppliers
of products from decades earlier.  If
Plaintiffs can show that the document included suppliers from the time period
when Ruiz was working on planes, the document may be relevant.
            Defendant
argues the document is not relevant because it includes some planes Ruiz never
worked on.  However, Defendant did not
show the document addressed only types of planes Ruiz never worked on.  If Plaintiffs can establish at trial that the
document included the types of planes Ruiz did work on, it may be relevant.
            Defendant
argues the document does not identify the exact plane parts where adhesives
were used, does not mention 3M, and only mentions a few American Cyanamid
products.  Those are matters for
cross-examination and for arguing to the jury that the jury should give the document
little weight.
            The
motion is denied without prejudice to objections at trial. 
Defendants’ MIL No. 21
            Defendant
Wyeth Holdings moves to exclude evidence of American Cyanamid products because
Plaintiffs have no evidence Lorenzo Ruiz worked with American Cyanamid Products.  This is a summary judgment motion in
disguise.  The motion is denied without
prejudice to objections at trial.
Defendants’ MIL No. 22
            Defendant
The Pep Boys seeks to exclude evidence about its compliance with 1972 OSHA
labeling regulations because the regulations do not require warning labels on
its products.  To the extent this motion
seeks a ruling on Plaintiffs’ failure to warn claims, it is an improper motion
for summary adjudication.  Otherwise, the
motion is too vague.  The motion is
denied without prejudice to objections at trial.
Defendants’ MIL No. 23
Defendant The Pep Boys
seeks to exclude evidence about dust levels based on witnesses’ visual
observations.  A witness has personal
knowledge of what the witness observed firsthand.  Evidence that Plaintiffs or witnesses
observed dust may be relevant to the existence of asbestos fibers in the air
and how Plaintiff was exposed to asbestos. 

            The
motion is denied without prejudice to objection at trial.
Defendants’ MIL No. 24
            Defendant
Genuine Parts Company moves to exclude undated photographs used in a deposition
because they lack foundation and cannot be authenticated.  Plaintiffs contend they have witnesses who
can authenticate the photographs.  If at
trial, Plaintiffs seek to introduce the photographs without first establishing their
authenticity and foundation, Defendant should object then.  Defendant objects the photographs are
hearsay.  Photographs are not a statement
of a person; they are made by the camera. 
Defendant cites no law establishing that a photograph is hearsay, and
Defendant did not show that the photographs depict statements made by a person
(for example, that the photograph depicts a letter or email or document written
by a person).  Defendant objects the
photographs are irrelevant because Plaintiffs have no evidence that Plaintiff
ever worked with the products depicted in the photograph.  If at trial Plaintiffs try to use the
photographs without first establishing their relevancy, Defendant should object
then.  The motion is denied without
prejudice to objections at trial.
            The
moving party is to give notice.
 
 