 Case Number:  24GDCV00357    Hearing Date:   October 3, 2024    Dept:  E Case No: 24GDCV00357
Hearing Date:  10/03/2024 – 8:30am
Trial Date: Unset
Case Name: NATHAN NAKAMURA by and through his Guardian Ad
Litem, DAVID ANTHONY NAKAMURA v. AUTOMOBILE CLUB OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA; ALEX
MATTHEW AGUILA; DOES 1-10
 
[TENTATIVE RULING ON
DEMURRER]
RELIEF REQUESTED
“Defendant AUTOMOBILE
CLUB OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA (“ACSC”), will demur to the First Amended Complaint
(“FAC”) on file herein.
This
Demurrer will be made and based on the grounds that the allegations of the
Third cause of action for strict liability in the FAC fails to state facts
sufficient facts to constitute a cause of action against this demurring
Defendant.
This
Demurrer is filed following telephonic meet and confer conference between
defense counsel and plaintiff’s counsel on August 14, 2024, as required by Code
of Civil Procedure §430.41. (Jensen Decla., para. 2).
This
Demurrer will be made and based upon Code of Civil Procedure §430.10(e), upon
this Notice of hearing, the attached Demurrer to the First Amended Complaint,
the instant Memorandum of Points and Authorities, upon all of the records and
documents on file herein, and upon such oral and documentary evidence as may be
presented at the hearing of this matter.”
(Def.
Mot. p. 2.)
BACKGROUND
Plaintiff filed the
original Complaint on 2/27/2024.
On
7/15/2024, Plaintiff, Nathan Nakamura by and through his Guardian Ad Litem,
David Anthony Nakamura, filed a First Amended Complaint (FAC) alleging three
causes of action for: (1) General Negligence, (2) Premises Liability, and (3)
Strict Liability.
The
first cause of action is alleged against Defendant Alex Matthew Aguila.
The
second cause of action for premises liability is alleged against Defendant
Automobile Club of Southern California.
The
third cause of action for strict liability is alleged against all Defendants.
PROCEDURAL ANALYSIS
Moving Party: 
Defendant, Automobile Club of Southern California (Defendant or ACSC)
Responding Party: Plaintiff,
Nathan Nakamura by and through his Guardian Ad Litem, David Anthony Nakamura
Moving Papers: Demurrer;
Request for Judicial Notice
Opposition Papers: Opposition
Reply Papers: Reply
Proof of Service
Timely Filed (CRC Rule 3.1300): Ok
16/21 Court Days Lapsed (CCP § 1005(b)): Ok
Proper Address (CCP § 1013, § 1013a, § 1013b): Ok
Meet and Confer
A party filing a
demurrer “shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party who
filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining
whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be
raised in the demurrer.”  (Code Civ.
Proc., §430.41, subd. (a).)  “The parties
shall meet and confer at least five days before the date the responsive
pleading is due. If the parties are not able to meet and confer at least five
days prior to the date the responsive pleading is due, the demurring party
shall be granted an automatic 30-day extension of time within which to file a
responsive pleading, by filing and serving, on or before the date on which a
demurrer would be due, a declaration stating under penalty of perjury that a
good faith attempt to meet and confer was made and explaining the reasons why
the parties could not meet and confer.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., §430.41, subd. (a)(2).) 
Failure
to sufficiently meet and confer is not grounds to overrule or sustain a
demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc., §430.41(a)(4).)
Here,
Defendant’s counsel met and conferred with Plaintiff’s counsel, but the two
were not able to resolve the issues raised by Defendant. (Jensen Decl. ¶ 2.)
LEGAL STANDARDS FOR DEMURRERS
Demurrer
– Sufficiency
A demurrer for
sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action.  (Hahn v. Mirda, (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th
740, 747.)  When considering demurrers,
courts read the allegations liberally and in context.  (Taylor v. City of Los Angeles Dept. of
Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1228.)  The court “treat[s]
the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded, but not
contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law ….”  (Berkley v. Dowds (2007) 152
Cal.App.4th 518, 525.)  In a demurrer
proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via
proper judicial notice.  (Donabedian
v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)  A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and
not the evidence or other extrinsic matters; therefore, it lies only where the
defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed.  (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 430.30, 430.70.)  The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing
is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters,
states a cause of action. (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at
747.)  
The
general rule is that the plaintiff need only allege ultimate facts, not
evidentiary facts.  (Doe v. City of
Los Angeles (2007) 42 Cal.4th 531, 550.) 
“All that is required of a plaintiff, as a matter of pleading … is that
his complaint set forth the essential facts of the case with reasonable
precision and with sufficient particularity to acquaint the defendant with the
nature, source and extent of his cause of action.”  (Rannard v. Lockheed Aircraft Corp.
(1945) 26 Cal.2d 149, 156-157.)  
On
demurrer, a trial court has an independent duty to “determine whether or not
the … complaint alleges facts sufficient to state a cause of action under any legal
theory.”  (Das v. Bank of America,
N.A. (2010) 186 Cal.App.4th 727, 734.) 
Demurrers do not lie as to only parts of causes of action, where some
valid claim is alleged but “must dispose of an entire cause of action to be
sustained.”  (Poizner v. Fremont
General Corp. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97, 119.)  “Generally it is an
abuse of discretion to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if there is
any reasonable possibility that the defect can be cured by amendment.”  (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d
335, 349.)


ANALYSIS
Third Cause of Action – Strict Liability
The instant action
arises from a dog bite incident that occurred at the Automobile Club of
Southern California, Glendale Branch Office.
 
Failure to State Sufficient Facts
 
Defendant, ACSC, demurs to the third cause of action in the FAC
for strict liability on the grounds that Plaintiff failed to state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action.
 
Defendant’s first argument with respect to strict liability is
somewhat unclear.
 
Defendant argues that the standard applicable to ACSC is
negligence, not strict liability.
 
However, Defendant does not provide support for its argument that
Plaintiff can only allege negligence and not both negligence and strict
liability.
 
Defendant cites to negligence cases that set forth the negligence
standard for storekeepers that do not own the dog that committed the injury,
but those cases simply explain the negligence standard. Those cases do not support
Defendant’s argument that Plaintiff can bring only a negligence claim and
cannot also bring a strict liability claim.
 
In fact, Defendant appears to undercut its own argument by citing
to CACI 462 and stating that strict liability for a domestic animal with
unusually dangerous propensities applies to someone who owned, kept, or
controlled the subject animal and had prior knowledge of the animal’s unusually
dangerous nature or tendency.
 
Using Defendant’s own standard set forth in CACI 462 for strict
liability, Plaintiff alleged exactly that. Plaintiff alleged that ACSC
controlled the canine while it was on its premises, that the canine had an
unusually dangerous nature or tendency, and that ACSC knew or should have know
that the canine had this nature or tendency. 
 
Therefore, under Defendant’s own standard, Plaintiff did in fact
allege the elements of strict liability.
 
Sham Pleading
Defendant’s arguments
with respect to the sham pleading doctrine are confusing to decipher and appear
to be unavailing. 
 
Defendant points to case law that explains how under the sham
pleading doctrine, when plaintiffs add facts inconsistent with those of
previous pleadings, the court may take judicial notice of prior pleadings and
may disregard any inconsistent allegations. Defendant also points to case law
that explains how under the sham pleading doctrine, plaintiffs are precluded
from amending complaints to omit harmful allegations, without explanation, from
previous complaints to avoid attacks raised in demurrers or motions for summary
judgment.
 
Defendant argues that the FAC adds new allegations not in the
original Complaint in an attempt to support the strict liability claim by
alleging that ACSC controlled the canine while it was on its premises.
Defendant argues that these allegations should be disregarded pursuant to the
sham pleading doctrine.
 
The Court finds Defendant’s argument unavailing. 
 
The added allegations with respect to ACSC do not add facts that
are inconsistent with the prior pleading. While the FAC does in fact add
allegations, those allegations are not inconsistent with the prior pleading. Defendant
appears to be arguing that since the original complaint alleged that Aguila
controlled the dog, the FAC cannot allege that both Aguila and ACSC controlled
the dog. However, Defendant fails to realize that two people can exert control
over the same thing. Therefore, the additional allegations that ACSC also
controlled the dog are not inconsistent with the prior pleading.
 
Defendant also points to the Complaint and the FAC and how both
allege that Aguila owned and controlled the dog and that Plaintiff’s injuries
were caused due to Aguila’s failure to control the animal.
 
Defendant then points to the fact that the FAC adds new
allegations that were not in the original Complaint that ACSC controlled the
dog while on the premises, that ACSC knew or should have known the dog had a
dangerous nature, and that Plaintiff was harmed when the dog escaped from
Aguila’s and Defendant’s possession and control.
 
Defendant’s arguments as to this are also unavailing. 
 
Defendant appears to be under the impression that since Plaintiff
alleged Aguila controlled the dog/failed to control the dog, that Plaintiff
cannot also allege ACSC also controlled the dog/failed to control the dog. Defendant’s
argument is unavailing. 
 
Defendant also makes an argument that does not appear to be
related to the sham pleading doctrine. Defendant argues that Plaintiff failed
to add any facts that support an allegation that ACSC assumed control over
Aguila’s dog or knew or should have known the animal was dangerous.
 
The Court does not find this argument availing at the pleading
stage.
 
As stated in Dino, Inc. v. Boreta Enterprises, Inc. :
 
It is, of course, the rule that ultimate facts must be pleaded,
rather than legal conclusions, yet the distinction between ultimate facts and
conclusions of law is not always clear or easy to state. In Burks v.
Poppy Construction Co., 57 Cal.2d 463, 473-474 [20 Cal.Rptr. 609,
370 P.2d 313], the court said: “The distinction between conclusions of law
and ultimate facts is not at all clear and involves at most a matter of degree.
(Estate of Bixler, 194 Cal. 585, 589 [229 P. 704]; see
Clark on Code Pleading (2d ed. 1947) 231; Chadbourne, Grossman, Van Alstyne,
Cal. Pleading (1961) 812 et seq.; 2 Witkin, Cal. Procedure (1954) 1140.) For
example, the courts have permitted allegations which obviously included
conclusions of law and have termed them 'ultimate facts' or 'conclusions of
fact.' (See Peninsula etc. Co. v. County of Santa Cruz, 34
Cal.2d 626, 629 [213 P.2d 489] [one is the 'owner' of
property]; Rannard v. Lockheed Aircraft Corp., 26 Cal.2d 149,
154 [157 P.2d 1] [act was 'negligently' done]; May v. Farrell, 94
Cal.App. 703, 707 [271 P. 789] [employee was 'acting within the scope
of his employment'].) In permitting allegations to be made in general terms the
courts have said that the particularity of pleading required depends upon the
extent to which the defendant in fairness needs detailed information that can
be conveniently provided by the plaintiff, and that less particularity is
required where the defendant may be assumed to possess knowledge of the facts
at least equal, if not superior, to that possessed by the plaintiff. ...”
 
(Dino, Inc. v. Boreta Enterprises, Inc. (1964) 226
Cal.App.2d 336, 340.)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
Defendant’s demurrer to
the third cause of action for strict liability is OVERRULED.
Defendant’s
request for judicial notice of the Complaint and the FAC is GRANTED.