  Case Number:  22VECV02299    Hearing Date:   June 14, 2024    Dept:  W KAREN SORONOW,
et al. v. SUNSHINE'S PLACE II, et al.
 
plaintiff’s MOTION TO COMPEL
PRODUCTION AND FOR SANCTIONS
 
Date of Hearing:        June
14, 2024                        Trial Date:       December
9, 2024
Department:              W                                            Case
No.:        22VECV02299
 
Moving Party:             Plaintiff Karen
Soronow
Responding Party:     Defendant
Sunshine’s Place II                      
 
BACKGROUND
 
Plaintiff Karen Soronow filed a
complaint on December 6, 2022 against Defendant Sunshine’s Place, II alleging
(1) Wrongful Death – Negligent Hiring, Supervision, and/or Retention; (2)
Survival – Negligent Hiring, Supervision, and/or Retention; (3) Wrongful Death
– Negligence; (4) Survival – Negligence; and (5) Elder Abuse. Plaintiff alleges
her mother, Joyce Soronow, was a resident of Sunshine’s Place, II. While under
Sunshine’s care, Plaintiff alleges defendant failed to provide for her basic
needs, caused a lapse in her care, and inflicted terrible pain and suffering
that caused Joyce’s fatal injuries. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Plaintiff’s
Motion to Compel Production and for Sanctions is GRANTED
 
DISCUSSION
 
Plaintiff Karen Soronow moves the court
for an order compelling further discovery responses to Plaintiff’s Requests for
Production, Set One (“RFP”) and monetary sanctions in the amount of $3,000.00
against Defendant Sunshine’s Place II and its attorney of record. Plaintiff makes
the motion on the grounds that Defendant has provided incomplete and evasive
discovery responses to Plaintiff’s RFPs. 
 
A motion to compel further responses to
a demand for inspection or production of documents may be brought based on: (1)
incomplete statements of compliance; (2) inadequate, evasive or incomplete
claims of inability to comply; or (3) unmerited or overly generalized
objections.  (CCP § 2031.310(c).) A motion to compel further
production must set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the
discovery sought by the inspection demand. (See CCP § 2031.310(b)(1).) It is
not necessary for the motion to show that the material sought will be
admissible in evidence. “Good cause” may be found to justify discovery where
specific facts show that the discovery is necessary for effective trial
preparation or to prevent surprise at trial. (See Associated Brewers Dist.
Co. v. Superior Court (1967) 65 Cal.2d 583, 586-588; see also CCP §§
2017.010, 2019.030(a)(1).) 
 
The parties do not dispute good cause
exists for the documents sought. However, Plaintiff argues based on Defendant’s
deposition testimony, Defendant failed to produce all such responsive documents
or perform the requisite search and inquiry. Specifically, Defendant did not
search boxes where the documents could be because it may take a month to go
through each box. As such, Defendant’s failure to search for records in said
locations does not amount to a diligent search or reasonable inquiry that is
consistent with its discovery obligations.[1]

 
In opposition, Defendant argues it has
acted in good faith in an attempt to provide responses to all of Plaintiff's
requests. However, Defendant maintains its position that all documents, located
to date, have been produced and that nothing is being withheld. Ordering
Defendant to conduct an additional search for these records isn't going to make
the records suddenly appear. Defendant has informed Plaintiff that while
Defendant is certain that the specific requested documents did at one time
exist, a reasonable diligent search and reasonable inquiry has been made in an
effort to comply with the demand. Unfortunately, Defendant has been unable to
locate the missing records. Moreover, Cal. Code Regs. tit. 22 § 87506(e)
requires Defendant to maintain the records for only a minimum of 3 years, as
such, it is possible that any and all of the records requested by Plaintiff
have been destroyed in Defendant’s ordinary course of business and record
management. 
 
Plaintiff produced a supplemental
declaration by Rosario Soriano, Administrator and Owner of Sunshine’s Place II,
and testifies she has searched the resident files of all Sunshine Place I and
Sunshine Place II residents; reviewed all storage cabinets, boxes, folders, and
files related to the management of Sunshine's Place I and II; and conducted a
search of all electronic devices used by Sunshine's Place I and II. (Soriano
Decl. ¶8.) To date, she has been unable to locate the entirety of Joyce
Soronow’s resident file as specific documents have been lost over time.
(Soriano Decl. ¶9.) As of June 10, 2024, she has produced all records in defendants’
possession and has not located any additional documents. (Soriano Decl. ¶10,
11.) 
 
The court concludes that supplemental
responses are required to explain the nature of the renewed search and the fact
that no documents were discovered. In short, the information in the declaration
should now be provided in a supplemental response.   With that additional response, the court
agrees no further responses would be required.  
Accordingly, the motion to compel is granted.  
 
Sanctions
 
Code of Civil Procedure section
2023.030 is a general statute authorizing the Court to impose discovery
sanctions for “misuse of the discovery process,” which includes (without
limitation) a variety of conduct such as: making, without substantial justification,
an unmeritorious objection to discovery; making an evasive response to
discovery; and unsuccessfully and without substantial justification making or
opposing a motion to compel or limit discovery. 
(CCP § 2023.010.)
 
Plaintiff requests $3,000.00 in
sanctions for Defendant’s continued refusal to perform a diligent search and
reasonable inquiry and produce all responsive documents. Moreover, Defendant
has, to date, altogether failed to respond to Plaintiff’s positions on the
requests at issue. Plaintiff seeks $3,000.00 for 5 hours preparing the motion
at counsel’s hourly rate of $400 and for the $1,000 sanction pursuant to
2023.050. 
 
In opposition, Defendant argues Defendant
has and will continue to conduct discovery in good faith. 
 
The court GRANTS the motion for
sanctions in the reduced amount of $1,000.00 payable within 30 days. 


