  Case Number:  20STCV15786    Hearing Date:   October 31, 2023    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     October 31, 2023                   TRIAL
DATE: January 23, 2024
                                                           
CASE:                         James Weldon Schott v. Miguel A. Melgoza
 
CASE NO.:                 20STCV15786            
 
(1)  
MOTION
TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO FORM INTERROGATORIES; REQUEST FOR SANCTIONS
(2)  
MOTION
TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION; REQUEST FOR SANCTIONS
(3)  
MOTION
FOR ORDER DEEMING THE TRUTH OF MATTERS IN REQUESTS FOR ADMISSIONS

 
MOVING PARTY:               (1)-(3) Plaintiff James Weldon Schott
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): No response on
eCourt as of 10/26/23
 
CASE
HISTORY:
·        
04/24/20: Complaint filed.
·        
09/27/22: First Amended Complaint filed. 
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is an action for partition of a parcel of real property and for
fraud, conversion, and breach of fiduciary duty. Plaintiff alleges that
Defendant induced him to loan money for the purchase of the property to operate
it as a dispensary. 
 
Plaintiff moves to compel responses
to form interrogatories and requests for production and for an order deeming
the truth of matters in requests for admissions. Plaintiff also requests
sanctions. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel
Responses to Form Interrogatories is GRANTED.
 
            Plaintiff’s
Motion to Compel Responses to Requests for Production is GRANTED.
 
            Defendant
is ordered to provide verified, code-compliant responses without objections
within 30 days of the date of this order. 
 
Plaintiff’s Motion for Order
Deeming the Truth of Matters in Requests for Admission Propounded to Defendant
is GRANTED. 
 
            Plaintiff’s
request for sanctions is GRANTED in the amount of $2,180 against
Defendant only. Payment is to be made within 30 days of this order. 
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Motions to Compel Responses to Form Interrogatories
& Requests for Production
 
Plaintiff moves to compel responses
to form interrogatories and requests for production. 
 
Legal Standard
 
When a party to whom an inspection
demand or an interrogatory is directed fails to respond, a party making the
request may move for an order compelling responses. (Code Civ. Proc. §§
2030.290(b) [interrogatories]; 2031.300(b) [requests for production].) A party
who fails to provide timely responses waives any objection, including one based
on privilege or work product. (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 2030.290(a); 2031.300(a).)
For a motion to compel initial responses, no meet and confer is required. All
that must be shown is that discovery requests were properly served on the
opposing party, that the time to respond has expired, and that no response has
been served. (Leach v. Sup. Ct.
(1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 902, 905-06.) 
 
Analysis
 
            Plaintiff
served form interrogatories and requests for production via email on
Defendants’ counsel on April 10, 2023. (Declaration of Matthew T. Ward ISO Mot.
¶ 2, Exh. A.) Plaintiff’s counsel granted multiple extensions, with the final
deadline set for June 28, 2023. (Id. ¶¶ 3-5, Exhs. B-D.) To date, no
responses have been received. (¶ 10.) Plaintiffs are therefore entitled to an
order compelling responses to the discovery requests.
 
Sanctions
 
Plaintiffs request sanctions
against Defendants and their counsel, jointly and severally, in the amount of
$1,560 for each motion, for a total of $3,120.
 
            Failing to respond or to submit to
an authorized method of discovery is a misuse of the discovery process.  (Code of Civ. Proc. § 2023.010.) Under
California Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.030, subd. (a), “[t]he court
may impose a monetary sanction ordering that one engaging in the misuse of the
discovery process, or any attorney advising that conduct, or both pay the
reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result
of that conduct. . . . If a monetary sanction is authorized by any provision of
this title, the court shall impose that sanction unless it finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”
 
            Sanctions
are mandatory in connection with motions to compel responses to interrogatories
or requests for production against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel. (Code Civ. Proc. §§
2030.290(c); 2030.300(d); 2031.300 (c); 2031.310(h).) However, sanctions are
not mandatory if the court “finds that the one subject to the sanction acted
with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition
of the sanction unjust.”  (Id.)
 
California Rules of Court, rule 3.1348, subdivision (a) states: “The
court may award sanctions under the Discovery Act in favor of a party who files
a motion to compel discovery, even though no opposition to the motion was
filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn, or the requested discovery
was provided to the moving party after the motion was filed.”
Here, Plaintiff requests sanctions
against Defendant and his counsel, jointly and severally, in the amount of
$1,560 on each of the two motions to compel, for a total of $3,120. This
request is based on 2.5 hours of attorney time incurred on each motion at a
rate of $500 per hour, plus an additional half hour anticipated, plus $60 in
filing fees for each motion. (See Ward Decl. ¶¶ 11-13.) In light of the
substantial similarity between the two motions, the Court finds that awarding
the full amount of attorney’s fees would be inappropriately duplicative. Moreover,
the Court observes that Defendant’s counsel has filed a motion to be relieved
as counsel, with an included declaration which states, under penalty of
perjury, that Defendant has stopped communicating with him entirely. (See
Declaration ISO Mot. to be Relieved as Counsel filed October 25, 2023.) It thus
appears that the culpability for Defendant’s failure to respond rests more
properly with Defendant himself than with Defendant’s counsel. The Court will
therefore instead award a total of $1,620 in attorney’s fees on these
motions against Defendant only, representing a total of 3 hours of attorney
time at an hourly rate of $500, plus $120 in filing fees for the two motions. 
 
Conclusion
 
            Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Responses to Form Interrogatories is GRANTED.
 
            Plaintiff’s
Motion to Compel Responses to Requests for Production is GRANTED.
 
            Plaintiff’s
request for sanctions is GRANTED in the amount of $1,620 against
Defendant only. 
 
Motion for Order
Deeming Truth of Matters in Requests for Admissions
 
            Plaintiff also moves for an order
deeming the truth of matters in requests for admissions propounded to Defendant

 
Legal
Standard
 
When a party to
whom requests for admission are directed fails to respond, the party
propounding the requests may move for an order that the truth of any matters
specified in the requests be deemed admitted. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2033.280(b).)
“The court shall make this order [deem the requests admitted], unless it finds
that the party to whom the request for admissions have been directed has
served, before the hearing on the motion, a proposed response to the requests
for admission that is in substantial compliance with section 2033.220.” (Code
Civ. Proc. § 2033.280(c).)
 
Analysis
 
            Plaintiff served
requests for admissions on Defendant via email on April 10, 2023. (Declaration
of Matthew T. Ward ISO Mot. ¶ 2, Exh. A.) Plaintiff’s counsel granted multiple
extensions, with the final deadline set for June 28, 2023. (Id. ¶¶ 3-5,
Exhs. B-D.) To date, no responses have been received. (¶ 10.) Plaintiffs are
therefore entitled to an order compelling responses to the discovery requests.
 
Sanctions
 
            Plaintiff
also seeks sanctions against Defendant and his counsel, jointly and severally,
in the amount of $1,560.
 
Failure to respond or submit to an
authorized method of discovery is a misuse of the discovery process for which
sanctions may be imposed. (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 2023.010(d); 2023.030(a).)
Sanctions are mandatory on the party or attorney or both whose failure to serve
a timely response to requests for admission necessitated a motion to deem
requests for admissions as admitted. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2033.280(c).)
 
            Here, Plaintiff request sanctions
against Plaintiff only in the amount of $1,560, representing 2.5 hours of
attorney time at a rate of $500 per hour plus an additional anticipated half
hour, plus $60 in filing fees. (See Ward Decl. ¶¶ 11-13.) For the reasons stated above in connection
with the motions to compel, the Court declines to award the full amount of
sanctions or to impose sanctions against Defendant’s counsel. The Court will
therefore award sanctions in the amount of $560 against Defendant only
in connection with this motion. 
 
Conclusion
 
            Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s Motion for Order Deeming the Truth of Matters in Requests for
Admission Propounded to Defendant is GRANTED. 
 
            Plaintiff’s
request for sanctions is GRANTED in the amount of $560 against Defendant
only. 
 
 
CONCLUSION:

 
            Accordingly, Plaintiff’s
Motion to Compel Responses to Form Interrogatories is GRANTED.
 
            Plaintiff’s
Motion to Compel Responses to Requests for Production is GRANTED.
 
            Defendant
is ordered to provide verified, code-compliant responses without objections
within 30 days of the date of this order. 
 
Plaintiff’s Motion for Order
Deeming the Truth of Matters in Requests for Admission Propounded to Defendant
is GRANTED. 
 
            Plaintiff’s
request for sanctions is GRANTED in the amount of $2,180 against
Defendant only. Payment is to be made within 30 days of this order. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated: October 31, 2023                                 ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 