 Case Number:  22STCV22956    Hearing Date:   August 9, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court. 

 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


August
  9, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV22956




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Quash Deposition Subpoena for Production of Business Records to Lyft Inc.




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiffs
  Kanwardeep Singh and Rochelle Yullin Arias




OPPOSING PARTY:


Defendants
  William N. Solis Tello and Epifanio Amilcar Solis Tello



 
BACKGROUND
 
On July 15, 2022, Plaintiffs Kanwardeep Singh and Rochelle Yullin
Arias (“Plaintiffs”) filed a complaint against Defendants Alexandra T.
Cassillas, William N. Solis Tello, Epifanio Amilcar Solis Tello, WNS Trucking,
Juan Ramon Prado, Francisca Gonzalez Alcala, and Does 1 to 50 related to a
motor vehicle accident that allegedly occurred on November 30, 2021. 
 
On June 21, 2024, Defendants William N. Solis Tello and Epifanio
Amilcar Solis Tello (“Defendants”) issued a subpoena for production of business
records to Lyft, Inc., with a production date of July 19, 2024. (Blake Decl.,
Exh. A.)
 
Plaintiffs now move to quash the deposition subpoena served on Lyft,
Inc., arguing it is overbroad, irrelevant, and a privacy invasion. Plaintiffs also
seek monetary sanctions. Defendants oppose and also seek monetary sanctions. Plaintiffs
reply. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Code of Civil Procedure § 1987.1(a) states: 
 
If a subpoena requires the attendance of a witness or the production
of books, documents, electronically stored information, or other things before
a court, or at the trial of an issue therein, or at the taking of a deposition,
the court, upon motion reasonably made by any person described in subdivision
(b), or upon the court's own motion after giving counsel notice and an
opportunity to be heard, may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely,
modifying it, or directing compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as
the court shall declare, including protective orders. In addition, the court
may make any other order as may be appropriate to protect the person from
unreasonable or oppressive demands, including unreasonable violations of the
right of privacy of the person. 
 
“The state Constitution expressly grants Californians a right of
privacy. (Cal. Const., art. I, § 1.) Protection of informational privacy is the
provision's central concern. [Citation omitted.] In Hill, we established a
framework for evaluating potential invasions of privacy. The party asserting a
privacy right must establish a legally protected privacy interest, an
objectively reasonable expectation of privacy in the given circumstances, and a
threatened intrusion that is serious. [Citation omitted.] The party seeking
information may raise in response whatever legitimate and important
countervailing interests disclosure serves, while the party seeking protection
may identify feasible alternatives that serve the same interests or protective
measures that would diminish the loss of privacy. A court must then balance
these competing considerations. [citation omitted].” (Williams v. Superior
Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 533 (citing Hill v. National Collegiate Athletic
Assn. (1994) 7 Cal.4th 1, 35.) 
 
“[Prior] cases correctly recognize that when a discovery request seeks
information implicating the constitutional right of privacy, to order discovery
simply upon a showing that the Code of Civil Procedure section 2017.010 test
for relevance has been met is an abuse of discretion. [Citation omitted.] But
they also stand for the proposition that whenever discovery of facially private
information is sought, the party seeking discovery must demonstrate a “
‘compelling state interest’ ” [citation omitted] or “compelling need” [citation
omitted]. Although in this they are not alone [citation omitted], they
nevertheless are incorrect.” (Williams, supra, 3 Cal.5th at 556.) “To the
extent prior cases require a party seeking discovery of private information to
always establish a compelling interest or compelling need, without regard to
the other considerations articulated in Hill v. National Collegiate Athletic
Assn., [citation omitted], they are disapproved.” (Id. at 557.)
 
“Only obvious invasions of interest fundamental to personal autonomy
must be supported by a compelling interest.” (Williams, supra, 3 Cal.5th at
556.) When lesser interests are at stake, “the strength of the countervailing
interest sufficient to warrant disclosure of private information var[ies]
according to the strength of the privacy interest itself, the seriousness of
the invasion, and the availability of alternatives and protective measures.”
(Id.) 
 
California Code of Civil Procedure section 1987.2 provides that “the
court may in its discretion award the amount of reasonable expenses incurred in
making or opposing [a motion to quash], including reasonable attorney’s fees,
if the court finds the motion was made or opposed in bad faith or without
substantial justification or that one or more of the requirements of the
subpoena was oppressive.” (Code Civ. Proc. section 1987.2(a).)
 
“Unless otherwise limited by order of the court in
accordance with this title, any party may obtain discovery regarding any
matter, not privileged, that is relevant to the subject matter involved in the
pending action or to the determination of any motion made in that action, if
the matter either is itself admissible in evidence or appears reasonably
calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.” (Code Civ. Proc. §
2017.010.)  
 
 
DISCUSSION
 
The subject subpoena to Lyft, Inc. (“Lyft”) requests the following:
 
“Complete records from 01/01/2021 to the present, including but not
limited to any records or documents that may be stored digitally and/or
electronically, as follows: All Lyft receipts for rides pertaining to
Kanwardeep Singh (AKA Bobby Singh; DOB: 11/20/1993, SS# Unknown).”
(Blake Decl., Exh. A.)
 
Plaintiffs dispute that they were in a Lyft vehicle at the time of the
accident, or that any Lyft vehicle was involved in the incident. Therefore,
they argue the information requested is irrelevant. 
 
In opposition, Defendants contend that Plaintiff Kanwardeep Singh
(“Singh”) alleges he experiences anxiety associated with driving as a result of
the incident and no longer feels comfortable driving on the freeway. (Aaronian
Decl., Exh. A, Singh FROG No. 6.3; Exh. B.) As a result, he travels by Lyft
whenever he needs to travel on the freeway. (Id., Exh. B, Singh Depo. 8:19-9:5.)
Defendants are seeking Singh’s Lyft records to determine to what extent Singh’s
Lyft activity has been impacted by the subject accident. (Opp., 1.) They also
argue that the motion is moot since Lyft’s custodian of records served
Defendants a declaration stating it found no responsive records. 
 
In reply, Plaintiffs argue the motion is not moot because the issues
of privacy and the overbreadth of the subpoena is still at issue. 
 
The Court agrees the instant motion appears moot because no records
were produced from the subpoena. 
 
Nevertheless, even if the motion were not moot, the motion to quash
would be denied. First, based on the explanation provided by Defendants, and
the discovery and deposition testimony provided, it appears Singh claims that his
driving habits have changed due to the subject motor vehicle accident. He
claims that he does not feel comfortable driving on freeways and needs to take
Lyft as a result. Therefore, evidence of how often Singh uses the Lyft
application appears reasonably calculated to lead to
the discovery of admissible evidence regarding Singh’s claims.  
 
As for Plaintiffs’ objection regarding the scope of the records, the
incident occurred on November 30, 2021. Defendants’ subpoenas requested records
starting January 1, 2021. This appears to be reasonable since the date range
could provide information to show how Singh’s use of Lyft changed after the
incident. 
 
            Lastly,
though Plaintiffs argue the subpoena violates Singh’s right of privacy, they
have not shown in their moving papers, a legally protected privacy interest, an
objectively reasonable expectation of privacy in the given circumstances, and a
threatened intrusion that is serious, as required in Williams v. Superior
Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 533. Additionally, there are no facts
supporting that the requested Lyft records are an “obvious invasions of
interest fundamental to personal autonomy.” Therefore, no showing of a
compelling interest is required. (Williams, supra, 3 Cal.5th at
556.) As a result, Plaintiffs fail to meet their burden to show that the
purported privacy right warrants quashing the subpoena in its entirety. 
 
Accordingly, the motion to quash the subpoena directed to Lyft, Inc.
is denied. 
 
Plaintiffs seek monetary sanctions for $1,560.00. Defendants seek
monetary sanctions for $1,710.00. However, the Court declines to award monetary
sanctions for either party, since the motion is moot and there appears to be
substantial justification.
 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court DENIES Plaintiffs’ Motion to Quash Deposition
Subpoena for Production of Business Records to Lyft Inc. 
 
Plaintiffs to provide notice and file a proof of service of such.
 
 