 Case Number:  21STCV08319    Hearing Date:   August 9, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


August
  9, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV08319




MOTIONS:  


Ex
  Parte Application to Specially Set Motion




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant Sandi Korsen 




OPPOSING PARTY:


Plaintiff
  Bailey Moore 



 
BACKGROUND
 
Defendant Sandi Korsen (“Defendant”) applies ex parte to specially set
her motion for summary adjudication. Plaintiff opposes and Defendant replies.
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
“A trial court may not refuse to
hear a summary judgment motion filed within the time limits of section 437c.
[Citation omitted.] Local rules and practices may not be applied so as to
prevent the filing and hearing of such a motion.” (Sentry Ins. Co. v.
Superior Court (1989) 207 Cal.App.3d 526, 529.) Code of Civil Procedure
section 437c provides that “[n]otice of the motion and supporting papers shall
be served on all other parties to the action at least 75 days before the time
appointed for hearing. … The motion shall be heard no later than 30 days before
the date of trial, unless the court for good cause orders otherwise.” (Code
Civ. Proc. § 437c(a)(2)-(3).) “[T]he 30-day time limit on summary judgment
hearings should be calculated based on the trial date in existence when the
motion is noticed regardless of whether that date is the original trial date or
not.” (Green v. Bristol Myers Co. (1988) 206 Cal.App.3d 604, 609.)
 
DISCUSSION
 
Here, the motion for summary
adjudication was personally served on July 19, 2024, according to the proof of
service attached to the motion. This is exactly 105 days from the November 1,
2024 trial date. Accordingly, the motion was timely served. Although the motion
was not filed due to court closure (see Lowell Decl., Exh. B), Code of Civil
Procedure section 437c is silent regarding when the motion must be filed. The
motion was filed on July 24, 2024, the day after the court reopened.
 
Plaintiff argues that the motion is
untimely based on the parties’ stipulation. However, even if the parties could
stipulate to a summary judgment schedule shorter than authorized by the Code of
Civil Procedure, the stipulation does not specifically reference summary
judgment motions. Accordingly, the Court cannot find that Defendant entered
into such an agreement.
 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court advances the hearing on the Motion for Summary
Adjudication to October 2, 2024 at 1:30 p.m. in Department 32 of the Spring
Street Courthouse. All opposition and reply briefs must be filed according to
the Code of Civil Procedure.
 
Defendant shall provide notice of the Court’s order and file a proof
of service of such.
 