 Case Number:  24VECV00947    Hearing Date:   December 17, 2024    Dept:  107 


 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT
  OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS
  ANGELES
NORTHWEST
  DISTRICT
 




Nikal,
  LTD et al.,
Plaintiffs.
 
   v.
 
 
Areg
  Allen Sarkissian and Sarkissian Law Group, Inc.
Defendants.
 


 
 
   Case Number             Department
   24VECV00947           107




COURT’S TENTATIVE
  DECISION RE:     
 Demurrer with Motion to Strike
 



 
(1) Sustain the demurrer with leave to
amend; (2) Grant the motion to strike (as it pertains to punitive damages)
without leave to amend.

I.               
BACKGROUND 
 
This
is a legal malpractice case. On February 29, 2024, Plaintiffs Nikal, LTD, AJ
Rock, LTD, Blue Sky Rainbow, LP, GNM, L.P., and Animal Kingdom, L.P.
(“Plaintiffs”) filed a complaint against Defendants Areg Allen Sarkissian,
Sarkissian Law Group, Inc., (“Defendants”) and Does 1 through 100, alleging
twenty-three causes of action for breach of a written contract, legal
malpractice, and breach of fiduciary duty. 
On May 1, 2024, Defendants filed a
demurrer and motion to strike. On October 11, 2024, this court sustained the
demurrer, granted the motion to strike, and granted Plaintiffs leave to amend
the complaint.
 
On November 12, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a
first amended complaint.
 
On November 20, 2024, Defendants filed a
demurrer with motion to strike. On December 4, 2024, Plaintiffs filed
oppositions. On December 10, 2024, Defendants filed a reply.
 
II.            
PROCEDURAL MATTERS
 
A.    Timeliness
“A person against whom a complaint or cross-complaint
has been filed may, within 30 days after service of the complaint or
cross-complaint, demur to the complaint or cross-complaint.” (Code Civ. Proc.,
§¿430.40(a).)¿ 
 
Per California Code of Civil Procedure section¿435,
subdivision (b)(1), a motion to strike should be filed within 30 days after
service of the complaint. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 412.20(a)(3).)¿¿ 
 
Per California Code of Civil
Procedure §¿1005, subdivision (b), moving papers should be filed at
least 16 court days before they are set for hearing, oppositions thereto should
be filed at least nine court days before the set hearing, and replies to any
oppositions should be filed at least five court days before the set hearing. “Any period of
notice, or any right or duty to do any act or make any response within any
period or on a date certain after the service of the document, which time
period or date is prescribed by statute or rule of court, shall be extended
after service by electronic means by two court days . . .” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1010.6(a)(3)(B).)
 
Plaintiffs served Defendants with the second
amended complaint by email on November 12, 2024. Defendants filed the demurrer
and motion to strike on November 20, 2024. Accordingly, the demurrer and motion
to strike were filed within 30 days after service of the complaint.
 
The hearing is set for December 17, 2024.
Defendants served Plaintiffs with the demurrer and motion to strike by email on
November 20, 2024. Sixteen court days before December 17, 2024, plus an
additional two court days for electronic service, was November 19, 2024. Thus,
the demurrer and motion to strike were untimely.  
 
Judges have discretion as to whether to consider or strike an
untimely demurrer or pleading. (McAllister v. County of Monterey (2007)
147 Cal.App.4th 253, 281.) This court will exercise its discretion and consider
the motion to strike and demurrer.
 
The oppositions and reply were timely filed under section 1005.
 
B.   
Meet and Confer
 
California Code of Civil Procedure section¿430.41,
subdivision (a) requires parties to “meet and confer” before the filing of a
demurrer to attempt to informally resolve the objections raised in the
demurrer.¿The demurring party is required to file and serve with the demurrer a
declaration either confirming that parties were unable to resolve the issues
raised by the demurrer despite having met and conferred or that the opposing
party failed to meet and confer with the demurring party in good faith. (Code Civ.
Proc. §¿430.41(a)(3).)¿ 
¿ 
California Code of Civil Procedure §¿435.5, subdivision (a)
also requires parties to meet and confer before filing a motion to strike.¿ 
 
Defendants
attach no declarations to the demurrer or motion to strike stating Defendants
satisfied the meet and confer requirements. Thus, this court finds that
Defendants did not satisfy their meet and confer obligations.
However,
section 430.41, subdivision (a)(4) states that “A determination by the court that
the meet and confer process was insufficient shall not be grounds to overrule
or sustain a demurrer.” Similarly, section 435.5, subdivision (a)(4) states
that “A determination by the court that the meet and confer process was
insufficient shall not be grounds to grant or deny the motion to strike.” 
Accordingly, although
Defendants failed to satisfy their statutory obligations, this court may not
overrule the demurrer or deny the motion to strike on those grounds.
III.          
DEMURRER
 
A.    Legal
Standard
As a general matter, in a demurrer proceeding, the defects
must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice.¿(Donabedian
v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)¿“A demurrer tests the
pleading alone, and not the evidence or the facts alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc.
v. Accountants, Inc. Servs. (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) As such,
the court assumes the truth of the complaint’s properly pleaded or implied
factual allegations. (Id.) The only issue a demurrer is concerned with
is whether the complaint, as it stands, states a cause of action. (Hahn v.
Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 745.)¿A complaint is sufficient if it
contains “[a]¿statement¿of the¿facts¿constituting the cause of action, in
ordinary and concise language.” (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §¿425.10(a)(1).) Under
this standard, a “complaint ordinarily is sufficient if it alleges ultimate
rather than evidentiary facts.” (Doe v. City of Los Angeles (2007) 42
Cal.4th 531, 550.)¿
 
B.   
Discussion
 
Defendants argue: (1) Plaintiffs lack standing to bring this suit
because the causes of action in the first amended complaint are defective; and
(2) Plaintiffs have improperly been joined in a single lawsuit. (Demurrer pp.
7-12.)
 
i.      
Standing
 
Defendants argue Plaintiffs lack standing to bring this suit because
the causes of action presented in the first amended complaint are defective.
(Demurrer p. 7.) Specifically, Defendants argue, “[P]laintiffs’ claims for
breach of contract, legal malpractice, and breach of fiduciary duty lack merit.
For breach of contract, they have not shown any material breach by the
defendant, who fulfilled all contractual obligations. The legal malpractice
claim is unsupported, as there is no evidence of deviation from the standard of
care. Additionally, the breach of fiduciary duty claim is baseless, as the
defendant consistently adhered to fiduciary obligations of loyalty, care, and
good faith. Without evidence to support these claims, the essential elements
for each cause of action are unmet, making the claims legally meritless.”
(Demurrer pp. 7-8.)
 
Defendants’ arguments appear to ask this court to weigh
evidence that has not yet been presented by Plaintiffs against evidence
Defendants improperly submit within the demurrer. ¿“A demurrer tests the
pleading alone, and not the evidence or the facts alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc.
v. Accountants, Inc. Servs., supra, 153 Cal.App.4th at p. 1315.) This
court must court assume the truth of the complaint’s properly pleaded or
implied factual allegations. (Id.) Accordingly,
at this stage, this court is not considering whether there is “evidence”
supporting causes of action and is solely concerned with whether Plaintiffs
have properly plead their causes of action. Defendants’ arguments are
meritless. 
 
ii.              
Joinder
 
Defendants argue that the Plaintiffs have improperly been joined in a
single suit, despite there being no single transaction or occurrence. (Demurrer
p. 11.) 
 
A party may demur to a complaint because “[t]here is a defect
or misjoinder of parties.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10(d).)
 
“All persons may join in one action as plaintiffs if: (1) They assert
any right to relief jointly, severally, or in the alternative, in respect of or
arising out of the same transaction, occurrence, or series of transactions or
occurrences and if any question of law or fact common to all these persons will
arise in the action; or (2) They have a claim, right, or interest adverse to
the defendant in the property or controversy which is the subject of the
action.” (Code Civ. Proc, § 378.)
 
Courts broadly construe section 378. (Petersen v. Bank of
America Corp. (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 238, 250.) “A common
interest in the subject matter of the action has been found to exist where four
plaintiffs sued upon four separate causes of action on common counts for money
had and received in connection with purported sales of securities in violation
of the Corporate Securities Act. [Citations.] And a right to relief arising out
of the same transaction or series of transactions exists where several plaintiffs
sue for personal injuries suffered in the same accident [citations]; where two
persons are falsely imprisoned by the same acts committed at the same time
[citation]; where taxpayers join to challenge the validity of assessments or
recover taxes [citations]; where holders of separate oil leases sue for an
alleged trespass resulting from the drilling of one well by defendant
[citation]; and where plaintiffs whose causes of action are based upon
misrepresentation or conspiracy and fraud allege a single scheme, depending on
the same basic misrepresentations and leading to a series of transactions
exactly similar in kind and manner of operation [citations].” (Moe v.
Anderson (2012) 207 Cal.App.4th 826, 832.)
 
In Aghajl v.
Bank of America, N.A. (2016) 247 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1118, 1121, the Court
held a trial court did not abuse its discretion in sustaining a demurrer
without leave to amend because:
 
Each of the plaintiffs that counsel
addressed had unique transactions or experiences giving rise to their alleged
claims. For example, plaintiff Isabel Felix alleged that Bank of America added
fees, interest, and other charges to her principal balance when it acted as
servicer of her loan, while plaintiff Clifton Hunter alleged that Ocwen sent
him a letter stating that it was sending a representative to his rental
property to change the locks and winterize the property, charged him for
additional insurance on the property when it was not needed, and sent a man to
break into the property when no one was there. Plaintiff Joseph Rankin, on
the other hand, alleged that Bank of America issued mortgage interest
statements that underreported the amount of mortgage he paid, and plaintiff
Fernando Burgos alleged that Nationstar charged him more than was agreed to in
a loan modification agreement. Each of these claims clearly arises from a
different transaction or occurrence and presents distinct questions of law or
fact. Therefore, even if plaintiffs presented sufficient facts to state valid
UCL claims (which they did not), they could not be presented in a joint action
under section 378.
In contrast, in Petersen v. Bank of America Corp.
(2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 238, 247, a trial court sustained a demurrer without
leave to amend based on a misjoinder of plaintiffs. On appeal, the Court found
joinder was permissible and “identified the two core aspects of the common plan
alleged in the third amended complaint that necessarily will entail common
evidence (1) whether Countrywide deliberately encouraged dishonest appraisals
and (2) whether Countrywide encouraged its loan officers to conceal loan terms”
which “devolve into several questions of law or fact bearing on liability . .
.” (Id. at p. 252.)
In this case, this court sustained the demurrer to the complaint
because Plaintiffs had not alleged the Plaintiffs could be joined in one
action.
 
Plaintiffs amended the complaint by adding the following
paragraphs to the first amended complaint. 
 
At all material
times, Landmark Global Management, LLC dba Landmark Realty and Property
Management ("Landmark") was and is a limited liability company
organized and existing under the laws of the State of California. At all
material times, Landmark has acted as an agent and property manager for each of
the plaintiffs named herein and, in that capacity, referred each of the
plaintiffs to defendants for the handling of their legal needs (including
without limitation representation in unlawful detainer cases and
landlord-tenant disputes) and was the point of contact for all communications
with defendants relating to the legal services for which they were retained.
 
The claims alleged
herein against defendants and each of them arose out of a common nexus involving
a series of transactions on behalf of each of the plaintiffs,. These
transactions were all materially similar in kind and manner of operation, to
wit, the litigation of claims for unlawful detainer as against tenants of each
of the plaintiffs named herein, all of whom were principals of Landmark and
referred to defendants by Landmark. At all material times, Landmark was the
agent for each of the plaintiffs as to each of the unlawful detainer cases
enumerated herein, the conduit whereby each of the plaintiffs retained
defendants and the party to whom defendants reported as to all legal affairs
they handled on behalf of the plaintiffs. The legal services by defendants were
performed at the behest of Landmark for the benefit of each of the plaintiffs,
thus rendering the services rendered to each plaintiff part of a series of
interrelated transactions and occurrences sufficient to meet the criteria for
joinder under Code of Civil Procedure §378.
 
(FAC
¶¶ 8-9.)
 
The
allegation that each Plaintiff had the same agent may mean there will be common
facts and issues among the Plaintiffs. (FAC ¶¶ 8-9.) However, as alleged in the first
amended complaint, this case involves five different Plaintiffs, alleging
twenty-three causes of action, for nine separate underlying matters.  (See Opposition to Motion to Strike p. 3.)
Like Aghajl v. Bank of
America, N.A., supra, 247 Cal.App.4th at p.
1121, where each plaintiff had unique transactions and experiences giving rise
to their claims, each Plaintiff here alleges different circumstances giving
rise to the causes of action for breach of contract, legal malpractice, and
breach of fiduciary duties. For example, each Plaintiff alleges they entered
into a contract or contracts with Defendants at separate times.
(FAC ¶¶ 18, 37, 56, 75, 83, 91, 110, 129, 148.) The first amended complaint
further alleges separate, distinct facts for how Defendants committed legal
malpractice as to each Plaintiff. (FAC ¶¶ 27, 46, 65, 100, 119, 138, 157.) And
the first amended complaint alleges separate, distinct facts for how Defendants
breached their fiduciary duties to each Plaintiff. (FAC ¶¶ 32, 51, 70, 105,
124, 143, 162.) Other than the fact the Plaintiffs used the same agent, each of
these transactions is alleged to be entirely separate from the others.
Accordingly, the Plaintiffs causes of action do not arise out of the “same transaction,
occurrence, or series of transactions or occurrences.” (Code Civ. Proc, § 378.)
Accordingly, this court sustains the
demurrer on this ground.
IV.          
MOTION TO STRIKE
 
A.    Legal
Standard
The court may, upon a motion, or at any
time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant,
false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading. (Code Civ. Proc. § 436(a).)
The court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.
(Code Civ. Proc. § 436(b).) The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the
face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc. §¿437(a).)¿¿ 
¿¿ 
A motion to strike is appropriate to
attack a claim for punitive damages. (Grieves v. Superior Court (1984)
157 Cal.App.3d 159, 164.) 
 
B.    Discussion
Defendants
argue this court should strike the punitive damages claim in the first amended
complaint. (Notice of Motion p. 2.)
Plaintiffs
argue Defendants’ motion to strike is deficient because California Rule of
Court, rule 3.1322 requires “[a] notice of motion to strike a portion of a
pleading [to] quote in full the portions sought to be stricken except where the
motion is to strike an entire paragraph, cause of action, count, or defense.”
(Opposition to Motion to Strike p. 2.)
Defendants’
notice of motion to strike states that Defendants “move for an order to strike
the following portions of Plaintiffs’ complaint 
. . . Punitive damages as to the third, sixth, ninth, fourteenth,
seventeenth, twentieth, and twenty-third cause of action” and “[s]ame
transaction or [o]ccurrence.” (Notice of Motion to Strike.) Accordingly,
Defendants’ notice of motion does not quote in full the portions sought to be
stricken. Nor do Defendants seek to strike entire paragraphs, causes of action,
counts, or defenses.
In
its October 11, 2024, ruling, this court informed Defendants they failed to
follow the California Rules of Court by filing a sixty-page demurrer and stated
“[a]lthough this court does not decline to consider the demurrer, this court
reminds Defendants of the existence and importance of abiding by the California
Rules of Court.” (10/11/24 Minute Order.) Likewise, here, this court will
consider the substance of Defendants’ motion. However, Defendants are
instructed to comply with all applicable procedural rules in the future.
In
its October 11, 2024, order, this court granted the motion to strike, with
leave to amend, as it related to the punitive damages allegations, stating:
This court finds that Plaintiffs’
allegations do not rise to the level of fraud, oppression, or malice.  Accordingly, this court sustains the motion
to strike Plaintiffs’ punitive damages allegations, with leave to amend. (McDonald v.
Superior Court, supra, 180 Cal. App.3d at pp. 303-304 [“[A] motion to
strike paragraphs in a complaint should be granted with leave to amend where .
. . the defect, though one of substance, may possibly be cured by supplying
omitted allegations, and the plaintiff has not had a fair opportunity to do
so”].)
 
Defendants
argue the first amended complaint has not cured this defect because “Plaintiffs
failed to make any substantive amendments to remedy the issues related to
punitive damages in their amended complaint.” (Motion to Strike p. 6.) Further,
in the reply, Defendants state that “in the amended complaint Plaintiffs have
made no new allegations that rise to the level of fraud, oppression, or malice.
The only change in the first amended complaint is two paragraphs to support
Plaintiffs’ position that all five Plaintiffs can join together in this
lawsuit.” (Reply p. 5.)
Plaintiffs’
opposition to the motion to strike argues that punitive damages are available
as a matter of law for breach of fiduciary duty, which is the same argument
Plaintiffs made in opposing Defendants’ first motion to strike. (Opposition to
First Motion to Strike pp. 9-10; Opposition to Motion to Strike pp. 5-8.)
Plaintiffs do not argue in their opposition that they added any allegations to
the first amended complaint relating to the punitive damages claim that were
not in the complaint. Accordingly, this court grants Defendants’ motion to
strike as to the punitive damages claim.
Defendants
also argue the paragraphs referring to Landmark Global Management, LLC, should
be stricken because they are irrelevant. (Motion to Strike p. 7.) This court
sustained the demurrer based on misjoinder of parties. Accordingly, this issue
is moot.
V.             
LEAVE TO AMEND
“Where the defect raised by a motion to strike or by demurrer
is reasonably capable of cure, ‘leave to amend is routinely and liberally
granted to give the plaintiff a chance to cure the defect in question.’” (CLD
Construction, Inc. v. City of San Ramon (2004) 120 Cal.App.4th 1141,
1146.)¿ 
When a Plaintiff fails to describe “what additional facts
[the Plaintiff] would plead . . . [the Plaintiff] has not satisfied [their]
burden of showing that [the Plaintiff] can amend the complaint to cure its
defects.” (Mohler v. County of Santa Clara (2023) 92 Cal.App.5th 418,
428.)
This court finds there is a reasonable possibility Plaintiffs
can cure the defect relating to the misjoinder of parties and grants Plaintiffs
leave to amend as to that issue. 
As to the punitive damages issue, Plaintiffs were given an
opportunity to amend the complaint to add allegations addressing the punitive
damages issues but failed to do so. Moreover, Plaintiffs’ opposition cites
nothing showing Plaintiffs can successfully add allegations to the first amended
complaint to cure this deficiency.
Accordingly,
this court grants the motion to strike without leave to amend as to the
punitive damages claims in the first amended complaint.
VI.          
CONCLUSION
For
the foregoing reasons, this court sustains the demurrer with leave to amend.
This court also grants the motion to strike, without leave to amend, as it
relates to the punitive damages claim.
 
 
 
Dated:  December 17, 2024      
           
                       
           
                                                   _________________________________                 
           
           
           
                       
                       
           Hon. Eric Harmon
                                               
                       
                                   
Judge of the Superior Court