 Case Number:  23STCV04151    Hearing Date:   May 15, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




sarah lulloff

   ;
 


   Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
mark lovequist, aka m.
   lovequist

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


23STCV04151




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


May
   15, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[tentative]
  Order RE:
 
(1)  
  motion
  to be relieved as counsel for defendant mark lovequist
(2)  
  motion
  to be relieved as counsel for defendant ltpw developers, llc
 



 
MOVING PARTY:                 John Andrew Wright, Esq.     
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Unopposed
(1)  
Motion
to be Relieved as Counsel for Defendant Mark Lovequist
(2)  
Motion
to be Relieved as Counsel for Defendant LTPW Developers, LLC
The court
considered the moving papers filed in connection with each motion.  No opposition papers were filed.
DISCUSSION
John Andrew Wright, Esq. (“Defendants’ Counsel”) separately moves to
be relieved as counsel for (1) defendant Mark Lovequist (“Lovequist”), and (2)
defendant LTPW Developers, LLC (“LTPW”). 
In the interest of efficiency, the court discusses Defendants’ Counsel’s
two motions together. 
“The
question of granting or denying an application of an attorney to withdraw as
counsel (Code Civ. Proc., § 284, subd. 2) is one which lies within the sound
discretion of the trial court ‘having in mind whether such withdrawal might
work an injustice in the handling of the case.’”¿ (People v. Prince
(1968) 268 Cal.App.2d 398, 406 [internal quotations omitted].)¿ The court
should also consider whether the attorney’s “withdrawal can be accomplished
without undue prejudice to the client’s interests.”¿ (Ramirez v. Sturdevant (1994)
21 Cal.App.4th 904, 915.)¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
For
a motion to be relieved as counsel under Code of Civil Procedure section 284,
subdivision (2), California Rules of Court, rule 3.1362 requires (1) a notice
of motion and motion directed to the client (made on the Notice of Motion and
Motion to be Relieved as Counsel -- Civil form (MC-051)); (2) a declaration
stating in general terms and without compromising the confidentiality of the
attorney-client relationship why a motion under Code of Civil Procedure section
284, subdivision (2) is brought instead of filing a consent under Code of Civil
Procedure section 284, subdivision (1) (made on the Declaration in Support of
Attorney’s Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel -- Civil form (MC-052)); (3)
service of the notice of motion and motion, declaration, and proposed order on
the client and on all other parties who have appeared in the case; and (4) the
proposed order relieving counsel (prepared on the Order Granting Attorney’s
Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel -- Civil form (MC-053)).¿¿ 
The court finds that Defendants’ Counsel has served (1) defendant
Lovequist with (i) the moving papers filed in connection with this motion by
mail at Lovequist’s last known address, which Defendants’ Counsel has been
unable to confirm is current or to locate a more current address after making
reasonable efforts to do so, and (ii) a copy of the court’s April 11, 2024
order continuing the hearing on this motion by mail; (2) defendant LTPW with
(i) the moving papers filed in connection with this motion by mail at LTPW’s
last known address, which Defendants’ Counsel has been unable to confirm is
current or to locate a more current address after making reasonable efforts to
do so, and (ii) a copy of the court’s April 11, 2024 order continuing the
hearing on this motion by mail; and (3) counsel for plaintiff Sarah Lulloff
with a copy of the moving papers and notice of the continuance of the hearing
on these motions.  (MC-052 Forms,
¶ 3, subds. (a)(2), (b)(2)(b); Apr. 12, 2024 Proof of Service; Apr. 12,
2024 Notice of Ruling.)  The court also
finds that Defendants’ Counsel has shown sufficient reasons why the motions
should be granted, and why counsel brought the motions under Code of Civil
Procedure section 284, subdivision (2) instead of filing consents under section
284, subdivision (1).  (MC-052 Forms,
¶ 2.) 
The court therefore grants Defendants’ Counsel’s (1) motion to be
relieved as counsel for defendant Lovequist, and (2) motion to be relieved as
counsel for defendant LTPW. 
John Andrew Wright, Esq. will be relieved as counsel of record for
defendants Mark Lovequist and LTPW Developers, LLC effective upon the filing of
the proof of service of the signed “Order[s] Granting Attorney’s Motion to be
Relieved as Counsel – Civil” on the clients. 
The court orders John Andrew Wright, Esq. to give notice of this
ruling and the signed “Order[s] Granting Attorney’s Motion to be Relieved as
Counsel – Civil” to defendants Mark Lovequist and LTPW Developers, LLC, and to
all other parties who have appeared in this action. 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  May 15, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court