 Case Number:  BC724250    Hearing Date:   May 15, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




emilio reyes

   ;
 


   Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
lorraine escobar

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


BC724250




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


May
   15, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[tentative]
  Order RE:
 
defendants’ motion to bifurcate punitive
  damages from liability determination
 



 
MOVING PARTIES:              Defendants Los Indios de San
Gabriel, Inc., and Andrew Salas
 
RESPONDING PARTY:        Unopposed
Motion to Bifurcate Punitive Damages from Liability Determination
The court
considered the moving papers filed in connection with this motion.  No opposition papers were filed. 
DISCUSSION
Defendants Los Indios de San Gabriel, Inc., and Andrew Salas
(“Defendants”) move the court for an order bifurcating trial in this action,
filed by plaintiff Emilio Reyes, to separate the issue of liability from the
issue of punitive damages. 
“The
court shall, on application of any defendant, preclude the admission of
evidence of that defendant’s profits or financial condition until after the
trier of fact returns a verdict for plaintiff awarding actual damages and finds
that a defendant is guilty of malice, oppression, or fraud in accordance with
Section 3294.¿ Evidence of profit and financial condition shall be admissible
only as to the defendant or defendants found to be liable to the plaintiff and
to be guilty of malice, oppression, or fraud.¿ Evidence of profit and financial
condition shall be presented to the same trier of fact that found for the
plaintiff and found one or more defendants guilty of malice, oppression, or
fraud.”  (Civ. Code, § 3295, subd. (d).)  “While the statute refers only to evidence
of the defendant’s financial condition, in practice bifurcation under this
section means that all evidence relating to the amount of punitive
damages is to be offered in the second phase, while the determination whether
plaintiff is entitled to punitive damages (i.e., whether the defendant
is guilty of malice, fraud or oppression) is decided in the first phase along
with compensatory damages.”¿ (Holdgrafer v. Unocal Corp. (2008) 160
Cal.App.4th 907, 919.)¿¿¿ 
The court
finds that Defendants are entitled to an order bifurcating trial
pursuant to Civil Code section 3295, and therefore grants Defendants’ motion
and makes the orders set forth below.  (Civ. Code, §¿3295, subd. (d).)
ORDER
            The court grants defendants Los
Indios de San Gabriel, Inc., and Andrew Salas’s motion to bifurcate punitive
damages from liability determination. 
            The court orders that trial of this
action will be bifurcated as follows: (1) the jury will first decide the issues
of whether to impose liability for compensatory damages and, if so, the amount
of compensatory damages, and whether defendants Los Indios de San Gabriel,
Inc., and Andrew Salas are guilty of malice, oppression, or fraud, and (2) only
after making findings in plaintiff Emilio Reyes’s favor on all those issues,
the jury will then decide the issue of whether to impose punitive damages
against defendants Los Indios de San Gabriel, Inc., and Andrew Salas.
            The court orders defendants Los
Indios de San Gabriel, Inc., and Andrew Salas to give notice of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
DATED:  May 15, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court