 Case Number:  24SMCV01139    Hearing Date:   November 13, 2024    Dept:  205 Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles – West District Beverly Hills Courthouse / Department 205   JOSEPH ARIEL HAZANI,   Plaintiff, v.  USG CORPORATION,   Defendant.    Case No.:  24SMCV01139     Hearing Date:  November 13, 2024     [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE:   DEFENDANT’S DEMURRER   TO COMPLAINT      BACKGROUND    The operative complaint is confusing and littered with random case cites and gibberish.  As best as the Court can tell, Plaintiff Joseph Hazani is alleging the following facts:  Plaintiff “had been initiating” a contract between himself and Defendant USG Corporation related to a project for “chronobiological lighting”.   The contract was for the “mass manufacturing of a chronobiological sensor”, the “mass manufacturing of chronobiological and health specialty ceiling systems”, and “with critical software joint-ownership and royalty licensing rights” for USG.  Under the contract, Plaintiff was to receive monthly retainer earnings of $12,500 as well as cash bonuses and “usufructuary rights” to the design of the “complex usufructuaries.”   Plaintiff next alleges he unilaterally initiated contact via email with several executives of Acuity, which is not a defendant in this action.  He claims that several Acuity executives had preliminary conversations with Plaintiff regarding a potential project involving a “ceiling system comprising LED lighting and a blue light control for treating seasonal affective disorder.”  There is no explanation of why these contacts with Acuity are relevant to the suit against USG.     Plaintiff then alleges that he has been “in continual contact with Defendant USG since October 1, 2023 after my separation towards brokering the company’s integrated lighting co-branding with acuity brands …”  Plaintiff appears to allege that both USG and Acuity stole his trade secrets relating to “techniques for medically clearing LED lighting devices with the Food and Drug Administration.”  He claims he sent out cease and desist letters to Acuity and USG, although he does not elaborate on the substance of these letters or on the nature of the relationship between Acuity and USG.    It is not clear what claims are alleged in the operative complaint.  There are passing references to these six theories of recovery: (1) interference with economic relations, (2) negligence or gross negligence, (3) negligent infliction of emotional distress, (4) quantum meruit, (5) unjust enrichment, and (6) breach of the covenant of good faith.  But it is unclear what facts support each of the claims.     On June 14, 2024, the Court sustained a demurrer to the original complaint on the ground that it was uncertain.  The Court concluded that 2-page form complaint fails to state any facts, much less facts that would support the causes of action listed in the form complaint. The Court also found that the form complaint is uncertain, and Defendant could not reasonably respond to the form complaint which contains no allegations and includes only a fleeting reference to various disconnected claims.  This hearing is on Defendant USG Corporation’s demurrer to the first amended complaint (“FAC”).  Defendant demurs generally to the FAC on the grounds that Plaintiff has failed to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.  Defendant demurs specially to the FAC on the grounds that it is uncertain, and also to the extent Plaintiff is alleging a breach of contract claim, it cannot be ascertained whether the contract is written, oral or implied.   LEGAL STANDARD A demurrer to a complaint may be general or special.¿ A general demurrer challenges the legal sufficiency of the complaint on the ground it fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action. (Code Civ. Proc. § 430.10, subd. (e).)  A special demurrer challenges other defects in the complaint, including whether a pleading is uncertain. (Code Civ. Proc. § 430.10, subd. (f).)¿ The term uncertain means “ambiguous and unintelligible.”¿ (Id.)¿ A demurrer for uncertainty should be sustained if the complaint is drafted in such a manner that the defendant cannot reasonably respond, i.e., the defendant cannot determine what issues must be admitted or denied, or what counts are directed against the defendant. (Khoury v. Maly's of California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)¿ A demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable.  (See Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994 (in ruling on a demurrer, a court may not consider declarations, matters not subject to judicial notice, or documents not accepted for the truth of their contents).)  For purposes of ruling on a demurrer, all facts pleaded in a complaint are assumed to be true, but the reviewing court does not assume the truth of conclusions of law. (Aubry v. Tri-City Hosp. Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.)   Leave to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (See Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349 (court shall not “sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if there is any reasonable possibility that the defect can be cured by amendment”); Kong v. City of Hawaiian Gardens Redevelopment Agency (2002) 108 Cal.App.4th 1028, 1037 (“A demurrer should not be sustained without leave to amend if the complaint, liberally construed, can state a cause of action under any theory or if there is a reasonable possibility the defect can be cured by amendment.”).)  The burden is on the complainant to show the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.)  MEET AND CONFER Code Civ. Proc. § 430.41 requires that before the filing of a demurrer, the moving party “shall meet and confer in person or by telephone” with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 430.41(a).)  The parties are to meet and confer at least five days before the date the responsive pleading is due. (Code Civ. Proc. § 430.41(a)(2).)  Thereafter, the moving party shall file and serve a declaration detailing their meet and confer efforts. (Code Civ. Proc. § 430.41(a)(3).)   Defendant submits the Declaration of Richard J. Hogan which states Plaintiff and defense counsel met and conferred by telephone on October 7, 2024, which is more than five days before the date the demurrer was filed (on October 16, 2024).  The parties discussed the grounds for the demurrer.  Plaintiff indicated he would not amend his complaint.  Accordingly, Defendant has met the meet and confer requirements of § 430.41.    OPPOSITION Plaintiff filed a¿single-spaced¿opposition¿violating¿California Rules of Court, rule 2.108(1)¿as a way to avoid exceeding the 15-page limit in violation of¿California Rules of Court, rule 3.1113(d).  The Court exercises its discretion to decline to consider Plaintiff’s single spaced, oversize opposition.    In addition, Plaintiff did not properly serve the opposition on Defendant, which presents an additional independent reason to disregard the opposition.  All papers opposing a motion shall be filed with the court and a copy served on each party at least nine court days before the hearing. Code Civ. Proc., §1005, subd. (b). Service may only be done by a person who is at least 18 years of age and not a party to the action. Code Civ. Proc., § 414.10. The court may exercise its discretion to disregard a filing that has not been served on the opposing party in accordance with applicable law. (Iverson v. Superior Court (1985) 167 Cal.App.3d 544, 548.)  On October 25, 2024, Plaintiff served Defendant in this matter by walking into Defendant’s Los Angeles business office and dropping the documents off himself.  As Plaintiff is a party to this case, his method of service was improper.  Moreover, Plaintiff served Defendant with a 9-page opposition.  However, he filed a 124-page document with the Court.  Plaintiff failed to serve Defendant with a copy of that document. The court admonishes Plaintiff to follow applicable statutes and rules of court when serving Defendant with filings moving forward.  Plaintiff must abide by the basic service requirements required under California law.   DISCUSSION Defendant argues that the complaint is subject to a special demurrer because it is entirely unintelligible.  The Court agrees.   A demurrer for uncertainty should be sustained if the complaint is drafted in such a manner that the defendant cannot reasonably respond, i.e., the defendant cannot determine what issues must be admitted or denied, or what counts are directed against the defendant. (Khoury, 14 Cal.App.4th at 616.)¿   Here, Defendant cannot reasonably respond to the complaint which contains a mish-mash of allegations that are not tied to any of the various “claims” referenced in the complaint.  It appears Plaintiff is claiming Defendant stole his trade secrets.  But there is no description of the trade secrets or how Defendant stole them.  Plaintiff also appears to be claiming that there was an agreement between the parties for “chronobiological lighting” that entitled Plaintiff to bonuses and commissions.  But it is unclear what the terms of the agreement are, beyond the term that Plaintiff would be entitled to some compensation.  Plaintiff also seeks quantum meruit but it is entirely unclear what services Plaintiff provided to Defendant for which he is now seeking reasonable compensation.   Accordingly, the Court sustains Defendant’s special demurrer.  Further, as Plaintiff has already been provided with the opportunity to amend his complaint and the complaint continues to be defective, the Court will sustain the demurrer without leave to amend.   CONCLUSION Based on the foregoing, the Court SUSTAINS Defendant’s demurrer without leave to amend.   IT IS SO ORDERED.  DATED:  November 13, 2024   ___________________________ Edward B. Moreton, Jr. Judge of the Superior Court 