  Case Number:  23TRCV03872    Hearing Date:   April 24, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
ONYI
  KO, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23TRCV03872




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
MERCEDES-BENZ
  USA, LLC, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          April 24, 2024
 
Moving
Parties:                      Plaintiff Onyi Ko
Responding
Party:                  Defendant Mercedes-Benz USA, LLC
Motion
to Compel Further Responses to Plaintiff’s Request for Production of Documents,
Set One
 
            The court considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers.
RULING
            The motion to compel further
responses to plaintiff’s Request for Production of Documents, Nos. 1, 3, 7, 11,
18, 19, 21, and 31 is DENIED as to compelling further responses or production
of documents as defendant’s responses were code-compliant and defendant
responded that it was unaware of documents in its possession, custody, or
control after a diligent inquiry or produced responsive documents “to which no
objection was being made.”  To the extent
that defendant withheld responsive documents based on privilege, defendant is
ordered to produce a privilege log within twenty days.
The motion is DENIED WITHOUT
PREJUDICE as to No. 30.  The court is
ordering the case bifurcated for both discovery and trial.  In phase one the parties shall try the basic
Song Beverly Act claim arising from the claimed breach of the Song Beverly
statutory obligations.
Phase two shall involve plaintiff’s
claim to a civil penalty under Civil
Code §1794(c) for a willful
violation of the statute.  Discovery on
the phase two issues, such as whether defendant knew that it could not repair
the claimed defects, based on its knowledge learned from vehicles other than plaintiff’s
vehicle (No. 30), shall be deferred until after the trier of fact has returned
a verdict favorable to plaintiff in phase one.
BACKGROUND
            On November 21, 2023, plaintiff Onyi
Ko filed a complaint against Mercedes-Benz USA, LLC and Envision WC MB Auto,
LLC dba Mercedes-Benz of West Covina for violations of Song Beverly Act and negligent
repair.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
45-Day Rule: 
This motion must be served within 45 days after service of the response
in question (extended if served by mail, overnight delivery, or fax; see CCP §
1013); otherwise, the demanding party waives the right to compel any further
response to the CCP §2031.010 demand. 
CCP §§2031.310(c), 2016.050; see Sperber
v. Robinson (1994) 26 Cal. App. 4th 736, 745.  The 45-day time limit is mandatory and
jurisdictional.  Sexton v. Superior Court (1997) 58 Cal. App. 4th 1403, 1410.  The parties, however, can also agree in
writing on a specific later date by which to file the motion to compel.  CCP §2031.310(c). 
Meet-and-Confer Requirement: 
The motion to compel further responses must be accompanied by a
declaration showing “a reasonable and good faith attempt” to resolve the issues
outside of court (so-called “meet and confer”). 
CCP §§2016.040, 2031.310(b)(2).
Separate Statement: 
Any motion involving the content of a discovery request or the responses
to such a request shall be accompanied by a separate statement.  This includes a motion to compel further
responses to demand for inspection of documents or tangible things.  CRC Rule 3.1020(a)(3).  
Request for Production of Documents
On receipt of a response to an
inspection demand, the demanding party may move for an order compelling further
responses to the demand if the demanding party deems that any of the following
apply:  (1) a statement of compliance
with the demand is incomplete; (2) a representation of inability to comply is
inadequate, incomplete, or evasive; or (3) an objection in the response is
without merit or too general.  CCP §
2031.310(a).  A statement of compliance
shall state that the production, inspection, and related activity demanded will
be allowed either in whole or in part, and that all documents or things in the
demanded category that are in the possession, custody, or control of that party
and to which no objection is being made will be included in the production.  CCP § 2031.220.  “A representation of inability to comply with
[a] particular demand for inspection . . . shall affirm that a diligent search
and reasonable inquiry has been made in an effort to comply with that
demand.  This statement shall also specify
whether the inability to comply is because the particular item or category has
never existed, has been destroyed, has been lost, misplaced, or stolen, or has
never been, or is no longer, in the possession, custody, or control of the
responding party.  This statement shall
set forth the name and address of any natural person or organization known or
believed by that party to have possession, custody, or control of that item or
category of item.”  CCP § 2031.230. 
A motion to compel further response
to requests for production “shall set forth specific facts showing good cause
justifying the discovery sought by the inspection demand.”  CCP § 2031.310(b)(1).  “To establish ‘good cause,’ the burden is on
the moving party to show both:  [1] Relevance to the subject matter (e.g.,
how the information in the documents would tend to prove or disprove some issue
in the case); and [2] Specific facts justifying discovery
(e.g., why such information is necessary for trial preparation or to prevent
surprise at trial).  The fact that there
is no alternative source for the
information sought is an important factor in establishing ‘good cause’ for
inspection.  But it is not essential in every case.”  Weil & Brown, Civil Procedure Before Trial, 8:1495.6 (citations omitted).  “Declarations are generally used to show the
requisite ‘good cause’ for an order to compel inspection.  The declarations must contain ‘specific facts’
rather than mere conclusions.”  Id. at 8:1495.7 (citation omitted).  “The declarations may be on information and
belief, if necessary.  However, in such
cases, the ‘specific facts’ supporting such information and belief (the sources
of the information) must also be alleged.” 
Id. at 8:1495.8 (citation
omitted).  “Most declarations are made by
the attorney for the moving party, who is usually more familiar with the
relevancy and ‘specific facts’ constituting ‘good cause’ for inspection.”  Id.
at 8:1495.9.
“If ‘good cause’ is shown by the moving
party, the burden is then on the responding party to justify any objections
made to document disclosure (the same as on motions to compel answers to
interrogatories or deposition questions. . . ).”  Id.
at 8:1496 (citation omitted).
DISCUSSION
            Plaintiff Onyi Ko requests that the
court order defendant Mercedes-Benz USA, LLC to provide further responses and
documents to plaintiffs’ Request for Production of Documents, Set One, Nos. 1,
3, 7, 11, 18, 19, 21, 30, and 31. 
            In the complaint, plaintiff alleges
that on August 31, 2022, plaintiff leased 2022 Mercedes-Benz EQB.  Complaint, ¶9.  Plaintiff first presented the subject vehicle
for repairs in March 2023 and difficulty charging the battery.  In April 2023, plaintiff presented the
subject vehicle for repairs and reported, for the second time, difficulty
charging the battery.  Id., ¶13.  Plaintiff presented the subject vehicle for
repairs in July 2023 and reported the power shutting off while driving.  Id., ¶14. 
In August 2023, plaintiff presented the subject vehicle for repairs and
reported, for the third time, difficulty charging the battery.  Id., ¶15. 
            In the motion, plaintiff asserts
that from March 29, 2023 (with 11,204 miles on the odometer), to August 8,
2023, plaintiff presented the subject vehicle to various Mercedes-Benz
authorized repair facilities, on at least five different occasions for defects/nonconformities
exhibited in the subject vehicle, including for attempted repairs involving
defective powertrain and electric battery system.  During the August 8, 2023 presentment,
defendant created case #24554528, in response to defendant’s inability to
repair the electrical and powertrain defects/nonconformities during the prior
four presentments in 2023.  The subject
vehicle was down approximately 90 cumulative days, with 74 days corresponding
to a single visit.  To date, plaintiff
continues to experience electrical defects/nonconformities impacting the vehicle’s
electric battery charging system and its impact on drivetrain.  Plaintiff contends that none of the repairs
performed by defendant’s authorized repair facility permanently repaired the
defects.  
            Plaintiff explains that on January
5, 2024, plaintiff propounded initial written discovery.  On February 6, 2024, plaintiff asserts,
defendant served deficient responses.  On
February 15, 2024, plaintiff’s counsel sent defense counsel a detailed meet and
confer letter.  On February 23, 2024,
plaintiff’s counsel followed up regarding plaintiff’s meet and confer via email
“but to no avail.”  Plaintiff’s counsel
also attempted to follow up on March 13 and 18, 2024.  On March 20, 2024, defense counsel responded
with her availability, but plaintiff’s counsel was unavailable.  Plaintiff’s counsel asserts that counsel were
unable to telephonically meet and confer before the filing of the motion.
            The following requests are at issue:

No. 1: 
all documents regarding subject vehicle that are within “Your Customer
Relations Center.”
Defendant responded, “[f]ollowing a
diligent search and reasonable inquiry, the documents produced in Exhibit A are
all of the responsive documents or things relevant to this request that are
currently in the possession, custody, or control of responding party, and to
which no objection is being made.”
No. 3: 
all documents relating to any inspection of subject vehicle.
Defendant responded, “[f]ollowing a
diligent search and reasonable inquiry, the documents produced in Exhibit A are
all of the responsive documents or things relevant to this request that are
currently in the possession, custody, or control of responding party, and to
which no objection is being made and includes the service records for
Plaintiff’s visits with the subject vehicle to Mercedes-Benz authorized
dealerships.”
No. 7: 
all documents that relate to all diagnostic trouble codes that are
electronically stored by you or your authorized repair facility as result of
any inspections or repairs conducted on the subject vehicle.
Defendant responded, “[f]ollowing a
diligent search and reasonable inquiry, the documents produced in Exhibit A are
all of the responsive documents or things relevant to this request that are
currently in the possession, custody, or control of responding party, and to
which no objection is being made.”
No. 11: 
all documents that relate to any summaries of all amounts paid by you
for warranty repairs performed on the subject vehicle.
Defendant responded, “[f]ollowing a
diligent search and reasonable inquiry, the documents produced in Exhibit A are
all of the responsive documents or things relevant to this request that are
currently in the possession, custody, or control of responding party, and to
which no objection is being made.”
As to Nos. 1, 3, 7, and 11,
plaintiff argues that it is unable to determine which, if any, responsive
materials are being withheld on the basis of privilege given the current
response as written.
The court finds that defendant’s
responses are code-compliant.
 
No. 18: 
documents relating to policies and procedures for determining whether a
vehicle should be repurchased or replaced under the Song-Beverly Act.
No. 19: 
documents relating to any flow charts used by you for the purpose of
escalating customer complaints.
No. 21: 
documents evidencing and/or describing your training materials related
to your policy regarding how to calculate a repurchase.
As to Nos. 18, 19, and 20,
defendant responded:  “Following a
diligent search and reasonable inquiry, the documents produced in Exhibit A are
all of the responsive documents or things relevant to this request that are
currently in the possession, custody, or control of responding party, and to
which no objection is being made.”
The court finds that defendant’s
responses are code-compliant.
 
No. 30: documents, in the form of a list
or compilation, of other customer complaints in your electronically stored
information of database(s) that are substantially similar to complaints made by
plaintiff with respect to the subject vehicle.
Defendant objected on several
grounds, including that “whether Plaintiff is entitled to relief under
[Song-Beverly Act] . . . is entirely unrelated to other Mercedes-Benz vehicles”
and that the request is overly broad and unduly burdensome in that plaintiff’s
vehicle is not simply a “2022 Mercedes-Benz EQB.”  Rather it comes in different
engine/transmission/trim combinations. 
Defendant did not produce any responsive documents.
No. 31: 
documents relating to any Field Service Action issued, on in the process
of being issued, in response to complaints experienced by plaintiff as
described in defendant’s warranty history/summary and within the line items of
the repair orders created by defendant’s authorized repair facility.
Defendant objected, including that
No. 31 is overly broad and unduly burdensome and vague in that plaintiff’s
vehicle is not simply a “2022 Mercedes-Benz EQB.”  Defendant further responded that “[a]fter a
diligent search and reasonable inquiry this responding party is unaware of the
existence of any documents in its possession, custody, or control.”
 
            The court rules as follows:  The motion to compel further responses to plaintiff’s
Request for Production of Documents, Nos. 1, 3, 7, 11, 18, 19, 21, and 31 is
DENIED as to compelling further responses or production of documents as
defendant’s responses were code-compliant and defendant responded that it was
unaware of documents in its possession, custody, or control after a diligent
inquiry or produced responsive documents “to which no objection was being
made.”  To the extent that defendant
withheld responsive documents based on privilege, defendant is ordered to
produce a privilege log within twenty days.
The motion is DENIED WITHOUT
PREJUDICE as to No. 30.  The court is
ordering the case bifurcated for both discovery and trial.  In phase one the parties shall try the basic
Song Beverly Act claim arising from the claimed breach of the Song Beverly
statutory obligations.
Phase two shall involve plaintiff’s
claim to a civil penalty under Civil
Code §1794(c) for a willful
violation of the statute.  Discovery on
the phase two issues, such as whether defendant knew that it could not repair
the claimed defects, based on its knowledge learned from vehicles other than plaintiff’s
vehicle (No. 30), shall be deferred until after the trier of fact has returned
a verdict favorable to plaintiff in phase one.
 
ORDER
            The motion to compel further
responses to plaintiff’s Request for Production of Documents, Nos. 1, 3, 7, 11,
18, 19, 21, and 31 is DENIED as to compelling further responses or production
of documents as defendant’s responses were code-compliant and defendant
responded that it was unaware of documents in its possession, custody, or
control after a diligent inquiry or produced responsive documents “to which no
objection was being made.”  To the extent
that defendant withheld responsive documents based on privilege, defendant is
ordered to produce a privilege log within twenty days.
The motion is DENIED WITHOUT
PREJUDICE as to No. 30.  The court is
ordering the case bifurcated for both discovery and trial.  In phase one the parties shall try the basic
Song Beverly Act claim arising from the claimed breach of the Song Beverly
statutory obligations.
Phase two shall involve plaintiff’s
claim to a civil penalty under Civil
Code §1794(c) for a willful
violation of the statute.  Discovery on
the phase two issues, such as whether defendant knew that it could not repair
the claimed defects, based on its knowledge learned from vehicles other than plaintiff’s
vehicle (No. 30), shall be deferred until after the trier of fact has returned
a verdict favorable to plaintiff in phase one.
Defendant is ordered to give notice of ruling.