 Case Number:  23STCV45088    Hearing Date:   February 21, 2024    Dept:  71 Superior Court
of California
County of Los
Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 71
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



PEOPLE OF THE STATE OF
  CALIFORNIA, ex rel., ALLSTATE INSURANCE COMPANY,
  
         vs.
 
ADAM AVELARDO PEREZ, et al.
  


 Case No.: 
  21STCV45088
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  February 21, 2024



 
Defendants New Hope Imaging Services, LLC’s and Adam Avelardo
Perez’s demurrer to the second amended complaint of Plaintiff Allstate
Insurance Company is overruled as to the 1st and 2nd causes of action.
Defendants’ motion to strike is denied.
 
Defendants New Hope
Imaging Services, LLC (“New Hope”) and Adam Avelardo Perez (“Perez”)
(collectively, “New Hope”) demur to each cause of action in Plaintiff People of
the State of California, ex rel. Allstate Insurance Company’s (“Allstate”)
(“Plaintiff”) second amended complaint (“SAC”). 
(Notice of Demurrer, pgs. 1-2; C.C.P. §430.10(e).)  
Defendants also move to
strike Plaintiff’s SAC as untimely and request this Court dismiss the SAC in
its entirety.  (Notice MTS, pg. 2.)
 
Procedural Background
          Plaintiff
filed its initial complaint as a qui tam relator on behalf of the People
of the State of California and on behalf of itself on December 10, 2021.  Plaintiff filed its FAC on October 21, 2022,
against New Hope and Non-moving Defendants Alan Todd Turner, M.D. (“Turner”)
and George Mednik, M.D. (“Mednik”) (collectively, “Defendants”) alleging two
causes of action: (1) violation of CIFPA, Insurance Code §1871.7; and (2) violation
of the Unfair Competition Law, Business & Professions Code §17200 et
seq.  On June 15, 2023, this Court
sustained Defendants’ demurrers to the 1st and 2nd causes of action with 30
days leave to amend.  (6/15/23 Minute
Order.)  On September 18, 2023, Plaintiff
filed its operative SAC alleging the same two causes of action against
Defendants.
          New
Hope filed its demurrer on October 23, 2023, and its motion to strike on
October 24, 2023.  On February 6, 2024,
Plaintiff filed its oppositions.  On February
13, 2024, New Hope filed its replies.
 
Meet and Confer
Before filing a demurrer,
the demurring party must meet and confer in person, by telephone, or by
video conference with the party who filed the pleading to attempt to reach
an agreement that would resolve the objections to the pleading and obviate the
need for filing the demurrer.  (C.C.P.
§430.41(a), emphasis added.) 
New Hope’s counsel
declares he corresponded with Plaintiff’s counsel on October 10, 2023, in an
attempt to informally resolve the issues in the instant demurrer.  (Decl. of Chorbajian ¶2, Exh. A.)  New Hope’s counsel declares his office engaged
in a telephone conference with Plaintiff’s counsel on October 13, 2023, but the
parties were unable to resolve their disputes without Court intervention.  (Decl. of Chorbajian ¶3.)  New Hope’s meet and confer declaration is
sufficient under C.C.P. §430.41. 
Therefore, the Court will consider the instant demurrer.
 
Summary of Allegations
Plaintiff alleges
Defendants carried out a scheme to defraud insurance companies that cover
claims for services related to Magnetic Resonance Imaging (“MRI”).  (SAC ¶2, Exh. A.)
Plaintiff alleges
Defendant Perez, as an unlicensed layperson, established and ran New Hope and
has never been licensed to practice medicine in any form.  (SAC ¶4.) 
Plaintiff alleges Defendant Perez passed off Defendant New Hope—both to
the public and to insurers—as a legitimate diagnostic imaging provider with
multiple locations across California.  (SAC ¶4.) 
Plaintiff alleges Perez hired Defendant Turner, a licensed radiologist,
to pose as New Hope’s medical director, even though Turner did not oversee New
Hope’s operations and had little do with New Hope at all.  (SAC ¶4.) 
Plaintiff alleges under this façade of legitimacy, the unlicensed Perez
ran New Hope, churning out countless bills to insurers which earned them
millions of dollars in unlawful profit. 
(SAC ¶4.)
Plaintiff alleges New
Hope networked with and established relationships with sources of patients for
New Hope to provide unlicensed “treatment” to—personal injury attorneys and
sham factoring companies.  (SAC ¶5.)  Plaintiff alleges the attorneys would
directly or indirectly refer their allegedly injured clients to New Hope to
obtain diagnostic imaging such as MRIs and reports documenting the MRI findings
and impressions.  (SAC ¶5.)  Plaintiff alleges New Hope would administer
the MRI and contract out the professional interpretation of the images to
remote radiologists, paying them low rates on a per-volume basis. (SAC
¶5.)  Plaintiff alleges New Hope then
passed off the contracted doctors’ services as New Hope’s own by preparing
reports on New Hope letterhead and issuing bills that identified New Hope as
the provider of the professional services rendered and grossly marked up the
services’ cost.  (SAC ¶5.)  Plaintiff alleges this scheme enabled New
Hope and its owner to bill for medical services which they could not legally
provide and thus could not legally bill. 
(SAC ¶5.)  Plaintiff alleges because
Defendants submitted (or caused to be submitted) at least 398 fraudulent claims
to Allstate, California law imposes penalties of at least $1,990,000 and assessments
of up to $4,200,000.  (SAC ¶¶6, 7, Exh.
A.)
 
A.   Demurrer
Summary of Demurrer
New
Hope demurs to the 1st and 2nd causes of action on the basis they do not state
facts sufficient to constitute causes of action.  (Demurrer, pgs. 3-4; C.C.P. §§430.10(a), (e),
(f).)
 
Failure
to State a Cause of Action
Violation of CIFPA, Insurance Code §1871.7 (1st COA)
Insurance Code §1871.7
provides, in part:
(a)  It is unlawful to knowingly employ
runners, cappers, steerers, or other persons to procure clients or patients to
perform or obtain services or benefits pursuant to Division 4 (commencing with
Section 3200) of the Labor Code or to procure clients or patients to perform or
obtain services or benefits under a contract of insurance or that will be the
basis for a claim against an insured individual or his or her insurer.
 
(b)  Every person who violates any provision of
this section or Section 549, 550, or 551 of the Penal Code shall be subject, in
addition to any other penalties that may be prescribed by law, to a civil
penalty of not less than five thousand dollars ($5,000) nor more than ten
thousand dollars ($10,000), plus an assessment of not more than three times the
amount of each claim for compensation, as defined in Section 3207 of the Labor
Code or pursuant to a contract of insurance. The court shall have the power to
grant other equitable relief, including temporary injunctive relief, as is
necessary to prevent the transfer, concealment, or dissipation of illegal
proceeds, or to protect the public. The penalty prescribed in this paragraph
shall be assessed for each fraudulent claim presented to an insurance company
by a defendant and not for each violation.
 
(Ins. Code §§1871.1(a)-(b).)
False claim actions are
subject to “heightened fraud-like pleading requirements.”  (State of California ex rel. McCann v.
Bank of America, N.A. (2011) 191 Cal.App.4th 897, 906.)  “As in any action sounding in fraud, the
allegations of a [California False Claims Act] complaint must be pleaded with
particularity. The complaint must plead ‘the time, place, and contents of the
false representations, as well as the identity of the person making the
misrepresentation and what he obtained thereby.’”  (Id., internal citations
omitted.)  Specificity is necessary in
alleging claims under Insurance Code §1871.7(b), as it incorporates Penal Code
§550, which in turn requires a specific intent to defraud.  (People v. Blick (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th
759, 772-775 [a violation of Penal Code §550 requires that the person charged
must “intend to commit a fraud”].)
Plaintiff alleges although
Defendant Turner is a California-licensed physician and is New Hope’s purported
“medical director,” Turner does nothing to operate the business and neither
supervises nor directs the administration of the MRIs for which New Hope bills.
 (SAC ¶82.)  Plaintiff alleges Turner is medical director
in name only—Perez simply holds Turner’s name out to give the appearance that
New Hope is operated by a licensed medical professional and to feign legitimacy
and compliance with California law that prohibits unlicensed laypersons from
providing medical services.  (SAC
¶82.)  Plaintiff alleges Perez controls all
aspects of New Hope’s operations.  (SAC
¶82.)  
Plaintiff alleges Turner
also is engaged in an unlawful referral and kickback arrangement with New Hope.
 (SAC ¶83.)  Plaintiff alleges according to sworn
deposition testimony by Turner, Perez approached him to ask if Turner would
provide professional interpretation services for New Hope.  (SAC ¶83.) 
Plaintiff alleges Perez and Turner agreed that New Hope would pay Turner
$33 per MRI interpreted with the expectation that Turner would prepare his MRI
reports within one to two days of reviewing each scan.  (SAC ¶83.) 
Plaintiff alleges on information and belief that the low fees charged by
Turner and other radiologists who contract with New Hope are consideration for
New Hope’s continuous referral of patients to them.  (SAC ¶83.) 
Plaintiff alleges as valuable consideration in exchange for those
referrals, Turner waives any entitlement to bill for his professional services
and instead allows New Hope to misrepresent his medical opinions as its own by
placing the reports on New Hope’s letterhead.  (SAC ¶83.) 

Plaintiff alleges New
Hope’s bank records reveal at least 56 transactions, totaling $215,927.50, between
it and Turner in furtherance of their unlawful referral arrangement and
kickback scheme.  (SAC ¶84.)  
Plaintiff alleges in
addition to paying New Hope for unlawful kickbacks, Turner acts as a sham medical
director for New Hope (to help New Hope pull off the scheme), and Turner understands
that he is merely a sham medical director for New Hope.  (SAC ¶85.) 
Plaintiff alleges Turner testified that he did not serve as medical
director for another facility because “[a] doctor owns it. So they don’t need me
as a medical director.”  (SAC ¶85.)  Plaintiff alleges at a deposition of Turner
in a separate matter, he could not identify the number of persons New Hope
employs, admitted that he held no supervisory authority over any New Hope
employees, and admitted that New Hope did not pay him for his service as medical
director, despite his role as the purported medical director.  (SAC ¶85.) 
Plaintiff alleges Turner testified, “I look at the images. I’m only
responsible for the images.”  (SAC ¶85.)
Plaintiff alleges in
exchange for the referral of patients and the payment of $30-40 per MRI, the contracting
teleradiologists allowed Perez to bill insurers as he saw fit, without
supervision or review, and allowed Perez to keep the carriers’ payments as a
kickback for the referral of patients. 
(SAC ¶86.)  Plaintiff alleges
that, motivated by the prospect of substantial illegal profit, Perez and New
Hope prepared and caused to be presented hundreds of false, fraudulent, and
misleading bills to insurance companies. 
(SAC ¶86.)  Plaintiff alleges each
bill set the total fee at roughly $2,200 per MRI—almost ten times the actual
professional fees incurred for the service and far in excess of the reasonable
value of the technical component of the MRI.  (SAC ¶86.) 
Plaintiff alleges that having exclusive and unfettered control of the
billing and collection for the services provided, without any input,
supervision, or review by the providers of the medical services, Defendants
pocketed the difference between what the provider charged for the MRI
“interpretation” and what they deceived the insurers into paying.  (SAC ¶86.)
Plaintiff alleges on information
and belief that New Hope’s diagnostic radiology services were marketed to
attorneys representing personal injury claimants, to physicians, chiropractors,
and other health care providers who treat personal injury claimants, and to
sham factoring companies (who purport to purchase accounts receivable related
to treatment of personal injury patients, but who simply steer patients to New
Hope).  (SAC ¶87.)  Plaintiff alleges Perez solicited the
referral of clients and patients to New Hope for MRI services, knowing that
they would personally reap tremendous financial benefit from each referral due
to the contracts they had with factoring companies and radiologists.  (SAC ¶87.) 

Plaintiff alleges on information
and belief that because the scheme could not function without a steady flow of
patients, Perez solicits the referral of personal injury and workers’
compensation claimants from attorneys and other providers that service
personal-injury patient populations.  (SAC ¶88.) 
Plaintiff alleges on information and belief that the attorneys and
providers, in turn, refer their clients and patients to New Hope.  (SAC ¶88.) 
Plaintiff alleges because New Hope bills at such a high rate, the value
of patients’ claims inflate beyond their true value, incentivizing further
referrals to New Hope.  (SAC ¶88.)  
Plaintiff alleges Perez
or others acting at his or New Hope’s direction solicits referrals from sham
factoring companies, who purchase accounts receivable (“AR”) from providers who
treat lien-based, personal injury patients and who foster relationships with
personal injury attorneys by assisting those attorneys in scheduling their
clients with providers with which they have preexisting agreements to “purchase
AR,” i.e., unlawfully refer patients in exchange for unlawful kickbacks.  (SAC ¶89.) 

Plaintiff alleges in
describing New Hope’s relationship with a sham factoring company, Perez previously
testified that the company “refer[s] us [New Hope] patients. We do the exams,
and they pay us a fee for the services. They pay us a fee for the [bill
associated with the] MRI service.”  (SAC
¶90.) 
Plaintiff alleges with
that sham factoring company, New Hope entered “an agreement that they [sham
factoring company] refer us [New Hope] patients at a certain price.”  (SAC ¶91.) 
Plaintiff alleges specifically, the sham factoring company paid New Hope
$300 per MRI service rendered on the referred patients, a significantly reduced
price compared to the $2,200 billed to payors.  (SAC ¶91.) 

Plaintiff alleges in this
way, Perez, through New Hope, employs the sham factoring companies within the
meaning of Insurance Code §1871.7(a) to “steer” patients (to Perez, New Hope,
and the tele-radiologists).  (SAC
¶92.)  Plaintiff alleges on information
and belief that the agreements between New Hope and the factoring companies
amount to a quid pro quo because they pay and receive consideration in exchange
for the referral of patients.  (SAC
¶92.)  Plaintiff alleges that conduct
violates Insurance Code §§750 and 1871.7(a). 
(SAC ¶92.)  
Plaintiff alleges the
teleradiologists similarly “employ” Perez within the meaning of Insurance Code §1871.7(a)
to “steer” patients to New Hope by offering the companies significantly reduced
prices for the referred patients’ MRI services.  (See State ex rel. Wilson v. Superior Court
(2014) 227 Cal.App.4th 579, 609 [defendants could be liable if they
“effectively employed physicians and others to act as runners and cappers,
paying them for the purpose of procuring patients whose prescriptions will be
covered by insurance.”].)  (SAC
¶93.)  Plaintiff alleges on information
and belief that the agreements between New Hope and the teleradiologists,
including Turner and Mednik, amount to a quid pro quo because the radiologists
pay (through disproportionately discounted professional services) and receive
consideration in exchange for New Hope’s referral of patients in violation of
Business and Professions Code §650 and Insurance Code §§750 and 1871.7(a).  (SAC ¶93.) 

Plaintiff alleges New
Hope paid Turner at least $215,927.50 in furtherance of their scheme.  (SAC ¶94.) 
Plaintiff alleges New Hope’s bank records further reflect that New Hope
paid Mednik at least $43,830 in furtherance of their scheme.  (SAC ¶95.)
Plaintiff alleges Perez
exercises complete control over all aspects of New Hope’s operation, including
selecting the diagnostic radiology machines used to scan patients, selecting
physicians to read and interpret “MRI studies,” preparing billing statements to
be presented to insurers, including determining the amount billed for the
services and billing codes used, if any, collecting payment for the services,
banking the payments, and distributing profits. 
(SAC ¶96.)
Plaintiff alleges in
carrying out this fraud scheme, Perez engaged in the unlawful practice of medicine:
he selected the radiology sites based on his personal commercial advantage and
profit without regard to patient health, safety, or well-being, and in doing so
acted independent of any licensed physician. 
(SAC ¶97.)
Plaintiff alleges while
Perez is at the helm of the scheme, his fraudulent conduct could not occur without
the aid and assistance of the radiologists with whom he contracts and by whom
he is employed to steer patients.  (SAC
¶101.)  Plaintiff alleges on information
and belief that those radiologists, including Turner, Mednik, and certain DOE
Defendants, give Perez unfettered control of billing for their professional
services in exchange for a steady flow of patient referrals.  (SAC ¶101.) 
Plaintiff alleges on information and belief that they knowingly allow
and enable Perez to pass off their services as those of New Hope and mark up the
fees for their professional services so that he can share in them, in violation
of California law that prohibits professional fee-splitting.  (SAC ¶101.) 
Plaintiff alleges on information and belief that and in exchange for the
referral of patients, the teleradiologists agree to receive reduced fees for
their efforts and completely surrender all control of billing, collection, and
profit to Perez and New Hope.  (SAC
¶101.)  Plaintiff alleges the
teleradiologists therefore employ Perez within the meaning of Insurance Code §1871.7(a)
to “steer” patients to them by allowing him to bill as he pleases and, as a
result, share in their professional fees as part of a functional “fee-split.”  (SAC ¶101.) 
Plaintiff alleges on information and belief that the agreements between
Perez and the radiologists amount to a quid pro quo because they pay and
receive consideration in exchange for the referral of patients.  (SAC ¶101.) 
Plaintiff alleges that conduct violates California Business and Professions
Code §650 and Insurance Code §§750 and 1871.7(a).  (SAC ¶101.)
Plaintiff alleges to
carry out this scheme, Perez and New Hope negotiated extremely low rates with the
radiologists reading the sham, lay-obtained “MRI studies.”  (SAC ¶102.) 
Plaintiff alleges Perez and New Hope pay about $30-$40 per “MRI study”
the teleradiologists read.  (SAC
¶102.)  Plaintiff alleges these
agreements allow New Hope to prepare bills falsely representing that New Hope
provided these professional services.  (SAC ¶102.) 
Plaintiff alleges New Hope also negotiated extremely low rates for its
accounts receivable, which it sold to certain sham factoring companies in exchange
for a steady stream of patient referrals. 
(SAC ¶102.)  
Plaintiff alleges on information
and belief that the true cost of each MRI for which New Hope bills is far less
than the amount it bills payors—$2,200 per MRI—and falsely represents that
amount as the reasonable value of the “imaging services” rendered.  (SAC ¶103.) 
Plaintiff alleges New Hope fraudulently inflates the bills so that Perez/New
Hope can profit from the scheme.  (SAC
¶103.)  
Plaintiff sufficiently
alleges a cause of action under CIFPA with the requisite specificity.  Plaintiff sufficiently alleges New Hope, as
an unlicensed entity, improperly billed for MRI services it could not legally perform.
 (SAC ¶¶3, 75, 86, 110-119, 125-129.)  Plaintiff sufficiently alleges bills
misrepresented that the charges were for professional diagnostic imaging
services that New Hope was licensed and authorized to provide to patients.  (Id.)  Plaintiff sufficiently alleges neither Perez
nor New Hope was a licensed physician (or any type of licensee), and none of
their radiology technicians were supervised or subject to oversight of a
licensed physician who owned, controlled, and properly supervised New Hope’s
unlicensed MRIs.  (SAC ¶¶4, 40, 65,
75-77, 86, 100, 105, 111-112, 115.)  Here, as in People ex rel. Allstate Insurance
Co. v. Discovery Radiology Physicians, P.C. (2023) 94 Cal.App.5th 521, 539,
review denied (Nov. 21, 2023) (“Discovery Radiology”), New Hope
hired outside radiologists to “interpret” the lay-rendered scans, and selected
radiology equipment to scan patients.  (SAC
¶¶ 64-65.)
The Discovery
Radiology Court found a valid CIFPA claim where laypersons masquerading as
licensees submitted the claims.  (Discovery
Radiology, 94 Cal.App.5th at pgs. 542-543.) 
Here, the SAC also alleges that Defendant Perez owns and controls New
Hope, including by employing Defendant Turner as a sham “medical director” and independently
contracting with other physicians to provide MRI services, and by deciding the amount
those physicians were paid, the amount of New Hope’s charges, and the amount of
New Hope’s bills that were presented with insurance claims.  (SAC ¶¶12, 21, 34-36, 86, 101, 106-119, 135,
140, 144.)
The SAC also alleges that
in billing for their unlicensed MRIs, Perez and New Hope permitted others to
submit bills for services that New Hope and Perez were not licensed to provide
and thus could not lawfully pass of as their own. (SAC ¶¶111-114.)  Plaintiff alleges at least 398 fraudulent
bills were submitted with a false insurance claim—specifically, a claim for
payment under an insurance policy issued by Allstate for MRIs that New Hope and
Perez were not licensed to perform.  (SAC
¶7, Exh. A.)  Under Discovery
Radiology, these allegations are sufficient to state an CIFPA claim under §1871.7(b).
 (Discovery Radiology, 94 Cal.App.5th
at pgs. 527, 539.)
Further, the Discovery
Radiology Court held that the plaintiff’s complaint adequately alleged an IFPA
claim separate from the claim for violating the Medical Practice Act by
engaging in or abetting the unlawful practice of medicine. The unlawful
corporate practice of medicine (CPOM) was not asserted as a separate cause of
action in the complaint, although the complaint did allege a violation of the
Medical Practice Act. The court found that the violation was sufficiently
alleged and that the same alleged facts about defendants’ unlawful practice of
medicine were enough to state a cause of action under the CIFPA.  (Id. at pg. 541.)
Defendants’ arguments
that the SAC fails to state a §1871.7(b) claim because “there is no private
right of action under the CPOM” and because “the Legislature did not provide
for a private right of action for a violation of the Medical Practices Act”
fail for the same reason they were rejected in Discovery Radiology.  Here, Plaintiff does not assert a private
cause of action for the unlawful corporate practice of medicine or a violation
of the Medical Practice Act, but a CIFPA claim based on the Legislature’s
express authorization that insurers can sue in this type of
situation.  (Ins. Code §1871.7(b).)  Here, Plaintiff alleges the same basic facts
as in Discovery Radiology—that the unlicensed and unlawful practice of
medicine, when done intentionally to defraud insurers, violates CIFPA.  (Discovery Radiology, 94 Cal.App.5th at
pgs. 545-548.)  The alleged violations of
section 1871.7(b) are based on unlicensed ownership and undue control of the
medical practice and submitting fraudulent bills to insurers for their unlicensed
treatment.  (SAC ¶¶86, 96-100, 107-135.)  
The Court of Appeal also
rejected New Hope’s argument that because the unlawful practice of medicine is
not one of the “enumerated” prohibited acts in CIFPA that are also incorporated
in Penal Code §§549-551, it cannot support a CIFPA claim.  (Discovery Radiology, 94
Cal.App.5th at pgs. 542-543.)  The Discovery
Radiology Court stated, “both Monterey Mushrooms and Suh support
the proposition that the unlicensed practice of medicine (or law) can give rise
to IFPA claims.”  (Id. at pgs.
545-546.)
New Hope’s assertion that
“the Legislature did not provide for a private right of action for a violation
of the Medical Practices Act” is also unavailing. Plaintiff has not alleged any
cause of action for a violation of the Medical Practice Act against
Defendants; the violations are alleged to show Defendants’ unlicensed and
unlawful practice of medicine.  (SAC
¶¶96-100, 120-130.)  
The Discovery Radiology
Court also rejected the rationale of California Physicians’ Service v. Aoki Diabetes
Research Institute (2008) 163 Cal.App.4th 1506, which Defendants rely on to
imply that the unlawful practice of medicine cannot support a CIFPA claim
because “an insurance company ‘would be unjustly enriched if it were allowed to
retain the benefit of services bestowed on its subscribers without compensating
[the provider].” (Aoki, 163 Cal.App.4th at pg. 1510.)  The court in Discovery Radiology
specifically refuted the suggestion that a carrier could be enriched, let alone
unjustly, by asserting a CIFPA claim, explaining that the plaintiff did not
“seek to ‘avoid paying for’ services rendered under an insurance contract, as
defendants suggest; Allstate has already paid for those services, and seeks
through this action to recover a statutory penalty that, if recovered, will be
shared by the state.”  (Discovery
Radiology, 94 Cal.App.5th at pg. 548, citing Ins. Code §1871.7(g)(2)(A).)  Further, Aoki is inapposite because did
not involve a claim under CIFPA, a violation of Penal Code §550, or even any
alleged fraud.  (Discovery Radiology,
94 Cal.App.5th at pg. 547.)
Accordingly, Defendants
New Hope’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s 1st cause of action is overruled.
 
Violation of Unfair Competition Law (“UCL”) (2nd COA) 
The UCL prohibits
“unlawful, unfair or fraudulent” business acts or practices.  (Bus. & Prof. Code §17200 et seq.)  By proscribing “any unlawful” business act or
practice, the UCL “borrows” rules set out in other laws and makes violations of
those rules independently actionable.  (Zhang
v. Superior Court (2013) 57 Cal.4th 364, 370.)  A “violation of another law is a predicate for
stating a cause of action under the UCL’s unlawful prong.”  (Berryman v. Merit Property Management,
Inc. (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 1544, 1554.)  Conversely, “[w]hen a statutory claim fails, a
derivative UCL claim also fails.”  (Aleksick
v. 7-Eleven, Inc. (2012) 205 Cal.App.4th 1176, 1185.)
Plaintiff’s derivative
cause of action for UCL sufficiently states a cause of action.  (SAC ¶¶136-141; see Discovery Radiology,
94 Cal.App.5th at pg. 541 [“Because the complaints adequately plead violations
of the IFPA, they also adequately plead violations of the UCL.”].)  Plaintiff also alleges that New Hope’s
conduct was “unlawful” because it violated various other statutes besides CIFPA
(Ins. Code §1871.7(a)-(b)) and its predicate violations (Penal Code §§549,
550). (SAC ¶¶12, 46-49, 51, 93, 101, 120, 122 [alleging violations of Bus.
& Prof. Code §§650, 2040, 2052, and 2273(a); Ins. Code §750; and Health
& Safety Code §445.)  Plaintiff also
alleges that Defendants’ acts and practices were “unfair.” (SAC ¶¶66-72, 107.)
Accordingly, Defendants
New Hope’ demurrer is overruled as to the 2nd cause of action.
 
Conclusion
New
Hope’s demurrer to Plaintiff’ SAC is overruled as to the 1st and 2nd causes of
action.
Moving
Party to give notice.
 
B.    Motion
to Strike
Legal
Standard
C.C.P.
§436 provides that the Court may, upon a motion made pursuant to C.C.P. §435,
or at any time within its discretion and upon terms it deems proper, “strike
out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading.”  (C.C.P. §436(a).)  A motion to strike raises an issue of law,
and the grounds for the motion must appear on the face of the challenged
pleading or from matters subject to judicial notice.  (C.C.P. §437; Grieves v. Superior Court (1984)
157 Cal.App.3d 159.)  A motion to strike
is not proper to challenge matters which can only be properly decided based on
an evidentiary showing. (Mediterranean Exports, Inc. v. Superior Court (1981)
119 Cal.App.3d 605.)
In
deciding a motion to strike, the pleadings must be liberally construed, with a view to substantial
justice between the parties.  (C.C.P. §452.)
 
Summary
of Motion
New
Hope moves for this Court for an Order striking the SAC as untimely filed by Plaintiff
and dismissing the SAC in its entirety.
 
Discussion
New
Hope’s Motion to Strike is based entirely on extrinsic evidence, specifically,“[t]he
Register of Actions show[ing] that the SAC was filed on September 18, 2023.”  (Decl. of Chorbajian ¶4.)  Defendants do not attach a copy of the
Register of Actions purportedly reflecting the September 18 filing date to the
declaration submitted in support of their motion to strike, and Defendants also
do not request judicial notice of the Register of Actions (or any other record
of the Court) that supposedly shows the SAC was filed on September 18, 2023.  Accordingly, there is no evidentiary basis
for this Court to make the necessary factual finding to grant Defendants’
Motion to Strike, and any reference to extrinsic evidence to make such a
determination would, in any event, be improper. 
(See Mediterranean Exports, Inc., 119 Cal.App.3d 605; see also
C.C.P. §437(b).)
          “[M]ere tardiness” in the filing of a pleading is generally
not an appropriate ground for a motion to strike.  (A & B Metal Products v.
MacArthur Properties, Inc. (1970) 11 Cal.App.3d 642.)
          A review of the Court’s docket demonstrates the Court’s Clerk
both received
and accepted the
electronic transmission of the SAC that same day, and the Clerk’s stamp on the
SAC itself confirms receipt on September 12 at 2:06 p.m.  (See SAC.)  Documents received by the Court before midnight
on a court day are deemed filed on that court day when accepted for filing.  (CRC, Rule 2.253(b)(7); C.C.P. §1010.6).  Because the SAC was filed on September 12 at
2:06 p.m. and accepted that same day, New Hope presents no reason for this
Court to dismiss Plaintiff’s entire case. 
Further, dismissal of the case is not in the interests of justice, as
this Court seeks to decide the issues of this matter on the merits.
 
Conclusion
New
Hope’s motion to strike is denied.
Moving
Party to give notice.
 
 
Dated:  February ______, 2024                             





  