  Case Number:  23STCP04451    Hearing Date:   February 21, 2024    Dept:  71 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 71
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



IN THE
  MATTER OF: MARINA PACIFCA, LLC,  


 Case No.: 
  23STCP04451
 
 
 Hearing Date:  February 21, 2024



 
Petitioner Marina Pacifica, LLC’s petition
to take the oral depositions of Craig Edgecumbe and Robert Rocchi for the
purpose of preserving their testimony for use in the event an action is
subsequently filed is granted.  
 
Petitioner
Marina Pacifica, LLC (“Marina Pacifica”) (“Petitioner”) petitions this Court for
an order authorizing it to take the oral deposition of attorneys Craig Edgecumbe
and Robert Rocchi for the purpose of preserving their
testimony for use in the event an action is subsequently filed.  (Petition, pg. 2; C.C.P. §2035.010 et seq.)
 
Background
Marina
Pacifica filed its verified petition in this matter on December 11, 2023.  Marina Pacifica filed the instant petition on
December 18, 2023.  ABP Parcel 8, LLC
(“ABP”) filed an opposition on February 6, 2024.[1]  Marina Pacifica filed its reply on February
13, 2024.
 
Legal
Standard
C.C.P.
§2035.010(a) provides:
One who expects to be a
party…to any action that may be cognizable in any court of the State of
California…may obtain discovery within the scope delimited by Chapters 2
(commencing with Section 2017.010) and 3 (commencing with Section 2017.710),
and subject to the restrictions set forth in Chapter 5 (commencing with Section
2019.010), for the purpose of perpetuating that person’s own testimony or that
of another natural person or organization.
 
(C.C.P.
§2035.010(a).)
Oral
depositions are one method of discovery available under a Petition to
Perpetuate Testimony.  (C.C.P. §2035.020(a).)
A
party desiring to conduct discovery prior to the commencement of litigation
must file a verified petition in the superior court of the county of residence
of at least one expected adverse party that sets forth the following
information:
(1)  The expectation that the petitioner or the
petitioner’s successor in interest will be a party to an action cognizable in a
court of the State of California.
 
(2)  The present inability of the petitioner
and, if applicable, the petitioner’s successor in interest either to bring that
action or to cause it to be brought.
 
(3)  The subject matter of the expected action
and the petitioner’s involvement. A copy of any written instrument the validity
or construction of which may be called into question, or which is connected
with the subject matter of the proposed discovery, shall be attached to the
petition.
 
(4)  The particular discovery methods described
in Section 2035.020 that the petitioner desires to employ.
 
(5)  The facts that the petitioner desires to
establish by the proposed discovery.
 
(6)  The reasons for desiring to perpetuate or
preserve these facts before an action has been filed.
 
(7)  The name or a description of those whom the
petitioner expects to be adverse parties so far as known.
 
(8)  The name and address of those from whom the
discovery is to be sought.
 
(9)  The substance of the information expected
to be elicited from each of those from whom discovery is being sought.
 
(C.C.P.
§2035.030(b).)
If
the court determines that all or part of the discovery requested pursuant to C.C.P.
§§2035.010 et seq. “may prevent a failure or delay of justice, it shall make an
order authorizing that discovery.”  (C.C.P.
§2035.050(a).)
 
Discussion
Marina
Pacifica made the requisite showing in its verified petition for this Court to
grant the relief requested.  First, Marina
Pacifica expects to be a party litigant in an action that may be cognizable in
a court of the State of California, namely, an action for declaratory relief as
to the correct interpretation of for two contiguous parcels located on Pacific Coast
Highway in south Long Beach, California (“Leases”), and other disputes as to
the parties’ respective rights and obligations under those Leases.  (Petition ¶1.)  Marina Pacifica and ABP have arbitrated the
rights the Leases confer on Marina Pacifica in arbitration.  (Petition ¶2.)  The Arbitrator’s final award ruled for ABP.  (Petition ¶4.)  Marina Pacifica seeks vacatur of the
arbitration award.  (Petition ¶4.)
Second,
Marina Pacifica cannot bring an action at present because the arbitration award
has not yet been confirmed.  (See
Petition ¶5.)  Further, it appears an
appeal is inevitable by either party regardless of the outcome of the petition
to confirm the arbitration award. 
(Petition ¶5.)
Third,
Marina Pacifica attaches the Leases to the Petition and identifies the dispute
as one over the meaning of ¶25 in the Leases regarding a “Right of First
Renewal” that comes into being when the Leases expire and survives for at least
the next year.  (Petition ¶¶1, 9, Exhs.
A, B.)
Fourth,
Marina Pacifica seeks to perpetuate testimony in the event that an action is
subsequently filed by taking the oral deposition of two known third-party
witnesses as authorized by C.C.P. §2035.020(a). 
(Petition ¶12.)
Fifth,
Marina Pacifica seeks to depose two third party witnesses: Craig Edgecumbe
(“Edgecumbe”) and Robert Rocchi (“Rocchi”). 

In
deposing Edgecumbe, Marina Pacifica expects to elicit facts related to
negotiations of and meanings of lease terms, including but not limited to (i)
the negotiation of the subject Leases from the perspective of the law firm
representing one of the joint venture partners for development of the shopping
center, (ii) the intent of Paragraph 25 and how it interplays with other terms
in the Leases, and (iii) any other recollections he has as to the negotiation
and drafting of the Leases in the 1970s.  (Petition ¶13.)  
In
deposing Rocchi, Marina Pacifica expects to elicit facts related to
negotiations of and meanings of lease terms, including but not limited to (i)
the intent behind Paragraph 25 of the subject Leases from the perspective of Ernest
W. Hahn, Inc. (“Hahn”), one of the joint venture partners for development of
the shopping center, (ii) Hahn’s regular business practices when acquiring
ground leaseholds for development, and (iii) any other testimony Rocchi can
offer about his recollection of the Leases here and the properties at issue.  (Petition ¶14, Exh. C.)
Sixth,
Marina Pacifica seeks to perpetuate or preserve these facts before an action
has been filed because the two identified witnesses are the only two known
living witnesses to the negotiation and execution of the original Leases in
1972 and 1976, and they are both currently in their 80s.  (Petition ¶17.)  Marina Pacifica states their testimony is the
best evidence of the intent of the original contracting parties and necessary
to properly interpret ambiguous clauses in the Leases, but due to their age, they
may no longer be available to testify as witnesses when litigation begins in
the following years.  (Petition ¶17.)
Seventh,
Marina Pacifica expects ABP to be an adverse party in the anticipated
action.  (Petition ¶11.)
Eighth,
Craig Edgecumbe address is 2780 Skypark Drive, Suite 325, Torrance, California
90505.  (Petition ¶13.)  Robert Rocchi’s address is 3783 Tomahawk
Lane, San Diego, California 92117. 
(Petition ¶14.)
Finally,
Marina Pacifica anticipates that Edgecumbe will testify, among other facts,
that the intent of the drafters of the Leases was to (i) ensure the Leases
actually terminated with a clean break to meet the applicable provisions of
Civil Code §718 (which provides for temporal limitations on the duration of
individual leases) and (ii) provide the lessee a one-time right to renew the
Leases on the same terms as the original Leases, including the same duration (65
years) and same basic rent structure (percentage rent tied to market).  (Petition ¶13.)  Edgecumbe is further expected to testify to
Marina Pacifica’s right to enter into subleases extending past 2039.  (Petition ¶13.)  Marina Pacifica anticipates Rocchi will
testify that (i) Hahn would have insisted, as a condition to entertaining
participation in a joint venture, upon any lease having a right of first renewal
on the same terms and conditions which would extend the term, or he would not
have done the Project; (ii) Hahn would have communicated that deal point to
both the ground lessor and ground lessee (San Gabriel and Marina Pacifica,
respectively) on no uncertain terms, and (iii) the Ground Lease for Marina
Pacifica ended up having the right of renewal Hahn would have insisted upon.  (Petition ¶14, Exh. C at ¶12.)
Accordingly,
Marina Pacifica’s petition is granted.
 
Conclusion
Marina
Pacifica’s petition to take the oral depositions of Craig Edgecumbe and Robert
Rocchi for the purpose of preserving their testimony for use in the event an
action is subsequently filed is granted. 

Moving
Party to give notice.
 
Dated: 
February _____, 2024
                                                                             





  