 Case Number:  24STCV18129    Hearing Date:   November 19, 2024    Dept:  40 
24STCV18129 Auto Fraud Legal Center, LLP v. Knight Law Group,
 LLP 
Tuesday,
 November 19, 2024, at 8:30 a.m.
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING CROSS-COMPLAINANT’S
 MOTION TO DISCHARGE KNIGHT LAW GROUP, LLP FROM LIABILITY AND FOR RELATED
 ORDERS 
 
I.      
BACKGROUND
      This
action arises from a dispute over failure to pay for legal services allegedly owed
to Plaintiff, formerly known as Rosner, Barry & Babbit, LLP. Plaintiff alleges
that it agreed to provide legal services in partnership with Defendant, Knight
Law Group, LLP (“Knight” or “Defendant”) with respect to seven different cases.
Knight received full payment for the services, but has not paid Plaintiff for
the services it performed. Plaintiff alleges claims for breach of contract,
breach of implied contract, breach of the implied covenant of good faith and
fair dealing, and for conversion. 

      Knight
filed an interpleader cross-complaint against Plaintiff and Hallen Rosner (“Cross-Defendant”
or “Rosner”), a former partner of the Rosner Partnership. Cross-complainant
Knight alleges it is a stakeholder only and cannot resolve the conflicting
demands made on the funds between Plaintiff and Rosner, totaling $107,185.64.        
II.    
ARGUMENTS
      Cross-complainant
Knight proposes to deposit the funds at issue and be discharged from further
liability in the case. Cross-complainant also requests an award of attorney’s
fees incurred in pursuit of the interpleader cross-complaint. 
      In
opposition, Plaintiff argues the interpleader cross-complaint is frivolous.
Knight did not allege facts to show that Plaintiff and Cross-Defendant, Hallen
Rosner (“Cross-Defendant”) seek the same debt from Knight nor any facts that
Knight faces a reasonable probability of double vexation. Rosner has not
appeared in this action to state whether he has an interest in the funds.
Plaintiff has filed a demurrer challenging the sufficiency of the interpleader cross-complaint.
      In
reply, Knight argues that Plaintiff’s claims are without basis. There is no
reason to waste the court’s resources to continue this hearing until Cross-Defendant’s
demurrer is heard. Knight’s motion for a discharge determines a plaintiff’s
right to interplead funds. 
 
III.   
DISCUSSION
      A
defendant who is a party in an action on a contract pending against him may interplead
a claim if the defendant can show by affidavit that a person not a party to the
action has made a demand against him on such contract for such property. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 386.) The purpose of an interpleader is to avoid a
multiplicity of suits and double vexation. (Southern
California Gas Co. v. Flannery (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 477, 487.) 
      The
court initially determines the right of cross-complainant to interplead the
funds. 
The right to the remedy by interpleader “is
founded, however, not on the consideration that a [person] may be subjected to
double liability, but on the fact that he is threatened with double vexation in
respect to one liability.” (Southern
California Gas at 487.)  An
interpleader complaint must show that defendants are making conflicting claims
to the funds, and that the interpleader cannot safely determine which claim is
valid. (Westamerica
Bank v. City of Berkeley (2011) 201 Cal.App.4th 598, 608.)  An interpleader action may not be maintained upon
a pretext or suspicion of double vexation. (Id.)

      The
cross-complaint alleges that Rosner asserts a claim to the funds because Rosner
filed an action in San Diego against his former partners (now Plaintiff) which
is currently being arbitrated (Cross-complaint, ¶ 9-11.) Knight also alleges
that Plaintiff made a demand for the funds on February 22, 2024.
(Cross-complaint ¶ 12.) Knight alleges that counsel for Plaintiff could not
represent to Knight that there was no dispute to the funds as between Plaintiff
and Rosner. (Cross-complaint ¶ 14. 
      The Cross-complaint
does not allege that Rosner made a competing demand from Knight for the funds
to establish an actual conflict. While Rosner may be in litigation with his
partners, it does not appear from the Cross-complaint that Knight is involved
in that lawsuit or that the lawsuit concerns the fees earned in the cases identified
in the complaint. (Complaint, ¶8.) The interpleader cross-complaint "must
allege facts showing a reasonable probability of double vexation,” (Id.
at p. 510.) or a “valid threat of double vexation.” (Westamerica
Bank at 608.) The cross-complaint is ambiguous. (Cross-complaint ¶ 20 [“yet
Rosner also appears to have some right, claim or interest in the funds.”].)
      As
Knight has not alleged that both Plaintiff and Rosner have made competing
demands for the funds at issue, the motion is DENIED. 
 