 Case Number:  22STCV37414    Hearing Date:   October 13, 2023    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 



efren lagunas

   ;
 


   Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
quick transport, inc.

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


22STCV37414




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


October
  13, 2023




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[Tentative]
  Order RE:
 
(1)  
  defendants’
  demurrer to complaint
(2)  
  defendants’
  motion to strike punitive damages
 



 
MOVING PARTIES:
            Defendants Quick Transport,
Inc., and Beatriz Villalpondo
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiff Efren Lagunas
(1)  
Demurrer
to Complaint
(2)  
Motion
to Strike Punitive Damages
The court
considered the moving and opposition papers filed in connection with the
demurrer and motion to strike.  No reply
papers were filed. 
BACKGROUND
Plaintiff Efren Lagunas (“Plaintiff”) filed this wage and hour and
wrongful termination action on November 29, 2022, against defendants Quick
Transport, Inc., Beatriz Villalpondo, and Miguel Doe.  Plaintiff alleges 13 causes of action for (1)
failure to provide meal breaks; (2) failure to provide rest breaks; (3) failure
to pay wages; (4) failure to pay overtime; (5) failure to provide accurate
itemized wage statements; (6) violation of Business and Professions Code
sections 17200-17208; (7) medical discrimination in violation of the Fair
Employment and Housing Act; (8) failure to accommodate; (9) failure to engage
in the interactive process; (10) failure to prevent discrimination and
harassment; (11) harassment and hostile work environment; (12) retaliation; and
(13) wrongful termination in violation of public policy. 
Defendants Quick Transport, Inc. (“Quick Transport”) and Beatriz
Villalpondo (collectively, “Defendants”) now move the court for an order (1)
sustaining their demurrer to the sixth through 13th causes of action, and (2)
striking Plaintiff’s request for punitive damages.
DEMURRER
The court overrules Defendants’ demurrer to the sixth cause of action
for violation of Business and Professions Code sections 17200-17208 because,
although Defendants have cited general standards for pleading a cause of action
under this statutory scheme, Defendants have not challenged any specific
element that Plaintiff has not alleged and therefore have not met their burden to
show that the demurrer to this cause of action should be sustained.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e).) 
The court overrules Defendants’ demurrer to the seventh cause of
action for medical discrimination because Defendants have not challenged any
specific element that Plaintiff has not alleged in support of this cause of
action and therefore have not met their burden of showing that the demurrer to
this cause of action should be sustained. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e).)  Moreover, to the extent that Defendants
dispute the facts alleged in the Complaint, filing a demurrer is not an
appropriate motion to contest those facts. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd. (a) [“When any ground for objection to
a complaint . . . appears on the face thereof” or matters to be
judicially noticed, “the objection on that ground may be taken by a demurrer to
the pleading”] [italics added]; Dem., p. 6:14-15 [“the complaint is just
factually inaccurate”].) 
The court overrules Defendants’ demurrer to the eighth cause of action
for failure to accommodate because it states facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action since Plaintiff alleges that (1) he requested accommodations
from Defendants and that Defendants retaliated against him for making that
request, and (2) Defendants refused to accommodate him, and therefore has
alleged that Defendants “fail[ed] to make reasonable accommodation for the
known physical or mental disability” of Plaintiff.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e); Compl.,
¶¶ 97, 88; Gov. Code, § 12940, subd. (m)(1).)
The court overrules Defendants’ demurrer to the ninth cause of action
for failure to engage in the interactive process because it states facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action since Plaintiff has alleged that (1)
Plaintiff informed Defendants of his medical condition and requested reasonable
accommodation, and (2) “[r]ather than engaging in the interactive process of
accommodation with Plaintiff[,]” Defendants instead “began a campaign to
terminate Plaintiff’s employment” and refused to accommodate him.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e);
Compl., ¶¶ 106-108; Shirvanyan v. Los Angeles Community College District (2020)
59 Cal.App.5th 82, 97 [a claim for failure to engage in the interactive process
“is the appropriate cause of action where the employee is unable to identify a
specific, available reasonable accommodation while in the workplace and the
employer fails to engage in a good faith interactive process to help identify
one, but the employee is able to identify a specific, available reasonable
accommodation through the litigation process”] [internal quotations omitted].)
The court overrules Defendants’ demurrer to the 10th cause of action
for failure to prevent discrimination and harassment because it states facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action since the court has overruled
Defendants’ demurrer to the seventh cause of action for medical discrimination,
which is sufficient to support this cause of action.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e); Gov.
Code, § 12940, subd. (k).)  
The court sustains Defendants’ demurrer to the 11th cause of action
for harassment and hostile work environment because it does not state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action since Plaintiff has not alleged
facts establishing that Defendants’ conduct, in throwing Plaintiff’s belongings
into his vehicle, was “‘severe enough or sufficiently pervasive to alter the
conditions of employment and create a work environment that qualifies as
hostile or abusive to employees because of their [protected status].’”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e);
Compl., ¶¶ 122-123; Galvan v. Dameron Hospital Assn. (2019) 37
Cal.App.5th 549, 564.) 
The court overrules Defendants’ demurrer to the 12th cause of action
for retaliation in violation of FEHA because it states facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action since Plaintiff has alleged that (1) he engaged in
the protected act of requesting accommodations, and (2) thereafter, Defendants
“began a campaign to terminate Plaintiff’s employment.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e);
Compl., ¶¶ 139-140; Meeks v. Autozone, Inc. (2018) 24 Cal.App.5th
855, 878-879 [setting forth elements of claim for retaliation under FEHA].) 
The court overrules Defendants’ demurrer to the 13th cause of action
for wrongful termination in violation of public policy because it states facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action since Plaintiff has alleged that
Defendants terminated him in violation of various fundamental public policies,
including as set forth in FEHA.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e); Compl., ¶ 155; Garcia-Brower v.
Premier Automotive Imports of CA, LLC (2020) 55 Cal.App.5th 961, 973
[setting forth elements of claim for wrongful discharge].) 
The court also notes that Defendants have argued that various causes
of action are barred and preempted by the remedy provided by workers’
compensation.  In support of that
argument, Defendants have cited Labor Code section 132a and Dutra v. Mercy Medical Center Mt. Shasta (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th 750 (“Dutra”).  “Labor Code section 132a
extends certain civil rights protections to employees who are injured in the
course of their employment.”  (Dutra, supra, 209 Cal.App.4th at p. 754.)  To that end, this statute makes a misdemeanor
(1) the discharge, or threat of discharge, or discrimination against any
employee by an employer because the employee has filed or made known his
intention to file a claim for compensation with his employer; (2) for any
insurer to advise, direct, or threaten an insured under penalty of cancellation
or raise in premium, to discharge an employee because the employee has filed or
made known his intention to file a claim for compensation with his employer;
(3) the discharge, or threat of discharge, or discrimination against any
employee by an employer because the employee has or intends to testify in
another employee’s case before the appeals board; and (4) for any insurer to
advise, direct, or threaten an insured under penalty of cancellation or raise
in premium, to discharge or discriminate against an employee because the
employee testified or will testify in another employee’s case before an appeals
board.  (Lab. Code, § 132a, subds.
(1)-(4).)  Here, Plaintiff does not
appear to have alleged facts that would be actionable under this statute, and
Defendants have not pointed to any such allegations.  The court therefore finds that Defendants
have not met their burden of establishing that the ninth, 11th, 12th, and 13
causes of action are preempted by the workers’ compensation exclusivity rule. 
MOTION TO STRIKE
Defendants request that the court strike
from the Complaint (1) Plaintiff’s prayer for punitive damages, as set forth in
paragraph 6 of the prayer; and (2) the related allegations and requests for
punitive damages as set forth in paragraphs 76, 91, 101, 119, 148, 159, and
162.
The court denies Defendants’ motion to
strike because Plaintiff has alleged facts establishing (1) that Defendants
were guilty of oppression or malice, and (2) advance knowledge and conscious
disregard, authorization, ratification or act of oppression or malice on the
part of an officer, director, or managing agent of corporate defendant Quick
Transport.  (Civ. Code, § 3294,
subds. (a), (b); Code Civ. Proc., § 436; Compl., ¶¶ 29-30, 35-36, 15,
101, 152.) 
ORDER
            The court overrules defendants Quick
Transport, Inc., and Beatriz Villalpondo’s demurrer to plaintiff Efren Lagunas’
sixth through 10th and 12th through 13th causes of action. 
The court sustains defendants Quick Transport, Inc., and Beatriz Villalpondo’s
demurrer to plaintiff Efren Lagunas’ 11th cause of action for harassment and
hostile work environment. 
The
court denies defendants Quick Transport, Inc., and Beatriz Villalpondo’s motion
to strike portions of plaintiff Efren Lagunas’ Complaint. 
The
court grants plaintiff Efren Lagunas 20 days leave to file a First Amended
Complaint that cures the deficiencies as to the 11th cause of action set forth
in this ruling.
The
court orders plaintiff Efren Lagunas to give notice of this ruling. 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  October 13, 2023
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court