 Case Number:  23VECV01917    Hearing Date:   March 18, 2024    Dept:  W HARGES FAMILY PARTNERSHIP, LP, et al. v. CHARTWELL
ESCROW, INC.
 
defendant chartwell escrow, inc.’s demurrer to
plaintiff’s complaint with motion to strike  
 
Date
of Hearing:        March 18, 2024                                 Trial
Date:       None Set  
Department:              W                                                        Case
No.:        23VECV01917
 
Moving Party:            Defendant Chartwell Escrow, Inc. 
Responding Party:     Plaintiffs Harges Family Partnership, LP
and Lorelei Harges, Trustee of the Harges Community Property Trust
Meet and Confer:      Yes. (Davis Decl. ¶¶3-5.) 
 
BACKGROUND
 
This is a
breach of fiduciary duty action. Plaintiffs Harges Family Partnership, LP and Lorelei Harges,
Trustee of the Harges Community Property Trust allege Plaintiffs entered into multiple
agreements to sell seven pieces of real property to several buyers. Chartwell
agreed to act as the escrow company for the transactions. Plaintiffs allege per
Section C of the Addendum, the escrow holder, Chartwell, was supposed to
release the deposits to the plaintiffs one business day after their receipt.
However, Plaintiffs allege Chartwell never released any of the deposits to the
plaintiffs and instead, Chartwell returned the deposits to the buyers.  
 
[Tentative]
Ruling
 
Defendant
Chartwell Escrow, Inc.’s Demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND. Defendant
Chartwell Escrow, Inc.’s Motion to Strike is GRANTED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Defendant Chartwell
Escrow Inc. demurs to the complaint for breach of fiduciary duty on the grounds
the complaint fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action
against Defendant and is impermissibly vague and uncertain. 
 
The elements for a
breach of fiduciary duty cause of action are “the existence of a fiduciary
relationship, its breach, and damage proximately caused by that breach.” (Thomson
v. Canyon (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 594, 604.)  “‘[B]efore a person
can be charged with a fiduciary obligation, he must either knowingly undertake
to act on behalf and for the benefit of another, or must enter into a
relationship which imposes that undertaking as a matter of law.’” (Hasso v.
Hapke (2014) 227 Cal.App.4th 107, 140 (quoting Committee on Children’s
Television, Inc. v. General Foods Corp. (1983) 35 Cal.3d 197, 221).) “A
fiduciary duty under common law may arise ‘when one person enters into a
confidential relationship with another.’” (Id.) 
 
Defendant argues given
the complaint’s absence of written instructions signed by the Seller, the Buyers,
or Chartwell Escrow in any of the seven separate agreements to sell real property,
it’s unclear what, if any, duty was owed or breached. Specifically, an escrow
holder is not liable for failure to do something not required by the terms of
the escrow or for losses of a party when the escrow holder was obediently
following the escrow instructions. (See Lee v. Title Ins. & Trust Co.
(1968)264 Cal.App.2d 160, 162-163; Schaefer v. Manufacturers Bank (1980)
104 Cal.App.3d 70, 77-78.) Instead, the scope of an escrow holder’s duties is
limited to compliance with the escrow instructions of the parties. (See Markowitz
v. Fidelity Nat. Title Co. (2006) 142 Cal.App.4th 508, 526.) As such,
Plaintiffs’ allegations “Chartwell was plaintiffs’ fiduciary and owed
plaintiffs the same duties as a trustee owes to a beneficiary of a trust. In
that regard, Chartwell was required to look out for the best interest of plaintiffs
as if... [it] stood in plaintiffs’ shoes[]” is the wrong standard. 
 
Plaintiff argues
there is an exception to the general rule an escrow holder’s obligations are
limited to compliance with the parties’ instructions – fraud. (See Summit
Financial Holdings, Ltd. v. Continental Lawyers Title Co. (2002) 27 Cal.4th
705, 711.) While true, Plaintiff has not alleged such colluding as they
maintain in their opposition. As noted above, “[a]n escrow holder is an agent
and fiduciary of the parties to the escrow.”  (Summit Financial
Holdings, Ltd. v. Continental Lawyers Title Co. (2002) 27 Cal.4th 705,
711.)  “The agency created by the escrow is limited—limited to the
obligation of the escrow holder to carry out the instructions of each of the
parties to the escrow.”  (Id.)  With respect to the scope of
an escrow holder’s fiduciary duties, “[a]bsent clear evidence of fraud, an
escrow holder’s obligations are limited to compliance with the parties’
instructions.”  (Id.)  “[A]n escrow holder ‘has no general
duty to police the affairs of its depositors.’”  (Id.)  The
complaint fails to allege such. 
 
Accordingly, the
demurrer to the complaint is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND. 
 
Plaintiffs contend
they should be granted at least sixty days leave to amend in order to give
Plaintiffs sufficient time to obtain new counsel, for new counsel to be
familiar with the file and prepare an amended complaint. Based on the
discussion below, the court will sustain the demurrer with leave to amend the
complaint in 20 days. 
 
Motion to Strike 
 
Defendant moves to
strike portions of Plaintiffs’ complaint including Paragraph 15 of the
complaint as well as Plaintiffs’ claims for punitive damages. 
 
Defendant first
argues Paragraph 15 of the Complaint improperly alleges “Chartwell was plaintiffs’
fiduciary and owed plaintiffs the duties as a trustee owes to a beneficiary of a
trust. In that regard, Chartwell was required to look out for the best interest
of plaintiffs as if the defendant stood in plaintiffs’ shoes.” This allegation
misstates the law, as there is no such duty imposed by law on any escrow
holder. To the contrary, the only obligations assumed by an escrow holder are
those found in the written escrow instructions between the parties. The court
agrees this is a mischaracterization of the law. Escrow agents do not owe a
fiduciary duty as a trustee. 
 
Defendant also
argues Plaintiffs demand for punitive damages is alleged in conclusory fashion without
any facts, let alone a factual showing of willful, malicious, fraudulent, oppressive
or consciously indifferent conduct. The court agrees. Punitive damages are
proper only when the tortious conduct rises to levels of extreme indifference
to the plaintiff's rights, a level which decent citizens should not have to
tolerate. (Lackner v. North (2006) 135 Cal.App.4th 1188, 1210; quoting Tomaselli
v. Transamerica Ins. Co. (1994) 25 Cal.App.4th 1269, 1287.) Plaintiffs
have failed to allege such. 
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s
motion to strike is GRANTED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND. 