  Case Number:  22VECV00714    Hearing Date:   March 18, 2024    Dept:  W YS PROPERTIES, LLC vs HAYK SHISHOYAN, et al.
 
plaintiff’s MOTION FOR ATTORNEY FEES AND COSTS PURSUANT TO CIVIL
CODE § 1717
 
Date of Hearing:        March 18, 2024                                 Trial Date:       N/A
 
Department:              W                                                        Case No.:        22VECV00714
 
Moving Party:            Plaintiff
YS Properties, LLC  
Responding Party:     No
opposition. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On May 26, 2022, Plaintiff YS Properties, LLC filed a complaint
against Hayk Shishoyan, Hats Enterprises, LLC and Hats Enterprises LLC dba
Encino Tailors for breach of written contract and breach of guaranty. Plaintiff
alleges Defendants have failed to pay monthly rent for their commercial lease
with Plaintiff. 
 
Trial was held November 27, 2023. The court entered judgment for
Plaintiff against Defendants, jointly and severally. 
 
[TENTATIVE]
RULING:
 
Plaintiff’s Motion for
Attorney Fees and Costs is GRANTED, in part. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Plaintiff
YS Properties LLC moves the court for an award of attorney fees and costs
pursuant to Civil Code section 1717 as the prevailing party pursuant to a
judgment rendered in Plaintiff’s favor. Plaintiff requests an award of
reasonable attorney fees in the amount of $103,868 and verifiable costs in the
amount of $11,221.43, for a total of $115,343.43. 
 
As
a general rule, each party to litigation must bear its own attorney fees,
unless otherwise provided by statute or contract. (CCP §1021.) However, Civil
Code section 1717, subdivision (a) provides in pertinent part: “In any action
on a contract, where the contract specifically provides that attorney's fees
and costs, which are incurred to enforce that contract, shall be awarded either
to one of the parties or to the prevailing party, then the party who is
determined to be the party prevailing on the contract, whether he or she is the
party specified in the contract or not, shall be entitled to reasonable
attorney's fees in addition to other costs.” Contractual attorney's fees must
ordinarily be sought by noticed motion, unless the parties stipulate otherwise.
(See CCP § 1033.5(c)(5); Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1702(a).) A motion is
necessary to determine both entitlement to, and the amount of, any fees. (See
Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1702(a) [motion procedure applies when court
determines entitlement to fees, amount of fees, or both]; P R Burke Corp. v
Victor Valley Wastewater Reclamation Auth. (2002) 98 Cal.App.4th 1047,
1052.) 
 
Plaintiff
first argues it is entitled to recover attorney fees and costs pursuant to the
Lease agreement. Plaintiff sued Hats Enterprises LLC and Hayk Shishoyan for
breach of the commercial lease agreement and for breach of the Guaranty of
Lease, respectively. (Xu Decl. ¶2, Exh. A.) The Lease provides: 
 
Attorneys' Fees. If any Party or Broker
brings an action or proceeding involving the Premises whether founded in tort,
contract or equity, or to declare rights hereunder, the Prevailing Party (as
hereafter defined) in any such proceeding, action, or appeal thereon, shall be entitled
to reasonable attorneys' fees. Such fees may be awarded in the same suit or recovered
in a separate suit, whether or not such action or proceeding is pursued to
decision or judgment. The term, "Prevailing Party" shall include, without
limitation, a Party or Broker who substantially obtains or defeats the relief
sought, as the case may be, whether by compromise, settlement, judgment, or the
abandonment by the other Party or Broker of its claim or defense. The
attorneys' fees award shall not be computed in accordance with any court fee
schedule, but shall be such as to fully reimburse all attorneys' fees
reasonably incurred. In addition, Lessor shall be entitled to attorneys' fees,
costs and expenses incurred in the preparation and service of notices of
Default and consultations in connection therewith, whether or not a legal
action is subsequently commenced in connection with such Default or resulting
Breach ($200 is a reasonable minimum per occurrence for such services and
consultation). (Xu Decl., Exh. A, ¶31.) 
 
Here,
Plaintiff is the prevailing party. On November 27, 2023, the court ruled: “against
Defendants Hats Enterprises, LLC and Hayk Shishoyan, jointly and severally, and
in favor of YS Properties, LLC in the amount of $65,392.47.” (December 8, 2023
Judgment.) 
 
Plaintiff
further contends the fees and costs reflect the substantial work necessary for
Plaintiff to file and prosecute the action all the way through trial, including
1) file the complaint, 2) prepare for default, 3) conduct discovery, 4) file
motions, 5) attend all hearings, 6) prepare for trial, and 7) attend trial. Specifically,
Plaintiff spent much of the attorney work and time on addressing bad faith
strategy and delay tactics employed by Mr. Shishoyan and
his
counsel, including but not limited to: (1) initial failure to produce responses
to written discovery resulting in meet and confer (more than 25 hours), (2)
multiple failures to produce responses after agreeing to multiple deadlines,
resulting further meet and confer and discovery motions (more than 40 hours),
(3) bad faith agreement to agree to participate in mediation and offering
unreasonable settlement amounts (more than 10 hours), (4) falsely presenting
intent to proceed to trial without a real commitment to do so, requiring
Plaintiff to spend a significant amount of time to prepare a fully contested
trial in this matter, including witness list, exhibit list, trial brief,
statement of the case, and exhibit binders (more than 20 hours). (Xu Decl., ¶3.)

 
The
court finds Plaintiff’s attorney’s fees are reasonable given the circumstances
of the case. “Even after determining that a party is entitled to fees because
it ‘prevailed,’ the trial court must still determine what amount of fees would
be ‘reasonable’ in light of the relative extent or degree of the party's
success in obtaining the results sought.” (Sokolow v. County of San Mateo
(1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 231, 247.)¿Plaintiff has set forth the attorney’s fees
claimed by Plaintiff in an itemized detailed billing summary of each attorney who
rendered professional services as well as the expenses in representing
Plaintiff to successfully prosecute the action on the contract. (Xu Decl., Exh.
B.) Plaintiff’s counsel billed 275.900 hours in prosecuting this matter through
trial. (Xu Decl. Exh. B.)  Moreover, the
hourly rates are fair and reasonable. Plaintiff’s counsel bills $500 for Jay
Chung and Peter Lee; $295 for Minely Grigorian and Loho Angilbert (who later
billed $350) and $350 for Jared Xu. (Xu Decl. ¶5.) These rates are reasonable
based on each attorneys years of experience and education. 
 
Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s Motion for Attorney Fees is GRANTED. 
 
Costs
 
Plaintiff
is also entitled to recover reasonable costs for this action. “Except as
otherwise expressly provided by statute, a prevailing party is entitled as a matter
of right to recover costs in any action or proceeding.” (CCP §1032(b).) Here,
Plaintiff seeks costs of $11,475.43, which is itemized in Exhibit B. However, Plaintiff
is not entitled to research costs. Civil Code Section 1033.5(b)(2) prohibits
the recovery of “Investigation expenses”. Based on this provision, the Court of
Appeals held in Ladas v. California State Automobile Association that “[f]ees
for legal research, computer or otherwise, may not be recovered under section
1033.5.” (Ladas v. California State Automobile Association (1993) 19
Cal.App.4th 761, 776.)  Accordingly, the
court strikes $4,889.50 from the costs. 
 