 Case Number:  22VECV01242    Hearing Date:   March 18, 2024    Dept:  W DAVID FASSNACHT v. JOHN WORDIN, et al.
 
plaintiff’s motion for leave to amend complaint
 
Date of Hearing:        March 18, 2024                           Trial Date:      December 9, 2024 
Department:              W                                                   Case No.:       22VECV01242
 
Moving
Party:            Plaintiff David
Fassnacht  
Responding
Party:     No opposition  
 
BACKGROUND
 
On Plaintiff August 29, 2022, Plaintiff David Fassnacht filed a
complaint against Defendants John Wordin, John Wordin dba Life Aid Holdings,
Inc., Life Aid Holdings, Inc., Life Aid Research Institute dba Life Aid
Holdings, Inc. for fraudulent inducement, fraud (intentional
misrepresentation), fraud (deceit by concealment), and fraud (negligent
misrepresentation). Plaintiff alleges Defendant misrepresented an investment
opportunity in regards to the app, LifeScore App. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Plaintiff’s Motion for Leave to Amend Complaint is GRANTED. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Plaintiff moves the court for an order granting leave to amend, or
in the alternative, supplemental complaint, on the grounds that the amended
(or, if applicable, supplemental) complaint is necessary to clarify some of the
alleged terms and allege facts material to this case which have occurred
subsequent to the filing of the former complaint. (Mot. p. 2:3-10.) 
 
A complainant may obtain leave from the trial court to amend his
pleading beyond the number of amendments allowed under Code of Civil Procedure
section 472 (a) by filing a noticed motion.¿ (CRC Rule 3.1324.)¿ The motion
must be accompanied by a declaration stating: (1) the effect of the amendment;
(2) why the amendment is necessary and proper; (3) when the facts giving rise
to the amended allegations were discovered; and (4) why the request was not
made earlier.¿ (CRC Rule 3.1324 (b).)¿¿¿¿
¿¿¿ 
“Any judge, at any time before or after commencement of trial, in
the furtherance of justice, and upon such terms as may be proper, may allow the
amendment of any pleading or pretrial conference order.”¿ (CCP § 576.)  In the absence of a showing of prejudice from
the opposing side, the trial court ordinarily lacks discretion to deny a motion
to amend a pleading.¿ (Honig v. Financial Corp. of America (1992) 6
Cal.App.4th 960, 965.)
 
Leave to amend is permitted under Code of Civil Procedure section
473, subdivision (a) and section 576. The policy favoring amendment and
resolving all matters in the same dispute is “so strong that it is a rare case
in which denial of leave to amend can be justified. . ..” “Although courts are
bound to apply a policy of great liberality in permitting amendments to the
complaint at any stage of the proceedings, up to and including trial
[citations], this policy should be applied only ‘where no prejudice is shown to
the adverse party . . .. [citation]. A different result is indicated ‘where
inexcusable delay and probable prejudice to the opposing party’ is shown.
[Citation].” (Magpali v. Farmers Group (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 471,
487.)  
 
A motion for leave to amend a pleading must also comply with the
procedural requirements of California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1324, which
requires a supporting declaration to set forth the effect of the amendment, why
the amendment is necessary and proper, when the facts giving rise to the
amended allegations were discovered, and why the request for amendment was not
made earlier. (CRC Rule 3.1324(b).) The motion must also include (1) a copy of
the proposed and numbered amendment, and (2) specifications by reference to
pages, paragraphs, and lines of the allegations that would be deleted and/or
added. (CRC Rule 3.1324(a).) 
 
Plaintiff seeks to correct potential ambiguities and
insufficiencies in the original complaint, including clarifying the three
agreements Defendants allegedly breached as well as actions allegedly done by
Defendant Wordin as an individual. Plaintiff also seeks to plead two new breach
of contract causes of action that were inadvertently left out. 
 
The court finds Plaintiff has fulfilled the requirements of
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1324(a) and (b). Plaintiff submits the
declaration of Counsel Kymberleigh Korpus who provides the effect of the
amendment, why the amendment is necessary and proper, when the facts giving
rise to the amended allegations were discovered, and why the request for
amendment was not made earlier. (Korpus Decl. ¶¶4—7.) Plaintiff also attaches a
copy of the proposed amendment which tracks changes. (Korpus Decl., Exh. 2.) 
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s Motion for Leave to File the First
Amended Complaint is GRANTED. 