 Case Number:  23VECV04097    Hearing Date:   March 18, 2024    Dept:  W JOSE PEREZ, et al. v. GENERAL MOTORS LLC
 
PLAINTIFFS’ MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO
REQUESTS FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS AND REQUEST FOR SANCTIONS
 
Date of Hearing:        March
18, 2024                                 Trial
Date:       None set.   
Department:              W                                                        Case No.:        23VECV04097
 
Moving Party:            Plaintiffs Jose Perez and Loren Aguirre   
Responding Party:     Defendant General Motors, LLC 
 
BACKGROUND
 
This case arises in the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act. Plaintiffs Jose Perez and Loren Aguirre purchased
a 2023 Chevrolet Silverado. Plaintiffs allege defects and nonconformities to
warranty manifested themselves. On September 18, 2023, Plaintiffs filed a
complaint against Defendant General Motors LLC for 1. Violation of Song-Beverly
Act - Breach of Express Warranty and 2. Violation of Song-Beverly Act - Breach of
Implied Warranty. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Plaintiffs’ Motion to Compel Further
Responses to Requests for Production of Documents is GRANTED 
 
discussion
 
Plaintiffs move the court for an order compelling further
responses to Plaintiffs’ First Set of Requests for Production of Documents and
monetary sanctions in the amount of $2,310.00 against Defendant General Motors,
LLC and its attorneys of record, The Erskine Law Group, PC. Plaintiffs make the
motion on the grounds Defendant has failed and refused to provide Code-compliant
discovery responses pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure, section 2031.310.
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.310, the court may
order a responding to serve a further response to a request for production when
the court finds that any of the following apply: (1) a statement of compliance
with the demand is incomplete; (2) a representation of inability to comply is
inadequate, incomplete, or evasive; and (3) an objection in the response is
without merit or too general.
 
To date, Defendant has failed to provide code-compliant responses
and documents responsive to Plaintiffs’ Request for Production of Documents (“RPD”),
including but not limited to Numbers 16, 19-32 and 37-41. Plaintiffs argue
their RPDs are highly relevant to their underlying Song-Beverly Act claims. Specifically,
RPD Nos. 16, 19-32 seek documents relating to policies and procedures for
handling vehicle replacement and repurchase requests and RPD Nos. 37-41 seek
documents relating to Defendant’s vehicle repair and warranty codes issued for
the Subject Vehicle. Plaintiff contends these documents are relevant to the
case at bar because they will likely shed light on whether Defendant has a
policy in place that results in systemic violations of the Song-Beverly Act.
Furthermore, understanding what these codes mean is necessary to understanding
the documents in which they are used. 
 
In opposition, GM first argues Plaintiffs did not meet and confer
in good faith. A motion to compel further responses “shall be accompanied by a
meet and confer declaration.”  (CCP
§2031.310(b).) The declaration must state facts showing a reasonable and good
faith attempt at an informal resolution of each issue presented in the
motion.  (CCP § 2016.040.) The court
finds Plaintiff provided an adequate declaration that they met and conferred
with Defendant in their motion. However, the court encourages the parties to
continue to make reasonable and good faith attempts at resolving discovery
matters before bringing motions to the court. 
 
GM next argues GM has already agreed to produce its Warranty
Policy & Procedure Manual as well as the policies and procedures used to
evaluate lemon law claims and repurchase requests along with its California Customer
Engagement Center training materials in response to Request for Production Nos.
16 and 19-32. Thus, there is nothing for this court to compel. 
 
Plaintiff, in reply, argues GM has not done so. The court orders
GM to produce documents reasonably requested by RPD Nos. 16 and 19-32 (pursuant
to a protective order) if it has not done so by the time of the hearing on this
motion. 
 
As for 37-41, GM argues Plaintiffs’ requests are vague and
overbroad and have no bearing on the repairs of Plaintiffs’ Silverado.
Moreover, Plaintiffs also demand production of confidential, proprietary, and
commercially sensitive information that contains trade secret material. The
court agrees, in part. The court agrees the requests should be limited to all
codes pertaining to the defects and nonconformities at issue. However, it is up
to Defendant to seek a protective order regarding any discovery they believe is
privileged as well as to provide a privilege log. 
 
Accordingly, Plaintiffs’ Motion to Compel Further Responses to
Requests for Production of Documents and Request for Sanctions is GRANTED. 
 
Sanctions
 
Plaintiffs request this court award $2,310.00 as a sanction against
Defendant and its counsel of record, The Erskine Law Group, PC for Defendant’s
failure to provide properly compliant responses to Plaintiffs’ RPDs. 
 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 2031.310(h) provides for the imposition of monetary
sanctions against any party who unsuccessfully makes or opposes such a motion
unless the court finds that the one subject to sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of sanctions
unjust.  
 
There being substantial justification, with merit
to both sides, the court denies the request for sanctions.¿¿¿ 
 