  Case Number:  22PSCV00441    Hearing Date:   December 23, 2024    Dept:  H Hernandez
v. Rubio, Case No. 22PSCV00441


ORDER RE: NON-PARTY MARTINEZ’S DEPOSITION


The Court CONTINUES the hearings on (1)
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Non-Party Martinez to Comply with Deposition
Subpoena and (2) Non-Party Witness Martinez’s Motion for Protective Order to
February 19, 2025, at 9:00 a.m. so counsel for Plaintiff Hernandez and counsel
for Non-Party Martinez can engage in a meaningful meet-and-confer session
regarding a deposition date and the 293 document requests.
I.        Background 
Plaintiff Roger Hernandez (“Plaintiff”) alleges as follows:

          Plaintiff is a former California State
Assemblyperson, a former candidate for U.S. Congress, and the ex-husband of
Defendant California State Senator Susan Rubio (“S. Rubio”). Defendant Blanca
E. Rubio (“B. Rubio”) is S. Rubio’s sister and a California State
Assemblyperson. Defendant Maria Morales (“Morales”) is a former El Monte City
Council member. Defendant Alma Martinez (“Martinez”) is the City Manager of El
Monte. S. Rubio filed a request for a three-year domestic violence restraining
order against Plaintiff on April 13, 2016, which the court granted on July 1,
2016. The restraining order was renewed by S. Rubio on January 17, 2020 for an
additional five years. Beginning in or about April 2017, Plaintiff began his
post-elected-office professional life as a governmental consultant. Plaintiff’s
clients, however, would terminate his services upon being informed—either
directly or indirectly by S. Rubio, B. Rubio, Morales, and/or Martinez—that the
city councils of El Monte, West Covina, and Baldwin Park would refuse to grant
any permits to, or otherwise “do any business” with, any of Plaintiff’s clients. 
On
October 27, 2022, an “Order Granting Motion to Strike Portions of Plaintiff’s
Complaint (Anti-SLAPP)” was entered. 
On November 30, 2022, Plaintiff filed a First Amended
Complaint, asserting causes of action against S. Rubio, B. Rubio, Morales,
Martinez, and Does 1-50 for: (1) intentional interference with contractual
relations and (2) intentional interferences with prospective economic relations. 
On
December 22, 2022, Plaintiff filed a “Notice of Appeal” of the Court’s October
27, 2022 order. 
On
July 6, 2023, Plaintiff dismissed Morales and Martinez from the First Amended Complaint,
with prejudice. 
On
October 4, 2023, the Court of Appeal dismissed the appeal filed December 22,
2022; on December 11, 2023, remittitur was issued. 
A
Mandatory Settlement Conference is set for April 24, 2025. 
The Final Status Conference is set for July 8, 2025. Jury Trial
is set for July 22, 2025. 
Pending before the Court are: (1) Plaintiff’s motion to compel non-party witness Martinez to comply with a
deposition subpoena and (2) non-party Martinez’s motion for a protective order
precluding or limiting in scope her deposition as City Manager for the City of
El Monte.
II.      Plaintiff’s
Motion to Compel Compliance with Deposition Subpoena 
          A.       Legal Standard 
“If a subpoena requires the attendance of a witness of the
production of books, documents, electronically stored information, or other
things before a court, or at the trial of an issue therein, or at the taking of
a deposition, the court, upon motion reasonably made by any person described in
subdivision (b), or upon the court’s own motion after giving counsel notice and
an opportunity to be heard, may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely,
modifying it, or directing compliance with it upon those terms of conditions as
the court shall declare, including protective orders. In addition, the court
may make any other order as may be appropriate to protect the person from
unreasonable or oppressive demands, including unreasonable violations of the
right of privacy of the person.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 128, subd. (a).) “The
following persons may make a motion pursuant to subdivision (a): (1) A party. .
.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 128, subd. (b).) 
“If a deponent fails to answer any question or to produce
any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing under the
deponent’s control that is specified in the deposition notice or a deposition
subpoena, the party seeking discovery may move the court for an order
compelling that answer or production.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.480, subd.
(a).) “This motion shall be made no later than 60 days after the completion of
the record of the deposition, and shall be accompanied by a meet and confer
declaration under Section 2016.040.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.480, subd. (b).)
“A written notice and all moving papers
supporting a motion to compel an answer to a deposition question or to compel
production of a document or tangible thing from a nonparty deponent must be personally served on the nonparty
deponent unless the nonparty deponent agrees to accept service by mail
or electronic service at an address or electronic service address specified on
the deposition record.” (Cal. Rules of Court rule
3.1346).
          B.       Discussion
Plaintiff moves the Court for an order, per Code of Civil Procedure
sections 1987.1 and 2025.480, for an order compelling non-party witness Martinez[FN1] to comply with the “Deposition Subpoena for Personal Appearance and Production
of Documents and Things” served on her on July 17, 2024. Plaintiff also seeks an order requiring Martinez to pay $4,035.00 in
attorneys’ fees and costs incurred in connection with this motion.
The proof of service accompanying the
motion does not reflect that personal service was effectuated on Martinez as
required by California Rules of Court rule 3.1346. However, because Martinez
filed an opposition, the Court elects to proceed to the merits of the motion. 
Plaintiff’s
counsel Ross Hollenkamp (“Hollenkamp”) represents, and/or the accompanying
exhibits reflect, as follows: 
          On July 16, 2024, Martinez was
personally served with a “Deposition Subpoena for Personal Appearance and
Production of Documents and Things,” which included, as Attachment 3, a set of
Requests for Production of Documents that included 293 individual requests.
(Hollenkamp Decl., ¶ 3, Exh. A.) On July 17, 2024, Plaintiff mail-served a
“Notice of Taking Deposition of Non-Party Alma Martinez and Demand for
Production of Documents and Things,” which attached the subpoena, to counsel
for S. Rubio and B. Rubio as well as Martinez’s former counsel of record. 
          On July 19, 2024, Martinez served an
“Objection to Deposition of Alma Martinez” (“Objection”), advising that she
would not appear for deposition “for the reasons stated in her counsel’s meet
and confer of July 19, 2024” and objecting to the 293 document requests
collectively on the following six grounds:
          “1.      Objection.
This request seeks to invade the attorney client privilege, the attorney client
doctrine, privacy rights of public employees under Govt Code 6254, and privacy
rights of third parties. 
          2.       You
are deposing Ms. Martinez solely in her capacity as an APEX witness and on
matters that have nothing to do with this case, or on matters addressed by the
ANTI SLAPP statute. 
          3.       The
term “lawsuit” is not defined as I understand that many portions of the
Complaint were stricken by the Court, so it is not clear what claims or
allegations remain at issue. 
          4.       The
one issue in the case as I understand is the bid plaintiff made and the fact
that he was not awarded the bid per the dates specified in the lawsuit to which
I raised the ANTI SLAPP defense. Your subpoena is asking for more recent
matters and recent attempts to bid on work by the plaintiff, that have nothing
to do with this case. 
          5.       A
296-document request[FN2] is
burdensome, harassing, and oppressive, and not relevant to the subject matter
of this lawsuit. 
          6.       Ms.
Martinez is not the custodian of city records.” (Id., ¶ 6, Exh. C.) 
          Hollenkamp and Martinez’s counsel Nancy
Doumanian (“Doumanian”) thereafter met and conferred “via telephone and email.”
(Id., ¶ 7.) On July 31, 2024, an assistant to Doumanian advised that
Doumanian would produce Martinez for deposition, but that the deposition
would be limited to three unspecified topics “directly related to the case and
w[ould] not cover any outside matters”; that same day, another of Doumanian’s
assistants, Aileen Ramos (“Ramos”), advised that she had reached out to
Martinez about scheduling her deposition and offered Martinez the following
dates: August 14, 2024 (represented to be the earliest date available before
Doumanian began trial), October 29, 2024 (represented to be the earliest date
available after Doumanian was set to end trial), and November 12, 2024. (Id.,
¶ 7, Exh. D.) On August 1, 2024, Ramos advised that Martinez said she was
available for deposition on November 12, 2024. (Id.) 
          On August 5, 2024, Hollenkamp advised
Doumanian that November 12, 2024 was not an acceptable deposition date and
requested that Doumanian confirm Martinez’s availability for August 14, 2024. (Id.)
Hollenkamp also proposed the following alternative dates: August 12, 13, 19,
21, 26-30, or September 3, 2024. (Id.) Hollenkamp further advised that
the deposition would remain on calendar as noticed for August 8, 2024, until
one of the above alternative dates was confirmed. (Id.) That same day,
Ramos advised Hollenkamp that Martinez was unavailable August 14, 2024, but
that she would check her availability for August 27 and 29, 2024, as
those dates had “just opened up” for Doumanian. (Id.) Ramos further
advised that Doumanian was starting a trial on September 5, 2024 that was
expected to continue until October 11 or 14, 2024, and that, as
such, Doumanian’s availability was “severely limited” until the first week in
November. (Id.) Ramos advised later that day that Martinez was not
available for either of the abovementioned August dates but could accommodate
November 5, 2024 instead of November 12, 2024. (Id.) On
August 6, 2024, Hollenkamp advised Doumanian and Ramos that November 5 was not
an acceptable alternative date, that Martinez could sit for deposition on
August 14, 27, or 29, that if Martinez did not agree to any of these other
dates the deposition would proceed on August 8, and that if Martinez did not
appear on August 8, he would take a “Certificate of Non-Appearance” and file a
motion to compel compliance. (Id.)
          Hollenkamp proceeded with taking the
deposition as noticed and had a “Certificate of Non-Appearance” taken on August
8, 2024. (Id., ¶ 7, Exh. E.) On September 30, 2024, Hollenkamp asked
Doumanian whether she and Martinez were available for Martinez to be deposed on
October 18 or October 21-25. (Id., ¶ 9, Exh. F.) Hollenkamp also
requested that Doumanian provide alternative dates for the week of October 14,
2024 if none of the above dates worked. (Id.) On October 3, 2024, Ramos
advised that none of these dates worked for Doumanian but advised that Martinez
was available for deposition on November 5. (Id.) On October 4, 2024,
Hollenkamp advised Doumanian that if she failed to confirm her and her client’s
availability on the proposed dates, by the close of business October 7, he
would proceed with a motion. (Id.) This motion followed on October 8,
2024. 
It
does not appear to the Court that a good faith meet-and-confer session was
conducted prior to the filing of the instant motion. Martinez is the City
Manager of El Monte; as such, it is not surprising to the Court that her
availability for deposition is limited. Doumanian, a sole practitioner, immediately
communicated through her office to Hollenkamp that she had limited upcoming
availability due to a lengthy scheduled trial.[FN3] While the
Court appreciates Plaintiff’s frustration that an earlier date could not be
arranged for Martinez’s deposition, the Court does not believe that Plaintiff’s
decision to proceed with taking a “Certificate of Non-Appearance” on August 8,
2024 was appropriate under the circumstances. 
Additionally,
the Court does not see any evidence in the record that a good faith meet-and-confer
discussion occurred with respect to the 293 document production requests. Although
Hollenkamp attests that telephonic and email meet-and-confer discussions were
conducted after he received Martinez’s Objection, after which time it was
agreed that Martinez would appear for her deposition, Hollenkamp’s declaration
is devoid of any details regarding a discussion of any particular document
production. There is also no written meet-and-confer correspondence regarding
any particular document production. 
Hollenkamp
has submitted a second declaration, concurrently with Plaintiff’s reply brief,
in which he advises the Court that, although he and Doumanian subsequently
agreed that Martinez would be deposed on December 6, 2024, attorney Allen
Secretov (“Secretov”), counsel for S. Rubio and B. Rubio, “hijacked” the
proceedings by insufficiently noticing (i.e., on December 2, 2024, at 4:56
p.m.; see 12:24-28, Exhs. H and I) and conducting (despite receiving Plaintiff’s
objections; see 13:1-6; Exhs. J and K) a testimony-only, remote deposition of
Martinez on that date. (Hollenkamp Reply Decl., 6:21-7:1, 8:8-16 and 9:24-26.)
Hollenkamp advises that he “took the Dec. 6 date off-calendar (and thus also
did not re-notice the deposition for that date)” because he deduced, from
Doumanian’s filing of the “Motion for Protective Order” on November 14, 2024,
that Martinez had changed her position and would not voluntarily sit for any
deposition. (Id., 7:2-12.) Hollenkamp did not attend the December 6
deposition. 
Under
the circumstances, the Court is inclined to continue the hearing to February
19, 2025, at 9:00 a.m. The Court notes that Plaintiff noticed Martinez’s
deposition in her capacity as “El Monte City Manager,” whereas S. Rubio and B.
Rubio noticed (and deposed) Martinez in her personal capacity. The fact that
Secretov conducted a testimony-only deposition of Martinez on December 6, 2024 does
not preclude Hollenkamp from deposing Martinez as “El Monte City Manager.” 
Counsel
for Martinez and Plaintiff are instructed to conduct a good faith meet-and-confer
session regarding the 293 document production requests and to prepare and file
a Joint Status Report outlining their meet-and-confer efforts and identifying
which specific production requests, if any, are no longer at issue and which remain
disputed and the nature of the dispute no later than nine court days before the
continued hearing date. As part of the meet-and-confer session, counsel should
also confer about deposition dates. At the hearing on February 19, 2025, Martinez’s
counsel should be prepared to present at least three available deposition dates
between February 20, 2025 and April 5, 2025; if the parties cannot reach
agreement as to a particular date, the Court will set a deposition date at the February
19, 2025 hearing. The Court reserves on the issue of sanctions at this
juncture. 
III.     Martinez’s Motion for a Protection Order
          A.       Legal
Standard 
“(a)
Every court shall have then power to do all of the following:
(1)
To preserve and enforce order in its immediate presence. . .
(3)
To provide for the orderly conduct of proceedings before it, or its officers. .
.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 128, subd. (a).) 
“The
court, for good cause shown, may make any order that justice requires to
protect any party, deponent, or other natural person or organization from
unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment, or oppression, or undue burden and
expense. This protective order may include, but is not limited to, one or more
of the following directions: 
(1)
That the deposition not be taken at all.
(2)
That the deposition be taken at a different time. . .
(5)
That the deposition be taken only on certain specified terms and conditions. .
.
(9)
That certain matters not be inquired into,
(10)
That the scope of the examination be limited to certain matters.
(11)
That all or certain of the writings or tangible things designated in the
deposition notice not be produced, inspected, copies, tested, or sampled . . .”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.420, subd. (b).) 
          B.       Discussion
Martinez
moves the Court, per Code of Civil Procedure sections 128(a) and
2025.420(b)(1), for orders (1) precluding her deposition as City Manager for
the City of El Monte, (2) limiting the duration and scope of her deposition as
City Manager for the City of El Monte, and (3) precluding production of
documents or limiting production of documents to 10 items as City Manager for
the City of El Monte. 
The
Court is inclined to continue the hearing on the motion to February 19, 2025, at 9:00 a.m.,
for the reasons identified above.


