  Case Number:  22VECV01431    Hearing Date:   October 10, 2024    Dept:  W JANE DOE V. LOS ANGELES UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT, ET AL.
 
defendant los angeles unified school district’s
motions to compel jane doe’s further responses to special interrogatories, set
two and demand for production of documents, set two 
 
Date of Hearing:        October
10, 2024                  Trial Date:       February
3, 2025
Department:              W                                            Case
No.:        22VECV01431
 
Moving Party:            Defendant
Los Angeles Unified School District
Responding
Party:     Plaintiff
Jane Doe 
Meet
and Confer:      Yes. (Johnson Decl.) 
 
BACKGROUND
 
This action arises out of allegations by Plaintiff Jane Doe that
she was sexually abused by a former employee of Defendant Los Angeles Unified
School District (“LAUSD”), Defendant William Paden, while he was employed by LAUSD.
On September 28, 2022, Plaintiff filed a complaint against LAUSD and Paden for
(1) sexual abuse of a minor, (2) intentional infliction of emotional distress,
(3) sexual harassment, (4) negligent hiring, supervision, and retention of an
unfit employee, (5) breach of mandatory duty: failure to report suspected child
abuse (Government Code section 815.6), (6) negligent failure to warn, train, or
educate, (7) negligent supervision of a minor, and (8) negligence. 
 
On March 22, 2024, Los Angeles Unified School District filed a
cross-complaint against William Paden and Richard Coleman for indemnity,
contribution, and declaratory relief. LAUSD dismissed Richard Coleman from the
cross-complaint on June 6, 2024. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
I.                   
Defendant’s Motion to Compel Jane Doe’s Further Responses to
Demand for Production of Documents, Set Two is GRANTED, in part. 
II.                 
Defendant’s Motion to Compel Jane Doe’s Further Responses to
Special Interrogatories, Set Two is GRANTED, in part. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
I.                   
DEFENDANT’S MOTION TO COMPEL JANE DOE’S FURTHER RESPONSES TO DEMAND
FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS, SET TWO
 
Defendant Los Angeles Unified School District moves the court for
an order compelling Plaintiff Jane Doe to provide further verified responses,
without objection, to Demand for Production, Set Two. Defendant LAUSD argues
Plaintiff failed to provide Code compliant responses to Production Request Nos.
16-31, 34 and 35.
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.310, parties may move
for a further response to requests for production of documents where a
statement of compliance is incomplete or where a representation of inability to
comply is inadequate, incomplete, or evasive. 
A motion to compel further response to requests for production “shall
set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the discovery sought by
the inspection demand.”  (CCP §
2031.310(b).)
 
LAUSD argues Plaintiff here has failed to satisfy her statutory
obligation by providing substantive and complete responses to LAUSD’s Requests
for Production. LAUSD contends Plaintiff’s responses are evasive,
non-responsive, and assert unmeritorious objections. 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues she provided supplemental
responses to these of requests so as to not waste this Court’s time.
Specifically, Plaintiff served supplemental responses to requests nos. 17-21,
23-24, 27, 30-31, and 35 so LAUSD’s motion is moot as to these requests. With
respect to the remainder of the requests at issue, they are harassing and
invade Plaintiff’s right of privacy. 
 
As for Demand No. 22, Plaintiff states they will produce all
documents in her possession, custody, and/or control responsive to this demand
before the hearing on this motion. At the hearing, Plaintiff is to confirm they
have served responsive documents to this Demand. 
 
As for Demand Nos. 25, 26, 28, 29, and 34, Plaintiff argues these
demands are hopelessly overbroad and burdensome as it is not limited in time or
scope. Moreover, Plaintiff has an expectation of privacy with respect to communications
between herself and others and the third parties themselves have an expectation
of privacy with respect to their communications with Plaintiff. Plaintiff also
argues she has an expectation of privacy with respect to her past academic
records and providing responses regarding former employers would invade her right
of privacy and out her to them as a victim of sexual abuse. 
 
Regarding Demand Nos. 25 and 26, the court agrees that
communications by plaintiff with others (friends, family members, third
parties) are discoverable and must be produced.   If she has communicated about these two
individuals to third parties, plaintiff has waived her privacy rights in those
communications.  The privacy rights of
third parties are outweighed by defendant’s right to know what plaintiff has
told others about the abuse, her feelings about these two individuals, or any
other information about Paden and Coleman.  
Plaintiff does not need to produce any documents covered by the attorney
client privilege.  
 
As for Demand 28, the documents must be limited to the time of the
grooming and sexual abuse at Cleveland H.S. 
 
As for Demand 29, the court agrees the Demand should be limited to
medical records regarding her alleged emotional distress and psychological
symptoms. LAUSD is not given a free pass at all of Plaintiff’s medical records.

 
Lastly, as to Demand 34, the court compels further responses. The
discovery sought is relevant or could lead to the discovery of relevant
evidence.  
 
Accordingly, LAUSD’s Motion to Compel Jane Doe’s Further Responses
to Demand for Production of Documents, Set Two is GRANTED, in part.
 
II.                 
DEFENDANT’S MOTION TO COMPEL JANE DOE’S FURTHER RESPONSES TO
SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES, SET TWO 
 
Defendant Los Angeles Unified School District moves the court for
an order compelling Plaintiff Jane Doe to provide further verified responses,
without objection, to Special Interrogatories, Set Two. Defendant argues Plaintiff
failed to provide Code compliant responses to Interrogatory Nos. 19-21, 24-28,
and 30. 
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure section 2030.300, a court may order
a party to serve a further response to interrogatories when the court finds
that any of the following apply: (1) An answer to a particular interrogatory is
evasive or incomplete. (2) An exercise of the option to produce documents under
Section 2030.230 is unwarranted or the required specification of those
documents is inadequate. (3) An objection to an interrogatory is without merit
or too general.  
 
LAUSD argues all of the interrogatories are predicated upon
Plaintiff’s claimed damages and seek information relevant to the subject matter
in the pending action. As a result, all the requested information is admissible
and/or is reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues the interrogatories at issue only
serve the purpose of harassing Plaintiff and invading her right of privacy. 
 
Regarding Interrogatory 19, the court finds further responses
should be compelled only as to the names of the family, as defined. No other
information is required. 
 
As for Interrogatory 20, the court finds the Interrogatory should
be limited in time to when the grooming and abuse occurred. Anything before is
irrelevant. 
 
Turning to Interrogatories 21, 24, 25, and 26, the court finds
these Interrogatories are an invasion of plaintiff’s privacy rights and
third-party privacy rights.  Defendant
has not demonstrated any interest that would outweigh those privacy
rights.  No further responses are
required.  By filing suit for sexual
abuse,  a plaintiff is not required to
turn over the names, addresses and phone numbers of every close friend from
their childhood to the present.   
 
As for Interrogatories 27 and 28, these are overbroad and no
further responses are needed.  
 
Lastly, as for Interrogatory 30, the court finds further responses
required. The information sought is relevant and does not invade plaintiff’s
privacy rights.  . 
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s Motion to Compel Jane Doe’s Further
Responses to Special Interrogatories, Set Two is GRANTED, in part. 
 