 Case Number:  24VECP00233    Hearing Date:   October 10, 2024    Dept:  W DEAN GETTLESON
vs MERVAT KELADA
 
MOTION for
order transferring case to proper venue 
 
Date of Hearing:        October
10, 2024                              Trial
Date:       None set. 
Department:              W                                                        Case No.:        24VECP00233
 
Moving Party:            Mervat Kelada
Responding Party:     Dean Gettleson
 
BACKGROUND
 
This action involves a petition to confirm
arbitration award. Plaintiff Dean Gettleson filed the petition on June 5, 2024.

 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Respondent Mervat Kelada’s Motion for
Order Transferring Case to Proper Venue is GRANTED. 
 
discussion
 
Respondent Mervat Kelada requests this
court for an order transferring the case to the proper venue, the Superior
Court of California for the County of Imperial, pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 395. 
 
Venue is determined based on the
complaint on file at the time the motion to change venue is made.” (Brown v.
Superior Court of Alameda County (1984) 37 Cal.3d 477, 482.) Plaintiff’s
choice of venue is presumptively correct, and Defendant bears the burden of
demonstrating that venue is not proper there. (Battaglia Enterprises, Inc.
v. Superior Court of San Diego County (2013) 215 Cal.App.4th 309,
313-14.) 
  
Code of Civil Procedure section 395(a)
provides in part “[e]xcept as otherwise provided by law…the superior court in
the county where the defendants or some of them reside at the commencement of
the action is the proper court for the trial of the action.” Code of Civil Procedure section 396b provides that upon
motion, the Court shall transfer the action if it appears that the action was
not commenced in the proper court. (See also CCP § 397 (stating that the court
may, on motion, change the place of trial when the court designated in the
complaint is not the proper court).)
 
Respondent Kelada moves to change venue
on the grounds Respondent Kelada lives in Imperial County and the claims
underlying the petition arose and occurred in Imperial County. Specifically,
Defendant entered the agreement in Imperial County whereby Respondent Kelada
retained Plaintiff to provide legal services in a wrongful death action, which
occurred in Imperial County. 
 
Gettleson argues that Respondent has
misplaced his reliance on Code of Civil Procedure section 395 because this
action does not arise from the wrongful death action, but concerns the issue of
earned attorney fee and related costs arising out of the retainer agreement.
Gettleson contends his performance obligations were conducted in Los Angeles
County out of his office. The court disagrees. Section 395 provides “if a
defendant has contracted to perform an obligation in a particular county, the
superior court in the county where the obligation is to be performed, where the
contract in fact was entered into, or where the defendant or any defendant
resides at the commencement of the action is a proper court for the trial of an
action founded on that obligation, and the county where the obligation is
incurred is the county where it is to be performed, unless there is a special
contract in writing to the contrary.” (CCP §395(a).)  The court has considered Gettleson’s
supplemental opposition, which also raises the question of where arbitration
should take place.  The issue of where an
arbitration may take place does not impact the underlying question of whether
this action should be transferred to Imperial County, which the court concludes
is the proper venue.   
 
First,
Defendant is a resident of Imperial County. Next, the retainer agreement is
undisputably entered into in Imperial County. The retainer agreement is not
signed by Petitioner. Although Petitioner performed the work out of his office
in Los Angeles County, it was to handle a matter in Imperial County and
Respondent was expected to pay Petitioner his fees out of Imperial County. There
is also no venue selection clause in the retainer agreement. 
 
Based on the foregoing, Defendant’s
Motion to Change Venue is GRANTED. The action shall be transferred to Imperial
County.  
 
Plaintiffs to pay the cost of transfer.
(CCP § 399(a) (“If the transfer is sought solely, or is ordered, because the
action or proceeding was commenced in a court other than that designated as
proper by this title, those costs and fees, . . . shall be paid by the
plaintiff before the transfer is made.”).)
 