  Case Number:  21STCV02647    Hearing Date:   January 21, 2025    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Sanchez v. Mizban,
et al.
CASE NO.:                21STCV02647
MOTION:                 Defendants
Kasra Mizban and Nasser Mizban’s Motion for Cost of Proof Sanctions
HEARING DATE:   01/21/2025

 
Background
 
On January 22, 2021, Plaintiff Gabriel R. Sanchez (“Plaintiff”)
filed a complaint against Defendants Kasra Mizban (“K. Mizban”); Nasser Mizban
(“N. Mizban”) (collectively, “Defendants”); and DOES 1 through 50, inclusive
for: (1) Negligence and (2) Negligent Entrustment. The Complaint alleges
Defendants negligently drove their vehicle causing it to rear-end Plaintiff’s
vehicle and causing Plaintiff to sustain injuries. (Compl., ¶¶15-16.)
 
On August 31, 2022, the Court granted Defendant N.
Mizban’s summary adjudication motion as to the second cause of action for
negligent entrustment. 
 
On March 8, 2023, Defendants filed a joint First Amended
Answer to Complaint. Defendant K. Mizban also filed a Cross-Complaint against
Plaintiff Gabriel Sanchez, Veronica Garcia (“Garcia”) (collectively,
“Cross-Defendants”), and ROES 1 through 50, inclusive for: (1) Negligent
Entrustment; (2) Negligence – Tort of Another; (3) Equitable Indemnity; (4)
Contribution; (5) Apportionment of Fault; and (6) Declaratory Relief. On June
5, 2023, Cross-Defendants filed an Answer to Cross-Complaint. On September 26,
2024, the Court dismissed the Cross-Complaint as to Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant
Gabriel Sanchez only.
 
On September 25, 2023, Defendant/Cross-Complainant K.
Mizban filed a Motion to Deem Requests for Admission (Set One) Admitted. On
October 26, 2023, the Court found the motion to be moot but imposed sanctions
in the amount of $690.00. 
 
            On April 11, 2024, the Court granted
in part Defendants’ summary adjudication motion as to their Eleventh
Affirmative Defense that Plaintiff’s damages are limited to economic damages
pursuant to Civil Code Section 3333.4. 
 
            On September 9, 2024, Defendants
filed the instant Motion for Costs of Proof Sanctions Pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure Section 2033.420 in the amount of $458,771.74 against Plaintiff
Gabriel Sanchez. On January 7, 2025, Plaintiff filed an Opposition. On January
13, 2025, Defendants filed a Reply.
 
Legal
Standard
 
“If a party fails to admit the genuineness of any
document or the truth of any matter when requested to do so under this chapter,
and if the party requesting that admission thereafter proves the genuineness of
that document or the truth of that matter, the party requesting the admission
may move the court for an order requiring the party to whom the request was
directed to pay the reasonable expenses incurred in making that proof,
including reasonable attorney’s fees.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.420, subd. (a).)
 
“The court shall make this order unless it finds any of
the following: [¶](1) An objection to the request was sustained or a response
to it was waived under Section 2033.290. [¶](2) The admission sought was
of no substantial importance. [¶](3) The party failing to make the admission
had reasonable ground to believe that that party would prevail on the matter.
[¶](4) There was other good reason for the failure to admit.” (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2033.420, subd. (b).
 
Analysis
 
Defendant/Cross-Complainant Kasra Mizban and Defendant
Nasser Mizban (hereinafter, “Defendants”) move for an order awarding costs of
proof sanctions including attorneys’ fees in the amount of $458,771.74 against
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Gabriel Sanchez (“Plaintiff”) on the grounds that
Plaintiff failed to admit duly served Requests for Admission (“RFA”).
Specifically, Defendants argue that the granting of their April 11, 2024, MSA
determined various Requests for Admissions denied by Plaintiff were in fact
true including that Plaintiff’s damages were limited to economic damages
pursuant to Civil Code Section 3333.4 because Plaintiff cannot establish his
financial responsibility. Defendants therefore argue Plaintiff had no good
reason for his failure to admit the RFAs that were served on him. 
 
The Court has set forth the relevant RFAs:
 
RFA No. 22: “Admit
that YOU had YOUR driver’s license suspended prior to the INCIDENT (hereinafter
the term “INCIDENT” shall mean or refer to the motor vehicle accident/incident
that took place on or about October 6, 2019 that is the subject of this lawsuit
and YOUR operative complaint).”
 
Plaintiff’s response: “Objection,
vague and ambiguous as to “YOU had YOUR driver’s license suspended.” General
objections incorporated herewith. Responding party has insufficient information
to admit or deny at this time. Discovery and investigation are ongoing
and Plaintiff reserves the right to supplement, amend, and modify this
response.”
 
(Hollins Decl., ¶¶4, 11-13, Exs. B – Plf. Resp. to
Def. UMF 20, C, D, and E.)
 
RFA No. 32: Admit
that YOU provided a verified response to written discovery stating that YOU had
a California Driver’s License at the time of the INCIDENT despite not having a
California Driver’s License at the time of the INCIDENT.
 
Plaintiff’s response: “General
objections incorporated herewith. Responding party has insufficient information
to admit or deny at this time. Discovery and investigation are ongoing
and Plaintiff reserves the right to supplement, amend, and modify this
response.”
 
Amended response:
“Deny.”
 
(Id. at ¶¶11-12, 14, Exs. C, D, and F.)
 
RFA No. 6: “Admit
that YOUR driver’s license was suspended at the time of the INCIDENT because of
a medical condition that YOU suffered from.”
 
Plaintiff’s response: “Objection.
Vague and ambiguous as to “driver’s license” and “medical condition.” General
objections are incorporated herein. Notwithstanding and without waiving any of
the foregoing objections, Responding Party responds as follows: Deny.
Responding Party reserves the right to amend and/or supplement this response,
as discovery and investigation are ongoing and continuing.”
 
(Id. at ¶¶4, 15-17, Exs. B – Plf. Resp. to
Def. UMF 27, 31-34, G, H, and E.)
 
RFA No. 7: “Admit
that YOUR driver’s license was suspended at the time of the INCIDENT because
the California Department of Motor Vehicles determined that YOU posed a threat
to traffic safety and should not be driving.”
 
Plaintiff’s response: “Objection.
Vague and ambiguous as to “driver’s license.” General objections are
incorporated herein. Notwithstanding and without waiving any of the foregoing
objections, Responding Party responds as follows: Deny. Responding Party
reserves the right to amend and/or supplement this response, as discovery and
investigation are ongoing and continuing.”
 
(Id., Exs. B – Plf. Resp. to Def. UMF 32, G,
H.)
 
RFA No. 10: “Admit
that YOU have never had a New York state driver’s license.”
 
Plaintiff’s response: “Objection.
Vague and ambiguous as to “driver’s license.” General objections are
incorporated herein. Notwithstanding and without waiving any of the foregoing
objections, Responding Party responds as follows: Deny. Responding Party
reserves the right to amend and/or supplement this response, as discovery and
investigation are ongoing and continuing.”
 
(Id., Exs. B – Plf. Resp. to Def. UMF 36, G,
H.)
 
RFA No. 20:
“Admit
that Allstate Insurance determined that there was excessive permissive use of
the VEHICLE by YOU with regards to the INCIDENT.”
 
Plaintiff’s response: “Deny.”
 
(Id. at ¶¶4, 19-20, Exs. B – Plf. Resp. to
Def. UMF 88, J, K.)
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues his denials of RFA Nos.
22, 32, 6, 7, and 10 have no bearing on liability in this matter or any defenses
because the Court’s summary adjudication ruling was due to Plaintiff’s lack of
insurance at the time of the incident, not Plaintiff’s license status or
suspension of his license. (Opp. at 4:15-23.) Plaintiff also contends his
license suspension had no causal connection to the accident or its
consequences. (Id. at 5:28-6:1.) Furthermore, Plaintiff contends his
inability to recover non-economic damages due to lack of insurance under Civil
Code Section 3333.4 has no bearing on his right to recover economic damages. (Id.
at 6:8-10.) Similarly, Plaintiff asserts his license status at the time of the
accident is irrelevant to the determination of whether Defendants breached
their duty of care or caused the collision. (Id. at 6:17-19.) Likewise,
Plaintiff argues his denial of RFA No. 20 was made in good faith based on the
information available to him at the time, i.e., that he was covered under the
Allstate policy and was not excluded until after the subject collision occurred.
(Id. at 7:1-8.) Finally, Plaintiff contends Defendants’ requested costs
are excessive and unsupported, thus are punitive rather compensatory and in
violation of Code of Civil Procedure Section 2033.420. 
 
Here, Defendants’ have shown that Plaintiff unreasonably
denied the RFAs at issue in this present motion. Although Plaintiff contends
RFA Nos. 22, 32, 6, 7, and 10 are of no substantial importance to this case,
the Court disagrees. In this lawsuit, Plaintiff seeks to recover economic
damages for Negligence and Defendant/Cross-Complainant K. Mizban alleges causes
of action for Negligence – Tort of Another, Negligent Entrustment, and
Apportionment of Fault against Plaintiff. It is reasonable to seek admission of
Plaintiff’s driver’s license status for the determination of an affirmative
defense to Plaintiff’s Negligence claim and/or determination of apportionment
of fault. Moreover, the summary adjudication motion made several references to
the suspension of Plaintiff’s driver’s license. (Def. Reply at 2:25-27.) 
 
As to RFA No. 20, Plaintiff was aware of facts prior to
his response to the RFAs that were sufficient to illicit a proper admission to
this request due to Defendants’ Motion for Terminating Sanctions, which
included documentation form Allstate Insurance indicating that there was a
determination of excessive use of the vehicle by Plaintiff. (Id. at
5:12-16, Ex. B.) Thus, Plaintiff had no good faith basis to “deny” RFA No. 20
at the time he provided his response. To the extent Plaintiff claims he denied
RFA No. 20 due to lack of information or belief he was insured by Allstate, one
can reasonably infer that Plaintiff had access to the Allstate policy
information at the time the RFAs were served on him, therefore Plaintiff had a
duty to investigate such information. (See Bloxham v. Saldinger (2014)
228 Cal.App.4th 729, 752 [175 Cal.Rptr.3d 650, 668], as modified on denial of
reh’g (Aug. 27, 2014).) 
 
With respect to the $458,771.74  in attorneys’ fees and costs requested by
Defendants on this matter, the Court finds that the request is grossly unreasonable
and not fully supported by the declaration of Andrew S. Hollins. In Garcia
v. Hyster Co. (1994) 28 Cal.App.4th 724, the court held that Code of Civil
Procedure Section 2033.420, subdivision (a) (formerly Code of Civil Procedure
Section 2033, subdivision (o)) is not operative until after the party serves
their denial, thus any expenses awarded that were incurred prior to the denial
are improper. (Garcia v. Hyster Co. (1994) 28 Cal.App.4th 724, 736-737.)
Likewise, the statute only authorizes expenses incurred in proving the matters
denied by the opposing party. (Id.) 
 
Here, based upon the limited information contained in the
declaration of Andrew Hollins, and the Court’s experience with the case, the
Court believes that Defendants have sought attorney’s fees from the inception
of the case.  The Hollins declaration
fails to identify the specific time spent on the tasks necessary to prove Sanchez’s
driver’s license was indeed suspended, including time spent preparing multiple
subpoenas to the California and New York DMVs; meeting and conferring with
Sanchez’s counsel and the DMVs regarding confidential information; attempting
to serve and depose the medical doctors identified in the DMV records related
to a medical suspension of Sanchez’s driver’s license; and filing a Motion for
the Release of Unredacted DMV Records because Sanchez refused to provide an
authorization for the release of the unredacted DMV records.  It is hard to conceive that counsel spent
approximately 2,185 hours on these tasks. Since they have not been broken down,
the Court will determine a reasonable amount of fees for these limited tasks,
which in some cases, were not completed centered on the sanctions issue before
the Court.  
 
Based upon the Court’s experience
in general, and its experience handling this matter and the numerous motions
filed by Defendants related to these issues, the Court concludes that $16,800
is a reasonable sanction based upon a reasonable attorney’s time handling these
tasks at the previously identified rate of $210.00 an hour.  
 
Based on the foregoing, the Motion for Costs of Proof
Sanctions is GRANTED in the reduced amount of $16,800.00. 
 