 Case Number:  24SMCV02388    Hearing Date:   January 21, 2025    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Tohid Naeem v.
Longevity Hyperbarics, LLC
CASE NO.:                24SMCV02388
MOTION:                  Longevity
Hyperbarics, LLC’s Demurrer with Motion to Strike 
HEARING DATE:    1/21/2025

 
Background
Plaintiff alleges that he is a disabled veteran who
brings this action in pro per for gross violations of privacy, confidentiality,
and professional duty. (First
Amended Complaint (“FAC”),
¶ 1.) The complaint alleges that on or about April 26, 2024, Plaintiff received medical treatment at
Defendant's facility, including hyperbaric oxygen and red-light therapy.
Plaintiff sought these services to alleviate physical and mental symptoms
related to his disabilities. (Id., ¶ 8.)
Plaintiff further alleges that during this session,
without Plaintiff's knowledge or consent, a technician employed by Defendant
accessed Plaintiffs personal belongings and photographed Plaintiffs U.S.
passport using her personal phone. (FAC, ¶
9.) Plaintiff discovered the unauthorized photographing of his passport,
confronted the technician, and coerced her to delete the photographs. However,
Plaintiff is uncertain whether copies of the photographs were retained,
disseminated, or shared before deletion. (Id., ¶ 10.) The FAC alleges that upon information and
belief, the technician involved in this egregious breach of privacy has a
criminal history. Discovery is necessary to ascertain the full extent of this
technician's background and whether Defendant was aware of or should have been
aware of her criminal history. (Id., ¶
11.)
Legal
Standard
 
“Before filing a demurrer . . . the demurring party shall
meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading
. . . for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that
would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.41.)  
 
A demurrer for sufficiency
tests whether the complaint alleges facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action. (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 430.10; Young v. Gannon (2002) 97 Cal.App.4th 209,
220.  The court
“may consider all material facts pleaded in the complaint and those arising by
reasonable implication therefrom; it may not consider contentions, deductions
or conclusions of fact or law.  (Young v. Gannon (2002)
97 Cal.App.4th 209, 220 (citing Moore v. Conliffe (1994) 7 Cal.4th 634, 638; Montclair Parkowners Assn. v. City of
Montclair (1999) 76 Cal.App.4th
784, 790).) The court treats all facts alleged in the complaint to be
true.  (Picton v. Anderson Union High School Dist. (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 726, 732.) 
 
When considering demurrers, courts “are required to
construe the complaint liberally to determine whether a cause of action has
been stated, given the assumed truth of the facts pleaded.”  (Picton v. Anderson Union High School
Dist. (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 726, 733 (citing Rogoff v. Grabowski
(1988) 200 Cal.App.3d 624, 628.))  “The
burden is on the plaintiff to demonstrate the manner in which the complaint can
be amended.” (Ross v. Creel Printing & Publishing Co. (2002) 100
Cal.App.4th 736, 748.)
 
Where there are grounds for a demurrer and a motion to
strike, they must be filed together and noticed for hearing at the same time.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 435(b)(3) and CRC Rule 329.)  
 
Analysis
Demurrer
Defendant
demurs to the second cause of action for breach of confidentiality, third cause
of action for intentional infliction of emotional distress (IIED), fourth cause
of action for negligence, fifth cause of action for Violation of Civil Code § 1798.53,
sixth cause of action for negligent inflectional of emotional distress (NEID),
seventh cause of action for negligent hiring, retention and supervision, eighth
cause of action for violation of Business & Professions Code § 17200, and the
ninth cause of action for breach of fiduciary duty.  Defendants argue that the FAC fails to allege
sufficient facts to constitute these causes of action.
Meet and Confer
 
The Court finds that the
parties complied with the meet and confer requirements of Code of Civil
Procedure section
430.41.  (Drossel Decl., ¶ 2.) 
 
COA
2: Breach of Confidentiality, and COA 5: Violation of Civil Code § 1798.53
 
Defendant demurs to second cause of action for breach of
confidentiality and the fifth cause of action for Violation of Civil Code §
1798.53, arguing that Plaintiff does not allege disclosure of personal
information. Instead, Plaintiff contends that he “coerced” the deletion of the
photographs of his passport, thereby preluding Defendant from disclosing his
personal information.  Civil Code §1798.53 provides: 
Any person, other than an
employee of the state or of a local government agency acting solely in his or
her official capacity, who intentionally discloses information, not otherwise
public, which they know or should reasonably know was obtained from personal
information maintained by a state agency or from ‘records’ within a ‘system of
records’ (as these terms are defined in the Federal Privacy Act of 1974 (P.L.
93-579; 5 U.S.C. 552a)) maintained by a federal government agency, shall be
subject to a civil action, for invasion of privacy, by the individual to whom
the information pertains.
“The term ‘personal
information’ means any information that is maintained by an agency that
identifies or describes an individual, including, but not limited to, his or
her name, social security number, physical description, home address, home
telephone number, education, financial matters, and medical or employment
history. It includes statements made by, or attributed to, the individual.”
(Civil Code §1798.3(a).)
“The term ‘disclose’ means to disclose, release,
transfer, disseminate, or otherwise communicate all or any part of any record
orally, in writing, or by electronic or any other means to any person or
entity.” (Civ. Code § 1798.3, subd. (c).)  No breach of confidentiality occurs absent a
disclosure of confidential information. (See Sutter Health v. Superior Court
(2014) 227 Cal.App.4th 1546, 1557-1559 (noting that no breach of
confidentiality occurs unless private information is disclosed and viewed by an
unauthorized party).)
            Here, Plaintiff has failed to
allege Defendant disclosed his personal information to a third party. Plaintiff
only alleges that the employee photographed his passport and Plaintiff is
uncertain whether copies of the photographs were retained, disseminated, or
shared before deletion. As such, the demurrer is SUSTAINED as to the second and
fifth causes of action for breach of confidentiality and violation of Civil Code §1798.53. 
             
COA
3: Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress
 
            Defendant argues that Plaintiff
failed to allege extreme and outrageous conduct, and that Plaintiff simply
contends that Defendant photographed his passport without his consent. Further,
Defendant argues that the FAC fails to set forth allegations of severe or
substantial emotional distress.
“The elements of the tort of intentional infliction
of emotional distress are: (1) extreme and outrageous conduct by the defendant;
(2) the intention of causing, or reckless disregard of the probability of
causing, emotional distress; (3) the plaintiff's suffering severe or extreme
emotional distress; and (4) actual and proximate causation of the emotional
distress by the defendant's outrageous conduct.”  (Christensen v. Superior Court (1991)
54 Cal.3d 868, 903, internal quotations omitted.)  For conduct to be outrageous it must be “so
extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized
community.”  (See Ess v. Eskaton
Properties, Inc. (2002) 97 Cal.App.4th 120, 130.)  Liability does not extend to mere insults,
indignities, threats, annoyances, petty oppressions, or other
trivialities.  (Hughes v. Pair
(2009) 46 Cal.4th 1035, 1051.)  “Severe
emotional distress means . . . emotional distress of such substantial quantity
or enduring quality that no reasonable man in a civilized society should be
expected to endure it.”  (Fletcher v.
Western Nat. Life Ins. Co. (1970) 10 Cal.App.3d 376.)   
“[I]t is not enough that the defendant has acted with
an intent which is tortious or even criminal, or that he has intended to
inflict emotional distress, or even that his conduct has been characterized by
‘malice,’ or a degree of aggravation which would entitle the plaintiff to
punitive damages for another tort.”  (Cochran
v. Cochran (1998) 65 Cal.App.4th 488, 496.) 
“Liability has been found only where the conduct has been so outrageous
in character, and so extreme in degree, as to go beyond all possible bounds of
decency, and to be regarded as atrocious, and utterly intolerable in a
civilized community.”  (Id.)  While there is no bright-line as to what
constitutes outrageous conduct and thus this involves a case-by-case analysis,
courts can determine whether conduct was sufficiently outrageous at the
demurrer stage.  (Id., at
494.)  
The court agrees that Plaintiff has not alleged
extreme and outrageous conduct. Plaintiff only alleges that the employee went
through his belongings and took a photograph of his passport. Without more, the
Court cannot say this conduct would go beyond all possible bounds of decency,
and be regarded as atrocious, and utterly intolerable in a civilized community.

Additionally, the allegations relating to suffering
severe emotional distress are insufficient to meet the high bar to establish
severe emotional distress.  (See e.g., Pittman
v. City of Oakland (1988) 197 Cal.App.3d 1037, 1047 [mere allegation that
plaintiff suffered shame, humiliation and embarrassment without further factual
explanation fails to state claim for intentional infliction of emotional
distress]; see also Hughes, supra, 46 Cal.4th at
1051.) Plaintiff alleges he is under the care of a psychiatrist, attending monthly
sessions, and is seeking further psychological care to address the lasting
emotional trauma stemming from the incident. Plaintiff alleges his trust in
medical professionals has been permanently damaged, and he now feels paranoid
and unsafe receiving medical treatments, particularly when required to disrobe,
exacerbating his multiple disabilities. (FAC, ¶ 13.)
At most, Plaintiff alleged he feels paranoid and unsafe receiving medical
treatments, and he sees a psychologist once a month. As a result, the demurrer
to the third cause of action for IIED is SUSTAINED.
COA
4: Negligence
Defendant demurs to the fourth cause of action for
negligence, arguing that Plaintiff’s bare assertion that Defendant’s “fail[ure]
to exercise reasonable care in supervising its employees . . . resulted in harm
to Plaintiff” (FAC, ¶ 18) does not satisfy the “damages” element of a claim for
negligence. Defendant also argues that Plaintiff’s speculative assertion that
he suffers “risk of further damage through potential misuse of [his] personal
information” (FAC, ¶ 32) does not serve as a basis for the fourth cause of
action for negligence. 
To state a claim for negligence, a
plaintiff must allege: 1) a legal duty to use due care; 2) breach of this legal
duty; and 3) that results in 4) plaintiff’s injury. (Ladd v. County of San
Mateo (1996) 12 Cal.4th 913, 917.) “Ordinarily, negligence may be alleged in general terms,
without specific facts showing how the injury occurred, but there are ‘limits
to the generality with which a plaintiff is permitted to state his cause of
action, and ... the plaintiff must indicate the acts or omissions which are said
to have been negligently performed. He may not recover upon the bare statement
that the defendant’s negligence has caused him injury.’ [Citation].” (Berkley
v. Dowds (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 518, 527.)  

Plaintiff has
pled that he is uncertain
whether copies of the photographs were retained, disseminated, or shared before
deletion, and that he suffered severe emotional distress as a result of the
incident. Plaintiff alleges he is under the care of a psychiatrist, attending
monthly sessions, and is seeking further psychological care to address the
lasting emotional trauma stemming from the incident. (FAC, ¶ 13.) As noted
above, negligence, including the element of damages, may be alleged in general
terms. The demurrer to the cause of action for negligence is therefore OVERRULED.
COA 6: Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress
Defendant argues the third cause
of action for NIED fails because it is not an independent tort. California
courts have repeatedly recognized that NIED is not an independent tort, but the
tort of negligence such that the traditional elements of duty, breach of duty,
causation, and damages apply. (See e.g., Spates v. Dameron
Hospital Association
(2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 208, 213; Marlene F. v. Affiliated Psychiatric
Medical Clinic, Inc. (1989) 48 Cal.3d 583, 588.) 
 
Here, Plaintiff has already alleged a cause of action for
negligence based on the same facts as Plaintiff’s claim for NIED.  To this
extent, the negligence and NIED causes of action are duplicative and the
demurrer to the NIED cause of action may be sustained on such grounds.  (Rodrigues
v. Campbell Industries (1978) 87 Cal.App.3d 494, 501 (stating that a
demurrer may be sustained when a cause of action is duplicative of another
cause of action and “thus adds nothing to the complaint by way of fact or theory
of recovery”; see Palm Springs Villas II Homeowners Association, Inc. v.
Parth (2016) 248 Cal.App.4th 268, 290.)  Accordingly, the demurrer to
the sixth cause of action is SUSTAINED without leave to amend.  
COA 7: Negligent Hiring, Retention, and Supervision
A cause of action for negligent
hiring, supervision, or retention of an employee requires the following
elements: (1) the employer hired employee; (2) the employee was/became unfit or
incompetent to perform the work for which he was hired; (3) the employer knew
or should have known the employee was/became unfit or incompetent and that this
unfitness or incompetence created a particular risk to others; (4) the
employee’s unfitness or incompetence harmed plaintiff; and (5) the employer’s
negligence in hiring/supervising/ retaining the employee was a substantial
factor in causing plaintiff’s harm.  (CACI No. 426; see also Federico
v. Superior Court (1997) 59 Cal.App.4th 1207, 1213-1214.)  To
establish a cause of action for negligent hiring, retention, or supervision, a
plaintiff must show that the employer knew or should have known that hiring or
retaining the employee created a particular risk or hazard and that particular harm occurs.  (See Z.V. v.
County of Riverside (2015) 238 Cal.App.4th 889, 902; Doe v. Capital
Cities (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 1042, 1054.)  Negligent
hiring, retention, or supervision is a form of direct negligence.  (Ibid.) 
Plaintiff’s FAC fails to state sufficient facts to
constitute a cause of action for negligent hiring, retention, and supervision. Namely,
Plaintiff has failed to allege that Defendant knew or should have known that
the employee was/became unfit or incompetent and that this unfitness or
incompetence created a particular risk of harm to others, which materialized. 
(Z.V., supra, 238 Cal.App.4th at p. 902 [holding to
establish a cause of action for negligent hiring, retention, or supervision, a
plaintiff must show that the employer knew or should have known that hiring or
retaining the employee created a particular risk or hazard and that particular harm occurs”].) Further, Plaintiff
would have to also include facts supporting its allegation that
Defendant knew or should have known that the employee was unfit or incompetent,
that this incompetence created a particular risk of harm to others, and
that particular harm occurs. Plaintiff only alleges that discovery is necessary
to ascertain whether Defendant knew or should have been aware of the employee’s
criminal history. (FAC, ¶ 11.) As a result, the demurrer to the
seventh cause of action for negligent hiring, retention, and supervision is SUSTAINED.
COA
8: Violation of Business & Professions Code § 17200
Defendant
argues that Plaintiff has failed to state a cause of action for a violation of
Business and Professions Code section 17200 because Plaintiff does not allege Defendant
unlawfully and/or unfairly obtained from Plaintiff money/property to which he
is entitled to. Nor does Plaintiff adequately allege risk of further injury to
warrant an injunction. 
Unfair competition is broadly defined as “any
unlawful, unfair or fraudulent business act or practice” as well as “unfair,
deceptive, untrue or misleading advertising” and “any act prohibited by Chapter
1 (commencing with Section 17500) of Part 3 of Division 7 of the Business and
Professions Code.” (Bus. & Prof. Code, § 17200.) An individual can only bring a Section 17200 claim if they
have “suffered injury in fact” and have “lost money or property as a result of
the unfair competition.”  (Id., § 17204.)  The remedies
available under the UCL are limited to injunctive, restitutionary and related
relief. (Bus. & Prof.Code, § 17203; State v. Altus Finance, S.A.
(2005) 36 Cal.4th 1284, 1303.) To obtain injunctive relief, the plaintiff must
show that the wrongful conduct alleged in the complaint is ongoing or likely to
recur. (Madrid v. Perot Systems Corp. (2005) 130 Cal.App.4th 440,
464–466, 30 Cal.Rptr.3d 210.)
 
            Here,
Plaintiff fails to allege that the wrongful conduct is ongoing or likely to
occur or that he lost money because of Defendant’s conduct. As a result, the
demurrer to the eighth cause of action is SUSTAINED.
 
COA
9: Breach of Fiduciary Duty
 
Again, Defendant argues that
there was no breach of the fiduciary duty because Plaintiff fails to allege
that the employee disclosed his personal information. The elements for a breach
of fiduciary duty cause of action are “the existence of a fiduciary
relationship, its breach, and damage proximately caused by that breach.” (Thomson
v. Canyon (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 594, 604.)  As to the first element, the basic fiduciary obligations
are twofold: undivided loyalty and confidentiality. (Pierce v. Lyman
(1991) 1 Cal.App.4th 1093, 1102, superseded by statute on different issue, as
stated in Pavicich v. Santucci (2000) 85 Cal.App.4th 382,
396.) A fiduciary or confidential obligation or relationship can arise when
confidence is reposed by persons in the integrity of others, and if the latter
voluntarily accepts or assumes to accept the confidence, he or she may not act
so as to take advantage of the other's interest without that person's knowledge
or consent.  (Oates v. Lincoln (2001) 93 Cal.App.4th 25, 35.)
As
noted above, There is no
breach of confidentiality absent a disclosure of confidential information. (See
Sutter Health v. Superior Court (2014) 227 Cal.App.4th 1546,
1557-1559 (noting that no breach of confidentiality occurs unless private
information is disclosed and viewed by an unauthorized party).) Thus, the
demurrer to the ninth cause of action is SUSTAINED.
Motion to Strike
 
            Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s
requests for punitive damages are unsupported. 

 
“The court may, upon a motion made pursuant to Section
435, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper: (a)
Strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading.
[or] (b) Strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the
court.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 436.)  An
“immaterial allegation” means “irrelevant matter” as that term is used in
Section 436. (Code Civ. Proc., § 431.10(c).) 
“An immaterial allegation in a pleading is any of the following: (1) An
allegation that is not essential to the statement of a claim
or defense. (2) An allegation that is neither pertinent
to nor supported by an otherwise
sufficient claim or defense.  (3) A
demand for judgment requesting relief not supported by the allegations of the
complaint or cross-complaint.”  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 431.10(b).)  
To state a claim for
punitive damages under Civil Code section 3294, a plaintiff must allege
specific facts showing that the defendant has been guilty of malice, oppression
or fraud. (Smith v. Superior Court (1992) 10 Cal. App. 4th 1033, 1042.)
The basis for punitive damages must be pled with specificity; conclusory
allegations devoid of any factual assertions are insufficient. (Id.) A motion
to strike may lie where the facts alleged, if proven, would not support a
finding that the defendant acted with malice, fraud or oppression. (Turman
v. Turning Point of Central California (2010) 191 Cal. App. 4th 53, 63.) 
“Malice” is defined in
section 3294(c)(1) as “conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause
injury” or “despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a
willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.”
“Oppression” is defined in section 3294(c)(2) as “despicable conduct subjecting
a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person’s
rights.” The term “despicable” has been defined in the case law as actions that are “base,”
“vile,” or “contemptible.” (See, e.g., Shade Foods, Inc. v. Innovative
Products Sales & Marketing, Inc. (2000) 78 Cal. App. 4th 847, 891.) 
To prove that a defendant
acted with “willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others,”
it is not enough to prove negligence, gross negligence or even recklessness. (Dawes
v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal. App. 3d 82, 87.) Rather, a plaintiff must
allege facts demonstrating that “the defendant acted in such an outrageous and
reprehensible manner that the jury could infer that he [or she] knowingly
disregarded the substantial certainty of injury to others.” (Id. at 90).
Further, the allegations must be sufficient for a reasonable jury to conclude
that Defendant’s conduct was “despicable” defined as “base, vile or
contemptible.” (College Hospital Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.
4th 704, 725.)
There
are no facts pled which would show any malice or oppression on Defendant’s
part. The FAC alleges that Defendant’s employee photographed Plaintiff’s
passport. Without more, the FAC fails to state a claim or punitive damages. It
is not enough to prove negligence, gross negligence or even recklessness. (Dawes,
supra, 111 Cal. App. 3d 87.) The motion to strike punitive damages is GRANTED.

Leave
to Amend
            Plaintiff’s fails to meet his burden demonstrating how
the FAC could be amended successfully. However, Plaintiff filed a motion for leave
to file second amended complaint (SAC), which alleges additional facts as to
the cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional distress but otherwise
fails to set forth additional relevant facts. As a result, leave to amend is granted
only as to the claims for intentional infliction of emotional distress
and punitive damages.  As to all other claims,
the demurrer is SUSTAINED without leave to amend.
Conclusion 
 
Based on the foregoing, the
demurrer is sustained in part and overruled in part. It is sustained as to the
second cause of action for breach of confidentiality, third cause of
action for intentional infliction of emotional distress, fifth cause of action
for violation of Civil Code § 1798.53, sixth cause of action for negligent
inflectional of emotional distress, seventh cause of action for negligent
hiring, retention and supervision, eighth cause of action for violation of
Business & Professions Code § 17200, and ninth cause of action for breach
of fiduciary duty.  It is overruled as to
the fourth cause of action for negligence. 
 
Plaintiff has 20 days leave to amend as to the cause of
action for intentional infliction of emotional distress only.
            The motion to strike is granted with
20 days leave to amend.