 Case Number:  23STCV37358    Hearing Date:   April 30, 2024    Dept:  27 HON. LEE
S. ARIAN
DEPARTMENT
27
TENTATIVE
RULING
¿ 
Hearing Date:           4/30/2024 at 1:30 p.m.
Case No./Name:       22STCV37358 GAL ABIZDID vs AVALONBAY
COMMUNITIES, INC
Motion:                    MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT
Moving Party:           Defendants Avalon Bay Communities Inc. and Avalon
Hollywood L.P
Responding Party:    Plaintiff
Notice:                      Sufficient
 
Ruling:                    MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT IS DENIED
 
Background
 
On November 29, 2022, Plaintiff filed the
present premises liability case against Defendants Avalon Bay Communities Inc.
and Avalon Hollywood L.P (Avalon). Plaintiff, a resident of an apartment
complex owned by Avalon, alleges that he slipped and fell on a wet tile floor
upon entering the gates of the complex. Defendants now move the Court for
summary judgment, arguing that the wet floor was open and obvious and that it
had no duty to warn Plaintiff of the wet floor.
 
Legal Standard
 
In reviewing a motion for summary judgment,
courts must apply a three-step analysis: “(1) identify the issues framed by the
pleadings; (2) determine whether the moving party has negated the opponent’s
claims; and (3) determine whether the opposition has demonstrated the existence
of a triable, material factual issue.”¿ (Hinesley
v. Oakshade Town Center (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.)
 
¿“[T]he initial burden is always on the moving party to make a prima
facia showing that there are no triable issues of material fact.”¿(Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510,
1519.)¿A defendant moving for summary judgment or
summary adjudication “has met his or her burden of showing that a cause of action has no
merit if the party has shown that one or more elements of the cause of action .
. . cannot be established, or that there is a complete defense to the cause of
action.”¿(Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) A moving defendant need not conclusively
negate an element of plaintiff’s cause of action.¿(Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 854.)
 
To meet this burden of showing a cause of
action cannot be established, a defendant must show not only “that the
plaintiff does not possess needed evidence” but also that “the plaintiff
cannot reasonably obtain needed evidence.” (Aguilar, supra,
25 Cal.4th at p. 854.) It is insufficient for the defendant to merely point out
the absence of evidence.¿(Gaggero
v. Yura (2003) 108 Cal.App.4th 884, 891.)¿The defendant “must also produce evidence that the plaintiff cannot reasonably
obtain evidence to support his or her claim.”¿ (Ibid.)¿The
supporting evidence can be in the form of affidavits, declarations, admissions,
depositions, answers to interrogatories, and matters of which judicial notice
may be taken.¿(Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at
p. 855.)
 
“Once the defendant . . . has met that burden,
the burden shifts to the plaintiff . . . to show that a triable issue of one or
more material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).)¿The
plaintiff may not merely rely on allegations or denials of its pleadings to
show a triable issue of material fact exists, but instead, “shall set forth the
specific facts showing that a triable issue of material fact exists as to the
cause of action.”¿(Ibid.)¿“If the plaintiff cannot do so, summary judgment should be granted.” (Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical
Center (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.)
 
Open and Obvious
 
To establish negligence, a
plaintiff must prove duty, breach of duty, causation and damages. Whether a
duty should be imposed on a defendant depends on a variety of policy
considerations, known as the Rowland factors. These factors include, inter
alia, the foreseeability of harm to the plaintiff, the burden to the
defendant and the consequences to the community of imposing the duty. The
court's task in determining whether a duty exists is not to decide whether a
particular plaintiff's injury was reasonably foreseeable in light of a
particular defendant's conduct, but rather to evaluate more generally whether
the category of negligent conduct at issue is sufficiently likely to result in
the kind of harm experienced that liability may appropriately be imposed on the
negligent party. Foreseeability, when analyzed to determine the existence or
scope of a duty, is a question of law to be decided by the court. (Jacobs v. Coldwell Banker Residential Brokerage Co.
(2017) 14 Cal.App.5th 438, 446.)
“Foreseeability of harm is
typically absent when a dangerous condition is open and obvious. Generally, if
a danger is so obvious that a person could reasonably be expected to see it,
the condition itself serves as a warning, and the landowner is under no further
duty to remedy or warn of the condition. In that situation, owners and
possessors of land are entitled to assume others will perceive the obvious and
take action to avoid the dangerous condition.” (Id. at 447.) In Krongos
v. Pacific Gas & Electric Co. (1992) 7
Cal.App.4th 387, 393, the
Court of Appeal held: “[g]enerally, if a
danger is so obvious that a person could reasonably be expected to see it, the
condition itself serves as a warning, and the landowner is under no further
duty to remedy or warn of the condition.” However, this is not always the case.
(Ibid.) “[T]he obviousness of a condition does not necessarily excuse
the potential duty of a landowner, not simply to warn of the condition but to
rectify it.” (Martinez v. Chippewa Enterprises, Inc. (2004)
121 Cal.App.4th 1179, 1184.) The obviousness of a danger “may obviate the duty
to warn of its existence,” but if “if it is foreseeable that
the danger may cause injury despite the fact that it is obvious (e.g,
when necessity requires persons to encounter it), there may be a duty to remedy 
the danger, and the breach of that duty may in turn form the basis for
liability . . . .” (Osborn v. Mission Ready Mix (1990) 224
Cal.App.3d 104, 122.)
 
The Court may, in appropriate
circumstances, determine a condition is open and obvious where
“photographs prima facie established the obviousness” of the condition. (Martinez, supra,
121 Cal.App.4th at p. 1184.) In examining photographs, the court should
consider: (1) the photograph’s subject (i.e., its focal point); (2) the view of
the subject (e.g., close-up, distant isolated, in context); (3) the
photograph’s perspective (e.g., eye-level, overhead, ground-level); (4) the use
of any plain-view altering devices (e.g., camera color filter, fish-eye lens,
computer-manipulation); (5) the characteristics of the photograph (e.g., sharp
and clear, blurry, grainy, color or black and white); (6) whether the
photograph was taken under identical or substantially similar conditions (e.g.,
timing, lighting, weather); and (7) any other relevant circumstances (e.g.,
addition of extrinsic aids, such as a ruler or pointer). (Kasparian v.
Avalonbay Communities (2007) 156 Cal.App.4th 11, 24-25).
 
Analysis
After examining the evidence presented by Defendants, the Court finds
that Defendants have not satisfied their initial burden of proving that no
reasonable minds could differ in concluding that the danger posed by the wet
tiles were open and obvious.
Defendants assert that Plaintiff slipped while stepping onto the tile
entry of the doorway to the building (Motion at pp. 1, 3, 10, 11) and the
dangerous condition in question is the wet tiles (Motion at pp. 5, 6, 8).  This claim is supported by Defendants'
evidence. A photograph taken at the time of the incident illustrates that the
flooring leading to the entrance comprises light gray tiles, with a black mat
covering only about one-third of the tile flooring toward the gate, leaving a
substantial portion of the tiles away from the door exposed. Before entering
the tile flooring, the pathway is concrete. (Def’s Ex. 3.) Plaintiff slipped on
the tile floor as he approached the gate. (Ex. 2; Plaintiff's Depo. 70:20-23.)
The picture also shows that Plaintiff landed on the tiles, not on the black mat
or the concrete walkway (Ex. 3).
However, the evidence does not substantiate
the claim that the tiles were visibly wet at the time of the incident. It was
not raining when Plaintiff was walking back towards the gate. (Plaintiff's
Depo. 69:13-17.) Defendants refer to Plaintiff's testimony that "it was a
little bit wet outside" (Plaintiff's Depo. 62:25-63:1) to support their
contention that the tiles were visibly wet and therefore open and obvious.
However, this argument lacks evidentiary support. When Plaintiff testified “it
was a little bit wet outside”, he was referring to the concrete flooring, not
the tiles. Plaintiff was asked about the wetness of the concrete driveway, not
the tiles. (Plaintiff's Depo. 62:21-22.) Immediately before Plaintiff noted
that it was a little bit wet outside, he discussed how the "concrete
changes colors when it's a little bit wet because it's absorbing."
(Plaintiff's Depo. 62:23-25). Again, Plaintiff observes that the concrete is
wet. Additionally, when Plaintiff was questioned whether the location of the
mat and the tiles were wet, Plaintiff testified that he does not recall seeing
any wet ground in that area. (Plaintiff's Depo. 62:15-19). Plaintiff's
testimony, as presented by Defendant, shows that reasonable minds can differ as
to whether the tiles were visibly and obviously wet, constituting an open and
obvious dangerous condition.  
 
Defendant’s additional evidence submitted to
support the assertion that the tiles were visibly wet includes a close-up
photograph of the tiles. (Ex. 4.) However, the Court notes that while there is
indeed a slight change in color on the tiles in this close-up photo (Ex.4), an
examination of Exhibit 3, a photo that captures both the tiles and the
concrete, reveals a very obvious change in color in the concrete, but no
discernible change in color in the tiles and no clear indicators that the tiles
are wet. This lack of visibility may be attributed to the material and color of
the tiles, which do not provide sufficient contrast to make the water visible
when wet. Moreover, the Court finds that Exhibit 3, taken from eye level rather
than Exhibit 4, taken very close to the ground, offers a more accurate
representation of what an individual approaching the gate would perceive in the
evaluation of what is open and obvious. Based on the two photographs presented
by Defendants, it is not obvious that the tiles were visibly wet at the time of
the incident to a degree to which the Court believes the Court can and should
remove this case from the jury.  (See
Karsparian, supra. (photographic evidence must be conclusive to
support summary judgment). 
 
Furthermore,
although a three-foot tall yellow caution/wet floor cone was placed in the
entrance of the building on the premises, its visibility is obscured by the
meshing of the gate from the perspective of an individual entering the gate.
(Ex. 3) Additionally, the cone is positioned inside the gate, leaving it up to
the jury to decide whether a cone placed inside is sufficient warning for wet tiles
located outside of the gate.  Defendants
also point to various factors such as Plaintiff wearing sandals, running, or
using a different entrance, but these factors are not relevant to determining
if the wet tiles were open and obvious.[1]
Thus,
Defendants’ motion for summary judgment is DENIED for failing to meet its initial
burden.
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
 
If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to
the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date
and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party
submitting.
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the
parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral
argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the
hearing to argue.
 
If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing,
the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the
order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the
Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.
 


