 Case Number:  22STCV24175    Hearing Date:   April 30, 2024    Dept:  27 HON. LEE
S. ARIAN
DEPARTMENT
27
TENTATIVE
RULING
 
Hearing Date:           4/30/2024 at 1:30 p.m.
Case No./Name:       22STCV24175 JOSE MONTOYA RODRIGUEZ, et al. vs
MARGARITHA AVILA
Motion:                    Motion to Strike Punitive Damages
Moving Party:           Defendant Paul Llorens
Responding Party:    Plaintiffs 
Notice:                      Sufficient
 
Ruling:                    MOTION TO STRIKE PUNITIVE DAMAGES IS GRANTED
WITH LEAVE TO AMEND
 
Legal Standard
 
Punitive damages
may be imposed where it is proven by clear and convincing evidence that the
defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice. (Civ. Code § 3294,
subd. (a).)  “Malice” means conduct which is
intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable
conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious
disregard of the rights or safety of others.” (Civil Code section 3294 (c)(1).)
“‘Despicable’ is a powerful term that refers to circumstances that are ‘base,’
‘vile,’ or ‘contemptible.’” (College Hospital, Inc. v. Superior Court
(1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 725.)   A plaintiff must assert facts with specificity to
support a conclusion that a defendant acted with oppression, fraud, or malice.  To wit, there is a heightened pleading
requirement regarding a claim for punitive damages.  (Smith v. Superior Court (1992) 10
Cal.App.4th 1033, 1041-1042.)  “When nondeliberate injury is charged,
allegations that the defendant’s conduct was wrongful, willful, wanton,
reckless or unlawful do not support a claim for exemplary damages; such
allegations do not charge malice. (G. D. Searle & Co. v. Superior Court (1975)
49 Cal.App.3d 22, 29.)
 
Drunk Driving and Punitive Damage 
 
In Dawes v. Superior Court (1980) 111
Cal.App.3d 82, 89, the court held that driving while intoxicated does not
always give rise to a claim for punitive damages: “[W]e do not agree that the
risk created generally by one who becomes intoxicated and decides nevertheless
to drive a vehicle to the public streets is the same as the risk created by an
intoxicated driver’s decision to zigzag in and out of traffic at 65 miles per
hour in a crowded beach recreation area at 1:30 in the afternoon on a Sunday in
June.¿ The risk of injury to others from ordinary
driving while intoxicated is certainly foreseeable, but it is not necessarily
probable.”¿Dawes v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 82, 89 
 
The Dawes court went on to note,
“Justice Franson aptly noted the distinction in his article on punitive damages
in vehicle accident cases: ‘Allegations of intoxication, excessive speed,
driving with defective equipment or the running of a stop signal, without more,
do not state a cause of action for punitive damages.¿ [Par.]¿ On the
other hand, if the facts show that the defendant intentionally drove his
vehicle at a high speed into an intersection crowded with pedestrians, or if he
drove at a high speed through a crowded residential area where children were
playing in the street, a legitimate inference of actual malice perhaps could
arise.¿ This would be particularly true if the
defendant had not been drinking, or, if drinking, he was not under the
influence to the point where he was incapable of being aware of the situation
confronting him.¿ Under these circumstances, it reasonably
might be said that the defendant acted in such an outrageous and reprehensible
manner that the jury could infer that he knowingly disregarded the substantial
certainty of injury to others.”¿ (Id.
at 90.)
 
Analysis
 
On July 27, 2022, Plaintiffs
Jose Montoya Rodriguez and George F. Lukamu filed their complaint alleging that
Defendant Margaritha Avila was driving under the influence of alcohol and
crashed into Plaintiffs’ car, and that Defendant Paul Llorens permitted her to
drive under the influence. After the court granted Defendant Llorens' previous
motion to strike punitive damages, Plaintiffs amended the complaint twice. 
 
On January 11, 2024,
Defendant Paul Llorens moved the court to strike the following allegations
concerning punitive damages from Plaintiffs’ Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”) against
Defendant Llorens: Page 8, Lines 21 to 22 of SAC, where Plaintiffs allege
"all these allegations, when taken together, are sufficient to support
Plaintiffs’ claim for punitive damages," and Page 21, Line 19 of SAC where
Plaintiffs request punitive damages.
 
The relevant allegations pled
with specificity relating to punitive damages against Defendant Llorens in the SAC
are as follows:
 
·       
Llorens
was aware that “Avila was very, very drunk” before they got into the car (SAC
¶¶ 1, 3, see also ¶25); 
·       
Llorens
planned for Avila to drive to Avila’s mother’s house using Llorens’s car. (SAC
¶2, 23); Llorens knew that Avila drank the equivalent of at least 6-8 servings
of alcohol before driving. (SAC ¶¶3, 25); 
·       
LLORENS
was also aware that, in Avila’s drunken state, she still intended to drive to
her mother’s house, and knowing that he still gave her permission to drive his
car and he chose to ride as a passenger with her. (SAC ¶5, 28); 
·       
LLORENS
chose to let a very drunk woman drive him as a passenger in his own car, and he
was aware that she was going to drive, aware that alcohol would impair her
ability to drive without causing serious injury or death, aware that she could
cause serious injury or death to innocent people. (SAC ¶32); 
·       
Plaintiffs
were stopped at the intersection, behind another car for about 4 seconds, when
suddenly, and without warning, AVILA, driving a 2016 Black Honda Civic (the
“Civic”), collided with Plaintiffs’ car. (SAC ¶39)
 
The Court finds
that the facts alleged in the SAC are insufficient to support a prayer for
punitive damages against Defendant Llorens. To warrant punitive damages,
Plaintiffs must demonstrate "malice," which entails despicable
conduct carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard for
the rights or safety of others. In the context of drunk driving, while the risk
of injury from ordinary driving while intoxicated is foreseeable, it is not
necessarily probable, as established in Dawes v. Superior Court (1980)
111 Cal.App.3d 82, 89. Merely alleging intoxication, excessive speed, driving
with defective equipment, or running a stop signal, without more, does not meet
the level of willfulness required for malice. The complaint merely alleges that
Defendant Llorens allowed the co-defendant Avila, who was intoxicated, to drive
his car. However, the fact that the driver was drunk alone does not make the
risk of injury necessarily probable, nor is it sufficient to demonstrate
malice. 
 
Moreover, Plaintiff
does not illustrate how Defendant Avila, besides being drunk, created
additional risks, such as zigzagging in and out of traffic at 65 miles per hour
in a crowded beach recreation area at 1:30 PM on a Sunday in June, to elevate
the risk of injury from foreseeable to reasonably probable. The only detail
about Defendant Avila’s driving is that she rear-ended Plaintiff's stationary
car at an intersection. Plaintiffs failed to demonstrate drunk driving plus,
which is required for malice. Thus, Defendant’s motion to strike is granted.  
 
Plaintiffs have
already had the opportunity to amend twice. 
At this point, the Court is not convinced that Plaintiffs would be able
to allege sufficient facts to warrant punitive damages against Defendant
Llorens, and thus, as requested the Motion is granted without leave to amend as
to Defendant Llorens.
 
PLEASE TAKE
NOTICE:
 
If a party
intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party
must send an email to the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the
Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.  The body of
the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact
information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless all parties
submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear
remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.  You should
assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.
 
If the
parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off
calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  After the
Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of
the subject motion without leave.