  Case Number:  19STCV45450    Hearing Date:   April 30, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian
Department 27
Tentative
Ruling
 
Hearing Date:           4/30/2024 at 1:30 p.m.
Case No./Name.:      19STCV45450 SARKIS OUZOUNIAN vs KG GROUP, LLC
Motion Name:           MOTION FOR LEAVE TO AMEND
Moving Party:           Plaintiff
Responding Party:    Defendant K G GROUP FIRST
Notice:                     Sufficient
 
Ruling:                     MOTION FOR LEAVE TO AMEND IS GRANTED
 
Background
On December 17, 2019,
Plaintiff filed the present premises liability case after falling from a
defective ladder provided by Defendant KG Group First, LLC. Plaintiff
encountered issues with serving the correct defendant, and Defendant KG Group
First was only recently served and filed its answer on December 8, 2023. No
trial date has been set. Plaintiff now moves the Court to file a first amended
complaint to correct the date of the incident and include facts pertaining to
Defendant not verifying proper liability coverage from their tenant,
Plaintiff’s brother, prior to delivering possession of the premises. Defendant
filed an opposition arguing against the amendment based on the delay in
bringing forth the facts relating to liability coverage and the futility of the
amendment.
Legal Standard
When a party moves to amend a pleading, “courts
generally should permit amendment to the complaint at any stage of the
proceedings, up to and including trial. [Citations.]” (Melican v. Regents of
University of California (2007) 151 Cal.App.4th 168, 175.) In ruling on
this type of motion, prejudice to another party is the main concern. (Hirsa
v. Superior Court (1981) 118 Cal.App.3d 486.) The type of prejudice the
court is to be concerned with should be something beyond simply having to cope
with a potentially successful new legal theory of recovery that has been
revealed during discovery. (Ibid.) Instead, the court should look for
delays in the trial date, loss of critical evidence, extensive increase in the
costs of preparation and other similar circumstances that create prejudice to
another party. (Melican, supra, 151 Cal.App.4th at p. 176.)
A motion to amend a pleading before trial must include a copy of
the proposed amendment or amended pleading.¿ (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1324, subd. (a)(1).)¿ A motion to amend a pleading must also be supported by a
declaration which specifies the following: (1) the effect of the amendment; (2)
why the amendment is necessary and proper; (3) when the facts giving rise to
the amended allegations were discovered; and (4) the reasons why the request
for amendment was not made earlier.¿ (Cal.
Rules of Court, Rule 3.1324, subd. (b).)
 
Analysis
Plaintiff
attached a proposed amendment and fulfilled the other requirements under Cal.
Rules of Court, Rule 3.1324. Defendant takes issue with Plaintiff’s amendment
to include facts about verifying proper liability coverage from their tenant,
Plaintiff’s brother, prior to delivering possession of the premises. The delay
in bringing forth the amendment and prejudice to Defendant is not measured from
when Plaintiff originally filed the present complaint to now as the original
complaint was filed years before Defendant even joined the case and therefore
had no effect on Defendant's ability to formulate a defense. The relevant time
period would be from when Defendant filed an answer on December 8, 2023, until
now, which consists of only several months. Therefore, an amendment to the
complaint would cause minimal prejudice to Defendant as minimal evidence has
been lost in the span of a few months, the trial date has not even been set,
and the type of prejudice contemplated by the Court is not increased in cost and
time in having to cope with a potentially successful new legal theory of
recovery that has been revealed during discovery.
Although
the Court may deny leave to amend when an amendment would be "futile"
(i.e., when the proposed amendment does not state a cause of action),
Plaintiff's proposed changes do not allege any new cause of action. Plaintiff
is merely alleging additional facts under the previously alleged premises
liability and negligent cause of action. Furthermore, Defendant's arguments for
futility based on the failure to allege a cause of action and statute of
limitations are better suited for a fully-argued demurrer, should Defendant
choose to file one. (See Singh v. Lipworth (2014) 227 Cal.App.4th 813,
828.)
Thus,
Plaintiff’s motion for leave to amend is GRANTED.  Plaintiff is to file its amended complaint
within 10 days.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date
and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party
submitting. 
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the
hearing to argue. 
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion.