 Case Number:  21STCV45770    Hearing Date:   April 30, 2024    Dept:  27 HON. LEE
S. ARIAN
DEPARTMENT
27
TENTATIVE
RULING
 
Hearing Date:           4/30/2024 at 1:30 p.m.
Case No./Name:       21STCV45770 ARA MAHMOUDI vs ROBERTO CARLOS
MEJIA
Motion:                    Motion to Continue Trial
Moving Party:           Plaintiff
Responding Party:    Defendants 
Notice:                      Insufficient
 
Ruling:                    MOTION TO CONTINUE TRIAL IS DENIED
 
On December 16, 2021, Plaintiff filed the
present auto accident case, with the current trial scheduled for May 7, 2024.
On April 10, 2024, Plaintiff filed a motion to continue trial with a hearing
set for April 30, 2024. Defendant filed an opposition arguing that Plaintiff's
motion did not meet the required 18 court days' notice period.
 
The Court agrees with Defendant’s argument. CCP
§ 1005(b) provides “all moving and supporting papers shall be served and filed
at least 16 court days before the hearing. … However, if the notice is served
by mail, the required 16-day period of notice before the hearing shall be
increased by five calendar … if the notice is served by facsimile transmission,
express mail, or another method of delivery providing for overnight delivery,
the required 16-day period of notice before the hearing shall be increased by
two calendar days.”  
 
CCP § 1010.6(a)(3)(B) Provides
“Any period of notice, or any right or duty to do any act or make any response
within any period or on a date certain after the service of the document, which
time period or date is prescribed by statute or rule of court, shall be
extended after service by electronic means by two court days.”¿  
 
On April 10, 2024,
Plaintiff filed the present motion. The earliest date to hear a motion filed on
that date would be May 6, 2024. Plaintiff provided no explanation for failing
to meet the required 18 court days' notice period and did not file a reply to
address Defendant's argument concerning the lack of notice. Thus, the present
motion is untimely and therefore denied.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:
 
If a party
intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party
must send an email to the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the
Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.  The body of
the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact
information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless all parties
submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear
remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.  You should
assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.
 
If the
parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off
calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  After the
Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of
the subject motion without leave.
 