 Case Number:  21STCV19791    Hearing Date:   January 30, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers, the Court rules as
follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
May 26, 2021, Plaintiff Sedigheh Hajizadeh (“Plaintiff”) filed this action
against Defendants Magic Mountain, LLC (“Defendant”) and Does 1-50 for general
negligence and premises liability. 
On
June 21, 2021, Defendant filed an answer. 
On
November 15, 2023, Plaintiff filed a motion for summary adjudication to be
heard on January 30, 2024. On January 16, 2024, Defendant filed an opposition.  On January 25, 2024, Plaintiff filed a
reply.  On January 26, 2024, Defendant
filed a sur-reply.  Also on January 26,
2024, Plaintiff filed an objection. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for May 6, 2024. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Plaintiff
requests that the Court grant summary adjudication of Defendant’s affirmative
defenses of comparative negligence, assumption of risk, statute of
limitations, fault of others, and Proposition 51. 
Defendant
requests that the Court deny the motion. 
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS 
Plaintiff’s
objections:                    Sustained: 1-3 
Defendant’s
objections:                    Sustained: 7, 10                    Overruled: 1-6, 8-9 
REQUESTS FOR JUDICIAL
NOTICE    
          Plaintiff’s request for judicial notice:                    Granted
          Defendant’s requests for judicial notice:                    Exhibit 10: granted                    Exhibit 11: denied 
LEGAL STANDARD 
A.   Summary judgment and summary adjudication      
Code
of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (f), provides in part: 
“(1) A party may move for summary adjudication as to
one or more causes of action within an action, one or more affirmative
defenses, one or more claims for damages, or one or more issues of duty, if the
party contends that the cause of action has no merit, that there is no
affirmative defense to the cause of action, that there is no merit to an
affirmative defense as to any cause of action, that there is no merit to a
claim for damages, as specified in Section 3294 of the Civil Code, or that one
or more defendants either owed or did not owe a duty to the plaintiff or
plaintiffs. A motion for summary adjudication shall be granted only if it
completely disposes of a cause of action, an affirmative defense, a claim for
damages, or an issue of duty. 
“(2) A motion for summary adjudication may be made by
itself or as an alternative to a motion for summary judgment and shall proceed
in all procedural respects as a motion for summary judgment. . . .” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 437c,
subd. (f).) 
“‘[F]rom
commencement to conclusion, the party moving for summary judgment bears the
burden of persuasion that there is no triable issue of material fact and that
he is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.’”  (LAOSD Asbestos Cases (2023) 87
Cal.App.5th 949, 945, quoting Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001)
25 Cal.4th 826, 850 (Aguilar).) “[T]he party moving for summary judgment
bears an initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing of the nonexistence
of any triable issue of material fact; if he carries his burden of production,
he causes a shift, and the opposing party is then subjected to a burden of production
of his own to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a triable issue of
material fact.”  (Aguilar, supra,
25 Cal.4th at p. 850.)  
          “Supporting and opposing affidavits or declarations . . .
shall set forth admissible evidence.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (d).)
“Matters which would be excluded under the rules of evidence if proffered by a
witness in a trial as hearsay, conclusions or impermissible opinions, must be
disregarded in supporting affidavits.”  (Hayman
v. Block (1986) 176 Cal.App.3d 629, 639.) 
          A party moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication
must support the motion with “a separate statement setting forth plainly and
concisely all material facts which the moving party contends are undisputed.
Each of the material facts stated shall be followed by a reference to the
supporting evidence.” (Parkview Villas Assn. v. State Farm Fire & Casualty
Co. (2006) 133 Cal.App.4th 1197, 1209 (Parkview Villas), quoting
Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (b)(1) [motion for summary judgment]; see Code
Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(2) [motion for summary adjudication “shall
proceed in all procedural respects as a motion for summary judgment”].) The
party opposing the motion must file with the opposition papers “a separate statement
that responds to each of the material facts contended by the moving party to be
undisputed, indicating whether the opposing party agrees or disagrees that
those facts are undisputed. The statement also shall set forth plainly and
concisely any other material facts that the opposing party contends are
disputed. Each material fact contended by the opposing party to be disputed
shall be followed by a reference to the supporting evidence.” (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 437c, subd. (b)(3).)  If either party
fails to comply with the applicable separate statement requirement, that
failure may in the court’s discretion constitute a sufficient ground to decide
the motion adversely to the offending party. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subds.
(b)(1), (3).)   
          In ruling on the motion, the court must consider all of the
evidence and all of the inferences reasonably drawn from it and must view such
evidence and inferences in the light most favorable to the opposing party.  (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at p.
843.) 
B.   Negligence and premises liability 
“The
elements of a negligence claim and a premises liability claim are the same: a
legal duty of care, breach of that duty, and proximate cause resulting in
injury.” (Kesner v. Superior Court (2016) 1 Cal.5th 1132, 1159.) 
DISCUSSION 
A.   The complaint 
The complaint
alleges the following: 
Defendants
negligently, carelessly, and recklessly and with disregard for the rights of
the Plaintiff, managed, maintained, supervised, entrusted, repaired,
authorized, approved, leased, loaned, bailed, controlled, and operated a
facility located at 26101 Magic Mountain Parkway, Valencia, CA 91355 (“the premises”). 
On
August 19, 2019, Defendants failed to maintain, design, inspect, control,
supervise, attend to, and care for the premises.  Defendants breached their duty of care to
Plaintiff when they failed to properly maintain, manage, and control the
premises, failing to alert or warn Plaintiff of an inherently unsafe condition.
As a proximate result of Defendants’ negligence, Plaintiff sustained severe
injuries. 
B.   Undisputed facts 
On
August 19, 2019, Plaintiff visited Defendant’s water park Six Flags Hurricane
Harbor with her husband and children. 
Plaintiff had not previously ridden a water ride at an amusement park. 
Plaintiff
got in line for the Black Snake Summit water slide.  A sign posted
at the entrance to the ride stated: 
“ATTENTION
ALL GUESTS READ IMPORTANT SAFETY INFORMATION AND FOLLOW INSTRUCTION OF WATER
SAFETY STAFF: RIDER DESCRIPTION: HIGH THRILL BLACK SNAKE SUMMIT 
Do
not ride if you have any of the following conditions: Neck, Back or Bone
Ailments 
For
your safety, you should be in good health to ride. . . . Only you know your
physical conditions and limitations. If you suspect your health could be at
risk for any reason, or you could aggravate a pre-existing condition of any
kind, DO NOT RIDE! 
Rider
Responsibility There are inherent risks in the participation in or on any
amusement ride or attraction. Patrons have a duty to exercise good judgment and act in a responsible manner while
participating on the ride or attraction and to obey all oral and/or written
warnings. Patrons also have a duty to properly use all ride or attraction
safety equipment provided.” 
At
the top of the slide’s tower, additional signage was posted that stated: 
“Do
not ride if you have a significant physical ailment or condition.” 
“Do
not ride if you have neck or back problems” 
“Have
high blood pressure, heart trouble, nervous disorder, are pregnant or under the
influence of drugs or alcohol.” 
A
sign was also posted at the entrance of the ride instructing patrons: “Exit slide run-out quickly. Failure to follow all rules
and instructions can result in serious injury to yourself or others.” 
Plaintiff
saw the sign posted at the top of the slide. 
Before
she got onto the ride, she understood that once she got to the top, she would
be riding on one of the slides to get all the way to the bottom ground level
again.  (Exh. A p. 131.) 
When
Plaintiff got to the top, two park employees were standing next to the
slides.  (Exh. A p. 134.)  One of the employees told Plaintiff to get on
the ride.  (Exh. A pp. 136-137.)  Plaintiff got on the ride and went down the
tube.  (Exh. A p. 137; Exh. B p. 152.)  Her body was moving on the water and she did
not stop while she was inside the enclosed flume.  (Exh. B p. 141.) 
Plaintiff
testified at her deposition: “I did whatever [the park employees] told me
anyways. And I slid down the tube. And I believe I was in the middle of the way
when all of a sudden out of the blue something severely hit me. I don't know
what it was. But it severely hit me in my head, my shoulder, and my neck.
 [¶]  It was so
horrible, so unexpected, it was so terrifying that when I ultimately ended up
at the end of the tube, at the bottom of the tube, I don't remember exactly
what had happened or what happened next. I was semi unconscious when I got to
the bottom of the tube.”  (Exh. B p.
152.)  Something hit Plaintiff while she
was inside the black enclosed tube, where it was dark and Plaintiff could  not see anything.  (Exh. B pp. 152-153.)  “And later I realized that it was the
gentleman who had followed me and the worker had mistakenly got that gentleman
on the ride right after me.”  (Exh. B p.
153.)  After Plaintiff was hit, she
landed in the water.  (Exh. B p. 153.) 
Despite
Plaintiff’s deposition testimony, the evidence shows that if Plaintiff was
bumped, the incident occurred after she was already stopped in the run-out
area.  (Defendant’s additional undisputed
material fact 25.) 
C.   Legal issues 
1.    Statute of limitations 
Defendant’s
fourth affirmative defense, titled Statute of Limitations, alleges that “each
cause of action thereof, is barred the [sic] California Code of Civil
Procedure.” 
Plaintiff
asks the Court to grant summary adjudication of Defendant’s statute of limitations
affirmative defense, arguing Plaintiff filed her complaint within the two-year
limitations period provided by Code of Civil Procedure section 335.1.  The incident in which Plaintiff allegedly was
injured took place on August 19, 2019. 
Plaintiff filed the complaint on May 26, 2021.  Plaintiff has carried her initial summary adjudication
burden on the limitations issue. 
In
response, Defendant notes that Plaintiff filed a complaint against Defendant in
the Santa Clara County Superior Court on January 25, 2021.  Defendant argues that Plaintiff cannot prove
timely filing of the Los Angeles County case unless she shows the Santa Clara
County case was dismissed before May 26, 2021. 
Defendant provides no legal authority to support this argument. 
Defendant
has not raised a triable issue of fact regarding the statute of limitations.  The Court grants summary adjudication of Defendant’s
statute of limitations affirmative defense. 
2.    Assumption of risk 
Defendant’s
second affirmative defense, titled Assumption of Risk, alleges that “Plaintiffs injuries, if any, were caused and
contributed to by Plaintiff’s own assumption of risk.” 
Relying
on Sharufa v. Festival Fun Parks, LLC (2020) 49 Cal.App.5th 493 (Sharufa),
Plaintiff asks the Court to grant summary adjudication of Defendant’s
assumption of the risk affirmative defense. 
In Sharufa, the plaintiff was injured on a waterslide at Raging
Waters, a theme park operated by the defendant.  The defendant argued that riding a waterslide
carries with it certain inherent risks that the plaintiff assumed by engaging
in the activity.  (Sharufa, supra,
49 Cal.App.5th at p. 498.)  The Court of
Appeal rejected the defendant’s argument that the primary assumption of the
risk doctrine barred the plaintiff’s claims. 
(Id. at p. 500.)  Instead,
the appellate court concluded the waterslide operator was a common carrier
because riders do not control their own movements as they are transported to
the pool below and the route is predetermined. 
(Id. at pp. 499-500.)  As a
common carrier, the defendant owed the plaintiff a heightened standard of
care.  (Id. at p. 500.)  Based on Sharufa, Plaintiff argues, Defendant cannot establish the affirmative defense of primary assumption of the risk. 
Plaintiff
also argues that Defendant cannot establish an affirmative defense based on
secondary assumption of the risk because “[s]secondary
assumption of risk is essentially a form of comparative negligence under which
a defendant owes a duty of care to the plaintiff, but the plaintiff bears some
fault for voluntarily encountering a known risk.”  (Gonzalez v. Mathis (2021) 12 Cal.5th
29, 53; see Gregory v. Cott (2014) 59 Cal.4th 996, 1001 [“Secondary assumption of
risk applies when the defendant does owe a duty, but the plaintiff has
knowingly encountered a risk of injury caused by the defendant's breach.
Liability in such cases is adjudicated under the rules of comparative
negligence”].) 
Plaintiff
has carried her initial summary adjudication burden of showing that Defendant
cannot prevail on a primary assumption of risk affirmative defense.  However, for the reasons discussed below, Plaintiff has not carried her initial summary adjudication burden on the secondary assumption of risk affirmative defense, which is merged into the doctrine of comparative fault.  Therefore, the Court denies Plaintiff's motion for summary adjudication of Defendant's assumption of risk affirmative defense. 
3.    Comparative negligence 
Defendant’s
first affirmative defense, titled Comparative Negligence, alleges that “Plaintiff's injuries, if any, were caused and
contributed to by Plaintiff s own negligence.” 
Plaintiff
asserts that Defendant cannot prove that Plaintiff breached any duty or that any
negligence by Plaintiff caused her injuries. 
Plaintiff relies on her deposition testimony that while she was on the
water slide, she was hit by the gentleman who followed her down the slide.  In addition, Plaintiff has presented evidence
that the accident occurred when one of Defendant’s employees violated Defendant’s
policies by pressing a button that sent another rider down the slide before Plaintiff
had exited the ride.  (See Exh. E pp. 115-118;
Exh. I at MM0012-0014.)  Based on this
evidence, Plaintiff has carried its initial summary adjudication burden on the
comparative negligence affirmative defense. 
Defendant
argues that “Plaintiff entered the slide
with full knowledge that she had pre-existing orthopedic problems, despite the
signage. She failed to timely exit the slide and was bumped by the other rider.”  (Opposition p. 14.)  According to Defendant, it has produced “admissible
evidence that (1) Plaintiff voluntarily engaged in the activity; and (2)
Plaintiff's decision to encounter the risk, without following instructional
signage, should be characterized as unreasonable.” 
Defendant
argues it has raised a triable issue concerning whether Plaintiff was negligent
because she rode the water slide despite pre-existing orthopedic problems.  More specifically, Defendant contends that “there
is a triable issue of fact as to why Plaintiff did not exit the run-out promptly.”  (Opposition p. 18.)  However, Defendant has presented no evidence showing
that any pre-existing orthopedic problems caused or contributed to Plaintiff’s delay
in exiting the run-out area.  A fact-finder
would have to speculate that the asserted pre-existing orthopedic problems
caused Plaintiff’s delay in exiting. 
Nonetheless,
Defendant has presented evidence that, for whatever reason, Plaintiff delayed
in exiting the run-out area despite the signage instructing patrons to exit
quickly to avoid injury.  (Ounjian Dec.
exh. I, p. MM0012 [“The lady came out of the right slide. I saw that she was
still in slide and pushed button and walked down and told her to get out of the
slide. She took a long time. The next rider came down and hit her”]; see exh.
Q, pp. 25-36.) The undisputed facts show that the incident occurred while
Plaintiff was in the run-out area.  (Defendant’s
additional undisputed material fact 25.) 
This evidence raises a triable issue concerning comparative negligence
and secondary assumption of risk.  Therefore, the Court denies Plaintiff's motion for summary adjudication of Defendant's comparative negligence affirmative defense. 
4.    Fault of others and Proposition 51 
Defendant’s
fifth affirmative defense, titled Fault of Others, alleges that “other persons
or entities, whether or not parties, each, were negligent and such negligence
was a proximate cause of Plaintiff's injuries, if any, and should any judgment
be awarded to Plaintiff, it must be apportioned among all such negligent
persons or entities and offset against any judgment against Defendant.” 
Defendant’s
seventh affirmative defense, titled Proposition 51 - Joint and Several
Liability, alleges that under Civil Code section 1431.2, each Defendant's
liability for non-economic losses will be several only and not joint, and each
answering Defendant shall only be liable for the amount of non-economic damages
in the proportionate amount of liability assessed to such Defendant. 
Plaintiff
argues that Defendant may not assert these affirmative defenses to reduce any
judgment (or judgment for non-economic
damages) entered against it by the comparative fault of Defendant’s employee who
allegedly was responsible for sending another patron down the water slide
before Plaintiff exited it because Defendant is vicariously liable for its
employee’s negligence.  (Defendant denies
it is making this argument.) 
In
addition, Plaintiff argues that Defendant may not assert these affirmative
defenses to reduce any judgment (or judgment for non-economic damages) by the
comparative fault of the patron who allegedly struck Plaintiff in the run-out
area because Defendant cannot show that the patron breached any duty or that
any breach caused or contributed to Plaintiff’s injuries.  Plaintiff appears to reason that Defendant
cannot present such evidence because Defendant was responsible for the
accident. 
Plaintiff
has failed to carry her initial summary adjudication burden of showing that
Defendant cannot present evidence that other persons or entities were negligent
and their negligence caused or contributed to Plaintiff’s injuries.  The Court denies Plaintiff’s motion for
summary adjudication of the fault of others and Proposition 51 affirmative defenses. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court GRANTS IN PART AND DENIES IN PART Plaintiff Sedigheh
Hajizadeh’s motion for summary adjudication as follows. 
The Court GRANTS Plaintiff Sedigheh Hajizadeh’s motion
for summary adjudication of Defendant Magic Mountain, LLC’s statute of
limitations affirmative defense. 
The
Court DENIES Plaintiff Sedigheh Hajizadeh’s motion for summary adjudication of
Defendant Magic Mountain, LLC’s assumption of risk affirmative defense to the
extent the affirmative defense involves the doctrine of secondary assumption of
risk (which is merged into Defendant Magic Mountain, LLC’s comparative
negligence affirmative defense). 
The
Court DENIES Plaintiff Sedigheh Hajizadeh’s motion for summary adjudication of
Defendant Magic Mountain, LLC’s comparative negligence affirmative defense. 
The
Court DENIES Plaintiff Sedigheh Hajizadeh’s motion for summary adjudication of
Defendant Magic Mountain, LLC’s fault of others affirmative defense. 
The
Court DENIES Plaintiff Sedigheh Hajizadeh’s motion for summary adjudication of
Defendant Magic Mountain, LLC’s Proposition 51 affirmative defense. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.