 Case Number:  21STCV13224    Hearing Date:   January 30, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposing and reply papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
April 7, 2021, Plaintiff Yolanda Aguilar Murillo (“Plaintiff”) filed this
action against Defendants Califa Investment LLC (“Califa”) and Does 1-50 for
general negligence and premises liability. 
On
October 4, 2022, Califa filed a cross-complaint against Cross-Defendants
Moore Family Trust, f/k/a Moore & Ellestad GST, LLC (“Trust”) and Roes
1-20 for total indemnity, declaratory relief – implied partial indemnity, and
express indemnity.  On January 6, 2023, Trust filed an answer. 
On
June 7, 2023, the Court struck the express indemnity claim against Trust from
Califa’s cross-complaint based on a stipulation by Califa and Trust. 
On
October 24, 2023, Califa filed a motion for protective order to be heard on
January 30, 2024. On January 12, 2024, Trust filed an opposition. On January
23, 2024, Califa filed a reply. 
On
November 1, 2023, Plaintiff amended the complaint to include Defendant Trust as
Doe 1.  On December 4, 2023, Trust filed an
answer and a cross-complaint against Cross-Defendants Califa and Moes 1-20 for implied equitable indemnity,
comparative contribution, and declaratory relief. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for August 21, 2024. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Califa
requests that the Court grant a protective order to prevent Trust from taking
the deposition of non-party Alon Varsha. 
Trust
requests that the Court deny the motion. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
          Code of Civil Procedure section 2019.030 provides:  
“(a) The court shall restrict the frequency or extent
of use of a discovery method provided in Section 2019.010 if it determines
either of the following: 
“(1) The discovery sought is unreasonably cumulative
or duplicative, or is obtainable from some other source that is more
convenient, less burdensome, or less expensive. 
“(2) The selected method of discovery is unduly
burdensome or expensive, taking into account the needs of the case, the amount
in controversy, and the importance of the issues at stake in the litigation. 
“(b) The court may make these determinations pursuant
to a motion for a protective order by a party or other affected person. This
motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section
2016.040. 
“(c) The court shall impose a monetary sanction under
Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or
attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion for a protective order,
unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2019.030.)  
Code
of Civil Procedure section 2025.420 provides in part: 
“(a) Before, during, or after a deposition, any party,
any deponent, or any other affected natural person or organization may promptly
move for a protective order. The motion shall be accompanied by a meet and
confer declaration under Section 2016.040. 
“(b) The court, for good cause shown, may make any
order that justice requires to protect any party, deponent, or other natural
person or organization from unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment, or
oppression, or undue burden and expense. This protective order may include, but
is not limited to, one or more of the following directions: 
“(1) That the deposition not be taken at all. 
* * *
 (5) That the deposition be taken only on certain specified terms and conditions.   (6) That the deponent's testimony be taken by written, instead of oral, examination. * * *  (10)  That the scope of the examination be limited to certain matters. . . ." 
(Code
Civ. Proc., § 2025.420, subds. (a), (b).) 
DISCUSSION 
A.   The complaint 
The
complaint alleges the following: 
Califa
owned, possessed, maintained, and/or controlled the real property located at
15137 Califa Street, Van Nuys, California 91411 (“premises”). 
On
April 9, 2019, Plaintiff was severely injured when she was struck by a gate on
the premises.  Defendants negligently,
recklessly, and carelessly maintained and operated the gate on the premises in
a dangerous condition, causing Plaintiff’s injuries. Defendants knew or,
through the exercise of reasonable care or diligence, should and would have
known that the gate was in a dangerous condition before they allowed the
Plaintiff to enter the premises. As a direct and proximate result of Defendants’
conduct, Plaintiff has suffered physical injuries, mental anguish, loss of
consortium, pain and suffering. 
B.   Califa’s motion for protective order 
          On August 25, 2023, Trust served a notice of taking the deposition
of Alon Varsha (“Varsha”), Califa’s owner and top executive.  Califa asks for a protective order to prevent
the deposition, arguing Trust previously deposed Califa’s person most knowledgeable,
Emma Gamez (“Gamez”), the property manager at the premises where Plaintiff
alleges she was injured.  Gamez testified
that neither she nor Varsha had first-hand knowledge of the incident.  Califa argues that (1) Varsha has no knowledge
or information that Gamez did not provide and (2) Trust can obtain Varsha’s indirect
knowledge about the incident using written discovery requests.  As a result, Califa argues, a deposition of
Varsha would be unduly burdensome and the burden would outweigh any benefits of
taking the deposition. 
          Califa relies on Liberty
Mutual Insurance Co. v. Superior Court
(1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 1282 (Liberty Mutual), where the Court of Appeal “conclude[d] it amounts to
an abuse of discretion to withhold a protective order when a plaintiff seeks to
depose a corporate president, or corporate officer at the apex of the corporate
hierarchy, absent a reasonable indication of the officer's personal knowledge of
the case and absent exhaustion of less intrusive discovery methods.” (Liberty Mutual, supra, 10 Cal.App.4th at p.
1287.)  The appellate court held: 
“[W]hen
a plaintiff seeks to depose a corporate president or other official at the
highest level of corporate management, and that official moves for a protective
order to prohibit the deposition, the trial court should first determine
whether the plaintiff has shown good cause that the official has unique or
superior personal knowledge of discoverable information. If not, as will
presumably often be the case in the instance of a large national or
international corporation, the trial court should issue the protective order
and first require the plaintiff to obtain the necessary discovery through less
intrusive methods. These would include interrogatories directed to the
high-level official to explore the state of his or her knowledge or involvement
in plaintiff's case; the deposition of lower level employees with appropriate
knowledge and involvement in the subject matter of the litigation; and the
organizational deposition of the corporation itself, which will require the
corporation to produce for deposition the most qualified officer or employee to
testify on its behalf as to the specified matters to be raised at the
deposition.  [Citation.] Should these
avenues be exhausted, and the plaintiff make a colorable showing of good cause
that the high-level official possesses necessary information to the case, the
trial court may then lift the protective order and allow the deposition to
proceed.”  (Liberty Mutual, supra, 10 Cal.App.4th at p. 1287.) 
C.   Trust’s opposition  
 Trust asserts that Gamez testified at her
deposition that (1) Varsha paid to install the gate over twenty years ago,
prior to Gamez’s affiliation with Califa, and (2) Gamez’s knowledge of the gate’s
installation is limited to what Varsha told her. Therefore, Trust argues, it is
entitled to take Varsha’s remote deposition about the installation of the gate.  In addition, Trust contends that it cannot propound
written discovery to Varsha because he is not a party to the case. 
D.   Califa’s reply 
Califa
argues that Trust has not shown Varsha has any information about installation
of the gate that Gamez did not testify about. 
Califa also disputes Trust’s interpretation of Gamez’s deposition
testimony and argues that it served verified answers to Trust’s written
discovery about the gate’s purchase and installation. 
E.   Analysis 
The “apex”
doctrine is designed for “large national or international corporation[s] . . . .”
 (Liberty Mutual, supra, 10
Cal.App.4th at p. 1287.)  Gamez testified
that Califa consists of two people, Varsha and Gamez.  Even assuming the apex doctrine applies here,
it does not bar Trust from deposing Varsha about the purchase and installation of
the gate subject to certain terms and conditions. 
At
her October 31, 2023 deposition, Gamez testified: The gate had already been
installed when she began working as Califa’s property manager in 2008.  (Page 19.) 
To the best of Gamez’s knowledge, Califa’s owner and the owner of the adjacent
building hired the company that installed the gate.  (Page 20.) 
Gamez had spoken to Varsha when she was started working for Califa about
the installation of the gate, who paid for the installation, or if Varsha knew
when the gate was installed.  (Pages 20-21.)  The gate was installed over 20 years
ago.  (Page 21.)  As far as Gamez knows, Varsha and the neighbor
paid for the purchase and installation of the gate.  (Pages 21, 24.)  Gamez did not know who the neighbor was.  (Page 21.) 
Gamez believes that Varsha told her that he and the neighbor split the
cost of installing the gate 50/50 but Gamez can’t remember the exact
percentage.  (Page 24.)  Varsha told Gamez the gate was installed as a
safety precaution because people were accessing the parking lot without
authorization.  (Page 22.)   Gamez does not know who purchased the lock
put on the gate.  (Page 22.) 
Gamez’s
testimony shows that Varsha is likely to have information about the purchase
and installation of the gate that Gamez does not have.  In addition, Trust has conducted discovery
through less intrusive methods: written discovery to Califa and the deposition
of Gamez.  
“The only methods by which someone who is not a party
to the action can be compelled to provide testimony or produce other evidence
are:
·       an oral deposition under CCP §2020.310 (the most common
method [citation];
·       an oral deposition with production of ‘business
records’ under CCP §2020.510 [citation];
·       a written deposition under CCP §2028.010 [citation];
or
·       an ‘business records’ subpoena under CCP §2020.410
[citation].”  
(L. Edmon & C. Karnow, Cal.
Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (Rutter 2023) ¶ 8:464, p. 8E-16,
citing Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.010, subd. (a).) 
          The Court grants Califa's request for a protective order and rules that Trust may take Varsha's deposition subject to certain terms and conditions.  (See Code Civ. Proc., §  2025.420, subd. (b)(5).)  Varsha may choose between an oral deposition under Code of Civil
Procedure section 2030.310 and a written deposition under
Code of Civil Procedure section 2028.010. 
In either format, the deposition will be limited to Varsha’s knowledge
of the purchase and installation of the gate at the premises.  If Varsha chooses an oral deposition, the deposition will be conducted remotely unless Varsha chooses to appear in person.  
          The Court denies Califa’s request to appoint a discovery referee. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court GRANTS Defendant Califa Investment, LLC’s motion for a protective order and rules that Cross-Defendant Moore Family Trust, f/k/a Moore & Ellestad GST, LLC may take Alon Varsha's deposition subject to certain terms and conditions. 
The
Court orders that non-party Alon Varsha may choose whether his deposition by Cross-Defendant
Moore Family Trust, f/k/a Moore & Ellestad GST, LLC will be an oral
deposition under Code of Civil Procedure section 2020.310 or a written
deposition under Code of Civil Procedure section 2028.010. In either format, the deposition will be limited to Alon Varsha’s knowledge of the purchase and installation of the gate at 15137 Califa Street, Van Nuys, California 91411.If Alon Varsha chooses an oral deposition, the deposition will be conducted remotely unless Alon Varsha chooses to appear in person.  
The
Court denies Defendant Califa Investment,
LLC’s request to appoint a discovery referee. 
          Moving party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.