  Case Number:  23STCP02295    Hearing Date:   June 18, 2024    Dept:  85 
 
Francisco Enriquez v. Los Angeles County Civil
Service Commission, 23STCP02295

 
Tentative decision on petition for writ of mandate:  denied



 
Petitioner Francisco Enriquez (“Enriquez”) petitions the court
for a writ of mandate compelling Respondent Los Angeles Civil Service
Commission (“Commission”), County of Los Angeles (“County”), and Los Angeles
County Sheriff’s Department (“Department”) to set aside the decision to
discharge him and reinstate him to his position of deputy sheriff.
The court has read and considered the moving papers, opposition,
and reply, and renders the following tentative decision. 
 
A. Statement of
the Case
1. Petition
Petitioner Enriquez commenced this proceeding on June 30,
2023, alleging a cause of action for administrative mandamus under CCP section
1094.5.  The Petition alleges in
pertinent part as follows. 
On February 1, 1999,
Enriquez was hired as a deputy sheriff.  Pet.,
¶5.  Enriqeuz was a sworn police officer
at all relevant times.  Pet., ¶5.  
On August 6, 2013, Enriquez
was notified of the Department’s intention to discharge him from his position
as Deputy Sheriff.  Pet., ¶6.  On August 16, 2013, the Department notified
Enriquez that he was discharged, effective that same date.  Pet., ¶7.  
Enriquez was granted an evidentiary
hearing in which to challenge the accusations and allegations contained in the
letter of discharge.  Pet., ¶8.  The Commission appointed Angela D. Shaw as
Hearing Officer.  Pet., ¶8.  
The Hearing Officer heard
the matter for a total of 22 days, from July 2017 to June 2021.  Pet., ¶9.  On July 1, 2022, the Hearing Officer issued findings
affirming Enriquez’s discharge.  Pet.,
¶10.
 
On September 20, 2022, Enriquez filed
Objections to the Hearing Officer’s findings.  Pet., ¶11.  The Commission overruled Petitioner’s
Objections.  Pet., ¶12.  On April 5, 2023, the Commission generated a Final
Commission Action and Order noting that it had overruled Enriquez’’s Objections
and sustained his discharge.  Pet.,
¶12.
 
Enriquez alleges that the
Commission prejudicially abused its discretion in sustaining the discharge
because its conclusions are not supported by evidence.  Pet., ¶14. 
 
2. Course of
Proceedings
On August 31, 2023, the Commission filed a Notice of No Beneficial
Interest in the outcome of the proceedings.
On December 11, 2023, the County and Department filed their
Answer.
 
B. Standard of Review
CCP section 1094.5 is the administrative mandamus provision
which structures the procedure for judicial review of adjudicatory decisions
rendered by administrative agencies.  Topanga
Ass’n for a Scenic Community v. County of Los Angeles, (“Topanga”)
(1974) 11 Cal.3d 506, 514-15.  
CCP section 1094.5 does not in its face specify which cases
are subject to independent review, leaving that issue to the courts.  Fukuda v. City of Angels, (1999)20
Cal.4th 805, 811.  In cases reviewing
decisions which affect a vested, fundamental right the trial court exercises
independent judgment on the evidence. Bixby v. Pierno, (1971) 4 Cal.3d
130, 143.  See CCP §1094.5(c).  Revocation or suspension of a license
warrants application of the independent judgment test.  See Berlinghieri
v. Department of Motor Vehicles, (1983) 33 Cal.3d 392, 396.
Under the independent judgment test, “the trial court not
only examines the administrative record for errors of law but also exercises
its independent judgment upon the evidence disclosed in a limited trial de
novo.”  Id. at 143. 
The court must draw its own reasonable inferences from the evidence and
make its own credibility determinations. 
Morrison v. Housing Authority of the City of Los Angeles Board of
Commissioners, (2003) 107 Cal.App.4th 860, 868.  In short, the court substitutes its judgment
for the agency’s regarding the basic facts of what happened, when, why, and the
credibility of witnesses.  Guymon v.
Board of Accountancy, (1976) 55 Cal.App.3d 1010, 1013-16.
“In exercising its independent judgment, a trial court must
afford a strong presumption of correctness concerning the administrative
findings, and the party challenging the administrative decision bears the
burden of convincing the court that the administrative findings are contrary to
the weight of the evidence.”  Fukuda,
supra, 20 Cal.4th at 817.  Unless it can be demonstrated by petitioner
that the agency’s actions are not grounded upon any reasonable basis in law or
any substantial basis in fact, the courts should not interfere with the
agency’s discretion or substitute their wisdom for that of the agency.  Bixby, supra, 4 Cal.3d 130, 150-151;
Bank of America v. State Water Resources Control Board, (1974) 42
Cal.App.3d 198, 208.
The agency’s decision must be based on a preponderance of
the evidence presented at the hearing.  Board
of Medical Quality Assurance v. Superior Court, (1977) 73 Cal.App.3d 860,
862.  The hearing officer is only
required to issue findings that give enough explanation so that parties may
determine whether, and upon what basis, to review the decision. Topanga,
supra, 11 Cal.3d 506, 514-15. 
Implicit in section 1094.5 is a requirement that the agency set forth
findings to bridge the analytic gap between the raw evidence and ultimate
decision or order.  Id. at 115.
An agency is presumed to have regularly performed its
official duties (Ev. Code §664), and the petitioner therefore has the burden of
proof.  Steele v. Los Angeles County
Civil Service Commission, (1958) 166 Cal.App.2d 129, 137.  “[T]he burden of proof falls upon the party
attacking the administrative decision to demonstrate wherein the proceedings
were unfair, in excess of jurisdiction or showed prejudicial abuse of
discretion.  Afford v. Pierno,
(1972) 27 Cal.App.3d 682, 691.  
The propriety of a
penalty imposed by an administrative agency is a matter in the discretion of
the agency, and its decision may not be disturbed unless there has been a
manifest abuse of discretion.  Lake v. Civil Service Commission, (“Lake”)
(1975) 47 Cal.App.3d 224, 228.  In determining whether there has been an
abuse of discretion, the court must examine the extent of the harm to the
public service, the circumstances surrounding the misconduct, and the
likelihood that such conduct will recur.  Skelly v. State Personnel
Board, (“Skelly”) (1975) 15 Cal.3d 194, 217218.  Neither an
appellate court nor a trial court is free to substitute its discretion for that
of the administrative agency concerning the degree of punishment imposed. 
Nightingale v. State Personnel Board, (“Nightingale”) (1972) 7
Cal.3d 507, 515.  The policy consideration underlying such allocation of
authority is the expertise of the administrative agency in determining penalty
questions.  Cadilla v. Board of Medical Examiners, (“Cadilla”) (1972) 26 Cal.App.3d 961.   
 
            C.
Statement of Facts
1. Employment
            Petitioner Enriquez had been
employed by the Department for 11 years when he was terminated from his deputy
sheriff position.  AR 2976.  He was assigned to Century Station.  In 2009, he was “on loan” to the Narcotics
Strike Team (“NST”) -- i.e., he was taken away from his patrol duties in
order to assist the NST with investigations. 
AR 2977-78.
 
2. The Traffic
Stop and Arrest
On October 7, 2009, Detective
Scott Kalassay (“Kalassay”) created an operations plan to conduct a wall stop
of Miguel Amarillas (“Amarillas”), a suspected drug dealer.  Kalassay’s attention had been brought to
Amarillas by a confidential informant (“CI”), who told Kalassay that Amarillas
was going to sell him an ounce of methamphetamine.  AR 2655, 2658, 2661-63, 2981.  The CI also told Kalsassay that Amarillas’
girlfriend, Tatiana Lopez (“Lopez”), could be carrying the drugs for
Amarillas.   AR 2671, 2693.  
The officers assigned to the
primary takedown of Amarillas were Century Station patrol deputies Javier
Martinez (“Martinez”) and Ronald Slagle (“Slagle”).  Enrizquez was the backup.  AR 2985. 
When Slagle and Martinez were unable to get onto the correct street to
stop Amarillas, Kalassay directed Enriquez to look for Amarillas’ vehicle.  AR 2985-86. 

Enriquez saw Amarillas
travelling at a high rate of speed, not signaling, effecting a rolling stop,
and not wearing a seatbelt, and pulled him over.  AR 2986-87. 
Lopez was a passenger in the car. 
AR 2989.  Amarillas was on active
parole, and thus subject to a warrantless search.  AR 2988. 
Enriquez believed Amarillas and Lopez to be under the influence of
narcotics.  AR 2679, 2988.  He patted Amarillas down for weapons and
placed him in his patrol car.  AR 2989.  Enriquez conducted a visual search of Lopez
but did not pat her down because only a female deputy could search a female
suspect.  AR 2990.   Enriquez
put Lopez in the rear of Slagle’s patrol car, along with Lopez’ dog.  AR 2990. 
Enriquez searched Amarillas’ car for narcotics.  No narcotics were found.  AR 2677.   
The remaining facts concern the
transport of Amarillas and Lopez to the Century Regional Detention Center
(“CRDF”), the discovery of methamphetamine in Enriquez’s patrol vehicle, the booking
of Amarillas and Lopez, and the parole search of Amarillas’ apartment.  These facts were the subject of the
Department’s charges against Enriquez and are in dispute.
 
3. The Civil Lawsuit and Criminal Charges
Lopez and Amarillas filed a
complaint against the Department and every individual involved with the NST,
alleging that evidence was planted.  AR
2748-49, 3031.  They also filed a civil
lawsuit. AR 2750. 
As a result of the complaint,
the Department’s Internal Affairs Bureau (“IAB”) initiated an investigation
into the conduct of Enriquez, Slagle, Martinez, and Kalassay.  AR 2902-03, 2961-62.  Subsequently, the Department’s Internal Criminal
Investigation Bureau (“ICIB”) initiated a criminal investigation of all members
of the NST.  AR 3032-33. 
The District Attorney filed criminal
charges against Enriquez.  AR 3034.  He was tried twice and both times the outcome was
a hung jury.  AR 3034.
 
4. The
Notice of Discharge
After serving a Letter of Intent on June 12, 2013, the
Department served Enriquez with a Notice of Discharge on August 7, 2013,
alleging the following:
1. That in violation of Manual of Policy and
Procedures Sections 3-01/050.10, Performance to Standards; and/or 3-01/030.10,
Obedience to Laws, Regulations, and Orders (as it pertains to Perjury, 118.1 P.
C.); and/or 3-01/100.35, False Information in Records; and/or 3-01/040.70,
False Statements; and/or 3-01/030.05, General Behavior; and/or 3-01/000.10,
Professional Conduct; on or about October 7, 2009, you failed to conform to the
work standards established for your position when you knowingly authored a
probable cause declaration and incident report with inaccurate and/or false
and/or improper police information and/or material matter for which you
were subsequently criminally charged with perjury by declaration and filing a
false police report; and/or you failed to adhere to the Core Values of the
Department as you failed to apply wisdom and use common sense in your
interactions during the arrest of Mr. Amarillas and Ms. Lopez and/or your
handling of this incident; and/or caused undue embarrassment to, and/or damaged
the reputation of the Department; and/or brought discredit to yourself and/or
the Department, as evidenced by, but not limited to:
a. being criminally charged on or about July
27, 2012, by the Los Angeles County District Attorney’s Office for two felony
counts of perjury (perjury by declaration and filing false police report),
and/or;
b. stating you authored the arrest report,
supplemental report and PCD’s for Mr. Amarillas and Ms. Lopez and that all your
reports were true and accurate depictions of your actions and the facts,
and/or;
c. admitting but not documenting or telling
anyone you placed Mr. Amarillas in your vehicle and Ms. Lopez in Deputy
Slagle’s vehicle upon their initial detention, but switched them prior to
transporting to CRDF because you wanted to “keep an eye on her” until she was
searched at booking because Ms. Lopez had not been thoroughly searched in the
field, and/or;
d. admitting to not being certain if you
searched your vehicle after removing Mr. Amarillas and placing Ms. Lopez in the
vehicle, and/or;
e. arresting Mr. Amarillas for being under
the influence of a controlled substance, methamphetamine; however, on the
booking medical questionnaire, you indicated Mr. Amarillas was not under the
influence of a controlled substance, and/or;
f. the jailer’s portion of Mr. Amarillas’
booking medical questionnaire showed the “no” box was checked regarding the
jailer’s observation of Mr. Amarillas being under the influence of a controlled
substance, and/or;
g. writing in the incident report that Mr.
Amarillas and Ms. Lopez refused to provide a urine sample to prove or disprove
the presence of a stimulant in their system. However, both Mr. Amarillas and
Ms. Lopez denied being asked or offered the opportunity to provide samples,
and/or;
h. submitting completed Century Station
Urine Test Waiver Forms indicating Mr. Amarillas and Ms. Lopez refused to
provide samples, and/or;
i. Sergeant Hannemann stating to IAB
investigators that he did not sign the Century Station Urine Test Waiver Forms
as indicated on the forms and was never told that Mr. Amarillas and Ms. Lopez
refused to provide samples, and/or;
j. writing in the incident report and PCD
that you saw the clear bags of methamphetamine as you removed Ms. Lopez from
the backseat of your vehicle, and/or;
k. telling Lt. Colton during the Service
Comment Review that you discovered the narcotics wrapped in toilet paper and
shoved under the driver’s seat contradicting the incident report and PCD,
and/or;
l. stating you located the narcotics in your
car while Ms. Lopez stood by the car, even though Ms. Lopez described a female
taking her out of the vehicle and into CRDF booking front while leaving her dog
in the back seat of the vehicle, and/or;
m. Deputy Kalassay stating he only saw you
by the vehicle when Deputy Kalassay observed the narcotics in the vehicle;
2. That in violation of Manual of Policy and
Procedures Sections 3-01/040.75, Failure to Make Statements and/or Making False
Statements During Departmental Internal Investigations; and/or 3-01/040.70,
False Statements, on or about June 12, 2012, you failed to make full and/or
complete and/or truthful statements in a department internal investigation and
your submitted reports and official documentation for your arrest,
transportation and booking of Mr. Amarillas and Ms. Lopez on October 7, 2009,
as evidenced by, but not limited to:
a. stating you transported Ms. Lopez to
CRDF, and/or;
b. stating in your deposition to Attorney
Tom Beck, that your name was on Ms. Lopez’ booking slip because you were the
one who completed her booking process. Yet, during your Departmental internal
investigation you stated you did not complete Ms. Lopez’ booking slip, and/or;
c. stating you did not complete the
additional charge sheet for Ms. Lopez even though your name was on it, and/or;
d. Deputy Martinez telling IAB investigators
that he completed Ms. Lopez’ booking slip, and/or;
e. Deputy Slagle stating he completed the
medical questionnaire and assessment booking forms for Ms. Lopez, and/or;
f. stating in a Department internal
interview that you found the small baggie of narcotics wrapped in Kleenex at
the base of the floorboard and the vehicle guard, the bottom of your patrol
vehicle, but writing in the incident report you observed a clear plastic bag
containing what appeared to be several individual baggies containing
methamphetamine.  AR 651-54.
            
5. The Decision
Enriquez had a
22-day evidentiary hearing before the Hearing Officer.  AR 130. 
On July 1, 2022, the Hearing Officer issued proposed findings and
recommendation upholding Enriquez’ discharge. 
AR 130-62.  She essentially found
that all the allegations were true in that Enriquez failed to follow policy by
being criminally charged, in preparing the Incident Report, supplemental
report, PCDs, and booking information, in his uncertainty in whether he
searched his patrol vehicle after removing Amarillas and placing Lopez in the
vehicle, in preparing the booking and other paperwork for the arrests, in
stating that Lopez was standing by the patrol vehicle when he discovered the narcotics,
and in failing to make true and complete statements in his civil suit
deposition, the ICB/ICIB investigation, and in reports submitted for the Lopez
and Amarillas arrests.  AR 154-56.
On April 5, 2023,
the Commission overruled Enriquez’ objections and approved the Hearing
Officer’s findings upholding the discharge.
 
D. Analysis
Petitioner Enriquez argues that the weight of the evidence
does not support the findings of his misconduct and the penalty of termination
is not warranted.
 
Charge 1, Allegations (a) and (b)
Charge 1, Allegations (a) and (b) were that
Enriquez failed to adhere to the work standards for his position when he was
criminally charged on or about July 27, 2012, by the District Attorney with two
felony counts of perjury (perjury by declaration and filing false police
report) and stated that he authored the arrest report, supplemental report and
PCDs for Amarillas and Lopez and that all his reports were true and accurate.
Enriquez admits that Charge 1, Allegations 1(a)
and (b) are true.  He was criminally
charged on or about July 27, 2012 for two felony counts of perjury (perjury by
declaration and filing false police report). 
But he was never convicted.  He
also stated that he authored the arrest report, supplemental report, and PCDs
for Amarillas and Lopez and that the reports were true and accurate.  Pet. Op. Br. at 9.
The
County argues that Enriquez falsely stated in the arrest report and PCD for Amarillas that
he charged Amarillas with felony possession of narcotics for sale (H&S Code
§11378) because he had discovered a single baggy of methamphetamine, along with
Amarillas’ mail, in his dresser drawer during a parole roll back search of Amarillas’ and Lopez’s apartment. The evidence
established that members of the NST, including Enriquez, did not leave Century Station
for the parole search until 10:30 p.m. 
AR 1593. The NST returned to CRDF sometime between 11:15 p.m. and 11:25
p.m.  Id.  
Yet, Enriquez had already charged Amarillas
with felony possession of narcotics for sale at least an hour before the NST
left Century Station for the parole search.  Records in the CLETS database established that
Enriquez requested approval from the Department of Corrections and
Rehabilitation to place a parole hold on Amarillas because he had been charged
with possession of narcotics for sale, a felony. AR 2398-404.  At 9:29 p.m., the Department of Corrections
and Rehabilitation notified CRDF the parole hold was approved. AR 1709.
The booking slip for Amarillas states that he was booked for felony possession
of narcotics for sale at 8:45 p.m. The booking slip was time stamped by
professional staff at 10:23 p.m., which was before the NST left for the parole
search.  AR 1502.  Opp. at 13.
Enriquez rebuts the County’s argument.  Enriquez testified that he charged both Lopez
and Amarillas with possession for sale because they were pointing fingers at
the other about the narcotics found in Enriquez’s patrol vehicle.  AR 2708-09. 
Sgt. Michael Hannemann testified that this was appropriate.  If a deputy finds drugs in a situation like
this and does not know to whom they belong, it is acceptable to charge both
individuals with possession and the District Attorney will determine which
suspect is to be held accountable.  AR
2433-34.
Enriquez added in
his testimony that “our whole
mindset was that they were both not denying it which led us to believe that
they were both aware that there was methamphetamine being transported….[T]he
whole time they were being arrested for possession for sales, but since it was
an ongoing investigation, they would continue this until the end -- until we
did a rollback search.  AR 3114.  When asked if they decided to charge
Amarillas for possession with intent to sell before they left for the parole
search, Enriquez answered: “Well, we would have had to, because we wouldn’t
have gotten a parole hold.”  AR 3114.  Enriquez
wrote the PCD for Amarillas at 11:45 p.m., after the parole search.   AR 1498. 
He wrote the Incident Report and narrative the day after the arrest.  AR 1474, 1479.  Both were written after the parole
search.  When asked why he wrote in the
Incident Report that he charged Amarillas with possession after discovering the
baggie in the apartment, Enriquez explained:
 
“Well, the paragraph does not make sequential
sense. I should have added specifics, and I should have clarified that he was
already being charged with sales, and the additional bag just solidified our
case…..But I was not trying to be
untruthful. I should have written it a little bit more clearer as to why they
were both charged.”  AR 3110.
When
asked about the PCD, Enriquez testified:
 
“Just like the incident report, I should have
been more specific to clarify for somebody besides myself and anybody with law
enforcement experience to read better, but there’s no way we could have
returned and done a rollback at the time we did if they were not arrested for
possession for sales. So we couldn’t have returned to his house.”  AR
3112. 
 
Enriquez is guilty of Charge 1, Allegation (a) because
he failed to adhere to
the work standards for his position when he
was criminally charged on or about July 27, 2012, by the District Attorney
with two felony counts of perjury (perjury by declaration and filing false
police report) However, he was never found guilty in the criminal case.  Moreover, the court does not find that Enriquez planted a baggie of methamphetamine
in the vehicle.  There is insufficient
evidence to support that conclusion or that he planted the same type of baggies
at Amarillas’ apartment.  Therefore, he
did not make false statements in the Incident Report and PCD about Amarillas’ possession
of narcotics for sale.  
 
Charge
1, Allegation (c) and Charge 2 Allegation (a)
Charge
1, Allegation (c) was that Enriquez failed to adhere to the work standards for
his position because he admitted but did not document or tell anyone that he
placed Amarillas in his vehicle and Lopez in Deputy Slagle’s vehicle upon their
initial detention, but switched them prior to transporting to CRDF because he
(Enriquez) wanted to “keep an eye on her” until Lopez was searched at booking
because she had not been thoroughly searched in the field.   
Charge
2, Allegation (a) was that Enriquez falsely stated in his reports and
documentation that he transported Lopez to CRDF.
Enriquez
argues that he transported Lopez but merely failed to document that fact.  He initially placed
Lopez in the back of Deputy Slagle’s patrol vehicle and Amarillas in his patrol
vehicle, but then switched them because Lopez had not yet been searched.  He admittedly failed to document the switch.  He testified that he had been unable to get a
female deputy to come to the scene to search Lopez as was required.  AR 2995. 
They also were waiting for a tow truck. 
AR 2995.  There switch of the two
suspects occurred at Kalassay’s direction. 
AR 2995.  Detective Kalassay
called and said that the assisting patrol vehicle was over its scheduled time
and needed to leave.  Therefore, that
patrol vehicle should take Amarillas.  AR
2995.  Since the investigation was
ongoing, Enriquez took Lopez to the station so that someone could search
her.  AR 2995.  
Kalsassy agreed.  He testified that male deputies could not
physically touch Lopez to search her.  AR
2680.  A request was made for a female
deputy to come to the scene, but one did not respond.   AR 2680-81. 
There had been a determination to arrest Lopez and Amarillas for being
under the influence.  AR 2681.  It is best to separate suspects and they had
two patrol cars.   AR 2681.  As lead detective, he determined who should
transport which suspect.  AR 2683.  He decided that Enriquez would transport Lopez
because he was assigned to the NTF and Deputy Slagle or Martinez would
transport Amarillas.  AR 2683.
Based on this testimony, Enriquez argues
that he simply forgot to document the switch of suspects between vehicles.   He did not write the Incident Report
immediately after the arrest, and did so only after the officers went to
Amarillas’s apartment for the parole search. 
AR 3137-38.  Moreover, an
incident report is a summary that does not list every single event that
occurred.  Ibid.  Pet. Op. Br. at 9-10, 13-14.
As
the County shows (Opp. at 5-7), the evidence demonstrates that Enriquez falsely
stated in the Incident Report and the PCDs that he transported Lopez from the
Arco station, the location of the Wall Stop, to CRDF.  Lopez told Department investigators that she
was transported to CRDF by Deputy Slagle, whose patrol car had an uncomfortable
broken rear seat.  AR 753-54, 773,
775.  The vehicle repair records
corroborated her assertion.   The back
seat of Deputy Slagle’s patrol vehicle was replaced after October 7, 2009.  AR 1542. 
There is no evidence that the back seat of Enriquez’s patrol vehicle was
repaired.  
The
radio traffic supports the conclusion that Deputy Slagle transported Lopez from
the Wall Stop to CRDF.  Department policy
is to call in the beginning and ending mileage when transporting a female.  AR 1277. 
This policy protects both male deputies and the Department from spurious
claims of sexual misconduct by female suspects.  AR 1277-79. 
NST Sergeant Michael Hannemann (“Sgt. Hannemann”) testified that the
mileage proves the travel route and the timestamp on the radio broadcast also
provides the time to show that there were no delays, stops, or diversions in
the transport.  AR 2349.  At 8:30 p.m., Slagle broadcast his beginning
mileage for the transportation of a female suspect, and at 8:43 p.m., Slagle
broadcast his ending mileage from CRDF. 
AR 1277-79, 1781.  The radio
broadcasts reflect that he was transporting a female to the station.  AR 1278. 
The mileage Slagle broadcast was consistent with the patrol car he was
assigned.  AR 1561-62.
After
listening to the radio traffic, Enriquez admitted at his deposition that he did
not broadcast either the beginning or ending mileage for the transportation of
a female suspect.  AR 1792.  He testified that it slipped his mind to do
so.  AR 1792.  He did not know why Slagle would make that
broadcast.  AR 1792.  He did not recall if he asked Slagle to
report that he (Enriquez) was transporting Lopez.  AR 1792.  
He assumed that Slagle transported Amarillas because he (Slagle) was the
only other person there.  AR 1793.  (Martinez drove Amarillas’ car.)  
Enriquez’s
argument he simply forgot to announce he was transporting a female suspect and
Slagle made the announcement for him is not credible.  Enriquez did not know if a broadcast was made
or know why Slagle would announce he (Slagle) was transporting Lopez. AR
1792.  Policy
requires the deputy who is transporting a female suspect to announce the
beginning and ending mileage for the transportation.  AR 1792-93.  Enriquez had no explanation why Slagle would
broadcast the ending mileage when he arrived at CRDF if he (Slagle) had
transported Amarillas.  AR 1794. 
The
Mobile Digital Terminal (“MDT”) communications from Enriquez’s and
Slagle/Martinez’s patrol cars corroborate the fact that Slagle transported
Lopez and Enriquez transported Amarillas. 
Slagle’s and Martinez’s Deputy Daily Worksheet documented one male and
one female arrest.  AR 1561.  Lopez’s name was run for warrants from the
MDT in Slagle/Martinez’s car. AR 1562. Lopez’s booking number was requested
from the MDT in Slagle/Martinez’s car. 
AR 1562.  Martinez told IAB that
he completed Lopez’s booking slip at CRDF booking.  AR 1153-64. 
Slagle completed the medical questionnaire and intoxication assessment
booking forms for Lopez.  AR 1509-11.
In
contrast, Amarillas’ name was run for warrants from the MDT in Enriquez’s car
(AR 1564), a booking number for Amarillas was requested from the MDT in
Enriquez’s car (AR 1564), and an Incident Report Number (URN) using Amarillas’
name was requested from the MDT in Enriquez’s car’s MDT (AR 1564).  Enriquez completed Amarillas’ booking slip
(AR 1502), medical questionnaire (AR 1504), and intoxication assessment booking
form (AR 1506).  Opp. at 6.
The circumstantial evidence is
compelling.  Enriquez provides no
explanation why Slagle would broadcast his beginning mileage and ending
mileage for the transportation of a female suspect if he was not transporting
Lopez.  Nor is there any explanation why
Slagle would run Lopez for warrants and prepare her booking forms, and why
Enriquez would run Amarillas for warrants and prepare his booking forms if they
did not transport the respective arrestees.
Additionally,
Enriquez submitted a supplemental report, approximately five weeks after the
arrest, affirming the information in the Incident Report that he had thoroughly
searched his patrol car before he began his shift.  He did not mention anything about switching
the suspects in his patrol car.  AR
1489.  
Enriquez’s
argument that he switched Amarillas and Lopez because Detective Kalassay wanted
him to keep an eye on Lopez because she had not been searched is not
credible.  Enriquez did not explain why
he needed to keep an eye on Lopez since she was detained in Slagle/Martinez’s
car, or why he could not have assigned Slagle or Martinez to keep an eye on
Lopez.  Enriquez also did not document in
the Incident Report or PCDs that he took Amarillas out of his car and put Lopez
in because Kalassay wanted him to keep an eye on her.  Sgt. Hannemann could not recall ever
switching suspects in his career.  AR
2348.  
The
testimony of Enriquez and Kalassay that Enriquez was instructed to transport
Lopez because Slagle’s vehicle was over its scheduled time and needed to leave also
does not ring true.  Both Amarillas and
Lopez were taken to CRDF and there is no evidence that one arrived significantly
before the other.  At 8:43 p.m., Slagle
broadcast his ending mileage at CRDF.  AR
1277-79, 1781.  Enriquez was preparing
Amarillas’ Medical Screening form at 8:45 p.m. 
AR 1504.  If anything, Enriquez
returned to the station before Slagle.
Contrary
to his testimony at the hearing, Kalassay told IAB that Enriquez never told him
he had first placed Amarillas in his patrol car and Lopez in Slagle’s car, or
that he switched the suspects before transportation.  AR 1942-44. 
Enriquez only told him about the switch after-the-fact when the issue
arose with the District Attorney.  AR
1943.  Kalassay acknowledged to IAB that
he did not observe any portion of the Wall Stop, he only had a vague
recollection of his telephone conversations with Enriquez while Enriquez was at
the stop, and he was told after the fact that the suspects had been arrested
for being under the influence.  AR
1070-76.[1]  Opp. at 7.
The
weight of the evidence supports the conclusion that Enriquez transported
Amarillas and that Slagle transported Lopez. 
Enriquez therefore is guilty of Charge 1, Allegation (c) and more
importantly, Charge 2, Allegation (a).
 
Charge 1,
Allegation (d)
Charge 1, Allegation (d) was that Enriquez that Enriquez failed
to adhere to the work standards for his position because he admitted to not
being certain if he searched his vehicle after removing Amarillas and placing
Lopez in the vehicle.  In other words,
the narcotics found in the vehicle could have come from Amarillas, not Lopez.
Enriquez argues that this was nothing more than a mistake.  Sgt. Hannemann testified that if a deputy
finds drugs and does not know to whom they belong, it is acceptable to charge
both individuals with possession, as the NST did.  AR 2433-34. 
Pet. Op. Br. at 10.
The County notes that Enriquez admitted to IAB that he was
not certain if he searched his patrol car after he allegedly removed Amarillas
and before he placed Lopez in his car.  Enriquez’s admission is material, as he
acknowledged to IAB that he could not rule out that Amarillas, not Lopez, left
the narcotics Enriquez allegedly discovered in his patrol car.  AR 995-98. 
In other words, Enriquez admitted that he might have wrongly charged
Lopez for the drugs he allegedly discovered in his patrol car.  Sgt. Hannemann testified that deputies are
trained to search their patrol car each time they
remove a suspect.  AR 2347.  Enriquez knew that he needed to discount the
possibility another suspect left the drugs in his car as he articulated in the
Arrest Report and in his November 17, 2009 supplemental report that he had
thoroughly searched his patrol vehicle prior to the beginning of his shift.  AR 1478, 1489. 
Opp. at 7-8.
If Enriquez had switched Lopez and
Amarillas, he was guilty of not searching his vehicle after removing Amarillas
and placing Lopez in the vehicle pursuant to Charge 1, Allegation (d).  However, the court has found that the weight
of the evidence shows no switch of arrestees. 
Therefore, this issue is moot.
 
            Charge
1, Allegations (e) and (f)
Charge
1, Allegations (e) and (f) were that Enriquez failed to adhere to the work
standards for his position because he arrested Amarillas for being under the
influence of a controlled substance, methamphetamine.  However, Enriquez indicated on the booking
medical questionnaire that Amarillas was not under the influence of a
controlled substance.  The jailer’s
portion of Amarillas’ booking medical questionnaire also showed the “no” box
was checked, meaning the jailer had not observed Amarillas as being under the
influence of a controlled substance.  
Enriquez
notes that he testified that he filled out the Medical Screening Form for
Amarillas (AR 1504) incorrectly: “[A]s you can tell by my mark, I just went
down the line and did ‘No’s’ on all of them.” 
AR 3010-11.  He continued: “I was
rushing through it and honestly, I do not make a lot of under the influence
arrests. I am used to drug and gun arrests and so I just got into the routine
and that I just did it quickly as if it was an arrestee or something
else.”  AR 3011.  Item No. 3 on the Form asks whether the
arrestee appears to be under the influence, and “[i]f yes, complete ‘Arresting
Deputy’s Assessment’ portion of Intoxication Assessment Sheet.”  AR 1504. 
Enriquez checked no, but he completed the Intoxication Assessment
indicating Amarillas was indeed under the influence.  AR 1506, 3011-12.  The jailer did not testify, and while he also
checked “no” for whether Amarillas was under the influence in his Jailer’s
Assessment (AR 1505), Enriquez argues that he could have checked the boxes
quickly without taking the time to make an actual assessment.  Additionally, the Jailer’s Assessment cannot
be accepted as proof that Amarillas was not under the influence because the
jailer did not testify.  Pet. Op. Br. at
10-11.
The County responds that Enriquez testified at his
deposition that he stated in the Incident Report and PCD that he had probable
cause to arrest Amarillas for being under the influence of narcotics because he
observed objective symptoms.  AR 1807-08.
 Enriquez did not document any standardized
Field Sobriety Tests (“FSTs”) for Amarillas, nor did he arrest him for driving
under the influence.  However, Enriquez
indicated on the medical questionnaire that Amarillas was not under the
influence of a controlled substance and the jailer checked “no” for the same observation.  While Enriquez
argues that he and the jailer coincidentally made the same mistake, the alleged
mistakes were never corrected.  Opp. at
11.
Enriquez replies that he
made a mistake, not an act of dishonesty.  He testified at the hearing that the entire
operation was “a rush job.”  AR 3009.  They were close to Amarillas’s residence, and they
wanted to get out of the location quickly.  AR 3009. 
During the booking, the thought process was “let’s get out of booking so
we can do this rollback [search of Amarillas’s apartment] before anybody gets
there before we do to discard of any evidence.” AR 3010.  When he was filling out the medical
questionnaire for Amarillas, he “was rushing through it and honestly I do not
make a lot of under the influence arrests. I am used to drug and gun arrests
and so I just got into the routine and that I just did it quickly as if it was
an arrestee or something else.”  AR 3011.
Enriquez provided the same explanation regarding filling out Amarillas’s
medical questionnaire during his highly antagonistic civil deposition by Attorney
Beck.  AR 1808-09.  Certainly, if Enriquez intended to provide
false statements regarding the arrests of the suspects, he would not have checked
a box that Amarillas was not under the influence.  The fact that he did so lends credence to the
fact that it was a mistake.  Reply at
2-3.
The court agrees.  Enriquez is guilty of failed to adhere to the work
standards for his position by stating on the booking
medical questionnaire that Amarillas was not under the influence of a
controlled substance, but this error favored no one except Amarillas and was a
mistake, not an intentionally false statement. 
Enriquez is not responsible for the jailer’s entry, and it does not
prove that Amarillas was not under the influence.
 
Charge 1, Allegations (g), (h), and (i)
Charge
1, Allegations (g), (h), and (i) were that Enriquez failed to adhere to
the work standards for his position because he wrote in the Incident Report that
Amarillas and Lopez refused to provide a urine sample to prove or disprove the
presence of a stimulant in their system. 
Both Amarillas and Lopez denied being asked or offered the opportunity
to provide samples.  Enriquez submitted
completed Century Station urine test waiver forms indicating that Amarillas and
Lopez refused to provide samples.  Sgt.
Hannemann told IAB investigators that he did not sign the urine test waiver forms,
the forms wrongly indicate that he did so, and he was never told that Amarillas
and Lopez refused to provide samples.  
Enriquez notes that neither Amarillas nor Lopez
testified at the administrative hearing. 
Accordingly, their statements denying refusal to sign the forms are
hearsay unsupported by any corroborating evidence and cannot be accepted as true.  Kalassay testified that this case was “100
percent” his.  AR 2728.  Kalassay inquired of Amarillas and Lopez if
they would provide samples, and he heard their refusals.  AR 2731-33 (Kalassay), 3027-28 (Enriquez).  While the waiver forms have Enriquez’s name
as the witnessing officer (AR 396-97), Kalassay wrote Enriquez’s name.  AR 2731. 
Kalassay also wrote Sgt. Hannemann’s name on the waiver forms.  AR 2732. 
Pet. Op. Br. at 11.
The County responds that Enriquez wrote in the
Incident Report that Amarillas and Lopez refused to provide urine samples. Enriquez
submitted Century Station urine test waiver forms documenting Amarillas’ and
Lopez’s refused to provide samples. AR 1675-76.  Both Amarillas and Lopez denied being asked or
offered the opportunity to provide samples.[2]  Enriquez told Attorney Beck that he offered
urine tests to Lopez and Amarillas inside the booking area at Century Station
and that someone else may have filled out the form (AR 1837-38), but he later
told IAB that he did not recall offering tests to Lopez or Amarillas.[3] Opp. at 12-13.
The County responds to Detective
Kalassay’s testimony that he asked Lopez and Amarillas to take urine tests, but
they refused, by pointing out that Sgt. Hannemann’s
name was written on the sergeant’s signature line on both urine test waiver
forms.  Yet, Sgt. Hannemann testified that
it is not his handwriting on the signature line, he did not witness Lopez or
Amarillas refusing to provide urine samples, and he did not recall authorizing
the use of his name of the forms.  AR
1675-76, 2388-89.  Falsely
writing in the name of Sgt. Hannemann on the urine test waiver forms is not a
mistake, it is intentional misconduct. 
Opp. at 13.
Perhaps so, but it was the misconduct of Detective Kalassay,
not Enriquez.  The weight of the evidence
shows that Enriquez was not guilty of Charge 1, Allegations (g), (h), and (i).
Enriquez wrote in the
Incident Report that Amarillas and Lopez refused to provide a urine sample to
prove or disprove the presence of a stimulant in their system, but he was
entitled to rely on Detective Kalassay in doing so.  
 
Charge
1, Allegations (j), (k), (l), and (m) and Charge 2 Allegation (f)
Charge
1, Allegations (j), (k), (l), and (m) were that Enriquez failed to adhere to
the work standards for his position because he wrote in in the Incident Report
and PCD that he saw the clear bags of methamphetamine as he removed Lopez from
the backseat of his vehicle.  He told Lt.
Colton during the Service Comment Review that he discovered the narcotics
wrapped in toilet paper and shoved under the driver’s seat contradicting the
incident report and PCD.  He stated that
he located the narcotics in his car while Lopez stood by the car.  Yet, Lopez described a female taking her out
of the vehicle and into CRDF booking while leaving her dog in the back seat of
the vehicle.  Detective Kalassay stated
that he only saw Enriquez by the vehicle when he observed the narcotics in the
vehicle.
Charge
2, Allegation (f) was that Enriquez stated in his IAB interview that he found
the small baggie of narcotics wrapped in Kleenex at the base of the floorboard
and the vehicle guard, the bottom of his patrol vehicle, but he wrote in the
Incident Report that he observed a clear plastic bag containing what appeared
to be several individual baggies containing methamphetamine.  AR 651-54.
Enriquez
argues that these allegations are evidence of the Department reaching for
purported policy violations.  He
explained during his interview that he saw a Kleenex covering a plastic baggie
containing several smaller, clear bags of methamphetamine as soon as Lopez
stepped out of the vehicle at CRDF.  AR
987, 989-90.  That he may not have noted
in his Incident Report that there was a Kleenex covering the bags is
insignificant; the important fact is that he noted that he found several small
baggies of narcotics.[4]  Pet. Op. Br. at 11-12.
The
County contends that Enriquez offered two different descriptions of the
narcotics packaging he allegedly discovered in the rear floorboard of his
car.  Enriquez first said the narcotics
were in plain view when he stated in the Arrest Report that he saw clear bags
of methamphetamine after removing Lopez from the backseat of his patrol
vehicle. AR 1471-82, 2396-98, 2481. 
Enriquez later told Lt. Colton, who was conducting a Service Comment
Review, that he discovered nine baggies of narcotics wrapped in toilet paper
that had been shoved under the driver’s seat. 
AR 1324.  Enriquez also later told
IAB that, when he searched his car after Lopez stepped out, he saw a package
wrapped in white Kleenex under the front seat, and he could not really see
narcotics because the Kleenex covered most of it.  AR 990. 
Opp. at 8.
The
County argues that this
was not an inconsequential mistake. Properly documenting observations about the
discovery of narcotics is one of the fundamental duties of a deputy sheriff.
This was a pattern of false statements that Enriquez made when he documented
the arrest, transportation, searching, and booking of Amarillas and Lopez in
the Incident Report and PCDs.  Opp. at 8.
The
court agrees, and Enriquez does not dispute, that his failure did not meet
Department standards in documenting the discovery of narcotics.
The
County argues that Enriquez
also falsely stated in the Incident Report and PCD that he located the
narcotics in his patrol car while Lopez stood by the car.  Lopez denied to Department investigators she
ever possessed narcotics and stated that a female employee took her out of the
vehicle and into Century’s booking, leaving her dog in the back seat. AR
753-54.  Opp. at 8.
Enriquez
argues that his statement does not contradict Lopez’ statement.  Enriquez stated during his interview, as did
Lopez, that another deputy took Lopez from his vehicle to booking.  AR 991. 
Lopez could well have still been by the car when Enriquez observed the
narcotics.  Enriquez further testified
that Lopez left her dog in the back of the car when she exited.  AR 2998. 
Even if they are contradictory, Lopez did not testify and any statements
she made is hearsay and cannot be considered for their truth.  Pet. Op. Br at 11-12; Reply at 4.[5]
According
to the County, Kalassay contradicted Enriquez’ statement in the Incident Report
and PCD that he discovered the narcotics while Lopez was standing by his patrol
car.  Kalassay told IAB that he only saw
Enriquez standing by the patrol vehicle when he (Kalassay) observed the
narcotics in the vehicle.[6]  Opp. at 9.
Enriquez
responds that the allegation pertaining to Kalassay is that he only saw
Enriquez standing by the vehicle when he (Kalassay) observed the narcotics in
the vehicle.  Enriquez explained during
his IAB interview that Kalassay came out to look at the narcotics he had found
in the car.  AR 992.  This does not contradict Enriquez’s statement
that Lopez had not yet been taken into the station when he (Enriquez) noticed
the drugs.  Pet. Op. Br. at 12.  The court agrees that Kalassay’s statement
does not contradict Enriquez; it is a question of timing and Kalassay could
have come out to see the narcotics after Lopez was taken in for booking.
Finally,
the County argues that Enriquez
and Kalassay made contradictory statements as to who maintained custody of the
narcotics, who booked the narcotics, and when they were booked. Enriquez told Attorney
Beck that he booked the narcotics before the NST left for the roll back parole
search.  AR 1798.  In contrast, Kalassay told IAB that he took
possession of the drugs, walked back into the station and confronted Lopez in
an interview room.  AR 1090-91.  He then gave them to Enriquez or someone else
to book.  AR 1092.  When Attorney Beck confronted Enriquez with
the evidence labels for the booking of the narcotics showing that Kalassay
booked the narcotics at 11:25 p.m. and 11:26 p.m. (AR 1853-54), Enriquez stated
that Kalassay may have helped with the booking.  AR 1802.  Enriquez and Kalassay admitted they did not
document the chain of custody of the seized narcotics, as required by policy.[7]  Opp. at 9.
The court does not find the statements of Kalassay and
Enriquez to be inconsistent.  Kalassay
had possession of the drugs and had someone else book them.  This person may have been Enriquez.  Further, Kalassay also made
contradictory statements about the narcotics. 
During his June 7, 2012 interview, Kalassay stated that he saw a
partially unwrapped package on the floor of Enriquez’s vehicle but was unable
to discern its contents: “It just looks like toilet paper wrapped around the
hand…”  AR 1083-84.  He continued: “I surmised that it was dope,
but I couldn’t confirm it until we opened it up and took a look[.]”  AR 1084.  During his September 25, 2013 interview,
Kalassay stated that the package was “already unwrapped and the Kleenex and
dope were still sitting on the floorboard….” AR 1934.  Pet. Op. Br. at 12-13; Reply at 3-4.
Nonetheless, Enriquez’ argument is dependent on the truth of
his position that he transported Lopez in his patrol vehicle.  If she was not in his vehicle, she could not
have been standing by it when Enriquez observed narcotics behind the front
seat.  Enriquez
testified in his civil deposition consistently with his Incident
Report and PCDs that he discovered the narcotics in his patrol car while Lopez
stood by his car, after he arrived at CRDF at 8:43 p.m.  Enriquez told Attorney Beck he took custody of
the narcotics, walked with Lopez into the booking front at CRDF, and booked the
narcotics himself. AR 1798-99, 1809-10.  Lopez’s
booking slip states she was booked for possession of narcotics for sale at 8:50
p.m.  AR 1507.  Opp. at 9. 
Since the court concludes that Lopez was not in Enriquez’ vehicle when
she arrived at CRDF, it follows that she was not standing by the vehicle when
he discovered the narcotics.  Enriquez
also did not meet Department standards in documenting the discovery of
narcotics.  
The
weight of the evidence supports Enriquez’s guilt on Charge 1, Allegation (l)
and Charge 2, Allegation (f).  He failed
to meet work standards in documenting the discovery of narcotics in his patrol
vehicle and also falsely stated that he located the narcotics in his car while
Lopez stood by the car.  
Charge 2,
Allegation (b)
Charge 2, Allegation (b) was that Enriquez made false
statements in the Department’s internal investigation and his submitted reports
because he stated in his deposition to Attorney Beck that his name was on
Lopez’ booking slip because he completed her booking process.  Yet, during his IAB interview, he stated that
he did not complete Lopez’ booking slip.
           The booking slips for Amarillas (AR 1502) and Lopez
(AR 1507) both state that Enriquez was the arresting, transporting, and booking
deputy.  
           Sgt. Hannemann testified that
booking slips should include the names of each deputy who participated in the
booking process, but more often than not the person filling it out makes a
“line across,” indicating that one person performed all the functions even if
they did not. AR 2361-62.  Consistent
with this testimony, Deputy Martinez stated during his IAB interview that he
filled out Lopez’s booking slip on behalf of Enriquez.  AR 1156. 
Martinez explained that he was trained to fill in the arresting
officer’s name, and then draw a line across the remaining boxes -- i.e.,
booking, searching, and transporting employee. 
AR 1154-55.  Pet. Op. Br. at 14.
           Enriquez
testified during the hearing that when Attorney Beck showed him Lopez’s booking
slip, he saw that his name was on the line for “arresting deputy,” “booking
deputy,” “transporting deputy,” and “searching deputy.”  AR 3099. 
Attorney Beck had asked Enriquez in the deposition if he recognized his
handwriting on the booking slip, and Enriquez responded that it “looks like
it.”  AR 3099-100.  
           In
contrast, Enriquez testified at his administrative hearing that his handwriting
was not on the booking slip except for the portion on which the charge was
written.  AR 3119.  Enriquez testified that the entire NST helped
with the booking process.  AR 3005.  Enriquez explained that his statements during
his IAB interview about the booking slip—which tracked his testimony at the
hearing—were more accurate than his deposition testimony.  AR 3144. 
Prior to the deposition, he only had reviewed his arrest report and was
unfamiliar with the other documents.  AR
3145.  Attorney Beck’s deposition
questioning also was incredibly antagonistic. 
AR 1830, 2097.  Enriquez argues
that it is understandable that he might not have been able to think clearly at
his deposition.  Pet. Op. Br. at 14-15;
Reply at 5.
           The County argues that, as a deputy
sheriff, Enriquez was required to accurately represent his actions during the
arrest, transportation, and booking of Lopez and Amarillas. Enriquez
acknowledged to Attorney Beck that booking slips are meant to be factually
correct. AR 1813.  Detective Kalassay
acknowledged in his IAB interview that it is important to ensure details are
correct when submitting cases. AR 1927.  
At his deposition, Enriquez affirmed to Attorney Beck that he was the
deputy who arrested and transported Lopez and completed her booking process.  AR 1812. Yet, when Enriquez was interviewed by
IAB, he denied that his writing was on Lopez’s booking slip, and he did not
know who filled it out.[8]  Sloppiness
or a bad habit is not a legal excuse for submitting false and misleading
booking documentation.  If Enriquez was uncertain who
completed the booking slip, even after reviewing it, he cannot reasonably
expect that anyone reviewing Lopez’s booking slip to know who filed it out.  See AR 2368-69.  Opp. at 9-10.
           The County adds that Enriquez and Detective Kalassay both testified that
the errors in the booking paperwork were caused because the NST members were
working hastily. Enriquez, however, had more than enough time to accurately complete the booking
paperwork.  That task was the only task
he performed after he arrived at CDRF at 8:43 p.m. until he left for the parole
search of Amarillas’ and Lopez’s apartment at approximately 10:30 p.m.  Amarillas’ booking slip was completed at 8:45
p.m. and Lopez’s booking slip was completed at 8:50 p.m. Enriquez clearly had
enough time to ensure the booking paperwork was accurate.  Opp. at 11.
           Finally, Kalassay also testified that
any errors could be corrected through testimony at a criminal hearing or trial.
However, Department policy requires that all reports and official documentation
be accurate. Neither Enriquez nor Kalassay corrected the Arrest Report, PCDs, or
booking documentation before the criminal case against Lopez was
dismissed.  Opp. at 11.
           Enriquez notes (Pet. Op Br. at 14)
that it is obvious that the booking information is not accurate because Enriquez
could not have transported both Amarillas and Lopez and he could did
have searched Lopez under Department policy. 
AR 2990.  Enriquez argues that, although
he submitted both booking slips, he was
not representing that “he was the arresting, transporting, and booking deputy
for both suspects.”  Reply at 4-5.  
           Whether or not Enriquez was not representing that he
performed all stated tasks, the sloppiness or bad habit in preparing the
booking form is attributable to the practice testified to by Sgt. Hannemann
and as fulfilled by Deputy Martinez.  The
booking slips were a group effort and were inaccurately filled out, but they were not a false statement by Enriquez.
 
Charge 2, Allegation (c)
Charge 2, Allegation (c) was that Enriquez made false
statements in the Department’s internal investigation and his submitted reports
because he did not complete the additional charge sheet for Lopez even though
his name was on it.
The County argues that Enriquez told Attorney Beck at his
deposition that it “looked like” his handwriting was on the booking slip for
Lopez. AR 1812.  He subsequently told IAB
that he did not complete the additional charge sheet for Lopez, even though his
name was on it.  AR 962.  Again, the County argues that the deputies
assigned to Century station had a bad habit of not accurately completing
booking slips and that sloppiness or a bad habit is not a legal excuse for
submitting false and misleading booking documentation.  Nor would any reader of the booking paperwork
know that it was a collaborative effort of the NST.  Opp. at 10.
Enriquez points out that there is no evidence that the
additional charge sheet contains a false statement, and the Hearing Officer
made no finding on this charge.  Enriquez
stated during his administrative interview that it was not his handwriting on
the additional charge slip and he did not know who filled out the form.  AR 1034. 
It is likely that his name was on the charge sheet for the same reason
his name was on Lopez’s booking slip; he was the arresting officer.  See AR 1154-55.  Pet. Op. Br. at 15-16.  
The court agrees. 
Enriquez did not make a false statement on the additional charge sheet.
 
Charge 2, Allegation (d)
Charge 2, Allegation (d) was that Enriquez made false
statements in the Department’s internal investigation and his submitted reports
because Deputy Martinez told IAB investigators that he completed Lopez’ booking
slip.
The County argues that Deputy Martinez told IAB
investigators that he completed Lopez’s booking slip and wrote Enriquez’s name
on it because Enriquez was the handling deputy. AR 1163-64.  Because Deputy Martinez’s name does not appear
on Lopez’s booking slip, no one reviewing Lopez’s booking paperwork would know
he completed it.  Opp. at 10.
This is true, but that fact does not make a false statement
by Enriquez.  As discussed supra, Enriquez
testified in his civil deposition that the handwriting “looked like” his, but that
was not his testimony at hearing.   He told IAB investigators and testified at the
administrative hearing that he did not fill out Lopez’s booking slip.  AR 3119.  See AR 3144.  Pet. Op. Br. at 16.
There is nothing false about Enriquez’ testimony concerning Deputy
Martinez’ completion of the booking slip.
 
Charge 2, Allegation (e)
Charge 2, Allegation (e) was that Enriquez made false
statements in the Department’s internal investigation and his submitted reports
because Deputy Slagle stated that he completed the medical questionnaire
and assessment booking forms for Lopez.
The County argues that, even though Enriquez claimed he
booked Lopez, Deputy Slagle’s name is listed on Lopez’s medical questionnaire
and medical assessment forms. AR 1509, 1511. Deputy Slagle told IAB that he
completed the forms. AR 1273-74.  Opp. at
10.
This charge does not allege any false statement by
Enriquez.  There was no testimony that the arresting deputy must also fill out the
medical questionnaire and assessment forms and Enriquez never claimed that he
filled out Lopez’s medical forms.  It
was noted during Enriquez’s IAB interview that Deputy Slagle’s name was on the
medical questionnaire and Enriquez said it was not his handwriting.  AR 1034-35. 
The County cites no evidence that he made false statements regarding
Lopez’s medical questionnaire in the Department’s internal investigation or in
submitted reports.  Pet. Op. Br. at 16; Reply at 5.
Enriquez made no false statement about Lopez’ medical
questionnaire.
 
3. The Penalty
The propriety of a
penalty imposed by an administrative agency is a matter in the discretion of
the agency, and its decision may not be disturbed unless there has been a
manifest abuse of discretion.  Lake, supra, 47 Cal.App.3d at
228.  In determining whether there has been an abuse of discretion, the
court must examine the extent of the harm to the public service, the
circumstances surrounding the misconduct, and the likelihood that such conduct
will recur.  Skelly, supra, 15 Cal.3d at 217-18. 
Neither an appellate court nor a trial court is free to substitute its
discretion for that of the administrative agency concerning the degree of
punishment imposed.  Nightingale, supra, 7 Cal.3d at 515.

Enriquez acknowledges that he made some mistakes in
his documentary reports concerning the arrests and bookings of Amarillas and
Lopez, as well as in his deposition for Lopez’s civil lawsuit. He contends that
these errors do not support the discipline of termination.  In his performance evaluation from April 2008
through April 2009, Enriquez received a rating of “Very Good.”  AR 602, 604. 
He also earned a “Very good” rating in his evaluation from April 2009
through April 2010, the period which encompasses the incident at issue.  AR 596, 599. 
Subsequently, Enriquez was rated “Outstanding” in his performance
evaluation for April 2010 through April 2011. 
AR 591.  Pet. Op. Br. at 11-18.
Enriquez’s performance evaluations and his minimal
prior discipline show that it would be out of character for him to engage in
the alleged misconduct.  The Department
presented no motive why Enriquez, who was not the investigating officer, would plant
narcotics in his vehicle or make false statements regarding the arrests and
bookings of Amarillas and Lopez.  Any
discrepancies between Enriquez’s reports and his statements during his
interview or deposition, both of which took place approximately three years
after the incident, did not rise to the level of dishonesty.  See County of Siskiyou v. State
Personnel Bd., (2010) 188 Cal. App. 4th 1606, 1616.  Pet. Op. Br. at 18; Reply at 9.
Those allegations that were
proved -- Enriquez was criminally charged with perjury, he switched Amarillas
and Lopez from his vehicle without documenting it, and permitted others to
complete the booking information -- should not lead to Enriquez’s termination.  These are issues for which a lesser discipline
is appropriate, if at all, especially since Enriquez had only sustained one
three-day suspension in his 14 years with the Department.  Enriquez has no history of dishonesty, he has
not “repeatedly engaged in dishonest conduct” as the Department claims, and he will
likely not engage in dishonest conduct in the future because he did not do so
here.  Nor did Enriquez harm the public
trust, as he did not make intentionally false statements.  The Department did not prove the most
damning allegations against Enriquez, and those that are true should not lead
to his termination.  Reply at 9-10.
The
County relies on the testimony of Acting Chief April Tardy (“Tardy”) testimony
that discharge is the appropriate decision.  Tardy agreed with Chief Kevin Goran, who
signed the Notice of Discharge, that Enriquez should be discharged. Tardy
testified that Enriquez’s conflicting reports and statements, as well as his
arrest for perjury, demonstrated his lack of truthfulness during the arrest,
transportation, booking and documentation for Amarillas and Lopez. Tardy
testified that discharge was within the range of recommended discipline in the
Department’s Guidelines. AR 716-7.  Certain
acts of misconduct, including dishonesty, are appropriate for discharge without
progressive discipline.  Opp. at 14.
“A deputy sheriff’s job is a position of trust and the
public has a right to the highest standard of behavior from those they invest
with the power and authority of a law enforcement officer. Honesty, credibility
and temperament are crucial to the proper performance of an officer’s duties.
Dishonesty is incompatible with the public trust.” Talmo v. Civil Service
Com., (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 210, 231.  Enriquez’s dishonesty renders him unsuitable
for employment as a peace officer. His dishonesty forfeited the trust of
the Department and the public. The public is not well served by dishonest peace
officers. Because Enriquez repeatedly entered false documentation in official
Department records it is highly likely his misconduct would recur if he were
returned to his position.  He harmed the
public service provided by the Department when he submitted a false Incident
Report and false PCDs for Lopez and Amarillas, and then made numerous false
statements in his IAB interview. Discharge is the appropriate discipline.  Opp. at 14-15.
           Some allegations in the Notice of
Discharge simply were not proved. The sloppiness in
preparing the booking forms is attributable to the practice testified to by
Sgt. Hannemann
and as fulfilled by Deputy Martinez.  The
booking slips were a group effort and were inaccurately filled out, but they were not a false statement by Enriquez.  Enriquez
also did not make a false statement on the additional charge sheet, he made no
false statement about Lopez’ medical questionnaire, and there is nothing false
about Enriquez’ testimony concerning Deputy Martinez’ completion of the booking
slip.
Finally, Enriquez
wrote in the Incident Report that Amarillas and Lopez refused to provide a
urine sample, but he was entitled to rely on Detective Kalassay in doing
so.  
           Other allegations in the Notice of Discharge were proved
but would not by themselves support discharge.  Enriquez failed to adhere to the work standards for his position when he was criminally
charged with two felony counts of perjury.  However, he was never found guilty in the
criminal case.  The court does not find
that Enriquez planted a baggie of
methamphetamine in the vehicle and therefore did not make false statements in
the Incident Report and PCD about Amarillas’ possession of narcotics for
sale.  Enriquez is guilty of failed to adhere to the work
standards for his position by stating on the booking
medical questionnaire that Amarillas was not under the influence of a controlled
substance, but this error favored no one except Amarillas and was not an
intentionally false statement.  
However,
the weight of the evidence shows that Enriquez did not transport Lopez and that
he lied about doing so.  He further failed
to meet work standards in documenting the discovery of narcotics in his patrol
vehicle, and he falsely stated that he located the narcotics in his patrol car
while Lopez stood by the vehicle.  The
court accepts that a baggie of methamphetamine was found in the vehicle, and the
result is that a criminal case was filed against Lopez that should not have
been filed.  Enriquez’s dishonesty harmed
both Lopez and the Department.  
Enriquez’s
motivation for lying about Lopez is unclear. 
Once he stated in his Incident Report that he transported Lopez and
found the baggies of methamphetamine after she got out of his vehicle (AR 370),
however, he apparently was stuck.  The
rest flowed from there.  In any event, the
court is not required to find evidence of motive where the allegation is
established by the weight of the evidence.
Despite
the fact that a number of allegations were not proved or are by themselves insufficient,
the dishonesty that was shown clearly supports the Commission’s decision to
uphold Enriquez’s discharge.  There is no
reason to remand because there is no basis for the court to conclude that the
Commission would reach any different result.
 
E. Conclusion
The Petition is denied. 
The County’s’ counsel is ordered to prepare a proposed judgment, serve
it on Enriquez’s counsel for approval as to form, wait ten days after service
for any objections, meet and confer if there are objections, and then submit
the proposed judgment along with a declaration stating the
existence/non-existence of any unresolved objections.  An OSC re: judgment is set for August 1, 2024
at 9:30 a.m.


