 Case Number:  YC072873    Hearing Date:   November 20, 2024    Dept:  8  Tentative RulingHEARING DATE: November 20, 2024CASE NUMBER: YC072873CASE NAME: Anna Mezheritsky v. Dorothy Kovich Klein, et al.MOVING PARTY: Cross-Defendant, LaToya S. Redd dba Redd LawRESPONDING PARTY: Cross-Complainant, Liberty Mutual InsuranceTRIAL DATE: Not Set.MOTION: (1) Demurrer(2) Motion to StrikeTentative Rulings: (1) Discuss. The Court granted the motion for interpleader but has not ordered the discharge of any party nor ordered that the settlement can be paid in a lump sum to Ms. Mezheritsky. The Court will discuss with counsel what mechanism will be used to enable Liberty Mutual to interplead the funds and to have the competing claimants against the settlement funds to resolve their claims. The Court tentatively OVERRULES the Demurrer as the Court finds the interpleader states facts sufficient for a cause of action, and an actual controversy is sufficiently alleged as between or among the claimants to the moneys sufficient to state a declaratory relief claim.(2) MootedI. BACKGROUNDA. FactualOn September 13, 2023, this Court granted a Motion to Enforce the Settlement agreement the parties agreed upon during mediation. The Court ordered: Dorothy’s attorney, Marc S. Feldman contact the insurance carrier and request a single cashier’s check in the amount of $200,000, to be payable to the Plaintiff Anna Mezheritsky and each of the following lienholders: (1) Harris Law; (2) Redd Law; (3) Robin Bernhoft, M.D.; (4) Los Angeles Superior Court; (5) Medical; and (6) Medicare.On June 18, 2024, Plaintiff-in-Intervention, Liberty Mutual Insurance (“Liberty”) filed a complaint in intervention against Defendants-in-Intervention, Harris Law, Redd Law, Robin Bernhoft, M.D., Los Angeles County Superior Court, Medicaid, Medicare, and DOES 1 through 50. The complaint-in-intervention alleges one cause of action for Declaratory Relief.Now, defendant-in-intervention, LaToya S. Redd dba Redd Law (“Redd”) filed a demurrer and motion to strike to the complaint in intervention. Redd also filed a motion entitled, “Notice of Motion and Motion for Order of Interpleader Authorizing Deposit of the Funds with the Court.”B. ProceduralOn August 19, 2024, Redd filed a Motion to Strike. On August 20, 2024, Redd filed a demurrer to the complaint in intervention. To date, no opposition has been filed.This motion was originally up for hearing on September 20, 2024 when this court CONTINUED it.On August 21, 2024, Redd filed the Motion for Order of Interpleader Authorizing Deposit of the Funds with the Court.On November 4, 2024, Redd filed a Declaration in support of her Demurrer. On November 7, 2024, Redd filed another Declaration in Support of her Demurrer.On November 8, 2024, this court heard and GRANTED Defendant, Dorothy Kovich Klein and Plaintiff-in-Intervention, Liberty Mutual Insurance’s Motion to File Interpleader of Funds, Discharge of Liability and Recovery of Attorneys’ Fees and Costs.II. REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICEWith Redd’s moving papers, Redd requested this Court take judicial notice of the following:1. Exhibit A - a true and correct copy of the Court’s June 7, 2024 Minute Order in the above-captioned matter.2. Exhibit B - a true and correct copy of Declaration of LaToya S. Redd, Esq. Re: Filing of Lawsuit Against Defendants and Their Counsel for Infringing Attorney Lien.3. Exhibit C - a true and correct copy of Declaration of LaToya S. Redd, Esq. in Lieu of Any Opposition to Defendants’ Motion to Enforce Settlement and Status of Filing of Lawsuit Against Defendants and Their Counsel for Infringing Attorney Lien.4. Exhibit D - a true and correct copy of Declaration of Christian F. Lamond Re: Submitted Order Re: Defendants Dorothy Kovich Klein and Thomas Kovich’s Motion to Enforce Settlement.5. Exhibit F - a true and correct copy of the Court’s July 14, 2023 Minute Order in the above-captioned matter. Pursuant to California Evidence Code §§ 452(h) and California Rule of Court 3.1113(l), Plaintiff LaToya S. Redd requests that the court take judicial notice of:6. Exhibit E - a true and correct copy of relevant portions of Tyson and Mendes, LLP’s responses to LaToya S. Redd’s request for production of documents, set one, in the case Redd v. Feldman, et al., Los Angeles Superior Court Case No. 23STCV31118.The Court GRANTS this request and takes judicial notice of the above.III. ANALYSISA. Demurreri. Legal StandardA demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) “To survive a demurrer, the complaint need only allege facts sufficient to state a cause of action; each evidentiary fact that might eventually form part of the plaintiff’s proof need not be alleged.” (C.A. v. William S. Hart Union High School Dist. (2012) 53 Cal.4th 861, 872.) For the purpose of testing the sufficiency of the cause of action, the demurrer admits the truth of all material facts properly pleaded. (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 966-967.) A demurrer “does not admit contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.” (Daar v. Yellow Cab Co. (1967) 67 Cal.2d 695, 713.)¿¿¿A pleading is uncertain if it is ambiguous or unintelligible. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (f).) A demurrer for uncertainty may lie if the failure to label the parties and claims renders the complaint so confusing defendant cannot tell what he or she is supposed to respond to.¿ (Williams v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 135, 139, fn. 2.) However, “[a] demurrer for uncertainty is strictly construed, even where a complaint is in some respects uncertain, because ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery procedures.” (Khoury v. Maly's of California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)ii. DiscussionRedd demurred to Liberty’s first cause of action in its complaint-in-intervention on the grounds that she argues it failed to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action against Defendant-in-Intervention, Redd.1. Meet and Confer RequirementPreviously, this court found that Redd’s meet and confer efforts were insufficient. Since then, on both November 4, 2024 and November 7, 2024, Redd has filed declaration in support of her demurrer which detail her meet and confer efforts.2. Declaratory ReliefRedd argues that the complaint-in-intervention fails to state sufficient facts to constitute a cause of action for declaratory relief as she argues: (1) the intervention is untimely and inappropriate as rendition of the judgment for settlement has already been rendered, (2) Liberty Mutual Insurance Company lacks standing, (3) the alleged controversy can be determined as a matter of law without declaratory relief, and, (4) an adequate remedy exists (interpleading the funds or depositing settlement funds with the Court) making declaratory relief unnecessary and improper.“To qualify for declaratory relief, a party would have to demonstrate its action presented two essential elements: (1) a proper subject of declaratory relief, and (2) an actual controversy involving justiciable questions relating to the party’s rights or obligations.” (Jolley v. Chase Home Finance, LLC (2013) 213 Cal.App.4th 872, 909, quotation marks and brackets omitted.) A cause of action for declaratory relief should not be used as a second cause of action for the determination of identical issues raised in another cause of action. (General of America Insurance Co. v. Lilly (1968) 258 Cal.App.2d 465, 470.) “The availability of another form of relief that is adequate will usually justify refusal to grant declaratory relief” (California Insurance Guarantee Association v. Superior Court (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 1617, 1624), and a duplicative cause of action is subject to demurrer (Palm Springs Villas II Homeowners Association, Inc. v. Parth (2016) 248 Cal.App.4th 268, 290). Further, “there is no basis for declaratory relief where only past wrongs are involved.” (Osseous Technologies of America, Inc. v. DiscoveryOrtho Partners LLC (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 357, 366, quotation marks omitted.)As of November 8, 2024, this court has GRANTED Liberty’s Motion to File Interpleader of Funds, Discharge of Liability, and Recovery of Attorneys Fees and Costs. Liberty’s complaint-in-intervention asked this court for a judicial determination of its rights and duties as Liberty expressed a duty to pay a settlement amount to the plaintiff, and desired to fulfill its duty. (Complaint-in-Intervention, ¶ 14.) However, Liberty expressed that the only possible way to pay the settlement check is to pay the settlement to Anna Mezheritsky alone, and that issues pertaining to the satisfaction of any and all liens be determined by this court. (Complaint-in-Intervention, ¶ 14.) Thus, the complaint-in-intervention sought a declaration that a single check could be paid to Anna Mezheritsky alone. (Complaint-in-Intervention, ¶ 14.) The Court has not made that determination, but invites argument as to what that mechanism should be so that the various claimants can obtain resolution of distribution of the settlement amounts. Thus, the Demurrer is overruled as facts sufficient to state a cause of action are alleged.B. Motion to Strikei. Legal StandardAny party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the whole or any part thereof. (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(1).) The court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a); Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767, 782 [“Matter in a pleading which is not essential to the claim is surplusage; probative facts are surplusage and may be stricken out or disregarded”].) The court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with California law, a court rule, or an order of the court. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (b).) An immaterial or irrelevant allegation is one that is not essential to the statement of a claim or defense; is neither pertinent to nor supported by an otherwise sufficient claim or defense; or a demand for judgment requesting relief not supported by the allegations of the complaint. (Code Civ. Proc., § 431.10, subd. (b).) The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437.)¿¿ii. DiscussionThe Court notes that because Redd’s Motion to Strike Portions of the complaint-in-intervention, is inherently intertwined with the demurrer, and since the Demurrer is overruled, the motion to strike is MOOTED.