  Case Number:  23STCV05240    Hearing Date:   October 11, 2023    Dept:  57 The operative pleading of Plaintiff Ori Blumenfeld, the verified First Amendment Complaint ("the VFAC"), names Brooke Mason, Payam Pedram, 732 N. Vista St. LLC, and 1102 Good 25 Karma LLC as the Defendants.  All of the allegations in the VFAC are based on Blumenfeld's "information and belief."   According to the allegations in the VFAC, Blumenfeld and Mason were in a romantic relationship and had a child together.  Furthermore, it is alleged that Mason fraudulently induced Blumenfeld to invest money in property that Mason owned located at 732 N. Vista St. in Los Angeles ("the Property") in exchange for giving Blumenfeld a 1/3 interest in the Property, but then Mason fled the country with the couple's child and fraudulently transferred her 2/3 interest in the Property to Pedram, 732 N. Vista St. LLC, and 1102 Good 25 Karma LLC (collectively, "the Pedram Defendants"). Pending before the Court is a motion to strike ("the Motion") filed by the Pedram Defendants.  The Motion seeks an order striking in their entirety all of the allegations in the VFAC.  The premise of the Motion is that Code of Civil Procedure Section 446, which governs verified complaints, precludes a plaintiff from alleging facts in a verified complaint based on the plaintiff's information and belief when those facts actually are within the plaintiff's own knowledge.  That premise has long roots in California precedent.  (E.g., North v. Cecil B. De Mille Productions, Inc.  (1934) 2 Cal.2d 55, 59; Thompson v. Sutton (1942) 50 Cal.App.2d 272, 279.)  The premise would seem to apply to the allegations in the VFAC related to Mason.  After all, Blumenfeld alleges that he and Mason were romantic partners, had a child together, and entered into a transaction related to the Property.  Presumably, those allegations are within Blumenfeld's personal knowledge and thus cannot be made based on his information and belief.    The rub for the Pedram Defendants is that the premise does not apply to the allegations in the VFAC related to Blumenfeld's claims against them. There is nothing in the VFAC to indicate that Blumenfeld necessarily has personal knowledge of the transaction between Mason and the Pedram Defendants.  Thus, the allegations in the VFAC as to the Pedram Defendants may be predicated on Blumenfeld's information and belief without running afoul of Section 446.  In the Court's view, the Pedram Defendants do not have standing to seek an order striking the allegations in the VFAC made on information and belief as to Blumenfeld's relationship with Mason.  That is something that Mason could have taken up.  (She is in default, having not timely responded at all to the VFAC.)   The Pedram Defendants cite no authority that would allow them to stand in Mason's shoes and request the striking of allegations in the VFAC related to Mason that are based on Blumenfeld's information and belief when it was appropriate for Blumenfeld to make the allegations related to the Pedram Defendants based on his information and belief.  