 Case Number:  23SMCV05558    Hearing Date:   January 31, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


January 31, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23SMCV05558




MOTIONS


Demurrer and Motion to Strike Portions of the Complaint




MOVING PARTY


Defendant Select Portfolio Servicing




OPPOSING PARTY


(none)



 
MOTIONS
 
Defendant Select Portfolio Servicing (“Defendant”) demurs to all three
causes of action alleged in Plaintiff Allen Dwight Moyer’s (“Plaintiff”)
Complaint for failure to state a cause of action pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 430.10, subdivision (e). 

 
Defendant also moves to strike allegations regarding emotional
distress and attorneys’ fees, as well as allegations for “damages” under the third
cause of action for unfair business practices. 
The motions are unopposed.
 
REQUEST
FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
            Defendant requests the Court to take
judicial notice of the following documents:
 
1.     
Deed of Trust recorded December 21, 2021 in Official
Records Los Angeles County Recorder’s Office as Document Number 20211893005.
 
2.     
Notice of Default recorded July 31, 2023 in Official
Records Los Angeles County Recorder’s Office as Document Number 20230502886.
 
3.     
Notice of Trustee’s Sale recorded November 1, 2023 in
Official Records Los Angeles County Recorder’s Office as Document Number
20230748246.
 
4.     
Complaint filed December 1, 2023 regarding Allen
Dwight Moyer v. Select Portfolio Servicing, Inc., Superior Court of the
State of California, Santa Clara County, Case No. 23CV426813.
 
With respect to the first
three documents, courts can take judicial notice of the existence and
recordation of real property records, including deeds, if authenticity is not
reasonably disputed.  (Fontenot v.
Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 256, 264-265.)  “The official act of recordation and the
common use of a notary public in the execution of such documents assure their
reliability, and the maintenance of the documents in the recorder’s office
makes their existence and text capable of ready confirmation, thereby placing
such documents beyond reasonable dispute.” 
(Ibid.)  Moreover, courts
can take judicial notice not only of the existence and recordation of recorded
documents but also matters that can be deduced from the documents, including
the parties, dates, and legal consequences of recorded documents relating to
real estate transactions.  (Ibid.)
 
Here, each of the recorded
documents bears the stamp of the recorder and of a notary public.  Therefore, the Court grants Defendant’s
request and takes judicial notice of these documents and the legal effect
thereof, but not the truth of the matters asserted therein.
 
With respect to the complaint,
judicial notice may be taken of records of any court in this state.  (Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (d)(1).)  Because the complaint is part of the record
for the Superior Court of the State of California, Santa Clara County, the
Court may take judicial notice of it.  (Ibid.)   However, “while courts are free to take
judicial notice of the existence of each document in a court file, including
the truth of results reached, they may not take judicial notice of the truth of
hearsay statements in decisions and court files.  Courts may not take judicial notice of
allegations in affidavits, declarations and probation reports in court records
because such matters are reasonably subject to dispute and therefore require
formal proof.”  (Lockley v. Law Office
of Cantrell, Green, Pekich, Cruz & McCort (2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 875,
882 [cleaned up].)  Accordingly, the
Court takes judicial notice of the existence of the complaint filed in Santa
Clara, but not the truth of the allegations contained therein.
 
ANALYSIS
 
1.      DEMURRER
 
“It is black letter law that a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of
the allegations in a complaint.”  (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015)
235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  In testing the sufficiency of a cause of
action, a court accepts “[a]s true all material facts properly pled and matters
which may be judicially noticed but disregard contentions, deductions or
conclusions of fact or law.  [A court
also gives] the complaint a reasonable interpretation, reading it as a whole
and its parts in their context.”  (290
Division (EAT), LLC v. City & County of San Francisco (2022) 86
Cal.App.5th 439, 450 [cleaned up]; Hacker v. Homeward Residential, Inc.
(2018) 26 Cal.App.5th 270, 280 [“in considering the merits of a demurrer,
however, “the facts alleged in the pleading are deemed to be true, however
improbable they may be”].)
 
Further, in ruling on a demurrer, a court must “liberally construe”
the allegations of the complaint “with a view to substantial justice between
the parties.”  (See Code Civ. Proc., §
452.)  “This rule of liberal construction
means that the reviewing court draws inferences favorable to the plaintiff, not
the defendant.”  (Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist. (2012) 209
Cal.App.4th 1228, 1238.)   
 
In summary, “[d]etermining whether the complaint is sufficient as
against the demurrer on the ground that it does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action, the rule is that if one consideration of all the
facts stated it appears the plaintiff is entitled to any relief at the hands of
the court against the defendants the complaint will be held good although the
facts may not be clearly stated, or may be intermingled with a statement of
other facts irrelevant to the cause of action shown, or although the plaintiff
may demand relief to which he is not entitled under the facts alleged.”  (Gressley v. Williams (1961) 193
Cal.App.2d 636, 639.)
 
A.   
FAILURE TO STATE A CAUSE OF ACTION
 
                                                                   
i.           
First Cause
of Action – Violation of Civil Code § 2923.7
 
Civil Code section 2923.7
provides, in relevant portion:
 
(a) When
a borrower requests a foreclosure prevention alternative, the mortgage servicer
shall promptly establish a single point of contact and provide to the borrower
one or more direct means of communication with the single point of contact.
 
(b) The
single point of contact shall be responsible for doing all of the following:
 
(1)
Communicating the process by which a borrower may apply for an available
foreclosure prevention alternative and the deadline for any required
submissions to be considered for these options.
 
(2)
Coordinating receipt of all documents associated with available foreclosure
prevention alternatives and notifying the borrower of any missing documents
necessary to complete the application.
 
(3)
Having access to current information and personnel sufficient to timely,
accurately, and adequately inform the borrower of the current status of the
foreclosure prevention alternative.
 
(4)
Ensuring that a borrower is considered for all foreclosure prevention
alternatives offered by, or through, the mortgage servicer, if any.
 
(5)
Having access to individuals with the ability and authority to stop foreclosure
proceedings when necessary.
 
(c) The
single point of contact shall remain assigned to the borrower’s account until
the mortgage servicer determines that all loss mitigation options offered by,
or through, the mortgage servicer have been exhausted or the borrower’s account
becomes current.
 
(d) The
mortgage servicer shall ensure that a single point of contact refers and
transfers a borrower to an appropriate supervisor upon request of the borrower,
if the single point of contact has a supervisor.
 
(e) For
purposes of this section, “single point of contact” means an individual or team
of personnel each of whom has the ability and authority to perform the
responsibilities described in subdivisions (b) to (d), inclusive. The mortgage
servicer shall ensure that each member of the team is knowledgeable about the
borrower’s situation and current status in the alternatives to foreclosure
process.
 
Defendant argues that
Plaintiff’s first cause of action fails because (1) Plaintiff does not satisfy the
criteria outlined in Section 2924.15; (2) Plaintiff did not plead with
requisite specificity; and (3) Plaintiff does not allege facts that any claimed
violation was material.
 
Section 2924.15 Criteria
 
Civil Code section 2924.15
provides, in relevant portion:
 
(a)
Unless otherwise provided, paragraph (5) of subdivision (a) of Section 2924 and
Sections 2923.5, 2923.55, 2923.6, 2923.7, 2924.9, 2924.10, 2924.11, and 2924.18
shall apply only to a first lien mortgage or deed of trust that meets either of
the following conditions:
 
(1)(A)
The first lien mortgage or deed of trust is secured by owner-occupied
residential real property containing no more than four dwelling units.
 
(B) For
purposes of this paragraph, “owner-occupied” means that the property is the
principal residence of the borrower and is security for a loan made for
personal, family, or household purposes.
 
(Civ.
Code, § 2924.15, subd. (a)(1)(A)-(B).)
 
            The Complaint alleges:
 
12. Plaintiff ALLEN DWIGHT MOYER (“Plaintiff”) at
all relevant times, has owned the Property located at 4535 Alta Tupelo Drive,
Calabasas, CA 91302 (the “Subject Property”). The Subject Property is a
single-family-home with less than four dwelling units and has served as
Plaintiff’s residence for the times mentioned herein. 
 
13. Plaintiff has owned the Property since
December 2021 and he lives therein with his longtime significant other. To
purchase the Property, Plaintiff obtained a first position mortgage against the
property and concurrently executed a Deed of Trust as security for the note.
Defendant SPS is the current servicer of this first lien mortgage and was the
mortgage servicer of the loan at all relevant times herein.
 
28. At all times relevant, Plaintiff was the
owner of the Property and resided therein as his principal place of residence.
 
(Complaint
¶¶ 12-13, 28.)
 
            Defendant
contends that, despite these allegations, the property at issue is not in
fact Plaintiff’s principal place of residence, because “Plaintiff very
recently represented in a Complaint filed in the Superior Court of the State of
California, Santa Clara County, No. 23CV426813 that he resides at 12300
Highland Estates, San Marin, California 95046. [RJN, Ex. “4”, pars. 2, 8,
12.]”  (Demurrer at p. 3.)
 
            While
the Court has taken judicial notice of the existence of the Santa Clara
complaint, the Court cannot take judicial notice of the truth of any
allegations contained therein. 
Therefore, there are no judicially noticeable facts to rebut the
allegations in the complaint that the property at issue is Plaintiff’s
principal place of residence.
 
Specificity
 
Where a statutory scheme is
not based on preexisting common law, the “facts in support of each of the
requirements of [the] statute upon which a cause of action is based must be
specifically pled.”  (Fisher v. San
Pedro Peninsula Hospital (1989) 214 Cal.App.3d 590, 604; G.H.I.I. v.
MTS, Inc. (1983) 147 Cal.App.3d 256, 273-274.)  
 
Here, Defendant contends Plaintiff
fails to allege the first cause of action with requisite specificity because (1)
“Plaintiff’s general allegation that he was unable to apply for a foreclosure
prevention alternative does not implicate a violation of any specific
subsection of the statute” and Plaintiff fails to allege whether there were any
foreclosure prevention alternatives; and (2) Plaintiff’s allegations that his
point of contact was not “adequate” is insufficient to state a plausible cause
of action.
 
Plaintiff alleges, in relevant
part:
 
12. Plaintiff ALLEN DWIGHT MOYER (“Plaintiff”) at
all relevant times, has owned the Property located at 4535 Alta Tupelo Drive,
Calabasas, CA 91302 (the “Subject Property”). The Subject Property is a
single-family-home with less than four dwelling units and has served as
Plaintiff’s residence for the times mentioned herein. 
 
13. Plaintiff has owned the Property since
December 2021 and he lives therein with his longtime significant other. To
purchase the Property, Plaintiff obtained a first position mortgage against the
property and concurrently executed a Deed of Trust as security for the note.
Defendant SPS is the current servicer of this first lien mortgage and was the
mortgage servicer of the loan at all relevant times herein.
 
14. The instant allegations arise from
Defendant’s misconduct pertaining to Plaintiff’s request to be reviewed for a
foreclosure prevention alternative.
 
[…]
 
18. In late 2022 or early 2023, Plaintiff
contacted SPS to inform SPS of the financial hardship he was experiencing and
to request a foreclosure prevention alternative, such as a deferment, Covid
forbearance, or loan modification. 
 
19. At that time, Plaintiff’s loan was assigned
to a representative named Yvonne, though most of the time when Plaintiff
called, he was only able to speak with the individuals that answered
Plaintiff’s call. 
 
20. Early on, when Plaintiff spoke with Yvonne,
he told Yvonne that he wanted to apply for a foreclosure prevention alternative
and asked Yvonne about the application process. 
 
21. To Plaintiff’s surprise, Yvonne told
Plaintiff that SPS would not review him for a foreclosure prevention
alternative and that his property was going into foreclosure. Plaintiff
specifically asked about applying for a foreclosure prevention alternative,
such as a forbearance or loan modification, but Yvonne told Plaintiff he could
not do so; his only option was to pay the past due balance. Plaintiff was
floored. 
 
22. In July 2023, despite Plaintiff having
requested to be reviewed for a foreclosure prevention alternative, Defendant
recorded a Notice of Default for Plaintiff’s Property. 
 
23. In November 2023, Defendant caused a Notice
of Trustee’s Sale to be recorded for the Property, scheduling the sale of
Plaintiff’s home for January 2, 2024. This lawsuit follows.
 
[…]
 
28. At all times relevant, Plaintiff was the
owner of the Property and resided therein as his principal place of residence. 
 
29. At all times relevant, Plaintiff was a
borrower, as defined by Civil Code § 2920.5, and Plaintiff’s property was
owner-occupied, as defined by Civil Code § 2924.15. 
 
30. At all times relevant, a forbearance plan,
loan modification, deferment, and repayment plan are considered “foreclosure
prevention alternatives” as defined by Civil Code § 2920.5. 
 
31. In the case at hand, Defendant refused to
allow Plaintiff to apply for a foreclosure prevention alternative, claiming,
instead, that Plaintiff’s only option to avoid foreclosure was to pay the total
past due payments owed on the loan. 
 
32. Then, without assisting Plaintiff as required
by Civil Code § 2923.7, Defendant began actively foreclosing on Plaintiff’s
loan. This amounts to a material violation of Civil Code § 2923.7.
 
(Complaint, ¶¶ 12-14; 18-23; 28-32.)  Thus, Plaintiff has pleaded specific facts
that when he contacted his point of contact, Yvonne, in late 2022/early 2023, requesting
a foreclosure prevention alternative, Yvonne informed him that Defendant
refused to consider him, resulting in an alleged violation of Section 2923.7, subdivision
(b)(4).  
 
            Material
 
            Defendant
next contends that Plaintiff failed to allege that any violation was
material.  
 
            Civil
Code section 2924.12, subdivision (a)(1) provides, “If a trustee’s deed upon
sale has not been recorded, a borrower may bring an action for injunctive
relief to enjoin a material violation of […] Section 2923.7[.]”  A violation of the Homeowner’s Bill of Rights
(of which section 2923.7 is a part) is “material” if “it affected the
borrower’s loan obligations, disrupted the loan-modification process, or
otherwise harmed the borrower in connection with the borrower’s efforts to
avoid foreclosure.”  (Billesbach v.
Specialized Loan Servicing, LLC (2021) 63 Cal.App.5th 830, 845.)  
 
            Here,
Plaintiff alleges:
 
21. To Plaintiff’s surprise, Yvonne told
Plaintiff that SPS would not review him for a foreclosure prevention
alternative and that his property was going into foreclosure. Plaintiff
specifically asked about applying for a foreclosure prevention alternative,
such as a forbearance or loan modification, but Yvonne told Plaintiff he could
not do so; his only option was to pay the past due balance. Plaintiff was
floored. 
 
22. In July 2023, despite Plaintiff having
requested to be reviewed for a foreclosure prevention alternative, Defendant
recorded a Notice of Default for Plaintiff’s Property. 
 
23. In November 2023, Defendant caused a Notice
of Trustee’s Sale to be recorded for the Property, scheduling the sale of
Plaintiff’s home for January 2, 2024. This lawsuit follows.
 
[…]
 
32. Then, without assisting Plaintiff as required
by Civil Code § 2923.7, Defendant began actively foreclosing on Plaintiff’s
loan. This amounts to a material violation of Civil Code § 2923.7.
 
(Complaint ¶¶ 21-23; 32.)  Thus, Plaintiff has alleged a material violation,
that disrupted Plaintiff’s loan-modification efforts and harmed Plaintiff’s
efforts in avoiding foreclosure, as evidenced by the recorded notices of
default and trustee’s sale.
 
            Defendant contends this is
insufficient because “Plaintiff obtained the large loan less than two years
ago, admits his default, and the Property has not sold.”  (Demurrer at p. 5.)  The Court disagrees.  The facts that Plaintiff obtained the loan
approximately two years ago, that the loan was large, and that Plaintiff defaulted
on the mortgage do not have any bearing on whether Defendant’s violation was
material.  And there are no allegations
or judicially noticeable facts that the Property has not sold.  The only facts properly before the Court in
this regard are that the sale was scheduled for January 2, 2024, which has
already passed.  (Complaint ¶ 23.)
 
            Therefore the Court overrules
Defendant’s demurrer to the first cause of action.
 
                                                                 
ii.           
Second Cause
of Action – Violation of Civil Code § 3273.10
 
Civil Code section 3273.10
provides, in relevant part: 
 
(a) If a
mortgage servicer denies a forbearance request made during the effective time period, the mortgage servicer shall provide written notice to the borrower that
sets forth the specific reason or reasons that forbearance was not provided, if
both of the following conditions are met:
 
(1) The
borrower was current on payment as of February 1, 2020.
 
(2) The
borrower is experiencing a financial hardship that prevents the borrower from
making timely payments on the mortgage obligation due, directly or indirectly,
to the COVID-19 emergency.
 
(Civ. Code, § 3273.10, subd. (a)(1)-(2), emphasis
added.)  “‘Effective time period’ means
the time period between the operational date of this title and December 1,
2021.”  (Civ. Code, § 3273.1, subd. (b).)          
 
Defendant contends that
Plaintiff fails to state a cause of action, because (1) Section 3273.10 applies
only to mortgages that existed prior to February 1, 2020, whereas Plaintiff did
not obtain a mortgage on the property until December 2021, and (2) Plaintiff’s
forbearance request was not made within the “effective time period.”  The Court agrees.
 
On its face, Section 3273.10
applies to mortgages in existence as of February 1, 2020, but Plaintiff did not
obtain the mortgage at issue until December of 2021.  (See Complaint ¶ 13; RJN No. 1.)  Moreover, the Complaint alleges Plaintiff
made his forbearance request in late 2022 or early 2023.  (Complaint ¶ 17.)  
 
Therefore, the Court sustains
Defendant’s demurrer to the second cause of action.
 
                                                               
iii.           
Third Cause
of Action – Unfair Competition
 
Defendant contends Plaintiff
fails to state a cause of action for unfair competition, because (1) Plaintiff
does not allege any predicate unfair, unlawful, or fraudulent business
practice; (2) Plaintiff lacks standing because he cannot allege any lost money
or property since the property has not yet sold; and (3) Plaintiff lacks
standing because he cannot allege the lost money or property was caused by
Defendant.
 
Predicate Violation
 
Because, as discussed above,
the Court overrules Defendant’s demurrer to the first cause of action,
Plaintiff has adequately pleaded a predicate violation of law to support the
third cause of action for unfair competition.
 
Standing
 
Plaintiff alleges:
 
46. In the case at hand, Defendant altogether
refused to consider Plaintiff for a foreclosure prevention alternative that, if
approved, would allow Plaintiff to keep his home. This constitutes unfair
business practices in violation of California Business and Professions Code §
17200.
 
            Thus,
Plaintiff has alleged that as a result of Defendant’s conduct, refusing to
consider him for foreclosure prevention alternatives, such as deferment, COVID
forbearance, or a loan modification, in violation of Civil Code section 2923.7,
Plaintiff has lost his home, as evidenced by the recorded notices of default
and trustee’s sale.  (See Complaint ¶ 22
[“In July 2023, despite Plaintiff having requested to be reviewed for a
foreclosure prevention alternative, Defendant recorded a Notice of Default for
Plaintiff’s Property.”]; ¶ 23 [“In November 2023, Defendant caused a Notice of
Trustee’s Sale to be recorded for the Property, scheduling the sale of
Plaintiff’s home for January 2, 2024.”]; see also RJN Nos. 2-3.)
 
            Therefore,
the Court overrules Defendant’s demurrer to the third cause of action.
 
2.      MOTION
TO STRIKE
 
Any party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading, may serve
and file a motion to strike the whole pleading or any part thereof.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(1); Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1322, subd. (b).) 
On a motion to strike, the court may: (1) strike out any irrelevant,
false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (2) strike out all or
any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of
California, a court rule, or an order of the court.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a)-(b); Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767,
782.)  Here, Chan moves to strike from the complaint,
references to and claims for punitive damages. 
  
 
Defendant moves to strike from the Complaint allegations pertaining to
(1) emotional distress; (2) attorneys’ fees; (3) damages pursuant to Civil Code
section 2923.7; (4) damages pursuant to Business and Professions Code sections
17200, et seq.; and (5) damages pursuant to Civil Code section 3273.10.
 
A.   
Emotional Distress
 
Defendant first argues that Plaintiff has not substantiated the
request for emotional distress damages. 
(See Erlich v. Menezes (1999) 21 Cal.4th 543 [limiting damages
for emotional distress to torts where there are allegations of physical injury
and contracts where there has been bodily harm or “serious emotional
disturbance was a particularly likely result” of the contract’s breach, noting
“contracts pertaining to one’s dwelling are not among those contracts which, if
breached, are particularly likely to result in serious emotional disturbance”].)
 
The Court agrees.  Plaintiff
does not allege any emotional distress, much less any physical injury or breach
of a contract of the nature that “serious emotional disturbance was a
particularly likely result.”  All
Plaintiff alleges is:
 
48. Likewise, Plaintiff was injured and suffered
actual damages including but not limited to, loss of money and property, loss
of reputation and goodwill, and severe emotional distress, according to proof
at trial but within the jurisdiction of this Court.
 
[and]
 
5. For compensatory damages, special damages,
damages for emotional distress, attorneys’ fees, and costs according to proof
at trial;
 
(Complaint
¶ 48 and Prayer ¶ 5.)
 
Therefore, the Court strikes the emotional distress allegations from
the Complaint.
 
B.    
Attorneys’ Fees
 
Defendant requests the requests for attorneys’ fees be stricken
because “Plaintiff fails to state any statutory or contractual basis supporting
his recovery of attorneys’ fees.” 
(Motion to Strike at p. 4.)  The
Court agrees in part.  
 
First, the Court has overruled Defendant’s demurrer to the first cause
of action, and Plaintiff has alleged a statutory basis for seeking attorneys’
fees in relation to that cause of action. 
(Complaint ¶ 35.)  Second, because
the Court has sustained Defendant’s demurrer to the second cause of action, Defendant’s
request to strike attorneys’ fees sought pursuant to that cause of action is
moot.  
 
Lastly, the Court agrees that Plaintiff has not alleged a statutory or
contractual basis for seeking attorneys’ 
fees in connection with the third cause of action for unfair
competition.  Therefore, the Court will strike
Plaintiff’s request for attorneys’ fees as to the third cause of action only.
 
C.   
Damages Pursuant to Civil Code § 2923.7
 
Defendant contends that Plaintiff’s request for damages pursuant to
Civil Code section 2923.7 should be stricken because the home has not sold yet,
meaning only injunctive relief is available at this time.  However, Defendant has not provided the Court
with any admissible evidence that the home has not yet sold to contrast with
the Complaint’s allegation that the home was scheduled for sale on January 2,
2024.  (Complaint ¶ 23.)  Therefore, the Court denies Defendant’s
request to strike damages requested pursuant to Civil Code section 2923.7.
 
D.   
Damages Pursuant to Bus. & Prof. §§ 17200, et
seq.
 
Defendant argues “[t]he California Supreme Court has unequivocally
held that damages are not available under the Unfair Business Practices Act.”  (Motion to Strike at p. 5 [collecting
cases].)  The Court agrees.  However, Plaintiff does not request damages
pursuant to the third cause of action. 
(See Complaint ¶ 50 [“Plaintiff further seeks restitution, disgorgement
of sums wrongfully obtained, costs of suit, reasonable attorney’s fees, and
such other and further relief as the Court may deem just and proper.”])  
 
The allegations of paragraph 48 (“Plaintiff was injured and suffered
actual damages including but not limited to, loss of money and property[…]”) implicate
Plaintiff’s standing to bring an Unfair Competition Law (“UCL”) claim.  Plaintiff is not requesting damages pursuant
to the UCL.
 
Therefore, the Court denies Plaintiff’s request to strike allegations
regarding damages pursuant to the third cause of action for Unfair
Competition.  
 
E.    
Damages Pursuant to Civil Code § 3273.10
 
Because the Court sustains Defendant’s demurrer to the second cause of
action, it denies as moot Defendant’s request to strike damages requested
pursuant to Civil Code section 3273.10.
 
3.     
LEAVE TO AMEND
 
A plaintiff has the burden of showing in what
manner the complaint could be amended and how the amendment would change the
legal effect of the complaint, i.e., state a cause of action. (See The
Inland Oversight Committee v City of San Bernardino (2018) 27 Cal.App.5th
771, 779; PGA West Residential Assn., Inc. v Hulven Int'l, Inc. (2017)
14 Cal.App.5th 156, 189.) A plaintiff must not only state the legal basis for
the amendment, but also the factual allegations sufficient to state a cause of
action or claim. (See PGA West Residential Assn., Inc. v Hulven Int'l, Inc.,
supra, 14 Cal.App.5th at p. 189.) Moreover, a plaintiff does not meet his
or her burden by merely stating in the opposition to a demurrer or motion to
strike that “if the Court finds the operative complaint deficient, plaintiff
respectfully requests leave to amend.” (See Major Clients Agency v Diemer
(1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1116, 1133; Graham v Bank of America (2014) 226
Cal.App.4th 594, 618 [asserting an abstract right to amend does not satisfy the
burden].)
 
Here, Plaintiff has failed to meet this burden because Plaintiff
did not file an opposition to the demurrer or motion to strike, and therefore
Plaintiff does not address whether leave should be granted if either the
demurrer is sustained or the motion to strike is granted.  
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
For the reasons stated, the Court overrules Defendant’s Demurrer to
the First and Third Causes of Action, and sustains without leave
to amend Defendant’s Demurrer to the Second Cause of Action.  
 
Further, the Court grants, without leave to amend, in
part Defendant’s Motion to Strike, and strikes the following from the
Complaint:
 
·        
The words “and severe emotional distress,”
appearing at page 7, paragraph 48. 
 
·        
The words “damages for emotional distress,”
appearing at page 8, paragraph 5 of the Prayer.
 
·        
The words “reasonable attorneys’ fees,”
appearing at page 8, paragraph 50.
 
Defendant’s Motion to Strike is denied in all other respects.
 
The Court further orders Defendant to file an Answer to the Complaint
on or before February 14, 2024.
 
Defendant shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof
of service regarding the same.  
 
 
DATED:  January 31, 2024                                                    ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court