  Case Number:  22STCV24374    Hearing Date:   August 6, 2024    Dept:  1 Moving Party:             Plaintiff
Bianca Ball 
Responding Party:      Defendants
CDC Restaurant Group, Inc. and Jeremiah Cillpam 
Ruling:                        Petition granted in part. 
The Court will correct the Award by striking the portion applying
federal law to the question of whether class arbitration is appropriate (pp.
4:27-6:2) and otherwise confirm the award.
 
This is a proposed employment class action.  Plaintiff Bianca Ball (Plaintiff) alleges
that she and others were employed by defendants CDC Restaurant Group, Inc.
(CDC) and Jeremiah Cillpam (collectively, Defendants), during which employment Defendants
committed various violations of labor law. 

 
On July 24, 2023, the Court granted Defendants’ motion to
compel arbitration, holding that Plaintiff was required to arbitrate her claims
against Defendants but that the arbitrator must decide whether the Agreement
permits or requires classwide arbitration under Sandquist v. Lebo
Automotive, Inc. (2016) 1 Cal.5th 233, 247 and Muller v. Roy Miller
Freight Lines, LLC (2019) 34 Cal.App.5th 1056, 1071. On March 18, 2024, the
arbitrator (Hon. Monica Bachner (ret.)) issued a partial award (the Award) holding
that the Agreement does not permit or require classwide arbitration, either
under California or federal law. 
Plaintiff now petitions to correct or vacate the arbitration award.
 
Legal Standards
 
Code of Civil Procedure
section 1286.2 provides that a court may vacate an arbitration award where:
 
(1) The award was procured by
corruption, fraud or other undue means.
 
(2) There was corruption in any of
the arbitrators.
 
(3) The rights of the party were
substantially prejudiced by misconduct of a neutral arbitrator.
 
(4) The arbitrators exceeded their
powers and the award cannot be corrected without affecting the merits of the
decision upon the controversy submitted.
 
(5) The rights of the party were
substantially prejudiced by the refusal of the arbitrators to postpone the
hearing upon sufficient cause being shown therefor or by the refusal of the
arbitrators to hear evidence material to the controversy or by other conduct of
the arbitrators contrary to the provisions of this title.
 
(6) An arbitrator making the award
either: (A) failed to disclose within the time required for disclosure a ground
for disqualification of which the arbitrator was then aware; or (B) was subject
to disqualification upon grounds specified in Section 1281.91 but failed upon
receipt of timely demand to disqualify himself or herself as required by that
provision. However, this subdivision does not apply to arbitration proceedings
conducted under a collective bargaining agreement between employers and employees
or between their respective representatives.
(Code Civ. Proc. § 1286.2(a).) 
 
These are the
exclusive grounds for vacating an arbitration award.  (Moncharsh v. Heily & Blase (1992)
3 Cal.4th 1, 27-28 (Moncharsh).)  A court may not vacate an arbitration award
simply because “an error of law appears on the face of the award causing
substantial injustice.”  (Id. at
28.)  Likewise, “arbitrators do not
exceed their powers merely because they assign an erroneous reason for their
decision.”  (Ibid., quoting In
re Application of O’Malley (1957) 48 Cal.2d 107, 111.)  
 
However, a court
may review the legal basis for the arbitrator’s decision where “granting
finality to an arbitrator's decision would be inconsistent with the protection
of a party's statutory rights.”  (Moncharsh,
supra, 3 Cal.4th at 32.)  
 
“Under Code of
Civil Procedure section 1286, once a petition to confirm, correct, or vacate is
filed, the superior court has only four choices: It may (1) confirm the award,
(2) correct the award and confirm it as corrected, (3) vacate the award, or (4)
dismiss the proceedings.”  (Sunnyvale
Unified School Dist. v. Jacobs (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 168,
175.)  
 
Discussion
 
Plaintiff
contends that Judge Bachner exceeded her authority by deciding that the
arbitration could not proceed on a class basis under federal law, and by
failing to apply certain California authority concerning class action
waivers.  The Court will consider these
issues seriatim.  
 
1.      Judge
Bachner Exceeded Her Authority in Applying Federal Law to Determine Whether
Class Arbitration Is Appropriate
 
In its July 24,
2023 ruling, the Court determined that Plaintiff was required to arbitrate her
claims against Defendant, but Defendant had not carried its burden to show that
the Federal Arbitration Act (FAA) applied to the Agreement, and that therefore
under state law, the arbitrator was required to decide whether the arbitration
would proceed on a class basis or not. 
(See Sandquist v. Lebo Automotive, Inc. (2016) 1 Cal.5th
233, 247 and Muller v. Roy Miller Freight Lines, LLC (2019) 34 Cal.App.5th
1056, 1071.)  
 
In the March 18,
2024 Award, Judge Bachner determined that “assuming the CAA [California
Arbitration Act] applies,” there was no intent by the parties to arbitrate
anything other than Plaintiff’s individual claims.  (Petition, Attachment 8(c) [Award], pp.
3-4.)  Alternatively, Judge Bachner
determined that “if the Arbitrator is not bound by Judge Rice’s ruling that the
FAA does not apply,” Defendant had established that the FAA applied to the
Agreement and that therefore federal law forbade class arbitration.  (See Id. at pp. 4-6, citing Lamps
Plus, Inc. v. Varela (2019) 139 S.Ct. 1407, 1414.)  
 
As Defendant
points out, Judge Bachner’s Award expressly identifies California law as an
independent basis for her determination that the Agreement did not contemplate
class arbitration.  The Court therefore
will not vacate the award.  However, the
Court already determined that the FAA did not apply to the Agreement, and therefore
did not delegate to Judge Bachner the question of whether the Agreement
permitted class arbitration under federal law. 
Judge Bachner therefore exceeded her authority in revisiting that
issue.  
 
2.      Judge
Bachner Did Not Exceed Her Authority by “Eschewing State Law Surrounding Class
Waivers”
 
Plaintiff
contends that Judge Bachner exceeded her authority by “failing to consider the
California Supreme Court’s guidance in Gentry [i.e. Gentry v.
Superior Court (2007) 42 Cal.4th 443] on when class
waivers are permissible.”  Plaintiff is
arguing that Judge Bachner erred by failing to apply certain law, not that she
exceeded her authority.  Plaintiff
presents no authority providing otherwise, and in fact no authority on
arbitration or arbitration awards, but instead simply argues the merits of why Gentry
requires class arbitration here.  The
Court delegated to the arbitrator the question of whether the arbitration ought
to be a class arbitration under California law, and Judge Bachner decided that
question.  Plaintiff’s contention that
she should have decided it differently is not properly before this Court.  Indeed, the Court observes that Plaintiff
expressly argued to Judge Bachner that use of Gentry in her analysis was
“inapplicable as the Parties never agreed to a Class Action waiver.”  (See Giamela Decl., Ex. E, pp. 4-5.)  Under the circumstances, it does not appear
that granting finality to Judge Bachner’s Award would be inconsistent with any
of Plaintiff’s statutory rights.  (See
Moncharsh, supra, 3 Cal.4th  at
32.) 
 
Conclusion
 
For the foregoing
reasons, the petition is granted in part. 
The Court will correct the Award by striking the portion of
the Award beginning at page 4, line 27 with “Alternatively,” and concluding at
page 6, line 2.  Having done so, the
Court hereby confirms the award. 
Defendant to give notice.  