  Case Number:  23VECV02647    Hearing Date:   January 8, 2024    Dept:  T 23VECV02647 NANCY TAPIA vs MIGUEL
SANDOVAL, JR.
Tentative ruling:  Motion to strike punitive damages – Denied.  Defendant to answer the first amended complaint
(FAC) within 20 days.
Initially, the court notes that the moving
papers make improper and repeated references to facts outside the face
of the FAC. It is well settled and long-established law that the court cannot
consider such facts.  These statements in
the moving papers are improper.  Mr. Beck
is admonished for this conduct:
(Motion
papers) “However, Defendant contests liability in this case as his facts as to
how this incident occurred are quite different than Plaintiff's allegations,
which ignore facts indicating that Plaintiff is the cause of the accident
because she made an illegal left turn in front of the Defendant who had the
right of way. Specifically, Defendant did not run a red light and crash into
Plaintiffs vehicle. Rather, Defendant was traveling southbound on Woodley A
venue through the intersection with Parthenia Street under a green light at
approximately 45 miles per hour. Plaintiff was traveling in the northbound left
tum only lane, when she made a sudden left tum in front of Defendant's vehicle
thereby causing the collision. Plaintiff
could not have had the right-of-way as there is no left turn arrow for this
intersection, just a standard circular tri phase signal. If Plaintiff turned on
a green or even a yellow circular signal, she would have to yield the
right-of-way to the Defendant. In addition, Defendant claims that a female
witness approached him and told him that the female driver made a left tum in
front of him.”
(Reply
papers) “However, Defendant contests liability in this case as he maintains
that the decedent made an illegal left turn in front of the Defendant who had
the right of way. Specifically, Defendant did not run a red light and crash
into Plaintiff’s vehicle. Rather, Defendant was traveling southbound on Woodley
Avenue through the intersection with Parthenia Street under a green light at
approximately 45 miles per hour. Plaintiff was traveling in the northbound left
turn only lane, when she made a sudden left turn in front of Defendant’s
vehicle thereby causing the collision. In addition, Defendant claims that a
female witness approached him and told him that the decedent made a left turn
in front of him.”
The
FAC states sufficient facts to support a claim for punitive damages, as detailed
in the FAC and as set forth in the opposition papers.  The motion is denied.
 