 Case Number:  22STCV16058    Hearing Date:   January 31, 2024    Dept:  27  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL
DISTRICT
 



WAYNE MCDONALD, et al., 
                   Plaintiffs,
          vs.
 
LUIS
  CEJA SALCEDO, et al.,
 
                   Defendants.
 


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 22STCV16058
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION TO LIFT STAY AGAINST LYFT, INC. 


 
Dept.
  27
1:30
  p.m.
January
  31, 2024



 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff Valentina Lore (“Lore”)   
RESPONDING PARTY: Defendant Lyft, Inc. (“Lyft”) 
 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
This
action arises from a motor vehicle accident which occurred on June 27, 2020. On
May 13, 2022, Plaintiffs Wayne McDonald (“McDonald”) and Kimberly Sissle (“Sissle”)
filed a complaint against Defendants Luis Ceja Salcedo (“Salcedo”), Luciana
Nunez (“Nunez”), Lyft Inc. (“Lyft”), and DOES 1 to 10 (the “1st Action”),
alleging causes of action for: (1) motor vehicle and (2) general negligence. 
On
May 27, 2022, in LASC Case No. 22STCV17653, Plaintiff Valentina Lore (“Lore”)
filed a complaint against Salcedo, Lyft, Nunez, and DOES 1 through 50 (the “2d
Action”), arising from the same motor vehicle collision from which Plaintiffs
McDonald and Sissle filed their complaint. Plaintiff Lore’s complaint alleges
causes of action for: (1) motor vehicle and (2) general negligence.[1]
 
On
November 8, 2022, in the 2d Action, the Court issued a minute order deeming the
1st Action and the 2d Action as related and indicated that the 1st Action was
the lead case. 
On
June 16, 2023, Defendant Lyft filed a motion to compel arbitration of Plaintiff
Lore’s claims and to stay all judicial proceedings pending the completion of
arbitration. 
On
August 10, 2023, after hearing oral argument, the Court granted Defendant
Lyft’s motion to compel arbitration as to Plaintiff Lore and indicated that the
case was stayed as to Defendant Lyft and Plaintiff Lore. (08/10/23 Minute
Order, p. 8.) The Court indicated that “[t]he consolidated action may proceed
in state court.” (Id.) 
On
September 5, 2023, Defendant Lyft filed a Notice of Ruling as to the Court’s
August 10, 2023 order, which shows that Plaintiff Lore was served with such
ruling on September 5, 2023. 
On
January 4, 2024, Plaintiff Lore filed the instant motion to lift the stay of
the action as to her and Defendant Lyft (the “Motion”). The Motion is made on
the grounds that Plaintiff Lore is prejudiced because she cannot conduct
discovery in this forum and must conduct discovery in arbitration. Plaintiff
asserts that allowing discovery to be conducted against Defendant Lyft in the
civil action will not interfere with the arbitrator’s jurisdiction.  
On
January 18, 2024, Defendant Lyft filed an opposition, to which Plaintiff
replied on January 24, 2024. 
 
Plaintiff Lore’s New Evidence Submitted on Reply 
          Initially,
the Court notes that no evidence was presented with the moving papers. However,
on reply, Plaintiff Lore presents the declaration of her counsel, Sara S.
Rodriguez (“Rodriguez”). “[N]ew evidence is not permitted with reply papers.” (Jay
v. Mahaffey (2013) 218 Cal.App.4th 1522, 1537.) “[T]he inclusion of
additional evidentiary matter with the reply should only be allowed in the
exceptional case . . . and, if permitted, the other party should be given the
opportunity to respond.” (Id. at p. 1537-38.) 
          The Court
finds that Plaintiff has attempted to submit evidence for the first time on
reply. Any evidence in support of the Motion should have been submitted with
the moving papers. Plaintiff Lore offers no explanation as to why no evidence
was submitted with the moving papers. Defendant Lyft is entitled to the
opportunity to respond to such declaration. The Court therefore will not
consider the declaration of Rodriguez submitted with the reply brief. 
          Even if the
Court were to consider such declaration, such evidence would not change the
Court’s analysis as counsel relevantly states that Plaintiff Lore is the only
plaintiff “who is being bound by arbitration and refrained from conducting
discovery against Lyft thereby creating a disadvantage” (Rodriguez Reply.
Decl., ¶ 3) and she “has been prejudiced as a result of the stay . . .
[because] should the matter against Lyft be stayed . . . [it] will cause
further delay in preparing for trial” (Id., ¶ 2.) Plaintiff Lore
concedes that she can conduct discovery against Defendant Lyft in the
arbitration. (Reply, 2:10-11.) Plaintiff is not without a means to conduct
discovery as discovery can be sought in the arbitration proceedings. As will be
explained below, the Court finds no basis to lift the stay of this action as to
Defendant Lyft. 
 
II.         
LEGAL
STANDARD
“Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.4
requires that a court impose a stay of litigation whenever that court, or
another court, has ordered arbitration of a controversy that is an issue in the
litigation.” (MKJA, Inc. v. 123 Fit Franchising, LLC (2011) 191 Cal.App.4th
643, 647.) “The Court in which the litigation is pending is required to stay
the action or proceeding until an arbitration is had in accordance with the
order to arbitrate or until such earlier time as the court specifies.” (Ibid.)
“The purpose of the statutory stay [required pursuant to section 1281.4] is to
protect the jurisdiction of the arbitrator by preserving the status quo until
arbitration is resolved.” (Id. at p. 658.) “In the absence of a stay,
the continuation of the proceedings in the trial court disrupts the arbitration
proceedings and can render them ineffective.” (Ibid.) “[A] trial court
possesses some amount of discretion to lift a stay imposed pursuant to section
1281.4, prior to the completion of an ordered arbitration.” (Id. at p.
660.) “[T]he most reasonable interpretation of the stay provision is that it
grants a trial court discretion to lift a stay prior to the completion of
arbitration only under circumstances in which the lifting of the stay
would not frustrate the arbitrator’s jurisdiction.” (Ibid., emphasis
added.) 
 
III.       
DISCUSSION
Issue No.1: Nature of Plaintiff Lore’s Motion
          Defendant
Lyft contends that the Motion should be denied because it constitutes an
improper motion for reconsideration. 
          California
Code of Civil Procedure, Section 1008(a) provides that “[w]hen an application
for an order has been made to a judge, or to a court, and refused in whole or
in part, or granted, or granted conditionally, or on terms, any party affected
by the order may, within 10 days after service upon the party of written notice
of entry of the order . . . [may] make application to the same judge or court
that made the order, to reconsider the matter and modify, amend, or revoke the
prior order.”  “The party making the
application shall state by affidavit what application was made before, when and
to what judge, what order or decisions were made, and what new or different
facts, circumstances, or law are claimed to be shown.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1008, subd. (a).) A trial
court has discretion with respect to granting a motion for reconsideration. (New
York Times Co. v. Superior Court (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 206, 212.)
          The Court
finds that the Motion is not an improper motion for reconsideration. Plaintiff
Lore is not asking the Court to reconsider its order granting Defendant Lyft’s
motion to compel arbitration and stay this action as to Defendant Lyft.
Plaintiff Lore is seeking relief that was not sought as to the motion to compel
arbitration.  
          Moreover,
there is no time limit for a party to bring a motion to lift a stay of an
action. (MKJA, Inc., supra, 191 Cal.App.4th 643.) Therefore, the
Court finds that the Motion is not a motion for reconsideration and is not
untimely. 
 
Issue No.2: Appropriateness of Lifting the Stay
          Initially,
the Court finds that Plaintiff Lore’s reliance on MKJA, Inc., supra,
191 Cal.App.4th 643 is inapposite to support her position of lifting the stay
of this action pending the completion of arbitration. MKJA, Inc. involved
a request to lift a stay due to the cost of arbitration; however, here,
Plaintiff requests to lift the stay so that she can seek discovery from
Defendant Lyft in the civil action. 
          The Court
finds that lifting the stay of this action would possibly impede the
arbitrator’s jurisdiction. Allowing discovery to proceed against Defendant Lyft
by Plaintiff Lore in this forum may subject the parties to inconsistent rulings
should a discovery dispute arise. The Court fails to see the logic in dual
discovery—discovery in this forum and in the arbitration proceedings—and finds
that lifting of the stay is not appropriate. The purpose of the stay is to
preserve the status quo and lifting such stay to allow discovery would not
comport with preserving the status quo between Plaintiff Lore and Defendant
Lyft. 
          Accordingly,
the Court DENIES the Motion. 
 
IV.        
CONCLUSION
Plaintiff Lore’s motion for an order
lifting the stay of this matter against Defendant Lyft is DENIED. 
 
Moving party is ordered to give notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. 
Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to
appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the
hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you
receive a submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume
that others might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive emails from the
parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
     Dated this 31st day of January 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon.
  Lee S. Arian 
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 


