 Case Number:  22STCV21379    Hearing Date:   January 31, 2024    Dept:  27 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL
DISTRICT
 



DAVID BRIAN RIOS, 
                   Plaintiff,
          vs.
 
CITY OF LOS ANGELES; ACCESS SERVICES; RONALD
  MERENSTEIN; ROSALIEN MERENSTEIN; and DOES 1 to 50, inclusive,
 
                   Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


    
  CASE NO.: 22STCV21379
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: PLAINTIFF DAVID BRIAN
  RIOS’ MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT


 
Dept. 27
1:30 p.m.
January 31, 2024



 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
On June
30, 2022, Plaintiff David Brian Rios (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against
Defendants City of Los Angeles, Access Services, Ronald Merenstein, Rosalien
Merenstein (“Defendants”) and DOES 1 to 50, inclusive for (1) general
negligence and (2) premises liability. The complaint alleges on or about June
6, 2021, Plaintiff tripped over a broken/raised sidewalk pavement on
Defendants’ premises that was negligently maintained causing damages to
Plaintiff. 
On
August 25, 2022, Defendants Ronald Merenstein and Rosalien Merenstein filed
their Answer. 
On
October 31, 2023, Plaintiff field this instant Motion for Leave to File First
Amended Complaint. 
On
December 15, 2023, Defendant City of Los Angeles filed its Answer. The
opposition was due on January 18, 2024. As of January 25, 2024, no opposition
has been filed. 
II.         
LEGAL STANDARD
“The
court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow
a party to amend any pleading or proceeding by adding or striking out the name
of any party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake
in any other respect; and may, upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or
demurrer. The court may likewise, in its discretion, after notice to the
adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an amendment to any
pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may upon like terms allow an
answer to be made after the time limited by this code.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
473, subd. (a)(1).)
          “When
the plaintiff is ignorant of the name of a defendant, he must state that fact
in the complaint, or the affidavit if the action is commenced by affidavit, and
such defendant may be designated in any pleading or proceeding by any name, and
when his true name is discovered, the pleading or proceeding must be amended
accordingly; provided, that no default or default judgment shall be entered
against a defendant so designated, unless it appears that the copy of the
summons or other process, or, if there be no summons or process, the copy of
the first pleading or notice served upon such defendant bore on the face
thereof a notice stating in substance: “To the person served: You are hereby
served in the within action (or proceedings) as (or on behalf of) the person
sued under the fictitious name of (designating it).” The certificate or
affidavit of service must state the fictitious name under which such defendant
was served and the fact that notice of identity was given by endorsement upon
the document served as required by this section.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 474.)
“Any
judge, at any time before or after commencement of trial, in the furtherance of
justice, and upon such terms as may be proper, may allow the amendment of any
pleading or pretrial conference order.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 576.)
III.       
DISCUSSION
Plaintiff
is seeking leave to file a First Amended Complaint on the grounds that the
amendment is in the furtherance of justice and is necessitated primarily based
on the facts uncovered during the discovery process. Specifically, this motion
is brought to add recently uncovered Doe Defendant Xlenno, LLC’s identity
during the discovery process. Plaintiff argues Defendants will not suffer
prejudice as trial date is not soon approaching because it was continued to
June 24, 2024. Furthermore, Plaintiff argues his injury warrants redress and
proposed Defendant Xlenno, LLC is an appropriate Defendant against whom redress
may be had. Moreover, Plaintiff contends he did not unreasonably delay seeking
leave because once the omission of Xlenno, LLC as a properly named Defendant
was brought to the attention of the Firm by Mr. Kinan, the Firm undertook to correct
the omission by filing the present motion. Additionally, Plaintiff contends
vindicating his claims arising from the subject accident is sufficient good
cause to justify an amendment of the complaint as it will avail Plaintiff of
the legal remedies to which he is entitled. Lastly, Plaintiff argues he gave
adequate notice of this ex parte application to all parties as set forth
in the Declaration of Tom Kinan because notice was given before 10:00 a.m. on
Tuesday, September 19, 2023 via email. 
Here,
the trial is only six months away, which gives the parties sufficient time to
complete discovery. Further, Plaintiff has shown that good cause exist to amend
the operative Complaint as Doe Defendant 1’s identity was uncovered during the
discovery process and Plaintiff should be given the opportunity to seek redress
from the proper defendants. Moreover, Defendants have not opposed this instant
motion despite it being filed three months ago. Finally, Plaintiff provided
adequate notice for an ex parte application. 
IV.        
CONCLUSION
Plaintiff’s
motion for leave to file a first amended complaint is GRANTED. Plaintiff may file
an amended complaint within 20 days of this ruling.
 
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at
SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative as
directed by the instructions provided on the court website at
www.lacourt.org.  Please be advised that
if you submit on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the
opposing party may nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the
matter.  Unless you receive a submission
from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others might
appear at the hearing to argue.  If the
Court does not receive emails from the parties indicating submission on this
tentative ruling and there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at
its discretion, adopt the tentative as the final order or place the motion off
calendar.
Dated this 31st day of January 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Lee
  S. Arian
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 