  Case Number:  19STCV41365    Hearing Date:   January 31, 2024    Dept:  27 Tentative
Ruling
 
Judge Lee
Arian, Department 27
 
 
HEARING DATE:     January 31, 2024                               TRIAL DATE:  April 19,
2024
                                                           
CASE:                                Richard Fei, et al. v. Ann Chan, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 19STCV41365
 

 
MOTION FOR ORDER COMPELLING DEFENDANT ANN CHAN’S
APPEARANCE AT DEPOSITION AND REQUEST FOR SANCTIONS

 
MOVING PARTIES:           Plaintiffs Richard Fei and Ann Fei
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): None
 
 
I.          BACKGROUND
 
            On ¿November
18, 2019¿, Plaintiffs,
¿Richard Fei (“Plaintiff”) and Alice Fei¿,
filed this action against Defendants, Ann Chan (“Chan”) and Hung Vi
Truong (“Truong”)¿, for damages arising from a motor
vehicle collision. 
 
            On
February 3, 2023, Plaintiffs filed motions to compel Chan’s and Truong’s appearances at
deposition. On June 9, 2023, the Court denied both motions due to Plaintiffs’
failure to meet and confer prior to bringing the motions but allowed Plaintiffs
to take each Defendant’s deposition pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section
2025.280, subdivision (a). 
 
On October 4, 2023, Plaintiffs
filed the instant motion to compel the appearance of Chan at a noticed
deposition and award sanctions against Chan or her attorneys of record in the
amount of $2,517.00. 
 
On November 21, 2023, the Court
granted a joint stipulation to continue trial from January 24, 2024, to April
19, 2024, specifically for Plaintiff to take Defendant’s deposition.
 
The instant motion is unopposed. 
 
II.        LEGAL
STANDARDS
 
Any party may obtain discovery by
taking in California the oral deposition of any person. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.010.) “If, after service of a deposition notice, a party to the action…without
having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails to appear for
examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for inspection any document,
electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the
deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move for an order compelling
the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the production for inspection of
any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in
the deposition notice.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (a).)  The motion shall be accompanied by a meet and
confer declaration under Section 2016.040, or, when the deponent fails to
attend the deposition and produce the documents, electronically stored information,
or things described in the deposition notice, by a declaration stating that the
petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire about the nonappearance.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (b)(2); Leko v. Cornerstone Building Inspection Service (2001) 86 Cal.App.4th 1109, 1124.)
 
“If a motion under [Code of Civil
Procedure section 2025.450] subdivision (a) is granted, the court shall impose
a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) in favor
of the party who noticed the deposition and against the deponent or the party
with whom the deponent is affiliated, unless the court finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450,
subd. (g)(1).)   
 
III.      DISCUSSION
 
            Compel Appearance of Defendant Ann
Chan at Deposition
            
            Plaintiffs
seek to compel the appearance of Defendant Ann Chan at a noticed deposition. 
 
            Chan
was set to attend an online deposition on June 9, 2023, but did not appear.
Chan’s counsel and
Plaintiffs’ counsel were present and Chan’s counsel confirmed that Chan was
aware of the date and time of the deposition. Chan’s counsel even went to
Chan’s house to be present with her during the deposition. However, just before
the deposition, Chan underwent an anxiety attack which caused her to lock
herself in her bathroom during the time the deposition was supposed to take
place. She did not come out at any point during the deposition and the court reporter
resultantly took notice of her non-appearance. (Waltman Decl., ¶ 13, Ex. L.)
 
            Plaintiffs subsequently served Chan
with the Sixth Amended Notice of Deposition on July 31, 2023, in which Chan’s deposition was scheduled for August 29, 2023. (Waltman
Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. B.) The notice of
deposition stated: “A link will be provided by the court reporting firm,
Sullivan Court Reporters, prior to the deposition.” (Ibid.) 
 
            Plaintiffs’ counsel, Bobby Waltman, reached
out to Defense counsel, Timothy O’Reilly, to find out whether Chan would be
able to attend the August 29, 2023 deposition. O’Reilly informed Waltman that
he had been unable to get into contact with Chan. Waltman informed O’Reilly
that Plaintiffs still intended to hold the deposition and take a notice of
non-appearance of Chan if Chan did not attend. Waltman provided O’Reilly with a
Zoom link for the deposition. (Waltman
Decl., Ex. H.) On August 29,
2023, Plaintiffs proceeded with the deposition and when Chan did not attend,
took Chan’s notice of non-appearance. (Waltman
Decl., Ex. I.)
 
            The
Court finds that Plaintiffs are entitled to take the deposition of Chan, who is
a party to this action. Chan did not file an opposition to this motion,
therefore, she does not offer any explanation for why her deposition should not
be compelled. Nor does she contend that she was not properly served with the
deposition notice for August 29, 2023, or that Plaintiffs did not sufficiently
meet and confer regarding that deposition. 
 
            From
reading the motion, it appears that Chan’s failure to appear for deposition and failure to
respond to her counsel’s attempts to reach out to her may be due to declining
mental health. However, this is merely speculation on moving party’s part and
does not excuse Chan’s failure to participate in necessary discovery. 
            
Accordingly, Plaintiffs’ motion to
compel Chan’s appearance at deposition is granted. 
 
Sanctions
 
Plaintiffs seek $2,517.00 in
monetary sanctions against Chan and her counsel of record for failing to sit
for a deposition. 
 
Waltman is seeking fees for 4.5
hours spent drafting this motion and attending the hearing at a rate of $350
per hour. 
 
Plaintiffs are also seeking court
reporter fees in the amount of $647.00 for the August 29, 2023 deposition and
$645.00 for the June 9, 2023 deposition. 
 
The Court finds Plaintiff is
entitled to the requested monetary sanctions and awards $2517 against Defendant
Chan and Chan’s counsel, jointly and severally. 

  
IV.       CONCLUSION 
 
The motion is GRANTED in full.  Sanctions are to be paid within 30 days.
 
Moving party to give notice.  
 
 
Dated:   January 31,
2024                                         ___________________________________
                                                                                    Lee S. Arian
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 
            Parties who intend
to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at
SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative as
directed by the instructions provided on the court website at
www.lacourt.org.  Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative
and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless
appear at the hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive
emails from the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and
there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion,
adopt the tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar. 