 Case Number:  22STCV16499    Hearing Date:   January 31, 2024    Dept:  27 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL
DISTRICT
 



SHAKIM PRAWL, 
                   Plaintiff,
          vs.
 
KYLE AMUNDSEN and DOES 1 to 25, inclusive,
 
                   Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


    
  CASE NO.: 22STCV16499
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: DEFENDANT KYLE
  AMUNDSEN’S MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE FIRST AMENDED ANSWER


 
Dept. 27
1:30 p.m.
January 31, 2024



 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
On May
18, 2022, Plaintiff Shakim Prawl (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against
Defendant Kyle Amundsen (“Defendant”) and DOES 1 to 25, inclusive for (1) motor
vehicle negligence and (2) general negligence. The complaint alleges on or
about July 14, 2021, Defendant negligently operated his vehicle causing it to
collide with Plaintiff’s vehicle resulting in injuries and damages to
Plaintiff. 
On July
15, 2022, Defendant filed the operative Answer. On September 27, 2023,
Defendant filed this instant Motion for Leave to File First Amended Answer. The
opposition was due January 18, 2023. As of January 25, 2024, no opposition has
been filed. 
 
 
 
II.         
LEGAL STANDARD
“The
court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow
a party to amend any pleading or proceeding by adding or striking out the name
of any party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake
in any other respect; and may, upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or
demurrer. The court may likewise, in its discretion, after notice to the
adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an amendment to any
pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may upon like terms allow an
answer to be made after the time limited by this code.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
473, subd. (a)(1).)
“Any
judge, at any time before or after commencement of trial, in the furtherance of
justice, and upon such terms as may be proper, may allow the amendment of any
pleading or pretrial conference order.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 576.)
III.       
DISCUSSION
Defendant
is seeking leave to file a First Amended Answer to the Complaint on the grounds
that the amendment is in the furtherance of justice because adding “plaintiff
(owner and/or operator) uninsured [Civil Code section 3333.4(a)(2), (3)]” as a
fifth additional affirmative defense will allow Defendant to assert all
possible defenses to the action. Defendant argues Plaintiff will not be
prejudiced if Defendant is permitted to amend their answer to include Civil
Code section 3333.4 as an affirmative defense because the trial date is
November 15, 2023, thus the discovery cut-off date is October 15, 2023.
Further, Defendant stated he would seek a trial continuance. Moreover,
Defendant contends Plaintiff should not need to conduct any discovery as to the
issue of Plaintiff’s own motor vehicle insurance but if Plaintiff believed it
was necessary there is ample time to do so. Lastly, Defendant argues he will be
prejudiced if denied the opportunity to assert all possible defenses to
Plaintiff’s claims. 
According
to the court record, the trial date has been continued to April 23, 2024.
Furthermore, this present motion remains unopposed despite it being filed five
months ago. Additionally, Defendant is only adding one affirmative defense. 
IV.        
CONCLUSION
Defendant’s
motion for leave to file a first amended answer is GRANTED. An amended answer
may be filed within 20 days of this ruling.
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at
SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative as
directed by the instructions provided on the court website at
www.lacourt.org.  Please be advised that
if you submit on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the
opposing party may nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the
matter.  Unless you receive a submission
from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others might
appear at the hearing to argue.  If the
Court does not receive emails from the parties indicating submission on this
tentative ruling and there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at
its discretion, adopt the tentative as the final order or place the motion off
calendar.
Dated this 31st day of January 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Lee
  S. Arian
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 