 Case Number:  21STCV37594    Hearing Date:   January 31, 2024    Dept:  27  
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 




ANNA VASERFIRER, et al.,  
                        
                   Plaintiffs,
 
 
            vs.
 
 
 
 
UBER TECHNOLOGIES, INC., et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
) 
) 
)


     CASE NO.: 21STCV37594
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: APPLICATION TO BE ADMITTED PRO HAC VICE BY DEFENDANTS UBER
  TECHNOLOGIES, INC., RASIER, LLC, AND RASIER-CA, LLC’S
 
Dept. 27
1:30 p.m.
January 31,
  2024




 
 
I.           
BACKGROUND
On October 12,
2021, plaintiffs Anna Vaserfirer and Arkady Vaserfirer (“Plaintiffs”) filed
this action against defendant Uber Technologies, Inc. (“Uber”) arising out of a motor
vehicle-pedestrian collision.  On January
3, 2023, Plaintiffs amended the complaint to add Rasier, LLC, Rasier-CA, LLC,
Avis Rent A Car System, LLC (“Avis”),
and Oscar Moquete (“Moquete”)
as defendants.  
Uber, Rasier
LLC, and Rasier-CA LLC now seek to have Bryan D. Pasciak admitted pro hac vice. This motion is
unopposed. 
II.         
LEGAL STANDARD

Standard
to be Admitted Pro Hac Vice
CRC Rule 9.40
provides that an attorney in good standing in another jurisdiction may apply to
appear as counsel pro hac vice in the State of California by filing a verified
application together with proof of service by mail of a copy of the application
and notice of hearing on all parties who have appeared in the case and on the
State Bar of California at its San Francisco office, with payment of a $50.00
fee, so long as that attorney is not a resident of the State of California, and
is not regularly engaged in substantial business, professional, or other
activities in the State of California. 
The application
must state: (1) the applicant’s residence and office
addresses; (2) the courts to which the applicant has been admitted to practice
and the dates of admission; (3) that the applicant is a member in good standing
in those courts; (4) that the applicant is not currently suspended or disbarred
in any court; (5) the title of each court and cause in which the applicant has
filed an application to appear as counsel pro hac vice in this state in the
preceding two years, the date of each application, and whether or not it was
granted; and (6) the name, address, and telephone number of the active member
of the State Bar of California who is attorney of record in the local action. 
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 9.40(d).)   
III.       
DISCUSSION
Applications to
appear as counsel pro hac vice must contain the facts specified in Cal. Rules
of Court, rule 9.40(d). Pasciak’s application contains the following
information: 
•  office
and residence address (Pasciak Decl., ¶ 2.) 
•  the
courts to which he has been admitted (Id., ¶ 4.) 
•  evidence
that he is a member in good standing in Illinois and Florida (Ibid.) 
•  evidence
he is not suspended or disbarred in any state (Id., ¶ 5.) 
•  title
of this court and the cause of action he has applied to appear in.
(Application, Caption.) 
•  evidence
that he has appeared as counsel pro hac vice in California in the past two
years for one other matter (Pasciak Decl., ¶ 6.) 
•  Name,
address, and phone number of Mary K. Planchet, the California attorney
representing Moving Defendants in this action. (Id., ¶ 7.) 
Pasciak is not a
resident of California, nor is he employed or regularly engaging in business in
California. On December 8, 2023, Moving Defendants filed a notice of compliance
containing a receipt showing Moving Defendants paid the $50 fee. (12-08-2024 Notice
of Compliance.) Moving Defendants also properly served all parties who have
appeared in the action. Pasciak’s application was also served on the California
State Bar as required by CRC Rule 9.40. Therefore, the application is granted.  
IV.        
CONCLUSION
The application
to be admitted pro hac vice is GRANTED.
Moving
Defendants to give notice.
Parties who
intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at
SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative as
directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org. 
Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to appear
at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the hearing and
argue the matter.  Unless you receive a submission from all other parties
in the matter, you should assume that others might appear at the hearing to
argue.  If the Court does not receive emails from the parties indicating
submission on this tentative ruling and there are no appearances at the
hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the tentative as the final
order or place the motion off calendar. 
          Dated this 31st day of January 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon.
  Lee Arian
Judge
  of the Superior Court




 