 Case Number:  23STCV25649    Hearing Date:   January 31, 2024    Dept:  27  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL
DISTRICT
 



BRIAN MENDOZA, 
                   Plaintiff,
          vs.
 
RALPHS
  GROCERY COMPANY, et al.,
 
                   Defendants.
 


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 23STCV25649
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEMURRER TO COMPLAINT; MOTION TO STRIKE 


 
Dept.
  27
1:30
  p.m.
January
  31, 2024



 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant Ralphs Grocery Company dba Ralphs
(“Ralphs”)  
RESPONDING PARTY: Unopposed 
 
 
 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
This
is an action arising from Plaintiff Brian Mendoza (“Plaintiff”) being assaulted
at a grocery store in November 2022. On October 20, 2023, Plaintiff filed a
complaint against Defendants Ralphs Grocery Company, Doe Company, John Doe, and
DOES 1 through 10 (collectively “Defendants”), alleging causes of action for:
(1) civil assault and battery, (2) false imprisonment, (3) intentional
infliction of emotional distress, and (4) negligence. 
On
December 29, 2023, Defendant Ralphs Grocery Company dba Ralphs (“Ralphs”) filed
and served a demurrer to the first, second, and third causes of action in the
complaint. 
Also,
on December 29, 2023, Defendant Ralphs filed and served a motion to strike punitive
damages allegations from the complaint.  
On
January 12, 2024, Plaintiff filed and served the operative First Amended
Complaint (“FAC”) against Defendants alleging causes of action for: (1) civil
assault and battery, (2) false imprisonment, (3) intentional infliction of
emotional distress, and (4) negligence.
Plaintiff
did not file an opposition to either the demurrer or the motion to strike. 
 
The Effect of the FAC
          “An amended
complaint supersedes all prior complaints.” (Malear v. State (2023) 89
Cal.App.5th 213, 221, internal quotations omitted.) Where an amended complaint
is filed “the original complaint ceases to have any effect either as a pleading
or as a basis for judgment.” (Ibid.) “The amended complaint furnishes
the sole basis for the cause of action, and the original complaint ceases to
have any effect either as a pleading or as a basis for judgment.” (JKC3H8 v.
Colton (2013) 221 Cal.App.4th 468, 477.) “[T]he filing of an amended
complaint renders moot a demurrer to the original complaint.” (Ibid.) “A
party may amend its pleading once without leave of court . . . after a demurrer
. . . is filed but before the demurrer . . . is heard . . . if the amended
pleading is filed and served no later than the date for filing an opposition to
the demurrer.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 472.)
          Here,
Defendant’s demurrer and motion to strike are directed at the complaint.
Plaintiff, however, has filed the FAC which is now the operative pleading in
this action. The complaint no longer has any effect as a pleading. Thus, the
demurrer and motion to strike filed by Defendant are MOOT. 
          Accordingly,
Defendant’s demurrer and motion to strike are MOOT and are taken OFF-CALENDAR. 
 
II.         
CONCLUSION

Defendant’s demurrer and motion to
strike are MOOT and are taken OFF-CALENDAR due to the filing of the FAC. Defendant
may challenge the FAC by demurrer or motion to strike. 
 
Moving party is ordered to give notice.

 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. 
Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to
appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the
hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you
receive a submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume
that others might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive emails from the
parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no appearances
at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the tentative as the
final order or place the motion off calendar.
      Dated this 31st day of January 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon.
  Lee S. Arian 
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 