 Case Number:  23STCV19614    Hearing Date:   January 31, 2024    Dept:  27  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL
DISTRICT
 



VICTOR DOUGLAS, 
                   Plaintiff,
          vs.
 
THE
  ELEVENTH DIMENSION, INC., et al.,
 
                   Defendants.
 


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 23STCV19614
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEMURRER TO COMPLAINT; MOTION TO STRIKE 


 
Dept.
  27
1:30
  p.m.
January
  31, 2024



 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant The Eleventh Dimension, Inc.
(“Defendant”)   
RESPONDING PARTY: Unopposed    
 
 
 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
This
is an action arising from Plaintiff Victor Douglas (“Plaintiff”) being verbally
and physically assaulted at a 7-Eleven store, by a store employee, on May 29,
2022. On August 16, 2023, Plaintiff filed a complaint against Defendants The
Eleventh Dimension, Inc. (“Defendant”) and DOES 1 through 50, alleging causes
of action for: (1) assault and battery, (2) negligent hiring, supervision, or
retention of employees, (3) respondent superior, and (4) punitive damages. 
On
December 22, 2023, Defendant filed and served a demurrer to the third and
fourth causes of action in the complaint. Also, on December 22, 2023, Defendant
filed and served a motion to strike punitive damages allegations from the
complaint. 
Both
the demurrer and motion to strike are unopposed. Any opposition was required to
have been filed and served at least nine court days prior to the hearing. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 1005, subd. (b).) 
 
II.         
DEMURRER
“A demurrer tests the sufficiency of a
complaint as a matter of law.”  (Durell
v. Sharp Healthcare (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 1350, 1358.) “[T]he court gives
the complaint a reasonable interpretation, and treats the demurrer as admitting
all material facts properly pleaded.”  (Ibid.)
“[A] demurrer accepts as true all well pleaded facts and those facts of which
the court can take judicial notice but not deductions, contentions, or
conclusions of law or fact.” (Fox v. JAMDAT Mobile, Inc. (2010) 185
Cal.App.4th 1068, 1078.) Although courts construe pleadings liberally,
sufficient facts must be alleged to support the allegations plead to survive a
demurrer. (Rakestraw v. California Physicians' Serv. (2000) 81
Cal.App.4th 39, 43.)  
Where a demurrer is sustained, leave to
amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful
amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) The burden is
on the plaintiff to show the court that a pleading can be amended successfully.
(Ibid.) “If there is any reasonable possibility that the plaintiff can
state a good cause of action, it is error to sustain a demurrer without leave
to amend.” (Youngman v. Nevada Irrigation Dist. (1969) 70 Cal.2d 240,
245).  
 
Meet and Confer 
          “Before filing a demurrer . . . the demurring party shall
meet and confer in person, by telephone, or by video conference with the party
who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of
determining whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the
objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd.
(a).) “A determination by the court that the meet and confer process was
insufficient shall not be grounds to overrule or sustain a demurrer.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a)(4).) 
          The
meet and confer requirement has not been met as to the demurrer. 
Defendant’s counsel attempted to meet
and confer with Plaintiff’s counsel via email and telephone. (Goldstein Decl.,
¶¶ 2-3; Exhibit A.)  
          The
Court will still assess the merits of the demurrer. However, the Court reminds
the parties to comply with the Code of Civil Procedure. 
 
Issue No.1: Third Cause of Action—Respondent Superior 
          Defendant
contends that the third cause of action in the complaint fails because
respondent superior is not itself a cause of action but rather a theory of
vicarious liability.   
          “Under the
doctrine of respondeat superior, an employer is vicariously liable for the
torts of its employees committed within the scope of the employment.” (CRST,
Inc. v. Superior Court (2017) 11 Cal.App.5th 1255, 1260.) Respondeat
superior is a theory of vicarious liability and is not an independent cause of
action. (Id. at p. 1264; see also Lisa M. v. Henry Mayo Newhall
Memorial Hospital (1995) 12 Cal.4th 291, 296.) 
          Here,
Plaintiff has asserted a cause of action for “respondent superior,” however,
such cause of action is not an independent cause of action. Also, given that
the demurer is unopposed there is an inference it has merit. (Sexton v.
Superior Court (1997) 58 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1410.)
          The Court
therefore SUSTAINS Defendant’s demurrer to the third cause of action in the
complaint WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND. Plaintiff has not met his burden in showing
that there is a reasonable possibility that the third cause of action can be
amended to state a sufficient cause of action.
 
 
Issue No.2: Fourth Cause of Action—Punitive Damages
          Defendant
asserts that the fourth cause of action in the complaint fails because a cause
of action for punitive damages is not an independent cause of action. 
          “In
California there is no separate cause of action for punitive damages.” (McLaughlin
v. National Union Fire Ins. Co. (1994) 23 Cal.App.4th 1132, 1164.) A
plaintiff “must still prove the underlying tortious act causing actual,
presumed or, where the difficulty lies in fixing the amount of damages with
certainty, nominal damages.” (Ibid.)
          Here, the
Court finds that punitive damages is not a separate, independent cause of
action under McLaughlin, supra, 23 Cal.App.4th 1132, 1164. 
          Therefore,
the Court SUSTAINS Defendant’s demurrer to the fourth cause of action in the
complaint WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND. The demurrer is unopposed and, as such,
Plaintiff has not met his burden in showing a reasonable possibility that the
fourth cause of action can be amended to state a sufficient cause of action. 
 
III.    MOTION TO
STRIKE
          “Any party,
within the time allowed to respond to a pleading may serve and file a notice of
motion to strike the whole or any part thereof.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd.
(b)(1).) A court may “[s]trike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter
inserted in any pleading.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a).)  A court may “[s]trike out all or any part of
any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a
court rule, or an order of the court.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (b).) 
 
Meet and Confer  
          “Before
filing a motion to strike . . . the moving party shall meet and confer in
person, by telephone, or by video conference with the party who filed the
pleading that is subject to the motion to strike for the purpose of determining
whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be
raised in the motion to strike.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5, subd. (a).) “A
determination by the court that the meet and confer process was insufficient
shall not be grounds to grant or deny the motion to strike.” (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 435.5, subd. (a)(4).) 
          The meet and
confer requirement has been met as to the motion to strike. Defendant’s counsel
met and conferred with Plaintiff’s counsel via email and telephone. (Goldstein
Decl., ¶¶ 2-3; Exhibit A.)  
 
Issue No.1: Procedural Non-Compliance
          Initially,
the Court finds that Defendant’s motion to strike is procedurally non-compliant.
          “A notice of
motion to strike a portion of a pleading must quote in full the portions sought
to be stricken except where the motion is to strike an entire paragraph, cause
of action, count, or defense. Specifications in a notice must be numbered
consecutively.” (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1322, subd. (a).) 
          Here, the Notice
of Motion does not state which portions of the complaint that Defendant seeks
to be strike. Instead, Defendant only indicates that “[t]he request for
punitive damages is invalid as a matter of law.” (Motion to Strike, 2:8.) 
          Upon review
of the complaint, Plaintiff makes punitive damages allegations as to the fourth
cause of action and the prayer for relief in the complaint. It appears that
Defendant seeks to strike punitive damages from the prayer for relief in the
complaint as it asserts that the “prayer requires clear and convincing
evidence.” (Motion, 4:7.) Defendant also contends that “the Court must strike
Plaintiff’s request for punitive damages against [Defendant].” (Motion,
4:18-19.)  
          Although the
notice of motion is improper, the Court assumes that Defendant seeks to only strike
the reference to punitive damages from the prayer for relief in the complaint.
The Court will assess the motion to strike on the merits; however, the Court
reminds Defendant to comply with the California Rules of Court. 
 
Issue No.2: Striking Punitive Damages 
          “In order to
survive a motion to strike an allegation of punitive damages, the ultimate
facts showing an entitlement to such relief must be pled by a plaintiff.”  (Clauson v. Superior Court (1998) 67
Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255.)  California Civil
Code, Section 3294 authorizes punitive damages upon a showing of malice,
fraud, or oppression.  Malice is defined
as either “conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the
plaintiff,” or “despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a
willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.”  (Civil Code § 3294(c)(1).)  “Despicable conduct is conduct which is so
vile, base, contemptible, miserable, wretched or loathsome that it would be
looked down upon and despised by ordinary decent people.”  (Mock v. Michigan Millers Mutual Ins. Co.
(1992) 4 Cal. App. 4th 306, 331.)  Fraud
under California Civil Code, Section 3294(c)(3) “means an intentional
misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the
defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving
a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.”  California Civil Code, Section 3294(c)(2)
defines oppression as “despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and
unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person’s rights.”  Specific facts must be pled in support of
punitive damages.  (Hillard v. A.H.
Robins Co. (1983) 148 Cal.App.3d 374, 391-392.)  Facts must be pled to show that a defendant
“act[ed] with the intent to vex, injure or annoy, or with a conscious disregard
of the plaintiff’s rights.”  (Silberg
v. California Life Ins. Co. (1974) 11 Cal.3d 452, 462.)  Conduct that is merely negligent will not
support a claim for punitive damages.  (Tomaselli
v. Transamerica Ins. Co. (1994) 25 Cal.App.4th 1269, 1288.) 
          An employer
will not be liable for punitive damages based upon the acts of an employee of
the employer, unless: (1) the employer had advance knowledge of the unfitness
of the employee and employed him or her with a conscious disregard of the
rights or safety of others; or (2) the employer ratified the wrongful conduct
for which the damages are awarded or was personally guilty of oppression,
fraud, or malice. (Civ. Code § 3294(b).) As to a corporate employer, the
advance knowledge and conscious disregard, authorization, ratification or act
of oppression, fraud, or malice must be on the part of an officer, director, or
managing agent of a corporation.  (Id.)

The Court finds that Plaintiff has not
alleged sufficient facts showing malice, fraud, or oppression to warrant the
imposition of punitive damages. The complaint only makes conclusory allegations
as to punitive damages and does not set forth specific facts. Moreover, although
Defendant is a corporate employer, the complaint neither alleges that an
officer, director, or managing agent of Defendant had any advance knowledge of
the unfitness of the employee who purportedly assaulted Plaintiff nor alleges
that such a party authorized or ratified such conduct. 
          Therefore,
the Court GRANTS Defendant’s motion to strike with 20 days leave to amend.  Also, the motion to strike is unopposed which
leads to the inference that it has merit under Sexton, supra, 58
Cal.App.4th 1403, 1410.
 
IV.     CONCLUSION
The Court SUSTAINS the demurrer of Defendant
to the third and fourth causes of action in the complaint WITHOUT LEAVE TO
AMEND. 
The Court GRANTS Defendant’s motion to
strike with 20 days leave to amend. 
 
Moving party is ordered to give notice.

 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. 
Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to
appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the
hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you
receive a submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume
that others might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive emails from the
parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
      Dated this 31st day of January 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon.
  Lee S. Arian 
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 