 Case Number:  24CHCV01830    Hearing Date:   December 18, 2024    Dept:  F51  DECEMBER 17,  2024    DEMURRER  Los Angeles Superior Court Case # 24CHCV01830    Demurrer filed: 9/4/24   MOVING PARTY: Defendants PHH Mortgage Corporation;  and Deutsche Bank National Trust Company, as Trustee for Morgan Stanley ABS  Capital I Inc. Trust 2006-HE8 Mortgage Pass-Through Certificates, Series  2006-HE8 (collectively, “Moving Defendants”) RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiffs Mark Gomez; and Juanita  Gomez (collectively, “Plaintiffs”)  NOTICE: OK    RELIEF REQUESTED: Moving Defendants demur against the sixth cause of action in Plaintiffs’ first  amended complaint (“FAC”).   TENTATIVE RULING: The unopposed demurrer is sustained  without leave to amend.    BACKGROUND    This is a  wrongful foreclosure action wherein Plaintiffs own and reside at certain real  property located at 27406 Onlee Avenue, Saugus, California (the “Subject  Property”). (FAC ¶ 15.) Moving Defendants “are the trustee, loan servicer, and  beneficiary, respectively, of a deed of trust securing a loan against the”  subject property. (Id. at ¶ 12.) Plaintiffs allege that their home was  at risk of foreclosure, therefore on 4/17/24, they contacted the individual and  LLC defendants (collectively, “LLC Defendants”), who advertised that their  company helps save properties from foreclosure. (Id. at ¶ 22.) At the  LLC Defendants’ direction, on 4/22/24, Plaintiffs executed a Grant Deed  transferring ownership of the Subject Property to the LLC Defendants, but the  foreclosure proceedings were not remedied or otherwise postponed. (Id.  at ¶¶ 24–35.)   On 5/10/24,  Plaintiffs filed their complaint against the LLC Defendants, alleging a sole  cause of action for Fraud. On 7/10/24, Plaintiffs filed their FAC against eight  named defendants, alleging the following causes of action: (1) Fraud –  Intentional Misrepresentation; (2) Fraud – Concealment; (3) Quiet Title; (4)  Cancellation of Written Instrument; and (5) Injunctive Relief.[1]   On 9/4/24, Moving Defendants filed  the instant demurrer. No opposition has been filed to date.   ANALYSIS   As a general matter, a party may respond to a pleading  against it by demurrer on the basis of any single or combination of eight  enumerated grounds, including that “the pleading does not state facts  sufficient to constitute a cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd.  (e).) In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the  pleading or via proper judicial notice.¿(Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co.  (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)   “A demurrer tests the pleading alone, and not the evidence  or facts alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc. v. Accountants, Inc. Servs. (2007) 153  Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) As such, the court assumes the truth of the  complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual allegations. (Ibid.) The  only issue a demurrer is concerned with is whether the complaint, as it stands,  states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740,  747.)   Here, Moving  Defendants demur to the sixth cause of action in Plaintiffs’ FAC on the basis  that Plaintiffs fail¿to allege facts sufficient to state a cause of action for  injunctive relief.   A.    Meet-and-Confer   Before filing its demurrer, “the demurring party shall meet  and confer in person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that  is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can  be reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 430.41, subd. (a).) The demurring party must file and  serve a meet and confer declaration stating either: “(A) The means by which the  demurring party met and conferred with the party who filed the pleading subject  to demurrer, and that the parties did not reach an agreement resolving the  objections raised in the demurrer;” or “(B) That the party who filed the  pleading subject to demurrer failed to respond to the meet and confer request  of the demurring party or otherwise failed to meet and confer in good faith.” (Id.  at subd. (a)(3).)   Here, Moving Defendants’ counsel declares that the parties  met and conferred by telephone at least five days before filing the instant demurrer.  (Decl. of Kathryn A. Moorer, ¶ 2a.) Accordingly, the Court finds that counsel  has satisfied the preliminary meet and confer requirements under Code of Civil  Procedure section 430.41, subdivision (a).   B.      Injunctive Relief   Plaintiffs’  sixth cause of action seeks Injunctive Relief against the Trustee’s Sale of the  subject property. “To qualify for a permanent injunction, the plaintiff must  prove (1) the elements of a cause of action involving the wrongful act sought  to be enjoined … and (2) the grounds for equitable relief.” (San Diego  Unified Port Dist. v. Gallagher (1998) 62 Cal.App.4th 501, 503.)   On 9/26/24,  this Court denied Plaintiff’s application for a preliminary injunction  restraining the foreclosure sale of the subject property. Here, on demurrer,  Moving Defendants argue that “there are no allegations of wrongdoing asserted  against Lender Defendants in the FAC.” (Dem. 6:25–26.) “Here, the purported  wrongful act was the recording of the Grant Deed (that Plaintiffs voluntarily  signed) by the LLC. Plaintiffs concede that Lender Defendants have the right to  foreclose and said foreclosure is not wrongful as it is contractually authorized  as a result of their default. … Thus, because injunctive relief is not a viable  cause of action and because Plaintiffs’ remaining causes of action do not  allege any wrongdoing by Lender Defendants, Plaintiffs are not entitled to  enjoin Defendants from exercising their undisputed contractual rights.” (Id.  at 9:12–17, citing FAC ¶ 21.)   As with its  ruling on Plaintiffs’ application for a preliminary injunction, here, the Court  agrees with Moving Defendants that Plaintiffs allege no wrongdoing by Moving  Defendants in this action. The crux of Plaintiffs’ action alleges that the LLC  Defendants defrauded Plaintiffs into transferring title to the Subject Property  to the LLC Defendants. Any finding as to the merits of Plaintiffs’ claims are  immaterial to Moving Defendants’ right to foreclose on the Subject Property,  which remains whether or not title is reverted from the LLC Defendants to  Plaintiffs. (FAC ¶ 21; FAC p. 31, ll. 21–22.)   The Court  notes that Plaintiffs have failed to file any opposition to the instant  demurrer. Based on the foregoing, the Court finds that Plaintiffs have failed  to allege facts sufficient to constitute a basis for injunctive relief against Moving  Defendants. Accordingly, the demurrer against Plaintiffs’ sixth cause of action  is sustained.   C.     Leave to Amend   Where a  demurrer is sustained, leave to amend must be allowed where there is a  reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy  (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) The burden is on the plaintiff to show the court  that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.; Lewis v. YouTube,  LLC (2015) 244 Cal.App.4th 118, 226.) However, “[i]f there is any  reasonable possibility that the plaintiff can state a good cause of action, it  is error to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend.” (Youngman v. Nevada  Irrigation Dist. (1969) 70 Cal.2d 240, 245).¿    Here, the  Court finds that in failing to oppose the instant demurrer, Plaintiffs make no  showing of a reasonable possibility that they may successfully remedy the  underlying deficiencies in their sixth cause of action against Moving  Defendants. Accordingly, the demurrer is sustained without leave to amend.   CONCLUSION    The demurrer is sustained without leave to amend.     