  Case Number:  24CHCV00201    Hearing Date:   December 18, 2024    Dept:  F51 
DECEMBER 17,
2024
 

MOTION TO BE
RELIEVED AS COUNSEL

Los Angeles Superior Court Case # 24CHCV00201

 
Motion filed: 8/1/24 
 
MOVING ATTORNEY: Michael Burgis (“Counsel”)
CLIENT: Plaintiff Amparo Rujeles (“Plaintiff”)
NOTICE: OK
 
RELIEF REQUESTED: An order relieving Counsel as attorney
of record for Plaintiff.
 
TENTATIVE RULING: The motion is continued pending Counsel
providing the Court with a proof of service of the instant motion and
accompanying papers on Plaintiff.
 
In a civil action, an attorney may
move to be relieved as counsel at any time during the proceedings after giving
notice to his client. (Code Civ. Proc. § 284.) The moving attorney shall file
with his motion: (1) a notice of the motion, directed to the client using
Judicial Council form MC-051; (2) a declaration in support of the motion using
Judicial Council form MC-052; and (3) a proposed order granting the motion; all
to be served on the client and all other parties who have appeared in the case.
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362.)
 
In his declaration, the moving
attorney is required to state “in general terms, and without compromising the
confidentiality of the attorney-client relationship why a motion under Code of
Civil Procedure section 284(2) is brought instead of filing a consent under
Code of Civil Procedure section 284(1).” (Id., subd. (c).) The client
must be provided no less than five days’ notice before hearing on the motion.
An attorney may withdraw from a case when it can be accomplished without undue
prejudice to the client’s interests. (Ramirez v. Sturdevant (1994) 21
Cal.App.4th 904, 915.) On the other hand, if the attorney withdraws at a
critical point in the action, thereby prejudicing his client, he has violated his
ethical duties. (Ibid.) 
 
Here, Counsel filed this motion to
be relieved as counsel for Plaintiff on 8/1/24. Counsel declares that that the
motion and accompanying papers have been mailed to the client’s last known
address. (Decl. of Michael Burgis ¶ 3b(2).) No other parties have appeared in the
instant action. However, the Court notes that Counsel has not filed any proof
of service of the instant motion and accompanying papers on Plaintiff.
 
Counsel filed an accompanying
notice of the motion using Judicial Council form MC-051, a declaration in
support of his motion using form MC-052, and a proposed order granting the
motion using form MC-053. In the MC-052 declaration, Counsel states that he and
his client have “come to a point of irreconcilable differences” such that
Counsel must withdraw from the representation thereof. (Id. at ¶ 2.) The
next hearing date in this action is a case management conference and order to
show cause regarding Plaintiff’s failure to appear, set for the same date as
the instant hearing. No trial date has been set. Therefore, Counsel’s
withdrawal does not raise the risk of unduly prejudicing his client. 
 
Based on the foregoing, the Court
finds that Counsel has not satisfied the statutory requirements for the instant
motion to be relieved as counsel. Accordingly, the Court continues the instant
motion pending Counsel providing the Court with a proof of service of the
instant motion and accompanying papers on his client.Continued to 04/29/2025.