 Case Number:  22STCV33895    Hearing Date:   September 18, 2024    Dept:  49 Denise R. Birtch v. Specialized Loan Servicing, LLC, et al.MOTION TO STRIKE THIRD AMENDED COMPLAINT MOVING PARTY: Defendants Specialized Loan Servicing, LLC and Gulf Harbour Investments Corp.RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiff Denise R. BirtchSTATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:Plaintiff Denise Birtch alleges she owns the real property at 7101-7103 Flight Ave., Los Angeles, CA, 90045. After purchasing the property, Plaintiff granted a Deed of Trust to Downey Savings and Loan Association to secure an obligation which had the principal sum of $500,000.00. Later, Plaintiff granted a second Deed of Trust to National City Bank to secure an obligation which had the principal sum of $80,000.00. On June 2, 2008, Plaintiff alleges she entered into a modification agreement with Downey which she believed merged the National and Downey obligations into one loan. Plaintiff did not hear from National for the next thirteen years.On or about December 20, 2021, Plaintiff learned the National obligation was still outstanding when she learned that a Notice of Default was recorded by an alleged assignee of the second Deed of Trust. The Assignment listed Defendant Gulf Harbour as the alleged beneficiary. On September 29, 2022, a Mikhael Garabed purchased the property at a foreclosure sale. Plaintiff brings causes of action for (1) breach of contract, (2) fraudulent concealment, (3) unfair business practices, and (4) declaratory relief.Defendants Specialized Loan Servicing, LLC and Gulf Harbour Investments Corp. now move to strike portions of the Third Amended Complaint. Plaintiffs opposed.TENTATIVE RULING:Defendants’ Motion to Strike is GRANTED IN PART and DENIED IN PART, as expressly stated herein. As to the portions of the TAC which are being stricken, no leave to amend is needed, and as such, no leave to amend is allowed.Defendants are to file an Answer to the TAC within 21 days, if it hasn’t already done so.Moving parties are ordered to give notice, unless waived.DISCUSSION:Motion to StrikeI. Meet and Confer The Declaration of attorney William M. Brockschmidt reflects that the parties met and conferred. (CCP § 430.41.)II. Legal StandardA motion to strike lies either (1) to strike any irrelevant, false or improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (2) to strike any pleading or part thereof not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule or order of court.  (CCP § 436.)III. Plaintiff’s Untimely OppositionPlaintiff submitted an untimely opposition on September 13, 2024, only five court days before the hearing. (See CCP § 1005(b) [“All papers opposing a motion so noticed shall be filed with the court and a copy served on each party at least nine court days…before the hearing.”].) Plaintiff’s counsel submitted a declaration on September 13, 2024, attributing the untimely filing to a “calendaring error.” (See Abbasi Decl. ¶ 2.) Be that as it may, this court exercises its discretion to consider the untimely opposition. To the extent they wish to be heard, Defendants will be afforded the opportunity at the hearing to make any arguments they would have raised in their reply. IV. Analysis A. Allegations Re: Punitive DamagesDefendants again [FN 1]  move to strike Plaintiff’s references to punitive damages in the Third Amended Complaint. (See Notice of Motion.) Civil Code § 3294 provides that “[i]n an action for the breach of an obligation not arising from contract where it is proven by clear and convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice, the plaintiff, in addition to the actual damages, may recover damages for the sake of example and by way of punishing the defendant.” As defined in § 3294(c):(1) “Malice” means conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others. (2) “Oppression” means despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person’s rights. (3) “Fraud” means that a defendant intentionally misrepresented or concealed a material fact and did so intended to harm a plaintiff.“When the defendant is a corporation, ‘[a]n award of punitive damages against a corporation ... must rest on the malice of the corporation's employees. But the law does not impute every employee's malice to the corporation.’ [Citation.] Instead, the oppression, fraud, or malice must be perpetrated, authorized, or knowingly ratified by an officer, director, or managing agent of the corporation. (Civ.Code, § 3294, subd. (b).)” (Wilson v. S. California Edison Co. (2015) 234 Cal. App. 4th 123, 164.)First, Defendants argue Plaintiff exceeded the scope of the leave to amend given after the Defendants’ last motion to strike was granted. Where the court sustains an attack on the pleading with leave to amend, “the scope of the grant of leave is ordinarily a limited one. It gives the pleader an opportunity to cure the defects in the particular causes of action to which the [motion to strike was was granted], but that is all.” (Cmty. Water Coal. v. Santa Cruz Cnty. Loc. Agency Formation Com. (2011) 200 Cal. App. 4th 1317, 1329.) In the last Ruling on the motion to strike, the court found Plaintiff had not alleged facts showing the alleged fraud was “perpetrated, authorized, or knowingly ratified by an officer, director, or managing agent of Defendants SLS or Gulf Harbor.” (See 05/16/24 Final Ruling, p. 3.) It was this defect that any amended pleading should address. Be that as it may, there is a liberal policy of amendment in this state. “A trial court has wide discretion to allow the amendment of pleadings, and generally courts will liberally allow amendments at any stage of the proceeding.” (Falcon v. Long Beach Genetics, Inc. (2014) 224 Cal. App. 4th 1263, 1280.) Moreover, “it is irrelevant that new legal theories are introduced as long as the proposed amendments ‘relate to the same general set of facts.’ [Citation.]”  (Atkinson v. Elk Corp., (2003) 109 Cal. App. 4th 739, 761.) Importantly, given the early stage here, there is little prejudice to Defendants if this court permits the amendments, no matter how broad they may be. (See, e.g., Hirsa v. Superior Court (1981) 118 Cal.App.3d 486.) Thus, this court exercises its discretion to permit and consider the amendment, as well as the motion to strike thereto. In the TAC, Plaintiff alleges Defendant Gulf Harbour is a “debt collector” under California law but lacked the necessary license. (TAC ¶ 31.) “Therefore, Gulf Harbour never had the right to tender any claim or demand the repayment of any debt from the Plaintiff in this action under California law.” (Id.) Plaintiff alleges that to “get around California law and Gulf Harbour’s lack of licensing,” Defendant SLS “executed and recorded documents in the Los Angeles County Recorder's Office on Gulf Harbor's behalf which allowed Gulf Harbour to hide its identity and its entitlements from the public at large and the Plaintiff in particular. These documents were executed by SLS on behalf of Gulf Harbour as its ‘Attorney-In-Fact’ based upon a power of attorney executed on or about August 10, 2019 which was signed by Mr. Seth Miller (hereinafter "Miller") whom was identified as the ‘President’ and ‘Owner’ of Gulf Harbour (Does No. 6).” (Id. ¶ 34.) Plaintiff alleges that through the power of attorney, “Mr. Miller, Gulf Harbour, SLS and Does 1 to 6, sought to avoid, circumvent, and ignore the rules and regulations for debt collection in California.” (Id. ¶ 35.)Considering these allegations, Plaintiff has remedied the issues previously identified by alleging conduct that was perpetrated, authorized, or knowingly ratified by Mr. Miller, who is alleged to be an officer of Defendant Gulf Harbor. For pleadings purposes, this is sufficient to seek punitive damages. Accordingly, Defendants’ Motion to Strike Punitive Damages is DENIED.B. Allegations Re: Financial Code § 22750(b)Defendant also moves to strike Plaintiff’s interpretation of Financial Code section 22750(b). At Paragraph 38 in the TAC, Plaintiff alleges:Under California Financial Code §22750(b) if a provision of the division is intentionally violated when making or collecting a loan, the loan contract is void. This applies to both licensees and unlicensed people subject to the division. No one has the right to receive or collect any principal, charges, or compensation in connection with the transaction. Plaintiff is informed and believes and upon such information and belief alleges that as the actions of Mr. Miller, Gulf Harbour, SLS, and Does 1 to 6 were clearly intentional, they cannot collect on the allegedly assigned National note and deed.Here, Plaintiff’s interpretation of section 22750 and its potential application to the case are legal conclusions. It is “the general rule that a complaint must contain only allegations of ultimate facts as opposed to allegations of evidentiary facts or of legal conclusions or arguments. [Citation.]” (Burke v. Superior Court (1969) 71 Cal.2d 276, 279, fn. 4.) Accordingly, Defendants’ Motion to Strike Paragraph 38 is GRANTED, without leave to amend.C. Allegations Re: Financial Code § 100005Defendants also move to strike Plaintiff’s allegation pertaining to Financial Code section 100005 as irrelevant. At paragraph 57, Plaintiff alleges:Under Financial Code§ 100005, the Commission may grant ‘ancillary relief’ which includes, but need not be limited to, refunds, restitution, disgorgement, and payment of damages, as appropriate, on behalf of a person injured by the conduct or practice that constitutes the subject matter of the assessment.As Defendants note, this Financial Code section gives “the Commission” authority to grant certain relief. It has no bearing in the action before this court and is therefore irrelevant.Accordingly, Defendants’ Motion to Strike Paragraph 57 is GRANTED, without leave to amend.IT IS SO ORDERED.Dated:   September 18, 2024 ___________________________________ Randolph M. Hammock Judge of the Superior CourtFN 1 - This court previously granted Defendants’ motion to strike punitive damages with leave to amend. (See 05/16/2024 Final Ruling.)  Any party may submit on the tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept49@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day before the hearing.  All interested parties must be copied on the email.  It should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.