  Case Number:  24VECV00400    Hearing Date:   May 8, 2024    Dept:  107 


 
SUPERIOR COURT
  OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS
  ANGELES
NORTHWEST
  DISTRICT
 




Hollywood Creative
  Alliance,
 
         Plaintiff,
 
   v.
 
Broadcast Film
  Critics Association, et al.,
 
        
  Defendants.


   Case
  Number             Department
   24VECV00400  
       107




 
COURT’S [TENTATIVE] RULING RE: 
MOTION TO STRIKE 
 
 



[THE FOLLOWING IS A TENTATIVE RULING IN THE ABOVE CASE]: 
 
I.
BACKGROUND
Both plaintiff Hollywood Creative Alliance
(“Plaintiff”) and defendant Broadcast Film Critics Association (“CCA”) are film
critic associations whose membership consists of film and entertainment
industry professionals and who that host award shows. (Complaint pp. 1–3.)
Defendant Joey Berlin (“Berlin” and, together with CCA, “Defendants”) is a
founder and the president of CCA. (Id. at pp. 2–3.) 
 
In December 2019 and January 2020, Defendants
contacted Plaintiff to demand Plaintiff change its then-name, Hollywood Critics
Association, because it infringed on CCA’s trademarks. (Id. at p. 4.) In
January 2020, CCA also barred its members from also being members of Plaintiff
for the same reason, causing several of Plaintiff’s members to resign their
memberships. (Id. at p. 5.)
 
On January 16, 2024, Berlin contacted Plaintiff and alleged
“that CCA had evidence that [Plaintiff] told studios [Plaintiff] would
improperly fluence its members’ votes in awards shows,” which Plaintiff denied.
(Id. at p. 7.) The following day, CCA e-mailed the allegation to its
membership and again barred its members from also being members of Plaintiff. (Id.
at p. 8.) The allegations were also printed in the Hollywood Reporter. (Ibid.)
Plaintiff alleges that the Hollywood Reporter journalist, who was a CCA member,
was coerced by CCA into publishing the article. (Id. at p. 9.) The
following day, Plaintiff “demanded that CCA retract its false accusations and
once again informed [] Berlin that his and CCA’s accusations were false and CCA’s
boycott of HCA was and is illegal,” but CCA instead reiterated its demand to
its members that they resign from Plaintiff. (Id. at p. 10.) Plaintiff
denies the truth of the allegations by CCA. (Id. at pp. 9–10.)
 
On January 29, 2024, Plaintiff initiated this lawsuit
by filing a complaint (the “Complaint”) against Defendants alleging causes of
action for (1) trade libel and defamation, (2) antitrust violations, (3)
intentional interference with prospective economic advantage, and (4) unfair
competition.
 
On April 11, 2024, Defendants filed a special motion
to strike under Section 425.16 (as defined below) (the “Motion”). On April 25,
2024, Plaintiff opposed the motion and on May 1, 2024, Defendants replied to
Plaintiff’s opposition.
 
II. JUDICIAL
NOTICE
 
“Judicial¿notice¿is the recognition and
acceptance by the court, for use by the trier of fact or by the court, of the
existence of a matter of law or fact that is relevant to an issue in the action
without requiring formal proof of the matter.” (Unruh-Haxton v. Regents of
University of California¿(2008) 162 Cal.App.4th 343, 364.)
“Judicial¿notice¿may not be taken of any matter unless authorized or required
by law.” (Cal. Evid. C. §¿450.) Matters subject to¿judicial¿notice¿are listed
in Cal. Evid. C. §§¿451–452. (Fremont Indemnity Co. v. Fremont General Corp.¿(2007)
148 Cal.App.4th 97, 113.) “The underlying theory of¿judicial¿notice¿is that the
matter being¿judicially¿noticed¿is a law or fact that is¿not reasonably
subject to dispute.”¿(Lockley v. Law Office of Cantrell, Green,
Pekich, Cruz & McCort¿(2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 875, 882 (emphasis
original).) “Although the¿existence¿of a document may
be¿judicially¿noticeable, the truth of statements contained in the document and
its proper interpretation are not subject to¿judicial¿notice¿if those matters
are reasonably disputable.” (Fremont Indemnity Co. v. Fremont General Corp.,¿supra,
113 (emphasis original);¿Tenet Healthsystem Desert, Inc. v. Blue Cross of
California¿(2016) 245 Cal.App.4th 821, 836.) Judicial notice may be taken
of the existence of a news article “[w]ithout assuming the truth of the
assertions contained in the news articles” when “the fact
that news articles discussing [certain] topics… were published
is not reasonably subject to dispute.” (Seelig v. Infinity Broadcasting
Corp. (2002) 97 Cal.App.4th 798, 807, fn. 5.)
 
Defendants request judicial
notice of certain news articles published in Entertainment Weekly, The
Hollywood Reporter, Variety, and The Wrap as “facts and propositions that are
not reasonably subject to dispute and are capable of immediate and accurate
determination by resort to sources of reasonably indisputable accuracy” under
Evidence Code section 452, subdivision (h). Plaintiff submits with the request
copies of the news articles in question. Like in Seelig v. Infinity
Broadcasting Corp., supra, 97 Cal.App.4th 798 at 807, fn. 5,
although we decline to consider or assume the truth of the matters in the news
articles, we agree that the existence of the articles discussing scandals at
the Golden Globes and the e-mail CCA sent to its members about Plaintiff are
not reasonably subject to dispute.
 
Accordingly, this court
GRANTS Plaintiff’s requests for judicial notice.
 
III. LEGAL
STANDARD
 
California’s anti-SLAPP statute (“Section 425.16”)
provides that “[a] cause of action against a person arising from any act of
that person in furtherance of the person's right of petition or free speech… in
connection with a public issue shall be subject to a special motion to strike,
unless the court determines that… there is a probability that the plaintiff
will prevail on the claim.” (Civ. Proc., § 425.16, subd. (b)(1).) “By its
terms, the anti-SLAPP statute is broadly construed.” (Du Charme v.
International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers (2003) 110 Cal.App.4th 107,
112, citing Civ. Proc., § 425.16, subd. (a).)
 
“Resolution of an anti-SLAPP motion involves
two steps. First, the defendant must establish that the challenged claim arises
from activity protected by [S]ection 425.16. If the defendant makes the
required showing, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to demonstrate the merit
of the claim by establishing a probability of success. We have described this
second step as a ‘summary-judgment-like procedure.’ The court does
not weigh evidence or resolve conflicting factual claims. Its inquiry is
limited to whether the plaintiff has stated a legally sufficient claim and
made a prima facie factual showing sufficient to sustain a favorable judgment.
It accepts the plaintiff's evidence as true, and evaluates the defendant's
showing only to determine if it defeats the plaintiff's claim as a matter of
law.” (Baral v. Schnitt (2016) 1 Cal.5th 376, 384–85, internal citations
omitted.) “The plaintiff must demonstrate this probability of success with
admissible evidence.” (Laker v. Board of Trustees of California State
University (2019) 32 Cal.App.5th 745, 768.) At this “second stage of an
anti-SLAPP hearing, the court may consider affidavits, declarations, and their
equivalents if it is reasonably possible the proffered evidence set out in
those statements will be admissible at trial. Conversely, if the evidence
relied upon cannot be admitted at trial, because it is categorically
barred or undisputed factual circumstances show inadmissibility, the court may
not consider it in the face of an objection. If an evidentiary objection is
made, the plaintiff may attempt to cure the asserted defect or demonstrate the
defect is curable.” (Sweetwater Union High School Dist. v. Gilbane Building
Co. (2019) 6 Cal.5th 931, 949.) Although the plaintiff bears the burden of
showing a probability of prevailing on the merits of the claim at this step, “the
defendants bear the burden of proof on any affirmative defense.” (Laker v.
Board of Trustees of California State University, supra, at 769.)
 
“In a catchall provision…, the statute
specifies that [act of that person in furtherance of the person's right of
petition or free speech] include ‘conduct in furtherance of the exercise of the
constitutional right of petition or the constitutional right of free speech in
connection with a public issue or an issue of public interest.’” (FilmOn.com
Inc. v. DoubleVerify Inc. (2019) 7 Cal.5th 133, 139, citing Civ. Proc.,
§ 425.16, subd. (e)(4).) This “applies to private communications
concerning issues of public interest.” (Hailstone v. Martinez (2008) 169
Cal.App.4th 728, 736.) The scope of the term “public interest” as used by
Section 425.16 “is to be construed broadly.” (Brodeur v. Atlas
Entertainment, Inc. (2016) 248 Cal.App.4th 665, 674.) “But the catchall
provision demands ‘some degree of closeness’ between the challenged statements
and the asserted public interest…. [I]t is not enough that the statement
refer to a subject of widespread public interest; the statement must in some
manner itself contribute to the public debate.” (FilmOn.com Inc. v.
DoubleVerify Inc., supra, at 150.) Thus, a two-part test is used to
determine if “a particular statement” is protected as being in connection with
an issue of public interest: “First, we ask what public issue or issue of
public interest the speech in question implicates—a question we answer by
looking to the content of the speech. Second, we ask what functional
relationship exists between the speech and the public conversation about
some matter of public interest.” (Id. at 145, 149–50.)
 
“The commercial speech exemption, like
the public interest exemption, is a statutory exception to [S]ection
425.16 and should be narrowly construed.” (Simpson Strong-Tie Co., Inc. v.
Gore (2010) 49 Cal.4th 12, 22.) “The purpose of this exemption is straightforward:
A defendant who makes statements about a business competitor's goods or
services to advance the defendant's business cannot use
the anti-SLAPP statute against causes of action arising from those
statements.” (Xu v. Huang (2021) 73 Cal.App.5th 802, 813.) “The burden
of proof as to the applicability of
the commercial speech exemption, therefore, falls on the party
seeking the benefit of it—i.e., the plaintiff.” (Id. at 26.) “Under the
two-pronged test of [S]ection 425.16, whether a section 425.17 exemption
applies is a first prong determination,” and thus it does not depend on whether
the plaintiff has a reasonable likelihood of prevailing on the merits of his or
her claims. (JAMS, Inc. v. Superior Court (2016) 1 Cal.App.5th 984,
993.) “Further, even if speech does not meet all elements
of section 425.17, the commercial nature of
the speech remains a relevant ‘contextual cue’ in determining whether
it merits protection under the catchall provision of [S]ection 425.16,
subdivision (e)(4).” (Xu v. Huang, supra, at 814.)
 
Plaintiff alleges causes of action for (1) trade libel
and defamation, (2) antitrust violations under the Cartwright Act, (3)
intentional interference with prospective economic advantage, and (4) unfair
competition under the Unfair
Competition Law (“UCL”).
 
“Trade libel is the publication of matter disparaging
the quality of another's property, which the publisher should recognize is
likely to cause pecuniary loss to the owner.” (ComputerXpress, Inc. v.
Jackson (2001) 93 Cal.App.4th 993, 1010.) “The tort encompasses
all false statements concerning the quality of services or product of
a business which are intended to cause that business financial harm and in fact
do so.” (Ibid.) “The relevant law is the same as to libel and trade
libel.” (Franklin v. Dynamic Details, Inc. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 375,
384. But, “[d]espite its name, ‘trade libel’ is not true libel and is not
actionable as defamation.” (Muddy Waters, LLC v. Superior Court (2021) 62
Cal.App.5th 905, 925.) “While a cause of action for trade libel resembles that
for defamation, it differs from it materially in the greater burden of proof
resting on the plaintiff, and the necessity for special damage in all cases.” (Ibid.)
“At a minimum, a trade libel cause of action requires: (1) a publication; (2)
which induces others not to deal with plaintiff; and (3) special damages.” (Ibid.)
“To constitute trade libel, a statement must be false.” (ComputerXpress,
Inc. v. Jackson, supra, at 1011.)
 
“The elements of
a defamation claim are (1) a publication that is (2) false,
(3) defamatory, (4) unprivileged, and (5) has a natural tendency to injure
or causes special damage.” (John Doe 2 v. Superior Court (2016) 1
Cal.App.5th 1300, 1312.) “Libel is a form of defamation effected in
writing.” (Ibid.)
 
Plaintiff brings his cause of action for violations of
the Cartwright Act under California Business and Professions Code sections
16720 and 16727. Section 16720 defines a “trust” as “a combination of capital,
skill or acts by two or more persons for any of the following purposes: (a) To
create or carry out restrictions in trade or commerce…. (c) To prevent
competition in manufacturing, making, transportation, sale or purchase of
merchandise, produce or any commodity.” Section 16727 reads, 
 
It shall be unlawful for any person to lease or make a
sale or contract for the sale of goods, merchandise, machinery, supplies,
commodities for use within the State, or to fix a price charged therefor, or
discount from, or rebate upon, such price, on the condition, agreement or
understanding that the lessee or purchaser thereof shall not use or deal in the
goods, merchandise, machinery, supplies, commodities, or services of a
competitor or competitors of the lessor or seller, where the effect of such lease,
sale, or contract for sale or such condition, agreement or understanding may be
to substantially lessen competition or tend to create a monopoly in any line of
trade or commerce in any section of the State.
 
“The tort of intentional or negligent interference
with prospective economic advantage imposes liability for improper methods of
disrupting or diverting the business relationship of another which fall outside
the boundaries of fair competition” (Settimo Associates v. Environ Systems,
Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 842, 845.) “For intentional interference,
the plaintiff must plead and prove: (1) an economic relationship between the
plaintiff and some third party, with the probability of future economic
benefit to the plaintiff; (2) the defendant's knowledge of the relationship;
(3) intentional acts on the part of the defendant designed to disrupt the
relationship. With respect to the type of intentional disruptive acts that are
actionable, they must be wrongful by some independent legal measure, beyond
interference. Next, an intentional interference claim requires setting forth
facts of (4) actual disruption of the relationship; and (5) economic harm to
the plaintiff proximately caused by the acts of the defendant. A proximate
cause showing is required for a plaintiff to recover for harm that is closely
connected to the defendant's alleged wrongful conduct.” (Golden Eagle Land
Investment, L.P. v. Rancho Santa Fe Assn. (2018) 19 Cal.App.5th 399, 429,
emphasis removed, internal citations and quotation marks omitted.)
 
The UCL “broadly
prohibits ‘any unlawful, unfair or fraudulent business act or practice and
unfair, deceptive, untrue or misleading advertising….’ Because the statute is framed in the disjunctive, a business
practice need only meet one of the three criteria to be considered unfair
competition. Therefore, an act or practice is ‘unfair competition’ under the UCL
if it is forbidden by law or, even if not specifically prohibited by law, is
deemed an unfair act or practice.” (Durell v. Sharp Healthcare (2010)
183 Cal.App.4th 1350, 1359 (internal citations omitted).) “An ‘unlawful’
business practice or act within the meaning of the UCL is an act or practice,
committed pursuant to business activity, that is at the same time¿forbidden
by law.” (Bernardo v. Planned Parenthood Federation of America
(2004) 115 Cal.App.4th 322, 351.) “By proscribing ‘any unlawful’ business
practice, [the UCL]¿borrows violations of other laws and treats them as
unlawful practices that the¿unfair¿competition¿law¿makes independently
actionable.” (Cel-Tech Communications, Inc. v. Los Angeles Cellular
Telephone Co. (1999) 20 Cal.4th 163, 180.) A plaintiff may “fail[] to meet
her burden of stating and substantiating a legally sufficient claim of
unlawfulness” by “fail[ing] to identify any statutory, regulatory or decisional
law that [the defendant] allegedly violated.” (Bernardo v. Planned
Parenthood Federation of America, supra, at 352 (citing Navellier
v. Sletten (2002) 29 Cal.4th 82, 88).) Additionally, “a practice may be
deemed unfair even if not specifically proscribed by some other law.”
(Korea Supply Co. v. Lockheed Martin Corp. (2003) 29 Cal.4th 1134,
1143.) “[T]he scope of conduct covered by the UCL is broad.” (Id.
at 1144.)
 
IV. DISCUSSION
 
Defendant contends that all causes of action brought
by the Complaint “are based solely upon Defendants’ acts in furtherance of
their First Amendment rights because each is based on a privileged email from
the Board of Directors of CCA to its members.” (Motion p. 2.) 
 
We first evaluate whether the causes of action arise
from the e-mail sent by the CCA board of directors to its members about
Plaintiff. The first cause of action for trade libel and defamation is based on
the e-mail CCA sent to its members and the article in the Hollywood Reporter,
which Plaintiff alleges CCA coerced the journalist into publishing. (Complaint
pp. 11–12.) The second cause of action for violation of the Cartwright Act is
based on all of CCA’s efforts to cause its members to either resign from
Plaintiff or from CCA, which Plaintiff alleges consisted of multiple e-mails to
CCA’s members. The third cause of action for intentional interference with
prospective economic advantage and the fourth cause of action for violation of
the Unfair Competition Law are similarly based on all of CCA’s e-mails to its
membership about Plaintiff. Thus, each cause of action is based in part on the
second e-mail CCA sent to its members about their co-membership in Plaintiff.
 
We then evaluate whether CCA’s sending the e-mail to
its members about Plaintiff is an activity protected by Section 425.16 under
its catchall provision, subdivision (e)(4). To do so, we first determine
whether and what public issue or issue of public interest the e-mail implicates,
for which we may look to the content of the e-mail. The body of the e-mail
reads,
 
Dear Critics Choice Association member, 
 
We're sending this email to inform you that the
Critics Choice Association has instituted a new policy prohibiting members of
the Hollywood Creative Alliance (formerly the Hollywood Critics Association,
formerly the LA Online Film Critics Society) from maintaining membership in the
Critics Choice Association. If you are currently a member of HCA and CCA,
please let us know if you wish to remain a CCA member. This will require
confirmation from you that you have successfully resigned from HCA and are no longer
on the membership list as posted on its website. The reason CCA has taken this
action is that we have evidence that a representative of the HCA has improperly
suggested to at least one studio (and we suspect more) that it could influence
Critics Choice Awards voting in a way that led that studio to reach out to CCA
and request that action be taken to protect the integrity of our awards. Of
course, that HCA threat was empty, but CCA cannot ignore this. In light of
HCA's admitted voting irregularities in the recent past and evidence that we
have that its awards voting can be influenced improperly, we are taking this
action to protect our organization and to reassure everyone that supports our
awards programs. 
 
Please let Dera Freund dera.freund@live.com know
when/if your HCA membership has been successfully ended.
 
THE BOARD
 
(Complaint ¶ 24.)
 
Thus, the subjects of the e-mail are (1) membership in
film critic associations and (2) the integrity of the voting processes for the
associations’ awards. These are both issues of public interest. The e-mail’s
announcement of CCA’s policy change and allegations about Plaintiff were
subsequently reported on in multiple publications that focus on the film and
entertainment industries; in addition to the Hollywood Reporter article,
Defendants submit evidence that articles on the e-mail were also published in The
Wrap and Variety. And, Plaintiff submits evidence that the contents of the
e-mail were discussed on social media sites, including Facebook and Reddit.
 
Then, we must determine what functional relationship
exists between the e-mail and the public conversation about membership in
film critic associations and the integrity of the voting processes for the
associations’ awards. We find that the e-mail contributed to the public
discussion on these topics. The contents of the e-mail was discussed in the
press and on public social media sites. The e-mail did not merely comment on an
existing public discussion about these topics. Rather, it sparked controversy
and moved the direction of the public conversation. Thus, we conclude that
CCA’s sending of e-mail was an activity protected by Section 425.16.
 
Defendants having demonstrated that CCA’s sending of
e-mail was an activity protected by Section 425.16, the burden then shifts to Plaintiff
to demonstrate the merit of its claim by establishing a probability of success.
 
Although Plaintiff titles its first cause of action as
both trade libel and defamation, a
court should “ignore erroneous or confusing labels if the complaint pleads
facts which would entitle the plaintiff to relief.” (McBride v. Boughton
(2004) 123 Cal.App.4th 379, 387.) Because these are separate torts, we
understand that Plaintiff means to bring a cause of action for each tort.
 
Plaintiff cannot prevail on its cause of action for
trade libel because the falsehoods that it alleges Defendants made do not
relate to the quality of its services or products. Plaintiff submits no
evidence that Defendants published any falsehoods relating to the quality of
Plaintiff’s services or products.
 
To prevail on its cause of action for defamation,
Plaintiff must prove that the e-mail was not privileged. Defendants contend
that the e-mail was privileged under California Civil Code section 47,
subdivision (c). (Motion pp. 2–3.) California Civil Code section 47 reads, in
relevant part, “A privileged publication or broadcast is one made: …(c) In a
communication, without malice, to a person interested therein, (1) by one who
is also interested….” “The conditional privilege created
by section 47, subdivision 3, is lost if the privilege is abused
or if the publication was motivated by malice. ‘Interested persons’ within the
meaning of section 47, subdivision 3, have been defined as a communicator
and a recipient with a common interest, although to be protected the
communication must be one ‘reasonably calculated to further that interest.’” (Cuenca
v. Safeway San Francisco Employees Fed. Credit Union (1986) 180 Cal.App.3d
985, 995.) CCA’s e-mail to its members certainly pertained to a subject of
mutual interest to Defendants and the recipient members. The e-mail was sent to
those members who were both members of CCA and of Plaintiff and terminated
their continuing ability to be members of both associations. Both Defendants
and the CCA members who received the e-mail would have shared a common interest
in CCA’s policies regarding their membership in CCA. However, because this
privilege is conditional, the e-mail must have been made without malice. (Slaughter
v. Friedman (1982) 32 Cal.3d 149, 156.) Plaintiff charges that “CCA’s false
allegations were published with wanton malice.” (Complaint ¶ 38.) In
support thereof, Plaintiff submits copies of news articles as evidence of “developments
[that] apparently led CCA to view HCA as an ongoing competitive threat.”
(Menzel Decl. ¶ 16.) Plaintiff also submits evidence in the form of his
declaration, which is signed under penalty of perjury and therefore acts as an
affidavit, that before sending the e-mail to CCA’s members, Berlin contacted
Plaintiff’s CEO about the allegations in the e-mail and Plaintiff’s CEO denied
their truth to Berlin. (Id. at ¶ 28.) Thus, Plaintiff submits
evidence that Plaintiff and Defendant are business competitors and that before
sending the e-mail, Defendants knew that Plaintiff denied the allegations. This
is insufficient, without more, to show any evidence of malice. This does not,
for example, show that Defendants may have known that the allegations in the
e-mail were certainly false or that Defendants sent the e-mail as part of a
campaign to remove its competitor, Plaintiff, from the critic association and
awards show markets. Thus, Plaintiff fails to bring any evidence that Defendants
acted with malice and therefore fails to defeat Defendants’ claim of privilege.
Consequently, Plaintiffs fail to bring any evidence to show that the e-mail was
not privileged and cannot prevail on its cause of action for defamation.
 
Plaintiff cannot prevail on its cause of action for
violations of the Cartwright Act because Plaintiff does not allege or bring any
evidence that either of Defendants combined their capital, skill, or acts with
another for any purpose. Plaintiff also does not allege that Defendants max a
sale or fixed prices on the understanding that another would withhold business
from Plaintiff to create a monopoly.
 
Plaintiff cannot prevail on its cause of action for
intentional interference with prospective economic advantage because it fails
to bring any evidence that shows that Defendants barred CCA’s members from also
being members of Plaintiff as part of a design to interrupt Plaintiff’s
relationship with its members. Although Plaintiff brings evidence that
Plaintiff and CCA were business competitors, it does not bring any evidence to
show that CCA acted for this reason and not to protect the integrity of the
reputation of its voting process for its award show.
 
To the extent Plaintiff brings its cause of action
under the UCL under the UCL’s illegal prong, it cannot prevail. The Complaint
alleges that “CCA’s trade libel, defamation, antitrust violations and
interference with HCA’s economic prospects violates California statutes and
public policies, including its policy favoring free and open, fair competition.”
(Complaint ¶ 50.) However, we found above that Plaintiff cannot prevail
under any of these theories and that they are therefore all subject to
Defendants’ motion to strike. To the extent Plaintiff brings its cause of
action under the UCL under the UCL’s unfair prong, it cannot prevail. The
Complaint alleges that “CCA is competing unfairly with HCA, including actual
and incipient antitrust violations, and has caused direct, great and
irreparable harm to HCA, competition, and HCA’s future prospects for
competition.” (Id. at ¶ 51.) Thus, Plaintiff bases its charge of
unfairness on its allegations that Defendants engaged in antitrust violations.
However, as we found above, Plaintiff cannot prevail under this theory and its
cause of action for antitrust violations is subject to Defendants’ motion to
strike. Therefore, Plaintiff cannot prevail on its cause of action for
violations of the UCL.
 
Thus, we find that Plaintiff has not shown any
evidence that it can prevail on any of its causes of action. Accordingly, this
court GRANTS the Motion. 
 
 
 
Dated:             May
8, 2024                                                    _______­­­­­­­­­­___________________________                                                                                                                  Hon.
Eric Harmon
Judge
of the Superior Court