  Case Number:  23STCV10643    Hearing Date:   June 21, 2024    Dept:  40 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



ROBERT HEFFLEY, JR., SUCCESSOR IN INTEREST
  TO HIS WIFE, SULMA HEFFLEY-RODRIGUEZ, AND ROBERT HEFFLEY, JR.,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
LAKEWOOD REGIONAL MEDICAL CENTER,
  INC., JOSHUA DANIELS, RN, ROWEN MECANO, RN, MATTHEW SANDOVAL MHA, and DOES 1
  through 50, Inclusive,
                        Defendants.


 Case No.:          23STCV10643
 Hearing Date:   6/21/24
 Trial Date:        N/A
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Demurrer to Plaintiffs’ First Amended
  Complaint by Defendants Lakewood Regional Medical Center, Inc., Joshua
  Daniels, RN, Rowen Mecano, RN, and Matthew Sandoval MHA [Res ID # 2734]; and
Motion to Strike Portions of Plaintiffs’
  First Amended Complaint by Defendants Lakewood Regional Medical Center, Inc.,
  Joshua Daniels, RN, Rowen Mecano, RN, and Matthew Sandoval MHA [Res ID #
  2734].



 
I. Background
A.
Pleadings
On
January 18, 2024, Plaintiffs Robert Heffley, Jr.—individually and as successor
in interest to his wife, Sulma Heffley Rodriguez (decd.)—filed their operative
First Amended Complaint in this action, which sues Defendants Lakewood Regional
Medical Center, Inc. (LRMC), Joshua Daniels, RN, Rowen Mecano, RN, Matthew
Sandoval MHA, and Does 1 through 50 pursuant to claims of (1) Violation of the
Elder Abuse and Dependent Adult Civil Protection Act (Welf. & Ins. Code, §
15600, et seq.) and (2) Negligence.
For
ease of reference, the Court refers to Plaintiffs by their first name. No
disrespect is intended.
The
claims arise from the following allegations. As a result of being diagnosed
with metastatic breast cancer with lytic lesions in the L4-L5 vertebral bodies,
Sulma was admitted to LRMC, a care custodian operating a twenty-four-hour
facility for custodial care. Sulma was hospitalized at LRMC between May 11,
2022, and June 17, 2022. During that time, Sulma was dependent on LRMC and its
employees/other Defendants for her basic needs, such as personal hygiene and
feeding, among other things. Nevertheless, during Sulma’s inpatient treatment,
Sulma was subjected to mistreatment, negligent care, and neglect when LRMC
nurses repeatedly left Sulma sitting in her own feces and urine for prolonged
periods of time (an hour or so). Robert, Sulma’s husband, repeatedly received
calls from Sulma regarding this neglect, prompting Robert on numerous occasions
to call the hospital to demand that Sulma be changed. Robert also visited Sulma
and found her at times sitting in her own feces and urine, again demanding
immediate attention for Selma. Despite these protests, LRMC staff indicated
that they were short staffed, and that Sulma would need to wait. Multiple LRMC
staff noted that they were understaffed, including Sulma’s treating doctor
(Tate) and nurses at LRMC. Moreover, Defendant Daniels and Mecano separately admitted
that Sulma was treated inhumanely and that LRMC was short staffed. Selma
subsequently died around July 20, 2022.
Robert
as Plaintiffs sue Defendants individually based on his own injuries in seeing
Selma suffer from the above conduct at LRMC, as well as based on Selma’s
injuries, with Robert as successor in interest of Selma.
B.
Motions Before the Court
On
March 1, 2024, Defendants filed a demurrer challenging the FAC’s first and
second causes of action.
That
same day, Defendants filed a motion to strike Robert’s individual claims
against Defendants, the entire claim for elder abuse, and the entire prayer for
the elder abuse claim.
On
June 6, 2024, Plaintiffs filed separate oppositions to the demurrer and motion
to strike.
On
June 13, 2024, Defendants filed a reply in support of their demurrer. However,
the record fails to reflect a reply in support of their motion to strike.
Defendants’
demurrer and motion to strike are now before the Court.
 
II. Demurrer
A.
Legal Standard
A
demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action.
(Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747; see Code Civ. Proc., §
430.10, subd. (e).)
To
sufficiently allege a cause of action, a complaint must allege all the ultimate
facts—that is, the facts needed to establish each element of the cause of
action pleaded. (Committee on Children’s Television, Inc. v. General Foods
Corp. (1983) 35 Cal.3d 197, 212, superseded by statute as stated in Branick
v. Downey Savings & Loan Assn. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 235, 242.) “[E]ach
evidentiary fact that might eventually form part of the plaintiff’s proof need
not be alleged.” (C.A. v. William S. Hart Union High School Dist. (2012)
53 Cal.4th 861, 872.)
In
testing the sufficiency of the cause of action, the demurrer admits the truth
of all material facts properly pleaded. (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist.
(1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 966-67.) Courts read the allegations liberally and in
context. (Taylor v. City of Los Angeles Dept. of Water and Power (2006)
144 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1228, disapproved on other grounds, Jones v. Lodge at
Torrey Pines Partnership (2008) 42 Cal.4th 1158, 1162.) A demurrer,
however, “does not admit contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or
law.” (Daar v. Yellow Cab Co. (1967) 67 Cal.2d 695, 713.)
B.
Analysis
1. Demurrer, FAC, First Cause of Action,
Elder Abuse [Neglect]: SUSTAINED, with leave to amend.
a. Relevant Law
To
allege an elder abuse claim based on neglect, a plaintiff must allege (and
ultimately prove by clear and convincing evidence) facts establishing that the
defendant:
(1)
Had responsibility for meeting the basic needs of the elder or dependent adult,
such as nutrition, hydration, hygiene or medical care (Welf. & Inst.Code,
§§ 15610.07, subd. (b), 15610.57, subd. (b); Delaney v. Baker (1999) 20
Cal.4th 23, 34 (Delaney);
(2)
Knew of conditions that made the elder or dependent adult unable to provide for
his or her own basic needs (Sababin v. Superior Court (2006) 144
Cal.App.4th 81, 85, 90; Benun v. Superior Court (2004) 123 Cal.App.4th
113, 116; Mack v. Soung (2000) 80 Cal.App.4th 966, 972-973); and
(3)
Denied or withheld goods or services necessary to meet the elder or dependent
adult’s basic needs, either with knowledge that injury was substantially
certain to befall the elder or dependent adult (if the plaintiff alleges
oppression, fraud or malice) or with conscious disregard of the high
probability of such injury (if the plaintiff alleges recklessness) (Welf. &
Inst.Code, §§ 15610.07, subd. (b), 15610.57, subd. (b), 15657; Covenant
Care, Inc. v. Superior Court (2004) 32 Cal.4th 771, 783, 786 (Covenant
Care); Delaney, supra, 20 Cal.4th at pp. 31-32).
The
plaintiff must also allege (and ultimately prove by clear and convincing
evidence) that the neglect caused the elder or dependent adult to suffer
physical harm, pain or mental suffering. (Welf. & Inst.Code, §§ 15610.07,
subds. (a), (b), 15657; Perlin v. Fountain View Management, Inc. (2008)
163 Cal.App.4th 657, 664; Berkley v. Dowds (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 518, 529.)
Finally,
the facts constituting the neglect and establishing the causal link between the
neglect and the injury “must be pleaded with particularity,” in accordance with
the pleading rules governing statutory claims. (Covenant Care, supra,
32 Cal.4th at p. 790.)
b. Court’s Determination
The
Court finds in favor of Defendants.
Here,
the FAC’s allegations essentially revolve around two sets of facts from which
liability is direct (Selma’s injuries) or indirect (Robert’s injuries): (1)
Defendants placing Selma in a ward that exposed Selma to a COVID-19 positive
individual, forcing a quarantine of Selma and delaying Selma’s medical
evaluation, medical care, and cancer treatment (FAC, ¶ 21); and (2) between May
11, 2022, and June 17, 2022, Defendants failing to assist Selma with her
personal hygiene—cleaning Selma of feces and urine—for prolonged periods of
time lasting approximately an hour (see, e.g., FAC, ¶¶ 31, 32, 34, 38, 40(2)). The
first cause of action also alleges that as a result of Defendants’ conduct,
Robert suffered emotional distress and loss of consortium. (FAC, ¶ 65.)
However,
neither set of allegations shows a failure to provide custodial care for Selma.
Instead, the FAC’s allegations show (1) a negligent exposure to COVID-19, with
remedial quarantine following, and (2) delayed custodial care relating to
hygiene as opposed to a failure to provide or withholding of custodial care
relating to hygiene. Welfare and Institutions Code section 15657.2 provides
that elder abuse is distinct from negligence of a health care provider, where
the latter claim is governed by professional negligence authority in the Code
of Civil Procedure. (See Delaney, supra, 20 Cal.4th at p. 35 [Elder
Abuse Act only applies to neglect by health care provider that is at least
reckless]; Sababin, supra, 144 Cal.App.4th at p. 88 [Elder Abuse Act
does not apply to simple or gross negligence by health care provider]). These
defects render the first cause of action subject to demurrer based on failure
to allege a failure or withholding of custodial care.
Defendants’
demurrer is thus SUSTAINED as to the FAC’s first cause of action, with leave to
amend to give Plaintiffs another opportunity to clarify the basis for elder
abuse based on neglect.
Alternatively,
as requested by Plaintiff, leave to amend is granted for Robert to state an
intentional infliction of emotional distress claim as an individual, as based
on the same set of facts alleged in the FAC. The Court relies on Patrick v.
Alacer Corp. (2008) 167 Cal.App.4th 995, 1015. There, the court of appeal
determined that a plaintiff could, in response to a sustained demurrer,
reallege a derivative claim against a corporation as a declaratory relief claim.
Specifically, the Court reasoned that the amendment was proper where the
demurrer was sustained based on issues related to standing that were implicated
in the new declaratory relief claim. (Ibid.) Here, as argued by
Plaintiffs, the proposed IIED claim arises from the same facts alleged in the
FAC. (Opp’n, p. 13.) Under these circumstances, amendment from an individual
claim of elder abuse by Robert may be realleged as an individual IIED claim.
2. Demurrer, FAC, Second Cause of Action,
Negligence: OVERRULED.
However,
the Court OVERRULES Defendants’ demurrer to the FAC’s second cause of action.
In
their demurrer, Defendants argue that the second cause of action is a survival
claim that can only be brought on behalf of the decedent’s successor in
interest or personal representative, and that here, Plaintiffs’ claims are all
survival claims seeking redress for Selma’s injuries before her death, not
injuries to Robert individually. (Demurrer, p. 12.)
Even
if the Court were to credit this argument, “[a] demurrer cannot rightfully be
sustained to part of a cause of action or to a particular type of damage or
remedy.” (Kong v. City of Hawaiian Gardens
Redevelopment Agency (2002) 108 Cal.App.4th 1028, 1047; see Code Civ.
Proc., § 430.50, subd. (a) [A demurrer can be made to an entire complaint or
individual causes of action therein].) If Defendants are not challenging the
successor in interest portion of the second cause of action, then Defendants
are not seeking to dispose of an entire cause of action. Consequently, relief
cannot be granted here.
Defendants’
demurrer is thus OVERRULED as to the FAC’s second cause of action.
 
III. Motion to
Strike
A.
Legal Standard
The
court may, upon a motion or at any time in its discretion and upon terms it
deems proper: (a) strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted
in any pleading; or (b) strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or
filed in conformity with the laws of California, a court rule, or an order of
the court. (Code Civ. Proc. § 436, subds. (a), (b); Stafford v. Shultz
(1954) 42 Cal.2d 767, 782 [“Matter in a pleading which is not essential to the
claim is surplusage; probative facts are surplusage and may be stricken out or
disregarded”].)
For
the purposes of a motion to strike pursuant to Sections 435 to 437 of the Code
of Civil Procedure, the term “pleading” generally means a demurrer, answer,
complaint, or cross-complaint, (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (a)), and an
immaterial allegation or irrelevant matter in a pleading entails (1) an
allegation that is not essential to the statement of a claim or defense, (2) an
allegation that is neither pertinent to nor supported by an otherwise
sufficient claim or defense, or (3) a demand for judgment requesting relief not
supported by the allegations of the complaint or cross-complaint (Code Civ.
Proc., § 431.10, subds. (b)(1)-(3), (c)).
In
analyzing a motion to strike, California courts “accept as true the
well-pleaded allegations” in the challenged pleadings, as well as “well-pleaded
allegations admitted in” the responsive “answer.” (Atwell Island Water Dist.
v. Atwell Island Water District (2020) 45 Cal.App.5th 624, 628 (Atwell);
Clauson v. Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255 [California
courts “read allegations of a pleading subject to a motion to strike as a
whole, all parts in their context, and assume their truth”].)
B.
Analysis
1. Motion to Strike, FAC, Individual
Claims: MOOT in part and DENIED in part.
The
Court initially notes that that Defendants’ motion is MOOT as to the first
cause of action based on the Court’s order above re: the demurrer challenge to
this claim.
As
for the second cause of action, the Court DENIES Defendants’ motion.
Defendants’ argument incorrectly reads the second cause of action. Though
Defendants are correct in arguing that the FAC does not explicitly indicate
that the second cause of action is brought for Selma’s injuries and Robert’s
separate injuries, such allegations are clear from the face of the FAC. Robert
alleges that he personally observed the mistreatment and negligence with
respect to his wife Selma and that Defendants’ conduct caused Robert emotional
distress, loss of consortium, pain, loss of enjoyment of life, and other forms
of mental distress and anguish. (FAC, ¶¶ 62, 65.) Defendants’ argument fails on
this ground.
The
Court notes that while the second cause of action could benefit from separating
the claim into two counts, one involving Selma’s injuries and the other
involving Robert’s injuries, Defendants’ motion is not brought on those grounds,
and nor is it critical based on notice pleading. Instead, the argument is that
the second cause of action can only involve a survivor claim as based on
Selma’s injuries, making the individual claim by Robert improper—an argument
that the Court has rejected.
2. Motion to Strike, FAC, First Cause of
Action, Elder Abuse: MOOT.
Based
on the Court sustaining Defendants’ demurrer to the FAC’s first cause of
action, the Court determines that Defendants’ motion to strike the first cause
of action is MOOT.
3. Motion to Strike, FAC, Prayer, Elder
Abuse: GRANTED with leave to amend.
Based
on the Court sustaining Defendants’ demurrer to the FAC’s first cause of
action, the Court determines that the prayer for elder abuse is irrelevant, for
which reason the Court GRANTS Defendants’ motion to strike the prayer for elder
abuse from the Complaint, with leave to amend. 
IV. Conclusion

A. Demurrer
Demurrer to Plaintiffs’ First Amended Complaint by Defendants Lakewood
Regional Medical Center, Inc., Joshua Daniels, RN, Rowen Mecano, RN, and
Matthew Sandoval MHA [Res ID # 2734] is SUSTAINED in part and OVERRULED in part
as follows:
(1) SUSTAINED, with leave to amend, as to the First Amended Complaint’s
first cause of action, with the scope of amendment clarified above; and
(2) OVERRULED as to the First Amended Complaint’s second cause of action.
B. Motion to Strike
Motion to Strike Portions of Plaintiffs’ First Amended Complaint by
Defendants Lakewood Regional Medical Center, Inc., Joshua Daniels, RN, Rowen
Mecano, RN, and Matthew Sandoval MHA [Res ID # 2734] is MOOT in part, DENIED in
part, and GRANTED in part as follows:
(1) MOOT as to striking Robert Heffley, Jr.’s individual elder abuse claim
(a portion of the first cause of action) from the First Amended Complaint and
as to striking the First Amended Complaint’s first cause of action generally;
(2) DENIED as to striking Robert Heffley, Jr.’s individual negligence claim
from the First Amended Complaint; and
(3) GRANTED as to striking the First Amended Complaint’s elder abuse
prayer, with leave to amend.