 Case Number:  23STCV12319    Hearing Date:   June 21, 2024    Dept:  40 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



DANIEL E.
  KELLY, an individual,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
JONATHAN
  S. KELLY, an individual, ADAM KELLY, an individual, MAYA KELLY, an individual,
  and DAVID M. KELLY, an individual, and DOES 1-25, inclusive,
                        Defendants.


 Case No.:          23STCV12319
 Hearing Date:   6/21/24
 Trial Date:        N/A
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Plaintiff Daniel
  E. Kelly’s Motion for Leave to File First Amended Complaint [Res ID # 6135].



 
I. Background
On March 13, 2024, Plaintiff Daniel
E. Kelly filed a motion for leave of Court to file a First Amended Complaint.
On June 7, 2024, Defendants filed
an opposition, and on June 11, 2024, Plaintiff filed a reply.
Plaintiff’s motion is now before
the Court.
 
II. Motion for Leave to Amend: GRANTED in part and
DENIED in part.
A. Legal Standard
California Code of Civil Procedure
section 473, subdivision (a)(1) provides, in relevant part: “The court may, in
furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to
amend any pleading or proceeding by adding or striking out the name of any
party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any
other respect; and may, upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or
demurrer. The court may likewise, in its discretion, after notice to the
adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an amendment to any
pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may upon like terms allow an
answer to be made after the time limited by this code.”
Under California Rules of Court
Rule, rule 3.1324, subdivision (a), a motion to amend a pleading shall: 
(1) Include a copy of the proposed
amendment or amended pleading, which must be serially numbered to differentiate
it from previous pleadings or amendments;
(2) State what allegations in the
previous pleading are proposed to be deleted, if any, and where, by page,
paragraph and line number, the deleted allegations are located; and
(3) State what allegations are
proposed to be added to the previous pleading, if any, and where, by page,
paragraph, and line number, the additional allegations are located.
Under California Rules of Court,
rule 3.1324, subdivision (b), a separate declaration must accompany the motion
and must specify:
(1) The effect of the amendment;
(2) Why the amendment is necessary
and proper;
(3) When the facts giving rise to
the amended allegations were discovered; and
(4) The reasons why the request for
amendment was not made earlier.
“This discretion should be
exercised liberally in favor of amendments, for judicial policy favors
resolution of all disputed matters in the same lawsuit.” (Kittredge Sports
Co. v. Superior Court (1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1047 (Kittredge Sports).)
California courts will not ordinarily
consider the validity of a proposed amended pleading in ruling on a motion for
leave to amend given that any grounds for a demurrer or a motion to strike will
be premature at that time. (See California Casualty General Ins. Co. v.
Superior Court (1985) 173 Cal.App.3d 274, 280-281 (California Casualty),
citations omitted, overruled on other grounds by Kransco v. American Empire
Surplus Lines Ins. Co. (2000) 23 Cal.4th 390, 403-406; see also Kittredge
Sports, supra, 213 Cal.App.3d at p. 1048 [Where “the proposed legal
theory [at issue] is a novel one, ‘the preferable practice would be to permit
the amendment and allow the parties to test its legal sufficiency by demurrer,
motion for judgment on the pleadings or other appropriate proceedings’”],
quoting California Casualty, supra, at p. 280.)
However, leave to amend may also be
properly denied when “the insufficiency of the proposed amendment is
established by controlling precedent and … [can]not be cured by further
appropriate amendment.” (California Casualty, supra, 173
Cal.App.3d at pp. 280-281; see, e.g., Foxborough v. Van Atta (1994) 26
Cal.App.4th 217, 231 [not an abuse of discretion to deny leave to amend when
“proposed amendment would have been futile because it was barred by the statute
of limitations” with no indication of relating back to the original
complaint].) 
B. Analysis
1. Procedural
Requirements
Here, Plaintiff meets the
procedural requirements for leave to amend.
Plaintiff has filed a ‘clean’ copy
of the proposed First Amended Complaint (FAC), thus satisfying California Rules
of Court, rule 3.1348(a)(1). (Mot., Shapiro Decl., Ex. B.)
Plaintiff has also filed a
‘redline’ copy of the FAC, showing its differences from the Complaint, and the
points and authorities further clarify the amendments, thus satisfying
California Rules of Court, rule 3.1348(a)(2)-(3). (Mot., pp. 5-6; Mot., Shapiro
Decl., Ex. A.)
Last, Plaintiff has filed a
declaration from counsel satisfying California Rules of Court, rule
3.1348(b)(1)-(4). (Mot., Shapiro Decl., ¶¶ 4 [date of discovery; why not
brought earlier], 5 [effect; necessary and proper], 10-13 [why not brought
earlier] 14 [date of discovery; why not brought earlier], 15 [why not brought
earlier].)
2. Substantive
Discussion
The Court finds in favor of
Plaintiff except as to Defendant Bernald Golditch.
The Court DENIES Plaintiff’s motion
in relation to naming the now-deceased Bernald Golditch as a new Defendant in
this action. The parties do not dispute that Bernald Golditch has passed away.
Instead, the reply pivots and “requests that the Court grant the Motion and
once a personal representative of Mr. Golditch’s estate has been appointed,
Plaintiff will file a motion seeking to substitute Mr. Golditch’s personal
representative in for Mr. Golditch’s place.” (Reply, p. 3.) This relief is
sought for the first time on reply and is denied without prejudice.
However, the remainder of the
opposition arguments are unavailing.
The sufficiency of the Complaint’s
alter ego allegations should be challenged on demurrer. (California Casualty,
supra, 173 Cal.App.3d at pp. 280-281.) The face of the proposed FAC does
not show, on its face, fatally defective pleadings. Indeed, Plaintiff’s reply
advances arguments for the sufficiency of the proposed FAC’s alter ego
allegations. (Reply, pp. 3-4.)
Similarly, Defendants can challenge
any purported uncertainty or contradictions arising from the proposed FAC’s
factual joint liability allegations or exhibits in a demurrer or motion to
strike. For leave to amend purposes, however, there is no fatal defect as
raised in the opposition. (Opp’n, pp. 4-5.)
Last, the Court is not persuaded
that the proposed FAC is a sham based on a change in allegations regarding
Plaintiff’s alleged interest in Kellytoy Worldwide Inc. stock. (Opp’n, pp.
6-8.) The reply characterizes this about face as Plaintiff revising what is
paragraph 31 of the FAC to update a misstatement as to Plaintiff’s Kellytoy
stock interest. (Reply, pp. 4-5.) And as with the Complaint, the proposed FAC
is a verified pleading. (Mot., Shapiro Decl., Ex. B, p. 31.) Under these
circumstances, the change does not appear to constitute a change so much as a
course correction of previously incorrect pleadings amended to properly allege
the facts at issue.
3. Disposition
Based on the above, Plaintiff’s
motion is DENIED as to the addition of Bernald Golditch as a Defendant. The
motion is otherwise GRANTED. 
III. Conclusion
Plaintiff Daniel E. Kelly’s Motion for Leave to File First Amended
Complaint [Res ID # 6135] is GRANTED in part and DENIED in part as follows:
(1) DENIED in part as to the addition of Bernald Golditch as a Defendant;
and
(2) Otherwise GRANTED.
Plaintiff shall file his First
Amended Complaint, removing Bernald
Golditch as a Defendant, within seven days of this ruling. However, the
proposed pleading need not remove allegations related to Bernald Golditch
insofar as they as background for the allegations raised in that pleading.