  Case Number:  19STCV38374    Hearing Date:   October 3, 2024    Dept:  73 10/03/2023
Dept. 73
Hon. Rolf
Treu, Judge presiding 
 
SHAHNAZ AMIRTALESH v. ROCHELLE
STERLING, et al. (19STCV38374)
 
Counsel for
Plaintiff/moving party:  Shahnaz
Amirtalesh (Pro Per)
Counsel for Defendant/opposing
party:  Krista Dawkins (Pyka Lenhardt
Schnaider Dawkins)
 
PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO VACATE RULING ON
DEFENDANTS’ MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT (filed 09/06/24)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
Plaintiff’s Motion to Vacate Ruling on Defendant’s
Motion for Summary Judgment is DENIED.
BACKGROUND
 
On October 23, 2019, Plaintiff Shahnaz
Amirtalesh (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendants Rochelle H.
Sterling (“Sterling”), Beverly Hills Properties (“BHP”), The Sterling Family
Trust, Susan Robman and Does 1-50 (collectively, “Defendants”).
 
This
action arises out of Plaintiff’s tenancy at 240 N. Crescent Drive, Apt. 107,
Beverly Hills, CA 90210 (the “Apartment”).  In her complaint, Plaintiff
alleges that the Apartment landlord, BHP, failed to maintain sewage pipes in
the building which caused a leak in her shower drain in October 24, 2018; that
BHP delayed in granting her request to replace flood-damaged carpeting in her
Apartment with laminate floors as a reasonable accommodation for her disability
stemming from lung cancer; that BHP did not properly enforce COVID-19
restrictions regarding the use of the Apartment swimming pool; and further,
that Apartment manager, Susan Robman, harassed and discriminated against
Plaintiff because of Plaintiff’s religious beliefs.   
 
In
the summer of 2019, Plaintiff filed complaints with the County of Los Angeles
Department of Public Health (“DPH”) and the City of Beverly Hills regarding her
apartment.  On September 5, 2019, the City of Beverly Hills issued a
notice of violations to BHP.  On September 10, 2019, DPH issued an
Official Inspection Report for violations regarding wall/ceiling floor and
faucet fixtures. 
  
On
October 23, 2019, Plaintiff filed her complaint against Defendants. Sterling is
the owner of BHP and the Apartment and the trustee of the Sterling Family
Trust.  On August 7, 2020, Plaintiff filed a Second Amended Complaint
(“SAC”) alleging eight causes of action.  On or about October 20, 2021,
the court sustained Defendants’ demurrer to the fifth cause of action in the
SAC without leave to amend.  The remaining causes of action are as
follows: 
C/A 1: Breach of Warranty of Habitability 
C/A 2: Negligence  
C/A 3: Nuisance  
C/A 4: Violation of Civil Code § 1942.4 
C/A 6: Violation of the California Fair Employment
and Housing Act  
C/A 7: Violation of the California Unruh Civil Rights
Act 
C/A 8: Breach of Implied Covenant of Quiet Enjoyment 
 
On March 17, 2023,
Plaintiff dismissed Defendant Susan Robman from the case.
 
On January 24, 2023,
the Court granted Defendants’ motion for summary adjudication as to the fourth,
sixth and eighth causes of action. The motion was denied as to the first,
second and third causes of action.
 
On September
6, 2024, Plaintiff filed the instant Motion to Vacate Ruling on Defendants’
Motion for Summary Judgment/Adjudication, arguing:
·       Defendants’ motion for summary judgment was
meritless, and Defendants did not include Rochelle Sterling as an individual
defendant in the motion for summary judgment
·       Therefore, the Court’s ruling on the motion was
defective 
 
Defendants
filed an opposition, arguing:
·      
Plaintiff fails to identify statutory authority for her motion to
vacate
·      
Plaintiff’s request for relief resembles a Motion for
Reconsideration. Plaintiff’s deadline to request reconsideration of 1/24/23
ruling has already lapsed, and Plaintiff has not identified any new facts,
circumstances, or law. 
·       The Court has
also already dispensed with Plaintiff’s argument that Ms. Sterling did not
participate in the motion for summary judgment/adjudication. On March 15, 2024,
this Court stated that Defendant Rochelle Sterling has participated in this
case and in Defendants’ motion for summary judgment/adjudication
 
Plaintiff
filed a reply, arguing: 
·      
Plaintiff’s motion is not a motion for reconsideration.
·      
The motions and rulings were based on fraud. The judgment should
be set aside based on fraud under Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 60(d)(3).
 
DISCUSSION
 
Plaintiff moves
for an order vacating the Court’s January 24, 2023 ruling on Defendants’ motion
for summary judgment/adjudication.
 
As an initial
matter, the Court notes that in her motion, Plaintiff does not identify on what
statutory basis she is moving to vacate the Court’s order. In her reply,
Plaintiff does not cite to statutory authority that is binding on this Court,
instead Plaintiff cites to Federal Rule
of Civil Procedure 60(d)(3), which provides for relief from an order based on
fraud. Thus, not only does Plaintiff fail to identify
applicable statutory authority that is binding on this Court for her request
for relief, but Plaintiff fails to establish any alleged fraud.
 
Plaintiff argues the ruling on Defendants’ motion for summary
adjudication was defective because Defendants did not include Rochelle
Sterling as an individual defendant in the motion. However, the Court already
addressed this in its March 15, 2024 order, stating: 
 
“As to the pleading issue raised by the court on
February 23, 2024, after her demurrers were adjudicated, Defendant Rochelle
Sterling answered the second amended complaint on October 26, 2020. A DBA
designation is fictitious and not a separate entity. (See Weil & Brown et
al., Cal. Prac. Guide: Civ. Pro. Before Trial (The Rutter Group 2023) sec.
6:59.1; Pinkerton’s, Inc. v Superior Court (1996) 49 Cal.App.4th 1342, 1349
[“Doing business under another name does not create an entity distinct from the
person operating the business.”].) Therefore, the DBA designation on certain
pleadings is fictitious in relation to Rochelle Sterling and is disregarded.
Defendant Rochelle Sterling has thus participated in this case and in, for
example, Defendants’ motion for summary judgment/adjudication filed on June 16,
2022.”
 
(Court’s
3/15/24 Minute Order, p. 2.) Plaintiff fails to establish any basis for the
relief she is seeking. Therefore, Plaintiff’s motion to vacate the Court’s
order is denied. 
 
CONCLUSION 

Plaintiff’s
Motion to Vacate Ruling on Defendant’s Motion for Summary Judgment is DENIED.