 Case Number:  24STCV08148    Hearing Date:   October 3, 2024    Dept:  73 10/03/24
Dept. 73
Hon. Rolf Treu, Judge presiding
 
MINGZHE ZHAO v. MI IN FASHION, INC.
dba CES FEMME, et al. (24STCV08148)
 
Counsel for
Plaintiff/moving party:  Yong Bom Lee
(Lee & Associates, Law Office, APC) 
Counsel for Defendants:  Pro Per
 
PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO STRIKE DEFENDANTS
MI IN FASHION, INC., HYUN S. LEE, AND YOUNG MI LEE’S ANSWERS (filed 5/31/24)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Plaintiff’s Motion to Strike Defendants Mi In Fashion, Inc., Hyun S.
Lee, and Young Mi Lee’s Answers is GRANTED with 20 days leave to amend.
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
On April 2, 2024, Plaintiff Mingzhe Zhao filed this action against
Defendants Mi In Fashion, Inc. dba Ces Femme; Hyun S. Lee aka Tommy Lee; and
Young Mi Lee.
 
Plaintiff
alleges the following causes of action: 
1.     
Breach of Written Agreement
2.     
Goods Sold and Delivered
3.     
Account Stated
4.     
Open Book Account 
5.     
False Promises
 
The Complaint alleges the following. Plaintiff is an assignee of a
commercial claim of Sinsunghui Fashion Co., LTD. (“Assignor” or “Sinsunghui”’)
to collect unpaid balance of clothing products sold to Defendants. Sinsunghui
is a garment manufacturing and/or exporting company established and existing
under the laws of China, with its principal place of business in China.
 
On May 31, 2024, Plaintiff filed a motion to strike Defendants’
Answers, arguing:
·       Defendants’
answers are unverified and contain general denials. Defendants cannot have a
general denial to a verified complaint.
 
No opposition was filed.
 
II. ANALYSIS
 
A.      Meet and
Confer  
 
Here, counsel for Plaintiff submitted a declaration stating they
made several attempts to call Defendants and sent Defendants a letter outlining
the alleged deficiencies in the Answers, but counsel did not receive a response
from Defendants. The Court finds the moving party satisfied its meet and confer
obligation. Thus, the Court proceeds on the merits.
 
B.      Legal
Standard 
 
“If the
complaint is verified, unless the complaint is subject to Article 2 (commencing
with Section 90) of Chapter 5.1 of Title 1 of Part 1, the denial of the
allegations shall be made positively or according to the information and belief
of the defendant.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 431.30(d).) 
 
“The court
may, upon a motion made pursuant to Section 435, or at any time in its
discretion, and upon terms it deems proper: (a) Strike out any irrelevant,
false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading…(b) Strike out all or any
part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this
state, a court rule, or an order of the court.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 436.) 
 
“When the
complaint is verified, the answer shall be verified.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
446(a).) 
 
Code of Civil
Procedure section 431.30(f) states in pertinent part, “[t]he denials of the
allegations controverted may be stated by reference to specific paragraphs or
parts of the complaint; or by express admission of certain allegations of the
complaint with a general denial of all of the allegations not so admitted; or
by denial of certain allegations upon information and belief, or for lack of
sufficient information or belief, with a general denial of all allegations not
so denied or expressly admitted.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 431.30(f).) “The defenses
shall be separately stated, and the several defenses shall refer to the causes
of action which they are intended to answer, in a manner by which they may be
intelligibly distinguished.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 431.30(g).) 
 
C.     
Discussion
 
Plaintiff moves to strike Defendants Mi In Fashion, Inc., Hyun S.
Lee, and Young Mi Lee’s Answers on the grounds that the Answers are unverified
and consist of only general denials.
 
On April 2, 2024, Plaintiff filed a
verified Complaint. On May 14, 2024, Defendants Mi In Fashion, Inc., Hyun S.
Lee, and Young Mi Lee filed Answers to the Complaint. 
 
It appears from the Answers that
the defenses are separately stated and refer to the cause of action they are
intended to answer. However, the Answers do not provide specific denials to
allegations by referencing specific paragraphs or parts of the Complaint.
Furthermore, the Answers do not have the required statements of verifications. Defendants
did not file an opposition.
 
Based on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s Motion to Strike Defendants Mi In
Fashion, Inc., Hyun S. Lee, and Young Mi Lee’s Answers is GRANTED with leave to
amend.
 
III. DISPOSITION

 
Plaintiff’s Motion to Strike Defendants Mi In Fashion,
Inc., Hyun S. Lee, and Young Mi Lee’s Answers is GRANTED with 20 days leave to
amend.