 Case Number:  22STCV23460    Hearing Date:   October 3, 2024    Dept:  73 10/03/2024 
Dept. 73 
Hon. Rolf
Treu, Judge presiding 
 
ERIC KAUFMAN v. LOCKTON COMPANIES, LLC, et al. (22STCV23460) 
 
Counsel for Plaintiff:
Steven
Brennan (St. John, Wallace, Brennan & Folan LLP); Debra Fischer (Morgan, Lewis & Bockius
LLP)
Counsel for
Defendants:  Russell Falconer, James Tsouvalas (Gibson, Dunn &
Crutcher LLP) 
 
PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO LIFT STAY AND FOR LEAVE TO FILE
SECOND AMENDED COMPLAINT (filed 7/18/2024) 
 
TENTATIVE RULING 
 
The
Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s Motion to Lift Stay and For Leave to File Second
Amended Complaint.
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
Plaintiff
Eric Kaufman brings this action for declaratory relief against Defendants
Lockton Investment Advisors, LLC ("LIA"), Lockton Investment Securities,
LLC, f/k/a Lockton Financial Advisors, LLC ("LIS"), and Lockton
Companies, LLC - Pacific Series ("Pacific Series", collectively
"Lockton").
 
LIA provides investment advisory and
related services, LIS buys and sells securities as a registered broker dealer,
and Pacific Series provides insurance and risk management services. (FAC, ¶
10.) Kaufman became a producer member of LIA in approximately July 2007 and a
producer member in LIS and Pacific Series in approximately July 2008. (FAC, ¶
23.) To become a producer member of LIA, LIS, and Pacific Services, Kaufman
paid a $200 capital contribution for a single "Producer Unit" in each
entity. (FAC, ¶ 23.) As of May 1, 2016, Plaintiff entered into an “Amended and
Restated Member Agreement" with Pacific Series and with LIS and, as of May
1, 2016, a "Second Amended and Restated Member Agreement” with LIA
(collectively the "Member Agreements"). (FAC, ¶ 16.)
 
The Member
Agreements include nonsolicitation covenants. (FAC, ¶ 20.) The
Member Agreements include Missouri choice of law and Missouri forum selection
clauses. The Member Agreements require Kaufman to adjudicate disputes in the
federal court in Kansas City, Missouri or in the Circuit Court of Jackson
County, Missouri. (FAC, ¶ 18.) he Member Agreements for LIA, LIS, and Pacific
Series require Plaintiff to provide thirty days written notice of termination.
(FAC, ¶ 22.)
 
Kaufman
withdrew from and terminated his membership in LIA, LIS, and Pacific Series on
July 18, 2022. (FAC, ¶ 27.) Kaufman subsequently accepted employment with
Alliant, a California-based competitor of Lockton. (FAC, ¶ 28.) At Alliant,
Kaufman will provide products and services that are directly competitive with
the products or services of Lockton. (Ibid.) 
In the first amended complaint, Kaufman asserts a single cause of
action for declaratory relief, seeking a judicial declaration that the
nonsolicitation covenants, Missouri choice of law and forum selection clauses,
and notice requirements are void and unenforceable as a violation of Business
and Professions Code Sections 16600 and California public policy. Kaufman
alleges: Plaintiff desires a judicial declaration that the enforcement of the
Missouri Choice of Law and Missouri Forum Section Provisions would violate
California's fundamental public policy in favor of workplace mobility and
competition. Plaintiff also desires a judicial declaration that the Notice
Provision, Member Agreements Non-Competition Covenants and the December 2021
Non-Competition Covenants are facially void under Business and Professions Code
Section 16600 and California public policy in favor of workplace mobility and
open competition are thereby unenforceable as to Plaintiff. (FAC, ¶ 40.) 
 
On
July 18, 2024, Plaintiff filed the instant Motion to Lift Stay and Leave to
File Second Amended Complaint, arguing:
·      
Plaintiff
seeks to have the current stay order lifted, but only so
as to allow him to plead additional, but related, causes of action that largely
grow out of and directly relate to the same unlawful noncompete covenants and
contracts that were the basis of his original Declaratory Relief claim.
·      
The Motion Should Be Granted Because Leave to Amend Was Timely
Sought and Because Defendants Will Not Be Prejudiced if the Motion Is Granted.
 
Defendants filed an opposition, arguing:
·       Plaintiff provides no good reason to lift the stay
·       Plaintiff’s intentional delay in bringing his additional claims warrants
denying leave to amend.
·       Defendants are prejudiced by the proposed amendments.
·       The proposed amendments are futile.
 
Plaintiff filed a reply maintaining that the motion
should be granted. 
 
II.
DISCUSSION
Code of Civil Procedure section 473(a)(1) provides, in
relevant part:  “The court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any
terms as may be proper, allow a party to amend any pleading or proceeding by
adding or striking out the name of any party, or by correcting a mistake in the
name of a party, or a mistake in any other respect; and may, upon like terms,
enlarge the time for answer or demurrer.  The court may likewise, in its
discretion, after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be
just, an amendment to any pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may
upon like terms allow an answer to be made after the time limited by this
code.” 
“This discretion should be exercised liberally in
favor of amendments, for judicial policy favors resolution of all disputed
matters in the same lawsuit.” (Kittredge Sports Co. v. Superior Court
(1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1047.) Under CRC Rule 3.1324(a), a motion to amend
a pleading shall (1) include a copy of the proposed amendment or amended
pleading, which must be serially numbered to differentiate it from previous
pleadings or amendments; (2) state what allegations in the previous pleading
are proposed to be deleted, if any, and where, by page, paragraph and line
number, the deleted allegations are located; and (3) state what allegations are
proposed to be added to the previous pleading, if any, and where, by page,
paragraph, and line number, the additional allegations are located. 
Under CRC Rule 3.1324(b), a separate declaration must
accompany the motion and must specify (1) the effect of the amendment; (2) why
the amendment is necessary and proper; (3) when the facts giving rise to the
amended allegations were discovered; and (4) the reasons why the request for
amendment was not made earlier.
Plaintiff
seeks to lift the stay in this case to file a Second Amended Complaint. 
 
The Court
finds that Plaintiff’s motion for leave to amend complies with Rules 3.1324(a)
and (b) of the California Rules of Court. Plaintiff included a copy of the
proposed Second Amended Complaint, and has identified the proposed amendments to
be added. (Folan Decl., Motion, Ex. 1.) Plaintiff also provided a separate
declaration specifying the effect of the amendments, why they are necessary and
proper, and the reasons why the request for amendment was not made earlier. (Folan
Decl., ¶¶¿3-6.) 
 
In
opposition, Defendants argue Plaintiff intentionally delayed in bringing the
additional claims.
 
However, Plaintiff
asserts that he limited the relief sought in his initial complaints exclusively
to declaratory relief so as to be eligible for trial setting preference
pursuant to California Code of Civil Procedure Section 1062.3. (Folan Decl., ¶ 4.) This court granted such preference and a
trial date of February 13, 2024 was set. (Ibid.) On December 13, 2023
the Court issued its Order denying Defendants' Motion to Dismiss and Stay
Proceedings ("Order"), ruling that the Los Angeles Superior Court is
the appropriate forum in which Plaintiff is to adjudicate his disputes with Defendants.
(Ibid.) Plaintiff argues if he had moved to file a Second Amended
Complaint prior to the Court's Order, Defendants likely would have sought to
rely on the unlawful forum selection clause and improperly filed a motion to
dismiss. (Ibid.) Further, the Court subsequently granted Defendants’
motion to continue the trial date, thereby denying Plaintiff the expedited
trial that caused him to limit his claims herein to a request for declaratory
relief. (Folan Decl., ¶ 5.) In addition, Plaintiff argues the additional
claims were triggered by events that occurred after this action was filed. Plaintiff
also contends it is seeking to amend because certain claims set forth in the
proposed Second Amended Complaint may become time-barred due to the applicable
statute of limitations in or around November 2024. The Court finds that
Plaintiff has established good cause to bring the claims now and there has not
been unreasonable delay.
 
Defendants
also argue in opposition that they will be prejudiced by the proposed
amendments because the scope of litigation will be expanded and amendment will
be futile. 
 
Plaintiff
argues that Defendants will not be prejudiced as there is no trial date
currently sit. Further, Plaintiff asserts that if a plaintiff wants to expand
the scope of a complaint to add additional legitimate legal theories, it is
proper to do so if discovery is still open. The Court does not find Defendants
arguments that amendment would be prejudicial or futile persuasive. 
 
Based
on the foregoing and the judicial policy favoring amendment, the Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s
Motion to Lift Stay and For Leave to File Second Amended Complaint.
 
CONCLUSION 
 
The
Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s Motion to Lift Stay and For Leave to File Second
Amended Complaint.