 Case Number:  24AHCV00344    Hearing Date:   December 4, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



HENRY HUANG, et al., 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
JUNYI
   ZHOU, et al.,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
  )
)


      CASE NO.: 24AHCV00344
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEFENDANT XIAOYAN CHEN’S MOTION TO COMPEL PLAINTIFF HENRY
   HUANG’S RESPONSES TO FORM INTERROGATORIES (SET ONE); REQUEST FOR MONETARY
   SANCTIONS
 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
December
   4, 2024



 
On February
 20, 2024, plaintiffs Henry Huang (“Plaintiff”) and Powastar, Inc.
filed this action against defendants Xiaoyan
 Chen (“Defendant”), Junyi Zhou, Shalom K. Braunstein, and Elite Asian
Art Auction, LLC. On July 5, 2024, Defendant
served Form Interrogatories (Set One) on Plaintiff.
No responses were received. On August 14, 2024, Defendant
filed this motion. 
Where a party fails to serve timely
responses to discovery requests, the court may make an order compelling
responses. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290.) A party that fails to serve timely
responses waives any objections to the request, including ones based on
privilege or the protection of attorney work product. (Code Civ. Proc., §
2030.290, subd. (a).) 
In opposition, Plaintiff
states that responses were served on August 21, 2024. Since responses have been
served, the motion to compel is DENIED as MOOT. 
The Code of Civil Procedure provides
that the court shall impose a monetary sanction against the party who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel, unless the party acted with
substantial justification or the sanction would otherwise be unjust. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (c), 2031.300, subd. (c).) Sanctions may be awarded
under in favor of a party who files a motion to compel discovery, even though
the requested discovery was provided to the moving party after the motion was
filed. (CRC 3.1348.) 
Here, Plaintiff fails to show that he
acted with substantial justification or that sanctions would otherwise be
unjust. Accordingly, the request for sanctions is GRANTED and imposed against
Plaintiff and counsel of record, jointly and severally, in the reduced amount
of $461.65, consisting of 1 hour at defense counsel’s hourly rate of $400 and a
$61.65 filing fee. Sanctions are to be paid within 20 days of the date of this
Order. 
Moving party to give notice.
Dated
this 4th
day of December 2024
 




 


 




 


William A. Crowfoot 
Judge of the Superior Court
 




Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from the parties indicating
submission on this tentative ruling and there are no appearances at the
hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the tentative as the final
order or place the motion off calendar.
 