  Case Number:  23VECV02529    Hearing Date:   December 17, 2024    Dept:  T BARKHORDARI V ESHAGHIAN 23VECV02529
[TENTATIVE] ORDER:  Defendants George M. Eshaghian; Averell E.
Eshaghian; and Claude D. Eshaghian’s Motion for Summary Judgment is GRANTED.
PROPOSED JUDGMENT
Judgment is in favor of defendants
George M. Eshaghian, an individual, Averell E. Eshaghian, an individual, and
Claude D. Eshaghian, an individual (mistakenly named as Clude D. Eshaghian, and
against plaintiff Joseph Barkhordari, an individual.  Plaintiff is to take nothing on his complaint.  Attorney fees, if allowed by contract or
statute, by noticed motion.  Costs per
Memorandum of Costs.
Introduction 
Defendants George M. Eshaghian,
Averell E. Eshaghian, and Claude D. Eshaghian (collectively, Defendants) moved
for summary judgment (MSJ) against Plaintiff Joseph Barkhordari’s (Plaintiff)
Complaint.  The sole remaining cause of
action (COA) is the third COA for violation of the Unlawful Competition Law
(UCL).
Procedure
Plaintiff asserted that there are
two remaining viable COAs after the Court’s November 15, 2023 ruling on the
demurrer (i.e., the third COA for UCL and the fifth COA for interference).  Despite Plaintiff’s contention otherwise, the
only remaining viable COA alleged specifically against Defendants is the third
COA.  The fifth COA for interference is
not alleged against Defendants but only alleged against Doe 1.  The Court file does not reflect any Doe
Amendment filed by Plaintiff to substitute the identity of Doe 1.  As related to Defendants, the only remaining
COA is the third COA.
Discussion 
Defendants argued that there is
no triable issue of fact as to the third COA because Plaintiff lacks any
facts/evidence to show an unfair or fraudulent business practice or to show
that Plaintiff suffered any injury in fact to show Plaintiff’s standing.  Plaintiff’s third COA alleged that Defendants
unfairly/fraudulently capitalized on the fruits of Plaintiff’s labor in
identifying “a road, previously unknown to Defendants, by which the landlocked
property could be accessed via an easement.” (Defendant’s Separate Statement of
Fact (DSSF) 21 and Compl. pars. 27-28.) 
Once Defendants obtained knowledge of the previously unknown road,
Defendants repudiated an agreement to sell. 
(Id.)  However, Defendants
presented evidence to show their knowledge of the existence of the road prior
to the transactions with Plaintiff. 
(DSSF 3-8.)  Defendants further
provided evidence of their attempts to negotiate an easement with the owner of
the road.  (DSSF 9-10.)  Defendants submitted evidence that Scott
Boras, their broker in the relevant transaction with Plaintiff, attempted to
negotiate an easement with the owner of the road.  (DSSF 11-13.) 
Defendants’ evidence shows that they had knowledge of the existence of
the road and their attempts to identify and/or secure an ingress/egress
easement.  Because of Defendants’ prior
knowledge, there is no triable issue as to Defendants’ acquiring knowledge of
the road or potential for an easement from Plaintiff.  Defendants’ evidence further shows that
Plaintiff lacks any evidence to assert any misconduct by Defendants (i.e.,
Defendants unfairly garnered the knowledge from Plaintiff or Defendants used
fraud to obtain the knowledge from Plaintiff). 
Defendants’ evidence supports their contention that Plaintiff cannot
show unfair or fraudulent conduct. 
Defendants met their initial burden of proof as to the unfair or fraud
prongs of UCL.  The burden shifted to
Plaintiff to show a triable issue of fact.
Plaintiff argued that the
knowledge unfairly or fraudulent obtained by Defendants is the legal challenges
or remedies to secure an easement (i.e., civil action in obtaining a Necessity
or Express Reservation Easement.) 
(Plaintiff’s Disputed Statement of Facts (PDSF) 4, 7, 8, 9, and
10.)  However, the allegation that
Plaintiff having knowledge of legal challenges/remedies in obtaining a
Necessity or Express Reservation Easement is not alleged in the Complaint.  As cited above, Plaintiff’s claim is that
Defendants did not know of the road on the neighboring property.  (Compl. pars. 27-28.)  The pleadings act as the “outer measure of
materiality” in the MSJ and the MSJ cannot be granted or denied on issues not
raised in the pleadings.  (Johnson v.
Raytheon Co., Inc. (2019) 33 Cal.App.5th 617, 636.)  The new factual allegations regarding
knowledge of the legal remedies is improper to be grounds to deny the MSJ.  In order to assert the new factual
allegations, Plaintiff must seek leave to amend the pleading.  (Id.) 
However, even if the Court considered the new factual allegation, the
Court is not persuaded that a triable issue of fact exists.  Assuming that knowledge of the legal remedies
was placed into issue by the Complaint based upon a very liberal reading of the
Complaint, Plaintiff’s evidence/facts still lack any supportive facts showing
that Defendants acted unfairly or fraudulently in obtaining knowledge of the
legal remedies from Plaintiff. 
Plaintiff’s evidence lacks any showing of wrongful, unfair, or fraudulent
conduct by Defendants.  Plaintiff does
not present any facts showing how Defendants underhandedly or underhandedly
took, gained, or obtained the knowledge of the legal remedies from Plaintiff.  Without facts showing Defendants’ unfair or
fraudulent conduct, leave to amend to allow adding the claims related to
knowledge of the legal remedies would be futile.  
Plaintiff then added that
Defendants refused to proceed with the deal because Defendants’ sister, a
non-owner, disagreed with the sale. 
(Plaintiff’s Additional Statement of Facts (PASF) 45.)  Plaintiff argued that Defendants’ excuse
using their sister to pull out of the deal was a ruse.  Plaintiff argued that the excuse was a ruse
because Defendants’ were originally highly motivated to sell the landlocked
property and the sudden refusal to sell was not in-line with Defendants’
original motivation. However, the argument to support the excuse being a ruse
is only argument and speculative. 
Plaintiff’s contention characterizing the sudden refusal to sell as a
ruse is not supported by facts. 
Plaintiff’s contention that Defendants’ excuse for not selling the
property being fraudulent is not persuasive to show a triable issue of material
fact.
Plaintiff asserted that
Defendants’ ruse is conclusive from the facts and is tantamount to the doctrine
of res ipsa loquitur.  However, as
reviewed above, the Court disagrees with Plaintiff that the ruse is conclusively
supported by facts.  Further, the
doctrine is not relevant to the COA at issue since res ipsa loquitur is a legal
theory applicable to the tort of negligence. 
Plaintiff’s contention that the ruse is conclusively shown is not
persuasive.
Plaintiff failed to meet his
burden to show that a triable issue of fact exists as to Defendants’ unfair or
fraudulent misconduct.  Because Plaintiff
failed to meet his burden, there is grounds to grant the MSJ.
Even if Plaintiff were to present
facts showing that a triable issue of fact exists as to Defendants’ unfair or
fraudulent misconduct, Defendants further argued that there is no triable issue
of fact as to Plaintiff’s standing because there is no triable issue of fact as
to Plaintiff’s injury in fact.  (Bus.
& Prof. Code, sec. 17204.) 
Defendants presented facts to show that Plaintiff failed to substantiate
Plaintiff’s alleged losses.  (DSSF
23.)  Failure to show an injury in fact
is sufficient to show that no triable issue of fact exists as to standing.  Plaintiff provided that he was damaged in
having to pay attorneys’ fees.  (PDSF
23.)  However, Plaintiff failed to
present evidence to  show that the fees
were paid to Defendants.  In that the
relief authorized by UCL is restitution or disgorgement (Bus. & Prof. Code,
sec. 17203), fees paid to persons other than Defendants will not trigger the
Court’s equitable powers to order restitution or disgorgement of the fees from
Defendants.
Defendants’ MSJ is GRANTED.  
IT IS SO ORDERED, CLERK TO GIVE NOTICE. PLAINTIFF
HAS 10 DAYS TO OBJECT TO THE FORM OF THE PROPOSED JUDGMENT.