 Case Number:  23SMCV04555    Hearing Date:   June 6, 2024    Dept:  I The motion to strike is GRANTED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND in
part and DENIED in part.  
 
Plaintiff filed this negligence action against a number of
defendants including the City of Santa Monica (the City).  Plaintiff alleges that she was jogging on the
road when a gate on defendant Brazill’s property suddenly opened causing her to
be injured.  (The gate swung outward onto
the sidewalk.)  Plaintiff contends that
the City is partially at fault because it negligently maintained the roadway
and other aspects of public property or public right of way.  The City moves to strike certain allegations
and plaintiff opposes.
 
The court has heard much of this motion before.  The City previously moved to strike various
allegations, specifically those related to a cause of action for spoliation of
evidence and a violation of the Public Records Act, as well as for breaches of
an alleged mandatory duty as it relates to Streets and Highways Code sections
1806, 1921, and 5011, as well as the Santa Monica Municipal Code and Charter
sections 200 and 713 and 13.02.  That
motion was granted, although the court gave plaintiff leave to amend.  Leave to amend does not mean a motion for
reconsideration will be allowed.  It
means that if plaintiff believes she can add or modify the allegations to cure
the deficiencies the court identified, then plaintiff may attempt to do
so.  Plaintiff here simply re-alleged
what had been alleged before, apparently without reading the court’s prior
order.  The court suggests plaintiff’s
counsel read that decision now, because the court’s view is unchanged.  The court will not address those issues on
the merits (again) in detail.
 
The motion to strike as to spoliation is GRANTED WITHOUT
LEAVE TO AMEND.  Spoliation is not a
cause of action and it has no place in the complaint.  For more detail, see the court’s prior
ruling.
 
The City also argues that plaintiff has not alleged the
violation of a mandatory duty.  The court
discussed this, too, in the prior order. 
The court’s view is unchanged. 
Plaintiff is directed to the prior ruling for additional detail on the
court’s reasoning in this regard.  The
statutes and ordinances to which plaintiff cites do not create a mandatory duty
as defined by law sufficient to give rise to a cause of action against the City
for a violation.  At most, they create a
duty that is discretionary, not mandatory. 
Plaintiff’s citations are off point, as they were in the last
go-around.  As to the local laws, by
their plain language they impose no mandatory duty on the City.  These laws are meant to be enforced by the
City, not enforced against the City.
 
While the foregoing explains why the motion is going to be
granted for the most part, there are some allegations that do survive.  Specifically, the court does not strike the
allegations that the property constitutes a dangerous condition or that a
permit ought not to have been issued.  It
is far from clear to the court that those allegations will give rise to a cause
of action against the City, but the allegations are still not
inappropriate.  Therefore, the motion is
GRANTED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND as follows: Page 10:27, final sentence; Page
11:1, paragraph 46, the word “mandatory”; Page 11:3-6, paragraph 45, from the
first word of that line to the end of the parenthetical; Page 11:28-12:18,
paragraph 46, from the word “Pursuant” to the end of the paragraph; Page
12:19-13:2, paragraph 47, in its entirety; Page 13:6, paragraph 48, the word
“mandatory”; Page 13:9-19, paragraph 49 from the beginning of the paragraph
through the word “charter”; 14:3-7, paragraphs 49-50, from the word “and”
through the end of paragraph 50; and Page 14:11-15, paragraph 51 from
“Defendants” through “815.6.”  In all
other respects, it is DENIED.
 
The City to answer within 30 days.