 Case Number:  23STCV22231    Hearing Date:   September 17, 2024    Dept:  78 


MARCOS
  TAMAYO HERNANDEZ,
Plaintiff,
vs.
DUBLIN’S
  815, et al,
Defendants.


Case
  No.: 


23STCV22231




Hearing
  Date: 


September
  17, 2024








[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER GRANTING COUNSEL’S MOTION TO BE
  RELIEVED AS COUNSEL



 
I.
        BACKGROUND
Plaintiff Marcos Tamayo Hernandez  (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendants
Dublin’s 815 LLC, Mark Moss, and Rudy Rosas (collectively, “Defendants”) and
DOES 1 through 100 premised upon thirteen causes of action ranging from sexual
harassment to unfair competition. 
On July 8, 2024, Defendants’ counsel filed the instant Motion
to be Relieved as Counsel. 
As of September 11, 2024, no opposition has been filed.  
A.    Moving
Argument
            Defendants’
counsel, Law Offices of JT Fox, APC seeks to be relieved as counsel because of
a breakdown between attorney-client relationship. 
B.    Opposing
Argument
            None filed.
C.    Reply
Argument
None filed.
 
II.        MOTION
TO BE RELIEVED AS COUNSEL 
A.    Legal
Standard
            CRC, Rule 3.1362 (Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel)
requires (1) notice of motion and motion to be directed to the client (made on
the Notice of Motion and Motion to Be Relieved as
            Counsel—Civil form (MC-051)); (2) a declaration stating
in general terms and without compromising the confidentiality of the
attorney-client relationship why a motion under CCP § 284(2) is brought instead
of filing a consent under CCP § 284(1) (made on the Declaration in Support of
Attorney's Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel—Civil form (MC-052)); (3) service
of the notice of motion and motion and declaration on all other parties who
have appeared in the case; and (4) the proposed order relieving counsel (prepared
on the Order Granting Attorney's Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel—Civil form
(MC-053)).
B.    Discussion
Merits 
            Counsel has
complied with CRC, Rule 3.1362. Here, Counsel filed the required forms. Moreover,
Counsel stated that there was a “breakdown of attorney-client relationship”. (Fox
Decl. ¶ 2.) Trial is scheduled for March 17, 2025, and a Final Status
Conference is scheduled for March 3, 2025; therefore, it is unlikely that
Defendants will suffer prejudice from the withdrawal. Notably, Defendants did
not file an opposition.  
 
IV. CONCLUSION
 
Counsel’s Motion to be Relieved as Counsel is GRANTED. 
 
Moving Party is ordered to give notice.
 
DATED:
September 16, 2024
__________________________
Hon. Michelle C. Kim
Judge of the Superior Court
 
PLEASE
TAKE NOTICE:
•           Parties
are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if
they can reach an agreement.
•           If
a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party must send an
email to the court at SMCDEPT78@lacourt.org with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number. The body of the email must include the hearing
date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party
submitting.
•           Unless
all parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should
arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument. You
should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.
•           If
the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion
off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court. After the
Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of
the subject motion without leave.