 Case Number:  BC697147    Hearing Date:   March 12, 2024    Dept:  34 SUBJECT:        Motion for Order to Charge Member
Interest in Limited Liability Companies
 
Moving Party: Judgment
Creditors United Escrow Co. and Tracy Ko 
Resp. Party:    None
 
        
The Motion for Charging Order is GRANTED. 
 
BACKGROUND:
 
I.         
Procedural History Until Judgment
 
On March 7, 2018,
Plaintiff Caroline S. Lee (“Plaintiff”) filed her Complaint against Defendants
Jong Han Lee (“Lee”), Bow Tie Realty and Investment, Inc. (“Bow Tie”), Tracy Ko
(“Ko”), and United Escrow Co. (“United”). 
 
On June 5, 2018, by
request of Plaintiff, the Clerk’s Office dismissed without prejudice Lee and
Bow Tie from the Complaint. 
 
On July 17, 2018, Bow
Tie filed its Complaint in Intervention. 

 
On September 17,
2019, the Court entered Judgment in favor of Ko and United, and against
Plaintiff.
 
Also on September 17,
2019, the Court entered Judgment in favor of Bow Tie and against Plaintiff. 
 
II.       Post-Judgment
Procedural History
 
        Since
the entry of the Judgments, this case has had a long procedural history, most
of which need not be recounted here.  Many
awards of fees and costs have been entered against Plaintiff and in favor of
Bow Tie, Ko, and United. These awards include fees and costs awarded after six
appeals that Plaintiff repeatedly lost. 
 
Plaintiff is the judgment
debtor. The remaining Parties (“Bow Tie,” “Ko,” and “United”) are now judgment
creditors. 
 
        On
July 21, 2020, the Court found related cases BC697147 and 20STCV14403, and
designated case BC697147 as the lead case. 
 
On October 25, 2023,
by request of Judgment Creditors United and Ko, the Clerk’s Office issued a
Writ of Execution, indicating the total amount due to them is $307,776.00.
 
On November 7, 2023,
the Court issued its most recent award of fees and costs in favor of Judgment Creditors
Bow Tie and United, jointly severally, and against Judgment Debtor in the total
amount of $4,320.65.
 
On February 9, 2024,
Judgment Creditor Bow Tie filed Judicial Council Form EJ-100, Acknowledgment of
Satisfaction of Judgment — Partial. 
 
On February 14, 2024,
Judgment Creditors United and Ko filed their Motion for Order to Charge Member
Interest in Limited Liability Companies (“Motion for Charging Order”). 
 
No opposition or
other response has been filed to the Motion for Charging Order. 
 
ANALYSIS:
 
I.         
Legal
Standard
 
“If a money
judgment is rendered against a partner or member but not against the
partnership or limited liability company, the judgment debtor’s interest in the
partnership or limited liability company may be applied toward the satisfaction
of the judgment by an order charging the judgment debtor’s interest pursuant to
Section 15907.03, 16504, or 17705.03 of the Corporations Code.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 708.310.)
 
“On application by a
judgment creditor of a member or transferee, a court may enter a charging order
against the transferable interest of the judgment debtor for the unsatisfied
amount of the judgment. A charging order constitutes a lien on a judgment
debtor’s transferable interest and requires the limited liability company to pay
over to the person to which the charging order was issued any distribution that
would otherwise be paid to the judgment debtor.” (Corp. Code, § 17705.03, subd.
(a).)
 
“To the extent necessary to effectuate
the collection of distributions pursuant to a charging order in effect under
subdivision (a), the court may do any of the following:
 
“(1) Appoint a receiver of the distributions subject
to the charging order, with the power to make all inquiries the judgment debtor
might have made.
 
“(2) Make all other orders necessary to give effect
to the charging order.
 
“(3) Upon a showing that distributions under a
charging order will not pay the judgment debt within a reasonable time,
foreclose the lien and order the sale of the transferable interest. The purchaser
at the foreclosure sale obtains only the transferable interest, does not
thereby become a member, and is subject to Section 17705.02.”
 
(Corp. Code, §
17705.03, subd. (b).)
 
“At any time
before foreclosure under paragraph (3) of subdivision (b), the member or
transferee whose transferable interest is subject to a charging order under
subdivision (a) may extinguish the charging order by satisfying the judgment
and filing a certified copy of the satisfaction with the court that issued the
charging order.” (Corp. Code, § 17705.03, subd. (c).)
 
“At any time
before foreclosure under paragraph (3) of subdivision (b), a limited liability
company or one or more members whose transferable interests are not subject to
the charging order may pay to the judgment creditor the full amount due under
the judgment and thereby succeed to the rights of the judgment creditor,
including the charging order.” (Corp. Code, § 17705.03, subd. (d).)
 
“This title does
not deprive any member or transferee of the benefit of any exemption laws
applicable to the member’s or transferee’s transferable interest.” (Corp. Code,
§ 17705.03, subd. (e).)
 
“This section
provides the exclusive remedy by which a person seeking to enforce a judgment
against a member or transferee may, in the capacity of judgment creditor,
satisfy the judgment from the judgment debtor’s transferable interest.” (Corp.
Code, § 17705.03, subd. (f).)
 
II.      
Discussion
 
Judgment Creditors United and Ko
move the Court to enter an order charging Judgment Debtor’s interests in three
limited liability companies: 7851 Holdings, LLC; Comet Hyesung, LLC; and Chung
Soonkyo, LLC. (Motion for Charging Order, pp. 1:18–26, 4:19.)
 
Judgment Creditors United and Ko
provide the Court with evidence that indicates Judgment Debtor has a
transferable interest in each of these limited liability companies. (Motion for
Charging Order, Exhs. 2–4.)
 
The Court has not been presented with
evidence that would indicate the Judgment has been satisfied. 
 
At this time, Judgment Creditor has only
requested that the limited liability companies be charged, not that the liens
on the transferable interests be foreclosed upon. (Motion for Charging Order,
p. 3:4–9.)
 
Judgment Debtor and the various limited
liability companies have not opposed or otherwise responded to the Motion for
Charging Order. The Proof of Service indicates that Judgment Debtor and the
various limited liability companies were served notice of the Motion for
Charging Order. (Motion for Charging Order, Proof of Service.)
 
III.     Conclusion
 
The Motion for Charging Order is GRANTED.  Judgement Creditors to prepare the Order. 