 Case Number:  22STCV16192    Hearing Date:   October 9, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



RAMEZ WISSA, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
DELOITTE CONSULTING
  LLP; BRETT MCCOY; and DOES 1 through 20, Inclusive, 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.                               


 


     
  CASE NO.:  22STCV16192
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
MOTION FOR ATTORNEYS’ FEES AND COSTS
 
Date: October 9, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant
DELOITTE CONSULTING LLP (“Defendant”)
 
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff
RAMEZ WISSA (“Plaintiff”)
 
            The Court has considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers. 
 
BACKGROUND
            This is a
wrongful termination action.  The Third
Amended Complaint (“TAC”) filed by Plaintiff on March 8, 2023 asserted the
following causes of action: (1) Employment  Discrimination in Violation of FEHA (Gov. Code
§12940(a)); (2) Failure to Accommodate in Violation of FEHA (Gov. Code
§12940(m)); (3) Failure to Engage in a Timely & Good Faith Interactive
Process in Violation of FEHA (Gov. Code §12940(n)); (4) Harassment in Violation
of FEHA (Gov. Code §12940(j)); (5) Retaliation in Violation of FEHA (Gov. Code
§§12940(h)(m)); (6) Failure to Prevent/Remedy Discrimination, Harassment and/or
Retaliation in Violation of FEHA (Gov. Code §12940(k)); (7) Wrongful Discharge
in Violation of Public Policy; and (8) Intentional Infliction of Emotional
Distress (“IIED”).
             
            On
June 13, 2024, following a successful Motion for Summary Judgment filed by
Defendant, the Court entered judgment in favor of Defendant and against
Plaintiff with respect to all causes of action asserted.  Defendant filed a notice of entry of judgment
on July 11, 2024.
 
            On September
9, 2024, Defendant filed the present Motion for Attorneys’ Fees and Costs (the
“Motion”), seeking an award of attorneys’ fees and costs in the total amount of
$611,351.53 pursuant to Cal. Gov. Code. § 12965(b).  Plaintiff filed an opposition on September
25, 2024, and Defendant filed a reply on October 2, 2024.
 
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS 
             Defendant objects to portions of the
Declaration of Jonathan Ebrahimian, all of the documents attached to it, and
certain portions of the Declaration of Ramez Wissa.  The Court declines to
rule on the objections as the statements and documents objected to have no
bearing on the Court’s determination in ruling on the Motion.
 
DISCUSSION
“As a general rule, the prevailing party in civil
litigation is entitled to recover his or her costs as a matter of right:
‘Except as otherwise expressly provided by statute, a prevailing party is
entitled as a matter of right to recover costs in any action or
proceeding.’”  (Scott v. City of San Diego (2019) 38 Cal.App.5th 228 [250
Cal.Rptr.3d 432, 436] (quoting Code of Civil Procedure section 1032(b)).)  “[T]he law is now well settled that
[Government Code] section 12965(b) is an express exception to the prevailing
party cost provisions in section 1032, subdivision (b).”  (Huerta
v. Kava Holdings, Inc. (2018) 29 Cal.App.5th 74, 81.)  Pursuant to Government Code section 12965(b),
“a prevailing defendant shall not be awarded fees and costs unless the court
finds the action was frivolous, unreasonable, or groundless when brought, or
the plaintiff continued to litigate after it clearly became so.”   (Gov. Code, § 12965(b).) 
 
An unsuccessful FEHA plaintiff should not be ordered
to pay the defendant’s fees or costs “unless the plaintiff brought or continued
litigating the action without an objective basis for believing it had potential
merit.”  (Williams v. Chino Valley Independent Fire Dist. (2015) 61 Cal.4th
97, 99-100.)  “[T]he term ‘meritless’ is
to be understood as meaning groundless or without foundation, rather than
simply that the plaintiff has ultimately lost his case . . . . In applying
these criteria, it is important that a [trial] court resist the understandable
temptation to engage in post hoc reasoning by concluding that, because a
plaintiff did not ultimately prevail, his action must have been unreasonable or
without foundation.  This kind of
hindsight logic could discourage all but the most airtight claims, for seldom
can a prospective plaintiff be sure of ultimate success.  No matter how honest one’s belief that he has
been the victim of discrimination, no matter how meritorious one’s claim may
appear at the outset, the course of litigation is rarely predictable.  Decisive facts may not emerge until discovery
or trial.  The law may change or clarify
in the midst of litigation.  Even when
the law or the facts appear questionable or unfavorable at the outset, a party
may have an entirely reasonable ground for bringing the suit.”  (Christiansburg
Garment Co. v. Equal Employment Opportunity Comm’n (1978) 434 U.S. 412,
421-22.)
 
“Attorney fees should be awarded to a prevailing
defendant ‘only where the action brought is found to be unreasonable,
frivolous, meritless or vexatious,’ and ‘the term “meritless” is to be
understood as meaning groundless or without foundation, rather than simply that
the plaintiff has ultimately lost his case....’ ” (Jersey v. John Muir
Medical Center (2002) 97 Cal.App.4th 814, 831.)  Lack of merit is not the proper standard. (Ibid.)
 Rather, the case must be egregious
and/or baseless.  (Rosenman v. Christensen,
Miller, Fink, Jacobs, Glaser, Weil & Shapiro (2001) 91 Cal.App.4th
859, 869.) A case that is at least colorable, though it is not ultimately
supported with adequate evidence, is not frivolous or vexatious for the purpose
of attorneys’ fees.  (Id. at
873-74.) 
 
 
“[A] plaintiff’s ability to pay must
be considered before awarding attorney fees in favor of the defendant.”  (Villanueva
v. City of Colton (2008) 160 Cal.App.4th 1188, 1203.)  This is “[b]ecause the majority of cases
under the FEHA involve litigants who would not have the financial means to
prosecute this type of case” and “the public policy behind the FEHA is served
by not discouraging them from pursuing the litigation by potentially imposing fees
that could easily devastate them financially simply because a few file
frivolous claims.”  (Id.)  
 
Here, Defendant asserts entitlement to statutory
attorneys’ fees under the Fair Employment and Housing Act as a prevailing
defendant in this action, on the ground that Plaintiff’s action was frivolous,
unreasonable or groundless when brought, or that Plaintiff continued to
litigate after it clearly became so.  In
characterizing Plaintiff’s litigation as frivolous, Defendant argues that Plaintiff
had to amend his complaint three times, and that despite multiple amendments,
the Court sustained Defendant’s demurrers to Plaintiff’s harassment and IIED
claims.  Defendant also asserts that it
was forced to file a motion for summary judgment, which should have put
Plaintiff on notice that his case failed as a matter of law, but that Plaintiff
chose to continue to litigate and oppose the motion.
 
The Court does not find these as sufficient reasons
to warrant a fee award against Plaintiff. 
There is no evidence that Plaintiff fabricated any evidence or that he  did not proceed in good faith.  Rather, the Court finds Plaintiff had a good
faith belief in his claims, despite the fact that they were unsuccessful.  Thus, the Court does not conclude that
Plaintiff’s causes of action were frivolous, egregious or vexatious, even
though they were later resolved against him. 
 
Therefore, Defendant is not entitled to attorney’s
fees as a prevailing defendant pursuant to Code of Government Code section
12965.  
 
RULING
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.            
 


 
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at
SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If the
department does not receive an email and there are no appearances at the
hearing, the motion will be placed off calendar.
 
Dated this 9th day of October 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 



