 Case Number:  21STCV05805    Hearing Date:   September 30, 2024    Dept:  29 Valdes v. Costco
Wholesale Corporation
21STCV05805
Motion to Continue Trial filed by Defendant Costco Wholesale Corporation.
Tentative
The motion is denied.
Background
On February 16, 2021, Plaintiff Peter Valdes
(“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendants Costco Wholesale Corporation
(“Defendant”) and Does 1-50 for general negligence and premises liability.
 
On March 26, 2021, Defendant filed an answer.
 
On July 25, 2024, Defendant filed a motion for summary
judgment with a hearing date set for May 28, 2025. 
 
On August 20,
2024, Defendant filed this motion to continue trial. Plaintiff filed an
opposition on September 3, and Defendant filed a reply on September 4. 
The motion came
on for hearing on September 16, 2024.  After
hearing from counsel, the Court continued the hearing to September 30 and
granted leave to Plaintiff to file a sur-reply. 
Plaintiff filed a surreply on September 20.
Trial is
currently set for November 7, 2024.
Legal Standard
Code of Civil Procedure section 128,
subdivision (a)(8), provides that the court has the power to amend and control
its process and orders so as to make them conform to law and justice. “The
power to determine when a continuance should be granted is within the
discretion of the trial court.” (Color-Vue, Inc. v. Abrams (1996) 44
Cal.App.4th 1599, 1603.) “A trial court has wide latitude in the matter of
calendar control including the granting or denying of continuances.” (Park
Motors, Inc. v. Cozens (1975) 49 Cal.App.3d 12, 18.)  
“To ensure the prompt disposition of civil
cases, the dates assigned for trial are firm. 
All parties and their counsel must regard the date set for trial as
certain.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1332(a).)
“Although continuances of trials are
disfavored, each request for a continuance must be considered on its own
merits.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1332(c).)  “The court may grant a
continuance only on an affirmative showing of good cause requiring the
continuance.”  (Ibid.)  Circumstances that may support a finding of
good cause include:  
“(1) The
unavailability of an essential lay or expert witness because of death, illness,
or other excusable circumstances;  
(2) The
unavailability of a party because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances;  
(3) The
unavailability of trial counsel because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances;  
(4) The
substitution of trial counsel, but only where there is an affirmative showing
that the substitution is required in the interests of justice;  
(5) The addition
of a new party if: (A) The new party has not had a reasonable opportunity to
conduct discovery and prepare for trial; or (B) The other parties have not had
a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for trial in regard
to the new party's involvement in the case; 

(6) A party's
excused inability to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other material
evidence despite diligent efforts; or  
(7) A
significant, unanticipated change in the status of the case as a result of
which the case is not ready for trial.”  
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(c).)  
“In ruling on a motion or application for
continuance, the court must consider all the facts and circumstances that are
relevant to the determination.”  (Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(d).)  California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(d) sets forth a non-exhaustive list of factors that
the court may consider:  
“(1) The
proximity of the trial date;  
(2) Whether
there was any previous continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial due to
any party;  
(3) The length
of the continuance requested;  
(4) The
availability of alternative means to address the problem that gave rise to the
motion or application for a continuance; 

(5) The
prejudice that parties or witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance;

(6) If the case
is entitled to a preferential trial setting, the reasons for that status and
whether the need for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay; 
(7) The court's
calendar and the impact of granting a continuance on other pending trials; 
(8) Whether
trial counsel is engaged in another trial; 

(9) Whether all
parties have stipulated to a continuance; 

(10) Whether the
interests of justice are best served by a continuance, by the trial of the
matter, or by imposing conditions on the continuance; and  
(11) Any other
fact or circumstance relevant to the fair determination of the motion or application.”  
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(d).) 
“A trial court may not refuse to hear a summary judgment
motion filed within the time limits of section 437c.” (Sentry Ins. Co. v.
Superior Court (1989) 207 Cal.App.3d 526, 529; accord Cole v. Superior
Court (2022) 87 Cal.App.5th 84, 88.)
Discussion
Defendant requests a trial
continuance on the sole ground that it has filed a motion for summary judgment
that is set to be heard on May 28, 2025, after the current trial date of
November 7, 2024. (Bustos Decl., ¶¶ 3-5.)
Code of Civil
Procedure section 437c, subdivision (a) states:
(1) A party may move for summary judgment in an action or proceeding if
it is contended that the action has no merit or that there is no defense to the
action or proceeding. The motion may be made at any time after 60 days have
elapsed since the general appearance in the action or proceeding of each party
against whom the motion is directed or at any earlier time after the general
appearance that the court, with or without notice and upon good cause shown, may
direct.
(2) Notice of the motion and supporting papers shall be served on all
other parties to the action at least 75 days before the time appointed for
hearing. If the notice is served by mail, the required 75-day period of notice
shall be increased by 5 days if the place of address is within the State of
California, 10 days if the place of address is outside the State of California
but within the United States, and 20 days if the place of address is outside
the United States. If the notice is served by facsimile transmission, express
mail, or another method of delivery providing for overnight delivery, the
required 75-day period of notice shall be increased by two court days.
(3) The motion shall be heard no later than 30 days before the date of trial,
unless the court for good cause orders otherwise. The filing of the motion
shall not extend the time within which a party must otherwise file a responsive
pleading.
A party has a right to have a timely filed and
served summary judgment motion heard before trial.  (Cole,
supra, 87 Cal.App.5th at p. 88; Sentry Ins. Co., supra, 207
Cal.App.3d at p. 529.)  But there is no right to have an untimely summary
judgment motion heard before trial.  And
so, the Court must determine whether Defendant’s motion was timely served based
on the trial date.
The trial date is November 7, 2024.  Under
Code of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (a)(3), the last day for a
summary judgment to be heard is thirty days before trial – in this case October
8.   
A summary judgment motion must be served 75 days
before the hearing date, plus two additional days for electronic service. 
(Code of Civ. Proc., §§ 437c subd., (a)(2) & 1010.6, subd. (3)(B).)
 Thus, based on the trial date, the last day to serve a motion for summary
judgment by electronic means was 77 days before October 8 – which is July
23.  
According to the proof of service attached to Defendant’s
motion for summary judgment, Plaintiff was served with the motion by electronic
means on July 25.  That is not timely.
Before the hearing on September 16, the Court
posted a tentative ruling denying the motion to continue trial based on the untimely
service of the summary judgment motion. 
In response, shortly before the September 16 hearing, Defendant filed two
proofs of service.  One showed personal
service of the motion for summary judgment on Brandon J. Simon and Gabriel M.
Araj of The Simon Law Group by “leaving the documents at the door” of the office
on July 25, 2024, at 6:24 pm.  The second
showed personal service of the motion for summary judgment on Sean N. Vent,
Esq., by personal delivery on July 25, 2024, at 6:14 pm.  Both proofs of service are signed under penalty
of perjury by a registered process server.
There is no question that the attorneys at The
Simon Law Group were entitled to service of the summary judgment motion.  Defendant contends that personal service was properly
effected by “leaving the documents at the door” of the office at 6:24 pm on July
25, 2024.  
Code of Civil Procedure section 1011,
subdivision (a), addresses service of motion papers on an attorney for a party.  It provides:
“If upon an attorney, service may be made at the attorney’s
office, by leaving the notice or other papers in an envelope or package clearly
labeled to identify the attorney being served, with a receptionist or with a
person having charge thereof.  If there
is no person in the office with whom the notice or papers may be left for
purposes of this subdivision at the time service is to be effected, service may
be made by leaving them between the hours of 9 a.m. and 5 p.m., in a
conspicuous place in the office, or, if the attorney’s office is not open so as
to admit of that service, then service may be made by leaving the notice or
papers at the attorney’s residence, with some person of not less than 18 years
of age, if the attorney’s residence is in the same county with his or her
office, and, if the attorney’s residence is not known or is not in the same
county with his or her office, or, being in the same county, it is not open, or
a person 18 years of age or older cannot be found at the attorney’s residence,
then service may be made by putting the notice or papers, enclosed in a sealed
envelope, into the post office or a mail box, subpost office, substation, or
mail chute or other like facility regularly maintained by the Government of the
United States directed to the attorney at his or her office, if known, and
otherwise to the attorney’s residence, if known. If neither the attorney’s
office nor residence is known, service may be made by delivering the notice or
papers to the address of the attorney or party of record as designated on the
court papers, or by delivering the notice or papers to the clerk of the court,
for the attorney.”
Service “by leaving the documents at the door” –
outside of the office – after 5 pm is not an authorized or effective method of
personal service of motion papers on an attorney for a party under Code of
Civil Procedure section 1011, subdivision (a). 
That means that the attorneys at The Simon Law Group were not personally
served with the motion papers on July 25, 2024.
In sum, the attorneys at the Simon Law Group
were entitled to service of the summary judgment motion, and they were not
personally served on July 25, 2024.  The
electronic service of the motion on them was valid, but, as noted above, it was
not timely service of a summary judgment motion based on the trial date.
Because Defendant’s summary judgment was not
timely served (based on the trial date) and because Defendant does not provide
any other reason for the continuance, the motion is denied.
Conclusion
The Court DENIES Costco Wholesale Corporation’s
motion to continue trial.
Moving Party is ORDERED to give notice.