  Case Number:  20STCV34671    Hearing Date:   February 14, 2024    Dept:  50  
 
Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 50
            



CREATIVE
  RECOVERY CONCEPTS,
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
8242
  WESTERN PLAZA, LLC, et al.,
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


20STCV34671 [c/w 22STCV13629]




Hearing Date:


February 14, 2024




Hearing Time:


2:00 p.m. 




[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: 
 
MOTION FOR
  JUDGMENT ON THE PLEADINGS
 



 
Background
On September 10, 2020, Creative Recovery Concepts, Inc. filed the
instant action against Defendants 8424 Western Plaza, LLC and Kathleen Janet
Haywood aka Kathleen Robinson. The Complaint alleges causes of action for (1)
breach of contract and (2) to set aside fraudulent transfer. 
On April 25, 2022, a Complaint was filed in the matter Janet
Haywood, et al. v. Stephen Cho, et al., Case No. 22STCV13629 (herein, the
“Haywood Action”). On February 9, 2023, Janet Haywood (“Haywood”) filed the
operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) in the Haywood Action against
Defendants Stephen Cho and Creative Recovery Concepts. The FAC alleges causes
of action for (1) breach of contract, (2) breach of implied covenant of good
faith and fair dealing, and (3) conspiracy to commit fraud.[1]
On October 9, 2023, the Court issued a Nunc Pro Tunc Order in the
Haywood Action providing, inter alia, as follows: 
 
“It appearing to
the Court that through inadvertence and/or clerical error, the minute order of
10/09/2023 in the above-entitled action does not properly reflect the Court’s
order. At the direction of the Judicial Officer, said minute order is corrected
nunc pro tunc as of 10/09/2023, as follows: By adding: The Court orders the
following cases, 22STCV13629 and 20STCV34671, consolidated and assigned to
Department 50 in Stanley Mosk Courthouse for all purposes. The Court designates
20stcv34671 as the lead case. All future documents must be filed under
20stcv34671 (CREATIVE RECOVERY CONCEPTS, INC. vs 8424 WESTERN PLAZA, LLC., et
al.). Case numbers on all subsequent filings should be reflected under the lead
case.” (Emphasis added.) 
M. Stephen Cho (erroneously sued as Stephen Cho), herein “Cho,” now
moves for judgment on the pleadings.[2]
Haywood opposes. 
Request for Judicial
Notice 
The Court grants Cho’s request for judicial
notice as to Exhibits A-J and L-P, only as to the fact of the filing of these
documents. The Court denies Cho’s
request for judicial notice as to Exhibit K. The Court notes that “[i]t is
well settled that a court cannot take judicial notice of the truth of matters
stated in pleadings or affidavits in the court file of another case, although
it can be noticed that the documents¿exist. Judicial notice can be taken
only of the contents of orders, findings of fact, conclusions of law, and
judgments.” (Bennett v. Regents of University of
California¿(2005) 133 Cal.App.4th 347, 358, fn. 7 [emphasis in
original].)   
Discussion
A.   
Legal Standard 
A
motion for judgment on the pleadings has the same function as a general
demurrer but is made after the time for demurrer has expired. Except as
provided by ¿Code of Civil
Procedure section 438¿, the rules
governing demurrers apply. (¿Cloud v. Northrop Grumman Corp.
(1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 995, 999¿.) A motion by a
defendant can be made on the ground that the complaint (or any cause of action
therein) “¿does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action against that defendant.¿” (¿Code Civ. Proc., § 438, subd.
(c)(1)(B)(ii)¿.) Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 438, subdivision (d), “[t]he grounds for motion provided for in this section shall appear on
the face of the challenged pleading or from any matter of which the court is
required to take judicial notice.” 
¿“¿To survive a
demurrer, the complaint need only allege facts sufficient to state a cause of
action; each evidentiary fact that might eventually form part of the
plaintiff’s proof need not be alleged.¿” (¿C.A. v. William S. Hart Union High School Dist.
(2012) 53 Cal.4th 861, 872¿.) For the
purpose of testing the sufficiency of the cause of action, the demurrer
admits the truth of all material facts properly pleaded. (¿Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist.
(1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 966-967¿.) A demurrer “¿does not admit
contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.¿” (¿Daar v. Yellow Cab Co. (1967) 67 Cal.2d
695, 713¿.)
B.   
Allegations of the FAC 
In FAC, Haywood alleges that in 2017, she retained Cho to represent
her in a lawsuit filed in the Los Angeles County Superior Court known as “Genus v. Haywood,” a dispute arising
out of an improved parcel of residential property owned and/or controlled by Haywood
and located at 10427 S. Denker Avenue, Los Angeles, California (the “Denker
Property”). (FAC, ¶ 7.) Haywood alleges that Cho “aggressively litigated the case, in the process conducting elaborate
unnecessary Discovery as well as engaging in unnecessary litigation activities
that were not prudent given the ‘big picture’ economic constraints of the
litigation, with the legal fees increasing exorbitantly with the passing of
each month…” (FAC, ¶ 8.) 
Haywood alleges that Cho
“pressured and coerced [Haywood] to participate…in a Settlement Conference,”
and that during the Settlement Conference, Haywood “caved into the active
efforts of [Cho] to induce if not compel [Haywood] to settle the dispute…”
(FAC, ¶ 11.) Haywood further alleges that Cho falsely informed Haywood that she
“faced the prospect of being incarcerated by the trial judge” if Haywood did
not relinquish her interest in the Denker Property for the amount of
$650,000.00. (FAC, ¶ 12.) 
In addition, Haywood
alleges that after the settlement was memorialized, Cho “passed off his large
Bill for attorneys fees to [Creative Recovery Concepts], who aggressively
sought payment of the attorneys fees from [Haywood]…” (FAC, ¶ 14.) Haywood
alleges that “[t]he Draconian collection actions of [Creative Recovery
Concepts] confirmed [Haywood’s] suspicions that the reason that [Cho] racked up
such and [sic] exorbitant amount of unnecessary attorneys fees when he intended
to induce settlement was because [Cho] was overtly engaging in actions to
manifest the and act out a [conspiratorial scheme] to use [Creative Recovery
Concepts] to collect aggressively his exorbitant and worthless attorneys fees…”
(FAC, ¶ 15.) 
C.   
First Cause of Action of the FAC for Breach of
Contract
In the first cause of action for breach of contract, Haywood alleges
that “PLAINTIFF HAYWOOD and DEFENDANT CHO entered into a contract in which
DEFENDANT CHO promised to provide useful and valuable legal services in
exchange for PLAINTIFF HAYWOOD’s promise to pay him legal fees and costs for
those useful and valuable legal services.” (FAC, ¶ 17.) Haywood alleges that
“DEFENDANT CHO breached this contract by racking up exorbitant unnecessary
attorneys fees while knowing full well that he intended to settle the
litigation, and that such legal efforts were superfluous and unnecessary, but
DEFENDANT CHO relentlessly pursued and charged these fees because he knew that
most if not all of them would be collected by DEFENDANT CREATIVE RECOVERY,
which acted as DEFENDANT CHO’s ‘in house’ COLLECTION STRONG ARM, with DEFENDANT
CREATIVE RECOVERY’s sole purpose to collect most if not all of the exorbitant
and unnecessary legal fees racked up by DEFENDANT CHO on cases that he intended
to settle despite incurring unnecessarily the fees and expenses normally only
expended for cases that actually must be taken to trial.” (FAC, ¶ 18.) 
In the motion, Cho asserts that “[h]ere, the FAC clearly states a
claim for legal malpractice, disguised as a Breach of Contract claim which is
based on an agreement to provide legal representation…” (Mot. at p. 11:11-12.) Cho
cites to Schultz v. Harney (1994) 27 Cal.App.4th 1611, 1621, where the Court of Appeal
noted that “[a]n attorney’s breach of
the ethical duties of good faith and fidelity, which are owed by an
attorney to his or her client, amounts to legal malpractice and is actionable.”
Cho also cites to Lynch v. Warwick (2002) 95 Cal.App.4th 267, 273, where the Court of Appeal found that “[h]ere, although he seeks a contractual-type damage
(out-of-pocket expenses for attorney fees) and labels his cause of action as a
breach of contract, Lynch is actually seeking recovery
on a tort theory for Warwick’s negligence, i.e., Lynch is seeking recovery for legal malpractice. Our
Supreme Court has made it clear that a legal malpractice action against a
former criminal attorney requires a showing of actual innocence.”[3]
In the opposition, Haywood does not appear to address or dispute Cho’s
argument that Haywood’s “[b]reach of Contract claim is in reality a claim for
legal malpractice.” (Mot. at p. 11:20-21.) 
Cho then asserts that Haywood’s “legal malpractice” claim is
time-barred. Cho cites to Code of Civil Procedure
section 340.6, subdivision (a), which provides in part that “[a]n action against an attorney for a wrongful act or
omission, other than for actual fraud, arising in the performance of
professional services shall be commenced within one year after the plaintiff
discovers, or through the use of reasonable diligence should have discovered,
the facts constituting the wrongful act or omission, or four years from the
date of the wrongful act or omission, whichever occurs first.” 
Cho argues that “it is undisputed that as of October 15, 2019, Mr. Cho
ceased to be counsel for Plaintiff. (See Exhibits N and O to RJN.) as such, the
time to bring any claim for legal malpractice lapsed on October 14, 2020, under
§ 340.6(a). The original complaint (which actually
stated a cause of action for legal malpractice) was not filed April 25,
2022…The claim is therefore time barred.” (Mot. at p. 12:5-10.) As set forth
above, in support of this argument, Cho cites to Exhibit “O” to his request for
judicial notice, which is an October 15, 2019 Order granting the motion of M.
Stephen Cho to be relieved as counsel for 8424 Western Plaza, LLC in the case Genus
v. 8424 Western Plaza, LLC, Case No. BC706314. (Cho’s RJN, Ex. O.) 
As an initial matter, the Court does not find that this October 15,
2019 Order shows that “Cho ceased to be counsel for [Haywood],” as the Order concerns
the client “8424 Western Plaza, LLC.” Moreover, Cho does not appear to cite to
legal authority demonstrating that the statute of limitations set forth in Code of Civil Procedure section 340.6, subdivision (a)
begins to run when an attorney stops representing a client. Rather, as Cho
points out, this provision provides that “[a]n action against an attorney for a wrongful act or omission,
other than for actual fraud, arising in the performance of professional
services shall be commenced within one year after the plaintiff discovers, or
through the use of reasonable diligence should have discovered, the facts
constituting the wrongful act or omission, or four years from the date of the
wrongful act or omission, whichever occurs first.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 340.6, subd. (a).) 
Cho also
argues that “[a]s is evident from Exhibit P to RJN (Register of
Action in the consolidated actions), Plaintiff and 8424 Western Plaza LLC were
served with the collections complaint on or about October 13, 2020, and October
26, 2020. As such, Plaintiff was on actual notice of the collections complaint
wherein CRC, as the assignee of Mr. Cho, was seeking to recover unpaid legal
bills, to set aside the fraudulent transfer. Under Jolly[4],
Plaintiff was aware of the specific ‘facts’ necessary to establish her legal
malpractice claim. Yet, she waited to file the original complaint (which
asserted a claim for legal malpractice) until April 25, 2022[5].
Given the clear language in § 340.6, this claim is
time barred.” (Mot. at pp. 12:26-13:6.) 
As set forth above, Cho relies on Exhibit “P” to his request for
judicial notice, which is a case summary for the instant action, Case No.
20STCV34671. (Cho’s RJN, Ex. P.) The item listed for October 13, 2020 provides,
“Proof of Service by Substituted Service; Filed by: CREATIVE RECOVERY CONCEPTS,
INC. (Plaintiff); As to: 8424 WESTERN PLAZA, LLC. (Defendant); Proof of Mailing
Date: 10/02/2020…” (Ibid.) The item listed
for October 26, 2020 provides, “Proof of Service by Substituted Service; Filed
by: CREATIVE RECOVERY CONCEPTS, INC. (Plaintiff); As to: KATHLEEN JANET HAYWOOD
(Defendant); Proof of Mailing Date: 10/08/2020…” (Ibid.)
However, the Court does not see how this shows that “Plaintiff was aware of the
specific ‘facts’ necessary to establish her legal malpractice claim,” as Cho
asserts. (Mot. at p. 13:3-4.) Moreover, the Court finds that this is a factual
argument not appropriate for a motion for judgment on the pleadings.
Based on the foregoing, the Court does not find that Cho has
demonstrated that the first cause of action of the FAC is time-barred. Thus,
the Court denies Cho’s motion as to the first cause of action. 
 
D.    Second Cause of
Action of the FAC for Breach of Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing

As to the second cause of action, Cho first asserts that “the contract
at issue is for Mr. Cho to provide legal services and the allegations in the
original complaint and the FAC are for legal malpractice. However, as discussed
above, the claim for legal malpractice is time barred. Therefore, the claim for
breach of implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing cannot survive.”
(Mot. at p. 14:5-8.) As set forth above, the Court does not find that Cho has
demonstrated that the first cause of action for breach of contract is
time-barred. 
Cho also argues that the second cause of action “fails because it is
duplicative and relies on the same facts as those in the Breach of Contract
Claim.” (Mot. at p. 14:9-10.) Cho cites to Award Metals, Inc. v.
Superior Court (1991) 228 Cal.App.3d 1128, 1134-1135, where the Court of Appeal noted that “[d]espite the label of negligence, however, real party alleges
in the first cause of action, in the language of section
4558, that petitioner ‘negligently, knowingly removed and/or failed to
install a point of operation guard on said power press, and that this removal
or failure to install was specifically authorized by said Defendant under
conditions known by said Defendant to create a probability of serious death or
injury.’ Except for the conclusory allegation that petitioner acted
negligently, these allegations are virtually identical to the allegations
contained in the fifth cause of action for violation of section
4558. Petitioner concedes that the demurrer was properly overruled as to
the fifth cause of action under the exception of section
4558, and it would follow that the similar allegations in the first cause
of action should also survive the demurrer. But stating them in two causes
of action, as real party has done, is merely duplicative pleading which adds
nothing to the complaint by way of fact or theory. For that reason, the
demurrer should have been sustained as to this cause of action insofar as it
affects petitioner.” 
Indeed,
in both the first and second causes of action of the FAC, Haywood alleges that
“PLAINTIFF HAYWOOD and DEFENDANT CHO entered into a contract in
which DEFENDANT CHO promised to provide useful and valuable legal services in
exchange for PLAINTIFF HAYWOOD’s promise to pay him legal fees and costs for
those useful and valuable legal services.” (FAC, ¶¶ 17, 20.) In addition, in
both the first and second causes of action, Haywood alleges that “DEFENDANT CHO
breached this contract” and that “DEFENDANT CHO breached this Implied Covenant
of Good Faith and Fair Dealing” by “racking up exorbitant unnecessary attorneys
fees while knowing full well that he intended to settle the litigation, and
that such legal efforts were superfluous and unnecessary, but DEFENDANT CHO
relentlessly pursued and charged these fees because he knew that most if not
all of them would be collected by DEFENDANT CREATIVE RECOVERY, which acted as
DEFENDANT CHO’s ‘in house’ COLLECTION STRONG ARM, with DEFENDANT CREATIVE
RECOVERY’s sole purpose to collect [aggressively] most if not all of the
exorbitant and unnecessary legal fees racked up by DEFENDANT CHO on cases that
he intended to settle despite incurring unnecessarily the fees and expenses
normally only expended for cases that actually must be taken to trial.” (FAC,
¶¶ 18, 22.)
In the opposition, Haywood does not appear to dispute that the second
cause of action is duplicative of the first. Thus, based on the foregoing, the
Court grants Cho’s motion as to the second cause of action, with leave to
amend. 
Lastly, the Court notes that in the opposition, Haywood “requests that
this Court provide the Plaintiff leave to amend the First Amended Complaint to
include a Cause of Action for Fraud.” (Opp’n at p. 3:14-16.) The Court does not
find that such request is appropriately made in Haywood’s opposition to the
instant motion, and thus denies the request. Haywood may file a properly
noticed motion should she seek leave to amend the FAC to add a cause of action
for fraud. 
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, the Court
grants Cho’s motion for judgment on the pleadings as to the second cause of
action of the FAC, with leave to amend. Cho’s motion is denied as to the first
cause of action of the FAC. 
The Court orders
Haywood to file and serve an amended complaint, if any, within 20 days of the
date of this order. 
Cho is ordered to give notice of
this order.¿ 
 
DATED:  February 14, 2024                          
________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court
 


