 Case Number:  22STCV33280    Hearing Date:   February 14, 2024    Dept:  50 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 50
 




CHUANJIE YANG, et al.,
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
MARKET AMERICA, INC., et al.,
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


22STCV33280




Hearing Date:


February 14, 2024




Hearing Time:


8:30 a.m.




TENTATIVE
  RULING RE:
 
PLAINTIFFS’
  MOTION TO RECONSIDER MINUTE ORDER DATED OCTOBER 9, 2023
 




 
Background 
Plaintiffs Chuanjie Yang, Ollie Lan aka Ruoning Lan, Yu Xia Lu,
and Liu Liu (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) filed this action on October 11, 2022
against Defendants Market America, Inc., Market America Worldwide, Inc., James
Howard Ridinger, Loren Ridinger, and Marc Ashley. The Complaint alleges one
cause of action for declaratory relief. 
Market America, Inc., Market America Worldwide, Inc., Loren Ridinger
and Marc Ashley (collectively referred to herein as “Defendants”) moved for an order dismissing this action on the grounds
of forum non conveniens. On October 9, 2023, the Court issued a minute
order on the motion which provides, inter alia, that “[t]he
Motion to Dismiss filed by Market America Worldwide, Inc., Market America,
Inc., Marc Ashley, Loren Ridinger on 08/04/2023 is Granted.” 

Plaintiffs now move “for
an order reconsidering, the Court’s Minute Order dated October 9, 2023.”
Defendants oppose. 
Discussion
Code of Civil Procedure section 1008,
subdivision (a) provides as follows: 
 
“When an application for an order has been made to a judge,
or to a court, and refused in whole or in part, or granted, or granted
conditionally, or on terms, any party affected by the order may, within 10 days
after service upon the party of written notice of entry of the order and based
upon new or different facts, circumstances, or law, make application to the
same judge or court that made the order, to reconsider the matter and modify,
amend, or revoke the prior order. The party making the application shall state
by affidavit what application was made before, when and to what judge, what
order or decisions were made, and what new or different facts, circumstances,
or law are claimed to be shown.” 
The legislative intent was to restrict
motions for reconsideration to
circumstances where a party offers the court some fact or circumstance not
previously considered, and some valid
reason for not offering it earlier. (Gilberd
v. AC Transit (1995) 32
Cal.App.4th 1494, 1500; Mink v.
Superior Court (1992) 2 Cal.App.4th
1338, 1342 [“[T]he party seeking reconsideration must provide not only new
evidence but also a satisfactory explanation for the failure to produce that
evidence at an earlier time.”]; New
York Times Co. v. Superior Court (2005)
135 Cal.App.4th 206, 212-213 [“The burden under section 1008 is comparable to
that of a party seeking a new trial on the ground of newly discovered evidence:
the information must be such that the moving party could not, with reasonable
diligence, have discovered or produced it at the trial.”].)
Reconsideration cannot
be granted based on claims the court misinterpreted
the law in its initial ruling; that is not
a “new” or “different” matter. (Gilberd v. AC
Transit, supra, 32
Cal.App.4th at p. 1500.) Moreover, counsel’s mistake based on ignorance of the law is not a proper basis for reconsideration.
(Pazderka v. Caballeros Dimas Alang, Inc. (1998) 62 Cal.App.4th 658, 670.)
In the motion, Plaintiffs note that the subject October 9, 2023 minute
order provides, inter alia, “Hearing on Motion to Dismiss; Case
Management Conference…The Honorable Judge Rolf Treu for Honorable Teresa A.
Beaudet…The Court’s tentative ruling is posted online for parties/counsel to
review. The matter is called for hearing. The parties have seen and read the Court’s
written tentative ruling. The matter is heard and argued. After hearing oral
argument the Court takes the matter under submission…” (October 9, 2023 minute
order, p. 1.) 
Plaintiffs’ counsel states in his supporting declaration that “no
tentative was posted, Plaintiffs and Plaintiffs’ Counsel were not made privy to
the ruling and did not see and read the Court’s tentative ruling. At the
October 11, 2023 [sic], the clerk of the department was surprised to hear this,
but after checking, confirmed no tentative had been posted.” (Lindemann Decl.,
¶ 4.) 
As noted by Defendants, on October 12, 2023, the Court issued a “Nunc
Pro Tunc Order” providing, “[i]t appearing to the Court that through
inadvertence and/or clerical error, the minute order of 10/09/2023 in the
above-entitled action does not properly reflect the Court’s order. At the
direction of the Judicial Officer, said minute order is corrected nunc pro tunc
as of 10/12/2023, as follows: By striking: The Court’s tentative ruling is
posted online for parties/counsel to review. The parties have seen and read the
Court’s written tentative ruling.” 
Plaintiffs argue in the instant motion that “had Plaintiffs received
the the [sic] tentative ruling as stated, they would have argued that
Defendants have the burden on the motion, not Plaintiffs as held[1],
and second, under America Online, Inc. v.
Superior Court (2001) 90
Cal.App.4th 1, 9-11, and its progeny, an out of state forum is
unsuitable if a plaintiff cannot pursue the consumer remedy entitled under
California law.” (Mot. at p. 1:18-22.) Plaintiffs state that the instant motion
“is made on that grounds that the Order was made without providing the benefit
of oral argument on the tentative ruling and to otherwise seek clarification as
to one point of law as it may impact a subsequent motion filed by defendant the
Estate of James Howard Ridinger who was recently added on August 21, 2023.”
(Mot. at p. 2:6-9.)
Defendants counter that “[t]he basis for Plaintiffs’ motion does not
fall within the statutory criteria for a party to request reconsideration.”
(Opp’n at p. 5:3-4.) As noted by Defendants, “[t]he
party making the application shall state by affidavit what application was made
before, when and to what judge, what order or decisions were made, and what
new or different facts, circumstances, or law are claimed to be shown.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1008, subd. (a), emphasis added.)
Here, Plaintiffs’ counsel’s supporting declaration does not identify what new
or different facts, circumstances, or law are claimed to be shown. The motion
likewise does not appear to identify any “new or different facts, circumstances, or law.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1008, subd. (a)
To the extent Plaintiffs
contend that the absence of a tentative ruling constitutes “new or different facts, circumstances, or law,” Defendants note that Plaintiffs do not cite any
authority for the proposition that a party has a right to a tentative ruling.
As noted by Defendants, California Rules of Court, rule
3.1308,
subdivision (e) provides that “[t]his
rule does not require any judge to issue tentative rulings.” 
Lastly, on December 29, 2023, Plaintiffs filed a “Supplemental
Memorandum of Points and Authorities in Support of Motion to Reconsider Minute
Order Dated October 9, 2023.” However, Plaintiffs have not shown that they were
authorized to file supplemental briefing. 
Moreover, as noted by Defendants, the December 29, 2023 supplemental
memorandum was filed more than 10 days after service of the subject October 9,
2023 minute order. As discussed, pursuant to Code
of Civil Procedure section 1008, subdivision (a), “[w]hen
an application for an order has been made to a judge, or to a court, and
refused in whole or in part, or granted, or granted conditionally, or on terms,
any party affected by the order may, within 10 days after service upon the
party of written notice of entry of the order and based upon new or
different facts, circumstances, or law, make application to the same judge or
court that made the order, to reconsider the matter and modify, amend, or
revoke the prior order.” Here, on October 10, 2023, Defendants filed and
served a notice of ruling on Defendants’ motion to dismiss action for forum non
conveniens. Ten days after October 10, 2023 is October 20, 2023. The Court
thus finds that Plaintiffs’ unauthorized December 29, 2023 supplemental
memorandum of points and authorities is untimely. 
            Based
on the foregoing, the Court does not find that Plaintiffs have demonstrated
good cause for reconsideration of the Court’s October 9, 2023 minute order.  
            Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, Plaintiffs’
motion is denied. 
///
Defendants are ordered
to provide notice of this ruling.
 
DATED:  February 14, 2024                          ________________________________
Hon. Rolf M.
Treu 
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court
 
 


