


[1]On October 31,
2023, the Court issued a minute order in the Haywood Action providing, inter
alia, that “the Court grants Cho’s special motion to strike as to the third
cause of action of the FAC. Cho’s motion is otherwise denied.” 


[2]Cho’s notice of
motion states that “the motion of Defendant Mr. M. Stephen Cho (erroneously
sued as Stephen Cho, ‘Mr. Cho’) for Judgment on the Pleadings is set for a
hearing on February 14, 2024…” (Notice of Motion at p. 1:22-23.) The memorandum
of points and authorities in support of the motion addresses Haywood’s causes
of action in the FAC for breach of contract and breach of implied covenant of
good faith and fair dealing. Thus, the Court construes the instant motion for
judgment on the pleadings as directed to the first and second causes of action
of Haywood’s FAC in the Haywood Action. 


[3]The Lynch
Court noted that “Lynch filed
a complaint against Warwick containing
causes of action for legal malpractice, breach of contract and breach of
fiduciary duty. As amended, the causes of action were based on Warwick’s alleged failure to perform the
professional services for which he was retained. Lynch alleged that Warwick failed to interview key witnesses,
unnecessarily sought continuances, failed to prevent the loss or destruction of
evidence, failed to develop a working relationship of trust and confidence with
him, and failed to adequately communicate with him about the case.” (Id. at pp. 269-270.)  


[4]Cho
notes that in Jolly v. Eli Lilly & Co.
(1988) 44 Cal.3d 1103, 1110-1111, the California Supreme
Court found that “[u]nder the discovery rule, the statute of
limitations begins to run when the plaintiff suspects or should suspect that
her injury was caused by wrongdoing, that someone has done something wrong to
her…A plaintiff need not be aware of the specific ‘facts’ necessary to
establish the claim; that is a process contemplated by pretrial discovery. Once
the plaintiff has a suspicion of wrongdoing, and therefore an incentive to sue,
she must decide whether to file suit or sit on her rights. So long as a suspicion exists, it is clear
that the plaintiff must go find the facts; she cannot wait for the facts to
find her.” 


[5]As set forth
above, on April 25, 2022, the original Complaint was filed in the Haywood
Action. 

