  Case Number:  21STCV00226    Hearing Date:   April 12, 2024    Dept:  E Hearing
Date:           4/12/2024 – 8:30am
Case No.¿                                          21STCV00226
Trial Date:             05/13/2024
Case Names:             Bi
Yun Cheng, et al. v. Home 2001, Inc., et al.


FAC
BI YUN CHENG, an individual;
XINYI RUAN, an individual; RYAN RUAN, a minor individual by and through his
Guardian Ad Litem, BI YUN CHENG; v. HOME 2001, INC., a business entity; TERRY
TUNG, an individual; HSIU HSIA TSAI, an individual; INNER GOLD, LLC, a business
entity; CASEY TUNG, an individual; CHUANG TO LEE, an individual; SHUNLU KAO, an
individual; and DOES 1 to 100
 
Cross-Complaint (filed 12/16/2021)
INNER GOLD, LLC, CHUANG TO
LEE, and SHUNLU KAO, v. ANDREW DAI-HAU LIU, an individual, THE ELITE GROUP
PROPERTY INSPECTION SERVICE, INC., a California corporation; and ROES 1 through
100, inclusive



Cross-Complaint
(filed 5/12/2022)
THE ELITE GROUP PROPERTY INSPECTION SERVICE,
INC., a California Corporation v. INNER GOLD, LLC, a California corporation,
CHUANG TO LEE, an individual, SHUNLU KAO, an individual, and ROES 1 through 50,
inclusive,
 
2 TENTATIVE RULINGS ON MSJ/MSA
 
BACKGROUND
The two
MSJ/MSAs on calendar for 4/12/2024 pertain to several Defendants filing MSJ/MSAs
against the FAC.
The instant
FAC alleges two causes of action against Defendants for (1) Wrongful Death –
Premises Liability and (2) Wrongful Death – Negligence. 
This action
arises from an incident on or about August 15, 2020, when Decedent, Wen Wei
Ruan [not named as a Plaintiff], an alleged repairman and air conditioning
technician, was allegedly hired by Defendants to inspect, fix, or troubleshoot
an air conditioning unit on the rooftop of an Apartment Complex. (FAC ¶14.) 
Plaintiffs
allege that when climbing down, Decedent was on the ladder attached to the east
side wall of the apartment complex, and the ladder separated from the wall,
which caused Decedent and the ladder to fall onto the next-door neighbor’s
driveway. (Id.) 
Plaintiffs
allege that this sudden and unexpected fall caused Decedent to sustain
traumatic, severe injuries, among others: blunt head trauma, brain hemorrhage,
multiple skull fractures, contusion to the left lateral quadrant, abrasions to
the to the upper right lateral back, contusions to the lower right back, a
large abrasion to the posterior surface of the left lower extremity, internal
bleeding, and head laceration. (Id.)
Plaintiff,
Bi Yun Cheng, alleges that Decedent was her husband. (FAC ¶2.)
Plaintiff,
Xinyi Ruan, alleges that Decedent was their father. (FAC ¶3.)
Plaintiff,
Ryan Ruan, alleges that Decedent was their father. (FAC ¶4.)
Plaintiffs
allege that Defendants owned, possessed, maintained, and controlled the
Apartment Complex. (FAC ¶21.)
Plaintiffs
allege that Defendants were aware of the defective nature of the ladder and
that it was reasonably foreseeable that a third party, namely the Decedent,
would use this ladder to inspect and repair the air conditioning unit on the
roof of the apartment complex and use this ladder for that purpose. (FAC ¶16.) 
Plaintiffs
allege that in so using the ladder for that purpose, the ladder broke off from
the wall due to its negligently maintained condition and therefore resulting in
Decedent’s death. (Id.)
MOTION 1
RELIEF REQUESTED¿ 
“Defendants, HOME 2001, INC.;
TERRY TUNG; and HSIU HSIA TSAI (collectively, “Defendants”) will and hereby do
move for Summary Judgment pursuant to CCP §437c(a), or in the Alternative,
Summary Adjudication pursuant to CCP §437c(f), on Plaintiffs’ First Cause of
Action for Premises Liability and Second Cause of Action for Negligence against
Defendants on the grounds that: (1) under the Privette doctrine,
Defendants cannot be liable for Mr. Ruan’s injuries and death; (2) there are
insufficient facts on which to hold Ms. Tsai liable; (3) because Mr. Ruan
falsely represented to Mr. Tung that Mr. Ruan was a licensed contractor, Labor
Code § 2750.5 does not apply, and Mr. Ruan is not deemed the employee of any of
Defendants; and (4) none of Defendants can be held liable under Plaintiff’s
premises liability claim, because no defendant was a possessor of the subject
property.
 
This Motion for Summary Judgment, or in the Alternative, Summary
Adjudication, is based upon this Notice, the accompanying Memorandum of Points
and Authorities, Defendants’ Separate Statement of Undisputed Material Facts
filed and served concurrently herewith, and supporting evidence required by CCP
§ 437c(b) in the form of the Declaration of Terry Tung, the Declaration of Hsiu
Hsia Tsai, the exhibits, the pleadings, papers and records on file in this
action, and on such other oral and documentary evidence as may be presented to
the Court at the time of the hearing on this Motion.”
 
Procedural
Moving
Party:           Defendants, HOME 2001,
INC.; TERRY TUNG; and HSIU HSIA TSAI


Responding Party:       Plaintiffs,
BI YUN CHENG; XINYI RUAN; and RYAN RUAN, a minor, by and through his Guardian
Ad Litem, BI YUN CHENG
 
Moving Papers:          Notice/Motion; Separate Statement;
Decl. Hsiu Hsia Tsai; Decl. Terry Tung; 
 
Opposing
Papers:        Opposition; Separate
Statement; Decl. Howard; 
 
Reply Papers:           Reply; Evidentiary Objections
 
Section 437c(a)(2)
Under Code of Civil Procedure (“CCP”) section 437c(2), notice of
the motion and supporting papers shall be served on all other parties to the
action at least 75 days before the time appointed for hearing. If the notice is
served by mail, the required 75-day period of notice shall be increased by 5
days if the place of address is within the State of California. (Code Civ.
Proc., §437c(a)(2).)
Here, the motion is timely.
The Court does have a question as to whether all
parties were served with this motion.
Section 437c(a)(3)
“The motion shall be heard no
later than 30 days before the date of trial, unless the court for good cause
orders otherwise. The filing of the motion shall not extend the time within
which a party must otherwise file a responsive pleading.” (CCP §437c(a)(3).)
Here, the motion is
timely.
LEGAL STANDARD MOTION SUMMARY JUDGMENT
The
function of a motion for summary judgment or adjudication is to allow a
determination as to whether an opposing party cannot show evidentiary support
for a pleading or claim and to enable an order of summary dismissal without the
need for trial. (Aguilar v. Atlantic
Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) Code of Civil Procedure section
437c(c) “requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the evidence
submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and
uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable
issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment
as a matter of law.”  (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7
Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)  “The function
of the pleadings in a motion for summary judgment is to delimit the scope of
the issues; the function of the affidavits or declarations is to disclose
whether there is any triable issue of fact within the issues delimited by the
pleadings.” (Juge v. County of Sacramento
(1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67, citing FPI
Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal. App. 3d 367, 381-382.)
As to each claim as framed by the complaint, the defendant
moving for summary judgment must satisfy the initial burden of proof by
presenting facts to negate an essential element, or to establish a defense.
(CCP § 437c(p)(2); Scalf v. D. B. Log
Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.) The plaintiff or
cross-complainant shall not rely upon the allegations or denials of its
pleadings to show that a triable issue of material fact exists, but instead,
shall set forth the specific facts showing that a triable issue of material
fact exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto. (CCP § 437c(p)(2).)
Courts “liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing
summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party.”  (Dore
v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)
 
“Once the defendant or
cross-defendant has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff or
cross-complainant to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts
exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto. The plaintiff or cross-complainant
shall not rely upon the allegations or denials of its pleadings to show that a
triable issue of material fact exists but, instead, shall set forth the
specific facts showing that a triable issue of material fact exists as to the
cause of action or a defense thereto.” (CCP §437c(p)(2).)
To establish a triable issue of material fact, the party
opposing the motion must produce substantial responsive evidence sufficient to
establish a triable issue of material fact on the merits of the defendant’s
showing. (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998)
68 Cal.App.4th 151, 163.)
LEGAL STANDARD – Negligence and Premises Liability
Elements of Premises Liability & Negligence
In
order to succeed on a cause of action for negligence, plaintiffs have the
burden of proving the following essential elements: 
(1) the defendant had a legal duty
to conform to a standard of conduct to protect the plaintiffs; 
(2) the defendant failed to meet
this standard of conduct; 
(3) the defendant’s failure was the
proximate or legal cause of the resulting injury; and 
(4) the plaintiffs were damaged. 
(See United States Liab. Ins. Co. v. Haidinger-Hayes,
Inc. (1970) 1 Cal.3d 586, 594.)
The elements of a cause of
action for premises liability are the same as those for negligence. (Jones
v. Awad (2019) 39 Cal.App.5th 1200, 1207 citing Castellon v. U.S.
Bancorp (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 994, 998.) 
Accordingly, the plaintiff must
prove a legal duty to use due care, a breach of such legal duty, and the breach
as the proximate or legal cause of the resulting injury. (Jones v. Awad,
supra, 39 Cal.App.5th at 1207 citing Beacon Residential Community Assn. v.
Skidmore, Owings & Merrill LLP (2014) 59 Cal.4th 568, 573.) 
LEGAL STANDARD - Privette
Privette
Generally, when employees of independent contractors
are injured in the workplace, they cannot sue the party that hired the
contractor to do the work. (SeaBright Ins. Co. v. US Airways, Inc. (2011)
52 Cal.4th 590, 594 citing Privette v. Superior Court (1993) 5 Cal.4th
689.) 

The case of Gonzalez v. Mathis (2021) 12 Cal.5th 29
generally explains the premise behind the Privette doctrine:
There is a strong presumption under
California law that a hirer of an independent contractor delegates to the
contractor all responsibility for workplace safety. (See generally Privette
v. Superior Court (1993) 5 Cal.4th 689, 21 Cal.Rptr.2d 72, 854 P.2d
721 (Privette); SeaBright Ins. Co. v. US Airways, Inc.
(2011) 52 Cal.4th 590, 129 Cal.Rptr.3d 601, 258 P.3d 737 (SeaBright).)
This means that a hirer is typically not liable for injuries sustained by
an independent contractor or its workers while on the job. Commonly
referred to as the Privette doctrine, the presumption
originally stemmed from the following rationales: First, hirers usually have no
right to control an independent contractor's work. (Privette, at p. 693,
21 Cal.Rptr.2d 72, 854 P.2d 721.) Second, contractors can factor in “the cost
of safety precautions and insurance coverage in the contract price.” (Ibid.)
Third, contractors are able to obtain workers’ compensation to cover any
on-the-job injuries. (Id. at pp. 698–700, 21 Cal.Rptr.2d 72, 854 P.2d
721.) Finally, contractors are typically hired for their expertise, which
enables them to perform the contracted-for work safely and successfully. (See id. at
p. 700, 21 Cal.Rptr.2d 72, 854 P.2d 721; Rest.3d Torts, Liability for Physical
and Emotional Harm, § 57, com. c, p. 402.)
(Gonzalez
v. Mathis (2021) 12 Cal.5th 29, 37-38.)
The Supreme Court of California has nevertheless identified two
limited circumstances in which the presumption is overcome. (Gonzalez v.
Mathis (2021) 12 Cal.5th 29, 38.)
First, in Hooker v. Department of Transportation (2002)
27 Cal.4th 198, the Supreme Court held that a hirer may be liable when it
retains control over any part of the independent contractor’s work and
negligently exercises that retained control in a manner that affirmatively contributes
to the worker’s injury. (Gonzalez supra, 12 Cal.5th at 38 citing Hooker
v. Department of Transportation (2002) 27 Cal.4th 198, 202.) 
“Under the retained-control exception to the Privette doctrine,
an affirmative contribution occurs when a general contractor ‘is actively
involved in, or asserts control over, the manner of performance of the
contracted work. [Citation.] Such an assertion of control occurs, for example,
when the principal employer directs that the contracted work be done by
use of a certain mode or otherwise interferes with the means and methods by
which the work is to be accomplished. [Citations.] [Citation.]” (Alvarez v. Seaside
Transportation Services LLC (2017) 13 Cal.App.5th 635, 644 citing Hooker
v. Department of Transportation (2002) 27 Cal.4th 198, 215.)
“In the alternative to showing that a hirer directed an
independent contractor’s employee to perform his work in a particular manner,
an employee may also seek to hold a hirer liable for any failure to undertake a
promised safety measure. ‘[A]ffirmative contribution need not always be in the
form of actively directing a contractor or contractor’s employee. There will be
times when a hirer will be liable for its omissions. For example, if the hirer
promises to undertake a particular safety measure, then the hirer’s negligent
failure to do so should result in liability if such negligence leads to an
employee injury.’” (Alvarez supra, 13 Cal.App.5th at 645 citing Hooker
supra, 27 Cal.4th at 212.)  
The second exception to Privette deals with concealed
hazards. In Kinsman v. Unocal Corp. (2005) 37 Cal.4th 659, the Supreme
Court held that the hirer as landowner may be independently liable to the
contractor’s employee, even if it does not retain control over the work, if (1)
it knows or reasonably should know of a concealed, pre-existing hazardous
condition on its premises; (2) the contractor does not know and could not
reasonably ascertain the condition; and (3) the landowner fails to warn the
contractor. (Kinsman v. Unocal Corp. (2005) 37 Cal.4th 659, 675.)
A third exception to Privette was not recognized with
respect to unconcealed/known hazards in Gonzalez v. Mathis:
We granted review in this case to
decide whether a landowner may also be liable for injuries to an independent
contractor or its workers that result from a known hazard on the premises where
there were no reasonable safety precautions it could have adopted to avoid or
minimize the hazard. We conclude that permitting liability under such
circumstances, thereby creating a broad third exception to the Privette doctrine,
would be fundamentally inconsistent with the doctrine. When a landowner hires
an independent contractor to perform a task on the landowner's property, the
landowner presumptively delegates to the contractor a duty to ensure the safety
of its workers. This encompasses a duty to determine whether the work can be
performed safely despite a known hazard on the worksite. As between a landowner
and an independent contractor, the law assumes that the independent contractor
is typically better positioned to determine whether and how open and obvious
safety hazards on the worksite might be addressed in performing the work. Our
case law makes clear that, where the hirer has effectively delegated its
duties, there is no affirmative obligation on the hirer's part to
independently assess workplace safety. Thus, unless a landowner retains control
over any part of the contractor's work and negligently exercises that retained
control in a manner that affirmatively contributes to the injury (Hooker, supra,
27 Cal.4th at p. 202, 115 Cal.Rptr.2d 853, 38 P.3d 1081), it will not be liable
to an independent contractor or its workers for an injury resulting from a
known hazard on the premises.
(Gonzalez
v. Mathis (2021) 12 Cal.5th 29, 38-39.)
TENTATIVE RULING MOTION 1
Further background relevant to Motion 1
Moving
Defendants (Movants) as to the instant MSJ/MSA are Home 2001, Inc.; Terry Tung;
and Hsiu Hsia Tsai. 
Home 2001, Inc. was and is the property manager for the
apartment building where the incident forming the subject matter of this
lawsuit occurred. (UMF 4.) When a tenant at the Apartment has a complaint, they
call Home 2001, Inc. and speak to Mr. Tung. (UMF 5.) When there is a complaint,
Home 2001, Inc. is responsible for finding a contractor who can fix the
problem. (UMF 3.) Any repair for the Apartment that costs more than $250.00
requires the approval of the Apartment owner’s representative, Andrew Wang. (UMF
6.)
Continuing the Motion
Plaintiffs
argue that this motion should be continued because:
The court should note that
Plaintiffs, as a result of discovery investigation, have a pending motion for
leave to amend and to file their Second Amended Complaint (SAC). It should be
noted, that Plaintiffs have included allegations as against Defendants Home
2001, Tung, and Tsai, as property managers, that they hired decedent Wen Wei
Ruan (“Decedent”) to repair an air conditioner, while he was unlicensed as a
contractor to perform such work as required under California law. As will be
detailed below, this fact is disputed by the parties and potentially
reclassifies decedent as an employee, rather than an independent contractor, of
Defendants Home 2001, Tung, and Tsai, who would be uninsured employers related
to workers compensation insurance coverage. Therefore, this court should either
continue this present motion for resolution of Plaintiffs’ pending motions or
take into consideration Plaintiff’s additional proposed allegations filed in
the SAC.
(Pl. Oppo.
p. 3.)
Here, the Court is confused as to the legal basis/authority that
Plaintiffs are requesting this motion be continued under. Plaintiffs cite to no
legal authority that seeking leave to amend and filing a new complaint is a
basis for continuing a motion for summary judgment. 
What is also confusing about Plaintiffs’ request for a
continuance is that they primarily seem to want to add allegations that
Decedent was an employee, not an independent contractor, but moving Defendants
bring up this as one of their issues in their motion. 
In the Opposition, Plaintiffs dispute this issue. The Court is
uncertain as to why Plaintiffs are seeking to add allegations with respect to
Decedent being an employee and not an independent contractor when Defendants
seem to believe this to already be at issue as indicated in their moving papers
and as indicated in Plaintiffs’ Opposition as they dispute the issue. 
The Court has reviewed the Plaintiff’s Motion for Leave to Amend
and to File a Second Amended Complaint: It does not appear that the proposed
changes would materially change the analysis on these two motions, but the
Court will ask Plaintiffs to elaborate.  The
Court will hear argument.
Further, to the extent that Plaintiffs briefly mention “as a
result of discovery investigation,” it seems unclear if Plaintiffs are trying
to seek a continuance based on the theory that facts essential to justify the
opposition may exist but cannot be presented. The Court is unclear, because as
mentioned before, Plaintiffs cite no legal authority for the basis for their
request for a continuance.

CCP § 437c(h) states, “If it appears from the affidavits submitted in
opposition to a motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication, or both,
that facts essential to justify opposition may exist but cannot, for reasons
stated, be presented, the court shall deny the motion, order a continuance to
permit affidavits to be obtained or discovery to be had, or make any other
order as may be just. The application to continue the motion to obtain
necessary discovery may also be made by ex parte motion at any time on or
before the date the opposition response to the motion is due.” 
Plaintiffs don’t cite § 437c(h). 
Further, there are no affidavits submitted with the Opposition that
state that facts essential to justify opposition may exist but cannot, for
reasons stated, be presented. Not only are there no affidavits submitted along
these lines, but the Opposition itself doesn’t even seem to be arguing that
this is the case.
Hsiu Hsia Tsai – Issue 2
Defendants
include a separate statement that lists four issues for this motion. Those
issues are labeled in Defendants’ separate statement as follows: (1) “Issue 1:
Plaintiffs’ Claims Against Defendants Are Barred by the Privette Doctrine”; (2)
“Issue 2: There Are Insufficient Facts to Hold Ms. Tsai Liable on Plaintiffs’
Claims”; (3) “Issue 3: Because Mr. Ruan Falsely Represented to Mr. Tung That
Mr. Ruan Was a Licensed Contractor, Labor Code § 2750.5 Does Not Apply, and Mr.
Ruan Is Not Deemed The Employee of Any of Defendants”; and (4) “Issue 4: None
Of The Defendants Can Be Held Liable Under Plaintiffs’ Premises Liability
Claim, Because No Defendant Was A Possessor Of The Subject Property.”
As a preliminary matter, even though Defendants’ separate
statement labels 4 separate issues, Plaintiffs’ separate statement in
opposition does not indicate that there are four separate issues to be
determined. 
Defendants’ separate statement indicates that UMF 1-31 pertains
to Issue 1, and that UMF 32-41 pertains to Issue 2. However, Plaintiffs’
separate statement lumps UMF 1-41 all together as if it is one issue. 
In any event, “Issue 2: There Are Insufficient Facts to Hold Ms.
Tsai Liable on Plaintiffs’ Claims,” pertains to UMF 32-41. 
Defendants argue that Ms. Tsai had no induvial involvement in
the relevant facts of this case and cannot be liable for Mr. Ruan’s injuries. 
All of Defendants’ UMF of 32-41 pertaining to Issue 2 went
undisputed by Plaintiffs in Plaintiffs’ separate statement. Thus, it appears as
if Plaintiffs are not contesting Defendants’ argument that Ms. Tsai cannot be
liable. 
Therefore, Defendant’s MSJ/MSA with respect to Defendant Hsiu
Hsia Tsai is GRANTED. 
Poorly/Confusingly Written Motions, Separate
Statements, and Citations to Evidence
Issue
1, as labeled in Defendants’ separate statement is labeled as “Plaintiffs’
Claims Against Defendants Are Barred By the Privette Doctrine.”
Defendants’ memorandum argues that under the Privette doctrine,
Defendants cannot be held liable for Decedent’s (Mr. Ruan) injuries, and they
argue that the exceptions to the Privette doctrine do not apply.
Generally, when employees of independent contractors are injured
in the workplace, they cannot sue the party that hired the contractor to do the
work. (SeaBright Ins. Co. v. US Airways, Inc. (2011) 52 Cal.4th 590, 594
citing Privette v. Superior Court (1993) 5 Cal.4th 689.) 
The Supreme Court of California has nevertheless identified two
limited circumstances in which the presumption is overcome. (Gonzalez v.
Mathis (2021) 12 Cal.5th 29, 38.)
First, in Hooker v. Department of Transportation (2002)
27 Cal.4th 198, the Supreme Court held that a hirer may be liable when it
retains control over any part of the independent contractor’s work and
negligently exercises that retained control in a manner that affirmatively
contributes to the worker’s injury. (Gonzalez supra, 12 Cal.5th at 38
citing Hooker v. Department of Transportation (2002) 27 Cal.4th 198,
202.) 
The second exception to Privette deals with concealed
hazards. In Kinsman v. Unocal Corp. (2005) 37 Cal.4th 659, the Supreme
Court held that the hirer as landowner may be independently liable to the
contractor’s employee, even if it does not retain control over the work, if (1)
it knows or reasonably should know of a concealed, pre-existing hazardous
condition on its premises; (2) the contractor does not know and could not
reasonably ascertain the condition; and (3) the landowner fails to warn the
contractor. (Kinsman v. Unocal Corp. (2005) 37 Cal.4th 659, 675.)
As a preliminary matter, it is difficult to discern what
evidence Defendants believe indicates that the Privette doctrine applies
and what evidence Defendants believe indicates that the exceptions to the Privette
doctrine do not apply. 
Defendants’ separate statement lumps UMF 1-31 together as Issue
1 “Plaintiffs’ Claims Against Defendants Are Barred By the Privette Doctrine.”
One aspect that may be fatal to Defendants’ argument is that Defendants
seem to gloss over the key issue of whether Decedent was an independent
contractor or an employee.
In the Privette line of cases, the case law doesn’t appear
to discuss what must be established to prove someone is an independent
contractor versus an employee. The Privette line of cases seems to assume/imply
that it is established that there is an independent contractor at issue in those
cases because the Privette line of cases don’t discuss what must be done
to establish whether or not someone is an independent contractor.
What is also confusing about Defendants’ memorandum and separate
statement is that although Defendants label Issue 1 as “Plaintiffs’ Claims
Against Defendants Are Barred By The Privette Doctrine,” Issue 3 is
labeled as “Because Mr. Ruan Falsely Represented to Mr. Tung That Mr. Ruan Was
a Licensed Contractor, Labor Code § 2750.5 Does Not Apply.” 
Issue 3 appears as if it would have to necessarily be subsumed
within Issue 1 because in order to establish that Privette applies, Defendants
need to establish that Decedent was an independent contractor.
Labor Code § 2750.5
For
the moment, setting aside Issue 3 of whether or not Labor Code § 2750.5 applies,
the Court notes that Labor Code § 2750.5 provides, in relevant part:
There is a rebuttable presumption
affecting the burden of proof that a worker performing services for which a
license is required pursuant to Chapter 9 (commencing with Section 7000) of
Division 3 of the Business and Professions Code, or who is performing such
services for a person who is required to obtain such a license is an employee
rather than an independent contractor. Proof of independent contractor status
includes satisfactory proof of these factors:
(a) That the individual has
the right to control and discretion as to the manner of performance of the
contract for services in that the result of the work and not the means by which
it is accomplished is the primary factor bargained for.
(b) That the individual is
customarily engaged in an independently established business.
(c) That the individual’s
independent contractor status is bona fide and not a subterfuge to avoid
employee status. A bona fide independent contractor status is further evidenced
by the presence of cumulative factors such as substantial investment other than
personal services in the business, holding out to be in business for oneself,
bargaining for a contract to complete a specific project for compensation by
project rather than by time, control over the time and place the work is
performed, supplying the tools or instrumentalities used in the work other than
tools and instrumentalities normally and customarily provided by employees,
hiring employees, performing work that is not ordinarily in the course of the
principal’s work, performing work that requires a particular skill, holding a
license pursuant to the Business and Professions Code, the intent by the
parties that the work relationship is of an independent contractor status, or
that the relationship is not severable or terminable at will by the principal
but gives rise to an action for breach of contract.
In addition to the factors
contained in subdivisions (a), (b), and (c), any person performing any function
or activity for which a license is required pursuant to Chapter 9 (commencing
with Section 7000) of Division 3 of the Business and Professions Code shall
hold a valid contractors’ license as a condition of having independent
contractor status.
For purposes of workers’
compensation law, this presumption is a supplement to the existing statutory
definitions of employee and independent contractor, and is not intended to
lessen the coverage of employees under Division 4 and Division 5.
(Labor Code
§ 2750.5.)
“Section 2750.5 establishes a ‘rebuttable presumption affecting
the burden of proof that a worker performing services for which a
[contractor’s] license is required . . . is an employee rather than an
independent contractor.’” (Chin v. Namvar (2008) 166 Cal.App.4th 994, 1003-1004
citing Ramirez v. Nelson (2008) 44 Cal.4th 908 [unlicensed contractor
who becomes injured on the job is the employee of the party who hired him, not
an independent contractor, for purposes of determining eligibility for workers’
compensation benefits].) 
Moving Defendants do not address in their moving papers whether
or not decedent was performing services for which a contractor’s license is
required. The Opposition cites to two websites from the Department of Consumer
Affairs Contractors State License Board to support its assertion that Decedent
was required to hold a contractor’s license for the job that he was performing
at issue in this case. The Reply does not address this issue, and it does not
argue that Decedent was not required to hold a contractor’s license. Therefore,
the Court will assume for the sake of this motion that Decedent was required to
hold a contractor’s license.
Further, before addressing Defendants’ Issue 3 (that Labor Code
§ 2750.5 does not apply), the Court notes that if it were to assume that the
presumption of § 2750.5 applied, Defendants don’t explain in any clear manner
how they met their burden in establishing satisfactory proof of factors (a),
(b), and (c) for proof of independent contractor status under § 2750.5.
The Court now turns to Issue 3 labeled “Because Mr. Ruan Falsely
Represented to Mr. Tung That Mr. Ruan Was a Licensed Contractor, Labor Code § 2750.5
Does Not Apply.”
Defendants first argue, “Defendants anticipate that Plaintiffs
will argue that Labor Code § 2750.5 legally makes Mr. Ruan Defendants employee
and subjects them to liability. As a preliminary matter, Defendants assert that
the Privette analysis above applies to bar Defendants’ liability
irrespective of whether Labor Code § 2750.5 applies.” (Def. Mot. p. 9.) 
Defendants appear to assume that Decedent was an independent
contractor—but whether Decedent was an independent contractor or an employee is
in dispute in this case.
Defendants cite Chin v. Namvar (2008) 166 Cal.App.4th
994, 1004 to argue that the presumption of Decedent being an employee under § 2750.5
does not apply because Plaintiffs’ are estopped from asserting that argument.
As stated in Chin :
Notwithstanding the conclusive
presumption established by the second to last paragraph of section 2750.5,
one who misrepresents himself as a licensed contractor is estopped from
asserting that his unlicensed status makes him an employee under the statute. (Rinaldi
v. Workers' Comp. Appeals Bd. (1988) 199 Cal.App.3d 217, 223, 244
Cal.Rptr. 637 (Rinaldi ).) “The essence of an estoppel is that the
party to be estopped has by false language or conduct ‘led another to do that
which he would not otherwise have done and as a result thereof that he has
suffered injury.’ [Citation.]” (State Compensation Ins. Fund v.
Workers' Comp. Appeals Bd. (1985) 40 Cal.3d 5, 16, 219 Cal.Rptr. 13,
706 P.2d 1146 (Meier ).) In the absence of a representation by the
contractor that he or she is licensed, there can be no *1005 estoppel. (Meier,
supra, at p. 16, 219 Cal.Rptr. 13, 706 P.2d 1146; see also Travelers
Ins. Co. v. Workers' Comp. Appeals Bd. (1983) 147 Cal.App.3d 1033,
1038, 195 Cal.Rptr. 564 (Travelers ) [same].)
(Chin v.
Namvar (2008) 166 Cal.App.4th 994, 1004-1005.)
To support Defendants’ assertion that Plaintiffs are estopped
from asserting that Decedent’s unlicensed status makes him an employee,
Defendants point to UMF 9-12. UMF 9-12 are as follows:
Mr. Tung was contacted by the
decedent, Mr. Ruan. (UMF 9.) Mr. Ruan advised Mr. Tung that Mr. Ruan was a
licensed air conditioning contractor and was looking to perform air
conditioning repair work. Mr. Tung relied on Mr. Ruan’s representation that Mr.
Ruan was properly licensed. Mr. Tung never had any reason to doubt Mr. Ruan’s
statement that he was licensed. (UMF 10.) He provided Mr. Tung with his
business card. (UMF 11.) Mr. Tung told Mr. Ruan that he would reach out to him
if and when his services were needed. (UMF 12.)
(Def. Sep.
Stmt. UMF 9-12.)
UMF 9-12 cite to ¶6 of the Tung Declaration as the evidence to
support UMF 9-12. Paragraph 6 of the Tung declaration states, “Years ago, I was
contacted by the decedent, Mr. Ruan. He advised me that he was a licensed air
conditioning contractor and was looking to perform air conditioning repair
work. I relied on his representation that he was properly licensed. I never had
any reason to doubt his statement that he was licensed. He provided me with his
business card, and I told Mr. Ruan that I would reach out to him if and when
his services were needed.” (Decl. Tung ¶6.)
In Opposition, Plaintiffs argue that a determination of the
employment status of Decedent is a disputed issue of fact that should be
litigated at trial before a jury; therefore, the Court should deny this motion.
As stated in Feduniak:
The
existence of an estoppel is generally a factual question. (Albers v.
County of Los Angeles (1965) 62 Cal.2d 250, 266, 42 Cal.Rptr. 89,
398 P.2d 129.) Therefore, we review the trial court's ruling in the light
most favorable to the judgment and determine whether it is supported by
substantial evidence. (J.H. McKnight Ranch, Inc. v. Franchise Tax Bd. (2003)
110 Cal.App.4th 978, 991, 2 Cal.Rptr.3d 339; Brookview
Condominium Owners' Assn. v. Heltzer Enterprises–Brookview (1990) 218
Cal.App.3d 502, 511, 267 Cal.Rptr. 76.) “ ‘Substantial evidence’ is
evidence of ponderable legal significance, evidence that is reasonable,
credible and of solid value. [Citation.] ... [Citations.] ... [Citation.]
Inferences may constitute substantial evidence, but they must be the product of
logic and reason. Speculation or conjecture alone is not substantial evidence.
[Citations.]” (Roddenberry v. Roddenberry (1996)
44 Cal.App.4th 634, 651, 51 Cal.Rptr.2d 907.)

Although estoppel is generally a
question of fact, where the facts are undisputed and only one reasonable
conclusion can be drawn from them, whether estoppel applies is a question of
law. (Albers v. County of Los Angeles, supra, 62 Cal.2d
at p. 266, 42 Cal.Rptr. 89, 398 P.2d 129; Platt Pacific, Inc. v.
Andelson (1993) 6 Cal.4th 307, 319, 24 Cal.Rptr.2d 597,
862 P.2d 158.)
(Feduniak
v. California Coastal Com. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 1346, 1359-1360.)
UMF 9 and 12 go undisputed by Plaintiffs. UMF 10-11 are disputed
by Plaintiffs. 
First, Plaintiffs object to UMF 10 on the basis of Evid. Code §§
352 and 1200. Plaintiffs argue that Tung’s claim that Decedent told him that he
was a properly licensed air conditioning contractor is self-serving hearsay
evidence that is inadmissible.
Evidence Code § 352 states, “The court in its discretion may
exclude evidence if its probative value is substantially outweighed by the
probability that its admission will (a) necessitate undue consumption of time
or (b) create substantial danger of undue prejudice, of confusing the issues,
or of misleading the jury.” 
As to the Evid. Code § 352 objection with respect to ¶6 of the
Tung Declaration, the Court does not find this argument availing. Plaintiffs
make no clear explanation as to why this objection applies, and based on the
Court’s reading of the plain language of § 352, the Court will utilize its
discretion and not exclude ¶6 of the Tung Declaration based on Plaintiffs’ § 352
objection.
Evidence Code § 1200 states, “(a) “Hearsay evidence” is
evidence of a statement that was made other than by a witness while testifying
at the hearing and that is offered to prove the truth of the matter stated.
(b) Except as provided by law, hearsay evidence is inadmissible.
(c) This section shall be known and may be cited as the hearsay rule.”
(Evid. Code §1200(a)-(c).)
The Court notes that Evid. Code § 1201 states, “A statement
within the scope of an exception to the hearsay rule is not inadmissible on the
ground that the evidence of such statement is hearsay evidence if such hearsay
evidence consists of one or more statements each of which meets the
requirements of an exception to the hearsay rule.”
Although Plaintiffs’ objection based on hearsay appears to
initially be valid because ¶6 of the Tung Declaration relies on the fact that
Tung claims that Decedent told him that he was a properly licensed contractor,
the Reply appears to demonstrate that the Tung declaration at ¶6 is not
inadmissible because of an exception to the hearsay rule. 
Defendants point to Evid. Code § 1227, which states, “Evidence
of a statement by the deceased is not made inadmissible by the hearsay rule if
offered against the plaintiff in an action for wrongful death brought under
Article 6 (commencing with Section 377.60) of Chapter 4 of Title 3 of Part 2 of
the Code of Civil Procedure.” (Evid. Code § 1227.)
Therefore, Plaintiffs’ objection to ¶6 of the Tung Declaration
is overruled in light of Evid. Code § 1227.
Second, as to UMF 10, it is difficult to determine if Plaintiffs
actually sufficiently dispute this issue, or if Plaintiffs are just saying
“disputed” while not actually providing evidence to dispute the issue. 
Plaintiffs’ attempt to argue that UMF
10 is disputed by citing to (1) Decl.
of Vincent D. Howard, Ex. 5 – Decl. of Bin Yun Cheng, ¶¶ 3-4; and (2) Decl. of
Vincent D. Howard, Ex. 6 – Decl. of Lee S. Segal, ¶¶ 3-5.
However, the Court notes issues with
the evidence that Plaintiffs cite to. 
As to Plaintiffs citing to Decl. of
Vincent D. Howard, Ex. 6 – Decl. of Lee S. Segal, ¶¶3-5. Howard, Plaintiffs’
counsel, states at ¶8 in his declaration, “A true and correct copy of the
declaration of Lee S. Segal is attached hereto as “Exhibit 6.”
Paragraphs 3-5 of the Lee S. Segal
declaration states:
3. It is
my expert opinion that it falls below the standard of care for a property
manager to engage an unlicensed contractor to perform tasks that necessitate a
contractor’s license. Such actions can expose the property manager and the
property itself to various risks, including substandard workmanship, legal
liabilities, and potential safety hazards.
4. As an
expert witness in commercial real estate litigation with over 50 years of
experience, I affirm that it is both industry standard practice and a legal
requirement for licensed contractors to prominently display their license
numbers on all forms of advertising, including business cards. This practice
serves to provide transparency, accountability, and assurance to clients and
consumers regarding the credentials and qualifications of the contractor.
5. In my
professional opinion, the standard of care for a property manager includes the
responsibility to verify whether the contractor being hired possesses adequate
insurance coverage. Failure to do so may result in significant financial and
legal consequences for both the property manager and the property owner in the
event of property damage, accidents, or other unforeseen incidents during the
contracted work.
(Segal Decl. ¶¶3-5.)
“Supporting
and opposing affidavits or declarations shall be made by a person on personal
knowledge, shall set forth admissible evidence, and shall show affirmatively
that the affiant is competent to testify to the matters stated in the
affidavits or declarations. An objection based on the failure to comply with
the requirements of this subdivision, if not made at the hearing, shall be
deemed waived.” (CCP §437c(d).)
As stated in Evid. Code § 702, “Subject to Section 801, the
testimony of a witness concerning a particular matter is inadmissible unless he
has personal knowledge of the matter. Against the objection of a party, such
personal knowledge must be shown before the witness may testify concerning the
matter. A witness’ personal knowledge of a matter may be shown by any otherwise
admissible evidence, including his own testimony.” (Evid. Code § 702(a)-(b).)
As a preliminary matter, the Court fails to see how the Segal
declaration is even relevant.
Further, nowhere in ¶¶1-5 does Segal attest to anything that can
be construed as personal knowledge with respect to this case.
Under Evid. Code § 801:
If a witness is testifying as an
expert, his testimony in the form of an opinion is limited to such an opinion
as is:
(a) Related to a subject that
is sufficiently beyond common experience that the opinion of an expert would
assist the trier of fact; and
(b) Based on matter (including
his special knowledge, skill, experience, training, and education) perceived by
or personally known to the witness or made known to him at or before the
hearing, whether or not admissible, that is of a type that reasonably may be
relied upon by an expert in forming an opinion upon the subject to which his
testimony relates, unless an expert is precluded by law from using such matter
as a basis for his opinion.
(Evid. Code
§801(a)-(b).)
Pursuant to Kelley v. Trunk (1998) 66 Cal.App.4th 519, a declaration that does
not disclose the matter relied on in forming the opinion expressed is
inadmissible. (See id., at 524.)
“[A]n opinion unsupported by reasons or explanations does not establish the
absence of a material fact issue for trial, as required for summary judgment.”
(Kelley v. Trunk (1998) 66
Cal.App.4th 519, 524.) Such an opinion is insufficient to carry a party’s
burden in moving for summary judgment. (See id.)

As to disputing UMF 10, Plaintiffs also cite to (1) Decl. of
Vincent D. Howard, Ex. 5 – Decl. of Bin Yun Cheng, ¶¶ 3-4. At ¶7 of the Howard
Declaration, Howard states, “A true and correct copy of the declaration of Bi
Yun Cheng is attached hereto as Exhibit 5.”
Bi Yun Cheng is the widow of
Decedent. (Cheng Decl. ¶1.) Paragraph 2 of the Cheng Declaration states, “As
Mr. Ruan’s wife prior to and at the time of his death, I possess personal
knowledge of various business advertising materials generated by Mr. Ruan
during his lifetime, including but not limited to his business card.” (Cheng
Decl. ¶2.)
As to the facts that Plaintiffs cite,
they cite to ¶¶3-4 of the Cheng declaration which state, “Attached hereto as
Exhibit “A” is a true and correct copy of Wen Wei “John” Ruan’s business card,
which he routinely utilized to provide customers with his contact information
and to advertise his business activities. I certify that the copy of Wen Wei
“John” Ruan’s business card accurately represents the original card used by him
during his lifetime for the purposes mentioned above.” (Decl. Cheng ¶¶3-4.)
Exhibit A to the Cheng Declaration is
simply a business card with the name “john ruan” on it and a phone number,
email address, website, and address.
As to UMF 11, “He provided Mr. Tung
with his business card,” Plaintiffs disputed it in part and it went undisputed
in part. “UNDISPUTED, insofar as the allegation is that a business card was
exchanged between the decedent and Mr. Tung. DISPUTED as to whether the
business card (not provided by Defendants in discovery) establishes any
evidentiary support that the decedent was a licensed contractor.” 
In Opposition, Plaintiffs dispute UMF
11 by citing to “Decl. of Vincent D. Howard, Ex. 5 – Decl. of Bin Yun Cheng, ¶¶
3-4.” 
The Court will hear argument as to
these issues.
Issue 1 and Issue 4
As the Court previously mentioned with Issue 1, it
isn’t entirely clear how Defendants are establishing that Privette applies
and that none of the exceptions apply. 
It’s difficult for the Court to
determine the material facts because the Defendants lump UMF 1-31 all together,
and it’s unclear which UMFs establish Privette
applies and which establish that no exceptions
apply.
Setting aside Issue 3, regarding the
independent contractor-or-employee issue, Defendants would have to demonstrate
at the hearing how they established Issue 1. It appears that Issue 3 is
subsumed in Issue 1 and would also have to be addressed in order to determine
if Privette can even apply.
Issue 4 is labeled as “None of the
Defendants Can Be Held Liable Under Plaintiffs’ Premises Liability Claim,
Because No Defendant Was A Possessor of the Subject Property.” Issue 4 appears
to be directed at the first cause of action for premises liability.
As a preliminary matter, both parties
seem to agree that as a matter of law, someone can be liable for premises
liability even if they are not the owner of the property, so long as they have
control of the property.
Here, there appears to be no dispute
that moving Defendants are not the owners of the property.
Therefore it appears as if the issue
is whether or not Defendants controlled the subject property to qualify as
possessors of the property.
Further, as a preliminary matter,
Issue 4 faces the same confusion the Court noted about Issue 1 because Issue 4
in the separate statement says, “See Facts 1-41 Above.” Therefore, it is
difficult to determine what issues are material to determine that Defendants
cannot be liable for premises liability.
Beltran v.
Hard Rock Hotel Licensing, Inc. would be
helpful to both parties:
California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1350(d)(2)states: “The separate statement should include
only material facts and not any facts that are not pertinent to the
disposition of the motion.” Under the Rules of Court, “ ‘Material facts’ are
facts that relate to the cause of action, claim for damages, issue of duty, or
affirmative defense that is the subject of the motion and that could make a
difference in the disposition of the motion.” (Rule 3.1350(a)(2).)
What
neither the rule nor the statute states is that the moving party must include
in the separate statement every fact they intend to include in
their motion, regardless of its materiality. For example, HRH's very first
“material fact” in its separate statement is: “The Hard Rock brand is known
worldwide for its connection to music, fashion, and entertainment.” Under no
interpretation of “material” does this qualify – it is merely background
information that has no relevance to any cause of action or defense.
This is
far from the only paragraph in the three separate statements that make
absolutely no difference in the disposition of the motion. The
paragraphs in a separate statement should be limited to facts that address the
elements of a cause of action or an affirmative defense. (See Code
Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (b)(1); rule
3.1350(a)(2), (d)(2).) The statute and Rules of Court do not preclude
litigants from including background, nonmaterial information in their papers as
long as they include a cite to the evidence, but nonmaterial facts should not
be included in the separate statement. The point of the separate statement is
not to craft a narrative, but to be a concise list of the material facts and
the evidence that supports them. “The separate statement serves two important
functions in a summary judgment proceeding: It notifies the parties which
material facts are at issue, and it provides a convenient and expeditious
vehicle permitting the trial court to hone in on the truly disputed facts.” (Collins
v. Hertz Corp. (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 64, 74, 50 Cal.Rptr.3d 149.)
There is nothing convenient or expeditious about the separate statements
submitted in this case.
The duty
to comply with the law regarding separate statements applies to both sides of a
motion for summary judgment or adjudication. The opposing party's responses to
the separate statement must be in good faith, responsive, and material.
Responses should directly address the fact stated, and if that fact is not in
dispute, the opposing party must so admit. It is completely unhelpful to evade
the stated fact in an attempt to create a dispute where none exists.
(Beltran v. Hard Rock Hotel Licensing, Inc. (2023) 97
Cal.App.5th 865, 875.)
Likewise, it is difficult to
determine what facts and evidence Plaintiffs belief are material to disputing
that Defendants cannot be liable for premises liability.
Plaintiffs seem to rely in part on
the Elite Inspection Report. 
It is difficult to determine what
this inspection report supports. “Citation to the evidence in support of the
position that a fact is controverted must include reference to the exhibit,
title, page, and line numbers.” (CRC, Rule 3.1350(f)(2).) 
Plaintiffs’ separate statement generally
refers to the Elite Property Inspection Report at Exhibit 3 with zero citation
to where in Exhibit 3 the Plaintiffs’ arguments are supported. 
Plaintiffs also cite to the
Deposition of Andrew Wang at Exhibit 4, pages 24-25. Plaintiffs again fail to
comply with Rule 3.1350(f)(2) by not citing the line numbers of the deposition.

TENTATIVE RULING MOTION 1
The Court will hear argument. The Court’s
inclination is to order further briefing, given the confused and inchoate
nature of the briefing from both sides.
 
MOTION 2
RELIEF
REQUESTED¿ 
“Defendants
INNGER GOLD, LLC; CHUANG TO LEE (“Lee”); and SHUNLU KAO (“Kao”) (collectively,
“Defendants”) will and hereby do move the Court for an order granting summary
judgment against Plaintiffs, BI YUN CHENG; XINYI RUAN; and RYAN RUAN, by and
through his Guardian Ad Litem, BI YUN CHENG (collectively “Plaintiffs”), individually
and as successors-in-interest to WEN WEI RUAN, deceased (“Decedent”), pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure (“CCP”) section 437(c) because there is no triable
issue as to any material facts regarding Plaintiffs’ claims against Defendants
as stated in Plaintiffs’ First Amended Complaint, their operative complaint.
Accordingly, Defendants are entitled to judgment as a matter of law.
 
Alternatively, if for any
reason summary judgment is not granted, Defendants Lee and Kao move the Court
to adjudicate the following issues to be established without substantial
controversy: 
 
1. That Plaintiffs’ First
Cause of Action for Wrongful Death – Premises Liability against Defendants Lee
and Kao has no merit and therefore, Plaintiffs have failed to state a cause of
action against Defendants Lee and Kao; and/or 
 
2. That Plaintiffs’ Second
Cause of Action for Wrongful Death – Negligence against Defendants Lee and Kao
has no merit and therefore, Plaintiffs have failed to state a cause of action
against Defendants Lee and Kao. 
 
Said motion will be based
upon this Notice of Motion, the Memorandum of Points and Authorities attached
hereto, the Separate Statement of Undisputed Material Facts, the Evidence in
Support, the Declarations of Chuang To Lee, Shunlu Kao, Andrew Wang, and Geronimo
Perez attached hereto, the Request for Judicial Notice filed concurrently
herewith, all documents on file herein, and upon such other oral and
documentary evidence as may be presented at the time of the hearing on this
matter.”
 
Procedural
Moving Party:     Defendants, Inner Gold, LLC.; Chuang To Lee;
and Shunlu Kao


Responding Party: Plaintiffs, Bi Yun Cheng; Xinyi Ruan; and
Ryan Ruan, a                        minor, by and through his Guardian
Ad Litem, Bi Yun Cheng 
 
Moving
Papers:    Notice/Motion; Separate
Statement; Request for Judicial Notice; Evidence in Support; Decl. Chuang To
Lee; Decl. Andrew Wang; Decl. Geronimo Perez; Proposed Order; Decl. Shunlu Kao;
Proposed Judgment Re: Chuang To Lee and Shunlu Kao
 
Opposing Papers:  Opposition;
Separate Statement; Decl. Howard; 
 
Reply
Papers:     Reply; Defendants’ Objections
to Evidence; Proposed Order
 
Section 437c(a)(2)
Under Code of Civil
Procedure (“CCP”) § 437c(2), notice of the motion and supporting papers shall
be served on all other parties to the action at least 75 days before the time
appointed for hearing. If the notice is served by mail, the required 75-day
period of notice shall be increased by 5 days if the place of address is within
the State of California. (Code Civ. Proc., §437c(a)(2).)
Here, the motion is timely.
Section 437c(a)(3)
“The motion shall be heard no
later than 30 days before the date of trial, unless the court for good cause
orders otherwise. The filing of the motion shall not extend the time within
which a party must otherwise file a responsive pleading.” (CCP § 437c(a)(3).)
Here, this motion is
timely.
LEGAL STANDARDS
The Court incorporates from Motion 1 the same
legal standards previously discussed with respect to motions for summary
judgment, the elements of negligence and premises liability, and the Privette
Doctrine.
TENTATIVE RULING MOTION 2
Further
background relevant to Motion 2
Defendants Lee and Kao filed the Limited
Liability Company Articles of Organization with the California Secretary of
State and formed Defendant Inner Gold. (UMF 1.) 
At the time, Lee
lived in Taiwan so he gave his brother, Andrew Wang, his power of attorney to
form Defendant Inner Gold for the purpose of investing in real estate in
California. (UMF 2.) 
Lee and Kao executed
the Operating Agreement of Defendant Inner Gold, which listed Lee as owning a
99% Membership Interest and Kao as owning a 1% Membership Interest. (UMF 3.) 
Inner Gold purchased
the subject Apartment Complex on December 15, 2011. (UMF 4.)
Continuing the
Motion
The Court incorporates from Motion 1 its discussion regarding
continuing the motion.
Chuang To Lee
and Shunlu Kao
Defendants Lee and Kao move the Court to adjudicate that the
first and second causes of action against Lee and Kao have no merit.
Based on Plaintiffs
filing Requests for Dismissal with respect to Chuang To Lee and Shunlu Kao, the
Court dismissed Chuang To Lee and Shunlu Kao. 
The Court will hear
from the parties on this issue.
No Duty to
Decedent to Ensure Decedent’s Safety
Much like the previous motion discussed above, Defendants
here assume that Decedent was an independent contractor. 
Much of the discussion above regarding § 2750.5 and Chin is applicable here
Concealed Hazard
The second
exception to Privette deals with concealed hazards. 
In
Kinsman v. Unocal Corp. (2005) 37 Cal.4th 659, the Supreme Court held
that the hirer as landowner may be independently liable to the contractor’s
employee, even if it does not retain control over the work, if 
(1)
it knows or reasonably should know of a concealed, pre-existing hazardous
condition on its premises; 
(2)
the contractor does not know and could not reasonably ascertain the condition;
and 
(3)
the landowner fails to warn the contractor. 
(Kinsman
v. Unocal Corp. (2005) 37 Cal.4th 659, 675.)
Defendants argue that
the concealed hazard exception to Privette does not apply to these
facts. Defendants cite to UMF 16. In the Opposition, UMF 16 goes undisputed.
However, the Court fails to understand how UMF 16 establishes that the
concealed hazard exception is not met. 
Retained Control
“Under the
retained-control exception to the Privette doctrine, an affirmative
contribution occurs when a general contractor ‘is actively involved in, or
asserts control over, the manner of performance of the contracted work.
[Citation.] Such an assertion of control occurs, for example, when the
principal employer directs that the contracted work be done by use of a
certain mode or otherwise interferes with the means and methods by which the
work is to be accomplished. [Citations.] [Citation.]” (Alvarez v. Seaside
Transportation Services LLC (2017) 13 Cal.App.5th 635, 644 citing Hooker
v. Department of Transportation (2002) 27 Cal.4th 198, 215.)
Defendants
argue that the retained control exception to Privette does not apply.
Defendants cite to UMF 13. UMF 13 was disputed as to decedent’s classification
as an independent contractor. 
Opposition
On page 8 of
the Opposition, there is a section titled, “Defendant Inner Gold cannot invoke
the protection of Privette as they cannot establish that (1) the
decedent was an independent contractor at the time of death, and (2) Defendant
Inner Gold did not hire or employ the decedent.”
It
is not entirely clear what argument the Opposition is trying to make with
respect to this.
The
Opposition argues:
The primary claim for damages brought by
Plaintiffs in this case as against Defendant Inner Gold is one of premises
liability and failure on the part of the landowner to warn the invitee, the
decedent, of the latent defect of the ladder to the roof. As stated above, the
decedent, as an unlicensed contractor, was the employee of Defendants Home
2001, Tung, and Tsai, which would make the decedent’s exclusive remedy a
worker’s compensation claim as against said Defendants under Labor Code section
3600 et seq., however, as they are uninsured for workers’ compensation
coverage, Plaintiffs may proceed in their negligence tort claim as against
Defendants Home 2001, Tung, and Tsai. Plaintiffs, however, maintain a separate
and distinct premises liability claim as against both Defendants Home 2001,
Tung, and Tsai as controllers of the subject property as well as against
Defendant Inner Gold, the property owner. Defendant Inner Gold asserts that
decedent was not hired by Defendant Inner Gold, who at the time of the incident
was unaware of the dealings with regard to the decedent. Defendant Inner Gold
asserts that decedent was hired solely by Defendants Home 2001, Tung, and Tsai
who selected the decedent to repair the air conditioning on the property. At a
minimum there are disputed issues of material fact as to the scope of the
property management agreement regarding the hiring of unlicensed repair
contractors.
(Pl. Oppo. p. 8.)
In
the context of the moving papers, the Court is unclear what the Opposition is
trying to establish. Further, it is unclear what evidence the Opposition
believes supports its position, whatever that position is.
The
Court cannot tell if the instant citation is relevant, but it will cite it here
because it cannot understand what Opposition is trying to argue.
Case law holds that the Privette doctrine applies even
when the hirer did not maintain workers’ compensation insurance. (Tverberg
v. Fillner Construction, Inc. (2010) 49 Cal.4th 518, 527 “...the existence
of workers’ compensation coverage is not relevant to deciding whether a hirer
should incur vicarious liability…”.)
Verbal Property Management Agreement
The
Opposition has a section titled “The scope of the verbal property management
agreement as between Defendant Inner Gold, the premises owner, and Defendant
Home 2001, the property manager, is in dispute as between the defendants.”
Again, the Court is not entirely clear as to what this section
is disputing with respect to Defendants’ motion.
Owner
vs. Property Manager
Opposition
has a section titled “Defendant Inner Gold owned the subject property and is
therefore liable for damages under a premises liability theory. Defendants Home
2001, Tung, and Tsai controlled the subject property and are therefore liable
for damages under a premises liability theory.”
While
it isn’t entirely clear what Plaintiffs are arguing here on pages 10-13 under
this section, it appears that Plaintiffs are arguing that owners of the land
and the hirer of the independent contractor can both be liable for premises
liability. Reply argues that a landowner can be covered under Privette.
The
Court is not entirely clear how this is implicated in the context of how
Defendants framed their motion. 
Further,
whatever Plaintiffs’ argument is here, they appear to only be citing to the
Segal Declaration and the Elite Inspection Report. Neither of those documents appear
to be admissible, as the Court discussed in Motion 1.
Objections

Defendants
submitted 17 objections. Objections 1-4 are sustained as the Court fails to see
how Howard established personal knowledge of the death certificate and autopsy
report. 
Further,
the Court fails to see how Howard established the necessary foundation.
Further, the Court is not clear as to how it is relevant for purposes of this
motion.
Objections
5-6 as to the Elite Group Property Inspection Report are sustained. The Court
fails to see how Howard established personal knowledge or foundation. 
Objections
7-8 pertain to the Andrew Wang deposition transcript. The Court will hear from
the parties on these objections.
The
Court will hear from the parties on objections 9-13.
Objections
14-17 with respect to the Segal declaration are sustained.
TENTATIVE
RULING MOTION 2
The Court
will hear from the parties. Again, given the nature of the briefing here, the
Court is inclined to order supplemental briefing from the parties.