..................... ..................... ..................... ......
The summary displayed below was created by an LLM named 'llama3-8b-8192':
Here is the summary in YAML format:

```
Case:
  Number: 22PSCV00214
  Type: Default Judgment Application

Plaintiff:
  Name: City of El Monte

Defendant:
  Name: Li

People:
  None mentioned

Company:
  None mentioned

Places:
  El Monte

Dates:
  - May 31, 2024
  - September 10, 2023
  - October 11, 2024

Events:
  - Application for Default Judgment
  - Filing of proposed judgments
  - Filing of Supplemental Brief

Money:
  None mentioned

Intentions:
  Intends to grant application for default judgment

Facts:
  - Plaintiff provided three proposed judgments
  - Proposed judgments do not include request for injunctive relief
  - Plaintiff addresses injunctive relief in Supplemental Brief

Disputes:
  None mentioned

Acts:
  - Filing of proposed judgments
  - Filing of Supplemental Brief
  - Seeking clarification on issue

Agreements:
  None mentioned

Laws:
  None mentioned

Case Citations:
  None mentioned

Statutes:
  None mentioned

Roles:
  - Judge: reviewing application and proposed judgments
  - Counsel for Plaintiff: providing clarification on issue

Significant Statements:
  - The Court seeks clarification from counsel on one issue before issuing the judgment.
  - Plaintiff's counsel should clarify whether it is seeking injunctive relief at the time of the hearing.
```

And here is a summary of the judge's tentative ruling in English text:

The judge has reviewed the City of El Monte's application for default judgment against Li and intends to grant the application. However, the judge seeks clarification from the City's counsel on one issue before issuing the judgment. The issue is whether the City is seeking injunctive relief, as it addressed this issue in a supplemental brief filed in September 2023, but the proposed judgments submitted to the court do not include a request for injunctive relief. The judge wants the City's counsel to clarify this matter at the upcoming hearing on October 11, 2024.
