 Case Number:  23STCV18064    Hearing Date:   March 26, 2024    Dept:  34 SUBJECT:        Motion to  Determine Good Faith Settlement   Moving Party: Defendants LNP Everland, Inc., The H Realty, Eui S. Chang, and  Christina Kwon Resp. Party:    Defendant Emotional Health Association;  Plaintiff Sean McDowell     The Motion is DENIED.   BACKGROUND:   On July 31,  2023, Plaintiff Sean McDowell filed his Complaint against Defendants LNP  Everland Inc., Emotional Health Association, Eui S. Chang, Hee Kyung Chang, The  H Realty, and Christina Kwon. Multiple causes of action are pleaded against  Defendants.            On  January 2, 2024, Defendants LNP Everland, Inc., Eui S. Chang, H Realty, and  Christina Kwon filed their Answer to the Complaint.            On  January 5, 2024, Defendant Emotional Health Association filed its Answer to the  Complaint.            On  February 28, 2024, Defendants LNP Everland, Inc., The H Realty, Eui S. Chang,  and Christina Kwon (“Settling Defendants”) filed their Motion to Determine Good  Faith Settlement.            On  March 13, 2024, Defendant Emotional Health Association (“Non-Settling  Defendant”) filed its Opposition to the Motion. In support of its Opposition,  Non-Settling Defendant concurrently filed: (1) Declaration of Jason Robison;  (2) Declaration of Matthew M. Gorman; (3) Request for Judicial Notice; and (4)  Evidentiary Objections.           On  March 15, 2024, Plaintiff filed his Brief in support of the Motion. Plaintiff  concurrently filed: (1) Declaration of Michael S. Traylor; and (2) Notice of  Lodging Declaration of Sean McDowell.            On  March 19, 2024, Settling Parties filed their Reply in support of the Motion.            On  March 20, 2024, Non-Settling Party filed its Objection.    ANALYSIS:   I.           Evidentiary Objections   A.      Settling  Defendants’ Evidentiary Objections   Settling Defendants filed objections to  Non-Settling Defendant’s evidence. The following are the Court’s rulings on  these objections.        Objection             1   SUSTAINED         2   SUSTAINED         3   SUSTAINED         4   SUSTAINED        B.      Non-Settling  Defendant’s Evidentiary Objections   Non-Settling Defendant objects to Plaintiff’s  Brief and the documents Plaintiff filed in support of his Brief. The Court  SUSTAINS this objection and does not consider Plaintiff’s Brief and exhibits.      II.       Request  for Judicial Notice   Non-Settling Defendant requests that the  Court take judicial notice of various items previously filed in this matter.    The Court DENIES as superfluous judicial  notice of these items. Any party that wishes to draw the Court’s attention to  an item filed in this action may simply cite directly to the document by  execution and filing date. (See Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1110(d).)   III.     Legal  Standard   “Any party to an action in which it  is alleged that two or more parties are joint tortfeasors or co-obligors on a  contract debt shall be entitled to a hearing on the issue of the good faith of  a settlement entered into by the plaintiff or other claimant and one or more  alleged tortfeasors or co-obligors, upon giving notice in the manner provided  in subdivision (b) of Section 1005.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6, subd. (a)(1).)   “In the alternative, a settling  party may give notice of settlement to all parties and to the court, together  with an application for determination of good faith settlement and a proposed  order.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6, subd.  (a)(2).)   “The issue of the good faith of a  settlement may be determined by the court on the basis of affidavits served  with the notice of hearing, and any counteraffidavits filed in response, or the  court may, in its discretion, receive other evidence at the hearing.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6, subd. (b).)   IV.      Discussion   A.      The  Parties’ Arguments   Settling Defendants move the Court to  determine that there has been a good faith settlement between them and  Plaintiff. (Motion, p. 1:19–27.)           Non-Settling Defendant  opposes the Motion, arguing: (1) that the Motion is not supported by  substantial evidence and thus must be denied as matter of law; (2) that the  settlement is grossly disproportionate with Settling Defendants’ potential  liability and does not pass the Tech-Bilt factors; (3) that good faith  cannot be founds without the Settling Defendants addressing how their  settlement affects Non-Settling Defendant; (4) that the Motion lacks any  explanation as to Defendant The H Realty; (5) that if the Motion is not denied  outright, it should be continued so that discovery can be completed on elements  critical to determining good faith. (Opposition, pp. 1:24–25, 3:7–8, 8:21–22,  9:22–23, 11:4–5.)           In their Reply, Settling  Defendants argue: (1) that the Motion is supported by substantial evidence; (2)  that the proposed settlement is not grossly disproportionate; (3) that good  faith is abundant; and (4) that the Motion explains role of Defendant The H  Realty here. (Reply, pp. 3:5, 3:12, 4:11, 4:18.)   B.      Discussion   Settling Defendants are: (1) LNP Everland,  Inc. — the property owner; (2) Christina Kwon — the president of LNP Everland,  Inc.; (3) The H Realty — the property manager; and (4) Eui Chang — the real  estate broker who controls The H Realty.            Non-Settling Defendant is  Emotional Health Association — a non-profit 501(c) corporation that partners  with local governments and housing providers to find housing for homeless and  distressed persons, provide them supportive services, and coordinates memoranda  of understanding.    The Parties discuss the California Supreme  Court’s decision in Tech-Bilt, Inc., which states:   “[T]he intent and policies underlying section  877.6 require that a number of factors be taken into account including a rough  approximation of plaintiffs' total recovery and the settlor's proportionate  liability, the amount paid in settlement, the allocation of settlement proceeds  among plaintiffs, and a recognition that a settlor should pay less in  settlement than he would if he were found liable after a trial. Other relevant  considerations include the financial conditions and insurance policy limits of  settling defendants, as well as the existence of collusion, fraud, or tortious  conduct aimed to injure the interests of nonsettling defendants. Finally,  practical considerations obviously require that the evaluation be made on the  basis of information available at the time of settlement. ‘[A] defendant's  settlement figure must not be grossly disproportionate to what a reasonable  person, at the time of the settlement, would estimate the settling defendant's  liability to be.’ The party asserting the lack of good faith, who has the  burden of proof on that issue (§ 877.6, subd. (d)), should be permitted to  demonstrate, if he can, that the settlement is so far ‘out of the ballpark’ in  relation to these factors as to be inconsistent with the equitable objectives  of the statute. Such a demonstration would establish that the proposed  settlement was not a ‘settlement made in good faith’ within the terms of  section 877.6.” (Tech-Bilt, Inc. v. Woodward-Clyde & Assocs. (1985) 38  Cal.3d 488, 499–500, citations omitted.)           In this case, Plaintiff  pleads five causes of action: (1) breach of oral contract; (2) tortious  interference with beneficial use of leased premises; (3) civil harassment; (4)  intentional infliction of emotional distress; and (5) violation of the Ellis  Act. (Complaint, pp. 8:13–16, 9:4–6, 10:21–24, 12:8–11, 13:20–24.)   The proposed Settlement between Plaintiff and  Settling Defendants is for $9,000.00 — which includes the $2,000.00 awarded by  the Court in favor of Plaintiff and against Settling Defendants and Defense  Counsel Chad Biggins on November 29, 2023 because of frivolous anti-SLAPP  motions that the  Settling Defendants  filed.            Except for the $9,000.00 in damages  for the first cause of action for breach of oral contract, Plaintiff has not  clarified the exact sums he seeks in damages.   In addition, Settling Defendants have not  presented the Court with evidence regarding their financial conditions and  insurance policy limits.            Finally, the Court has not  been presented with an adequate explanation for whether the proposed settlement  proportionately approximates their respective liability or credible evidence  that would support such an explanation.            Upon considering the Tech-Bilt  factors, the Court has not at this time been presented with sufficient  evidence to determine that the proposed settlement has been made in good faith.  Rather, the Court is concerned that (1) Settling Defendants may be trying to  settle their liability for a disproportionately low amount of money given the  allegations made against them and (2) both Plaintiff and Non-Settling Defendant  may be severely prejudiced by this proposed Settlement.    V.          Conclusion   The Motion is DENIED.    