 Case Number:  24VECV01197    Hearing Date:   May 29, 2024    Dept:  T  
24VECV01197 ENCINO HEALTH V VALLEY REGENERATIVE 
            [TENTATIVE] ORDER:  Defendants Valley Regenerative & Pain Clinic and Rain Surgical Centers’ Motion to Consolidate is DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE.  
            Defendants Valley Regenerative & Pain Clinic and Rain Surgical Centers’ Request for Judicial Notice is GRANTED but not as to any facts in dispute or hearsay.
Introduction 
            Defendants Valley Regenerative & Pain Clinic (Valley) and Rain Surgical Centers (Rain) (collectively, Defendants) moved to consolidate the Instant Case with Ardalan Chiropractic Corporation dba Atlas Health Center v. Valley Regenerative & Pain Clinic (Super. Ct. Los Angeles County, pending, 24STLC01879) (Related Case). 
Discussion 
            Consolidating two cases requires a showing of common questions of law or fact.  (Code Civ. Proc. sec. 1048.)  Despite Defendants' contention otherwise, the Court finds that whether the two cases to share common questions of law or fact is not certain.  The two actions do not involve the same corporate entities.  The Instant Action is filed by Plaintiff Encino Health Management (Encino) and filed against Valley and Rain, whereas the Related Case was filed by Ardalan Chiropractic Corporation dba Atlas Health Center (Atlas) and filed against Valley.  Atlas is not a party to the Instant Action.  It is noted that Encino and Atlas share the same principal, Shahram Ardalan, however, the sharing of corporate officers does not make the two corporate entities the same. 
The two actions appear to involve breaches of separate and different agreements which shows differing questions of fact and law.  The Instant Action involves contracts wherein Encino was to purchase and fully own medical liens/accounts receivables from third parties as well as lease office space at 17000 Ventura Blvd., Suite 101.  (Instant Action Compl. pars. 9-11.)  However, Valley and Rain breached the agreement by failing to provide Encino with the medical liens/accounts receivables and reimburse Encino for lease related expenses.  (Instant Action Compl. pars. 12-13.)    The Related Action does not involve any agreement related to the purchase of medical liens/accounts receivables or reimbursement of lease expenses.  The Related Action alleged that Valley subleased a portion of office space at some unidentified property/location.  It is unclear if the sublease involved the same property at issue in the Instant Action.  (Related Action Compl. pars. 8-10.)  Due to these differences in facts and law, there is insufficient showing that the two actions share common questions of fact or law.  The contentions in the motion are not persuasive.
There is insufficient evidence submitted of the need to consolidate the cases, whether the oral contract is the same, whether the property is the same, whether facts from one case are dependent on the other, whether a decision in one will have a necessary effect on the other, whether one would have been a compulsory cross-complaint, etc.
The motion to consolidate is DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE. 
IT IS SO ORDERED, PARTY IN OPPOSITION TO GIVE VERBATIM NOTICE OF THIS RULING.