  Case Number:  19STCV43741    Hearing Date:   April 11, 2024    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



ESTATE OF CHRISTIAN ESCOBEDO, et
  al., 
 
                                  Plaintiffs,
  
         v.
 
 
CITY OF LOS ANGELES, et al.,
 
                                  Defendants.
 


 Case No: 
  19STCV43741
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  April 11, 2024
 Calendar Number:  1



 
 
 
Defendant Edward Artiaga (“Artiaga”) moves for summary
judgment against Plaintiffs Estate of Christian Escobedo, Elizabeth Medrando,
and Alfredo Escobedo (collectively, “Plaintiffs”). Artiaga appears to seek
summary adjudication in the alternative. Defendant City of Los Angeles (“City”)
joins in Artiaga’s motions.
 
The Court DENIES the motion for summary judgment.
 
The Court does not issue a tentative on the summary
adjudication motion but invites argument as to whether summary adjudication of
any particular claim should be granted in light of the Court’s ruling on the
summary judgment motion.
 
Background
 
This case concerns police officer Edward Artiaga’s January 14,
2018 shooting of decedent Christian Escobedo (“Escobedo”).
 
The following facts are taken from the parties’ separate
statements except where otherwise noted. The Court does not consider the Defendants’
reply separate statement, which is not authorized by statute. (Nazir v.
United Airlines, Inc. (2009) 178 Cal.App.4th 243, 252.)
 
On January 14, 2018, at approximately 6:25 a.m., the Los
Angeles Police Department (“LAPD”) received a 911 call from a man living on Amethyst
Street in the City of Los Angeles reporting that there were two men sleeping on
the street in front of his driveway, one of whom was holding a handgun in his
hand. (Undisputed Material Fact (“UMF”) 1.) At 6:31 a.m., the Communications
Division of LAPD broadcast an alert regarding that call to officers Artiaga and
Steven Valenzuela, describing the two men and stating that there was a
“possible ADW [assault with a deadly weapon] suspect.” (UMF 2.)
 
Artiaga and Valenzuela responded to the alert and parked
their patrol vehicle one house east of where the men were observed. (UMF 3.) Because
the call indicated that the reported individuals were possible ADW suspects,
Artiaga believed that a suspect had already assaulted someone with a deadly
weapon. (UMF 9.)
 
Upon arriving, the officers saw two men lying in the
driveway, one of whom is unidentified and one of whom was Escobedo. (UMF 10, 15;
Casillas Decl., Ex. 11 (“Exhibit 11”).) Artiaga briefly stopped by the front of
the patrol car and illuminated the men with a light attached to his weapon and
yelled for them to stand up, at which point the unidentified man stood up and
ran up the driveway away from the officers. (UMF 10-13; Exhibit 11.) 
 
In very short succession afterward, Valenzuela pursued the
unidentified man on foot and Artiaga ran up to a position on the driveway next
to one of the cars and a few feet away from Escobedo, to Escobedo’s right. (UMF
14; Exhibit 11.) At this point, Escobedo was still lying on his back. (UMF 16.)
As he ran onto the driveway, Artiaga sent out a broadcast requesting backup, an
“airship”, and a supervisor. (UMF 17; Exhibit 11.)
 
Artiaga’s Body Worn Camera (“BWC”) footage then depicts
Artiaga yelling “Hey partner, partner, partner, partner.” (Exhibit 11.) The BWC
footage then shows Escobedo sitting up and turning rightwards toward Artiaga as
Artiaga yells “Don’t move, don’t move!” (Exhibit 11.) As Escobedo turned toward
Artiaga, Artiaga fired five shots at him over the course of roughly five
seconds while backing away. (Exhibit 11.)
 
            Defendants
contend that Escobedo had a gun in his right hand as he sat up and brought the
hand upward from the waist area to the right side of his torso. (UMF 20.)
Defendants contend that at the time Artiaga fired, Escobedo was pointing the
gun at Artiaga and Artiaga was looking at the muzzle of Escobedo’s gun. (UMF
22.) Artiaga declares that he feared that Escobedo was taking aim to kill him.
(Artiaga Decl. ¶ 12.)
 
Escobedo’s left hand was empty as he sat up. (Exhibit 11 at
1:20-1:21.) It is difficult to tell from the BWC footage whether there was
anything in Escobedo’s right hand. His right hand is near the bottom of the
frame and is not illuminated by Artiaga’s flashlight. (Exhibit 11.) When
Artiaga begins firing, Escobedo’s right arm still appears to be pointed in the
direction of his feet. (Casillas Decl., Ex. 6 (the “Slow Motion BWC”) at 1:21.)
A split second before Artiaga fires the first shot, Escobedo’s right arm
rapidly crosses over his body, pointing toward his left side and away from
Artiaga. (Slow Motion BWC at 1:21-23.) As Artiaga fires the second shot,
Escobedo falls onto his back and his right arm returns to his right side, where
it settles before Artiaga fires the third shot. (Slow Motion BWC at 1:21-1:24.)
Shortly after the shooting, another officer arrived and placed handcuffs on
Escobedo. (Exhibit 11.) As the officer did so, Artiaga instructed the officer “don’t
touch the gun”, which the BWC footage shows lying to Escobedo’s left. (Exhibit
11 at 7:30-7:55.) 
 
In his deposition, Artiaga testified that he told a police
investigator that the gun had been in Escobedo’s left hand, but that he was
mistaken and only told the investigator that the gun was in the left hand
because Artiaga was sleep-deprived at the time he gave the statement. (Casillas
Decl., Ex. 5 (“Artiaga Deposition”) at pp. 178:20-180:22.) 
 
Within two minutes of the shooting, Artiaga requested an
ambulance. (UMF 23.) The paramedics determined Escobedo to be deceased and he
was not transported to the hospital. (UMF 24.)
 
Plaintiffs filed this action against Defendants on December
5, 2019, raising claims for (1) battery; (2) wrongful death; and (3) civil
rights violations under Civil Code, section 52.1.
 
Artiaga filed this motion on January 3, 2023. The City
joined the motion on January 23, 2023. Plaintiff filed an opposition and
Artiaga filed a reply.
 
Evidentiary Objections
 
The Court overrules Defendants’ evidentiary objections
without prejudice to their ability to raise them at trial.
 
Legal Standard
 
The purpose of a motion for
summary judgment or summary adjudication “is to provide courts with a mechanism
to cut through the parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite
their allegations, trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co., supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 843.) “Code of
Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to
grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences
reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences
or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and
that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” (Adler v.
Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) 
 
“In ruling on the motion,
the court must consider all of the evidence and all of the inferences
reasonably drawn therefrom [citation] and must view such evidence [citations]
and such inferences [citations] in the light most favorable to the opposing
party.” (Aguilar, supra, at pp. 844-845 [quotation marks
omitted].) 
 
“On a motion for summary
judgment, the initial burden is always on the moving party to make a prima
facie
showing that there are no triable issues of material fact.” (Scalf v. D. B.
Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.)  A defendant moving for
summary judgment or summary adjudication “has met his or her burden of showing
that a cause of action has no merit if the party has shown that one or more
elements of the cause of action . . . cannot be established, or that there is a
complete defense to the cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd.
(p)(2).) 
 
“Once the defendant . . .
has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff . . . to show that a
triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or
a defense thereto.” (Ibid.) To establish a triable issue of material
fact, the party opposing the motion must produce substantial responsive
evidence. (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.) “If the plaintiff cannot do
so, summary judgment should be granted.” (Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente
Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.)
 
Discussion
 
Battery
 
“The essential elements of a cause of action for battery
are: (1) defendant touched plaintiff, or caused plaintiff to be touched, with
the intent to harm or offend plaintiff; (2) plaintiff did not consent to the
touching; (3) plaintiff was harmed or offended by defendant’s conduct; and (4)
a reasonable person in plaintiff’s position would have been offended by the
touching.” (So v. Shin (2013) 212
Cal.App.4th 652, 668-669.)
 
            Law
enforcement officers have a duty to act reasonably when using deadly force. (Hayes
v. County of San Diego (2013) 57 Cal.4th 622, 629.) A law enforcement
officer who uses deadly force unreasonably can be subject to liability. (Id.
at p. 639.) “The Fourth Amendment's ‘reasonableness’ standard is not the same
as the standard of ‘reasonable care’ under tort law, and negligent acts do not
incur constitutional liability.” (Id. at p. 638.) “[S]tate negligence
law, which considers the totality of the circumstances surrounding any use of
deadly force, is broader than federal Fourth Amendment law, which tends to
focus more narrowly on the moment when deadly force is used.” (Id. at p.
639 [internal citations omitted].) Preshooting circumstances, including the
preshooting conduct of an officer, can show that an otherwise reasonable use of
deadly force was in fact unreasonable. (Id. at p. 630.)
 
            Defendants
argue that Artiaga’s use of force was reasonable. Defendants argue that
Escobedo pointed a gun at Artiaga with his right hand immediately prior to the
shooting and that Artiaga therefore reasonably feared for his life. Although
Defendants mistakenly argue under the Fourth Amendment framework, the Court
will still consider their arguments under the framework provided by state law.
 
            There
are triable issues of fact as to whether Artiaga reasonably used deadly force. 
 
LAPD officers are trained to be extremely careful if there
is a reported presence of firearms and not to come up on a suspect if the
suspect is reported as being armed with a firearm because of the high
likelihood that the suspect would be shot. (Plaintiff’s Additional Material
Facts (“AMF”) 4-5, 7.) A suspect’s mere possession of a firearm does not
justify shooting that suspect, per LAPD training. (AMF 6.) Officers are also
trained not to approach a suspect reported to be armed with a firearm unless
they can confirm that the suspect is not in physical possession of a gun in his
hands. (AMF 10.) When a suspect who may have a firearm is asleep, LAPD training
instructs officers to communicate with such suspects at a distance for safety
and to anticipate that the suspect may be startled upon waking. (AMF 11-13.)
 
While violations of police training do not per se show
unreasonable conduct, they can be instructive. Here, Artiaga had received a
report that at least one of the two suspects had a gun. Artiaga approached
Escobedo while he was lying on the ground. Although Artiaga contends that
Escobedo was awake for the entirety of the encounter, there is a triable issue
of fact as to whether Escobedo was sleeping because he did not move or react
while Artiaga yelled at the two men two get up, the other man fled, Valenzuela
chased the other man, and Artiaga approached Escobedo while calling for backup.
A jury could reasonably conclude that this is not the behavior of a man who is
awake. Artiaga’s decided to approach a suspect who he knew could have a gun,
and who, lying down on a driveway around sunrise, could have been sleeping.
This type of behavior, which contravened LAPD training and resulted in the
precise danger that that training seeks to avoid, seems to fall squarely into
the type of preshooting behavior which the California Supreme Court held could
be probative of unreasonable use of force in Hayes.
 
Further, as Escobedo sits up, there is no clear evidence in
the BWC footage that he has a gun in his right hand and, in fact, the footage
seems to show that his right arm remains pointed toward his legs – i.e., 90
degrees away from Artiaga – until Artiaga fires his first shot, at which point
Escobedo’s right arm flies across his body. There is thus a triable issue of
fact as to whether Escobedo ever pointed a gun in Artiaga’s direction.
 
            The
Court thus concludes that Defendants are not entitled to judgment as a matter
of law on the battery claim. The Court therefore denies Defendants’ motion for
summary judgment.
 
 