 Case Number:  23STCV29123    Hearing Date:   April 11, 2024    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



MATTHEW CHIDEZ, 
 
                                  Plaintiff,
  
         v.
 
 
IN-N-OUT BURGERS, et al.
 
                                  Defendants.
 


 Case No:  23STCV29123 
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  April 11, 2024
 Calendar Number: 3



 
 
Defendants In-N-Out Burgers, Steve Hernandez and
Darrell Wilson (“Defendants”) move to compel arbitration of the claims of Plaintiff
Matthew Chidez (“Plaintiff”).  Defendants
also move to stay these proceedings. 
Plaintiff moves to amend the complaint.
 
Defendants’ motion to compel arbitration is GRANTED.
 
Defendants’ motion to stay proceedings is
GRANTED.
 
Plaintiff’s motion to amend the complaint is
DENIED as moot.
 
This action is hereby
STAYED pending resolution of the arbitration. The Court sets a Status
Conference Re: Arbitration for January 29, 2025 at 8:30 AM.  Defendants to
give notice.
 
 
Background
 
            Plaintiff Matthew Chidez (“Plaintiff”) filed this
action on November 28, 2023 against Defendants In-N-Out Burgers (“INO”), Steve Hernandez and Darrell Wilson
(“Defendants”). Plaintiff filed a first amended complaint (“FAC”) on December
6, 2023. Plaintiff’s FAC alleges fourteen causes of action against Defendants
for violations of the Fair Employment and Housing Act (FEHA), employment
interference and retaliation, negligent hiring and retention, intentional
infliction of emotional distress, unfair competition, and wrongful termination.

 
Defendants’ Evidentiary Objections to
Declaration of Matthew Chidez
 
The Court denies Defendants’
objections.
 
Discussion
 
Governing Law
 
Plaintiff does not dispute that the
Federal Arbitration Act (“FAA”) applies. The FAA deems a written arbitration
agreement valid except where contract principles invalidate the agreement. (9
U.S.C. § 2.)
 
 
Existence of an Arbitration
Agreement 
 
A party petitioning to compel
arbitration has the burden of establishing the existence of a valid agreement
to arbitrate, and the party opposing the petition has the burden of proving, by
a preponderance of the evidence, any fact necessary to its defense. (Banner
Entertainment, Inc. v. Superior Court (1998) 62 Cal.App.4th 348,
356-57.)  
 
Courts have articulated a three-step
burden shifting process:  
 
First, the moving party bears the burden of producing prima
facie evidence of a written agreement to arbitrate the controversy. The moving
party can meet its initial burden by attaching to the [motion] a copy of the
arbitration agreement purporting to bear the [opposing party’s] signature. Alternatively,
the moving party can meet its burden by setting forth the agreement’s
provisions in the motion. For this step, it is not necessary to follow the
normal procedures of document authentication. . . .
  
If the moving party meets its initial prima facie burden and
the opposing party disputes the agreement, then in the second step, the
opposing party bears the burden of producing evidence to challenge the
authenticity of the agreement. The opposing party can do this in several ways.
For example, the opposing party may testify under oath or declare under penalty
of perjury that the party never saw or does not remember seeing the agreement,
or that the party never signed or does not remember signing the agreement. 
  
If the opposing party meets its burden of producing
evidence, then in the third step, the moving party must establish with
admissible evidence a valid arbitration agreement between the parties. The
burden of proving the agreement by a preponderance of the evidence remains with
the moving party. 
 
(Gamboa v. Northeast Community
Clinic (2021) 72 Cal.App.5th 158, 165-66 [citations omitted].) An
electronic record or signature is attributable to a person if it was the act of
the person. (Civ. Code § 1633.9(a).) The act of the person may be shown in any
manner. (Id.) As described by the Court of Appeal, “the burden of
authenticating an electronic signature is not great.” (Ruiz v. Moss Bros.
Auto Group, Inc. (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 836, 844.) 
 
Defendants have provided a copy of a
Dispute Resolution Agreement (“DRA”) dated August 4, 2019 bearing Plaintiff’s
electronic signature and his associate number. (Declaration of Rebecca Douglass
ISO Mot. Exh. A.) Section 1 of this agreement states: 
 
This Agreement is governed by the Federal Arbitration Act, 9
U.S.C. § 1 et seq. and evidences a transaction involving commerce. Except as it
otherwise provides, this Agreement applies to any legal dispute, past, present
or future, arising out of or related to Associate's (sometimes “you” or “your”)
application for employment, employment with IN-N-OUT Burgers (“Company”) or
relationship with any of its agents, employees, affiliates, successors,
assigns, subsidiaries or parent companies (each of which are third party
beneficiaries of this Agreement) or termination of employment regardless of its
date of accrual and survives
after the employment relationship terminates. . . .
 
Except as it otherwise provides, this Agreement is intended
to apply to the resolution of disputes that otherwise would be resolved in a
court of law, and therefore this Agreement requires all such disputes to be
resolved only by an arbitrator through final and binding arbitration and not by
way of court or jury trial. Except as this Agreement otherwise provides, such
disputes include without limitation disputes arising out of or relating to
interpretation or application of this Agreement, including the scope,
formation, enforceability, revocability or validity of the Agreement or any
portion of the Agreement.
 
(Douglass Decl. Ex. A. ¶ 1.) Above Plaintiff’s
signature block stated in capital letters is the following:
 
AGREED: IN-N-OUT Burgers
AGREED and RECEIVED [followed by Plaintiff’s signature
block]
 
(Id., Ex. A at p. 4.) Defendants
have also provided evidence of INO’s onboarding process, (Id. ¶¶ 7-9) Defendants
have thus met their burden of production to establish the existence of an
arbitration agreement. 
 
1.     
Authentication
of an electronic signature
 
Plaintiff first argues in opposition
that Defendants failed to show that the signature on the DRA is “attributable”
to Plaintiff under the meaning of Civil Code § 1633.9 because Defendants did
not authenticate the signature. Specifically, Plaintiff argues that although
“Defendants describe a login process,” they “make no allegation that that is
what specifically happened to Plaintiff.” (Opp’n, 10:26-27.) Plaintiff relies
on Ruiz v. Moss Bros. Auto Grp., Inc. (1994) 232 Cal.App.4th 836 as the
“roadmap to authenticate an electronic signature.” (Opp’n, 10:13.) In Ruiz,
the court described the kind of circumstantial evidence that is sufficient to
authenticate an e-signature:
 
Indeed, [the business manager] did not explain that an
electronic signature in the name of [the plaintiff] “Ernesto Zamora Ruiz” could
only have been placed on the 2011 agreement (i.e., on the employee
acknowledgement form) by a person using Ruiz’s “unique login ID and password”;
that the date and time printed next to the electronic signature indicated the
date and time the electronic signature was made; that all [the defendant] Moss
Bros. employees were required to use their unique login ID and password when
they logged into the HR system and signed electronic forms and agreements; and
the electronic signature on the 2011 agreement was, therefore, apparently made
by Ruiz on September 21, 2011, at 11:47 a.m. Rather than offer this or any
other explanation of how she inferred the electronic signature on the 2011
agreement was the act of [the plaintiff] Ruiz, [the business manager] only
offered her unsupported assertion that Ruiz was the person who electronically
signed the 2011 agreement. 
 
(Ruiz, supra, 232 Cal.App.4th
at p.844.)
Here, Defendants stated that a new
associate must create an account in a secure onboarding portal by accessing a
link sent to the associate’s personal email address. (Douglass Decl., ¶ 7.) The
associate is then directed to input the last four digits of their social
security number, last name and zip code to verify their identity. (Ibid.)
Only then will the system provide the associate with their employee
identification number. (Ibid.) The associate must then create a unique
and complex password. Both the number and password are required to access the
associate’s online portal account through which onboarding documents are
signed. (Ibid.) This information creates the inference that only
Plaintiff could have known his login credentials. Therefore, Defendants have
met the Ruiz standard for authentication. 
 
2.     
Plaintiff’s
claim that his supervisor e-signed for him
 
            Plaintiff
also submits his declaration that he did not personally e-sign the DRA. (See
Chidez Decl.) Plaintiff alleges that a supervisor, Chris Hand (“Hand”), knew
his login credentials and logged into Plaintiff’s account for him during
orientation at INO’s Baldwin Park warehouse location. (Ibid.) Plaintiff
declares that he did not sign the DRA and that, if anybody signed the DRA, it
was Hand. (Opp’n, 9:6-12.) 
 
Defendants rebutted this statement
by a preponderance of the evidence. In reply, Defendants submit the declaration
of Philip Van Luke, Software Development Supervisor for INO (“Luke Decl.”).
INO’s records show that the IP information associated with Plaintiff’s
completion of his onboarding documents, including signature of the DRA, is not
associated with any INO device or location. (Luke Decl., ¶ 16, 9, 11, 13.) 
 
3.     
The hand
signed agreement
 
            Defendants
also submitted evidence that Plaintiff signed a physical document stating that
he acknowledges receipt of the DRA. (Douglass Decl., Ex. B.) Plaintiff objects
to this because it is incomplete, does not identify the name of the parties, or
the other terms of the arbitration agreement. (See Opp’n, 13:5-14.)
Plaintiff’s argument in this regard has merit, but nevertheless is immaterial
to the disposition of the motion because Defendants were able to show the
existence of a valid electronically signed arbitration agreement.
 
For the foregoing reasons, the Court
finds that Defendants have demonstrated the existence of an agreement to
arbitrate with Plaintiff.  
   
Unconscionability 
 
1.      Procedural Unconscionability
 
“To briefly recapitulate the principles of
unconscionability, the doctrine has both a procedural and a substantive
element, the former focusing on oppression or surprise due to unequal
bargaining power, the latter on overly harsh . . . or one-sided results. The
procedural element of an unconscionable contract generally takes the form of a
contract of adhesion, which, imposed and drafted by the party of superior
bargaining strength, relegates to the subscribing party only the opportunity to
adhere to the contract or reject it. . . . Substantively unconscionable terms
may take various forms, but may generally be described as unfairly one-sided.”¿ 
¿ 
“Under this approach, both the
procedural and substantive elements must be met before a contract or term will
be deemed unconscionable. Both, however, need not be present to the same
degree. A sliding scale is applied so that ‘the more substantively oppressive
the contract term, the less evidence of procedural unconscionability is
required to come to the conclusion that the term is unenforceable, and vice
versa.”
¿ 
(Walnut Producers of California
v. Diamond Foods, Inc. (2010)
187 Cal.App.4th 634, 645 [citations omitted].)¿  
 
Plaintiff first argues that the DRA
is procedurally unconscionable because it is a contract of adhesion presented
to Plaintiff as a take-it-or-leave-it condition of his employment, which also
makes the DRA oppressively one-sided. However, the DRA clearly and
conspicuously states an employee’s right to opt out of the DRA within 39 days
of receipt of the DRA. (Douglass Decl., Ex. A, ¶ 10.) Since the
implementation of the DRA in February 2012, more than 277 associates have opted
out of the DRA by timely submitting completed opt-out forms. (Id., ¶
12.) Thus, the opt-out provision is meaningful because INO has honored those
associates that timely opted-out of the DRA.
 
As Plaintiff has not shown
procedural unconscionability, which is a required element of the
unconscionability defense, Plaintiff’s unconscionability argument fails.
 
2.      Substantive Unconscionability
 
Plaintiff also argues that the DRA
is substantively unconscionable for several reasons. First, Plaintiff argues
that the DRA is substantively unconscionable because it lacks mutuality.
Specifically, Plaintiff points to a provision in the DRA requiring Plaintiff to
arbitrate claims not only against INO but also against INO’s “agents,
employees, affiliates, successors, assigns, subsidiaries, or parent companies.”
(Id., Ex. A, ¶ 1.) Unlike Plaintiff, these third-parties are not
required to arbitrate their claims against Plaintiff. Defendants argue in reply
that Plaintiff did not cite any case law in support of this argument,
presumably because such case law does not exist. Parties may contract to
benefit unnamed beneficiaries. The DRA provides that INO’s “agents, employees,
affiliates, successors, assigns, subsidiaries or parent companies,” are “third party
beneficiaries of this Agreement.” (Ibid.)
 
Second, Plaintiff argues that the
DRA is substantively unconscionable because it contains a class action and PAGA
waiver. However, the same argument was already considered by the California
Court of Appeal in Piplack v. In-N-Out Burgers (2023) 88 Cal.App.5th
1281. There, the court found that INO’s DRA properly compelled an employee’s
PAGA claims to arbitration, and that class action waivers are specifically
allowed under the U.S. Supreme Court’s ruling in A&T Mobility LLC v.
Concepcion (2011) 563 U.S. 333.  
 
Moreover, the PAGA waiver is
severable by its terms.  Assuming that
the term is unconscionable and unenforceable, it is a single term and is
severable from the rest of the agreement. 
Moreover, the term is of limited relevance here as this is not a PAGA
claim.
 
Thus, Plaintiff has failed to
demonstrate substantive unconscionability.  
 
As Plaintiff has not demonstrated procedural
or substantive unconscionability, the Court finds that the DRA is not
unconscionable and should be enforced.  
 
Motion to Stay Proceedings
 
Defendants concurrently filed a
motion to stay proceedings pending arbitration. The FAA requires this action be
stayed because issues presented for resolution by the Court are “referable to
arbitration.” (9 U.S.C. § 3; Rodriguez v. Am. Techs., Inc. (2006) 136
Cal.App.4th 1110, 1122; Code Civ. Proc. § 1281.4.)
 
The motion to stay is granted. 
 
Motion to Amend
 
            Plaintiff has made a motion to amend the complaint.  Given the Court’s ruling above, the motion is
DENIED as moot.
   
Moving parties to give
notice.  
 
 