 Case Number:  24STCV04028    Hearing Date:   November 19, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Samson Hill,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
24STCV04028




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
Rampart Property Management, Inc.,


 
 
 
Defendant.


 


 




 


 


 


 



 
Hearing Date: November 19, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion for Leave to File
Cross-Complaint
Moving Party: Defendants Rampart Property
Management, Inc., Melanie Clark and John Clark
Responding Party: None
 
T/R:      DEFENDANTS’ MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE A
CROSS-COMPLAINT IS GRANTED.
 
DEFENDANTS TO NOTICE. 
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please
email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing.
 
The Court considers the moving papers.
No opposition has been received. 
 
“A party who fails to plead a cause of
action. . . whether through oversight, inadvertence, mistake,
neglect, or other cause, may apply to the court for leave to amend his
pleading, or to file a cross-complaint, to assert such cause at any time during
the course of the action.  The court,
after notice to the adverse party, shall grant, upon such terms as may be just
to the parties, leave to amend the pleading, or to file the cross-complaint, to
assert such cause if the party who failed to plead the cause acted in good
faith.  This subdivision shall be
liberally construed to avoid forfeiture of causes of action.”  (CCP § 426.50.)  
 
Defendants move to file a
cross-complaint against third-party Ziggy Kaiser. In the underlying complaint,
Plaintiff alleges second degree burns from a mislabeled shower. Defendants, who
manage the unit, assert that Ziggy Kaiser wrongfully sublet the unit to
Plaintiff without their knowledge. These facts arise out of the same events as
the underlying complaint. 
 
Defendants’ motion for leave to file a
cross-complaint is GRANTED.


 