  Case Number:  18STUD13978    Hearing Date:   January 10, 2024    Dept:  61 Plaintiff
FML Management Corp.’s Motion for Attorney Fees After Trial is GRANTED in the
amount of $2,000.00.
 
I.                  
MOTION FOR ATTORNEY FEES
“Except as
attorney's fees are specifically provided for by statute, the measure and mode
of compensation of attorneys and counselors at law is left to the agreement,
express or implied, of the parties; but parties to actions or proceedings are
entitled to their costs, as hereinafter provided.” (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 1021.) 
 
“In any action on a
contract, where the contract specifically provides that attorney's fees and
costs, which are incurred to enforce that contract, shall be awarded either to
one of the parties or to the prevailing party, then the party who is determined
to be the party prevailing on the contract, whether he or she is the party specified
in the contract or not, shall be entitled to reasonable attorney's fees in
addition to other costs.” (Civ. Code, § 1717, subd. (a).) “[T]he party
prevailing on the contract shall be the party who recovered a greater relief in
the action on the contract.” (Civ. Code, § 1717, subd. (b)(1).) 
 
In determining the proper amount of fees to award, courts use the
lodestar method.  The lodestar figure is
calculated by multiplying the total number of reasonable hours expended by the
reasonable hourly rate.  “Fundamental to
its determination . . . [is] a careful compilation of the time spent and
reasonable hourly compensation of each attorney . . . in the presentation of
the case.”  (Serrano v. Priest (1977) 20 Cal.3d 25, 48 (Serrano III).)  A reasonable
hourly rate must reflect the skill and experience of the attorney.  (Id.
at p. 49.)  “Prevailing parties are compensated for hours reasonably spent on
fee-related issues.  A fee request that
appears unreasonably inflated is a special circumstance permitting the trial
court to reduce the award or deny one altogether.”  (Serrano
v. Unruh (1982) 32 Cal.3d 621, 635 (Serrano
IV).)  The Court in Serrano IV also stated that fees
associated with preparing the motion to recover attorneys’ fees are
recoverable.  (See id. at p. 624.)
Plaintiff FML Management Corp. (Plaintiff) seeks $2,000.00 in attorney
fees from Defendants Jose Simon Gonzalez, Rony Paxtor, and David Paxtor
(Defendants), following trial and judgment in Plaintiff’s favor. Plaintiff
relies on a provision in the lease requiring Defendants to pay any actual
attorney fees incurred in any actions arising from a breach of the lease
agreement. (Ehrich Decl.,Exh. 1, ¶ 18.) Plaintiff’s counsel charged a flat fee
of $2,000.00 for prosecuting the present action. (Ehrich Decl. ¶ 4.) The actual
compensable hours spent on this matter, though difficult to disentangle from
time spent on other matters, would yield a figure greater than $2,000.00,
according to Plaintiff’s counsel. (Ehrich Decl. ¶ 5; Feffer Decl.
¶¶ 7–12.)
Plaintiff has shown entitlement to fees under the lease agreement, and
further that the $2,000.00 sought here was actually incurred and reasonable. No
opposition to the motion has been filed.
The motion is therefore GRANTED.