  Case Number:  BC319672    Hearing Date:   November 8, 2024    Dept:  51 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Upinder S.
Kalra, Department 51
 
HEARING DATE:   November
8, 2024                                          
 
CASE NAME:           Diana
Um aka Ja K. Um v. Hitters Alley, LTD, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                BC319672

 
PETITION
FOR HEARING ON THIRD PARTY CLAIM OF OWNERSHIP OF FUNDS PURSUANT TO WRIT OF
EXECUTION
 
MOVING PARTY:  Plaintiff
Diana Um aka Ja K. Um
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): None as of October 8, 2024
 
REQUESTED RELIEF: 
 
1.      An
Order determining ownership of funds levied by the Los Angeles Sheriff from
City National Bank.
TENTATIVE RULING: 
 
1.      Rockingham’s
third party claim is GRANTED;
2.      Rockingham
to provide a proposed judgment within 14 days of this ruling.
STATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS: 
 
On June 16, 2006, Plaintiff obtained a Judgment.
 
On July 22, 2016, Plaintiff renewed the Abstract of
Judgment.
 
On July 17, 2024, Plaintiff filed a Writ of Execution.
 
On August 16, 2024, Third Party Claimant Rockingham Ranch,
LLC (Rockingham) filed a Third Party Claim Declaration with the Los Angeles County
Sheriff’s Department.
 
On August 27, 2024, Plaintiff timely filed the instant
Petition for Hearing on Third Party Claim and for proper disposition of the
property that is the subject of the claim. 
 
On September 6, 2024, Plaintiff served Notice of Hearing on
this Petition.[1]
Plaintiff also filed a memorandum of points and authorities in opposition to
the third party claim.
 
On October 11, 2024, the court continued the hearing to
November 8, 2024.
 
On October 14, 2024, Rockingham Ranch, LLC (Rockingham) filed
a reply.
 
LEGAL STANDARD: 
 
CCP § 720.310,
subdivision (a) provides:¿“Not later than 15 days after the third-party claim
is filed with the levying officer pursuant to Section 720.120 or 720.220 . . .
either the creditor or the third person may petition the court for a hearing to
determine the validity of the third-party claim and the proper disposition of
the property that is the subject of the claim.”¿ Subdivision (c) provides that
“[t]he hearing shall be held within 20 days after the filing of the petition
unless continued by the court for good cause shown.”¿ “At a hearing on a
third-party claim, the third person has the burden of proof.” (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 720.360.)¿ “Once the third party establishes its entitlement to the property,
the burden shifts to the creditor . . . to establish that its claim is
superior.¿ [Citation.]¿ There is no requirement of a jury trial in third-party
claim proceedings, and no findings are required.¿ [Citations.]”¿ (Oxford Street Properties, LLC v.
Rehabilitation Associates, LLC. (2012) 206 Cal.App.4th 296, 307.)¿ 
 
“Resolving conflicting claims in the same collateral
requires a three-step inquiry: First, has the security interest attached;
second, has the security interest been perfected; and third, does the perfected
security interest have priority.” (Id.
at p. 308.) “Once a security interest has attached to the debtor’s collateral,
perfection of a security interest makes it enforceable against third parties
and priority determines which of competing claims to collateral will take
precedence.” (Ibid.) “A security
interest attaches only to whatever rights the debtor has in the collateral.” (Ibid.) Cours apply “general contractual
interpretation principles” when “analyzing the scope of the security interest.”
(Id. at p. 309.) Courts also rely on
the California Uniform Commercial Code. (See ibid.)  
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
Plaintiff contends that the supposed “third party” is
actually a dba of Defendant/Judgment Debtor Hartunian and, as such, the court
should order the Sheriff to release the funds to Plaintiff. Rockingham argues
Plaintiff failed to comply with CCP § 720.140(b), and Rockingham is a Montana
LLC not a dba of Defendant.
 
Unless the levying creditor files an adequate undertaking
within the required time or obtains a restraining order, the property is
automatically released (except when it is to be held under another lien or the
court orders otherwise). (CCP § 720.170(a).) 
 
As a threshold matter, there is no evidence that Plaintiff
filed the requisite undertaking. (CCP § 720.140(b).) Additionally, Plaintiff
did not seek an ex parte restraining order to prevent the property from being
released pending the hearing. There is also no evidence that Plaintiff filed a
copy of the notice of hearing with the levying officer. (CCP § 720.320.)
 
Still, Plaintiff’s Petition may be heard even if the
property is released. (CCP § 720.170(d).) However, the court must determine
that the judgment debtor has an interest in the property that may be levied
upon or otherwise applied to the judgment. (CCP § 720.430.) 
 
Here, the court agrees that Rockingham’s property was
improperly levied.[2]
First, Rockingham is not a judgment debtor because they are not named on the
Judgment or the renewed Judgment. (Shackelford Decl., Exhibits A, B.)
Additionally, Plaintiff did not seek leave to amend the Judgment to add
Rockingham. Second, Rockingham provided sufficient evidence that it is a
separate entity. (Hartunian Decl., Exhibits G, H.) As such, the court finds
that Rockingham’s third party claim is valid.
 
Accordingly, Rockingham’s third party claim is GRANTED. 
 
CONCLUSION:
 
            For
the foregoing reasons, the Court decides the pending motion as follows: 
 
1.      Rockingham’s
third party claim is GRANTED;
2.      Rockingham
to provide a proposed judgment within 14 days of this ruling.
Moving party is to give notice. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED. 
 
Dated:              November 8, 2024                  __________________________________                                                                                                                Upinder
S. Kalra
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court


