 Case Number:  24AVCV00421    Hearing Date:   June 11, 2024    Dept:  A14 Background
 
This is a lemon law action.
Plaintiffs Willis J Richardson (“Willis”)[1]
and Cathy Conway Richardson (“Cathy” and collectively “Plaintiffs”) allege that
on or about November 19, 2022, they entered into a warranty contract with
Defendant Ford Motor Company (“FMC”) regarding a certified pre-owned 2019
Lincoln Navigator with VIN No. 5LMJJ3HT9KEL10213 (the “Subject Vehicle”), which
was manufactured and/or distributed by FMC. Plaintiffs present that the
warranty contract contained various warranties, including but not limited to,
the bumper-bumper warranty, powertrain warranty, and emission warranty and,
within the applicable express warranty period, defects and nonconformities
manifested themselves, including but not limited to, transmission defects,
engine defects, electrical defects, climate control defects, and body defects.
Plaintiffs further allege that (1) under Song-Beverly Act, FMC had an
affirmative duty to promptly offer to repurchase or replace the Subject Vehicle
at the time it failed to conform the Subject Vehicle to the terms of the
express warranty after a reasonable number of repair attempts; (2) FMC has
failed to do so; and (3) Plaintiffs are entitled to certain items (e.g., reimbursement
or replacement of Subject Vehicle, “cover damages,” incidental and
consequential damages). 
 
On April 09, 2024, Plaintiffs
filed their Complaint alleging causes of action for: (1) Violation of
Subdivision (d) of Cal. Civ. Code § 1793.2 against FMC; (2) Violation of
Subdivision (b) of Cal. Civ. Code § 1793.2 against FMC; (3) Violation of
Subdivision (a)(3) of Cal. Civ. Code § 1793.2 against FMC; (4) Breach of
Implied Warranty of Merchantability (Cal. Civ. Code §§ 1791.1, 1794, 1795.5);
(5) Fraudulent Inducement – Concealment against FMC; (6) Negligent Repair
against Defendant Galpin Jaguar Lincoln Mercury (“Galpin”).
 
On May 13, 2024, Defendants FMC
and Galpin (collectively “Defendants”) filed this Demurrer.
 
On May 29, 2024, Plaintiffs filed
their Opposition. 
 
On June 07, 2024, Defendants
filed their Reply. “. . .[A]ll reply papers [shall be filed with the court and
a copy served on each party] at least five court days before the hearing.”
(Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 1005(b).) The hearing is set for June 11, 2024.
Accordingly, a Reply was due at the latest June 04, 2024. Defendants’ Reply is
untimely. “No paper may be rejected for filing on the ground that it was
untimely submitted for filing. If the court, in its discretion, refuses to
consider a late filed paper, the minutes or order must so indicate.”
(California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1300(d).) The Court, in its discretion, declines
to consider Defendants’ untimely Reply. 
 
-----
 
Legal Standard
 
Standard for Demurrer – A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether
the complaint states a cause of action.¿ (Hahn v.¿Mirda¿(2007) 147 Cal.
App. 4th 740, 747.) ¿When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations
liberally and in context.¿ (Taylor v. City of Los Angeles Dept. of Water and
Power¿(2006) 144 Cal. App. 4th 1216, 1228.)¿ In a demurrer proceeding, the
defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or by proper judicial
notice.¿ (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 430.30(a).)¿A demurrer tests the pleadings
alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters.¿ (SKF Farms v.
Superior Court¿(1984) 153 Cal. App. 3d 902, 905.)¿ Therefore, it lies only
where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially
noticed.¿¿(Id.)¿¿The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is
whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters,
states a cause of action.¿ (Hahn,¿supra,¿147 Cal.App.4th at
747.)¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
A general demurrer admits the truth of all
factual, material allegations properly pled in the challenged pleading,
regardless of possible difficulties of proof.¿¿(Blank,¿supra, 39
Cal.3d at p. 318.)¿ Thus, no matter how unlikely or improbable, plaintiff’s
allegations must be accepted as true for the purpose of ruling on the
demurrer.¿¿(Del E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials Co.¿(1981) 123
Cal.App.3d 593, 604.)¿ Nevertheless, this rule does not apply to allegations
expressing mere conclusions of law, or allegations contradicted by the exhibits
to the complaint or by matters of which judicial notice may be taken.¿¿(Vance
v. Villa Park¿Mobilehome¿Estates¿(1995) 36 Cal.App.4th 698, 709.)¿ A
general demurrer does not admit contentions, deductions, or conclusions of fact
or law alleged in the complaint; facts impossible in law; or allegations
contrary to facts of which a court may take judicial notice.¿¿(Blank,¿supra,
39 Cal.3d at p. 318.)¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
Pursuant to¿Code Civ. Proc.¿§430.10(e), the
party against whom a complaint has been filed may object by demurrer to the
pleading on the grounds that the pleading does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action.¿ It is an abuse of discretion to sustain a
demurrer if there is a reasonable probability that the defect can be cured by
amendment.¿¿(Schifando¿v. City of Los Angeles¿(2003) 31 Cal.4th 1074,
1082,¿as modified (Dec. 23, 2003).)¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
 
----- 
 
Meet and Confer
Requirement¿– Before filing a demurrer or a motion to strike, the demurring or
moving party is required to meet and confer with the party who filed the
pleading demurred to or the pleading that is subject to the motion to strike
for the purposes of determining whether an agreement can be reached through a
filing of an amended pleading that would resolve the objections to be raised in
the demurrer.¿ (Cal. Code Civ.¿Proc. § 430.41 and § 435.5.)¿ The Court notes
that defense counsel, Sara K. Ross (“Ross”) has submitted an unsigned
declaration under the penalty of perjury pursuant to the laws of the State of
California. (See Decl. Ross at signature line.) Cal. Rule of Court, Rule 2.257
provides, in relevant part:
 
(a) Electronic
Signature
 
An electronic
signature is an electronic sound, symbol, or process attached to or logically
associated with an electronic record and executed or adopted by a person with
the intent to sign a document or record created, generated, sent, communicated,
received, or stored by electronic means.
 
(b) Documents
signed under penalty of perjury
 
When a document
to be filed electronically provides for a signature under penalty of perjury of
any person, the document is deemed to have been signed by that person if filed
electronically provided that either of the following conditions is satisfied:
 
(1)  The declarant has signed the document using
an electronic signature and declares under penalty of perjury under the laws of
the state of California that the information submitted is true and correct. If
the declarant is not the electronic filer, the electronic signature must be
unique to the declarant, capable of verification, under the sole control of the
declarant, and linked to data in such a manner that if the data are changed,
the electronic signature is invalidated; or
 
(2)  The declarant, before filing, has physically
signed a printed form of the document. By electronically filing the document,
the electronic filer certifies that the original, signed document is available
for inspection and copying at the request of the court or any other party. In
the event this second method of submitting documents electronically under
penalty of perjury is used, the following conditions apply:
 
(A)  At any time after the electronic version of
the document is filed, any party may serve a demand for production of the
original signed document. The demand must be served on all other parties but
need not be filed with the court.
 
(B)  Within five days of service of the demand
under (A), the party or other person on whom the demand is made must make the
original signed document available for inspection and copying by all other
parties.
 
(C)  At any time after the electronic version of
the document is filed, the court may order the filing party or other person to
produce the original signed document in court for inspection and copying by the
court. The order must specify the date, time, and place for the production and
must be served on all parties.
 
(D)  Notwithstanding (A)-(C), local child support
agencies may maintain original, signed pleadings by way of an electronic copy
in the statewide automated child support system and must maintain them only for
the period of time stated in Government Code section 68152(a). If the local
child support agency maintains an electronic copy of the original, signed
pleading in the statewide automated child support system, it may destroy the
paper original.
 
As the
requirements for signatures on the documents signed under penalty of perjury
have not been followed, the Court has been presented with an unsworn affidavit.
(See also Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 2015.5.) Accordingly, Ross’ declaration will
not be considered. 
 
Thus, the
required meet and confer declaration under Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 430.41(a) has
not been provided to the Court. 
 
A determination by the court that the meet and confer process was
insufficient shall not be grounds to overrule or sustain a demurrer. (Cal. Code
Civ. Proc. § 430.31(a)(4).) Accordingly, the Court addresses the Demurrer on
its merits.
 
-----
 
Discussion
 
Application – Defendants
demur to the Fifth Cause of Action (Fraudulent Inducement – Concealment) and
Sixth Cause of Action (Negligent Repair).
 
i.       
Fifth Cause of Action (Fraudulent Inducement –
Concealment) 
 
Defendants argue that the Fifth
Cause of Action fails because (1) the Complaint fails to allege with
particularity the defect FMC allegedly concealed, instead describing a list of
ways in which the Subject Vehicle’s transmission may be defective; (2) the
Complaint fails to allege where the omitted information should or could have
been disclosed; (3) Plaintiff fails to allege a duty to disclose under LiMandri
v. Judkins (1997) 52 Cal.App.4th 326, 336 (“LiMandri”) as Plaintiff
has not pled a direct transactional relationship, exclusive knowledge, or
active concealment; (4) the Fifth Cause of Action is barred by the economic
loss rule, citing Pilgrim v. GM Co. (2020) 2020 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 220773 (“Pilgrim”)
which quoted Robinson Helicopter Co., Inc. v. Dana Corp. (2004) 34
Cal.4th 979, 988 and 993, and Petersen v. FCA United States LLC (2021) 2021
U.S. Dist. LEXIS 148288 (“Petersen”), and Food Safety Services v. Eco
Safe Systems USA, Inc. (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th 1118, 1131.
Plaintiffs argue that they have
sufficiently alleged the elements of a fraudulent inducement by concealment
claim under Dhital v. Nissan North America, Inc. (2022) 84 Cal.App.5th
828 (“Dhital”). Plaintiffs further argue that Dhital addresses
the issue of transactional relationships and privity and its holding shows that
Plaintiff’s allegations are sufficient. Plaintiffs direct the parties to
Complaint paragraphs 40, 75, 78a-c for allegations relating the true extent of
the transmission defect; paragraphs 73 and 76 for allegations regarding active
concealment of information related to the transmission defect; and paragraphs
79-81 for allegations relating to intent. Plaintiff cites to federal cases
regarding technical service bulletins (“TSBs”) and their use to show knowledge
at the pleading stage. Plaintiffs present that the transmission defect is a
material fact, it posed safety risks, it arose during the warranty period and,
as such, FMC had a duty to disclose. Plaintiffs rebut the bar due to the
economic loss rule, citing Lazar v. Sup. Ct. (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645;
Freeman & Mills, Inc. v. Belcher Oil Co. (1995) 11 Cal.4th 85, 108; Erlich
v. Menezes (1999) 21 Cal.4th 543, 551-52; and Dhital. Plaintiffs
cite to Anderson v. Ford Motor Co. (2022) 74 Cal.App.5th 946, 963 for
the precedent that fraud claims are distinct from Song-Beverly claims. 
 
The Court notes that Dhital
is pending review by the California Supreme Court. (See Dhital v. Nissan
North America, Inc. (2023) 304 Cal.Rptr.3d 82.) As such, the Dhital holding
may be cited only for persuasive value. (See Cal. Rules of Court, Rule
8.1115(e)(1).) 
 
As both parties have relied upon
federal cases, the Court notes, federal case precedent is, generally, not
binding precedent on this Court, but rather persuasive precedent.
 
“[T]he elements of an action for
fraud and deceit based on a concealment are: (1) the defendant must have
concealed or suppressed a material fact, (2) the defendant must have been under
a duty to disclose the fact to the plaintiff, (3) the defendant must have
intentionally concealed or suppressed the fact with the intent to defraud the
plaintiff, (4) the plaintiff must have been unaware of the fact and would not
have acted as he did if he had known of the concealed or suppressed fact, and
(5) as a result of the concealment or suppression of the fact, the plaintiff
must have sustained damage.” (Boschma v. Home Loan Center, Inc. (2011)
198 Cal.App.4th 230, 248.) LiMandri provides four circumstances in which
nondisclosure or concealment may constitute actionable fraud: (1) when the
defendant is in a fiduciary relationship with the plaintiff; (2) when the
defendant had exclusive knowledge of material facts not known to the plaintiff;
(3) when the defendant actively conceals a material fact from the plaintiff;
and (4) when the defendant makes partial representations but also suppresses
some material facts. (See LiMandri, supra, 52 Cal.App.4th at
336.)
 
As to the defect, the Complaint
clearly identifies a transmission defect. (See Complaint ¶¶ 39, 48 [describing
the transmission defect then applying it to the subject vehicle].) Plaintiff
has also pled that FMC had superior and/or exclusive knowledge of the
transmission defect. (See Complaint ¶¶ 39-50.) Plaintiffs allege that FMC
gained such knowledge from “pre-production testing, pre-production design
failure mode and analysis data, production failure mode and analysis data,
early consumer complaints made exclusively to FMC's network of dealers and
directly to FMC, aggregate warranty data compiled from FMC's network of
dealers, and testing conducted by FMC in response to consumer complaints, and
repair order and parts data received by FMC from FMC's network of dealers” and
highlights that some of these items are not available to consumers. (Complaint
¶¶ 40, 75.) Plaintiffs further allege that had the transmission defect been
disclosed, they would not have purchased the Subject Vehicle or would have paid
less for it. (Complaint ¶¶ 49, 76.) As to the TSBs, used to show knowledge,
neither party argues that they have been made public nor does the Complaint
discuss how they were issued. (See Complaint ¶¶ 41-44, 46.) FMC argues only
that the TSBs are not admissions. The Court finds Plaintiffs’ argument that the
TSBs are sufficiently specific to show knowledge at the pleading stage availing
as, without any further discussion by the parties, the TSBs allow for a
reasonable inference that FMC had superior and/or exclusive knowledge of the
transmission defect. With that in place, “[l]ess specificity is required when
it ‘appears from the nature of the allegations that the defendant must
necessarily possess full information concerning the facts of the controversy.’
” (Committee on Children's Television, Inc. v. General Foods Corp.
(1983) 35 Cal.3d 197, 216 [quoting Bradley v. Hartford Acc.& Indem. Co. (1973)
30 Cal.App.3d 818, 825].) That is, the specificity requirement is greatly
relaxed or eliminated under circumstances where the defendant must necessarily
possess superior information of the fraud. (Id. at 216-217; see also
Silberg v. Anderson (1990) 50 Cal.3d 205, 212-213.) Further, exclusive
knowledge satisfies a circumstance in which nondisclosure or concealment may
constitute actionable fraud without a fiduciary relationship. (See LiMandri,
supra, 52 Cal.App.4th at 366.)
 
The Court also notes that Bigler-Engler
v. Berg, Inc. (“Bigler-Engler”) states:
 
This court examined
the circumstances giving rise to a duty to disclose in LiMandri v. Judkins
(1997) 52 Cal.App.4th 326 [60 Cal. Rptr. 2d 539] (LiMandri). In that
case, we explained, “There are ‘four circumstances in which nondisclosure or
concealment may constitute actionable fraud: (1) when the defendant is in a
fiduciary relationship with the plaintiff; (2) when the defendant had exclusive
knowledge of material facts not known to the plaintiff; (3) when the defendant
actively conceals a material fact from the plaintiff; and (4) when the
defendant makes partial representations but also suppresses some material
facts.’” (Id. at p. 336.) Where, as here, a fiduciary relationship does
not exist between the parties, only the latter three circumstances may apply.
These three circumstances, however, “presuppose[] the existence of some other
relationship between the plaintiff and defendant in which a duty to disclose
can arise.” (Id. at pp. 336–337.) “A duty to disclose facts arises only
when the parties are in a relationship that gives rise to the duty, such as
‘“seller and buyer, employer and prospective employee, doctor and patient, or
parties entering into any kind of contractual arrangement.”’” (Shin v. Kong
(2000) 80 Cal.App.4th 498, 509 [95 Cal. Rptr. 2d 304].)
 
(Bigler-Engler, supra,
7 Cal.App.5th at 311.)
 
Defendants concede that the
allegations discuss a warranty contract (see Demurrer 8:16-17, 9:13-15), but fails
to address the warranty contract in the context of Bigler-Engler’s
holding regarding disclosure. 
 
As to concealment, Plaintiffs have
pled that the transmission defect was not disclosed by FMC during the sale and
“Plaintiff could not reasonably have been expected to learn or discover of the
Vehicle's Transmission Defect and its potential consequences until well after
Plaintiff purchased the Vehicle.” (Complaint ¶¶ 72, 76, 78(d).) Whereas Bigler-Engler
focused on the general principle that a manufacturer has a duty to warn
consumers of a product's hazards and faults, based on strict products
liability, and the need to clarify misleading half-truths, this action focuses
on concealment when a defendant has superior or exclusive knowledge. (See Bigler-Engler,
supra, 7 Cal.App.5th at 312-13.) The Court notes that in cases
discussing omissions, it has been held that it is “impossible to demonstrate
reliance on something that one was not told” and “one need only prove that, had
the omitted information been disclosed, one would have been aware of it and
behaved differently.” (See Mirkin v. Wasserman (1993) 5 Cal.4th 1082,
1093.
 
At this point of the analysis the
following elements have been pled: (1) the defendant must have concealed or
suppressed a material fact (i.e., the transmission defect), (2) the defendant
must have been under a duty to disclose the fact to the plaintiff which arises
here due to superior and/or exclusive knowledge, (3) the plaintiff must have
been unaware of the fact and would not have acted as he did if he had known of
the concealed or suppressed fact (i.e., as pled, Plaintiffs would not have
purchased the Subject Vehicle).
 
As to the remaining elements,
intent to defraud and damages, “fraudulent intent is an issue for the trier of
fact to decide” and Plaintiff has pled damages in the form of the loss of the
Subject Vehicle, which is now de minimis, and exposure to the risk of
liability, accident and injury. (Beckwith v. Dahl (2012) 205 Cal.App.4th
1039, 1061; Complaint ¶¶ 13-14, 49).
 
The Court believes that its
analysis, ante, sufficiently addresses the concerns of the parties without a
discussion of Dhital, which is pending review.
 
With the elements met, the Court
turns next to the economic loss rule.
 
Economic loss consists of damages
for inadequate value, costs of repair and replacement of the defective product
or consequent loss of profits, without any claim of personal injury or damages
to other property. (Robinson Helicopter Co, supra, 34 Cal. 4th
979, 988.) The economic loss rule provides that where a purchaser's
expectations in a sale are frustrated because the product purchased is not
working properly, the remedy is in contract alone: the purchaser has suffered
only "economic" losses. (Id.) The economic loss rule requires
a purchaser to recover in contract for purely economic loss due to disappointed
expectations, unless they can demonstrate harm above and beyond a broken
contractual promise. (Id.) Finally, the economic loss rule prevents the
law of contract and the law of tort from dissolving one into the other. (Id.)
 
Defendants seek a narrow reading
of Robinson Helicopter Co. However, although Robinson Helicopter Co.
was premised, in part, on fraud via affirmative misrepresentations (the
certifications), there is no reason to assume that its rationale would not also
apply in the context of a concealment claim such as the one pled in this
action. An intentional decision to conceal damaging material facts in order to
induce action (a vehicle purchase) is functionally indistinguishable from an
intentional misrepresentation. The Robison Helicopter Co. court relied
on Elrich v. Menezes (1999) 21 Cal.4th 543 (“Elrich”) which stated, “the
duty that gives rise to tort liability is either completely independent of the
contract or arises from conduct which is both intentional and intended to
harm.” (Elrich v. Menezes, supra, 21 Cal.4th at 552.) Elrich also
referred to a finding of a tortious breach of contract when the breach is
accompanied by a traditional common law tort, such as fraud or conversion; or
when the means used to breach the contract are tortious, involving deceit or
undue coercion. (Id. at 553-54.) Elrich also relied upon Las Palmas
Associates v. Las Palmas Center Associates (1991) 235 Cal.App.3d 1220
which states, “We are aware of the danger of grafting tort liability on what
ordinarily should be a breach of contract action. While society has a strong
interest in the security of transactions, parties dealing at arm's length are
permitted to reach a reasoned decision to breach an agreement, knowing their
risk is limited to the reimbursement of the other side's compensatory losses.
However, no public policy is served by permitting a party who never intended to
fulfill his obligations to fraudulently induce another to enter into an
agreement.” (Las Palmas Associates, supra, 235 Cal.App.3d at
1238.) Thus, while Robinson Helicopter Co. is limited by its facts, its
cited authority does not support a narrow interpretation. Thus, fraud is an
independent tort such that the economic loss rule does not bar the claim for
fraud.
 
Further, as to underlying basis
between the Fifth Cause of Action (Fraudulent Inducement – Concealment) and
Plaintiff’s other claims directed against Defendants, while Defendants argue
that there is no misrepresentation beyond a broken contractual promise, there
is support that omissions during sale is separate and distinct from the
contractual performance at issue in Song-Beverly claims. Specifically, several
courts, in their discussion damages, have found the underlying basis for fraud
claims in Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Action to be premised on pre-sale
fraudulent inducement while the Song-Beverly claims were premised on post-sale
willful noncompliance. (See Anderson v. Ford Motor Co. (2022) 74
Cal.App.5th 946, 970-73; Bowser v. Ford Motor Co. (2022) 78 Cal.App.5th
587, 626-27.)
 
The Court believes that its
analysis on the economic loss rule, ante, sufficiently addresses the
concerns of the parties without a discussion of Dhital.
 
Accordingly, the Demurrer to the
Fifth Cause of Action (Fraudulent Inducement – Concealment) is OVERRULED.
 
ii.      Sixth
Cause of Action (Negligent Repair)
 
Defendants argue that the Sixth
Cause of Action is, likewise, barred by the economic loss rule. Defendants
argue that the gravamen of Plaintiffs’ claims is that Galpin failed to repair
the Subject Vehicle to conform to the applicable warranty which is not
independent of the warranty contract, so there is no duty “completely
independent of the contract” alleged, nor allegations of intentional conduct by
Galpin. So too, there is no allegation of physical damage to property or
personal injury other than the vehicle itself or of personal injury accompanied
by such losses and Plaintiffs seek only damages for the cost of repair to the
Subject Vehicle. Defendants preemptively argue that Sheen v. Wells Fargo
Bank, N.A. (2022) 12 Cal.5th 905, 923-24 (“Sheen”) holds that the
economic loss rule applies to service contracts. Defendants finally argue that
the Complaint fails to plead facts to show that Galpin’s conduct resulted in
any damage. 
 
Plaintiffs argue that all the
essential elements of negligent repair have been alleged, citing to paragraphs
87 to 90 of the Complaint. Plaintiffs further argue that the economic loss rule
does not bar all cases involving the negligent performance of services and,
where it does apply and damages occur only to the property itself, resolution
of this issue at the pleading stage is inappropriate. 
 
The Court has discussed the
economic loss rule, ante. In Sheen, the principles of the
economic loss rule were reiterated. (See Sheen, supra, 12 Cal.5th
at 922 [“In general, there is no recovery in tort for negligently inflicted
‘purely economic losses,’ meaning financial harm unaccompanied by physical or
property damage.”].) However, Sheen also recognized that there were
exceptions to the economic loss rule for consumers who contract for certain
kinds of professional services:
 
In that context, . .
. a cause of action for negligence ensures that the consumer receives the
services the professional agreed to provide. In such settings, professionals
generally agree to provide “careful efforts” in rendering contracted-for
services, but “most clients do not know enough to protect themselves by
inspecting the professional's work or by other independent means.” (Rest., § 4,
com. a, p. 22; see also Neel, supra, 6 Cal.3d
at p. 188.) Given
this disparity, a claim for professional negligence can serve the important
purpose of ensuring that professionals render the “careful efforts” they have
contracted to provide. (Rest., § 4, com. a, p. 22.)
 
(Id. at 933.)
 
Further, in a negligent
performance case, a “plaintiff will be entitled to recover economic loss
damages without the need to allege and prove personal injury or property
damage” based on a consideration of the following factors: “(1) the extent to
which the transaction was intended to affect the plaintiff, (2) the
foreseeability of harm to the plaintiff, (3) the degree of certainty that the
plaintiff suffered injury, (4) the closeness of the connection between the
defendant's conduct and the injury suffered, (5) the moral blame attached to
the defendant's conduct, and (6) the policy of preventing future harm.” (North
American Chemical Co. v. Superior Court (1997) 59 Cal.App.4th 764, 782
(“North American Chemical Co.”).) “[T]he foreseeability of the economic harm to
the plaintiff from the defendant's negligent conduct [is] the critical factor.”
(Id. at 782.)
 
Though Defendants believe that North
American Chemical Co. is inapposite, it directly concerns a contract for
the performances of services and remains binding law. The North American
Chemical Co. also explicitly considered Biakanja in its ruling: “
‘[T]he factors enumerated in Biakanja and applied in subsequent cases place a
limit on recovery by focusing judicial attention on the foreseeability of the
injury and the nexus between the defendant's conduct and the plaintiff's
injury. These factors and ordinary principles of tort law such as proximate
cause are fully adequate to limit recovery without the drastic consequence of
an absolute rule which bars recovery in all such cases. [Citation.] Following
these principles, recovery for negligent interference with prospective economic
advantage will be limited to instances where the risk of harm is foreseeable
and is closely connected with the defendant's conduct, where damages are not
wholly speculative and the injury is not part of the plaintiff's ordinary business
risk.’ ” (North American Chemical Co., supra, 59 Cal.App.4th 764, 782
[citing Biakanja].)
 
Here, Plaintiffs delivered their
car for repair—a professional service—and reasonably expected that Galpin would
perform the repair with care and skill. The transaction was clearly intended to
affect the Plaintiffs because the transaction was for repair of their car, the
Subject vehicle. The harm to Plaintiffs was foreseeable in the event Defendant
negligently repaired the Subject Vehicle. Plaintiff alleges damages due to the
negligent repair (i.e., the Subject Vehicle value and possibly exposure to the
risk of liability, accident and injury due to incorporation of the previous
paragraphs) and public policy supports imposing liability for negligent repair
where the car may result in injury to the owner or others on the road.
 
In sum, even if Plaintiffs’
damages are solely economic, they may still seek recovery because the economic
loss rule does not apply in cases involving the negligent performance of
services that results in foreseeable injury.
 
Accordingly, the Demurrer to the
Sixth Cause of Action (Negligent Repair) is OVERRULED.
 
-----
 
Conclusion
 
Defendants Ford Motor Company and Galpin Jaguar
Lincoln Mercury, Inc.’s Demurrer is OVERRULED.


