 Case Number:  22AVCV00947    Hearing Date:   June 11, 2024    Dept:  A14 Background
 
This is a motor vehicle –
personal injury action. Plaintiff Emily McAdams (“Plaintiff”) alleges that on
February 08, 2021, at 110th Street West and Ave G, Lancaster, CA
93536, she was the passenger in a vehicle that collided with Defendant Herc
Rentals, Inc. (“Defendant”)’s truck that was negligently stopped in the street
and that the impact caused Plaintiff to suffer injuries and damages.
 
On November 17, 2022, Plaintiff
filed her Complaint alleging two causes of action for: (1) Motor Vehicle, and
(2) General Negligence. 
 
On March 01, 2023, Defendant
filed its Answer and Cross-Complaint. The Cross-Complaint alleges four causes
of action for (1) Implied Indemnity, (2) Contribution, (3) Declaratory Relief,
and (4) Express Contractual Indemnity.
 
On April 05, 2024, an Informal
Discovery Conference (“IDC”) was held.
 
On April 15, 2024, Defendant
filed this Motion to Compel Further Deposition of Plaintiff Emily McAdams
(“Motion to Compel”).
 
On April 23, 2024, Plaintiff
filed her Opposition.
 
On April 30, 2024, Defendant
filed its Reply. The Reply included new evidence regarding a stipulation
between the parties for filing of this motion.
 
Because of the pertinent nature
of the new exhibits, at the May 07, 2024 hearing, the Court continued the
motion to allow for the filing of a sur-reply to address the aforementioned
exhibits. 
 
On May 24, 2024, Plaintiff filed
her Sur-Reply.
 
-----
 
Legal Standard
 
Pursuant to
section 2025.610 of the Code of Civil Procedure, “[o]nce any party has taken
the deposition of any natural person, including that of a party to the action,
neither the party who gave, nor any other party who has been served with a
deposition notice pursuant to Section 2025.240 may take a subsequent deposition
of that deponent.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.610(a).)
 
However,
under subdivision (b) of the same provision, a subsequent deposition of a
deponent is permitted upon leave of the Court for “good cause shown.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2025.610(b).)
 
Cal. Code
Civ. Proc. § 2025.290 discusses the appropriate time limit for
depositions. It reads in relevant part: 
 
Except as provided in subdivision (b), or by any court
order, including a case management order, a deposition examination of the
witness by all counsel, other than the witness’ counsel of record, shall be
limited to seven hours of total testimony. The court shall allow additional
time, beyond any limits imposed by this section, if needed to fairly examine
the deponent or if the deponent, another person, or any other circumstance
impedes or delays the examination.
 
(Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.290(a).)
 
Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.450(a)
reads in relevant part:
 
If, after service of a deposition
notice, a party to the action…, without having served a valid objection under
Section 2025.410, fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to
produce for inspection any document, electronically stored information, or
tangible thing described in the deposition notice, the party giving the notice
may move for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and
the production for inspection of any document, electronically stored
information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice.
 
Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.450(b)(2)
states that a motion made under this statute “shall be accompanied by a meet
and confer declaration under Section 2016.040, or, when the deponent fails to
attend the deposition and produce the documents, electronically stored
information, or things described in the deposition notice, by a declaration
stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire about the
nonappearance.” This requirement has been met. (Decl. Valenzuela ¶¶ 3-4, 9.) 
 
-----
 
Discussion
 
Application – Defendant
presents the following facts as it pertains to the deposition, summarized in
relevant part:
 
·        
The deposition commenced at 10 am (Decl. Carlos
L. Valenzuela (“Valenzuela”) ¶ 1);
·        
Approximately thirty-eight minutes into
deposition, Counsel for Defendant questioned Plaintiff regarding the
consumption of alcohol by any occupant in the vehicle (id. at ¶ 2); and
·        
Plaintiff’s counsel asserted objections such as
privacy, Fifth Amendment rights, and not reasonably calculated to the scope of
admissible evidence and instructed his client not to answer the line of
questions (id. at ¶ 2, Exh. A).
 
Defendant believes that it is
entitled to Plaintiff’s “full and honest testimony, and, importantly, that the
Fifth Amendment was not self-invoking.” (Id. at ¶ 3.)
 
Defendant argues that, under Cal.
Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.610(b), a Court may grant leave to take a subsequent
deposition for good cause shown and, here, there is good cause to compel a
subsequent deposition of Plaintiff without instructions not to answer as
Plaintiff failed to answer truthfully and to the best of her knowledge.
Defendant cites to Stewart v. Colonial Western Agency, Inc. (2001) 87
Cal. App. 4th 1006, 1011 (“Stweart”) and Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §§
2018.010 – 2018.080 and argues that, as the objections were not based on
privilege, they were improper. As to the Fifth Amendment right objections,
Defendant presents: (1) the Fifth Amendment is not self-invoking and an
individual seeking its protection must assert the privilege to protect their
Fifth Amendment rights, citing to Berghuis v. Thompkins (2010) 560 U.S.
370, 380; (2) while a party or witness in a discovery proceeding may claim the
5th Amendment privilege against disclosure of information that might tend to
incriminate him or her under either federal or state law, that right must be
asserted by the individual seeking its protections and may not be asserted on
behalf of other parties, citing Zonver v. Sup.Ct. (1969) 270 Cal.App.2d
613, 620-622 (“Zonver”); (3) that right must be asserted as to
particular questions asked or other evidence sought, citing Zonver; and
(4) the failure to assert the privilege may result in a waiver thereof, citing Brown
v. Sup. Ct. (1986) 180 Cal.App.3d 701, 712. Defendant argues that
Plaintiff’s counsel asserted the Fifth Amendment objections on behalf of third
parties subject to this suit and not on behalf of plaintiff herself which is
not allowed, all questions are discoverable, and Defendant will suffer hardship
and prejudice absent this testimony. 
 
Plaintiff presents that this
motion is untimely as Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.480(a)-(b) provides:
 
If a deponent fails
to answer any question or to produce any document, electronically stored
information, or tangible thing under the deponent' s control that is specified
in the deposition notice or a deposition subpoena, the party seeking discovery
may move the court for an order compelling that answer or production. 
(b) This motion
shall be made no later than 60 days after the completion of the record of the
deposition, and shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under
Section 2016.040.
 
Plaintiff presents that completion
of the record is the date the transcript is signed by the reporter and an IDC
does not toll the deadline to file motions to compel under the Standing Order
RE: Procedures for Personal Injury Cases Assigned to the North District and
Plaintiff did not stipulate to an extension.
 
Finally, Plaintiff argues that
she correctly and justifiably asserted her right to invoke her privilege
against self-incrimination as the questions asked by defense counsel included
whether Plaintiff, a passenger, had consumed alcohol on the night of the
incident, whether the driver of the vehicle consumed alcohol on the night of
the incident, and whether there was alcohol within the vehicle on the night of
the incident. Plaintiff presents that each question "would furnish a link
in the chain of evidence needed to prosecute" her for committing a crime,
driving under the influence, and/or having alcohol present in the car. 
 
The Reply and Sur-Reply render
Plaintiff’s timeliness argument moot as Plaintiff concedes that her counsel,
Paul Aghabala (“Aghabala”), made an error by failing to update the case file to
reflect that he gave the extension attached to Defendant’s Reply as Exhibit A.
As such, the Court need not address the issue of timeliness of this motion. 
 
In Reply, Defendant argues that
Plaintiff is misapplying Fifth Amendment principles as (1) Plaintiff did not
expressly invoke the privilege against self-incrimination, and (2) proper
invocation must be supported by a reasonable fear a response will be
incriminatory and the only reasonable incrimination that may have ensued on the
night of the incident is a charge for minor in possession of alcohol which is
no longer applicable as the citation would be a misdemeanor. 
 
Plaintiff’s Sur-Reply was
intended to address the new evidence presented in the Reply; however, Plaintiff
has attempted to argue the Reply arguments related to the Fifth Amendment.
Plaintiff argues that the defect Defendant complains about can be cured by
Plaintiff invoking her Fifth Amendment rights at the next deposition and it is
unclear what misdemeanor is cited in the Reply, so there has been no showing
that Plaintiff is not in jeopardy. 
 
The Court directs the parties to Pacers,
Inc. v. Superior Court (1984) 162 Cal.App.3d 686, a California case that
appears to provide a legal standard for the issues addressed in this motion. 
 
There has been no showing by
either party that Plaintiff faces a criminal proceeding at this time for an
accident that occurred, allegedly, on February 08, 2021. The Court notes that
it has now been over three years since the alleged date of the incident. Further,
as to the categories highlighted by Plaintiff, whether the driver of the
vehicle consumed alcohol would not lead to criminal charges against Plaintiff,
a passenger; and whether there was alcohol present in the vehicle Plaintiff was
a passenger in would not automatically lead to criminal charges as (1) there is
no presentation as to the driver’s age, and (2) the language of Cal. Veh. Code
§ 23224 emphasizes a minor’s control of the alcohol which is not presented with
factual allegations within the Complaint or within this motion. Finally, the
following statute of limitations generally apply to criminal prosecution in
California:
 
·        
If an offense is not punishable by death or
imprisonment for more than one year, i.e., a misdemeanor, the statute of
limitations is ordinarily one year (see Cal. Pen. Code §802; People v Mincey
(1992) 2 Cal4th 408;
·        
For a felony offense punishable by imprisonment
for less than 8 years, the statute of limitations is ordinarily three years (see
Cal. Pen Code §801); and
·        
The statute of limitations that applies to a
wobbler, a crime that may be charged either as a misdemeanor or as a felony,
that is charged as a misdemeanor is determined by reference to the maximum
felony sentence (see Cal. Pen Code §805(a));
·        
When a misdemeanor is charged as a felony
because of prior convictions, the felony statute of limitations applies (see
Cal. Pen Code §801; People v San Nicolas (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 403);
·        
 If an
offense is punishable by imprisonment of eight years or more, the statute of
limitations is ordinarily six years (see Cal. Pen Code §800); and
·        
There is no statute of limitations for an
offense that is punishable by death, imprisonment in state prison for life, or
imprisonment for life without possibility of parole; or for an offense
involving embezzlement of public money (Cal. Pen Code §799(a)).
 
When both civil and criminal
proceedings arise out of the same or related transactions, an objecting party
is generally entitled to a stay of discovery in the civil action until
disposition of the criminal matter. (See Pacers, Inc., supra,
162 Cal.App.3d at 690.) Plaintiff did not request a stay. 
 
Here, (1) such information is also relative to the
action which may be taken as deprivation of information which would lead to
unfair surprise at trial. Plaintiff is alleged to be a passenger only, an
alleged fact that is not disputed by either party, and (2) any criminal
prosecution would appear to be a misdemeanor (e.g., Cal. Bus. & Prof. Code
§§ 25662, 25667) and the applicable statute of limitations has likely passed.
However, as information such as whether the alleged misdemeanor would be
charged as a felony and/or case information related to any criminal proceeding
brought from the alleged incident has not been presented, the Court inquires
about a potential stay.