  Case Number:  22AVCV00619    Hearing Date:   June 11, 2024    Dept:  A14 Background
 
This is a medical malpractice action.
Plaintiffs Angela Thompson (“Angela”)[1], Jeremy Thompson (“Jeremy”) and Aaron
Thompson (“Aaron” and collectively “Plaintiffs”) allege that Defendants Moneer
Eddin, M.D. (“Dr. Eddin”); Pramod Kadambi, M.D. (“Dr. Kadambi”); Nicole Wojtal,
M.D. (“Dr.Wojtal”); Lauren Rauchi, M.D. (“Dr. Rauchi”); Minif Rahal, M.D. (“Dr.
Rahal”); and Antelope Valley Hospital (“AVH” and collectively “Defendants”) are
the agent and employees of each of the other defendants and were at all times
acting within the course and scope of that agency and employment. Plaintiffs
further allege Defendants were negligent in their care of James Mark Thompson
(“Decedent”). Plaintiffs present that Decedent died on September 10,
2021.  
 
On August 23, 2022, Plaintiffs filed their
Complaint against Defendants alleging one cause of action for General
Negligence.  
 
On October 10, 2022, Plaintiffs amended Dr.
Rauchi’s name from Lauren Rauchi, M.D. to Loren Rauch, M.D. The Court will
hereinafter address Dr. Rauchi as Dr. Rauch due to this amendment. 
 
On October 11, 2023, Plaintiffs amended the
fictitious name of Doe 1 to Antelope Valley Emergency Medical Associates
(“AVEMA”). 
 
On October 21, 2022, Dr. Eddin filed his
Answer. 
 
On October 24, 2022, Dr. Rahal was placed
into default. 
 
On November 08, 2022, Dr. Wojtal filed her
Answer.  
 
On November 10, 2022, AVH filed its
Answer. 
 
On December 05, 2022, AVEMA and Dr. Rauch
filed their respective Answers. 
 
On July 17, 2023, Dr.Wojtal, Dr. Rauch, and
AVEMA filed a Motion for Summary Judgment.  
 
On July 19, 2023, Plaintiffs dismissed AVH
only with prejudice. 
 
On August 22, 2023, the Court granted the
Motion for Summary Judgment.  
 
On September 18, 2023, judgment was entered
as to Dr. Wojtal, Dr. Rauch, and AVEMA. 
 
On October 10, 2023, Plaintiffs dismissed
Dr. Eddin and Dr. Kadambi with prejudice.  
 
On October 27, 2023, Dr. Rahal filed an Ex
Parte Application to Set Aside Entry of Default and for an Order of Filing of
Responsive Pleading (“Ex Parte Application”), subsequently withdrawn. 
 
On October 31, 2023, Dr. Rahal filed a
Motion to Set Aside/Vacate Default, granted on December 19, 2023. 
 
On November 13, 2023, Dr. Eddin and Dr.
Kadambi filed several documents: (1) Application for Determination of Good
Faith Settlement, (2) an associated declaration, and (3) a Notice of
Settlement. No Opposition was filed to any of these documents and the
associated order was signed and filed on February 05, 2024. 
 
On January 03, 2024, Dr. Rahal filed his
Answer. 
 
On March 29, 2024, Dr. Rahal filed a
Petition to Compel Arbitration, an associated Memorandum of Points and
Authorities, and a Notice. Dr. Rahal also filed an Association of Attorney,
associating his counsel’s law firm of La Follette, Johnson, DeHaas, Fesler
& Ames with the law firm of Arnold & Porter Kaye Scholer LLP. 
 
On May 08, 2024, Plaintiffs filed their
Opposition.
 
On June 04, 2024, Dr. Rahal filed his Reply.
 
-----
 
Legal Standard
 
Standard for Compelling Arbitration – Cal. Code Civ. Proc. section 1281.2
permits a party to file a petition to request that the Court order the parties
to arbitrate a controversy. Cal. Code Civ. Proc. section 1281.2 permits a party
to file a motion to request that the Court order the parties to arbitrate a
controversy. Under Cal. Code Civ. Proc. section 1281.2, the Court may grant the
motion if the Court determines that an agreement to arbitrate the controversy
exists. 
 
Under Cal. Code Civ. Proc. section 1281.2,
it is the trial court that determines if there is a duty to arbitrate the
particular controversy which has arisen between the parties. (Engineers
& Architects Assn. v. Community Development Dept. (1994) 30 Cal.App.4th
644, 652-653.) In performing its duty to determine if the parties have agreed
to arbitrate that type of controversy, the Court is necessarily required to
examine and, to a limited extent, construe the underlying agreement. (Id.)  
 
Doubts as to whether an arbitration clause
applies to a particular dispute are to be resolved in favor of sending the
parties to arbitration. (Id.) The Court should order them to arbitrate
unless it is clear that the arbitration clause cannot be interpreted to cover
the dispute. (Id., Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §1281.2 [“. . .unless it
determines that: (a) The right to compel arbitration has been waived by the
petitioner; or (b) Grounds exist for the revocation of the agreement”].) Unless
the parties clearly and unmistakably provide otherwise, the question of whether
the parties agreed to arbitrate is to be decided by the court, not the
arbitrator. (Id.)  
 
The right to arbitration depends upon
contract; a petition to compel arbitration is simply a suit in equity seeking
specific performance of that contract. (Id.) There is no public policy
favoring arbitration of disputes which the parties have not agreed to
arbitrate. (Id.) 
 
The party seeking to enforce the arbitration
agreement bears the burden of proving the existence of a valid arbitration
agreement by the preponderance of the evidence. (Giuliano v. Inland Empire
Personnel, Inc. (2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 1276, 1284.) The trial court first
decides whether an enforceable arbitration agreement exists between the parties
and then determine whether the plaintiff’s claims are covered by the agreement.
(Omar v. Ralphs Grocery Co. (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th 955, 961.) 
 
The party opposing the petition to compel
arbitration bears the burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence any
fact necessary to its defense. (Giuliano v. Inland Empire Personnel, Inc.,
supra, at 1284.) In these summary proceedings, the trial court sits as a
trier of fact, weighing all the affidavits, declarations, and other documentary
evidence, as well as oral testimony received at the court’s discretion, to
reach a final determination. (Id.) 
 
-----
 
Discussion
 
Request for Judicial Notice
– Plaintiffs request judicial
notice for Exhibit 1 (Munif Rahal, M.D.’s Preliminary Opposition to Petition
for Writ of Mandate) and Exhibit 2 (Order of the Second Appellate District,
Division filed February 21, 2024). Both documents are court records and the
Court is allowed to take judicial notice of these matters under Cal. Evid. Code
§ 452(d). Accordingly, judicial notice is GRANTED.
 
Application – As an
initial matter, discussion of Dr. Rahal’s moving papers will focus on the
Memorandum of Points and Authorities (the “Memorandum”). It appears the exhibits
and declarations referenced by the Memorandum are attached to the Petition
filing. 
 
Dr. Rahal presents that, at the
time of the medical services at issue, Decedent was enrolled as a Kaiser member
under the Los Angeles County Agreement/EOC; the Los Angeles County
Agreement/EOC constitutes a contract between Kaiser and Los Angeles County
which Decedent elected as his health plan, effective June 01, 2017; and the Los
Angeles County Agreement/EOC contains a binding arbitration agreement. Dr.
Rahal presents that plans such as Los Angeles County Agreement/EOC are licensed
under the Knox-Keene Health Care Service Plan Act of 1975 (Cal. Health &
Saf. Code §§ 1340 et seq.) (the “Act”) and the arbitration agreement in
the Los Angeles County Agreement/EOC adheres to the requirements of the Act. Dr.
Rahal that presents for this plan, website, the enrollee must consent to the
arbitration agreement to complete enrollment by clicking the
"Accept/Enroll Now" button immediately after the arbitration
disclosure (Petition ¶ 10(a)-(c), Decl. Keisha Stephens ¶¶ 3-4, Exh. D); if the
employee selects “I Do not Accept” button, they cannot move forward with the
enrollment in Kaiser and will be returned to the plan selection screen (Id.);
Decedent accessed the Los Angeles County web enrollment system on April 5, 2017
(at 6:51:29 p.m.), October 30, 2017 (at 4:36:25 p.m.), October 15, 2019 (at
5:48:15 p.m.), and October 30, 2020 (at 2:06:40 p.m.), and on each occasion, at
the time indicated, he viewed and clicked the “Accept/Enroll Now” button on the
arbitration. (Petition, Exh. C-E.) Dr. Rahal presents that the electronic
signatures needed for this arbitration provision satisfies Cal. Civ. Code §
1633.7. Dr. Rahal argues that where the parties have a written agreement to
arbitrate, California law requires that they be ordered to arbitrate their
disputes and Plaintiffs’ claim falls within the ambit of the parties’
arbitration agreement, thus arbitration should be compelled and the action
should be stayed pending completion of arbitration.
 
Plaintiffs provides six reasons,
with subdivisions, as to why the arbitration agreement should be denied. (See
1:22-2:19.) Plaintiffs argue that the arbitration provision does not comply
with Cal. Health & Saf. Code § 1363.1, and Cal. Code Civ. § 1295. Plaintiffs
further argue that Dr. Rahal is estopped from compelling arbitration because
Plaintiffs have attempted to take a Writ of Mandate wherein Dr. Rahal argued that
“[t]he plaintiffs have an adequate remedy by way of appeal following trial. If
they lose at trial, they can raise the granting of the motion to set aside the
default as a ground for appeal[]” and now seeks arbitration. (See RJN, Exh. 1
at p. 15.) 
 
In his Reply, Dr. Rahal argues:
(1) the arbitration agreement complies with Cal. Health & Saf. Code §
1363.1 as the arbitration agreement was on a separate screen, bound inside of a
grey box, and has a bold and underlined heading; (2) Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §
1295(a)-(c) does not apply because health plans such as the one at issue are not
applicable pursuant to Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 1295(f); and the estoppel
argument has no merit has it pertains to Plaintiffs’ right of appeal and does
not concern arbitration as Plaintiffs can still appeal after a judgment
confirming an arbitration award.
 
The Court does not consider new
evidence provided in the Reply labeled Appendix A, B, and C as the salutary
rule is that points raised in a reply brief for the first time will not be
considered unless good cause is shown for the failure to present them before.”
(Balboa Ins. Co. v. Aguirre (1983) 149 Cal.App.3d 1002, 1010.) This
applies to new evidence as well – “[t]he general rule of motion practice … is
that new evidence is not permitted with reply papers.” (Jay v. Mahaffey
(2013) 218 Cal.App.4th 1522, 1537.) “This rule is based on the same solid logic
applied in the appellate courts, specifically, that ‘[p]oints raised for the
first time in a reply brief will ordinarily not be considered, because such
consideration would deprive the respondent of an opportunity to counter the
argument.’ ” (Id. at 1538 [citing American Drug Stores, Inc. v. Stroh
(1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 1446, 1453; Browne v. County of Tehama (2013) 213
Cal.App.4th 704, 720, fn. 10].) No good cause has been shown for the failure to
present these exhibits with the moving papers. 
 
The Court directs the parties to
pages 128 to 130 of Exhibit A, which appears to be cited as pages 76 through 78
of Exhibit A. 
 
Decedent signed the agreement electronically
on various dates, and Plaintiffs do not challenge the existence of the
arbitration provisions or its applicability to her claims, focusing instead on
issues with statutory compliance. Therefore, Dr. Rahal has established the
existence of an agreement to arbitrate with Plaintiffs covering the claims at
issue. 
 
Plaintiffs’ cause of action that
are directed at Dr. Rahal, alleged to be a provider of health care to Decedent
and a Kaiser physician (see Complaint, p. 4, GN-1) is General Negligence (see ibid.).
It appears to the Court that both causes of action are covered by the
arbitration provisions. (Petition, Exhibit A at p. 128 [“The claim arises from
or is related to an alleged violation of any duty incident to or arising out of
or relating to this EOC or a Member Party’s relationship to Kaiser Foundation
Health Plan, Inc. (Health Plan), including any claim for medical or hospital
malpractice (a claim that medical services were unnecessary or unauthorized or
were improperly, negligently, or incompetently rendered), for premises
liability, or relating to the coverage for, or delivery of, services or items,
irrespective of the legal theories upon which the claim is asserted”].) Dr.
Rahal contends that California law that where parties have a written agreement
to arbitrate, they must be ordered to arbitrate their disputes. Indeed, as
mentioned in the legal standard, the Court “should order [parties] to arbitrate
unless it is clear that the arbitration clause cannot be interpreted to cover
the dispute.” (Engineers & Architects Assn, supra, 30
Cal.App.4th 644, 652-653.) Additionally, the California Legislature passed the
Medical Injury Compensation Reform Act (MICRA) in 1975, encouraging arbitration
and leading to our present Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §1295. (Gross v. Recabaren
(1988) 206 Cal.App.3d 771, 775-76.)  
 
Cal. Health & Saf. Code
§ 1363.1 – Subdivision (a) provides: “The disclosure shall clearly
state whether the plan uses binding arbitration to settle disputes, including
specifically whether the plan uses binding arbitration to settle claims of
medical malpractice.” The arbitration disclosure provides:
 

 
(Petition, Exh. D.) 
 
The requirement of Cal. Health
& Saf. Code § 1363.1(a) is satisfied.
 
Cal. Health & Saf. Code §
1363.1(b) provides: “The disclosure shall appear as a separate article in the
agreement issued to the employer group or individual subscriber and shall be
prominently displayed on the enrollment form signed by each subscriber or
enrollee.” Exhibit D shows that the disclosure is separate from the plan and
presented in a page that requires action on behalf of the enrollee and bolded.
(See Petition, Exh. D.) Thus, Cal. Health & Saf. Code § 1363.1(b) is
satisfied.
 
Cal. Health & Saf. Code §
1363.1(c) provides: “The disclosure shall clearly state whether the subscriber
or enrollee is waiving his or her right to a jury trial for medical
malpractice, other disputes relating to the delivery of service under the plan,
or both, and shall be substantially expressed in the wording provided in
subdivision (a) of Section 1295 of the Code of Civil Procedure.” The
arbitration disclosure provides: “I agree to give up our right to a jury trial
and accept the use of binding arbitration.” (Petition, Exh. D.) Thus, Cal.
Health & Saf. Code § 1363.1(c) is satisfied.
 
Cal. Health & Saf. Code §
1363.1(d) provides: “In any contract or enrollment agreement for a health care
service plan, the disclosure required by this section shall be displayed
immediately before the signature line provided for the representative of the
group contracting with a health care service plan and immediately before the
signature line provided for the individual enrolling in the health care service
plan.” The disclosure comes before the boxes in which an enrollee must check
either “Accept/Enroll Now” or “I Do Not Accept.” (Petition, Exh. D.) The
disclosure provides:
 

 
(Ibid.)
 
Dr. Rahal has presented that this
option complies with requirements for legal signatures under Cal. Code Civ.
Proc. § 1633.7. Plaintiffs do not dispute this. Thus, Cal. Health & Saf.
Code § 1363.1(d) has been satisfied. 
 
Accordingly, the arbitration
disclosure complies with Cal. Health & Saf. Code § 1363.1.
 
Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 1295 – The Los Angeles County
Agreement/EOC does not follow Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §1295(a) or (b) which are both
mandatory. (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §1295(a)-(c) [provision with express language
and notice prior to signature line in 10-point bold red type, Rosenfield v.
Superior Ct. (1983) 143 Cal.App.3d 198, 202-03.) However, Los
Angeles County Agreement/EOC is exempted under Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §1295(f) and provided
an arbitration through compliance with the requirements of Health & Safety
Code §1363, §1363.1 and §1373(i). (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §1295(f) [“Subdivisions
(a), (b), and (c) shall not apply to any health care service plan contract
offered by an organization. . .licensed pursuant to Chapter 2.2 (commencing
with Section 1340) of Division 2 of the Health and Safety Code”].) 
 
Capacity – The
agreement that lays out the arbitration provisions is made between the County
of Los Angeles and Kaiser, not Decedent. (See Exh. A at p. 20.) However, case
law provides that an employer, acting as an agent for an employee, can bind the
employee. (Madden v. Kaiser Foundation Hospitals (1976) 17 Cal. 3d 699,
705-06 [using Cal Civ Code §2330 and §2319 as the basis for this decision]; Viola
v. Department of Managed Health Care (2005) 133 Cal. App. 4th 299 306
[citing Madden, supra, and holding these types of contracts as
constitutional].) Further, Decedent had knowledge of and assented to the
agreement as the notice prior to the signature line directs Decedent to view
the Evidence of Coverage and Certificate of Insurance. (Exhibit D.)  
 
The County of Los Angeles had
authority to negotiate a contract for healthcare on behalf of its employees,
including Decedent, and that includes an arbitration agreement.
 
Code Civ. Proc. §1281.2(c) (Third Party
Litigation Exception) –
Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 1281.2(c) provides that an arbitration agreement need
not be enforced by the Court if “[a] party to the arbitration agreement is also
party to a pending court action or special proceeding with a third party,
arising out of the same transaction or series of related transactions and there
is a possibility of conflicting rulings on a common issue of law or
fact.”  In addition, the Court may stay enforcement of the agreement “[i]f
the court determines that there are other issues between the petitioner and the
respondent which are not subject to arbitration . . . [and resolution] may make
the arbitration unnecessary.” 
 
Kaiser’s Evidence of Coverage for the County
of Los Angeles (“Evidence of Coverage”) states: “In accord with the rule that
applies under Sections 3 and 4 of the Federal Arbitration Act, the right to
arbitration under this 'Binding Arbitration' section shall not be denied,
stayed, or otherwise impeded because a dispute between a Member Party and a
Kaiser Permanente Party involves both arbitrable and nonarbitrable claims or
because one or more parties to the arbitration is also a party to a pending
court action with a third party that arises out of the same or related
transactions and presents a possibility of conflicting rulings or findings.”
(Exhibit A at p. 130.) 
 
Cal. Code Civ.
Proc. §¿1281.2(c) explicitly states that the aforementioned
provision¿does not apply to an agreement to arbitrate professional negligence
of a health care provider pursuant to Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §1295. (Cal. Code
Civ. Proc. §¿1281.2(c).)  
 
It appears to
the Court that the Los Angeles County Agreement/EOC meets the requirements of
and is subject to Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §1295(f),¿which governs agreements to
arbitrate professional negligence or medical malpractice claims in medical
services contracts with health care providers. (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §1295(f).) 
 
To this extent,
it appears that the current motion is exempt from the limitations set by Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §1281.2(c). 
 
Unconscionability – Kaiser is an HMO and is regulated
according to both the general doctrine of unconscionability and the Knox-Keene
Health Care Service Plan Act. (Engalla v. Permanente Medical Group, Inc.
(1997)15 Cal. 4th 951, 984.) As such, the contract must be “fair, reasonable,
and consistent with the objectives” of that statute. (Id. [citing Health
& Saf. Code §1367(h)].) For contracts such as the one at hand, California
courts first look to see if it is an adhesion contract. (Id. 984-985; Madden,
supra, 710; Viola, supra, 313.) Generally, the factors to
be considered are (1) whether a contract “‘represents the product of
negotiation between two parties. . .possessing parity of bargaining strength’”
and (2) if there where other plans to choose from. It appears to the Court that
Basta Inc. and Kaiser were two entities with parity of bargaining strength that
came together to form a negotiated agreement. Plaintiff does not provide any
evidence that she had to either pick this contract or forgo healthcare services.
(See Id. at 985 [(2) the state employee could choose from among a number
of different health plans, and thus was not confronted with the choice typical
of a contract of adhesion of ‘either adher[ing] to the standardized agreement
or forego[ing] the needed service’].) Additionally, as with the contract in Madden
and Engalla, the arbitration clause “does not limit the liability or
obligations of a stronger party, but ‘could prove helpful to all parties.’” (Id.
[citing Madden, supra, at 711].) 
 
The arbitration provisions are (1) binding
against Plaintiff, (2) exempt from the third-party litigation exemption under
Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §1281.2(c), and (3) not unconscionable.  
 
Plaintiffs’ arguments focus on adherence to Cal.
Health & Saf. Code § 1363.1 and Cal.
Code Civ. Proc. § 1281.2(c). For Plaintiffs’ estoppel argument, see infra.
As such, Plaintiff does not identify grounds to refuse to enforce the arbitration
agreement. 
 
Estoppel – As to Plaintiffs’ estoppel argument, the Court finds it unavailing as
Plaintiffs may appeal an arbitration agreement, similar to the argument raised
by Dr. Rahal in his Opposition to Writ. 
 
Dr. Rahal requests that the Court stay the
action pending the outcome of the arbitration. Under Cal Code Civ. Proc. §
1281.4, when the Court has ordered the arbitration of a controversy which is an
issue involved in an action or proceeding pending before the Court, it shall,
upon motion of a party stay the action or proceeding until an arbitration is
had in accordance with the order to arbitrate. “The purpose of the statutory
stay is to protect the jurisdiction of the arbitrator by preserving the status
quo until arbitration is resolved.” (Federal Ins. Co. v. Superior Court
(1998) 60 Cal.App.4th 1370, 1374.) “In the absence of a stay, the continuation
of the proceedings in the trial court disrupts the arbitration proceedings and
can render them ineffective.” (Id. at 1375.) the Court should stay the
action until the arbitration is completed.
 
Accordingly, Dr. Rahal’s Petition to Compel
Arbitration and Stay the Actionis GRANTED.
 
-----
 
Conclusion
 
Defendant Munif Raha’s Motion to Compel Arbitration and
Stay the Action is GRANTED.


