 Case Number:  23CHCV00871    Hearing Date:   November 30, 2023    Dept:  F49 Dept.
F-49
Date:
11-30-23
Case
#23CHCV00871
Trial
Date: Not Set
 
PRO HAC VICE
 
MOVING
PARTY: Defendant, Dometic Corporation
RESPONDING
PARTY: Unopposed/Plaintiff, Jennifer Bailey, et al.
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Motion
for Pro Hac Vice Admission
 
SUMMARY
OF ACTION
Plaintiffs
Jennifer and Tracy Bailey purchased a Jayco Trailer which incorporated a stove
manufactured/designed/distributed by defendant Dometic Corporation. On October
28, 2020, Plaintiffs were towing the trailer on Interstate 5, when the trailer
and products “failed” thereby causing a vehicle “crash.”
 
On
March 27, 2023, Plaintiffs filed their complaint for Negligence – Product
Liability, Strict Liability – Manufacturing Defect, Strict Liability – Design
Defect, Strict Liability – Failure to Warn.
 
RULING: Granted
Defendant Dometic Corporation moves for pro hac vice
admission of attorney Zackary Rogers.
 
Pro hac vice admission in California is governed by
California Rules of Court, Rule 9.40.  To
be admitted pro hac vice, one must be “a member in
good standing of and eligible to practice before the bar of any United States
court or the highest court in any state, territory, or insular possession of
the United States.”  (California
Rules of Court, rule 9.40(a).)  However,
in no case shall an attorney appear pro hac vice if the attorney is a resident
of California, regularly employed in California, or “regularly
engaged in substantial business, professional, or other activities in the State
of California.”
 
An attorney seeking pro hac vice
admission must file a verified application in both court and the State Bar of
California establishing:
 
(1) [t]he applicant's residence and office address; (2)[t]he courts to which the applicant has been admitted to
practice and the dates of admission; (3)[t]hat the applicant is a member in good standing in those
courts; (4)[t]hat the applicant is not currently suspended or
disbarred in any court; (5)[t]he title of court and cause in which the applicant has
filed an application to appear as counsel pro hac vice in this state in the preceding two years, the
date of each application, and whether or not it was granted; and (6)[t]he name, address, and telephone number of the active
member of the State Bar of California who is attorney of record.
 
(California
Rules of Court, rule 9.40(d).)
 
The application complies with California Rules of Court,
Rule 9.40. The subject application constitutes the second application for pro
hac vice admission in the state of California within at least the last two
years.  Moving party however lacks proof
of service the application on the State Bar of California, and instead only
represents service and payment to the State Bar of California in an unattached
“Exhibit A.” 
 
The application for pro hac vice admission is granted.
Moving party to file proof of payment and service of the California State Bar
(represented as Exhibit A).
 
The application for pro hac vice admission is granted. 
 
Case Management Conference set for February 13, 2024.
 
Dometic to give notice.
 