 Case Number:  22CHCV00680    Hearing Date:   November 30, 2023    Dept:  F49 Dept.
F-49
Date:
11-30-23
Case
#22CHCV00680
Trial
Date: Not Set
 
DEPOSITION
 
MOVING
PARTY: Plaintiffs, Ashley Elliott
RESPONDING
PARTY: Defendant, General Motors, LLC
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Motion
to Compel the Deposition of the Person Most Qualified
 
SUMMARY
OF ACTION
On
May 2, 2022, plaintiff Ashley Elliott purchased a 2022 Chevrolet Corvette
vehicle manufactured by Defendant General Motors, LLC. Plaintiff alleges the
vehicle suffers from a number of defects. 
 
On
August 23, 2023, Plaintiff filed a complaint for Breach of the Express
Warranty, and Breach of the Implied Warranty. On October 18, 2023, Defendant
answered the complaint.
 
RULING: Granted.
Plaintiff Ashley Elliott moves to compel the deposition of
the person most qualified (PMQ) for General Motors (GM), and production of
documents pursuant to the deposition notice. GM in opposition asserts the
motion comes without a sufficient meet and confer effort, Plaintiff seeks
irrelevant and/or privileged testimony, GM already agreed to produce a PMQ for
deposition, and the court should not award any sanctions. Plaintiff in reply maintains
its efforts to secure the deposition for “almost 11 months,” and GM continues
to engage in a steadfast effort to delay discovery. Plaintiff reiterates the
request for sanctions.

A party may file a motion to compel deposition upon a non-appearance or refusal
to proceed by the noticed party. (Code Civ. Proc., §2025.450, subd. (a).) A
party must present a qualified person for each deposition. (Maldonado v. Superior Court (2002) 94 Cal.App.4th
1390, 1398.)
 
The court first notes that while the motion was only
reserved as a motion to compel the deposition of a PMQ, the motion effectively
constitutes a preemptive motion to compel further testimony and/or a counter
motion for protective order. Given the increasing volume of filed Lemon Law
cases and subsequent increase of motions, presumably at least in part prompted
by the lack of arbitration clause enforcement pending California Supreme Court
review, the court will not consider any preemptive scope of testimony
parameters unless and until the deposition takes place. GM agrees to produce a
witness for at least certain of inquiries. The motion to compel the appearance
is therefore granted in order to ensure the deposition takes place with no
other conditions or guidance.
 
The court orders the parties to meet and confer within the
next 20 calendar days in order to agree upon a mutually convenient deposition
date(s) of the PMQ(s) to occur within the next 45 days. Again, the court will
neither preemptively determine the validity of any objections or issue a
protective order on an unmade motion. Defendant may assert any privilege
objections at the time of the deposition, as it deems required. An excessive
amount of objections and/or termination of the deposition may allow Plaintiff
to file a motion to compel further deposition testimony. Such a motion
may lead to the setting of an OSC for referral to a discovery referee in order
to conduct a supervised deposition, or the imposition an order compelling
further responses with sanctions in favor of the prevailing party. The parties
may alternatively agree on a discovery referee ahead of time following the
deposition, if the parties are unable to agree to sufficient parameters during
the deposition and require subsequent guidance and supervision. 
 
Sanctions
are not imposed given the parties agreement to conduct the deposition, the lack
of any actual deposition non-appearance and incurrence of costs, the otherwise overbroad
request in the motion based on premature, preemptive efforts regarding the
scope of the questions. (Code Civ. Proc., §2025.450, subd. (g)(1).)
 
Plaintiff
to give notice.
 