 Case Number:  23STCV15856    Hearing Date:   December 18, 2024    Dept:  29 Bustos v. Bonilla
23STCV15856
Plaintiff’s Motion to Continue Trial
Tentative
The motion is granted.
Background
On July 7, 2023, Plaintiff Manuel Bustos (“Plaintiff”) filed a
complaint against Jose M. Bonilla, Miguel Garcia Padilla, JB Trucking, and Does
1 through 50, asserting a cause of action for motor vehicle negligence arising
out of an alleged accident on December 2, 2021, on the 5 Freeway near Hollywood
Way in Los Angeles.
On August 11, 2023, Defendants Jose M. Bonilla d/b/a JB
Trucking and Miguel Garcia Padilla (“Defendants”) filed an answer and a
cross-complaint against Does 1 through 100.
When the case was filed, the Court assigned a trial date of
January 3, 2025.
On December 2, 2024, Plaintiff filed a motion to continue
trial.  On the same day, Plaintiff filed
an ex parte application to advance the hearing on the motion to continue
trial.  On December 3, Plaintiff filed a
supplemental declaration in support of the ex parte application.
On December 4, 2024, the Court granted the application and set
the motion for hearing on December 18, 2024.
Legal Standard
Code of Civil Procedure section 128,
subdivision (a)(8), provides that the court has the power to amend and control
its process and orders so as to make them conform to law and justice. “The
power to determine when a continuance should be granted is within the
discretion of the trial court.” (Color-Vue, Inc. v. Abrams (1996) 44
Cal.App.4th 1599, 1603.) “A trial court has wide latitude in the matter of
calendar control including the granting or denying of continuances.” (Park
Motors, Inc. v. Cozens (1975) 49 Cal.App.3d 12, 18.)  
“To ensure the prompt disposition of civil
cases, the dates assigned for trial are firm. 
All parties and their counsel must regard the date set for trial as
certain.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1332(a).)
“Although continuances of trials are
disfavored, each request for a continuance must be considered on its own
merits.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1332(c).)  “The court may grant a
continuance only on an affirmative showing of good cause requiring the
continuance.”  (Ibid.)  Circumstances that may support a finding of
good cause include:  
“(1) The
unavailability of an essential lay or expert witness because of death, illness,
or other excusable circumstances;  
(2) The
unavailability of a party because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances;  
(3) The
unavailability of trial counsel because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances;  
(4) The
substitution of trial counsel, but only where there is an affirmative showing
that the substitution is required in the interests of justice;  
(5) The addition
of a new party if: (A) The new party has not had a reasonable opportunity to
conduct discovery and prepare for trial; or (B) The other parties have not had
a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for trial in regard
to the new party's involvement in the case; 

(6) A party's
excused inability to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other material
evidence despite diligent efforts; or  
(7) A
significant, unanticipated change in the status of the case as a result of
which the case is not ready for trial.”  
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(c).)  
“In ruling on a motion or application for
continuance, the court must consider all the facts and circumstances that are
relevant to the determination.”  (Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(d).)  California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(d) sets forth a non-exhaustive list of factors that
the court may consider:  
“(1) The
proximity of the trial date;  
(2) Whether
there was any previous continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial due to
any party;  
(3) The length
of the continuance requested;  
(4) The
availability of alternative means to address the problem that gave rise to the
motion or application for a continuance; 

(5) The
prejudice that parties or witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance;

(6) If the case
is entitled to a preferential trial setting, the reasons for that status and
whether the need for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay; 
(7) The court's
calendar and the impact of granting a continuance on other pending trials; 
(8) Whether
trial counsel is engaged in another trial; 

(9) Whether all
parties have stipulated to a continuance; 

(10) Whether the
interests of justice are best served by a continuance, by the trial of the
matter, or by imposing conditions on the continuance; and  
(11) Any other
fact or circumstance relevant to the fair determination of the motion or
application.”  
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(d).) 
Discussion
Plaintiff moves to continue trial due to the illness of
counsel.  (Roberts Decl., ¶¶ 3-5.)  Defendants do not oppose the motion, and Defendants’
counsel informed Plaintiff’s counsel that Defendants agree to the
continuance.  (Supp. Roberts Decl., ¶ 2.)
For good cause shown, the motion is granted.
Conclusion
The Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion to continue trial.
The Court CONTINUES trial to a date in mid June 2025.  The Final Status Conference and all deadlines
are reset based on the new trial date.
Moving party is ordered to give notice.