 Case Number:  22STCV26987    Hearing Date:   December 18, 2024    Dept:  29 Roberson v. 24 Hour Fitness USA
22STCV26987
Defendant’s Motion for Summary Judgment or, in the Alternative, for Summary
Adjudication
 
TENTATIVE
The motion for summary judgment is denied.
The motion for summary adjudication is granted
in part and denied in part.
Background
On August 19, 2022, Matthew Roberson
(“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against 24 Hour Fitness USA, LLC (“Defendant”) and
Does 1 through 50, asserting a cause of action for negligence arising out of an
incident on July 13, 2022, in which an exercise machine allegedly malfunctioned
and injured Plaintiff. 
On September 14, 2022, Defendant filed an
answer. On September 13, 2023, Defendant filed an amended answer.
On August 21, 2024, Defendant filed this motion
for summary judgment or, in the alternative, for summary adjudication. 
Plaintiff filed his opposition on October 23 and
filed an additional (untimely) declaration on October 29. Plaintiff also filed
objections to some of Defendant’s evidence.
Defendant filed its reply, along with
objections to some of Plaintiff’s evidence, on November 1, 2024.
The motion was initially set for hearing on
November 8, 2024. On that date, the Court heard from counsel, agreed to accept
the untimely declaration submitted by Plaintiff, granted leave to Defendant to
file a supplemental reply, and continued the hearing.
Defendant submitted a supplemental reply on
November 20, 2024.
Legal Standard
“The purpose
of the law of summary judgment is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut
through the parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their
allegations, trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) Code of Civil
Procedure section 437c, subdivision (c), “requires the trial judge to grant
summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably
deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or
evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that
the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” (Adler v.
Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) “The function of
the pleadings in a motion for summary judgment is to delimit the scope of the
issues; the function of the affidavits or declarations is to disclose whether
there is any triable issue of fact within the issues delimited by the
pleadings.” (Juge v. County of Sacramento (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67,
citing FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 367,
381-382.)
As to each
cause of action as framed by the complaint, a defendant moving for summary
judgment or summary adjudication must satisfy the initial burden of proof by
presenting facts to show “that one or more elements of the cause of action ...
cannot be established, or that there is a complete defense to the cause of
action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2); see also Aguilar, supra,
25 Cal.4th at pp. 850-851; Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128
Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.) Once the defendant has met that burden, the burden
shifts to the plaintiff to show that a “triable issue of one or more material
facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 437c, subd. (p)(2); see also Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at pp.
850-851.)
A plaintiff or
cross-complainant moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication must
satisfy the initial burden of proof by presenting facts to show “that there is
no defense to a cause of action if that party has proved each element of the
cause of action entitling the party to judgment on the cause of action.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(1).) Once the plaintiff or cross-complainant has
met that burden, the burden shift to the defendant or cross-defendant to show
that a “triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of
action or a defense thereto.” (Ibid.)
The party
opposing a motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication may not simply
“rely upon the allegations or denials of its pleadings” but must instead “set
forth the specific facts showing that a triable issue of material fact exists.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subds. (p)(1) & (p)(2). To establish a triable
issue of material fact, the party opposing the motion must produce substantial
responsive evidence. (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151,
166.)
Courts
“liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary
judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore
v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)
Objections to Evidence
Each party objects to some of the
evidence submitted by the other. Evidence presented in support of, or in
opposition to, a motion for summary judgment must be admissible. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 437c, subd. (d); Perry v.
Bakewell Hawthorne LLC (2017) 2
Cal.5th 536, 541-43.) The court must “consider all of the evidence set forth in the papers, except the
evidence to which objections have been made and sustained.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
437c, subd. (c).)
The Court OVERRULES the objections submitted by
each party.
Discussion
On July 13, 2022, Plaintiff was injured while
using exercise equipment at Defendant’s facility located in Glendora.
(Defendant’s Statement of Undisputed Facts [“DSUMF”], No. 1.)
In his complaint, Plaintiff asserts a single
cause of action for negligence against Defendant.  Plaintiff alleges that Defendant had “actual
knowledge that the Machine was unsafe for use” as “at least 3 other customers
[had] complained about the machine” prior to the accident. (Complaint, ¶ 6.)
Plaintiff contends Defendant failed to repair the machine or provide notice
that the machine was broken before Plaintiff’s use, which led to his injuries. (Ibid.)

In its amended answer, Defendant asserts eleven
affirmative defenses. In the Eighth Affirmative Defense, Defendant alleges that
Plaintiff signed a membership agreement in which he “agreed to waive any and
all claims for negligence” against Defendant. (Amended Answer, at p. 3.) In the
Tenth Affirmative Defense, Defendant alleges that Plaintiff signed a membership
agreement in which he “agreed to waive any and all claims for ordinary negligence”
against Defendant. (Ibid.)
Defendant now brings this motion for summary
judgment based on the membership agreement. In the alternative, Defendant seeks
summary adjudication as to each of the Eighth and Tenth Affirmative Defenses. 
Plaintiff signed a membership agreement in 2010
and again in 2011. (DSUMF, Nos. 2-3, 5.) Both agreements contain a provision
entitled “Release of Liability – Assumption of Risk” in which Plaintiff states,
among other things, that he understands and accepts the risk of using the
facilities and that Defendant will not be liable for any injury Plaintiff
sustains as a result of Defendant’s negligence. (DSUMF, Nos. 4, 6.)
Specifically, the two membership agreements
provide in part as follows:
“Using the 24 Hour Fitness USA, Inc. (24 Hour) facilities involves
the risk of injury to you or your guest, whether you or someone else causes lt.
Specific risks vary from one activity to another and the risks range from minor
injuries to major injuries, such as catastrophic injuries including death. In
consideration of your participation in the activities offered by 24 Hour, you
understand and voluntarily accept this risk and agree that 24 Hour, Its
officers, directors, employees, volunteers, agents and Independent contractors will
not be liable for any injury, including, without limitation, personal,
bodily, or mental Injury, economic loss or any damage to you, your spouse,
guests, unborn child, or relatives resulting from any negligence of 24 Hour or
anyone on 24 Hour's behalf or anyone using the facilities whether related to
exercise or not. You agree to indemnify, defend and hold 24 Hour
harmless against any liability, damages, defense costs, including attorneys
fees, or from any other costs incurred in connection with claims for bodily
injury, wrongful death or property damage caused by your negligence or other
wrongful acts or omissions. You further agree to hold harmless, defend and
indemnify 24 Hour from all liability, damages, defense costs, including
attorneys fees, or from any other costs incurred in connection with claims for
bodily injury, wrongful death or property damage brought by you, your guests,
or minors, even if 24 Hour Fitness was negligent. Further, you understand and
acknowledge that 24 Hour does not manufacture fitness or other equipment al its
facilities, but purchases and/or leases equipment You understand and
acknowledge that 24 Hour is providing recreational services and may not be held
liable for defective products. By signing below, you acknowledge and agree that
you have read the foregoing and know of the nature of the activities at 24 Hour
and you agree to all the terms on pages 1 through 4 of this agreement and
acknowledge that you have received a copy of it and the membership policies.”
(Exhs. D & E.)
The agreements also state that by signing,
Plaintiff acknowledges and agrees to the foregoing; Plaintiff states he skimmed
the entire agreement before signing and acknowledges that he never cancelled
his agreement. (Exh. C, 19:14 – 20:5.)
The law regarding exculpatory clauses in this
context is, at least at a general level, reasonably clear: a party may, in
advance, waive claims for ordinary negligence but not claims for gross
negligence, recklessness, or intentional torts. (See Jimenez v. 24 Hour
Fitness USA, Inc. (2015) 237 Cal.App.4th 546, 554; Cohen v. Five Brooks
Stable (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 1476, 1484; Benedek v. PLC Santa Monica
(2002) 104 Cal.App.4th 1351, 1356.) 
“[T]he defendant bears the burden of raising
the defense and establishing the validity of a release as applied to the case
at hand.” (City of Santa Barbara v. Superior Court (2007) 41 Cal.4th
747, 780 fn. 58; see also Eriksson v. Nunnink (2015) 233 Cal.App.4th
708, 733-34.) For an express release of liability to be enforceable against a
plaintiff, (1) the release agreement “must be clear, unambiguous and explicit
in expressing the intent of the parties”; (2) the injury-producing act “must be
reasonably related to the object or purpose for which the release is given”; and
(3) the release “cannot contravene public policy.” (Sweat v. Big Time Auto
Racing, Inc. (2004) 117 Cal.App.4th 1301, 1304-05.) “The cases consistently
have held that ‘[e]xculpatory agreements in the recreational sports context do
not implicate the public interest and therefore are not void as against public
policy.” (Capri v. L.A. Fitness International, LLC (2006) 136
Cal.App.4th 1078, 1084.)
Ordinary Negligence
The Court finds Defendant has met its burden
that the membership agreements contain clear and unambiguous liability waivers,
that the injury-producing occurrence was related to the purpose for which the release
was given, and that the release does not contravene public policy as it relates
to claims for ordinary negligence. (See Benedek, supra, 104 Cal.App.4th at
pp. 1358-1359.) Plaintiff has not presented evidence that is sufficient to
create a triable issue on the application of the waiver to his claim for
ordinary negligence.
Accordingly, Defendant’s request for summary
adjudication of the Tenth Affirmative Defense is granted.
Gross Negligence
Ordinary negligence “consists of a failure to
exercise the degree of care in a given situation that a reasonable person under
similar circumstances would employ to protect others from harm.” (City of
Santa Barbara v. Superior Court (2007) 41 Cal.4th 747, 753–754.) Gross
negligence, in contrast, is defined as either “want of even scant care or an
extreme departure from the ordinary standard of conduct.” (Ibid.) 
Gross negligence is not a tort separate from
ordinary negligence. A cause of action for negligence in a pleading is
sufficient to cover claims for either ordinary negligence, gross negligence, or
both. Gross negligence differs from ordinary
negligence only in degree, and not in kind. (Gore v. Board of Medical
Quality Assurance (1980) 110 Cal.App.3d 184,197.) Mere nonfeasance, such as
the failure to discover a dangerous condition or to perform a duty amounts to
ordinary negligence. (Frittelli, Inc. v. 350 North Canon Drive, LP
(2011) 202 Cal.App.4th 35, 48.) 
“[T]o set forth a claim for gross negligence,
the plaintiff must also allege conduct by the defendant involving either want
of even scant care or an extreme departure from the ordinary standard of
conduct… Gross negligence connotes such a lack of care as may be presumed to
indicate a passive and indifferent attitude toward results ....” (Chavez v.
24 Hour Fitness USA, Inc. (2015) 238 Cal.App.4th 632, 640.)
“Generally it is a triable issue of fact
whether there has been such a lack of care as to constitute gross negligence … but
not always.” (Ibid.)
Here,
Defendant contends that there is no evidence that could support a finding of
gross negligence. Defendant relies on Grebing v. 24 Hour Fitness USA, Inc. (2015) 234 Cal.App.4th 631 (among other cases).
In Grebing, the court held plaintiff failed to make a showing of gross
negligence based on the failure of a row machine’s clip; the plaintiff provided
evidence of another gym member who reported the clip was crooked on a pull down
machine 15 minutes before plaintiff’s accident.
 
In
opposition, Plaintiff asserts in his declaration that when he returned to the
Gym after his accident, an employee of Defendant apologized for the accident
and told him they had been made aware of the machine’s malfunction before he
used it. (Roberson Decl., ¶ 3.) 
 
Plaintiff
also presents the declaration of Lorenzo Melendez, who states he alerted
Defendant’s staff three times of the machine’s malfunction before Plaintiff’s
accident over the period of a few days; Defendant failed to take protective
measures to keep patrons from using the machine. (Melendez Decl., ¶ 3-4, &
6.) 
 
Unlike
the plaintiff in Grebing, Plaintiff is not relying on the report of
another gym member of a faulty clip on a different workup machine just minutes
before his accident. Instead, Plaintiff has presented evidence that Defendant
was put on notice several times that the machine which caused his injury was
faulty and Defendant failed to mark it off as unsafe or fix the machine.
Viewing
the evidence in the light most favorable to the non-moving party, and drawing
all reasonable inferences in his favor, the Court concludes that a trier of
fact could reasonably find, on this record, that Defendant was grossly
negligent, that Defendant’s conduct was an extreme departure from the ordinary
standard of conduct that indicated an indifferent attitude toward the
likelihood of injury to Plaintiff or others. Of course, the trier of fact could
also reasonably find the opposite, but on summary judgment the Court does not weigh
the evidence or attempt to predict the likely outcome at trial. 
 
Accordingly,
Defendant’s motion for summary adjudication of the Eighth Affirmative Defense
is denied on the ground that it is against public policy to waive in advance
claims for gross negligence. In addition, Defendant’s motion for summary
judgment is denied on the ground that there are triable issues as to whether Defendant’s
conduct constitutes gross negligence. 
 
Conclusion
The Court GRANTS Defendant’s motion for summary
adjudication in its favor as to the Tenth Affirmative Defense.
The Court DENIES Defendant’s motion for summary
adjudication in its favor as to the Eighth Affirmative Defense.
The Court DENIES Defendant’s motion for summary
judgment.
Moving Party is to give notice.