 Case Number:  23STCV29739    Hearing Date:   June 20, 2024    Dept:  39  
 TENTATIVE RULING
 



DEPARTMENT


39




HEARING DATE


June 20, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23STCV29739




MOTION 


Motion to Compel Arbitration




MOVING PARTY


Defendant Zara
  USA, Inc.




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff Adrian J. Parra



 
MOTION
              Defendant
Zara USA, Inc. (“Defendant”) moves to compel arbitration with Plaintiff Adrain
J. Parra (“Plaintiff”), and Plaintiff opposes the motion.
 ANALYSIS
The moving party
on a petition to compel arbitration “bears the burden of proving the existence
of a valid arbitration agreement by a preponderance of the evidence, while a
party opposing the petition bears the burden of proving by a preponderance of
the evidence any fact necessary to its defense.  The trial court sits as
the trier of fact, weighing all the affidavits, declarations, and other
documentary evidence, and any oral testimony the court may receive at its
discretion, to reach a final determination.” 
(Ruiz v. Moss Bros. Auto Group, Inc. (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 836,
842, internal quotations and citations omitted.)  
.Defendant advances
an arbitration agreement Plaintiff signed.  The arbitration agreement provides Plaintiff agrees to arbitrate “any
controversy, dispute, or claim that could otherwise be raised in court . . .
that [Defendant] has against [Plaintiff] or [Plaintiff] [has] against [Defendant]
(and/or its current or former officers, directors, members, employees, vendors,
clients, customers, agents, parents, subsidiaries, affiliated companies,
successors, or assigns) . . . .”  (Declaration
of Patricia Sullivan, Exhibit 1.)  Accordingly, Defendant meets its burden to
show that an arbitration agreement exists, which applies to Plaintiff’s claims.
Plaintiff asserts
representative claims under the Labor Code Private Attorneys General Act of
2004, or PAGA.  However, the arbitration
agreement requires Plaintiff to bring claims “on an individual basis only . . .
.”  (Declaration of Patricia Sullivan,
Exhibit 1.)  Pursuant to Viking River
Cruises, Inc. v. Moriana (2022) 596 U.S. 639 (Viking River Cruises),
Defendant is “entitled to enforce the agreement insofar as it mandated
arbitration of [Plaintiff]’s individual PAGA claim.”  (Id. at p. 662.)  Plaintiff must arbitrate his individual claim
under PAGA.  Therefore, the court stays
Plaintiff’s representative claim pending arbitration of Plaintiff’s individual
claim.  (See Adolph v. Uber
Technologies, Inc. (2023) 14 Cal.5th 1104, 1123.)
In opposition, Plaintiff argues the arbitration
agreement is unconscionable under Armendariz
v. Foundation Health Psychcare Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83.  The arbitration agreement Plaintiff signed specifies the
Federal Arbitration Act governs.  A
choice of law provision in an arbitration agreement is enforceable.  (See Coopers
& Lybrand v. Superior Court (1989) 212 Cal.App.3d 524, 538.)  As
such, the Federal Arbitration Act applies. 
Under the Federal Arbitration Act, defenses that derive their
meaning from the fact that an agreement to arbitrate is at issue cannot
invalidate agreements to arbitrate.  (AT&T Mobility LLC v. Concepcion (2011)
563 U.S. 333,  339.)  The rules set forth in Armendariz are specific to arbitration agreements.  (See Abramson
v. Juniper Networks, Inc. (2004) 115 Cal.App.4th 638, 661.)  These rules, therefore, cannot invalidate the
arbitration agreement between Plaintiff and Defendant.  The court considers whether the arbitration
agreement is unconscionable pursuant to generally applicable principles of
contract law.
Civil Code section 1670.5 provides “[i]f the court as a matter of law
finds the contract or any clause of the contract to have been unconscionable at
the time it was made the court may refuse to enforce the contract, or it may
enforce the remainder of the contract without the unconscionable clause, or it
may so limit the application of any unconscionable clause as to avoid any
unconscionable result.”  (Civ. Code, § 1670.5,
subd. (a).)  Unconscionability is defined
as “an absence of meaningful choice on the part of one of the parties together
with contract terms which are unreasonably favorable to the other party.”  (A & M Produce Co. v. FMC Corp.
(1982) 135 Cal.App.3d 473, 486 (A & M Produce).)
Unconscionability, thus, has a procedural and a substantive element.  (A & M Produce, supra, 135
Cal. App.3d at p. 486.)  The court
considers the factors of oppression and surprise in determining whether a
contract is procedurally unconscionable. 
(Ibid.)  Oppression refers
to inequality of bargaining power, which cuts off meaningful negotiation.  (Ibid.)  Surprise refers to the concealment of the
agreed-upon terms in a lengthy form drafted by the party seeking to enforce
them.  (Ibid.)  Substantive unconscionability refers to the
extent to which a contractual term reallocates the risks of a transaction in an
objectively unreasonable or unexpected manner. 
(Id. at 487.)  Both
substantive and procedural unconscionability must be present for a contract to
be unenforceable, and “the greater the unfair surprise or inequality of
bargaining power, the less unreasonable the risk allocation which will be
tolerated.”  (Ibid.)
The evidence before the court demonstrates Defendant prepared the
arbitration agreement, and Plaintiff had no opportunity to negotiate or discuss
the terms of the agreement.   It is, therefore, a contract of adhesion (Neal v. State Farm Ins. Companies
(1961) 188 Cal.App.2d 690, 694), and this constitutes some evidence of procedural unconscionability. 
(Flores v. Transamerica HomeFirst, Inc. (2001) 93 Cal.App.4th
846, 853.)  Plaintiff has not, however, shown
the arbitration agreement is substantively unconscionable so as to be unenforceable.
,Plaintiff argues the arbitration agreement is substantively
unconscionable because it is not mutual. 
That contention is not borne out by a reading and interpretation of the agreement’s
terms.  The arbitration agreement at
issue applies to claims Defendant has against Plaintiff as well as claims
Plaintiff has against Defendant. 
Further, while it exempts certain claims from arbitration, the exempted
claims include those that only Plaintiff could bring, such as claims for
workers’ compensation or unemployment benefits, and claims before the Equal
Employment Opportunity Commission. 
(Declaration of Patricia Sullivan, Exhibit 1.)  The agreement is mutual.  Plaintiff’s other arguments about substantive
unconscionability are specific to arbitration agreements and, therefore, inapplicable under the Federal Arbitration Act.
DPlaintiff contends Defendant has waived the right to
enforce the arbitration agreement because Defendant breached the agreement.  Pursuant to the Federal Arbitration Act, the court
considers the defense of waiver, rather than the arbitrator.  (Buckeye Check Cashing, Inc. v. Cardegna
(2006) 546 U.S. 440, 444-446.)  As
Plaintiff points out, the arbitration agreement between Plaintiff and Defendant
requires mediation prior to arbitration. 
The agreement provides, “To initiate mediation, a party must deliver a
Request for Mediation within the time period required under the applicable
statute of limitations . . . .”  (Declaration
of Patricia Sullivan, Exhibit 1.)  However,
the evidence presented to this court indicates because Defendant repeatedly asked
Plaintiff to participate in mediation, but Plaintiff insisted both his
individual and the PAGA claims had to be mediated.   Plaintiff
breached the agreement, not Defendant.  
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
Defendant’s motion to compel
Plaintiff to arbitrate his individual claims is granted.  Plaintiff’s representative claims against Defendant
are stayed pending arbitration.  
Defendant is ordered to provide notice of
this order and file proof of service of same.
 