 Case Number:  23STCV27441    Hearing Date:   June 20, 2024    Dept:  39  TENTATIVE RULING
 



DEPARTMENT


39




HEARING DATE


June 20, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23STCV27441




MOTION 


Motion to Compel Arbitration




MOVING PARTY


Defendant Total-Western,
  Inc.




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff Steven Hockney



 
MOTION
              Defendant
Total-Western, Inc. (“Defendant”) moves to compel arbitration with Plaintiff Steven
Hockney (“Plaintiff”), and Plaintiff opposes the motion.
 ANALYSIS
The moving party
on a petition to compel arbitration “bears the burden of proving the existence
of a valid arbitration agreement by a preponderance of the evidence, while a
party opposing the petition bears the burden of proving by a preponderance of
the evidence any fact necessary to its defense.  The trial court sits as
the trier of fact, weighing all the affidavits, declarations, and other
documentary evidence, and any oral testimony the court may receive at its
discretion, to reach a final determination.” 
(Ruiz v. Moss Bros. Auto Group, Inc. (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 836,
842, internal quotations and citations omitted.)  
Defendant contends
an arbitration agreement between Defendant and Plaintiff’s union, United
Steelworkers Local 1945, provides Defendant and Plaintiff’s union agree to
arbitrate “any dispute arising out of the interpretation of” the collective
bargaining agreement.  Defendant and
Plaintiff’s union also agreed to arbitrate “any dispute or grievance regarding
overtime, meal periods, rest periods or any other subject matter covered by any
and all applicable Wage Orders issued by . . . California . . . , and/or by
California Labor Code sections 201-204, 226, 226.7, 510, 512, 1194, 1194.2, or
1197 . . . .”  
The agreement further
provides Plaintiff’s union will file a grievance with Defendant, and the
parties will attempt to resolve the dispute informally.  If the parties are unable to resolve the
dispute informally, Plaintiff’s union will “determine whether to continue to
participate in the arbitration of” the grievance.  If Plaintiff’s union elects not to
participate in the arbitration, Plaintiff “may pursue arbitration . . . .”  (Declaration of Leonard Crespo, Exhibits A, B.)
 By its terms, if Plaintiff’s union
elects not to participate in arbitration, Plaintiff’s participation in an arbitration
is optional.  As such, Defendant fails to
meet its burden to show an arbitration agreement exists, which applies to
Plaintiff’s claims.  The motion to compel
arbitration is, therefore, denied.
In reply,
Defendant argues “[t]he use of the word ‘may’ is to state that should Plaintiff
decide to continue proceeding with filing an action against Defendant, that the
avenue to do so is through arbitration–not that Plaintiff may choose any other
avenue of dispute resolution.”  (Reply in
Support of Motion to Compel Arbitration, p. 7.)  However, the language of the collective
bargaining agreement “is not reasonably susceptible of a meaning” Plaintiff
must submit to arbitration.  (Beard v.
Goodrich (2003) 110 Cal.App.4th 1031, 1039.)  Defendant acknowledges the language of the
agreement is permissive.  (Reply in
Support of Motion to Compel Arbitration, p. 7.)  Further, Defendant advances no extrinsic
evidence to support its argument the parties intended a contrary meaning.  (Founding Members of the Newport Beach
Country Club v. Newport Beach Country Club, Inc. (2003) 109 Cal.App.4th
944, 955.)  As such, Defendant’s argument
is unsupported and not persuasive.
Therefore, the motion is denied, and Defendant
is ordered to provide notice of this order and to file proof of service of same.
 