  Case Number:  24SMCV00326    Hearing Date:   April 18, 2024    Dept:  205  
 
 
Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles – West District 
Beverly Hills Courthouse / Department 205
 



MATLYNN ROZELL GILES, 
 
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
7-ELEVEN,
  INC., et al.,  
 
                        Defendants.


 
  Case
  No.:  24SMCV00326
 
  Hearing Date:  April 18, 2024
  [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
  defendants’ motion to strike 
  portions of plaintiff’s complaint
 
 
 



 
BACKGROUND
This is a personal injury case.  Plaintiff Matlynn Rozell Giles alleges she
sustained severe burns to her body due to hot coffee she bought at a 7-Eleven
store.  (Compl. ¶12.) 
The coffee spilled on her when the car she was riding came to a stop at
a red light.  (Id.)  She alleges that the coffee was “unreasonably
hot and heated well above industry standards.” 
(Id. ¶13.)  She also alleges the lids were not the
appropriate “quality and size” to properly ensure that the hot coffee would not
spill.  (Id. ¶21.) 
The Complaint alleges a single cause of
action for negligence against Defendants 7-Eleven Inc. (the franchisor), R.
Berg Enterprises Inc. (the franchisee) and Ralph Berg (the manager and owner)
(collectively, “Moving Defendants”).
This hearing is on Moving Defendants’ motion
to strike Plaintiff’s claim for punitive damages.  Moving Defendants argue that Plaintiff has
not sufficiently alleged malice, oppression or fraud to support a claim for
punitive damages.  
MEET AND CONFER
Code Civ. Proc. § 435.5 requires that before
the filing of a motion to strike, the moving party “shall meet and confer in
person or by telephone” with the party who filed the pleading that is subject
to motion to strike for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be
reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in the motion to strike.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 435.5(a).)  The parties are to meet and confer at least
five days before the date the responsive pleading is due. (Code Civ. Proc. §435.5(a)(2).)  Thereafter, the moving party shall file and
serve a declaration detailing its meet and confer efforts.  (Code Civ. Proc. §435.5(a)(3).)  
Defendants submit the Declaration of Patricia
Munoz which fails to show the parties met and conferred in person or by
telephone and at least five days before the date of the responsive
pleading.  Instead, Munoz emailed
Plaintiff on March 6 and called Plaintiff’s counsel (without actually talking
to counsel) on March 7, less than five days before the filing of the motion to
strike (on March 8, 2024).  Notwithstanding,
the Court cannot deny a motion to strike based on an insufficient meet and
confer.  (Code Civ. Proc.
§435.5(a)(4).)  The Court cautions the
parties, however, that any future failures to comply with meet and confer
obligations will result in the continuance of their motion.  
LEGAL STANDARD
The court may, upon motion, or at any time in
its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false,
or improper matter inserted in any pleading. 
(Code Civ. Proc. § 436, subd. (a).) 
The court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or
filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of
the court. (Code Civ. Proc. § 436, subd. (b).) 
The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading
or by way of judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc. § 437.)
Leave to amend must be allowed where there is
a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Vaccaro v. Kaiman
(1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 761, 768 (“When the defect which justifies striking a
complaint is capable of cure, the court should allow leave to amend.”).)  The burden is on the complainant to show the
Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Blank v. Kirwan
(1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) 
DISCUSSION
Defendants move to strike Plaintiff’s claim for punitive
damages.  Defendants argue Plaintiff has
only made conclusory allegations that she is entitled to punitive damages
without stating facts supporting a finding of malice, oppression or fraud.  The Court agrees.   
“In order to survive a motion to strike an allegation of
punitive damages, the ultimate facts showing an entitlement to such relief must
be pled by a plaintiff.”  (Clauson v.
Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255.)  “The mere allegation an intentional tort was
committed is not sufficient to warrant an award of punitive damages.  Not only must there be circumstances of
oppression, fraud or malice, but facts must be alleged in the pleading to
support such a claim.”  (Grieves v.
Superior Court (1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 159, 166 (citations omitted).)  
Allegations that merely plead the statutory phraseology are
wholly insufficient to state a basis for recovery of punitive damages.  (Smith v. Superior Court (1992) 10
Cal.App.4th 1033, 1041.) 
Conclusory characterizations of defendant’s conduct as willful,
intentional or fraudulent is a patently insufficient statement of the necessary
factual grounds for punitive damages.  (Brousseau
v. Jarrett (1977) 73 Cal.App.3d 864, 872.)    
Cal. Civ. Code section 3294 provides the basis upon which
punitive damages can be recovered. 
Punitive damages may only be sought where there is clear and convincing
evidence that the defendant has been guilty of malice, oppression or fraud:
(c)(1)   “Malice”
means conduct which is intended to cause injury to the plaintiff or                       despicable conduct
which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and                       conscious disregard
of the rights or safety of others.
(c)(2)   “Oppression”
means despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust                        hardship in conscious
disregard of that person’s rights.
(c)(3)   “Fraud”
means an intentional misrepresentation, deceit or concealment of a                      material fact known
to the defendant with the intention on the part of the                                                      defendant
of thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights or otherwise
causing injury. 
(Civ.
Code §3294.)
Section 3294 was amended in 1987 to increase
the burden of proof required in order to allege a punitive damages claim as
well as to raise the level of misconduct necessary for an award of punitive
damages.  The California Supreme Court
has ruled that the insertion of the word “despicable” in section 3294 created a
“new substantive limitation on punitive damage awards.”  (College
Hospital Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 725.)  “Despicable” means conduct
that is “so vile, contemptible, miserable, wretched or loathsome that it would
be looked down upon and despised by ordinary decent people.”  (Scott v. Phoenix Schools, Inc. (2009)
175 Cal.App.4th 702, 715.) 
“Such conduct has been described as having the character of outrage
frequently associated with [a] crime.”  (Id.)
Punitive damages are disfavored by public policy and are allowed
only under the most extreme circumstances and in the “clearest of cases.”  (Woolstrum v. Mailloux (1983) 141
Cal.App.3d Supp. 1, 9.)  “To contain the
generosity and emotionality of juries, appellate courts have set the threshold
high in defining situations in which punitive damages can be given.  Conduct which may be characterized as
unreasonable, negligent, grossly negligent or reckless does not satisfy the
highly culpable state of mind warranting punitive damages.  Conduct which warrants punitive damages must
be of such severity or shocking character [as] warrants the same treatment as
accorded willful misconduct – conduct in which defendant intends to cause
harm.”  (Id. at 10 (internal
quotations and citations omitted).) 
Here, the factual allegations in the
complaint do not support a finding of malice, oppression or fraud.  Indeed, Plaintiff has brought only a claim
for negligence, and it is well settled that Plaintiff cannot claim punitive
damages for a negligent act.  Negligence—even
gross negligence—cannot support an award of punitive damages.  (Grieves v. Sup. Ct., 157 Cal. App.3d at
166-168; Woolslrum v. Mailloux (1983) 141 Cal.App.3d Supp. 1,
10).
Further,
absent a specific intent to injure Plaintiff (of which there is none here),
both malice and oppression require despicable conduct.  (College Hospital v. Superior Court
(1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 713, 725.) 
“Despicable” means conduct that is “so vile, contemptible,
miserable, wretched or loathsome that it would be looked down upon and despised
by ordinary decent people.”  (Scott,
175 Cal.App.4th at 715.) 
“Such conduct has been described as having the character of outrage
frequently associated with [a] crime.”  (Id.)  Here, Plaintiff alleges Defendants sold hot
coffee and that the temperature of the hot coffee was dangerous because the
temperature was “above industry standards.” 
Selling hot coffee is not “vile, base, contemptible, miserable, wretched
or loathsome conduct,” and it does not have the character of outrage frequently
associated with a crime.  
CONCLUSION
For the foregoing reasons, the Court GRANTS IN PART and DENIES
IN PART Defendants’ motion to strike. 
The Court strikes page 6, lines 12-15 with 20 days’ leave to amend.  Defendants also seek to strike page 6 lines
25-26, page 7 lines 1-2 and page 7 line 4, but those paragraphs do not relate
to a claim for punitive damages, and Defendants have not explained why they
should also be stricken.  
 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED: April 18, 2024                                                        ___________________________
Edward
B. Moreton, Jr.
Judge
of the Superior Court
 