  Case Number:  19STCV43701    Hearing Date:   September 25, 2024    Dept:  T Motion to Compel Further ResponsesMoving Party: Defendant Ashley Furniture Industries, Inc.Responding Party: Plaintiff Mari HartoonianTentative Ruling: DENYBACKGROUNDThis is a premises liability case resulting from an injury Plaintiff allegedly suffered while at a store owned and operated by Defendant after Plaintiff attempted to rest on a coffee table, which collapsed. Plaintiff alleges Defendant negligently maintained the property and are liable for the dangerous condition that caused Plaintiff’s injury. Plaintiff further alleges damages for loss in wages and future earnings capacity stemming from her ownership in condos in Las Vegas that she has not been able to maintain. MOVING PARTY POSITIONBased on Plaintiff’s claim for lost wages and lost future earnings, Defendant propounded the following requests to which Plaintiff has not yet responded:o Request for Production No. 24: all documents and writings which evidence Plaintiff’s earnings from January 1, 2010 through the present. o Request for Production No. 25: all documents and writings to support plaintiff’s loss of earnings contention.o Request for Production No. 26: all documents and writings to support plaintiff’s lost wages contention.OPPOSITIONPlaintiff argues Defendant’s motion should be denied because Defendant failed to meet and confer. Plaintiff also argues Defendant’s motion is untimely.REPLYDefendant argues that the Court should strike Plaintiff’s opposition for being untimely, but otherwise does not contest or argue the merits of Plaintiff’s argument.ANALYSISI. Motion to Compel Further ResponsesWhere a party fails to serve timely responses to discovery requests, the court may make an order compelling responses. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.290; 2031.300; Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390, 403.) The propounding party may file motions to compel further responses to requests for production if it believes the responses received are (1) evasive, (2) incomplete, or (3) if the objections raised are meritless or overly general. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.310(a).)  “Unless notice of this motion is given within 45 days of the service of the verified response, or any supplemental verified response, or on or before any specific later date to which the demanding party and the responding party have agreed in writing, the demanding party waives any right to compel a further response to the demand.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.310(c).)Here, the verified discovery responses were served on May 20, 2020. [Motion, Exhibit B].  Defendant did not provide any documentation suggesting that extensions were provided over the last four years to bring a motion to compel.  As such, the motion is untimely.  RULINGDefendant’s motion to compel further responses is DENIED.