 Case Number:  20STCV37651    Hearing Date:   September 25, 2024    Dept:  T Motion for Summary JudgementMoving Party: Defendant City of GardenaResponding Party: Plaintiff Devon BushTentative Ruling: DENYBACKGROUND This personal injury case arose from a car accident on November 23, 2019. Plaintiff seeks recovery for damages resulting from an automobile accident that took place between Plaintiff and Gardena Police Department Officer Steve Kim (“Officer Kim”), who at that time had lights and sirens active.  Plaintiff is pursuing a claim of negligence against Defendant for motor vehicle negligence.An ambulance had driven through the intersection four to five seconds before Officer Kim, though Plaintiff did not hear its siren. Plaintiff continued driving, observed several cars stopped at intersection, and alleges that he saw Officer Kim’s vehicle at the intersection, where he tried to speed up to avoid collision. Plaintiff’s expert accident reconstructionist, Felix Lee, opines that Officer Kim slowed from 68 mph approximately seven seconds before the collision to approximately 41 to 49 mph three seconds before the impact.  Mr. Lee offers a further opinion that the line of sight between Plaintiff and Officer Kim was obstructed fewer than one and a half seconds before impact, at which point Officer Kim was travelling 31 to 36 mph. (Declaration of Felix Lee, p. 3-4.)MOVING PARTY POSITION Defendant argues the Court should grant summary judgment because it is immune from liability, as no reasonable juror could find that Officer Kim operated his patrol vehicle unreasonably or negligently. (Motion for Summary Judgement, p. 9.) Defendant additionally argues Plaintiff proximately caused the collision by failing to yield. (Id. at 10.)OPPOSITION Plaintiff argues Officer Kim operated his patrol vehicle negligently and proximately caused the collision by failing to provide a reasonable opportunity for the nearby vehicles to yield the right of way to his emergency vehicle — thereby showing a triable issue of fact exists as to Defendant’s liability for Officer Kim’s alleged negligence. (Opposition p. 8.)REPLYDefendant reiterates there is no dispute that Officer Kim’s emergency lights and sirens were activated, that Officer Kim provided reasonable opportunity for the other drivers to yield, and that Plaintiff has not established Officer Kim’s conduct was the proximate cause of the collision. (Reply p. 5-7.)ANALYSIS I. Evidentiary Objections and Judicial NoticeDefendant submits 12 evidentiary objections in total concerning the Declaration of Felix Lee in support of Plaintiff’s Opposition to Defendant’s Motion for Summary Judgment. All 12 of Defendant’s objections are overruled.  Plaintiff objects to Defendant's Exhibits E and F.  The objections are overruled.  Plaintiff requests judicial notice of the Google Earth images at Exhibit H.  The request is granted.  II. Summary JudgementSummary judgment is proper “if all the papers submitted show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.”  (Code Civ. Proc. §437c(c).)  The moving party bears the initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues of material fact. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.)  A defendant moving for summary judgment must show either (1) that one or more elements of the cause of action cannot be established or (2) that there is a complete defense to that cause of action.  (Id. at §437c(p).)  A defendant may discharge this burden by furnishing either (1) affirmative evidence of the required facts or (2) discovery responses conceding that the plaintiff lacks evidence to establish an essential element of the plaintiff's case.  “In order to establish liability on a negligence theory, a plaintiff must prove duty, breach, causation and damages.” (Ortega v. Kmart Corp. (2001) 26 Cal.4th 1200, 1205.) California Vehicle Code § 17001 states that “A public entity is liable for death or injury to person or property proximately caused by a negligent or wrongful act or omission in the operation of any motor vehicle by an employee of the public entity acting within the scope of his employment.” Vehicle Code § 21056 provides that the driver of an emergency vehicle retains “the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all persons using the highway” even where he is employing emergency lights and sirens, this duty “does not impose the same quantum of care upon [the driver] as upon motorists generally”; rather, it requires that the driver, “by suitable warning, give others a reasonable opportunity to yield the right of way.” (Reed v. Simpson 1948) 32 Cal. 2d 444, 449-50.)Here, Defendant makes a prima facie showing that Officer Kim did not act negligently by providing evidence that Officer Kim turned his lights and siren on and slowed down to permit other cars time to yield — many of which did. (Motion for Summary Judgement p. 9.) Defendant’s assertions of Officer Kim’s behavior reflect a prima facie showing that Officer Kim did not act negligently, but slowed down to create a reasonable opportunity for drivers to yield before driving past the intersection. Defendant thus makes a sufficient initial showing that there is no material issue of fact as to an essential element to establish Defendant’s liability. The burden thus shifts to Plaintiff to show a triable issue exists as to whether Officer Kim acted negligently.Plaintiff, in turn, satisfies his burden in kind — providing a declaration of expert accident reconstructionist, Mr. Lee. The declaration provides evidence of Officer Kim’s speed in the seconds leading up to the collision; specifically, that Officer Kim was travelling  approximately 68 mph seven seconds prior to collision, at over 40 mph three seconds prior, and over 30 mph when Officer Kim reached the intersection with fewer than two seconds before the collision. Plaintiff further alleges that Officer Kim only entered Plaintiff’s line of sight on reaching the intersection, giving Plaintiff less than two seconds to respond to seeing Officer Kim’s vehicle. (Declaration of Felix Lee, p. 3-4.) The declaration further provides evidence that “two westbound vehicles crossed the… intersection in front of the Kim vehicle at 6 seconds and 4 seconds before impact,” thus disputing Defendant’s initial evidence that Officer Kim provided reasonable opportunity for other cars to yield. (Id.) As a result, Plaintiff shows a triable issue of material fact exists regarding whether Officer Kim acted negligently and failed to provide a reasonable opportunity to yield. The Court thus finds a triable issue exists regarding the determination of Officer Kim’s negligence, and by extension, Defendant’s liability to Plaintiff. RULING Based on the foregoing, Defendant’s motion for summary judgement is DENIED. 