 Case Number:  22STCV00757    Hearing Date:   November 21, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving and opposition papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
February 10, 2021, Plaintiff Lisa Graham (“Plaintiff”) filed this action
against Defendants Costco Wholesale Corporation, Costco Wholesale Membership,
Inc., and Does 1-100 for premises liability. 
Plaintiff later amended the complaint to include Defendants Robert
Gayton as Doe 1 and Russell Lee as Doe 2. 
On
January 7, 2022, Defendants Costco Wholesale Corporation, Costco Wholesale
Membership, Inc., and Russell Lee filed an answer. 
On
January 2, 2024, the Court granted Plaintiff’s counsel’s motion to be relieved
as counsel. 
On
August 22, 2024, Plaintiff filed a document titled “Notice of Acceptance of Settlement
and Cancellation of Trial.”  A Release
and Settlement Agreement, which Plaintiff had signed and dated August 22, 2024,
was attached. 
On
September 24, 2024, Plaintiff filed a motion to release settlement funds.  The motion was set for hearing on November
21, 2024.  On November 4, 2024, Defendant
Costco Wholesale Corporation (“Defendant”) filed an opposition. 
On
September 30, 2024, Plaintiff’s former counsel filed a notice of lien. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Plaintiff
asks the Court to order the release of settlement funds. 
Defendant
asks the Court to deny the motion. 
LEGAL STANDARD                   
Code
of Civil Procedure section 664.6 provides in part: 
“(a) If parties to pending litigation stipulate, in a
writing signed by the parties outside of the presence of the court or orally
before the court, for settlement of the case, or part thereof, the court, upon
motion, may enter judgment pursuant to the terms of the settlement. If
requested by the parties, the court may retain jurisdiction over the parties to
enforce the settlement until performance in full of the terms of the
settlement. 
“(b) For purposes of this section, a writing is signed
by a party if it is signed by any of the following: 
“(1) The party. 
“(2) An attorney who represents the party. 
“(3) If the party is an insurer, an agent who is
authorized in writing by the insurer to sign on the insurer’s behalf.” 
(Code
Civ. Proc., § 664.6, subds. (a), (b).) 
In
deciding motions made under Code of Civil Procedure section 664.6, courts “must
determine whether the parties entered into a valid and binding
settlement.”  (Kohn v. Jaymar-Ruby
(1994) 23 Cal.App.4th 1530, 1533.)  On a
motion to enforce a settlement under Code of Civil Procedure section 664.6,
courts have the power to decide disputed facts and to interpret the
agreement.  (Fiore v. Alvord
(1985) 182 Cal.App.3d 561, 566; L. Edmon & C. Karnow, Cal. Practice Guide:
Civil Procedure Before Trial (Rutter 2023) ¶¶ 12:977–12:978.5, pp. 12(ll)-139
to 12(ll)-140.) Courts may receive evidence, determine disputed facts including
the terms the parties previously agreed on, and enter the terms of a settlement
agreement as a judgment, but they may not create new material terms. (Osumi
v. Sutton (2007) 151 Cal.App.4th 1355, 1360.) 
DISCUSSION 
Plaintiff
asserts that the Release and Settlement Agreement which she signed on August
22, 2024 obligates Defendant to “release settlement funds” before Plaintiff pays
the lien which her former counsel has asserted on her recovery. 
The Release
and Settlement Agreement provides in part: 
“Upon receipt of this executed Release and Settlement Agreement,
RELEASEES[[1]]
shall pay the settlement amount of eighty thousand dollars and no cents
($80,000.00) as follows, subject to a reduction of this amount in order to
satisfy any statutory liens in which separate draft(s) will be issued.
Plaintiff Lisa Graham acknowledges and agrees that her prior counsel of record,
Law Offices of Gary K. Walch, a Law Corporation has asserted an attorney lien
and that any such lien will be negotiated by Ms. Graham and paid out of the
settlement amount of $80,000. And thereafter, the remaining payment will be
paid to Lisa Graham.”
 Fairly
interpreted, the Release and Settlement Agreement requires Plaintiff to
negotiate the amount of the lien with her former counsel before “Releasees” pay
the settlement amount.  Presumably the parties intended that Plaintiff
negotiate the lien amount with her former counsel and communicate that amount
to Defendant, which would arrange for payment of the negotiated lien amount to
Plaintiff’s former counsel.  After paying
the lien amount to Plaintiff’s former counsel, Defendant would arrange for
payment of the remaining settlement funds to Plaintiff. 
Based
on this interpretation, the Court denies Plaintiff’s motion because she has not
satisfied the Release and Settlement Agreement’s requirement that she negotiate
the amount of the lien which her former attorney has asserted on her recovery
before she receives payment of the remaining settlement proceeds. 
The
Court denies Defendant’s request for sanctions. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court DENIES Plaintiff Lisa Graham's motion for an order releasing settlement funds. The Court denies Defendant Costco Wholesale Corporation's request for sanctions.
 Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.___________________________________


[1]             “
‘RELEASEES’ shall refer to COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION, COSTCO WHOLESALE
MEMBERSHIP, INC, RUSSELL LEE (sued herein as DOE No. 2) and all related and/or
connected persons, entities, firms, associations, divisions, parent companies,
affiliated companies, subsidiary companies, heirs, representatives, employees,
employers, insurers, reinsurers, adjusters, and any person or entity whose
liability and/or rights derive from its connection to this defined group.”

