  Case Number:  21STCV36602    Hearing Date:   September 20, 2023    Dept:  32 


 
VAROUJ SHEKERDEMIAN,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
DESAI HOLDINGS USA, LLC,
  et al., 
                        Defendants. 


 
  Case No.:  21STCV36602
  Hearing Date:  September 20, 2023
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
     defendants’ motion to
  dismiss




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On October 5, 2021, Varouj
Shekerdemian (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Desai Holdings USA, LLC
and Rakesh David Desai (collectively “Defendants”), alleging the following
causes of action: (1) failure to provide accurate wage records; (2) unfair
business practices; (3) constructive discharge; and (4-5) intentional/negligent
infliction of emotional distress. The operative First Amended Complaint, filed
May 27, 2022, adds causes of action for discrimination, harassment, and
violation of civil rights. 
            Plaintiff alleges that Defendant
Desai hired Plaintiff as the general manager at Defendant’s restaurant, R Bar. Defendant
did not classify or pay Plaintiff as an employee but rather as an independent contractor.
Defendant initially ignored Plaintiff’s requests to be properly classified but
eventually put Plaintiff on the payroll as a traditional exempt employee. During
Plaintiff’s employment, Defendant Desai was allegedly abusive and racist towards
Plaintiff and R Bar’s employees and patrons. This resulted in multiple altercations,
causing Plaintiff to fear for his safety. Plaintiff eventually resigned due to
the hostile work environment. After Plaintiff quit, Desai allegedly continued
harassing Plaintiff through racist and vulgar text messages and also visited
Plaintiff’s new place of employment. 
            On August 25, 2023, Defendants filed
the instant motion to dismiss on the grounds that Plaintiff has not presented a
right-to-sue letter from DFEH demonstrating exhaustion of administrative
remedies. Plaintiff filed his opposition on September 6, 2023. Defendants have
not filed a reply. 
LEGAL STANDARD
“[A] ‘motion to dismiss’ [is] the legal
equivalent of a general demurrer.” (Citizens for Parental Rights v. San
Mateo County Bd. of Education (1975) 51 Cal.App.3d 1, 34.) “In California,
a demurrer serves the purpose of a motion to dismiss.” (ZL Technologies,
Inc. v. Does 1–7 (2017) 13 Cal.App.5th 603, 612, fn. 4.) “A motion to
dismiss in federal court is the equivalent of a demurrer in California.” (The
Swahn Group, Inc. v. Segal (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 831, 844.) 
A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether
the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) A demurrer tests
the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters. (SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153
Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) A motion for judgment on the pleadings performs the same
function as a general demurrer, and hence attacks only defects disclosed on the
face of the pleadings or by matters that can be judicially noticed. (Cloud
v. Northrop Grumman Corp. (1999) 67 Cal.App.4th 995, 999.)
DISCUSSION
            Defendants do not set forth a legal
basis for a “motion to dismiss.” Defendants do not cite any legal authority suggesting
that a motion to dismiss is the proper procedure to address a failure to exhaust
administrative remedies. The Court treats the motion to dismiss as a motion for
judgment on the pleadings, which is functionally a demurrer. 
            To that end, Plaintiff has
adequately alleged exhaustion of administrative remedies. (See FAC ¶ 9.)
Defendants cite no authority requiring Plaintiff to do any more at the pleading
stage. Even if the Court were to consider the evidence filed with Defendants’
motion, that evidence shows that Plaintiff obtained a right-to-sue letter and
therefore exhausted his administrative remedies. The notice attached as
Defendants’ Exhibit A, while not a right-to-sue letter in and of itself,
acknowledges that Plaintiff previously obtained a right-to-sue letter: “This is
not a new Right to Sue letter. The original Notice of Case Closure and Right to
Sue issued in this case remains the only such notice provided by the DFEH.”
(Rudd Decl., Ex. A.) Therefore, the notice apparently indicates that Plaintiff
exhausted his administrative remedies. 
CONCLUSION
            Defendants’ motion to dismiss,
treated as a motion for judgment on the pleadings, is DENIED. 