 Case Number:  22STCV19939    Hearing Date:   September 20, 2023    Dept:  32 


 
JOEL SOLIS,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
AURORA CHARTER OAK- LOS ANGELES, LLC, et
  al., 
                        Defendants. 


 
  Case No.:  22STCV19939
  Hearing Date:  September 20, 2023
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
defendants’ motion for summary judgment
  or adjudication 




 


 



BACKGROUND
            Plaintiff Joel Solis initiated this
employment discrimination action against his defendant employers on June 16,
2022. The operative First Amended Complaint, filed October 18, 2022, asserts (1)
disability discrimination; (2) retaliation; (3) failure to prevent; (4) failure
to accommodate; (5) failure to engage; (6) wrongful termination; (7) violation
of CFRA; (8) interference with CRFA rights; (9) defamation; (10) violation of
Labor Code section 1102.5; (11) section 226; and (12) section 98.6. 
            Plaintiff alleges that he was
wrongfully terminated in December 2020 after requesting leave for a COVID
infection. (FAC ¶ 8.) Plaintiff claims that he was criticized for taking leave
and was asked to return to work despite informing Defendants that he did not
feel well. (Ibid.) Plaintiff’s grandmother also passed away at around
the same time, and Plaintiff alleges that despite being granted bereavement
leave, Defendants terminated him on pretextual grounds. (Ibid.) Plaintiff
alleges that he protested Defendants’ attempt to punish him for taking leave
and reminded Defendants that he was still recovering from COVID and was
suffering emotional distress from his grandmother’s death. (Id., ¶ 9.)
Plaintiff alleges that instead of accommodating him, Defendants terminated him
because they did not want to provide more leave in the future. (Ibid.) Plaintiff
alleges that Defendants also interfered with his CFRA rights by failing to notify
him of his eligibility to use leave. (FAC ¶ 10.) Plaintiff also alleges that
Defendants defamed him by falsely claiming that he took more bereavement leave
than permitted. (Ibid.) Plaintiff concludes that he was ultimately
terminated for using sick leave. (Id., ¶ 13.) 
            On July 6, 2023, Defendants filed
the instant motion for summary judgment or adjudication in the alternative.
Plaintiff filed his opposition on September 6, 2023. Defendants filed their
reply on September 15, 2023.
LEGAL STANDARD
The function of a motion for summary
judgment or adjudication is to allow a determination as to whether an opposing
party cannot show evidentiary support for a pleading or claim and to enable an
order of summary dismissal without the need for trial. (Aguilar v. Atlantic
Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) Code of Civil Procedure section
437c, subdivision (c) “requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if
all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’
and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no
triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment
as a matter of law.” (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th
1110, 1119.) “The function of the pleadings in a motion for summary judgment is
to delimit the scope of the issues; the function of the affidavits or declarations
is to disclose whether there is any triable issue of fact within the issues
delimited by the pleadings.” (Juge v. County of Sacramento (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th
59, 67, citing FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal. App.
3d 367, 381-382.)
As to each claim as framed by the
complaint, the defendant moving for summary judgment must satisfy the initial burden
of proof by presenting facts to negate an essential element, or to establish a
defense. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2); Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes,
Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.) Once the defendant has met that burden,
the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a triable issue of one or more
material facts exists as to that cause of action or a defense thereto. To establish
a triable issue of material fact, the party opposing the motion must produce substantial
responsive evidence. (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151,
166.) Courts “liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing
summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that
party.” (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.) 
EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
Plaintiff’s
Objections to Defendants’ Evidence:

Plaintiff’s objections are
     overruled.

Defendants’
Objections to Plaintiff’s Evidence:

The following objections are
     sustained: 16, 17.
The following objections are
     overruled: 1-10, 13, 14, 20.
The remaining objections are
     not material to the Court’s ruling. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 437c(q).)

DISCUSSION
I.
Disability Discrimination
a. Prima Facie Case
To establish a prima facie case of
disability discrimination under the Fair Employment and Housing Act (“FEHA”),
Plaintiff must show: (1) he suffers from a disability; (2) he is otherwise
qualified to do his job; and (3) he was subjected to an adverse employment
action because of his disability. (Faust v. California Portland Cement Co.
(2007) 150 Cal.App.4th 864, 886.) 
Defendants attack the first element,
arguing that COVID is not a qualifying disability. “Disability” does not
include “conditions that are mild, which do not limit a major life activity, as
determined on a case-by-case basis. These excluded conditions have little or no
residual effects, such as the common cold; seasonal or common influenza; minor
cuts, sprains, muscle aches, soreness, bruises, or abrasions; non-migraine
headaches, and minor and non-chronic gastrointestinal disorders.” (Cal. Code
Regs. tit. 2 § 11065(d)(9)(B).) 
Defendants rely on Roman v. Hertz Local
Edition Corp. (S.D. Cal. May 16, 2022) 2022 WL 1541865, which granted
summary judgment against a plaintiff who claimed she suffered from a disability
due to COVID. The court in Roman held that “[w]hen it presents with
temporary symptoms akin to the common cold or seasonal flu, COVID-19 will fall
outside the FEHA definition of ailments considered a disability, pursuant to §
11065(d)(9)(B).” (Id., at *5.) In that case, the court found that “the
undisputed evidence is that [the plaintiff’s] symptoms met the regulation's
definition of ‘mild.’” (Id., at *6.) 
Roman is not binding authority, and in
any case acknowledges that “FEHA requires that COVID-19 infections be analyzed
on a fact-based determination to decide whether they qualify as a disability.” (Roman,
supra, 2022 WL 1541865, at *6.) The Code of Regulations that Defendants
rely on also dictates that the mildness of a condition is “determined on a
case-by-case basis.” (See Cal. Code Regs. tit. 2 § 11065(d)(9)(B).) “[T]he
court must construe the FEHA broadly, not … restrictively.” (Soria v.
Univision Radio Los Angeles, Inc. (2016) 5 Cal.App.5th 570, 583.)
Therefore, the trier of fact should determine whether Plaintiff’s COVID in this
particular case constitutes a disability. 
b. Legitimate Justification
Defendants argue they had a valid reason
for terminating Plaintiff. Specifically, Plaintiff had received multiple
progressive disciplines for excessively calling off from work. (UF 4-9, 52.)
This culminated in Plaintiff failing to report for scheduled shifts on December
26-27, 2020 under the erroneous assumption that he had been granted bereavement
leave for those days. (UF 43-51.) 
On the other hand, Plaintiff testified
that supervisor Mimi Mangune agreed to his bereavement leave request for
December 26 and 27, 2020. (Plntf.’s Resp. to UF 46.) Ms. Mangune denies making
this approval, but that is a factual issue. A reasonable trier of fact may find
that Defendants approved Plaintiff’s bereavement leave and then used Plaintiff’s
absence as an excuse to terminate him, which demonstrates pretext. Although
Plaintiff does not deny receiving progressive discipline in the past,
Defendants did not terminate Plaintiff until the bereavement issue from
December 26-27, 2020. A reasonable trier of fact may find that the prior disciplines,
by themselves, were insufficient to warrant termination. 
In sum, there is a triable issue over the
discrimination claim. 
II.
FEHA Retaliation   
            To establish a prima facie case of
retaliation under the FEHA, a plaintiff must show: (1) she engaged in a
protected activity; (2) the employer subjected the employee to an adverse
employment action; and (3) a causal link existed between the protected activity
and the employer’s action. (Yanowitz v. L’Oreal USA, Inc. (2007) 36
Cal.4th 1028, 1042.)
            Defendants first reiterate that Plaintiff
did not have a qualifying disability and therefore conclude that Plaintiff
necessarily did not engage in protected activity by requesting accommodation
for COVID. However, as discussed above, there is a triable issue over whether Plaintiff
suffered a qualifying disability. Furthermore, not only did Plaintiff request
leave for COVID, Plaintiff avers that he also requested 14 days of quarantine after
Defendants attempted to make him return earlier. (Solis Decl. ¶ 5.) A reasonable
trier of fact may find that Plaintiff engaged in protected activity. 
            Defendants argue that Plaintiff
cannot prove he was terminated “because of” his request for accommodation even
if it constitutes protected activity. Specifically, Defendants contend that the
decisionmakers were unaware of Plaintiff’s protected activity because at the
end of the quarantine period, Plaintiff himself reported he had no more
symptoms and was ready to return to work. (UF 38-40.) However, the protected
activity at issue here is requesting the COVID accommodation in the first
place. That Defendants granted Plaintiff’s leave request, and Plaintiff was
ready to return to work afterwards, does not foreclose the possibility that
Defendants retaliated against Plaintiff for requesting the leave. The temporal
proximity between Plaintiff requesting COVID leave and his termination raises a
reasonable inference of retaliation. (See Fisher v. San Pedro Peninsula
Hospital (1989) 214 Cal.App.3d 590, 615.)   
            Lastly, Defendants incorporate their
prior arguments regarding legitimate justification. As discussed above, there
is a triable issue over Defendants’ proffered justification. 
            Therefore, there is a triable issue
over the retaliation claim. 
III.
Failure to Engage/Accommodate 
            The prima facie elements of a
failure to accommodate cause of action are: (1) the plaintiff suffers from a
disability covered by the FEHA; (2) the plaintiff can perform the essential
functions of the position if the requested accommodation(s) are granted; and
(3) the defendant has failed to reasonably accommodate plaintiff’s disability.
An employer, however, is not liable for failing to accommodate a disability of
which it had no knowledge. (Prillman v. United Air Lines Inc. (1997) 53
Cal.App.4th 935, 954.) The FEHA also makes it an unlawful employment practice
for an employer to fail to engage in a timely, good-faith interactive process
to determine a reasonable accommodation for the employee’s known disability. (Gov.
Code, § 12940(n).)
            Here, Plaintiff was indisputably
granted leave for COVID and did not inform Defendants of any other condition or
request any other accommodation. (UF 73.) At the end of the quarantine period, Plaintiff
told Ms. Mangune that he was no longer experiencing symptoms and that he was
ready to return to work. (UF 38-40.) Plaintiff also does not dispute that he
was granted leave for prior unrelated injuries. (See, e.g., UF 10.) In
any case, Plaintiff never alleged these prior leave requests as the basis of
his claims. Based on these facts, no reasonable jury would find that Defendants
failed to engage or accommodate Plaintiff.
            Plaintiff attempts to raise a
triable issue by arguing that he was terminated for his absences even though he
had valid medical reasons each time. This describes retaliation, not a failure
to accommodate. Plaintiff offers no legal support for his theory that “[p]urporting
to grant leave, and then taking it away, demonstrates that a reasonable
accommodation was purportedly offered, but taken away after the fact, using
pretext.” (See Opp. 17:24-27.) Defendants did not “purportedly offer” to grant
leave; they actually granted leave, and Plaintiff took the leave. Plaintiff
does not explain how medical leave can be taken away after it has already been
provided and used. Defendants may have later decided to retaliate against
Plaintiff for requesting an accommodation, but that does not affect whether the
accommodation itself was provided.   
            Therefore, as a matter of law,
Defendants did not fail to accommodate or engage with Plaintiff under FEHA.  
IV.
CFRA Interference 
            CFRA makes it unlawful for an
employer “to interfere with, restrain, or deny the exercise of, or the attempt
to exercise, any right” provided by CFRA. (Gov. Code, § 12945.2(q).) “A CFRA
interference claim consists of the following elements: (1) the employee's
entitlement to CFRA leave rights; and (2) the employer's interference with or
denial of those rights.” (Moore v. Regents of University of California
(2016) 248 Cal.App.4th 216, 250.) “Any violation of CFRA or these implementing
regulations constitutes interfering with, restraining, or denying the exercise
of rights provided by CFRA.” (Cal. Code Regs., tit. 2, § 11094(a).) 
            a. Serious Health Condition
            A “‘[s]erious health condition’
means an illness, injury, impairment, or physical or mental condition that
involves either of the following: (A) Inpatient care in a hospital, hospice, or
residential health care facility. (B) Continuing treatment or continuing
supervision by a health care provider.” (Gov. Code, § 12945.2(b)(13).)
Defendants argue that because Plaintiff did not stay in a hospital or receive
continuing treatment, Plaintiff did not suffer from a “serious health condition”
under CFRA. 
However, whether an employee actually
sought medical treatment is not dispositive in determining whether the employee
had a serious medical condition. (See Soria v. Univision Radio Los Angeles,
Inc. (2016) 5 Cal.App.5th 570, 601-02 [finding triable issue despite the
fact that employee had not decided whether to obtain surgery, and therefore did
not receive inpatient care, at the time of her termination].) “[A]s the moving
party [Defendant], not [Plaintiff], ha[s] the burden to present undisputed
facts that [Plaintiff’s] condition did not need “‘continuing treatment.’” (Id.
at p. 602.) Therefore, there is a triable issue over whether Plaintiff had a
serious medical condition. 
b. Notice Requirement
 “Employers
subject to the CFRA are required to provide notice to their employees of the
right to request CFRA leave.” (Moore, supra, 248 Cal.App.4th at p. 252; Cal.
Code Regs., tit. 2, § 11095(a).) Defendants contend that they satisfied this
notice requirement by providing an employee handbook outlining CFRA leave. (UF 2.)

However, upon “verbal notice sufficient to
make the employer aware that the employee needs CFRA leave,” an employer is
also required to “inquire further of the employee if necessary to determine
whether the employee is requesting CFRA leave and to obtain necessary
information concerning the leave (i.e., commencement date, expected duration,
and other permissible information).” (Cal. Code Regs., tit. 2, § 11091(a)(1).) “Under
all circumstances, it is the employer's responsibility to designate leave, paid
or unpaid, as CFRA or CFRA/FMLA qualifying, based on information provided by
the employee or the employee's spokesperson, and to give notice of the
designation to the employee.” (Id., § 11091(a)(1)(A).) “The record here,
at the very least, creates a triable issue of fact as to whether [Plaintiff’s]
statements concerning time off for [COVID] were sufficient to trigger [Defendants’]
obligation to inquire further into the details of [Plaintiff’s] request.” (See Soria,
supra, 5 Cal.App.5th at p. 603.) 
A reasonable trier of fact may find that
Plaintiff sufficiently placed Defendants on notice of a serious health
condition qualifying for CFRA leave and that Defendants failed to discharge
their obligation to inquire further or notify Plaintiff of the designation.
(See Soria, supra, 5 Cal.App.5th at p. 603 [“Whether notice is
sufficient under CFRA is a question of fact”].)
V.
CFRA Retaliation
            CFRA also makes it unlawful to
retaliate or discriminate against an employee for exercising their rights under
CFRA. (Gov. Code, § 12945.2(k).) Defendants incorporate their prior arguments
regarding “serious health condition,” causation, and legitimate justification. As
discussed above, there are factual disputes regarding those issues. Therefore,
summary adjudication is not warranted on the CFRA retaliation claim. 
VI.
Wrongful Termination
            Defendants argue that because
Plaintiff’s FEHA claims fail, his derivative wrongful termination claim fails
as well. However, as discussed above, Plaintiff’s FEHA claims survive.
Therefore, so does the wrongful termination claim. 
VII.
Failure to Prevent
            Defendants argue that because
Plaintiff’s FEHA claims fail, his derivative failure to prevent claim fails as
well. However, as discussed above, Plaintiff’s FEHA claims survive. Therefore,
so does the failure to prevent claim.  
VIII.
Defamation
            Plaintiff alleges that Ms. Mangune
defamed him by calling him unreliable and making statements about his unavailability
and missing scheduled work dates. (UF 87.) Defamation is subject to a one-year
statute of limitations. (Code Civ. Proc., § 340(c).) At the latest, Plaintiff
was aware by February 2021 that Ms. Mangune had made statements about his unavailability
and absences. (UF 89.) However, Plaintiff did not file this lawsuit until June
2022, more than one year later. Therefore, the claim is time-barred as a matter
of law. 
IX.
Labor Code Section 226
            “An action upon a statute for a
penalty or forfeiture” is subject to a one-year statute of limitations. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 340(a).) Plaintiff seeks penalties under Labor Code section 226
for failure to provide accurate wage statements. (FAC ¶¶ 97, 102.) However,
Plaintiff does not dispute that the conduct giving rise to the violation
occurred more than one year prior to his filing of the complaint. Plaintiff was
terminated and received his final paycheck in December 2020. (UF 54.) Plaintiff
filed this lawsuit in June 2022. Therefore, the claim is time-barred as a
matter of law. 
X.
Labor Code Section 1102.5
            Labor Code section 1102.5,
subdivision (b) makes it unlawful for an employer to retaliate against an
employee for reporting a perceived violation of a local, state, or federal
statute or regulation. “[O]nce it has been demonstrated by a preponderance of
the evidence that an activity proscribed by Section 1102.5 was a contributing
factor in the alleged prohibited action against the employee, the employer
shall have the burden of proof to demonstrate by clear and convincing evidence
that the alleged action would have occurred for legitimate, independent reasons
even if the employee had not engaged in activities protected by Section
1102.5.” (Id., § 1102.6.) The traditional McDonnell-Douglas framework
does not apply, and the plaintiff is not required to rebut with evidence of
pretext. (Lawson v. PPG Architectural Finishes, Inc. (2022) 12 Cal.5th
703, 712.) 
            As discussed above, there are
triable issues over Plaintiff’s FEHA and CFRA retaliation claims, which results
in a triable issue over the derivative Labor Code whistleblower claim. 
 
 
XI.
Labor Code section 98.6
            Labor Code section 98.6 prohibits
retaliation against an employee who has “engaged in any conduct delineated in
this chapter.” (Lab. Code, § 98.6(a).) Defendants argue that Plaintiff did not
engage in protected activity under Section 98.6 because he did not initiate a
claim before the Labor Commissioner. However, that is only one of the protected
activities covered under Section 98.6. Section 98.6 also covers “any conduct
delineated in this chapter, including the conduct described in . . . Chapter 5
(commencing with Section 1101) of Part 3 of Division 2 . . . .” (Ibid.)
Chapter 5 includes Section 1102.5, which is a valid claim as discussed above. Therefore,
Plaintiff has a valid claim under Section 98.6 as well.  
XII.
Punitive Damages
            To obtain punitive damages against a
corporate employer, a plaintiff must prove that an officer, director, or
managing agent of the corporation either (i) personally engaged in oppression,
fraud, or malice, or (ii) ratified such an act. (Civ. Code, § 3294(b).)
            Defendants simply declare without citing
evidence that no officer, director, or managing agent ratified or engaged in
malicious conduct. Defendants have not foreclosed a triable issue over whether the
decisionmakers behind Plaintiff’s termination were officers, directors, or
managing agents. The initial burden on summary judgment lies with Defendants,
not Plaintiff. Therefore, a triable issue remains as to punitive damages.
CONCLUSION
            Defendants’ motion for summary
judgment is DENIED. Defendants’ alternative motion for summary adjudication is
GRANTED as to the ninth and eleventh causes of action and DENIED in all other
respects. 