  Case Number:  23TRCV03586    Hearing Date:   October 22, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
THEODORE
  J. COHEN, AS TRUSTEE OF THE TJC LAW GROUP, LLP PROFIT SHARING PLAN, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23TRCV03586




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
LESTER
  PIOCH, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          October 22,
2024
 
Moving Parties:                      Plaintiff Theodore J.
Cohen, as trustee of the TJC Law Group, LLP Profit Sharing Plan
Responding
Party:                  (1) Defendants Lester Pioch; (2) defendant Michael Prior
Motion for Summary
Judgment or, in the Alternative, Summary Adjudication
 
            The Court considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers.
RULING
            The motions for summary judgment are GRANTED. The motions for summary
adjudication are MOOT in light of the ruling on the motions for summary
judgment. 
BACKGROUND
On October 27, 2023, plaintiff
Theodore J. Cohen, as trustee of the TJC Law Group, LLP Profit Sharing Plan
filed a complaint against Lester Pioch and Michael Prior for breach of
promissory note.
            On July 1, 2024, the Court granted
defendants’ applications for right to attach order and issuance of writ of
attachment in the amount of $589,948.76.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
The purpose of a motion for summary
judgment or summary adjudication “is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut
through the parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their
allegations, trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.”  Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal. 4th 826, 843.  “Code of Civil Procedure section 437c,
subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the
evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’
and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no
triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law.”  Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7
Cal. App. 4th 1110, 1119.
“On a motion for summary judgment,
the initial burden is always on the moving party to make a prima facie showing
that there are no triable issues of material fact.”  Scalf
v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal. App. 4th 1510, 1519.  “A plaintiff or cross-complainant has met his
or her burden of showing that there is no defense to a cause of action if that
party has proved each element of the cause of action entitling the party to
judgment on the cause of action.  Once
the plaintiff or cross-complainant has met that burden, the burden shifts to
the defendant or cross-defendant to show that a triable issue of one or more
material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.  The defendant or cross-defendant shall not
rely upon the allegations or denials of its pleadings to show that a triable
issue of material fact exists but, instead, shall set forth the specific facts
showing that a triable issue of material fact exists as to the cause of action
or a defense thereto.”  CCP § 437c(p)(1).  
“When deciding whether to grant
summary judgment, the court must consider all of the evidence set forth in the
papers (except evidence to which the court has sustained an objection), as well
as all reasonable inferences that may be drawn from that evidence, in the light
most favorable to the party opposing summary judgment.” Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal. App.
4th 463, 467; CCP §437c(c).
DISCUSSION
Plaintiff
Theodore J. Cohen, as trustee of the TJC Law Group, LLP Profit Sharing Plan requests
summary judgment as to the sole cause of action in its complaint for breach of
promissory note and all affirmative defenses raised by defendants on the ground
that there are no material facts in dispute and plaintiff is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law.  Alternatively,
plaintiff requests summary adjudication as to the sole cause of action (Issues
1 to 5) and each affirmative defense (Issues 6 to 46). 
The complaint alleges that on May
5, 2015, FSC Group, LLC entered into a promissory note whereby it promised to
pay plaintiff $400,000 together with accrued and unpaid interest and costs no
later than May 5, 2016.  Complaint,
¶6.  FSC Group and plaintiff also entered
into a Pledge and Security Agreement dated May 5, 2015.  Id., ¶7. 
Pursuant to the Security Agreement, in order to secure FSC Group’s
obligations under the FSC Group Note, FSC Group granted plaintiff a security
interest in (a) a replica 1971 Porsche 917 automobile and (b) a promissory note
dated May 5, 2015 between Lester J. Pioch, Michael J. Prior, and FSC Group,
whereby Pioch and Prior agreed to pay FSC Group $500,000 with unpaid and
accrued interest and costs on demand. 
Plaintiff has the original Pioch/Prior Note in its possession.  Id., ¶8. 
The FSC Group Note became due and payable on May 5, 2016.  Id., ¶9. 
FSC Group failed to pay the balance due on the FSC Group Note and
therefore was in default.  Id., ¶10.  
The complaint further alleges that
on April 16, 2019, plaintiff, FSC Group, Pioch, and Prior entered into a
tolling agreement whereby they agreed to suspend the running of the statutes of
limitations applicable to the obligations of FSC Group, Pioch, and Prior to
plaintiff under the FSC Group Note, Security Agreement, and Pioch/Prior Note
through and including May 5, 2021.  The
Tolling Agreement also provides that nothing in the agreement shall be
construed to prohibit plaintiff from taking legal action at any time.  Id., ¶11. 
After its default, FSC Group made several payments to plaintiff,
including a payment of $3000 on March 16, 2022. 
FSC did not pay the balance due. 
Because a balance remained due on the FSC Group Note, FSC Group agreed
to convey the Porsche to plaintiff in consideration for a credit of $250,000
against the amount due under the FSC Group Note.  Accordingly, on January 9, 2023, FSC Group
and plaintiff entered into an Agreement re Conveyance of Collateral to Lender
and a credit of $250,000 against the FSC Note. 
Id., ¶12.  The amount due under
the FSC Group Note as of August 5, 2023 is/was $910,000.  Id., ¶13. 
The parties do not dispute that FSC
Group has defaulted on the FSC Group Note. 
Plaintiff’s Separate Statement of Undisputed Material Facts (“PUMF”)
2.  The Pioch/Prior Note is collateral
for the FSC Group Note.  PUMF 3.  Defendants are obligated to FSC Group
pursuant to the Pioch/Prior Note.  PUMF
4.  Plaintiff demanded that defendants
perform under the Pioch/Prior Note.  PUMF
5.  Defendants failed to render
performance under the Pioch/Prior Note after plaintiff demanded performance
under it.  PUMF 6.  Pioch and Prior signed the Pioch/Prior
Note.  PUMF 7.  Defendants breached the Pioch/Prior Note by
failing to pay plaintiff the balance due on the Pioch/Prior Note upon
demand.  PUMF 12.
The parties further do not dispute
that the FSC Group Note became in default on May 6, 2016.  PUMF 20. 
The parties entered into a Tolling Agreement on April 16, 2019 that was
in effect until May 5, 2021, which tolled the statute of limitations until May
25, 2022.  PUMF 21.
The parties also do not dispute
that the FSC Group Note was made payable to the SCM Trust.  PUMF 39. 
The SCM Trust changed names to the TJC Trust, such that plaintiff is the
same party in interest as the SCM Trust. 
PUMF 40.  Defendants were the sole
members and managers of FSC Group, a limited liability company doing business
in California.  PUMF 24.
 
First cause of action for breach of
promissory note
To establish a claim for breach of
contract, a plaintiff must prove: (1) existence of a contract, (2) plaintiff’s
performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3) defendant’s breach of the
contract, and (4) damages incurred by plaintiff as a result of the breach.  Durell v. Sharp Healthcare (2010) 183
Cal. App. 4th 1350, 1367.
The complaint alleges that pursuant
to Commercial Code §9607(a), upon FSC Group’s default under the FSC Group Note,
plaintiff is entitled to enforce any rights and remedies that FSC Group may
have under the Pioch/Prior Note for its benefit, including the right to receive
and collect all amounts due to FSC Group under the Pioch/Prior Note and apply
such amounts on account of the FSC Group Note. 
Complaint, ¶15.  The amount due
under the Pioch/Prior Note as of September 26, 2023 is/was $583,977.74.  Id., ¶16. 
On September 26, 2023, plaintiff made a written demand to Pioch and
Prior that they pay the full balance due under the Pioch/Prior Note no later
than October 6, 2023.  Id., ¶17.  They failed to remit payment to
plaintiff.  Id., ¶18.
Comm. Code §9607 states, in
part:  “(a) If so agreed, and in any
event after default, a secured party may do all of the following:
(1) Notify an account debtor or other
person obligated on collateral to make
payment or otherwise render
performance to or for the benefit of the
secured party. . . .
(3) Enforce the obligations of an
account debtor or other person obligated
on collateral and exercise the
rights of the debtor with respect to the
obligation of the account debtor or
other person obligated on collateral to
make payment or otherwise render
performance to the debtor, and with
respect to any property that
secures the obligations of the account debtor
or other person obligated on the
collateral.”
            Under CCP §360, “No acknowledgment
or promise is sufficient evidence of a new or 
continuing
contract, by which to take the case out of the operation of this title, unless
the same is contained in some writing, signed by the party to be charged
thereby, provided that any payment on account of principal or interest due on a
promissory note made by the party to be charged 
shall
be deemed a sufficient acknowledgment or promise of a continuing contract to
stop, from time to time as any such payment is made, the running of the time
within which an action may be 
commenced
upon the principal sum or upon any installment of principal or interest due on
such note, and to start the running of a new period of time, but no such
payment of itself shall revive a cause of action once barred.”
            Plaintiff argues that it has met the
requirements under Comm. Code §9607, which allows plaintiff to pursue the cause
of action for breach of promissory note. 
Plaintiff presents evidence that the FSC Group Note is an underlying
obligation with an outstanding balance owed to plaintiff; FSC Group has
defaulted on the FSC Group Note; the Pioch/Prior Note is collateral for the FSC
Group Note; Pioch and Prior are obligated on the Pioch/Prior Note; and Pioch
and Prior have failed to pay plaintiff the amount due on the Pioch/Prior Note
upon demand or otherwise.  See Theodore
Cohen decl., exhibits, and plaintiff’s undisputed material facts above.  
            As to defendants’ statute of
limitations defense, plaintiff argues that it fails as a matter of law.  Plaintiff contends that there is no statute
of limitations for a claim brought pursuant to Comm. Code §9607 because so long
as an obligation owed by a debtor is collectible, a cause of action brought
pursuant to section 9607 is not barred. 
Plaintiff also argues that the FSC Group Note is not barred by the
four-year statute of limitations under CCP §337 because under CCP §360, a
partial payment exception extends the statute of limitations beyond four
years.  Plaintiff contends that while the
partial payment must ordinarily be made by the obligor on the note to extend
the statute of limitations, payments made by a third party may be sufficient to
extend the statute of limitations if there is a “relation to the payment of the
debt which will warrant an inference that the actual debtor intended to renew
his promise to satisfy the indebtedness,” citing to Martindell v. Bodrero
(1967) 256 Cal. App. 2d 56, 60. 
Plaintiff contends that after the parties entered into a tolling
agreement (which expired on May 5, 2021, thus extending the statute of
limitations to May 25, 2022), FSC Group made several payments to plaintiff,
including (1) a payment of $4000 on October 20, 2021, (2) a payment of $4000 on
December 3, 2021, (3) a payment of $4000 on January 26, 2022, and (4) a payment
of $3000 on March 16, 2022.  Plaintiff
asserts that these payments were made by Pioch, on behalf of FSC Group.  Plaintiff argues that Pioch had a relation to
the payment of the debt, as an owner and principal of FSC Group such that the
statute of limitations would be extended. 
In support, plaintiff presents an email dated February 10, 2022, where
Prior stated “[a]s you are aware, Les [Pioch] is making payments on behalf of
Fine Sports Cars for both of us.”  Cohen
decl., Exh. I.  As to the Pioch/Prior
Note, plaintiff argues that it is not barred by the four-year statute of
limitations because it became in default on September 26, 2023, when defendants
failed to pay the balance due on the note on demand.
            Plaintiff further argues that
defendants’ remaining affirmative defenses fail as a matter of law because
defendants have no evidence or facts to support any of the defenses.  See PUMF 30, 32-33, 36-37, 48, 50-55, 57-72,
which defendants admit.
            In opposition, defendants argue that
the cause of action for breach is barred by the four-year statute of
limitations because “the FSC Note is barred which means plaintiff’s right to
affirmatively pursue the security, which gives it the right to its claims
against [defendants] is extinguished.” 
The parties do not dispute that the FSC Note was in default on May 5,
2016; there was a tolling from April 16, 2019 through May 5, 2021; and the
complaint was filed on October 27, 2023. 
Thus, defendants contend, a total of five years, five months, and two
days elapsed.  Defendants further argues
that under Civil Code §2911, a lien securing a debt is extinguished when the
statute of limitations on the principal obligation runs.  
Defendants also argue that CCP §360
does not extend the statute of limitations because the payments were not paid
by FSC Group or on behalf of FSC Group. 
Rather, they were made personally by Les Pioch, wired from Pioch’s
personal bank account and for purposes of paying down the personal liability
that Pioch and Prior had under the Pioch/Prior Note.  Pioch states in his declaration that in late
2021 and early 2022, he was personally getting pressure from Cohen to pay and
he was sending personal emails to both Pioch and Prior’s personal emails.  He states, “[u]nderstanding I was on the hook
for the $500,000 that I had agreed in the Pioch/Prior Note, I personally sent 4
payments between October 2021 and March 2022 to Cohen,” totaling $15,000.  He states that “[e]ach of these payments was
from me personally, from my own account.” 
Lester Pioch decl., ¶16.  He
states that he “made these payments to reduce the personal liability that Prior
and I had under the $500,000 Pioch/Prior Note. 
These payments were not to cover the FSC Note and not being sent on
behalf of FSC Group.”  Id., ¶17. See also
Michael Prior decl., ¶16.  Defendants
also argue that as to the February 10, 2022 email from Prior, the email “is at
best ambiguous.”  Prior states in his
declaration that at the time of the February 10, 2022 email, he was no longer a
part of FSC Group, having left on October 19, 2021.  He states that “[w]hat I was conveying in my
email is that Pioch was making payments to pay the $500,000 that he and I
owed.  As can be seen in the email, and
really the entire chain, the discussion is a personal one, not one involving
FSC Group, who I was no longer involved with.” 
He states further that “I was not intending to say that Pioch’s personal
payments were paying the FSC Note and I don’t believe that is what Pioch intended
with his payments.”  Michael Prior decl.,
¶18.  Defendants also attempt to distinguish
Martindell, supra, arguing that the case was very specific and not the
facts here.
Lastly, defendants argue that if
the claim is not barred by the statute of limitations, plaintiff’s claim is
limited to no more than $150,000 because the FSC Note improperly charges usury
interest.  Defendants point out that
pursuant to the terms of the FSC Note, interest is $8333.33 per month, which
equates to $100,000 a year and a 25% per year interest rate.
In reply, plaintiff argues that
defendants failed to establish a triable issue of material fact as to
plaintiff’s prima facie case.  Plaintiff
further asserts that the Conveyance of Collateral Agreement and other
admissible evidence provided by defendants establishes the amount of damages as
a matter of law.  Moreover, plaintiff argues,
defendants’ statute of limitations defense fails as a matter of law because the
Pioch/Prior Note was not due at the time Pioch made the payments because no
demand had been made at that time (defendants admit that the demand was made on
September 26, 2023); if the payments by Pioch were on the Prior/Pioch Note,
they would have been made to FSC and not to plaintiff (Pioch admits that he was
only obligated to FSC Group under the Pioch/Prior Note); and after receiving
the partial payments from Pioch, plaintiff confirmed in writing that the
partial payments were made on behalf of FSC for the FSC Group Note and neither
defendant raised any objection.  See
Cohen decl., ¶10, Exh. H (Cohen emails to Pioch and Prior confirming receipt of
Pioch’s payments “made on behalf of FSC Group, on the May 5, 2015, $400,000 FSC
Promissory Note” and that the payments would be applied in accordance with the
terms of the Note).  Plaintiff argues
that defendants’ “newfound explanation for the partial payments is a sham that
must be disregarded.”
As to defendants’ usury argument,
plaintiff argues that the defense fails as a matter of law because a person who
is not a party to an alleged usurious contract, cannot take advantage of the
defense.  Further, plaintiff points out
that defendants did not raise this defense in their answer or in their
discovery responses; thus, the defense has been waived and must be
disregarded.  Moreover, plaintiff argues,
the FSC Group Note is exempt from the usury defense under Corp. Code §25118(b)
as it is a loan over $300,000.
 
Evidentiary objections
The Court notes that plaintiff’s
objections are not numbered, but the Court will identify the objections by
numbering them in order.  The Court
SUSTAINS as to Nos. 1, 2, 6 and OVERRULES as to Nos. 3, 4, 5 as to Lester
Pioch’s declaration; SUSTAINS as to Nos. 1, 2, 6, and 7 and OVERRULES as to
Nos. 3, 4, 5 as to Michael Prior declaration. 
The objection as to Michael Murray’s declaration is SUSTAINED.
 
The Court rules as follows:  The Court finds that plaintiff has met its
burden of showing that defendants have no defense, including statute of
limitations, to the sole cause of action for breach of promissory note.  The Court also finds that defendants have
failed to show substantial evidence to raise a triable issue of material fact.  Defendants do not dispute plaintiff’s prima
facie case that it has established the elements for breach of promissory
note.  As to defendants’ statute of
limitations affirmative defense, the evidence indicates Pioch’s partial
payments were on the FSC Note and thus the statute of limitations (set to
expire on May 25, 2022) was extended under CCP §360 based on defendant Pioch’s
partial payments on the FSC Note prior to the expiration.  Defendants’ declarations are insufficient to
raise a triable issue of material fact that Pioch’s payments were on the Pioch/Pryor
Note rather than on the FSC Note as it is undisputed that Pioch paid Cohen directly
(and not FSC Group) and that Cohen had not made a demand on the Pioch/Pryor Note
until September 2023.  A payment to
reduce the liability owed by the Pioch/Pryor to FSC Group on the the
Pioch/Pryor Note would have been paid to FSC Group.  The Court concludes that the application of CCP
§ 360 does not turn on the claimed subjective intent of the payor when making
payment, but instead turns on the objective fact of the payment.
 
 
 
As to defendants’ argument with
respect to usury, defendants fail to raise a triable issue of material fact as
they did not raise the usury defense in their answer and thus have waived it;
defendants lack standing as to a usury defense as they are not a party to the
FSC Group Note; and the FSC Group Note is exempt from usury based on the amount
of the note.
ORDER
            The
motions for summary judgment are GRANTED. 
The motions for summary adjudication are MOOT in light of the ruling on
the motions for summary judgment. 
            Plaintiff
is ordered to give notice of ruling.