 Case Number:  22NWCV01760    Hearing Date:   May 2, 2024    Dept:  C HAYNIE v. AMERICAN
HONDA MOTOR CO., INC. 
CASE
NO.:  22NWCV01760
HEARING:  05/02/24
 
#5
 
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Special
Interrogatories (set one) is CONTINUED to Thursday, July 11, 2024 at 10:30 a.m. in Dept. SE-C. 
 
Moving party to give notice. 
 
This lemon law action
was filed on December 29, 2022. Plaintiff moves to compel Defendant’s further
responses to Special Interrogatories (set one). 
In Opposition,
Defendant explains that no meaningful meet and confer occurred over the subject
discovery because Defendant’s counsel was unavailable due to COVID-19 during
all of Plaintiff’s meet and confer attempts. In Opposition, Defendant indicates
that it is willing to continue to meet and confer. 
The Court
is not persuaded that counsel have exhausted their meet and confer obligations
pursuant to the Code. Counsel are advised that their meet and confer efforts
should go beyond merely sending letters stating their respective positions.
(See Townsend v. Superior Court (1998) 61 Cal.App.4th 1431, 1439.) “A
determination of whether an attempt at informal resolution is adequate…involves
the exercise of discretion. The level of effort at an informal resolution which
satisfies the ‘reasonable and good faith attempt’ standard depends upon the
circumstances. In a larger, more complex discovery request, a greater effort at
informal resolution may be warranted. In a simpler, or more narrowly focused
case, a more modest effort may suffice. The history of the litigation, the nature
of the interaction between counsel, the nature of the issues, the type and
scope of the discovery requested, the prospects for success and other similar
factors can be relevant. Judges have broad powers and responsibilities to
determine what measures and procedures are appropriate in varying
circumstances.” (Obregon v. Sup. Ct. (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 424, 431.) 
 
Counsel are
instructed to further meet and confer on the issues outlined in the subject
Motions. 
 
Counsel are
ORDERED to make further efforts to
resolve the issues presented. If, after exhausting those efforts, court
intervention is needed, counsel may appear and argue the merits on the
continued hearing date. If counsel are unable to informally resolve their
discovery disputes, then counsel are instructed to submit a JOINT STATEMENT
outlining the remaining disputed issues for which a ruling is required. The
joint statement must be FILED on or before Monday, July 1, 2024. 