 Case Number:  22NWCV01670    Hearing Date:   May 2, 2024    Dept:  C DAO v. FCA US LLC 
CASE
NO.:  22NWCV01670
HEARING:  05/02/21
 
#2
 
    
I.       
Plaintiff’s
Motion to Compel Further Responses to Special Interrogatories from Defendant
FCA US LLC is GRANTED.
 
   
II.       
Plaintiff’s
Motion to Compel Further Responses to Requests for Production of Documents from
Defendant FCA US LLC is GRANTED. 
 
 
III.       
Plaintiff’s
Motion to Compel Compliance with Discovery Responses is DENIED as MOOT.

 
Moving party to give notice. 
 
This lemon law action
was filed by Plaintiff HUNG DAO on December 20, 2022. Plaintiff alleges that
“[o]n September 17, 2021, Plaintiff entered into a warranty contract with FCA
US LLC regarding a 2021 Jeep Wrangler….” (Complaint ¶14.) Plaintiff alleges that
“[d]effects and nonconformities to warranty manifested themselves within eh
applicable express warranty period, including but not limited to electrical,
transmission, exterior, and structural.” (Id. ¶15.) “Defendant FCA US LLC has failed
to either promptly replace the Subject Vehicle or promptly make restitution in
accordance with the Song-Beverly Act.” (Id. ¶20.)
Plaintiff’s Complaint
asserts the following causes of action: 
(1) Violation of Song-Beverly Act, Breach of Express Warranty
(2) Violation of Song-Beverly Act, Breach of Implied Warranty
(3) Violation of Song-Beverly Act, Section 1793.2
Motion to Compel
Further Responses to Special Interrogatories (Set One) 
Plaintiff moves to
compel Defendant’s further responses to SI Nos. 29-40, 46, 48, 50-53, 57, 59,
and 60.
SI Nos. 29-33 and 40
seek information regarding Defendant’s prelitigation offer, including the terms
of the offer, whether Defendant promptly offered a repurchase, whether all
terms of the offer were provided to Plaintiff and all documents that Defendant
required Plaintiff to sign. 
SI Nos 34-39, 59, and
60 seek information regarding Defendant’s policies and procedures regarding a
release and what those terms were in connection with Defendant’s prelitigation
offer. 
SI No. 46 asks what
date Defendant contends the Subject Vehicle qualified for a repurchase. 
SI No. 48 asks
whether Defendant conditioned its prelitigation offer on the condition of the
Subject Vehicle. 
SI Nos. 50-53 and 57
ask Defendant’s policies and procedures for reimbursing registration and
insurance when repurchasing a vehicle under the Song-Beverly Act and whether
Defendant did so here and Defendant’s policies and procedures for calculating
the financial numbers for a vehicle repurchase pursuant to the Song-Beverly
Act. 
The Motion is
GRANTED.  Defendant is ORDERED to produce further
responses by no later than 15 days of the date of the Court’s issuance of this
Order. This date may be extended by agreement of the parties.
Defendant’s internal
policies regarding when to repurchase a vehicle are relevant to this action.
(See Oregel v. American Isuzu Motors, Inc. (2001) 90 Cal.App.4th 1094,
1104-1105.) The responding party must produce all relevant documents that have
not already been produced, that are in its possession, custody, or control. 
Motion to Compel
Further Responses to Request for Production of Documents (set one) 
Plaintiff moves to
compel Defendant’s further responses to RPD Nos. 39, 40, and 43-48. These RPDs
concern Defendant’s policies and procedures related to requiring a release in
connection with its prelitigation offer and all documents that constituted
Defendant’s prelitigation offer that Plaintiff was required to sign. 
The Motion is
GRANTED. Defendant
is ORDERED to produce further responses and documents by no later than 15 days
of the date of the Court’s issuance of this Order. This date may be extended by
agreement of the parties.
Plaintiff alleges
that Defendant failed to repair or repurchase the Subject Vehicle in compliance
with the Act. The documents sought are relevant to showing whether Defendant
complied with the Act. Moreover, on May 17, 2023, a CMC Order regarding discovery
was issued in this case. The CMC Order states, in relevant part: “Within 30
days of this order both plaintiff and defendant shall provide copies of the
following documents, which are in their respective possession, custody and/or
control…. e. Warranty claims submitted to and/or approved by Defendant
concerning the subject vehicle. [¶] f. Warranty Policy and Procedure Manual or
similar policies or claim-handling procedures established by Defendant from the
date the subject vehicle was purchased or leased to the date the lawsuit was
filed. [¶] g. Defendant’s written statements of policy and/or procedures used
to evaluate customer requests for repurchase or replacement pursuant to ‘Lemon
Law’ claims, including ones brought under the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty
Act, from the date the subject vehicle was purchased or leased to the date the
lawsuit was filed.” (05/17/23, CMC Order.) Therefore, Defendant has already,
seemingly, been ordered to produce documents responsive to the RPDs at issue. 
The responding party
must produce all relevant documents that have not already been produced, that
are in its possession, custody, or control. 
Motion to Compel
Compliance with Discovery Responses 
This Motion is DENIED
as MOOT. 
This Motion was filed
on August 31, 2023. 
In Opposition,
Defendant indicates that “from August 15, 2023, to September 6, 2023, FCA US
produced over 900 pages, including, among others, the Warranty Administration
Manual, Dealer Policy Manual, and the Customer Assistance Center Policies and
Procedures. (Smith Decl., ¶¶18-22, Exhibits 9-13.)” (Opp. 3:21-26.) 
As of April 29, 2024,
no Reply has been filed/lodged with the Court. 
Supplemental
documents/responses were served after the date this Motion was filed. Since
Plaintiff did not file a Reply to Defendant’s Opposition, the Court has no
reason to believe that the supplemental production is insufficient. 
Monetary Sanctions
The court shall impose a monetary sanction against the party who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel further responses to
interrogatories or demand for production of documents unless the party subject
to the sanction acted with substantial justification or the sanction would
otherwise be unjust. (Code of Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.300, subd. (d), 2031.310,
subd. (h), 2033.290, subd. (d).) 
Plaintiff’s Requests
for Sanctions are DENIED. It appears that supplemental responses and documents were
produced after the date the Motions were filed, and that Defendant remains
willing to supplement responses. The Court finds that Defendant acted with
substantial justification. 