 Case Number:  22NWCV01608    Hearing Date:   May 2, 2024    Dept:  C PEREZ v. COUNTRYWIDE MEDITERRANEAN APARTMENTS, LLC 
CASE
NO.:  22NWCV01608
HEARING: 
05/02/24
 
#1
 
    
I.       
Defendant
MED (DE), LLC’s Motion to Compel Plaintiff DAVID LOPEZ’s Responses to Special
Interrogatories (set one) is OFF-CALENDAR as MOOT pursuant to the Notice
of Withdrawal of Motion to Compel 
Responses to Special
Interrogatories (set one) FILED on April 25, 2024. 
 
   
II.       
Defendant
MED (DE), LLC’s unopposed Motion to Compel Plaintiff DEBBIE SHANNON’s Responses
to Form Interrogatories (set one) is GRANTED. 
 
Moving
Party to give Notice. 
 
Motion to
Compel Plaintiff DEBBIE SHANNON’s Responses to Form Interrogatories
 
No
Opposition filed as of April 29, 2024. 
 
Defendant
MED (DE) (“Defendant”) owns and operates an apartment complex that consists of
two hundred and fifty-seven apartment units. Plaintiffs are tenants in the
building. Plaintiffs allege they have experienced various problems with the
building, rendering it uninhabitable and breaching the implied warranty of
quiet enjoyment and habitability. 
 
If a party
to whom interrogatories are directed fails to respond at all, the propounding
party’s remedy is to seek a court order compelling answers thereto. (CCP §
2030.290.) All that needs to be shown is that the discovery was properly served
on the opposing party, that the time to respond has expired, and that no
response of any kind has been served. The moving party is not required to show
a reasonable and good faith attempt to resolve the matter informally before
filing this motion. A motion to compel initial discovery responses need not
show good cause, meeting and conferring, or timely filing, and need not be
accompanied by a separate statement. (See Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting,
Inc. v. Pac. Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390, 404.) The
failure to timely respond also waives all objections. 
 
Here,
Defendant has shown that Form Interrogatories (set one) were properly served
onto Plaintiff Shannon on June 15, 2023. The deadline to respond has expired,
and no responses of any kind have been provided.  This Moton was filed on October 20, 2023— about
four months after service of the discovery. As of April 29, 2024, no Opposition
has been filed to the subject Motion. 
 
Therefore,
the Motion to Compel is GRANTED, and
Plaintiff DEBBIE SHANNON is ORDERED
to provide verified responses, without objection by no later than 30 days
from date of the Court’s issuance of this Order. This date may be extended
by stipulation of the parties. If any objections are asserted, it will be
tantamount to no response at all and will be deemed a violation of this Court’s
order. 
 
Sanctions
with respect to interrogatories and requests for production of documents are
only authorized against a party who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to
compel responses. (Code of Civ. Proc. § 2030.290, subd. (c); Code of Civ. Proc.
§ 2031.300, subd. (c).) Here, sanctions are denied because the motions are
unopposed.
 
 