  Case Number:  22STCV23919    Hearing Date:   April 3, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


April
  3, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV23919




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  for Summary Judgment, or in the alternative, Summary Adjudication




MOVING PARTY:


Defendants Enterprise Leasing Company-West,
  LLC and EAN Holdings, LLC




OPPOSING PARTY:


Plaintiffs
  Trinidad Garcia, Patricia Garcia, Trinidad Garcia Jr., Jesus Garcis, Velia
  Garcia Esparza, Modesta Garcia Esparza, Eliue Garcia, and Erbey Garcia 



 
MOVING PAPERS
 
1.      Notice of Motion and Motion for Summary
Judgment or in the alternative, Summary Adjudication; Memorandum of Points and Authorities
2.      Separate Statement of Undisputed Material
Facts
3.      Declaration of Amy Aquino in Support
 
OPPOSITION PAPERS
1.      Plaintiffs’ Opposition
2.      Plaintiffs’ Response to Defendants’ Separate
Statement 
3.      Plaintiffs’ Objections to Evidence
4.      Declaration of Catherine Lerer in Support and
Supporting Exhibits
5.      Declaration of Roy Huntsman in Support and
Supporting Exhibits
6.      Notice of Lodgment of Exhibits
 
REPLY PAPERS 
1.      Defendants’ Reply
2.      Objections to Plaintiffs’ Evidence
3.      Defendants’ Responses to Plaintiffs’
Objections
4.      Reply Statement of Undisputed Material Facts
in Support
5.      Declaration of Ginger Pigott in Support
 
BACKGROUND
 
On July 25, 2022, Plaintiffs
Trinidad Garcia, Patricia Garcia, Trinidad Garcia Jr., Jesus Garcis, Velia
Garcia Esparza, Modesta Garcia Esparza, Eliue Garcia, and Erbey Garcia
(“Plaintiffs”) filed a survival action and wrongful death action resulting from
a motor vehicle accident. Plaintiffs also allege a negligent infliction of
emotional distress cause of action. Plaintiffs allege that decedent Patricia
Esparza (“Decedent”) was killed by Defendant Charles Milton Fullenwider Jr.
(“Fullenwider”), who was driving a vehicle owned and rented by Enterprise
Rent-A-Car Company and EAN Holdings, LLC. (Complaint, 6.) 
 
Moving Defendants Enterprise
Leasing Company-West, LLC and EAN Holdings, LLC now move for summary judgment, or alternatively summary adjudication, arguing
the Graves Amendment bars liability, that they did not negligently entrust the
vehicle to Fullenwider, and that they owe no contractual duty to insure against
Plaintiffs’ alleged harms. Plaintiffs oppose and Defendants reply. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
“[T]he party moving for summary judgment bears the burden
of persuasion that there is no triable issue of material fact and that he is
entitled to judgment as a matter of law[.] There is a triable issue of material
fact if, and only if, the evidence would allow a reasonable trier of fact to
find the underlying fact in favor of the party opposing the motion in
accordance with the applicable standard of proof.”¿(Aguilar v. Atlantic
Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.) ¿“[T]he party moving for summary
judgment bears an initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing of
the nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact; if he carries his
burden of production, he causes a shift, and the opposing party is then
subjected to a burden of production of his own to make a prima facie showing of
the existence of a triable issue of material fact.” (Ibid.; Smith v.
Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 1463, 1474 [summary judgment
standards held by Aguilar apply to summary adjudication motions].) 
Further, in line with Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co., “[o]n a motion
for summary adjudication, the trial court has no discretion to exercise. 
If a triable issue of material fact exists as to the challenged causes of
action, the motion must be denied. If there is no triable issue of fact, the
motion must be granted.” (Fisherman's Wharf Bay Cruise Corp. v. Superior
Court (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 309, 320.) 
 
“On a summary judgment motion, the court must therefore
consider what inferences favoring the opposing party a factfinder could
reasonably draw from the evidence. While viewing the evidence in this manner,
the court must bear in mind that its primary function is to identify issues
rather than to determine issues.  Only when the inferences are
indisputable may the court decide the issues as a matter of law. If the
evidence is in conflict, the factual issues must be resolved by trial.” (Binder
v. Aetna Life Ins. Co. (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832, 839 [cleaned up].) 
Further, “the trial court may not weigh the evidence in the manner of a
factfinder to determine whose version is more likely true.  Nor may the
trial court grant summary judgment based
on the court's evaluation of credibility.” (Id. at p. 840 [cleaned up];
see also Weiss v. People ex rel. Department of Transportation (2020) 9
Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts deciding motions for summary judgment or summary
adjudication may not weigh the evidence but must instead view it in the light
most favorable to the opposing party and draw all reasonable inferences in
favor of that party”].)            
 
EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
 
The Court declines to rule on Plaintiffs’ objection number 1 and
Defendants’ objections as they have no effect on the ruling herein. 
 
DISCUSSION
Negligence 
The
elements of a cause of action for negligence are: (1) a duty on the part of
defendant toward plaintiff; (2) defendant’s breach of that duty; and (3) harm
to the plaintiff caused by that breach. (Kesner v. Superior Court (2016) 1 Cal.5th 1132, 1142.) 
Graves Amendment
The Graves Amendment provides in pertinent part:   
 
“An owner
of a motor vehicle that rents or leases the vehicle to a person … shall not be
liable under the law of any State … by reason of being the owner of the vehicle
… for harm to persons or property that results or arises out of the use,
operation, or possession of the vehicle during the period of the rental or
lease, if— 
(1) the
owner . . . is engaged in the trade or business of renting or leasing motor
vehicles; and 
(2) there
is no negligence or criminal wrongdoing on the part of the owner (or an
affiliate of the owner)”
 
(49 U.S.C.
§30106 (a).)
 
The Graves Amendment also contains the following “savings
clause”: 
 
“Nothing in
this section supersedes the law of any State or political subdivision thereof— 
(1)
imposing financial responsibility or insurance standards on the owner of a
motor vehicle for the privilege of registering and operating a motor vehicle;
or 
(2)
imposing liability on business entities engaged in the trade or business of
renting or leasing motor vehicles for failure to meet the financial
responsibility or liability insurance requirements under State law.”
 
(49 U.S.C.
§ 30106 (b).)
 
California
Vehicle Code section 17150
provides that “[e]very owner of a motor vehicle is liable and responsible for
death or injury to person or property resulting from a negligent or wrongful
act or omission in the operation of the motor vehicle … by any person using or
operating the same with the permission, express or implied, of the
owner.” However, under Vehicle Code section 17151, where the basis for
liability is permissive use and the relationship between the owner and the
driver is not that of “principal and agent or master and servant,” the owner's
liability is limited by statute to $15,000 per person, not to exceed $30,000
per accident. 
 
The Court finds the case
of Garcia v. Vanguard Car Rental
USA, Inc. (11th Cir. 2008) 540 F.3d 1242 to be instructive. There, the
Eleventh Circuit held that the Graves Amendment preempts Florida’s tort
liability law, which “imposes strict vicarious liability upon the owner of a
motor vehicle who voluntarily entrusts that motor vehicle to an individual
whose negligent operation causes damage to another.” (Garcia, supra, 540
F.3d at 1245 [citation omitted].) Similar to California Vehicle Code section
17151, Florida’s legislature also imposed statutory caps on the amount of
vicarious liability a rental car company could face. The Eleventh Circuit
rejected the argument that this statutory cap was a “financial responsibility”
law within the meaning of the savings clause. (Id. at 1247.) Rather, the
court found that “financial responsibility is closely linked to insurance
requirements.” (Id.) The court concluded that “neither the common law
imposition of vicarious liability on rental car companies, nor the Florida
legislature’s endorsement of and limitations on such vicarious liability,
constitutes a 'financial responsibility' requirement. … [States] simply may not
impose such judgments against rental car companies based on the negligence of
their lessees. [citation omitted.]” (Id. at 1249.)
 
Here, Plaintiffs argue that they “have only pursued
Enterprise Defendants for statutory ownership liability.” (Opposition at p. 4.)
Plaintiffs further argue that they did not sue Enterprise Defendants for
vicarious liability or negligent entrustment, but yet argue that Defendants are
liable pursuant to California Vehicle Code section 17150. (Opposition at pp.
7-8.) Plaintiffs have not set forth any facts to establish negligence or any
wrongdoing by Defendants. (See PAMF 38-54.) Rather, Plaintiffs’ theory as to
Defendants pursuant to section 17150 is one of vicarious liability. (See PAMF
49-50.)
 
Defendants have met their burden of establishing that the
Graves Amendment preempts liability in this case. It is undisputed that
Enterprise and EAN were engaged in the trade or business of renting or leasing
motor vehicles at the time of the renting of the subject vehicle, and that
there was no negligence or criminal wrongdoing on the part of Defendants. (UMF
4-12.) Plaintiffs seek to recover solely under the theory that Defendants were
owners of a vehicle negligently driven by Fullenwider.[1] The Graves Amendment expressly provides that Defendants
shall not be liable.
 
Because
summary judgment is proper, the Court will not rule on Defendants’ remaining
issues for summary adjudication. Though Plaintiffs argue that the parties
originally agreed to settle this case in July 2023 and have a pending motion to
enforce the settlement, that issue is not contained in the pleadings of this
case. (Opposition at p. 10.) Additionally, Plaintiffs’ evidence does not show
that the parties signed the purported settlement, and no motion to enforce the
settlement has been filed.[2] Therefore,
it does not appear to be a basis to deny the summary judgment motion.  
 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
Based on the foregoing, Defendants Enterprise Leasing
Company-West, LLC and EAN Holdings, LLC’s Motion for Summary Judgment is GRANTED.
Defendants shall file and serve a proposed judgment
within 10 days.
 
            Defendants
are ordered to give notice of this ruling and file a proof of service of such. 
 
 


