 Case Number:  22STCV41020    Hearing Date:   November 6, 2023    Dept:  32 


 
JANE DOE,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
LUIS DIAZ ROJAS, 
                        Defendant.
  


 
  Case No.:  22STCV41020
  Hearing Date:  November 6, 2023
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
defendant’s motions to compel further responses
  to form interrogatories and requests for production   




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On December 30, 2022, Plaintiff Jane
Doe filed this action against Defendant Luis Diaz Rojas stemming from an
alleged sexual assault. 
            On October 13, 2023, Defendant filed
the instant two motions to compel further responses to Form Interrogatories and
Requests for Production. Plaintiff filed her opposition on October 24, 2023.
Defendant filed his reply on October 30, 2023.  
LEGAL STANDARD
“On receipt of a response to a demand for
inspection, copying, testing, or sampling, the demanding party may move for an
order compelling further response to the demand if the demanding party deems
that any of the following apply: (1) A statement of compliance with the demand
is incomplete. (2) A representation of inability to comply is inadequate,
incomplete, or evasive. (3) An objection in the response is without merit or
too general.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310(a).) 
On receipt of a response to interrogatories,
the propounding party may move for an order compelling a further response if
the propounding party deems that any of the following apply: (1) An answer to a
particular interrogatory is evasive or incomplete; (2) An exercise of the
option to produce documents under Section 2030.230 is unwarranted or the
required specification of those documents is inadequate; (3) An objection to an
interrogatory is without merit or too general. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300,
subd. (a).)  
MEET AND CONFER
            A motion to compel further must be
accompanied by a meet and confer declaration demonstrating an attempt to
resolve the matter informally. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.300(b)(1), 2031.310(b).)
The Court finds that Defendant has satisfied the meet and confer requirement.
(See Koorenny Decl. ¶ 4, Ex. 3, 5.) 
DISCUSSION
I.
Form Interrogatories
An answer to an interrogatory must be as
complete and straightforward as possible. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.220(a).) Form
Interrogatories are drafted and approved by the Judicial Council and seek basic
information fundamental to routine discovery. (See Puerto v. Superior Court
(2008) 158 Cal.App.4th 1242, 1250.) A party “is entitled to demand answers to
its interrogatories, as a matter of right . . . [and] the burden of justifying
any objection and failure to respond remains at all times with the party
resisting an interrogatory.” (Williams v. Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th
531, 541.) 
            In her responses, Plaintiff asserted
a variety of boilerplate objections for which no explanations are provided in
her opposition. Plaintiff’s opposition argues that “a lot of defendant’s
requests for discovery are irrelevant, invasive and absurd!” (Opp. 3:13-15.)
Plaintiff also reiterates her objections and simply declares that they are
valid. (Opp. 9:1-9.) These generic statements do not actually address the
substance of any of the interrogatories and fail to demonstrate which interrogatories
are irrelevant or invasive, or how. It is Plaintiff’s burden to justify her
objections. (See Williams, supra, 3 Cal.5th at p. 541.) Plaintiff has
failed to do this. Therefore, further responses are required for the Form
Interrogatories. 
II.
Requests for Production
            The Requests for Production seek documents
relevant to Plaintiff’s claims. The requests seek the documentary basis for
Plaintiff’s allegations, photos of Plaintiff and Defendant together, proof of
payments from Defendant to Plaintiff, documents showing phone calls or texts
between Plaintiff and Defendant, documents showing sexual intercourse between
Plaintiff and Defendant, and all documents identified in Plaintiff’s responses
to form interrogatories. 
Defendant has established good cause
through his separate statement, which also explains why Plaintiff’s responses are
improper. Plaintiff has not filed a responsive separate statement, nor does
Plaintiff’s opposition brief address the substance of the requests or her
responses. Plaintiff’s objections are without merit. To the extent Plaintiff is
unable to comply with a request, her response must abide by Code of Civil
Procedure section 2031.230. Therefore, further responses are required for the Requests
for Production.    
CONCLUSION
            Defendant’s motions to compel
further responses are GRANTED. Plaintiff shall provide further responses to the
subject Form Interrogatories and Requests for Production within 15 days. Sanctions
are denied.  