  Case Number:  20STCV04529    Hearing Date:   November 6, 2023    Dept:  32 


 
CRAIG SALLIN, et al.,
                        Plaintiffs,
            v.
 
JOE SAMUEL BAILEY, et
  al.,
                        Defendants.
  


 
  Case No.:  20STCV04529
  Hearing Date:  November 6, 2023
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
plaintiffs’ motion for summary judgment
  or adjudication 




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On February 4, 2020, Plaintiffs Craig
Sallin, Croesus Investments, LLC, Linda Snyder-Kelbaugh, Sun Coast Distributing,
Inc., Sun Pacific Group, Inc., and Jerry James filed this action for breach of
contract against Defendants Joe Samuel Bailey and Renew Spinal Care, Inc. The
operative First Amended Complaint was filed on March 27, 2020.   
            The FAC asserts a single cause of
action for breach of written settlement agreement. The FAC alleges that
Plaintiffs invested money to Defendants and that the parties reached a
settlement resolving disputes over the amount owed. This action stems from Defendants’
alleged failure to pay the amounts required by the settlement agreement.  
            On July 28, 2023, Plaintiffs filed
the instant motion for summary judgment or adjudication in the alternative. Defendants
filed their opposition on October 23, 2023. Plaintiffs filed their reply on
November 1, 2023. 
 
 
 LEGAL STANDARD
The function of
a motion for summary judgment or adjudication is to allow a determination as to
whether an opposing party cannot show evidentiary support for a pleading or
claim and to enable an order of summary dismissal without the need for trial. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001)
25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) Code of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (c)
“requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the evidence
submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and
uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable
issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment
as a matter of law.”  (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7
Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) “The function of the pleadings in a motion for summary
judgment is to delimit the scope of the issues; the function of the affidavits
or declarations is to disclose whether there is any triable issue of fact
within the issues delimited by the pleadings.” (Juge v. County of Sacramento (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67, citing FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima
(1991) 231 Cal. App. 3d 367, 381-382.)
As to each claim
as framed by the complaint, the plaintiff moving for summary judgment must
satisfy the initial burden of proof by presenting facts to establish each
element of the cause of action. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(1).) Once
the plaintiff has met that burden, the burden shifts to the defendant to show
that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action
or a defense thereto. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(1).) To establish a
triable issue of material fact, the party opposing the motion must produce
substantial responsive evidence. (Sangster
v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.) Courts “liberally construe the
evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts
concerning the evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)
 
 
EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
Defendants’
Objections to Plaintiffs’ Evidence

The Court does not consider Defendants’
     objections because they fail to “[q]uote or set forth the objectionable
     statement or material” as required by California Rules of Court, Rule
     3.1354(b)(3). 

Plaintiffs’
Objections to Defendants’ Evidence:

The following objections are
     overruled: 1-15, 28, 31, 33, 34.
The remaining objections are
     not pertinent to the Court’s ruling on the motion. (Code Civ. Proc., §
     437c(q).) 

DISCUSSION
            Plaintiffs seek summary judgment on
their breach of contract claim, as well as summary adjudication of Defendants’
usury defense. 
I.
Breach of Contract 
            To establish breach of contract, a plaintiff must show: (1) the contract
existed, (2) the plaintiff’s performance of the contract or excuse for
nonperformance, (3) the defendant’s breach, and (4) the resulting damage to the
plaintiff. (Richman v. Hartley (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 1182, 1186.) 
            a. Terms of the Agreement
            Here, the parties entered into a
Settlement Agreement on July 24, 2019. (Plntf.’s Undisputed Facts (UF) 10.) The
Agreement calls for Defendants to pay nine investors a total principal of $6
million as full and final satisfaction of all claims between the investors and
Defendants. (UF 12.) Plaintiffs are six of the nine total investors and collectively
hold a 79% interest in the obligations owed by Defendants under the Agreement. (UF
15.) The unpaid principal balance and any accrued interest will become due and
payable in full on July 24, 2024, five years from the date of execution. (UF
12.) The Agreement lists an interest rate of 10% per annum. (Ibid.) The
Agreement calls for Defendants to pay the investors the first $1 million
received from the final judgment in the case Bailey v. St. Louis by
September 30, 2019. (Ibid.) In July 2019, the Agreement was amended to
make the $1 million due by February 29, 2020. (UF 13.) Defendants are also
required to pay 25% of all collections from Bailey v. St. Louis. (UF 12.)
Additionally, Defendants are required to pay the investors $1,000 with respect
to each surgery performed at Defendants’ medical clinics. (Ibid.)  
            b. Defendants’ Purported Breach
            Plaintiffs contend that Defendants
breached the Agreement by not making any payments to date, despite receiving
$12 million from the Bailey v. St. Louis case and performing 624
surgeries. (UF 14, 16, 23.) Based on their 79% interest, Plaintiffs contend
they are entitled to $2.3 million from Bailey v. St. Louis and $492,960
from the surgeries. (Ibid.) 
                        1.
Collections from Bailey v. St. Louis          

            Plaintiffs’ only evidence of any recovery
or collection from Bailey v. St. Louis is the investors’ recollection of
a purported phone call where Bailey supposedly admitted to receiving $12 million
from the case. (See UF 16.) However, Bailey denies making such a call and
denies receiving any money from Bailey v. St. Louis. (Bailey Decl. ¶
51.) Therefore, there is a triable issue as to whether Bailey has actually
collected any funds from Bailey v. St. Louis. As a result, it cannot be
determined as a matter of law that Defendants breached the Agreement by failing
to pay the $1 million paydown or 25% of collections, or failing to report “significant
developments” in the Bailey v. St. Louis case. 
            Plaintiffs argue that Defendants at
least breached the obligation to report “significant developments” in regards
to collection efforts in the Bailey v. St. Louis case. But again,
Plaintiffs have no evidence of any significant developments beyond the
purported receipt of $12 million, which is disputed. It is also a factual issue
what is considered a “significant development.” 
                        
2. Surgery Profits
            Plaintiffs’ basis for claiming
$1,000 per surgery comes from Section 2(d)(i) of the Agreement. (UF 18.) This
section provides that “Sam [Bailey] shall cause Newco to pay the lender-investors
$l,000 for each surgery performed by Newco. The payments shall be made
quarterly with respect to those surgeries on which Newco has received payment.
It is
contemplated that the $1,000 per surgery shall come from Sam’s interest in the
surgical profits generated by Newco.” (Plntf.’s Ex. 1, § 2(d)(i).) According to
the Agreement, Newco is a company that Bailey intended to form as a successor
to Renew Spinal Care, Inc. to provide minimally invasive spinal surgery. (Id.,
§ 2(d).)  
            Plaintiffs argue that Defendants
have failed to pay the investors for 624 surgeries, resulting in $492,960 owed
to Plaintiffs. (UF 23.) Plaintiffs arrived at this number by estimating that
Defendants performed 13 surgeries per month on average based on 113 surgeries
performed between September 2020 and June 2021. (UF 21.) Using the average of
13 surgeries per month, Plaintiffs estimate that Defendants performed 624
surgeries over the four years since the execution of the Settlement Agreement.
(UF 23.) 
            However, the Agreement requires
payment for “surgeries on which Newco has received payment.”
(Plntf.’s Ex. 1, § 2(d)(i).) This means surgeries that were actually performed
and paid for. The Agreement does not contemplate payments based on an estimate
of surgeries. It cannot be determined as a matter of law that Defendants owe
$492,960 for 624 surgeries because Plaintiffs have no evidence that Defendants
actually performed this number of surgeries. 
Furthermore, the Agreement requires
payment for “each surgery performed by Newco.” (Plntf.’s Ex. 1, § 2(d)(i).)
Plaintiffs’ evidence references surgeries performed by unspecified “Defendants’
Medical Clinics.” (See UF 21.) Plaintiffs bear the initial burden on summary
judgment, and they have not satisfied their burden of proving that Newco performed
surgeries so as to trigger the payment provision. Plaintiffs introduce reply
evidence of Bailey’s interrogatory responses supposedly admitting that a
company he formed, Sonospine Surgery, is Renew’s successor and therefore
considered “Newco” under the Agreement. This evidence was not filed with Plaintiffs’
moving papers and will not be considered. (See Jay v. Mahaffey (2013)
218 Cal.App.4th 1522, 1537 [“new evidence is not permitted with reply papers.
This principle is most prominent in the context of summary judgment motions”].)
     
Because of the factual disputes discussed
above, Plaintiffs have not established a breach of contract as a matter of law.
Therefore, the Court is precluded from granting summary judgment for
Plaintiffs.  
II.
Usury
The California Constitution limits the
interest rate on a loan or forbearance to the higher of 10% per annum or 5% per
annum plus a certain prevailing rate. (Cal. Const., Art. XV § 1.) “The
essential elements of usury are: (1) The transaction must be a loan or
forbearance; (2) the interest to be paid must exceed the statutory maximum; (3)
the loan and interest must be absolutely repayable by the borrower; and (4) the
lender must have a willful intent to enter into a usurious transaction.” (Ghirardo
v. Antonioli (1994) 8 Cal.4th 791, 798.) 
a. Waiver
            1.
Applicable Law
Plaintiffs argue that Defendants have
waived the usury defense because the Settlement Agreement contains a mutual
release and wavier. (Plntf.’s Ex. 1, §§ 4, 5.) Plaintiffs rely on Credit
Finance Corp. v. Mox (1932) 125 Cal.App. 583, 586, which held that “in the
absence of a showing of fraud or undue influence, a compromise agreement, like
a judgment, is decisive of the rights of the parties thereto, and ‘[e]ven
though there had been usury in the original transaction, it would seem that
upon a settlement upon which each of the parties released the others from all
claims and liabilities of every character then existing, the right to rely upon
a previous usurious transaction would cease to exist.’”  
However, a release provision does not constitute
a waiver of usury claims where “exempting [a party] from the consequences of
usury would violate public policy.” (Hardwick v. Wilcox (2017) 11
Cal.App.5th 975, 988.) A contract violates public policy when its object is to
exempt anyone from liability for a violation of law. (Id. at p. 989, citing
Civ. Code, § 1668.) Therefore, if an agreement is “an extension of the
underlying usurious loan transaction,” construing a release provision as a
waiver of usury would wrongly allow a party to “benefit from his illegal
contract and retain the usurious interest he extracted.” (Ibid.) This was
not the case in Mox because “[i]n Mox, the parties had a
bona fide dispute as to whether the loans in question were usurious, and
resolved that dispute in a settlement agreement.” (Hardwick, supra, 11
Cal.App.5th at p. 990.) 
In sum, Mox precludes a party from
arguing that a settlement agreement is tainted by an underlying usurious transaction
if the very purpose of the settlement agreement is to resolve the dispute over
usury and remove the taint. However, Mox does not stand for the proposition
that a usury claim is waived in every case involving a settlement agreement
with a release provision. Instead, under Hardwick, a settlement
agreement cannot waive usury if it is an extension of a usurious transaction or
“itself violate[s] the usury law.” (Hardwick, supra, 11 Cal.App.5th at
p. 990.) 
            2.
Application to this Case
In this case, the parties did not have a
bona fide dispute over usury, and the Settlement Agreement was not a resolution
of a preexisting usury dispute. Instead, the facts suggest that the Agreement “itself
violated the usury law.” (See Hardwick, supra, 11 Cal.App.5th at p. 990.)
Defendants point out that the total principal amount loaned by the Plaintiffs in
2014 and 2015 was $930,000, which turned into $4.7 million owed by July 2019,
the date of the settlement agreement. Defendants contend that the Settlement Agreement
extended the due dates for the loans in exchange for fixing $3,810,000 in
usurious interest. Based on the amounts stated in the complaint and attached
settlement agreement, Defendants calculate that each Plaintiff is seeking to recover
an interest rate between 16.57% and 197.29% for the various loans that they
made to Defendants. 
A reasonable trier of fact may conclude
that the Agreement created usury rather than resolving an existing dispute over
usury. Therefore, there is a triable issue over whether Defendants waived the
usury defense.  
b. Whether the Underlying Transaction Consisted
of Loans
Plaintiffs argue that the underlying transactions
were investments, not loans. Plaintiffs contend that between 2014 and 2016, the
nine investors “invested in a medical receivables financing program offered by
Defendants.” (UF 1.) Plaintiffs claim that “Defendants solicited the
investments and represented to Plaintiffs that the receivables were in the
process of being paid by various insurance companies. Pursuant to Pledge
Agreements signed by Defendants, the INVESTORS were to be repaid from the
payments Defendants received with respect to said receivables.” (UF 3.) 
On the other hand, Defendants argue that the
investors were never given any membership interest in Renew and were not
entitled to any profits earned by Renew. (Def.’s Resp. to UF 3.) Instead, under
the pledge agreements, “each plaintiff received a fixed payment within a fixed
amount of time.” (Ibid.; Bailey Decl., Ex. 1.) The pledge agreements
also provided for conditions of default on repayment. (Ibid.) A
reasonable trier of fact may interpret these as loans rather than investments. Furthermore,
the Settlement Agreement states that “[t]he Lender-Investors made the following
loans/investments in the form of a series of loans to Sam or Renew or both.” (Plntf.’s
Ex. 1, § A.) The recital proceeds to list the “loans” made by each of the nine
investors. (Ibid.) Therefore, there is a triable issue over whether
Plaintiffs made loans subject to usury law.     
 
 
c. Converting a Non-Usurious Transaction into
a Usurious One
Plaintiffs argue that “[a] modification of
a nonusurious transaction (e.g., a credit sale) is not subject to usury even if
modified to raise the interest rate to a usurious rate.” (Mtn. 13:12-14.)
However, the case relied upon, Ghirardo v. Antonioli (1994) 8 Cal.4th
791, does not stand for the proposition that any non-usurious transaction may
be converted to a usurious one and remain immune from usury law. First, the
court in Ghirardo “beg[a]n with the important premise, which Ghirardo does
not dispute, that his purchase of the property from Gay was exempt from the
usury law” because the transaction did not “involve[] a loan or forbearance.” (Id.
at p. 803.) By contrast, there is a dispute in this case over whether the
underlying transactions were loans subject to usury law. Furthermore, Ghirardo
was decided based on the credit sale exception because “the owner of property,
whether real or personal, has a perfect right to name the price on which he is
willing to sell, and to refuse to accede to any other. He may offer to sell at
a designated price for cash or at a much higher price on credit, and a credit
sale will not constitute usury however great the difference between the two
prices.” (Id. at p. 804.) Plaintiffs articulate no basis to apply the
credit sale exception to the transactions at issue in this case. 
Similarly, in DCM Partners v. Smith
(1991) 228 Cal.App.3d 729, 731, “[t]he court held that the original transaction
constituted a credit sale that was exempt from the usury laws, and that it
retained its exempt status when the note was modified to provide for increased
interest.” Again, in this case, the underlying transactions are not exempt
credit sales. Neither Ghirardo nor DCM supports Plaintiffs’
suggestion that an investment can be converted to a loan that is immune from
usury. (See Mtn. 14:5-7.)
 
 
 
CONCLUSION
            For the reasons articulated above,
there are disputes of material fact which preclude summary judgment or adjudication
of Plaintiffs’ breach of contract claim and Defendants’ usury defense.
Therefore, Plaintiffs’ motion is DENIED.  
 
 