 Case Number:  21STCV42899    Hearing Date:   August 13, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court. 

 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


August
  13, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV42899




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Quash Subpoena for Production of Business Records to Verizon Wireless




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiffs
  Shawntrise Rose-Armstead, Alexandria Armstead, and Echsavior Armstead




OPPOSING PARTY:


Defendant
  Security Paving Company, Inc. 



 
BACKGROUND
 
On May 31, 2022, Plaintiff Shawntrise Rose-Armstead, Alexandria
Armstead, and Echsavior Armstead (“Plaintiffs”) filed the operative first
amended complaint (“FAC”) against Defendants State of California, Caltrans, and
Does 1 to 100 for a wrongful death action. Plaintiffs allege that on November
26, 2020, at approximately 1:00 a.m., Decedent Eric Lamont Armstead
(“Decedent”) died after his vehicle collided into a paver machine that was
negligently parked on the I-5 freeway. (FAC ¶ 12.) 
 
On September 26, 2022, Plaintiffs filed an amendment to the complaint,
substituting Security Paving Company, Inc. as Doe 1. 
 
On June 14, 2024, Defendant Security Paving Company, Inc.
(“Defendant”) issued a business records subpoena to Verizon Wireless seeking
the telephone records for Decedent, with a July 15, 2024 production date.  
 
 Plaintiffs now move to quash
the subpoena, arguing that it is overbroad, irrelevant, and violates a privacy
right. Defendant opposes. No reply has been filed. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Code of Civil Procedure § 1987.1(a) states: 
 
If a subpoena requires the attendance of a witness or the production
of books, documents, electronically stored information, or other things before
a court, or at the trial of an issue therein, or at the taking of a deposition,
the court, upon motion reasonably made by any person described in subdivision
(b), or upon the court's own motion after giving counsel notice and an
opportunity to be heard, may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely,
modifying it, or directing compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as
the court shall declare, including protective orders. In addition, the court
may make any other order as may be appropriate to protect the person from
unreasonable or oppressive demands, including unreasonable violations of the
right of privacy of the person. 
 
“The state Constitution expressly grants Californians a right of
privacy. (Cal. Const., art. I, § 1.) Protection of informational privacy is the
provision's central concern. [Citation omitted.] In Hill, [the
California Supreme Court] established a framework for evaluating potential
invasions of privacy. The party asserting a privacy right must establish a
legally protected privacy interest, an objectively reasonable expectation of
privacy in the given circumstances, and a threatened intrusion that is serious.
[Citation omitted.] The party seeking information may raise in response
whatever legitimate and important countervailing interests disclosure serves,
while the party seeking protection may identify feasible alternatives that
serve the same interests or protective measures that would diminish the loss of
privacy. A court must then balance these competing considerations. [citation
omitted].” (Williams v. Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 533 (citing
Hill v. National Collegiate Athletic Assn. (1994) 7 Cal.4th 1, 35.) 
 
“[Prior] cases correctly recognize that when a discovery request seeks
information implicating the constitutional right of privacy, to order discovery
simply upon a showing that the Code of Civil Procedure section 2017.010 test
for relevance has been met is an abuse of discretion. [Citation omitted.] But
they also stand for the proposition that whenever discovery of facially private
information is sought, the party seeking discovery must demonstrate a “
‘compelling state interest’ ” [citation omitted] or “compelling need” [citation
omitted]. Although in this they are not alone [citation omitted], they
nevertheless are incorrect.” (Williams, supra, 3 Cal.5th at 556.) “To
the extent prior cases require a party seeking discovery of private information
to always establish a compelling interest or compelling need, without regard to
the other considerations articulated in Hill v. National Collegiate Athletic
Assn., [citation omitted], they are disapproved.” (Id. at 557.)
 
“Only obvious invasions of interest fundamental to personal autonomy
must be supported by a compelling interest.” (Williams, supra, 3 Cal.5th
at 556.) When lesser interests are at stake, “the strength of the
countervailing interest sufficient to warrant disclosure of private information
var[ies] according to the strength of the privacy interest itself, the
seriousness of the invasion, and the availability of alternatives and
protective measures.” (Id.) “The trial courts in exercising their
discretion should keep in mind that the Legislature has suggested that, where
possible, the court should impose partial limitations rather than outright
denial of discovery.” (Id. at 559 [quotation omitted].)
 
California Code of Civil Procedure section 1987.2 provides that “the
court may in its discretion award the amount of reasonable expenses incurred in
making or opposing [a motion to quash], including reasonable attorney’s fees,
if the court finds the motion was made or opposed in bad faith or without
substantial justification or that one or more of the requirements of the
subpoena was oppressive.” (Code Civ. Proc. section 1987.2(a).)
 
“Unless
otherwise limited by order of the court in accordance with this title, any
party may obtain discovery regarding any matter, not privileged, that is
relevant to the subject matter involved in the pending action or to the
determination of any motion made in that action, if the matter either is itself
admissible in evidence or appears reasonably calculated to lead to the
discovery of admissible evidence.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2017.010.) 
 
DISCUSSION
 
The subject subpoena seeks the following information:
 
“Any and all telephone records and billing for Subscriber, Eric
Armstead; Phone Number (213) 777-0572. Records should include but not be
limited to: incoming calls, outgoing calls, data transmission, call detail
(e.g. date, time, number called, duration of call). 
 
(Powers Decl., Exh. 1.) 
 
Plaintiffs argue the records are irrelevant and overbroad. The Court
observes that on its face, the subpoena is overbroad since it is not limited to
any time, such as when the incident in this case took place. Plaintiffs have
suggested a limitation to within 10 minutes before the incident. (Motion, 9.) 
 
In opposition, Defendant contends that Decedent was under the
influence when the incident took place. It argues that because no witnesses
were with Decedent at the time, phone records are needed to determine his
activities, mental state, and relationship with Plaintiffs leading up to crash.
(Opp., 2-3.) Defendant contends that the parties met and conferred, and it
offered to limit the scope of records to November 25, 2020 and November 26,
2020, whereas Plaintiffs agreed to a limit of 15 minutes before the incident. (Haas
Decl. ¶ 3.) Based on the information provided by Defendant, limited telephone
records are relevant to this action, but Defendant does not provide sufficient
explanation for all records the entire day before and entire day of the
incident.[1] Nevertheless,
because the subpoena on its face is overbroad, the motion to quash is granted. 
 
Next, Plaintiffs contend the subpoena violates a privacy interest. Even
if the telephone records are protected by a privacy right, Plaintiffs have not
shown there is an objectively reasonable expectation of privacy in the given
circumstances, and a threatened intrusion that is serious, as required by Williams
v. Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 533. Additionally, there are no
facts supporting that the requested records are “obvious invasions of interest
fundamental to personal autonomy.” Therefore, no showing of a compelling
interest is required. (Williams, supra, 3 Cal.5th at 556.) As a
result, Plaintiffs fail to meet their burden to show that the purported privacy
right warrants quashing the subpoena in its entirety.
 
Next, Plaintiffs argue that the subpoena is invalid since it does not
comply with Code of Civil Procedure section 1985.3(f). 
 
Section
1985.3(f) states:
 
“A subpoena duces tecum for personal records maintained by a telephone
corporation which is a public utility, as defined in Section 216 of the Public
Utilities Code, shall not be valid or effective unless it includes a consent to
release, signed by the consumer whose records are requested, as required by
Section 2891 of the Public Utilities Code.” 
 
A “public utility is defined as “every . . . telephone corporation . .
. where the service is performed for, or the commodity is delivered to, the
public or any portion thereof.” (Pub. Util. Code § 216(a)(1).) Public Utilities
Code section 2891 requires written consent before a telephone corporation may
provide any of the following information: “The subscriber's personal calling
patterns, including any listing of the telephone or other access numbers called
by the subscriber, but excluding the identification to the person called of the
person calling and the telephone number from which the call was placed”; “The
residential subscriber's credit or other personal financial information.” (Pub.
Util. Code § 2891(a).) 
 
Here, Plaintiffs contend that Defendant did not obtain a signed
consent to these records. Defendant does not address this argument in
opposition, or how the consent requirement applies to records from deceased
persons, or whether a subpoena (as opposed to a different procedure, such as a
court order) is statutorily authorized in these circumstances.
 
Plaintiffs
did not seek monetary sanctions in the Notice of Motion. Therefore, the Court
declines to award monetary sanctions. 
 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
Accordingly, the Court grants Plaintiffs’ motion to Quash Subpoena
for Production of Business Records to Verizon Wireless. 
 
Plaintiffs to provide notice and file a proof of service of such.
 
 
 
 


