  Case Number:  21STCV18410    Hearing Date:   August 13, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


August
  13, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV18410




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  for Summary Judgment, or in the alternative, Summary Adjudication




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant George’s and George’s LLC  




OPPOSING PARTY:


Plaintiff
  Farhad Beroukhim



 
MOVING PAPERS
 
1.     Notice of Motion and Motion for Summary
Judgment or in the alternative, Summary Adjudication
2.     Memorandum of Points and Authorities
3.     Separate Statement of Undisputed Material
Facts
4.     Request for Judicial Notice
5.     Compendium of Exhibits in Support
6.     Declaration of Gueorgui Stefanov
7.     Declaration of Nathan D. Andersen
 
OPPOSITION PAPERS
1.     Plaintiff’s Memorandum in Opposition
2.     Plaintiff’s Separate Statement in Opposition
3.     Plaintiff’s Objections to Evidence
 
REPLY PAPERS
1.    
George’s and George’s LLC’s Reply 
2.    
Notice of Errata Re: Compendium of Exhibits in Support
 
BACKGROUND
 
On June 29, 2023, Plaintiff
Farhad Beroukhim (“Plaintiff”) filed the operative first amended complaint
(“FAC”) against Defendants Angel Daniel Correa Ramirez, George’s and George’s
LLC, Miguel Angel Correa, Geller Group, and Does 1 to 50 based on an alleged
motor vehicle accident. The form complaint alleges that on February 27, 2021, “Plaintiffs
vehicle was struck by Defendants' vehicle which made an unsafe lane change.” (FAC,
4.) 
 
Plaintiff asserts a negligence cause of action and alleges that Moving
Defendant George’s and George’s LLC (“Defendant”) operated the vehicle,
employed the person who operated the vehicle, owned the vehicle which was
operated with its permission, entrusted the vehicle, and was the agent and
employees of the other defendants. 
 
Defendant now moves for summary judgment or alternatively, summary
adjudication, arguing that the subject vehicle had been stolen by co-defendant
Angel Daniel Correa Ramirez. Plaintiff opposes and Defendant replies. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
“[T]he party
moving for summary judgment bears the burden of persuasion that there is no
triable issue of material fact and that he is entitled to judgment as a matter
of law[.] There is a triable issue of material fact if, and only if, the
evidence would allow a reasonable trier of fact to find the underlying fact in
favor of the party opposing the motion in accordance with the applicable
standard of proof.”¿(Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th
826, 850.) “A motion for summary adjudication shall be granted only if
it completely disposes of a cause of action, an affirmative defense, a claim
for damages, or an issue of duty.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(1).) ¿“[T]he party moving for summary judgment bears an initial
burden of production to make a prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any
triable issue of material fact; if he carries his burden of production, he
causes a shift, and the opposing party is then subjected to a burden of
production of his own to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a
triable issue of material fact.” (Ibid.; Smith v. Wells Fargo Bank,
N.A. (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 1463, 1474 [summary judgment standards held by Aguilar
apply to summary adjudication motions].)  Further, in line with Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co., “[o]n a motion for summary adjudication, the
trial court has no discretion to exercise.  If a triable issue of material
fact exists as to the challenged causes of action, the motion must be denied.
If there is no triable issue of fact, the motion must be granted.” (Fisherman's
Wharf Bay Cruise Corp. v. Superior Court (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 309, 320.) .)  “The function of the pleadings in a motion
for summary judgment is to delimit the scope of the issues; the function of the
affidavits or declarations is to disclose whether there is any triable issue of
fact within the issues delimited by the pleadings.”  (Juge v. County of Sacramento (1993)
12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67, citing FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991)
231 Cal. App. 3d 367, 381-382.) 
 
“On a summary judgment motion, the court must therefore
consider what inferences favoring the opposing party a factfinder could
reasonably draw from the evidence. While viewing the evidence in this manner,
the court must bear in mind that its primary function is to identify issues
rather than to determine issues.  Only when the inferences are
indisputable may the court decide the issues as a matter of law. If the
evidence is in conflict, the factual issues must be resolved by trial.” (Binder
v. Aetna Life Ins. Co. (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832, 839 [cleaned up].) 
Further, “the trial court may not weigh the evidence in the manner of a
factfinder to determine whose version is more likely true.  Nor may the
trial court grant summary judgment based
on the court's evaluation of credibility.” (Id. at p. 840 [cleaned up];
see also Weiss v. People ex rel. Department of Transportation (2020) 9
Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts deciding motions for summary judgment or summary
adjudication may not weigh the evidence but must instead view it in the light
most favorable to the opposing party and draw all reasonable inferences in
favor of that party”].)        
 
JUDICIAL
NOTICE
 
The Court grants the request for judicial notice of Plaintiff’s first
amended complaint. (Evid. Code § 452(d).) 
 
EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
 
The
Court makes the following rulings on Plaintiff’s objections to Defendant’s
evidence:
 
1.    
Overruled. In reply, Defendant filed a Notice of Errata
which contains the two pages of the deposition transcript of Adam Hughes where
he states he is the General Manager of LV Cars, which is a dealership in Las
Vegas and a subsidiary of George’s, LLC. (Notice of Errata, Exh. A, Hughes
Depo., 11:22-12:23.)[1]
(See Forest Lawn Memorial-Park Ass’n v. Superior Court (2021) 70
Cal.App.5th 1, 8 [“A statement lacks foundation if no jury could reasonably
find that the witness has personal knowledge of the matter.”] [Citation and
alterations omitted, emphasis in original.].)
2.    
Overruled
3.    
Overruled
4.    
Overruled
5.    
Sustained to the extent the testimony relies on payroll
and employee files. (Evid. Code § 1272.)
6.    
Overruled
7.    
Sustained
8.    
Overruled
9.    
Sustained
10.  Overruled
11.  Sustained
12.  Overruled
13.  Overruled
14.  Overruled

 
 
DISCUSSION
Negligence and
Negligent Entrustment 
The
elements of a cause of action for negligence are: (1) a duty on the part of
defendant toward plaintiff; (2) defendant’s breach of that duty; and (3) harm
to the plaintiff caused by that breach. (Kesner v. Superior Court (2016) 1 Cal.5th 1132, 1142.) 
Generally, “one who places or entrusts his [or her]
motor vehicle in the hands of one whom he [or she] knows, or from the
circumstances is charged with knowing, is incompetent or unfit to drive, may be
held liable for an injury inflicted by the use made thereof by that driver,
provided the plaintiff can establish that the injury complained of was
proximately caused by the driver's disqualification, incompetency, inexperience
or recklessness.” (Flores v. Enterprise Rent-A-Car Co. (2010) 188
Cal.App.4th 1055, 1063 [quoting Osborn v. Hertz Corp. (1988) 205
Cal.App.3d 703, 708] [alteration in original; citation omitted].) 
“Absent ‘special circumstances,’ the owner or bailee of a
motor vehicle has no duty to protect third persons against the possibility a
thief will steal the vehicle and injure them with it. [Citation.] Leaving the
keys in the ignition, and the vehicle unlocked and unattended, is not by itself
one of these special circumstances.” (May v. Nine Plus Properties, Inc.
(2006) 143 Cal.App.4th 1538, 1541.) 
Vehicle
Code Section 17150
Vehicle Code section 17150 states in relevant part: 
“Every owner
of a motor vehicle is liable and responsible for death or injury to person or
property resulting from a negligent or wrongful act or omission in the
operation of the motor vehicle, in the business of the owner or otherwise, by
any person using or operating the same with the permission, express or
implied, of the owner.” 
(Veh. Code §
17150 [emphasis added].)
“The liability which [section 17150] imposes upon the owner
of a motor vehicle is predicated upon a theory of imputed negligence in cases
where the principle of respondeat superior is inapplicable. This section
defines the owner's liability in such cases ‘in order to make him liable for the
negligence of any person to whom he had expressly or impliedly given permission
to Operate his car, and thereby prevent him from escaping liability by saying
that his car was being used without express authority or not in his business.
(Citations.)’ (Emphasis added.) The foundation of an owner's liability under
section 17150 is the permission, express or implied, given by the owner to
another to use the motor vehicle.” (Glens Falls Ins. Co. v. Consolidated
Freightways (1966) 242 Cal.App.2d 774, 778-79 [internal citations
omitted].)
Respondeat
Superior
An employer is vicariously liable for an employee’s tort
under the doctrine of respondeat superior if the
tort was committed within the scope of the employment.  (See Montague
v. AMN Healthcare, Inc. (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 1515, 1520.) “[A]n employee
must be driving a personal vehicle in the course and scope of his employment at
the time of the accident to extend vicarious liability to an employer.” (Newland v. County of Los Angeles (2018) 24 Cal.App.5th 676, 678–79.) “A plaintiff suing an employer under the doctrine
must prove the person who committed the tort was acting within the scope of his
or her employment.” (Marez v. Lyft, Inc. (2020) 48
Cal.App.5th 569, 577.) 
Analysis
            Here, the following is undisputed. Plaintiff
claims he was involved in a motor vehicle incident with a 2020 Lamborghini,
License No. NX513682 on February 27, 2021. (UMF 1.) At the time of the Subject
Incident, the Defendant Vehicle was being driven by Defendant Angel Daniel
Correa Ramirez ("Ramirez"). (UMF 2.) 
            Defendant sets forth the following
additional facts:
-       
The
Defendant Vehicle was in California during its transport to LV Cars on February
27, 2021, as Gellar Group was delivering another vehicle to a LV Cars'
affiliate in Los Angeles. (UMF 6.) 
-       
Ramirez
was not known to George's prior to the Subject Incident. (UMF 7.) 
-       
Ramirez
did not have George's permission to operate the Defendant Vehicle on the date
of the Subject Incident.[2]
(UMF 8.) 
-       
Ramirez
was never an employee of George's.[3]
(UMF 9.) 
 
Although Defendant does not produce conclusive admissible evidence
showing that Ramirez stole the subject vehicle, it produces sufficient evidence
that Ramirez did not have permission to drive the vehicle and was not an
employee of Defendant. Therefore, it meets its initial burden to show it is not
liable. The burden shifts to Plaintiff to establish a triable issue of fact.
 
Plaintiff has not produced evidence in opposition and appears to only
dispute Defendant’s facts based on evidentiary objections. Accordingly, the
Court finds based on the evidence presented and all reasonable inferences the
absence of a triable issue of fact.
 
Therefore, the motion for summary judgment is granted.  
 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
Based on the foregoing, Defendant George’s and George’s LLC’s
Motion for Summary Judgment is GRANTED. Defendant shall file a proposed
judgment within 10 days.
 
            Defendant
is ordered to give notice of this ruling and file a proof of service of such. 
 
 


