 Case Number:  22STCV32520    Hearing Date:   August 13, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


August
  13, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV32520




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  for Summary Judgment, or alternatively, Summary Adjudication




MOVING PARTY:


Defendants Jose Luis Lozano, Lorena J.
  Lozano, and Sonora Family Joint Spousal Trust




OPPOSING PARTY:


Plaintiff
  Hector Osorio Garcia



 
MOVING PAPERS
 
1.     Notice of Motion and Motion for Summary
Judgment, or alternatively, Summary Adjudication; Memorandum of Points and Authorities; Declaration of Kristine M. Gamboa
2.     Separate Statement of Undisputed Material Facts
3.     Declaration of Lorena Lozano in Support
4.     Defendants’ Appendix of Exhibits in Support
 
OPPOSITION PAPERS
 
1.     Plaintiff’s Memorandum of Points and
Authorities in Opposition 
2.     Plaintiff’s Separate Statement of Undisputed Material
Facts 
3.     Declaration of Mark J. Burns in Opposition
4.     Plaintiff’s Appendix of Exhibits in
Opposition 
 
REPLY PAPERS 
 
1.     Defendants’ Reply to Plaintiff’s Opposition
2.     Defendants’ Reply to Plaintiff’s Separate
Statement
3.     Defendants’ Objections to Declaration of Mark
J. Burns
 
BACKGROUND
 
On October 4, 2022, Plaintiff
Hector Osorio Garcia (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Defendants Jose
Luis Lozano, Lorenia J. Lozano, Lorena J. Lozano, Sonora Family Joint Spousal
Trust, and Does 1 to 100 for premises liability and negligence. 
 
Plaintiff alleges that on October 5, 2020, he was injured on
Defendants’ property at 7169 Dinwiddie St., Downey, CA 90241, after he “tripped
due to a trench that presented a dangerous condition.”  (Complaint, 4.) 
 
Defendants Jose Luis Lozano, Lorena J. Lozano, and Sonora Family Joint
Spousal Trust (“Defendants”) now move for summary judgment, or alternatively,
summary adjudication on the following issues: (1) there is no evidence of
breach and causation for the premises liability cause of action; (2) there is
no evidence of breach and causation for the negligence cause of action; and (3)
there is no evidence that Defendants breached the ADA, California Health &
Safety Codes, building codes, and/or ordinances. 
 
Plaintiff opposes and Defendants reply. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
“A party may move for summary adjudication as to one or more causes of
action within an action, one or more affirmative defenses, one or more claims
for damages, or one or more issues of duty, if the party contends that the
cause of action has no merit, that there is no affirmative defense to the cause
of action, that there is no merit to an affirmative defense as to any cause of
action, that there is no merit to a claim for damages, as specified in Section
3294 of the Civil Code, or that one or more defendants either owed or did not
owe a duty to the plaintiff or plaintiffs.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd.
(f)(1).)
 
“[T]he party moving for summary judgment bears the burden of persuasion
that there is no triable issue of material fact and that he is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law[.] There is a triable issue of material fact if,
and only if, the evidence would allow a reasonable trier of fact to find the
underlying fact in favor of the party opposing the motion in accordance with
the applicable standard of proof.” (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.
(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.)  “[T]he party moving for summary judgment
bears an initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing of the
nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact; if he carries his burden of
production, he causes a shift, and the opposing party is then subjected to a burden of production of his own to make a prima facie
showing of the existence of a triable issue of material fact.” (Ibid.;
Smith v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 1463, 1474
[summary judgment standards held by Aguilar apply to summary
adjudication motions].)  Further, in line
with Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co., “[o]n a motion for summary
adjudication, the trial court has no discretion to exercise.  If a triable issue of material fact exists as
to the challenged causes of action, the motion must be denied. If there is no triable
issue of fact, the motion must be granted.” (Fisherman's Wharf Bay Cruise
Corp. v. Superior Court (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 309, 320.)
 
“The defendant
may, but need not, present evidence that conclusively negates an element of the
plaintiff's cause of action.” (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at
855.) Alternatively, “[t]he defendant may […] present evidence that the
plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence—as
through admission by the plaintiff following extensive discovery to the effect
that he has discovered nothing.” (Id.)¿This must be supported with
evidence “including ‘affidavits, declarations, admissions, answers to
interrogatories, depositions, and matters of which judicial notice’ must or may
‘be taken.’” (Id. at 854–55 [quoting Code Civ. Proc. § 437c(b)].) 
 
“On a summary judgment motion, the
court must therefore consider what inferences favoring the opposing party a
factfinder could reasonably draw from the evidence. While viewing the evidence
in this manner, the court must bear in mind that its primary function is to
identify issues rather than to determine issues.  Only when the inferences are indisputable may
the court decide the issues as a matter of law. If the evidence is in conflict,
the factual issues must be resolved by trial.” (Binder v. Aetna Life Ins. Co.
(1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832, 839 [cleaned up].) 
Further, “the trial court may not weigh the evidence in the manner of a
factfinder to determine whose version is more likely true.  Nor may the trial court grant summary
judgment based on the court's evaluation of credibility.” (Id. at p. 840
[cleaned up]; see also Weiss v. People ex rel. Department of Transportation
(2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts deciding motions for summary judgment or
summary adjudication may not weigh the evidence but must instead view it in the
light most favorable to the opposing party and draw all reasonable inferences
in favor of that party”].)        
 
 
EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS 
 
The Court declines to rule on Defendants’ evidentiary objections to the
Declaration of Mark J. Burns as it has no effect on the ruling herein. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Negligence­–Premises
Liability
 
The elements of a cause of action
for negligence are: (1) a duty on the part of defendant toward plaintiff; (2)
defendant’s breach of that duty; and (3) harm to the plaintiff caused by that
breach. (Kesner v. Superior Court (2016) 1 Cal.5th 1132, 1142.) The
elements of a cause of action for premises liability are the same as those for
negligence: duty, breach, causation, and damages. (McIntyre v. The
Colonies-Pacific, LLC (2014) 228 Cal.App.4th 664, 671.) Therefore, to prevail on a claim for premises liability,
Plaintiff must prove: (1) defendant owned or controlled the subject property;
(2) defendant was negligent in the use or maintenance of the property; (3)
plaintiff was harmed; and (4) defendant’s negligence was a substantial factor
in causing plaintiff’s harm. (See Rowland v. Christian (1968) 69 Cal.2d
108.) 
 
“The owner of
premises is under a duty to exercise ordinary care in the management of such
premises in order to avoid exposing persons to an unreasonable risk of harm.” (Brooks
v. Eugene Burger Management Corp.¿(1989) 215 Cal.App.3d 1611, 1619; see
Civil Code § 1714.)¿ 
 
“ ‘Breach of duty is usually a fact issue for the jury; if
the circumstances permit a reasonable doubt whether the defendant's conduct
violates the standard of due care, the doubt must be resolved by the jury as an
issue of fact rather than of law by the court. [Citation.]’ [Citation.]” (Constance
B. v. State of California (1986) 178 Cal.App.3d 200, 207.)
 
“ ‘[T]he decision whether that breach caused
the damage (that is, causation in fact) is again within the jury’s domain; but
where reasonable men will not dispute the absence of causality, the court may
take the decision from the jury and treat the question as one of law.
[Citations.]’ [Citations.]” (Constance B. v. State of California (1986)
178 Cal.App.3d 200, 207 (“Constance”) [italics in original].)¿Causation
is established by showing that a defendant’s breach of duty was a substantial
factor in bringing about plaintiff’s injury, and there is no legal rule
relieving defendant from liability. (Ortega v. Kmart Corp. (2001) 26
Cal.4th 1200, 1205.) Defendant’s negligence is the actual cause, or cause in
fact, of plaintiff’s injury if it is a substantial factor in bringing about the
harm. (Mitchell v. Gonzales (1991) 54 Cal.3d 1041, 1052.) “In other
words, [the] plaintiff must show some substantial link or nexus between
omission and injury.” (Saelzler v. Advanced Group 400 (2001) 25 Cal.4th
763, 778.)¿¿ 
 
Here, the following is undisputed. Plaintiff
has worked various construction jobs for the last seven (7) years, and
landscaping jobs the last twelve (12) years, whenever they may arise. (UMF 3.) Plaintiff’s
friend, Sergio, gave Defendant LORENIA J. LOZANO sued erroneously and
collectively herein as “LORENA J. LOZANO” (“Lorenia”) the Plaintiff’s number so
that Plaintiff could give her an estimated cost for pruning palm trees on her
Property. (UMF 4.) Plaintiff gave Loreina a call to arrange a time to visit the
Property and give Loreina an estimated cost to prune the palm trees on her
Property. (UMF 5.) Three days after this phone call, Plaintiff visited the
Property (“Estimation Visit”). (UMF 6.) During the Estimation Visit, Plaintiff
walked the Property and did not see any trenches, sprinklers sticking up from
the ground, roots sticking up above ground, or any other hazards on the
Property. (UMF 8.) 
 
On October 5, 2020, Plaintiff arrived at
the Property at approximately 8:00 – 8:30 a.m., with his friend, Victor, as he
believed the job would require more than one person to complete. (UMF 9.) Loreina
instructed Plaintiff that she wanted the palm trees as clean as possible with
only three fronds. (UMF 12.) It took Plaintiff approximately 1.5-2 hours to
trim the several palm trees in the front of the house on the Property. (UMF
15.) Plaintiff finished pruning the first palm tree, in this second session of
palm trees, climbed down the palm tree, stepped onto the ground and was “firmly
standing” on the ground. (UMF 17.) It was at this moment that Plaintiff took a
step, tripped and fell forward with his left knee. (Pl. Resp. UMF 18.) The
Plaintiff admits there was no object that he tripped on. (UMF 20.) 
 
Defendants set forth the following
additional fact:
 
-       
Plaintiff admits that there was no trench on the Property,
rather he simply just tripped. (UMF 22.) 
 
Here, Defendants meet their initial burden
to show there is no evidence that Plaintiff tripped due to a condition on
Defendants’ property. In pertinent part, when Plaintiff was asked during
deposition to explain the allegation in his complaint that he tripped on a
“trench”, he responded: “There was no trench. I just tripped.” (Def. Exh. C,
Garcia Depo. 81:17-20.) The burden therefore shifts to Plaintiff to establish a
triable issue of fact. 
 
In Plaintiff’s separate statement, he
disputes that he admitted there was no trench, but referenced the planter as a
trench due to its height differential. (Pl. Resp. UMF 22.) As a result,
Plaintiff argues the dangerous condition was the fact the planter that
contained the trees Plaintiff was pruning was lower than the adjacent cement.
During Loreina Lozano’s deposition, she testified to this fact stating that the
cement in her backyard is not level with the soil in her adjacent planter; the
cement is about two-inches higher. (Pl. Exh. A, Lozano Depo. 28:3-13, 29:4-17.)

 
In reply, Defendants do not dispute where
the fall took place. (Reply, 2.) Instead, they argue that because the complaint
referenced a “trench”, Plaintiff is bound to showing there was a trench or
anything similarly defined. However, Defendants do not offer a universal
definition of a trench, or show they were not aware that Plaintiff was claiming
the dangerous condition was the height difference of the planter and cement.
(See Pl. Exh. B, Lozano Depo. 33:14-18 [questioning whether Ms. Lozano knew of
the drop from her backyard cement into the planter]; Exh. H. Osorio Depo. 67:9-15
[demonstrating on a photograph the area where the incident occurred].)
 
Therefore, based on Plaintiff’s evidence
that he tripped on the height differential, a triable issue of fact exists
regarding breach and causation. 
 
In reply, Defendants set forth argument
for the first time that the alleged condition was not dangerous since it was
“open and obvious.” (Reply at pp. 4-6.) However, even if the Court were to
consider this argument, Defendants do not set forth evidence in their separate
statement sufficient for the Court to determine this issue as a matter of law.[1] “‘It is
ordinarily a question of fact … whether [a] particular danger was obvious, [or]
whether an invitee was contributorily negligent ….’ [Citations.]” (Henderson
v. McGill (1963) 222 Cal.App.2d 256, 260; see also Curland v. Los
Angeles County Fair Ass’n (1953) 118 Cal.App.2d 691, 695–696 [“Whether [a]
danger was obvious to plaintiff [is] a question of fact for the jury.
[Citations.] Whether a person, under the circumstances, made a reasonable use
of his faculties is also a question for the jury. The law presumes that a
person possessing the normal faculties of sight must have seen that which was
in the range of his sight”].) 
 
Therefore, the motion for summary
judgment/adjudication is denied.
 
As a result, the Court declines to address
Defendants’ argument surrounding the violation of statutes as it would have no
effect on adjudicating the causes of action.
 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
            Accordingly, Defendants Jose Luis
Lozano, Lorena J. Lozano, and Sonora Family Joint Spousal Trust’s Motion for
Summary Judgment or adjudication is DENIED. 
 
            Defendants shall
provide notice of this ruling and file a proof of service of such.
 
 


