 Case Number:  21STCV40339    Hearing Date:   September 28, 2023    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposing, reply, and supplemental papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
November 2, 2021, Plaintiff Amanda Worley (“Plaintiff”) filed this action
against Defendant Kobi Vaknin (“Defendant”) for sexual battery and trespass. 
On
December 21, 2021, Defendant filed an answer. 
On
June 26, 2023, Defendant filed a motion to compel production of documents and
supplemental testimony of third-party Harlee Dickerson to be heard on August
24, 2023. The Court continued the hearing on the motion to September 14, 2023.
On August 11, 2023, Plaintiff filed an opposition. On September 7, 2023,
Defendant filed a reply. 
On
September 14, 2023, the Court heard argument and continued the hearing to
September 28, 2023.  The Court gave counsel
leave to submit supplemental briefing on the existence of an attorney-client
privilege between counsel for Plaintiff and the third-party deponent, waiver of
that privilege, and sanctions.
On September 25, 2023, the parties filed supplemental briefing.
Trial
is currently scheduled for March 4, 2024. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Defendant
requests that the Court order third party Harlee Dickerson (“Dickerson”) to
produce all documents requested in Defendant’s notice of deposition and
subpoena and appear for a supplemental deposition. Defendant also requests that
the Court impose $4,873.75 in sanctions on Plaintiff. 
Plaintiff
requests that the Court deny the motion and impose sanctions on Defendant. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
A
party seeking discovery from a person who is not a party to the action may
obtain discovery by oral deposition, written deposition, or deposition subpoena
for production of business records. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.010.)  A deposition subpoena may command the
attendance and testimony of the deponent, as well as the production of business
records, other documents, electronically stored information, and tangible
things. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.020.) The Court may order a third party to
comply with a deposition subpoena upon any terms or condition that the court
declares. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1.) 
          Code of Civil Procedure section
2025.480 provides in part: 
“(a) If a deponent fails to answer any question or to
produce any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing
under the deponent’s control that is specified in the deposition notice or a
deposition subpoena, the party seeking discovery may move the court for an
order compelling that answer or production. 
“(b) This motion shall be made no later than 60 days
after the completion of the record of the deposition, and shall be accompanied
by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040. 
“(c) Notice of this motion shall be given to all
parties and to the deponent either orally at the examination, or by subsequent
service in writing. If the notice of the motion is given orally, the deposition
officer shall direct the deponent to attend a session of the court at the time
specified in the notice. 
* * *
 “(h) Not less than five days prior to the hearing on
this motion, the moving party shall lodge with the court a certified copy of
any parts of the stenographic transcript of the deposition that are relevant to
the motion. If a deposition is recorded by audio or video technology, the
moving party is required to lodge a certified copy of a transcript of any parts
of the deposition that are relevant to the motion. 
“(i) If the court determines that the answer or
production sought is subject to discovery, it shall order that the answer be
given or the production be made on the resumption of the deposition. 
“(j) The court shall impose a monetary sanction under
Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or
attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel an answer or
production, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with
substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of
the sanction unjust.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.480,
subds. (a), (b), (c), (h), (i), (j).) 
California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1346, provides: “A written notice and all moving papers
supporting a motion to compel an answer to a deposition question or to compel
production of a document or tangible thing from a nonparty deponent must be
personally served on the nonparty deponent unless the nonparty deponent agrees
to accept service by mail or electronic service at an address or electronic
service address specified on the deposition record.” 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 2023.030, subdivision (a), provides that “[t]he
court may impose a monetary sanction ordering that one engaging in the misuse
of the discovery process, or any attorney advising that conduct, or both pay
the reasonable expenses, including attorney's fees, incurred by anyone as a
result of that conduct.” Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.010, subdivision
(d), provides that misuse of the discovery process includes “making . . .
unsuccessfully and without substantial justification, a motion to compel or to
limit discovery.” 
DISCUSSION 
On
May 30, 2023, Dickerson appeared for her deposition.  She did not produce documents in response to
the deposition subpoena’s document request. 
She stated that she had not checked her iCloud or Instagram for
responsive documents and she agreed that her search for responsive materials
was not completed.  She stated that she
had replaced a phone which could have contained responsive materials.  In addition, as instructed by Plaintiff’s
counsel, Dickerson refused to provide copies of her email correspondence with
Plaintiff’s counsel.  Dickerson said
Plaintiff's counsel represented her.   
Defendant
argues that Plaintiff and Dickerson have waived any objections to the document
request by failing to serve objections before the deposition.  Defendant also disputes the existence of an
attorney-client relationship between Dickerson and Plaintiff’s counsel.
Defendant asks the Court to order Dickerson to (1) search for and produce
documents responsive to the document request, (2) produce copies of her
communications with Plaintiff’s counsel, and (3) attend a second day of her
deposition and respond to questions related to the documents. Defendant also
asks the Court to impose sanctions of $4,873.75 on Plaintiff and Plaintiff’s
counsel for misuse of the discovery process. 
In
response, Plaintiff argues (1) the motion is unnecessary because the parties
had already agreed that Dickerson would attend a second deposition and
Dickerson said she would continue to look for responsive documents, (2)
Defendant did not file a separate statement as required by California Rules of
Court, rule 3.1345, (3) Defendant failed to personally serve Dickerson as
required by California Rules of Court, rule 3.1346. 
“A
separate statement is not required . . . (1) [w]hen no response has been
provided to the request for discovery . . . .” 
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1345(b)(1).) 
Defendant
asserts that he complied with rule 3.1346 because Plaintiff’s counsel accepted
service of the deposition notice on Dickerson’s behalf after Dickerson said she
did not receive it.  Then, during the
deposition, when Dickerson was asked for her current address, she responded: “I
could provide that at a later date; but as of now, I was going to opt out in
providing any personal information.” Defendant’s counsel explained that he
needed Dickerson’s address to serve a subpoena on her, but if Plaintiff’s
counsel agreed to produce Dickerson then Defendant’s counsel did not need the
address.  Plaintiff’s counsel confirmed
that “we will produce Miss Dickerson, if necessary, in the future so she
doesn’t need to provide her current address.” 
The Court finds that these facts show that Dickerson “agree[d] to accept
service by mail or electronic service at an address or electronic service
address specified on the deposition record.” 
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1346.) 
Therefore, Defendant properly served the motion on Dickerson. 
The
Court concludes, however, that Defendant’s motion is premature.  The Court denies the motion without prejudice
to give Defendant an opportunity to work with Plaintiff and Dickerson to (1)
follow up on Dickerson’s agreement to search for documents responsive to the
deposition subpoena and (2) schedule a second session of Dickerson’s
deposition.  
With
respect to Dickerson’s assertion of attorney-client privilege, the Court has
reviewed the parties’ supplemental briefing. 
In arguing no attorney-client relationship existed between Dickerson and
Plaintiff’s counsel, Defendant focuses on the way the relationship between
Dickerson and counsel was created.  In
the Court’s view, the facts surrounding the creation of the relationship is less
important than the existence of an attorney-client relationship at the time of
Dickerson’s deposition.  Defendant concedes
that Dickerson “agreed to Plaintiff’s counsel’s solicited offer to represent
her at her deposition.”  (Supp. Brief p.
3.)  Defendant has cited no authority for
the proposition that an attorney-client relationship is not formed when the
attorney “solicits” the relationship and the client accepts the offer. [1]

 The
Court grants Plaintiff’s request for sanctions. 
Defendant did not have substantial justification to file the motion to
compel and no other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.  Plaintiff requests $6,750 in sanctions based
on 15 hours of attorney time to prepare Plaintiff’s opposition to the motion to
compel and attend the hearing at a rate of $450 per hour.  The Court grants sanctions of $400 based on 2
hours of attorney time at a reasonable rate of $200 per hour. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court DENIES without prejudice Defendant Kobi Vaknin’s
motion to compel production of documents and supplemental testimony of
third party Harlee Dickerson. 
The
Court GRANTS Plaintiff Amanda Worley’s request for sanctions.  Defendant Kobi Vaknin and his counsel are
ordered to pay Plaintiff $400 in sanctions by October 27, 2023. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.


[1]        Defendant
also speculates about whether counsel informed Dickerson about potential
conflicts with counsel’s representation of Plaintiff.  The Court will not address Defendant’s
unsupported assertions.

