 Case Number:  20STCV45015    Hearing Date:   September 28, 2023    Dept:  28           Having considered the moving and opposition papers, the
Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
November 24, 2020, Plaintiff Daniel Garcia (“Plaintiff”)
filed this action against Defendants Ad Trucking and Does 1-10 for motor
vehicle tort and general negligence. 
 On January 12, 2021, Defendant Ad Trucking filed
an answer. 
On
April 4, 2023, Plaintiff amended the complaint to add Defendant Jose Enrique
Romero Fierra as Doe 1.  On April 13,
2023, Plaintiff amended the complaint to add Defendant Jean
Mariana Lopez as Doe 2. 
On
May 2, 2023, Plaintiff amended the complaint to replace Defendant Ad Trucking with
Defendant Jean Mariana Lopez dba Ad
Trucking (“Ad Trucking”). 
On
July 31, 2023, Plaintiff filed a motion for judgment on the pleadings and
request for judicial notice to be heard on August 31, 2023. The Court continued
the hearing to September 29, 2023.  On August
24, 2023, Ad Trucking filed an opposition. 
Trial
is scheduled for January 19, 2024. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Plaintiff
requests that the Court grant judgment on the pleadings. 
Ad
Trucking requests that the Court deny the motion. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 438 provides in part:  “(b) (1) A party may move for judgment on the
pleadings. 
* * * 
“(c) (1) The motion provided for in this section may
only be made on one of the following grounds: 
“(A) If the moving party is a plaintiff, that the
complaint states facts sufficient to constitute a cause or causes of action
against the defendant and the answer does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a defense to the complaint. 
* * * 
“(d) The grounds for motion provided for in this
section shall appear on the face of the challenged pleading or from any matter
of which the court is required to take judicial notice. Where the motion is
based on a matter of which the court may take judicial notice pursuant to
Section 452 or 453 of the Evidence Code, the matter shall be specified in the
notice of motion, or in the supporting points and authorities, except as the
court may otherwise permit.” 
(Code
Civ. Proc., § 438, subds. (b)(1), (c)(1), (d).) 
          ‘‘A motion for judgment on the pleadings performs the same
function as a general demurrer, and [thus] attacks only defects disclosed on
the face of the pleadings or by matters that can be judicially noticed.
[Citations.]’ [Citation.]’ [Citation.]” (Pointe San Diego Residential
Community, L.P. v. Procopio, Cory, Hargreaves & Savitch, LLP (2011)
195 Cal.App.4th 265, 274.) “In reviewing the motion, [the Court] deem[s] true
all properly pleaded material facts, but not contentions, deductions, or conclusions
of fact or law, and [the court] may also consider judicially noticed matters.
[Citation.]” (Bear Creek Master Assn. v. Southern California Investors, Inc. (2018)
28 Cal.App.5th 809, 817.)  
DISCUSSION 
A.   The pleadings 
Plaintiff’s
complaint alleges that Ad Trucking negligently owned, operated, maintained, and
entrusted its vehicle, causing Plaintiff to suffer injuries and damages. 
Ad
Trucking’s answer denies all of Plaintiff’s allegations and asserts affirmative
defenses of comparative negligence,
failure to state a cause of action, apportionment and failure to mitigate
damages. 
B.   Request for judicial notice 
The
Court denies Plaintiff’s request for judicial notice of Plaintiff’s requests
for admission and Ad Trucking’s responses. 
C.    The motion 
Plaintiff
argues that the Court should grant judgment on the pleadings because Ad Trucking
admitted matters specified Plaintiff’s requests for admission, establishing
Ad Trucking’s liability. 
A
motion for judgment on the pleadings “normally lies only for defects fully
disclosed on the face of the pleading under attack or by matters of which
judicial notice may be taken.  Declarations
or other extrinsic matters are improper. 
Therefore, the judge hearing the motion cannot consider discovery admissions
or other evidence controverting the pleadings. 
Rather, the pleading under attack must be accepted as true.”  (L. Edmon and C. Karnow, Cal. Practice Guide:
Civil Procedure Before Trial (Rutter 2023) ¶ 7:320, pp. 7(l)-95 to 7(l)-96.)  
Plaintiff
has not identified any defects in Ad Trucking’s answer that prevent it from “stat[ing]
facts sufficient to constitute a defense to the complaint.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 438, subd. (c)(1)(A).)  Likewise, even if the Court granted Plaintiff’s
request to take judicial notice of the requests for admission and Ad Trucking’s
responses, Ad Trucking’s discovery admissions would not prevent the answer from
stating facts sufficient to constitute a defense to the complaint. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court DENIES Plaintiff Daniel Garcia’s motion for judgment on the pleadings. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.