

 
            This is a
Song-Beverly action. In December 2022, Plaintiffs
Christopher T. Moore and Bethany E. Moore (Plaintiffs)
obtained a 2022
Honda Pilot (Vehicle). On September 12, 2024, Plaintiffs sued Defendant American
Honda Motor Co., Inc. (Honda) alleging four breach of warranty claims under
Song-Beverly, and a cause of action for fraudulent concealment. The Complaint
alleges that Honda was aware of and concealed a known defect with the Vehicle’s
defective computerized driver-assisting safety system (Sensing Defect). 
 
Defendant Honda now demurs to the fifth
cause of action for fraudulent concealment in the Complaint. Defendant Honda
also moves to strike the request for punitive damages in the Complaint. Plaintiffs
filed an opposition to both the demurrer and the motion to strike.  
 
            The Court sustains
the demurrer with leave to amend. As a result, the motion to strike is now granted.

 
Legal Standard for
Demurrers
 
A demurrer is an objection to a
pleading, the grounds for which are apparent from either the face of the
complaint or a matter of which the court may take judicial notice. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd. (a); see also Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39
Cal.3d 311, 318.) The purpose of a demurrer is to challenge the
sufficiency of a pleading “by raising questions of law.” (Postley v.
Harvey (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 280, 286.) “In the construction of a
pleading, for the purpose of determining its effect, its allegations must be
liberally construed, with a view to substantial justice between the parties.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 452.) The court “ ‘ “treat[s] the demurrer as
admitting all material facts properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions
or conclusions of fact or law . . . .” ’ ”  (Berkley v. Dowds
(2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 518, 525.) In applying these standards, the court
liberally construes the complaint to determine whether a cause of action has
been stated. (Picton v. Anderson Union High School Dist. (1996) 50
Cal.App.4th 726, 733.)
 
Fifth
Cause of Action – Fraudulent Concealment
 
            Defendant Honda
argues the Complaint fails to allege facts sufficient to state a claim for
fraudulent concealment and the fraudulent concealment claim is barred by the
economic loss rule.
 
            The
Complaint fails to allege facts sufficient to state a cause of action.
 
            Defendant argues
that the Complaint does not state a claim because Plaintiffs have not alleged fraud
with the requisite specificity and the allegations are insufficient to demonstrate
a duty to disclose. 
 
            The
gravamen of Plaintiffs’ fraudulent concealment claim is that “[w]hile Defendant
has been fully aware of the Sensing Defect affecting the Subject Vehicle,
Defendant and its agents concealed the existence and nature of the Defect from
Plaintiffs at the time of purchase (and/or lease), repair, and thereafter.”
(Compl., ¶ 53.)
            
            To state a
claim for fraudulent inducement-concealment, Plaintiffs must allege: (1) the
defendant “concealed or suppressed a material fact,” (2) the defendant was
“under a duty to disclose the fact to the plaintiff,” (3) the defendant
“intentionally concealed or suppressed the fact with the intent to defraud the
plaintiff,” (4) the plaintiff was “unaware of the fact and would not have acted
as he did if he had known of the concealed or suppressed fact,” and (5) “as a
result of the concealment or suppression of the fact, the plaintiff must have
sustained damage.” (BiglerEngler v. Breg, Inc. (2017) 7 Cal.App.5th 276,
310–11.) 
 
Absent a fiduciary relationship
between the parties (which Plaintiffs do not allege here), a duty to disclose
can arise in only three circumstances: (1) the defendant had exclusive
knowledge of the material fact; (2) the defendant actively concealed the
material fact; or (3) the defendant made partial representations while also suppressing
the material fact. (BiglerEngler, supra, 7 Cal.App.5th at p. 311; LiMandri
v. Judkins (1997) 52 Cal.App.4th 326, 336.) The California Supreme Court
“has described the necessary relationship giving rise to a duty to disclose as
a ‘transaction’ between the plaintiff and defendant ….” (Bigler-Engler,
supra, 7 Cal.App.5th at p. 311; Warner Construction Corp. v. City of Los
Angeles (1970) 2 Cal.3d 285, 294 [“In transactions which do not involve
fiduciary or confidential relations”]; Hoffman v. 162 North Wolfe LLC
(2014) 228 Cal.App.4th 1178, 1187–89 [rejecting concealment claim where
plaintiffs “were not involved in a transaction with the parties they claim
defrauded them”]; LiMandri, supra, 52 Cal.App.4th at p. 337 [“such a
relationship can only come into being as a result of some sort of transaction
between the parties”].)
 
Defendant Honda argues there is no transactional
relationship alleged that would support a duty to disclose. The Complaint does
not allege with whom Plaintiffs obtained the Vehicle. (Compl., ¶ 6.) In fact, the
Complaint contains no allegations of any direct dealing with Honda. Nor does
the Complaint allege there were ever representations by Honda or a dealership
about the sensing features of the Vehicle on which they relied.[1]
Defendant Honda argues that under Bigler-Engler v. Breg, Inc. (2017) 7
Cal.App.5th 276, these allegations are deficient. (Dem., 12:15-19.)
 
The Complaint does not adequately
allege a transaction between Honda and Plaintiffs that gave rise to a duty to
disclose assertedly unstated facts. This is a further ground for sustaining the
demurrer.
 
Honda also alleges that the fraudulent
concealment cause of action lacks specificity. 
Because the Court has found that the duty element is lacking, it need
not address the specificity requirement. But the ordinary rule about pleading
fraud with specificity is less demanding when the alleged fraud is concealing
the truth. For the benefit of the parties, the Court sets forth the law on this
topic. 
 
Ordinarily, “fraud must be pleaded
specifically; general and conclusory allegations do not suffice.” (Lazar v.
Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.). “This particularity
requirement necessitates pleading facts which show how, where, to whom, and by
what means” the alleged fraud occurred. (Id.) The purpose
of the particularity requirement is to “separate meritorious and nonmeritorious
cases, if possible in advance of trial.” (Small v. Fritz Companies, Inc.
(2003) 30 Cal.4th 167, 184.)  
 
Some cases,
however, conclude that this standard is less stringent when the defendant
already has “ ‘full information concerning the facts of the controversy.’ ” (Committee
on Children’s Television, Inc. v. General Foods Corp. (1983) 35 Cal.3d 197,
217, superseded by statute on other grounds as stated in Californians for
Disability Rights v. Mervyn's, LLC (2006) 39 Cal.4th 223, 227.) Relaxation
of the specificity requirement is particularly appropriate in a concealment case.
Unlike intentional misrepresentation, which requires some affirmative representation
or promise, a fraudulent concealment is the absence of something, the
suppression of a fact. (Civ. Code § 1710.) 
 
This
distinction was recognized in Turner v. Milstein (1951) 103
Cal.App.2d 651. In rejecting a demurrer based on uncertainty,
the Turner court pointed out:
 
“The only
specification of uncertainty was that it could not be determined how, or in
what manner, Milstein concealed from plaintiff the time and place of
the sale of the real property. The ultimate fact is pleaded. It is an old and
elemental rule of pleading that a demurrer for uncertainty does not lie if what
is sought is a statement of matter already within the knowledge of the
demurring party.... If, in truth, Milstein concealed from plaintiff
the fact that the property was to be sold, he knows it and he knows the time
and place of concealment, if there was a time and place. It would seem
that concealment is negative and that it would occur without any time
or place. Milstein knows the facts.” (103 Cal.App.2d at p. 658.)
 
            Here, the
Court cannot conclude that contents of Honda’s alleged concealment was
insufficiently pleaded. Rather, this case turns on whether Honda and Plaintiffs
had a relationship that gave rise to a duty to disclose, not on the specificity
of what, assertedly, was unexpressed. 
 
            Because the
fraudulent concealment claim fails to allege a duty to speak, the demurrer to
the fifth cause of action is sustained.[2]

 
Legal Standard for
Motions to Strike
 
            “The court may, upon a
motion made pursuant to Section 435, or at any time in its discretion, and upon
terms it deems proper: (a) Strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter
inserted in any pleading. (b) Strike out all or any part of any pleading not
drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an
order of the court.”¿(Code Civ. Proc., § 436.) “Immaterial” or “irrelevant”
matters include allegations not essential to the claim, allegations neither
pertinent to nor supported by an otherwise sufficient claim or a demand for
judgment requesting relief not supported by the allegations of the complaint.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 431.10, subds. (b)(1)-(3).)
 
Punitive Damages Allegations 
 
            Defendant
Honda moves to strike the request for punitive damages in the Complaint.
Defendant argues, based on its demurrer arguments, Plaintiffs
lack a viable fraud claim to support the punitive damage request. Further, even
with the fraud claim, Honda argues the allegations in the Complaint do not
satisfy the statutory standards required to seek punitive damages.
 
Punitive
damages are recoverable where the defendant has been guilty of oppression,
fraud, or malice, express or implied. (Civ. Code § 3294.) “Something more than
the mere commission of a tort is always required for punitive damages. There
must be circumstances of aggravation our outrage, such as spite or malice, or a
fraudulent or evil motive on the part of the defendant, or such a conscious and
deliberate disregard of the interests of others that his conduct may be called
willful or wanton.” (Taylor v. Superior
Court (1979) 24 Cal.3d 890, 894.) Specific intent to injure is not
necessary for a showing of malice—it is sufficient that the defendant’s conduct
was so “wanton or so reckless as to evince malice or conscious disregard of
others’ rights.” (McConnell v. Quinn (1925)
71 Cal. App. 671, 682.) 
 
A request
for punitive damages that is not supported with specific allegations of
oppression, fraud, or malice is subject to a motion to strike. Conclusory
allegations that defendants acted “willfully,” “maliciously,” or with
“oppression, fraud, or malice” are not, without more, sufficient to give rise
to a claim for punitive damages, but such language is permissible where the
complaint contains sufficient factual support for the conclusions. (Perkins v. Superior Court (1981) 117 Cal.App.3d
1, 6-7.) 
 
Based on the Court’s ruling on the demurrer
to the fraud cause of action, the motion to strike is granted. There is no
longer a fraud cause of action to support a request for punitive damages.
 
Conclusion
 
The demurrer is sustained. The
motion to strike is granted.  Plaintiff
shall have leave to amend. The amended complaint shall be served and filed on
or before January 3, 2025.


