  Case Number:  24STCV07875    Hearing Date:   November 19, 2024    Dept:  30 Dept. 30 
Calendar No.
O.A., by and
through his Guardian ad Litem, J.A., J.A., and M.A v. Devita, et. al., Case No. 24STCV07875
 
Tentative Ruling
re:  Defendant’s Special Motion to Strike
 
            Jessica
Devita (Defendant) moves to strike all causes of action from the complaint of
O.A., J.A., and M.A. (Plaintiffs) pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 425.16.
Defendant’s motion is granted with respect to Plaintiffs’ second cause of action
and denied with respect to Plaintiffs’ first and third causes of action. 
 
The anti-SLAPP statute provides a
procedure for weeding out meritless claims arising from protected activity at
an early litigation stage. (Baral v. Schnitt (2016) 1 Cal.5th 376, 384.)
Resolution of anti-SLAPP motions is a two-step process. First, the moving party
must establish that the challenged causes of action arise from activity
protected by section 425.16. (Taus v. Loftus (2007) 40 Cal.4th 683,
712.) On a successful showing, the burden shifts to the responding party to
demonstrate the claim’s merit by establishing a probability of success on the
merits. (Baral, supra, at p. 384.) “The
court does not weigh evidence or resolve conflicting factual claims. Its
inquiry is limited to whether the plaintiff has stated a legally sufficient
claim and made a prima facie factual showing sufficient to sustain a favorable
judgment.” (Id. at p. 384–85.) The responding party’s evidence is
accepted as true, and the moving party’s evidence is considered only to
determine if it defeats the responding party’s claim as a matter of law. (Oasis
West Realty, LLC v. Goldman (2011) 51 Cal.4th 811, 819–820.)
Activities protected by anti-SLAPP
motions to strike include any acts “in furtherance of the person’s right of
petition or free speech under the United States Constitution or the California
Constitution in connection with a public issue.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 425.16,
subd. (b)(1).) This includes: “(1) any written or oral statement or writing
made before a legislative, executive, or judicial proceeding, or any other
official proceeding authorized by law, (2) any written or oral statement or
writing made in connection with an issue under consideration or review by a
legislative, executive, or judicial body, or any other official proceeding
authorized by law, (3) any written or oral statement or writing made in a place
open to the public or a public forum in connection with an issue of public
interest, or (4) any other conduct in furtherance of the exercise of the
constitutional right of petition or the constitutional right of free speech in
connection with a public issue or an issue of public interest.” (Id., § 425.16,
subd. (e).)
The moving party meets its burden
of showing its activity is protected by demonstrating that the act underlying
the responding party’s cause of action fits one of the categories in section
425.16, subdivision (e). (City of Cotati v. Cashman (2002) 29 Cal.4th
69, 78.) “In short, in ruling on an anti-SLAPP motion, courts should consider
the elements of the challenged claim and what actions by defendant supply those
elements and consequently form the basis for liability.” (Park v. Board of
Trustees, (2017) 2 Cal.5th 1057, 1063.) “A claim may be struck only if the
speech or petitioning activity itself is the wrong complained of, and
not just evidence of liability or a step leading to some different act for
which liability is asserted.” (Verceles v. Los
Angeles Unified School District (2021) 63 Cal.App.5th 776, 784.)
 
“When relief is sought based on allegations of both
protected and unprotected activity, the unprotected activity is disregarded at
[the first] stage. If the court determines that relief is sought based on
allegations arising from activity protected by the statute, the second step is
reached.” (Baral, supra, 1 Cal.5th at 396.) However, “if the
allegations of protected activity are only incidental to a cause of action
based essentially on nonprotected activity, the mere mention of the protected
activity does not subject the cause of action to an anti-SLAPP motion.” (Scott
v. Metabolife International, Inc. (2004) 115 Cal.App.4th 404, 414.)
 
Defendant argues that the
allegations in Plaintiffs’ complaint pertain to Defendant’s protected
activities. Defendant further contends that Plaintiffs cannot show a
probability of success on the merits with respect to each claim. The Court
finds that while some of Defendant’s activities are protected, only Plaintiffs’
second cause of action is based on such activity.
 
Plaintiffs’ second cause of
action is based on protected activity.
First, Defendant contends that any
allegations arising out of Defendant’s temporary restraining order (TRO) are
subject to anti-SLAPP because seeking a TRO is protected activity. “[A]ny
written or oral statement or writing made before a legislative, executive, or
judicial proceeding, or any other proceeding authorized by law,” is protected
activity. (Code Civ. Proc., § 425.16, subd. (e)(1).) Indeed, “the
constitutional right to petition . . . includes the basic act of filing litigation
or otherwise seeking administrative action.” (Church of Scientology v.
Wollersheim (1996) 42 Cal.App.4th 628, 647–648.) Abuse of process claims
are subject to an anti-SLAPP motion as they inherently touch on protected
activity. (Booker v. Rountree (2007) 155 Cal.App.4th 1366, 1370 (Booker).)
 
Here, Defendant is correct in that seeking
a TRO constitutes protected activity under Booker. However, only
Plaintiffs’ second cause of action for abuse of process directly hinges on this
protected activity: Plaintiffs allege that Defendant wrongfully requested a
restraining order with an improper purpose. (Compl. ¶ 96.) Such a request is
petitioning activity protected under anti-SLAPP. Plaintiffs’ first cause of
action only references the TRO documentation’s dissemination to a third party, rather
than the TRO itself. (Id. ¶ 76.) Plaintiffs’ third cause of action does
not rest on the TRO at all. Thus, only Plaintiffs’ second cause of action is
based on this protected activity.
 
Defendant argues that her
communications on Twitter constitute protected activity. “[A]ny written or oral
statement or writing made in a place open to the public or a public forum in
connection with an issue of public interest” is protected activity. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 425.16, subd. (e)(3).) Websites accessible to the public designed for
public discussion, are public forums for the purposes of anti-SLAPP. (Cross
v. Facebook, Inc. (2017) 14 Cal.App.5th 190, 199.) Thus, Twitter fits the
definition of a public forum. 
What is less apparent is whether
Defendant’s allegations concerning O.A. made on Twitter were in connection with
an issue of public interest. In deciding whether a matter constitutes a public
interest, courts look to “whether the subject of the speech or activity ‘was a
person or entity in the public eye’ or ‘could affect large numbers of people
beyond the direct participants’ [citation]; and whether the activity ‘occur[red]
in the context of an ongoing controversy, dispute or discussion’ [citation] or
‘affect[ed] a community in a manner similar to that of a governmental entity.’”
(FilmOn.com Inc. v. DoubleVerify Inc. (2019) 7 Cal.5th 133, 145–146 (FilmOn).)
Importantly, “causes of action arising out of false allegations of criminal
conduct . . . are not subject to the anti-SLAPP statute.” (Weinberg v.
Feisel (2003) 110 Cal.App.4th 1122, 1127 (Weinberg).)
Here, Plaintiffs allege that
Defendant accused O.A. of predatory rape and criminal acts. (Compl. ¶¶ 68–69.)
Plaintiffs further allege that Defendant accused O.A. of being a predator in
the special needs community and of committing an “autistic mate crime.” (Id.
¶¶ 71–72.) All these allegations concern potentially criminal conduct, and all
are thus not in the public interest under Weinberg. Additionally,
Defendant’s statements concerned a person outside of the public eye and the
context of any ongoing controversy. This makes the statements outside the
public interest under FilmOn. Thus, Defendant’s statements on Twitter on
not protected activity.
 
Defendant argues that her
communications with a youth sporting league’s parents and staff are protected
activity. Any conduct “in furtherance of the exercise of the constitutional
right of petition or the constitutional right of free speech in connection with
a public issue or an issue of public interest” is protected activity. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 425.16, subd. (e)(4).) Defendant’s activity included contacting
the director of O.A.’s local sports program and relating that O.A. “had
physically assaulted and raped M.S., had pulled a knife on/threatened M.S., and
had verbally and physically harassed M.S. since elementary school.” (Compl. ¶
75.) Such a statement does not relate to an issue of public interest for the
same reasons as above, in that such statements constitute potentially false
allegations of criminal conduct. Thus, Defendant’s statements to the director
are not protected activity under Weinberg.
 
Defendant argues that all her
communicative conduct is protected activity because it relates to an official
proceeding. Protected speech includes “any written or oral statement or writing
made in connection with an issue under consideration or review by a
legislative, executive, or judicial body, or any other official proceeding
authorized by law.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 425.16, subd. (e)(2).) A statement is
made in connection with a proceeding if it relates to substantive issues in the
proceeding and is directed to persons with some interest in the proceeding. (Contemporary
Services Corp. v. Staff Pro Inc. (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 1043, 1055 (Staff
Pro).) 
Here, Defendant sought a TRO and
filed a federal complaint regarding the alleged criminal conduct of O.A.
(Compl. ¶¶ 48, 60.) Additionally, the Santa Monica Police Department and school
district conducted their own investigations. (Id. ¶¶ 28, 29.) However,
the fact that judicial proceedings were occurring, or official investigations
were being conducted, at the time Defendant made her statements does not make
them protected activity by default. 
In Staff Pro, the
defendant’s protected activity under section 425.16, subdivision (e)(2)
included emails updating individuals involved in litigation matters about
developments in those cases. The court considered such communications in
connection with an issue under review by a judicial body. Here, Defendant’s
posts and discussions with members of her community involved allegations of
criminal conduct by O.A. but were not directly concerning the ongoing
investigations. Even if they had been about the investigations themselves,
Defendant’s Twitter followers and other community members did not have any
direct involvement in Defendant’s litigation or the other investigations. Thus,
Defendant’s statements are not protected activity under section 425.16,
subdivision (e)(2).
 
The Court finds that only Defendant’s
request for a TRO is protected activity under section 425.16, subdivision (e),
and that Plaintiffs’ second cause of action is based on this protected
activity. Accordingly, Defendant’s motion is denied with respect to Plaintiffs’
first and third causes of action which are not based on protected activity. The
Court proceeds with a second step analysis regarding Plaintiffs’ second cause
of action.
 
Plaintiffs have not established
a probability of success on the merits with respect to their abuse of process
claim.
Defendant argues that Plaintiffs
cannot establish a probability of prevailing on their second cause of action
for abuse of process. “To succeed in an action for abuse of process, a litigant
must establish that the defendant (1) contemplated an ulterior motive in using
the process, and (2) committed a willful act in the use of the process not
proper in the regular conduct of the proceedings.” (Yee v. Superior Court
(2019) 31 Cal.App.5th 26, 34.) 
 
Plaintiffs have not made a prima
facie factual showing as required by Baral with respect to the first
element of abuse of process. Plaintiffs make conclusory statements regarding
Defendant’s “wrongful” misuse of her request for a TRO. (Compl. ¶¶ 96–97.) Plaintiffs
also allege that Defendant “intentionally” delayed the dismissal of civil
harassment proceedings until O.A. had made pre-trial disclosures. (Id. ¶
98.) Such characterizations of Defendant’s seeking a TRO as wrongful and
intentional misuse of process are conclusory in nature. 
 