 Case Number:  24STCV15373    Hearing Date:   November 19, 2024    Dept:  30 Dept.
30 
Calendar
No.
Soto vs. BF Ford Long Beach, et. al.,
Case No. 24STCV15373
 
Tentative Ruling re: 
Defendant’s Motion to Compel Arbitration
 
Defendant moves for an order compelling
Plaintiff to submit to binding arbitration and stay this action pending
resolution of the arbitration. The motion is granted.
 
“On petition of a party to an
arbitration agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement to
arbitrate a controversy and that a party thereto refuses to arbitrate such
controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate
the controversy if it determines that an agreement to arbitrate the controversy
exists, unless it determines that: (a) The right to compel arbitration has been
waived by the petitioner; or (b) Grounds exist for the revocation of the
agreement.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 1281.2, subds. (a), (b).)
A proceeding to compel arbitration is
in essence a suit in equity to compel specific performance of a contract. (Freeman v. State Farm Mutual Auto Insurance
Co. (1975) 14 Cal.3d 473, 479.) Such enforcement may be sought by a party
to the arbitration agreement. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1280, subd. (e)(1).) 
            A motion to compel arbitration
requires the facts to be proven by affidavit or declaration and documentary
evidence with oral testimony taken only in the court’s discretion. (Code Civ.
Proc., §1290.2; Rosenthal v. Great
Western Fin. Securities Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 413–414.) The motion
must set forth the provisions of the written agreement and the arbitration
clause verbatim, or such provisions must be attached and incorporated by
reference. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1330; see Condee v. Longwood Mgmt. Corp. (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 215,
218.)  
Once the moving party alleges that an
arbitration agreement exists, the burden shifts to the responding party to
prove the falsity of the purported agreement, and no evidence or authentication
is required to find the arbitration agreement exists. (See Condee, supra, 88 Cal.App.4th at p. 219.) However, if the existence of the
agreement is challenged, “[movant] bears the burden of proving [the arbitration
agreement’s] existence by a preponderance of the evidence.” (Rosenthal, supra, p. 413; see also Espejo v. Southern California Permanente
Medical Group (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th 1047, 1058–1060.)
 
Defendant
argues that a valid arbitration agreement exists. A party moving to compel
arbitration may meet its initial burden by providing a copy of the arbitration
agreement. (Gamboa v. Northeast Community Clinic (2021) 72 Cal.App.5th
158, 165–166 (Gamboa).) The opposing party may produce evidence to
challenge the agreement in response. (Ibid.) Then, the moving party must
use admissible evidence to show a valid agreement. (Ibid.)
 
Here,
Defendant alleges that Plaintiff signed a valid arbitration agreement on
February 19, 2023. (Lusikyan Decl. ¶ 10.) Defendant has provided a copy of the
arbitration agreement (Agreement). (Id., Ex. A.) The Agreement states
that the employee “understand[s] that this agreement requires me to pursue all
claims I bring against the Company (and any third-party beneficiaries) through
binding arbitration and requires that the Company submit any claims it has
against me to binding arbitration.” (Ibid.) Further, it specifically
includes all claims arising out of the employment context. (Ibid.) Plaintiff’s
electronic signature appears on the Agreement. (Ibid.) 
Plaintiff
offers evidence challenging the arbitration agreement. Plaintiff received
instructions from Defendant to submit for a drug test and background check, and
signed documentation which he believed authorized a background check. (Soto
Decl. ¶ 3.) Plaintiff alleges that the Agreement was never mentioned, and that
he did not sign it. (Ibid.) Under Gamboa, Plaintiff has met its
burden of producing evidence to challenge the existence of the Agreement. Thus,
Defendant must use admissible evidence to show a valid agreement to arbitrate.
 
Defendant
offers sworn declarations from its human resources manager. (Lusikyan Decl. ¶
1.) She has access to all employee records and is familiar with Defendant’s
arbitration agreements, and how they are maintained and stored. (Id. ¶
2.) She explains that no other individuals besides Plaintiff have access to the
account on which he submitted paperwork, including the alleged arbitration
agreement. (Id. ¶¶ 5–6.) She asserts that Plaintiff signed the
arbitration agreement on February 19, 2023. (Id. ¶ 10.) This is
sufficient to authenticate an electronic signature under Fabian v. Renovate
America, Inc. (2019) 42 Cal.App.5th 1062 (Fabian).
 
In
Fabian, the court held that a summary assertion from a manager attesting
to an electronic signature by an employee was insufficient authentication,
affirming the trial court’s denial of the employer’s petition to compel
arbitration. Here, unlike in Fabian, Defendant asserts that Plaintiff signed
the contract on a certain date, rather than simply asserting that Plaintiff
entered the contract. (Fabian, supra, 42 Cal.App.5th at 1069; Lusikyan
Decl. ¶ 10.) Additionally, Defendant offers evidence explaining how Plaintiff
could be the only possible signor of the Agreement, unlike the employer in Fabian.
(Fabian, supra, at p. 1070.) 
 
Moreover,
Defendant offers Plaintiff’s job application as evidence rebutting Plaintiff’s
claim that he did not know what he was signing. (Lusikyan Supp. Decl., Ex. C.) The
application contains information only known to Plaintiff, showing that he read
and signed the document. (Ibid.) Directly under the information entered
by Plaintiff, the application includes an “Applicant Statement and Agreement.” (Ibid.)
This document includes, in all capital letters, a warning that says “IMPORTANT
— READ CAREFULLY CONTAINS A BINDING ARBITRATION AGREEMENT.” (Ibid.) Plaintiff’s
digital signature appears after the Agreement. (Ibid.) Even if Defendant
never explicitly told Plaintiff that the application included an arbitration
agreement, the application itself properly identifies the Agreement and its
importance. Thus, Defendant has proven the existence of an arbitration
agreement, signed by Plaintiff, by a preponderance of the evidence.
 
The arbitration
agreement is not unconscionable.
Plaintiff argues that the arbitration
agreement is unconscionable and thus unenforceable. Unconscionability generally
requires a finding of both procedural and substantive unconscionability. (Stirlen
v. Supercuts, Inc. (1997) 51 Cal.App.4th 1519, 1533.) They need not be
present to the same degree: a sliding scale is used such that the greater the
procedural or substantive unconscionability present, the less that is required
of the other. (Gentry v. Superior Court (2007) 42 Cal.4th 443, 469 (Gentry).)

“Procedural unconscionability turns on adhesiveness — a set of
circumstances in which the weaker or ‘adhering’ party is presented with a
contract drafted by the stronger party on a take it or leave it basis.” (Mercuro
v. Superior Court (2002) 96 Cal.App.4th 167, 174.) Arbitration agreements
as a condition of employment are procedurally unconscionable, though this is
not an automatic bar to their enforcement. (McManus v. CIBC World Markets
Corp. (2003) 109 Cal.App.4th 76, 101.) Agreements which fail to explain the
advantages or disadvantages of arbitration are procedurally unconscionable as
well. (Gentry, supra, 42 Cal.4th at p. 470–73.)
 
Here, the arbitration agreement is mildly
procedurally unconscionable. The Agreement is an adhesion contract, in that
Defendant required Plaintiff to accept the agreement as a condition of
employment. However, most employment agreements are adhesion contracts, and
this factor alone does not make an arbitration agreement highly procedurally
unconscionable. (Lange v. Monster Energy Co. (2020) 46 Cal.App.5th 436, 446
(Lange).) Additionally, Plaintiff argues that the Agreement failed to
explain the advantages or disadvantages of arbitration as required by Gentry.
But the Agreement specifically explains, in all capital letters, that the
signor gives up the right to a trial by jury or judge and any right to an
administrative process. (Lusikyan Decl., Ex. A. ¶ 14.) Thus, as in Lange,
the Agreement only represents a low degree of procedural unconscionability as
an adhesion contract.
 
With
the Court having found a low degree of procedural unconscionability in the
Agreement, Plaintiff must demonstrate a high degree of substantive
unconscionability to render it unenforceable. (Gentry, supra, 42
Cal.4th at p. 469.) Plaintiff argues that the Agreement is substantively
unconscionable because it fails to provide for a neutral arbitrator or for all
types of relief otherwise available in court. Plaintiff is incorrect. The
Agreement provides for a neutral arbitrator in the form of a retired Superior
Court or Federal District Court judge. (Lusikyan Decl., Ex. A. ¶ 7.) Additionally,
the Agreement allows the arbitrator to “fashion the . . . award to preserve any
special protections afforded by the laws governing the claims.” (Id.,
Ex. A. ¶ 7.) Thus, the Agreement provides for a neutral arbitrator and the full
range of remedies available at law and is not substantively unconscionable. Accordingly,
Defendant’s motion to compel arbitration is granted.
 
Proceedings are stayed pending
completion of arbitration and Defendant is awarded costs for filing the present
motion.
Defendant
additionally requests that the present proceedings be stayed pending the
outcome of arbitration. If a court orders arbitration of a controversy, the
court shall stay the action or proceeding until arbitration is complete on
motion by a party. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.4.) Here, the Court has ordered
arbitration. Accordingly, the proceedings are stayed pending the outcome of
that arbitration.
 
Additionally,
Defendant requests reimbursement for the cost of filing the present motion. The
court shall award costs upon any proceeding to compel arbitration. (Id.,
§ 1293.2.) Defendant has prevailed in the present proceeding, necessitated by
Plaintiff’s refusal to submit to arbitration. Accordingly, Defendant is awarded
$495 in costs for bringing the present motion. (Russel Decl. ¶ 3.) 