  Case Number:  23STCV02687    Hearing Date:   November 1, 2023    Dept:  71  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 71
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



JENNA NOBLE, et al.,  
  
         vs.
 
DORCY, INC., et al.


 Case No.: 
  23STCV02687
 
 
 
 Hearing
  Date:  November 1, 2023



 
Defendants Dorcy, Inc. dba Conscious
Co-Parenting Institute’s and Dorcy Pruter’s demurrer to Plaintiffs Jenna
Noble’s, Michael Eisenberg’s, and Eisenberg & Associates’ complaint is
overruled as to the 3rd cause of action and sustained with 20 days leave
to amend as to the 1st, 2nd, and 4th causes of action.
 
Defendants Dorcy, Inc. dba Conscious Co-Parenting Institute (“Conscious
Co-Parenting”) and Dorcy Pruter (“Pruter”) (collectively, “Defendants”) demur to
each cause of action in Plaintiffs Jenna Noble’s (“Noble”), Michael Eisenberg’s (“Eisenberg”), and Eisenberg
& Associates’ (“E&A”) (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) complaint (“Complaint”).  (Notice of Demurrer, pg.
2.)
 
Request for Judicial Notice
Defendants’ 5/12/23 request for judicial notice of (1) Joint
Stipulation Re: Continuing Dates in Scheduling Order to Facilitate Global
Resolution of the Case, filed August 13, 2021, in United States District Court –
C.D. Cal. Case No. 2:19-cv-8646 ODW (JPRx) (Document No. 189) (D-RJN, Exh. 1);
and (2) Civil Minutes – General, minute order dated August 13, 2021, in United
States District Court – C.D. Cal. Case No. 2:19-cv-8646 ODW (JPRx) (Document
No. 190) (D-RJN, Exh. 2), is granted.
 
Background
Plaintiffs filed their operative Complaint on February 7, 2023,
alleging four causes of action: (1) breach of contract; (2) intentional
misrepresentation, fraud in the inducement; (3) promissory estoppel; and (4) declaratory
relief.
This action arises out of Noble’s employment by Defendants from
around May 2018 until her termination on June 18, 2019.  (Complaint ¶9.) 
Plaintiffs allege during Noble’s employment she was not paid all of the agreed
upon commissions she was entitled to.  (Complaint
¶10.)   Plaintiffs allege during Noble’s employment
she suffered from sexually harassing conduct and battery by her supervisor,
Pruter, that was severe and/or pervasive.  (Complaint ¶11.)  
Plaintiffs allege Noble complained about the sexually harassing
conduct to the police in Lloydminster, Alberta, Canada.  (Complaint ¶12.)  Plaintiffs allege after Noble complained to
the police, she was terminated in retaliation for her complaints on or about
June 18, 2019.  (Complaint ¶13.)  
Plaintiffs allege Noble sued Defendants for wrongful termination
and other causes of action and litigated her case in United States District
Court, Case No. 2:19-cv-08646 ODW (JPRx) before Hon. Otis D. Wright, II
(“Underlying Action”).  (Complaint ¶14.)  Plaintiffs allege Noble was represented by E&A
in the Underlying Action.  (Complaint ¶14.)  
Plaintiffs allege on August 12, 2021, the parties entered into a
conditional Settlement Agreement and Mutual General Release (“Agreement”),
pursuant to which Defendants agreed to pay Plaintiffs $75,000 twenty-one days
after the execution of the Agreement via a single check to payable to E&A’s
Client Trust Account, which was to be delivered to Eisenberg’s office located
at 3580 Wilshire Blvd., Suite 1260, Los Angeles, CA 90010.  (Complaint ¶15, Exh. A.)  
Plaintiffs allege by entering into the Agreement, Defendants
agreed to remit the settlement funds to Eisenberg as an express intended
third-party beneficiary of the Agreement for the payment of his earned
attorney’s fees.  (Complaint ¶16.)  Plaintiffs allege the Agreement was
conditional on a dismissal with prejudice of criminal charges against Pruter by
the Canadian Crown Attorneys’/Prosecutor’s Office (Information Number
19-75005953).  (Complaint ¶17.)  Plaintiffs allege if this condition was not
satisfied within fourteen (14) days of the full execution of the Agreement (i.e.,
by August 26, 2021), the Agreement would be deemed null and void.  (Complaint ¶17.)  
Plaintiffs allege as part of the Agreement, the parties also
entered into a stipulation and filed a corresponding proposed order on August
13, 2021, which requested a continuing of pending scheduling order deadlines to
facilitate the settlement.  (Complaint
¶18.)  Plaintiffs allege a true and
correct copy of the August 13, 2021, stipulation and proposed order is attached
to the Agreement as Exhibit B within the Agreement.  (Complaint ¶18.)  Plaintiffs allege the stipulation represented
to the court that “[t]he parties have signed and exchanged a written settlement
agreement (potentially resolving all pending claims between the parties) specifying
several events that must occur over the next month in order to complete the settlement
terms.”  (Complaint ¶19.)  
Plaintiffs allege as part of the Agreement, Noble agreed to
present a written request for a full and complete dismissal with prejudice of
all criminal claims, charges, warrants against Pruter, in the form of the
letter attached as Exhibit C to the Agreement, to the Toronto Crown Attorney/
Prosecutor’s Office and the Toronto Law Enforcement Office.  (Complaint ¶20.)  Plaintiffs allege upon signing the Agreement,
Plaintiffs immediately began working towards executing their obligations
thereunder and contacted Detective Rich Petrie, who works in 52nd Division of
the Toronto Police Service as a Detective (No. 2232).  (Complaint ¶21.)  
Plaintiffs allege on August 12, 2021, Noble signed and Plaintiffs
emailed the exact letter from Exhibit C of the Agreement to Detective Rich
Petrie of the Toronto Police Service, which stated “I hereby request a full and
complete dismissal with prejudice of all criminal claims, charges, warrants
against Dorcy Pruter pertaining to my allegations against her (Information Number
19-75005953). I further request written confirmation of the dismissal with prejudice
of the above referenced criminal charges.” 
(Complaint ¶22.)
Plaintiffs allege on August 13, 2021, Detective Rich Petrie
emailed both E&A and counsel for Defendants confirming that he had
“completed the withdrawal request and had it approved by a Crown Attorney.”  (Complaint ¶23.) Plaintiffs allege Detective
Petrie also confirmed that the proper department for Noble to bring her
criminal allegations against Pruter was and is still the Toronto Police
Service.  (Complaint ¶23, Exh. B.)
Plaintiffs allege on August 20, 2021, Detective Rich Petrie
emailed E&A stating that he had spoken with the Assistant Crown Attorney
and received authorization from her to withdraw the criminal charge of sexual
assault against Pruter.  (Complaint
¶24.)  Plaintiffs allege Detective Petrie
also made clear that once a criminal charge is withdrawn, the charge is permanently
closed and will not be prosecuted.  (Complaint ¶24.)  Plaintiffs allege E&A forwarded this
email to counsel for Defendants explaining that once the Crown Attorney
withdrew the criminal charges against Pruter, all conditions precedent would be
satisfied, and payment would be due on September 2, 2021.  (Complaint ¶24, Exh. C.)  Plaintiffs allege on August 26, 2021, E&A
found out that the charges against PRUTER were dismissed. E&A immediately
forwarded the confirmation of the dismissal to counsel for Defendants.  (Complaint ¶25, Exh. D.)
Plaintiffs allege on August 27, 2021, Detective Rich Petrie
emailed a confirmation that the Crown Attorney had withdrawn all criminal
charges on August 26, 2021, and confirmed that the criminal matter against Pruter
was permanently closed.  (Complaint
¶26.)  That same day, E&A copied counsel
for Defendants on his response email to Detective Petrie so that Defendants
would be assured that the criminal charges against Pruter were dropped.  (Complaint ¶26.)
Plaintiffs allege on August 31, 2021, counsel for Defendants
emailed E&A doubting that the dismissed charges against Pruter were dismissed
“with prejudice.”  (Complaint ¶27.)  Plaintiffs allege E&A responded on
September 1, 2021, and reiterated that per Detective Petrie, the charges were
permanently closed and could not be prosecuted and therefore Defendants’
payment was due the next day under the Agreement.  (Complaint ¶27, Exh. E.)  Plaintiffs allege as far as they understood, the
criminal charges against Pruter were dismissed “with prejudice.”  (Complaint ¶28.)  Plaintiffs allege Defendants had a criminal
attorney in Canada and knew there is no such terminology as “dismissal with
prejudice” in the Canadian court system.  (Complaint ¶29.)  Plaintiffs allege nonetheless, Defendants requested
this language to be included in the Agreement.  (Complaint ¶29.)  Plaintiffs allege thus, Defendants knew that
Plaintiffs could only substantially perform under the verbatim wording of the Agreement,
which Plaintiffs did.  (Complaint
¶29.)  
Plaintiffs allege on September 9, 2021, E&A and counsel for
Defendants discussed that Plaintiffs have performed their obligations under the
agreement, that the terminology “with prejudice” did not exist in the Canadian
court system, and that Defendants’ promised $75,000 payment was owing.  (Complaint ¶30.)  Plaintiffs even offered to amend the
Agreement to state that if Plaintiff ever attempted to do the impossible and
refile the same charges against Pruter, Plaintiff would be required to pay back
the full settlement amount plus interest. 
(Complaint ¶30.)
Plaintiffs allege despite receiving notice that Plaintiffs
satisfied all conditions precedent for Defendants to pay the settlement funds
pursuant to the Agreement, Defendants refused to honor their obligations
thereunder and breached the Agreement. 
(Complaint ¶31.)  Plaintiffs
allege on information and belief that Defendants entered into the Agreement without
ever intending to honor their obligations thereunder.  (Complaint ¶32.)  Plaintiffs allege rather, Defendants entered into
the Agreement solely to induce Plaintiffs to dismiss both the criminal charges
against Pruter in Canada, as well as the Underlying Action.  (Complaint ¶32.)  
Plaintiffs allege on October 5, 2021, Plaintiffs filed a Motion to
Enforce Settlement Agreement, or in the Alternative, for a New Scheduling Order
in the Underlying Action.  (Complaint
¶33.)  Plaintiffs allege on October 12,
2021, Judge Otis D. Wright, II ruled in the Underlying Action that “[t]he Court
has no interest in monitoring parties’ compliance with the terms of a
settlement agreement. Given that the parties have settled the matter, this case
should be dismissed.  Any failure to
satisfy the terms of the parties’ settlement agreement, including payment, should
be enforced in a subsequent lawsuit. The Clerk of the Court shall close this
case.”  (Complaint ¶34, Exh. F.)  Plaintiffs allege they now bring this action
to enforce the Agreement per the federal court’s instructions.  (Complaint ¶35.)
On May 12, 2023, Defendants filed the instant demurrer.  On October 19, 2023, Plaintiffs filed their
opposition.  On October 25, 2023,
Defendants filed their reply.
 
Summary of Demurrer
Defendants demur on the basis that Plaintiffs’ 1st, 2nd, 3rd, and
4th causes of action fail state facts sufficient to constitute causes of action.  (Demurrer, pgs. 2-3; C.C.P. §430.10(e).)
 
          Meet and Confer
Before filing a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the demurring
party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party who filed
the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining whether
an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in
the demurrer.  (C.C.P. §430.41(a).)  A declaration must be filed with a demurrer
regarding the results of the meet and confer process.  (C.C.P. §430.41(a)(3).)
Defendants’ counsel’s declaration states he spoke to Plaintiffs’
counsel on the telephone addressing deficiencies in the Complaint and parties
could not resolve the issues in this motion outside of court.  (Decl. of Abbott ¶2, Exh. A.)  Defendants’ counsel’s declaration is
sufficient under C.C.P. §430.41(a)(3).
 
Legal Standard
“[A] demurrer tests the legal
sufficiency of the allegations in a complaint.” (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc.
(2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  A
demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the
pleading under attack or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially
noticeable.  (See Donabedian v.
Mercury Insurance Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994 [in ruling on a
demurrer, a court may not consider declarations, matters not subject to
judicial notice, or documents not accepted for the truth of their
contents].)  For purposes of ruling on a
demurrer, all facts pleaded in a complaint are assumed to be true, but the
reviewing court does not assume the truth of conclusions of law.  (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital District
(1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.)
 
Failure to State a Claim
Breach of
Contract (1st COA)
A cause of action for breach of contract requires the following
elements: (1) a valid contract; (2) substantial performance by the plaintiff; (3)
the defendant’s failure to perform; and (4) damages.  (Richman v. Hartley (2014) 224
Cal.App.4th 1182, 1186.)
Plaintiffs allege they and Defendants entered into a binding
Agreement as explained above.  (Complaint
¶39, Exh. A.)  Plaintiffs allege they performed,
or substantially performed, all obligations required of them under the
Agreement, or were excused or prevented from performing such obligations.  (Complaint ¶40.)  Plaintiffs allege Defendants failed to pay
any amount pursuant to the Agreement. 
(Complaint ¶41.)
Plaintiffs allege Defendants breached the Agreement when they
refused to pay the amounts owed to Plaintiffs under the Agreement.  (Complaint ¶42.)  Plaintiffs allege they have suffered damages
as a result of the Defendants’ breaches in an approximate amount of
seventy-five thousand dollars ($75,000.00), which continues to accrue interest at
the legal rate, plus attorney’s fees and costs as a result of needing to bring
this new action.  (Complaint ¶43.)
Plaintiffs allege section nine of the Agreement provides for
attorney’s fees, expenses and costs to be paid to the prevailing party in any
action to enforce the Agreement.  (Complaint ¶44.)  Plaintiffs request their attorneys’ fees and
costs for having to enforce the Agreement. 
(Complaint ¶44.)
Plaintiffs sufficiently allege a cause of action for breach of
contract.  Plaintiffs allege full
compliance with their obligations under the Agreement and the complete
satisfaction of all conditions precedent.  (Complaint ¶¶27-31, 40).  A party may plead in the alternative and may
make inconsistent allegations.  (Adams
v. Paul (1995) 11 Cal.4th 583, 593.)  Here, Plaintiff simply alleged substantial
performance only in the alternative, which is permissible at the pleading
stage.  (See Complaint ¶40).  The California Supreme Court firmly held that
“[i]f a contract is capable of two constructions, the court must choose that
interpretation which will make the contract legally binding if it can be so
construed without violating the intention of the parties.”  (Bleecher v. Conte (1981) 29 Cal.3d
345, 350, citing Rodriguez v. Barnett (1959) 52 Cal.2d 154, 160; see
also Civ. Code §§1643, 3541.)  “A
contract must be given a reasonable interpretation and the language used
therein is to govern its interpretation if the language is clear and explicit
and does not involve an absurdity.”  (Erskine
v. Upham (1942) 56 Cal.App.2d 235, 246 [holding that the evidence was sufficient
to show that the conditions precedent of a contract had been substantially
satisfied and therefore entitled the creditor rights under the contract].)  “The construction appellant seeks to put upon
it would involve an absurdity. The reasonable and practicable interpretation of
the contract would be that substantial performance is sufficient and all that
the parties intended at the time of entering into the agreement.”  (Id.) 
Defendants cite no law to support their proposition that a case
being “permanently closed” is any different than dismissal “with prejudice” and
therefore the condition precedent couldn’t be met.
However, the Court notes, “[a]ll contracts which have for their
object, directly or indirectly, to exempt anyone from responsibility for . . .
willful injury to the person or property of another, or violation of law,
whether willful or negligent, are against the policy of the law.”  (Civ. Code, § 1668.).  Neither Plaintiffs nor Defendants address the
issue of whether the Agreement is against the policy of law.  The Court is inclined to regard the Contract as
against public policy and therefore unenforceable. 
Accordingly, Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiff’s 1st cause of
action for breach of contract is sustained with leave to amend.
 
          Intentional
Misrepresentation, Fraud in the Inducement (2nd COA)
“The elements of fraud that will give rise to a tort action for
deceit are: ‘(a) misrepresentation (false representation, concealment, or
nondisclosure); (b) knowledge of falsity (or ‘scienter’); (c) intent to
defraud, i.e., to induce reliance; (d) justifiable reliance; and (e) resulting
damage.’”  (Engalla v. Permanente
Medical Group, Inc. (1997) 15 Cal.4th 951, 974.)  Fraud actions are subject to strict
requirements of particularity in pleading. 
(Committee on Children’s Television, Inc. v. General Foods Corp.
(1983) 35 Cal.3d 197, 216.)  Fraud must
be pleaded with specificity rather than with general and conclusory
allegations. (Small v. Fritz Companies, Inc. (2003) 30 Cal.4th 167,
184.)  The specificity requirement means
a plaintiff must allege facts showing how, when, where, to whom, and by what
means the representations were made, and, in the case of a corporate defendant,
the plaintiff must allege the names of the persons who made the
representations, their authority to speak on behalf of the corporation, to whom
they spoke, what they said or wrote, and when the representation was made.  (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12
Cal.4th 631, 645; West v. JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (2013) 214
Cal.App.4th 780, 793.)
Plaintiffs allege they and Defendants entered into the Agreement
on or about August 12, 2021.  (Complaint
¶46.)  Plaintiffs allege Defendants
agreed to pay Plaintiffs the sum of $75,000.00 as full settlement of all claims
arising from the Underlying Action and in consideration of Noble agreeing to dismiss
the criminal charges against Pruter in Canada. 
(Complaint ¶47.)  
Plaintiffs allege they agreed to dismiss both the criminal charges
against Pruter in the Canadian criminal court system, as well as the Underlying
Action, in consideration of receiving the $75,000.00 settlement amount.  (Complaint ¶48.)  Plaintiffs allege they performed all, or
substantially all, of the obligations that the settlement Agreement required
them to do.  (Complaint ¶49.)  Plaintiffs allege Defendants failed to
satisfy the terms of the Agreement by refusing to pay the sum owed to Plaintiffs.  (Complaint ¶50.)
Plaintiffs allege on their belief that Defendants entered into the
Agreement on August 12, 2021, without the true intention to fulfill the
$75,000.00 payment owed to Plaintiffs. 
(Complaint ¶51.)  Plaintiffs
allege Defendants have not made a good faith attempt to render payment of the
settlement to Plaintiffs and have led Plaintiffs to believe that Defendants
never intended to fulfill the Agreement, but rather pushed for settlement
solely to lock Plaintiffs in to an agreed upon settlement price for the Underlying
Action and to achieve the permanent dismissal of the criminal charges against Pruter.  (Complaint ¶52.)
Plaintiffs allege Defendants have acted intentionally and
dishonestly by not fulfilling their legal and contractual obligations under the
Agreement.  (Complaint ¶53.)  Plaintiffs allege Defendant’s entrance into
the Agreement and subsequent failure to pay on the terms were done in bad
faith.  (Complaint ¶54.)  Plaintiffs allege the conduct of each of the
Defendants was fraudulent, malicious, and oppressive as defined in California
Civil Code Section 3294, and, in addition to actual damages, Plaintiffs should
recover punitive and exemplary damages to make an example of and to punish
Defendants.  (Complaint ¶55.)  
Plaintiffs allege as a result of Defendants’ fraudulent inducement
to enter into the Agreement that Defendants never complied with, E&A did
substantial work for Noble, including multiple filings in the Underlying
Action, to enforce the settlement agreement or continue with the Underlying
Action.  (Complaint ¶56.) Plaintiffs
allege they also hired new counsel to bring this case to enforce the Agreement.
 (Complaint ¶56.)  Thus, Plaintiffs also request damages for
attorneys’ fees and costs incurred in an attempt to enforce the Agreement.  (Complaint ¶56.)
Plaintiffs fail to allege actual damages in connection with
Defendants’ alleged fraud.  A plaintiff
“must suffer actual monetary loss to recover on a fraud claim.”  (Alliance Mortgage Co. v. Rothwell
(1995) 10 Cal.4th 1226, 1240; see also Empire West v. Southern California
Gas Co. (1974) 12 Cal.3d 805, 810 n.2 [“Fraud without damage furnishes no
ground for action.”]; Las Palmas Associates v. Las Palmas Center Associates
(1991) 235 Cal.App.3d 1220, 1252 [“To recover damages for fraud, a plaintiff
must have sustained damages proximately caused by the misrepresentation.”].)  Plaintiffs fail to cite law supporting the
proposition that incurring legal fees to enforce the Agreement was proximately
caused by the alleged misrepresentation.
          Accordingly,
Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiff’s 2nd cause of action for intentional
misrepresentation is sustained with 20 days leave to amend.
 
          Promissory
Estoppel (3rd COA)
A cause of action for promissory estoppel requires the following
elements: (1) promise clear and unambiguous in its terms; (2) reliance by the
party to whom the promise is made; (3) the reliance must be both reasonable and
foreseeable; and (4) the party asserting estoppel must be injured by his
reliance.  (Granadino v. Wells Fargo
Bank, N.A. (2015) 236 Cal.App.4th 411, 416; see also Smith v. City &
County of San Francisco (1990) 225 Cal.App.3d 38, 48 [to allege promissory
estoppel, pleadings must allege facts demonstrating such reliance on promises,
beyond just conclusory allegations of reasonable reliance upon promises].)
Plaintiffs allege Defendants made a clear and unambiguous promise
to Plaintiffs that in exchange for Plaintiff filing a dismissal of the criminal
charges against PRUTER by the Canadian Crown Attorneys’/ Prosecutor’s Office
(Information Number 19-75005953) and in consideration of the settling of the
Underlying Action, Defendants would pay Plaintiffs $75,000.  (Complaint ¶58.)  Plaintiffs allege they reasonably and
justifiably relied on said promises and trusted Defendants to fulfill their
promises.  (Complaint ¶59.)  Plaintiffs allege they agreed to enter into a
stipulation to request a continuance of all pending scheduling order deadlines
to facilitate the settlement and immediately contacted Detective Rich Petrie,
who works in 52nd Division of the Toronto Police Service as a Detective (No. 2232)
to dismiss the sexual assault against Pruter. 
(Complaint ¶60.)
Plaintiffs allege on August 13, 2021, the court vacated all case
deadlines in the Underlying Action and ordered the parties to file a dismissal
to comply with Federal Rule of Civil Procedure Rule 41 by October 11, 2021.  (Complaint ¶61.)  Plaintiffs allege on August 20, 2021,
Detective Rich Petrie emailed E&A stating that he had spoken with the
Assistant Crown Attorney and received authorization from her to withdraw the criminal
charge of sexual assault against Pruter.  (Complaint ¶62.)  Plaintiffs allege Detective Petrie also made
clear that once a criminal charge is withdrawn, the charge is permanently closed
and will not be prosecuted.  (Complaint
¶62.)  
Plaintiffs allege E&A forwarded Detective Petrie’s email to
counsel for Defendants explaining that once the Crown Attorney withdrew the
criminal charges against Pruter, all conditions precedent would be satisfied
and payment would be due on September 2, 2021. 
(Complaint ¶63.)  Plaintiffs
allege Defendants did not perform their promise to pay Plaintiffs the promised
$75,000.  (Complaint ¶64.)
Plaintiffs allege as a direct and foreseeable result of
Defendants’ failure to perform their promise, Plaintiffs have been greatly
injured in that both the Underlying Action against Defendants and the criminal
charges against Pruter were dismissed without Plaintiffs being paid the promised
$75,000 under the settlement.  (Complaint
¶65.)
Plaintiffs sufficiently allege a cause of action in the
alternative for promissory estoppel.  (Complaint ¶¶58-60, 65.)  Defendants contend that Plaintiffs can’t have
a claim for promissory estoppel because there is a competing breach of contract
claim based on mutual consideration. 
However, the Court regards the Agreement as unenforceable because it is
in violation of public policy.  
Accordingly, Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiff’s 3rd cause of
action for promissory estoppel is overruled.
 
          Declaratory
Relief (4th COA)
To state a claim for declaratory relief, a party must allege facts
stating: (i) a proper subject of declaratory relief, e.g., a contract or
property; and (ii) an actual controversy between two parties regarding their
rights.  (C.C.P. §1060; Lee v.
Silveira (2016) 6 Cal.App.5th 527, 546.)
Plaintiffs allege they performed all, or substantially all, of the
obligations that the Agreement required them to do.  (Complaint ¶68.)  Plaintiffs allege Defendants contend that
Defendants are excused from paying Plaintiffs under the Agreement because the
dismissal of the criminal charges against Pruter in Canada did not include the
words “with prejudice,” even though Defendants know that the Canadian justice
system does not use that terminology.  (Complaint ¶68.)  Plaintiffs allege instead, Defendants have
received assurances from Detective Rich Petrie who was assigned to the criminal
case against Pruter in Canada and from the Canadian Deputy Crown Attorney
Jennifer Gibson, that once a particular criminal charge is dismissed, it cannot
be filed again against the same Defendant. 
(Complaint ¶68.)
Plaintiffs allege they seek a judicial determination that
Plaintiffs complied and/or substantially complied with the terms of the
Agreement and that Defendants were and are required to pay Plaintiffs $75,000
pursuant to the Agreement, plus interest, costs and reasonable attorney’s fees.
 (Complaint ¶69.)  Plaintiffs also seek a judicial determination
that Defendants waived any argument that the Agreement was null and void due to
its failure to attempt to continue the Underlying Action.  (Complaint ¶69.)  Plaintiffs allege in the alternative that if the
Court is inclined to rule that the Agreement is null and void, Plaintiffs
request that the Court declares that Plaintiffs can again pursue Noble’s claims
against Defendants from the Underlying Action, to avoid a grave injustice.  (Complaint ¶70.)
Plaintiffs fail to sufficiently assert a cause of action in the
alternative for a declaration that Plaintiffs can again pursue Noble’s claims against
Defendants from the Underlying Action for a second time.  The purpose of declaratory relief is to
determine a plaintiff’s “rights or duties with respect to another . . . in
cases of actual controversy.”  (Roger
v. County of Riverside (2020) 44 Cal.App.5th 510, 530.)  When a declaratory relief action attempts “to
obtain an advisory opinion from the court, the fundamental basis of declaratory
relief is lacking.”  (Rhonda S. v.
Kaiser Foundation Health Plan, Inc. (2023) 94 Cal.App.5th 643, 648.)  As stated above, the Court regards the
Agreement as violative of public policy and therefore unenforceable.
          Accordingly,
Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiff’s 5th cause of action for lack of informed
consent is sustained with 20 days leave to amend.
 
Conclusion
Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiff’s Complaint is overruled as to
the 3rd cause of action. 
Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiff’s FAC is sustained with 20
days leave to amend as to the 1st, 2nd, and 4th causes of action.
Moving Party to give notice.
 
 
Dated:  October _____, 2023
                                                                             





  