 Case Number:  23STCV15107    Hearing Date:   November 1, 2023    Dept:  71 Superior  Court of California County  of Los Angeles   DEPARTMENT 71   TENTATIVE  RULING      FAB 5, LLC,                     vs.   ALAN NEEDLE, et al.    Case    No.:  23STCV15107        Hearing Date:  November 1, 2023      Defendants  Tucalota Creek Ranch’s, Alan Needle’s, and Kay Needle’s  unopposed motion to transfer venue to Riverside County Superior Court is  granted. Defendants’  request for sanctions is denied.   Defendants  Tucalota Creek Ranch (“TCR”), Alan Needle (“Alan”), and Kay Needle (“Kay”) (collectively,  “Defendants”) move unopposed to transfer the venue in this action to the  Riverside County Superior Court.  (Notice  of Motion, pg. 1; C.C.P. §§396b(a), 397(a).)   Defendants also move for an award of reasonable expenses and attorneys’  fees incurred in the making the instant motion.  (Notice of Motion, pg. 2; C.C.P. §396b(b).)   Procedural  History Plaintiff  Fab 5, LLC (“Fab 5”) filed its initial complaint on June 28, 2023.  Fab 5 and Robert Lindholm (“Lindholm”)  (collectively, Plaintiffs”) filed the operative first amended complaint (“FAC”)  on July 5, 2023, for a single cause of action for declaratory relief. Defendants  filed the instant motion on August 1, 2023.   Plaintiffs filed a notice of non-opposition on October 26, 2023.  Defendants filed their reply on October 26,  2023.   Discussion C.C.P.  §395.5 provides that a corporation may be sued in the county “where the  contract is made or is to be performed, or where the obligation or liability  arises, or the breach occurs; or in the county where the principal place of  business of such corporation is situated . . . .”  C.C.P.  §395 states, in relevant part, “the superior court in the county where the  defendants or some of them reside at the commencement of the action is the  proper court for the trial of the action.”   (C.C.P. §395.)  “The right of a  defendant to have an action brought against him tried in the county in which he  has his residence is an ancient and valuable right, which has always been safeguarded  by statute and is supported by a long line of judicial decisions.”  (Cholakian & Associates v. Superior  Court (2015) 236 Cal.App.4th 361, 371.) Generally,  “[v]enue is determined based on the complaint on file at the time the motion to  change venue is made.”  (Cholakian  & Associates, 236 Cal.App.4th at pg. 367.)  “[A]ll ambiguities will be construed against  the pleader to the end that a defendant shall not be deprived improperly of his  fundamental right to have the cause tried in the county of his residence.”  (Bybee v. Fairchild (1946) 75  Cal.App.2d 35, 37.)  Additionally, a  defendant may submit declarations and evidence in support of the motion to  transfer venue.  (Archer v. Superior  Court of Humboldt County (1962) 202 Cal.App.2d 417, 419.) “The  general rule is that the defendant is entitled to have an action tried against  him in the county of his residence unless the proceeding comes under” an  exception.  (Hardy v. White (1955)  130 Cal.App.2d 550, 552.)  Once a  defendant demonstrates that it is not a resident of the plaintiff’s chosen  venue, “the burden is on the plaintiff to show that the case comes clearly  within one of the statutory exceptions to the general rule that actions are  triable in the place of the defendant’s residence.”  (Archer, 202 Cal.App.2d at pg. 420.) Here,  TCR is a California Corporation with its principal place of business in  Riverside County, California.  (Decl. of  A. Needle ¶3.)  Further, Fab 5 entered  into the Contract with TCR  in Riverside  County, California.  (Decl. of K. Needle ¶6; Decl. of  Culver ¶3, Ex. A at ¶6.)  The training  and care of the horses, which is the underlying basis for this suit, occurred  at TCR in Riverside County.  (Decl. of  Culver ¶3, Ex. A at ¶7.)  No underlying  factual aspect of this suit has occurred in Los Angeles County. The mere  location of Plaintiff’s home in Los Angeles County and the location from where  Lindholm drafts and sends electronic correspondence to the Defendants does not  make it the proper venue for this suit. Alan  and Kay reside at TCR in Riverside County and have at all relevant times  related to this suit.  (Decl. of A.  Needle ¶4; Decl. of K. Needle ¶3.)  Having  shown that their county of residence is Riverside County, the burden on this  motion shifts to Plaintiffs to show that one of the exceptions to venue at the  defendant’s place of residence applies.   Plaintiff does not oppose the instant motion and therefore does not meet  his burden to demonstrate an exception to venue applies. Accordingly,  Defendants’ motion for change of venue is granted.   Sanctions Upon  granting a motion to transfer, a court is authorized to award the moving party  expenses and attorneys fees related to the motion.  (C.C.P. §396b(b).).  In determining whether that order for expenses  and fees shall be made, the court shall take into consideration (1) whether an  offer to stipulate to change of venue was reasonably made and rejected, and (2)  whether the motion or selection of venue was made in good faith given the facts  and law the party making the motion or selecting the venue knew or should have  known.  (C.C.P. §396b(b).). Based  on the declaration of Lindholm, the Court determines Plaintiff’s selection of  venue was made in good faith given the facts and law Lindholm, in pro per,  knew or should have known.  (See  Decl. of Lindholm ¶¶4-6.) Accordingly,  Defendant’s request for attorneys’ fees is denied.   Conclusion Defendants  TCR’s, Alan’s, and Kay’s unopposed motion to transfer venue to Riverside  County Superior Court is granted. Defendants’  request for sanctions is denied.              Plaintiff is to pay all transfer fees.  Moving  Party to give notice.   Dated:  November  _____, 2023                                                                                       