 Case Number:  23CHCV02662    Hearing Date:   May 13, 2024    Dept:  F43 Dept. F43
Date: 5-13-24
Case #23CHCV02662, Golden Hammer Ops, LLC vs. JETNET,
LLC, et al.
Trial Date: N/A
 
DEMURRER TO CROSS-COMPLAINT WITH MOTION TO
STRIKE
 
MOVING PARTY: JETNET, LLC
RESPONDING PARTY: Gregory Rowlee
 
RELIEF REQUESTED
Demurrer to the Cross-Complaint
·        
Second Cause of Action for Breach of Contract and
Breach of Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing
 
RULING: Demurrer is sustained with leave to amend.
 
SUMMARY OF ACTION 
On September 5, 2023, Cross-Defendant Golden Hammer Ops, LLC
(Golden Hammer) filed the complaint that began this action. Golden Hammer filed
that complaint against Cross-Complainant JETNET, LLC (JETNET) and two other
Defendants. Golden Hammer alleged causes of action for Misappropriation of
Trade Secrets, Intentional Interference with Contractual Relations, and
Violation of California Computer Fraud and Abuse Act against JETNET.
 
On October 30, 2023, JETNET filed a cross-complaint
against Golden Hammer and Cross-Defendant Gregory Rowlee (Rowlee). JETNET
alleges three causes of action for Breach of Contract, Intentional Interference
with Contractual Relations, and Declaratory Relief. In JETNET’s
Cross-Complaint, JETNET alleges that Golden Hammer and Rowlee breached an
agreement between the two parties and interfered with JETNET’s contract with
another party, AWS.
 
On December 6, 2023, Rowlee and Goldener Hammer, rather
than amending the original complaint to add Rowlee as a plaintiff, filed a
cross-complaint against JETNET and ADSBExchange.com. This cross-complaint
alleges four causes of action for (1) Breach of the Services Agreement (against
ADS-B Exchange); (2) Breach of the Hosting Agreement and the Implied Covenant
of Good Faith and Fair Dealing (against JETNET); (3) Declaratory Relief
(against both Cross-Defendants); and (4) Reformation of Written Instrument. Rowlee
and Golden Hammer have alleged that JETNET breached an agreement between the
parties by failing to disclose that JETNET did not acquire the Services
Agreement during its acquisition of ADS-B Exchange.
 
JETNET has demurred to the Second Cause of Action. Only
Rowlee filed an opposition to JETNET’s demurrer.
 
ANALYSIS
A demurrer is an objection to a pleading, the grounds for
which are apparent from either the face of the complaint or a matter of which
the court may take judicial notice. (CCP § 430.30(a); see also Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311,
318.) The purpose of a demurrer is to challenge the sufficiency of a pleading
“by raising questions of law.” (Postley
v. Harvey (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 280, 286.) “In the construction of a
pleading, for the purpose of determining its effect, its allegations must be
liberally construed, with a view to substantial justice between the parties.” (CCP
§ 452.) The court “ ‘ “treat[s] the demurrer as admitting all material facts
properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law…”
’ ” (Berkley v. Dowds (2007) 152
Cal.App.4th 518, 525.) In applying these standards, the court liberally
construes the complaint to determine whether a cause of action has been stated.
(Picton v. Anderson Union High School
Dist. (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 726, 733.)
 
            Second Cause
of Action
JETNET demurs to Rowlee and Golden Hammer’s Second Cause of
Action for Breach of Contract and Breach of Implied Covenant of Good Faith and
Fair Dealing on the basis that it does no plead facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action.
 
To prevail on a cause of action for breach of contract, the
plaintiff must prove (1) the 
contract, (2) the plaintiff's performance of the contract or
excuse for nonperformance, (3) the 
defendant's breach, and (4) the resulting damage to the
plaintiff.” (Richman v. Hartley (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 1182, 1186.) The
elements for a cause of action for breach of the covenant of good faith and
fair dealing are similar, but it requires that the plaintiff plead that some
conduct by the defendant prevented plaintiff from receiving the benefits under
the contract. (See CACI No. 325 (Civil Jury Instruction for Breach of the
Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing).) A complaint that fails to properly
allege breach of contract is deficient as a matter of law. (San Mateo Union
High School Dist. v. County of San Mateo (2013) 213 Cal.App.4th 418,
439-440.)
 
As an initial matter, Golden Hammer and Rowlee appeared to
have rolled what are normally distinct causes of action, breach of contract and
breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing, into one cause
of action for both. This makes it difficult to sort out the allegations and
determine what exactly the Cross-Complainants are alleging. For clarity’s sake,
Cross-Complainants should either make this a breach of contract cause of action
or a breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing cause of
action. Alternatively, the Court would allow Cross-Complainants to split this
cause of action into two causes of action.
 
Next, the Cross-Complaint is confusing because the Second
Cause of Action starts out discussing the Hosting Agreement, but then states
that JETNET breached the Services Agreement without connecting the two agreements
under this cause of action. It is unclear, but from the rest of the allegations
in the Cross-Complaint, it appears that the Hosting Agreement and Services
Agreement are two separate agreements that were part of one business
arrangement. (See CC, ¶ 24.) However, under the Second Cause of Action,
Cross-Complainants appear to conflate the two agreements.
 
The Cross-Complaint states that the Hosting Agreement is
valid and enforceable (Paragraph 87) and that Rowlee and Golden Hammer
performed their obligations under the Hosting Agreement (Paragraph 88), but
then it states that JETNET breached the Services Agreement (Paragraph 89). The
Second Cause of Action does not mention the Hosting Agreement again after
Paragraph 88.
 
Furthermore, it is unclear how JETNET could breach the
Services Agreement when Cross-Complainants allege that it did not acquire the
Services Agreement during JETNET’s acquisition of ADS-B Exchange (Paragraph
90). If JETNET did not acquire the Services Agreement, then it was not a party
to it and could not have breached it.
 
Rowlee argues in his opposition that the Hosting and
Services Agreements should be read together and not in isolation, but that is not
clear from the Cross-Complaint.
 
Currently, Cross-Complainants’ Second Cause of Action is too
uncertain and confusing to even determine if it has stated sufficient facts to
maintain a cause of action, whether for breach of contract or for breach of the
implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing.
 
Accordingly, JETNET’s demurrer is sustained with leave to
amend for the second cause of action.
 
Rowlee and Golden Hammer are given 30 days leave to amend.
 
Moving party to give notice to all parties.