  Case Number:  22CHCV00676    Hearing Date:   May 13, 2024    Dept:  F43 Dept. F43
Date: 5-13-24
Case #22CHCV00676 , Sergey
Vershinin vs. Janie Cohen
Trial Date: 2-10-25
 
MOTION FOR LEAVE TO INTERVENE
 
MOVING PARTY: Chicago Title Company
RESPONDING PARTY: No response has been filed.
 
RELIEF REQUESTED
Chicago Title Company is requesting that the Court grant
it leave to intervene in this action.
 
RULING: Motion is granted.
 
SUMMARY OF ACTION 
This action is based on a cancelled real estate transaction
in which Chicago Title Company (CTC) was the escrow company. Plaintiff Serge
Vershinin (Vershinin) was the intended buyer of land in Los Angeles. Defendant
Jane Cohen (Cohen) was the intended seller. Cross-Defendant Coldwell Banker
Residential Brokerage Company (Coldwell) was the real estate company that
represented both the buyer and the seller, and Cross-Defendant Willaim Anthony
(Anthony) was the real estate agent employed by Coldwell and was handling the
transaction.
 
The complaint in this action seek monetary damages that
include a portion of the funds currently held in CTC’s escrow account for this
transaction. Throughout the course of escrow, Vershinin, as the buyer,
deposited $60,000 into escrow. After some issues with the property were
discovered during appraisal, the parties discussed lowering the price of the
property, but were unable to come to an agreement. The seller, Cohen, then
cancelled the transaction.
 
Dormant Solutions Group, on behalf of CTC, sent cancellation
instructions to the buyer and seller. The seller executed the instructions,
seeking $35,000 of the $60,000 escrow funds. However, CTC has not received
mutual cancellation instructions signed by both parties, and the escrow funds
remain with CTC.
 
CTC’s motion claims that Plaintiff complaint misstates the
amount of escrow that he deposited (his complaint says $30,000) and failed to
name CTC in the complaint, despite CTC being the party holding the escrow
funds. CTC further indicates that the seller’s cross-complaint does not address
the escrow funds.
 
CTC now seeks to interplead the escrow funds with the Court
in this action so that it is not necessary to file a separate interpleader
action. No opposition has been filed to CTC’s motion.
 
ANALYSIS
An intervention is when a third party is permitted to become
a party to an action between other parties, either by joining the plaintiff in
claiming what is sought by the complaint, or by joining the defendant, or by
demanding something adverse to both the plaintiff and the defendant. (See CCP §
387(b).) The requirements for interventions are a timely application and
satisfaction of the condition that the party seeking intervention claims an
interest relating to the transaction that is the subject of the action and that
the party is so situated that the disposition of the action may impair that
party’s ability to protect that interest, unless that party’s interest is
adequately represented. (CCP § 387(d)(1)(B).) Alternatively, the Cour may, upon
timely application, permit a nonparty to intervene in the action if the party
has an interest in the matter in litigation, or in the success of either of the
parties, or an interest against both. (CCP § 387(d)(2).)
 
CTC argues that it is eligible to intervene under both the
mandatory provisions of Section 387(d)(1)(B) and the permissive provisions of
Section 387(d)(2).
 
CTC argues that the facts support mandatory interventions
because it is the holder of the escrow funds which Plaintiff seeks a portion
of, and CTC has been holding the funds for over three years without the parties
agreeing on how the funds should be paid. CTC’s counsel indicates that CTC had
been considering an interpleader action when it learned of this action in
December 2023. (Hawkins Decl., ¶ 12.) CTC argues that the disposition of this
action without its intervention may result in resolution as to only a portion
of the escrow funds. CTC therefore seeks intervention to file a cross-complaint
in interpleader seeking to deposit the funds with the Court.
 
Next, CTC argues that its intervention is also permissive
because it has an interest in the action due to it being the holder of the
escrow funds. The Court has discretion to permit a nonparty to intervene in
litigation pending between others if (1) the nonparty has a direct and
immediate interest in the litigation; (2) the intervention will not enlarge the
issues in the case; and (3) the reasons for intervention outweigh any
opposition by the existing parties. (See Truck Ins. Exch. V. Superior Ct.
(Transco Syndicate #1) (1997) 60 Cal.App.4th 342, 346; Reliance Ins. Co.
v. Superior Ct. (Wells) (2000) 84 Cal.App.4th 383, 386.)
 
As already established, CTC has a direct and immediate
interest in this action. CTC’s intervention will not enlarge the issues in this
case because the escrow funds held by CTC are already at issue in Plaintiff’s
complaint. Finally, there is no opposition to CTC’s inclusion in this
litigation.
 
CTC’s motion to intervene is granted. CTC’s proposed
cross-complaint is deemed filed. 
 
Moving party to give notice to all parties.