  Case Number:  22STC138516    Hearing Date:   June 28, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 





ROIE
  MAOR, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
EVE M. ARON, et al., 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.                               


 


     
  CASE NO.:  22STCV38516
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
 
MOTION TO DEEM FACTS ADMITTED
 
MOTION TO DEEM GENUINENESS OF DOCUMENTS
  ADMITTED
 
  
Date: June 28, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff
Roie Maor (“Plaintiff”)
 
RESPONDING PARTY:
None
 
The Court
considered the moving papers filed.  The
motions are unopposed.
 
BACKGROUND
            This case arises from a complaint filed by Plaintiff against Defendant
Eve M. Aron (“Defendant”) on December 9, 2022. 
The complaint asserts breach of contract and various other causes of
action stemming from an agreement in which Plaintiff purportedly agreed to lend
money to Defendant, who in turn, allegedly agreed to use the funds to buy and
resell horses for profit.
 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Legal
Standard
If a party
to whom requests for admission are served fails to provide a timely response,
the party to whom the request was directed waives any objections, including
based on privilege or the work product doctrine.  (CCP § 2033.280(a).)  The requesting party can move for an order
that the genuineness of any documents and the truth of any matters specified in
the request be deemed admitted.  (CCP §
2033.280(b).)  The court shall issue this
order unless the party to whom the request was made serves a response in
substantial compliance prior to the hearing on the motion.  It is mandatory that the court impose a
monetary sanction… on the party or attorney, or both, whose failure to serve a
timely response to requests for admission necessitated this motion.  (Id., § 2033.280, subd. (c).); Cal.
Rules of Court R. 3.1348(a) (the court can award sanctions under the Discovery
Act in favor of a party seeking to compel discovery even though no opposition
was filed, the opposition was withdrawn, or the requested discovery was
provided to the moving party after the motion was filed).)
 
Motions Filed –
Motion to Deem Facts Admitted; and Motion to Deem Genuineness of Documents
Admitted
Plaintiff served
Requests for Admission, Set One (“Facts RFAs”) upon Plaintiff on November 14,
2023.  (Declaration of Richard B. Rudolph
in Support of Plaintiff Roie Maor’s Motion to Deem Facts Admitted (“Rudolph Facts
RFAs Decl.”), ¶ 3.)  Defendant did not
serve responses to the Facts RFAs as of the date of Rudolph’s declaration.  (Rudolph Facts RFAs Decl., ¶ 6.)  No opposition was filed to the Motion to Deem
Facts Admitted as of the date of this Order.
 
Plaintiff
also served Requests for Genuineness of Documents, Set One (“Documents RFAs”)
upon Plaintiff on January 10, 2024.  (Declaration
of Richard B. Rudolph in Support of Plaintiff Roie Maor’s Motion to Deem Genuineness
of Documents Admitted (“Rudolph Documents RFAs Decl.”), ¶ 4.)  Defendant did not serve responses to the Documents
RFAs as of the date of Rudolph’s declaration.  (Rudolph Documents RFAs Decl., ¶ 6.)  No opposition was filed to the Motion to Deem
Genuineness of Documents Admitted as of the date of this Order.
 
Plaintiff
now moves for an order to deem the truth of the matters specified in the Facts
RFAs as admitted, and the genuineness of documents in the Documents RFAs as established.  
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s Motion to Deem Facts Admitted and Motion
to Deem Genuineness of Documents are GRANTED. 
The truth of the matters specified in the Facts RFAs is deemed admitted.
 The genuineness of documents in the Documents RFAs is deemed
established.  
 
Since no request for sanctions was made in the
motions, no sanctions are imposed.
 
Plaintiff is ordered to give notice of this ruling.
 


 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
Dated this 28th day of June 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 



