 Case Number:  21STCV19791    Hearing Date:   May 9, 2024    Dept:  1 21STCV19791           SEDIGHEH
HAJIZADEH vs MAGIC MOUNTAIN, LLC
Defendant, Magic Mountain, LLC’s Motion to Coordinate
Superior Court of California, County of Los Angeles Case No. 21STCV19791 and
Superior Court of California, County of Santa Clara Case Nos. 24CV433621 and
21CV376599 and to Transfer Superior Court Of California, County of Santa Clara
Case Nos. 24CV433621 and 21CV376599 to Los Angeles County
TENTATIVE RULING: 
The motion is DENIED.   Counsel
for Plaintiff to give notice.
Request
for Judicial Notice
 
Defendant and Plaintiff request
the Court take judicial notice of various court documents filed in the relevant
cases. These requests are GRANTED. (Evid. Code § 452(d).)
 
Motion to Coordinate Non-Complex Cases
 
Standard 
 
Los
Angeles Superior Court Local Rule 3.3(h) provides: “[a] civil case which is not
complex as defined by Standard 3.10 of the Standards of Judicial Administration
may be transferred to the court from a superior court in another county, if it
involves a common question of fact or law within the meaning of Code of Civil
Procedure section 403. The coordination motion shall be made in compliance with
the procedures established by California Rules of Court, rule 3.500.
Coordination motions seeking to transfer a case or cases to the Central
District shall be filed and heard in Department 1. Coordination motions seeking
to transfer a case or cases to a district other than the Central District shall
be heard by the Supervising Judge in that district.” 
 
Coordination
motions are governed by Code of Civil Procedure section 403, which states, in
relevant part:
 
A judge may, on motion, transfer an
action or actions from another court to that judge's court for coordination
with an action involving a common question of fact or law within the meaning of
Section 404. The motion shall be supported by a declaration stating facts
showing that the actions meet the standards specified in Section 404.1, are not
complex as defined by the Judicial Council and that the moving party has made a
good faith effort to obtain agreement to the transfer from all parties to each
action. Notice of the motion shall be served on all parties to each action and
on each court in which an action is pending. Any party to that action may file
papers opposing the motion within the time permitted by rule of the Judicial
Council. The court to which a case is transferred may order the cases
consolidated for trial pursuant to Section 1048 without any further motion or
hearing.
 
(Code Civ. Proc. § 403.)
 
California
Rules of Court, rule 3.500(c) requires that the motion “must be supported by a
declaration stating facts showing that: 
(1) The actions are not complex; (2) The moving party has made a good-faith effort to obtain agreement to the transfer
and consolidation from all parties to the actions; and (3) The moving party
has notified all parties of their obligation to disclose to the court any
information they may have concerning any other motions requesting transfer of
any case that would be affected by the granting of the motion before the
court.”  
 
To
grant the motion, California Rules of Court, rule 3.500(d) requires the Court
to “specify the reasons supporting a finding that the transfer will promote the
ends of justice, with reference to the following standards:
 
(1) The actions are not complex;
(2) Whether the common question of
fact or law is predominating and significant to the litigation;
(3) The convenience of the parties, witnesses, and counsel;
(4) The relative development of the actions and the work
product of counsel;
(5) The efficient utilization of judicial facilities and
staff resources;
(6) The calendar of the courts;
(7) The disadvantages of duplicative
and inconsistent rulings, orders, or judgments; and
(8) The likelihood of settlement of
the actions without further litigation should coordination be denied.”
 
(See
also Code Civ. Proc. § 404.1.)  
 
Procedural
Requirements
 
California
Rules of Court, rule 3.500(c) requires that the motion “must be supported by a
declaration stating facts showing that: 
(1) The actions are not complex; (2) The moving party has made a
good-faith effort to obtain agreement to the transfer and consolidation from
all parties to the actions; and (3) The moving party has notified all parties
of their obligation to disclose to the court any information they may have
concerning any other motions requesting transfer of any case that would be
affected by the granting of the motion before the court.”  
 
The motion is supported by the
declaration of Defendant’s counsel, Sanaz Cherazaie, which states the
cases are not complex, (Cherazaie Decl. ¶ 18), and Defendant attempted to
obtain an agreement for the transfer, (Id. ¶ 19.) However, Defendant’s counsel
failed to state facts showing “[t]he moving party has notified all parties of
their obligation to disclose to the court any information they may have
concerning any other motions requesting transfer of any case that would be
affected by the granting of the motion before the court” as required.  (Cal. R. Ct., rule 3.500(c)(3).) However,
Plaintiff has opposed the motion and therefore the Court appears to have all
relevant information related to the issue of coordination.
 
In opposition, Plaintiff contends the court cannot transfer
21CV376599 because it has been dismissed. (Opp. at 11:23-12:14.) Plaintiff
contends Code of Civil Procedure section 403 only authorizes the transfer of
“an action” and Code of Civil Procedure section 30 defines a civil action as
“[a] civil action is prosecuted by one party against another for the
declaration, enforcement or protection of a right, or the redress or prevention
of a wrong.” The Court finds this argument unpersuasive. Plaintiff does not
cite any authority supporting the proposition that a case is no longer an
“action” after its dismissal. 
 
The Actions Are Not Complex
 
The
Court finds the actions are not complex within the meaning of California Rules
of Court, rule 3.400. (Cal. R. Ct., rule 3.500(d)(1).) The three cases will not
require “exceptional judicial management to avoid placing unnecessary burdens
on the court or the litigants and to expedite the case, keep costs reasonable,
and promote effective decision making by the court, the parties, and counsel,”
(Cal. R. Ct., rule 3.400(a)), as they are not likely to require numerous
pretrial motions raising difficult or novel legal issues, do not involve a
large number of witnesses, documentary evidence, or separately represented
parties, and are not likely to require substantial postjudgment judicial
supervision. (Cal. R. Ct., rule 3.400(b).) The Los Angeles action is a personal
injury case without any complex features. The complaint in the first Santa
Clara action, 21CV376599, raises the same causes of action as the Los Angeles
action and has been dismissed. The second Santa Clara action, 24CV433621,
merely seeks declaratory relief as a collateral attack on a judgment. 
 
Predominating
and Significant Common Questions of Law or Fact
 
The
parties disagree as to whether the three actions involve predominating and
significant common questions of law or fact. (Cal. R. Ct., rule 3.500(d)(2).)
Defendant contends “[e]ach action involves the exact same parties. Each action
involves the issue of whether Plaintiff’s dismissal of her Complaint, with
prejudice, amounted to res judicata, collateral estoppel, or otherwise barred
Plaintiff from litigating her personal injury case against Magic Mountain, LLC
in a second forum. Each action involves the defenses of res judicata and
collateral estoppel, and hence, involves the determination of the same
defenses, arising out of a same or similar factual background.” (Mot. at
13:14-19.) Defendant also contends the cases “share the issue of Plaintiff’s
dismissal which is the nexus to all the actions.” (Reply at 6:24-25.) Plaintiff
contends the cases do not share common questions of law or fact. (Opp. at
13:25-14:2.) 
 
The
Court finds the Los Angeles Superior Court action does not share predominating
and significant common questions of law or fact as the two Santa Clara actions.
The Los Angeles action is a personal injury action, which seeks to adjudicate
Defendant’s liability for Plaintiff’s injuries. The initial Santa Clara action,
21CV376599, has been reduced to judgment with the only pending issue whether
Plaintiff is entitled to change the voluntary dismissal from one with prejudice
to one without. (Def. RJN Ex. G at 20 (“For the foregoing reasons, the Court
should grant Plaintiff’s motion and vacate the dismissal with prejudice. The
Court may then enter a new order dismissing the case without prejudice.”).)
Thus, Plaintiff has no intention of continuing to litigate the personal injury
action in Santa Clara. In the second Santa Clara action, 24CV433621, Plaintiff
seeks to collaterally attack the dismissal entered in 21CV376599 as void
through an action for declaratory relief. (Def. RJN Ex. F.) Thus, the merits of
Plaintiff’s personal injury claims will not be at issue in either Santa Clara
case. Defendant’s asserted res judicata defenses in the Los Angeles case, based
upon the dismissal in 21CV376599, are not a predominating common issue of fact
or law with the other cases. Rather, it is a potential legal result based upon
the status of the judgment entered in the first action. 
 
Convenience
of Parties, Witnesses, and Counsel
 
Defendant
contends all parties are residents of Los Angeles County and are represented by
Los Angeles County law firms. (Cherazaie Decl. ¶ 17.) Defendant’s counsel also
states Defendant is “unaware of any witnesses that may reside in Santa Clara
County and believes that no potential witnesses reside in Santa Clara County.”
(Ibid.) Here, it is only the convenience of counsel that would be served by the
transfer. The remaining issues in both Santa Clara actions are purely legal,
and are not likely to require significant testimony. 
 
Development
of Actions, Work Product, Use of Judicial Facilities and Staff Resources, and
Apparent Court Calendars
 
The
relative development of the actions and the work product of counsel, (Cal. R.
Ct., rule 3.300(d)(4)), the efficient utilization of judicial facilities and
staff resources, (Cal. R. Ct., rule 3.300(d)(5)), and the apparent court
calendars, (Cal. R. Ct., rule 3.300(d)(6)), also weigh against a transfer and
consolidation. 
 
The
initial Santa Clara case has been reduced to judgment and the Los Angeles
action was filed on May 26, 2021 with trial currently set for June 7, 2024. The
second Santa Clara action, which solely seeks declaratory relief on a limited
legal issue, was filed on March 21, 2024. Transfer of a largely concluded
action, such as 21CV376599, is a waste of staff and judicial resources. Direct
litigation of issues related to the entry of a Santa Clara judgment are more
appropriately determined in Santa Clara. Because Defendant’s pending motion and
defense in the Los Angeles action is based upon the outcome of Plaintiff’s
efforts to alter the judgment of dismissal entered in 21CV376599, a stay or
continuance of the Los Angeles action is favorable to coordination. The merits
of the underlying litigation are only at issue in one of the cases here. 
 
Inconsistent
and Duplicative Rulings 
 
The
Court also considers “[t]he disadvantages of duplicative and inconsistent
rulings, orders, or judgments.” (Cal. R. Ct., rule 3.500(d)(7).) There appears
to be no risk of duplicative or inconsistent rulings on the underlying merits
of the litigation and the any potential risk of such rulings arising from
Defendant’s assertions of the res judicata defenses in the Los Angeles case is
more efficiently resolved by a stay or continuance to allow the Santa Clara
court to address the issues raised regarding its judgment in 21CV376599. 
 
Likelihood
of Settlement
 
California
Rules of Court, rule 3.500(d)(8) requires the Court to consider “[t]he
likelihood of settlement of the actions without further litigation should
coordination be denied.” Defendant does not address the likelihood of
settlement in its motion or reply. The Court finds denial of coordination here
is not likely to affect the likelihood of settlement considering the narrow
remaining issues in the Santa Clara litigation. 
 
The
Court Declines to Coordinate the Actions
 
On
balance, the Court finds the relevant factors demonstrate the ends of justice
will not be promoted by transfer and consolidation of the two Santa Clara
actions in Los Angeles County. 
 
Accordingly,
the Court declines to coordinate Santa Clara cases 21CV376599 and 24CV433621
with Los Angeles Superior Court case 21STCV19791. 
 
 