 Case Number:  23BBCV02030    Hearing Date:   May 9, 2024    Dept:  1 23BBCV02030           MARCH
MELLOUL, et al. vs ARIEL AFAR, et al.
Plaintiff’s Motion to Transfer Venue
TENTATIVE RULING: 
The Motion to Transfer Venue is
GRANTED and 23BBCV02030 is ordered reassigned to the Santa
Monica Courthouse in the West District of the Los Angeles Superior Court.  Notice of case
reassignment shall issue shortly. Moving party to give notice. 
 
Standard 
 
The Local Rules of the Los Angeles Superior Court govern
the assignment of cases between its districts and departments. (Code Civ. Proc.
§ 402.) LASC Local Rule 2.3(b)(2) authorizes Department 1 to transfer civil
cases from one judicial district to another via a noticed motion on three
enumerated grounds: (1) when the case was filed in an improper district; (2)
for the convenience of witnesses; or (3) to promote the
ends of justice. (LASC Local Rule 2.3(b)(2).) 
 
The
Case Was Filed in an Improper District and the Parties Stipulated to a Transfer
to a Proper District
 
Plaintiff seeks to transfer this action to the Santa Monica
Courthouse in the West District. The case is currently assigned to Department V of the Alhambra Courthouse, which
sits in the Northeast District of the Los Angeles Superior Court. (LASC Local
Rules, rule 2.2(b).)
 
In section 1 of the civil case cover sheet, Plaintiff’s
counsel checked the box describing the case type as “breach of
contract/warranty (06).” Pursuant to
Local Rule 2.3(a)(1)(A), “[t]he filing court locator on the Los Angeles
Superior Court website (www.lacourt.org) should be used to determine the
appropriate filing location.” A contract action may be filed in one of three
locations, the Central District, where performance is required by an express
provision, or where defendant resides. (LASC Local Rules, rule 2.3(a)(1)(B).) 
 
In “Step 4” of the civil case
cover sheet addendum where the filing party is asked to “[c]heck
the appropriate boxes for the numbers shown under Column C for the type of
action that you have selected. Enter the address, which is the basis for the
filing location including zip code,” Plaintiff
selected Reason 5 and listed the relevant address as “6501 Lankershim
Blvd., Burbank, CA 91606.” Reason 5 corresponds to the “[l]ocation where
performance is required, or defendant resides” In Step 5 of the civil case cover
sheet addendum, Plaintiff’s counsel certified that the case was properly
assigned to the North Central District.
 
The action was originally filed in the Burbank Courthouse
in the North Central District, but was reassigned by the court to the Alhambra
Courthouse in the Northeast District on February 5, 2024.
 
Plaintiff contends they discovered Defendants reside and
are domiciled in Santa Monica, rendering the Santa Monica Courthouse in the
West District the correct filing location. (Gerber Decl. ¶ 4.) Based upon
Defendants’ asserted Santa Monica residence, the Santa Monica Courthouse,
Beverly Hills Courthouse, or Stanley Mosk Courthouse, were the permissible
filing locations for this action. (LASC Local Rules, rule 2.3(a)(1)(B).) Additionally, the parties “agree that
this action should have been filed in Santa Monica . . . since the Defendants
reside in that venue.” (Gerber
Decl. Ex. A.) 
 
The Court finds the case was filed in an improper district
and the motion is GRANTED. 
 
 
 
 