  Case Number:  22STCV22330    Hearing Date:   August 7, 2024    Dept:  39  TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


39




HEARING DATE


August 7, 2024




CASE NUMBER


22STCV22330




MOTIONS


Motions to Compel Further Discovery Responses




MOVING PARTY


Plaintiffs Vernon
  Goodwin and Edward Galvan




OPPOSING PARTY


Defendant the Regents of the University of California



 
MOTION
Plaintiffs Vernon
Goodwin and Edward Galvan (“Plaintiffs”) move to compel further responses from Defendant
Regents of the University of California (“Defendant”) concerning  Form Interrogatories—Employment Law, set one
(“FROG”), Special Interrogatories, set one (“SROG”), and Requests for
Production, set one (“RPD”).  Defendant opposes
the motions. 
ANALYSIS
If the propounding
party deems responses to interrogatories or requests for production of
documents unsatisfactory, the propounding party may move to compel further
responses.  (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.300, 2031.310.)  
After Plaintiffs
filed these motions, Defendant supplemented its responses to SROG Nos.
15-17.  The motion to compel further
responses to the SROG is, therefore, moot as to those interrogatories.  Likewise, Defendant claims it supplemented
its responses to all of the RPD at issue. 
(See Declaration of Sarah R. Lustig filed July 25, 2024, ¶¶ 15, 16.)  However, Plaintiffs point out Defendant has
apparently not supplemented its response to RPD No. 16.  (Declaration of Molly Durkin in Support of Plaintiff
Goodwin’s Reply Motion to Compel Further Responses to Requests for Production
filed July 31, 2024, ¶ 5.)  As Defendant
represents that it intended to supplement all responses to the RPD at issue,
the court grants the motion to compel a further response to RPD No. 16, as
stipulated.  The motion to compel further
responses to the RPD is otherwise moot.  
In FROG Nos. 207.2
and 215.1, Plaintiffs ask Defendant to identify and provide contact information
for individuals who complained to Defendant about issues related to this
complaint, and anyone with knowledge of those specific complaints.  Defendant identified individuals but did not
provide their contact information.  FROG
Nos. 207.2 and 215.1 are Official Form Interrogatories.  Their relevance is obvious: Plaintiffs seek
information that would identify potential witnesses to Defendant’s alleged employment
practices.  “[C]urrent and former
employees unquestionably have a legitimate expectation of privacy in their
addresses and telephone numbers.”  (Puerto v. Superior Court (2008)
158 Cal.App.4th 1242, 1252.)  Nonetheless, “a percipient witness's
willingness to participate in civil discovery has never been considered
relevant—witnesses may be compelled to appear and testify whether they want to
or not.”  (Id., at pp. 1251-1252.)  Plaintiffs are entitled to contact information
concerning potential percipient witnesses. 
Defendant must respond.  However,
Plaintiffs have withdrawn their requests for contact information for Norm
Lantz, Richard Azar, Olga Lavinthal, Britt Harmssen, Jane Miller, Susi
Takeuchi, Chandra Bhatnagar, Adriana Ovalle-Stevenson, and Sigalet
Kreitzman.  The motion is, therefore,
moot as to those individuals.
In response to the
SROG, Defendant provided a substantive response after objecting to the SROG, “leaving
nothing to address in a motion to compel.” (American Federation of State,
County & Municipal Employees v. Metropolitan Water Dist. (2005) 126
Cal.App.4th 247, 269.)  Because Defendant
responded to the SROG, the court cannot compel a further response on the basis
that Defendant also asserted objections.
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
Plaintiffs’ motion
to compel further responses to the FROG is granted.  Plaintiffs’ motion to compel further responses
to the SROG is denied to the extent it is not moot.  Plaintiffs’ motion to compel further
responses to RPD No. 16 is granted, as stipulated.  The motion to compel further responses to the
RPD is otherwise moot. 
Plaintiffs are
ordered to give notice of this order and to file proof of service of same.
 