 Case Number:  24STCV00386    Hearing Date:   August 7, 2024    Dept:  39  
 TENTATIVE RULING
 



DEPARTMENT


39




HEARING DATE


August 7, 2024




CASE NUMBER


24STCV00386




MOTION 


Motion to Compel Arbitration




MOVING PARTY


Defendant Sport
  Trinity, LLC




OPPOSING PARTIES


Plaintiffs Big3 Basketball, LLC, Jeffrey Kwatinetz, O’Shea
  Jackson, Sr., and BEK LLC



 
MOTION
            Plaintiffs
Big3 Basketball, LLC, Jeffrey Kwatinetz, O’Shea Jackson, Sr., and BEK LLC
(“Plaintiffs”) are engaged in arbitration with Defendant Sport Trinity, LLC
(“Defendant”) before JAMS.  In the
arbitration proceeding, Defendant petitioned for entry of an arbitration award
against Plaintiffs.  In response,
Plaintiffs filed this action.  Now,
Defendant moves to compel arbitration of Plaintiffs’ claims.  Plaintiffs oppose the motion.  After Defendants filed this motion, the
arbitrator in the pending JAMS arbitration between the parties found he is a
duly appointed arbitrator, with authority to rule regarding this dispute.  However, the arbitrator indicated he will
defer to this Court’s ruling on the arbitrability of Plaintiffs’ claims in this
action.  (Declaration of Alicia Veglia, Exhibit
D.)  
ANALYSIS
The moving party
on a petition to compel arbitration “bears the burden of proving the existence
of a valid arbitration agreement by a preponderance of the evidence, while a
party opposing the petition bears the burden of proving by a preponderance of
the evidence any fact necessary to its defense.  The trial court sits as
the trier of fact, weighing all the affidavits, declarations, and other
documentary evidence, and any oral testimony the court may receive at its
discretion, to reach a final determination.” 
(Ruiz v. Moss Bros. Auto Group, Inc. (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 836,
842, internal quotations and citations omitted.)  
On July 4, 2024,
the parties entered a Binding Memorandum of Understanding, which the parties
refer to as the MOU.  The MOU provides, “If
any dispute arises out of the MOU or the Settlement Agreement incorporating the
terms of this MOU, the Parties agree that any such dispute will be resolved,
first by way of confidential mediation before Hon. Margaret Nagle, and, if
unsuccessful, then by way of final, binding, confidential, nonappealable
Arbitration before Hon. Gail Andler.  Should
any action or proceeding become necessary to enforce this MOU, or the resulting
Settlement Agreement, the prevailing party in any such action or proceeding
shall be entitled to recover, in addition to any other remedies or recoveries
allowed hereunder, actual attorney fees and costs incurred, and the same shall
be deemed reasonable.”  (Declaration of
John Samuel Gibson in Support of Motion to Compel Arbitration, Exhibit 5.)   
Defendants contend
the Federal Arbitration Act governs.  The
party which so contends5bears the burden to demonstrate the arbitration
agreement is in a “‘contract evidencing a transaction involving commerce’ . . .
.”  (Woolls v. Superior Court
(2005) 127 Cal.App.4th 197, 211; 9 U.S.C. § 2.) 
Defendants advance no evidence or argument as to why the MOU involved
interstate commerce.  Further, the MOU
states California law governs.  A choice
of law provision in an arbitration agreement is enforceable.  (See Coopers
& Lybrand v. Superior Court (1989) 212 Cal.App.3d 524, 538.)  Accordingly,
California law applies.  
In the operative
first amended complaint, Plaintiffs seek to rescind the MOU based on fraud and
because Plaintiffs contend the MOU violates public policy.  (See, e.g., First Amended Complaint, ¶
38.)  Plaintiffs also assert claims for
fraud in the inducement to enter the MOU and intentional and negligent
interference with prospective economic relations and a claim under the Unfair
Competition Law.  Pursuant to the
language of the arbitration clause, “the parties intended to arbitrate only a
limited range of claims, i.e., those arising out of the agreement . . . .”  (Rice v. Downs (2016) 248 Cal.App.4th
175, 188.)  “[A] tort claim based upon
violation of an independent duty or right originating outside of the agreement
does not arise from the agreement and falls outside the scope of the
arbitration provision.”  (Id., at
pp. 190-191.)  Plaintiffs’ claim for
rescission undoubtedly arises out of the MOU. 
As such, it is subject to arbitration. 
Plaintiffs’ other claims do not. 
Accordingly, the court grants the motion to compel Plaintiffs to
arbitrate the rescission claim.  The court
otherwise stays this action pending arbitration.  
Defendant points
out Plaintiffs and Defendant are parties to two earlier agreements, which also
contain arbitration clauses.  However,
the issue before this court is whether Plaintiffs’ claims in this action, which
arose in connection with the parties’ execution of the MOU, are
arbitrable.  It is clear from the MOU the
parties intended the arbitration agreement in the MOU to apply to such
disputes.  (See Civ. Code, § 1636.)  As such, the arbitration clause in the MOU is
applicable to the instant motion.
Plaintiffs argue
the court should not stay this action pending arbitration, citing Code of Civil
Procedure section 1281.4 in support of their contention.  That provision relates the court has
discretion to sever tort claims from arbitrable claims and allow the action to proceed
to trial on the tort claims.  (See Code
Civ. Proc., § 1281.4 [“If the issue which is the controversy subject to arbitration
is severable, the stay may be with respect to that issue only”].)  The court declines to exercise such
discretion here.  Plaintiffs’ tort claims
are factually intertwined with Plaintiffs’ claims for the rescission of the
MOU.  Accordingly, separately litigating
the tort claims while the rescission claim proceeds in arbitration presents the
risk of conflicting rulings and inefficiencies. 

Defendant is ordered to provide notice of
this order and to file proof of service of same.
 