 Case Number:  23STCV30160    Hearing Date:   September 4, 2024    Dept:  31  
Tentative
Ruling
 
Judge
Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     September 4, 2024                             TRIAL DATE:  Not set
                                                           
CASE:                         Vilma Carpano, et al. v. Rafael Navarro,
et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 23STCV30160
 





















 
DEMURRER WITHOUT MOTION TO STRIKE



 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendants
Rafael Navarro and Florina Navarro
 
RESPONDING
PARTY:     Plaintiffs Vilma Carpano, et al.
 
 
I.          FACTUAL AND PROCEDURAL BACKGROUND
 
This is a landlord-tenant habitability
case involving the property located at 598 East 11th Street, Pomona,
California 91766 (“Subject Property”).  Vilma Carpano (“Ms. Carpano”), Emilia Aguiluz,
a minor by and through her guardian ad litem, Vilma Carpano, and Fernanda
Aguiluz, a minor by and through her guardian ad litem, Vilma Carpano (collectively,
“Plaintiffs”) were tenants of the Subject Property subject to a lease
agreement.  Since April 2016, Rafael
Navarro (“Mr. Navarro”) and Florina Navarro (“Ms. Navarro”) (collectively,
“Defendants”) have owned and managed the Subject Property.  
 
Prior Litigation
 
Mr. Navarro filed an
unlawful detainer action against Ms. Carpano in Case Number 22WCUD0224.  Mr. Navarro alleged that Ms. Carpano breached
covenants in the lease agreement by maintaining unauthorized pets on the
premises, allowing two unauthorized persons to occupy the unit, making
unauthorized alterations to the unit, and failing to maintain the front and
back of the unit free of clutter and creating a fire hazard.  Mr. Navarro sought restitution possession of
the unit.  As relevant here, Ms. Carpano
asserted an affirmative defense based on a breach of the implied warranty of
habitability.
 
On January 4, 2023, the
unlawful detainer action proceeded to trial before Commissioner Lynette
Gridiron Winston.  After hearing
testimony and receiving evidence, Commissioner Winston rendered judgment in Mr.
Navarro’s favor.  Restitution and
possession of the Subject Property was granted and the lease agreement between
Mr. Navarro and Ms. Carpano was cancelled.
 
This Action
 
On December 11, 2023, Plaintiffs
filed a Complaint against Defendants alleging causes of action for (1) Breach
of the Implied Warranty of Habitability, (2) Breach of Statutory Warranty of Habitability,
(3) Breach of the Covenant of Quiet Enjoyment, (4) Negligence, (5) Violation of
California Civil Code Section § 1942.4, (6) Private Nuisance, and (7) Violation
of Unfair Business Practices.  
 
Plaintiffs allege that
Defendants failed to correct substandard conditions on the Subject Property,
including but not limited to: garbage disposal deficiencies; electrical
deficiencies; plumbing deficiencies; lack of hot water; water leaks; water
damaged ceilings, floors and walls containing mold and mildew; rodent
infestations; insect infestations; pest infestations; security and safety
deficiencies; storage deficiencies; refuse disposal deficiencies; and loss of
use of the premises for various periods of times throughout their ownership.
 
Defendants now demur to all
causes of action in the Complaint.  
 
Plaintiffs filed an opposition.  Defendants replied.
 
II.        LEGAL
STANDARD
 
A demurrer for sufficiency
tests whether the complaint states a cause of action.¿ (Hahn v. Mirda
(2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)¿ When considering demurrers, courts read the
allegations liberally and in context, accepting the alleged facts as true.¿ (Nolte
v. Cedars-Sinai Medical Center (2015) 236 Cal.App.4th 1401, 1406.)¿
“Because a demurrer challenges defects on the face of the complaint, it can
only refer to matters outside the pleading that are subject to judicial
notice.”¿ (Arce ex rel. Arce v. Kaiser Found. Health Plan, Inc. (2010)
181 Cal.App.4th 471, 556.) 
 
III.       DISCUSSION
 
A.   
Judicial Notice 
 
Defendants request judicial
notice of the following factual propositions:
 
·        
For more than four (4) years before the filing of
this action, Ms. Navarro has had no ownership interest in the Property – and
Ms. Navarro is misjoined as a party to this action.  In support, Defendants rely on a Quitclaim
Deed, executed on January 8, 2020, by which Ms. Navarro conveyed all of her
interest in the real property commonly known as 598 E. 11th Street, Unit B,
Pomona, CA 91766 (“Property”) to Mr. Navarro, which was duly recorded in the
Official Records, County of Los Angeles, as Document Number: 20200118096. (Request
for Judicial Notice (RJN) 1.)


·        
Ms. Navarro is not a party to the lease agreement
and is misjoined as a party.  Further,
minor Plaintiffs are not parties to the lease agreement.  In support, Defendants rely on the Residential
Lease or Month-to-Month Rental Agreement, dated February 7, 2020 (“Lease”), by
and between Mr. Navarro, as “Landlord,” and Vilma Carpano and Jose Armando
Arebalo, as “Tenant”.  (RJN 2.)


·        
Ms. Navarro is not a party to a separate unlawful
detainer action and Ms. Navarro is misjoined as a party.   Further, Mr. Navarro and Plaintiff Vilma
Carpano (which would include all other Plaintiffs in this action), were parties
to prior lawsuit involving the property. 
In support, Defendants rely on the Unlawful Detainer Complaint, filed on
October 17, 2022, by Mr. Navarro in the Superior Court of California, County of
Los Angeles, Case Number: 22WCUD0254. 
(RJN 3.)


·        
Ms. Navarro is not a party to the Unlawful Detainer
action and is misjoined as a party to this action.  Further, Mr. Navarro and Plaintiff Vilma
Carpano (which would include all other Plaintiffs in this action), were parties
to prior lawsuit involving the Subject Property and the Answer was filed
raising the same habitability defense which are the subject of this Complaint.  In support, Defendants rely on the Answer to
Unlawful Detainer Complaint, filed on November 8, 2022, by Vilma Carpano in the
Superior Court of California, County of Los Angeles, Case Number: 22WCUD0254.  (RJN 4.)
 
·        
Ms. Navarro is not a party to the Unlawful Detainer
action and is misjoined as a party to this action.  Further, Mr. Navarro and Plaintiff Vilma
Carpano (which would include all other Plaintiffs in this action), were parties
to prior lawsuit involving the Subject Property and the Answer was filed
raising the same habitability defense which are the subject of this Complaint
and are barred under the doctrine of res judicata.  In support, Defendants rely on the Unlawful
Detainer Judgment, filed on January 4, 2023, in matter of Navarro v. Carpano,
Case Number: 22WCUD0254.  (RJN 5.)
 
Although
Defendants rely on documents of which the court may take judicial notice,
Defendants improperly seek judicial notice of factual propositions which
are in dispute.  Accordingly, to the
extent Defendants seek judicial notice of the foregoing documents, the request
is GRANTED.  (Evid. Code, § 352, subd.
(d)(1).)  Defendants request for judicial
of the foregoing factual propositions is DENIED.  
 
B.    
Analysis
 
Defendants advance three arguments in support of their
demurrer: (1) res judicata bars Plaintiffs’ claims; (2) minor plaintiffs lack
the capacity to sue; and (3) Ms. Navarro is misjoined as a party.   The court
addresses each argument in turn.
 
1.      Res Judicata Does Not Bar This Action
 
Defendant argues this action is barred by the judgment
rendered in the prior unlawful detainer action because Ms. Cardona asserted an
affirmative defense based on breach of the implied warranty of
habitability.  
 
“Res judicata describes the preclusive effect of a final
judgment on the merits. Res judicata, or claim preclusion, prevents
relitigation of the same cause of action in a second suit between the same
parties or parties in privity with them.¿ A predictable doctrine of res
judicata benefits both the parties and the courts because it seeks to curtail
multiple litigation causing vexation and expense to the parties and wasted
effort and expense in judicial administration.” (Consumer Advocacy Group,
Inc. v. ExxonMobil Corp.¿(2008) 168 Cal.App.4th 675, 683 (cleaned up).)
¿¿ 
“A prior judgment is not¿res¿judicata¿on a subsequent
action unless three¿elements¿are satisfied:¿‘(1) the issues decided in the
prior adjudication are identical with those presented in the later action; (2)
there was a final judgment on the merits in the prior action; and (3) the party
against whom the plea is raised was a party or¿in privity with a party to the
prior adjudication. [Citation.]”¿ (Id. at pp. 685-86.)¿ ¿In an unlawful
detainer action, “‘full and fair litigation’ of an affirmative defense even one
not ordinarily cognizable in unlawful detainer, if it is raised without
objection, and if a fair opportunity to litigate is provided will result in a
judgment conclusive upon issues material to that defense.”  (Vella v. Hudgins (1977) 20 Cal.3d
251, 256-257.)
 
Here, the judgment entered in the unlawful detainer
action does not preclude Plaintiffs’ claims. 
First and foremost, that judgment does not indicate at all whether there
was any litigation of Ms. Cardona’s breach of implied warranty defense.  (See Request for Judicial Notice (RJN)
5.)  Second, the court notes that the
breach of implied warranty of habitability, although asserted as an affirmative
defense, would not have been litigated because it was irrelevant to Mr.
Navarro’s basis for the unlawful detainer action.  The breach of the implied warranty of
habitability may be asserted as an affirmative defense for nonpayment of
rent.  (See Green v. Superior
Court (1974) 10 Cal.3d 616, 620 [“As we shall explain, a landlord's breach
of a warranty of habitability directly relates to whether any rent is ‘due and
owing’ by the tenant; hence, such breach may be determinative of whether the
landlord or tenant is entitled to possession of the premises upon nonpayment of
rent. Accordingly, the tenant may properly raise the issue of warranty of
habitability in an unlawful detainer action.”].)  Mr. Navarro did not bring a claim for
nonpayment of rent.  Rather, Mr. Navarro
sought restitution and possession of the Subject Property because of Ms.
Cardona’s then-alleged breaches of the lease agreement prohibiting pets,
occupation of the unit by unauthorized persons, making unauthorized alterations
to the unit, and failing to maintain the front and back of the unit free of
clutter.  (See RJN 3.)  The doctrine of res judicata does not apply.[1]
 
2.      Minor Plaintiffs Have Standing
 
Defendants next argue that minor plaintiffs Emilia
Aguiluz and Fernanda Aguiluz lack standing to sue because (1) as minors, they
cannot incur an obligation to pay rent, and (2) they are not parties to the
lease agreement.  
 
These arguments lack merit.  Defendants’ arguments are based upon Danger
Panda, LLC v. Launiu (2017) 10 Cal.App.5th 502 (Danger Panda), which
is inapposite.  In Danger Panda,
residential landlords brought an unlawful detainer action against apartment
residents after the residents refused to vacate a unit in a building the
landlord withdrew from residential use pursuant to the Ellis Act.  The residents filed a motion to quash based
on the landlord’s failure to tender a relocation payment to David, a minor
tenant of the unit.  The superior court
granted the motion to quash.  The Court
of Appeal reversed, holding that David was not a tenant within the meaning of
the San Francisco Rent Stabilization Act because, as a minor, he lacked
capacity to enter into a rental contract or to incur independent obligation to
pay rent. David was not entitled to relocation benefits.  
 
Unlike Danger Panda, minor plaintiffs are not asserting
the failure to provide relocation benefits as a defense to an unlawful detainer
action.  Rather, they are affirmatively seeking
tort damages.  In fact, Danger Panda
contains language that cuts directly against Defendants’ position.  The Court stated: 
 
However,
David is a minor without capacity to enter into a rental contract or to incur
an independent obligation to pay rent. (Fam. Code § 6701 [“A minor cannot
do any of the following: ... (b) Make a contract relating to real property or
any interest therein.”].) Thus, he could not have acquired a legally cognizable
right to occupy Unit 308A to the exclusion of others pursuant to any of the
methods set forth in section 37.2(t). This does not mean that David is
not a lawful occupant, but only that his right to occupy is derivative of the
rights of his parents. (See, e.g., Birke v. Oakwood Worldwide (2009)
169 Cal.App.4th 1540, 1551, 87 Cal.Rptr.3d 602 [minor child of tenant has
the “right to enjoyment of the premises as a member of the tenant[’s]
family”].)”
 
(Danger Panda, at p.
514, emphasis added.)  Indeed, there is
no authority for the proposition that a minor plaintiff cannot bring the causes
of action asserted here because they lack the capacity to enter into a lease
agreement, or further, because they are not parties to the lease agreement. Minor
plaintiffs’ rights are derivative of their parent, Plaintiff Vilma Carpano.
 
3.      Ms. Navarro is Properly
Joined as a Defendant in This Action
 
Defendants next argue
without citation to authority that Ms. Navarro is misjoined as a party to this
action.  In support, Defendants rely on
requests for judicial notice which purportedly establish that Ms. Carpano
signed a lease agreement for the Subject Property in March 2020 and Ms. Navarro
was not a signatory to that contract; that Ms. Navarro quit claim her interest
in the property in January 2020; and that Ms. Navarro was not a party to the
unlawful detainer action.  (See RJN 1, 2,
3.)  
 
Defendants’ argument fails.  The court has denied Defendants’ request for
judicial notice regarding several of these very factual propositions.  The truth of several of the matters are
extrinsic to the Complaint and are at odds with the allegations.  The Complaint does not indicate when
Plaintiffs became tenants at the Subject Property.  Nevertheless, the allegations of the Complaint
may be liberally constructed to establish Plaintiffs’ tenancy began prior to
January 2020.  (See Complaint, ¶ 31(a) [“Citation
Warning Noticed issued by the City of Pomona Community Development Department dated
December 04, 2019 bearing Case number CE-013520-2019(A) and served on the
defendant owner;” (emphasis added).].) 
Plaintiffs also allege that Mr. Navarro and Ms. Navarro
owned and managed the Subject Property since April 20, 2016.  (Complaint, ¶ 1.)  Thus, Ms. Navarro’s ownership of the Subject
Property overlaps with Plaintiffs’ tenancy.
 
IV.       CONCLUSION
            
Based on the foregoing, the
demurrer is OVERRULED.
 
Defendants are ordered to
serve and file their Answer to the Complaint within 10 days of the date of this
order.
 
Plaintiffs to give notice.  
 
 
Dated:   September 4, 2024                                      




 


   




 


  Kerry
  Bensinger  
  Judge of the
  Superior Court 




 
            


