  Case Number:  22STCV33850    Hearing Date:   September 4, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     September
4, 2024                 TRIAL DATE:  January
21, 2025
                                                           
CASE:                                Tamar Kaloustian, in the public interest v. Kehe
Distributors, LLC, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 22STCV33850
 





















 
MOTION
FOR ENTRY OF STIPULATED CONSENT JUDGMENT



 
MOVING PARTY:                   Plaintiff
Tamar Kaloustian
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     No opposition
 
 
I.          BACKGROUND
 
            This is a Proposition 65 action. On October 18, 2022,
Plaintiff Tamar Kaloustian commenced this action in the public interest against
Defendants Kehe Distributors, Inc. and Whole Foods Market.  The operative pleading is the First Amended
Complaint (FAC).  On June 3, 2024,
Plaintiff filed an amendment to the FAC naming Keto Buns, Ltd. as Doe 1.  Plaintiff alleges that Defendants failed to
warn individuals in California that Defendants’ product, Unbagels – Unbun –
Everything, UPC #: 6 28250 17907 1 (the “Product”) was exposing contained the
chemical, cadmium.
 
            Plaintiff now
moves for entry of a stipulated consent judgment between Plaintiff and
Defendant Keto Buns, Ltd.
 
            The motion
is unopposed.
 
II.           LEGAL STANDARD 
 
            Under
Code of Civil Procedure, section 664.6:¿ 
 
(a)¿If parties to pending
litigation stipulate, in a writing signed by the parties outside¿of¿the
presence of the court or orally before the court, for settlement of the case,
or part thereof, the court, upon motion, may enter judgment pursuant to the terms
of the settlement. If requested by the parties, the court may retain
jurisdiction over the parties to enforce the settlement until performance in
full of the terms of the settlement.¿ 
¿ 
(b) For purposes of this section,
a writing is signed by a party if it is signed by any of the following:¿ 
¿ 
(1) The party.¿ 
(2) An attorney who represents the
party.¿ 
(3) If the party is an insurer, an agent who is authorized in writing by
the insurer to sign on the insurer's behalf.”
 
III.      DISCUSSION
 
Plaintiff moves the court to enter judgment pursuant to the
signed stipulation for judgment (the “Stipulation”). The Stipulation is
attached as Exhibit C to the motion. The stipulation is between Plaintiff Tamar
Kaloustian, acting on behalf of the public interest, and Defendant Keto Buns,
Ltd. (hereafter, “Keto”).  Under the terms of the Stipulation, Keto
shall be permanently enjoined from manufacturing for sale or directly selling the
Product in the State of California that expose a person to more than 4.1
micrograms per day, unless it meets certain warning requirements delineated in
the Stipulation.  (Stipulation, ¶ 3.1.)  Keto also agrees to pay a total settlement
amount of $90,000. (Stipulation, § 4.)  
 
The court finds the Stipulation to be valid and enforceable
under Code of Civil Procedure section 664.6. The parties have signed the
writing to settle the matter between Plaintiff and Defendant Keto. Additionally,
the Stipulation provides that the court shall retain jurisdiction of this
matter to implement or modify the Consent Judgment.  (Stipulation, § 14.)  
 
IV.       CONCLUSION 
 
The unopposed Motion for Entry of Proposed Consent Judgment is
GRANTED.  The court will sign the
proposed judgment and consent judgment.
 
Moving party to give notice. 

 
 
Dated:   September 4,
2024                                            




 


  


 




 


  Kerry Bensinger 
  Judge of the
  Superior Court


 




 