 Case Number:  23BBCV00124    Hearing Date:   January 5, 2024    Dept:  NCA LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
JANUARY 5,
2023

MOTION FOR
LEAVE TO AMEND COMPLAINT

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23BBCV00124

 



MP:  


Melise Vartanians (Plaintiff)




RP:  


None



 
NOTICE:
 
The Court is not requesting oral argument on this
matter.  Pursuant to California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) notice
of intent to appear is required.  Unless the Court directs argument in the
Tentative Ruling, no argument will be permitted unless a “party notifies all
other parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of
the party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will
become the ruling of the court if no notice of intent to appear is received.”  

 
Notice may be given either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org
or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Melise Vartanians
(Plaintiff) brings this action against Rafik
Bazikian, 428 E. Santa Anita HOA, Artur Nersisyan, Nora Ivanyan (collectively
“Defendants”). Plaintiff alleges that she was attacked by a dog owned by Artur
Nersisyan and Nora Ivanyan, which resided at property owned by Rafik Bazikian. Plaintiff
also alleges the Santa Anita HOA negligently maintained the premises such that
a dog with dangerous propensities was allowed to reside there. Plaintiff’s
Complaint contains causes of action for (1) General Negligence, (2) Premises
Liability, and (3) Strict Liability. 
 
Plaintiff
now moves for leave to amend her Complaint to add an additional cause of action
for Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress. Plaintiff also seeks to add
further facts as to the Negligence cause of action. Plaintiff seeks permission
of the Court to amend as Artur Nersisyan has filed a responsive pleading.
Defendants have rendered no opposition to this motion. 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
A party
requesting leave to amend must submit a motion that includes: (1) a copy of the
proposed amendment or amended pleading, serially numbered to differentiate it
from previous pleadings; (2) a statement of which allegations would be deleted
by the amendment, and where they are located in the previous pleading; and (3)
a statement of what allegations would be added by the amendment, and where they
are located in the proposed pleading.¿ (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1324(a).)
The motion should also include a declaration stating: (1) the effect of the
amendment; (2) why the amendment is necessary and proper; (3) when the facts
giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered; and (4) why the request
was not made earlier.¿ (Id. at Rule 3.1324(b).)
 
A party
may amend its pleading once without leave of court at any time before an
answer, demurrer, or motion to strike is filed. C.C.P. § 472(a). After the
period for amending a pleading without leave of court has passed, the pleading
may be amended under C.C.P. § 473(a) and § 576.
 
The trial
court should permit a plaintiff to amend a pleading when doing so is in
furtherance of justice and in keeping with the fundamental policy that cases
should be decided on their merits.¿ Honig v. Financial Corp. of America
(1992) 6 Cal.App.4th 960, 956-966. While the trial court may deny a motion for
leave to amend on grounds that, e.g., the party seeking the amendment
has caused unreasonable delay in doing so, it probably abuses its discretion if
it denies any such motion in the absence of a finding of prejudice to the
opposing side.¿ (See Thompson Pacific Construction, Inc. v. City of
Sunnyvale (2007) 155 Cal.App.4th 525, 545.)
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
Plaintiff attaches a
proposed First Amended Complaint. (Sepanosian Decl. Exh. B.) Plaintiffs also
state the allegations that are proposed to be deleted and the allegations that
are to be added. (Mot. p. 7-15.) Plaintiff also attaches a copy of the original
complaint. (Sepanosian Decl. Exh. A.)
 
Plaintiff states that the discovery
process has illuminated the potential for an Intentional Infliction of
Emotional Distress claim; however, Sepanosian’s declaration does not set forth
what discovery reveled this. (Sepanosian Decl. ¶ 9.) Plaintiff also states that
discovery process has illuminated further facts to be added to the Negligence
cause of action. (Sepanosian Decl. ¶ 6.) 
 
The requirements of
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1324(a) and (b) are satisfied. Additionally,
as the underlying facts are related to the original complaint, allowing
plaintiffs to file the amended complaint will increase the likelihood of the
case being resolved efficiently on the merits.
 
Requests to amend
Complaints are to be liberally considered and Defendants have rendered no
opposition to Plaintiff’s motion. 
Additionally, the trial in this case has not yet been set, so there
would be no prejudice to Defendant if Plaintiff is allowed to amend her
Complaint at this time. 
 
However,
the Court notes that Plaintiff has not attached any proof of service of this
motion upon Defendants. “Unless otherwise ordered or specifically provided by
law, all moving and supporting papers must be served and filed in accordance
with Code of Civil Procedure section 1005 and, when applicable, the statutes
and rules providing for electronic filing and service.” (Cal. Rules of Court
Rule 3.1300.) As such, it appears to the Court that Defendants never received
notice of this motion such that they could render any opposition.  
 
Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s motion for leave to amend her Complaint is DENIED without
prejudice.  
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Melise Vartanians’s
Motion for Leave to Amend came on regularly for
hearing on January 5, 2024 with appearances/submissions as noted in the minute
order for said hearing, and the court, being fully advised in the premises, did
then and there rule as follows: 
 
THE MOTION FOR LEAVE TO AMEND IS DENIED WITHOUT
PREJUDICE.
 
UNLESS ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, PLAINTIFF TO
PROVIDE NOTICE.  
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
January 5, 2024                                 _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 