 Case Number:  23BBCV02494    Hearing Date:   January 5, 2024    Dept:  NCA LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
JANUARY 5,
2024

MOTION FOR
TRIAL PREFERENCE

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23BBCV02494

 



MP:  


Josalyn Pitcher (Plaintiff) 




RP:  


Family Care CLHF, Inc. (Defendant)



 
NOTICE:
 
The Court is requesting argument on the issue of
whether Plaintiff’s poor memory and inability to communicate when balanced
against the Defendant’s due process rights would justify denying the
request.  Furthermore, the Court requests
additional information concerning the Plaintiff’s ability to testify and her
ability to assist counsel with the case.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Josalyn Pitcher
(“Plaintiff”) brings this action against Family Care CLHF, Inc. (“Family
Care”), Gergen Dumanyan, Tsoghik Karapetyan, and Does 1 through 250
(collectively “Defendants”). Plaintiff alleges that she received subpar medical
care while a resident at a hospital operated by Family Care. Plaintiff’s Complaint
states a cause of action for (1) Dependent Adult Abuse and (2) Negligence. 
 
Plaintiff now moves
for trial preference pursuant to C.C.P. § 36. As Plaintiff is not above the age
of 70, her motion is governed by the discretionary provision of C.C.P. § 36(e).
Family Care opposes the motion, arguing that Plaintiff has not shown clear and
convincing medical evidence of her illness and that they would be unfairly
prejudiced if the trial were expedited. 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
C.C.P. §
36(d) provides that “In its discretion, the court may also grant a motion for
preference that is accompanied by clear and convincing medical documentation
that concludes that one of the parties suffers from an illness or condition
raising substantial medical doubt of survival of that party beyond six months,
and that satisfies the court that the interests of justice will be served by
granting the preference” The “clear and convincing proof” showing is required
for motions seeking preference based purely on illness, though it is not
required for motions where the moving party is above 70 years of age. (See Fox
v. Superior Court (2018) 21 Cal.App.5th 529, 534.) 
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
Plaintiff
presents the declaration of Shahab Attarchi, M.D. (“Attarchi”) in support of
her motion. Attarchi is a licensed physician practicing for over 20 years, and
states to a reasonable degree of medical certainty Plaintiff’s health has
deteriorated such that there is substantial doubt she survives more than six
months. (Attarchi Decl. ¶¶ 2-6.) Dr. Attarchi’s opinion is based on a
November 5, 2023 medical examination he conducted as well as reviewing Plaintiff’s
medical history. (Attarchi Decl. ¶ 6.) Attarchi attests that Plaintiff is
a 29-year-old woman with an unfortunate medical history including the following
conditions: 
 
cardiac arrest secondary to pulmonary emboli of
the lung, anoxic encephalopathy due to poor blood flow to the brain resulting
from her cardiac arrest, Stage 4 sacral decubitus ulcer, recurrent
osteomyelitis, Stage 2 cervical cancer requiring 10 doses of chemotherapy and
radiation therapy, deep vein thrombosis in three places of the left leg, severe
anemia, end stage renal disease, chronic oxygen of 2.5 liters/minute, muscle
spasticity, hand contractures, mild leg contracture, bilateral foot drop,
severe hypertension due to anoxic brain, tracheostomy surgery, significant
unintentional weight loss of approximately 42 lbs. in two months,
gastrointestinal tube placement surgery, urinary retention from blockage of the
uterus and bilateral nephrostomy tubes, and ovarian tube repositioning surgery.
 
(Attarchi
Decl. ¶ 8.) 
 
Attarchi
states that Plaintiff’s chemotherapy treatments have complicated the healing
process of her pressure ulcer. (Attarchi Decl. ¶ 8.) Attarchi also states
that Plaintiff lost 42 pounds over a period of two months, confirmed by a lab
report of malnutrition dated November 3, 2023. (Attarchi Decl. ¶ 8.)
Attarchi states that Plaintiff’s poor nutrition, low albumin, and low calcium
all factor into poor wound healing and an increased risk for additional wound
formation which can result in further debility and death. (Attarchi Decl. ¶ 8.)
Further, Attarchi states that Plaintiff is currently experiencing a number of
infections which antibiotic treatments are unlikely to alleviate. (Attarchi
Decl. ¶ 8.) Plaintiff suffers from abnormally high neutrophil count and
abnormally low hemoglobin count, resulting in anemia and inhibiting her ability
to stave off infection. (Attarchi Decl. ¶ 8.) 
 
In
opposition, Family Care submits the declaration of Christopher Davey M.D.
(“Davey”). (See McNally Decl. Exh. 1.) Davey states he has served as a primary
care physician since 1987 and treated many patients similar to Plaintiff.
(Davey Decl. ¶¶ 1-2.) Davey states that, based on his review of
Plaintiff’s medical records, Plaintiff “seems to be perfectly stable, based on
his description, and could potentially go on as she is for years.” (Davey Decl.
¶ 14.) Davey states that Plaintiff’s cardiac arrest and anoxic
encephalopathy are issues which stretch back to 2022. (Davey Decl. ¶ 7.)
Davey further states that Stage 2 cervical cancer has a high survival rate and
would generally not be an immediate risk to Plaintiff’s life. (Davey Decl.
¶ 8.) Davey states the cervical cancer, leg venous thrombosis, and end
stage renal disease were all treated during Plaintiff’s hospitalization. (Davey
Decl. ¶¶ 9-10.) Davey states that weight loss is typical in patients with
a PEG tube like Plaintiff and that she was described as moderately malnourished
in 2022. (Davey Decl. ¶ 12.) 
 
The Court
first addresses Family Care’s argument that this motion must be denied for
failure to serve a necessary party with process. Family Care argues that
Plaintiff failed to serve Tsoghik Karapetyan until two days after the service
of this motion on November 15, 2023. The Court notes Plaintiff dismissed
Tsoghik Karapetyan as a defendant on December 21, 2023. As such, Family Care’s
argument in this regard is moot. 
 
Family
Care next argues that Plaintiff has not submitted any declaration of
Plaintiff’s durable power of attorney or any of Plaintiff’s treating
physicians. Family Care further argues that Plaintiff has submitted no medical
records in support of the motion. The Court finds these argument unpersuasive.
C.C.P. § 36(e) requires that Plaintiff make a showing of “clear and convincing”
illness, but it does not proscribe the method for making that showing.
Plaintiff has presented the declaration of a licensed physician in support of
her motion which she believes sufficient. Plaintiff’s omission of any medical
records or a declaration of her power of attorney is not dispositive of this
motion. 
 
What the
Court must decide is whether the declaration set forth by Plaintiff constitutes
“clear and convincing” evidence of her serious illness warranting trial
preference. The Court finds the declaration of Attarchi satisfies this showing
and that the declaration of Davey does not refute this showing. 
 
The
Attarchi declaration is specifically based on Attarchi’s examination of
Plaintiff’s current medical condition on November 5, 2023. Attarchi states that
Plaintiff’s health has significantly deteriorated in the past months to where
her survival is unlikely. Attarchi further bases his opinion on examination of
Plaintiff’s current lab records, reflecting a number of issues which are
contributing to her deteriorating health. In contrast, the declaration of Davey
is based on the review of unspecified medical records which reflect a reality
far from current. Davey states that the most recent lab results he has access
to are from January 4, 2023. (Davey Decl. ¶ 13.) Davey has never
personally examined Plaintiff and his opinions are based on medical records
from 2022 and early 2023 which do not reflect Plaintiff’s current medical
reality. While the Court understands Davey’s statement that many of these
issues stem from diagnoses that occurred in 2022, the fact remains that
Plaintiff has shown complications from these health issue persists to the
current day. 
 
In short,
Davey’s opinion on the CURRENT condition of Plaintiff’s health is one not
sufficiently supported.  Davey’s
statement reflects his review of medical records and lab results which are over
a year old and do not serve to refute Plaintiff’s showing of current ill
health. Accordingly, the Court finds Plaintiff has made an adequate showing
under C.C.P. § 36(e). 
 
Family
Care argues that they would be prejudiced by the granting of this motion in
that their ability to prepare for trial would be substantially impaired. Family
Care states that Plaintiff received care from an unknown number of facilities
and physicians after her hospitalization. (De Leon Decl. ¶ 4.) Family Care
argues that it cannot reasonably be expected to obtain and analyze full medical
records for Plaintiff, as well as depose any number of treating physicians,
within 120 days. 
 
Citing Swaithes
v. Superior Court, Plaintiff argues that the Court cannot weigh any
potential denial of due process to Family Care on consideration of this motion.
In Swaithes, the California Court of Appeal found that the mandatory
provisions of C.C.P. § 36(a) barred consideration of due process upon a motion
for trial preference. (Swaithes v. Superior Court (1989) 212 Cal.App.3d
1082, 1086.) The Court finds Swaithes to be inapposite to the current
motion, in that this motion concerns C.C.P. § 36(e), which is a discretionary
provision. The decision to grant or deny trial preference under C.C.P. § 36(e)
“rests at all times in the sound discretion of the trial court in light of the
totality of the circumstances.” (Salas v. Sears, Roebuck & Co.
(1986) 42 Cal. 3d 342, 344.) The Court considers facts such as its calendar,
dilatory conduct by Plaintiffs, and prejudice to Defendant in the event of an
accelerated trial date (See Mitchell v. Frank R. Howard Memorial Hospital
(1992) 6 Cal. App. 4th 1396, 1404.) 
 
In
considering the totality of the circumstances, the Court finds that any
truncating of discovery by expediting trial would not justify denial of this
motion. From its submissions it is clear that Family Care possesses a
substantial number of medical records for the relevant time period covering
Plaintiff’s assertions of medical negligence. A fortiori, a substantial number
of the medical records and other evidence subject to discovery is likely already
under Family Care’s control. The same can be said for many potential deponents.
While the discovery of Plaintiff’s current medical condition would be on a
shortened scale, this alone does not outweigh the substantial likelihood that
Plaintiff would die before the case could come to trial otherwise. 
 
Lastly,
the Court finds Family Care’s argument that this motion does not fulfill the
legislative purpose of C.C.P. § 36 to be unpersuasive. Family Care states the
legislative purpose of C.C.P. § 36 is “assuring that an aged or terminally ill
plaintiff would be able to participate in the trial of his or her case …” (Looney
v. Superior Ct., (1993) 16 Cal. App. 4th 521, 532.) Family Care further
states that Plaintiff was noted during her hospitalization to be non-verbal,
had severely impaired vision, and suffered from both short and long-term memory
impairment. (De Leon Decl. Exh. A.) Family Care appears to argue that
Plaintiff’s impairment means that she cannot meaningfully participate in her
trial, defeating the purpose of this motion. The Court believes that additional
argument is necessary as to this issue.  
 
Accordingly,
the motion for trial preference is SUBJECT TO ADDITIONAL ARGUMENT. 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event a party requests a signed order or the court in its discretion elects to
sign a formal order, the following form will be either electronically signed or
signed in hard copy and entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Josalyn Pitcher’s
Motion for Trial Preference came on regularly for
hearing on January 5, 2024, with appearances as noted in the minute order for
said hearing, and the court has requested additional argument on the
matter.   The matter will then be taken
under submission.
 
THE COURT REQUESTS ADDITIONAL
ARGUMENT ON THE MOTION FOR TRIAL PREFERENCE.  ¿ 
 
¿ 
IT IS SO ORDERED.¿ 
 
DATE: 
January 5, 2024                             _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 