  Case Number:  21STCV27254    Hearing Date:   January 5, 2024    Dept:  NCA LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
JANUARY 5,
2024

MOTION
TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES, MOTIONS TO COMPEL INTIAL DISCOVERY, & MOTION
FOR LEAVE TO AMEND ANSWER

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 21STCV27254

 



MP:  


Beverly Hills New Life Medical Group,
  LLC (Defendant)




RP:  


None



 
NOTICE:
 
The
Court is not requesting oral argument on this matter.  Pursuant to
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) notice of intent to appear is
required.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling, no
argument will be permitted unless a “party notifies all other parties and the
court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the party’s intention
to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become the ruling of the
court if no notice of intent to appear is received.”   
 
Notice
may be given either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818)
260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Yuqin Liu
(“Plaintiff”) brings this action against Beverly
Hills New Life Medical Group, LLC (“Defendant”). Plaintiff alleges that
Defendant negligently administered derma filler injections which resulted in
personal injury. 
 
Before the Court are
four motions brought by Defendant. Defendant moves to compel further responses
to its Request for the Production of Documents (“RFPD”)
Set One Nos. 2-35. Defendant also moves to compel initial responses to its RFPD
Set Two and Special Interrogatories Set Two. Lastly, Defendant moves to amend its
Answer to assert additional affirmative defenses. Plaintiff has rendered no
opposition to any of these motions. 
  
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
Motion to
Compel Further Responses
 
A motion
to compel further responses to RFPD may be brought based on: (1) incomplete
statements of compliance; (2) inadequate, evasive, or incomplete claims of
inability to comply; or (3) unmerited or overly generalized objections. 
(C.C.P. § 2031.310(c).) 
 
A motion
to compel further production must set forth specific facts showing good cause
justifying the discovery sought by the inspection demand. (See C.C.P. §
2031.310(b)(1).) In Digital Music News LLC v Superior Court (2014) 226
Cal.App.4th 216 at 224, the Court defined “good cause” as a showing that there “a
disputed fact that is of consequence in the action and the discovery sought
will tend in reason to prove or disprove that fact or lead to other evidence
that will tend to prove or disprove the fact.”  
 
If the
moving party has shown good cause for the requests for production, the burden
is on the objecting party to justify the objections. (Kirkland v. Sup.Ct
(2002) 95 Cal. App.4th 92, 98.) 
 
“The
court shall limit the scope of discovery if it determines that the burden,
expense, or intrusiveness of that discovery clearly outweighs the likelihood
that the information sought will lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.”
(C.C.P. § 2017.020(a).) Generally, objections on the ground of burden require
the objecting party to produce evidence of (a) the propounding party’s
subjective intent to create burden or (b) the amount of time and effort it
would take to respond. (See West Pico Furniture Co. of Los Angeles v.
Superior Court In and For Los Angeles County (1961) 56 Cal.2d 407, 417.)
However, no such evidence is necessary where discovery is obviously overbroad
on its face. (See Obregon v. Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 424,
431.)  
 
Motion to
Compel Discovery Responses 
 
If a party
to whom interrogatories are directed fails to serve a timely response, the
propounding party may move for an order compelling response and for a monetary
sanction.  (C.C.P. § 2030.290(b).)  The statute contains no time
limit for a motion to compel where no responses have been served.  All
that need be shown in the moving papers is that a set of interrogatories was
properly served on the opposing party, that the time to respond has expired,
and that no response of any kind has been served.  (See Leach v.
Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal. App. 3d 902, 905-906.) 
 
Where
there has been no timely response to a demand to produce documents, the
demanding party may seek an order compelling a response.  (C.C.P. §
2031.300(b).)  Failure to timely respond waives all objections, including
privilege and work product.  (C.C.P. § 2031.300 (a).)  Thus, unless
the party to whom the demand was directed obtains relief from waiver, he or she
cannot raise objections to the documents demanded. There is no deadline for a
motion to compel responses.  Likewise, for failure to respond, the moving
party need not attempt to resolve the matter outside court before filing the
motion. 
 
Leave to
Amend 
 
The Court
is authorized, in its discretion, to “allow, upon any terms as may be just, an
amendment to any pleading or proceeding in other particulars . . .” (C.C.P. §
473(a)(1).) C.C.P. § 576, likewise, provides that “any judge, at any time
before or after commencement of trial, in the furtherance of justice, and upon
such terms as may be proper, may allow the amendment to any pleading…” (C.C.P.
§ 576.) The determination of whether to grant leave to file an amended pleading
rests in the Court’s sound discretion.
 
California
law generally calls for great liberality in allowing amendments to Answers
because “a defendant denied leave to amend is permanently deprived of a
defense.” (Hulsey v. Koehler (1990) 218 Cal.App.3d 1150, 1159.) “If the
motion to amend is timely made and the granting of the motion will not
prejudice the opposing party, it is error to refuse permission to amend and
where the refusal also results in a party being deprived of the right to assert
a meritorious cause of action or a meritorious defense, it is not only error
but an abuse of discretion.” (Morgan v. Superior Court (1959) 172
Cal.App.2d 527, 530.) 
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
Discovery Motions 
 
Motion to Compel Further Responses
to RFPD Set One
 
Defendant moves to compel
Plaintiff’s further response to its RFPD Nos. 2-35. Upon review, the
Court finds the meet and confer efforts sufficient. (Palin MTCF Decl. ¶ 16,
Exh. 3.)
 
Defendant propounded its
RFPD Set One on Plaintiff on August 7, 2023. (Palin MTCF Decl. ¶ 2.) Plaintiff
thereafter requested, and Defendant’s counsel granted, an extension to reply to
September 15, 2023. (Plain MTCF Decl. ¶ 5.) Further extension was
requested to allow Plaintiff’s new counsel, Peter Deng (“Deng”), to appear in
the matter. (Palin MTCF Decl. ¶ 6.) Defendant emailed all outstanding discovery
requests to Deng on September 16, 2023 and emailed a reminder that responses
were due on September 29, 2023. (Palin MTCF Decl. ¶¶ 7-8.) Having received
no responses, Defendant filed a motion to compel scheduled to be heard November
16, 2023. (Palin MTCF Decl. ¶ 11.) Plaintiff served her responses to the RFPD
on November 16, 2023 and the motion to compel was removed from the calendar.
(Palin MTCF Decl. ¶ 12.) 
 
It appears that Plaintiff
produced no responsive documents in reply to RFPD Nos. 2-35. While Plaintiff’s
response to RFPD No. 2 states her medical records were attached as Exhibit 1,
Defendant states that no such records were attached. (Palin MTCF Decl.
¶ 19.) Similarly, Plaintiff states her medical bills are produced in
response to RFPD No. 3, but no such bills were attached. (Palin MTCF Decl.
¶ 20.) The same can be said about Plaintiff’s expenses outside of medical
bills in response to RFPD No. 4. (Plain MTCF Decl. ¶ 21.) 
 
Defendant also argues
Plaintiff’s responses are not code compliant in several ways. Defendant argues
that, per C.C.P. § 2031.300 (a), Plaintiff waived objection by failure to
render timely responses. Accordingly, Defendant argues Plaintiff’s objection to
various RFPD are improper. (see Exh. 2, RFPD Nos. 14, 20, 24.) The Court agrees
Plaintiff’s objections to RFPD Nos. 14, 20, and 24 are improperly asserted by
virtue of wavier. Further, the Court notes that none of the objections state
their grounds, statutory or otherwise. 
 
Defendant further argues
that none of Plaintiff’s responses are code compliant by virtue of failure to
comply with C.C.P. §§ 2033.220 & 2033.300. A review of the responses
reveals they do not include a statement of compliance mandated by C.C.P. §
2031.220. Nor do any of the responses contain a statement of inability to
comply as mandated by C.C.P. § 2031.300. 
 
The Court finds Defendant
has shown good cause for further production. Defendant’s RFPD all concern
documents which speak to Plaintiff’s claims of negligent administration of
derma filler injections resulting in personal injury. 
 
The Court notes that
Plaintiff has rendered no opposition to this motion. A failure to oppose a
motion may be deemed a consent to the granting of the motion. (California Rules
of Court, Rule 8.54(c).) Further, on a motion to compel further production Plaintiff
has the burden to justify its objections thereto. Here, Plaintiff has failed to
oppose this motion and failed to justify her objections to production. 
 
Given the foregoing,
Defendant’s unopposed motion to compel further responses to RFPD Nos. 2-35 is
GRANTED.  
 
Motion to Compel Responses
to RFPD Set Two and Special Interrogatories Set Two
 
Defendant served its RFPD
Set Two and Special Interrogatories Set Two on Plaintiff on October 18, 2023.
(Palin MTC Decl. ¶ 12.) On November 22, 2023, Defendant sent a meet and
confer letter to Deng regarding delinquent responses to the second set of
discovery requests. (Palin MTC Decl. ¶ 16.) As of the filing of these motions,
Plaintiff has rendered no responses to the second set of discovery responses.
(Palin MTC Decl. ¶ 17.) 
 
Based on the foregoing,
Defendant’s unopposed motions to compel Plaintiff’s initial response to
Plaintiff’s RFPD and Special Interrogatories Set Two are GRANTED. 
 
Sanctions 
 
As concerns motions to
compel, the law only requires sanctions in the event that a party
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel further response. (C.C.P. §
2033.290(d), C.C.P. §¿2030.300(d).) As such, any monetary sanctions granted are
within the discretionary power of the Court as per C.C.P. § 2030.290. As per
C.C.P. § 2023.010(d), failure to respond constitutes a misuse of the discovery
process. Additionally, it is customary to grant sanctions where a party has
filed a motion to compel, and the other party fails to file an opposition.
(C.R.C. Rule 3.1348(a).)  
 
Here, Defendant has filed a
motion to compel further responses and two motions to compel initial responses.
None of these motions were opposed by Plaintiff. Given the relative complexity
of the motions and their similar nature, the Court considers sanctions
collectively rather than with respect to each motion. 
 
The Court awards sanctions
for Defendant in the amount of $882.50. This amount reflects three and a half
hours of attorney work at a rate of $235 per hour, plus the $60 filing fee.
(Palin Decl. ¶ 23.)  This amount
does not include the anticipated time in reviewing the opposition and replying,
as each motion was unopposed. This amount also does not include the $15 LA
CourtConnect fee as Defendant’s counsel is not obligated to appear remotely and
counsel’s time for attending the hearing is already accounted for. 
 
Motion for Leave to Amend
Answer
 
In this case, Defendant requests leave
to amend its Answer to add affirmative defenses in order to defend its case. Defendant
seeks to add the affirmative defenses of (1) Statute of Limitations, (2)
Assumption of Risk, (3) Intervening and Superseding Actions of Third Parties,
(4) Unanticipated and Unforeseeable Events, (5) No Damages, (6) Non-Economic
Damages Severable, (7) Release, (8) Waiver, (9) Estoppel, (10) Laches, (11) No
Recovery of Hospital, Medical, or other Incidental and Special Damages, (12) C.C.P.
§ 667.7, (13) Bus. & Prof. Code § 6156, and (14) C.C.P. § 425.13(a). 
 
Requests to amend Answers are to be
liberally considered and Plaintiff has rendered no opposition to Defendant’s
motion.  Additionally, the trial in this
case has not yet been set, so there would be no prejudice to Plaintiff if
Defendant is allowed to amend its Answer at this time. 
 
Accordingly, the motion for leave to
amend Defendant’s Answer is GRANTED. 
 
III.             
CONCLUSION
 
Defendant’s
motion to compel further responses to RFPD Set One, Nos. 2-35 is GRANTED. Further
production is due within 30 days. 
 
Defendant’s
motion to compel responses to RFPD Set Two and Special Interrogatories Set Two
is GRANTED. Production is due within 30 days. 
 
Defendant’s
motion for leave to amend its Answer is GRANTED. Defendant is to file the
amended Answer within 10 days. 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Beverly Hills New
Life Medical Group, LLC’s Motion to Compel Further Responses, Motions to Compel
Discovery Responses, and Motion for Leave to Amend Answer came on regularly for hearing on January 5, 2024, with
appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the
court, being fully advised in the premises, did then and there rule as
follows: 
 
DEFENDANT’S
MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO RFPD SET ONE, NOS. 2-35 IS GRANTED.
FURTHER PRODUCTION IS DUE WITHIN 30 DAYS. 
 
DEFENDANT’S
MOTION TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO RFPD SET TWO AND SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES SET TWO
IS GRANTED. PRODUCTION IS DUE WITHIN 30 DAYS. 
 
THE COURT
AWARD SANCTIONS AGAINST THE PLAINTIFF IN THE AMOUNT OF $882.50 WHICH SHALL BE
PAID TO DEFENDANT WITHIN 30 DAYS.
 
DEFENDANT’S
MOTION FOR LEAVE TO AMEND ITS ANSWER IS GRANTED. DEFENDANT TO FILE THE AMENDED
ANSWER WITHIN 10 DAYS. 
 
TRIAL
SETTING CONFERENCE IS SET FOR APRIL 16, 2023 AT 9:00 A.M.
 
BEVERLY HILLS NEW
LIFE MEDICAL GROUP, LLC TO GIVE NOTICE TO PLAINTIFF, PLAINTIFF TO GIVE NOTICE
TO ALL OTHER PARTIES.
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: January
5, 2024                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 