 Case Number:  22BBCV00816    Hearing Date:   January 5, 2024    Dept:  NCA LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
JANUARY 5,
2024

MOTION FOR
LEAVE TO AMEND ANSWER

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 22BBCV00816

 



MP:  


Calixto
  Towing, Inc., Guillermo Calixto Frias, Roberto Calixto, & Carlos Calixto
  (Defendants) 




RP:  


Piedad Binau (Plaintiff)



 
NOTICE:
 
The Court is not requesting oral argument on this
matter.  Pursuant to California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) notice
of intent to appear is required.  Unless the Court directs argument in the
Tentative Ruling, no argument will be permitted unless a “party notifies all
other parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of
the party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will
become the ruling of the court if no notice of intent to appear is received.”  

 
Notice may be given either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org
or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Piedad Binau
(“Plaintiff”) brings this action against Calixto Towing, Inc., Guillermo Calixto
Frias, Roberto Calixto, and Carlos Calixto (“Defendants”). Plaintiff alleges Guillermo
Calixto Frias negligently operated a motor vehicle owned by Calixto Towing,
Inc. such that he collided with Plaintiff and caused serious injury. 
 
Defendants now move the Court for leave to amend their Answer.
Defendants seek to add additional affirmative defenses of Negligence Per Se and
violation of California Vehicle Code § 21801 (Failure to Yield). Plaintiff
opposes the motion, arguing that the declaration submitted in conjunction is
not code compliant in several regards. Plaintiff further argues that the motion
is untimely, and prejudice would result, because trial is set for the matter in
April. Defendants reply that no prejudice would result from amendment. 
  
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
C.C.P. §
473(a)(1) provides, in relevant part: “The court may, in furtherance of
justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to amend any pleading
or proceeding by adding or striking out the name of any party, or by correcting
a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any other respect; and may,
upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or demurrer. The court may
likewise, in its discretion, after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any
terms as may be just, an amendment to any pleading or proceeding in other
particulars; and may upon like terms allow an answer to be made after the time
limited by this code.”
 
“This
discretion should be exercised liberally in favor of amendments, for judicial
policy favors resolution of all disputed matters in the same lawsuit.” (Kittredge
Sports Co. v. Superior Court (1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1047.) Ordinarily,
the court will not consider the validity of the proposed amended pleading in
ruling on a motion for leave since grounds for a demurrer or motion to strike
are premature. (See Id. at p. 1048.) The court, however, does have
discretion to deny leave to amend where a proposed amendment fails to state a
valid defense as a matter of law and the defect cannot be cured by further
amendment. (See California Casualty General Ins. Co. v. Superior Court
(1985) 173 Cal.App.3d 274, 281.)
 
Under
California Rules of Court Rule 3.1324(a), a motion to amend a pleading shall
(1) include a copy of the proposed amendment or amended pleading, which must be
serially numbered to differentiate it from previous pleadings or amendments;
(2) state what allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to be deleted,
if any, and where, by page, paragraph and line number, the deleted allegations
are located; and (3) state what allegations are proposed to be added to the
previous pleading, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the
additional allegations are located.
 
Under
California Rule of Court Rule 3.1324(b), a separate declaration must accompany
the motion and must specify (1) the effect of the amendment; (2) why the
amendment is necessary and proper; (3) when the facts giving rise to the
amended allegations were discovered; and (4) the reasons why the request for
amendment was not made earlier.
 
Even if a
good amendment is proposed in proper form, a long, unwarranted, and unexcused
delay in presenting it may be a good reason for denial. In most cases, the
factors for timeliness are: (1) lack of diligence in discovering the facts or
in offering the amendment after knowledge of them; and (2) the effect of the
delay on the adverse party. If the party seeking the amendment has been
dilatory, and the delay has prejudiced the opposing party, the judge has
discretion to deny leave to amend. (Hirsa v. Superior Court (1981) 118
Cal.App.3d 486, 490.) Prejudice exists where the amendment would require
delaying the trial, resulting in loss of critical evidence, or added costs of
preparation such as an increased burden of discovery. (Magpali v. Farmers
Group, Inc. (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 471, 486-488.)
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
The Court finds the
declaration submitted in conjunction with Defendants’ motion to be insufficient
as per California Rules of Court (“C.R.C.”) Rule 3.324. While Defendants submit
a proposed copy of their amended Answer, their declaration does not adhere to many
of the requirements for C.R.C. Rule 3.324(b). Defendants’ declaration does not
set out why the amendment is necessary and proper, when the facts giving rise
to the amendment were discovered, or the reasons why the amendments were not
made earlier. 
 
The only statement in
Defendants’ declaration which addresses any of these concerns is as follows: 
 
The parties participated in private mediation on October 3, 2023.
In preparation for mediation, Defendants presented the negligence per se and
vehicle code violation defenses to Plaintiff. On October 24, 2023, Defendants’
counsel conferred with Plaintiffs’ counsel to stipulate to their filing of a
First Amended Answer. Plaintiff's counsel refused to stipulate, and therefore,
forced Defendants to prepare and file this Motion.
 
(Jones Decl. ¶¶ 8-9.) 
 
From this statement it is
unclear as to when new facts constituting the Negligence Per Se and Vehicle
Code affirmative defenses arose. It appears from the statement that these
defenses were known to Defendants well in advance of the October 3 mediation. Defendants
do not state they learned any facts which gave rise to these defenses through
mediation, rather they approached the mediation with these defenses already
established. As it stands, Defendants state no reasoning that would satisfy the
requirements of C.R.C. Rule 3.324(b). Defendants do not address any of these
concerns in their reply, despite argument from Plaintiff that the declaration
is not code compliant. 
 
In short, Defendants have
submitted a declaration which is devoid of the information necessary for the
Court to determine this motion on its merits. Accordingly, the motion for leave
to amend is DENIED without prejudice. 
--- 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Calixto Towing, Inc., Guillermo Calixto Frias, Roberto
Calixto, & Carlos Calixto’s Motion for Leave
to Amend Answer came on regularly for hearing on January
5, 2024, with appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order for said
hearing, and the court, being fully advised in the premises, did then and there
rule as follows: 
 
THE MOTION FOR LEAVE TO AMEND IN DENIED WITHOUT
PREJUDICE. 
 
UNLESS ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, DEFENDANTS TO
GIVE NOTICE.  
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
January 5, 2024                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M. TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 