 Case Number:  24SMCV01691    Hearing Date:   June 26, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Bobs LLC v. Quality
Loan Service Corporation, et al.
CASE NO.:                24SMCV01691
MOTION:                  OSC
Re: Preliminary Injunction 
HEARING DATE:   6/26/2024

 
 
Legal
Standard
 
            Under Code of Civil Procedure section
526(a), a preliminary injunction may be issued in the following cases: 
 
1)
When it appears by the complaint that the plaintiff is entitled to the relief
demanded, and the relief, or any part thereof, consists in restraining the
commission or continuance of the act complained of, either for a limited period
or perpetually. 
2)
When it appears by the complaint or affidavits that the commission or
continuance of some act during the litigation would produce waste, or great or
irreparable injury, to a party to the action. 
3)
When it appears, during the litigation, that a party to the action is doing, or
threatens, or is about to do, or is procuring or suffering to be done, some act
in violation of the rights of another party to the action respecting the
subject of the action, and tending to render the judgment ineffectual. 
            4) When pecuniary compensation would
not afford adequate relief.  
5)
Where it would be extremely difficult to ascertain the amount of compensation
which would afford adequate relief. 
6)
Where the restraint is necessary to prevent a multiplicity of judicial
proceedings. 
            7) Where the obligation arises from
a trust. 
 
            In determining whether to issue a
preliminary injunction, the trial court considers two factors: 1) the
reasonable probability that the plaintiff will prevail on the merits at trial
(CCP §526(a)(1)); and 2) a balancing of the “irreparable harm” that the moving
party is likely to sustain if the injunction is denied compared to the harm
that the non-moving party is likely to suffer if the court grants a preliminary
injunction. (CCP §526(a)(2); 14859 Moorpark Homeowner’s Assn. v. VRT Corp.
(1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 1396, 1402.) “A preliminary injunction is an interim
remedy designed to maintain the status quo pending a decision on the
merits.” (MaJor v. Miraverde Homeowners
Assn. (1992) 7
Cal.App.4th 618, 623.) “[A] cause of action must exist before injunctive
relief may be granted.” (Id. (citing Shell Oil Co. v.
Richter (1942) 52 Cal.App.2d 164, 168).)   
 
            The court’s ruling on a preliminary
injunction is not an adjudication of the merits, is not a trial, and does not
require a statement of decision. (Cohen v. Board of Supervisors,
(1985) 40 Cal.3d 277, 286.) The judge is not required to state her reasons for
granting or denying a preliminary injunction; a cursory statement is
sufficient. (City of Los Altos v. Barnes, (1992) 3 Cal.App.4th
1193, 1198.) A proposed order must be presented to the judge for signature,
with any required undertaking, within one day after the preliminary injunction
is granted, or other time ordered by the judge. (CRC 3.1150(f).)
 
EVIDENTIARY ISSUES
 
            Defendants’ objections to the
declaration of Michael Geibelson are GRANTED on the basis of hearsay. 
 
            Defendant Wilington’s request for
judicial notice is GRANTED.
 
            Defendant Ostayan’s request for
judicial notice is GRANTED.
 
            All other objections are OVERRULED.
 
Analysis
 
Plaintiff BOBS LLC moves for a
preliminary injunction maintaining the status quo protected by the temporary
restraining order issued on April 15, 2024, enjoining Defendant Quality Loan
Service Corporation and its employees, agents, and persons acting with it or on
its behalf from issuing, delivering, or recording a trustee’s deed related to
the attempted nonjudicial foreclosure sale for the real property located at 911
Loma Vista Road, Beverly Hills California 90210, bearing AIN/APN 4391-036-020
(the “Property”) that occurred on April 9, 2024. Plaintiff argues that it will
prevail on the merits of its wrongful foreclosure claim. Specifically, Plaintiff
contends that the trustee, Quality, failed to comply with Civil Code section
2924b(b)(1), because it did not mail the second Notice of Default and second Notice
of Trustee’s Sale to Plaintiff at its “last known address” instead of its
recorded address.  
 
Merits- Foreclosure Notice Procedure 
 
The elements of a wrongful
foreclosure cause of action are: (1) the trustee or mortgagee caused an
illegal, fraudulent, or willfully oppressive sale of real property pursuant to
a power of sale in a mortgage or deed of trust; (2) the party attacking the sale
(usually but not always the trustor or mortgagor) was prejudiced or harmed; and
(3) in cases where the trustor or mortgagor challenges the sale, the trustor or
mortgagor tendered the amount of the secured indebtedness or was excused from
tendering. (Turner v. Seterus, Inc., (2018) 27 Cal. App. 5th 516, 525.)
 
“A beneficiary or trustee under a
deed of trust who conducts an illegal, fraudulent or willfully oppressive sale
of property may be liable to the borrower for wrongful foreclosure. Nevertheless,
[t]he trustee of a deed of trust is not a true trustee with fiduciary
obligations, but acts merely as an agent for the borrower-trustor and
lender-beneficiary. The trustee's common agency for both borrower and lender is
a passive one, for the limited purpose of conducting a sale in the event of the
trustor's default or reconveying the property upon satisfaction of the debt.
The rights and powers of trustees in nonjudicial foreclosure proceedings have
long been regarded as strictly limited and defined by the contract of the
parties and the statutes. The trustee's only duties are: (1) upon default to
undertake the steps necessary to foreclose the deed of trust; or (2) upon
satisfaction of the secured debt to reconvey the deed of trust.” (Citrus El
Dorado, LLC v. Chicago Title Co., (2019) 32 Cal. App. 5th 943, 948, citations
and quotations omitted.)
 
The case arises from two loans
secured by the subject real property: a first lien held by Wilmington (with SPS
as its agent/servicer) and a second lien held by Plaintiff. In June 2021, due
to defaults on the second lien, Plaintiff purchased the subject Property
pursuant to a nonjudicial foreclosure by paying $20,317,817.20. (R. Shy Decl.,
¶ 6.) Through that process, the second deed of trust was reconveyed and
Plaintiff became the owner of the Property. 
 
In support of the wrongful
foreclosure claim, the FAC alleges that Defendants attempted to cause a
foreclosure sale of the Subject Property under a power of sale in a
mortgage/deed of trust on April 9, 2024. (FAC ¶ 29.) Plaintiff alleges that prior
to the sale, Defendants failed to provide the legally required notices to
Plaintiff, including the related Notice of Default and Notice of Trustee’s Sale.
(FAC ¶30.) Defendants did so despite their knowledge of Plaintiff’s ownership
of the property and after repeated requests for information concerning the
mortgage and after repeated payoff requests. (Id.) However, and as more fully
set forth below, Plaintiff fails to demonstrate that Defendants failed to
provide sufficient notice prior to the foreclosure sale. 
 
Plaintiff relies on express
statutory notice duties imposed by section 2924b. Section 2924b sets forth the
various categories of persons to whom the trustee must mail the NOD and NOTS. Plaintiff
cites the following emphasized language.
 
(b) The mortgagee, trustee, or
other person authorized to record the notice of default or the notice of sale shall
do each of the following:
 
(1) Within 10
business days following recordation of the notice of default, deposit or cause
to be deposited in the United States mail an envelope, sent by registered or
certified mail with postage prepaid, containing a copy of the notice with the
recording date shown thereon, addressed to each person whose name and address
are set forth in a duly recorded request therefor, directed to the address
designated in the request and to each trustor or mortgagor at his or her last
known address if different than the address specified in the deed of trust or
mortgage with power of sale.
 
The plain language demonstrates that the trustee must only
use the last known address of the “trustor or mortgagor” if different from the
recorded address. It is undisputed that Plaintiff is not a trustor or mortgagor.
Furthermore, it is undisputed that Plaintiff did not “duly” request a change of
address per section 2924b(a). Thus, Plaintiff was only owed notice pursuant to section
2924b(c) as a beneficiary/successor in interest. This section specifically
provides that the trustee must use the address on the recorded instrument:
 
(c) The mortgagee, trustee, or
other person authorized to record the notice of default or the notice of sale shall
do the following:
 
(1) Within one
month following recordation of the notice of default, deposit or cause to be
deposited in the United States mail an envelope, sent by registered or
certified mail with postage prepaid, containing a copy of the notice with the
recording date shown thereon, addressed to each person set forth in paragraph
(2) [e.g., successor-in-interest], provided that the estate or interest of any
person entitled to receive notice under this subdivision is acquired by an
instrument sufficient to impart constructive notice of the estate or interest
in the land or portion thereof that is subject to the deed of trust or mortgage
being foreclosed, and provided the instrument is recorded in the office of the
county recorder so as to impart that constructive notice prior to the recording
date of the notice of default and provided the instrument as so recorded sets
forth a mailing address that the county recorder shall use, as instructed
within the instrument, for the return of the instrument after recording, and which
address shall be the address used for the purposes of mailing notices herein.
 
(Emphasis added.) 
 
The trustee must follow the strictly
defined statutory notice procedure. (Banc of Am. Leasing & Cap., LLC v.
3 Arch Tr. Servs., Inc. (2009) 180 Cal. App. 4th 1090, 1097.) The parties
entitled to notice under Section 2924b “need not receive actual notice of the
trustee’s sale so long as notice is provided to the trustor that is in
compliance with the statute.” (Knapp v. Doherty (2004) 123 Cal. App. 4th
76, 88-89.) Further, a trustor who changes his address and fails to comply with
the statutory provision for change of address generally has no cause to
complain if he failed to receive a duly mailed notice of default or notice of
sale. (Lupertino v. Carbahal (1973) 35 Cal. App. 3d 742, 742–43.) 
 
The record shows that Quality complied
with its notice duties as trustee under section 2924b. Plaintiff’s recorded
address was 600 S. Spring St. Suite 106, Los Angeles, CA 90014 (“Spring Street
Address”). (R. Shy ¶ 22-23, Exs. 13-14.) SPS caused a Notice of Default to be
recorded on November 13, 2023 (the “Second NOD”). (Id.) Quality mailed the
Second NOD to Plaintiff at the Spring Street Address. (Id.) SPS later caused a
Notice of Trustee’s Sale to be recorded on February 13, 2024 (the “Second
NOTS”). (¶ 24, Ex. 15.) Quality mailed the Second NOTS to Plaintiff at the
Spring Street Address. (¶ 24, Ex. 16.) 
Thus, Quality provided adequate notice under the Code.
 
Equitable Estoppel
 
Plaintiff contends that even if
Defendants complied with the technical requirements of section 2924b, it would
still succeed on the merits because Defendants are equitably estopped from
arguing that the statutory notice requirements were followed in this case. Equitable
estoppel has four essential elements: “(1) the party to be estopped must be
apprised of the facts; (2) he must intend that his conduct be acted upon, or
must so act that the party asserting the estoppel had a right to believe it was
so intended; (3) the party asserting the estoppel must be ignorant of the true
state of facts; and (4) he must rely upon the conduct to his injury.” (Lupertino,
supra, 35 Cal.App.3d at 749.) 
 
In Lupertino, the court held
that after a trustee communicates with the trustor at a given address leading
the trustor to believe that his address is recognized as the “receiving point
of communication,” the trustee cannot later refuse or fail to recognize that
address. (Id., at 745.) There, the plaintiff-borrowers’ property was secured
by a first deed of trust with Transamerica as the designated trustee. The recorded
deed of trust indicated the plaintiffs’ address in Sunnyvale, CA. (Id.) The
borrowers subsequently moved to Winters, CA, but failed to change their address
of record. (Id.) Later, the borrowers defaulted, and defendants’ counsel wrote borrowers
at their new address requesting payment. (Id.) After the borrowers failed to
cure, Transamerica recorded a NOD and mailed a copy to plaintiff’s new address.
(Id.) The trustee advised plaintiffs via a cover letter that plaintiffs had
three months from the date of recording the notice of default in which to
reinstate the loan, and that if the loan were not reinstated within the
three-month period, a notice of sale would be published and the property sold
at public auction. (Id.) When plaintiffs remained in default, the trustee recorded
and sent a new notice of default on December 1, 1971. (Id.) On December 9,
1971, the trustee mailed a copy of the notice of default and election to sell
to the plaintiffs at their old address of record in Sunnyvale. (Id. at
746.) The notice was promptly returned to the trustee, marked “Moved, not
forwardable.” (Id.) The trustee did not send the notice of default to
the Winters address, despite the fact that the trustee’s file contained copies
of the prior notice of default sent to the Winters address. (Id.) 
 
In reaching their ruling, the
Lupertino court emphasized that defendants directly instructed the trustee to
give “plaintiffs actual notice of default at plaintiffs' Winters address which
in turn produced the initial curative response to the original default. We
think this particular actual notice of default was crucial, as subsequent
events proved. Not only did the plaintiffs respond thereto, but were entitled
to and did believe that since the defendants knew of plaintiffs' actual Winters
address, and the trustee had mailed a copy of the notice of default and election
to sell to their Winters address advising that the three-month reinstatement
period had commenced to run, they would be likewise so notified in the future
absent some advice to the contrary.” (Id. at 749.) In other words, by
its actions, the trustee effectively took on the duty of communicating with the
borrowers at their then-current address, regardless of the borrowers’ failure
to update their address of record. (Id., see Citrus El Dorado, supra,
32 Cal. App. 5th at 950.)
 
Here, Plaintiff does not show Quality
led Plaintiff to believe that Quality would serve Plaintiff with a NOD or a NOTS
at their “last known address” rather than the statutorily required address.
(Civ. Code § 2924b(b).) Plaintiff cites no communications from Quality which
would reasonably lead Plaintiff to believe the trustee recognized their new Encino
address as Plaintiff’s point of contact. In fact, Plaintiff points to no notice
to Quality of the Encino address at all. Instead, the record shows minimal contact
between Plaintiff and Quality, and no conduct which would lead to estoppel. 
 
Following the Plaintiff’s
acquisition of the property, beginning in November 2021, Plaintiff sent repeated
requests to SPS for a payoff statement so that Plaintiffs could satisfy and
remove the first lien on the property and own the property free and clear, but
SPS ignored these requests. (R. Shy Decl., ¶ 7.) Plaintiff engaged an attorney,
Mr. Siciliano, to assist. (Siciliano Decl. ¶ 2.) Plaintiff’s counsel repeated
the demands for a payoff statement through a letter to SPS with Quality copied
on the correspondence. (R. Shy Decl. ¶¶ 9–10; Siciliano Decl. ¶ 3.) Notably,
Plaintiff’s Encino address was not given. SPS eventually sent at least two payoff
statements to Plaintiff, which Plaintiff found unsatisfactory. (Id., ¶¶ 11-12,
Exs. 4-5.) In January 2023, Wilmington and SPS denied requests for additional
information because Plaintiff was not the borrower. (R. Shy Decl., ¶16.) After
the borrower, Mr. Moshkovich, provided an authorization, SPS added Plaintiff as
an “authorized third party on the loan account.” (R. Shy Decl. ¶ 16 & Exs.
8 & 9; Siciliano Decl. ¶ 6.) This authorization was by SPS and not Quality.
 
Around that same time, Mr.
Siciliano received a NOTS from Quality. (R. Shy Decl. ¶ 13; Siciliano Decl. ¶ 4
& Ex. 6.) The notice was addressed to Mr. Siciliano, as agent for Plaintiff,
at 6320 Canoga Ave., Woodland Hills, CA. (Id.) Plaintiff explains that it then
exercised its statutory right to cure the default and reinstate the deed of
trust by paying $1,255,708.15 on January 31, 2023. (R. Shy Decl. ¶ 15; Civ.
Code § 2924c.) The payment was accompanied by a letter to SPS explaining that
the payment was under protest. (Id., ex. 7.) The letter also noted Plaintiff’s
Encino address, but Plaintiff does not clarify whether this was sent to
Quality. (Id.) Plaintiff also sent another letter to SPS via Federal Express,
instructing SPS to send future communications with BOBS at both its address in
Encino along with a copy to BOB’s attorney, Mr. Siciliano, at his Woodlands
Hills address. (R. Shy Decl. ¶ 17 & Ex. 10; Siciliano Decl. ¶ 7.) Again,
there is no indication that this notice was given to Quality. SPS, for its
part, never acknowledged Plaintiff’s “repeated requests for clarification on
the outstanding loan balance.” Instead, SPS caused another NOD. The trustee,
Quality, did not mail the notice of default or the notice of sale to Plaintiff
at the Encino address or through its counsel Mr. Siciliano. (R. Shy Decl. ¶ 19;
Siciliano Decl. ¶ 8.)
 
Plaintiff does not evidence any
significant interactions with Quality which would lead it to reasonably believe
that Quality would send all notices to Plaintiff’s new address and/or
Plaintiff’s counsel. Plaintiff argues that Defendants agreed in writing to
communicate directly with Plaintiff about the loan. However, Plaintiff cites no
evidence of such an agreement. The above evidence only shows that SPS
communicated with Plaintiff’s counsel regarding loan repayment. (See also Simon
Decl., ¶¶ 13-25.) In reply, Plaintiff argues that Quality had actual knowledge
of its counsel’s address. (See Supp. Geibelson Decl., Ex. 30.) Even considering
this new evidence in reply, Plaintiff fails to show that Quality agreed to a
new notice procedure. At best, the proffered notes show that Quality knew of
the address and was instructed to “confirm that the Trustee’s sale has been
cancelled on this property” with Mr. Siciliano, but provides no other indication
that further notices be sent to that address. (Id.) Thus, the court cannot
conclude this conduct would lead Plaintiff to believe that future NODs would be
sent to their new Encino address or their counsel’s address.
            
Plaintiff contends that it received
notice of a copy of the first Notice of Trustee’s Sale dated January 12,
2023, from Quality via counsel at the Woodland Hills address. (See Siciliano
Decl., ¶¶ 4-5; Ex. 6.) Plaintiff reasons that this fact led it to believe that
their attorney would be CC’d on any future notices. However, the Court is not persuaded
that Plaintiff was right to believe that Quality would copy all future NOD and
NOTS to its attorney. Unlike in Lupertino, Quality sent the first NOD to
Plaintiff’s record address on Spring Street as well as the subject property
itself. The first NOTS was also served on those addresses. The service of the first
NOD resulted in actual notice of default to Plaintiff in time to cure. Thus, in
January 2023, Plaintiff knew that Quality was still serving notices at the
Spring Street address. In line with this practice, Quality served the Second
NOD and Second NOTS at the Spring Street address. The Court cannot conclude
that Plaintiff’s counsel’s address was the agreed-upon “receiving point of
communication” since Quality continuously gave notice through the recorded
addresses. 
 
In opposition, Quality elaborates
on the substance of the communications between Quality’s counsel and
Plaintiff’s counsel. (See Louvan Decl., ¶¶13-14 Exs. 5-6.) Quality explains
that because they were in communication with Plaintiff’s counsel during that
foreclosure process, Quality also sent the notice to Plaintiff’s counsel as a
professional courtesy. (Id.) Under such circumstances, Plaintiff cannot assert
a right to believe that Quality would send further NOD/NOTS to its Encino
address and/or its counsel.
 
Critically, Plaintiff also does not
show actual reliance on its assumption that Quality would send notices to
Plaintiff’s Encino address or its counsel’s address to its detriment. Plaintiff
claims to have acted in reliance by paying $1.2 million to cure a prior default
on the loan. However, Plaintiff does not explain how it relied on the fact that
Quality sent the first NOTS (but not the first NOD) to counsel to make this
payment. To the contrary, Plaintiff was already aware of the default, as it was
served with the NOD and was in active communications with SPS/Quality regarding
repayment. Plaintiff’s own testimony and evidence suggests that it would have
made this payment regardless of where the NOTS was served in order to
protect its investment. (R. Shy Decl., ¶ 27.) Plaintiff has therefore failed to
connect its “changed position” of paying the $1.2 million with the fact that a
single NOTS was sent to Plaintiff’s counsel.
 
            As such,
Plaintiff has failed to show a probability of prevailing on the merits.
Accordingly, the motion is DENIED.