  Case Number:  23SMCV00117    Hearing Date:   June 26, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Cottman v.
Muse Treatment Center, et al.
CASE NO.:                23SMCV00117
MOTION:                  Motion
to Continue Trial and Related Dates
HEARING DATE:   6/26/2024
 
Legal
Standard
 
Pursuant to California Rules of
Court (“CRC”), rule 3.1332(a), “To ensure the prompt disposition of civil
cases, the dates assigned for a trial are firm. 
All parties and their counsel must regard the date set for trial as
certain.” Under CRC Rule 3.1332(b), “A party seeking a continuance of the date
set for trial, whether contested or uncontested or stipulated to by the
parties, must make the request for a continuance by a noticed motion or an ex
parte application under the rules in chapter 4 of this division, with
supporting declarations. The party must make the motion or application as soon
as reasonably practical once the necessity for the continuance is discovered.” 
            
Under CRC Rule 3.1332(c),
“[a]lthough continuances of trials are disfavored, each request for a
continuance must be considered on its own merits. The court may grant a
continuance only on an affirmative showing of good cause requiring the
continuance.  Circumstances that may
include good cause include:   
 
(1) The unavailability of an
essential lay or expert witness because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances;  
 
(2) The unavailability of a
party because of death, illness, or other excusable circumstances; 
 
(3) The unavailability of trial
counsel because of death, illness, or other excusable circumstances; 
 
(4) The substitution of trial
counsel, but only where there is an affirmative showing that the substitution
is required in the interests of justice; 
 
(5) The addition of a new party
if: 
 
(A) The new
party has not had a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for
trial; or 
 
(B) The
other parties have not had a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and
prepare for trial in regard to the new party's involvement in the case; 
 
(6) A party's excused inability
to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other material evidence despite
diligent efforts; or 
 
(7) A significant,
unanticipated change in the status of the case as a result of which the case is
not ready for trial.” 
 
            CRC
Rule 3.1332(d) sets forth other factors that are relevant in determining
whether to grant a continuance. 
 
Analysis
 
Plaintiff James Cottman moves to
continue the current trial date of August 5, 2024, to February 10, 2025, or any
date thereafter.  Plaintiff fails to make
any showing of the CRC Rule 3.1332 factors, or any other persuasive reason to grant the
continuance. Plaintiff argues that a continuance is necessary so that
further discovery, expert depositions, and settlement negotiations may be
conducted. However, Plaintiff does not show any excused inability to obtain
essential discovery. Plaintiff also does not provide any details on the
parties’ diligent discovery efforts. (See Calderwood Decl., ¶5.) Thus, there is
no basis to grant a continuance for discovery purposes.
 
Plaintiff also argues that the
requested continuance would increase the chances of settlement and would
therefore be in the interest of judicial economy. Plaintiff does not explain
what settlement efforts the parties have undergone so far, or what settlement
efforts are currently planned. Thus, the Court is not persuaded that a
continuance would increase the chances of settlement. Furthermore, the Court ordered
a settlement conference or mediation to be completed by July 5, 2024.  (See 10/9/23 Minute Order.)  The parties’ failure to obey the Court’s order
would justify sanctions, but not a trial continuance.  
 
Accordingly, the motion is DENIED.