  Case Number:  20STCV07283    Hearing Date:   December 31, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



ERA
  NOUVEAU HOLDINGS, LLC
                           
         vs.
 
SOUTHERN
  MOTION, INC.
 
                                         


 Case No.: 
  20STCV07283
 
 
 
 Hearing
  Date:  December 31, 2024



 
Era Nouveau’s
motions to compel further responses to its Requests for Production (Set Three)
and Special Interrogatories (Set Three) are GRANTED. Southern Motion is sanctioned,
jointly and severally with counsel, $900 per motion payable within 30 days.
 
On 2/21/2020, Plaintiff Era Nouveau Holdings,
LLC (ENH or Era Nouveau or Enouvation) filed a Complaint against
Southern Motion, Inc. (SM or Southern Motion), setting forth a claim for
declaratory relief and a claim for breach of contract. Southern
Motion answered and cross-complained against Era Nouveau,
adding Era Nouveau USA, LLC (EN USA LLC) and Era Nouveau,
LLC (EN LLC) as Cross-Defendants and setting forth claims for: (1)
fraudulent misrepresentations; (2) fraudulent concealment; (3) breach of
implied warranty of merchantability; (4) breach of implied warranty of fitness
for particular purpose; (5) breach of contract; and (6) violation of Business
and Professions Code section 17200. 
 
            On
11/8/2024, Era Nouveau moved
to compel further responses to its Requests for Production (RFPs) and Special
Interrogatories.  
 
            The
motions are unopposed. 
 
Discussion 
 
            Era Nouveau argues that Southern Motion has failed to
provide any verified responses to its Special Interrogatories (Set Three) or
its RFPs (Set Three.) 
 
            As
for the Special Interrogatories, Southern
Motion responded to each of the Special Interrogatories as follows: 
 
Objection.
Responding Party objects that the Interrogatory is duplicative of previously
propound interrogatories. Responding Party further objects that Propounding
Party has repeatedly propounded duplicative discovery in an attempt to harass
the Responding Party.
 
            After
review, the Court agrees with Era
Nouveau that it is entitled to substantive responses to these
interrogatories, as they seek relevant and narrowly tailored information
related to damages.
 
            As
for the RFPs, Southern Motion
responded to each of the RFPs as follows: 
 
Objection.
Responding Party further objects that the Request seeks information and documents
protected by the Attorney-Client Privilege. Responding Party objects that the
Request seeks information and documents which are protected by the Work Product
Doctrine. Responding Party objects that the Request is duplicative of
previously propounded discovery. Responding Party objects that the Request
seeks the premature production of expert opinion and reports.
 
            However,
it is unclear how the requests touch upon any privilege or work product issues,
or protected information. The RFPs seek factual documents supporting Southern Motion’s contention of
causation and liability, and thus are discoverable. As such, it is similarly
unpersuasive how they would implicate expert analyses or reports. 
 
For example,
RFP No. 36 provides: 
 
All DOCUMENTS
that support YOUR contention that propounding party is responsible for the fire
incident that occurred on May 8, 2019.
 
            It
is inconceivable that every single document relevant to this request would be
unproducible due to privilege, work product issues, or prematurity. Southern Motion’s counsel
apparently indicated she would provide amended responses in subsequent email
correspondence dated 10/18/24 and 10/28/2024, but no such responses have been
provided.
 
            Based
on the foregoing, Era Nouveau’s
motions to compel further responses are both granted. Southern Motion is sanctioned, jointly and severally
with counsel, $900 per motion.  
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  December   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 