 Case Number:  24STCP03425    Hearing Date:   December 31, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT
17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



MEYER, OLSON, LOWY, & MEYERS, LLP
 
  
        
  vs.
 
KHALIF EDWARDS, et al.

 


 Case
  No.:  24STCP03425 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date: December 31, 2024



 
Petitioner’s petition to compel
arbitration is CONTINUED, to allow for supplemental materials to be submitted
regarding the proposed arbitrators.
 
            On
10/23/2024, Petitioner Meyer, Olson, Lowy, & Meyers LLP (Petitioner) filed
a petition to compel Respondent Khalif Edwards (Respondent) to submit to
binding arbitration, and for Court appointment of an arbitrator.
 
             On 10/24/2024, Petitioner moved to compel
binding arbitrator and for Court appointment of an arbitrator. 
 
Legal Standard
 
“Where
the Court has determined that an agreement to arbitrate a controversy exists,
the Court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate the
controversy …unless it determines that… 
grounds exist for rescission of the agreement.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2.)
Among the grounds which can support rescission are fraud, duress, and
unconscionability. (Tiri v. Lucky
Chances, Inc. (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 231, 239.) The Court may also decline
to compel arbitration wherein there is possibility
of conflicting rulings on a common issue of law or fact. (Code Civ. Proc., §
1281.2 (c).) 
 
Discussion 
 
1.      Defendants’
Burden
 
The party
moving to compel arbitration “bears the burden of proving [the] existence [of
an arbitration agreement] by a preponderance of the evidence.” (Rosenthal v. Great Western Fin. Securities
Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 413.) The moving party also bears the burden
of demonstrating that the claims fall within the scope of the arbitration
agreement. (Omar v. Ralphs Grocery
Co. (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th 955, 961.)
            
A.   
Existing Agreement
 
Petitioner
submitted evidence that Respondent signed a written retainer agreement on
9/19/2022 that provided for binding arbitration in the event of a dispute
between the parties. (See Petition, Exh. A, B.) 
 
Here, a
dispute has arisen between Petitioner and Respondent, and thus it falls within
the scope of the agreement. 
 
Given that
Petitioner has established by a preponderance of the evidence that an
arbitration agreement exists, and that its claims are covered by that
agreement, the burden shifts to the Respondent to establish that the
arbitration clause should not be enforced. (Pinnacle
Museum Tower Assn. v. Pinnacle Market Development (US), LLC (2012) 55
Cal.4th 223, 236. (Pinnacle).)
 
            Respondent
did not oppose this motion, and thus has not advanced any basis for not
enforcing the agreement.
 
            This
leaves only Petitioner’s request to appoint an arbitrator. Petitioner contends
that Respondent has refused to select an Arbitrator and thus proposes that the
Court appoint an arbitrator since the method for selection of in the written
agreement has failed. Petitioner proposes the appointment of either Hon. Hank
Goldberg, Hon. Scott Gordon, Hon. Margo Hoyt, Hon. Thomas Trent Lewis, or Hon.
Roy Paul, all of whom it contends have experience in Family Law while sitting
on the bench. 
 
            However,
Petitioner has not provided any additional information on these proposed
arbitrators, such as CVs or background. As such, the Court has no basis to
evaluate the appropriate of any of the proposed arbitrators. 
 
            Based
on the foregoing, Petitioner’s petition to compel arbitration is continued, to
allow for supplemental materials to be submitted regarding the proposed
arbitrators. 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  December   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 