 Case Number:  24STCV10552    Hearing Date:   December 31, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT
17
 
TENATIVE RULING
 



WILMINGTON HARBOR PROPERTIES L.P 
 
        
  vs.
 
GABRIEL
  McFARLANE 
 


 Case
  No.:  24STCV10552 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date December 31, 2024



 
Plaintiff’s
motion to set aside dismissal is DENIED, WITHOUT PREJUDICE. 
 
            On
4/26/2024, Plaintiff Wilmington Harbor Properties LP (Plaintiff) filed an
unlawful detainer action against Gabirel McFarlane (Defendant.)
 
            On
10/8/2024, the Court dismissed Plaintiff’s action for failure to
prosecute.  
 
On
10/16/2024, Plaintiff moved to set aside the dismissal. 
 
Discussion 
            
            Plaintiff
moves to set aside the dismissal entered on 10/8/2024, on the grounds that the
dismissal was the result of attorney error. More specifically, counsel Dennis
Block submitted a declaration stating that “The case was dismissed by the Court
as result of confusion and the fault of my office. The case was dismissed
without prejudice on October 8, 2024, after my office inadvertently failed to
submit new default package in error.” (Block Decl. ¶ 3.) 
 
         Relief is mandatory where the moving
papers are accompanied by a credible "attorney's sworn affidavit attesting
to his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect." (CCP § 473(b);
see also Cowan v. Krayzman (2011) 196 Cal.App.4th 907, 915.)
 
However,
Section 473(b) provides:
 
The court
may, upon any terms as may be just, relieve a party or his or her legal
representative from a judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken
against him or her through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
excusable neglect. Application for this relief shall be accompanied by a
copy of the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed therein,
otherwise the application shall not be granted, and shall be made within a
reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment,
dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken. . . 
 
            (emphasis
added.) 
 
            As
such, section 473(b) requires that the motion to set aside be accompanied by a
proposed pleading, i.e., whatever missing documentation resulted in the
dismissal. Here, as Plaintiff’s counsel himself acknowledges, the Court
dismissed this action based on the failure to submit a new default package.
However, Plaintiff’s filing is not accompanied by a proposed new default
package. The failure to include this is fatal to the request here.
 
            Based
on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s motion to set aside is denied, without prejudice.

 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  December   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 
 
 