 Case Number:  23STLC00095    Hearing Date:   October 24, 2023    Dept:  25 PROCEEDINGS:     MOTION
TO DISCHARGE STAKEHOLDER
MOVING PARTY:   Plaintiff
North American Company for Life and Health Insurance
RESP. PARTY:         None
 
Motion TO DISCHARGE
STAKEHOLDER
(CCP §§ 386)
 
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Plaintiff North American Company for Life and Health Insurance’s Motion to Discharge is GRANTED. 
 
SERVICE:
 
[X]
Proof of Service Timely Filed (CRC, rule 3.1300)                      OK
[X]
Correct Address (CCP §§ 1013, 1013a)                                      OK
[X]
16/21 Court Days Lapsed (CCP §§ 12c, 1005(b))                       OK
 
OPPOSITION: None filed as of September 11, 2023.         [   ]
Late                      [X] None
REPLY:          None filed as of September 11, 2023.           [   ] Late                      [X]
None
 
ANALYSIS:
 
I.                   
Background
 
On January 5, 2023, Plaintiff North American Company for
Life and Health Insurance (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint for Interpleader against
Defendants Kelly N. Graham-Lawrence (“Kelly”) and Scott A. Graham (“Scott”). 
 
On May 16, 2023, Scott filed an answer.  On May 26, 2023, Kelly answered. 
 
On August 4, 2023, Plaintiff filed the instant Motion to
Discharge Stakeholder (“Motion”).  
No opposition has been filed to Plaintiff’s Motion.
 
II.                
Legal
Standard
 
“An interpleader action is traditionally viewed as two
suits: one between the stakeholder and the claimants to determine the
stakeholder's right to interplead, and the other among the claimants to
determine who shall receive the funds interpleaded ... As against the
stakeholder, claimants may raise only matters which go to whether the suit is
properly one for interpleader; i.e., whether the elements of an interpleader
action are present.”  (State Farm Fire & Cas. Co. v. Pietak
(2001) 90 Cal.App.4th 600, 612.)
 
If the stakeholder claims no interest in
the funds or property held, he or she need not file an interpleader
cross-complaint.  He or she may simply apply to the court for permission
to deposit the money or property with the court clerk, and for an order
discharging him or her from further liability to the adverse claimants. 
Such an order will also substitute the adverse claimants as parties to the
action; or, if only money is involved, simply dismiss the stakeholder. 
(Code Civ. Proc., §§ 386(a), 386.5.)
 
The motion must be supported by an affidavit by the
stakeholder establishing the ground for interpleader.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 386, subd. (a).) 
The supporting affidavit must also state that the moving party is “a
mere stakeholder with no interest in the amount or any portion thereof and that
conflicting demands have been made upon him for the amount by parties to the
action…”  (Code Civ. Proc., §
386.5.)  Notice of the motion must be
served on each of the adverse claimants to the funds or property.  (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 386, subd. (a),
386.5.)  
 
“Where a deposit has been made pursuant to Section 386,
the court shall, upon the application of any party to the action, order such
deposit to be invested in an insured interest-bearing account.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 386.1.)
 
III.             
Discussion

 
A.     Motion to Discharge
 
The subject matter of the instant Motion is a $24,921.59 death
benefit from an annuity contract. (Motion, pg. 2, ¶ 4.) Scott and Kelly are
siblings, and the decedent is their father. (Decl. Zook-Ballou, ¶¶ 7, 10.) 
 
Plaintiff filed a Complaint in Interpleader naming the
following claimants to the bond:
 
1.      Kelly N. Graham-Lawrence
2.      Scott A. Graham. 
 
Plaintiff states that it “is indifferent as to which of
the claimants is entitled to the proceeds of the Annuity Contract and is only
interested in paying and discharging its admitted liability under the Annuity
Contract once; however, it has been unable to do so by reason of the adverse
and conflicting claims of the Defendants and thus filed a Complaint for
Interpleader.”  (Decl. Zook-Ballou
¶19.)  
 
Plaintiff has served the moving papers on Scott and Kelly
via U.S. mail and electronic mail.  
 
Plaintiff
asserts it has deposited the funds with the court. (Motion, pg. 2, ¶ 4.) On January 9, 2023, it provided notice of the deposit. 
 
Plaintiff North American Company for Life and Health Insurance’s Motion to Discharge is GRANTED. 
 
IV.             
Conclusion
& Order
 
Plaintiff North American Company for Life and Health Insurance’s Motion to Discharge is GRANTED. 
 
Moving party is ordered to give
notice.