 Case Number:  22STLC07186    Hearing Date:   October 24, 2023    Dept:  25 PROCEEDINGS:     [Motion to Set Aside/Vacate Default and Default Judgment]
 
MOVING PARTY:     Plaintiff Sunrun
Installation Services, Inc.
RESP. PARTY:           Defendant Alejandro
Salazar 
 
[Motion to Vacate Dismissal] 
(CCP § 473) 
 
TENTATIVE
RULING: Plaintiff’s motion to vacate the default and
default judgment under CCP § 473(b) is GRANTED. 
 
SERVICE:   
 
[  x ] Proof of Service Timely Filed (CRC, rule 3.1300)                               [OK] 
[  x ] Correct Address (CCP §§ 1013, 1013a)                                                [OK] 
[ x  ] 16/21 Court Days Lapsed (CCP §§ 12c, 1005(b))                                 [OK] 
 
OPPOSITION:          Filed on ___________                                    [   ] Late          [ x ] None.
 
REPLY:                     Filed on ___________                                    [   ] Late          [ x  ] None.
¿ 
 
BACKGROUND 
 
            On October 28, 2022,
Plaintiff Sunrun Installation Services, Inc. (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint
against Defendant Alejandro Salazar (“Defendant”) for a breach of contract
dispute.  
 
            On January 27, 2023,
Plaintiff filed its Proof of Service showing Defendant was personally served
with a copy of the Summons and Complaint on December 22, 2022.  (Garan Decl., ¶ 3.) 
Defendant did not timely file an Answer to Plaintiff’s Complaint. 
 
            On May 17, 2023, Plaintiff sought,
and the Court entered its Request for Entry of Default as to the Defendant. (Garan
Decl., ¶¶ 4, 5.) On or about May 25, 2023, Plaintiff submitted its Default
Judgment Package to the Court. (Garan
Decl., ¶ 6.)  
 
            On or about June 1, 2023, counsel
for Plaintiff was informed by Plaintiff that Debtor had been in direct
communications with Plaintiff related to the Complaint sometime after the
request for entry of default was entered, and that the parties had resolved
issues related to the Complaint. As such, Plaintiff wished to vacate the
default, withdraw the Default Judgment Package, and Dismiss the Case without
prejudice. (Garan Decl., ¶ 7.)  
 
On or about June
2, 2023, the Court entered Judgement against the Defendant pursuant to the
Default Package; however, counsel for Plaintiff had not yet been able to
contact the Court to withdraw the Judgment Package or file a Motion to Vacate
the Default. Accordingly, this Motion is for that purpose. (Garan Decl., ¶¶ 8, 9.)     
 
On July 07, 2023,
Plaintiff filed the instant motion to vacate default and default judgment. 
 
Grounds for Motion 
 
Plaintiff moves to vacate the dismissal under CCP § 473(b) on the grounds
that the action was dismissed because of its attorney’s inadvertence. 
 
LEGAL STANDARD 
 
“The court may, upon any terms as may be just, relieve a party or his or
her legal representative from a judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding
taken against him or her through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
excusable neglect. Application for this relief shall be accompanied by a copy
of the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed therein, otherwise the
application shall not be granted, and shall be made within a reasonable time,
in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment, dismissal, order, or
proceeding was taken.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 473(b).)  
 
The court has broad discretion to vacate the entry of default, default
judgment or a dismissal, but that discretion can be exercised only if the
defendant establishes a proper ground for relief, by the proper procedure and
within the set time limits. Pursuant to CCP section 473(b), a motion to set
aside/vacate cannot be brought more than 6 months after the entry of default
and must be made within a “reasonable time.” 
 
CCP section 473(b) provides that when an application for relief is made
no more than six months after entry of dismissal and is accompanied by an
attorney’s sworn affidavit attesting to his or her mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or neglect, the court shall set aside a dismissal entered against the
attorney’s client, unless the court finds that the default or dismissal was not
in fact caused by the attorney’s mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 473(b).) “The court shall, whenever relief is granted based
on an attorney's affidavit of fault, direct the attorney to pay reasonable
compensatory legal fees and costs to opposing counsel or parties.” 
 
Where an “attorney¿affidavit of fault” is filed, there is no requirement
that the¿attorney's¿mistake, inadvertence, or neglect be excusable.
Relief¿must¿be granted even where the default or dismissal resulted
from¿inexcusable¿neglect by defendant's¿attorney. (Robert E. Weil, et al.,
California Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial ¶ 5:495 (2018).) 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
Plaintiff moves to vacate the dismissal under Code
of Civil Procedure section 473, subd. (b) on the grounds that the action was
dismissed because of its attorney’s inadvertence.  Plaintiff’s counsel admits that without his
knowledge the Debtor had been in direct contact with the Plaintiff and had
resolved the issues contained within the Complaint. (Garan
Decl., ¶ 7.)  Counsel avers that the
Court entered Judgment against the Defendant before Plaintiff’s Counsel had
been able to contact the Court to withdraw the Judgment Package.  (Garan Decl., ¶ 8.) 
 
 Further, as required by statute, the Motion was within the 6
months of the order, as the Default was entered on June 2, 2023, and this
Motion was filed on July 7, 2023. Therefore, Counsel attests that the order was
due to his inadvertence and has filed a declaration in support of his
inadvertence.
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subd.
(b), the court may “upon any terms as may be just, relieve a party or his or
her legal representative from a judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding
taken against him or her through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
excusable neglect.” The
order is against the stated interest of Plaintiff and Plaintiff’s counsel
because Plaintiff’s counsel was unable to contact the court to withdraw the judgment
package or file a motion to vacate the default before judgment was
entered. 
 
Thus, the Court grants the motion. 
 
CONCLUSION  Plaintiff’s motion to vacate the default
and default judgment under CCP § 473(b) is GRANTED. Order to show Cause Re: Dismissal of this entire action is scheduled for January 18, 2024 at 9:30 a.m. in Department 25 of the Spring Street Courthouse
Counsel for Plaintiff is ordered to give notice. 