 BACKGROUND On March 23, 2023, arbitrator Bernard J. Bonn (“Arbitrator”) issued an arbitration award awarding Petitioner Forward Financing, LLC (“Petitioner”) damages of $22,672.52 to be paid by Respondents Meriad Solutions, Inc. dba The Bissell House Bed and Breakfast and William Hoyman (“Respondents”).   On June 20, 2023, Petitioner filed the instant Petition to Confirm Arbitration Award. ANALYSIS I.                   Legal Standard“Regardless of the particular relief granted, any arbitrator’s award is enforceable only when confirmed as a judgment of the superior court.”  (O’Hare v. Municipal Resource Consultants¿(2003) 107 Cal.App.4th 267, 278.)  “Once a petition to confirm an award is filed, the superior court must select one of only four courses of action: it may confirm the award, correct and confirm it, vacate it, or dismiss the petition.”  (EHM Productions, Inc. v. Starline Tours of Hollywood, Inc.¿(2018) 21 Cal.App.5th 1058, 1063.)  “It is well settled that the scope of judicial review of arbitration awards is extremely narrow.”  (California Faculty Assn. v. Superior Court¿(1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 935, 943.)  “Neither the trial court, nor the appellate court, may ‘review the merits of the dispute, the sufficiency of the evidence, or the arbitrator’s reasoning, nor may we correct or review an award because of an arbitrator’s legal or factual error, even if it appears on the award’s face.”  (EHM Productions, supra, at p. 1063-64.) II.                Discussion A.     Filing Requirements (Code Civ. Proc., § 1285.4)Code of Civil Procedure, section 1285.4 states: “A petition under this chapter shall:  a.                   Set forth the substance of or have attached a copy of the agreement to arbitrate unless the petitioner denies the existence of such an agreement. b.                  Set forth the names of the arbitrators. c.                   Set forth or have attached a copy of the award and the written opinion of the arbitrators, if any.”  Petitioner states that Petitioners and respondents entered into a written agreement to arbitrate on May 5, 2022, and agreed to submit any disputes or claims to arbitration administered by the American Arbitration Association. (Pet., ¶ 4, Attachment 4(b), ¶ 10.) The Petition sets forth the name of the Arbitrator, Bernard J. Bonn. (Pet., ¶ 6.) On March 23, 2023, the Arbitrator entered the award requiring Respondent to pay Petitioner $22,672.52. (Pet., ¶ 8, Attachment 8(c).) The Award is attached as Attachment 8(c). Thus, the filing requirements of Section 1285.4 have been satisfied.   B.     Service of the Petition and Notice of Hearing (Code Civ. Proc. § 1290.4)    Code of Civil Procedure, section 1290.4 states, in pertinent part:  “(a) A copy of the petition and a written notice of the time and place of the hearing thereof and any other papers upon which the petition is based shall be served in the manner provided in the arbitration agreement for the service of such petition and notice. (b) If the arbitration agreement does not provide the manner in which such service shall be made and the person upon whom service is to be made has not previously appeared in the proceeding and has not previously been served in accordance with this subdivision: (1) Service within this State shall be made in the manner provided by law for the service of summons in an action.  (2) Service outside this State shall be made by mailing the copy of the petition and notice of hearing and other papers by registered or certified mail. Personal service is the equivalent of such service by mail. Proof of service by mail shall be made by affidavit showing such mailing together with the return receipt of the United States Post Office bearing the signature of the person on whom service was made…”              Here, the Arbitration Agreement does not provide the manner in which service shall be made. The Petition and notice of hearing were served by substituted service on Respondent William Hoyman. (7/14/23 Proof of Service.) The Petition and notice of hearing were served on Respondent Meriad Solutions by personal service. (7/28/23 Proof of Service.) Service of a summons may be accomplished by personal service, by substitute service, by mail with acknowledgment of receipt, or by publication. (Code Civ. Proc., § 415.10, et seq.)  The service requirements of Section 1290.4 have been satisfied.   C.     Service of the Arbitration Award & Timeliness of Petition (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 1283.6, 1288, 1288.4) Code of Civil Procedure section 1283.6 provides that: “The neutral arbitrator shall serve a signed copy of the award on each party to the arbitration personally or by registered or certified mail or as provided in the agreement.” In addition, a party may seek a court judgment confirming an arbitration award by filing and serving a petition no more than four years, but not less than 10 days, after the award is served. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 1288, 1288.4.)   Here, although the Petition indicates that the signed award was served on Petitioner on March 23, 2023, the Arbitration Award does not include a proof of service or any other indication demonstrating the Arbitrator properly served a copy of the award on the parties. Thus, Petitioner has not satisfied the requirements of Sections 1283.6.   III.       Conclusion                       As such, the Court CONTINUES the motion to confirm the arbitration award to allow Petitioner to submit Proof of Service of the Arbitration Award. At least 16 court days before the continued hearing, Petitioner must file and serve supplemental papers as requested herein.  Failure to do so will result in the Petition being placed off calendar or denied.             Petitioner is ordered to give notice.