  Case Number:  BC701615    Hearing Date:   May 23, 2024    Dept:  57 Pending
before the Court are the motions of (1) Todd Wakefield (“Wakefield”),  and (2) Joseph Barrett and the Barrett Law
Firm (“Barrett Defendants”) for summary judgment, or alternatively, summary
adjudication.  For the reasons set forth
below, both the Wakefield motion and the Barrett Defendants’ motion are denied.
WAKEFIELD
MOTION 
The only
evidence that Wakefield presented in support of his motion was his own
declaration.  Wakefield’s declaration does
not, however, comply with Code of Civil Procedure Section 2015.5.  As a result, the declaration cannot be
considered as evidence in support of Wakefield’s motion.
Subjection
to exceptions that are inapplicable here, Section 2015.5 prescribes the form of
the certification that must accompany any affidavit or declaration that California
law permits to be filed as support for any matter.  California law permits a party moving for
summary judgment or summary adjudication to submit affidavits or declarations
in support of the motion  (Section 437c(b)(1).)  Thus, Section 2015.5 applies to such
affidavits or declarations.  
Section 2015.5
states that an unsworn affidavit or declaration is acceptable, provided that the
affiant of declarant certifies or declares in writing that that affidavit or
declaration is “true under penalty of perjury, is subscribed by him or her, and
(1) if executed within [California], states the date and place of execution, or
(2) if executed at any place, within or without [California], states the date
of execution and that it is so certified or declared under the laws of the State
of California.”  Section 2015.5 then goes
on to say that “[t]he certification or declaration may be in substantially the
following form:
(a) If
executed within this state:
‘I certify
(or declare) under penalty of perjury that the foregoing is true and correct.’
 
_________                              
_____________________
(Date and
Place)                            (Signature
(b) If
executed at any place, within or without this state:
 
‘I certify
(or declare) under penalty of perjury under the laws of the State of California
that the foregoing is true and correct.’
_______________            _________________________
(Date)                                 (Signature).”
Section
2015.5 was adopted to enable affiants and declarants to bypass the “cumbersome”
process of obtaining a notary public to administer an oath to the affiant or declarant.  (Kulshrestha v. First Union Commercial Corp.
(2004) 33 Cal.4th 601, 609 [“Kulshrestha”].)  An affidavit or declaration that meets the
Section 2015.5 specifications is treated the same as one that is “administered under
oath.” (Id. at p. 610.)  As the text
the statute and the model forms set forth therein plainly indicate, however, an
affidavit or declaration “is defective under [S]ection 2015.5 absent an express
facial link to California or its perjury laws.” 
(Id. at p. 612.)
Wakefield’s
declaration is defective under Section 2015.5 because it does not comply the
specifications of the statute.   The declaration
simply contains Wakefield’s signature, and nothing more.  The declaration does not state that it was
executed in California (the first statutory alternative).  Nor does it state that it was executed under
penalty of perjury under the law of California (the second statutory alternative).
Because
Wakefield’s declaration is non-compliant with Section 2015.5, it has no
evidentiary value for purposes of his summary judgment motion.  (Kulshrestha, supra, 33 Cal.4th at p. 612
[trial court properly excluded from consideration in disposing of a summary
judgment motion the plaintiff’s declaration because it failed to comply with
Section 2015.5].)  And because Wakefield’s
non-complaint declaration contains the only evidence that Wakefield presents in
support of his summary judgment motion, the motion must be denied.  (Wakefield’s declaration in support of the
Barrett Defendants’ summary judgment motion does comply with Section 2015.5.)
BARRETT
DEFENDANTS’ MOTION 
A.   Evidentiary Objections to Declarations

Both sides
submitted evidentiary objections to the other side’s declarations. The Court’s
rulings on those objections are as follows:
Plaintiff’s
Evidentiary Objections to the Declaration of Joseph Barrett
Sustained on
hearsay grounds as to Objection numbers 7-11, 13, 18, 20 and 26.
Overruled as
to all other Objections.
Plaintiff’s
Evidentiary Objections to the Declaration of Todd Wakefield
Overruled as
to all of the Objections.
Barrett
Defendants Evidentiary Objections to the Declaration of Plaintiff
Sustained as
to Objection numbers 22-24 on the ground that the allegations  in Plaintiff’s declaration that are the
subject of these Objections are not part of Plaintiff’s operative First Amended
Complaint.  As such, these allegations
may not be advanced to defeat the Barrett Defendants’ summary judgment motion. 
Overruled as
to all other Objections.
Barrett
Defendants’ Evidentiary Objections to the Declaration of Yana Henrix
Sustained on
hearsay grounds as to Objection numbers 2-6, 10, 12-13, and 17-19.
Overruled as
to all other Objections.
B.   Analysis 
In analyzing
the evidence presented by both sides in connection with the Barrett Defendants’
motion, the Court has not considered the evidence in declarations to which the
Court has sustained objections.  Nor has
the Court considered the additional evidence that Plaintiff submitted well
after the close of briefing and shortly before the hearing on the motion. 
1.    Causation
Causation is
an essential element of all of the Plaintiff’s causes of action.  The Barrett Defendants argue that all of the
causes of action fail as a matter of law because the undisputed material facts
show that the Barrett Defendants did not cause Plaintiff’s injuries -- a conviction
felon and co-Defendant named Phillip Layfield was the cause of the injuries.  The Court disagrees with the Barrett
Defendants on what the evidence amassed in connection with their motion shows.
“Causation
is an essential element of a tort action.” (Whitely v. Philip Morris Inc.
(2004) 117 Cal.App.4th 635, 696, citations omitted.) A defendant is not liable
“unless [his or her] conduct . . . was a ‘legal cause’ of plaintiff’s injury.”
(Ibid., citation omitted.) “A substantial factor in causing harm is a
factor that a reasonable person would consider to have contributed to the
harm.” (Sanchez v. Kern Emergency Medical Transportation Corp. (2017) 8
Cal.App.5th 146, 168.)  A defendant’s
conduct will not be deemed a substantial factor in causing the plaintiff’s harm
“if the same harm would have occurred without that conduct.” (Yanez v.
Plummer (2013) 221 Cal.App.4th 180, 187.) 
“[I]f a defendant’s negligence was a substantial factor in causing the
plaintiff’s harm, then the defendant is responsible for the harm; a defendant
cannot avoid responsibility just because some other person, condition, or event
was also a substantial factor in causing the plaintiff’s harm.” (Ibid.)  “No one can take advantage of his own wrong.”
(Civ. Code § 3517.) “[C]ausation . . . is ordinarily a question of fact which
cannot be resolved by summary judgment. The issue of causation may be decided
as a question of law only if, under undisputed facts, there is no room for a
reasonable difference of opinion.” (Ambriz v. Kelegian (2007) 146
Cal.App.4th 1519, 1531-1532.) 
In support
of their motion, the Barrett Defendants present evidence that, in mid-2015,
Defendant Barrett was recruited by Defendant Layfield to join his law firm,
then known as Layfield & Wallace. (Barrett Decl., ¶ 5.) Beginning in
mid-March and April 2017 and continuing through July of 2017, Defendant Barrett
learned that Layfield was late in making some payments to cover certain
ordinary expenses of the firm. (Barrett Decl., ¶ 11.) 
The Barrett Defendants
also present evidence that on February 24, 2017, the firm of Layfield and
Barrett  received a $1.35 million
settlement payment in the litigation in which the firm was representing
Plaintiff, and that sum was deposited into the firm’s IOLTA account. (England
Decl., ¶¶ 3-4; Exhs. C and D.) By March 14, 2017, less than 20 days later,
there was not enough money in the IOLTA account to pay Plaintiff. (England
Decl., ¶ 3; Exh. C.) The Barrett Defendants also present the undisputed fact
that Defendant Layfield stole the money from the firm’s IOLTA account. (England
Decl., ¶ 4; Exh. D-1.) Approximately three weeks after the settlement check was
deposited, the balance on the IOLTA account had dwindled to approximately
$63,000.00. (England Decl., ¶ 3; Exh. C.)
In
opposition to the Motion, Plaintiff presents evidence that he won $3,650,000.00
from a jury verdict in the litigation in which he was represented by the firm.  (Pimentel Decl., ¶ 2.) Plaintiff alleges that
a mediation occurred, which he did not have knowledge of, and Defendant Barrett
informed Plaintiff that he did not have to be at the mediation. (Pimentel
Decl., ¶ 5.) Plaintiff alleges that Defendants Barrett and Layfield, without
his knowledge or consent, agreed with State Farm to go to mediation and
negotiated the jury verdict to a $1.35 million settlement offer. (Pimentel
Decl., ¶ 8.) Plaintiff alleges that Defendant Barrett pressured him to sign the
settlement agreement in the Underlying Action. (Pimentel Decl., ¶ 10.)
Plaintiff states that Defendant Barrett falsely represented to him that a
settlement check would be issued approximately 30 days after the signing of the
settlement agreement and that he would not receive disbursement until after the
liens were subsequently negotiated. (Pimentel Decl., ¶ 12.) Plaintiff alleges
that he never saw the settlement check before it was deposited into the L&B
trust account, that he did not sign the back of the check, and that Defendant
Barrett knew that he never signed the back of the settlement check. (Pimentel
Decl., ¶ 12; Exh. B.) Plaintiff further declares that he would have never
signed the settlement agreement but for pressure from Defendant Barrett urging
him to sign. (Pimentel Decl., ¶ 28.)
Based on
this evidence, the Court concludes that Plaintiff does not merely rely on the
stolen settlement proceeds as the basis for his causes of action against the
Barrett Defendants. Plaintiff alleges other wrongs -- such as the pressure to
sign the settlement agreement and the lack of knowledge of the mediation in the
Underlying Action, among others -- that occurred prior to the theft of the
settlement proceeds by Layfield.  Thus,
the mere fact that Defendant Layfield stole Plaintiff’s money does not mean
that the Barrett Defendants were not a substantial factor in causing
Plaintiff’s injuries. Plaintiff has presented evidence that, but for the
pressure of Defendant Barrett, he would not have signed the settlement
agreement that led to the processing of a settlement check that Defendant
Barrett said Plaintiff would receive but that he never received.
All told, the
Court finds that there is a triable issue of material fact as to whether
Defendant Barrett was a substantial factor in causing Plaintiff’s injuries. 
2.     Improper Remedies
The Barrett Defendants argue that
Plaintiff seeks remedies pursuant to the third cause of action for violation of
Business and Professions Code Section 17200 and seventh causes of action for
false advertising ghat are unavailable as a matter of law. (Motion at pp.
10-11.)  The Barrett Defendants are
correct that only injunctive relief and restitution are available to a private
plaintiff for violation of those provisions; damages are unavailable.  
The Barrett Defendants argument
about improper remedies is nevertheless mistaken. In the third cause of action,
Plaintiff seeks restitution and injunctive relief. (FAC, ¶ 67.)  In the seventh cause of action, Plaintiff
seeks “restitution of the money taken and the money and property in which
Plaintiff has a vested interest and any profits of Defendants in which
Plaintiff has an ownership interest.” (FAC, ¶ 91.)
3.     Breach of Contract
The Barret Defendants assert that
the fifth cause of action for breach of contract fails as a matter of law
because there was never a contract between Defendant Barrett and Plaintiff.  The evidence that the Barrett Defendants
submitted in connection with this assertion does not actually support it.   
Plaintiff alleges that he entered
into a contract with Layfield & Wallace on or around September 19, 2014.
(FAC, ¶ 74.)  Plaintiff alleges that
Barrett and other individual Defendants were officers, owners, or authorized representative
of the firm at all relevant times, and upon information and belief, were
parties to the contract and were obligated to perform according to the terms of
the contract. (FAC, ¶ 75.)
The Barrett Defendants present no
evidence that Barrett was never a party to a contract with Plaintiff. The
evidence presented is just a summary of payments owed to Plaintiff and other
clients.  (Separate Statement at No. 84;
England Decl., Exh. D-3 at p. 3.) The Court does not see how this evidence manifests
a lack of a contract between Plaintiff and Defendant Barrett.