  Case Number:  22SMCV01873    Hearing Date:   August 12, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




CASE NUMBER


22SMCV01873




MOTION


Motion for a New Trial




MOVING PARTY


Defendant The Warehouse Restaurant




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff Samantha Dewey-Gartner



 
MOTION
 
            This case arises from an injury
Plaintiff Samantha Dewey-Gartner (“Plaintiff”) sustained when someone stepped
on her foot while she was dining at the restaurant of Defendant The Warehouse
Restaurant (“Defendant”).  Following a
bench trial, the Court entered judgment on June 12, 2024 in favor of Plaintiff
and against Defendant.  
 
            Defendant moves for a new
trial.  Plaintiff opposes the motion and
Defendant replies.
 
LEGAL
STANDARDS – NEW TRIAL
 
“As the motion for a new trial finds both its source and its
limitations in the statutes . . . , the procedural steps prescribed by law are
mandatory and must be strictly followed.”  (Mercer v. Perez (1968) 68 Cal.2d 104,
118.)   Code of Civil Procedure section 657
provides:
 
The verdict may be vacated and any other decision
may be modified or vacated, in whole or in part, and a new or further trial
granted on all or part of the issues, on the application of the party
aggrieved, for any of the following causes, materially affecting the
substantial rights of such party:
 
1.     Irregularity
in the proceedings of the court, jury or adverse party, or any order of the
court or abuse of discretion by which either party was prevented from having a
fair trial.
 
2.     Misconduct
of the jury; and whenever any one or more of the jurors have been induced to
assent to any general or special verdict, or to a finding on any question
submitted to them by the court, by a resort to the determination of chance,
such misconduct may be proved by the affidavit of any one of the jurors
 
3.     Accident
or surprise, which ordinary prudence could not have guarded against.
 
4.     Newly
discovered evidence, material for the party making the application, which he
could not, with reasonable diligence, have discovered and produced at the
trial.
 
5.     Excessive
or inadequate damages.
 
6.     Insufficiency
of the evidence to justify the verdict or other decision, or the verdict or
other decision is against law.
 
7.     Error
in law, occurring at the trial and excepted to by the party making the
application.
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 658 provides: “When the application is
made for a cause mentioned in the first, second, third and fourth subdivisions
of Section 657, it must be made upon affidavits; otherwise it must be made on
the minutes of the court.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 658.)  As for the timing of the motion, 
 
(a) The party intending to move for a new trial
shall file with the clerk and serve upon each adverse party a notice of his or
her intention to move for a new trial, designating the grounds upon which the
motion will be made and whether the same will be made upon affidavits or the
minutes of the court, or both, either:
 
(1) After the decision is rendered and before the
entry of judgment.
 
(2) Within 15 days of the date of mailing notice
of entry of judgment by the clerk of the court pursuant to Section 664.5, or
service upon him or her by any party of written notice of entry of judgment, or
within 180 days after the entry of judgment, whichever is earliest; provided,
that upon the filing of the first notice of intention to move for a new trial
by a party, each other party shall have 15 days after the service of that
notice upon him or her to file and serve a notice of intention to move for a
new trial.
 
(b) That notice of intention to move for a new
trial shall be deemed to be a motion for a new trial on all the grounds stated
in the notice. The times specified in paragraphs (1) and (2) of subdivision (a)
shall not be extended by order or stipulation or by those provisions of Section
1013 that extend the time for exercising a right or doing an act where service
is by mail.
 
(Code
Civ. Proc., § 659, subd (a).)  
 
Within 10 days of filing the notice, the moving
party shall serve upon all other parties and file any brief and accompanying
documents, including affidavits in support of the motion. The other parties
shall have 10 days after that service within which to serve upon the moving
party and file any opposing briefs and accompanying documents, including
counter-affidavits. The moving party shall have five days after that service to
file any reply brief and accompanying documents. These deadlines may, for good
cause shown by affidavit or by written stipulation of the parties, be extended
by any judge for an additional period not to exceed 10 days.
 
(Code
Civ. Proc., § 659a.)
 
ANALYSIS
 
A.   
Procedural Issues 
 
Following a bench trial, judgment was entered on June 12, 2024.  The Clerk of the Court mailed the Notice of
Entry of Judgment on June 13, 2024.  Defendant
filed a timely Notice of Intent to File Motion for New Trial on June 20, 2024.
 
On June 28, 2024, Defendant timely filed its memorandum of points and
authorities in support of the motion.  Then,
Plaintiff timely filed an opposition brief on the same day.  
 
Thereafter, Defendant filed a reply brief on July 29.  But under Section 659a, Defendant’s reply
brief was due on July 3.  
 
Further, Defendant failed to establish good cause, by affidavit or
written stipulation of the parties, to extend the reply brief deadline.  In any event, even if Defendant established
good cause for an extension, the deadline would have been extended to July 13,
not July 29, per Section 659a.  
 
Therefore, pursuant to Sections 659 and 659a, the Court does not have
the authority to consider the untimely reply brief, and does not do so.
 
B.   
Insufficiency of Evidence
 
Defendant contends there is insufficient
evidence to support the Judgment pursuant Section 657, subdivision (6) as
follows:

 
·      
Issue 1:  
The Court did not address in its Statement of Decision the effect that
Plaintiff and her companion Earick's alcohol consumption had on their cognitive
and physical abilities concerning perception, short term memory loss, ability
to concentrate, thinking abilities, cognitive processing speed. They reported
that a customer caused the injury in the bathroom, then Plaintiff made a report
that it was an unidentified female "employee" and she wanted free
drinks. Therefore, there was insufficient evidence under Section 657(6) to
support the verdict, and a new trial could be granted.
 
·      
Issue 2:  Plaintiff
never specifically identified the employee that stepped on her foot, which she
could have easily done at the time of the incident. All employees have name
tags while working. It is still a complete mystery who caused her injury.
Therefore, there was insufficient evidence under Section 657(6) to support the
liability of defendant and the verdict, and a new trial should be granted.
 
Foremost, as the Court indicated in the Statement of Decision:   “A
statement of decision need not address all the legal and factual issues raised
by the parties. Instead, it need do no more than state the grounds upon which
the judgment rests, without necessarily specifying the particular evidence
considered by the trial court in reaching its decision.  A trial court rendering a statement of
decision under section 632 is required to state only ultimate rather than
evidentiary facts because findings of ultimate facts necessarily include
findings on all intermediate evidentiary facts necessary to sustain them.  In other words, a trial court rendering a
statement of decision is required only to set out ultimate findings rather than
evidentiary ones.”  (Muzquiz v. City
of Emeryville (2000) 79 Cal.App.4th 1106, 1124–1125 [cleaned up] (hereafter
Muzquiz).)  
 
In Peak-Las Positas Partners v. Bollag, the defendant argued “that
the statement of decision does not discuss all the evidentiary and legal issues
raised in his written objections.”  But
the Court of Appeal did not find the defendant’s contention to be convincing as
“a trial court is required only to state ultimate facts and the legal
grounds upon which the judgment rests.”  (Peak-Las Positas Partners v. Bollag
(2009) 172 Cal.App.4th 101, 112, emphasis added (hereafter Bollag).) [1]
 
Here, Defendant fails to proffer any argument or supporting authority warranting
a departure from the edicts pronounced by Bollag and Muzquiz
regarding the adequacy of Statements of Decision, including the subject
Statement.  
 
In short, the Court has set forth the ultimate facts upon which the
Judgment rests.  The Court is not
required to answer any of the issues or the sub-issues as posed by Defendant.[2]
 
C.   
Error In Law
 
Defendant contends the Court committed errors in law, occurring at the
trial and excepted to by the party making the application under Section 657,
subdivision (7) as follows:
 
·      
The trial Court striking the testimony of OROZCO
constituted was an omission of a material fact as a matter of law, and allowed
the Court to accept a misrepresentation of material evidence in the case in
support a non-proven inference of a fact not in evidence under Code of Civil
Procedure, Section 657(7). Error in law, occurring at the trial, and excepted
to by the party making the application in Statement of Decision.
 
            The Court finds Defendant’s
contention as stated above to be nonsensical, and at best, fallacious.  
 
            First, Defendant does not identify
the specific law or question of law upon which this Court made an error.  (See Defendant’s Memorandum of Points &
Authorities, pp.16-20.)  Second, the
Court did not “strike” any testimony of Paola Orozco, and Defendant fails to
cite to the record, or the Statement of Decision, where the Court did so.  
 
 
 
D.   
Excessive or Inadequate Damages
 
Defendant argues that the Court’s award of damages in the form of “lost
earnings” is unsupported by the evidence. 
(See Defendant’s Memorandum of Points & Authorities, pp.20-22.)  Again, the Court finds Defendant’s contention
to be nonsensical, and at best, specious. 

 
First, the Court did not specifically award “lost earnings” to
Plaintiff.  Second, the Court awarded
Economic Damages to Plaintiff in the amount of $8,810, which encompasses Plaintiff’s
 health care expenses and loss of
earnings.  Third, the Court does not find
any basis to view with distrust Plaintiff’s evidence in support of her claim
for damages, and Defendant has not convinced the Court that it should do so,
especially when Defendant did not advance any evidence calling into doubt the
veracity of Plaintiff’s evidence regarding the harm caused by Defendant’s
breach of the duty of care.   
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
            For the foregoing reasons, the Court
denies Defendant’s motion for a new trial. 
The Clerk of the Court shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling.       
 
 
DATED:  August 12, 2024                             ___________________________
                                                                  Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                  Judge
of the Superior Court


