  Case Number:  19STCV02691    Hearing Date:   April 30, 2024    Dept:  31 DEPT:   31 OSC DATE:  04/30/2024 CASE NAME/NUMBER:  19STCV02691 RYAN NATHAN GOLDSTEIN vs ARIA SERVATJOO, et al.   REQUEST FOR COURT JUDGMENT AGAINST [DEFAULTING PARTY]:  Aria Servatjoo; Nahid Servatjoo; and  Parviz Servatjoo RECOMMENDATION:    DENY for reasons stated below.  TENTATIVE  Plaintiff Ryan Nathan (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendants Aria Servatjoo (“Aria”), Nahid Servatjoo (“Nahid”), and Parviz Servatjoo (“Parviz”) (collectively, “Defendants”) for negligence, assault, battery, intentional infliction of emotional distress, negligent infliction of emotional distress, and negligent supervision.   Plaintiff seeks $228,532 in damages, comprised of $28,532 in special damages, and $200,000 in general damages. Further, Plaintiff seeks $2,143 in costs.   This is Plaintiff’s fourth request for default judgment. The request for default judgment submitted on April 4, 2024 is DENIED for the following reasons:  The complaint alleges, in relevant part, that Aria is the individual who struck Plaintiff in the face with a closed fist, and defendants Parviz and Nahid were the parents of Aria. (Compl. at ¶ 8.) On January 20, 2017, Plaintiff was present at Chumash Park when Aria became agitate, walked up to Plaintiff, and punched Plaintiff in the face. (Id. at ¶10-14.) Plaintiff alleges the parents had the right and authority to control Aria to prevent Aria from inflicting bodily injuries on Plaintiff.  The Court notes its own prior error in identifying Parviz as the person who hit Plaintiff and Aria as the parent, when in fact the complaint alleges that Parviz and Nahid were the parents, and Aria was the person who battered Plaintiff.   California Civil Code 1714.1 provides a statutory cap on the parents and guardians liability for their child’s willful misconduct. However, at issue is that Plaintiff does not establish a basis of liability for Parviz and Nahid as the parents of Aria, because Aria is not alleged to have been a minor at the time of the incident, nor were Parviz and Nahid involved in the incident to impose direct liability. Parental liability ceases once the child reaches the age of majority. (See In re Jeffrey M. (2006) 141 Cal. App. 4th 1017, 1027 [Because statute holding parents liable for damages arising from intentional torts of their children is contrary to the general rule found in the common law that parents are not liable for their children's torts, the statute must be strictly construed.]   A defaulting defendant admits only the well pled facts concerning liability, not damages. (Johnson v. Stanhiser (1999) 72 Cal.App.4th 357, 361.) In other words, where a cause of action is stated in the complaint, plaintiff merely needs to introduce evidence establishing a prima facie case for damages. (Johnson v. Stanhiser (1999) 72 Cal.App.4th 357, 361.) However, at issue here is that the complaint fails to allege a basis of liability against the parents of Aria, because there are no factual allegations demonstrating the parents had breached any duty to Plaintiff arising from Aria’s conduct to contravene the general rule that parents are not liable for their children’s torts. Plaintiff’s counsel’s declaration asserting Aria was indeed a minor at the time of the incident does not cure the issue present on the face of the complaint.   Because Plaintiff has not pled in the complaint a legal basis of liability against Parviz and Nahid, as merely the parents of Aria, the Court is unable to grant judgment as to these defendants. Thus, Plaintiff must decide on how to proceed from here. One potential option is for Plaintiff to amend the complaint to state a cognizable basis of liability upon Parviz and Nahid for the conduct of Aria. However, amending the complaint will void the defaults previously obtained, and Plaintiff will be required to re-serve all named defendants prior to seeking new entries of default should Defendants fail to respond. Another option is to simply dismiss Parviz and Nahid from the complaint, and seek damages against only Aria as the tortfeasor. Plaintiff, through counsel, is to consider the next steps.   Plaintiff is on notice that re-filing the same application for court judgment without any meaningful changes will merit the same analysis.    Plaintiff is ordered to give notice. 