 Case Number:  21STCV03338    Hearing Date:   April 30, 2024    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  THOMAS BERMAN, Plaintiff(s), vs.  CITY OF LOS ANGELES, ET AL., Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) Case No.: 21STCV03338  [TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING UNOPPOSED MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE CROSS-COMPLAINT  Dept. 31 1:30 p.m. April 30, 2024  I. BACKGROUND Plaintiff Thomas Berman filed this action against defendants City of Los Angeles and Does 1 through 100 for damages arising from an alleged dangerous condition of public property. Plaintiff filed amendments to complaint, naming Los Angeles Department of Water & Power as Doe 1, Northwest Excavating, Inc. (“Northwest”) as Doe 2, Skansa, Inc. as Doe 3, Skansa USA, Inc. as Doe 4, and Regional Connector Constructors, Inc. (“RCC”) as Doe 5.   RCC filed its Answer to Plaintiff’s complaint on December 5, 2022.  RCC now seeks leave to file a cross-complaint against Northwest for equitable indemnity, declaratory relief, express indemnity, and implied indemnity. As of April 17, 2024, no opposition has been filed.   II. MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE CROSS-COMPLAINT  Legal Standard A cross-complaint against any of the parties who filed the initial complaint or cross-complaint against the cross-complainant must be filed before or at the same time as the answer to the initial complaint or cross-complaint, which answer must be filed within 30 days of service of the complaint or cross-complaint.  (CCP §§ 412.20(a)(3), 428.50(a), 432.10.)  Any other cross-complaint may be filed at any time before the court has set a trial date.  (CCP §428.50(b).)   If a party fails to file a cross-complaint within the time limits described above, he or she must obtain permission from the court to file the cross-complaint.  (CCP §§ 426.50, 428.50(c).)  Leave to file a mandatory cross-complaint must be granted absent bad faith.  Silver Organizations, Ltd. v. Frank (1990) 217 Cal.App.3d 94, 99.  Leave to file a permissive cross-complaint need only be granted in the interest of justice.  §428.50(c). Discussion RCC contends it should be granted leave to file the cross-complaint against Northwest due to a subcontract in force at the time of the accident between RCC and Northwest. RCC avers that, pursuant to the contract, Northwest was responsible for the placement and maintenance of the metal plate that allegedly caused Plaintiff’s injury, and that RCC had no involvement in the or maintenance of the subject roadway/metal plate at issue. On September 1, 2023, RCC tendered defense of this matter to Northwest, but Northwest did not respond to RCC’s tender letter, thereby prompting the instant motion.   Here, the Court finds that the proposed cross-complaint and complaints arise from the same incident and should be litigated together. There is no evidence RCC has been dilatory in seeking to file the cross-complaint, nor is there any apparent prejudice to any party the filing of the cross-complaint. No parties oppose the motion, and the trial date is currently set for September 23, 2024.   III. CONCUSION  RCC’s motion for leave to file the cross-complaint is GRANTED.  RCC is ordered to file a separate copy of the cross-complaint within ten (10) days.    Moving party is ordered to give notice.    PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 29th day of April 2024      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court    