 Case Number:  22STCV6414A    Hearing Date:   September 25, 2024    Dept:  39  TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPARTMENT


39




HEARING DATE


September
  25, 2024




CASE NUMBER


22STCV26414




MOTION


Motion
  for Summary Judgment, or, in the Alternative, Summary Adjudication




MOVING PARTIES


Defendant
  Medical Management International, Inc.




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff
  Nina Pusateri



 BACKGROUND
Plaintiff Nina
Pusateri (“Plaintiff”) sued Defendant Medical Management International, Inc. (“Defendant”)
for employment claims.  Plaintiff worked as
a veterinarian at Defendant’s veterinary hospital.  Plaintiff alleges she discovered prescription
medications were dispensed under her name without her knowledge or permission,
and Defendant retaliated against Plaintiff for raising concerns about this
practice by terminating her employment.  
Defendant moves
for summary judgment on Plaintiff’s operative complaint, or, in the
alternative, summary adjudication of the causes of action for retaliation and
intentional infliction of emotional distress, as well as the claim for punitive
damages.  Plaintiff opposes the motion.
LEGAL STANDARD – MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT
“[T]he party moving for summary judgment bears the
burden of persuasion that there is no triable issue of material fact and that
he is entitled to judgment as a matter of law[.] There is a triable issue of
material fact if, and only if, the evidence would allow a reasonable trier of
fact to find the underlying fact in favor of the party opposing the motion in
accordance with the applicable standard of proof.”  (Aguilar v.
Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.)  “[T]he party
moving for summary judgment bears an initial burden of production to make a
prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact;
if he carries his burden of production, he causes a shift, and the opposing
party is then subjected to a burden of production of his
own to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a triable issue of
material fact.”  (Ibid.)  
EVIDENCE
            Defendant’s
objections to Plaintiff’s evidence are overruled.
DISCUSSION
First Cause of Action: Retaliation
            To
prevail on a claim for retaliation, Plaintiff must allege Plaintiff engaged in
a protected activity; Defendant subjected Plaintiff to an adverse employment
action; and there is a causal link between the two.  (Thompson v. City of Monrovia (2010)
186 Cal.App.4th 860, 874; Patten v. Grant Joint Union High School Dist.
(2005) 134 Cal.App.4th 1378, 1384.)  In
the instant case, Plaintiff has asserted her retaliation claim pursuant to Labor
Code section 1102.5, the “whistleblower” statute.  To do so, Plaintiff must disclose “reasonably
based suspicions of illegal activity [and] [to] have a reasonably based
suspicion of illegal activity, the employee must be able to point to some legal
foundation for [her] suspicion--some statute, rule or regulation which may have
been violated by the conduct [s]he disclosed.”  (Ross v. County of Riverside (2019) 36
Cal.App.5th 580, 592, internal quotations and citations omitted.)  Defendant may defeat Plaintiff’s claim for
retaliation by demonstrating with clear and convincing evidence Defendant “would
have taken the action in question for legitimate, independent reasons even had
the plaintiff not engaged in protected activity.”  (See Lawson v. PPG Architectural Finishes,
Inc. (2022) 12 Cal.5th 703, 712, 718 [the Court of Appeal held Labor Code
section 1102.6, and not the burden shifting framework in the McDonnell Douglas
v. Green (1973) 411 U.S. 792 case, supplies the framework for adjudicating a
whistleblower claim] .)
In support its motion,
Defendant advances Plaintiff’s deposition testimony where Plaintiff testified she
had longstanding issues with the practice manager (Teresa Montoya (“Montoya”))
of the animal hospital where Plaintiff worked, and Plaintiff had been “trying
to bring up to the higher-ups all the incorrect problematic things that
[Montoya had] been doing wrong because there [are] a lot of things she’s done
poorly at her job . . . .”  (Compendium
of Evidence in Support of Motion for Summary Judgment, or, in the Alternative,
Summary Adjudication of Issues (Compendium), Exhibit 2, pp. 206, 207, 212.)  Plaintiff also testified at deposition she
understood her supervisors required her to meet in person, and Plaintiff
refused to do so (id.,  Exhibit 3,
pp. 407-409); and she understood her refusal to meet in person could be grounds
for termination, but Plaintiff refused to participate anyway (id.,
Exhibit 3, pp. 420, 424).  
Defendant also
advances the testimony of Taneeka Bautista (“Bautista”), another veterinarian
who worked for Defendant and supervised Plaintiff.  Bautista testified at her deposition she
participated in the decision to terminate Plaintiff’s employment (Compendium,
Exhibit 4, p. 82); and Defendant terminated Plaintiff’s employment because Plaintiff
left work early without permission and refused to meet in person with Plaintiff’s
direct manager, Lisette Farve (“Farve”), or Bautista (id., Exhibit 4, p.
85).   
Taken together,
this evidence meets Defendant’s burden of showing Plaintiff cannot prevail on
her claim for retaliation because Defendant terminated Plaintiff for non-discriminatory
reasons.  Defendant, therefore, shifted
the burden to Plaintiff to raise triable issues of material fact as to whether
Defendant’s termination of Plaintiff was due to Plaintiff’s reporting of issues
concerning Defendant’s practices prescribing medications.
In opposition,
Plaintiff presented her own declaration wherein Plaintiff concedes she refused
to meet in person with Farve or Bautista but relates her refusal to do so “should
not matter if the conversation was in person or over email . . . .”  (Declaration of Nina Pusateri, ¶ 43.)  This evidence does not raise triable issues
of fact as to whether Defendant retaliated against Plaintiff because Plaintiff
does not dispute she refused Defendant’s requirement of an in-person meeting.  In this regard, Plaintiff cannot raise
triable issues of material fact by citing inferences “derived from speculation,
conjecture, imagination, or guesswork.” (Joseph E. Di Loreto, Inc. v.
O'Neill (1991) 1 Cal.App.4th 149, 161.)
Nonetheless, the
circumstances of this case are such that the Court can infer retaliatory intent
from circumstantial evidence.  As set
forth above, Defendant was aware of Plaintiff’s report of the issuance of prescriptions
that identified Plaintiff as the prescribing physician when Plaintiff had not
prescribed the drugs, which is forbidden. 
(See, e.g., Cal. Code Regs., tit. 16, § 2032.25, subd. (a) [“Absent
establishing a veterinarian-client-patient relationship . . ., prescribing, dispensing,
or furnishing dangerous drugs . . .  constitutes
unprofessional conduct”].)  Given Defendant
was aware of Plaintiff’s report, the proximity in time between when Plaintiff
reported this wrongful conduct and Plaintiff’s termination is circumstantial
evidence of retaliatory intent.  (See Morgan
v. Regents of Univ. of Calif. (2000) 88 Cal.App.4th 52, 69[““The causal
link may be established by an inference derived from circumstantial evidence, ‘such
as the employer’s knowledge that the [employee] engaged in protected activities
and the proximity in time between the protected action and allegedly
retaliatory employment decision’””].)  
In reply,
Defendant argues temporal proximity is insufficient.  However, the authority Defendant cites in
support of this contention suggests otherwise. 
For example, Defendant Points out Zirpel v. Alki David Productions,
Inc. (2023) 93 Cal.App.5th 563, in which the Court of Appeal stated, “Temporal
proximity alone, when very close, can in some instances establish a prima facie
case of retaliation.”  (Id., at p.
578, internal quotations and citation omitted.) 
In this case, the events at issue unfolded rapidly.  Defendant also argues Plaintiff cannot rely
on temporal proximity because Plaintiff disobeyed Defendant’s requirement to
meet in person.  In support of this
argument, Defendant relies on federal opinions that are not from the Supreme
Court of the United States.  Such
decisions do not have binding authority with respect to this Court.  (Mesler v. Bragg Mgt. Co. (1985) 39
Cal.3d 290, 299; see also Ferruzzo, Inc. v. Superior Court (1980) 104
Cal.App.3d 501, 503 [“Neither federal district court procedures nor decisions
are binding on this court”].)  Likewise,
“a written trial court ruling has no precedential value . . . .” (Santa Ana
Hospital Medical Center v. Belshe (1997) 56 Cal.App.4th 819, 831.)  
While the record Defendant
presents shows the efforts it undertook to address the concerns Plaintiff
raised and the opportunities it afforded Plaintiff to participate in in-person
meetings, this court cannot say as a matter of law Plaintiff has not raised a
triable issue of material fact concerning whether Defendant retaliated against
her for reporting issues concerning the prescribing of medications.  Therefore, under the circumstances of this
case, the trier of fact must have the opportunity to determine whether
Defendant’s termination was retaliatory or for legitimate reasons based on
Plaintiff’s refusal to engage in an in-person meeting with her superiors.  
Second Cause of Action: Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress (IIED)
“The elements of
the tort of intentional infliction of emotional distress are: (1) extreme and
outrageous conduct by the defendant with the intention of causing, or reckless
disregard of the probability of causing, emotional distress; (2) the
plaintiff's suffering severe or extreme emotional distress; and (3) actual and
proximate causation of the emotional distress by the defendant's outrageous
conduct. Conduct to be outrageous must be so extreme as to exceed all bounds of
that usually tolerated in a civilized community. The defendant must have engaged
in conduct intended to inflict injury or engaged in with the realization that
injury will result.” (Potter v. Firestone Tire & Rubber Co. (1993) 6
Cal.4th 965, 1001, internal quotations and citations omitted.)  Workers’ compensation provides the
exclusive remedy for emotional distress caused by an employer’s conduct in
employment actions when the misconduct attributed to the employer are a normal
part of the employment relationship.  (See
Cole v. Fair Oaks Fire Prot. Dist. (1987) 43 Cal.3d 148, 160.)
As set forth
above, Plaintiff contends Defendant required her to participate in an in-person
meeting regarding her allegations of unlawful conduct in prescribing
prescription medications.  Plaintiff did
not participate, and Defendant terminated Plaintiff’s employment.  Both requirements to attend in-person
meetings and termination are normal parts of the employment process.  As such, Defendant meets its burden of showing
Plaintiff cannot prevail on her claim for IIED because the workers’
compensation exclusivity rule applies.
In opposition,
Plaintiff submitted a declaration in which she states she experienced distress
due to “the treatment [Plaintiff] was receiving from [Defendant]’s management
(not least, the threat of termination) . . . ,” and because Bautista and Farve
“were intending to show up at the hospital . . . and force [Plaintiff] into an
off-the-record oral discussion whether [Plaintiff] wanted it or not.”  (Pusateri Decl., ¶ 45.)  Again, employment termination and requirements
that employees attend in-person meetings are normal aspects of the employment
process, regardless of whether Plaintiff experienced emotional distress.  Therefore, the Court concludes Plaintiff has failed
to raise triable issues of material fact as to whether Plaintiff can prevail on
her claim for IIED.
Punitive Damages
            Defendant
moves to summarily adjudicate Plaintiff’s claim for punitive damages, arguing
Plaintiff cannot recover punitive damages because an officer, director, or
managing agent of Defendant was not involved in the decision to terminate
Plaintiff’s employment.  For purposes of
punitive damages, a managing agent must have “substantial discretionary
authority over significant aspects of a corporation's business.” (Davis v.
Kiewit Pacific Co. (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 358, 366, internal quotations,
citations, and emphasis deleted.)
            In
support of its contention, Defendant presents Bautista’s deposition testimony where
she relates t she did not have the authority to “make policies that would
affect” the veterinary hospital, or to “recommend certain policies that would
affect [Defendant’s] operations.”  (Compendium,
Exhibit 4, p. 23.)  This testimony is
conclusory and vague.  Bautista does not
describe the scope of her authority, as she only offers conclusions.  This evidence fails to meet Defendant’s
burden of showing Plaintiff is not entitled to punitive damages because
Bautista is not a managing agent of Defendant.
Defendant also
argues Plaintiff cannot recover punitive damages because none of the actions
Defendant took with respect to Plaintiff’s employment were intended to harm
Plaintiff.  As set forth above, Plaintiff
raises triable issues of material fact as to whether Defendant terminated
Plaintiff’s employment in retaliation for Plaintiff’s report of wrongful
conduct.  That may constitute extreme and
outrageous conduct, which could support an award of punitive damages.  (See Mathews v. Happy Valley Conference
Center (2019) 43 Cal.App.5th 236, 266 [“punitive damages are recoverable
for a violation of the whistleblower statute”].)
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
Defendant’s motion for summary adjudication
of Plaintiff’s second cause of action is granted.  Defendant’s motion for summary judgment, or,
in the alternative, summary adjudication, is otherwise denied.
Defendant is ordered to give notice of the
Court’s order and to file proof of service of same.