 Case Number:  22STCV08472    Hearing Date:   June 18, 2024    Dept:  48 SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



TRAYVON SMITH, SR., et al., 
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
 
APARTMENT MANAGEMENT GROUP, LLC, et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 22STCV08472
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER OVERRULING DEMURRER; DENYING
  MOTION TO STRIKE
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
June 18, 2024



 
On
March 9, 2022, Plaintiffs filed this action against multiple named defendants and
Doe defendants.  On May 22, 2023, Plaintiffs
named Malin Asset Management Inc. as Doe 1.
On
July 12, 2023, Defendant Malin Asset Management Inc. filed a demurrer and motion
to strike.
DEMURRER
A
demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action.  (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740,
747.)  When considering demurrers, courts
read the allegations liberally and in context, accepting the alleged facts as true.  (Nolte v. Cedars-Sinai Medical Center (2015)
236 Cal.App.4th 1401, 1406.)  A special demurrer
for uncertainty under Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10, subdivision (f) is
disfavored and will only be sustained where the pleading is so bad that defendant
or plaintiff cannot reasonably respond—i.e., cannot reasonably determine what issues
must be admitted or denied, or what counts or claims are directed against him or
her.  (Khoury v. Maly’s of Calif., Inc.
(1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)
Defendant
(formerly Doe 1) demurs to the entire complaint for lack of specific allegations
about its role and involvement.  (Demurrer
at p. 6.)  Defendant specifically refers to
a paragraph that alleges that “Plaintiffs are unaware of the true names, capacities,
or basis for liability of defendants DOES 1 through 60,” and “are informed and believe
and thereon allege that defendants DOES 1 through 60, inclusive, and each of them,
are in some manner liable to Plaintiffs, or claim some right, title, or interest
in the Subject Property that is junior and inferior to that of Plaintiffs, or both.”  (Complaint ¶ 10; see also Code Civ. Proc., § 474
[“When the plaintiff is ignorant of the name of a defendant, he must state that
fact in the complaint . . . and such defendant may be designated in any pleading
or proceeding by any name, and when his true name is discovered, the pleading or
proceeding must be amended accordingly”].)
Plaintiffs
alleges that “Defendant ELOISE WILLIAMS, and DOES 1 through 10, inclusive, is, and
at all times relevant to this action was, an individual and a trustee of the WILLIAMS
TRUST DATED AUGUST 2, 1988 doing business in the County of Los Angeles, State of
California.”  (Complaint ¶ 2.)  “Defendants have been, during all relevant times,
the owners and/or managers of the premises.” 
(Complaint ¶ 8.)  “At all pertinent
times, a Landlord-Tenant relationship existed between Plaintiff and Defendants.”  (Complaint ¶ 9.)  This, along with the fact that all causes of action
are brought against all Defendants, sufficiently alleges Defendant’s identity, role,
and basis for liability.
Additionally,
Plaintiffs allege that each defendant, including the Doe defendants, were “the agent,
servant, employee, partner, joint venturer, alter ego or surety of the other defendants.”  (Complaint ¶ 11.)  Defendant does not challenge this allegation.
The
demurrer is overruled.
MOTION
TO STRIKE
The
court may, upon a motion or at any time in its discretion: (1) strike out any irrelevant,
false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (2) strike out all or any
part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of California,
a court rule, or an order of the court.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 436, subds. (a)-(b).)
Defendant
seeks to strike paragraphs 68, 86, 87, 105, 106, and 121, which relate to punitive
damages, as well as the prayer for punitive damages.  Defendant argues that there are only legal conclusions,
not facts, about malice.  (Motion at p. 7.)
A
plaintiff can recover punitive damages in tort cases where “the defendant has been
guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.” 
(Civ. Code § 3294, subd. (a).)  “The
mere allegation an intentional tort was committed is not sufficient to warrant an
award of punitive damages.  [Citation.]  Not only must there be circumstances of oppression,
fraud or malice, but facts must be alleged in the pleading to support such a claim.  [Citation.]” 
(Grieves v. Superior Court (1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 159, 166, fn. omitted.)
Plaintiffs
allege that they “constantly and consistently complained to the Defendants” about
“slum-housing and untenantable conditions,” but Defendants repeatedly failed to
address or abate the issues.  (Complaint ¶¶
23-24, 26.)  Defendants were notified of many
code violations after investigations by Housing and Community Investment Department,
but Defendants did not remedy the issues. 
(Complaint ¶¶ 32-36, 39-40.)  During
this time, Plaintiffs were “exposed to dilapidated and contaminated conditions,
including the presence of rodents, an infestation of cockroaches and other insects,
and bed bugs.  These vermin made the property
decidedly unsafe.”  (Complaint ¶ 43.)  Defendants knew that bedbugs and other vermin
had infested the property, but they intentionally did nothing to get rid of them.  (Complaint ¶ 119; see Complaint ¶ 48.)  Defendants’ construction also created “excessive
amounts of noise, unsanitary common areas, safety hazards throughout the premises,”
and leaks.  (Complaint ¶ 44.)  These facts, if proven, would support a finding
of oppression or malice.
Defendant
also seeks to strike the prayer for attorney fees because Plaintiffs “cannot
articulate a basis either in contract or statute that Defendant MAM would be
responsible for Plaintiff’s attorney’s fees should Plaintiff prevail.”  (Motion at p. 8.)  The Complaint identifies specific sections of
the Civil Code and Los Angeles Municipal Code that authorize an award of
attorney fees.  (Complaint ¶¶ 68, 76.)
The
motion to strike is denied.                                                 
CONCLUSION
The
demurrer is OVERRULED.
The
motion to strike is DENIED.
Defendant
is ordered to file an answer within 10 days. 
(See California Rules of Court, rule 3.1320(j).)
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 18th day of June 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 