 Case Number:  21STCV40237    Hearing Date:   June 18, 2024    Dept:  48 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIAFOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT SIMON PARSAKAR,                        Plaintiff,            vs. SHLOMO MEIRI,                         Defendant.)))))))))))      CASE NO.: 21STCV40237 [TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING PLAINTIFF’S MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT, OR IN THE ALTERNATIVE, SUMMARY ADJUDICATION Dept. 488:30 a.m.June 18, 2024 On November 1, 2021, Plaintiff Simon Parsakar filed this action against Defendant Shlomo Meiri for breach of a commercial lease.On August 9, 2022, Plaintiff filed a motion for summary judgment, or in the alternative, summary adjudication.  The motion sought summary judgment or adjudication of the first cause of action for breach of lease of action, as well as Defendant’s second, fifth, twelfth, fifteenth, twenty-fifth, and twenty-sixth affirmative defenses.On October 25, 2022, the Court denied Plaintiff’s motion for summary judgment, but it granted summary adjudication of Defendant’s twenty-fifth affirmative defense of breach of contract.On October 3, 2023, the Court granted Plaintiff’s motion to file a first amended complaint (“FAC”).  The FAC added alter ego allegations against Defendants Adriana Sahar Meiri and Adriana Sahar LLC.  It also added eight new causes of action that are additional legal theories for recovery of the same damages (unpaid rent) alleged in the original Complaint.On February 13, 2024, Plaintiff filed another motion for summary judgment, or in the alternative, summary adjudication.  This motion again seeks summary judgment or adjudication of the first cause of action for breach of lease of action, as well as Defendant’s second, fifth, twelfth, fifteenth, twenty-fifth, and twenty-sixth affirmative defenses.  The substance of Plaintiff’s present motion is substantially similar to his prior motion, which the Court largely denied.“A party shall not move for summary judgment based on issues asserted in a prior motion for summary adjudication and denied by the court unless that party establishes, to the satisfaction of the court, newly discovered facts or circumstances or a change of law supporting the issues reasserted in the summary judgment motion.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(2).)The present motion makes no mention of the Court’s October 25, 2022 order on the first motion.  Plaintiff does not clearly present any new facts, new circumstances, or changes in law.To the extent that Plaintiff raises new arguments about the applicability of Ordinance 186606 (Motion at pp. 7-8), this is not a new fact, new circumstance, or change in law.  Rather, Plaintiff is implicitly arguing that the Court incorrectly interpreted Ordinance 186606 in its prior order—without referring to the prior order.  Additionally, although Plaintiff may have served a demand letter on or around March 3, 2023, that is still a demand for the same rent demanded on or about October 18, 2021.  (Complaint ¶ 19; FAC ¶ 22.)Plaintiff wholly failed to address the Court’s order on the first motion and did not clearly explain or establish, to the Court’s satisfaction, any “newly discovered facts or circumstances or a change of law supporting the issues reasserted in the summary judgment motion.”The motion for summary judgment/adjudication is DENIED.Moving party to give notice.Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit.  If all parties in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference) is also on calendar.          Dated this 18th day of June 2024    Hon. Thomas D. LongJudge of the Superior Court  