  Case Number:  23PSCV01053    Hearing Date:   February 2, 2024    Dept:  G Defendant Mt. San Antonio Community College District’s  Demurrer to Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint   Respondent: Plaintiff Allison Oliver   Defendant Mt. San Antonio Community College District’s  Motion to Strike Portions of Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint   Respondent: Plaintiff Allison Oliver   TENTATIVE  RULING   Defendant Mt. San Antonio Community College District’s  Demurrer to Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint is SUSTAINED without leave to  amend.   Defendant Mt. San Antonio Community College District’s  Motion to Strike Portions of Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint is DEEMED  MOOT.   BACKGROUND   This is an employment discrimination action. In the summer  of 2016, Defendant Mt. San Antonio Community College District (Mt. SAC) hired  Plaintiff Allison Oliver as a professor in its kinesiology department with an  option for a tenured position after four years. Oliver also served as Mt. SAC’s  head volleyball coach. In September 2019, Oliver’s union representative  informed Oliver that Mt. SAC had received several complaints from student  athletes that claimed Oliver had used curse words around volleyball players. In  a meeting with human resources representatives and Oliver’s tenure committee,  Mt. SAC’s athletic director, Joe Jennum, told Oliver that Oliver could not use  curse words in front of student athletes. When Oliver’s union representative  inquired if that requirement also applied to other male coaches who used  similar language, Jennum allegedly stated that the ban on curse words only  applied to Oliver.   In October 2019, Oliver attended another meeting with union  representatives where they informed Oliver that student athlete questionnaire  responses had corroborated the allegations that Oliver had used curse words. In  the same month, Mt. SAC placed Oliver on involuntary paid administrative leave  for the remainder of the fall semester. On December 11, 2019, Oliver’s tenure  committee held a final vote that recommended Oliver not receive tenure. In  February 2020, Oliver’s counsel contacted Mt. SAC twice to inform them that the  student athlete complaints were the likely result of gender stereotyping and  bias. Nonetheless, Mt. SAC President William Scroggins recommended denying  tenure for Oliver and on February 26, 2020, Mt. SAC’s Board of Trustees adopted  Scroggins’ recommendation. As a result, Oliver’s employment contract with Mt.  SAC expired on June 30, 2020, and was not renewed.   On April 11, 2023, Oliver filed a complaint against Mt. SAC  as a college and a district as well as Does 1-50, alleging the following causes  of action: (1) gender discrimination, (2) retaliation, (3) failure to prevent  discrimination, (4) failure to conduct adequate investigation, (5) wrongful  termination in violation of public policy, (6) intentional infliction of  emotional distress (IIED), and (7) negligent infliction of emotional distress  (NIED). On August 29, the court sustained Mt. SAC’s  demurrer to the complaint with leave to amend as to the first five causes of  action and without leave to amend as to the last two.   On  September 8, 2023, Oliver filed a First Amended Complaint (FAC) against the  same defendants alleging the same causes of action minus the sixth and seventh.   On October 6, 2023, Mt. SAC filed the present  demurrer and motion to strike. Prior to filing on September 29, Mt. SAC’s  counsel met and conferred telephonically with Oliver’s counsel and was unable  to reach a resolution. (Kostrenich Decl., ¶ 3.) On November 15, the court  continued the hearing on Mt. SAC’s demurrer and motion to strike for parties to  further brief issues of split authority, issue/claim preclusion, and emotional  damages.   A hearing on the demurrer and motion to  strike is set for February 2, 2024, along with a case management conference.   REQUESTS FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE  Mt. SAC requests judicial notice of an  arbitration decision involving Oliver’s claims. The court GRANTS Mt.  SAC’s request pursuant to Evidence Code section 452, subdivision (d). (See  Greenspan v. LADT, LLC (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 486, 525 [noting trial court  properly took judicial notice of an arbitration award].) Oliver’s request for  judicial notice of this court’s ruling on Mt. SAC’s previous demurrer is also GRANTED.   ANALYSIS  Mt. SAC demurs to Oliver’s entire FAC on the  grounds that Oliver failed to exhaust judicial remedies before filing the  present action. For the following reasons, the court SUSTAINS Mt. SAC’s demurrer.   Legal Standard  Demurrer   A party may demur to a complaint on the  grounds that it “does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of  action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e).) A demurrer tests whether the  complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147  Cal.App.4th 740, 747 (Hahn).) When considering demurrers, courts accept  all well pleaded facts as true. (Fox v. JAMDAT Mobile, Inc. (2010) 185  Cal.App.4th 1068, 1078.) In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent  on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice. (Donabedian v.  Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) “A demurrer tests the  pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it  lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are  judicially noticed.” (SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d  902, 905.) “The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the  complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of  action.” (Hahn, supra, at p. 747.)   Exhaustion of Judicial Remedies   “[U]nless a party to a quasi-judicial  proceeding challenges the agency's adverse findings made in that proceeding, by  means of a mandate action in superior court, those findings are binding in  later civil actions.” (Johnson v. City of Loma Linda (2000) 24 Cal.4th  61, 69-70 (Johnson).) “The concept of exhaustion of judicial remedies is  rooted in the principles embodied in collateral estoppel. The two are  integrally intertwined.” (California Public Employees’ Retirement System v.  Superior Court (2008) 160 Cal.App.4th 174, 180.) For a decision in a  quasi-judicial proceeding to have issue preclusive effect, “it and its prior  proceedings must possess a judicial character. [Citation.] Indicia of  proceedings undertaken in a judicial capacity include a hearing before an  impartial decision maker; testimony given under oath or affirmation; a party’s  ability to subpoena, call, examine, and cross-examine witnesses, to introduce  documentary evidence, and to make oral and written argument; the taking of a  record of the proceeding; and a written statement of reasons for the decision.”  (Pacific Lumber Co. v. State Water Resources Control Bd. (2006) 37  Cal.4th 921, 944.)   Discussion  Mt. SAC argues the operative issue here is  the legal effect of Oliver’s failure to exhaust judicial remedies and overturn  an adverse arbitration ruling. From July 2021 to February 2022, Oliver,  Oliver’s faculty association, and Mt. SAC participated in an arbitration  proceeding pursuant to a collective bargaining agreement (CBA). (FAC, ¶ 105;  RJN, Ex. 1.) At the conclusion of the arbitration, the arbitrator found Mt.  SAC’s decision to deny Oliver tenure was reasonable. (FAC, ¶ 105; RJN, Ex. 1,  p. 99.) Mt. SAC’s board then denied Oliver’s appeal of the arbitrator’s  decision. (FAC, ¶ 106.)   In the arbitration proceeding at issue, the  CBA requires both parties to agree on the selection of an arbitrator. (FAC, Ex.  3, ¶ 18.I.7.b.2.b.) If the parties cannot agree, the CBA provides for the  appointment of an arbitrator from the State Conciliation Service. (FAC, Ex. 3,  ¶ 18.I.7.b.2.b.) The arbitration proceedings involved five hearings conducted  remotely over Zoom with Oliver being represented by counsel. (RJN, Ex. 1, p.  1-2.) Both sides were also offered a full opportunity to call witnesses,  introduce documentary evidence, and submit briefs. (RJN, Ex. 1, p. 1-2.) Based  on these facts, the court finds the arbitration proceeding was sufficiently  judicial in character to trigger the requirement to exhaust judicial remedies.    Once Oliver received a final arbitration  decision on Oliver’s grievance, Education Code section 87611 allowed Oliver to  seek judicial review of the decision pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure  section 1094.5. The FAC fails to allege Oliver sought such review. Thus, by  failing to set aside the arbitrator’s determination that denial of tenure was  reasonable, Oliver is now bound by that determination.   In Johnson, our supreme court held  that when “a public employee pursues administrative civil service remedies,  receives an adverse finding, and fails to have the finding set aside through  judicial review procedures, the adverse finding is binding on discrimination  claims under the FEHA.” (See Johnson, supra, 24 Cal.4th at p.  76.) In Castillo v. City of Los Angeles (2001) 92 Cal.App.4th 477 (Castillo),  the court held an administrative finding that an employee’s discharge was not  wrongful prevented the subsequent litigation of that issue through a FEHA  discrimination claim. (Id., at p. 486.) And in Wassmann v. South  Orange County Community College District (2018) 24 Cal.App.5th 825, the  court held that “[b]ecause the administrative law judge in this case, as his  counterpart in Castillo, found there was cause to dismiss, the judge  necessarily found that her dismissal was for proper reasons and not wrongful.”  (Id., at p. 849.) Based on these authorities, the arbitrator’s unchallenged  findings regarding Mt. SAC’s decision to deny tenure prevent Oliver from  asserting that Mt. SAC’s denial of tenure violated public policy and FEHA in a  separate action.   In opposition, Oliver argues prior  arbitration does not preclude Oliver’s FEHA claims as the CBA did not require arbitration  of FEHA claims. In support of this argument, Oliver relies on Ortega v.  Contra Costa Community College Dist. (2007) 156 Cal.App.4th 1073 (Ortega)  and Camargo v. California Portland Cement Co. (2001) 86 Cal.App.4th 995  (Camargo). This court finds both cases distinguishable from the case at  bar.   In Camargo, the court held “that if  the FEHA claims of a union member are to be finally resolved by arbitration  (with the concomitant loss of a jury of one's peers), the agreement to do so in  a CBA must be ‘clear and unmistakable.’” (Id., at p. 1018.) The court  also held that “the procedures of the arbitration must allow for the full  litigation and fair adjudication of the FEHA claim.” (Ibid.) But unlike  the present case, Camargo did not involve a public employee pursuing  administrative civil service remedies.   In Ortega, the court applied Camargo  to a more factually similar case where a community college football coach  was challenging a demotion and termination. (Ortega, supra, 156  Cal.App.4th at p. 1076.) There, the court distinguished Johnson and its  progeny on the grounds that those cases involved statutory civil service  remedies while the plaintiff in Ortega had internal remedies that were  provided by a CBA. (Id., at p. 1083.) But this distinction alone is  problematic. As noted in Farahani v. San Diego Community College Dist. (2009)  175 Cal.App.4th 1486, “[t]he Education Code sets forth due process rights  granted to community college faculty members in disciplinary matters, including  the right to notice, opportunity to object, a hearing before an arbitrator or  administrative law judge, and a decision by the governing board.” (Id.,  at p. 1492.)   In particular, Education Code section  87610.1, subdivision (b) sets forth the following requirements for resolution  of grievances:   “Allegations that the community college district, in a decision to grant  tenure, made a negative decision that to a reasonable person was unreasonable,  or violated, misinterpreted, or misapplied, any of its policies and procedures  concerning the evaluation of probationary employees shall be classified and  procedurally addressed as grievances. Allegations that the community college  district in a decision to reappoint a probationary employee violated,  misinterpreted, or misapplied any of its policies and procedures concerning the  evaluation of probationary employees shall be classified and procedurally  addressed as grievances. If there is no contractual grievance procedure  resulting in arbitration, these allegations shall proceed to hearing in  accordance with Section 87740.” (Educ. Code, § 87610.1, subd. (b).)   Additionally, “A final decision reached  following a grievance or hearing conducted pursuant to subdivision (b) of  Section 87610.1 shall be subject to judicial review pursuant to Section 1094.5  of the Code of Civil Procedure.” (Educ. Code, § 87611.) Thus, while the present  case does involve a CBA, this court determines that it cannot be distinguished  from Johnson as the CBA is incorporated into Oliver’s statutory civil  service remedies pursuant to the Education Code.   Furthermore, Ortega also distinguishes  itself from Johnson and its progeny on the grounds that “none of those  decisions involved a public employee subject to a CBA that vested control in  the union over the fact-finding component of the grievance procedure.” (Ortega,  supra, 156 Cal.App.4th at p. 1085-1086.) The court in Ortega put  particular weight on the fact that the CBA in that case only allowed the union  and not the plaintiff to call a fact-finding panel to address the plaintiff’s  grievance. (Id., at p. 1086.) But unlike the CBA in Ortega, the  CBA in the present action allows the employee the option of submitting a  grievance to arbitration on their own. (FAC, Ex. 3, ¶ 18.I.7.b.2.a.)   Therefore, the court finds as fatal to  Oliver’s causes of action Oliver’s failure to set aside the adverse arbitration  decision on the reasonableness of Mt. SAC’s decision to deny tenure.  Accordingly, Mt. SAC’s demurrer is SUSTAINED without leave to amend.   CONCLUSION Based on the analysis  above, Mt. SAC’s demurrer to Oliver’s FAC is SUSTAINED without leave to  amend. Furthermore, Mt. SAC’s motion to strike portions of Oliver’s FAC is DEEMED MOOT. 