  Case Number:  21STCV43201    Hearing Date:   July 12, 2024    Dept:  61 JILL GREENBERG 2019 TRUST vs ERNEST FINANCIAL, LLC, et al. (Commercial)TENTATIVECal. Code of Civ. Proc. (“CCP”) section 284 states that “[t]he attorney in an action or special proceeding may be changed at any time before or after judgment or final determination” upon either consent of both client and attorney, or upon the order of the court under application of either the client of the attorney, after notice from one to the other. Cal. Rule of Court 3.1362 states the requirements for a motion to be relieved as counsel under CCP section 284. No memorandum is required, but the motion must be accompanied by (1) a declaration stating why a motion has been brought instead of filing a consent (without compromising attorney-client confidentiality), (2) proof of service of the motion, and (3) all hearing dates scheduled in the action or proceeding, including the date of trial, if know. Additionally, “[t]he proposed order relieving counsel must be prepared on the Order Granting Attorney's Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel--Civil (form MC-053) and must be lodged with the court with the moving papers.”The present motions pertain to Attorney Brandon C. Murphy of the firm Bice Murphy Law, counsel for Defendant and Cross-Complainant David Bogner. The motion states there has been a breakdown of the attorney-client relationship such that it would be impossible to continue representing David Bogner, and that the client has refused to participate in this litigation. Trial has been set for April 2026.This is the third hearing on Murphy’s motion to be relieved as counsel for Bogner. The court denied the first motion on June 3, 2024, because the motion did not include the proof of service required by CRC Rule 3.1362, subd. (d). On June 10, 2024, this court denied the motion again, reasoning that the motion and proposed order did not provide notice to Bogner of all upcoming hearings, and further that the proof of service indicated it was to be served upon a PO Box, rather than Bogner’s current or last known business or residence address, as required under CRC Rule 3.1362, subd. (d)(1)(A), (B).)In the present motion, Murphy has included a list of upcoming hearings with the proposed order form, in compliance with this court’s prior order. However, Plaintiff Jill Greenberg 2019 Trust has once again filed objections, principally arguing that the new address that Murphy offers for service (and which was the destination of service for the present motion) is a “Spring Place” social club on 9800 Wilshire Boulevard, whose website purports to offer mail service to “office members” and “community members” who sign up. (Objection Exh. E.) Once more Plaintiff’s objection casts substantial doubt on whether Bogner has been served at his residence or business address, current or not.The motion is therefore defective, as it was served by mail upon the client, without assurance that the service was upon the current or last known “residence or business address.” (CRC Rule 3.1362, subd. (d)(1)(A), (B).) In any future motion to be relieved, if service upon Bogner is made by mail, Murphy shall declare that the address is Bogner’s current or last known business or residence address, in keeping with CRC Rule 3.1362. Alternatively, Murphy may serve Bogner by personal service or email, in the latter case providing the court with a proof of service “accompanied by a declaration stating that the electronic service address is the client's current electronic service address.” (CRC Rule 3.1362, subd. (d)(2).)Brandon C. Murphy’s Motion to be Relieved as Counsel for Defendant and Cross-Complainant David Bogner is therefore DENIED.Moving Counsel to give notice.