 Case Number:  BC722308    Hearing Date:   July 12, 2024    Dept:  61 NIKE USA INC VS 5860 WEST JEFFERSON LLC ET ALTENTATIVEPlaintiff Nike USA, Inc.’s Motion for New Trial is DENIED.Defendants to provide notice.DISCUSSION“The authority of a trial court to grant a new trial is established and circumscribed by statute. ‘Section 657 sets out seven grounds for such a motion: (1) “[i]rregularity in the proceedings’; (2) “[m]isconduct of the jury”; (3) “[a]ccident or surprise”; (4) “[n]ewly discovered evidence”; (5) “[e]xcessive or inadequate damages”; (6) ‘[i]nsufficiency of the evidence”; and (7) “[e]rror in law.”’ [Citation.]” (Montoya v. Barragan (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 1215, 1227.) “When a new trial is granted, on all or part of the issues, the court shall specify the ground or grounds upon which it is granted and the court's reason or reasons for granting the new trial upon each ground stated.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 657.)Plaintiff, Cross-Defendant, and Cross-Complainant Nike USA, Inc. (Nike) moves for a new trial on three of the above grounds: irregularity in the proceedings, insufficiency of the evidence, and errors of law. Nike’s argument based on procedural irregularity is based on the court’s purported lack of consideration of its objections to its statement of decision. (Motion at pp. 12–13.) Nike argues for insufficiency of the evidence, based on purportedly contradictory findings that neither Nike nor Defendants and Cross-Complainants 5860 West Jefferson, LLC, 5860 West Jefferson I, LLC, and Samitaur Constructs (Defendants) had prevailed on their respective claims for damages based on construction delay, and on other issues. (Motion at pp. 13–20.) Nike finally argues that the statement of decision contains errors of law in the application of the burden of proof under the lease agreement, and fails to adequately set forth any declaration of the parties’ rights under the lease. (Motion at pp. 20–25.)Defendants in opposition argue that the present motion exceeds the page limit articulated in California Rules of Court (CRC) Rule 3.1113. (Opposition at p. 9.) They further contend that the present motion’s memorandum, declaration, and supporting evidence were filed and served tardily. (Opposition at pp. 8–9.) Defendant argues that Nike’s objections to the statement of decision were late, and that the court in any event had notice of Nike’s objections from its earlier-filed Request for Statement of Decision. (Opposition at pp. 10–11.) Defendants argue that the court’s statement of decision was based on substantial evidence and contains no errors of law. (Opposition at pp. 11–18.)Plaintiff’s memorandum exceeds the page limits prescribed by CRC Rule 3.1113. That rule states that “no opening or responding memorandum” except in summary judgment motions “ may exceed 15 pages,” excluding “the caption page, the notice of motion and motion, exhibits, declarations, attachments, the table of contents, the table of authorities, or the proof of service.” (CRC Rule 3.1113, subd. (d).) Excluding these last matters, Plaintiff’s memorandum here extends to 21 pages. “A memorandum that exceeds the page limits of these rules must be filed and considered in the same manner as a late-filed paper.” (CRC Rule 3.1113, subd. (g).)The memorandum and supporting materials are also actually late. Nike’s notice of intent to move for new trial was filed on May 28, 2024. Per Code of Civil Procedure § 659a, the party seeking new trial “shall serve upon all other parties and file any brief and accompanying documents, including affidavits in support of the motion” within “10 days of filing the notice [of intention to move for a new trial].” (Code Civ. Proc. § 659a.) Although Nike filed the memorandum and supporting declaration by the June 7, 2024 deadline, it did not serve them until June 8 (Evans Decl. ¶ 8), and did not file or serve the supporting evidence until June 10.These timelines are not “jurisdictional” in the fundamental sense (Kabran v. Sharp Memorial Hospital (2017) 2 Cal.5th 330, 342), and the statute provides courts the power, “for good cause shown by affidavit or by written stipulation of the parties” to extend the period for filing and serving materials “for an additional period not to exceed 10 days.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 659a.) “A court may retroactively extend the deadline for filing to the full 30-day period even if the party did not seek an extension in advance.” (Kabran, supra, 2 Cal.5th at p. 342.)Here, in the absence of prejudice shown by Defendants arising from the tardiness of service of the memorandum and supporting evidence, the court will exercise its discretion to assess the motion on its merits.Nike argues that the entry of judgment on the statement of decision evidenced “irregularity” in the proceedings, because the court entered judgment on May 14, 2024, in the erroneous belief that Nike’s objections had not been timely filed, when in fact Nike had until May 16, 2024, to file such objections.Nike’s argument as to the timing of the objections is persuasive. The proposed statement of decision — not captioned “proposed,” but identified as such in its opening paragraph — was filed and served on April 26, 2024. Per CRC Rule 3.1590, subd. (g), “[a]ny party may, within 15 days after the proposed statement of decision and judgment have been served, serve and file objections to the proposed statement of decision or judgment.” 15 days after service of the statement of decision would have been May 11, a Saturday, rendering the deadline for filing objections Monday, May 13, 2024. Yet because the statement of decision was served by mail, the time for filing of objections was extended by “five calendar days,” as provided in Code of Civil Procedure § 1013, subd. (a). Thus the deadline by which to serve objections was May 16, 2024. Nike’s objections were served on May 14, 2024, the same day the court entered judgment on the proposed statement of decision in the belief that no objections had been timely filed. (See 5/14/2024 Minute Order.)However, Nike has suffered no prejudice resulting from the claimed irregularity. In granting a new trial based on judicial error, “[p]rejudice is required . . . and there is no discretion to grant a new trial for harmless error.” (Sherman v. Kinetic Concepts, Inc. (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1152, 1161.) Before Nike filed its objections to the statement of decision, it filed on May 8, 2024, a Request for Statement of Decision, taking issue with what Nike termed procedural ambiguities in the statement of decision and itemizing 87 issues, questions, and arguments for the court to consider. The court considered these issues in its order dated May 14, 2024, and found that its proposed statement of decision “sufficiently addresses the evidence and legal and factual issues” raised by Nike. (5/14/2024 Minute Order.) The issues raised in Nike’s request for statement of decision parallel the objections it later offered, and were considered by the court. This is thus unlike the case in Raville v. Singh (1994) 25 Cal.App.4th 1127, 1130, cited by Nike, in which a different judge signed off on a statement of decision after the judge who had authored the tentative version had died. The same judge here held trial, prepared a proposed statement of decision, reviewed Nike’s arguments, and entered judgment.As to insufficiency of the evidence, Nike contends that the court’s decision does not support its conclusion that the premises were “substantially complete” on July 28, 2018. (Motion at pp. 14–15.) However, the statement of decision notes that the City issued a temporary certificate of occupancy on July 28, 2018. (Statement of Decision (SOD) at p. 6.) The court noted that it was necessary to determine whether the BSC [base shell and core] or tenant improvements were completed to the extent that only punchlist items remained and whether any remaining uncompleted items adversely affected Nike’s use of the property. (Ibid.) The court cited the myriad photos of the construction, and determined no items remained to be addressed which adversely affected Nike’s occupancy. (Ibid.) The court’s finding was supported by substantial evidence, as noted by Defendants in opposition. (Opposition at p.13.)Nike argues that this court’s findings that neither Nike nor Defendants prevailed on their breach of contract claims as to who caused the delay are inherently contradictory, because one party must have caused the delay. (Motion at p. 16.) Yet this argument fails to reckon with the applicable burden of proof. The parties’ each bore the burden to prove their claims by a preponderance of the evidence, i.e. to present “evidence, which when weighed with contrary evidence, has more convincing force and the greater probability of truth.” (City of Long Beach v. Workers' Comp. Appeals Bd. (2005) 126 Cal.App.4th 298, 314 .) But if two parties make conflicting showings of culpability for the same event, and both showings are equally persuasive, then neither has shown that theirs has the “greater probability of truth,” and neither has met their burden.The court’s statement of decision on the causes of the delay addresses all material disputes and is supported by substantial evidence. Although Nike argues that the court was required to make findings as to the cause of “each period of delay,” it presents no authority holding that such detail is required. (Motion at pp. 16–18.) The applicable authority suggests otherwise:A trial court rendering a statement of decision under Code of Civil Procedure section 632 is required only to state ultimate rather than evidentiary facts. A trial court is not required to make findings with regard to detailed evidentiary facts or to make minute findings as to individual items of evidence. Only where a trial court fails to make findings as to a material issue which would fairly disclose the determination by the trial court would reversible error result. Even though a court fails to make a finding on a particular matter, if the judgment is otherwise supported, the omission is harmless error unless the evidence is sufficient to sustain a finding in favor of the complaining party which would have the effect of countervailing or destroying other findings. A failure to find on an immaterial issue is not error. [Citation.] In issuing a statement of decision, the trial court need not address each question listed in a party's request. All that is required is an explanation of the factual and legal basis for the court's decision regarding such principal controverted issues at trial as are listed in the request.(Ribakoff v. City of Long Beach (2018) 27 Cal.App.5th 150, 163.) The statement of decision meets this standard.Nike further argues that the court’s finding as to the tardiness of its request to rent parking spaces under the lease was erroneous. This argument is as follows: The lease provides that Nike could exercise an option to certain parking spaces “by the commencement of the eighteenth (18th) month of the Lease term following the Commencement Date.” (Motion Exh. 81, Addendum ¶ 54.1.) Nike cites evidence that it provided notice of its intent to rent 123 monthly parking passes in an email dated January 23, 2020. (Motion Exh. T.) And because Nike had 18 months to request the parking —until February 1, 2020, given a commencement date of July 28, 2018 — Nike argues that no substantial evidence supports the court’s finding that Nike’s request was untimely. (Motion at pp. 18–19.)The lease, however, did not give Nike until “the end of the eighteenth (18th) month of the Lease term following the Commencement Date” to seek the parking spaces. The lease instead set the deadline at the “commencement” of the eighteenth month — i.e., until January 1, 2020. Nike thus did not have until February 1, 2020,to rent the parking spaces, and by this reckoning, Nike’s January 23, 2020 request was untimely, and the court’s reasoning stands.Nike’s argument as to the breach of warranty claim is also unpersuasive, as the court’s findings as to the condition of the roof was supported by substantial evidence. The court found that the parties were aware of the susceptibility of the roof to leaks, yet requested the type of roof at issue anyway. (SOD at p. 7.) The court found no evidence of structural defects, and that the Defendants had maintained and addressed the leaks that Nike identified. (Ibid.)Nike’s arguments as to errors of law, meanwhile, are similarly unavailing. Nike argues that the court misapplied the burden of proof, because under the lease, any delay was attributed to Defendants unless proven to be caused by Nike. (Motion at pp. 20–25.) Yet Nike identifies no provision of the lease attributing delayed “substantial completion” to Defendants by default. It identifies a provision of an attached work letter stating that the date of substantial completion “shall be deemed to be . . . the date on which the Tenant Improvements would have been Substantially completed if no such a . . . Delay had occurred,” provided that the delay was caused by the lessee (Nike). (Motion at pp. 20–21, citing Motion Exh. 81, at pp. 64–65.) This provision does not purport to create a presumption of either party’s default for the cause of delay, or to affect the ordinary burden of proof applicable to a breach of contract action. Nike further identifies provisions indicating that time was of the essence, and setting a date for completion of construction, but once more, these provisions do not purport to assign a presumption of fault for the delay to Defendants. (Motion at p. 22, citing Motion Exh. 81 at p. 65.)Finally, Nike argues that the statement of decision rendered judgment in favor of Defendants on their declaratory relief cause of action, without offering the actual declaration of rights requested, or a contrary declaration to what Nike requested in its Complaint. (Motion at p. 25.) Nike relies on the case Kroff v. Kroff (1954) 127 Cal.App.2d 404, in which the court stated:A dispute existed as to the meaning of a document and the plaintiff was entitled to a judicial declaration of her rights. It was the duty of the court to set forth the meaning and effect of the clause in question. Here the court merely adjudged ‘that plaintiff take nothing by her said cause of action, and that defendant have judgment against plaintiff.(Id. at p. 405.) The present case is distinguishable, as the court here did not merely adjudge that plaintiff take nothing and defendants prevail, but offered a statement of decision explaining the facts of the case and its reasoning. Nike sought a declaration that the property was not substantially complete as of the date of the complaint, that its obligation to pay rent had not begun, that Plaintiff was entitled to immediate correction and completion of all incomplete or defective aspects of the property, and it is entitled to free rent for a number of days determined by the court. (FAC ¶ 57.) Yet these prayers for relief were addressed by the court’s determination that the property was substantially complete as of July 28, 2018. (SOD at p. 6.)The motion is therefore DENIED.