 Case Number:  22AHCV00758    Hearing Date:   March 19, 2024    Dept:  X    Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Joel L. Lofton,
Department X
 
 
HEARING DATE:      March 19, 2024                                               TRIAL DATE: June 25, 2024
                                                           
CASE:                         ESTEPHANIE SANCHEZ
v. AMERICAN HONDA MOTOR CO., INC., a California Corporation, and DOES 1 through
10, inclusive.  
 
CASE NO.:                 22AHCV00758
 
            
 
MOTION
TO COMPEL DEPOSITION
 
MOTION
TO COMPEL VEHICLE INSPECTION

 
MOVING PARTY:               Motion to compel deposition filed
by Plaintiff Estephanie Sanchez
                                                Motion to compel vehicle inspection filed by
Defendant American Honda Motor Co., Inc.
 
RESPONDING PARTY:      Defendant
American Honda Motor Co., Inc.
 
SERVICE:                              Motion to compel deposition filed February
5, 2024
                                                 Motion to compel vehicle inspection filed
February 5, 2024
 
OPPOSITION:                       Filed March 6, 2024
 
REPLY:                                   Filed March 12, 2024
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED 
 
             Plaintiff moves for an order
compelling Defendant to produce its person most knowledgeable to appear for
deposition.
 
            Defendant moves for an
order compelling Plaintiff to present the Subject Vehicle for inspection. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
             This case arises out of Plaintiff Estephanie
Sanchez’s (“Plaintiff”) lemon law claim for a 2022 Honda Odyssey, Vehicle
Identification Number 5FNRL6H81NB058994 (“Subject Vehicle”).
Plaintiff filed her complaint on September 30, 2022. 
             
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Plaintiff’s
motion to compel deposition is GRANTED.
 
            Plaintiff’s
motion to compel further responses to her requests for the production of
documents is DENIED.
 
            Defendant’s
motion to compel inspection of Defendant’s vehicle is DENIED.
 
            All
requests for sanctions are denied.
 
            The parties
are ordered to meet and confer in good faith regarding possible dates for the
deposition of Defendant’s person most qualified and for resolution of
Defendant’s request to inspect Plaintiff’s vehicle. 
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.450, subdivision (a), provides: “If, after service
of a deposition notice, a party to the action or an officer, director, managing
agent, or employee of a party, or a person designated by an organization that
is a party under Section 2025.230, without having served a valid objection under
Section 2025.410, fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to
produce for inspection any document, electronically stored information, or
tangible thing described in the deposition notice, the party giving the notice
may move for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and
the production for inspection of any document, electronically stored
information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice.”
 
            Code of
Civil Procedure section 2025.450 subdivision (b) requires that any motion under
subdivision (a) set forth specific facts showing good cause and a meet and
confer declaration or, when a deponent fails to attend the deposition, a
declaration stating the moving party contacted the deponent to inquire about
the nonappearance. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Plaintiff
provides on December 22, 2023, she served a notice of deposition for
Defendant’s person most qualified. (Tran Decl. ¶ 3.)
The deposition date was scheduled for January 10, 2024. (Id. ¶ 4.)
Defendant objected to the deposition on January 4, 2024, and Plaintiff sent a
meet and confer letter on January 9, 2024. (Id. ¶¶ 5-6.) Plaintiff
provides Defendant did not produce its witness on January 10, 2024. (Id. ¶
8.) In opposition, Defendant contends that Plaintiff has failed to meet and
confer regarding a date for deposition. Defendant appears to agree to produce a
witness, but the parties have been unable to find a mutually agreeable date.
 
            Because Plaintiff had served a deposition notice that
Defendant did not appear for, Plaintiff’s motion to compel deposition is
granted. However, the court declines to set a deadline for the hearing and the
parties are ordered to meet and confer to find a mutually agreeable date and
time. 
 
Additionally, the court declines to decide whether Defendant’s witness must testify
as to specific topics. “If
a deponent fails to answer any question or to produce any document,
electronically stored information, or tangible thing under the deponent’s
control that is specified in the deposition notice or a deposition subpoena,
the party seeking discovery may move the court for an order compelling that
answer or production.” (Code Civ. Proc. Section 2025.480.) The deposition has
not occurred in the present case so a ruling on the specific topics of inquiry
is premature.
 
Further, Plaintiff’s motion to compel further responses
to its requests for the production of documents is denied. California Rules of
Court, Rule 3.1345 requires a separate statement to include “[a] statement of
the factual and legal reasons for compelling further responses, answers, or
production as to each matter in dispute”.  Plaintiff’s separate
statement only contain various iterations of copy-pasted language that fail to
address the specific discovery requests at issue. In fact, Plaintiff’s separate
statement’s sections pertaining to the production of documents contain
sections that provide a reason for “for compelling testimony”.
Plaintiff’s separate statement is deficient.
 
Defendant moves for an order compelling the inspection of
Plaintiff’s vehicle. Defendant provides that it served a notice of inspection
on January 16, 2024. (Hancox Decl. ¶ 3.) Defendant provides Defendant objected to the
inspection on January 29, 2024. Additionally, California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1345 provides
that a separate statement is required when a party seeks to “to compel further
responses to a demand for inspection of documents or tangible things”. However,
Defendant has not provided a separate statement. The parties are encouraged to
meet and confer to amicably come to a resolution regarding the pending
discovery issues. 
 
CONCLUSION
 
Plaintiff’s motion to compel
deposition is GRANTED.
 
            Plaintiff’s
motion to compel further responses to her requests for the production of
documents is DENIED.
 
            Defendant’s
motion to compel inspection of Defendant’s vehicle is DENIED.
 
            All
requests for sanctions are denied.
 
            The parties
are ordered to meet and confer in good faith regarding possible dates for the
deposition of Defendant’s person most qualified and for resolution of
Defendant’s request to inspect Plaintiff’s vehicle. 
 
 
 
 
 
            
Dated:   March 19, 2023                                             ___________________________________
                                                                                    Joel
L. Lofton
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court