  Case Number:  24STCV05412    Hearing Date:   December 18, 2024    Dept:  34 Defendants MeUndies, Inc. and
Jonathan Shokrian’s Motion to Stay Pending Appeal is DENIED.
 
Background
 
On March 4, 2024,
Plaintiff Meghan Hidalgo (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Defendants
MeUndies, Inc. and Jonathan Shokrian (“Defendants”) arising from Plaintiff’s
employment with Defendants alleging causes of action for: 
 
1.              
Sex/Gender Harassment;
2.              
Sex/Gender Discrimination;
3.              
Retaliation;
4.              
Failure to Prevent Discrimination, Harassment; 
5.              
Retaliation;
6.              
Unequal Pay;
7.              
Failure to Pay all Wages at Separation;
8.              
Negligent Hiring, Supervision and Retention; and
9.              
Wrongful Termination.
 
On April 5, 2024, Defendants
filed an answer to Plaintiff’s complaint. 
 
On August 19, 2024, the court
denied Defendants’ Motion to Compel Arbitration. 
 
On September 20, 2024,
Defendants filed an appeal to the court’s order denying their Motion to Compel
Arbitration. 
 
On October 10, 2024, Defendants
filed this Motion to Stay Pending Appeal. On December 6, 2024, Plaintiff filed
an opposition. No reply has been filed. 
 
Legal Standard
 
“An aggrieved party may
appeal from: (a) An order dismissing or denying a petition to compel
arbitration. Notwithstanding Section 916, the perfecting of such an appeal
shall not automatically stay any proceedings in the trial court during the
pendency of the appeal.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 1294(a).)
 
Additionally, “a court ordinarily has inherent power, in its
discretion, to stay proceedings when such a stay will accommodate the ends of
justice.” (OTO, L.L.C. v. Kho (2019) 8 Cal.5th 111, 141 [citing People
v. Bell (1984) 159 Cal.App.3d 323, 329.]) “[T]he power to stay proceedings
is incidental to the power inherent in every court to control the disposition
of the causes on its docket with economy of time and effort for itself, for
counsel, and for litigants.” (Landis v. North American Co. (1936) 299
U.S. 248, 254; OTO, L.L.C., supra, at p. 141.)  
 
Discussion
 
            Defendants move
for an order staying all further trial court proceedings pending appeal of this
court’s denial of Defendants’ Motion to Compel Arbitration. (Motion, at p. 3.) Defendants
move on the grounds that pursuant to the Federal Arbitration Act (“FAA”), as
interpreted by Coinbase, Inc. v. Bielski (2023) 599 U.S. 736 (“Coinbase”)
, a stay is mandatory and automatic pending appeal of an order denying a motion
to compel arbitration. (Ibid.) Defendants argue that the FAA also preempts
the amendment to California Code of Civil Procedure section 1294(a) which
provides that a stay is no longer automatic under California law when a motion
to compel is denied. (Ibid.) In the alternative, Defendants argue that
they are entitled to a discretionary stay as the appeal involves difficult
questions of law, and the fruits of a reversal would be irrevocably lost if the
status quo is not maintained. (Ibid.) 
 
            In opposition, Plaintiff argues that Coinbase only
applies to federal litigation and has no impact on state court procedures.
(Opp., at p. 7.) Plaintiff also contends that neither the FAA nor Coinbase
preempts the application of CCP § 1294. (Id., at p. 8.) Additionally,
Plaintiff argues that all other cases cited in Defendants’ motion address other
applications of the FAA to state law and do not show that the FAA preempted
more specific state law. (Ibid.) Plaintiff also argues that a
discretionary stay is not warranted here as there are no novel issues of law
involved and neither justice nor the economy of litigation favor it. (Ibid.)
 
 
            Further, the FAA does not mandate that a state court stay
litigation pending an appeal concerning whether the Ending Forced Arbitration
of Sexual Assault and Sexual Harassment Act (“EFAA”) applies. Defendant relies
heavily on Coinbase, which specifically addresses the procedures in
federal district courts under the FAA. Coinbase does not address the
EFAA, nor does it specifically extend its requirements or language to state
trial courts. 
 
Moreover,
the recent amendment to California law under CCP §1294(a) empowers state courts
to continue litigation even during such appeals. The amended statute now
explicitly states that “[n]otwithstanding [C.C.P.] Section 916, the perfecting
of such an appeal shall not automatically stay any proceedings in the trial
court during the pendency of the appeal” when dealing with the denial or
dismissal of a petition to compel arbitration. (C.C.P. §1294(a).) This
legislative change eliminates the presumption of an automatic stay in cases
like this one, where a petition to compel arbitration has been denied. 
 
The
Legislature’s amendment to §1294(a) was aimed to curtail the abuse of the
appeals process by defendants seeking to delay litigation without substantial
justification. (2023 S.B. No. 365, California 2023-2024 Regular Session, pg. 1
of 12 [“Proponents of this bill argue that corporate defendants are abusing the
automatic stay when a motion to compel arbitration is denied by the trial court
and then appealed by the defendant, using it as a delay tactic causing real
harm to consumers and workers. This bill provides that there shall be no stay
of the proceedings when an order dismissing or denying a motion to compel
arbitration is appealed.”].) 
 
As
such, the court is disinclined to stay the instant matter both under CCP §
1294(a) and the discretionary power vested on courts to stay trial proceedings.
Defendants’ motion is denied. 
 
Conclusion
 
Defendants
MeUndies, Inc. and Jonathan Shokrian’s Motion to Stay Pending Appeal is DENIED.