 Case Number:  23NWCV03243    Hearing Date:   June 4, 2024    Dept:  C Juan Navarro-Rodriguez vs General Motors, LLC
Case No.: 23NWCV03243
Hearing Date: June 4, 2024 @ 9:30 AM 
 
#4
Tentative Ruling 
Plaintiff Juan Navarro-Rodriguez’s Motion to
Compel Further Response to Special Interrogatories (Set One) and Request for
Production of Documents (Set One) is CONTINUED to September 3, 2024 at 10:30
a.m. in Department SE-C. 
Plaintiff to give notice. 
 
This action alleges that Defendant General Motors
(“Defendant”) violated the California Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act
(“Song-Beverly Act”) by failing to repair Plaintiff Juan Navarro-Rodriguez’s (“Plaintiff”)
2022 Cadillac Escalade (“Subject Vehicle”). During the warranty period, the
Subject Vehicle contained or developed numerous defects that Defendant’s
authorized repair facility was unable to conform to warranty.
On January 16, 2024, Plaintiff served Defendant with Special
Interrogatories (Set One) and Request for Production of Documents (Set One). (Dickson
Decl. ¶ 6.) Defendant served written responses on February 14, 2024. (Dickson
Decl. ¶ 7.) Plaintiff contends the responses were insufficient. 
The Court is not persuaded that counsel have exhausted
their meet and confer obligations pursuant to the Code. Counsel are advised
that their meet and confer efforts should go beyond merely sending letters
stating their respective positions. (See Townsend v. Superior Court (1998) 61
Cal.App.4th 1431, 1439.) “A determination of whether an attempt at informal
resolution is adequate…involves the exercise of discretion. The level of effort
at an informal resolution which satisfies the ‘reasonable and good faith
attempt’ standard depends upon the circumstances. In a larger, more complex
discovery request, a greater effort at informal resolution may be warranted. In
a simpler, or more narrowly focused case, a more modest effort may suffice. The
history of the litigation, the nature of the interaction between counsel, the
nature of the issues, the type and scope of the discovery requested, the
prospects for success and other similar factors can be relevant. Judges have
broad powers and responsibilities to determine what measures and procedures are
appropriate in varying circumstances.” (Obregon v. Sup. Ct. (1998) 67
Cal.App.4th 424, 431.)
In Opposition, Defendant contends that Plaintiff filed the
instant motion before the parties had an opportunity to the meet and confer.
Defendant asserts that it requested Plaintiff’s availability to further meet
and confer, but that Plaintiff instead filed the instant motion. (Kay Decl., ¶
7.)
Counsel are ORDERED to make further efforts to resolve the
issues presented. If, after exhausting those efforts, court intervention is
needed, counsel may appear and argue the merits on the continued hearing date.
If counsel are unable to informally resolve their discovery disputes, then
counsel are instructed to submit a JOINT STATEMENT with a detailed outline of
the remaining disputed issues for which a ruling is required. Counsel are also
strongly advised to review the standing CMC order issued in Department F for
guidance on the manner to handle disputed items. The joint statement must be
FILED on or before August 23, 2024.
 