 Case Number:  23NWCV01803    Hearing Date:   June 4, 2024    Dept:  C Phala Kieng, et al. vs Jaguar Land Rover North
America, LLC, et al.
Case No.: 23NWCV01803
Hearing Date: June 4, 2024 @ 9:30 a.m. 
 
#2
Tentative Ruling 
Plaintiffs Phala Kieng and Ben Kieng’s Motions
to Compel Further Responses to Request for Production (Set One) is CONTINUED to
September 3, 2024 at 9:30 a.m. in Department SE-C. 
Plaintiffs to give notice.
 
This action alleges that Defendant Jaguar Land Rover North
America LLC (“Defendant”) violated the California Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty
Act (“Song-Beverly Act”) by failing to repair Plaintiffs Phala Kieng and Ben
Kieng’s  (collectively “Plaintiffs”)
Certified Pre-Owned 2020 Land Rover Range Rover Evoque (“Vehicle”) VIN No.:
SALZJ2FX4LH016575. During the warranty period, the Subject Vehicle contained or
developed numerous defects that Defendant’s authorized repair facility was
unable to conform to warranty.
On or about July 30, 2023, Plaintiffs propounded their
initial set of written discovery, including Requests for Production of
Documents, Set One. (Kohanoff Decl., ¶ 15, Ex. 3.) On or about August 22, 2023,
Defendant responded to Plaintiffs’ requests with boilerplate objections which
Plaintiffs contend are not code-compliant. Moreover, Defendant failed to
produce the vast majority of responsive documents requested. (Id. ¶ 16, 17, Ex.
4.) Plaintiffs contend the responses were insufficient. 
The Court is not persuaded that counsel have exhausted
their meet and confer obligations pursuant to the Code. Counsel are advised
that their meet and confer efforts should go beyond merely sending letters
stating their respective positions. (See Townsend v. Superior Court
(1998) 61 Cal.App.4th 1431, 1439.) “A determination of whether an attempt at
informal resolution is adequate…involves the exercise of discretion. The level
of effort at an informal resolution which satisfies the ‘reasonable and good
faith attempt’ standard depends upon the circumstances. In a larger, more
complex discovery request, a greater effort at informal resolution may be
warranted. In a simpler, or more narrowly focused case, a more modest effort
may suffice. The history of the litigation, the nature of the interaction
between counsel, the nature of the issues, the type and scope of the discovery
requested, the prospects for success and other similar factors can be relevant.
Judges have broad powers and responsibilities to determine what measures and
procedures are appropriate in varying circumstances.” (Obregon v. Sup. Ct.
(1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 424, 431.)
In Opposition, Defendants contend that Plaintiffs filed the
instant motion before the parties had an opportunity to the meet and confer.
Defendants assert that they requested Plaintiff’s availability to further meet
and confer, but that Plaintiffs instead filed the instant motion. (Abouesh
Decl., ¶¶ 3, 4, Ex. 1.)
Counsel are ORDERED to make further efforts to resolve the
issues presented. If, after exhausting those efforts, court intervention is
needed, counsel may appear and argue the merits on the continued hearing date.
If counsel are unable to informally resolve their discovery disputes, then
counsel are instructed to submit a JOINT STATEMENT with a detailed outline of
the remaining disputed issues for which a ruling is required. Counsel are also
strongly advised to review the standing CMC order issued in Department F for
guidance on the manner to handle disputed items. The joint statement must be
FILED on or before August 23, 2024.
 
 
 