 Case Number:  23NWCV02768    Hearing Date:   June 4, 2024    Dept:  C Sandra Green vs Rose Marie Leary
Case No.: 23NWCV02768
Hearing Date: June 4, 2024 @ 10:30 a.m. 
 
#7
Tentative Ruling 
Defendant Rose Marie Leary’s Demurrer is
SUSTAINED as set forth below. 
Defendant to give notice. 
 
Defendant Rose Marie Leary (“Defendant”) demurs to
Plaintiff Sandra Green’s (“Plaintiff”) Complaint on the ground that it fails to
state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.  
Background
The parties are sisters who inherited property located at 13614
Behrens Avenue, Norwalk, CA 90650 (“Subject Property”) through their mother, Betty
J. Green. On August 28, 2023, Plaintiff filed her Complaint against Defendant
for 1) Partition by Sale, 2) Constructive Trust, and 3) Resulting Trust.  The Complaint alleges in pertinent part: “Plaintiff
and Defendant currently co-own the Subject Property. Plaintiff and Defendant
are on legal title to the Subject Property as tenants in common.” (¶ 7.) “At
all times mentioned herein, Plaintiff was at least
33.333% owner of the Subject Property and Defendant only held her interest
in the Subject Property and any income from the Subject Property as
constructive trustee for the benefit of Plaintiff. (¶ 16.) Defendant has
breached the trust by refusing to tender proportionate income to Plaintiff. (¶
17.) 
Legal Standard 
The party against whom a
complaint has been filed may object to the pleading, by demurrer, on several
grounds, including the ground that the pleading does not state facts sufficient
to constitute a cause of action. (CCP § 430.10(e).) A party may demur to an
entire complaint, or to any causes of action stated therein. (CCP § 430.50(a).)
Discussion 
I.            
Partition Cause of Action 
A complaint seeking partition of real property shall set
forth the following:
(a) A description of the property that is the subject
of the action … In the case of real property, the description shall include
both its legal description and its street address or common designation, if
any. (b) All interests the plaintiff has or claims in the property. (c) All
interests of record or actually known to the plaintiff that persons other than
the plaintiff have or claim in the property and that the plaintiff reasonably
believes will be materially affected by the action, whether the names of such
persons are known or unknown to the plaintiff. (d) The estate as to which
partition is sought and a prayer for partition of the interests therein. (e) Where
the plaintiff seeks sale of the property, an allegation of the facts justifying
such relief in ordinary and concise language. (CCP § 872.230.) 
Here, Plaintiff’s complaint is uncertain because it alleges
that the parties co-own the Subject Property as tenants in common (¶ 7), but it
also alleges that Defendant only held her interest in the Subject Property as constructive
trustee for the benefit of Plaintiff. (¶ 16.) The Court notes that the Grant
Deed attached to the Complaint as Exhibit 1 indicates that Betty J. Green,
Marie Leary, and Sandra Green are joint tenants. (Complaint, Ex. 1.) 
Additionally, the Complaint fails to allege “all interests
of record … that persons other than the plaintiff have or claim in the property
and that the plaintiff reasonably believes will be materially affected by the
action …” (CCP § 872.230, subd. (c).) Plaintiff alleges she has at least a one-third
interest in the Subject Property, but she does not allege the ownership
interest of Defendant Rose Marie Leary.  
Accordingly, the demurrer as to the First Cause of Action
for Partition is SUSTAINED with 20 days leave to amend.  
II.           
Constructive and Resulting Trust 
The Courts of Appeal have explicitly stated that a
constructive and resulting trust is an equitable remedy, not a cause of action.
(Stansfield v. Starkey (1990) 220 Cal.App.3d 59, 76.)  Plaintiff presents no authority to the
contrary.  
Accordingly, the demurrer to the Second Cause of Action for
Constructive Trust and the Third Causes of Action for Resulting Trust is
SUSTAINED without leave to amend.   