 Case Number:  24STLC01865    Hearing Date:   October 30, 2024    Dept:  25 HEARING DATE:    Weds., October 30, 2024                                JUDGE /DEPT:        Mkrtchyan/25

CASE NAME:           Mendez
Garcia, et al. v. A.D. Carbros,

Inc., et al.


CASE NUMBER:     24STLC01865                                                COMP. FILED:        03-15-24



NOTICE:                   OK                                                                  TRIAL
DATE:          09-12-25

                                                                                                            



 

PROCEEDINGS:     MOTION
TO COMPEL ARBITRATION 

 

MOVING PARTY:   Plaintiffs
Eliseo Mendez Garcia and Jonathan Orosco Mendez  

RESP. PARTY:         None  

 

MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION AND STAY
PROCEEDINGS

(CCP § 1281.2, et seq.)

 

_____________________________________________________________________________

 

RULING:

 

            Having
received and reviewed Dismissal without prejudice as to Defendant A.D. Carbros
Inc. DBA Bank Repo Auto Sales, A California Corporation, filed on October 30,
2024., the Court rules as follows: 

 

Plaintiffs Eliseo Mendez
Garcia and Jonathan Orosco Mendez’s Motion to Compel Arbitration is GRANTED as
to Defendant Westlake Services, LLC dba Westlake Financial Services. The matter
is to be arbitrated before the AAA or, in the alternative, JAMS or another
reputable arbitration organization. Plaintiffs’ request for costs is DENIED
without prejudice. 

 

Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
section 1281.4, all proceedings are STAYED pending the outcome of arbitration.

 

A Post-Arbitration
Status Conference is scheduled for  July
31, 2025 at 9:30 a.m. in Department 25 of the Spring Street Courthouse.

 

Counsel for Plaintiff is ordered to serve and electronically file a JOINT
Report Re:  Status of Arbitration Proceedings
five (5) court days prior to 07/31/2025.

 

The 09/12/2025 Trial date and the 03/19/2027 Order to Show Cause are advanced
to this date and hereby taken off calendar/discharged.





 



 

 

SERVICE: 


 

[X]
Proof of Service Timely Filed (CRC, rule 3.1300)                      OK 

[X]
Correct Address (CCP §§ 1013, 1013a)                                      OK 

[X]
16/21 Court Days Lapsed (CCP §§ 12c, 1005(b))                       OK 

 

OPPOSITION:          None filed as of October
25, 2024                  [   ] Late                      [X]
None

REPLY:                     None filed as
of October 25, 2024                  [   ] Late                      [X] None

 

ANALYSIS:

 

I.                   
Background
 

 

In June 2021, Plaintiffs Eliseo Mendez Garcia and
Jonathan Orosco Mendez  (“Plaintiffs”)
purchased a vehicle from A.D. Carbros Inc. dba Bank Repo Auto Sales (“Carbros”).
(Compl. ¶ 16.) Plaintiffs
and Carbros entered into a vehicle Retail Installment Sales Agreement (the
“Contract”) at the time of the purchase. (Motion, Sadr Decl., Exh. 2, p. 8.)  After the sale, the Contract was assigned to Westlake
Services, LLC dba Westlake Financial Services (“Westlake”). (Compl. ¶¶ 37-38; Motion, Sadr Decl., Exh. 2, p. 9.) Plaintiffs contend that Carbros
misrepresented the condition and value of the vehicle, and Plaintiffs have
“been damaged and suffered a loss as a result.” 
(Compl., ¶¶ 22, 39.) 

 

On October 3, 2023, Plaintiffs filed for arbitration via the
American Arbitration Association (“AAA”) against Carbros and Westlake. (Motion,
Sadr Decl., ¶ 8.)  AAA accepted
arbitration of the dispute, but Carbros and Westlake failed to pay to initiate
the arbitration. (Motion, Sadr
Decl., ¶¶ 8-10, Exh. 5.) As a result, AAA closed the case. (Motion, Sadr Decl., ¶ 11, Exh.
6.)

 

On March 15, 2024, Plaintiffs filed this action against Carbros,
Westlake, and Hudson Insurance Company (“Defendants”) and Does 1-40. (Compl.,
p. 1.) The Complaint alleged causes of action for Violation of Consumers
Remedies Act, Civil Code section 1750, et seq., Violation of California
Business and Professions Code section 17200, et seq., Violation of Civil Code
section 1632, Claim Against Surety, and Violation of Code of Civil Procedure
sections 1281.97 and 1281.99. (Compl., pp. 7-12.) Plaintiffs filed proof of service of the Summons and Complaint
on Westlake and Hudson Insurance Company, but not Carbros. On October,
30, 2024, Carbros was dismissed without prejudice.

 

On August 12, 2024, Plaintiffs filed
the instant Motion to Compel Arbitration, Pick Arbitration Forum, Stay in the
Case While Arbitration is Conducted and Order That Defendants Must Pay
Attorneys’ Fees Associated with Arbitration (the “Motion”) against Defendants Westlake
and Carbros. Defendants Hudson Insurance Company and Carbros are no longer part
of this action. (Motion, p. 2.)

 

II.                
Procedural
Issues

 

Proof of service by mail of the Motion and related
documents was filed on August 13, 2024, demonstrating Westlake was served on
August 13, 2024. (8/13/24 Proof of Service.) Proof of personal service of the
Motion and related documents was filed on August 29, 2024, demonstrating Westlake
was served on August 15, 2024 at the same address as the August 13, 2024
service. (8/29/24 Proof of Service.) 

 

III.             
Legal
Standard

 

California law incorporates many of the basic policy
objectives contained in the Federal Arbitration Act, including a presumption in
favor of arbitrability. (Engalla v. Permanente Medical Group, Inc. (1997)
15 Cal.4th 951, 971-72.) The petitioner bears the burden of proving the
existence of a valid arbitration agreement by the preponderance of the
evidence, the party opposing the petition then bears the burden of proving by a
preponderance of the evidence any fact necessary to demonstrate that there
should be no enforcement of the agreement, and the trial court sits as a trier
of fact to reach a final determination on the issue. (Rosenthal v. Great
Western Financial Securities Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 413 (“Rosenthal”).)
The Court is empowered by the Code of Civil Procedure Section 1281.2 to compel
parties to arbitrate disputes pursuant to an agreement to do so.   

 

            Code of Civil Procedure section
1281.2 states:  

 

“On petition of a party to an arbitration agreement
alleging the existence of a written agreement to arbitrate a controversy and
that a party thereto refuses to arbitrate such controversy, the court shall
order the petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it
determines that an agreement to arbitrate the controversy exists, unless it
determines that: 



            (a) The right to compel arbitration
has been waived by the petitioner; or 

            (b) Grounds exist for the revocation
of the agreement. 

(c) A party to the
arbitration agreement is also a party to a pending court action or special
proceeding with a third party, arising out of the same transaction or series of
related transactions and there is a possibility of conflicting rulings on a
common issue of law or fact. For purposes of this section, a pending court
action or special proceeding includes an action or proceeding initiated by the
party refusing to arbitrate after the petition to compel arbitration has been
filed, but on or before the date of the hearing on the petition. This
subdivision shall not be applicable to an agreement to arbitrate disputes as to
the professional negligence of a health care provider made pursuant to Section
1295.”  

 

(Code of Civ. Proc., §§
1281.2(a)-(c).)  

 

            The petition to compel arbitration
functions as a motion and is to be heard in the manner of a motion – namely,
the facts are to be proven by affidavit or declaration and documentary evidence
with oral testimony taken only in the court’s discretion. (Code of Civ.
Proc., § 1290; Rosenthal, supra,
14 Cal.4th at p. 402.) The petition to compel must set forth the provisions
of the written agreement and the arbitration clause verbatim, or such
provisions must be attached and incorporated by reference. (Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 3.1330.) 

 

            If
the court orders arbitration, then the court shall stay the action until “an
arbitration is had in accordance with the order to arbitrate or until such
earlier time as the court specifies.” 
(See Code of Civ. Proc., § 1281.4.)

 

IV.             
Discussion

 

Arbitration Agreement

 

Plaintiffs bring the instant Motion seeking to compel Westlake
to submit to arbitration based on the Contract. 

 

“Under both the [Federal
Arbitration Act] and California law, arbitration agreements are valid,
irrevocable, and enforceable, except upon such grounds that exist at law or
equity for voiding a contract.” (Winter
v. Window Fashions Professions, Inc. (2008) 166 Cal.App.4th 943, 947.) The
party moving to compel arbitration must establish the existence of a written
arbitration agreement between the parties. (Code of Civ. Proc., § 1281.2.) In
ruling on a motion to compel arbitration, “the court must first determine
whether the parties actually agreed to arbitrate the dispute,” and “[g]eneral
principles of California contract law help guide the court in making this
determination.” (Mendez v. Mid-Wilshire
Health Care Center (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 534, 541.) 

 

Here, Plaintiffs present evidence of the Contract, which
includes a section called, “Arbitration Provision.”  (Motion, Sadr Decl., ¶ 5; Exh. 2, p. 6 at “Arbitration Provision.”)
The Contract was first signed by Plaintiffs and Carbros, and then was assigned
to and signed by Westlake. (Motion, Sadr Decl., ¶ 5; Exh. 2.) The Arbitration Provision
provides in pertinent part: 

 

“PLEASE READ CAREFULLY! By agreeing to this
Arbitration Provision you are giving up your right to go to court for claims
and disputes arising from this Contract: EITHER YOU OR WE MAY CHOOSE TO HAVE
ANY DISPUTE BETWEEN YOU AND US DECIDED BY ARBITRATION, AND NOT BY A COURT OR BY
JURY TRIAL. YOU GIVE UP ANY RIGHT THAT YOU MAY HAVE TO PARTICIPATE AS A CLASS
REPRESENTATIVE OR CLASS MEMBER IN ANY CLASS ACTION OR CLASS ARBITRATION AGAINST
US IF A DISPUTE IS ARBITRATED. IN ARBITRATION, DISCOVERY AND RIGHTS TO APPEAL
ARE GENERALLY MORE LIMITED THAN IN A JUDICIAL PROCEEDING, AND OTHER RIGHTS THAT
YOU WOULD HAVE IN COURT MAY NOT BE AVAILABLE.

You or we (including any assignee) may elect to resolve
any Claim by neutral, binding arbitration and not by a court action.
"Claim" means any claim, dispute or controversy between you and us or
our employees, agents, successors, assigns or affiliates arising from or
relating to: 1. the credit application; 2. the purchase of the Property; 3. the
condition of the Property; 4. this Contract; 5. any insurance, maintenance,
service or other contracts you purchased in connection with this Contract; or
6. any related transaction, occurrence or relationship. This includes any Claim
based on common or constitutional law, contract, tort, statute, regulation or
other ground. To the extent allowed by law, the validity, scope and
interpretation of this Arbitration Provision are to be decided by neutral,
binding arbitration. If either party elects to resolve a Claim through
arbitration, you and we agree that no trial by jury or other judicial
proceeding will take place. Instead, the Claim will be arbitrated on an individual
basis and not on a class or representative basis. The party electing
arbitration may choose either of the following arbitration organizations and
its applicable rules, provided it is willing and able to handle the
arbitration: American Arbitration Association, 1633 Broadway, Floor 10, New
York, NY 10019 (www.adr.org) or JAMS, 1920 Main Street, Suite 300 Irvine, CA
92614 (www.jamsadr.com), or it may choose any other reputable arbitration
organization and its rules to conduct the arbitration, subject to the other
party's approval. The parties can get a copy of the organization's rules by
contacting it or visiting its
website. If the chosen arbitration organization's rules conflict with this
Arbitration Provision, the terms of this Arbitration Provision will govern the
Claim. However, to address a conflict with the selected arbitration
organization’s rules, the parties may agree to change the terms of this
Arbitration Provision by written amendment signed by the parties. If the
parties are not able to find or agree upon an arbitration organization that is
willing and able to handle the arbitration, then the arbitrator will be
selected pursuant to 9 U.S. Code Sections 5 and 6.

…

PROCESS TO REJECT THIS ARBITRATION PROVISION. You may reconsider and reject your
approval of this Arbitration Provision by sending a written notice to the
Assignee (identified in the Assignment section) or if there is no Assignee,
then to Seller. The notice must be postmarked within 30 days of the date you
signed this Contract. It simply needs to state your decision to reject the
Arbitration Provision in this Contract and include your signature. It must also
provide your name, Seller's name and the date of this Contract. Rejecting this
Arbitration Provision will NOT affect the terms under which we will finance and
sell the Property to you or any other terms of this Contract, except that the
Arbitration Provision will not apply.

 

CAUTION: It is important that you read this Arbitration
Provision thoroughly before you sign this Contract. By signing this Contract,
you acknowledge that you read, understand and agree to this Arbitration
Provision. If you do not understand this Arbitration Provision, do not sign
this Contract; instead ask your lawyer. If you approve this Arbitration
Provision, you have an additional 30 days after signing to reconsider and
reject your approval, as described above. If you use that process to reject,
this Arbitration Provision will not be a part of this Contract, but the rest of
this Contract will still be binding and effective.”

 

(Motion, Sadr
Decl., ¶ 5; Exh. 2, pp.
6-7.)

 

No opposition has been filed. 

 

The Court finds
that Plaintiffs have met their burden of proving the existence of a valid
arbitration agreement. As noted above, Westlake does not dispute its signatures
appear on the agreement, and Plaintiffs submitted a copy of the Contract and Arbitration
Provision to the Court. The Arbitration Provision states it applies to “any claim, dispute or controversy
between you and us or our employees, agents, successors, assigns or affiliates
arising from or relating to: 1. the credit application; 2. the purchase of the
Property; 3. the condition of the Property; 4. this Contract; 5. any insurance,
maintenance, service or other contracts you purchased in connection with this
Contract; or 6. any related transaction, occurrence or relationship.” (Motion,
Sadr Decl., ¶ 5; Exh. 2,
pp. 6-7.) The Arbitration Provision specifically applies to Plaintiffs’ claims
against Westlake, given that the causes of action arise out of the Contract and
the condition of the vehicle. (Compl.; Motion, Sadr Decl. Exh. 1.)

 

Plaintiffs
demonstrated that the parties have been unable to come to an agreement
regarding arbitration (Motion,
Sadr Decl., ¶¶ 3-4, Exh.
1) and agreed to arbitrate the dispute through AAA or another arbitration
organization. Indeed, the Arbitration Provision states: “The party electing
arbitration may choose either of the following arbitration organizations and
its applicable rules, provided it is willing and able to handle the
arbitration: American Arbitration Association, 1633 Broadway, Floor 10, New
York, NY 10019 (www.adr.org) or JAMS, 1920 Main Street, Suite 300 Irvine, CA
92614 (www.jamsadr.com), or it may choose any other reputable arbitration
organization and its rules to conduct the arbitration, subject to the other
party's approval.” (Motion, Sadr Decl., ¶ 5; Exh. 2, pp. 6-7.) Plaintiffs state they elect AAA
as the arbitration forum for this matter (Motion, pp. 6-7), and Westlake and Carbros
have not indicated they do not approve of the AAA. In light of these
circumstances, it is necessary for the Court to intervene and compel Westlake,
now the Westlake of the Contract, and Carbros to arbitration before AAA, JAMs,
or another reputable arbitration organization. 

 

Thus, the Court finds that an
Arbitration Agreement exists between the parties and there is no defense to its
enforcement. The matter is to be arbitrated before the AAA or, in the
alternative, JAMS or another reputable arbitration organization. 

 

Costs and Fees

 

Plaintiffs also request costs for
having to bring the instant Motion. 

 

“The court shall award costs upon
any judicial proceeding under this title as provided in Chapter 6 (commencing
with Section 1021) of Title 14 of Part 2 of this code.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1293.2.)  “A petition to compel arbitration under
section 1281.2 is a judicial proceeding covered by this provision.”  (Otay River Constructors v. San Diego
Expressway (2008) 158 Cal.App.4th 796, 805.) 

However, no proof is submitted
regarding the costs incurred by Plaintiffs.

 

Therefore, Plaintiffs’ request for
costs is denied without prejudice. 

 

V.               
Conclusion
& Order

 

For the foregoing reasons, Plaintiffs Eliseo Mendez
Garcia and Jonathan Orosco Mendez’s Motion to Compel Arbitration is GRANTED as to Defendant Westlake
Services, LLC dba Westlake Financial Services. The matter is to be
arbitrated before the AAA or, in the alternative, JAMS or another reputable
arbitration organization.
Plaintiffs’ request for costs is DENIED without prejudice. 

 

Pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.4, all proceedings are STAYED pending
the outcome of arbitration.

 

A Post-arbitration Status Conference
is scheduled for  July 31, 2025 at 9:30
a.m. in Department 25 of the Spring Street Courthouse.

 

Counsel for Plaintiff is ordered to serve
and electronically file a JOINT Report Re: 
Status of Arbitration Proceedings five (5) court days prior to
07/31/2025.

 

 

The 09/12/2025 Trial date and the
03/19/2027 Order to Show Cause are advanced to this date and hereby taken off
calendar/discharged.

 

Moving party is ordered to give
notice. 