 Case Number:  23CHCV00093    Hearing Date:   March 15, 2024    Dept:  F51 Dept. F-51
Date: 3/14/24
Case #23CHCV00093
 
LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
VALLEY DISTRICT
DEPARTMENT
F-51
 

MARCH 13,
2024
 

MOTION FOR SUMMARY
JUDGMENT

Los Angeles Superior Court Case # 23CHCV00093

¿ 
Motion Filed: 12/19/23                                                                                  Jury
Trial: 6/24/24
¿ 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant Facey Medical Group (“Moving Defendant”)
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiffs Karey Kibbe; and Brian
Kibbe (collectively, “Plaintiffs”)
NOTICE: OK¿ 
¿ 
RELIEF REQUESTED: An
order granting summary judgment or, in the alternative, summary adjudication in
favor of Moving Defendant and against Plaintiffs.
 
TENTATIVE RULING: The motion is denied.
 
BACKGROUND¿ 
 
Plaintiffs
allege that on 1/14/22, plaintiff Karey Kibbe (“Karey”) sustained injuries from
a slip-and-fall while attending an annual gynecology examination at Moving
Defendant’s medical facility in Valencia, CA. (Compl. ¶¶ 14–15.) Plaintiffs
allege that Karey’s injuries were caused by Defendants’ “failure to provide a
step, step stool or similar equipment, device or mechanism, assistive devices
and/or assistance to aid Plaintiff to safely get on and/or off of the exam
table.” (Id. at ¶ 15.)
 
On 1/12/23,
Plaintiffs filed their complaint against Moving Defendant and nonmoving
defendants Jessica E. Murphy, M.D. (“Dr. Murphy”) and Providence Health
Services (“Providence”), alleging the following causes of action: (1) Medical
Negligence (by Karey against all Defendants); (2) Premises Liability (by Karey
against Facey and Providence); and (3) Loss of Consortium (by plaintiff Brian
Kibbe against all Defendants).  
 
On 12/19/23,
Moving Defendant filed the instant motion for summary judgment. On 2/27/24, Plaintiffs
filed their opposition. On 3/8/24, Moving Defendant filed its reply. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
The function of a motion for
summary judgment or adjudication is to allow a determination as to whether an
opposing party cannot show evidentiary support for a pleading or claim and to
enable an order of summary dismissal without the need for trial. (Aguilar v.
Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) Code of Civil Procedure
section 437c, subdivision (c) “requires the trial judge to grant summary
judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably
deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or
evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that
the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” (Adler v.
Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) “The function of
the pleadings in a motion for summary judgment is to delimit the scope of the
issues; the function of the affidavits or declarations is to disclose whether
there is any triable issue of fact within the issues delimited by the
pleadings.” (Juge v. County of Sacramento (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 65,
citing FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 367,
381–382.) 
 
As to each claim as framed by the complaint, the defendant
moving for summary judgment must satisfy the initial burden of proof by
presenting facts to negate an essential element, or to establish a defense.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2); Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005)
128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519–1520.)  
 
Once the defendant has met that burden, the burden shifts
to the plaintiff to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts
exists as to that cause of action or a defense thereto. To establish a triable
issue of material fact, the party opposing the motion must produce substantial
responsive evidence. (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 163.) Courts “liberally
construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and
resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore v.
Arnold Worldwide, Inc.¿(2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.) 
 
A.   
Medical Negligence
 
Plaintiff’s first cause of
action alleges Medical Negligence against all Defendants. “The elements of a
cause of action for medical malpractice are: (1) a duty to use such skill,
prudence, and diligence as other members of the profession commonly possess and
exercise; (2) a breach of the duty; (3) a proximate causal connection between
the negligent conduct and the injury; and (4) resulting loss or damage.” (Chakalis
v. Elevator Solutions, Inc. (2012) 205 Cal.App.4th 1557, 1571.)
 
Here, Moving Defendant
alleges that “because Defendants complied with the standard of care in the …
treatment of plaintiff and did not cause plaintiff any harm, negligence cannot
be proven.” (MSJ 8:26–28.) In support of its contention, Moving Defendant
proffers the sworn declaration of its expert, a licensed
obstetrician-gynecologist, stating that “Dr. Murphy acted within the
standard of care when she prescribed Clobetasol to plaintiff. Further, there is
no objective medical evidence to support plaintiff’s allegations that any
injuries she sustained were caused by Dr. Murphy. Thus, it is Dr. Macer’s
opinion, to a reasonable degree of medical probability, that no negligent act
or omission caused or contributed to any of the plaintiff’s alleged injuries.”
(Id. at 8:16–20, citing Decl. of James Macer, M.D., ¶¶ 14–15.)
 
However, as Plaintiffs
observe in opposition, “Plaintiffs are not claiming negligence with respect to
the Clobetasol prescription. This case is about the failure to provide a step
stool or other assistance to Karey to get down off an examination table.” (Pls.’
Opp. 8:7–9.) Plaintiffs further contend that therefore, “here, FACEY has not
met its initial summary judgment burden because the Declaration of their
expert, Dr. Macer, upon which this motion rests, is conclusory and fails to
address the facts and evidence giving rise to this litigation, namely that
Plaintiff, who is only 4’11” tall, fell off of an exam table for which there
was no step stool for her to use, and for which no assistance was provided to
her to get down from the exam table or to retrieve her phone.” (Id. at 11:15–19.)
 
Plaintiffs further argue
that even if the Court were to find that Moving Defendant met its initial
burden to present facts to negate an essential element of Plaintiffs’ Medical
Negligence cause of action, a triable issue of material fact would exist as to
whether Defendants met the correct standard of care. Based on Plaintiffs’
expert’s declaration, “the standard of care required that Dr. MURPHY
either get the Plaintiff’s purse and hand it to the Plaintiff while the
Plaintiff remained seated on the examination table, ask permission of the
Plaintiff to obtain the Plaintiff’s phone from her purse and then obtain the
phone and hand it to Plaintiff while the Plaintiff remained seated on the
examination table, or last to pull out the step from the examination table and
direct the Plaintiff to get down off of the table using the step.” (Id. at
10:9–13, citing Decl. of Howard C. Mandel, M.D., ¶ 18.)
 
On reply, Moving Defendant
concedes “that the Declaration of Howard Mandel, M.D. creates a disputed
issue of material fact regarding the first cause of action for medical
negligence.” (Def.’s Reply 1:25–27.) Based on the foregoing, the Court agrees
with Plaintiffs and finds that triable issues of material fact exist as to the
applicable standard of care Defendants owed to Karey, and whether Defendants
breached their duty of care to her. Accordingly, the motion is denied as to
Plaintiffs’ first cause of action.
 
B.    
Premises
Liability
 
Plaintiffs’ second cause of
action alleges Premises Liability against Facey and Providence. “The elements
of a cause of action for premises liability are the same as those for
negligence: duty, breach, causation, and damages.” (Jones v. Awad (2019)
39 Cal.App.5th 1200, 1207.) To state a claim for negligence, a plaintiff must
allege the elements of (1) “the existence of a legal duty of care,” (2) “breach
of that duty,” and (3) “proximate cause resulting in an injury.” (McIntyre
v. Colonies-Pacific, LLC (2014) 228 Cal.App.4th 664, 671.) “Premises
liability is grounded in the possession of the premises and the attendant right
to control and manage the premises.” (Kesner v. Superior Court (2016) 1
Cal.5th 1132, 1158.) “Consequently, landowners are liable for injuries caused
by a lack of due care in the maintenance of their property.” (Jones, 39
Cal.App.5th at 1207.)
 
1.     
Foreseeability
 
“In determining a duty’s
existence and scope, our precedents call for consideration of several factors:
[T]he foreseeability of harm to the plaintiff, the degree of certainty that the
plaintiff suffered injury, the closeness of the connection between the
defendant's conduct and the injury suffered, the moral blame attached to the
defendant's conduct, the policy of preventing future harm, the extent of the
burden to the defendant and consequences to the community of imposing a duty to
exercise care with resulting liability for breach, and the availability, cost,
and prevalence of insurance for the risk involved.” (Johnson v. Prasad
(2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 74, 79–80 [internal quotations omitted].) “Foreseeability
is a critical factor in determining the existence of a duty.” (McGarry v.
Sax (2008) 158 Cal.App.4th 983, 997.)
 
Here, Moving Defendant
argues that “plaintiff cannot offer any evidence to show that Facey
Medical Group should have foreseen or anticipated that plaintiff would become
injured when getting off an examination table to retrieve her phone.” (MSJ
9:26–28.) Plaintiffs argue in opposition that they are not required to produce
such evidence, because Moving Defendant has failed to meet its initial burden
as to this issue by failing to present any evidence to support its argument.
(Pls.’ Opp. 16:16–18.)
 
The Court agrees with
Plaintiffs, and finds that as to the foreseeability issue, Moving Defendant has
failed to proffer any supporting “affidavits, declarations, admissions, answers
to interrogatories, depositions, and matters of which judicial notice shall or
may be taken.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 437c, subd. (b)(1).) Accordingly, the Court
finds that Moving Defendant has failed to meet its initial burden as to the
foreseeability of harm to Karey.
 
2.     
Professional
Negligence
 
Moving Defendant further
argues that Plaintiffs’ premises liability cause of action amounts to a
professional negligence cause of action, because “plaintiff’s claim
arises out of and is integrally related to the rendering of professional
medical services.” (MSJ 10:26–27.) Moving Defendant cites to Mitchell v. Los
Robles Regional Medical Center (2021) 71 Cal.App.5th 291, wherein the Court
of Appeal reviewed the distinction between “between the professional
obligations of hospitals in the rendering of medical care to their patients and
the obligations hospitals have, simply by virtue of operating facilities open
to the public, to maintain their premises in a manner that preserves the
well-being and safety of all users” for purposes of determining the applicable
statute of limitations. (71 Cal.App.5th at 297.) In doing so, the Court of
Appeal found that the hospital nursing staff’s decision to not assist the
plaintiff patient in walking to the restroom was integrally related to her
medical care and treatment. (Id. at 297–299.) Therefore, the Court of
Appeal found that the patient’s action against the hospital to recover for
injuries she sustained when she fell while walking to restroom while being
treated in emergency room was subject to one-year limitations period for
medical professional negligence claims, despite the patient’s contention that
helping someone walk to and from toilet was not professional medical service. (Id.
at 299.)
 
Moving Defendant argues that here, “Plaintiffs have
not, and cannot, show that plaintiff’s injuries occurred outside the course of
medical services or care and treatment.” (MSJ 10:27–28.) “Plaintiff’s injuries
were integrally related to the care and treatment that Dr. Murphy was providing
to plaintiff at Facey Medical Group” (Id. at 11:6–7.) Plaintiffs argue
in opposition that “the absent step stool was merely incidental to [Karey’s]
treatment but not required for addressing menopausal symptoms.” (Pls.’ Opp.
17:4–5.) Plaintiffs further observe that Moving Defendant has failed to meet its
initial burden as to this issue because it has failed to present any evidence
to support its argument. (Pls.’ Opp. 16:5–7.)
 
The Court agrees with Plaintiffs
and finds that as to the issue of whether Plaintiffs’ premises liability claims
amount to a professional negligence cause of action, Moving Defendant has
failed to proffer any supporting “affidavits, declarations, admissions, answers
to interrogatories, depositions, and matters of which judicial notice shall or
may be taken.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 437c, subd. (b)(1).) Accordingly, the Court
finds that Moving Defendant has failed to meet its initial burden as to this
issue. 
 
Based on the foregoing, the
Court finds that Moving Defendant has failed to meet its initial burden of
proof to negate an essential element of or establish a complete defense to
Plaintiffs’ Premises Liability cause of action. Moreover, as outlined above,
the Court finds that a triable issue exists as to whether Karey’s injuries were
caused by Defendants’ medical negligence. Accordingly, the motion is
denied as to Plaintiffs’ second cause of action.
 
C.   
Loss of
Consortium
 
Plaintiffs’ third cause of
action alleges against Defendants a Loss of Consortium on behalf of plaintiff
Brian Kibbe (“Brian”). “To recover for loss of consortium, the plaintiff must
plead and prove that his or her spouse suffered a negligently or intentionally
inflicted injury which caused the loss of consortium.” (Cal. Civ. Prac. Torts §
10:6.)
 
Here, Moving Defendant
argues that “because plaintiff Karey Kibbe’s claims must fail for the reasons
set forth above, Brian Kibbe’s derivative claim for loss of consortium must
also fail.” (MSJ 11:22–24.) The Court finds that to the extent that Moving
Defendant contends that Plaintiffs’ third cause of action fails because it is
derivative of Plaintiffs’ first and second causes of action, Moving Defendant’s
argument lacks merit. As outlined above, the motion is denied as to Plaintiffs’
first and second causes of action and is therefore likewise denied as to
Plaintiffs’ derivative Loss of Consortium cause of action.
 
CONCLUSION
 The motion is denied.