  Case Number:  20CHCV00307    Hearing Date:   March 15, 2024    Dept:  F51 Dept. F-51¿¿ 
Date: 3/15/24 
Case #20CHCV00307
 
LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH VALLEY DISTRICT
DEPARTMENT F-51
 

MARCH 14, 2024
 

MOTION FOR RECONSIDERATION

Los Angeles Superior Court Case
# 20CHCV00307

¿ 
Motion Filed: 2/16/24
¿ 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant/Cross-Complainant Anica
Barbosa, an individual (in pro per) (“Defendant”)
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant
Walter Martin, Trustee for the Gesner L. Martin Living Trust (“Plaintiff”)
NOTICE: NOT OK (misstates
the date of the underlying Court ruling)
¿ 
RELIEF REQUESTED: Reconsideration
of the Court’s 2/6/24 Order denying Defendant’s motion for terminating and
monetary sanctions against Plaintiff.
¿ 
TENTATIVE RULING: The motion is denied.
 
BACKGROUND¿ 
 
On 3/24/20,
Plaintiff entered into a month-to-month lease agreement with Defendant for
certain premises located at 11967 Adelphia Street, Pacoima, California 91331.
According to Plaintiff, Defendant took “premature possession” of the premises
on 3/28/20, and blocked Plaintiff from showing the premises to prospective
buyers. Defendant also allegedly breached the lease by failing to perform
certain agreed-upon tenant improvements, and failing to pay the security
deposit, late charges, or the rent due in May 2020 and thereafter. 
 
On 3/19/20,
Plaintiff filed a complaint against Defendant for Breach of Lease Contract.
Defendant answered the complaint on 8/4/20 and filed a cross-complaint against
Plaintiff for Breach of Warranty of Habitability, Negligent Maintenance of
Premises, Nuisance, Breach of Quiet Enjoyment, Intentional Infliction of
Emotional Distress, Intrusion into Seclusion, Violation of Privacy, Promissory
Estoppel, Breach of Contract, and Fraud. On 8/24/20, Plaintiff answered the
cross-complaint. 
 
On 8/5/22,
Plaintiff filed his second amended complaint, alleging against Defendant the
following causes of action: (1) Breach of Lease Contract; (2) Fraudulent
Concealment; (3) Fraud in the Inducement; and (4) Intentional
Misrepresentation.
 
On 2/6/24,
the Court denied Defendant’s motion for terminating and monetary sanctions
against Plaintiff. On 2/16/24, Defendant filed the instant motion for reconsideration.
On 3/4/24, Plaintiff filed his opposition. No reply has been filed to date.
 
ANALYSIS
 
“When an application for an order has been made to a judge,
or to a court, and refused in whole or in part, or granted, or granted
conditionally, or on terms, any party affected by the order may, within 10 days
after service upon the party of written notice of entry of the order and based
upon new or different facts, circumstances, or law, make application to the
same judge or court that made the order, to reconsider the matter and modify,
amend, or revoke the prior order. The party making the application shall state
by affidavit what application was made before, when and to what judge, what
order or decisions were made, and what new or different facts, circumstances,
or law are claimed to be shown.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 1008, subd. (a).)
 
A.   
Underlying
Motion for Sanctions
 
An attorney who files a pleading, motion, or similar paper
with the court must sign the document, which implicitly certifies the pleading
has legal and factual merit. (Code Civ. Proc. § 128.7, subd. (a).) The
signature reflects the certification of the attorney that the pleading is not
being presented for an improper purpose; the legal contentions are warranted by
law or nonfrivolous argument for extension, modification, or reversal of
existing law; the allegations and factual contentions have evidentiary support
or are likely to have such support after a reasonable opportunity to further
investigate; and the denials or factual contentions are warranted by the
evidence. (Id. at subd. (b).) An attorney or party who violates any of
these certifications is subject to sanctions. (Id. at subd. (c).)
 
In her
underlying motion for sanctions, Defendant argued that Plaintiff had no legal
authority to bring the instant action, as he was suspended as the successor
trustee for the Gesner L. Martin Living Trust by Court order on 3/6/19. (Ex. B
to Def.’s Sanctions Mot.) Plaintiff argued in opposition that “the validity and
service of that [3/6/19] Order are what are important.” (Pl.’s Sanctions Mot.
Opp. 3:7.) This Court declined to make any determinations regarding the
validity and service of the 3/6/19 Order in LASC Case No. 18AVPB00069, which
are not within its jurisdiction, and notes that on 11/11/23, “the Lancaster
Probate Court denied Walter Martin's Ex Parte Application [to vacate the 3/6/19
Order] and granted his niece, Chevon Martin’s Petition to Remove Walter Martin
as Trustee of the Gesner Martin Revocable Living Trust and install Chevon
Martin instead as the current Trustee.” (Id. at 5:18–22.)
 
Based on
the foregoing, the Court determined that Plaintiff does not have the legal
standing to maintain the instant action because he is no longer the real party
in interest as the trustee of the Gesner Martin Revocable Living Trust.
However, this fact alone was insufficient to warrant terminating sanctions
against Plaintiff. “An action or proceeding does not abate by the transfer of
an interest in the action or proceeding or by any other transfer of an
interest. The action or proceeding may be continued in the name of the original
party, or the court may allow the person to whom the transfer is made to be
substituted in the action or proceeding.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 368.5.)
 
As
Plaintiff observed, “Defendant’s argument centers only on what whether Walter
Martin, as the representative of the Gesner Trust, could have prosecuted this
case, not that she is not factually and legally responsible for Gesner Martin
Revocable Living Trust (the Real Party in Interest’s) monetary damages.” (Pl.’s
Sanctions Mot. Opp. 6:10–15.) 
 
The Court heard
and considered both the parties’ written and oral arguments, and ultimately denied
Defendant’s motion for sanctions. (2/6/24 Min. Order.)
 
B.    
Grounds for
Reconsideration
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 1008 allows a party to seek
reconsideration of an order based on new or different facts, circumstances, or
law. However, “a motion for reconsideration has a limited role as Code Civ.
Proc. § 1008 gives the court no authority when deciding whether to grant a
motion to reconsider to ‘reevaluate’ or ‘reanalyze’ facts and authority already
presented in the earlier motion.” (Cal. Law & Motion Authorities § 4:13; Gilberd
v. AC Transit (1995) 32 Cal.App.4th 1494, 1500.) New law does not mean new
law without retroactive effect or a claim the court misinterpreted the law. (Code
Civ. Proc. § 1008, subd. (f).)
 
The moving party bears the burden to not only demonstrate
the grounds for reconsideration, but also provide a satisfactory explanation
for the failure to present earlier the new circumstances, evidence, or law. (Even
Zohar Construction & Remodeling, Inc. v. Bellaire Townhouses, LLC
(2015) 61 Cal.4th 830, 833.) Here, as Plaintiff observes, Defendant does not,
by required affidavit or otherwise, present any “new or different facts,
circumstances, or law” that was not previously presented and considered by the
Court in connection with Defendant’s underlying motion for sanctions. (Pl.’s
Opp. 1:22–27.) The Court further notes that Defendant does not state any reason
for her failure to present any such new facts, circumstances, or law at the
previous hearing.
 
Based on the foregoing, the Court finds that Defendant has
not met her burden to show any grounds for reconsideration of the Court’s
2/6/24 Order denying her motion for terminating and monetary sanctions against
Plaintiff. Accordingly, the Court denies Defendant’s motion for
reconsideration.
 
CONCLUSION¿ 
 
The motion is
denied.