  Case Number:  22STCV00277    Hearing Date:   October 11, 2024    Dept:  45 Superior Court of  California County  of Los Angeles        LESTER    JIMENEZ,                                Plaintiff,                                 vs. 25    ART, L.P, FREDERICK LEEDS, DAVID OVED, DOES 1-50,                                 Defendants.   Case No.: 22STCV00277  DEPARTMENT    45       [TENTATIVE] RULING       Action    Filed: 1/4/2022  1st    Amended Cross-Complaint Filed: 9/21/2023  Trial    Date: 1/12/2026        Hearing date:  October 11, 2024   Moving Party: Cross-complainant  25 ART, L.P.   Responding  Party: Cross-defendant Sharol Batres   Motion  to Compel Further Responses to Form Interrogatories Set Two and Motion for  Sanctions   The Court  considered the moving papers, opposition, and reply.             The  motion to compel further responses to form interrogatory set 2 number 15.1 is GRANTED.             The  motion for monetary sanctions is GRANTED in the reduced amount of $5,562.5.   Background             This  action arises out of an injury occurring on a fire escape in a building on  South Hobart Boulevard in Los Angeles, California. On January 4, 2022,  Plaintiff Lester Jimenez (Plaintiff) filed a complaint against defendants 25  Art, L.P, Frederick Leeds, David Oved, and Does 1 through 50. The complaint  alleged causes of action for negligence and premises liability.              On  March 25, 2022, defendants 25 Art, L.P, Frederick Leeds, and David Oved filed  an answer to the complaint and a cross-complaint for indemnity, apportionment,  and declaratory relief against Roes 1 through 25.              On  August 14, 2023, defendants 25 Art, L.P, Frederick Leeds, and David Oved amended  their cross-complaint to name Sharol Batres as Roe 1. Plaintiff was a guest of  Batres at the premises. On September 1, they filed a first amended  cross-complaint (FACC). Batres filed an answer on December 15, 2023.             On  March 19, 2024, cross-complainant 25 Art, L.P. (Cross-complainant) moved the  court for an order compelling Batres to respond further to Cross-complainant’s  form interrogatory set two and for sanctions. Cross-complainant moves for these  orders on the grounds that Batres’ purported answers are evasive and incomplete,  and the objections are frivolous, without substantial justification, waived  without merit, and designed to delay discovery.              On  April 2, 2024, Batres filed an opposition. Batres opposed the motion on the  grounds that no informal discovery conference (IDC) was held, Cross-complainant  failed to properly meet and confer, and that code compliant responses were  provided. On April 4, 2024, Cross-complainant filed a reply. Cross-complainant  argues that there was no declaration in support of Batres’ opposition,  Cross-complainant attempted to schedule an IDC, the meet and confer was proper,  and Batres’ responses were the same as the first. Further, Batres did not  address the merits in Cross-complainant’s separate statement of discovery. Legal  Standard Where responses  to interrogatories have been served but the requesting party believes that they  are deficient because the answers are evasive or incomplete, or, because an  objection is without merit, that party may move for an order compelling a  further response. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.300 subd. (a).) The motion must be  made within 45 days after service of verified responses in question, or any  verified supplemental responses. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.300 subd. (c).) The  motion must be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration in compliance with Code  of Civil Procedure section 2016.040 subd. (b).) “If a party to  whom interrogatories are directed fails to serve a timely response…the party to  whom the interrogatories are directed waives any right to exercise the option  to produce writings under Section 2030.230, as well as any objection to the  interrogatories, including one based on privilege or on the production for work  product.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.290 subd. (a)(1).) The court may relieve the  party from this waiver if (1) the party has subsequently served code complaint  responses and (2) the failure was a result of mistake, inadvertence, or  excusable neglect. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.300 subd. (a).)  “The court may  impose a monetary sanction ordering that one engaging in the misuse of the  discovery process, or any attorney advising that conduct, or both pay the  reasonable expenses, including attorney's fees, incurred by anyone as a result  of that conduct.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2023.030 subd. (a).) Discussion             Motion to Compel Further Responses to  Form Interrogatories             Cross-complainant  moves to compel further responses from Batres to Cross-complainants form  interrogatory set two number 15.1 served on December 19, 2023.              Merits             The  form interrogatory set two number 15.1 asked Batres the following:    FORM INTERROGATORY 15.1: Identify each  denial of a material allegation and each special or affirmative defense in your  pleadings and for each: (a) state all facts upon which you base the denial or  special or affirmative defense: (b) state the names, ADDRESSES, and telephone  numbers of all PERSONS who have knowledge of those facts; and (c) identify all  DOCUMENTS and other tangible things that support your denial or special or  affirmative defense, and state the name, ADDRESS, and telephone number of the  PERSON who has each DOCUMENT.   Batres response on February 5, 2024, does not identify  any material allegation pled in the cross-complaint. Batres did not identify  allegations related to Plaintiff’s intoxication on the premises or related to failing  to comply with the lease provisions. (Ruiz Decl., Exh. E.) Batres identified the  material defenses in compliance with form interrogatory number 15.1 but either  fails completely or partially in identifying the facts surrounding the defense.  (Ruiz Decl., Exh. E.) For example, in connection with the defense of  intervening causes, Batres states: “The  damages of which Cross-Complainant complains were proximately caused or  contributed to by the acts of other persons, and/or other entities. Such acts  were an intervening, supervening, and superseding cause of the injuries and  damages, if any, of which the Cross-Complainant complains, thus barring  Cross-Complainant from any recovery against this answering Cross-Defendant.” (Ruiz  Decl., Exh. E.) This response does not provide facts as to how the defense  applies against the cross-complainants, what the supervening or intervening  acts were, or who’s acts were intervening or supervening. This pattern of not  providing facts is repeated with all of the affirmative defenses addressed. Batres  response for subdivisions (b) and (c) are the same for each of the defenses.  Additionally, Batres’ further responses submitted on March  11, 2024, have the same defects as those submitted on February 5, 2024. Batres’  responses again do not identify or discuss any material allegation. Apart from  the formatting, Batres’ responses are the same. For example, again for the  defense of intervening and superseding causes, Batres responds: “the damages of  which Cross-Complainant complains were proximately caused and/or contributed to  by the acts of other persons, and/or other entities. Such acts were an  intervening, supervening, and superseding cause of the injuries and damages, if  any, of which the Cross-Complainant complains, thus barring Cross-Complainant  from any recovery against this answering Cross-Defendant; (b) Cross-Defendant  Sharol Batres, Plaintiff Lester Jimenez, Defendants; and (c) Cross-Defendant  Sharol Batres's lease agreement.” (Ruiz Decl., Exh. I.) There are no facts in  this response. For this defense, and all others, Batres lists herself,  Plaintiff, and defendants as those who have knowledge of the facts and a lease  agreement written before the action in question to support the defense. (Ruiz  Decl., Exh. I.) However, again, it is not clear what facts these are intended  to support.  On April 23, 2024, Batres submitted a third response. In  this response, Batres adds some facts to the affirmative defenses. For example,  for the affirmative defense of an intervening and superseding cause, Batres  adds “specifically the intervening superseding of Cross-Complainants negligence  in failing to secure the fire escape and allowing it as a place for leasure  activities.” (Third Further Responses, p. 9.) However, this defense and many  defenses still lack detailed facts. All defenses and allegations still  reference the lease as a supporting document and the same people as having  knowledge of the facts. (Third Further Responses.) The facts for the material  allegations consist of broad denials. For example, in the denial to paragraph  16, Batres “denies that she agreed to be responsible for all the conduct of her  guests, especially those acts which were not foreseeable, and out of  Cross-defendant’s control.” (Third Further Responses, p. 10.) This is a general  denial which lacks any detailed facts. It is also the exact same response as  for her denial of paragraph 8. (Third Further Responses, p. 9-10.) The Court finds that these responses are evasive and incomplete.  The first and second responses identify the affirmative defenses but fail to  identify material allegations. It generally lists Batres, Plaintiff, and  defendants as those with knowledge and the lease agreement as a supporting  document. However, without more, it is not clear how these individuals and the  lease agreement can support all the defenses. The Court does not find any facts  in the responses to support the defenses as requested by form interrogatory set  two number 15.1 in either the February 4, 2024, or March 11, 2024, responses. The  third responses contain some facts, but still lack the detail requested. Form  interrogatory set two number 15.1 requested Batres “state all facts upon which  you base the denial or special or affirmative defense.” The short and general phrases  of fact added in the third responses do not comply and are still incomplete. The  second and third responses do not render this matter moot because they are  incomplete. Further, Batres  waived the right to make objections. Responses for the form interrogatories set  two were due on January 22, 2024. (Ruiz  Decl., ¶ 13.) A legal  assistant from Batres’ law firm requested a two-week extension on January 22,  2024. (Ruiz Decl., Exh. D.) Counsel for Cross-complainant did not grant this  extension. (Ruiz Decl., ¶ 13.) Batres did not timely respond and thereby waived the right  to object. Meet  and Confer Cross-complainant complied with the meet and confer requirement. Batres  argues that Cross-complainant failed to have a proper meet and confer after  further responses were served prior to filing the instant motion. (Opposition,  p. 2.) Batres states there was only one meet and confer email. (Opposition, p.  2.) However, Cross-complainant’s counsel sent multiple meet and confer letters  and spoke with Batres’ counsel on the telephone. On February 12, 2024, Cross-complainant’s  counsel sent a meet and confer letter in connection with Batres’s responses on  February 5, 2024. (Ruiz Decl., Exh. F.) On February 16, 2024,  Cross-complainant’s counsel sent a meet and confer letter regarding the special  interrogatories in which he requests Batres’s counsel to review his February  12, 2024, letter about the form interrogatories. (Ruiz Decl., Exh. G.) In this  letter, he also notes that Batres’ counsel has not responded to his calls.  (Ruiz Decl., Exh. G.) After February 21, 2024, Cross-complainant’s counsel  received a response and both parties’ counsel spoke via telephone call  regarding the form interrogatory set two number 15.1 response.  (Ruiz Supp. Decl., ¶ 5.) On March  13, 2024, Cross-complainant sent another meet and confer letter in connection  with the March 11, 2024, response. (Ruiz Decl., Exh. H.) There was no response.  (Ruiz Supp. Decl., ¶ 8.) The Court therefore finds that Cross-complainant has complied  the meet and confer requirement.             Informal Discovery Conference              Batres further argues that Cross-complainant  improperly filed the instant motion without participating in an IDC. (Opposition,  p. 2.) However, Cross-complainant requested to schedule an IDC twice. In  Cross-complainant’s counsel’s February 12, 2024, meet and confer letter, he  requests Batres’ counsel’s availability for an IDC. (Ruiz Decl., Exh. F.) He  did not receive a response. (Ruiz Supp. Decl., ¶ 3.) In his February 16, 2024, letter regarding the  special interrogatories, he requested Batres’ counsel to review the February 12,  2024, letter which contained the IDC request. (Ruiz Decl., Exh. G.) In light of  these scheduling attempts, the Court does not find a procedural defect in  connection with the IDC.             Accordingly, the Court GRANTS  Cross-Complainant’s motion to compel further responses to form interrogatories  set two number 15.1. The Court orders Batres to serve further responses within  20 days of this ruling. Motion to Compel Further Responses to Form  Interrogatories Cross-complainant moves for an order for sanctions on the grounds that  Batres and Batres’ counsel engaged in the misuse of the discovery process. The  Court finds that after three further responses, Batres still does not provide  the requisite detail. Further, Batres’ counsel failed to respond to multiple  meet and confer letters, which included an IDC scheduling request.   Cross-complainant requests $7,661.65 in monetary sanctions. Cross-complainant’s  counsel spent 2.5 hours participating in meet and confer efforts. (Ruiz Decl., ¶ 16.) He  additionally spent 4 hours preparing the motion to compel, 3 hours to review  the opposition and provide a reply, and 5.5 hours to appear for the motion to  compel. (Ruiz Decl., ¶ 17-19.) His  hourly rate is $475. (Ruiz Decl., ¶ 20.)  Additionally, the costs of filing this motion are $61.65. (Ruiz  Decl., ¶ 21.) The Court reduces the hours  to appear for the motion to 2 hours. Accordingly, the Court grants Cross-complainant’s  motion for sanctions in the amount of $5,562.5.               It  is so ordered.   Dated: October 11, 2024   _______________________ MEL RED RECANA Judge of the  Superior Court


 
LESTER
  JIMENEZ,
 
                             Plaintiff,
 
                              vs.
25
  ART, L.P, FREDERICK LEEDS, DAVID OVED, DOES 1-50,
 
                              Defendants.


Case No.: 22STCV00277   
DEPARTMENT
  45
 
 
 
[TENTATIVE] RULING
 
 
 
Action
  Filed: 1/4/2022  
1st
  Amended Cross-Complaint Filed: 9/21/2023
Trial
  Date: 1/12/2026  


 Hearing date:
October 11, 2024  Moving Party: Defendants
Art L.P. and Frederick Leeds  Responding
Party: Non-party Erla Marisol Amaya  Motion
to Compel Erla Marisol Amaya to Comply with the Deposition Subpoena and Request
for Sanctions        The Court
considered the moving papers.            The
motion to compel Erla Marisol Amaya to comply with the deposition subpoena for
personal appearance and production of documents is GRANTED.             The
request for sanctions in the amount of $3,680 is GRANTED. BackgroundThis action
arises out of an injury occurring on a fire escape in a building on South
Hobart Boulevard in Los Angeles, California. On January 4, 2022, Plaintiff
Lester Jimenez (Plaintiff) filed a complaint against defendants 25 Art, L.P.,
Frederick Leeds, David Oved, and Does 1 through 50. The complaint alleged
causes of action for negligence and premises liability.             On
March 25, 2022, defendants 25 Art, L.P, Frederick Leeds, and David Oved filed
an answer to the complaint and a cross-complaint for indemnity, apportionment,
and declaratory relief against Roes 1 through 25.             On
August 14, 2023, defendants 25 Art, L.P., Frederick Leeds, and David Oved
amended their cross-complaint to name Sharol Batres as Roe 1. Plaintiff was a
guest of Batres at the premises. On September 1, they filed a first amended
cross-complaint (FACC). Batres filed an answer on December 15, 2023.             On
March 4, 2024, 25 Art, L.P. and Frederick Leeds (Defendants) moved for an order
compelling Erla Marisol Amaya (Amaya) to comply with a deposition subpoena for
personal appearance and production of documents that was served on September
10, 2023. Amaya is the mother of Sharol Batres. Defendants also request
monetary sanctions in the amount of $3,680. Defendants move the court on the
grounds that Amaya failed to comply with the subpoena.            The
hearing on the instant motion was originally schedule for May 5, 2024, then
rescheduled for August 30, 2024, and then continued to October 11, 2024. There
has been no opposition filed. Legal
Standard“If a deponent
fails to answer any question or to produce any document, electronically stored
information, or tangible thing under the deponent's control that is
specified in the deposition notice or a deposition subpoena, the party seeking
discovery may move the court for an order compelling that answer or production.”
(Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.480 subd. (a).) “This motion shall be made no later
than 60 days after the completion of the record of the deposition, and shall be
accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.” (Code
Civ. Proc. § 2025.480 subd. (b).)The motion must
be accompanied by a declaration showing a reasonable and good faith attempt to
informally resolve each issue presented or, when the deponent fails to attend
the deposition and produce the requested documents or things, the motion must
be accompanied by a declaration stating that the petitioner has contacted the
deponent to inquire about the nonappearance. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.450 subd. (b)(2).)
The motion must also specify facts showing good cause to justify the production
of documents. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.450 subd. (b)(1).)“A deponent who
disobeys a deposition subpoena in any manner described in subdivision (c) of
Section 2020.220 may be punished for contempt under Chapter 7…without the
necessity of a prior order of court directing compliance by the witness. The
deponent is also subject to the forfeiture and the payment of damages set forth
in Section 1992.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2020.240 subd. (b)(1).) Under Code of
Civil Procedure section 1992, a person failing to appear pursuant to a subpoena
forfeits a sum of $500 to the aggrieved party and any damages sustained as a
failure to appear.Discussion            Motion to Compel Erla Marisol Amaya to
Comply with the Deposition Subpoena             Motion to Compel Deposition SubpoenaDefendants move
for an order compelling Amaya to comply with a deposition subpoena for personal
appearance and production of documents that was served on September 10, 2023.
The subpoena set a deposition date for October 3, 2023. (Ruiz Decl., Exh. A.) On
October 3, 2023, Amaya did not appear for the deposition and Defendants took an
affidavit of nonappearance. (Ruiz Decl., Exh. B.) Counsel for Sharol Batres stated
he learned the previous evening through Sharol Batres that Amaya would not
attend the deposition. (Ruiz Decl. Exh. B, p. 6.) Amaya did not directly notify
Defendants of her plans not to appear for the deposition.Defendants
properly noticed the deposition. Service processor Juan Carlos Altamirano
personally served Amaya on September 10, 2023. (Ruiz Decl., Exh. A.) Defendants’
motion is timely. Defendants filed the instant motion within 60 days of the
completion of record which was on October 3, 2023. (Ruiz Decl., Exh. B.) Defendants argue
Amaya ignored their requests to meet and confer and schedule a date for a new deposition.
On October 4, 2023, Defendants’ counsel instructed his paralegal, Stephanie
Santana, to translate a telephone conference with Amaya. (Ruiz Decl., ¶ 11a.) Amaya refused to speak with Defendants’ counsel unless she
would then not have to appear for a deposition. (Ruiz Decl., ¶ 11b; Santana Decl., ¶ 9.) Amaya then refused to schedule
a deposition. (Santana Decl., ¶ 9.) The Court therefore finds
Defendants complied in good faith to attempt to resolve the issue informally.Lastly,
Defendants argue there is good cause to support their motion to compel
production of documents. Defendants request documents including phone records
and text messages between the dates of April 16, 2020, and April 19, 2020. (Ruiz
Decl., Exh. A.) Defendants believe these records have relevant information
pertaining to Plaintiff’s damages and the circumstances of the incident. (Ruiz Decl., ¶ 12.) There is no opposition. The Court finds there is good cause
to request these documents.Accordingly,
Defendants’ motion to compel Amaya’s compliance with the deposition subpoena for
personal appearance and for production of documents is granted. The Court
orders Amaya comply with the deposition subpoena within 20 days of this
hearing.Request
for SanctionsDefendants
request monetary and contempt sanctions in the amount of $3,680. Defendants’
costs for the nonappearance were as follows: $775 for the certificate of
nonappearance, $445 for the videographer, $1,010 for a Spanish translator, and $950
in attorney’s fees for two hours at a rate of $475 per hour. (Ruiz Decl., ¶ 10.) Additionally, Defendants request the Court impose a forfeiture
pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 1992 for
$500. (Motion to Compel, p. 6.)The Court finds
that Amaya failed to appear pursuant to the deposition subpoena without timely
notice or objection. Therefore, the Court grants Defendants’ request for
sanctions in the amount of $3,680 encompassing the costs of the missed
deposition and the forfeiture.             It
is so ordered. Dated: October 11, 2024  _______________________MEL RED RECANAJudge of the
Superior Court











































































   