 Case Number:  23STCP04189    Hearing Date:   July 17, 2024    Dept:  82 Roger Lim                                                                 Case No. 23STCP04189
 
v.
                                                                    Hearing
Date: July 17, 2024
                                                                                    Location:
Stanley Mosk Courthouse
Steve
Gordon, Director for the                                Department: 82 
Department
of Motor Vehicles                                Judge:
Stephen I. Goorvitch
 
 
[Tentative] Order Denying Petition for
Writ of Mandate
 
 
INTRODUCTION 
 
Petitioner Roger Lim (“Petitioner”)
petitions for a writ of administrative mandate directing Respondent Steve
Gordon, Director of the Department of Motor Vehicles (“Respondent” or the “DMV”)
to set aside its administrative decision suspending Petitioner’s driving
privilege for one year for violation of the implied consent law.  The court denies the petition because: (1)
Petitioner forfeited his due process issue by not objecting during the
administrative hearing; (2) There was no due process violation because the
hearing officer did not act as an advocate at the administrative hearing; and
(3) The weight of the evidence supports the hearing officer’s findings that
Petitioner violated the implied consent law. 

 
BACKGROUND 
 
            On
April 9, 2023, at approximately 9:51 p.m., Officer William Lazaro of the San
Gabriel Police Department responded to a report of reckless driving.  (AR 8, 16, 18.)  At the scene, the reporting party, Anthony
Arredondo, informed Officer Lazaro that his neighbor—described as a “male
Asian, wearing a t-shirt and jeans”—was driving up and down the street in a
black Toyota Prius at a high rate of speed while intoxicated.  (AR 18.) 
Arrendondo stated that the driver almost hit Arredondo’s spouse.  (Ibid.)  Officer Lazaro then observed a black Toyota
Prius driving southbound on Charlotte Avenue in the middle of the roadway at a
high rate of speed.  (Ibid.)  Arredondo identified the driver, shouting, “That’s
him!”  (Ibid.)  
 
Officer Lazaro activated his
flashlight and ordered the vehicle to stop. 
(Ibid.)  The driver ignored
the command and drove quickly past Officer Lazaro to the driveway of the home
address described by the reporting party. 
(Ibid.)  Office Lazaro then
walked toward the vehicle and met the driver, Petitioner.  (Ibid.)  Officer Lazaro immediately noticed objective
symptoms of intoxication.  (Ibid.)  He smelled a strong odor of an alcoholic
beverage on Petitioner’s breath and noticed that Petitioner had slurred
speech.  (AR 18-19.)  
 
Based on Petitioner’s erratic
driving, Vehicle Code violations, and objective symptoms of intoxication,
Officer Lazaro commenced a DUI investigation. 
(Ibid.)  Officer Lazaro
asked Petitioner to exit the vehicle and he observed Petitioner’s unsteady
gait.  (Ibid.)  Officer Lazaro attempted to administer a series
of Standard Field Sobriety Tests (“SFSTs”), including the Horizontal Gaze
Nystagmus, One Leg Stand, and Walk and Turn.  (Ibid.)  Petitioner either refused or failed to perform
the SFSTs and also refused to submit to a Preliminary Alcohol Screening (“PAS”).
 (Ibid.; see also AR 15 (Dash
Camera Video, 22:00-24:30).)  Officer
Lazaro formed the opinion that Petitioner was driving under the influence of
alcohol and placed him under arrest.  (AR
18-19.)  Petitioner then refused to take
a chemical test: 
 
·       After arresting Petitioner, Officer Lazaro read the chemical
test admonition on the DMV’s Age 21 and Older Officer’s Statement (Form DS-367.)
 Officer Lazaro advised Petitioner of the
consequences of refusing to submit to or complete a chemical test.  (AR 9, 19; see also AR 15 (Dash Camera Video,
22:00-24:30.)  
 
·       Officer Lazaro then asked, “Will you take a breath test?”  (AR 15 (Dash Camera Video, 24:20.)  In response, Petitioner said, “No.”  (Ibid.)  
 
·       Officer Lazaro then asked, “Will you take a blood test?”  (AR 15 (Dash Camera Video, 24:24.)  In response, Petitioner said, “No.”  (Ibid.)  
 
At Petitioner’s request, the DMV
held an administrative hearing on June 27, 2023, before Hearing Officer Anna
Garcia. The scope of the hearing was limited to four issues: (1) Did Officer
Lazaro have reasonable cause to believe that Petitioner was driving a motor
vehicle in violation of section 23152 of the Vehicle Code? (2) Was Petitioner
lawfully arrested? (3) Was Petitioner informed that if he refused to take or
failed to complete a chemical test, his driving privilege would be suspended
for one year, or revoked for two or three years? and (4) Did Petitioner refuse
to take or fail to complete a chemical test when requested to do so by the officer?  (AR 4-6, 32.) 

 
Petitioner appeared at the
administrative hearing and represented himself. 
Hearing Officer Garcia introduced four documents into evidence: (1) the
Age 21 and Older Officer’s Statement (Form DS-367); (2) two DVDs containing
video footage from Officer Lazaro’s dash cam and body worn camera; (3) the arrest
report; and (4) Petitioner’s driving record. (AR 31- 33.)  Hearing Officer Garcia asked Petitioner
whether he had any legal objections to the Department’s exhibits being moved
into evidence. (AR 34.)  Petitioner
responded that he did not.  (Ibid.)  
 
At the administrative hearing, Petitioner
did not dispute that DMV had established issues one, two, and four under the
implied consent law (i.e., reasonable cause for the traffic stop, lawful
arrest, and refusal or failure to complete a chemical test.)  Petitioner only raised an issue concerning
the sufficiency of the admonishment. 
(See AR 32-34.)  Petitioner did
not raise any argument concerning the fairness of the proceeding or the
impartiality of the hearing officer.  (Ibid.)  
 
Petitioner testified that Officer
Lazaro read the chemical test admonishment, but did not “make clear … that he
was going to read the APS admonishment.” 
(AR 34.)  Upon questioning from
Hearing Officer Garcia, Petitioner clarified that Officer Lazaro “read the
admonishment to me” and “it just didn’t make sense at the time to me.”  (AR 35.) 
The hearing officer asked: “Did you ask him any questions about it?,” to
which Petitioner responded, “No, I didn’t.” 
(Ibid.)  
 
Based on the arrest report, video
footage, and DS-367, the hearing officer determined that (1) Officer Lazaro had
reasonable cause to believe Petitioner was driving a motor vehicle in violation
of section 23152 or 23153 of the Vehicle Code; (2) Petitioner was lawfully
arrested; 
(3) Petitioner was properly informed
that if he refused to take or failed to complete a chemical test, his driving
privilege would be suspended for one year, or revoked for two or three years;
and (4) Petitioner refused to take or failed to complete a chemical test when
requested to do so. (AR 4-6.)
 
With
regard to disputed issue number three, the hearing officer found “no evidence
was presented in support of the contention” that Officer Lazaro did not clearly
read the chemical test admonishment and induced confusion.  The hearing officer found that Petitioner
“did not convey any apparent confusion to Officer Lazaro.”  The hearing officer also found that “[t]he
body worn camera footage shows the officer clearly admonishing Respondent and
Respondent clearly refusing to take either test.”  (AR 5.) 

 
STANDARD OF REVIEW
 
Under Code of
Civil Procedure section 1094.5(b), the pertinent issues are whether the
respondent has proceeded without jurisdiction, whether there was a fair trial,
and whether there was a prejudicial abuse of discretion.  An abuse of discretion is established if the
agency has not proceeded in the manner required by law, the decision is not
supported by the findings, or the findings are not supported by the
evidence.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 1094.5(b).)
 
When a driver
petitions for a writ of mandate following an order suspending his or her
driver’s license, the trial court is required to determine, based on its
independent judgment, whether the weight of the evidence supports the
administrative decision.  (Lake v. Reed (1997) 16 Cal. 4th 448,
456.) 
 
Under the
independent judgment test, “the trial court not only examines the
administrative record for errors of law, but also exercises its independent
judgment upon the evidence disclosed in a limited trial de novo.”  (Bixby v. Pierno (1971) 4 Cal. 3d 130,
143.)  The court must draw its own
reasonable inferences from the evidence and make its own credibility
determinations.  (Morrison v. Housing Authority of the City of Los Angeles Board of
Commissioners (2003) 107 Cal. App. 4th 860, 868.)  However, “in exercising its independent
judgment, a trial court must afford a strong presumption of correctness
concerning the administrative findings, and the party challenging the
administrative decision bears the burden of convincing the court that the
administrative findings are contrary to the weight of the evidence.”  (Fukuda
v. City of Angels (1999) 20 Cal. 4th 805, 817.)
 
“On questions of
law arising in mandate proceedings, [the court] exercise[s] independent
judgment.’”  (Christensen v. Lightbourne (2017) 15 Cal.App.5th 1239, 1251.)  The interpretation of statute or regulation
is a question of law.  (See State Farm
Mut. Auto. Ins. Co. v. Quackenbush (1999) 77 Cal.App.4th 65, 77.)  “A challenge to the procedural
fairness of the administrative hearing is reviewed de novo on appeal because
the ultimate determination of procedural fairness amounts to a question of
law.”  (Nasha L.L.C. v. City of Los Angeles (2004) 125 Cal.App.4th 470,
482.)  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
            A.        Petitioner Forfeited the Due Process
Issue
 
Petitioner contends that the DMV
violated his due process rights by using a single hearing officer format in
which the hearing officer acted both as an advocate for DMV and as the trier of
fact.  In California DUI Lawyers
Association v. California Department of Motor Vehicles (2022) 77 Cal.App.5th
517 (“DUI Lawyers”), the Court of Appeal held that “combining the roles
of advocate and adjudicator in a single person employed by the DMV violates due
process under the Fourteenth Amendment and the California
constitution Article I, section 7.”  (Id. at 532-533.)  Summarizing prior appellate decisions, the DUI
Lawyers Court reasoned as follows:
 
Although procedural fairness does not prohibit the
combination of the advocacy and adjudicatory functions within a single
administrative agency, tasking the same individual with both roles violates the
minimum constitutional standards of due process. The irreconcilable conflict
between advocating for the agency on one hand, and being an impartial
decisionmaker on the other, presents a “particular combination of circumstances
creating an unacceptable risk of bias.”  
 
(Id. at 532.)  However, Petitioner forfeited any due process
challenge on this basis by failing to object at the administrative
hearing.  Petitioner did not raise any
argument concerning the fairness of the proceeding, his due process rights, the
impartiality of the hearing officer, or the hearing officer both introducing
exhibits and ruling on the case.  (See AR
32-34.)       
 
            Petitioner
argues that no objection is required, relying on Knudsen v. Department of
Motor Vehicles (2024) 101 Cal.App.5th 186. 
In that case, the District Court of Appeal  recognized that “[t]he DMV is correct that
claims or constitutional issues not raised in earlier civil or administrative
proceedings are generally forfeited.”  (Id.
at 196, citations omitted.)  However, the
District Court of Appeal recognized that “appellate courts also have
traditionally excused parties for failing to raise an issue below where an
objection would have been futile.”  (Ibid.)  The District Court of Appeal found no forfeiture
because at the time of the administrative hearing, the DMV was still litigating
DUI Lawyers, which was not yet law. 
By contrast, by the time of Petitioner’s administrative hearing, DUI
Lawyers was a published appellate decision, which Petitioner could have cited.  Therefore, the court finds that Petitioner forfeited
any due process objection.
 
            B.        There Was No Due Process Violation       
 
            In
the alternative, the court finds no due process violation under DUI Lawyers.  The dispositive issue is whether the hearing
officer “acted as both an adjudicator and an advocate, or merely acted as an
adjudicator and a collector and developer of evidence.”  (Knudsen, supra, 101 Cal.App.5th at 193,
198.)      
 
Petitioner argues that Hearing
Officer Garcia acted as an advocate for DMV when she “admitted” DMV’s exhibits
into evidence and then “made a ruling on the matter adverse to Petitioner’s
interest” based on those exhibits.  (OB
9-10.)  The court disagrees.  Hearing Officer Garcia merely introduced four
exhibits: (1) the Age 21 and Older Officer’s Statement (Form DS-367); (2) two
DVDs containing video footage from Officer Lazaro’s dash cam and body worn
camera; (3) the arrest report; and (4) Petitioner’s driving record. (AR 31-
33.)  She then asked Petitioner if he had
any “legal objections to the Department’s exhibits being admitted into evidence,”
and he responded, “I do not.”  (AR
34.)  She then admitted the exhibits.  (Ibid.)  Standing alone, this is not enough to
demonstrate “advocacy.”  
 
Petitioner’s counsel argues that “Respondent
went further, going out of their way to make written requests to the San
Gabriel Police Department for Officer audio and video recordings to
subsequently use against Petitioner’s interest. 
(AR 42-44.)”  (OB 9.)  Petitioner’s record citation shows a request
by Maryjane Castro, a Motor Vehicle Representative, to the San Gabriel Police
Department for the video recordings related to Petitioner’s arrest.   (AR 42-44.) 
The record does not show that Hearing Officer Garcia was involved in
requesting this evidence from San Gabriel Police Department.  Regardless, the mere “collection” of evidence
by the hearing officer does not give rise to a due process violation.[1]  
 
In sum, Hearing Officer Garcia merely
introduced and admitted four exhibits without ruling on any objections to those
exhibits.  There is no evidence
suggesting that she “collected” these exhibits, though that would have been
permissible under Knudsen.  While
Petitioner did not challenge any of her questions as “advocacy,” the questions
were merely clarifying in nature.  Thus,
Hearing Officer Garcia did the “bare minimum,” which is permissible under Knudsen.  If the court were to grant this petition
under these circumstances, it effectively would hold that a hearing officer may
do nothing more than adjudicate a case, which is not consistent with the holding
in Knudsen.  
 
C.        The Weight of
the Evidence Supports the Hearing Officer’s Findings 
 
Petitioner does not challenge the sufficiency of the
evidence.  If the court is required to consider
that issue, the court finds that the weight of the evidence supports the hearing
officer’s findings.  Indeed, Officer
Lazaro’s body camera demonstrates that he adequately advised Petitioner, and
Petitioner expressly refused to take a chemical test.  
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
            Based
upon the foregoing, the court orders as follows:
 
            1.         The petition for writ of mandate is
denied.
 
            2.         This signed order shall constitute the
judgment in this case.
 
            3.         Petitioner’s counsel shall provide notice
and file proof of service with the court.
 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED. 
 
 
Dated: July 17, 2024                                                   ___________________________
                                                                                    Stephen
I. Goorvitch
                                                                                    Superior
Court Judge


