  Case Number:  24STCV00208    Hearing Date:   April 10, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT










 




ROTEM SHENON DBA SHENON
CONSTRUCTION,
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
DIAMOND BUILDERS, INC.; EXTREME
MAKEOVER HOME INC.; KV
CONSTRUCTION 1, INC.; POWER
ELECTRICAL SERVICE INC.; and DOES 1
through 100, inclusive,
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.                               


 


     
  CASE NO.: 24SMCV00208
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: PLAINTIFF ROTEM SHENON
  DBA SHENON
CONSTRUCTION’S MOTION TO CONSOLIDATE
  ACTIONS
 
8:30 a.m.
April 10, 2024
Dept. 56



 
MOVING PARTIES: Plaintiff
Rotem Shenon dba Shenon Construction
 
RESPONDING
PARTIES: Petitioner Susan Hoffman Hyman (Petitioner in related case 23STCP03185)
 
The Court has
considered the moving, opposition and reply papers. 
 
BACKGROUND 
This
action arises out of a dispute between a contractor and subcontractors for
services in the construction of a project. 
The Complaint alleges: (1) implied contractual indemnity; (2) equitable
indemnity; (3) express contractual indemnity; (4) breach of express warranty;
(5) breach of implied warranty; (6) breach of written contract; (7)
contribution; (8) declaratory relief (duty to defend); and (9) declaratory
relief (duty to indemnify).
 
On
February 23, 2024, Plaintiff filed a Motion to Consolidate Actions.  On February 27, 2024, the Court deemed the
cases 23STCP03185 and 24SMCV00208 related within the meaning of California
Rules of Court, rule 3.300(a), where 23STCP03185 was the lead case.  Said cases were assigned to Judge Holly J.
Fujie in Department 56 at Stanley Mosk Courthouse for all purposes.  All hearings in cases other than the lead
case were placed off calendar. 
 
On
March 1, 2024, Plaintiff filed the instant Motion to Consolidate Actions.  On March 8, 2024, Defendant Extreme Makeover
Home Inc. filed a notice of joinder to Plaintiff’s Motion to Consolidate
Actions.  On April 3, 2024, Plaintiff
filed a reply. 
 
REQUEST FOR
JUDICIAL NOTICE 
Plaintiff
Shenon Construction’s Request for Judicial Notice filed in connection with the
Consolidation Motion is GRANTED as to the existence of the documents, but not
to the truth of the matters stated therein.  (See Scott v. JP Morgan
Chase Bank, N.A. (2013) 214 Cal.App.4th 743, 752-54.)  
 
MOTION TO
CONSOLIDATE 
Under
California Code of Civil Procedure (“CCP”) section 1048, subdivision
(a), when actions involving a common question of law or fact are pending before
the court, the court may order a joint hearing or trial of any or all the
matters in issue in the actions, order all the actions consolidated, and make
such orders concerning proceedings therein as may tend to avoid unnecessary
costs or delay.  (CCP § 1048, subd. (a).)
¿The purpose of consolidation is merely to promote trial convenience and
economy by avoiding duplication of procedure, particularly in the proof of
issues common to both actions.¿ (Estate of Baker¿(1982) 131 Cal.App.3d
471, 485.)¿ A consolidation of actions does not affect the rights of the
parties.¿ (Id.)¿ Consolidation does not require identical causes of
action in each case, absolute identity of the parties, or identical
allegations.¿ (Id.)¿ In deciding whether to grant a motion to
consolidate, the court should weigh whether the common issues predominate over
the individual issues and whether any risks of jury confusion or prejudice to
the parties outweighs the reduction in time and expense that would result from
consolidation.  (See Todd-Stenberq v.
Shield (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 976, 978.)¿ Actions may be thoroughly
“related” in the sense of having common questions of law or fact, and still not
be consolidated, if the trial court, in the sound exercise of its discretion,
chooses not to do so.¿ (Askew v. Askew¿(1994) 22 Cal.App.4th 942, 964.)¿
It is not abuse of discretion to deny motion for consolidation of actions where
parties in each action are different or issues are different.¿ (See¿Muller
v. Robinson¿(1959) 174 Cal.App.2d 511, 515.)  On the other hand, actions may be consolidated
in the discretion of the trial court whenever it can be done without prejudice
to a substantial right.¿ (Carpenson¿v.¿Najarian¿(1967) 254 Cal.App.2d
856, 862.)¿ 
 
On
February 27, 2024, the Court issued an order deeming this matter and 23STCP03185
Consolidation Motion related.  The Motion
argues that consolidation is appropriate because this action and the related
arbitration are based on the same operative facts and involve at least one
party common to both cases.  Plaintiff
states that by consolidating the actions, all related claims (including any
cross-claims) can proceed in a coordinated manner in one single action before
the court.  
 
The
Opposition argues that Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.2(c) does not apply
here because the related case was not filed until after the arbitration had
been compelled, and this section only provides the Court discretion to deny or
stay arbitration if a related court action was pending before the hearing on
the petition to compel arbitration.  Petitioner
Susan Hoffman Hyman (“Hyman”), the petitioner in the case 23STCP03185 (related
to Case No. 24SMCV00208) also argues that the Motion fails to demonstrate a
specific and real possibility of conflicting rulings between the arbitration
and the court action.  Hyman also states
that she could suffer prejudice from consolidation because it would undermine
the benefits of arbitration and increase costs and delays for Petitioner.  Finally, Hyman states that even if the Court
were to find that section 1281.2(c) could potentially apply, the correct remedy
would be to stay the court action pending the outcome of the arbitration, not
to consolidate the cases as this would avoid undue delay and preserve the
integrity of the arbitration.
 
In
reply, Shenon Construction states that this case involves subcontractors whose
work is implicated in the arbitration claims made by the claimants.  These subcontractors were directly hired by
the claimants for various construction tasks, yet are not part of the
arbitration due to the absence of arbitration provisions in their
agreements.  Shenon Construction points
out that separate arbitration could lead to conflicting rulings on common
issues, which consolidation aims to prevent, aligning with the principles of
judicial economy. 
 
Having
considered the moving, opposition and reply papers, the Court finds that these
actions should not be consolidated.  The
Court finds that it does not have authority to consolidate the arbitration
action as it is not pending before the Court, and Shenon Construction fails to
show that the Court has jurisdiction over the arbitration proceeding.  The Court also agrees with Hyman’s assertion
that CCP § 1281.2(c) does not apply because that statute states that upon
petition, a court will order parties to arbitrate unless “[a] party to the
arbitration agreement is also a party to a pending court action or
special proceeding with a third party, arising out of the same transaction or
series of related transactions and there is a possibility of conflicting
rulings on a common issue of law or fact. For purposes of this section, a
pending court action or special proceeding includes an action or proceeding
initiated by the party refusing to arbitrate after the petition to compel
arbitration has been filed, but on or before the date of the hearing on the
petition.”  (emphasis added.)  At the time of the petition to arbitrate in
the 23STCP03185 case, the instant action was not pending.  The Court finds the Bos Material Handling,
Inc. v. Crown Controls Corp. (1982) 137 Cal.App.3d 99, case to be helpful
in providing guidance as to considering claims following the hearing on
petition to arbitration.  In Bos
Material Handling, the plaintiff sought to include certain third
parties not bound by the contract’s arbitration clause after the court heard
the petition to arbitrate and argued that the presence of claims against these
parties negated the arbitration under section 1281.2.  (Id. at 112.)  The appellate court found that arbitration
could not be denied by the “mere inclusion of unnamed third-party ‘does’” and
that “a pending court action … as defined under section 1281.2, subdivision
(c), does not include an action or proceeding initiated by the party refusing
to arbitrate after the date of the hearing on the petition.”  (Id.) 

 
The
Court recognizes that there are both the instant action and the arbitration
proceeding have common issues of law and involve conflicts arising out of the
same transaction or occurrence which involves the same parties.  The Court finds that there may be a
possibility of conflicting rulings.  Thus,
given the pending status of arbitration in the related case, the Court finds
that staying the instant action pending the outcome of the arbitration
proceeding in the related case is the most equitable result.  The Court notes it has authority to do this
pursuant to CCP § 1281.2(d), which states: “If the court determines that a
party to the arbitration is also a party to litigation in a pending court
action or special proceeding with a third party as set forth under subdivision
(c), the court … (3) may order arbitration among the parties who have agreed to
arbitration and stay the pending court action or special proceeding pending the
outcome of the arbitration proceeding.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2.) 
 
The
Court therefore DENIES the Consolidation Motion.
 
The
Court STAYS the instant action pending the outcome of the arbitration
proceeding in the related case 23STCP03185 and sets a Status Conference on
October 10, 2024 at 8:30 a.m. with a joint status report due to be filed at
least seven court days before that date.
 
Plaintiff
is ordered to give notice of this ruling.
 
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at
SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If the
department does not receive an email and there are no appearances at the
hearing, the motion will be placed off calendar.
 
          
Dated this 10th day of April 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 




 