  Case Number:  22LBCV00483    Hearing Date:   April 25, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Background
Facts
Plaintiffs, Soledad Gutierrez filed
this action against Defendants, County of Los Angeles and UCLA Medical Center
for discrimination and related claims.    
 
2.     Motion
to Compel 
a.    
Relief Sought
Defendant moves to compel
Plaintiff:
·        
to attend and complete testimony at her
deposition;
·        
to produce documents at her deposition;
·        
to attend an IME; and
·        
to pay monetary sanctions.
 
b.     Deposition
Plaintiff attended the second day
of her deposition on 2/26/24.  The
deposition was not complete, but Plaintiff left the deposition, stating Defense
Counsel was being abusive and she would only complete her deposition if the
Court issued an order compelling her to do so.
 
Defendant moves to compel Plaintiff
to attend and complete her deposition.  CCP
§2025.450(a) permits the party who propounded a notice of deposition to move to
compel the deposition to go forward if the deponent, without serving a valid
objection, fails to “appear for examination, or to proceed with it.”  Plaintiff appeared for her examination, but
did not proceed with it, instead leaving before the deposition was
complete.  Defendant complied with all
requirements of §2025.450, and therefore the motion to compel the deposition is
granted.  
 
Defendant asks that Plaintiff be
ordered to sit for the remainder of her deposition within thirty days.  The request is granted.  Counsel must meet and confer forthwith to
select a mutually agreeable date and time for the deposition to go forward.
 
c.     Documents
Defendant propounded RPD 40 on
Plaintiff in connection with its notice of deposition.  Plaintiff did not object.  She failed, however, to bring the required
documents to her deposition.  Defendant
moves to compel Plaintiff to produce all relevant documents.  
 
§2025.450(a) also permits a
deposing party to move to compel the deponent to produce documents at
deposition.  §2025.450(b) requires the
moving party to show “good cause” for production of the subject documents.  Defendant met this burden, as the moving
papers contain a full and complete statement of why production of the documents
is necessary to the defense of the action. 
The motion to compel production of documents at deposition is therefore
granted.
 
Defendant asks the Court to move to
compel production of the documents within ten days.  §2025.450 is not entirely clear in this
regard, but it appears the Code contemplates an order compelling production of
the subject documents at the deposition. 
Plaintiff is ordered to bring all responsive documents to her deposition
at the date and time agreed upon by Counsel.
 
d.     Independent
Medical Examination
The parties executed a stipulation,
which the Court reduced to a signed order, requiring Plaintiff to sit for an
independent medical examination with Dr. Nathan E. Lavid, M.D. on 3/12/24.  The Court issued the order on the stipulation
on 2/15/24.
 
Plaintiff failed to appear at the
IME.  Defendant moves for an order
compelling her to attend her court-ordered IME within thirty days.  The motion is granted, both per the terms of
the prior court order and also per CCP §2032.310, et seq.  Counsel are ordered to meet and confer to
select a mutually agreeable time and date for the IME forthwith.
 
e.     Sanctions
Defendant moves for sanctions in
the following amounts:
·        
$4225 in additional court reporter costs;
·        
$15,767.50 in attorneys’ fees;
·        
$3000 in IME cancellation fees.
 
CCP §2025.450(g)(1) permits the
Court, absent good cause or substantial justification, to impose sanctions in
connection with a motion to compel deposition, and §2032.410 permits the Court
to impose sanctions in connection with a motion to compel a court-ordered
IME.  In light of the lack of opposition,
the Court finds Plaintiff failed to show good cause or substantial
justification for her failure to appear at the deposition and/or IME.
 
The Court finds the court reporter
fee is reasonable and fully supported. 
Notably, the fee is not redundant of the fees already incurred, as it
represents the need to hire a court reporter for an entirely new and different
session of the deposition, which should have been completed at the time of the
original deposition.
 
The Court also finds the $3000 IME
cancellation fee is both reasonable and fully supported.  The Court notes that the moving papers
disclose the fact that Plaintiff claimed she did not attend the IME because she
was involved in an automobile accident. 
The Court finds this contention suspect in light of Plaintiff’s behavior
at her deposition.  If Plaintiff was
involved in an automobile accident, she must bring proof of the accident,
including but not limited to a police report and insurance documents, to the
hearing; the Court may reduce the amount of damages relating to the IME if the
Court finds Plaintiff truly was unable to attend due to an automobile accident.
 
The Court is concerned with the
$15,767.50 in attorneys’ fees sought in connection with the motion.  The request is supported by the Declarations
of Counsel, Daniel J. Ganz and Michael T. Campbell.  Ganz declares he spent 17.5 hours drafting
and revising the subject motion.  He does
not provide his hourly billing rate and does not provide any breakdown of the
tasks completed.  Campbell declares he
spent four hours reviewing and revising the moving papers and will spend three
hours on a reply brief and two hours at the hearing.  He declares that all of the time is “at the
rate of $595/hour,” but does not declare this is the rate Counsel bills the
County, and does not state any facts rendering this billing rate reasonable
(experience, background, education, etc.). 

 
The Court understands this motion
was substantially more complicated than a typical motion to compel.  It is, however, unreasonable for this motion
to have taken over twenty hours of attorney time at the rate of almost
$600/hour.  The Court reduces the amount
of attorney time awarded in connection with the motion to ten hours, and
reduces the billing rate to $300/hour. 
Additionally, no opposition was filed, so no reply was necessary.  Because the Court strongly encourages remote
appearance, one hour to appear is sufficient compensation.  The Court therefore awards a total of eleven
hours at the rate of $300/hour, or $3300 in attorneys’ fees.
 
The total sanctions award is in the
amount of $10,525.  Sanctions are sought
and imposed against Plaintiff only and not against her attorney of record.  She is ordered to pay sanctions to Defendant,
by and through its attorney of record, in the total amount of $10,525, within
twenty days.  
 
Defendant is ordered to give
notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the
tentative, the party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing
on this matter.   