 Case Number:  23LBCV01170    Hearing Date:   April 25, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Background
Facts
Plaintiff, American Family Connect Property and Casualty Insurance
Company filed this declaratory relief action against Defendants, Michael
Gonzalez, Rosario Gonzalez, Miguel Angel Gonzalez, Mission Fleet Services, LLC,
and Robert Joshua Rodrigo on 6/23/23.  
 
Plaintiff provided automobile insurance to the Gonzalezes.  Migueladrian Gonzalez, erroneously sued as
Miguel Angel Gonzalez, was driving the vehicle involved in the collision, which
occurred on 4/02/21.  Rodrigo suffered
damages as a result of the accident, and is involved in companion litigation
against the Gonzalezes to recover for those injuries.  
Plaintiff seeks a declaration that there is no coverage under the
policy.  It seeks the declaration on two
grounds.  First, it contends the
Gonzalezes did not disclose the subject accident, which had already occurred,
when it added the Navigator to the policy. 
Second, it contends the Gonzalezes made misstatements or omissions
concerning ownership of the subject vehicle at the time they added it to the
policy, and those misstatements or omissions would have precluded
coverage.  
 
Plaintiff also seeks reimbursement of all defense fees and costs
incurred in the companion litigation by Rodrigo against the Gonzalezes.    
 
2.     Motion
for Summary Adjudication 
a.    
Standard on Summary Judgment
Summary judgment is proper “if all
the papers submitted show that there is no triable issue as to any material
fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of
law.”  (Code Civ. Proc. §437c(c).)  Where a defendant seeks summary judgment or
adjudication, he must show that either “one or more elements of the cause of
action, even if not separately pleaded, cannot be established, or that there is
a complete defense to that cause of action.” 
(Id. at §437c(o)(2).)  A defendant
may satisfy this burden by showing that the claim “cannot be established”
because of the lack of evidence on some essential element of the claim.  (Union Bank v. Superior Court (1995) 31
Cal.App.4th 574, 590.)  Once the
defendant meets this burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a
“triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action
or defense thereto.”  (Ibid.)  
 
The moving party bears the initial
burden of production to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable
issues of material fact.  (Aguilar v.
Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.)  A defendant moving for summary judgment must
show either (1) that one or more elements of the cause of action cannot be
established or (2) that there is a complete defense to that cause of action.  (Id. at §437c(p).)  A defendant may discharge this burden by
furnishing either (1) affirmative evidence of the required facts or (2)
discovery responses conceding that the plaintiff lacks evidence to establish an
essential element of the plaintiff's case. If a defendant chooses the latter
option he or she must present evidence “and not simply point out that plaintiff
does not possess and cannot reasonably obtain needed evidence….” Aguilar,
supra, 25 Cal.4th at 865-66,
[A] defendant may simply show the
plaintiff cannot establish an essential element of the cause of action “by
showing that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain,
needed evidence.” (Id. at p. 854.)  Thus,
rather than affirmatively disproving or negating an element (e.g., causation),
a defendant moving for summary judgment has the option of presenting evidence
reflecting the plaintiff does not possess evidence to prove that element. “The
defendant may, but need not, present evidence that conclusively negates an
element of the plaintiff's cause of action. The defendant may also present
evidence that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain,
needed evidence—as through admissions by the plaintiff following extensive discovery
to the effect that he has discovered nothing” to support an essential element
of his case. (Aguilar, supra, at p. 855.) Under the latter approach, a
defendant's initial evidentiary showing may “consist of the deposition
testimony of the plaintiff's witnesses, the plaintiff's factually devoid
discovery responses, or admissions by the plaintiff in deposition or in
response to requests for admission that he or she has not discovered anything
that supports an essential element of the cause of action.” (Lona v. Citibank,
N.A., supra, 202 Cal.App.4th at p. 110.) 
In other words, a defendant may show the plaintiff does not possess
evidence to support an element of the cause of action by means of presenting
the plaintiff's factually devoid discovery responses from which an absence of
evidence may be reasonably inferred. (Scheiding v. Dinwiddie Construction Co.
(1999) 69 Cal.App.4th 64, 83.)
 
Thus, a moving defendant has two
means by which to shift the burden of proof under the summary judgment statute:
“The defendant may rely upon factually insufficient discovery responses by the
plaintiff to show that the plaintiff cannot establish an essential element of
the cause of action sued upon. [Citation.] [Or a]lternatively, the defendant
may utilize the tried and true technique of negating (‘disproving’) an
essential element of the plaintiff's cause of action.” (Brantly v. Pisaro
(1996) 42 Cal.App.4th 1591, 1598.) 
Leyva v. Garcia (2018) 20 Cal.App.5th
1095, 1103.
 
Until the moving defendant has
discharged its burden of proof, the opposing plaintiff has no burden to come
forward with any evidence. Once the moving defendant has discharged its burden
as to a particular cause of action, however, the plaintiff may defeat the
motion by producing evidence showing that a triable issue of one or more
material facts exists as to that cause of action.  (Id. at §437c(p)(2).)  On a motion for summary judgment, the moving
party's supporting documents are strictly construed and those of his opponent
liberally construed, and doubts as to the propriety of summary judgment should
be resolved against granting the motion. 
(D’Amico v. Board of Medical Examiners (1974) 11 Cal.3d 1, 21.) 
 
b.         Evidentiary Objections
Defendants filed objections with
their opposition papers.  The objections
are overruled.  The declarants laid a
foundation for the documents introduced, and they have sufficient personal
knowledge to do so.  The documents have
all been submitted for a legitimate, non-hearsay purpose.  To the extent the objections are relevant to
the analysis, they will be discussed more fully below.  
 

Grounds for Motion

Plaintiff seeks summary
adjudication of the first cause of action in the complaint, which is for
declaratory relief.  Plaintiff does not
seek summary judgment and does not seek adjudication of the second cause of action
in the complaint, which is for reimbursement of attorneys’ fees and costs
incurred defending the Gonzalezes in the companion litigation.  
 
Plaintiff seeks adjudication on two
grounds.  First, it contends the
undisputed facts show that the subject vehicle had been in the subject accident
before it was added to the policy, which precludes coverage.  Second, it contends the undisputed facts show
that the defendants failed to make material disclosures concerning ownership of
the vehicle at the time they added it to the policy, and those disclosures, if
they had been made, would have precluded the policy from issuing.
 

Accident Date

Plaintiff provides evidence that
Defendants logged onto Plaintiff’s website on 3/26/21 and submitted a request
to remove the subject Navigator from the policy effective the next day,
3/27/21.  Plaintiff’s evidence of this
fact is the Lindsley Declaration, ¶12, and Exhibits 2, 3, and 4 thereto.  Lindsley is an underwriter for Plaintiff, and
he explains how Plaintiff’s computer system works, including how its website
works.  He establishes that the company
records, which are authenticated, establish the Navigator was removed from the
site on 3/26/21, with the request effective the next day.
 
The foregoing is established by way
of Plaintiff’s fact 12 in the separate statement.  Defendants contend fact 12 is disputed.  They contend it is disputed because the
evidence is subject to objection.  As
noted above, the objections are overruled. 
They also contend it is disputed per their own declaration.  The Court has reviewed Defendants’ joint
declaration and finds it is completely silent concerning any activity on the
website on 3/26/21.  At ¶¶14, 15, and 16
of the joint declaration, Defendants contend they did not make misstatements
concerning ownership of the vehicle. 
They fail, however, to address the activity on 3/26/21, which activity
forms the basis of the request for relief.
 
Plaintiff’s facts 13 and 14
establish that there were no other changes to the policy between 3/27/21 and
4/05/21, and that Defendants logged onto the website on 4/05/21 and submitted a
request to add the Navigator to the policy effective 3/31/21.  Fact 14 also establishes that, in order to do
so, they were required to state that the Navigator had no existing damage.  Defendants respond to facts 13 and 14 by
reiterating their objections, and also by indicating their declarations raise a
dispute.  The objections are, again,
overruled.  Again, Defendants did not, in
their declaration, mention anything about their activity during this subject
period, and did not address the failure to disclose the vehicle had been
involved in an accident prior to the date the request was made online.
 
Plaintiff met its moving burden to
establish the subject vehicle was removed from the insurance policy prior to
the accident, and when it was added back onto the vehicle, the addition was due
to the material nondisclosure of the accident, which occurred during the
intervening period.  Defendants’ joint
declaration is silent in this regard, and therefore they failed to raise a
triable issue of material fact.  The
motion for summary adjudication of the first cause of action is therefore
granted.
 

Material Nondisclosures

Plaintiff also contends it is
entitled to judgment as a matter of law because Defendants, when they
re-applied for the subject policy, made material nondisclosures that would have
precluded issuance of the policy.  Specifically,
Plaintiff contends the vehicle was owned by Mission Fleet, but Defendants
indicated it was owned by them personally. 

 
Defendants, in their joint
declaration in opposition to the motion, aver that, to the best of their
recollection, they never answered any questions concerning ownership of the
vehicle and were never told that they could not insure the vehicle if an entity
owned the vehicle.  
 
The Court need not determine
whether there are triable issues of material fact concerning these material
nondisclosures, as doing so is not necessary to a resolution of the merits of
the motion.  The motion is, as noted
above, granted on the ground that Plaintiff established Defendants attempted to
add the vehicle onto the policy without disclosing its involvement in the
subject automobile accident.  
 
3.     Case
Management Conference
The parties are reminded that there
is a CMC on calendar concurrently with the hearing on the above summary
judgment motion.  The Court asks Counsel
to make arrangements to appear remotely at the CMC and hearing on the motion.  