 Case Number:  23LBCV01017    Hearing Date:   April 25, 2024    Dept:  S27  
1.     Background
Facts
Plaintiffs, Diana Winn, Frank
Avilla, and Karen Avilla, both as the successors-in-interest to Irene Olmeda
and also on their own behalf, filed this action against Defendant, Palmcrest
Grand Home Assisted Living, LLC for elder abuse and related claims.  
 
2.     Motion
to Compel Arbitration
a.    
Parties’ Positions
Palmcrest moves to compel
arbitration, contending Decedent, by and through her power of attorney, Karen
Avilla, signed an arbitration agreement, and the agreement governs this action
and must be enforced.  Plaintiff opposes
the motion, contending (a) Defendant waived its right to move to compel
arbitration, and (b) Defendant failed to provide admissible evidence of the
existence of the agreement and the signature on the agreement.
 
b.    
Authentication of Agreement
Defendant purports to authenticate
the agreement through the Declaration of Roxanne Reyna, who declares she is an
attorney representing Defendant.  She
declares she is attaching a true and correct copy of the arbitration agreement,
which “was provided by Palmcrest Grand Residence.”  Plaintiff argues Defense Counsel lacks
personal knowledge of the agreement, and also failed to lay a foundation for
admitting the agreement.  
 
Defendant, in reply, argues it has
no obligation to authenticate the arbitration agreement.  It cites Condee v. Longwood Mgmt. Corp.
(2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 215, 218-219 and Ruiz v. Moss Bros. Auto
Group, Inc. (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 836, 846 in this regard.
 
The Court read and considered
Condee, which is directly on point.  In
Condee, the plaintiffs filed a lawsuit for wrongful death, and the defendant
filed a motion (referred to by the Condee Court as a petition) to compel
arbitration.  The Condee Court held that
authentication of the arbitration agreement is not required, as the petitioners
must only assert that the agreement exists, which is sufficient to shift the
burden to the responding party to negate the agreement.  
 
The Court notes, however, that
Condee has a yellow flag, and that a brief review of subsequent decisions
reveals that appellate courts have been split in regards to whether and what
evidence is necessary to lay a foundation for an arbitration agreement.  
 
In any event, Defendant provides
the Declaration of Veronica Gomez with its reply papers.  Gomez declares she is Defendant’s marketing
director, and she personally provided the arbitration agreement to Karen Avilla
and explained it to her, and witnessed her signing the agreement.  
 
The Court is inclined to continue
the hearing both because (a) the use of Condee as precedent for the contention
that an arbitration agreement need not be authenticated is questionable, and
(b) the Declaration of Gomez appears to be sufficient to meet the burden to
authenticate the agreement, but the declaration was submitted for the first
time in reply, and Plaintiffs should have the opportunity to respond to the
declaration.
 
c.     Waiver
Plaintiffs also argues Defendant
waived its right to compel arbitration. 
Specifically, they note that Defendant filed an answer eight months ago
and the answer demanded a jury trial.  
 
Plaintiffs filed their complaint on
6/05/23.  They filed their operative FAC
on 6/09/23.  Defendant filed its answer
on 8/03/23.  The answer contains a 23rd
affirmative defense, which indicates the complaint is subject to binding
arbitration per the parties’ agreement. 
The answer concludes with a demand for a jury trial.
 
Defendant filed this motion to
compel arbitration on 2/06/24, just over six months after they filed their
answer.  
 
Defendant, in reply, correctly
notes that the bar for showing waiver of the right to arbitrate is extremely
high.  “[N]o single test delineates the
nature of the conduct that will constitute a waiver of arbitration.”  Saint Agnes Medical Center v. PacifiCare of
California (2003) 31 Cal.4th 1187, 1195. 
Courts can consider the following factors in determining whether a
waiver has occurred: “‘(1) whether the party’s actions are inconsistent with
the right to arbitrate; (2) whether “the litigation machinery has been
substantially invoked” and the parties “were well into preparation of a
lawsuit” before the party notified the opposing party of an intent to
arbitrate; (3) whether a party either requested arbitration enforcement close
to the trial date or delayed for a long period before seeking a stay; (4)
whether a defendant seeking arbitration filed a counterclaim without asking for
a stay of the proceedings; (5) “whether important intervening steps [e.g.,
taking advantage of judicial discovery procedures not available in arbitration]
had taken place”; and (6) whether the delay “affected, misled, or prejudiced”
the opposing party.’” Sobremonte v. Superior Court (1998) 61 Cal.App.4th 980,
992.
 
Plaintiffs failed to show any of
the above occurred.  Notably, Defendant,
in its reply, includes an attorney declaration indicating the parties agreed to
stay discovery and participate in mediation, and expressly agreed that the
right to move to compel arbitration would NOT be waived as a result.  
 
The Court finds in favor of
Defendant on the waiver issue. 
Plaintiffs may only address this issue in their supplemental brief if
they have evidence to dispute Defense Counsel’s assertion that their express
agreement was that there would be no waiver. 
If Plaintiffs address this issue in their supplemental brief, they must
be prepared to make a showing of the Sobremente elements, with the
understanding that waiver involves much more than mere delay.  
 
d.     Continued
Hearing
The hearing on this motion is
continued to Tuesday, 6/04/24 at 8:30 a.m. in Department S27.  The Court encourages the parties to meet and
confer to resolve issues in light of the above ruling.  If they are unable to do so, supplemental
opposition and reply must be filed per Code. 

 
3.     Case
Management Conference
The parties are reminded that there
is a CMC on calendar concurrently with the hearing on this motion to compel
arbitration.  The Court asks Counsel to
make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing on the motion and the CMC.
 