 Case Number:  23LBCV00358    Hearing Date:   April 25, 2024    Dept:  S27 
Background Facts

Plaintiff, Jane Doe filed this
action against Defendant, Board of Trustees of the California State University
(“CSU”) on 2/27/23.  Prior to serving
Defendant with the summons and complaint, Plaintiff filed her operative FAC on
6/26/23.  The FAC includes fifteen causes
of action, and arises generally out of Defendant’s alleged failure to
accommodate her disability and retaliation in connection with
disability-related complaints.  Plaintiff
alleges Defendant’s misconduct occurred while Plaintiff was both a student and
a student employee at CSU.
 

11/07/23 Hearing on Motion
     to Strike Directed at FAC

On 11/07/23, the Court heard and
granted Defendant’s motion to strike portions of the FAC.  Notably, the Court’s ruling was “without
leave to amend.”  The Court’s ruling,
specifically, was as follows:
a.     Conduct
Settled by the SAR
Plaintiff and Defendant were
previously engaged in litigation concerning discrimination, and they ultimately
settled all claims on 4/13/21.  Defendant
moves to strike all references to conduct that occurred prior to 4/13/21.  Plaintiff, in opposition to the motion,
argues the allegations are relevant to show intent.  Defendant, in reply, correctly notes that
admissible evidence at trial is not the same as relevant allegations in a
pleading.  The allegations that form the
basis of the claim must post-date the parties’ settlement, even if admissible
evidence will ultimately include pre-settlement acts.  The motion to strike these allegations is
granted without leave to amend.
 
b.     Second
Amended Complaint
i.             
Initial Notes 
Despite the above order, when
Plaintiff filed her operative Second Amended Complaint, she included numerous
allegations that pre-date the parties’ settlement agreement.  Defendant moves to strike the allegations,
and Plaintiff opposes.
 
As an initial note, the parties’
briefs in connection with this motion to strike are much more detailed than the
briefs filed in connection with the motion to strike directed at the FAC.  The FAC was the subject of a complicated
demurrer, and the motion to strike attacked numerous allegations other than the
post-settlement allegations.  Plaintiff
takes the position that the Court’s original order only struck allegations
concerning her personal interactions with Defendant prior to her settlement,
and not all pre-settlement allegations. 
The Court accepts Plaintiff’s position for purposes of this ruling, and
will substantively address the sufficiently of the allegations in the SAC.
 
The subject allegations fall into
four categories.  
 
ii.            
OCR Allegations
The first category is “OCR
allegations.”  Plaintiff alleges that, in
2006, before Plaintiff was a student, other students complained of a pattern of
disability-related discrimination, which caused the OCR (Office of Civil
Rights) to place Defendant on notice of conduct that must be remedied.  Plaintiff argues that her various causes of
action require her to prove intent, and the OCR allegations will assist her in
proving intent.  Defendant, in reply,
argues the OCR allegations will be subject to an Evidence Code §352 objection
because they are more probative than prejudicial.  
 
Both parties’ briefs misunderstand
the standard applicable to a pleading motion. 
Plaintiff need only plead “ultimate facts” to support her cause of
action, and need not plead evidentiary facts or legal conclusions.  See Foster v. Sexton (2021) 61 Cal.App.5th
998, 1027.  Defendant, on the other hand,
is making arguments about whether evidence will ultimately be admissible or
not, which arguments are appropriate at the motion in limine stage, but not at
the pleading stage.  
 
Further complicating the matter,
when pleading a claim against a public entity, all facts in support of a claim
must be pled with specificity.  Ramsey v.
City of Lake Elsinore (1990) 220 Cal.App.3d 1530, 1541-42.  Thus, to the extent “intent” is an element of
Plaintiff’s cause of action, she must plead specific facts showing intent.  
 
The motion to strike these
allegations is denied.  Defendant failed
to show that intent is not an element of the cause of action, and the Court
does not wish to invite a situation where it strikes the allegations, resulting
in the filing of a Third Amended Complaint, and then Defendant demurs on the
ground that Plaintiff failed to plead specific facts showing intent.  
 
iii.           
Chart of CSUCI Conduct
The second category of allegations
is a chart Plaintiff includes at ¶17 of her SAC.  The chart includes a variety of notices of
violations against Defendant, and then Plaintiff ties those violations to the
conduct she alleges Defendant engaged in in 2023.  The Court finds the chart also pleads intent,
which is required to state her claims against Defendant, and therefore the
motion to strike is denied.
 
iv.           
DHR Investigations
Plaintiff has personally made four
complaints with the DHR.  She made her
first complaint before she settled with Defendant, and then made three
complaints after she settled.  Defendant
moves to strike allegations concerning the first complaint.  Plaintiff argues she needs to include the
allegations by way of background only, so that when she refers to her “second
complaint,” etc., the allegations make sense in context.  She indicates she is willing to further amend
her complaint to simply allege that there was a first investigation and it
resulted in settlement.  
 
Additionally, Plaintiff made an
allegation that, in 2019, her binder was lost (in connection with the first DHR
investigation), and she agrees to remove that allegation.  
 
Plaintiff must file a Third Amended
Complaint limiting her allegations re: the first DHR investigation and removing
the reference to the binder being lost.
 
v.            
Prior Suicide Attempt
Plaintiff alleges she attempted to
commit suicide prior to the settlement of the first DHR complaint.  She has included these allegations in her
SAC, and Defendant moves to strike them. 
Plaintiff argues, in opposition to the motion, that the allegations are
relevant to her claim for IIED, because they go to Defendant’s knowledge of her
mental health history.  
 
The Court agrees with Defendant and
finds that a suicide attempt prior to the parties’ settlement agreement would
necessarily have been the subject of the prior settlement and is not relevant
to any cause of action pled in the SAC. 
The motion to strike is granted without leave to amend.   
 
c.     Attorneys’
Fees
The Court previously struck
Plaintiff’s prayer for attorneys’ fees without leave to amend.  Plaintiff concedes she included a prayer for
attorneys’ fees in her SAC in error.  The
motion to strike the prayer for attorneys’ fees and related allegations is
therefore granted without leave to amend.
 
d.     Conclusion
The motion to strike is granted in
part and denied in part as set forth fully above.  Plaintiff must file her Third Amended
Complaint within ten days.  Assuming the
TAC tracks the above order, Defendant must answer (not demur to or move to
strike portions of) the TAC within the statutory time thereafter.
 

Case Management
     Conference

The parties are reminded that there
is a CMC on calendar concurrently with the hearing on the motion to
strike.  The Court asks Counsel to make
arrangements to appear remotely at the CMC and hearing on the motion to
strike.  
 