  Case Number:  21SMCV01387    Hearing Date:   September 30, 2024    Dept:  I The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND.  The motion to dismiss is MOOT.
 
The demurrer is to the cross complaint.  The cross complaint is for breach of contract
(various loan agreements and related documents) and fraud (because
cross-defendant allegedly never intended to repay the loans).  The major thrust of the demurrer is that the
cross-complaint is barred by the statute of limitations.  
 
The statute of limitations on breach of a written contract
is four years from the breach.  The
statute of limitations on fraud is three years from the time the
cross-complainant should have suspected the fraud with reasonable
diligence.  The demurrer is decided on
the pleadings alone.
 
The cross-complaint alleges a series of loans and related
documents.  The latest maturity date of
the latest loan is February 2017.  While
the cross-complaint does not allege the date of the breach, the court can
reasonably infer that the breach is the date that the loan matured (and
therefore should have been repaid in full) but was not repaid.  As to the loans, then, the statute of limitations
expired no later than February 2021—four years after maturity.  The complaint in this case was filed in
August 2021—after the statute expired. 
There are various forbearance agreements described in the
cross-complaint, but none of them purports to extend the maturity date of the
loans.  As to fraud, once the loan was
not repaid, one would reason that with diligence the lender ought to suspect
that there is a problem.
 
In short, whether or not it is the complaint or the
cross-complaint that tolls the statute of limitations, and whether or not the
complaint by AFH tolls the statute for its principal as well, the statute
expired.
 
Cross-complainant notes, correctly, that the date of breach
must appear from the complaint itself in order to form the basis of a
demurrer.  But while it is true that the
cross-complaint does not set forth the date of the breach, it does attach the
notes and contracts, and cross-defendant is entitled to rely on those documents
to make its case on demurrer.  
 
Cross-complainant also argues that there were subsequent
promises to repay the debt, and that tolls the statute under Code of Civil
Procedure section 360.  The legal
proposition is true, as far as it goes. 
A promise to pay, or a new promise to pay, can extend the statute or
start a new statute under certain circumstances.  The problem is that none of that is alleged
in the cross-complaint and the court therefore cannot consider it.  Cross-complainant is welcome to add that to
the cross-complaint, thereby explaining why the statute was tolled.  That might be enough, although the court is
not so holding.  All the court need say
for now is that those promises are nowhere in the cross-complaint or any of the
attachments to it.  As such, they are
outside the pleadings and will not defeat the demurrer.
 
Accordingly, the demurrer must be SUSTAINED.  Because cross-complainant suggests that there
were subsequent events that would toll the statute, 30 DAYS’ LEAVE TO AMEND IS
GRANTED.
 
Because the demurrer was sustained, the motion to strike is
MOOT, although the court notes that it agrees with cross-defendant that
punitive damages are not recoverable for breach of contract (although they are
potentially recoverable for fraud).  The
court also notes that the statute of limitations is no bar to an affirmative
defense for offset based on the notes.
 