  Case Number:  23TRCV02807    Hearing Date:   August 2, 2024    Dept:  M LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT –
SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 
 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                           Friday,
August 2, 2024 
Department M                                                                                            Calendar No. 2
  
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Claudia Bonilla v. City of Hawthorne, et
al.      
23TRCV02807
1.      City of Hawthorne’s Motion for Leave to File
Cross-Complaint   
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            City
of Hawthorne’s Motion for Leave to File Cross-Complaint is granted. 
 
Background

 
            Plaintiff filed the Complaint on August 25, 2023. Plaintiff
alleges the following facts. Plaintiff was involved in a car accident on August
2, 2022. 
 
Motion for
Leave to File Cross-Complaint 
 
Pursuant to Code of Civ. Proc. § 428.10(b)(1): “A
party against whom a cause of action has been asserted in a complaint or
cross-complaint may file a cross-complaint setting forth either or both of the
following: Any cause of action he has against a person alleged to be liable
thereon, whether or not such person is already a party to the action, if the
cause of action asserted in his cross-complaint (1) arises out of the same
transaction, occurrence, or series of transactions or occurrences as the cause
brought against him. . .” The instant cross-complaint is compulsory since it
“arises out of the same transaction, occurrence, or series of transactions or
occurrences as the cause of action which the plaintiff alleges in his
complaint.”  Code Civ. Proc., § 426.10.
 
Code Civ. Proc., § 428.50 states:
“(a)
A party shall file a cross-complaint against any of the parties who filed the
complaint or cross-complaint against him or her before or at the same time as
the answer to the complaint or cross-complaint.
(b)
Any other cross-complaint may be filed at any time before the court has set a
date for trial.
(c)
A party shall obtain leave of court to file any cross-complaint except one
filed within the time specified in subdivision (a) or (b). Leave may be granted
in the interest of justice at any time during the course of the action.”
 
Pursuant to Code of Civ. Proc. § 426.50: “A party who
fails to plead a cause of action subject to the requirements of this article,
whether through oversight, inadvertence, mistake, neglect, or other cause, may
apply to the court for leave to amend his pleading, or to file a
cross-complaint, to assert such cause at any time during the course of the
action. The court, after notice to the adverse party, shall grant, upon such
terms as may be just to the parties, leave to amend the pleading, or to file
the cross-complaint, to assert such cause if the party who failed to plead the
cause acted in good faith. This subdivision shall be liberally construed to
avoid forfeiture of causes of action.” 
 
“A policy of liberal construction of section 426.50 to
avoid forfeiture of causes of action is imposed on the trial court.  A motion to file a cross-complaint at any
time during the course of the action must be granted unless bad faith of the
moving party is demonstrated where forfeiture would otherwise result.  Factors such as oversight, inadvertence,
neglect, mistake or other cause, are insufficient grounds to deny the motion unless
accompanied by bad faith.”  Silver Organizations Ltd. v. Frank
(1990) 217 Cal.App.3d 94, 98–99.  Mere
delay in filing the proposed Cross-Complaint is not sufficient to deny a motion
absent substantial injustice and prejudice. 
Foot's Transfer & Storage Co. v. Superior Court (1980) 114
Cal.App.3d 897, 903–904. Actual bad faith must be demonstrated. 
 
Defendant moves for leave to file a Cross-Complaint on
the grounds that the proposed causes of action arise out of the same
transaction, occurrence, or series of transactions or occurrences as Plaintiff’s
Complaint, and, thus, the granting of leave to file the cross-complaint is mandatory
pursuant to CCP § 426.10.  Defendant
contends that the causes of action are related to the Complaint which seeks
damages due to a motor vehicle accident.  
 
            The interest of justice supports
granting leave to file the Cross-Complaint to allow all disputes between all
parties to be adjudicated in one action. 
There is no showing that moving Defendant acted in bad faith in making
this motion. There is no showing that granting the motion will cause Plaintiff
substantial prejudice and injustice. 
 
            Plaintiff’s opposition essentially
consists of attempting to argue regarding Defendant’s motivations for filing
the Complaint stating that it was “retaliatory.”  Whatever motivation that Defendant may or may
not have had has no bearing on whether the motion should be granted so long as
Defendant meets the statutory requirements above, which it did.  
 
            Plaintiff also attempts to provide
excuses for the lapse in being licensed on the date of the incident which is
apparently one of the grounds for the proposed Cross-Complaint. Plaintiff also
argues that Cross-Defendant’s theory of negligent entrustment is not viable.
The merits and potential for success of Cross-Defendant’s claims are not at
issue and are far too premature to be decided with this motion. The proposed
Cross-Defendant will have the opportunity to present a full and complete
defense to the Cross-Complaint.
 
            Finally, the Court is very concerned
regarding Plaintiff’s counsel’s attempts to incorporate settlement discussions
into the opposition. The Court does note however that simply because settlement
discussions between parties break down and one of the parties then pursues
filing a cross-complaint does not, on its own, establish bad faith. One could
even argue that by holding off on filing a cross-complaint, which the
opposition concedes is compulsory and is fully within the Defendant’s right to
pursue, while settlement negotiations were on-going, in fact, demonstrates good
faith. 
 
Therefore, as there is no showing that Defendant acted
in bad faith in making this motion, Defendant’s motion for leave to file a
Cross-Complaint is granted. 
            
Defendant is directed to file and serve the proposed
Cross-Complaint within five days of this date.
 
Defendant is ordered to give notice of this ruling.
 