  Case Number:  23STCV11687    Hearing Date:   December 16, 2024    Dept:  48  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



MAGGIE PARSONS,
  
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
ROBERT OZERAN,
  et al.,
 
                        Defendant.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 23STCV11687
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER SUSTAINING IN PART DEMURRER;
  GRANTING IN PART MOTION TO STRIKE
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
December 16, 2024



 
On May 24, 2023, Plaintiff Maggie Parsons filed this action
against Defendants Robert Ozeran and Law Offices of Robert Ozeran Inc.
On November 9, 2023, Robert Ozeran filed
a cross-complaint, alleging (1) fraud – intentional misrepresentation; (2) fraud
– concealment; (3) intentional infliction of emotional distress (“IIED”); (4) negligence;
(5) common law appropriation of name; and (6) statutory appropriation of name.
On November 27, 2023, Parsons filed a
demurrer and motion to strike.
The Court’s August 8, 2024 order acknowledged
Parsons’s argument that that res judicata and collateral estoppel bar some causes
of action because the same issue was being decided through the Petition for Nullity
in the Dissolution Action.  The Court ordered supplemental briefing on res
judicata/collateral estoppel and continued the hearings.
The
parties’ supplemental briefing stated that as the date of the briefs, there was
not yet a final judgment in the Dissolution Action.  The Court again continued the hearings.
On
November 1, 2024, Parsons filed a Request for Judicial Notice of the judgment entered
in the Dissolution Action.
REQUESTS FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
Parsons’s
requests for judicial notice of the Petition for Nullity and a July 31, 2024 order
in the family law case In re: Marriage of Ozeran and Parsons, Case No. 23CHFL00714
(“Dissolution Action”) are granted.
Parsons’s
request for judicial notice of the September 3, 2024 Minute Order after Bifurcated
Trial re: Nullity by Fraud is granted.
Parsons’s
request for judicial notice of the October 31, 2024 Judgment on Bifurcated Trial
re Annulment and Putative Spouse Status for Respondent is granted.
DEMURRER
A
demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action.  (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740,
747.)  When considering demurrers, courts
read the allegations liberally and in context, accepting the alleged facts as true.  (Nolte v. Cedars-Sinai Medical Center (2015)
236 Cal.App.4th 1401, 1406.)  “Because a demurrer
challenges defects on the face of the complaint, it can only refer to matters outside
the pleading that are subject to judicial notice.”  (Arce ex rel. Arce v. Kaiser Found. Health
Plan, Inc. (2010) 181 Cal.App.4th 471, 556.)
A.        Issue Preclusion Bars the First Through
Third Causes of Action.
Parsons
argues that res judicata or collateral estoppel bar the first four causes of action
for fraud, IIED, and negligence.  (Demurrer
at pp. 5-7.)
A
court may sustain a general demurrer if all facts necessary to show that an action
is barred by res judicata are within the complaint or subject to judicial notice.  (Frommhagen v. Board of Supervisors (1987)
197 Cal.App.3d 1292, 1299.)  Res judicata
is “an umbrella term, encompassing both the primary aspect of claim preclusion and
the secondary aspect of issue preclusion.” 
(Cal Sierra Development, Inc. v. George Reed, Inc. (2017) 14 Cal.App.5th
663, 671.)
“Claim
preclusion arises if a second suit involves: (1) the same cause of action (2)
between the same parties (3) after a final judgment on the merits in the first suit.”  (DKN Holdings LLC v. Faerber (2015) 61
Cal.4th 813, 824.)  “Issue preclusion
prohibits the relitigation of issues argued and decided in a previous case, even
if the second suit raises different causes of action.  [Citation.] 
Under issue preclusion, the prior judgment conclusively resolves an issue
actually litigated and determined in the first action.”  (Ibid.)
Parsons
cites In re Marriage of Buckley (1982)
133 Cal.App.3d 927 (Buckley), where “[h]usband was collaterally estopped
by a petition for nullity from relitigating the issue of wife’s alleged fraud.”  (Demurrer at p. 6.)  In that case, the husband sought to have the marriage
declared a nullity on the ground that on the date of their wedding, the wife’s prior
marriage had not yet been finally dissolved. 
(Buckley, supra, 133 Cal.App.3d at p. 930.)  A stipulated judgment was later entered that declared
the parties’ marriage a nullity.  (Ibid.)  Thereafter, the husband filed an action against
the wife for fraud and concealment because she had falsely represented to him that
she was single.  (Ibid.)  The Court of Appeal determined that the trial
court properly granted judgment for the wife because the husband was collaterally
estopped from relitigating the issue of wife’s alleged fraud due to the stipulated
judgment of nullity.  (Ibid.)  The petition for nullity had put the wife’s good
faith belief that their marriage was valid at issue.  (Id. at p. 936.)  Although “there was no explicit finding in the
stipulated judgment that she was innocent of fraud . . . the award of both attorney’s
fees and spousal support amounts to an implied finding in her favor on that issue.”  (Id. at p. 936.)
The
Court finds that, similar to the situation in Buckley, the issue of Parsons’s
fraudulent intent is precluded by the judgment in the Dissolution Action.
The
Dissolution Action’s October 31, 2024 judgment incorporated the September 3, 2024
Statement of Decision.  (11/1/2024 RJN, Ex.
A.)  Ozeran sought an annulment based on fraud
because Parsons “made ‘fraudulent representations’ that [Ozeran] was the biological
father of Roman, when in fact he was not the father, and this fact was ‘known by
[Parsons] and concealed from [Ozeran] when the parties got married.”  (Statement of Decision at p. 2.)  The court concluded that there was insufficient
evidence that Parsons had “an intent to defraud and continued the fraud scheme and
deception before and during the marriage.” 
(Id. at p. 9.)  The court therefore
denied the request for nullity based on fraud. 
(Id. at pp. 9-10.)
Here,
the first cause of action for intentional misrepresentation alleges that Parsons
falsely represented to Ozeran that he was Roman’s biological father, and Parsons
knew that the representation was false when she made it.  (Cross-Complaint ¶¶ 41-42.)  The second cause of action for fraudulent concealment
alleges that Parsons “intentionally failed” to disclose to Ozeran that Roman was
not Ozeran’s biological son.  (Cross-Complaint
¶ 51; see Cross-Complaint ¶ 53.)  The third
cause of action for IIED alleges that Parsons’s outrageous conduct was “her falsely
representing that baby Roman was Ozeran’s biological father to induce him to marry
her and financially provide for her and baby Roman.”  (Cross-Complaint ¶ 60.)
These
causes of action require Parsons to knowingly and intentionally misrepresent (or
conceal facts about) the identity of Roman’s biological father.  The Dissolution Action decided the issue of whether
Parsons had “an intent to defraud and continued the fraud scheme and deception before
and during the marriage.”  (Statement of Decision
at p. 9.)  Accordingly, Ozeran is precluded
from relitigating the issue.
Ozeran
argues that “the claims that she seeks to strike are ones that cannot, by law and
policy, be filed in the same action . . . because, at the core, they are separate
claims that must be filed in separate actions, subject to a different body of law,
litigate different rights, and request different relief.”  (Suppl. Opposition at p. 2.)  According to Ozeran, “[t]he very nature of the
fact that the claims alleged here and the annulment action cannot be brought in
the same action or in the same court demonstrates the separateness and uniqueness
of the claims.”  (Id. at p. 4.)
As
explained by the Buckley court, this makes no difference for issue preclusion:  “[T]he fact that husband could not have responded
to wife’s dissolution action with a tort cross-complaint is irrelevant.  The doctrine of collateral estoppel is a doctrine
of ‘issue preclusion.’  [Citation.]  The issue of wife’s alleged fraud was necessarily
determined by the consent judgment, and husband cannot now vex and harass wife by
litigating that issue again in a new cause of action.”  (Buckley, supra, 133 Cal.App.3d at p. 936.)
Ozeran
also argues that “there is no collateral estoppel and the issue is not identical
where the issue is adjudged on a completely different standard of proof,” noting
that fraud must be shown by clear and convincing evidence for an annulment, but
the standard of proof in this action is preponderance of the evidence.  (Suppl. Opposition at p. 6.)  Ozeran provides no authority for his contention
that the differing standards of proof affect the analysis for issue preclusion.  (See Interinsurance Exchange v. Collins
(1994) 30 Cal.App.4th 1445, 1448 [“[P]arties are required to include argument and
citation to authority in their briefs, and the absence of these necessary elements
allows this court to treat [an] issue as waived.”]; Dabney v. Dabney (2002)
104 Cal.App.4th 379, 384 [“We need not consider an argument for which no authority
is furnished.”].)
The
demurrer to the first, second, and third causes of action is SUSTAINED without leave
to amend.
B.        Issue Preclusion Does Not Bar the Fourth
of Action.
A
cause of action for negligence requires (1) a legal duty owed to the plaintiff to
use due care, (2) breach of that duty, (3) proximate causation, and (4) damages.  (Artiglio v. Corning Inc. (1998) 18 Cal.4th
604, 614; County of Santa Clara v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2006) 137 Cal.App.4th
292, 318 [citing Artiglio].)  “Negligence
is an unintentional tort, a failure to exercise the degree of care in a given situation
that a reasonable man under similar circumstances would exercise to protect others
from harm.”  (Donnelly v. Southern Pac.
Co. (1941) 18 Cal.2d 863, 869; see also City of Santa Barbara v. Superior
Court (2007) 41 Cal.4th 747, 753 [citing Donnelly].)
The
fourth cause of action for negligence alleges that Parsons was negligent in representing
to Ozeran that he was Roman’s biological father.  (Cross-Complaint ¶ 67.)  This issue was not decided in the Dissolution
Action, which considered and decided only the issue of Parsons’s intentional misrepresentations
and intent to defraud.
The
demurrer to the fourth cause of action is OVERRULED on this ground.
C.        The First Through Fourth Causes of Action
Are Valid Causes of Action.
Parsons
argues that the first four causes of action are not actionable because “[i]nfidelity
or adultery while married is not a civil tort in the State of California,” and “there
is no cause for alienation of affection, seduction of an adult, nor breach of a
promise to marry.”  (Demurrer at p. 8.)
The
causes of action for fraud, IIED, and negligence are based on Parsons’s allegedly
false representation that Ozeran was Roman’s biological father.  (E.g., Cross-Complaint ¶¶ 40, 51, 60, 67.)  These are not “infidelity” causes of action that
are barred by Civil Code section 43.5.
The
demurrer to the first, second, third, and fourth causes of action is OVERRULED on
this ground.
D.        Ozeran Does Not Allege Appropriation of
His Name.
The
fifth cause of action alleges common law appropriation of name, and the sixth cause
of action alleges appropriation of name under Civil Code section 3344.
“A
common law cause of action for appropriation of name or likeness may be pleaded
by alleging (1) the defendant’s use of the plaintiff’s identity; (2) the appropriation
of plaintiff’s name or likeness to defendant’s advantage, commercially or otherwise;
(3) lack of consent; and (4) resulting injury. 
[Citation.]  In addition, to plead
the statutory remedy provided in Civil Code section 3344, there must also be an
allegation of a knowing use of the plaintiff’s name, photograph or likeness for
purposes of advertising or solicitation of purchases.”  (Eastwood v. Superior Court (1983) 149
Cal.App.3d 409, 417.)
Ozeran
alleges that Parsons “has used, and continues to use, Ozeran’s name without his
authority or consent, on social media, in the promotion, advertising, and/or marketing
of herself, her brand, her business, and her career.”  (Cross-Complaint ¶¶ 72, 79.)  “In her use of Ozeran’s name, Parsons seeks to
gain, and has gained, an economic or commercial advantage, capitalizing on Ozeran’s
reputation.  Indeed, Parsons’ use of Ozeran’s
name has been directly connected to Parsons’ commercial purpose.”  (Cross-Complaint ¶ 81; see Cross-Complaint ¶ 73.)
Upon
their marriage, Parsons was permitted to adopt Ozeran’s last name or a combination
of both last names without intent to defraud. 
(Fam. Code, § 306.5; see Demurrer at pp. 8-9.)  Additionally, a person has a common law right
in California to use a different name without the necessity of any legal proceeding
as long as the name is not adopted to defraud or intentionally confuse.  (Lee v. Superior Court (1992) 9 Cal.App.4th
510, 514; Weathers v. Superior Court (1976) 54 Cal.App.3d 286, 288; see also
Fam. Code, § 306.5, subd. (c) [“This section does not abrogate the common law right
of a person to change their name . . . .”].)
The
only alleged use of Ozeran’s name is that “Parsons began publicly identifying herself
as ‘Parsons-Ozeran,’ including on social media on her two public Instagram accounts.”  (Cross-Complaint ¶ 37.)  This occurred for the first time in October 2023,
“a mere few weeks” before Ozeran filed the Cross-Complaint on November 9, 2023.  (Cross-Complaint ¶ 37.)  There are no facts showing that Parsons adopted
the name with an intent to defraud or intentionally confuse.  Parsons using the last name “Parsons-Ozeran” for
herself is not Parsons using Ozeran’s identity of “Robert Ozeran.”
Although
Ozeran alleges that Parsons “seeks to wrongfully capitalize on Ozeran’s name and
reputation for her own economic and commercial gain” and uses his name “on social
media, in the promotion, advertising, and/or marketing of herself, her brand, her
business, and her career,” this is conclusory and does not allege how Parsons is
capitalizing on his name.  (See Cross-Complaint
¶¶ 37, 72, 79.)  There are also no facts about
Parsons using Ozeran’s identity “on or in products, merchandise, or goods, or for
purposes of advertising or selling, or soliciting purchases of, products, merchandise,
goods or services.”  (Civ. Code, § 3344, subd.
(a).)
Ozeran
also argues that Parsons is wrongfully capitalizing on his name and reputation for
her own economic and commercial gain by falsely representing that she is currently
employed by his law firm.  (Opposition at
p. 9.)  Specifically, “on LinkedIn, Parsons
mispresents she is currently employed, and has been employed, as a Senior Paralegal
for the Law Offices of Robert Ozeran since January 2020.”  (Cross-Complaint ¶ 37.)  This is not a use of Ozeran’s identity or an appropriation
of his name or likeness.
The
demurrer to the fifth and sixth causes of action is SUSTAINED without leave to amend.
E.        Conclusion
The
demurrer is SUSTAINED IN PART and OVERRULED IN PART as set forth above.
Ozeran
has not shown that he can amend the Cross-Complaint to remedy the deficiencies.  Accordingly, no leave to amend is granted.
The
Cross-Complaint is now limited to the fourth cause of action for negligence.
MOTION
TO STRIKE
The
court may, upon a motion or at any time in its discretion: (1) strike out any irrelevant,
false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (2) strike out all or any
part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of California,
a court rule, or an order of the court.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 436, subds. (a)-(b).)
Parsons
seeks to strike Paragraphs 22-24, 27, 29, 48, 58, 65, 77, and 85.  (Motion at pp. 7-8.)
Paragraphs
22-24 allege, in unnecessary detail, a sexual encounter between Parsons and another
man that occurred after all events that are relevant to Ozeran’s claims.  Paragraph 29 alleges that Parsons threatened to
bring a legal claim against Ozeran, which is not relevant to any cause of action.  These allegations are inflammatory, prejudicial,
and improper.  Paragraphs 48, 58, 65, 77,
and 85 are part of causes of action that are no longer at issue following the Court’s
demurrer order.  The motion is granted for
these paragraphs.
Paragraph
27 is partially relevant to Parsons’s state of mind and her representations about
Roman’s parentage.  The motion is granted
in part, and the Court orders the following irrelevant and improper language stricken:  “During the conversation, Parsons admitted to
Ozeran that she did have physical contact with Jansen, stating that they ‘made out,’
and when pressed further, she admitted that they had oral sex.  During the conversation, Parsons also admitted
for the first time that she previously worked as a stripper.”  The motion is denied for the remainder of Paragraph
27.
Parsons
seeks to strike the prayer for punitive damages.  (Motion at p. 8.)  A plaintiff can recover punitive damages in tort
cases where “the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.”  (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a).)  Punitive damages thus require more than the mere
commission of a tort.  (Taylor v. Superior
Court (1979) 24 Cal.3d 890, 894-895.) 
Ozeran contends that Parsons’s “extensive fraud and nefarious actions surrounding
such a sensitive topic as the paternity or parentage of one’s child certainly warrant
punitive damages.”  (Opposition at p. 5.)  The Court sustains the demurrer to all causes
of action involving fraud.  There are no factual
allegations showing oppression, fraud, or malice for the remaining negligence claim.  The motion is granted for the prayer for punitive
damages.
Parsons
also seeks to strike the prayer for statutory damages and attorney fees.  (Motion at p. 9.)  Civil Code section 3344 (sixth cause of action)
authorizes an award of statutory damages, attorney fees, and costs to a prevailing
party.  (See Opposition at p. 6.)  However, the Court sustains the demurrer to that
cause of action without leave to amend.  The
motion is therefore granted for these items.
The
motion to strike is GRANTED IN PART and DENIED IN PART with respect to Paragraph
27, as detailed above.  The remainder of the
motion is GRANTED without leave to amend.
CONCLUSION
The
demurrer is SUSTAINED IN PART and OVERRULED IN PART without leave to amend.
The
motion to strike is GRANTED IN PART and DENIED IN PART without leave to amend.
Parsons
is ordered to file an answer to the remainder of the Cross-Complaint with 10 days.  (California Rules of Court, rule 3.1320(j).)
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 16th day of December 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 