  Case Number:  20STCV23221    Hearing Date:   December 13, 2023    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



ANGELINA YU, 
                   Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
COACH
   MAX CORP.,
 
                   Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  20STCV23221
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: PLAINTIFF ANGELINA YU’S MOTION
   FOR RECONSIDERATION 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.

December
   13, 2023




 


 


 



 
This matter is before Department 3 of
the Alhambra Courthouse for the limited purpose of this motion for reconsideration
because Judge William A. Crowfoot, now assigned to Department 3 in the Alhambra
Courthouse, issued the order underlying the motion while presiding in
Department 27 of the Spring Street Courthouse. The case remains in Department
27 of the Spring Street Courthouse for all other purposes. 
          Plaintiff
Angelina Yu (“Plaintiff”) moves for an order vacating or modifying the Court’s
order dated November 14, 2022, granting defendants Coach Max Corp. and Commerce
Casino Club, Inc.’s (collectively, “Defendants”) motion for sanctions and issuing
sanctions against her counsel of record (the “Sanctions Order”). In the
Sanctions Order, the Court imposed sanctions against Martin Jerisat, Ying Xu,
and the Law Offices of Eric K. Chen, jointly, in the amount of $1,120. On
November 23, 2023, Plaintiff filed this motion for reconsideration. 
          Defendants filed an opposition brief
on October 19, 2023. 
          No reply brief is on file with the
Court. 
          By way of
background, the Court issued sanctions against Plaintiff for abusive conduct,
including issuing a second deposition subpoena for a witness without a court
order and kicking defense counsel out of a remote deposition. Plaintiff brings
this motion on the grounds that an objection to the deposition subpoena was
never served and that the deponent’s appearance made any objections moot.
Plaintiff also argues that it did not act in bad faith. 
          Code of Civil Procedure section
1008(a) states: 
When
an application for an order has been made to a judge, or to a court, and
refused in whole or in part, or granted, or granted conditionally, or on terms,
any party affected by the order may, within 10 days after service upon the
party of written notice of entry of the order and based upon new or different
facts, circumstances, or law, make application to the same judge or court that
made the order, to reconsider the matter and modify, amend, or revoke the prior
order.  The party making the application
shall state by affidavit what application was made before, when and to what
judge, what order or decisions were made, and what new or different facts,
circumstances, or law are claimed to be shown. 
  
A court acts in excess of jurisdiction
when it grants a motion to reconsider that is not based upon “new or different
facts, circumstances or law.” (Gilberd v. AC Transit (1995) 32
Cal.App.4th 1494, 1499.) Motions for reconsideration are restricted to
circumstances where a party offers the Court some fact or circumstance not
previously considered, and some valid reason for not offering it earlier. (Id.)
Moreover, there is a strict requirement of diligence, which means the moving
party must present a satisfactory explanation for failing to provide the
evidence or different facts earlier. (Garcia v. Hejmadi (1997) 58
Cal.App.4th 674, 690.) The burden under Section 1008 is comparable to that of a
party seeking a new trial on the ground of newly discovered evidence: the
information must be such that the moving party could not, with reasonable
diligence, have discovered or produced it at trial. (New York Times Co. v.
Superior Court (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 206, 212-213.)
Here, the Court cannot grant
Plaintiff’s motion for reconsideration because it is not based on new facts, circumstances,
or law. As Defendants point out in their opposition brief, Plaintiff does not explain
how any of the events described within the motion were not previously brought
before the Court, even though they clearly predated the hearing. 
Accordingly, the motion for
reconsideration is DENIED. 
 
Dated
this 13th
day of December, 2023
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 