 Case Number:  23BBCV01479    Hearing Date:   October 18, 2024    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
marco
  morales, 
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
7-eleven, inc.,  
                        Defendant.
 


 
  Case No.:  23BBCV01479
    
Hearing
  Date:  October 18, 2024
 
 [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
motion for summary judgment  



 
 
BACKGROUND
A.   
Allegations 
Plaintiff Marco Morales (“Plaintiff”)
alleges that on June 3, 2022, he visited his local Defendant 7-Eleven, Inc.
(“Defendant”) retail store located at 6780 Vineland Avenue, North Hollywood, CA
91606.  He alleges that upon entering, he
was approached by Defendant’s employee who became verbally aggressive to
Plaintiff and began violently attacking Plaintiff.  Plaintiff alleges that the employee punched
Plaintiff’s face approximately 4-5 times with a closed fist.  Plaintiff alleges that he suffered bodily
injuries.  
The
complaint, filed June 30, 2023, alleges causes of action for: (1)
assault/battery; and (2) negligent hiring. 
On November 15, 2023, Plaintiff named The
Eleventh Dimension, Inc. (“TED”) as Doe 1. 
B.    
Motion on Calendar 
On June 27, 2024,
Defendant filed a motion for summary judgment against Plaintiff on the
complaint.  
On October 4, 2024, Plaintiff filed
opposition papers.
On October 11, 2024, Defendant filed a
reply brief. 
DISCUSSION 
            Defendant moves for summary judgment
arguing that it cannot be held vicariously or directly liable the tortious act
of the store’s employees because Defendant is a franchisor of the subject
store, which is owned and operated by TED, an independent contractor pursuant
to the franchise agreement with Defendant (franchisor) and TED
(franchisee).  Defendant argues that it
lacked any control over the day-to-day operations of the subject store or its
employees, the employee was not an agent of Defendant, no agent/employee of
Defendant was present at the store at the time of the incident, and it did not
hire/employe/supervise the store’s employee. 

As a preliminary matter, in the opposition
brief, Plaintiff requests that the Court either deny the motion or continue the
motion under CCP § 437c(h) to permit further discovery.  
CCP § 437c(h)
states: 
If
it appears from the affidavits submitted in opposition to a motion for summary judgment
or summary adjudication, or both, that facts essential to justify
opposition may exist but cannot, for reasons stated, be presented, the court
shall deny the motion, order a continuance to permit affidavits to be obtained
or discovery to be had, or make any other order as may be just. The application
to continue the motion to obtain necessary discovery may also be made by ex
parte motion at any time on or before the date the opposition response to the
motion is due.
(CCP
§ 437c(h).)  
Plaintiff provides the declaration of
counsel Shantel Yaghoobian.  Counsel
states that a continuance is necessary because the parties have not identified
the cashier who allegedly assaulted and battered Plaintiff.  (Yaghoobian Decl., ¶¶3-4.)  Counsel states that without this information,
it is unknown who trained and supervised the employee, or who is the employee’s
employer.  (Id., ¶4.)  Counsel also states that no discovery has
been obtained from TED, such that Plaintiff lacks facts regarding TED’s
relationship with Defendant, Defendant’s involvement the store’s day-to-day
operations, etc.  (Id., ¶5.)  Counsel states that there has been no
discovery regarding Defendant’s exercise of discretion to control the store
under the Franchise Agreement or its policies, how many trainings were
required, how often Defendant changed its operating standards and procedures
and design to the franchise, what was included in Defendant’s mandatory
standards/specifications/operating procedures, and Defendant’s exercise of its
own discretion to modify the manual at any time in its sole discretion as the
Operations Manual or attendant documents have not yet been provided.  (Id., ¶¶6-7.)  Counsel states that Plaintiff propounded
discovery on Defendant on September 11, 2023. 
(Id., ¶8.)  
            Based on the affidavit of
Plaintiff’s counsel, the Court finds that a continuance of the motion is
appropriate to allow the parties to conduct written discovery, identify the
employee of the store at the time of the subject incident, and to schedule depositions.  
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER  
            Defendant
7-Eleven, Inc.’s motion for summary judgment is continued to January 31, 2025
at 8:30 a.m. pursuant to CCP § 437c(h).  If
the parties believe additional time is necessary to conduct discovery and
schedule depositions, the parties are ordered to attend the hearing to provide
an estimated date of when discovery for the purposes of this motion would be
completed.  
            Defendant
shall provide notice of this order. 
 
 
 
DATED:  October 18, 2024                                        ___________________________
                                                                              John
Kralik
                                                                              Judge
of the Superior Court   