 Case Number:  23BBCV00340    Hearing Date:   October 18, 2024    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
Michele A.
  Santopietro, 
 
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
sandra d.
  Santopietro, et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


 
  Case No.:  23BBCV00340
 
Hearing
  Date:  October 18, 2024
 
 [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
motion for summary judgment or, alternatively, for summary
  adjudication of issues  



 
BACKGROUND
A.   
Allegations
Plaintiff
Michele Santopietro (“Plaintiff,” a self-represented litigant) alleges that on
June 27,
2007, she and her mother purchased property located at 554 E. San Jose Ave.,
#204 in Burbank for $510,000 and the grant deed asserted the property was
granted to “Sandra D. Santopietro, a widow and Michele A. Santopietro, a single
woman as Joint Tenants” (“First Deed”). 
On October 8, 2008, a second grant deed
(“Second Deed”) was executed, whereby Plaintiff’s interest in the property was
transferred to her mother as a bona fide gift, but she alleges that she had no
knowledge of the fraudulent transfer of title and did not agree to relinquish
her interest.  Plaintiff alleges she
lived at the property for 14-15 years without knowledge of the transfer and
made mortgage payments.  Plaintiff
alleges that in May 2022, her mother changed the locks to the property to
prevent her from entering and thereafter learned of the fraudulent
transfer.  On June 3, 2022, Plaintiff
alleges she discovered that the property was listed for sale.  On June 15, 2022, she alleges she went to the
property to collect her mail and she encountered Defendant Michael McDonald of
Compass (real estate agent), who threatened her.  She also encountered Defendant Mary Anne Been
(another real estate agent) who informed her mother to block her phone
number.  
On September 16, 2022, a third grant deed
(“Third Deed”) was entered, whereby Plaintiff’s mother sold the property to
Defendants Juvelyn Palomique and Stephen Harrison for $780,000.  She alleges that McDonald and Been, by and
through Compass, and Defendant Robert Reffkin facilitated the sale of the
property.   
Plaintiff alleges that she has attempted
to approach the property to obtain her mail, but has been denied access.  She alleges that the sale was wrongful,
because her signature on the second grant deed was forged. 
The complaint, filed February 10, 2023,
alleges causes of action for: (1) quiet title; and (2) fraud.
The Court notes that Plaintiff attempted
to file a first amended complaint (“FAC”) on April 2, 2024, alleging causes of
action for: (1) fraud; and (2) fraud. 
She attempted to file the FAC after Plaintiff had filed on February 13,
2024, a motion to dismiss the 1st cause of action in the initial
complaint for Defendant’s failure to timely file an FAC following the Court’s
ruling sustaining a demurrer to the 1st cause of action in the
initial complaint with 20 days leave to amend on November 3, 2023.  The hearing on the motion to dismiss was held
on April 5, 2024 and the Court entered an order dismissing the 1st
cause of action for quiet title in the initial complaint.  Plaintiff’s improper and belatedly filed FAC was
stricken by the Court on June 24, 2024. 
The operative pleading shall be the initially filed complaint. 
B.    
Relevant Background and Motion on Calendar 
On April 10, 2024, Defendant Sandra D.
Santopietro (“Defendant”) filed a motion for summary judgment against Plaintiff
on the remaining causes of action in the complaint and for costs of suit.  In the alternative, Plaintiff seeks summary
adjudication that plaintiff cannot establish all of the necessary elements of
the 2nd cause of action for fraud and for the prayer for punitive
damages in connection with the 2nd cause of action, such that
Plaintiff is entitled to final judgment.  On May 21, 2024, Plaintiff (in pro per) filed
an opposition brief. On June 21, 2024, Defendant filed reply papers.
The motion for
summary judgment came for hearing on June 28, 2024.  The Court heard oral arguments and took the
matter under submission. The Court gave Plaintiff 5 court days to file a
document stating where the notary book was located.  On July 3, 2024, Defendant filed a
supplemental brief with information stating that the notary book was being held
at the Los Angeles County Recorder’s office, as evidenced by Exhibit 6 of the
moving papers.
On July 1, 2024, Plaintiff filed an ex
parte motion for continuance of the summary judgment hearing.  On July 3, 2024, the Court held a hearing on
the ex parte application; Plaintiff appeared and no appearances were made by
Defendants. The Court took the ex parte application under submission.  On July 8, 2024, the Court issued its ruling,
setting it for hearing on July 26, 2024. 
The Court ordered Defendant to file and serve an opposition brief by the
end of the business day on July 19, 2024. 
On July 24, 2024, Defendant filed an opposition to Plaintiff’s ex parte
application.  On July 26, 2024, the Court
held a hearing on the ex parte application, which the parties did not attend.  The Court continued the hearing on the ex
parte application to August 2, 2024.  On
August 2, 2024, the Court granted Plaintiff’s ex parte application and
continued the hearing on the motion for summary judgment to October 18, 2024 at
8:30 a.m.  The Court ordered Plaintiff to
file and serve opposition papers by the end of the business day on October 4,
2024 and ordered Defendant to file and serve reply papers by the end of the
business day on October 11, 2024.  
On October 11, 2024, Plaintiff filed an
untimely supplemental opposition brief. As stated in the Court’s order, Plaintiff’s
supplemental opposition brief was due by October 4, 2024, and Defendant’s
supplemental reply brief was due by October 11, 2024.  
On October 15, 2024, Defendant filed a
supplemental reply brief.  Defendant
states that she was not served a copy of Plaintiff’s untimely supplemental opposition
brief and that Defendant is unable to access a copy of the document on the
Court’s website, such that Defendant cannot file a reply brief based on the
filed supplemental opposition.  (Def.’s
Suppl. Reply at p.3.)  Defendant states
that she will make every effort to obtain a copy of Plaintiff’s supplemental
opposition and be prepared to make oral arguments at the hearing.  (Id.) 
Defendant requests that if the Court is inclined to deny the motion,
Defendant be allowed to file a supplemental reply brief after obtaining
Plaintiff’s supplemental opposition papers. 
(Id. at p.4.) 
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
            Defendant requests judicial notice
of: (1) Plaintiff’s verified complaint filed February 10, 2023; (2) Defendant’s
verified answer filed December 27, 2023; (3) the Notice of Ruling filed April 5, 2024 regarding the Motion to Dismiss the
1st cause of action in the initial complaint; (4) the Grant Deed
dated June 27, 2007 and recorded on July 20, 2007; (5) the Grant Deed dated
October 8, 2008 and recorded on October 15, 2008; (6) a certified copy of
Notary Book Entry of Mary Venia for Grant Deed dated October 8, 2008 and
recorded on October 15, 2008; and (7) the Grant Deed dated September 16, 2022
and recorded on October 13, 2022.  The
request is granted.  (Evid. Code, §
452(d); Fontenot v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2011) 198
Cal.App.4th 256, 264-267, disapproved on
other grounds.)  
DISCUSSION
            Defendant moves for summary
judgment or, alternatively, summary adjudication on the remaining cause of
action for fraud and the issue of punitive damages in the complaint.  
To allege a cause of action for fraud, the
requisite elements are: (1) a representation,
usually of fact, which is false; (2) knowledge of its falsity; (3) intent to defraud; (4) justifiable reliance upon the misrepresentation;
and (5) damage resulting from that justifiable reliance.  (Stansfield
v. Starkey (1990) 220 Cal. App. 3d 59, 72-73.)  The elements for fraudulent concealment are the following: (1) the defendant must have
concealed or suppressed a material fact; (2) the defendant must have been under
a duty to disclose the fact to the plaintiff; (3) the defendant must have
intentionally concealed or suppressed the fact with the intent to defraud the
plaintiff; (4) the plaintiff must have been unaware of the fact and would not
have acted as he did if he had known of the concealed or suppressed fact; and
(5) as a result of the concealment or suppression of the fact, the plaintiff
must have sustained damage.  (Lovejoy v. AT&T Corp. (2004) 119
Cal. App. 4th 151, 157-158.)  The statute
of limitations for a fraud cause of action is 3 years.  (CCP § 338(d).)  
            In support of the motion, Defendant submitted
15 material facts.  The Court notes that
while Plaintiff filed an opposition brief, Plaintiff did not file an opposing
separate statement.  CCP § 437c(b)(3)
states: “The opposition papers shall include a separate statement that
responds to each of the material facts contended by the moving party to be
undisputed, indicating if the opposing party agrees or disagrees that those
facts are undisputed. The statement also shall set forth plainly and concisely
any other material facts the opposing party contends are disputed. Each
material fact contended by the opposing party to be disputed shall be followed
by a reference to the supporting evidence. Failure to comply with this requirement of a
separate statement may constitute a sufficient ground, in the court's
discretion, for granting the motion.” (Emphasis added.)  As Plaintiff has not filed a responsive
separate statement with the opposition brief, Defendant’s material facts will
be deemed undisputed and may constitute a ground to grant the motion
outright.  The Court notes that this
issue was raised with Plaintiff at the prior hearing on this motion and
Plaintiff was given sufficient time and opportunity to file additional
opposition papers (including a separate statement) with the continuance
requested by Plaintiff, but Plaintiff has failed to file a responsive separate
statement.   
            The undisputed material facts are as
follows.  On
or about June 27, 2007, Defendant purchased real property located at 554 E. San
Jose Avenue #204, Burbank, California 91501 (hereinafter “Subject Property”)
with her own funds.  (Fact 1; Pl.’s Ex. 4
[6/27/07 First Grant Deed].)  For estate
planning purposes, the Subject Property was deeded to Plaintiff and Defendant
as “joint tenants.”  (Fact 2.)  Plaintiff did not make any mortgage payments,
insurance payments, taxes, HOA fees, or assist in the upkeep or maintenance of
the Subject Property at any time.  (Fact
3.)  In or about October 2008, Plaintiff
moved out of the Subject Property and requested to be removed from title after
a conflict arose between the parties. 
(Fact 4.)  On October 8, 2008, the
parties deeded the Subject Property to Defendant as a “bonafide gift and the
Grantor received nothing in return, E&T 11911.”  (Fact 5; Pl.’s Ex. 5 [10/8/08 Second Grant
Deed].)  The Second Deed of Trust was
signed by Plaintiff in front of a Notary on October 8, 2008, and Plaintiff’s
signature and fingerprint are included in the Notary Book. (Fact 6; Pl.’s Ex.
5, Ex. 6 [10/8/08 Notary Book].)  Despite
retaining keys to the Subject Property, Plaintiff did not move back onto the
Subject Property at any time.  (Fact
7.)  In the complaint, Plaintiff alleges
that she had no knowledge of the Second Deed and never agreed to such a
transfer.  (Fact 8, Ex. 1 [Complaint,
¶44].)  Plaintiff alleges that all
Defendants had a duty of disclosure to Plaintiff and that all Defendants
engaged in illegal and fraudulent conduct in order to deprive Plaintiff of her
property rights and to profit from Plaintiff’s loss.  (Fact 9-10, Ex. 1 [Complaint, ¶43].)  Plaintiff alleges that Defendant changed the
locks to the Property, without notice to Plaintiff, in or about May 2022.  (Fact 11, Ex. 1 [Complaint, ¶44].)  On or about September 16, 2022, the Subject
Property was deeded by Defendant to Juvelyn Palomique and Stephen Harrison via
Grant Deed. (Fact 12; Ex. 7 [9/16/22 Third Grant Deed].)  On February 10, 2023, Plaintiff filed a
Verified Complaint for (1) Quiet Title and (2) Fraud and on December 27, 2023,
Defendant filed a Verified Answer.  (Fact
13-14, Ex. 1, Ex. 2 [Answer].)  On April
5, 2024, the Court dismissed the 1st cause of action for Quiet Title
with prejudice as alleged against Defendant because Plaintiff failed to amend
the Complaint within the time given after sustaining a demurrer.  (Fact 15, Ex. 3 [4/5/24 Notice of Ruling re
Motion to Dismiss].) 
            Defendant moves for summary
judgment/adjudication on the remaining cause of action for fraud in the
complaint, arguing that the material facts are undisputed that there was no
fraudulent transfer of the Subject Property on October 8, 2008 as the Second Grant
Deed and Notary Book show that Plaintiff and Defendant agreed to the terms of
the Grant Deed and Plaintiff even signed and inputted her fingerprint into the
Notary Book.  Defendant further argues
that she did not owe a duty to Plaintiff to not change the locks as Defendant
did not conceal the sale of the Subject Property in 2022 and, by that point,
Plaintiff lacked any property rights in the Subject Property.  These facts are supported by Defendant’s
separate statement.  
            In addition, Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s
claim is time-barred by the 3-year statute of limitations period for
fraud.  As indicated above, Plaintiff
executed the Second Grant Deed on October 8, 2008, which is evidenced by the recorded
document and the Notary Book.  Thus,
Defendant has shown that Plaintiff was on notice of her claim regarding the
transfer of the Subject Property by that date, which is evidenced by
Plaintiff’s signature and fingerprint in the Notary Book.  Plaintiff filed the complaint on February 10, 2023,
which is almost 15 years later and is thus untimely.  
In opposition, Plaintiff argues that the documents are forged and that
she never signed any documents. 
Plaintiff argues that she has a right to a jury trial to present her
evidence and witnesses, and states that she is saving money to retain an
attorney.  However, the time to present
opposing evidence and declarations on this motion for summary judgment was at
the time her opposition was due.  The
Court also granted Plaintiff’s ex parte application for a continuance on August 2, 2024,
gave her time to file an additional opposition brief, and set the hearing on
this motion for October 18, 2024—such that she had an additional 2 months from
the August 2, 2024 date to file supplemental papers.  On October 11, 2024, Plaintiff filed an
untimely supplemental opposition brief (she was ordered to file a brief by
October 4, 2024).  Even if the brief were
considered, Plaintiff has not presented evidence of forgery.  She states that she has retained a court
certified forgery and document examiner, Beth Chrisman, to testify verbally for
the case and at trial, such that her case must go before a jury, but the Court
specifically gave Plaintiff time to present evidence now at the motion
for summary judgment stage by granting her a continuance to file supplemental
opposition papers.  There is no
declaration from Ms. Chrisman and it is unknown what she will testify—whether
in Plaintiff’s favor that the documents were forged, or not—such that
Plaintiff’s bare representation that she has hired Ms. Chrisman is not
sufficient to defeat summary judgment.  
While it is unfortunate that Plaintiff does not have an attorney, the
lack of attorney is not a ground to deny a motion for summary judgment.  Even considering Plaintiff’s opposition
brief, the only evidence Plaintiff provides is her declaration.  She provides no documentary evidence, nor
does she provide a separate statement disputing the material facts presented by
Defendant.  Plaintiff’s declaration does
not show if and how the documents were forged, and she does not raise any
triable issues of material fact regarding the elements of fraud.  Instead, the declaration provides accusations
against Defendant without any supporting evidence.  Thus, Plaintiff has failed to raise a triable
issue of material fact in her opposition brief.
At the June
28, 2024 hearing, Plaintiff argued that the documents
were forged and that the Notary Book had evidence of tampering and
white-out.  However, the Court has
reviewed the certified copies of the notary book pages.  There is no indication that Plaintiff and
Defendant’s signatures were altered.  The
signatures are in a colored box and there is no evidence of white-out being
used to alter Plaintiff’s signature.  The
Court has also reviewed various pages from the evidence to look at Plaintiff’s
signature, but Plaintiff’s signature varies such that the Court cannot
determine without the aid of a handwriting expert whether any documents were
forged.  (See Def.’s Exs. 1 [Complaint],
Ex. 5 [10/8/08 Grant Deed signature], Ex. 6 [Notary Book]; Pl.’s Opp. to the
MSJ at p.7.)  While Plaintiff raises
arguments of forgery at the hearing, she presented no evidence to support her
theory and has not retained a handwriting expert to support her opposition
arguments at the summary judgment stage despite being given additional time to
do so.
Finally, with respect to Plaintiff’s request for punitive damages,
this request fails as the underlying cause of action for fraud—upon which the
punitive damages request relies—fails.  
For these reasons, the motion for summary judgment is granted in favor
of Defendant. Defendant has upheld her initial burden in summary judgment, but
Plaintiff has failed to raise a triable issue of material fact in opposition to
the motion. 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
Defendant Sandra D. Santopietro’s motion
for summary judgment or, alternatively, summary adjudication is granted.  Defendant is ordered to lodge with the Court
and serve on Plaintiff a proposed judgment within ten (10) days and to provide
notice of this order.
Defendant shall
give notice of this order.  
 
DATED:
October 18, 2024                                                     ___________________________
                                                                                          John
Kralik
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court 