 Case Number:  21GDCV01353    Hearing Date:   October 18, 2024    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
andrew bergman, et al.,
    
 
                        Plaintiffs,
            v.
 
isaac blocher, et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


 
  Case
  No.: 21GDCV01353
 
  Hearing Date: October 18, 2024
 
 [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
(1)   motions to compel further responses; and 
(2)   motion for terminating sanctions or, in the alternative, issue and
  evidentiary sanctions and monetary contempt sanctions 



 
BACKGROUND

A.    Allegations

Plaintiffs
Andrew Bergman, Andrew Bondarczuk, Edward Bondarczuk, Matthew Bondarczuk, Steve
Bondarczuk, Cain Hernandez, Joshua Miller, Aaron Mullenix, Christopher Nuesa,
Jane Park, William Marc Salsberry, Trevor Schmidt, Aaron Stogner, Brian
Walters, and Carlos Zoller (“Plaintiffs”) commenced this action against
Defendant Isaac Blocher, Kristie Blocher, Aneaka English, Blocher Holdings LLC,
Consortium Title, LLC, Wholesale Listings Ltd. Co., LLC, Wholesale Real Estate,
LLC, WSRE South Carolina, LLC aka WSRE S. Carolina, LLC, WSRE Georgia, LLC,
Selling N. Atlanta, LLC, Selling Real Estate, LLC, Selling N. Charleston, LLC,
Selling N. Richmond, LLC, WSRE Florida, LLC, and E.S. Real Estate Consortium
Corp.  Shepherds, LLC is named as a
nominal defendant. 
Plaintiffs
allege that they are members and investors of Shepherds LLC.  Isaac and Kristie Blocher are alleged to be
the members of Blocher Holdings LLC (now dissolved) and Blocher Holdings LLC
served as the manager for Shepherds LLC. 
Isaac Blocher is also alleged to be the manager of Shepherds LLC.  
Plaintiffs
allege that Isaac Blocher made false promises to Plaintiffs to induce their
investment into Shepherds LLC, such as promising he would generate income for
Plaintiffs, be a professional investment mortgage broker and private lender, be
a good steward to Plaintiffs’ investment, etc. 
(SAC, ¶42.)  In reliance on Isaac
Blocher’s representations, Plaintiffs invested a total of $2,437,488 into
Shepherds LLC.   Plaintiffs allege that Isaac Blocher invested
nearly all of Plaintiffs’ funds with Aneaka English and transferred nearly $2.1
million from the company’ bank account into Aneaka English’s bank account.  Plaintiffs allege that Aneaka English
subsequently stole the money.  Plaintiffs
allege that this and other conduct by Isaac Blocher amounted to grossly
negligence and/or reckless investing and behavior.  
The second
amended complaint (“SAC”), filed September 5, 2023, alleges causes of action
for: (1) breach of fiduciary
duty – count one – direct cause of action; (2) breach of fiduciary duty – count
two – derivative cause of action; (3) conversion – count one – direct cause of
action; (4) conversion – count two – derivative cause of action; (5) fraud –
count one – direct cause of action; (6) negligence – count one – direct cause
of action; (7) negligence – count two – derivative cause of action; (8) breach
of written contract – count one – direct cause of action; (9) breach of written
contract – count two – derivative cause of action; (10) breach of the covenant
of good faith and fair dealing – direct cause of action; (11) violation of Bus.
& Profs. Code, §§ 17200 et seq. – count one – direct cause of
action; (12) violation of Bus. & Profs. Code, §§ 17200 et seq. –
count two – derivative cause of action; (13) accounting – count one – direct
cause of action; and (14) accounting – count two – derivative cause of action. 
B.     Cross-Complaint

On
October 20, 2023, Defendants/Cross-Complainants Aneaka English aka Aneaka Ukah,
Selling N. Atlanta, LLC, Selling N. Charleston, LLC, Selling N. Richmond, LLC,
WSRE Florida, LLC, WSRE Georgia, LLC, and WSRE South Carolina LLC
(“Cross-Complainants”) filed a cross-complaint against Cross-Defendants Andrew
Bergman, Andrew Bondarczuk, Edward Bondarczuk, Matthew Bondarczuk, Steve Bondarczuk,
Cain Hernandez, Joshua Miller, Aaron Mullenix, Christopher Nuesa, Jane Park,
William Marc Salsberry, Trevor Schmidt, Aaron Stogner, Brian Walters, Carlos
Zoller, Isaac Blocher, Kristie Blocher, Blocher Holdings, LLC, and Shepherds,
LLC.  The cross-complaint alleges causes
of action for: (1) accounting; (2) declaratory relief; (3) violation of
Business & Professions Code, § 17200 et seq.; and (4) interpleader. 
On
February 16, 2024, the Court sustained without leave to amend Cross-Defendants’
demurrer to and granted without leave to amend the motion to strike the
cross-complaint filed on October 20, 2023. 
That same day, the Court dismissed without prejudice the
cross-complaint.  
C.     Relevant
Background re: Bankruptcy 
On September 23,
2024, Defendants Isaac Blocher and Kristie Blocher filed a Notice of Bankruptcy
(Chapter 7).  
On October 3,
2024, Defendants WSRE S. Carolina LLC, WSRE Georgia LLC, and WSRE Florida LLC
each filed a Notice of Bankruptcy (Chapter 7). 

According to 11 U.S.C. § 362(a), the
filing of a bankruptcy petition operates as a stay in actions against the
debtor, enforcement of judgment against a debtor, any acts to obtain possession
of property, any act to create/perfect/enforce a lien against property of the
estate or against the property of the debtor, to collect assets against the
debtor, to setoff any debt owing to the debtor, or commencing or continuing a
proceeding before the United States Tax Court. 

The motions on calendar do not involve Defendants
Isaac Blocher and Kristie Blocher and thus may proceed on their merits.  
D.    Four
Motions on Calendar 
On August 19,
2024, Plaintiffs Andrew Berman, Andrew Bondarczuk, Edward Bondarczuk, Matthew
Bondarczuk, Steve Bondarczuk, Cain Hernandez, Joshua Miller, Aaron Mullinex,
Christopher Nuesa, Jane Park, William Marc Salsberry, Trevor Schmidt, Aaron
Stogner, Brian Walters, and Carlos Zoller (“Plaintiffs”) filed a motion for
terminating sanctions or, alternatively, issue and evidentiary sanctions
against Defendant Anaeka English. Alternatively, Plaintiffs seek monetary
sanctions in the amount of $21,592.50 against Ms. English and counsel Na’il
Benjamin, Esq.  On October 7, 2024, Ms.
English filed an opposition brief.  On October
11, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a reply brief.  
On August 22,
2024, Plaintiff Matthew Bondarczuk filed a motion to compel Defendant WSRE
Florida, LLC’s further responses to requests for production of documents, set
one (“RPD”), Nos. 1-38.  On September 20,
2024, WSRE Florida filed an opposition brief. 
On September 25, 2024, Bondarczuk filed a reply brief. 
On August 30,
2024, Plaintiff Matthew Bondarczuk filed a motion to compel Defendant WSRE Georgia,
LLC’s further responses to RPD Nos. 1-52. 
On September 20, 2024, WSRE Georgia filed an opposition brief.  On September 25, 2024, Bondarczuk filed a
reply brief. 
On September 5,
2024, Plaintiff Matthew Bondarczuk filed a motion to compel Defendant WSRE South
Carolina, LLC’s further responses to RPD Nos. 1-52.  On September 20, 2024, WSRE Georgia filed an
opposition brief.  On September 25, 2024,
Bondarczuk filed a reply brief. 
DISCUSSION
RE MOTIONS TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES 
            In light
of the Notices of Bankruptcy filed with the Court regarding WSRE S. Carolina
LLC, WSRE Georgia LLC, and WSRE Florida LLC, the action is stayed as to these
Defendants.  As such, the motions to
compel further responses is taken off-calendar. 
Plaintiff Matthew Bondarczuk may refile the motions once the bankruptcy
stay has been lifted.  To the extent that
there are any issues regarding the 45-day limit to file motions to compel
further, such deadline limitations will not be applied against Plaintiff for
refiling the motions following the lifting of the stay. 
DISCUSSION RE MOTION FOR TERMINATING
SANCTIONS
            Plaintiffs
move for terminating sanctions against Ms. English or, alternatively, for issue
and evidence sanctions.  Under either
alternative, Plaintiffs also seek monetary sanctions in the amount of
$21,592.50 against Ms. English and her counsel of record, Na’il Benjamin, Esq.,
jointly and severally.  
A.   
Terminating Sanctions 
CCP § 2023.030 permits the Court to impose
terminating sanctions for discovery misuses, which are defined by CCP § 2023.010
to include the failure to respond to an authorized method of discovery and the
failure to comply with a Court discovery order. 
The Court weighs the following factors when considering the present
motion: (1) defendants’ conduct, indicating whether their actions were willful;
(2) the detriment to the party seeking discovery; and (3) the number of formal
and informal unsuccessful attempts to obtain discovery.  (Lang
v. Hochman (2000) 77 Cal.App.4th 1225, 1246.)  Ultimate discovery sanctions are justified
where there is a willful discovery order violation, a history of abuse, and
evidence showing that less severe sanctions would not produce compliance with
discovery rules.  (Van Sickle v. Gilbert (2011) 196 Cal.App.4th 1495, 1516.)
            By
way of background, Plaintiffs argue that the RPDs at issue (regarding alter ego
relationships) were propounded on August 3, 2023 on Ms. English’s then-counsel,
Jennifer Gardner, such that responses were due by September 8, 2023.  Plaintiffs’ counsel granted a 45-day
extension for responses.  On October 24,
2023 (beyond the 45-day extension), Ms. English served verified responses,
which Plaintiffs’ counsel found inadequate. Plaintiffs’ counsel attempted meet
and confer efforts, which were unsuccessful. 
Plaintiffs filed a motion to compel further responses on December 8,
2023.  On February 27, 2024, Na’il
Benjamin filed a Notice of Appearance for Ms. English and her affiliated
companies.  Plaintiffs and Mr. Benjamin
engaged in settlement negotiations, such that Plaintiffs stipulated to continue
the hearing on the motion to compel further. 
On May 31, 2024, the Court granted Plaintiffs’ (unopposed) motion to
compel Ms. English’s responses to RPD, set one, and ordered Ms. English only to
pay sanctions in the amount of $2,060 within 20 days of notice of the Court’s
order.  Plaintiffs argue that Ms. English
has failed to provide further verified responses to RPD as ordered by the Court
and to pay monetary sanctions of $2,060, by June 24, 2024 (which was 20 days
after Plaintiffs’ May 31, 2024 e-service of the Court’s order).  Plaintiffs argue that they have attempted
several meet and confer attempts with Mr. Benjamin, but he has not offered any
times to meet and confer or responded substantively to the meet and confer
efforts. 
            Plaintiffs
argue that terminating sanctions are appropriate because Ms. English and her
counsel Mr. Benjamin failed to comply with: (1) the March 15, 2024 Stipulation
and Order[1];
(2) the April 22, 2024 Second Stipulation and Order[2];
and (3) the May 31, 2024 Court Order regarding the motion to compel further to
produce documents and pay sanctions.   They
also argue that there is a history of abuse by Ms. English, such that
terminating sanctions are appropriate.  
            In
opposition, Ms. English argues that the motion should be continued or
denied.  She argues that the motion
misrepresents the parties’ settlement efforts and does not consider the
bankruptcy proceedings.  She also argues
that she needs additional time to file an opposition due to the power outages
in Georgia caused by hurricanes and her intent to retain new counsel in California.  (There is a motion to be relieved as counsel
filed and scheduled regarding Ms. English for November 1, 2024.  There are also several motions to be relieved
as counsel “reserved” for November 1 and 8, 2024.)  Ms. English also argues that Mr. Benjamin
should not be sanctioned as he was not counsel at the time the discovery
deadline was initially missed, he was not counsel at the time the motion to
compel further was filed, and he entered the case and requested a continuance
on the motion to evaluate opposition arguments. 
Ms. English requests that the Court allow her a full opportunity to be
heard on the merits of this motion through new counsel following Mr. Benjamin’s
withdrawal.  
            The
Court denies Ms. English’s request for a continuance of the motion.  If the motion is continued beyond the hearing
date for the motion to be relieved as counsel, it appears unlikely that Ms.
English will be able to present any substantive arguments to oppose the
motion—she either has facts now or does not. 
Further, if she retains new counsel, it is unlikely that her prior
counsel would have any personal knowledge as to the events that occurred prior
to substituting into the case.  As such,
a continuance would only delay the case further.
            However,
at this time, the Court declines to impose terminating sanctions against Ms.
English.  The Court recognizes that Ms.
English has been represented by counsel, has had counsel withdraw, represented
herself, and has different counsel in the case. 
It is unclear if the delays in producing discovery are the fault of Ms.
English’s failure to comply with her discovery obligations or whether this is
the fault of her counsel.  Regardless,
there has been a delay in Ms. English in providing discovery responses and in
complying with the Court order – whether she was represented or was not
represented.  The Court has discretion to
impose terminating sanctions, but will decline to do so at this time.  Instead, the Court will impose issue and/or evidence
sanctions in the alternative.  
B.    
Issue and Evidence Sanctions
Under CCP § 2023.030, the Court may impose
issue sanctions ordering that designated facts be taken as established in the
action in accordance with the claim of the party adversely affected by the
misuse of the discovery process.  (CCP § 2023.030(b).)  The Court may impose an evidence sanction by
an order prohibiting any party engaging in the misuse of the discovery process
from introducing designated matters in evidence.  (CCP § 2023.030(c).)  Any motion for issue or evidentiary sanctions
must be accompanied by a separate statement. 
(CRC Rule 3.1345(a)(7).)  
Evidence or issue sanctions may be imposed
only after parties violated discovery orders compelling further responses,
except in exceptional circumstances, including where there was sufficiently
egregious misconduct regarding a failure to respond to discovery, or a prior
discovery order would be futile. (New
Albertsons, Inc. v. Sup. Ct. (2008) 168 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1426.)  Two prerequisites for the imposition of
non-monetary sanctions are: (1) there must be a failure to comply; and (2) the
failure must be willful.  (Vallbona v. Springer (1996) 43
Cal.App.4th 1525, 1545.)  The party
requesting sanctions under CCP §2023.030 and §2023.010(g) must establish that
the other party has failed to comply or disobeyed a court order to provide
discovery.  (CCP §2023.010(g); Miranda v. 21st Century Ins. Co. (2004)
117 Cal.App.4th 913, 929 [first requirement of failure to comply].)  To avoid sanctions, the burden of proving
that a discovery violation was not willful is on the party on whom the
discovery was served. (Cornwall v. Santa
Monica Dairy Co. (1977) 66 Cal.App.3d 250, 252- 253.) 
Due to Ms.
English’s failure to produce responsive documents to RPD Nos. 1-64 regarding
the issue of alter ego, Plaintiffs seek issue sanctions establishing the
following: 
·        
Defendant Aneaka English is the alter ego
of the Affiliated Entities as defined in the RFPs.
·        
The Affiliated Entities failed to maintain
separate bank accounts from one another and from Ms. English. (See RFPs 1-4.)
·        
The Affiliated Entities failed to maintain
separate credit cards from one another and from Ms. English. (See RFPs 5-8.)
·        
The Affiliated Entities commingled funds
with each other and with Ms. English. (See RFPs 1-19, 24-25.)
·        
The Affiliated Entities failed to maintain
meeting minutes. (See RFP 22.)
·        
 The
Affiliated Entities failed to file Statements of Information or have Articles
of Organization. (See RFP 23, 34.)
·        
The Affiliated Entities shared phone
numbers with each other and with Ms. English. (See RFP 26-27.)
·        
The Affiliated Entities shared leases with
each other and with Ms. English. (See RFP 28-31.)
·        
The
Affiliated Entities shared employees and contractors with each other and with Ms. English. (See RFP 32-33.)
·        
The
Affiliated Entities shared members, shareholders, officers, and directors with each other. (See RFP 36-42.)
(Mot. at p. 11.) 
Plaintiffs also seek evidence sanctions against Ms. English from
introducing any evidence contradicting any of the issues listed above and
precluding Ms. English from relying at trial on any documents responsive to the
RPDs that Ms. English has not produced to-date. 
(Id. at p.12.)  
            The
Court grants the request for issue and evidence sanctions as requested by
Plaintiffs based on the RPDs for which Ms. English failed to produce
documents.  
C.    
Monetary Sanctions 
CCP § 2023.030(a) states: “The
court may impose a monetary sanction ordering that one
engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or any attorney advising that
conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses, including attorney's fees,
incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct. The court may also
impose this sanction on one unsuccessfully asserting that another has engaged
in the misuse of the discovery process, or on any attorney who advised that
assertion, or on both. If a monetary sanction is authorized by any provision of
this title, the court shall impose that sanction unless it finds that
the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that
other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”
Plaintiffs seek
monetary sanctions in the amount of $21,592.50 against Ms. English and her
counsel of record, Na’il Benjamin, Esq., jointly and severally.  Plaintiffs’ counsel Brent A. Kramer seeks $8,902.50
for time spent prior to this motion, 10.5 hours in connection with the motion,
and an anticipated 7.5 hours after the filing of the motion (to prepare the
reply and attend the hearing) at $705/hour. 
(Kramer Decl., ¶¶24-26.)
The Court will
impose monetary sanctions against Ms. English and her counsel Mr. Benjamin in
the reduced amount of $5,000 for bringing this motion.  The Court finds that both Ms. English and Mr.
Benjamin are at fault for the delay in providing responses.  While Mr. Benjamin argues that sanctions
should not be imposed against him, he was aware of the motion to compel further
hearing, he requested a continuance on the motion, he had two opportunities to
file an opposition on behalf of Ms. English and failed to do so, and he has not
aided Ms. English in producing documents in compliance with the May 31, 2024
Court order, even though he was in attendance at the hearing and was provided
notice with the order.  
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
Plaintiff
Matthew Bondarczuk’s three motions to compel further responses to the requests
for production of documents from Defendants WSRE Florida, LLC, WSRE Georgia,
LLC, and WSRE Florida, LLC are taken off-calendar in light of the Notices of
Bankruptcy.  The Court sets a Status
Conference re: Bankruptcy for April 23, 2025 at 8:30 a.m.  
Plaintiffs’
motion for terminating sanctions is denied. 
The motion, in the alternative, for issue and evidence sanctions is
granted.  Issue sanctions shall be
imposed against Defendant Aneaka English based on the Requests for Production
of Documents, set one, Nos. 1-64 regarding the alter ego doctrine,
establishing: the following issues:  
·        
Defendant Aneaka English is the alter ego
of the Affiliated Entities as defined in the RFPs.
·        
The Affiliated Entities failed to maintain
separate bank accounts from one another and from Ms. English. (See RFPs 1-4.)
·        
The Affiliated Entities failed to maintain
separate credit cards from one another and from Ms. English. (See RFPs 5-8.)
·        
The Affiliated Entities commingled funds
with each other and with Ms. English. (See RFPs 1-19, 24-25.)
·        
The Affiliated Entities failed to maintain
meeting minutes. (See RFP 22.)
·        
 The
Affiliated Entities failed to file Statements of Information or have Articles
of Organization. (See RFP 23, 34.)
·        
The Affiliated Entities shared phone
numbers with each other and with Ms. English. (See RFP 26-27.)
·        
The Affiliated Entities shared leases with
each other and with Ms. English. (See RFP 28-31.)
·        
The
Affiliated Entities shared employees and contractors with each other and with Ms. English. (See RFP 32-33.)
·        
The
Affiliated Entities shared members, shareholders, officers, and directors with each other. (See RFP 36-42.)
Evidence sanctions will also be imposed against Ms.
English from introducing any evidence contradicting any of the issues listed
above and precluding Ms. English from relying at trial on any documents
responsive to the RPDs that Ms. English has not produced to-date.  Ms. English and her counsel
of record Na’il Benjamin, jointly and severally, are ordered to pay monetary
sanctions in the amount of $5,000 to Plaintiffs, by and through counsel, within
20 days of notice of this order.
Plaintiffs
shall
provide notice of this order. 
 
DATED:
October 18, 2024                                         ___________________________
                                                                              John
J. Kralik
                                                                              Judge
of the Superior Court   


