 Case Number:  24BBCV00014    Hearing Date:   October 18, 2024    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B



 
lisa
  alfonso,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
city
  of los angeles, et al.,
                        Defendants.


 
  Case No.: 
  24BBCV00014
 
  Hearing Date:  October 18, 2024
 
[TENTATIVE] order RE:
motion for reconsideration of the Court
  order and minute order re plaintiff’s pitchess motion dated september 6, 2024



            
BACKGROUND
A.   
Allegations
Plaintiff Lisa Alfonso (“Plaintiff”)
alleges that from 1996 to 2001, she was a victim of domestic violence
perpetrated by an LAPD officer and a resultant cover-up of the unlawful
behavior by the LAPD.  Plaintiff alleges
that Defendant City of Los Angeles (“City”) is a municipality and that the Los
Angeles Police Department (“LAPD”) is a branch or agency of City.  Plaintiff alleges that from 1996 to 1997,
Defendant Officer Anibal Michael Lopez (“Officer Lopez”) sexually assaulted and
threatened to sexually assault Plaintiff while he was engaged in his official
duties as an LAPD officer.  Plaintiff
alleges that LAPD was aware of the sexual harassment and abuse that Plaintiff
was subjected to by Officer Lopez, but that LAPD had covered-up its officers’
pattern of domestic violence during internal investigations into such
misconduct.  
The complaint, filed January 3, 2024,
alleges causes of action for: (1) sexual battery; (2) gender violence; (3)
sexual assault; (4) negligence; (5) violation of the Bane Act; (6) violation of
the Ralph Act; (7) IIED; (8) NIED; and (9) conspiracy.  
B.    
Relevant Background and Motion on Calendar
On September 6, 2024, the Court granted
Plaintiff’s motion to compel the personnel records of Officer Lopez (Pitchess
Motion).  The Court ordered the parties
to discuss proposed dates regarding when a custodian would be available to
review the documents with the Court for an in camera review of the
personnel records.  The parties were also
ordered to meet and confer regarding the terms of an appropriate protective
order and submit a proposed protective order for the Court’s signing.  The Court set a Status Conference re:
Scheduling an In Camera Review Date for the Pitchess Motion for October 10,
2024 at 8:30 a.m.  The parties were ordered
to jointly file a brief by September 26, 2024 proposing several dates of
availability of the custodian of record so that the Court could conduct the in
camera review of documents.  
On September 23, 2024, City filed a motion
for reconsideration of the Court Order and Minute Order re Plaintiff’s Pitchess
Motion dated September 6, 2024.  
On September 30, 2024, the parties filed a
Joint Status Report.  The parties stated
that they could not reach an agreement about the scope of the Court’s order
such that City has filed a motion for reconsideration, set for hearing on
October 18, 2024.  The parties suggested
October 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 28, 29, or 30, or November 1, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 11,
12, or 13 as potential dates for the in camera review with the custodian
of records.  The parties stated that they
were working on a proposed protective order. 
The parties intend to file another joint status report following the
October 18, 2024 hearing.  
On October 7, 2024, Plaintiff filed an
opposition brief.  
On October 11, 2024, City filed a reply
brief. 
A Status Conference re: Scheduling an In
Camera Review Date for the Pitchess Motion is scheduled for October 24, 2024 at
1:30 p.m.  
LEGAL
STANDARD
            CCP § 1008(a) states: “When an application for an order has been
made to a judge, or to a court, and refused in whole or in part, or granted, or
granted conditionally, or on terms, any party affected by the order may,
within 10 days after service upon the party of written notice of
entry of the order and based upon new or different facts, circumstances,
or law, make application to the same judge or court that made the order,
to reconsider the matter and modify, amend, or revoke the prior order. The
party making the application shall state by affidavit what
application was made before, when and to what judge, what order or decisions
were made, and what new or different facts, circumstances, or law are claimed
to be shown.”  (CCP § 1008(a).) 
DISCUSSION
            City moves pursuant to CCP § 1008(a)
and the inherent powers of the Court for reconsideration of the September 6,
2024 order wherein the Court requested City’s custodian of record to supply the
entire or whole personnel file of Officer Lopez.  City argues that the Court should amend its
order so that the custodian of records need only furnish the Court with
“potentially relevant” portions of Officer Lopez’s personnel file, as opposed
to the “whole” personnel file.  
            City argues that the Court should
consider different law under People v. Mooc (2001) 26 Cal.4th 1216 and
issue an amended order.  City’s counsel
Kedar S. Vishwanathan states that after receiving notice of Plaintiff’s Pitchess
motion, he diligently researched statutory procedure and cases to oppose
Plaintiff’s Pitchess Motion. 
(Vishwanathan Decl., ¶4.)  After
the hearing on the Pitchess motion and reading the Court’s September 6,
2024 ruling, City’s counsel states that he became concerned with the Court’s
order granting the motion and tried to determine if the Court’s language meant
that the custodian of records was required to supply Officer Lopez’s entire
personnel file and assist with pointing out what was relevant within the entire
personnel file during the in camera review.  (Id., ¶11.)  Counsel states that while the Pitchess Motion
was under submission, he discovered different case law in Mooc that could
be the basis for reconsideration.  (Id.,
¶¶13-14.)  He states that he did not
provide the Mooc case in the opposition brief because he believed that
if the Court were to rule in Plaintiff’s favor on the Pitchess motion, then
the statutory limitations under the Evidence Code would apply to prevent the
production of the entire personnel file and the Court was already aware of
City’s opposition brief requesting that only potentially relevant documents be
produced for the in camera review. 
(Id., ¶¶15, 18, 22.)  
            In
opposition, Plaintiff argues that City’s arguments merely rehash the same
arguments it made in opposing the Pitchess motion and that the Mooc case makes the same point as the Santa
Cruz v. Municipal Court (1989) 49 Cal.3d 74
regarding “potentially relevant” documents, which was already presented and
argued.  Plaintiff argues that if the
motion for reconsideration is granted, then the Court should order the
following categories of “potentially relevant” documents be produced: (1)
documents memorializing, discussing, mentioning or relating to any allegations,
complaints or grievances regarding Officer Lopez; (2) documents memorializing,
discussing, mentioning or relating to any disciplinary actions against Officer
Lopez; (3) documents memorializing, discussing, mentioning or relating to the
hiring of Officer Lopez including but not limited to, background checks
conducted on him; (4) documents requested by any entity, party, or individual
pursuant to the Public Records Act, regarding any conduct by Defendant Lopez
under California Senate Bill 1421.  (Opp.
at p.4.)  
            
The Mooc case does not
constitute “new or different” law that warrants reconsideration.  The Mooc case was in existence at the time of City’s opposition brief and the
hearing on the Pitchess motion, as it is a 2001 case.  (Baldwin v. Home Sav. of Am. (1997) 59
Cal.App.4th 1192, 1196 [stating it is not “new” law for purposes of a
reconsideration motion when the law existed prior to the court’s ruling on the
motion at issue].)  Further, while the Mooc case is a different case that was not presented at the time of the Pitchess motion, it does not offer any different or new legal proposition.  The Mooc cases states: “If the
trial court concludes the defendant has fulfilled these prerequisites and made
a showing of good cause, the custodian of records should bring to court all
documents ‘potentially relevant’ to the defendant's motion.”  (People v. Mooc (2001) 26 Cal.4th 1216,
1226 [citing to City of Santa Cruz
v. Municipal Court 1989] 49 Cal.3d
74, 84 and Evid. Code, § 1045).)  The
Court notes that the Santa Cruz case and the Evidence Code cited by Mooc were previously raised by the parties and considered by the Court when ruling
on the initial Pitchess motion. 
            The
motion for reconsideration is denied. 
The Court intends to review the entire personnel file of Officer Lopez
with the aid of the custodian of records to in order to determine what
information is potentially relevant and discoverable.  If City intends to withhold production of
documents at the in camera review, City is ordered to provide a specific description of such
documents. The Court finds it a little difficult to believe that the City has a
privilege relating to documents in Officer Lopez’s file, but if such a
privilege is asserted, then a privilege log, which describes the documents
under oath and the privilege claimed so that the Court may determine whether
the document should be withheld based on privilege and should be reviewed or
not.   
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
Defendant City of Los Angeles’ motion for
reconsideration of the Court Order and Minute Order re Plaintiff’s Pitchess
Motion dated September 6, 2024 is denied. 
The Court intends to review the
entire personnel file of Officer Lopez with the aid of the custodian of records
to in order to determine what information is potentially relevant and
discoverable.  If City intends to withhold
production of documents at the in
camera review, City is ordered to
provide a specific description of such documents. If the City asserts any
privileges, then a privilege log, which describes the documents under oath and
the privilege claimed so that the Court may determine whether the document
should be withheld based on privilege and should be reviewed or not.   
Defendant shall provide notice of this
order. 
 
 
DATED: 
October 18, 2024                                                    ___________________________
                                                                                          John
J. Kralik
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court