 Case Number:  23STCV16328    Hearing Date:   November 1, 2023    Dept:  68 Motion to Compel Arbitration
Jose Antonio Arroyo vs. Lee Kum Kee USA, Inc., 23STCV16328
Moving Party: Defendant Lee Kum Kee USA, Inc.

Opposing Party: Plaintiff Jose
Antonio Arroyo

Background
            Defendant
Lee Kum Kee USA, Inc. (Defendant) filed this motion to compel arbitration based
on an arbitration agreement that Plaintiff Jose Antonio Arroyo (Plaintiff)
signed when he began working for Defendant. The motion is filed pursuant to CCP
§ 1281.2. Defendant seeks to compel arbitration of Plaintiff’s individual PAGA
claims.
            Plaintiff
does not dispute that the agreement exists or that the arbitration agreement is
enforceable. Instead, Plaintiff opposes Defendant’s motion on the basis that the
arbitration agreement does not apply to “private attorney general
representative action” and those claims cannot be arbitrated and should proceed
in court. (Magnanimo Decl., Ex. A., ¶ 7.) Plaintiff also opposes the motion on
the basis that arbitration would be barred by the FAA and the Cal. Labor Code.
            Defendant
argues in its reply that the arbitration agreement only states that
representation PAGA claims are excluded from arbitration and does not include
individual PAGA claims in the list of claims excluded from arbitration.
Defendant also argues that the sections of the FAA and the Cal. Labor Code that
Plaintiff cites would not bar arbitration in this case.
Analysis
            Paragraph 7
of the parties’ arbitration agreement reads as follows:
“Private attorney general
representative actions under the California Labor Code are not arbitrable, not
within the scope of this Agreement and may be maintained in a court of law.”
(Magnanimo Decl., Ex. A., ¶ 7.) Plaintiff uses this
paragraph to support his argument that the parties’ agreement does not allow
for the arbitration of individual PAGA claims. Defendant argues in its reply
that this paragraph only applies to representative PAGA claims, and not to
Plaintiff’s individual PAGA claims.
            Plaintiff
cites Duran v. EmployBridge Holding Company (2023) 92 Cal.App.5th 59 in
support of his opposition to the arbitration of the individual PAGA claims.
However, as Defendant points out in its reply, that case is distinguishable
from the present case because the arbitration agreement in Duran
expressly excluded all PAGA claims from arbitration. The arbitration agreement
in the present case only excludes representative PAGA claims from arbitration.
            Plaintiff
also makes an argument about how the individual PAGA claims cannot be compelled
to arbitration because there is no severability clause in the agreement. This
does not appear to be relevant because the agreement only states that
representative PAGA claims are excluded from arbitration. Even if it were
relevant, a severability clause is not required because Civ. Code §§ 1599 and
1670.5(a) allow for unlawful or unconscionable clauses to be excluded from
contracts.
            In
Plaintiff’s opposition, Plaintiff also argues that the FAA exemption for
transportation workers would apply to him. However, Defendant argues in its
reply that Plaintiff did not work in the transportation industry because
Defendant is not in the transportation industry. Defendant is a food
manufacturing company that produces and distributes Chinese sauces and foods.
(Reply at p. 7.) Plaintiff’s job was to offload shipping containers. (Reply at
p. 8.) Section 1 of the FAA exempts “contracts of employment of seaman,
railroad employees, or any other class of workers engaged in foreign or
interstate commerce.” (9 U.S.C. § 1.) It does not appear that Plaintiff’s job
would fall into these categories.
            Plaintiff
also argues that Labor Code § 432.6 would invalidate the arbitration agreement;
however, that section states that “Nothing in this section is intended to
invalidate a written arbitration agreement that is otherwise enforceable under
the Federal Arbitration Act.” (Labor Code § 432.6(f).) The parties’ agreement
is otherwise enforceable under the FAA.
            Based on
the foregoing, the Court grants Defendant’s motion to compel arbitration of
Plaintiff’s individual PAGA claims.
Order
            Defendant’s
motion to compel arbitration of Plaintiff’s individual PAGA claims is GRANTED.