 Case Number:  22STCV23696    Hearing Date:   November 1, 2023    Dept:  68 Law Offices of L.A Law Inc. v. Shahrzad Shahili, Case No.
22STCV23696
Ex Parte Request to Dismiss Cross-Complaint for Failure to
Timely Amend
Plaintiff Law Offices of L.A. Law Inc. has filed this Ex
Parte Application seeking the order of this Court dismissing with prejudice
the Cross Complaint of Defendant and Cross Complainant Shahrzad Shahili.  The grounds stated for the request are that
following the sustaining of the Demurrer to the Second Amended Cross Complaint,
Cross Complainant failed to file a Third Amended Cross Complaint within the
time granted by the Court.
The Court has been requested to take judicial notice of
various facts, all of which are simply the procedural history of this
case.  There is no need to request that
this Court take judicial notice of the procedural history of this case, and
therefore the Court denies the request for judicial notice as unnecessary.
The evidence shows that on September 21, 2023 the Court
issued its ruling stating:
“1. Cross-Defendants’ Demurrer to
the entire cross complaint on the statute of limitations grounds is sustained
with leave to amend.  Also, the Demurrer
to Shahili’s First, Second, and Fifth Causes of Action is sustained with leave
to amend on the additional grounds noted above.
3. Shahili is given 20 days leave
to amend.”
The Court gave notice of the ruling to all parties by mail
on September 21, 2023.  More than 25 days
have elapsed since that ruling was served on Cross Complainant.
Code of Civil
Procedure § 581(f)(2) provides:
“(f)  The court may dismiss the complaint as to
that defendant when:  * * *
(2) 
… After a demurrer to the complaint is sustained with leave to amend,
the plaintiff fails to amend it within the time allowed by the court and either
party moves for dismissal.”
The Court is authorized pursuant to Rule of Court 3.1320(h)
to dismiss the action ex parte and
enter judgment after expiration of the time to amend following the sustaining
of a demurrer.
The Court’s tentative ruling is to GRANT the ex parte Application
and dismiss the Cross Complaint of Shahrzad Shahili, with prejudice.