  Case Number:  22TRCV00976    Hearing Date:   April 4, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling 
¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 April 4, 2024 
¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                   22TRCV00976
¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Andrea Quinones v.
Rathaur Subway, Inc. dba Subway, et al.
¿¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                 Plaintiff, Andrea Quinones  
 
RESPONDING PARTY:        Defendant, Kathleen R. Mastagni 
¿ 
TRIAL DATE:                        May 20, 2024 
¿ 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Motion to Quash, or in
the alternative, for a Protective Order, RE: Defendant’s Subpoena for Plaintiff’s
Medical Records
                                                (2) Request for
Sanctions
                                                
Tentative Rulings:                  (1) GRANTED as to the Motion
to Quash, without prejudice to new SDTs being issued with a narrowed scope of
inquiry
                                                (2) Request for
Sanctions are DENIED. 
 
 
I. BACKGROUND¿ 
¿ 
A. Factual¿ 
¿ 
This
action was initiated on October 19, 2022, when Plaintiff, Andrea Quinones
(“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against Defendants, Rathaur Subway, Inc., Kathy
Mastagni, and DOES 1 through 25. The Complaint alleges causes of action for:
(1) General Negligence; and (2) Premises Liability. On January 17, 2023,
Defendant/Cross-Complainant, Kathleen R. Mastagni (erroneously sued as Kathy
Mastagni) (“Mastagni”), filed a Cross-Complaint for: (1) Implied Indemnity; (2)
Express Indemnity; (3) Contribution; and (4) Declaratory Relief. Further, on
February 24, 2023, Defendant/Cross-Defendant/Cross-Complainant, Rathaur Subway,
Inc. (“Subway”) also filed a Cross-Complaint for: (1) Implied Indemnity; (2)
Express Indemnity; (3) Contribution; and (4) Declaratory Relief. 
 
This
action arises from an alleged injury by Plaintiff that took place on December
27, 2021, where Plaintiff suffered injuries to her neck, right shoulder, and
right arm due to a trip and fall incident at the premises located at 11916
Aviation Blvd., Inglewood, CA 90304. 
 
On
February 2, 2024, Defendant issued subpoenas to Beverly Tower Wilshire Advanced
Imaging, Cedar-Sinai c/o CT Corporation System, Family Radiology, Inc., Gardena
Hospital, Mink Radiologic Imaging, MRI Associates – Highland MRI, and Torrance
Memorial Medical Center.  Per Plaintiff’s
motion papers, on February 13, 2024, Plaintiff initiated meet and confer
efforts seeking for Defendant to withdraw or modify the subject subpoenas,
requesting Defendant to respond by February 19, 2024, which the parties
postponed to February 21, 2024, when counsel agreed to extend Defendant’s
responses by an additional five (5) days and that the Motion to quash deadline
would also be extended by an additional five (5) days. Plaintiff notes that
Defendant’s counsel confirmed the extensions via email on February 21, 2024.  When defense counsel declined to withdraw or modify
the SDTs, this motion was filed.  
 
B. Procedural  
 
            On February 26, 2024, Plaintiff
filed this Motion to Quash, and in the alternative, for a Protective Order. On March
21, 2024, Defendant, Kathleen R. Mastagni filed an opposition. On March 2024,
Plaintiff filed a reply brief.  
 
¿II. ANALYSIS ¿ 
¿ 
A.   
Legal Standard 
 
Code of
Civil Procedure § 1987.1 grants the trial court authority to quash a subpoena
when necessary. Code of Civil Procedure § 1987.1 provides: “If a subpoena
requires the attendance of a witness or the production of books, documents, or
other things before a court, or at the trial of an issue therein, or at the
taking of a deposition, the court, upon motion reasonably made by any person
described in subdivision (b), or upon the court’s own motion after giving
counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard, may make an order quashing the
subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance with it upon those
terms or conditions as the court shall declare, including protective orders. In
addition, the court may make any other order as may be appropriate to protect
the person from unreasonable or oppressive demands, including unreasonable
violations of the right of privacy of the person.”
 
B.   
Discussion 
 
Here, Plaintiff
argues that each subpoena to each respective medical provider seeks all of
Plaintiff’s medical records, without regard to any medical condition, and which
potentially seek records completely unrelated to the subject accident. As such,
Plaintiff argues that the subpoenas should be quashed as they are overly broad
and violate Plaintiff’s constitutional right of privacy. In opposition,
Defendant Mastagni argues that plaintiff has misstated the scope of the
subpoenas, as the subpoenas are limited to “all imaging records” including,
“radiology reports, x-rays, MRI’s scans” and specifically excludes “medical
records and billing.” However, in Plaintiff’s reply brief, Plaintiff notes that
she does not object to the production of any records sought that actually
relate to her injury due to the incident, but is only objecting to the
production of medical records, including radiology records, that are not
related to the body parts Plaintiff injured in the alleged incident giving rise
to her Complaint in this case. 
 
Here, the
Court does not find that Defendant Mastagni’s justification to be lacking for refusing
to limit the scope of the records being sought to the body parts Plaintiff is
claiming injury to in the current case. Defendant Mastagni argues that given
the nature of her alleged injuries, Defendant should be entitled to X-Rays or other
images to provide insight into any prior injuries that Plaintiff has not
disclosed or any other potential causes for Plaintiff’s alleged injuries. Defendant
Mastagni contends that Plaintiff’s proposed limitation would exclude any
imaging relevant prior injuries to body parts like the thoracic or lumbar spine
as shown in Plaintiff’s workers’ compensation history. Particularly, Defendant
contends that Plaintiff has been diagnosed with joint dysfunction and arthritis
in the thoracic, lumbar and sacral regions. The Court is confused as to how Defendant
Mastagni is choosing to distinguish Britt v. Superior Court of San Diego
(1978)20 Cal.3d 844, 864, when Defendant Mastagni clearly indicates on page 5
of  her opposition, that: “[t]he requests
in [Britt] were overbroad and captured all of the Plaintiff’s medical
records rather than tailoring the request to the injuries at issue.” By
Defendant Mastagni’s own analysis of the case in Britt, the requests
must be tailored to the injuries at issue. Simply because Defendant Mastagni’s
subpoenas do not request all medical records, does not mean that this
case is distinguishable from Britt when Defendant Mastagni still refuses
to tailor the subpoenas to the injures at issue in this case. 
 
In this
case, Defendant Mastagni contends that Plaintiff’s responses to Defendant’s
form interrogatories, set one, states that Plaintiff “experienced pain to her
neck, right shoulder, and right arm. Further, Defendant Mastagni contends that
she testified in her deposition that she tried to break her fall with her arm,
and her chin hit the concrete.   The
justification is thin to seek any medical record, imaging or otherwise, of
Plaintiff’s back or other portions of her body not being claimed in the alleged
accident in this case. This Court finds that the imaging requests from the
subpoena must be more narrowly tailored to the injuries being alleged in the
case at bar. As such, the Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s Motion to Quash. 
 
C.   
Sanctions
 
Filed
concurrently with Plaintiff’s moving papers, Plaintiff also argues that she is
entitled to monetary sanctions in the amount of $1,810. This amount is
substantiated by counsel for Plaintiff, Nikta Yazdi’s declaration noting an
hourly rate of $250, and the spending of three hours preparing the motion, and
an anticipated 4 hours of drafting reply papers and appearing for the hearing
on this motion, plus the $60 filing fee. While this Court believes that the
amounts requested, as well as the hourly rate are reasonable, the Court declines
to impose sanctions at this time because the defense has a good faith basis for
seeking limited medical records relating to a different injury than Plaintiff is
claiming in this case.  The Court notes
that Plaintiff may be inviting other restrictions on the scope of what she can
claim in this case, and that future discovery including expert discovery may
need to be evaluated for apportionment of disability, wage loss, non-economic
damages, and other issues given what appear to be pre-existing medical
conditions.   
 
 
 
III. CONCLUSION 
 
For the foregoing reasons, Plaintiff’s
Motion to Quash is GRANTED, without prejudice to the health care providers
being re-subpoenaed with a narrowed scope of the requested records. The
Protective Order is mooted. Further, the Request for Monetary Sanctions is
Denied.   Plaintiff is ordered to give
notice.
 