  Case Number:  23STCV14532    Hearing Date:   June 13, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court
  of California
County of Los
  Angeles




 
Gabriel Fierro,


 
 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23STCV14532




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
Veolia Transportation Services, Inc.,
  et al.,


 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



 
Hearing Date: June 13, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion to Deem Requests for Admission
Admitted, or in the alternative, Motion to Compel Further Responses to Requests
for Admission
Moving Party: Plaintiff Gabriel Fierro
Responding Party: Defendant Transdev Services, Inc.
 
T/R:      PLAINTIFF’S MOTION IS DENIED.
 
PLAINTIFF TO NOTICE. 
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please
email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing.
The Court considers the moving papers,
opposition, and reply.
 
If a party fails to provide a timely response to a request
for admission, the party waives any objection to the requests.  (C.C.P. §
2033.280(a).)  Moreover, “[t]he requesting party may move for an order
that the genuineness of any documents and the truth of any matters specified in
the requests be deemed admitted, as well as for a monetary sanction….” 
(C.C.P. § 2033.280(b).)  On receipt of a
response to requests for admission (“RFAs”) the propounding party may move for
an order compelling a further response if the propounding party deems that an
objection to an RFA is without merit or too general. (CCP §
2033.290(a)(2).)  
 
Plaintiff moves to deem RFAs, set one,
admitted against Defendant Transdev Services, Inc., or alternatively, to compel
further responses to RFAs, set one. Plaintiff served the subject discovery on
October 6, 2023. Defendant provided unverified responses on December 6, 2023.
Plaintiff asserts the Court should deem the responses admitted or order Defendant
to provide further responses without objection. 
 
In opposition, Defendant represents
that verifications were served on May 30, 2024. Defendant argues that further
response should not be ordered because Plaintiff has failed to address the
merits of Defendant’s objections to the RFAs in neither meet and confer nor
this motion. 
 
As Defendant has provided
verifications, the Court will not deem RFAs admitted against Defendant. The
Court also cannot order further responses because Plaintiff has not addressed
the substance of Defendant’s responses. Plaintiff’s separate statement does not
provide the RFAs or their responses. Plaintiff merely states that further
response is necessary because Defendant failed to provide verifications and
because Defendant represented that it would serve further response in meet and
confer. The Court cannot determine whether Defendant’s responses are evasive or
incomplete based on the evidence and argument presented by Plaintiff.
 
Plaintiff’s motion is DENIED.
 
 