 Case Number:  22STCV34488    Hearing Date:   September 9, 2024    Dept:  29 Austin
v. Lyft
22STCV34488
Lyft’s Motion to Compel Nonparty Witness SimonMed to Comply With Deposition
Subpoena 
Lyft’s Motion to Compel Nonparty Witness Street Works to Comply With Deposition
Subpoena


Tentative
The
motions are denied without prejudice.
Background
On
October 27, 2022, Eric Jason Austin (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against
Lyft, Inc. (“Lyft”), Amadu Tejan Bah (“Bah”), and Does 1 to 100, asserting
causes of action for general negligence; negligent hiring, training, retention,
and supervision; and motor vehicle negligence arising out of an automobile
accident that occurred on October 14, 2021, at or near the intersection of
Vermont Avenue and 43rd Street in Los Angeles. 
Lyft and
Bah filed their answers on January 27 and May 1, 2023.
On August 5, 2024, Lyft filed these two motions to compel nonparty
witnesses Street Works and SimonMed to comply with deposition subpoenas.  In each motion, Lyft also seeks sanctions.
No opposition has been filed. 
Legal Standard
“Any party may obtain discovery … by taking in California the oral
deposition of any person, including any party to the action.”  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2025.010.)  The process by which a party may
obtain discovery from a person who is not a party to the action is through a
deposition subpoena.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.010, subd. (b).) 
“A deposition subpoena may command any of the following: (a) Only
the attendance and testimony of the deponent …. (b) Only the production of
business records for copying …. (c) The attendance and the testimony of
the deponent, as well as the production of business records, other documents,
electronically stored information, and tangible things.” (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2020.020.)
A nonparty must be personally served with a deposition
subpoena.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.220, subd.
(b).)  Service must be completed “a reasonable time” in advance of
the deposition and, when documents are requested, “a sufficient time in advance
of the deposition to provide the deponent a reasonable opportunity to locate
and produce” the documents.  (Id., subd. (a).)
“If a deponent on whom a deposition subpoena has been served fails
to attend a deposition or refuses to be sworn as a witness, the court may
impose on the deponent the sanctions described in Section 2020.240 [contempt
and an action for civil damages under section 1992].” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2025.440, subd. (b).)
“If a deponent fails to answer any question or to produce any
document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing under the
deponent’s control that is specified in the deposition notice or a deposition
subpoena, the party seeking discovery may move the court for an order
compelling that answer or production.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.480,
subd. (a).)  “This motion shall be made no later than 60 days after
the completion of the record of the deposition, and shall be accompanied by a
meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.” (Id., subd. (b).)
“If the court determines that the answer or production sought is
subject to discovery, it shall order that the answer be given or the production
be made on the resumption of the deposition.  (Id., subd.
(i).)
“[T]he court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7
(commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel an answer or production,
unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust.”  (Id., subd. (j).)  
In Chapter 7 of the Civil Discovery Act, section 2023.010,
subdivision (d), defines “[m]isuses of the discovery process” to include
“[f]ailing to respond to or to submit to an authorized method of
discovery.”  Where a party or attorney has engaged in misuse of the
discovery process, the court may impose a monetary sanction in the amount of
“the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a
result of that conduct.”  (Id., § 2023.030, subd. (a).)
Except as specifically modified by the Civil Discovery Act, the
provisions of Code of Civil Procedure sections 1985 through 1997 apply to
deposition subpoenas.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.030.)
Code of Civil Procedure section 1987.1, subdivision (a), provides:
“If a subpoena requires the attendance of a witness or the production of books,
documents, or other things before a court, or at the trial of an issue therein,
or at the taking of a deposition, the court, upon motion reasonably made by any
person described in subdivision (b), or upon the court’s own motion after
giving counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard, may make an order
quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance with it
upon those terms or conditions as the court shall declare, including protective
orders. In addition, the court may make any other order as may be appropriate
to protect the person from unreasonable or oppressive demands, including
unreasonable violations of the right of privacy of the person.”
Code of Civil Procedure section 1987.2, subdivision (a), states,
in relevant part, that in connection with an order directing compliance with a
subpoena, quashing it, or modifying it, “the court may in its discretion award
the amount of the reasonable expenses incurred in making or opposing the
motion, including reasonable attorney’s fees, if the court finds the motion was
made or opposed in bad faith or without substantial justification.” 
A motion
to compel a nonparty to answer questions or produce documents “must be
personally served on the nonparty deponent unless the nonparty deponent agrees
to accept service by mail or electronic service.”  (Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 3.1346.)
Discussion
Lyft
issued deposition subpoenas for the production of business records to nonparty
witnesses SimonMed and Street Works and personally served the witnesses.  (Leahy Decls., ¶¶ 6-7 & Exhs. 3-4.)  The dates for production were set for March 7
and May 24, 2024.  Neither witness complied
with the subpoena.  (Id., ¶¶ 7-8.)  
As a threshold
matter, the Court must deny both motions, without prejudice, for lack of proof
of service of the motions on the nonparty witnesses.  Personal service of the motion is
required.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1346.)  The “caused to be served”
proofs of service attached to the motions are not sufficient.
Moreover,
the Court observes, but does not rule, that the motions appear to be untimely.
When a
nonparty disobeys a deposition subpoena, the subpoenaing party may seek a court
order compelling the nonparty to comply with the subpoena within 60 days after
completion of the deposition record and date specified for production. (Code of
Civ. Proc., § 2025.480 subd. (b); see also Unzipped Apparel, LLC v.
Bader (2007) 156 CA4th 123, 127.) 
The subpoenas directed SimonMed to produce records on March 7, 2024 and Street
Works to produce records on May 24. These motions were filed more than 60 days after
those production dates.  
The
Court also notes that a motion under Code of Civil Procedure section 1987.1, needs
only to be filed within a reasonable time. 
But the Court of Appeal held in Unzipped Apparel, LLC v. Bader
(2007) 156 Cal.App.4th 123, that a reasonable time is generally 60 days from
receiving an objection.
The
motions are denied without prejudice for lack of proof of personal service on
the nonparty witnesses.
Conclusion
The Court DENIES without
prejudice Lyft’s motions to compel compliance with the Deposition Subpoenas issued to
nonparty witnesses Street Works and SimonMed. 
Moving party is ORDERED to
give notice.