 Case Number:  22STCV10554    Hearing Date:   September 9, 2024    Dept:  29 Gonzalez
v. County of Los Angeles
22STCV10554
Defendants’ Motion for Leave to Conduct Physical (Pain Management) Examination
Tentative
The motion
is granted, as modified.
Background
On March
28, 2022, Michelle Gonzalez (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against County of
Los Angeles, Kristofor Masson (collectively “Defendants”), and Does 1 through
100 for negligence and statutory liability arising out of an automobile
accident occurring on August 2, 2021. 
On April
11, 2022, Defendants each filed an answer to the complaint. 
Plaintiff
was previously examined by an orthopedic surgeon selected by Defendants.  (Stockalper Decl., ¶ 5(a).)
On August 7, 2024, Defendants filed this motion for leave
to conduct another physical examination, this one by F. Michael Ferrante, M.D,
a pain management specialist. 
No opposition has been filed.
Legal
Standard
“Any party may obtain discovery . . . by means of a
physical or mental examination of (1) a party to the action, (2) an agent of
any party, or (3) a natural person in the custody or under the legal control of
a party, in any action in which the mental or physical condition (including the
blood group) of that party or other person is in controversy in the action.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.020, subd. (a).)
In a
personal injury action, the defendant may demand one physical examination of
plaintiff as of right, without advance leave of the court.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.220.)  
If a defendant seeks a further physical examination
of plaintiff, or a mental examination, the defendant must first file a motion
and “obtain leave of court.” (Id., § 2032.310, subd. (a).) Such a motion
must “specify the time, place, manner, conditions, scope, and nature of the
examination, as well as the identity and the specialty, if any, of the person
or persons who will perform the examination.” (Id., subd. (b).) The
court may grant such a motion “only for good cause shown.” (Id., §
2032.320, subd. (a).) A showing of good cause generally requires “that the
party produce specific facts justifying discovery and that the inquiry be
relevant to the subject matter of the action or reasonably calculated to lead
to the discovery of admissible evidence.” (Vinson v. Super. Ct. (1987)
43 Cal.3d 833, 840.)  
The moving party¿must support the motion with a meet
and confer declaration.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.310, subd. (b).) A
meet and confer declaration must state facts “showing a reasonable and good
faith attempt at an informal resolution of each issue presented by the
motion.”¿ (Id., § 2016.040.)¿¿¿¿ 
“An order granting a physical or mental examination
shall specify the person or persons who may perform the examination, as well as
the time, place, manner, diagnostic tests and procedures, conditions, scope,
and nature of the examination.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.320, subd.
(d).) “The court is to describe¿in detail¿who will conduct the
examination, where and when it will be conducted, the conditions, scope and
nature of the examination, and the diagnostic tests and procedures to be
employed.  The way to describe these ‘diagnostic tests and procedures’—fully¿and¿in
detail—is to list them by name.” (Carpenter v. Super. Ct.¿(2006)
141 Cal.App.4th 249, 260.)¿¿ 
The examination will be limited to whatever
condition is “in controversy” in the action.¿ (Id., § 2032.020, subd.
(a).) 
Discussion
Plaintiff
in this action seeks recovery for physical injuries allegedly sustained in a
motor vehicle accident.  (Complaint, ¶¶ 9,
13, & 14.)  Plaintiff was previously
examined by an orthopedic surgeon designed by Defendants, but Defendants
contend that there is good cause for a second physical examination, this one by
a pain management specialist, because: (1) Plaintiff has received multiple injections
from a pain management physician; (2) Plaintiff has designated a pain
management physician as a retained expert; and (3) Plaintiff has placed pain
management in issue by seeking damages for continuing injuries and future
treatment.  (Stockalper Decl., ¶ 5(a)-(c).)  
Defendants seek an order for the pain management
examination to be conducted by F. Michael Ferrante, M.D. on September 11, 2024
at 1:30 p.m. at 1245 16th Street, Suite 225, in Santa Monica.  (Id., ¶ 7.) 
Defendant states that the examination will consist of “musculoskeletal and
neurological examination involving body parts claimed to be injured, taking of
history present status, physical examination and review of records.  (Id., ¶ 6.).
The
Court finds that Defendants have shown good cause for a physical (pain
management) examination.  The substantive
and procedural requirements for the motion have been satisfied.
The one
concern that the Court has, however, is that Defendants are requesting an
examination on September 11, two days after the hearing.  The Court is concerned that this is not adequate
notice for Plaintiff.  Accordingly, the
Court will order that the examination be conducted within 30 days, or at such
other time as the parties may agree to.
The
motion is granted.
Conclusion 
The Court GRANTS Defendants’ motion for leave to conduct
a second physical (pain management) examination of Plaintiff.
The Court ORDERS Plaintiff to attend and submit to a physical
examination by F. Michael Ferrante, M.D., a pain management specialist, within
30 days of the hearing on this motion, at 1245 16th Street, Suite
225, in Santa Monica.  The examination
will consist of musculoskeletal and neurological examination involving body
parts claimed to be injured, taking of history present status, physical
examination and review of records.  The
examination must comply with all applicable provisions of the Code of Civil
Procedure, including, but not limited to, section 2032.510.
Moving
party is ordered to give notice.