 Case Number:  22STCV32379    Hearing Date:   September 9, 2024    Dept:  29 Aparicio v.
Walmart
22STCV32379
Defendant’s Motion for Summary Judgment 
Tentative
The motion is
denied.
Background 
On
October 3, 2022, Plaintiff Sofia Aparicio (“Plaintiff”) filed the complaint in
this action against Walmart, Inc. (“Walmart”), Brooke Bramlett (“Bramlett”),
and Does 1 through 20 for general negligence and premises liability arising from
a slip and fall occurring on October 5, 2020.
On March
27, 2023, the Court, at the request of Plaintiff, dismissed all causes of
action against Bramlett.
On January
3, 2024, Walmart filed an answer.
On December
12, 2023, Walmart filed this motion for summary judgment. Plaintiff filed an
opposition and objections to Walmart’s evidence on August 26, 2024. Walmart
filed a reply and objections to Plaintiff’s evidence on September 4, 2024.
Legal Standard
“The purpose
of the law of summary judgment is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut
through the parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their
allegations, trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) Code of Civil
Procedure section 437c, subdivision (c), “requires the trial judge to grant
summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably
deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or
evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that
the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” (Adler v.
Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) “The function of
the pleadings in a motion for summary judgment is to delimit the scope of the
issues; the function of the affidavits or declarations is to disclose whether
there is any triable issue of fact within the issues delimited by the
pleadings.” (Juge v. County of Sacramento (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67,
citing FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 367,
381-382.)
As to each
cause of action as framed by the complaint, a defendant moving for summary
judgment or summary adjudication must satisfy the initial burden of proof by
presenting facts to show “that one or more elements of the cause of action ...
cannot be established, or that there is a complete defense to the cause of
action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2); see also Aguilar, supra,
25 Cal.4th at pp. 850-851; Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128
Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.) Once the defendant has met that burden, the burden
shifts to the plaintiff to show that a “triable issue of one or more material
facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 437c, subd. (p)(2); see also Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at pp.
850-851.)
A plaintiff or
cross-complainant moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication must
satisfy the initial burden of proof by presenting facts to show “that there is
no defense to a cause of action if that party has proved each element of the
cause of action entitling the party to judgment on the cause of action.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(1).) Once the plaintiff or cross-complainant has
met that burden, the burden shift to the defendant or cross-defendant to show
that a “triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of
action or a defense thereto.” (Ibid.)
The party
opposing a motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication may not simply
“rely upon the allegations or denials of its pleadings” but must instead “set
forth the specific facts showing that a triable issue of material fact exists.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subds. (p)(1) & (p)(2). To establish a triable
issue of material fact, the party opposing the motion must produce substantial
responsive evidence. (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151,
166.)
Courts
“liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary
judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore
v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)
Objections to Evidence
Each party objects to some of the evidence
submitted by the other.  
Evidence presented
in support of, or in opposition to, a motion for summary judgment must be
admissible. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (d); Perry v. Bakewell Hawthorne LLC (2017) 2 Cal.5th 536, 541-43.) The court
must “consider all of the
evidence set forth in the papers, except the evidence to which objections have
been made and sustained.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).)
Plaintiff objects to Walmart’s Exh. E.  The Court SUSTAINS the objection on the
grounds of lack of foundation (the declarant lacks personal knowledge to
authenticate the document) and hearsay (to the extent it is offered for the
truth of the matters stated therein).
Walmart asserts four objections to the
declaration of Plaintiff’s expert, Lisa Hamdalla. The Court OVERRULES Walmart’s
objections.  The grounds asserted for the
objections may provide a basis for cross-examination or argument as to the weight
to be given to the expert opinion testimony, but they do not provide a basis to
exclude the testimony.
Discussion
The underlying facts of the accident in this
matter are largely undisputed.  Plaintiff
alleges that on October 5, 2020, she slipped and fell on chicken grease in the
deli/grocery section of a Walmart store in Baldwin Park.  (Defendant’s Statement of Undisputed Material
Facts [“DSUMF”], No. 2; Plaintiff’s Statement of Additional Material Facts [“PSAMF”],
Nos. 1-2.)  The incident was captured on
video and occurred at 2:39 pm.  (DSUMF,
Nos. 3, 7; PSAMF, No. 4.)  
At 2:33 pm, six minutes before the accident, a
Walmart employee walks through the deli counter area.  (DSUMF, No. 4.)
At 2:39 pm, another Walmart customer (not
Plaintiff) picked up a rotisserie chicken and placed it upside down in her shopping
cart.  (DSUMF, No. 5; PSAMF, Nos. 5-7.)  The other customer noticed that liquid leaked
from the packaging and immediately (within seconds) notified a nearby Walmart employee.  (DSUMF, No. 6; PSAMF, No. 8.)  The employee did not take any immediate
action to clean up the spill.  (DSUMF,
No. 6; PSAMF, No. 9.)  The customer who
spilled the liquid attempted to clean up the spill using napkins from a dispenser
located next to the deli counter.  (PSAMF,
No. 10.)  
Also at 2:39 pm, approximately 18 seconds after
the other customer picked up the chicken and spilled the liquid on the floor, Plaintiff
walked through the area.  (DSUMF, No. 7.)  Plaintiff slipped, fell, and was injured.  (DSUMF, No. 7; PSAMF, Nos. 2-3, 11.)
In her Complaint, Plaintiff asserts two causes
of action against Walmart: negligence and premises liability.  
The basic
elements of a cause of action for negligence and for premises liability are the
same: (1) the existence of a legal duty;
(2) breach of that duty; (3) causation; and (4) resulting damages. (Brown
v. USA Taekwondo (2021) 11 Cal.5th 204, 213; Kesner v. Superior Court (2016) 1 Cal.5th 1132, 1158; Castellon v. U.S. Bancorp
(2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 994, 998.) The existence and scope of duty are legal questions
for the court.¿¿(Brown, supra, 11 Cal.5th at p. 213; Annocki¿v.
Peterson Enterprises, LLC¿(2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 32, 36.)
The general rule
governing duty is set forth in Civil Code section 1714: “Everyone is
responsible, not only for the result of his or her willful acts, but also for
an injury occasioned to another by his or her want of ordinary care or skill in
the management of his or her property or person, except so far as the latter
has, willfully or by want of ordinary care, brought the injury upon himself or
herself.” (Civ. Code, § 1714, subd. (a).) This establishes what the California
Supreme Court has described as the “default rule” that every person has a legal
duty “to exercise, in his or her activities, reasonable care for the safety of
others.” (Brown, supra, 11 Cal.5th at p. 214.)
Those who own,
possess, or control property generally have a duty to exercise ordinary care in
managing the property to avoid exposing others to an unreasonable risk of harm.
(Annocki¿v.
Peterson Enterprises, LLC¿(2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 32, 37.) If
a dangerous condition exists, the property owner is “under a duty to exercise
ordinary care either to make the condition reasonably safe for their
[customers’] use or to give a warning adequate to enable them to avoid the
harm.” (Bridgman v. Safeway Stores, Inc. (1960) 53 Cal.2d 443, 446.) 
“It is well established in California that although
a store owner is not an insurer of the safety of its patrons, the owner does
owe them a duty to exercise reasonable care in keeping the premises reasonably
safe.” (Ortega v. Kmart Corp. (2001) 26 Cal.4th 1200, 1205.) “A store
owner exercises ordinary care by making reasonable inspections of the portions
of the premises open to customers.” (Moore v. Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.
(2003) 111 Cal.App.4th 472, 476.) “The care required is commensurate with the
risks involved.” (Ibid.) 
“A
plaintiff alleging injuries based on a dangerous condition must prove the
defendant either: (1) created the dangerous condition, or (2) knew or should
have known of the dangerous condition.” (See Peralta v. Vons Companies, Inc.
(2018) 24 Cal.App.5th 1030, 1036; see also Ortega, supra, 26 Cal.4th
at p. 1206; Robison v. Six Flags Theme Parks Inc. (1998) 64 Cal.App.4th
1294, 1304.) “[A] defendant is entitled to judgment as a matter of law if the
plaintiff fails to show that the dangerous condition existed for at least a
sufficient time to be discovered by ordinary care and inspection.” (Id. at
p. 1207.) “Whether a dangerous condition has existed long enough for a
reasonably prudent person to have discovered it is a question of fact for the
jury.” (Ibid.) “The owner must inspect the premises or take other proper
action to ascertain their condition, and if, by the exercise of reasonable
care, the owner would have discovered the condition, he is liable for failing
to correct it.” (Ibid) “A store owner exercises ordinary care by making
reasonable inspections of the portions of the premises open to customers...”
(See id. at p. 1205.) “[A]s to business invitees, the owner should
conduct frequent inspections.” (See id. at p. 1207.) 
“Because the owner is not
the insurer of the visitor’s personal safety …, the owner’s actual or
constructive knowledge of the dangerous condition is [in many cases] a key to
establishing its liability.” (Ortega, supra, 26 Cal.4th at p.
1206.) “[W]here the plaintiff relies on the failure to correct a dangerous
condition to prove the owner’s negligence, the plaintiff has the burden of
showing that the owner had notice of the defect in sufficient time to correct
it.” (Ibid.) “Most Courts of Appeal hold that a defendant is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law if the plaintiff fails to show that the dangerous
condition existed for at least a sufficient time to be discovered by ordinary
care and inspection.” (Id. at p. 1207.)
Defendant moves for summary
judgment on the ground that it did not breach any duty owed to Plaintiff as it
did not have sufficient notice (actual or constructive) in advance of the
accident to take remedial measures.  The
undisputed evidence in the record establishes that Defendant performs regular
inspections for safety hazards and a Walmart employee walked through the
location just six minutes before the accident. 
(DSUMF, Nos. 4, 10-12.)  Moreover,
the actual notice of the spill that a Walmart employee received was less than
18 seconds before Plaintiff’s accident. 
(DSUMF, Nos. 5-7.)
With this evidence, Walmart meets its initial burden
as a defendant moving for summary judgment of presenting facts to show “that
one or more elements of the cause of action ... cannot be established.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).)  Under the circumstances, and based on the evidence
and argument presented by Walmart in its moving papers, a time period of less
than 18 seconds was not sufficient notice, as a matter of law, for Walmart to
remedy the dangerous condition or to warn customers of it.  
This evidence shifts the burden to Plaintiff to show that a “triable
issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action.”  (Ibid.)  In her opposition, Plaintiff makes a series
of arguments.  The Court need not, and
does not, address all of them, as the Court concludes that Plaintiff has shown
that there are triable issues of material fact based on the expert opinion testimony
of Lisa Hamdalla.
Ms. Hamdalla has more than eight years of experience in all aspects of
retail store operations and safety. 
(Hamdalla Decl., ¶ 1 & Exh. A.) 
Ms. Hamdalla reviewed the video of the accident and identified the
packaging of the chicken that leaked the liquid on the floor as a boxed
container consisting of a plastic tray and a clear plastic lid.  (Id., ¶ 5.)  Ms. Hamdalla states, based on her experience,
that this specific type of packaging “has been phased out by many retailers due
to its propensity to leak.”  (Ibid.)  Specifically, Ms. Hamdalla testifies, the
packaging does not “adequately seal in the liquids from the rotisserie chicken,
resulting in juices leaking onto the floor.” 
(Ibid.)
Ms. Hamdalla further testifies that retailers have “recognized the risks
associated with this type of packaging and have transitioned to using sealed
bags for rotisserie chickens.”  (Id.,
¶ 6.)  The sealed bags contain
liquids and prevent leaks, reducing the risk of spills, even when turned upside
down.  (Ibid.)  “The industry standard is to use such sealed
bags ….” (Ibid.)
Ms. Hamdalla opines that Walmart’s failure to use sealed bags for
rotisserie chicken “fell below the standard of care for retail stores.”  (Id., ¶ 8.)
The Court notes (as does Ms. Hamdalla) that Walmart was aware that the
containers it used for rotisserie chicken were sometimes “flimsy or broken.”  (Cruz Decl., Exh. A [Deposition Transcript of
Diaz], at 15:2-6.)
This evidence is sufficient to show that there are
disputed facts as to the issue of whether Walmart breached its duty to
Plaintiff.  The breach of duty, as shown
by this evidence, does not relate to the short time period (less than 18
seconds) between the spill and Plaintiff’s accident.  Rather, the disputed facts as to the issue of
breach relates to Plaintiff’s contention that Walmart departed from the
standard of care in the industry by knowingly using containers for rotisserie
chicken that it knew or should have known posed an unreasonable risk of leaking
and therefore causing harm to customers.
The Court
expresses no views on whether this evidence is strong or weak. In ruling on a
motion for summary judgment, it is not the role of the Court to weigh the
evidence. It is sufficient, to purposes of this motion, for the Court to rule
that there is sufficient evidence in the record, combined with drawing all of
the reasonable inferences in favor of the nonmoving party, that would support a
finding that Walmart breached its duty to Plaintiff. 
As
there are disputed issues of material fact on the issue of breach, the Court
must deny Walmart’s motion for summary judgment. 
The Court need not reach, and does not reach, the other
arguments in Plaintiff’s opposition.
Conclusion
The Court DENIES Walmart’s motion for summary
judgment.
Moving Party to give notice.