 Case Number:  23VECV05601    Hearing Date:   May 29, 2024    Dept:  107 


 
SUPERIOR COURT
  OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS
  ANGELES
NORTHWEST
  DISTRICT
 




Pejman Kohansedgh,
 
 
         Plaintiff,
   v.
 
 
Gonzalo Lizama, et al.,
 
        
  Defendants.


   Case
  Number             Department
   23VECV05601  
       107




 
COURT’S [TENTATIVE]
  RULING RE: 
Summary Judgment 
 
 



 
 
[THE FOLLOWING IS A TENTATIVE RULING IN THE ABOVE
CASE]:                                                                                  
 
 
I. BACKGROUND
On August 25, 2019, plaintiff Pejman
Kohansedgh (“Plaintiff”), the landlord of a certain residential real property
(the “Property”) entered a lease (the “Lease”) and a guaranty (the “Guaranty”)
to the Lease with defendants Gonzalo Lizama (“Gonzalo”), Yasmina Monjaraz
(“Yasmina”), Santiago Monjaraz (“Santiago”), and Yesenia Cayetano (“Yesenia”
and, together with Santiago, “Moving Parties” and Moving Parties, together with
Gonzalo and Yasmina, “Defendants”). (Opposition p. 2.) In June 2023, Defendants
ceased rent payments but remained in possession of the Property. (Ibid.) 
 
On December 18, 2023, Plaintiff filed an
unlawful detainer complaint (the “Complaint”) against Defendants. On February
9, 2024, demurrers brought by Santiago and Yesenia were sustained with leave to
amend. On February 21, 2024, Plaintiff filed an amended complaint (the
“FAC”). On April 18, 2024, this court overruled Defendants’ demurrers to
the FAC.
 
On May 6, 2024,
Moving Parties filed the instant motion for summary judgment (the “Motion”),
which Plaintiff opposed (by filing the “Opposition”) on May 24, 2024.
 
II. PROCEDURAL MATTERS
 

Timeliness of Filings

 
A motion for summary judgment “may be made
at any time after 60 days have elapsed since the general appearance in the
action or proceeding of each party against whom the motion is directed or at
any earlier time after the general appearance that the court, with or without
notice and upon good cause shown, may direct.” (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §¿437c,
subd. (a).) “Notice of the motion and supporting papers shall be served on all
other parties to the action at least 75 days before the time appointed for hearing”
with additional days depending on how the notice is served. (Ibid.) “The
motion shall be heard no later than 30 days before the date of trial, unless
the court for good cause orders otherwise.” (Ibid.) “An opposition to
the motion shall be served and filed not less than 14 days preceding the
noticed or continued date of hearing, unless the court for good cause orders
otherwise” and “[a] reply to the opposition shall be served and filed by the
moving party not less than five days preceding the noticed or continued date of
hearing, unless the court for good cause orders otherwise. (Id. at subd.
(b).)¿Supporting documents to filings should be
filed by the same deadlines. (See, e.g., id. at subd.
(b)(2)–(b)(3).) 
¿ 
“A trial court has
broad¿discretion¿under¿rule 3.1300(d) of the California Rules of Court¿to
refuse to consider papers served and filed beyond the deadline without a prior
court order finding good cause for late submission.” (Bozzi v. Nordstrom,
Inc. (2010) 186 Cal.App.4th 755, 765.) Similarly, courts have wide latitude
to grant continuances.¿ 
 
The Opposition, having been filed only five days before the Motion is set
to be heard, is untimely.
 

The Separate Statement

 
California Code of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision
(b)(1) requires that a motion for summary judgment “be supported by affidavits,
declarations, admissions, answers to interrogatories, depositions, and matters
of which judicial notice shall or may be taken. The supporting papers shall
include a separate statement setting forth plainly and concisely all material
facts that the moving party contends are undisputed. Each of the material facts
stated shall be followed by a reference to the supporting evidence.” (Cal. Code
Civ. Proc. §¿437c, subd. (b)(1).)
 
California Code of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision
(b)(3) requires that opposition papers to a motion for summary judgment
“include a separate statement that responds to each of the material facts
contended by the moving party to be undisputed, indicating¿if¿the opposing
party agrees or disagrees that those facts are undisputed. The statement also
shall set forth plainly and concisely any other material facts¿the opposing
party contends are disputed. Each material fact contended by the opposing party
to be disputed shall be followed by a reference to the supporting evidence.
Failure to comply with this requirement of a separate statement may constitute
a sufficient ground, in the court's discretion, for granting the motion.”
(§¿437c, subd. (b)(3).)
 
The separate statement “provides a convenient and expeditious vehicle
permitting the trial court to hone in on the truly disputed facts.” (Nazir
v. United Airlines, Inc. (2009) 178 Cal.App.4th 243, 251–252.) In United
Community Church v. Garcin (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 327, 337, the
court set forth the “Golden Rule” as follows: “all material facts must be
set forth in the separate statement… if it is not set forth in the
separate statement, it does not exist.”
 
Neither Moving Parties nor Plaintiff submit with the Motion or the
Opposition, respectively, a separate statement setting out the undisputed and
disputed material facts of the action. While we decline to either grant or deny
the Motion on these grounds, we remind Moving Parties and Plaintiff of the
importance of complying with this rule.
 
III. LEGAL STANDARD
 
“A party may move for summary judgment
in¿an¿action or proceeding if it is contended that the action has no merit or
that there is no defense to the action or proceeding.” (Cal. Code Civ. Proc.
§¿437c, subd. (a)(1).) The function of a motion for summary judgment or
adjudication is to allow a determination as to whether an opposing party can
show evidentiary support for a pleading or claim and, if not, to enable an
order of summary dismissal without the need for trial. (Aguilar v. Atlantic
Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) Code of Civil Procedure §¿437c,
subdivision (c) “requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the evidence
submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and
uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable
issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment
as a matter of law.” (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7
Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)¿“A triable issue of material fact exists where ‘the
evidence would allow a reasonable trier of fact to find the underlying fact in
favor of the party opposing the motion in accordance with the applicable
standard of proof.’” (California Medical Assn. v. Aetna Health of California
Inc. (2021) 63 Cal.App.5th 660, 665, quoting Aguilar v. Atlantic
Richfield Co., supra at 850.)  
¿ 
As to each claim as framed by the
complaint, the moving party must satisfy the initial burden of proof by
presenting facts to negate an essential element or to establish a defense.
(Code Civ. Proc, § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) A cause of action “cannot be established”
if the undisputed facts presented by defendant prove the contrary of
plaintiff's allegations¿as a matter of law. (Brantley v. Pisaro (1996)
42 Cal.App.4th 1591, 1597.) Courts “liberally construe the evidence in support
of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the
evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc.¿(2006)
39 Cal.4th 384, 389.) Once the moving party has met that burden, the burden
shifts to the opposing party to show that a triable issue of one or more
material facts exists as to that cause of action or a defense thereto. To
establish a triable issue of material fact, the party opposing the motion must
produce substantial responsive evidence. (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68
Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)¿ 
 
“Unlawful¿detainer¿is a
remedy available to a landlord against a tenant who breaches a lease and is
intended and designed to provide an expeditious remedy for the recovery
of¿possession¿of real property.” (Castaic Studios, LLC v. Wonderland Studios
LLC (2023) 97 Cal.App.5th 209, 215.) “The remedy is available in only three
situations: to a lessor against a lessee for unlawfully holding over or for
breach of a lease; to an owner against an employee, agent, or licensee whose
relationship has terminated; and to a purchaser at an execution sale, a sale by
foreclosure, or a sale under a power of sale in a mortgage or deed of trust
against the former owner and possessor.” (Greene v. Municipal Court
(1975) 51 Cal.App.3d 446, 450.) “[U]nlawful¿detainer¿actions are limited to
right of¿possession¿and not other claims, even if related to the property.” (Castaic
Studios, LLC v. Wonderland Studios LLC, supra at 216, describing Larson
v. City and County of San¿Francisco¿(2011) 192 Cal.App.4th 1263,
1297.) 
 
IV. DISCUSSION
 
Moving Parties
contend that they are not tenants in possession of the Property but are only
guarantors of the Lease and parties to the Guaranty. (Motion pp. 3–4.) As such,
they argue, the instant unlawful detainer action cannot be maintained against
them since the plaintiff’s right to possession of real property is an essential
element to an unlawful detainer action. (Id. at pp. 4–6.) In support of the
Motion, Moving Parties submit a sworn and signed declaration (the “Santiago
Declaration”) by Santiago stating that Moving Parties “do not have any claim of
right to possession at this property. We have never paid rent to the Plaintiff,
we are not in possession of the property, and we were certainly not in
possession of the property when this action was filed.” (Santiago Decl.
¶ 5.)
 
Moving Parties
made a similar argument in their demurrer to the FAC, which this court
overruled on April 18, 2024. In ruling on Moving Parties’ demurrer, this court
considered submitted copies of the Lease and the Guaranty and held, in relevant
part,
 
In this case, it
is an overstatement to say that there is a conflict between a complaint’s
allegations and exhibits that is direct and indisputable. Instead, the court
finds that the exhibit is ambiguous and can be construed in the manner stated
in the complaint. For example, while it is true that on page one of the
agreement, only Gonzalo Lima and Yasmina Monjaraz (misspelled as “Monjarz”) are
listed on the “tenant” line, there are at least four other places in the Lease
Agreement and the “Guarantor Form as Attachment to Lease” where it could be
argued that Santiago Monjarez and Yesinia Cayetano agreed as tenants.
Specifically, on line two of the “Guarantor Form as Attachment to Lease”, the
names Santiago Monjarez and Yesinia Cayetano appear on the “tenant” line.
Additionally, on page one of the lease, paragraph 1, subsection B., it states
that “the premises are for the sole use as a personal residence by the
following named persons only: Gonzalo Lizama, Santiago David Monjarez, Yesinia
Cayetano only.” Furthermore, the exhibit suggests that both Santiago Monjarez
and Yesinia Cayetano placed their respective initials in the bottom lower right
hand corner of each page, for a total of five separate times, next to “Tenant
Initials.” Lastly, the exhibit suggests that Santiago Monjarez and Yesinia
Cayetano both signed and dated the lease agreement itself, separate and apart
from the Guarantor Form as Attachment to the Lease.
 
(04/18/24 Minute
Order pp. 4–5.)
 
In support of the
Opposition, Plaintiff submits (1) a sworn and signed declaration by an employee
of his attorneys’ law firm in this action, in which the declarant states that
she has visited the Property multiple times during the pendency of this action
and has seen Moving Parties and young children at the Property (Kohansedgh
Decl. ¶¶ 2–5); (2) a similar sworn and signed declaration by another employee
of his attorneys’ law firm in this action, in which the declarant also states
that she has visited the Property and has seen Moving Parties and young
children at the Property (Avatisyan Decl. ¶¶ 2–6); (3) a copy of the Lease
(Opposition Exh. 1); (4) redacted copies of Moving Parties’ driver’s licenses
(Id. at Exh. 2); and (5) a copy of a set of special interrogatories propounded
on Defendants by Plaintiff and Santiago’s responses to those special demurrers
(Id. at Exhs. 3–4). At least some of the visits to the Property made on
behalf of Plaintiff were video recorded. (Kohansedgh Decl. ¶¶ 2–5; Avatisyan
Decl. ¶¶ 2–6.) 
 
Plaintiff contends
that the copies of Moving Parties’ driver’s licenses were provided to Plaintiff
by Moving Parties at the time they executed the Lease. (Opposition p. 2.)
Plaintiff points out that in the Santiago Declaration Santiago declares that
Moving Parties have three children. (Opposition p. 3; Santiago Decl. ¶ 2.)
Plaintiff does not certify that the document copies submitted as exhibits to
the Opposition are true and correct. However, the same copy of the Lease is
attached to the FAC. (FAC Exh. 1.) The FAC describes the attached copy of the
Lease as “[a] copy of the written agreement, including any addenda or
attachments that form the basis of this [C]omplaint,” and Plaintiff signed the
Complaint under a declaration “under penalty of perjury under the laws of the
State of California that the foregoing is true and correct.” (FAC pp. 2, 4.) We
are thus satisfied that Plaintiff has verified that the copy of the Lease we
consider for purposes of ruling on the Motion is a true and correct copy of the
Lease.
 
By submitting the
Santiago Declaration, in which Santiago denies, under penalty of perjury, that
Moving Parties live at the Property or have any claim to possession of the
Property, Moving Parties satisfy their initial burden of negating an essential element of Plaintiff’s unlawful
detainer action. The burden thus shifts to Plaintiff to show that a triable
issue of one or more material facts exists as to the possession issue. By
submitting a copy of the Lease, Plaintiff meets this burden. We make the same findings
now that we made when confronted with the same question about whether Mowing
Parties may be tenants under the Lease that we answered in ruling on their
demurrer to the FAC. The executed copy of the Lease is ambiguous as to whether
Moving Parties execute it as tenants residing at the Property or strictly as
guarantors without a claim to possession of the Property, and it therefore give
rise to a triable issue of material fact. 
 
Accordingly,
this court DENIES the Motion.
 
 
Dated:             May
29, 2024                                      _______­­­­­­­­­­___________________________                                                                                                                                   
Hon. Eric Harmon
Judge
of the Superior Court