 Case Number:  23VECV03759    Hearing Date:   May 29, 2024    Dept:  107 


 
SUPERIOR COURT
  OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS
  ANGELES
NORTHWEST
  DISTRICT
 




ROSA VILLALOBOS,
 
Plaintiff,
 
   v.
 
IVY GREEN CONSTRUCTION & ENGINEERING, INC; A
  CALIFORNIA STOCK CORPORATION, et al.,
 
Defendants.
 


 
 
   Case Number             Department
 23VECV03759           107




 
 
COURT’S [TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE:
1)    
  Set Aside/Vacate Default and Default Judgment; Quash Service of
  Summons
      (2) Set Aside/Vacate Default and
  Default
             Judgment; Quash Service of
  Summons
 



 
[THE FOLLOWING IS A TENTATIVE RULING IN THE ABOVE CASE]:

                                                                                 
I. BACKGROUND
Plaintiff Rosa Villalobos (“Plaintiff”) alleges that she hired defendant
Ivy Green Construction & Engineering, Inc. (“Ivy Green”), for which
defendants Javier Valencia (“Javier”) and Byron Steve Valencia (“Byron” and,
together with Javier, “Moving Parties”) acted as agents, to perform remodeling
work on her home. (Complaint pp. 7–8.)
 
On August 28, 2023, Plaintiff initiated this lawsuit by filing a complaint
(the “Complaint”) alleging causes of action for (1) breach of contract, (2)
fraud, (3) conversion, (4) accounting, and (5) breach of the implied covenant
of good faith and fair dealing.
 
On September 15, 2023, Plaintiff effected service of the Complaint on
Moving Parties by substitute service. (09/25/23 Proofs of Service p .1;
12/08/23 Proofs of Service p. 1.)
 
On December 8, 2023, defaults were entered as to Moving Parties.
 
On December 19, 2023 and December 21, 2023, Javier and Byron, respectively,
each filed an answer to the Complaint. 
 
On April 29, 2024, Moving Parties filed the instant motions to set
aside/vacate default and default judgment and quash service of summons (the
“Motions”), which Plaintiff opposed on May 20, 2024. Both of Plaintiff’s
oppositions to the Motions include a request for monetary sanctions. 
 
II. PROCEDURAL
MATTERS
 

Page Limits on Filings

 
“Except in a summary judgment or
summary adjudication motion, no opening or responding memorandum may exceed 15
pages…. No reply or closing memorandum may exceed 10 pages. The page limit does
not include the caption page, the notice of motion and motion, exhibits,
declarations, attachments, the table of contents, the table of authorities, or
the proof of service.” (Cal. Rules of Ct., rule 3.1113(d).) Per California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1113(g), “[a] memorandum that exceeds the page limits of
these rules must be filed and considered in the same manner as a late-filed
paper.” Per California Rules of Court, rule 3.1300(d), a court has discretion
to refuse to consider a late-filed paper. 
 
The Motions are each 41 and 42 pages
in length, excluding the caption page, the notice of motion and motion,
exhibits, declarations, attachments, the table of contents, the table of
authorities, or the proof of service. Neither of the Motions is therefore in
compliance with California Rules of Court, rule 1113(d).
 
Although we do not decline to
consider any part of either of the Motions on these grounds, we remind Moving
Parties of the rule limiting the length of certain filings.
 
III. LEGAL
STANDARD
 
A motion to quash service of summons
may be brought on the grounds that the court lacks personal jurisdiction over
the defendant. (Cal. Code Civ. Proc., §¿418.10, subd. (a)(1).) “[W]here a
defendant properly moves to¿quash¿service¿of¿summons¿the burden is on the
plaintiff to prove facts requisite to an effective¿service.” (Sheard v.
Superior Court (1974) 40 Cal.App.3d 207, 211.) 
 
California Code of Civil Procedure § 415.20, subdivision (a) provides
for the substitute service of a summons and complaint, which “may be served by
leaving a copy of the summons and complaint during usual office hours in [the
defendant’s] office or, if no physical address is known, at his or her usual
mailing address, other than a United States Postal Service post office box,
with the person who is apparently in charge thereof….” 
 
“Compliance with the statutory procedures for service of process is
essential to establish personal jurisdiction.” (Renoir v. Redstar Corp.
(2004) 123 Cal.App.4th 1145, 1152.) “Code of Civil Procedure section 410.50,
subdivision (a) provides that except as otherwise provided by statute, the
court obtains ‘jurisdiction over a party from the time summons is served on
him….’” (Ibid.) “Knowledge by a defendant of a plaintiff's action does
not satisfy the requirement of adequate service of a summons and complaint.” (Ibid.)
“[A] default judgment entered against a defendant who was not served with a
summons in the manner prescribed by statute is void.” (Ellard v. Conway
(2001) 94 Cal.App.4th 540, 544.) “Void judgments are ineffective and
unenforceable.” (Calvert v. Al Binali (2018) 29 Cal.App.5th 954, 961.)
However, “[a] general appearance by a party is equivalent to personal service
of summons on such party” (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 410.50, subd. (a).) “It
makes up for defective service, or even a complete lack of service.” (Humphrey
v. Bewley (2021) 69 Cal.App.5th 571, 579.) And, “it is clear” that when it
comes to service of process issues in California after the 1969 legislative
revisions thereto, “the old rule of strict construction has been rejected and a
new rule of liberal construction has been adopted.” (Summers v. McClanahan
(2006) 140 Cal.App.4th 403, 411.)
 
“As a general rule, the entry of a default terminates a
defendant's rights to take any further affirmative steps in the litigation
until the default is set aside. Any motion by
a defaulted defendant, other than a motion to set aside
the default, is unauthorized and void. It has no legal effect.”
(Humphrey v. Bewley, supra, 69 Cal.App.5th 571 at 580, internal
citations and quotation marks omitted.) However, “a demurrer
filed by defendant after his default is taken constitutes a
general appearance. This is true even though a demurrer
or answer filed after entry of default is
otherwise a ‘nullity.’” (Id. at 580–81, internal
citations and quotation marks omitted.) But, “[a] general appearance does not
retroactively validate a default entered earlier…. Code of Civil
Procedure section 410.50, subdivision (a) merely provides that a general
appearance is the equivalent of service of summons. Subdivision (b) then
provides, ‘Jurisdiction of the court over the parties and the subject matter of
an action continues throughout subsequent proceedings in the action.’”
(Id. at 581, emphasis original.) Thus, subsequent service of summons or a
general appearance made after the entry of default will not support the earlier
entry of default. (Ibid.) In Humphrey v. Bewley, supra, 69 Cal.App.5th 571 at 581, “the trial court did not err by
vacating the default” of a defendant who had filed an answer after the
entry of the default, but “did err, however, by quashing service as to [the
defendant].” The court observed that because the defendant had made a general
appearance, he was subject to the court’s personal jurisdiction and should have
been ordered to respond to the complaint. (Ibid.)
 
California Code of Civil Procedure § 473.5 (“Section 473.5”) provides
that, upon the motion of a party against whom a default has been entered, a
court “may set aside the default or default judgment
on whatever terms as may be just and allow the party to
defend the action” when certain conditions are met:
 
(a)  
When
service of a summons has not resulted in actual notice to a party in time to
defend the action and a default or default judgment has been entered against
him or her in the action, he or she may serve and file a notice of motion to
set aside the default or default judgment and for leave to defend the action.
The notice of motion shall be served and filed within a reasonable time, but in
no event exceeding the earlier of: (i) two years after entry of a default
judgment against him or her; or (ii) 180 days after service on him or her of a
written notice that the default or default judgment has been entered.
 
(b)  
A
notice of motion to set aside a default or default judgment and for leave to
defend the action shall designate as the time for making the motion a
date prescribed by subdivision (b) of Section 1005, and it shall be
accompanied by an affidavit showing under oath that the party's lack
of actual notice in time to defend the action was not caused by his or
her avoidance of service or inexcusable neglect. The party shall serve and
file with the notice a copy of the answer, motion, or other pleading
proposed to be filed in the action.
 
(Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 473.5.) Judges have discretion in granting
relief pursuant to Section 473.5. (Olvera v. Olvera (1991) 232
Cal.App.3d 32, 41.) “Section 473.5 requires that the motion to set aside the
default judgment be accompanied by ‘an affidavit showing under oath that the
party's lack of actual notice in time to defend the action was not caused by
his or her avoidance of service or inexcusable neglect’ and ‘a copy of the
answer, motion, or other pleading proposed to be filed in the action.’” (Sakaguchi
v. Sakaguchi (2009) 173 Cal.App.4th 852, 861.)
 
“Whenever, under any law of this
state or under any rule, regulation, order or requirement made pursuant to the
law of this state, any matter is required or permitted to be supported,
evidenced, established, or proved by the sworn statement, declaration,
verification, certificate, oath, or affidavit, in writing of the person making
the same (other than a deposition, or an oath of office, or an oath required to
be taken before a specified official other than a notary public), such matter
may with like force and effect be supported, evidenced, established or proved
by the unsworn statement, declaration, verification, or certificate, in writing
of such person which recites that it is certified or declared by him or her to
be true under penalty of perjury, is subscribed by him or her, and (1), if
executed within this state, states the date and place of execution, or (2), if
executed at any place, within or without this state, states the date of
execution and that it is so certified or declared under the laws of the State
of California.” (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 2015.5.) 
 
“The court may, upon any terms as may be just, relieve a party or his or
her legal representative from a judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding
taken against him or her through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
excusable neglect. Application for this relief shall be accompanied by a copy
of the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed therein, otherwise the
application shall not be granted, and shall be made within a reasonable time,
in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment, dismissal, order, or
proceeding was taken… No affidavit or declaration of merits shall be required
of the moving party.”  (Cal. Code Civ.
Proc. § 473, subd. (b).) The court has broad discretion to vacate the
entry of default, default judgment, or a dismissal where the moving party
timely establishes a proper ground for relief. (Cruz v.¿Fagor¿America, Inc.¿(2007)
146 Cal.App.4th 488, 495.) The general¿underlying¿purpose¿of California Code of
Civil Procedure § 473, subdivision (b) (“Section 473(b)”) is to promote
the determination of actions on their merits.¿(Even Zohar Const. &
Remodeling, Inc. v. Bellaire Townhouses, LLC¿(2015) 61 Cal.4th 830,
838–39.) Any doubts in applying Section¿473(b)¿must be resolved in favor of the
party seeking relief. (Rappleyea¿v. Campbell¿(1994) 8 Cal.4th 975,
981.)¿ 
 
IV. DISCUSSION
 

Javier

 
In his Motion, Javier argues that because the Complaint was served by
substituted service and not personal service at Ivy Green’s corporate offices,
which Javier states is neither where he lives nor where he works, the service
of summons was invalid. (Motion p. 42.) In a portion of the Motion labelled as
a declaration, though not signed under penalty of perjury, Javier identifies
the address of his workplace and distinguishes it from the address of Ivy
Green’s office, where Plaintiff attempted to effect substitute service on him.
(Motion p. 11.) Javier admits to having actual knowledge of the Complaint and
the instant action by November 2023, a couple months after Plaintiff attempted
to serve him. (Ibid.)
 
That Plaintiff attempted to effect service on Javier by substitute service
and not by personal service is irrelevant, as both are acceptable means of
serving summons and a complaint. However, her service of the Complaint on a
person at an office that Javier does not work at defeats her efforts to effect
substitute service. Javier declares that he works at a different office
location than the one at which Plaintiff attempted to serve him, and substitute
service on an employee at a different workplace is not calculated to give him
actual notice of the action, which is emphasized by Javier’s statement that he
indeed did not receive actual notice of the Complaint and this action for over
a month after substitute service was effected.
 
Because service of the Complaint was defective, Javier’s actual knowledge
of it is irrelevant, as proper service establishes personal jurisdiction over
the defendant to an action and the defendant’s actual knowledge cannot cure
improper service. (Renoir v. Redstar Corp., supra, 123
Cal.App.4th 1145 at 1152.) However, Javier did file an answer to the Complaint
on December 19, 2023, eleven days after the clerk entered default as to him,
and answers constitute general appearances, even if made after the entry of a
default. (Code Civ. Proc. § 418.10.) Thus, Javier made a general
appearance in this action and consented to personal jurisdiction on December
19, 2023. Thus, like the defaulted defendant in Humphrey v. Bewley, supra,
69 Cal.App.5th 571 at 580–81, it is appropriate to vacate Javier’s default
because personal jurisdiction over him had not been established at the time
default was entered, but it is not appropriate to grant his Motion to quash
because he has subsequently generally appeared in this action.
 
Accordingly, this court GRANTS Javier’s motion to set aside/vacate default
and DENIES Javier’s motion to quash service of summons.
 

Byron

 
1.     
Service of Summons and Complaint
 
Like Javier does in his Motion, Byron similarly argues in his Motion that
Plaintiff’s service of the Complaint was invalid because the Complaint was
served by substituted service and not personal service at Ivy Green’s corporate
offices, which Byron states is neither where he lives nor where he works.
(Motion pp. 42–43.) Byron explains that although the address at which Plaintiff
attempted to effect substitute service is the address of Ivy Green’s offices
and although he owns Ivy Green “as a Civil Engineer,” Plaintiff nonetheless 
“never personal served me the documentation and served it to the wrong address”
because [his] “employees delay to notify me about the paperwork because
everything for the construction company is receiving in [a different] office.”
(Id. at pp. 9, 11–12.) The address at which Plaintiff attempted to effect
service on Byron is the address listed for Ivy Green in the second construction
contract, which Byron signed in his capacity as founder and owner. (Id. at Exh.
2.) Byron denies having received actual notice of this action until “the end of
November 2023.” (Id. at pp. 9, 43.)
 
California Code of Civil Procedure § 415.20, subdivision (a) does not
require that the party being served receive actual notice of the summons and
complaint for substituted service to be effective and “deemed complete.” Thus,
so long as Plaintiff’s service of the Complaint complied with the requirements
of Section 415.20, it is irrelevant that Byron did not receive actual notice of
the Complaint until over a month after Plaintiff effected service on him.
Although Byron insists in the Motion that the address at which Plaintiff
attempted to effect service was the “wrong address” and that he was never
served with the Complaint because “[he] did not work or live at the address [at
which Plaintiff effected service]” (Motion pp. 42–43), these assertions are
contradicted by other statements in and attachments to the Motion. For example,
he admits elsewhere in the Motion that he is the owner of Ivy Green and works
for Ivy Green, and that Ivy Green’s offices are located at the address at which
Plaintiff attempted service. (Id. at pp. 9, 11–12.) It follows from
these facts that Byron works at the office location at which Plaintiff effected
service, even if he also works at other offices or locations. Thus, we find
that Plaintiff effected substitute service on Byron at his office. There being
no other grounds on which Byron challenges Plaintiff’s service of the
Complaint, we find that Plaintiff properly served Byron by substitute service
and that such substitute service was deemed complete on September 25, 2023.
 
Accordingly, this court DENIES Byron’s motion to quash service of summons.
 
2.     
Section 473.5
 
Byron timely brings the Motion under Section 473.5. Notice of Byron’s
Motion was filed on April 29, 2024, which was 143 days after notice of the
default was served on Byron and therefore within the 180-day window permitted
by subdivision (a) of Section 473.5.
 
Byron submits with the Motion a declaration, dated April 7, 2024, that
states that his lack of actual notice was not the result of service evasion.
(Motion p. 43.) He “contend[s] that [his] failure to respond was the result of
inadvertence, surprise, mistake, or excusable neglect or lack of notice.”
(Ibid.) And, while the declaration recites that Byron thereby “declare[s] under
penalty of perjury under the laws of the State of California that the foregoing
[declaration] is true and correct,” the signature block below this statement is
unsigned . (Id. at p. 50.) To constitute an affidavit under California law, the
declaration must be executed with the declarant’s signature. (See Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §
2015.5.) This declaration attached to the Motion is therefore not an
affidavit, and the Motion therefore does not include an affidavit “showing
under oath that the party's lack of actual notice in time to defend
the action was not caused by his or her avoidance of service or
inexcusable neglect” as required by subdivision (b) of Section 473.5. (Cal.
Code Civ. Proc. § 473.5, subd. (b).)
 
The Motion to set aside/vacate the
default therefore cannot be granted under Section 473.5.
 
3.     
Section 473(b)
 
Byron timely brings the Motion under Section 473(b). Six months after default was entered against Byron on
December 8, 2023 will be June 8, 2024, and the Motion has been brought before
that date. We find the time in which Byron moved for relief after discovering
the default in late November 2023 to be reasonable.
 
Byron includes with the Motion
substantial portions of a proposed responsive pleading to the Complaint.
(Motion pp. 25–42.) Additionally, Byron already attempted to file an answer to
the Complaint on December 21, 2024. Although because such answer had been filed
after default had already been entered against him in this action, the answer
as filed is “unauthorized and void” (Humphrey v. Bewley, supra, 69 Cal.App.5th 571 at 580), it may nonetheless serve as a proposed responsive pleading
that Byron would re-serve and -file were his Motion to set aside/vacate the
default to be granted. We find that one or either of these two proposed
responsive pleadings Byron files with the Motion to satisfy this requirement of
Section 473(b).
 
For relief under Section 473(b),
Byron is not required to and he does not include with the Motion any affidavit or declaration of merits. (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 473,
subd. (b).)
 
However, for relief under Section
473(b), Byron must show that the entry of default against him resulted from his
“mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable
neglect.” (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 473, subd. (b).) Although the
declaration Byron includes with the Motion is unsigned, the Motion itself is
signed and portions of the declaration appear above this signature. (Motion p.
48.) Byron declares that although the Complaint was served on an employee of
his company, Ivy Green, at Ivy Green’s office in mid-September 2023 and
subsequently mailed to Ivy Green’s office, he nonetheless did not learn about
the Complaint until he received the served documents “in the end of November
2023.” (Id. at p. 43.) He contends that this service at the “wrong address”
constitutes his “mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect.” (Ibid.) Earlier in the Motion,
he also explains the service at Ivy Green’s office “prevents me from being
aware of the lawsuit and by not appearing in court I lose by default” because
Ivy Green’s “employees delay to notify me about the paperwork because
everything for the construction company is receiving in the [office at a
different address].” (Id. at p. 9.) Thus, Byron explains that disorganization
in paperwork and mail handling by the employees who had accepted substitute
service for him at Ivy Green’s office prevented him from being notified about
the Complaint until over a month after service had been deemed effected.
Without actual notice of the Complaint, he was unable to appear in the instant
action or prevent a default from being filed. We note that the default against
Byron was entered in early December 2023, which is less than a month after late
November 2023. Thus, because his actual notice of the Complaint was
substantially accidentally delayed, Byron was effectively given less than a
month to respond to the Complaint, and the entry of default against him cut
short the time he would have had to respond had he been immediately notified of
the service of the Complaint. Based on the foregoing, this court finds that
Byron’s failure to answer the Complaint before default was entered against him
resulted from  “mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or excusable neglect.”
 
Accordingly, this court GRANTS Byron’s motion to set aside/vacate default.
 

Plaintiff’s
     Request for Monetary Sanctions

 
In each of her oppositions to the Motions, Plaintiff requests monetary
sanctions in the amount of $1,950.00 for a total of $3,900.00. (Oppositions p.
7.) She brings her requests under California Code of Civil Procedure
§ 128.5, subdivision (b)(1). (Ibid.)
 
Plaintiff contends that the Motions were frivolously brought and that
Moving Parties “knowingly and intentionally submitted materially false factual
information in [their] declaration[s].” (Oppositions p. 7.) She argues that
“the [Moving Parties’] representation that he was not personally served with
the summons and complaint is blatantly false” and that this “false
representation” is the “entire basis of the [M]otion[s].” (Ibid.)
 
Each of the Motions repeats that the Moving Parties were never personally
served with the Complaint, which we understand to mean that Plaintiff effected
service of the Complaint on Moving Parties by substituted service rather than
personal service, which we find above is true as to only Byron, and not that
service was never effected, which we find above is true as to only Javier. We
find that a reasonable dispute existed as to whether substituted service was
properly effected on Moving Parties, and Moving Parties’ contentions that they
were not served by personal service are true. Because we grant both Motions in
part, we do not find them to have been frivolously brought. We therefore fail
to find a proper basis on which Plaintiff may be awarded sanctions in relation
to the Motions.
 
Accordingly, this court DENIES Plaintiff’s requests for sanctions. 
 
 
Dated:  May 29, 2024                                                          _______­­­­­­­­­­___________________________                                                                                                                        Hon. Eric Harmon
                                                                                                        Judge of the Superior Court