  Case Number:  22CMCV00286    Hearing Date:   December 9, 2024    Dept:  A [AMENDED TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING DEFENDANT COMPTON UNIFIED
SCHOOL DISTRICT’S MOTION FOR TERMINATING SANCTIONS
 Dept. A
 DATE: December 9, 2024
TIME: 8:30 A.M.
 
MOVING
PARTY:              Defendant
Compton Unified School District
RESPONDING PARTY:     Unopposed
Motion for Terminating Sanctions
          The
court considered the moving papers filed in connection with this motion. No
opposition papers were filed.
 
1.     Background
This is a childhood sexual assault case. The complaint filed
on August 18, 2022 alleges that plaintiff Jane Doe, R.R. (Plaintiff) was a
victim of sexual assault by a teacher employed by Compton High School within
Compton Unified School District (Defendant) when Plaintiff was a student at
Compton High School. The complaint alleges causes of action for: (1)  Childhood
sexual abuse; (2)  Intentional infliction of emotional distress; (3)  Negligent
hiring, supervision, and retention of unfit employee; (4)  Failure to
report suspected child abuse; (5)  Negligent supervision of a minor;
and (6)  Negligence.      
On August 16, 2023, Defendant served the following written
discovery on Plaintiff’s former counsel: one set of official form
interrogatories and special interrogatories, one inspection demand to produce
documents; and requests for admission, sets one and two. On January 19, 2024,
after providing Plaintiff numerous extensions to respond, Plaintiff served
unverified responses to form and special interrogatories, which included
unmeritorious objections. Defendant also served requests for admission, set one,
to which Plaintiff served unverified responses. Defendant first served notice
of Plaintiff’s deposition set for February 27, 2024. On March 4, 2024,
Defendant served Plaintiff with requests for admission, set two. Plaintiff
failed to respond at all. On March 5, 2024, the court granted plaintiff’s
counsel Slater Schulman’s Motion to be Relieved as Counsel for
Plaintiff.  Plaintiff has not obtained new counsel.  Defendant rescheduled Plaintiff’s deposition for
April 23, 2024. While Plaintiff did not object, she also failed to appear. 
Despite Defendant’s attempts to meet and confer regarding
all of the foregoing discovery, Plaintiff failed to respond.  (August
20, 2024 Minute Order, erroneously referred to in the Motion as the July 23,
2024 order.)  On August 20, 2024, after finding that plaintiff failed
to serve verified, code-compliant responses to written discovery served by
defendant, failed to appear for her duly noticed deposition, and failed to
respond to defendant’s meet and confer efforts, the court granted defendant’s
motions to compel further verified responses to form interrogatories, to
special interrogatories, and to requests for production of
documents.  The court also granted defendant’s motion to compel
plaintiff to submit to an oral deposition.  It also granted
defendant’s motion to deem its requests for admission (set two) admitted, and
denied defendant’s motion to deem its requests for admission (set one)
admitted.  (Id.) 
The court ordered Plaintiff to serve within 30 days,
verified, code-compliant responses without objection to form and special
interrogatories, set one, and request for production of documents, set one. The
court also deemed admitted Defendant’s requests for admission, set two, and
ordered Plaintiff to appear for a deposition without objection as duly noticed
by Defendant.
At the August 20, 2024 hearing, the court ordered counsel
for Defendant to give notice.  (Id., p. 4.) 
On August 21, 2024, the court entered orders on each of
Defendant’s discovery motion, which orders were posted on the court’s website
and were therefore available to Defendant.
On August 20, 2024, Defendant served Plaintiff with an
Amended Notice of Deposition, with the deposition to take place on September 5,
2024.  Plaintiff neither objected to the Notice of Deposition nor
appeared for deposition on September 5, 2024.  (Declaration of
Rebecca L. Gerome, ¶13.)  Plaintiff has not responded to counsel’s
attempts to meet and confer.  (Id., ¶¶ 15, 17.)
Defendant moves for terminating sanctions against Plaintiff
on the grounds that Plaintiff willfully failed to respond to lawful discovery
requests, and subsequently failed to comply with the court’s August 20, 2024
orders as described above.  Defendant contends it will be prejudiced
if it is ordered to proceed to trial without obtaining the discovery from
Plaintiff to which it is entitled.  Plaintiff does not oppose the
motion.
On October 30, 2023, this matter was set for a seven-day
jury trial on December 9, 2024.  To date, the parties have not
complied with the court’s trial preparation order, its October 30, 2023 case
management order requiring the parties to upload and file all trial documents
before the final status conference, or the Los Angeles Superior Court Local
Rules governing the filing of trial documents.
2.     Standard on Motion for
Terminating Sanctions
If a party engages in the misuse of the discovery process,
the court may impose monetary, issue, evidence, or terminating
sanctions.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.030.)  Code of Civil
Procedure section 2023.010 provides, in relevant part, that “[m]isuses of the
discovery process include, but are not limited to, the following: … (d) Failing
to respond or to submit to an authorized method of discovery . .
.  (f) Making an evasive response to discovery … (g) Disobeying a
court order to provide discovery.”  
“The discovery statutes evince an incremental approach to
discovery sanctions, starting with monetary sanctions and ending with the
ultimate sanction of termination. [Citation.]” (Doppes v. Bentley Motors,
Inc. (2009) 174 Cal.App.4th 967, 992 (Doppes); see J.W. v.
Watchtower Bible and Tract Society of New York, Inc.¿(2018) 29 Cal.App.5th
1142, 1169.) If a lesser sanction fails to curb misuse, a greater sanction is
warranted. (Doppes, supra, 174 Cal.App.4th at p. 992.) “Discovery
sanctions ‘should be appropriate to the dereliction, and should not exceed what
is required to protect the interests of the party entitled to but denied
discovery.’ [Citation.]” (Ibid.) “But where a violation is willful,
preceded by a history of abuse, and the evidence shows that less severe
sanctions would not produce compliance with the discovery rules, the trial
court is justified in imposing the ultimate sanction.” (Ibid.)
The court should consider the totality of the circumstances,
including conduct of the party to determine if the actions were willful, the
determent to the propounding party, and the number of formal and informal
attempts to obtain discovery. (Los Defensores, Inc. v. Gomez (2014)
223 Cal.App.4th 377, 390, quoting Lang v. Hochman (2000) 77
Cal.App.4th 1225, 1246.) Terminating sanctions should not be ordered lightly,
but are justified where a violation is willful, preceded by a history of abuse,
and there is evidence that less severe sanctions would not produce compliance
with the discovery rules. (Doppes, supra, 174 Cal.App.4th at p.
992.) 
“Under this standard, trial courts have properly imposed
terminating sanctions when parties have willfully disobeyed one or more
discovery orders.”  (Los Defensores, supra, 223
Cal.App.4th at p. 390 citing Lang, supra, 77
Cal.App.4th at pp. 1244-1246 [discussing cases]; see, e.g., Collisson
& Kaplan v. Hartunian (1994) 21 Cal.App.4th 1611, 1617-1622
[terminating sanctions imposed after defendants failed to comply with one court
order to produce discovery]; Laguna Auto Body v. Farmers Ins. Exchange (1991)
231 Cal.App.3d 481, 491, disapproved on other grounds in Garcia v.
McCutchen (1997) 16 Cal.4th 469, 478, n. 4 [terminating sanctions
imposed against the plaintiff for failing to comply with a discovery order and
for violating various discovery statutes].)
Before any sanctions may be imposed the court must make an
express finding that there has been a willful failure of the party to serve the
required discovery responses. (Fairfield v. Superior Court for Los Angeles
County (1966) 246 Cal.App.2d 113, 118.) The party who failed to comply
with discovery obligations has the burden of showing that the failure was not
willful. (Deyo v. Kilbourne (1978) 84 Cal.App.3d 771, 788; Cornwall
v. Santa Monica Dairy Co. (1977) 66 Cal.App.3d 250, 252-253.)
3.     Discussion
Defendant asserts it is entitled to an order imposing
terminating sanctions against Plaintiff because Plaintiff’s failure to respond
to Defendant’s discovery and failure to comply with the court’s discovery
orders has substantially prejudiced Defendant’s ability to defend itself
against Plaintiff’s claims in this action.  Defendant contends that
Plaintiff’s failure to comply with its lawful discovery requests and the
court’s August 20, 2024 discovery order (erroneously referred to as the
July 23, 2024 order) compelling Plaintiff to appear for deposition and
serve code-compliant written discovery responses was willful. Defendant
contends that they attempted to meet and confer with Plaintiff regarding her
deficient responses to discovery, but Plaintiff failed to respond to meet and
confer efforts. Plaintiff has not responded to any discovery requests or
otherwise participated in the litigation since March 2024, when Plaintiff’s
attorneys were relieved as counsel based on a breakdown of the attorney-client
relationship. Plaintiff has not obtained replacement counsel. Defendant
contends that Plaintiff has either abandoned the litigation or is willfully
misusing the discovery process to the prejudice of Defendant.
While Plaintiff’s actions, or in this instance her inaction,
indicate that she has willfully failed to comply with her discovery
obligations, Defendant has not met its burden of establishing that Plaintiff
has willfully failed to comply with a court order.  In fact,
Defendant has not established that Plaintiff was given notice of the court’s
August 20, 2024 order, or notice of the court’s August 21, 2024 written orders
on each individual discovery motion brought by Defendant. 
In the Declaration of Rebecca L. Gerome filed in support of
the motion for terminating sanctions, Ms. Gerome generally asserts that her
“office” provided Plaintiff with notice of the court’s August 20, 2024 order
that same day.  However, Ms. Gerome’s assertion lacks foundation, as
it sets forth no facts establishing that she has personal knowledge of any
purported service of the court’s order upon Plaintiff.  No proof of
service of the August 20, 2024 minute order or the August 21, 2024 signed
orders is attached to her declaration or submitted by another declarant with
personal knowledge.  Moreover, Defendant did not file any Notice of
Ruling with the court evidencing service on Plaintiff of either the August 20,
2024 or August 21, 2024 orders, despite the court’s order that Defendant give
Plaintiff notice of the court’s orders.  As a result, there is no
credible evidence that Defendant complied with the court’s August 20, 2024
order to provide notice to Plaintiff of the court’s orders.  Because
there is no admissible evidence that Plaintiff was ever given notice of the
court’s rulings against her, any failure by Plaintiff to comply with those
orders cannot be presumed to have been willful.
The court nonetheless agrees that Defendant has been
severely prejudiced in its ability to prepare its defense to Plaintiff’s claims
due to Plaintiff’s failure to comply with her discovery
obligations.  The court also concludes that Plaintiff’s failure to
serve code-compliant responses, produce responsive documents and submit to
deposition is prejudicial to Defendant, since the discovery requests at issue
go to the heart of Plaintiff’s child sexual abuse claims.  Further,
the evidence shows that Plaintiff’s failure to cooperate and comply with her
discovery obligations and the prior orders of the court have substantially
prejudiced Defendant by preventing it from preparing for trial in this action,
which is set to proceed by way of jury trial on December 9, 2024, the very day
on which this motion is set to be heard. 
Plaintiff may very well have abandoned her claims against
Defendant, particularly in light of her failure to oppose the instant
motion.  Notwithstanding, the court is unwilling to resort to the
drastic and “ultimate” remedy of terminating sanctions based solely on the failure
to provide code-compliant discovery responses and submit to a deposition,
absent evidence of a willful violation of the court’s discovery
orders.  The court finds that terminating sanctions are inappropriate
under the circumstances.
4.     Conclusion Based on the evidence presented, the court exercises
its discretion to deny Defendant’s motion for terminating sanctions against
Plaintiff.  
Defendant is ordered to give notice of this ruling, with
proof of service to be filed with the court.
DATED: December 9, 2024
Hon. Elizabeth L. Bradley
Judge of the Superior Court
 