 Case Number:  21STCV25514    Hearing Date:   September 11, 2024    Dept:  28 Having  considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers, the Court rules as  follows.  BACKGROUND  A.   Previous proceedings  On  July 12, 2021, Plaintiffs Soraya Pastor (“Pastor”) and Firooz Nosratifar (“Nosratifar”)  filed this action against Defendants Birendra Dutt ("Dutt"), Uplander  Properties, LLC ("Uplander"), and Does 1-50 for motor vehicle  negligence, negligence per se, and loss of consortium.  On  December 30, 2021, Plaintiffs filed a first amended complaint for motor vehicle  negligence and loss of consortium.  On  January 14, 2022, Dutt and Uplander ("Defendants") filed an answer.  The answer’s eleventh affirmative defense,  titled “Compromise Settlement,” alleged: “On January 11, 2021 a policy limit  demand was made by plaintiff counsel and was timely accepted by Defendants, all  requested documentation and information, including but not limited to  Defendant, BIRENDRA DUTT's personal declaration, was provided. Defendants said  timely acceptance of Plaintiffs' policy limit demand was made in full  settlement of Plaintiffs' claims arising from the subject incident.”  On  February 28, 2024, the parties stipulated that Nosratifar “shall dismiss, with  prejudice, all claims and causes of action against defendants and shall file  the appropriate request for dismissal with the court within 10 (ten) days of  the signing of this stipulation.”  Trial  is currently scheduled for October 22, 2024.  B.   Summary judgment motion  On  December 4, 2023, Defendants filed a motion for summary judgment.  The motion was set to be heard on July 25,  2024. The Court continued the hearing on the motion to September 11, 2024. On  August 6, 2024, Pastor filed an opposition. On August 16, 2024, Defendants  filed a reply.  PARTIES’ REQUESTS  Defendants  ask the Court to grant summary judgment.  Pastor  asks the Court to deny the motion.       LEGAL STANDARD  A.   Summary judgment  “‘[F]rom  commencement to conclusion, the party moving for summary judgment bears the  burden of persuasion that there is no triable issue of material fact and that  he is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.’”  (LAOSD Asbestos  Cases (2023) 87 Cal.App.5th 949, 945, quoting Aguilar v. Atlantic  Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850 (Aguilar)) “[T]he party  moving for summary judgment bears an initial burden of production to make a  prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact;  if he carries his burden of production, he causes a shift, and the opposing  party is then subjected to a burden of production of his own to make a prima  facie showing of the existence of a triable issue of material  fact.”  (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 850.)  When  the moving party is a defendant, it must show that the plaintiff cannot  establish at least one element of the cause of action.  (Aguilar,  supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 853.) “The defendant has shown that the  plaintiff cannot establish at least one element of the cause of action by  showing that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain,  needed evidence.”  (Id. at p. 854.) The defendant must  “present evidence, and not simply point out that the plaintiff does not  possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence.”  (Ibid.)  Thus, “the defendant must ‘support[ ]’ the ‘motion’ with  evidence including ‘affidavits, declarations, admissions, answers to  interrogatories, depositions, and matters of which judicial notice’ must or may  ‘be taken.’ [Citation.] The defendant may, but need not, present evidence  that conclusively negates an element of the plaintiff’s cause of action. The  defendant may also present evidence that the plaintiff does not possess, and  cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence—as through admissions by the  plaintiff following extensive discovery to the effect that he has discovered  nothing.”  (Id. at p. 855, original emphasis.)  “Supporting  and opposing affidavits or declarations . . . shall set forth admissible  evidence.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (d).) “Matters which would be  excluded under the rules of evidence if proffered by a witness in a trial as  hearsay, conclusions or impermissible opinions, must be disregarded in  supporting affidavits.”  (Hayman v. Block (1986) 176  Cal.App.3d 629, 639.)  In  addition, a party moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication must  support the motion with “a separate statement setting forth plainly and  concisely all material facts which the moving party contends are undisputed.  Each of the material facts stated shall be followed by a reference to the  supporting evidence.” (Parkview Villas Assn. v. State Farm Fire &  Casualty Co. (2006) 133 Cal.App.4th 1197, 1209 (Parkview Villas),  quoting Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (b)(1).) The party opposing the motion must  file with the opposition papers “a separate statement that responds to each of  the material facts contended by the moving party to be undisputed, indicating  whether the opposing party agrees or disagrees that those facts are undisputed.  The statement also shall set forth plainly and concisely any other material  facts that the opposing party contends are disputed. Each material fact  contended by the opposing party to be disputed shall be followed by a reference  to the supporting evidence.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd.  (b)(3).)  If either party fails to comply with the applicable  separate statement requirement, that failure may in the court’s discretion  constitute a sufficient ground to decide the motion adversely to the offending  party. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subds. (b)(1), (3).)   In  ruling on the motion, the court must consider all the evidence and all the  inferences reasonably drawn from it and must view such evidence and  inferences in the light most favorable to the opposing  party.  (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 843.)  DISCUSSION  A.   Undisputed facts   This action arises out of a vehicle versus  pedestrian accident which occurred on October 28, 2020 on San Vicente Boulevard  at the intersection of Darlington Avenue in Los Angeles.  At the time of the accident, Defendants were  covered under an automobile insurance policy issued by Interinsurance Exchange  of the Automobile Club (“AAA”) with bodily injury liability policy limits of  $100,000 per person and $300,000 per incident.  On  November 3, 2020, the Lalezary Law Firm sent a letter to AAA advising that Pastor had retained it to pursue her claims against the insureds. On January 11, 2021, the Lalezary Law Firm sent a  letter to AAA regarding a “time sensitive policy limits settlement demand” by  Pastor.  (Exh. D, capitalization  omitted.)  The letter stated in part:  “This is a confidential settlement demand as  contemplated under the code . . . . [¶]   We write with respect to the above-referenced claim and to convey a policy  limits settlement demand.”  (Exh. D, p.  1; see Exh. D, p. 5 [under heading “Settlement Demand,” letter states that “[Pastor]  has authorized us to make an offer to settle all claims against your insured  for the amount of $1,750,000.00, or PROMPT TENDERING OF YOUR INSURED'S POLICY  LIMITS”]; Exh. D, p. 13 [“Our demand for settlement will expire on January 29,  2021 at 12:00p.m. (PST)”].)  The January 11, 2021 letter conditioned Pastor’s  settlement offer on the following:  “l . Proof of  your insured's liability policy limits. You must provide us with a certified  copy of all declaration pages and a certified copy of the insurance policy  itself.  “2. Your  prompt exchange of the settlement draft for the fully executed release and the  settlement documents following our review and approval thereof.  “3. A signed  Declaration of No Other Insurance and Assets document provided by our office,  signed by your insured. “4. Our client’s acceptance of your tender of policy  limits.  Please note our client has the  right to refuse any and all settlement offers.   This is an opportunity for the insurance company to do the right thing  and tender the policy limits subject to our client’s approval.  There is no binding contract without my  client’s final approval through a wet signature on a release.”   (Exh. D, pp. 12-13.)  On  January 19, 2021, AAA received the January 11, 2021 settlement demand letter,  which set a deadline of January 29, 2021 to accept the demand. On  January 18, 2021, the Lalezary Law Firm informed AAA that it no longer  represented Pastor, Pastor was now represented by Ariel Law Group, and the  Lalezary Law Firm was asserting a lien on Pastor’s recovery.  Ariel  Law Group subsequently sent AAA a letter stating that Pastor had retained it to  represent her. On  January 21, 2021, Reneasha Brown, a claims service representative at AAA,  forwarded the January 11, 2021 demand letter to Ariel Law Group.  On  January 22, 2021, Frank Ariel of Ariel Law Group sent an email to Reneasha  Brown confirming service of the January 11, 2021 settlement demand letter on Pastor’s  behalf prior to the retention of Arial Law Group.  In a  letter to Ariel Law Firm dated January 21, 2021, Reneasha Brown of AAA wrote: “I acknowledge your policy limit demand  dated January 11, 2021 wherein you demanded a response by January 29, 2021. The  demand was received January 19, 2021. We accept your demand and settle your  client’s claim for our insured per person policy limit of $100,000.00 in an  exchange for a release of all claims against Kumkum Dutt and Birendra Dutt.”  In the letter and email to Ariel Law Group confirming acceptance of the  January 11, 2021 settlement demand and tendering of the available $100,000 per  person bodily injury liability policy limit, Reneasha Brown noted the  conditions specified in the settlement demand letter, requested an open  extension of time for AAA to fulfill the conditions, and advised that AAA would  require confirmation of any pending liens as well as Pastor’s marital status.  On  January 27, 2021, during a discussion with Reneasha Brown, Frank Ariel of Ariel  Law Group advised he would confirm all outstanding liens for Pastor's treatment and would forward a declaration for Dutt to sign.  On  January 27, 2021, Reneasha Brown emailed Ariel Law Group certified copies of  Dutt’s automobile insurance policy and the corresponding declarations page.  On  February 2, 2021, Frank Ariel sent an email to Reneasha  Brown confirming a two-week extension of the January 29,  2021 deadline specified in the January 11, 2021 settlement demand letter.  On  February 3, 2021, Frank Ariel advised Reneasha Brown that he would send a  declaration for Dutt to sign.  On  February 3, 2021, Frank Ariel sent Reneasha Brown an email requesting confirmation that Dutt was the only registered owner of the vehicle he was  operating during the October 28, 2020 incident.  On  February 4, 2023, Aurelio Dequito of Ariel Law Group emailed Reneasha Brown the  declaration for Dutt to sign under penalty perjury.  On  February 23, 2021, Reneasha Brown emailed the signed and notarized declaration  of Dutt to the Arial Law Group and confirmed in her email that Dutt and  Uplander owned the vehicle involved in the incident.  On  April 6, 2021, Reneasha Brown emailed Ariel Law Group a draft settlement  agreement and release.  On  April 7, 2021, Frank Ariel advised during a telephone call  with Reneasha Brown that his office was having issues confirming all pending  liens for Pastor’s treatment, that he was going to meet with Pastor to address  these issues, and that he would keep AAA updated on the status of the liens.  On  July 12, 2021, Pastor and Nosratifar filed their complaint in this case (Soraya  Pastor v. Birendra Dutt, et al., Los Angeles Superior Court action number  21STCV25514).   On  December 30, 2021, Pastor and Nosratifar filed their first amended complaint for  negligence and loss of consortium.  B.   Defendants have not carried their initial burden on  summary judgment  1.    CSAA Ins. Exchange v. Hodroj  Citing  CSAA Ins. Exchange v. Hodroj (2021) 72 Cal.App.5th 272 (Hodroj), Defendants  argue that they entered into a binding settlement agreement with Pastor and  therefore are entitled to summary judgment based on their affirmative defense  of compromise settlement.  In Hodroj,  the attorney for a passenger injured in a vehicle accident (Hodroj) informed  the driver’s insurance company (CSAA) that Hodroj would settle his claim for  bodily injuries in exchange for payment of the driver's insurance  policy limits, as long as certain conditions were fulfilled.  (Hodroj, supra, 72 Cal.App.5th  at p. 274.) “The conditions were that CSAA provide a copy of the face page of  the relevant insurance policy and a sworn declaration confirming the policy  limits; and deliver a check in the amount of the policy limits within 21 days  of acceptance of the offer. The offer noted CSAA could condition its acceptance  on Hodroj signing a written release of all bodily injury claims against CSAA's  insured. The offer was also conditioned on written acceptance within 21  days.”  (Id. at pp. 274-275.)  “Fifteen  days later, CSAA sent written acceptance of the offer. It stated, ‘We accept  your demand for settlement of this claim. We are tendering our insured's policy  limits of $100,000[.]’ Enclosed were a sworn declaration attesting to the  policy limits, and a written release of all claims to be signed by Hodroj.  A $100,000 check was sent separately, with the  proviso that it should not be presented until the release was signed.”  (Hodroj, supra, 72 Cal.App.5th  at p. 275.)  “The  next day, Hodroj reneged on the settlement. According to a letter from his  attorney to CSAA, the reason was ‘the release you required our client to sign  introduces significant and material new, additional and different terms and  conditions’ beyond the offer of settlement. Among them was that the release  required Hodroj to release all his claims, including for property damage,  whereas the settlement offer contemplated only claims for bodily injury.”  (Hodroj, supra, 72 Cal.App.5th  at p. 275.)  Hodroj later sued the driver  for injuries he sustained in the accident and property damage.  (Ibid.)  “CSAA  sued Hodroj for breach of contract, alleging his settlement offer and its  written acceptance in response created a binding agreement to settle the injury  claims, which Hodroj breached by suing the driver. Hodroj cross-complained for  declaratory relief confirming no binding contract between him and CSAA.” (Hodroj,  supra, 72 Cal.App.5th at p. 275.)   Both parties moved for summary judgment.   The trial court granted CSAA’s motion and denied Hodroj’s motion.  (Ibid.)  The  Court of Appeal affirmed.  The court  observed that “Hodroj contends CSAA's purported acceptance was actually a  counteroffer he was free to reject because it included a request that he sign a  written release containing different terms than were in his settlement offer”  while “CSAA argues that a binding contract was formed when it accepted Hodroj's  offer to settle his claim for the insurance policy limits and fulfilled all  conditions stated in the offer, and the written release was simply an effort to  reduce the terms of the agreement to a formal writing.”  (Hodroj, supra, 72 Cal.App.5th  at p. 276.)   To  resolve the dispute, the court relied on “[a] well-established principle of  contract law . . . .: when parties agree on the material terms of a contract  with the intention to later reduce it to a formal writing, failure to complete  the formal writing does not negate the existence of the initial contract.”  (Hodroj, supra, 72 Cal.App.5th  at p. 276, citing Harris v. Rudin, Richman & Appel (1999) 74  Cal.App.4th 299, 307; Banner Entertainment, Inc. v. Superior Court  (1998) 62 Cal.App.4th 348, 358.) “If the parties do not agree on the content of  the formal writing (for example because one party wants to include something  not agreed on in the first place, as Hodroj says happened here), the proposed  writing is not a counteroffer; rather, the initial agreement remains binding  and a rejected writing is a nullity.” (Ibid., citing American  Aeronautics Corp. v. Grand Central Aircraft Co. (1957) 155 Cal.App.2d 69,  82; Khajavi v. Feather River Anesthesia Medical Group (2000) 84  Cal.App.4th 32, 61.)   “Given  that rule, the propriety of the summary judgment here comes down to one  question: Would a reasonable person looking at the parties' communications  think they intended to be bound by a settlement agreement that would later be  reduced to a more formal writing?” (Hodroj, supra,  72 Cal.App.5th at p. 276, citing Beard v. Goodrich (2003) 110  Cal.App.4th 1031, 1038 [contract formation is governed by objective standards;  the test is what the outward manifestations of consent would lead a reasonable  person to believe].) The Court of Appeal concluded that “the communications  between Hodroj's lawyer and CSAA reflect a settlement which could be later  memorialized in a formal writing. No reasonable trier of fact would find  otherwise.”  (Ibid.)  “That  the proposed document contained terms materially different from what had been  agreed to does not change the binding effect of the initial agreement. Hodroj  was under no obligation to sign a release that was inconsistent what he agreed  to. But a proposed writing that does not accurately reflect the terms of an  agreement does not unwind the entire deal. The contract formed by the parties'  offer, acceptance, and consideration is still enforceable. Hodroj breached the  contract here by filing suit on the bodily injury claims he had agreed to  settle. (Hodroj, supra, 72 Cal.App.5th at p. 277.)  “The  rule that a proposed writing containing terms different than those agreed on  does not render the initial agreement unenforceable is desirable from a policy  perspective. “ ‘ “ ‘Any other rule would always permit a party who has entered  into a contract like this, through letters ... to violate it, whenever the  understanding was that it should be reduced to another written form, by simply  suggesting other and additional terms and conditions. If this were the rule the  contract would never be completed in cases where, by changes in the market, or  other events occurring subsequent to the written negotiations, it became the  interest of either party to adopt that course in order to escape or evade  obligations incurred in the ordinary course of commercial business.’ ” ’ ” (Hodroj,  supra, 72 Cal.App.5th at pp. 277-278, quoting Stephan v. Maloof  (1969) 274 Cal.App.2d 843, 848–849.)  2.    Hodroj is  distinguishable  In Hodroj,  the Court of Appeal concluded that “no reasonable trier of fact” would disagree  that “the communications between Hodroj’s lawyer and CSAA reflect a settlement  which could later be memorialized in a formal writing.”  (Hodroj, supra, 72 Cal.App.5th  at p. 277.)  “That the proposed [formal  document memorializing the settlement terms] contained terms materially  different from what had been agreed to does not change the binding effect of  the initial agreement.”  (Ibid.)  Here,  however, a reasonable trier of fact could conclude either that (1) the parties did not enter into an enforceable settlement agreement or that (2) the settlement agreement conditioned enforcement on Pastor's acceptance of AAA's policy limit tender and "wet" signature of the release.  As noted, the January 11, 2021 settlement demand letter conditioned settlement on Pastor’s “acceptance of  [AAA’s] tender of policy limits” (exh. D, p. 13) and specified that “[t]here is  no binding contract without my client’s final approval through a wet signature  on a release.”  (Exh. D, p. 13.)  Defendants  have presented no evidence that Pastor accepted AAA’s tender of policy limits  or gave final approval of a settlement by signing a release.  Defendants  contend that Pastor agreed to the “material terms” of the settlement.  The materiality of the conditions requiring  Pastor’s acceptance and approval is a triable issue of fact.    The Court denies the motion.  CONCLUSION  The  Court DENIES the motion for summary judgment filed by Defendants Birendra Dutt and  Uplander Properties, LLC.  Moving  parties are ordered to give notice of this ruling.  Moving  parties are ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court  within five days.