 Case Number:  23STCV15772    Hearing Date:   September 11, 2024    Dept:  28 Having  considered the moving and opposition papers, the Court rules as follows.  BACKGROUND  On  July 6, 2023, Plaintiffs Bertha Alcantara, Allison  Arellano-Alcantara, a minor through and by her guardian ad litem Bertha  Alcantara, and Ashley Arellano-Alcantara, a minor through and by her guardian  ad litem Bertha Alcantara, filed this action against Defendants Garfield Mission  Apartments, LLC (“Defendant”) and Does 1-25 for general negligence, premises  liability, and breach of contract.  On  November 2, 2023, the Court appointed Bertha Alcantara to serve as guardian ad  litem for Plaintiff Allison  Arellano-Alcantara.  On  November 21, 2023, the Court appointed  Bertha Alcantara to serve as guardian ad litem for Plaintiff Ashley Arellano-Alcantara.  On  July 1, 2024, Defendant filed a petition to compel arbitration and motion to  stay litigation pending arbitration.  The  petition and motion were set for hearing on August 14, 2024. On August 1, 2024, Plaintiffs filed an  opposition.  Defendant did not file a reply.  The Court continued the hearing on the motion to September 11,  2024.  Trial  is currently scheduled for January 2, 2025.  PARTIES’ REQUESTS  Defendant  asks the Court to compel arbitration and stay the litigation pending arbitration.  Plaintiffs  ask the Court to deny the petition and motion.  LEGAL STANDARD  “A  written agreement to submit to arbitration an existing controversy or a  controversy thereafter arising is valid, enforceable, and irrevocable, save  upon such grounds as exist for the rescission of any contract.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.)  DISCUSSION    A.   Plaintiffs’ complaint  The  complaint alleges the following:  On  July 9, 2021, Plaintiff Bertha Alcantara (“Alcantara”) and her two daughters,  Allison Arellano-Alcantara and Ashley Arellano-Alcantara, were in their  apartment located at 804 N. Garfield Avenue, Apt. 23, Montebello, CA 90640.  Alcantara  heard a loud noise and saw the roof of her apartment collapse.  Alcantara's  daughters were sitting on their beds when the roof collapsed.  In  an attempt to aid her daughters, Alcantara jumped over a piece of roof in the  middle of the room, injuring her knee.  Alcantara’s  daughters were also injured in the collapse.  Alcantara  immediately notified Defendant’s manager.   Alcantara also called the Fire Department, which arrived a few minutes  later. The Fire Department instructed Plaintiffs that the apartment was unsafe  and Plaintiffs should stay at another location.  Defendant told Plaintiffs to sleep in the  living room while the bedroom was being fixed.   Plaintiffs slept in the living room until the bedroom was fixed.  Defendant  controls, maintains, and manages Plaintiffs’ apartment.  Defendant failed to give notice to its  tenants about the dangerous condition, failed to take reasonable care of the  roof, and failed to ensure its repair and condition.  The  accident and injuries were foreseeable.  Defendant  breached its duty to Plaintiffs by negligently failing to maintain the roof of Plaintiffs’  apartment.  As a  result of Defendant's negligence, Plaintiffs suffered and continue to suffer damages  including pain and suffering, psychological and mental distress, sleeplessness,  headaches, anxiety, paranoia, nervousness, and fatigue. Plaintiffs also incurred  medical expenses and related out-of-pocket expenses.  Defendant  told Plaintiffs that they would not have to pay rent due to the incident but  evicted Plaintiffs on July 28, 2022.   Defendant breached its contract in allowing Plaintiffs to live at the  apartment without paying rent and then later evicting them.   B.   Defendant’s petition to compel arbitration  Defendant  asserts that, in 2017, Alcantara signed a lease in which she agreed to arbitrate “any dispute between the parties arising  from or relating to a claim for personal injury, which is directly or indirectly  related to, or arising from a condition of the leased premises or common areas,  or any event thereon . . . .”   (Capitalization omitted.)  Plaintiffs  have refused Defendant’s requests to submit their claims to arbitration.  Defendant asks the Court to compel  arbitration under the terms of the lease agreement.  Plaintiffs  oppose the motion, citing Williams v. 3620 W. 102nd St., Inc. (2020) 53  Cal.App.5th 1087 (Williams).)   In Williams, the Court of Appeal held that arbitration agreements  in residential leases violated state public policy under California law where the  tenants sued the landlords “for harms based on conditions inside their  apartments and in common areas.”  (Id.  at p. 1092.)  Defendant  has not attempted to distinguish Williams.  The Court concludes that Williams is binding  here.  The decision’s reasoning invalidates the arbitration agreement on  which Defendant relies.  The  Court denies Defendant's petition and motion.  CONCLUSION  The  Court DENIES Defendant Garfield Mission Apartments, LLC’s petition to compel  arbitration and motion to stay litigation pending arbitration.  Moving  party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.  Moving  party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court  within five days.