 Case Number:  22STCV37471    Hearing Date:   September 11, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers, the Court rules as
follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
November 30, 2022, Plaintiff Carlos Montalva
(“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendants J.B. Hunt Transport Services,
Inc., Unix Packaging, LLC (“Unix”), and Does 1-20 for negligence and premises
liability.  (Case number 22STCV37471.) 
On
January 12, 2023, Defendants J.B. Hunt Transport, Inc. (erroneously sued as
J.B. Hunt Transport Services, Inc.) (“Hunt”) filed an answer. 
On
September 25, 2023, the Court granted the parties’ stipulated request to permit
the filing of a first amended complaint. 
On
December 1, 2023, Unix filed an answer to the first amended complaint. On
December 4, 2023, Hunt filed an answer to the first amended complaint. 
On
August 16, 2024, Plaintiff filed a motion to consolidate.  The motion was set for hearing on September
11, 2024. On August 27, 2024, Hunt filed an opposition. On September 4, 2024,
Plaintiff filed a reply.  Also on September
4, 2024, Defendant Mary Atiya (“Atiya”) filed an opposition. 
Trial
is current scheduled for March 5, 2025. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Plaintiff
asks the Court to consolidate this case with Case No. 23STCV11554, entitled
Carlos Montalva v. Mary Atiya. 
Hunt
and Antiya ask the Court to deny the motion. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
          Code of Civil Procedure section 1048, subdivision (a),
provides: 
“(a) When actions involving a common question of law
or fact are pending before the court, it may order a joint hearing or trial of
any or all the matters in issue in the actions; it may order all the actions
consolidated and it may make such orders concerning proceedings therein as may
tend to avoid unnecessary costs or delay.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1048,
subd. (a).) 
California
Rules of Court, rule 3.350(a), provides: 
“(a) Requirements of motion 
“(1)  A notice
of motion to consolidate must: 
“(A)  List all
named parties in each case, the names of those who have appeared, and the names
of their respective attorneys of record; 
“(B)  Contain
the captions of all the cases sought to be consolidated, with the lowest
numbered case shown first; and 
“(C)  Be filed
in each case sought to be consolidated. 
“(2)  The motion
to consolidate: 
“(A)  Is deemed
a single motion for the purpose of determining the appropriate filing fee, but
memorandums, declarations, and other supporting papers must be filed only in
the lowest numbered case; 
“(B)  Must be
served on all attorneys of record and all nonrepresented parties in all of the
cases sought to be consolidated; and 
“(C)  Must have
a proof of service filed as part of the motion.” 
(Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.350(a).) 
Los
Angeles County Superior Court Local Rule 3.3(g) provides: “(1) Cases may not be
consolidated unless they are in the same department. A motion to consolidate
two or more cases may be noticed and heard after the cases, initially filed in
different departments, have been related into a single department, or if the cases
were already assigned to that department. (2) Upon consolidation of cases, the
first filed case will be the lead case, unless otherwise ordered by the court.
After consolidation, all future papers to be filed in the consolidated case
must be filed only in the case designated as the lead case. (3) Before
consolidation of a limited case with an unlimited case, the limited case must
be reclassified as an unlimited case and the reclassification fee paid.” 
DISCUSSION 
The cases
Plaintiff wishes to consolidate have not been related into the same
Department.  In addition, Plaintiff did
not file a notice of motion to consolidate in case number 23STCV11554. 
The
Court denies the motion. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court DENIES Plaintiff Carlos Montalva’s motion to consolidate. 
          Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.