  Case Number:  20STCV32667    Hearing Date:   November 2, 2023    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  VITO ANTHONY DERASMO, Plaintiff(s),  vs.  HOUSE OF HAYDEN, INC., ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 20STCV32667  [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: (1) MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER and (2) MOTION TO DEEM REQUESTS FOR ADMISSION ADMITTED  Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  November 2, 2023   I. Background Defendant House of Hayden, Inc. (“Defendant”) moves the Court for an order compelling Plaintiff Vito Anthony Derasmo (“Plaintiff”) to provide further responses to Defendant’s special interrogatory, set one, requests nos. 1, 2, 7-10, 28-32, 34, 36, 37, 38, 42, 45, 47, 48, and 62-70. Further, Defendant moves for an order deeming admitted requests for admission (“RFA”), set one, admitted against Plaintiff on the grounds that Plaintiff did not respond to requests 3, 4, 6, 7, 8, 11, 13, 16, 20 and 21. Plaintiff opposes the motions. Defendant did not file any reply.   II. Motion to Deem Request for Admissions Admitted Defendant served Plaintiff its RFAs, set one, on March 1, 2023. After numerous extensions, with April 24, 2023 being the ultimate due date, Plaintiff served unverified responses to RFA on April 24, 2023. Plaintiff’s counsel provides that Plaintiff’s supplemental responses to RFA, set one, were served on Defendant on August 28, 2023. (Treystman Decl. ¶ 9.) On August 29, 2023, defense counsel acknowledged receipt of the supplemental responses. (Id. at ¶ 10.) Where a party fails to timely respond to a request for admission, the propounding party may move for an order that the genuineness of any documents and the truth of any matters specified in the requests be deemed admitted.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (b).) The court shall grant a motion to deem admitted requests for admissions, “unless it finds that the party to whom the requests for admission have been directed has served, before the hearing on the motion, a proposed response to the requests for admission that is in substantial compliance with Section 2033.220.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (c).) Plaintiff responded to Defendant’s RFA, and it appears that Defendant seeks further responses as to requests 3, 4, 6, 7, 8, 11, 13, 16, 20 and 21. Additionally, Defendant’s instant motion, reserved as a motion to compel further discovery responses, is premised upon RFA responses served on April 24, 2023. Although Plaintiff did not provide a copy of the supplemental responses served on August 28, 2023, the fact that responses were served at all renders the instant motion to deem RFA admitted moot.  For any further responses sought, Defendant must file a motion to compel further and participate in an Informal Discovery Conference (“IDC”) as a prerequisite for the motion to be heard.  III. Motion to Compel Further - IDC Per the Eight Amended Standing Order for Procedures in the Personal Injury Hub Courts effective October 10, 2022 (Filed September 20, 2022), ¶ 9E, “PI Hub Courts will not hear Motions to Compel Further Discovery Responses to Discovery until the parties have engaged in an Informal Discovery Conference (IDC). PI Hub Courts may deny or continue a Motion to Compel Further Responses to Discovery if parties fail to schedule and complete an IDC before the scheduled hearing on a Motion to Compel Further Responses to Discovery.” Additionally, “Reserving or scheduling an IDC does not extend the time to file a Motion to Compel Further Discovery Responses.” (Ibid.) The purpose of an IDC is to avoid the necessity of a motion to compel, or to at least reduce its scope. The Eight Amended Standing Order further provides that parties are encouraged to stipulate to extend the deadline for filing a motion to compel further by 60 days to allow time to participate in an IDC and to informally resolve pending discovery issues.  Plaintiff’s counsel’s declaration provides that Plaintiff served supplemental responses to Defendant’s special interrogatories, set one, on October 20, 2023. (Treystman Decl. ¶ 9.) Plaintiff did not provide a copy of the supplemental responses, and therefore it is unclear whether the supplemental responses at issue, namely requests nos. 1, 2, 7-10, 28-32, 34, 36, 37, 38, 42, 45, 47, 48, and 62-70, were addressed.  Nevertheless, as Defendant did not schedule an IDC prior to its motion being heard, Defendant’s motion is premature and must be continued to a new date. Plaintiff’s counsel provides that on August 24, 2023, they emailed defense counsel requesting an IDC date and asked whether Defendant would be continuing its motion so that an IDC could be completed. (Treystman Decl. ¶ 8.) Plaintiff’s counsel advised defense counsel that Plaintiff would stipulate to any necessary continuances or notice requirements to comply with the Court’s IDC requirements. (Ibid.) Defense counsel agreed to continue the motion, but no IDC has been scheduled to date. (Ibid.) The parties are ordered to participate in an Informal Discovery Conference (“IDC”) as required by the Court’s Standing Order Re: PI Court Procedures. Moving Party is ordered to use the online reservation management system to schedule an IDC, which must go forward per the terms set forth in the Standing Order. Moving Party is also ordered to continue the Hearing on Motion to Compel Further Discovery Responses using the online reservation management system, at least 3 weeks after the IDC. The Court is hopeful the hearing on the motions to compel further will not be necessary. If the parties are unable to resolve all outstanding issues at the IDC, the parties must submit a joint statement of items in dispute at least two weeks prior to the continued hearing date. The joint statement must be a single document, with analysis by both parties, addressing each remaining issue. The Court declines to award any sanctions at this time.   Moving party is ordered to give notice.  PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 1st day of November 2023      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court   