  Case Number:  23AHCV01863    Hearing Date:   November 18, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



JESSICA AUSTIN, 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
CITY OF
   PASADENA,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
  )
  )


     CASE NO.:  23AHCV01863
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEFENDANT’S MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO FORM
   INTERROGATORIES - GENERAL (SET ONE); REQUEST FOR SANCTIONS
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
November
   18, 2024




 


)


 



On June 13, 2024, defendant City of
Pasadena (“Defendant”) filed four motions for orders compelling plaintiff
Jessica Austin (“Plaintiff”) to serve further responses to Form Interrogatories
– Employment (Set One), Requests for Production of Documents (Set One), Requests
for Admission (Set One), and Form Interrogatories – General (Set One). The
motion before the Court concerns Form Interrogatories – General (Set One)
(“FROG”) Nos. 1.1 through 2.13, 6.1 through 6.7, 8.1 through 9.2, 10.2 through
12.6, 13.1 through 14.2, 17.1, and 50.1-50.6. 
Plaintiff filed an opposition brief on
November 4, 2024. Defendant filed a reply brief on November 8, 2024. 
As an initial matter, Plaintiff objects
to Defendant’s definition of the term “INCIDENT”, which is defined twice.
(Opp., p. 8.) Defendant’s definition of “INCIDENT” is clarified in its moving
papers to mean, “Any alleged violation of Plaintiff's rights by or through any
purported act of discipline, termination, or other adverse employment action,
including any Internal Affairs investigation, reprimand, retaliation, and
harassment, or violation of law committed by or attributable to the City of
Pasadena.” (Casarrubias-Gonzalez Decl., Ex. F, Section 4(a)(2).) Given this
clarification, Plaintiff’s objection on this ground is OVERRULED. 
However, Plaintiff also objects to the
Form Interrogatories on the grounds that Defendant failed to first file a Pitchess
motion pursuant to Penal Code § 832.7 and Evidence Code §§ 1043, 1045. Evidence
Code §§ 1043 and 1045 protect Plaintiff from disclosing “peace or custodial
officer personnel records [defined in Penal Code section 832.8] or records maintained
pursuant to Section 832.5 of the Penal Code or information from those records.”
(Evid. Code, § 1043.) The Court agrees that to the extent Defendant’s requests
seek information contained within Plaintiff’s personnel records – as defined in
the Penal Code – Plaintiff’s objections are sustained. Moreover, based on Defendant’s
definition of “INCIDENT”, the information sought by many of these form
interrogatories are therefore protected. Accordingly, Defendant’s motion is
GRANTED only as to Form Interrogatories Nos. 1.1, 2.1, 2.2, 2.5, 2.7, 2.8, 2.9,
and 2.10, which seek information not created as part of Plaintiff’s personnel
file. Plaintiff is ordered to serve further responses, without objections,
within 20 days.
Last, Plaintiff objects to Defendant’s
Form Interrogatory Nos. 50.1-50.6 on the grounds that they are only relevant to
causes of action based on a breach of contract and thus are irrelevant in the
context of public employment. (Opp., p. 8.) The Court disagrees that these
interrogatories are only relevant to actions involving breach of contract
claims. Nevertheless, because any employment agreement between Plaintiff and
Defendant necessarily includes information found in Plaintiff’s personnel file,
the Court sustains Plaintiff’s objection based on the Pitchess statutes
and Defendant’s motion is DENIED as to FROG Nos. 50.1-50.6. 
As for sanctions, Plaintiff explains
that in November 2024, after the Court ruled on Defendant’s previous three
motions to compel further responses, which raised similar issues regarding the Pitchess
statutes, Plaintiff’s counsel attempted to meet and confer and enter into a
protective order. (Opp., p. 3; Ex. 6.) Defense counsel stated that Defendant
would consider withdrawing this motion if Plaintiff proposed a protective order,
ignoring the fact that Plaintiff sent such a proposed order on June 11, 2024,
and that Defendant rejected it on June 24, 2024. (Ibid.)  
Notably, Defendant makes no mention of
this exchange in its reply brief, other than to say that “the parties were
unable to come to agreement.” (Reply Taniguchi Decl., ¶ 2.) Defense counsel
states that Defendant is preparing a Pitchess motion and “intends to
file [it] in due course.” 
Given Defendant’s refusal to withdraw
this motion despite acknowledging the necessity of the Pitchess procedure,
as well as Plaintiff’s refusal to supplement responses to provide clearly
unprotected information, the Court finds that both parties acted with
substantial justification in making and opposing this motion. Accordingly, no
sanctions are imposed. 
Moving party to give notice. 
Dated
this 18th
day of November, 2024
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 