 Case Number:  24NNCV00981    Hearing Date:   November 18, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



JANE S. DOE, 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
CHARLES
   CHUNHUA HUANG, et al.,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  24NNCV00981
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION TO SEAL COURT RECORDS 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
November
   18, 2024




 


)


 



 
On October 11, 2024, plaintiff Jane Doe
(“Plaintiff”) filed this motion for an order sealing portions of the
Declaration of Devon E. Porter (“Porter Declaration.”). The Porter Declaration
was filed by defendants Charles Chunhua Huang, Pasaca Capital, Inc., Pasaca
Capital, LLC, and Lina Tullberg (collectively, “Defendants”) in support of their
motion to compel arbitration. Plaintiff specifically moves to seal the portions
of the Porter Declaration and its attached exhibits which contain her name. 
The Court may order that a record be
filed under seal only if it finds that (1) there is an overriding interest that
overcomes the right of public access to the record, (2) the overriding interest
supports sealing the record, (3) a substantial probability exists that the
overriding interest will be prejudiced absent sealing, (4) the proposed sealing
is narrowly tailored, and (5) no less restrictive means exists to achieve the
overriding interest. (California Rules of Court, rule 2.550(d).) A motion
seeking an order sealing records must be accompanied by a declaration
containing facts sufficient to justify the sealing.  (California Rules of Court, rule
2.551(b)(1).)
Plaintiff declares that this action
states various actions including sexual battery, sex trafficking, gender
violence, sexual harassment, retaliation, negligent supervision/retention, and
intentional and negligent infliction of emotional distress. Plaintiff alleges
she was sexually abused over the course of two years and that she filed this
lawsuit under a pseudonym to protect her privacy. She states that her privacy
interests would be threatened if her name is disclosed because of the extremely
private, sensitive, and shocking allegations contained in the complaint. 
In NBC Subsidiary (KNBC-TV), Inc. v.
Superior Court (1999) 20 Cal.4th 1178, 1217-1218, the California Supreme
Court provided examples of overriding interests, which include protection of
victims of sex crimes from further trauma and embarrassment, privacy interests
of a prospective juror during individual voir dire, and protection of witnesses
from embarrassment or intimidation so extreme that it would traumatize them or
render them unable to testify. (NBC, supra, 20 Cal.4th at
p. 1222, fn. 46.) Thus, the Court finds that Plaintiff possesses an overriding
privacy interest that overcomes the right of public access to the record and
will be prejudiced absent sealing. Furthermore, since Plaintiff only seeks to seal
her identity from the public record, the proposed redaction of her name is
narrowly tailored and there are no less restrictive means to protect
Plaintiff’s anonymity. 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s motion to seal
is GRANTED and the Clerk is ordered to file the unredacted lodged copy of the
Porter Declaration under seal. 
Dated
this 18th
day of November, 2024
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 