Here is a summary of the Judge's Tentative Ruling in YAML format:

```
Case Number: 21STCV02421
Plaintiff's Name: Fredy Vera Corona
Defendant's Name: Exquisite Apparel Corp. and Affluent Staffing, LLC
People-Names: Fredy Vera Corona, Michael D. Young (mediator)
Company-Names: Exquisite Apparel Corp., Affluent Staffing, LLC
Places: California, Los Angeles
Dates: January 20, 2021, March 16, 2023, August 1, 2024, October 15, 2024
Events: Filing of complaint, mediation, settlement negotiations
Money: $450,000 (settlement amount), $20,000 (enhancement award), $225,000 (PAGA counsel fees)
Intentions: Plaintiff seeks approval of PAGA settlement and determination of good faith settlement
Facts: Plaintiff and Exquisite Apparel Corp. agreed to settle the action as to Exquisite Apparel Corp. only; Plaintiff previously moved for approval of PAGA settlement, which was denied; Plaintiff now moves again for approval of PAGA settlement and determination of good faith settlement
Disputes: Plaintiff's motion for approval of PAGA settlement is opposed; Plaintiff's motion for determination of good faith settlement is unopposed
Acts: Plaintiff filed complaint, Exquisite Apparel Corp. agreed to settle, Plaintiff and Exquisite Apparel Corp. participated in mediation
Agreements: Amended Settlement Agreement, proposed order
Laws: Private Attorneys General Act of 2004, Code of Civil Procedure section 877.6, Labor Code section 2699
Case Citations: Dunk v. Ford Motor Co. (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 1794, Tech-Bilt, Inc. v. Woodward-Clyde & Associates (1985) 38 Cal.3d 488, Irm Corp. v. Carlson (1986) 179 Cal.App.3d 94
Statutes: Labor Code section 2699, subdivision (c)(1), Code of Civil Procedure section 877.6, subdivision (a)(1)
Roles: Plaintiff (Fredy Vera Corona), Defendant (Exquisite Apparel Corp.), PAGA Counsel (Alami), Mediator (Michael D. Young)
Significant Statements:
* The Court notes that though there is no statutory or common law standard for approval of a PAGA settlement, the standard used for approval of class action settlements is instructive.
* The Court finds that the unopposed motion describes the background of this case, details the nature of the proposed settlement, and provides sufficient reasoning as to why the settlement was reached in good faith.
* The Court grants Plaintiff's amended motion for determination of good faith settlement.
* The Court denies Plaintiff's amended motion for approval of PAGA settlement, without prejudice.
```

Here is a summary of the Judge's Tentative Ruling in English text:

The Judge has made a tentative ruling in this case, which is a dispute over a proposed settlement between the Plaintiff, Fredy Vera Corona, and the Defendant, Exquisite Apparel Corp. The Plaintiff has filed a motion for approval of the settlement and for a determination of good faith settlement. The Defendant has agreed to settle the action as to Exquisite Apparel Corp. only, and the Plaintiff has now moved again for approval of the settlement and determination of good faith settlement.

The Judge has reviewed the proposed settlement agreement and has identified several defects, including the lack of a definition of "aggrieved employee" in accordance with Labor Code section 2699, subdivision (c)(1), and the lack of a reasonable percentage of attorney's fees. The Judge has also noted that the proposed order references a "release of claims by the LWDA, Plaintiff, and all Aggrieved Employees Against Defendant Exquisite Only," which is unclear.

The Judge has considered the factors set forth in Code of Civil Procedure section 877.6, subdivision (a)(1), in determining whether the settlement was made in good faith. The Judge has found that the settlement was reached through arm's length negotiations between the settling parties and that all indications are that the settlement was reached as a result of a good faith settlement.

The Judge has granted the Plaintiff's amended motion for determination of good faith settlement, but has denied the Plaintiff's amended motion for approval of PAGA settlement, without prejudice. The Judge has ordered the Plaintiff to provide notice of this ruling.