 Case Number:  21STCV46946    Hearing Date:   February 2, 2024    Dept:  50  
 
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department
50
 



JANE DOE, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
RAMY ELIAS, M.D., et
  al.,
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


21STCV46946




Hearing Date:


February 2, 2024




Hearing
  Time:   10:00 a.m. 
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE:
 
PLAINTIFF JANE
  DOE AND DEFENDANTS RAMY ELIAS, M.D., RAMY ELIAS, M.D., INC., AFSHIN A.
  MASHOOF, M.D., INC., CENTER FOR ADVANCED ORTHOPEDICS AND SPORTS MEDICINE,
  INC., AND CERRITOS SURGERY CENTER, LLC’S MOTION TO CONTINUE THE TRIAL DATE
  AND ALL RELATED TRIAL DATES, INCLUDING DISCOVERY CUT-OFFS




AND RELATED CROSS-ACTIONS


 



            
 
Background
Plaintiff Jane Doe (“Plaintiff”) filed this action on December 23,
2021 against Defendants Ramy
Elias, M.D. (“Elias”); Ramy Elias, M.D., Inc.; Center for Advanced Orthopedics and Sports Medicine, LLC;
Cerritos Surgery Center, LLC; Afshin A. Mashoof, M.D., Inc.; Lakewood
Orthopaedic Surgical and Medical Group (“Lakewood”); E.W. Wassef, M.D., Inc. (“E.W. Wassef”); CCNI Incorporated (“CCNI”); and Andrew Wassef, M.D., Inc. (“Andrew
Wassef”). 

            On
November 29, 2022, Plaintiff filed the operative Second Amended Complaint, asserting
causes of action for (1) sexual battery in violation of Civil
Code § 1708.5, (2) battery, (3) domestic violence in violation of Civil Code § 1708.6, (4) assault, (5) sexual harassment, (6) gender
and sex discrimination in violation of Government Code § 12940(A), (7)
gender violence (Civil Code § 52.4), (8) sexual
harassment by a physician (Civil Code §§ 51.9, 52), (9)
professional negligence/medical malpractice, (10) failure
to prevent discrimination and harassment, (11) violation of Bane Act, (12)
unlawful retaliation in violation of Labor Code §1102.5,
(13) violation of Labor Code § 230(f), (14)
fraud, and (15) intentional infliction of emotional distress.
On March 7, 2022,
Elias filed a Cross-Complaint against a number of Cross-Defendants. On December 5, 2022, Elias filed the operative Second
Amended Cross-Complaint, asserting causes of action for (1) fraud, (2)
attempted extortion, (3) slander per se, (4) conversion, (5) intentional
infliction of emotional distress, and (6) conspiracy to commit fraud.¿¿ 
On June 12, 2023,
Lakewood, E.W.
Wassef, CCNI, and Andrew
Wassef filed a Cross-Complaint against Elias and Ramy Elias, M.D., Inc.,
asserting causes of action for (1) express indemnity and (2) equitable
indemnity. 
The trial date in this
action is currently set for March 6, 2024. 
Plaintiff and Elias,
Ramy Elias, M.D., Inc., Afshin A. Mashoof, M.D., Inc., Center for Advanced
Orthopedics and Sports Medicine, Inc., and Cerritos Surgery Center, LLC
(collectively, the “Moving Parties”) now move for a “continuance of the trial
date for the instant action from March 6, 2024 to July 22, 2024 or to a date as
soon thereafter as is feasible for hearing based on the court’s calendar and
the schedule of the parties’ counsel.” Lakewood, E.W. Wassef, CCNI, and Andrew
Wassef (collectively, the “Lakewood Defendants”) oppose. 
Discussion
“The court may grant a
continuance only on an affirmative showing of good cause requiring the
continuance.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332, subd.
(c).) “In ruling on a motion or application for continuance, the court must
consider all the facts and circumstances that are relevant to the
determination.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332, subd.
(d).) 
The Moving Parties assert
that here, good cause exists for a continuance of the trial. 
In his supporting declaration, Plaintiff’s counsel states that “[a]s
part of gathering documents in preparation for trial in this matter, I have
tried to obtain Plaintiff’s medical records from all of her therapists and
medical providers. I have not succeeded in obtaining all of her records,
however, despite multiple inquiries, from the medical school she currently
attends. I need Plaintiff’s complete medical records to proceed with this case
but the discovery cutoff window for the March 6, 2024 trial in this action is
rapidly approaching and I do not have all of her records despite promises by
her medical school to send me all of her records.” (Okadigbo Decl., ¶ 3.)
Plaintiff’s counsel states that “Plaintiff will want the opportunity to
introduce and rely on all of her medical records that bear on her damages
claims in this matter, including records that have not yet been produced by her
medical school.” (Okadigbo Decl., ¶ 4.) 
The Moving Parties note that circumstances
that may indicate good cause for a trial continuance include “[a] party’s
excused inability to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other material
evidence despite diligent efforts.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332, subd. (c)(6).) 
Plaintiff’s counsel further states that “[i]n email communications
with counsel for Ramy Elias, M.D., Tina Starr, on or about November 30, 2023,
Ms. Starr conveyed to me that Defendant Ramy Elias’ counsel…will not be able to
complete the deposition of Plaintiff without all of her medical records. As
such, Plaintiff’s deposition remains to be completed and will not be completed
prior to the close of discovery if obtaining all of her records remains a
condition for the completion of her deposition.” (Okadigbo Decl., ¶ 4.) The
Moving Parties assert that “[a]s such, good cause further exists in that the
inability to complete Plaintiff’s deposition due to not possessing Plaintiff’s
medical records constitutes a ‘significant, unanticipated change in the status
of the case as a result of which the case is not ready for trial’ under Rule 3.1332(c)(7) of the California Rules
of Court.” (Mot. at p. 3:20-24.)[1]
In their opposition to the instant motion, the
Lakewood Defendants assert that “Plaintiff has delayed completing her
production of the requested documents for nearly two years based on an
unsupported and unbelievable contention that Plaintiff is ‘unable’ to obtain
her own medical records. Plaintiff has provided no evidence of ‘best efforts’
to secure the information.” (Opp’n at p. 3:18-20, emphasis omitted.) But as set
forth above, Plaintiff’s counsel states in his declaration under penalty of
perjury that he has “tried to obtain Plaintiff’s medical records from all of
her therapists and medical providers,” and that he has “not succeeded in
obtaining all of her records, however, despite multiple inquiries, from the
medical school she currently attends.” (Okadigbo Decl., ¶ 3.) 
            In his declaration in support of the
motion, Plaintiff’s counsel also states that “[r]ecently, the parties have also
agreed to participate in a mediation, hopeful that the case will resolve
without the need for trial. Towards this end, the parties have agreed to a
mediator – Sharyl Garza of the Garza Firm - and to a mediation date of February
1, 2024.” (Okadigbo Decl., ¶ 5.) Plaintiff’s counsel asserts that “the parties
need to have the trial date continued until at least July 22, 2024 to allow
them to participate in mediation without the concern of having to increase
their litigation costs and expenses by conducting depositions prior to the
discovery cutoff and, thereby, potentially increasing the costs of settlement
prohibitively.” (Ibid.) The Moving Parties
assert that “[g]ood cause further exists in that settlement between the parties
has a greater prospect of achievement if the parties are able to suspend the
incurrence of further litigation costs and expenses by refraining from conducting
further depositions and discovery related matters while focusing on settlement
efforts.” (Mot. at p. 4:4-7.) This does not appear to be disputed by the
Lakewood Defendants
            Plaintiff’s counsel also states in
his supporting declaration that “I have tried over the past two months to
extract availability dates for several witness depositions, including Ramy
Elias, M.D., Ranya Elias (who Defendant Ramy Elias lists as a percipient
witness to his slander crossclaim against Plaintiff) and Stephanie Miramontes
(who they claimed they might represent). As of yet, Ramy Elias’ counsel has not
provided me availability dates for any of these depositions…If Plaintiff is not
able to depose these individuals, it would naturally put Plaintiff in a
detrimental position with respect to proceeding to trial.” (Okadigbo Decl., ¶
6.) 
            In the opposition, the Lakewood
Defendants assert that “[t]he parties already agreed, and the Court already
ordered, that depositions will be completed in February in advance of the March
trial date.” (Opp’n at p. 2:11-12.) The Lakewood Defendants note that on
January 11, 2024 a hearing was held on Plaintiff’s ex parte application for an
order shortening time on the hearing of the joint motion to continue trial
date. The Court’s January 11, 2024 minute order provides, inter alia,
that “[t]he Ex Parte Application Order Shortening Time for Hearing on Motion to
Continue Trial Date filed by Jane Doe on 01/10/2024 is Denied. The parties have
agreed to take the remaining depositions after the discovery cut-off and to
extend the expert designation date and the IME date to a mutually agreeable
date in February after the mediation.” 
            In the reply, Plaintiff counters
that “[g]ood cause exists to continue the trial date to enable the parties to
complete all remaining depositions without having to, at the same time, prepare
for trial in the roughly one-month window of time between the scheduled
mediation date of February 1, 2024 and the trial date of March 6, 2024.”
(Plaintiff’s Reply at p. 2:10-12.) Plaintiff also asserts in her reply that
“[w]hen the Court…entered in its order a plan for conducting all of these
depositions in February, Plaintiff’s counsel still could not anticipate that
counsel for all Defendants would be unable to provide enough availability dates
to accomplish completing all of the parties’ anticipated depositions. Plaintiff
will clearly suffer prejudice if the trial date is not continued due to being
hamstrung by the claimed unavailability of Elias’ counsel for depositions or by
their refusal to provide availability dates for the completion of the
depositions Plaintiff wishes to conduct.” (Reply at pp. 5:28-6:6.) 
            The Lakewood Defendants also assert in
the opposition that “[t]he backlog of remaining depositions is a problem of
Plaintiff’s own making.” (Opp’n at p. 3:3.) The Lakewood Defendants assert that
“[t]here is no reason why Plaintiff did not take the depositions sooner. This
case has been pending for 25 months since December 2021… If Plaintiff believed
the Elias Defendants were being obstructive, the proper course would have been
to set an IDC or to file a discovery motion well before the eve of trial.”
(Opp’n at p. 3:6-13, emphasis omitted.) The Lakewood Defendants note that California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1332, subdivision (b) provides, inter alia, that “[t]he party must make the motion or application as soon as
reasonably practical once the necessity for the continuance is discovered.” Plaintiff
argues in the reply that “contrary to the Lakewood Defendants’
assertions to the contrary, Plaintiff has been diligent in conducting
discovery. Thus far, Plaintiff has conducted the depositions of Dr. Ezzat
Wassef, the Managing Partner of Lakewood, and Dr. Afshin Mashoof, Defendant
Ramy Elias’ partner at the Center for Advanced Orthopedics and Sports Medicine
and Cerritos Surgery Center. Each time Plaintiff’s counsel has moved to conduct
additional depositions, he has been thwarted by counsel for the Elias
Defendants…” (Reply at p. 5:15-20.) 
            The Lakewood Defendants also assert
in the opposition that “[t]his case has been pending for over two years and
trial already has been continued,” and that “the Lakewood Defendants…will
continue to be saddled with increased legal expenses if the case is allowed to
drag on.” (Opp’n at p. 4:6-7, 4:16-17.) The Moving Parties acknowledge that “[t]he
parties have previously requested, and were granted, a continuance of the
initial trial date. As such, this is the second request for an extension in his
matter.” (Mot. at p. 2:24-25.) However, as noted by Plaintiff in her reply, “[a]lthough
the Lakewood Defendants maintain that they will prejudiced by having to wait
longer for trial, they have provided no evidence that they will incur
additional litigation costs or expenses they did not already stand to expend…”
(Reply at p. 6:11-14.) 
            Based on a
consideration of the arguments and evidence presented by the parties, the
Court finds that the Moving Parties have demonstrated good cause for a brief trial continuance.
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing,
the Moving Parties motion is granted.
The Court continues the
final status conference to ______________, at 10:00 a.m., in Dept. 50 and trial
to _____________, at 9:30 a.m., in Dept. 50. 
The trial readiness and exhibit binders must be lodged in Dept. 50 by 4
p.m. on _____________.
All discovery deadlines
are continued based on the new trial date. 
The Moving Parties are
ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
 
DATED:  February 2, 2024                            ________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court
 


