 Case Number:  24SMCV00025    Hearing Date:   October 18, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:             Prasad v. Nathan, et al. 
CASE NO.:                   24SMCV00025
MOTION:                     Demurrer to the First Amended
Complaint  
HEARING DATE:   10/18/2024
 
LEGAL STANDARD 
 
A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether
the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147
Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations
liberally and in context. In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be
apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice. (Donabedian
v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) A demurrer tests the
pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it
lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are
judicially noticed. (CCP §§ 430.30, 430.70.) At the pleading stage, a plaintiff
need only allege ultimate facts sufficient to apprise the defendant of the
factual basis for the claim against him. (Semole v. Sansoucie (1972) 28
Cal. App. 3d 714, 721.) A “demurrer does not, however, admit contentions,
deductions or conclusions of fact or law alleged in the pleading, or the
construction of instruments pleaded, or facts impossible in law.” (S. Shore
Land Co. v. Petersen (1964) 226 Cal.App.2d 725, 732, internal citations
omitted.) 
 
A special demurrer for uncertainty is
disfavored and will only be sustained where the pleading is so bad that
defendant cannot reasonably respond—i.e., cannot reasonably determine what
issues must be admitted or denied, or what counts or claims are directed
against him/her. (CCP § 430.10(f); Khoury v. Maly’s of Calif., Inc.
(1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.) Moreover, even if the pleading is somewhat
vague, “ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery procedures.” (Ibid.)  
 
“Liberality in permitting amendment is
the rule, if a fair opportunity to correct any defect has not been given.” (Angie
M. v. Superior Court (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1217, 1227.) It is an abuse of
discretion for the court to deny leave to amend where there is any reasonable
possibility that plaintiff can state a good cause of action. (Goodman v.
Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349.) The burden is on plaintiff to show¿in
what manner¿plaintiff can amend the complaint, and¿how¿that
amendment will change the legal effect of the pleading.¿(Id.) 
 
ANALYSIS
 
Defendants International
Church of Divine Awakening (“ICODA”), and its directors, Chase Thomas
(“Devaraj”), Manya Natan (“Manya”), and Michael Sletta (“Sletta”) (collectively
the “ICODA Defendants”) demurrer and move to strike Plaintiff Gyanmitra Prasad’s
First Amended Complaint (“FAC”). ICODA demurs to the 5th-12th causes of action.
Defendants Devaraj and Manya demur to the 10th-12th causes of action. Defendant
Sletta demurs to the 5th, 6th, and 9th-12th causes of action. 
 
On October
17, 2024, the Court granted Plaintiff’s ex parte application and exercises its
discretion to consider Plaintiff’s late filed opposition.
 
The Ministerial Exception
 
ICODA Defendants argue
that the ministerial exception bars all claims against them. 
Employment discrimination and wrongful
termination suits brought on behalf of a minister challenging a church’s
decision to fire them are barred by the so-called “ministerial exception.” (Hosanna-Tabor
Evangelical Lutheran Church & Sch. v. E.E.O.C., (2012) 565 U.S. 171,
196.) The Supreme Court has recently clarified the purpose of the ministerial
exception:
 
“The
First Amendment provides that ‘Congress shall make no law respecting an
establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof.’ Among
other things, the Religion Clauses protect the right of churches and other
religious institutions to decide matters ‘of faith and doctrine’ without
government intrusion. State interference in that sphere would obviously violate
the free exercise of religion, and any attempt by government to dictate or even
to influence such matters would constitute one of the central attributes of an
establishment of religion. The First Amendment outlaws such intrusion. 
 
The
independence of religious institutions in matters of ‘faith and doctrine’ is
closely linked to independence in what we have termed ‘matters of church
government.’ This does not mean that religious institutions enjoy a general
immunity from secular laws, but it does protect their autonomy with respect to
internal management decisions that are essential to the institution’s central
mission. And a component of this autonomy is the selection of the individuals
who play certain key roles. 
 
The
“ministerial exception” was based on this insight. Under this rule, courts are
bound to stay out of employment disputes involving those holding certain
important positions with churches and other religious institutions…. 
 
When
the so-called ministerial exception finally reached this Court in Hosanna-Tabor,
we unanimously recognized that the Religion Clauses foreclose certain
employment discrimination claims brought against religious organizations. The
constitutional foundation for our holding was the general principle of church
autonomy to which we have already referred: independence in matters of faith
and doctrine and in closely linked matters of internal government.” 
 
(Our Lady of Guadalupe School v.
Morrissey-Berru (2020) 591 U.S. 732, 746-748, internal citations omitted.)
 
Caselaw has defined the
ministerial exception defense as including the following elements: 1) the defendant-employer
is religious group; 2) the plaintiff-employee qualifies as a “minister;” and 3)
the claim turns “on an ecclesiastical inquiry or ‘excessive[ly] entangle[s]’
the court in religious matters.” (Sumner v. Simpson University,
(2018) 27 Cal.App.5th 577, 580, citing Hosanna-Tabor, supra, 565 U.S. at
176-177.)
 
Court have not adopted
a “rigid formula” for deciding when an employee qualifies as a minister. (Hosanna-Tabor,
supra, 565 U.S. at 190-191.) Courts focus on a category of employees whose
functions are “essential to the independence of practically all religious
groups. These include those who serve in positions of leadership, those who
perform important functions in worship services and in the performance of
religious ceremonies and rituals, and those who are entrusted with teaching and
conveying the tenets of the faith to the next generation.” (Id. at 200 [conc.
opn. of Alito, J.].) For instance, in Hossanna-Tabor, the court found the
plaintiff to be a minister where she was a “called” teacher at a school
operated a Lutheran Church. (Id., at 177-179, 191-192.) The church held
her out to be a “minister,” issued the teacher a “diploma of vocation” with the
title “Minister of Religion, Commissioned,” the teacher's had a significant
degree of religious training, the teacher held herself out as a minister by
accepting the formal call to religious service and by claiming a special
housing allowance on her taxes, and the teacher’s duties included conveying the
church's message and played a substantial role in carrying out its mission. (Ibid.)
Considering these factors, the Supreme Court found that the teacher was a
“minister” within the exception.
 
While this exception certainly
applies to termination claims by ministers, not all causes of action related
to termination of ministers are barred by the rule. In Sumner, despite
finding that plaintiff was a minister, the plaintiff’s breach
of contract cause of action was not barred by the ministerial exception.
The Sumner court explained: 
 
There
is no dispute regarding the reason for Sumner’s termination. Sumner’s argument
with defendants’ stated reason for terminating her, insubordination, is that
she could not have been insubordinate because that would require her to have
refused to follow an order of her supervisor, and she was never given an order
that she refused to follow. Furthermore, Sumner’s actions that were claimed to
have been insubordinate involved sending emails to the Simpson University
community regarding her prior termination. Reviewing Sumner’s contract cause of
action will not require the court to wade into doctrinal waters because review
of the breach of contract claim does not require a review of Sumner’s religious
qualification or performance as a religious leader. Defendants have never
claimed to have terminated Sumner for religious reasons, only because she
was insubordinate. Defendants voluntarily circumscribed their own conduct
by entering into the contract with Sumner, and the contract can be enforced
without breaching the institution’s religious autonomy.
 
(Emphasis
Added.) 
 
The Sumner court
contrasted the facts of their case with Lee v. Sixth Mount Zion Baptist
Church of Pittsburgh (3d Cir. 2018) 903 F.3d 113. There, the terms of the employment
contract established that the pastor could be removed for failing in the role
of spiritual leadership and furthering the mission of the church. (Id.
at 120.) The church fired the pastor for purportedly failing to provide
adequate spiritual leadership, as demonstrated by decreased church
contributions and attendance during the pastor's tenure. (Ibid.) The
court commented that the pastor's role “in causing decreased giving and reduced
membership in the Church requires a determination of what constitutes adequate
spiritual leadership and how that translates into donations and
attendance—questions that would impermissibly entangle the court in religious
governance and doctrine prohibited by the Establishment Clause.” (Id. at
121.) Since Lee was fired for failing to provide adequate spiritual leadership,
the cause would necessarily require that the trial court analyze the adequacy
of his spiritual leadership and thereby entangle the court in religious matters.
Thus, the ministerial exception applied in Sumner.
 
In this case, the first
two elements of the ministerial exception are met. There
is no reasonable dispute that Defendants are part of a religious organization
or that Plaintiff alleges he was a minister within the meaning of the
exception. ICODA is a nonprofit, tax-exempt religious corporation. (FAC ¶ 3.) Until
Plaintiff’s termination, Plaintiff served as “President,” “Spiritual Director,”
and “Board Director” of ICODA. (¶¶ 1, 13-19, 44-47.) The FAC further alleges
that in 2019, Premodaya removed Plaintiff from all “spiritual” or “pastoral”
roles, and ceased consulting Plaintiff on spiritual matters. (¶ 55.) Later, in
August 2021, Premodaya told Plaintiff that he is “not going to be Spiritual
Director anymore.” (¶ 56.) On March 18, 2022, all of the other ICODA directors
signed and sent a letter to Plaintiff, noticing a special meeting of the Board
of Directors to remove Plaintiff as Spiritual Director from the Board, and as
President. (¶ 62.) On March 31, 2022, ICODA sent a letter to Plaintiff,
terminating Plaintiff’s employment. (¶ 68.) In further correspondence, ICODA
told Plaintiff that he was no longer an employee, officer or director of ICODA,
and his removal was necessitated solely on the basis of crucial and urgent
ecclesiastical issues. (¶ 71.) 
 
Plaintiff
suggests that he was removed as director months or years prior to 2022, perhaps
in 2019. However, the FAC does not provide sufficient factual allegations
showing that this was the case. Plaintiff alleges the conclusion that Premodaya
“removed” Plaintiff from spiritual/pastoral roles in 2019. (FAC ¶ 55.) However,
he also alleges that he was fired from his position as director in March 2022.
(FAC ¶ 1.) Further, he alleges that in August 2021, Premodaya told
Plaintiff that he would not be Spiritual Director anymore. (¶¶ 19, 54.) In December
2021, Premodaya “unilaterally” sent a resignation letter and demanded Plaintiff
resign, which Plaintiff refused. (¶ 59, Ex. C.) In January 30, 2022, ICODA sent
an employment separation agreement to Plaintiff, the terms of which required
Plaintiff to resign from his positions as “President, Spiritual Director,
member of the ICODA Board of Directors, Chairman of the ICODA Board of Directors
. . ..” (¶ 60, Ex. D, § 2.) If Plaintiff was removed as Spiritual Director in
2019 or 2021, then he could not have also been removed as Spiritual Director in
2022. (¶¶ 62-68, Exs. E-G.) The
well-pled, specific facts and exhibits show that Plaintiff was a director in
2022 and removed in March 2022. On the other hand, the FAC states a mere
conclusion that Plaintiff was removed earlier in 2019. In opposition, Plaintiff
does not offer any facts in support of his theory that he was fired from his
director position prior to March 2022.  
 
The
Court agrees that the FAC, on its face, shows that the defense applies to the
wrongful termination, intentional infliction of emotional distress (arising
from termination), and negligent infliction of intentional distress (arising
from termination) claims. Such claims for wrongful termination and resulting
emotional distress are per se barred by the ministerial exception.
Supreme Court precedent confirms that it is “impermissible
for the government to contradict a church's determination of who can act as its
ministers.” (Hosanna-Tabor, supra, 565 U.S. at 185.) The above claims
would require the court to disturb or, at a minimum, question ICODA’s
ecclesiastical decision regarding its Spiritual Director. Thus, the wrongful termination
and related tort claims would be barred.
 
The other claims are
likely not barred by the exception. The ministerial exception is applied
liberally and extends to any acts or statements, including tort claims, that are
“part and parcel” of a termination decision. (Gunn v. Mariners Church, Inc.
(2008) 167 Cal.App.4th 206, 217 [at summary judgment, ministerial exception
immunized defamation/invasion of privacy tort liability for post-termination
statements to congregation explaining that plaintiff was terminated for immoral
homosexual acts].) Caselaw recognizes that the ministerial
exception applies to otherwise actionable claims of defamation and invasion of
privacy, when based on statements “related to the hiring, firing, discipline or
administration of clergy.” (Higgins v. Maher (1989) 210 Cal.App.3d 1168,
1175.) Courts have recognized difficulty in determining whether a particular
dispute is ecclesiastical or simply a civil law controversy in which church
officials happen to be involved. (Id. at 1170.) In Higgins,
however, the complaint made expressly clear that all of the alleged defamation occurred
while the bishop carried out his ecclesiastic functions. (Id.) On the
other hand, if it is not clear on the face of the complaint, then the issue is
better left to summary adjudication. (See Gunn, supra, 167 Cal.App.4th at
215-216 [despite dismissal at MSJ, Gunn complaint contained “no facts”
which showed an “ecclesiastical purpose for any statements being made to the
entire congregation after Gunn's employment was terminated” distinguishing it
from Higgins,].)
 
Liberally
interpreting all facts in the light most favorable to plaintiff, the defamation
does not certainly show that alleged defamation was “part
and parcel” with the termination process. The FAC identifies three potentially
defamatory statements. First, a December 15, 2022, letter by Wiener calling
Plaintiff a liar, among other things. (FAC ¶¶ 78-79.) Second, a December 18,
2022, letter by the ICODA Board to the entire ICODA community, calling Plaintiff
a disgruntled ex-employee seeking revenge" that was trying to
"con" members, that made "false and baseless accusations and
threats to extract money from ICODA", and harassed ICODA members, among
other things. (¶ 80.) While caselaw suggests that statements following
termination could be part and parcel to termination, the extreme delay
between the termination and defamation suggest that this was not “part” of the
termination process. The FAC also does not suggest that the cause would require
the Court to determine any ecclesiastical inquiries or review religious
matters. Simply put, each allegedly defamatory assertion does not have any
bearing on religious topics. Instead, the defamation pertains to Plaintiff’s
activities following his dismissal without any reference to religious issues. The
ministerial exception defense therefore cannot be adjudicated at the pleading
stage as to this cause.
 
Accordingly, the
demurrer is SUSTAINED without leave to amend as to the seventh through ninth
causes of action for wrongful termination, intentional infliction of emotional
distress, and negligent infliction of emotional distress. 
 
Fifth and Sixth Causes for Failure to Prevent Harassment
 
Religious nonprofit corporation employers are exempt from FEHA, as
such churches are expressly not an “employer” as defined by FEHA. (Gov. Code §
12926(d).) Plaintiff claims that the fifth and sixth causes are rooted entirely
in common law and thus not subject to this exclusion. However, Plaintiff does
not cite any authority for such a common-law duty. Plaintiff only cites
authority for the generic rules which apply for liability against corporate
agents in their individual capacities. (PMC, Inc. v. Kadisha (2000) 78
Cal.App.4th 1368; Francis T. v. Village Green Owners Assn. (1986) 42
Cal.3d 490.) The authorities do not recognize the existence of a common law
duty for an employer or its agents to prevent harassment of their
employees. Likewise, Plaintiff cites insufficient authority for any special
relationship between himself and the ICODA Defendants as an adopted, adult
son of Defendant Premodaya. (Rotolo v. San Jose Sports & Entertainment,
LLC, (2007) 151 Cal.App.4th 307, 325.) Further, the alleged harassment
occurred (and was therefore not prevented) in 2015 at the latest, more than 8
years prior to the filing of this action. Thus, leave to amend would appear
futile.
 
Accordingly, the
demurrer is SUSTAINED without leave as to the failure to prevent harassment
causes of action.
 
Tenth and Eleventh Causes - Derivative Standing
 
Defendants argue that
the FAC fails to state a derivative claim.
 
It is well settled that
only parties with a real interest in a dispute have standing to seek its
adjudication. (CCP § 367.) "A litigant's standing to sue is a threshold
issue to be resolved before the matter can be reached on the merits." (Boorstein
v. CBS Interactive, Inc. (2013) 222 Cal.App.4th 456, 465.) Generally, derivative
claims are brought on behalf of a corporation to recover for the benefit of the
corporation itself. (Jones v. H F Ahmanson & Co. (1969) 1 Cal.3d 93,
106.) Because the injury is suffered by the legal entity, the directors or shareholders
have no direct cause of action or right of recovery. (Grosset v.
Wenaas (2008) 42 Cal.4th 1100, 1108.) Instead, certain persons within a
corporation may bring a derivative action to enforce the corporation's rights
and redress its injuries if the management fails or refuses to do so. (Ibid.) Generally,
the party must have a recognized interest in the corporation at the time of the
relevant transaction. (Id. at 1111-1115; see, e.g., Corp. Code
§17709.02(a)(1) [as to LLCs].) Whether a claim is derivative or
personal in nature depends on the whether gravamen of the harm is to the
individual plaintiff or the corporation. (Jones, supra, 1 Cal.3d at 106.)

 
The gravamen of the
purported derivative action is for the recovery of harm to Plaintiff’s
individual interests, and not ICODA’s corporate interests. Plaintiff pleads
damages that are entirely personal to himself and not the corporation.
Plaintiff alleges as a proximate result of the conduct of ICODA, Devaraj and
Manya, Plaintiff suffered mental and emotional distress and damage,
humiliation, fear, guilt and shame; was damaged in his ability to perform his
work and maintain normal relationships, and was prevented from seeking or
obtaining employment. (FAC ¶¶ 164-165.) As such, the gravamen of the action is
for recovery of Plaintiff’s personal damages. Simply put, Plaintiff has not
pled any grounds for a derivative action.
 
Accordingly, the
demurrer is SUSTAINED with leave to amend as to the derivative causes of
action.
 
Twelfth Cause of Action for Defamation
 
Defendants
demur to the defamation cause of action on statute of limitations grounds.
 
“Where
the dates alleged in the complaint show the action is barred by the statute of
limitations, a general demurrer lies . . .. The running of the statute must
appear ‘clearly and affirmatively’ from the face of the complaint. It is not
enough that the complaint might be time-barred.” (Geneva Towers Ltd.
Partnership v. City of San Francisco (2003) 29 Cal.4th 769, 781.)
 
A cause of action for defamation is subject to the 1-year
statute of limitations. (CCP § 340(c).) The cause
accrues when the defamatory statement is initially published to a third party.
(Shively v. Bozanich (2003) 31 Cal.4th 1230, 1247.) The discovery rule,
which postpones accrual until plaintiff discovers or has reason to discover the
factual basis for a claim, generally does not apply to defamation claims when
the basis for a claim has been published in the public record or has been the
subject of publicity. (Id. at 1248.) The discovery rule “has been
applied when the defamatory statement is hidden from view” for example, “in a
personnel file that generally cannot be inspected by the plaintiff.” (Id.
at 1249.) However, the discovery rule has never applied to the publication
of a defamatory statement contained in a wide publication such as in a book or
newspaper. (Id. at 1250.) The "discovery rule may be applied to
breaches which can be, and are, committed in secret, and moreover, where the
harm flowing from those breaches will not be reasonably discoverable by
plaintiff until a future time." (April Enterprises, Inc. v. KTTV
(1983) 147 Cal.App.3d 805, 832; see Hebrew Academy of San Francisco v.
Goldman (2007) 42 Cal.4th 883,894 [delayed discovery rule does not apply to
defamation claims unless the defamatory statement was hidden from view because
it was communicated in an inherently secretive manner]; Christoff v. Nestle
USA, Inc. (2009) 47 Cal.4th 468,483 [same]; cf. Manguso v. Oceanside
Unified School District (1979) 88 Cal.App.3d 725, 727, 731 [delayed
discovery rule may apply to libel claim based on contents of letter placed in a
confidential file in defendant's personnel office and not discovered by
plaintiff until almost 16 years later].)
 
The FAC cites one public statement: On December 18, 2022,
Aden, Manya and Devaraj, acting in their official capacities, sent a letter to
the entire ICODA community, a copy of which is attached as Exhibit I which
called Plaintiff "a disgruntled ex-employee seeking revenge," accused
Plaintiff of trying to "con" members, making "false and baseless
accusations and threats to extract money from ICODA,"
"harassing" ICODA, "disseminating his hatred and revenge"
and other derogatory statements. (FAC ¶ 172.) The instant action was not filed
until more than one year later on January 2, 2024. Plaintiff allegedly learned
of the existence of the letter on January 5, 2023. However, Plaintiff admits
that this statement was published publicly and not secretly. Thus, there are no
pled circumstances which would toll the limitations period from the date of
publication to the date of discovery. Moreover, equitable tolling could not
apply since Plaintiff allegedly discovered the cause well within time to file
suit. 
 
Accordingly, the demurrer is SUSTAINED
without leave as to the defamation claim.
 
Conclusion
 
The demurrer is
SUSTAINED without leave to amend as to the 5th-9th
and 12th causes of action. The demurrer is SUSTAINED with leave to amend as to
the 10th and 11th causes of action. The motion to strike is MOOT per the
ruling on demurrer.