 Case Number:  23PSCV01440    Hearing Date:   June 13, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE NAME:   Michael Te v. Tesla, Inc.  Defendant Tesla, Inc.’s Motion to  Compel Arbitration  TENTATIVE RULING               The Court  GRANTS Defendant Tesla, Inc.’s motion to compel arbitration. This action is  hereby STAYED pending the completion of arbitration.               Defendant is ordered to give notice  of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.  BACKGROUND  This  is a products liability case. On May 11, 2023, Plaintiff Michael Te (Plaintiff)  filed this action against Defendant Tesla, Inc. (Defendant) and Does 1 - 50,  alleging causes of action for products liability and general negligence.  On May 21, 2024, Defendant moved to  compel arbitration. The motion is unopposed.  LEGAL  STANDARD  Parties may be compelled to  arbitrate a dispute upon the court finding that: (1) there was a valid  agreement to arbitrate between the parties; and (2) said agreement covers the  controversy or controversies in the parties’ dispute.¿(Omar v. Ralphs  Grocery Co. (2004)¿118 Cal.App.4th 955, 961.) A party moving to compel  arbitration has the burden of establishing the existence of a valid agreement  to arbitrate and the party opposing the petition has the burden of proving, by  a preponderance of the evidence, any fact necessary to its defense. (Banner  Entertainment, Inc. v. Superior Court¿(1998) 62 Cal.App.4th 348, 356-357.)  A party seeking to compel arbitration meets their initial burden of  establishing the existence of a valid arbitration agreement by attaching a copy  to the motion or petition to compel arbitration. (Espejo v.  Southern California Permanente Medical Group (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th 1047,  1060 (Espejo).)  “California  has a strong public policy in favor of arbitration and any doubts regarding the  arbitrability of a dispute are resolved in favor of arbitration.” (Coast  Plaza Doctors Hospital v. Blue Cross of California (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th  677, 686.) “This strong policy has resulted in the general rule that  arbitration should be upheld unless it can be said with assurance that an  arbitration clause is not susceptible to an interpretation covering the  asserted dispute.” (Ibid. [internal quotations omitted].) This  is in accord with the liberal federal policy favoring arbitration agreements  under the Federal Arbitration Act (FAA), which governs all agreements to  arbitrate in contracts involving interstate commerce. (9 U.S.C. § 2, et  seq.; Higgins v. Superior Court (2006) 140 Cal.App.4th 1238, 1247.)  REQUESTS FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE              The Court GRANTS Defendant’s  requests for judicial notice. (Evid. Code, § 452, subds. (c)-(d).) But, the Court takes  judicial notice only as to the existence, content, and authenticity of such  documents; it does not take judicial notice of the truth of the factual matters  asserted therein. (Dominguez v. Bonta (2022) 87 Cal.  App. 5th 389, 400.)    DISCUSSION FAA  v. CAA            “[T]he FAA's procedural provisions do not apply unless the contract  contains a choice-of-law clause expressly incorporating them. [T]he question is  not whether the parties adopted the CAA’s procedural provisions: The state's procedural  statutes apply by default because Congress intended the comparable FAA sections  to apply in federal court. The question, therefore, is whether the parties  expressly incorporated the FAA’s procedural provisions into their agreements.” (Victrola 89, LLC v. Jaman Properties 8 LLC (2020) 46  Cal.App.5th 337, 345, internal citations and italics in original.) “[P]revious cases have held that when an arbitration  agreement provides that its ‘enforcement’ shall be governed by California law,  the [CAA] governs a party's motion to compel arbitration. It follows that when  an agreement provides that its ‘enforcement’ shall be governed by the FAA, the  FAA governs a party's motion to compel arbitration.” (Id., at p. 346.)  The Arbitration Agreement (defined below) contains no  language indicating its enforcement is governed by the FAA. (See Priestley  Decl., Ex. A, § 18.) Rather, it only provides that the arbitration is  governed by the FAA; it says nothing of the Arbitration Agreement being  governed by the FAA. (Id., italics added.) Accordingly, the CAA applies  by default and governs this motion to compel arbitration. (Victrola 89, LLC  v. Jaman Properties 8 LLC, supra, 46 Cal.App.5th at p. 345.)  Existence of  Valid Arbitration Agreement            “[T]he petitioner bears the burden of proving its existence by a  preponderance of the evidence.” (Rosenthal v. Great Western Fin. Securities  Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394,  413.) “If the party opposing the petition raises a defense to  enforcement—either fraud in the execution voiding the agreement, or a statutory  defense of waiver or revocation [citation]—that party bears the burden of  producing evidence of, and proving by a preponderance of the evidence, any fact  necessary to the defense.” (Ibid.) The moving party meets their initial  burden of proving the existence of a valid arbitration agreement by attaching a  copy to the motion. (Espejo, supra, 246 Cal.App.4th at p. 1060.)  Defendant attached a copy of a solar panel purchase agreement to  its moving papers, i.e., the “Power Purchase Agreement” (the Purchase  Agreement). (Priestley Decl., Ex. 1.) The Purchase Agreement contains an  arbitration clause (the Arbitration Agreement). (Id.) Accordingly, Defendant  has met its initial burden. The burden now shifts to Plaintiff to challenge the  validity of the Arbitration Agreement.  Plaintiff did not oppose this motion, and therefore has failed to  challenge the validity of the Arbitration Agreement. The Court further  construes Plaintiff’s lack of opposition that Defendant’s motion is  meritorious. (Sexton v. Superior Court (1997)  58 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1410; C. Opposing the Motion—and Rebutting the Opposition,  Cal. Prac. Guide Civ. Pro. Before Trial Ch. 9(I)-C, ¶ 9:105.10.) The question  now is whether the Arbitration Agreement covers this dispute.  Covered Claims              The Purchase Agreement provides for SolarCity Corporation  to install solar panels at Plaintiff’s home, which is the subject of this action.  (Priestley Decl., Ex. 1, ¶ 1; Compl., Prod. L-7, GN-1.) Defendant provided  evidence that it is the successor in interest to SolarCity Corporation under  the Purchase Agreement. (Priestley Decl., ¶ 3; Crowell Decl., ¶ 3; Request for  Judicial Notice, Ex. C.) Moreover, the Arbitration Agreement provides that any  dispute, claim, or disagreement between Plaintiff and Defendant is to be  resolved exclusively by arbitration. (Priestley Decl., Ex. 1, § 18.) The Court  finds this language sufficiently broad to cover Plaintiff’s claims here. Hence,  the Arbitration Agreement covers this action.  Accordingly,  the Court GRANTS the motion to compel arbitration, and hereby STAYS this action  pending arbitration.  CONCLUSION  The Court  GRANTS Defendant Tesla, Inc.’s motion to compel arbitration. This action is  hereby STAYED pending the completion of arbitration.               Defendant is ordered to give notice  of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.