  Case Number:  22PSCV00789    Hearing Date:   June 13, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE  NAME:  Lorena  Wenger v. Emanate Queen of the Valley Hospital, et al.  Motion  for Summary Judgment of Defendant Rambod Amani-Yazdi, M.D.  TENTATIVE  RULING  The Court GRANTS the motion for summary judgment of Defendant Rambod  Amani-Yazdi, M.D.               Dr. Amani-Yazdi is ordered to give  notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.  BACKGROUND  This is a medical malpractice case. On June 28, 2022, plaintiff Lorena  Wenger, successor-in-interest to Salvador Velazquez (Plaintiff) filed this  action. On September 13, 2022, Plaintiff filed the operative First Amended  Complaint (FAC) against defendants Emanate Queen of the Valley Hospital (Queen  of the Valley), Kindred Hospital Baldwin Park (Kindred Hospital), Rambod  Amani-Yazdi, M.D. (Dr. Amani-Yazdi), Azhar Haq, M.D, Sheri Pham, M.D., Radhika  Tulpule, M.D., and Does 1 through 100, alleging causes of action for wrongful  death and statutory elder abuse. Plaintiff also named Maria Velazquez, Salvador  Velazquez, Juan Velazuez, Martha Mercado, Socorro Velazquez, Monica Cedillo,  and Jesus Velazquez as nominal defendants.  On April 18, 2024, Dr. Amani-Yazdi moved for summary judgment. On May  28, 2024, Plaintiff filed a notice of non-opposition.[1]  LEGAL  STANDARD  The  purpose of a motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication “is to provide  courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties’ pleadings in order to  determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in fact necessary to  resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25  Cal.4th 826, 843.) “Code of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (c), requires  the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and  ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by  other inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any  material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of  law.” (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119,  italics in original and quoting Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).) “The  function of the pleadings in a motion for summary judgment is to delimit the  scope of the issues; the function of the affidavits or declarations is to  disclose whether there is any triable issue of fact within the issues delimited  by the pleadings.” (Juge v. County of Sacramento (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th  59, 67, citing FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d  367, 381-382.)  “On  a motion for summary judgment, the initial burden is always on the moving party  to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues of material  fact.” (Scalf v. D.B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510,  1519.) A defendant moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication “has met  his or her burden of showing that a cause of action has no merit if the party  has shown that one or more elements of the cause of action, even if not  separately pleaded, cannot be established, or that there is a complete defense  to the cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2); see also Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.)  Once  the defendant has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff “to show  that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of  action or a defense thereto.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) To establish a triable issue of  material fact, the party opposing the motion “shall not rely upon the  allegations or denials of its pleadings to show that a triable issue of  material fact exists but, instead, shall set forth the specific facts showing  that a triable issue of material fact exists as to the cause of action or a  defense thereto.” (Id.; see also Sangster  v. Paetkau (1998) 68  Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)  Courts  “liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary  judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore  v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)  DISCUSSION  Summary of Undisputed Material Facts  Decedent Salvador Velazquez (Decedent) was admitted to Queen of  the Valley on January 19, 2022. (SSF 1.) Dr. Amani-Yazdi was consulted as an  endocrinologist following Decedent’s admission to Queen of the Valley for  diabetes management, and first evaluated Decedent on January 20, 2022. (SSF 2.)  Dr. Amani-Yazdi continued to evaluate Decedent at Queen of the Valley until  January 26, 2022, when Decedent was transferred to Kindred Hospital. (SSF 3-7.)  Dr. Amani-Yazdi continued to care and treat Decedent at Kindred Hospital. (SSF  7-23.)  On February 22, 2022, Decedent died. (SSF 24.) The cause of death  was pneumonia, Covid-19, and diabetes mellitus Type II. (SSF 25.) Dr. Peter A.  Singer, M.D., Dr. Amani-Yazdi’s expert witness, opines that Dr. Amani-Yazdi  complied with the standard of care. (SSF 26.) Dr. Singer further opines that  nothing Dr. Amani-Yazdi did or did not do caused or contributed to Decedent’s  death. (SSF 27.)  Analysis – Wrongful Death/Medical Malpractice  “The elements  of Plaintiff's medical negligence cause of action allege ‘(1) the duty of the  professional to use such skill, prudence, and diligence as other members of his  profession commonly possess and exercise; (2) a breach of that duty; (3) a  proximate causal connection between the negligent conduct and the resulting  injury; and (4) actual loss or damage resulting from the professional's  negligence.’ [Citation.]” (Belfiore-Braman v. Rotenberg (2018) 25  Cal.App.5th 234, 238 fn. 3.) “As in medical malpractice cases, standards of due  care and competence are commonly established by the generally accepted  practices and procedures within the professional community. [Citations.]” (Milligan  v. Hearing Aid Dispensers Examining Com. (1983) 142 Cal.App.3d 1002, 1006.)              Dr. Amani-Yazdi contends no triable  issue of material fact exists to support a claim for wrongful death against him.  Dr. Amani-Yazdi contends the medical evidence conclusively establishes and to a  reasonable degree of medical probability that Dr. Amani-Yazdi’s treatment of  Decedent at all times complied with the applicable standard of care.  Dr. Amani-Yazdi contends Decedent was an 83-year-old male, who was  a complex patient with multiple medical problems requiring management, such as  respiratory issues, hypertension, diabetes, CKD, peripheral vascular disease,  history of cerebral vascular accident, and a positive diagnosis of Covid-19.  Dr. Amani-Yazdi contends Decedent required treatment from multiple types of  doctors during his admissions to Queen of the Valley and Kindred Hospital, such  as an endocrinologist, an internal medicine physician, a nephrologist for renal  failure, a pulmonologist for respiratory issues and respiratory failure, as  well as an infectious disease specialist.  Dr. Amani-Yazdi contends that Decedent’s blood sugars were  difficult to control during Decedent’s care and course of treatment, despite  Dr. Amani-Yazdi’s extensive and appropriate efforts. Dr. Amani-Yazdi contends Decedent’s  blood sugars were highly variable during his admissions to Queen of the Valley  and Kindred Hospital, and that such variations were not the result of negligent  or substandard care by Dr. Amani-Yazdi. Dr. Amani- Yazdi contends to have  followed the appropriate medical course and timely evaluated Decedent in  compliance with the standard of care, and appropriately responded to  fluctuations in Decedent’s blood sugar levels. Dr. Amani-Yazdi contends  Decedent’s medication regimen for his many medical problems made it impossible  to perfectly control Decedent’s blood sugars. Dr. Amani-Yazdi contends the  standard of care does not require perfect control of a patient’s blood sugar  levels, and that control was impossible in Decedent’s case given his multiple  medical problems and treatment of the same before his death.  Dr. Amani-Yazdi further contends that to a reasonable degree of  medical probability, any other treatment from an endocrinology perspective was  never going to save Decedent’s life, given the multiple health problems he had.  Dr. Amani-Yazdi contends that nothing Dr. Amani-Yazdi did or did not do  relative to Decedent’s care and treatment made a difference in Decedent’s  eventual death.  The Court finds Dr. Amani-Yazdi has met the moving burden for  summary judgment. “Expert evidence in a malpractice suit is conclusive as to  the proof of the prevailing standard of skill and learning in the locality and  of the propriety of particular conduct by the practitioner in particular  instances because such standard and skill is not a matter of general knowledge  and can only be supplied by expert testimony.” (Willard v. Hagemeister  (1981) 121 Cal.App.3d 406, 412, quoting Starr v. Mooslin (1971) 14  Cal.App.3d 988, 999.)  Dr. Singer’s expert testimony clearly provides that Dr.  Amani-Yazdi complied with the applicable standard of care within the relevant  professional community. (Singer Decl., ¶¶ 20-21.) Dr. Singer states that  Decedent was an elderly male who was a very complex patient with multiple  problems requiring treatment, which made controlling his blood sugars  impossible. (Id., ¶¶ 22-31.) Dr. Singer indicates that the standard of  care for endocrinology does not require perfect control of a patient’s blood  sugar levels, which was impossible in Decedent’s case anyway. (Id., ¶  30.) Dr. Singer further states that no other treatment from an endocrinology  perspective was going to save Decedent’s life, and that nothing Dr. Amani-Yazdi  did or did not do made a difference in Decedent’s eventual death. (Id.,  ¶ 31.)  Accordingly, Dr. Amani-Yazdi has established the absence of a  triable issue of material fact. The burden of proof now shifts to Plaintiff to  establish the existence of a triable issue of material fact. Plaintiff expressly declined to oppose Dr. Amani-Yazdi’s motion  for summary judgment. (Notice of Non-Opposition (5/28/24).) Accordingly,  Plaintiff failed to establish the existence of a triable issue of material fact  as to Dr. Amani-Yazdi, and the Court finds that Dr. Amani-Yazdi is entitled to  judgment as a matter of law.[2] CONCLUSION The Court GRANTS the motion for summary judgment of Defendant  Rambod Amani-Yazdi, M.D.               Dr. Amani-Yazdi is ordered to give  notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.     