  Case Number:  21STCV35918    Hearing Date:   December 23, 2024    Dept:  27 SUPERIOR COURT
OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY
OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



CARLOS MANRIQUE, et al.,
  
                   Plaintiffs,
          vs.
 
SAAV
  APPLIANCE INSTALLERS, INC., et al.,
 
                   Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 21STCV35918
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER GRANTING PLAINTIFFS’ MOTION FOR LEAVE TO AMEND FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT


 
Dept. 27
1:30 p.m.
December 23,
  2024
 



 
I.                  
INTRODUCTION
Plaintiffs Carlos Manrique and Christa Trostle,
each individually, and as Successors in Interest to Decedent Janet
Trostle-Manrique and Decedent Imogene Haley (collectively, “Plaintiffs”), move
for leave to file a second amended complaint (“SAC”) in this action against Defendants
Saav Appliance Installers, Inc. (“SAAV”), Saul Samano Quintero, individually
and doing business as Saav Appliances Installations (“Quintero”), Humberto
Gonzalez (“Gonzalez”), and DOES 1-100 (collectively, “Defendants”). Plaintiffs
seek to amend the pleading by: (1) adding the following additional parties as
defendants: the Estate of Decedent Humberto Gonzalez (“Estate of Gonzalez”),
Best Buy Stores, L.P., Best Buy Co. Inc., and Best Buy Warehousing Logistics
Inc. (together the “Best Buy Defendants”), and (2) limiting damages to the
amount of insurance coverage available to the Estate of Gonzalez (Probate Code
§ 554).  (Notice of Motion, p. 5, Exh. B
[Proposed SAC].)
Background
On September 29, 2021, Plaintiffs initiated
this action against Defendants based on a fatal automobile collision. On January
18, 2022, Plaintiffs filed their FAC alleging that on June 23, 2021,
Janet-Trostle Manrique and Imogene Haley’s vehicle was fatally struck by Humberto
Gonzalez, as he drove Defendants’ commercial pickup truck under the influence
of drugs. (FAC, ¶ 18.) Defendant Gonzalez was in prison when this action
commenced and died in prison on November 27, 2022. (Declaration of Mitchell L.
Felton (“Decl. of Felton”) ¶ 2; Opposition, Exh. A [Death Certificate].)
Plaintiff filed the instant motion on November
25, 2024, with a hearing set for December 25, 2024. On December 11, 2024,
counsel for Gonzalez filed an opposition, to which Plaintiff filed a reply on
December 16, 2024. Trial is set for May 12, 2025
 
II.               
LEGAL STANDARD
“The court may, in furtherance of justice, and
on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to amend any pleading or
proceeding by adding or striking out the name of any party, or by correcting a
mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any other respect; and may,
upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or demurrer. The court may
likewise, in its discretion, after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any
terms as may be just, an amendment to any pleading or proceeding in other
particulars; and may upon like terms allow an answer to be made after the time
limited by this code.” (Civ. Code §473(a)(1).)
“Trial courts are vested with the discretion to
allow amendments to pleadings ‘in furtherance of justice.’ That trial courts
are to liberally permit such amendments, at any stage of the proceeding, has
been established policy in this state since 1901.” (Hirsa v. Superior Court
(1981) 118 Cal.App.3d 486, 488-489.) Indeed, “[t]he policy favoring amendment
is so strong that denial of leave to amend can rarely be justified: ‘If the
motion to amend is timely made and the granting of the motion will not
prejudice the opposing party, it is error to refuse permission to amend and
where the refusal also results in a party being deprived of the right to assert
a meritorious cause of action or a meritorious defense, it is not only error
but an abuse of discretion.’” (Weil & Brown, Cal. Practice Guide: Civil
Procedure Before Trial (The Rutter Group June 2020 Update), Chapter 6 §
6:639.5.)
CRC Rule 3.1321(a) requires that a motion to
amend must: “[i]nclude a copy of the proposed… amended pleading… [and] state
what allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to be [deleted and/or
added], if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the [deleted
and/or additional] allegations are located…”  CRC Rule 3.1324(b) provides,
as follows: “[a] separate declaration must accompany the motion and must
specify: (1) The effect of the amendment; (2) Why the amendment is necessary and
proper; (3) When the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were
discovered; and (4) The reasons why the request for amendment was not made
earlier.”           
Plaintiffs’ motion complies with CRC Rule
3.1321(a) because Plaintiffs’ motion includes a copy of the proposed SAC, and
addresses which allegations are proposed to be added and/or deleted. (Notice of
Motion, p. 5, Exh. B [Proposed SAC].)
Plaintiffs’ motion does not fully comply with CRC
Rule 3.1324(b). Plaintiffs include a separate declaration from their counsel
Todd F. Nevell (“Nevell”), which specifies the effect of the amendment is to
continue this case to trial by (1) adding the Estate of Gonzalez and Best Buy
Defendants to the action, and (2) limiting Plaintiffs’ recoverable damages to
the insurance policy of the Estate of Gonzalez. (Decl. of Nevell, ¶¶ 6-7.) However,
the declaration fails to describe how the amendment is necessary and proper in
order to fully prove the applicable causes of action. The declaration also
fails to address when facts giving rise to the amended allegations were
discovered and/or reasons why the request was not made earlier. However, in
light of Plaintiffs’ proposed addition of the Best Buy Defendants, the Estate
of Gonzalez, and limiting damages to Gonzalez’s insurance policy, without
substantially altering underlying facts alleged, the Court, in its discretion,
finds the declaration’s lack of this information is not a basis for denying the
motion. Further, Plaintiffs’ motion for leave to amend was not made with undue
delay, as it was filed shortly after the November 14, 2024, OSC hearing. (Decl.
of Nevell, ¶ 5.) Given that trial is set for May 12, 2025, Defendants have
sufficient time to attack the amended pleading.
 
III.            
DISCUSSION
Defendant presents arguments relating to the
merits of the proposed SAC including: (1) Plaintiffs’ Request(s) for Entry of
Default against Gonzalez, (2) Plaintiffs’ claims are time-barred per the statute
of limitations against the Estate of Gonzalez, and (3) Plaintiffs’ request to
limit damage to Gonzalez’s insurance is duplicative and not relevant.
(Opposition, pp. 3-6.)
Request for
Entry of Default
Plaintiffs
contend that at the time of his death, Gonzalez was in default of the instant
action. Plaintiffs filed for Request for Entry of Default against Gonzalez on
November 14, 2024. (see 11/14/24 Minute Order.) On April 3, 2023,
counsel for Defendant delivered the death certificate of Humberto Gonzalez,
dated November 27, 2022, to counsel for Plaintiff. (Opposition, p. 2;
Declaration of Lauren E. Becker (“Decl. of Becker”), ¶ 2, Exh. A.) Counsel for
Defendant, Mitchell L. Fenton (“Fenton”) declares that because he was unable to
confirm whether Gonzalez was served with a copy of the summons and complaint
due to several prison transfers, no answer could be filed to Plaintiffs’
complaint or FAC. (Decl. of Fenton, ¶ 2.) Plaintiffs contend that the need to
file the SAC was prompted after counsel for Defendant submitted a declaration
including Gonzalez’s death certificate following the OSC hearing. (Motion, p.
4; Decl. of Nevell, ¶ 5.) 
The Court
notes that a request for entry of default can be entered on a defendant who was
served while in prison, as long as the following conditions are met. First, the
defendant must have been served with the summons and complaint in a manner that
permits entry of default. (CRC 3.110.) Second, the time allowed by law for
responding to the complaint must have expired. If the defendant has not filed a
pleading, motion, or otherwise appeared in the action, then the plaintiff may
apply for entry of default. Finally, the plaintiff must apply to the court
clerk to have the default entered. 
Upon review of
the proof of service of Gonzalez, the Court finds that Gonzalez was personally
served with the complaint and summons. (see 12/6/24 Proof of Service.)
As stated above, counsel for Defendant concedes that no answer was filed to the
complaint, and following the November 14, 2024 OSC hearing, Plaintiffs
petitioned the Court to enter default against Gonzalez. (Decl. of Fenton, ¶ 2;
Motion, p. 4, Decl. of Nevell, ¶ 5.) The Court rejected the Request for Entry
of Default on procedural grounds, but nonetheless finds that Plaintiffs have
complied with the conditions prescribed in CRC 3.110. 
Statute of Limitations
Defendant contends that Plaintiffs failed to timely
continue this action against the Estate of Gonzalez by failing to name the
Estate of Gonzalez and serve his insurer within one year of Gonzalez’s death,
or three years from the date of the accident. (Civ. Code § 377.41; Probate Code
§ 9370; Opposition, pp. 4-5.) Pursuant to Probate Code § 550, the Court agrees
that Plaintiffs are allowed to continue this action to establish Gonzalez’s
liability, as protected by insurance, without joining Gonzalez’s estate,
personal representative, or successor in interest as a party. (Motion, p. 7;
Reply, p. 3.) Statutes of limitations govern when claims can be commenced
against a party, whereas Plaintiffs simply propose adding the Estate of
Gonzalez to continue the causes of action asserted against Gonzalez.
Accordingly, the Court finds that Defendant is not substantially prejudiced by
the proposed amendment.
Limitations on Recovery of Insurance Policy
Counsel for
Defendant also declares that Plaintiffs’ attempt to recover from Gonzalez’s
insurance policy is not relevant because Gonzalez had the same insurance policy
and limits as an employee of SAAV, noting no available increases in coverage.
(Decl. of Fenton, ¶ 3.) In reply, Plaintiff contends that the proposal to limit
Plaintiff’s recovery of damages against the Estate of Gonzalez does not create
a risk of prejudice to Defendant. (Reply, p. 4.) The Court notes that
Defendant’s argument as to the relevance of the insurance policy in light of
the SAAV policy is more appropriately raised on demurrer or motion to strike
the proposed SAC. 
Therefore, the
Court finds Defendant will not be substantially prejudiced by the amendment and
Plaintiffs are entitled to an order granting leave to amend.  
 
IV.            
CONCLUSION
Based on the foregoing, Plaintiffs’ motion for
leave to file a SAC is granted.
Moving party to give notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative
must send an email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating intention
to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided on the
court website at www.lacourt.org.  Please
be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to appear at the
hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue
the matter.  Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue.  If
the Court does not receive emails from the parties indicating submission on
this tentative ruling and there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court
may, at its discretion, adopt the tentative as the final order or place the
motion off calendar.
Dated this 23rd
day of December 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Lee S. Arian
  
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 




 