 Case Number:  22STCV28139    Hearing Date:   December 23, 2024    Dept:  27  
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF
THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF
LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



HECTOR HIPOLITO,
  
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
M2 CONCRETE PUMPING, LLC; CATALINA
  PACIFIC CONCRETE COMPANY; ALWAYS PUMPING; BUILDERS FIRSTSOURCE-ATLANTIC
  GROUP, LLC; and DOES 1 through 50, 
 

                        Defendants.

 
AND RELATED CROSS ACTION.
 


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     LEAD CASE NO.: 22STCV28139
     Related: 22STCV29697
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: DEFENDANT CATALINA
  PACIFIC CONCRETE COMPANY’S MOTION TO COMPEL NEUROLOGICAL EXAMINATION OF
  PLAINTIFF
 
Dept. 27
1:30 p.m.
December 23, 2024



 
MOVING PARTY: Catalina Pacific Concrete Company 
 
I.   
INTRODUCTION
The
instant action arises from an incident involving a cement pump on or around the
morning of March 31, 2021, at around 8:30 a.m. Plaintiff Hector Hipolito
(“Plaintiff”) alleges that he was placing and finishing concrete at 3860 Grand
View Blvd., Los Angeles, California 90066 (the “Premises”) when he was injured
due to a malfunctioning and/or negligently operated and maintained concrete
truck owned by Defendant M2 Concrete Pumping, LLC.
On
August 29, 2022, Plaintiff filed this action against Defendants M2 Concrete
Pumping, LLC; Catalina Pacific Concrete Company (“Catalina Pacific”); Always
Pumping; and Builders Firstsource-Atlantic Group, LLC (collectively,
“Defendants”) for injuries arising from the incident described above. On
November 16, 2022, M2 Concrete Pumping, LLC cross-complained against Catalina
Pacific and Always Pumping for indemnification, apportionment of fault, and
declaratory relief. The same day, Builders Firstsource-Atlantic Group, LLC
cross-complained against M2 Concrete Pumping, LLC; Catalina Pacific; Always
Pumping; and Bercow O’Byrne Construction, Inc. 
On
August 21, 2023, the Court deemed case nos. 22STCV28139 and 22STCV29697
related, with the instant case being the lead case. (Minute Order, 8/21/23.) 
On
February 2, 2024, Catalina Pacific conducted an independent orthopedic
examination of Plaintiff by orthopedic surgeon Rocco Calderone, M.D. (Watts
Decl., ¶ 4, Ex. I.)
On
November 13, 2024, Catalina Pacific served Plaintiff with a Notice of Demand
for Independent Medical Examination, specifically for a neurological
examination. (Watts Decl., ¶ 5, Ex. C.) That same date, Catalina Pacific’s
counsel sent a letter to Plaintiff’s counsel to meet and confer regarding
Catalina Pacific’s Demand for Neurological Examination to be performed by Luke
Macyszyn, M.D. (Watts Decl., ¶ 6, Ex. D.) The parties spoke via phone and were
unable to agree that Plaintiff would submit to the neurological exam. (Watts
Decl., ¶ 9.)
On
November 25, 2024, Plaintiff served an objection to the notice.
On
November 27, 2024, Catalina Pacific filed the instant motion to compel a
neurological independent medical examination of Plaintiff. 
As
of December 12, 2024, no opposition was filed. Any opposition papers must have
been filed no later than nine court days before the hearing. (CCP § 1005(b).)
 
II. 
LEGAL
STANDARD
In
any case in which a plaintiff is seeking recovery for personal injuries, any
defendant may demand one physical examination of the plaintiff where: (1) the
examination does not include any diagnostic test or procedure that is painful,
protracted, or intrusive; and (2) the examination is conducted at a location
within 75 miles of the residence of the examinee. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.220,
subd. (a).)  
Where
any party seeks to obtain discovery by a physical examination other than that
described in Section 2032.220, or by a mental examination, the party shall
obtain leave of the court. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.310, subd. (a).) A motion
for an examination shall specify the time, place, manner, conditions, scope,
and nature of the examination, as well as the identity and specialty, if any,
of the person or persons who will perform the examination, and shall be
accompanied by a meet and confer declaration. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.310,
subd. (b).)  
The
Court shall grant the motion only for good cause shown. (Code Civ. Proc., §
2032.310, subd. (a).) A showing of good cause generally requires “that the
party produce specific facts justifying discovery and that the inquiry be
relevant to the subject matter of the action or reasonably calculated to lead
to the discovery of admissible evidence.” (Vinson v. Superior Court
(1987) 43 Cal.3d 833, 840.) 
 
III.               
 DISCUSSION
Catalina
Pacific argues that Plaintiff has placed his neurological condition in
controversy. Plaintiff stated in his response to form interrogatories that he
suffered the following injuries as a result of the incident: “loss of
consciousness,” “blunt injury to his head,” a “concussion,” “neuropathic pain
with sharp, burning, constant pain in a necklace type pattern,” “numbness and
tingling in right upper extremity,” “persistent pain, hypersensitivity to touch
including wearing shirts (upper chest allodynia),” and “blurred vision.” (Watts
Decl., Ex. A, Response to Form Interrogatory No. 6.2.)  Plaintiff also
stated in his response to form interrogatories that his treatment at Cedars
Sinai Medical Center was for “critical/trauma care including neurosurgery and
orthopedic evaluation” and that his treatment at Kaiser Permanente was for
“orthopedic, neurology and neurosurgery consult and evaluation.” (Watts Decl.,
Ex. A, Response to Form Interrogatory No. 6.4.) Plaintiff was also examined
specifically for “neurology” by A. Kevin Aminian, M.D. (Id.)  In a
deposition, Plaintiff confirmed that he saw a neurologist. (Watts Decl., Ex. B,
125:7.) 
Plaintiff
further alleged in discovery that he still has complaints relating to: (1) neck
pain, restricted range of motion/tightness; (2) low back pain and accompanying
pain, tightness, numbness and pain in leg, (3) left and right shoulder pain and
limited range of motion/tightness/weakness, (4) nerve pain collar bone/chest
area, and (5) emotional distress. (Watts Decl., Ex. H, Response to Form
Interrogatory No. 6.3.) With regard to his nerve pain, Plaintiff stated that
his “level of pain depends on the weather, activity, what Plaintiff is wearing
on top or no apparent reason” and “his symptoms are worsened when Plaintiff
wears a jacket/sweatshirt when its cold.” (Id.)
Here,
the Court finds Plaintiff’s assertions of neurological symptoms such as “loss
of consciousness,” “blunt injury to his head,” a “concussion,” “neuropathic
pain with sharp, burning, constant pain in a necklace type pattern,” “numbness
and tingling in right upper extremity,” “persistent pain, hypersensitivity to
touch including wearing shirts (upper chest allodynia),” and “blurred vision”
place his neurological condition at issue. 
Although
Catalina Pacific’s orthopedic expert conducted a prior physical examination of
Plaintiff, good cause exists for Catalina Pacific’s requested second
examination of Plaintiff because the proposed neurological examination is
different in scope and purpose than the orthopedic examination. The Court
agrees with Catalina Pacific that Dr. Calderone’s prior examination of
Plaintiff’s extremities and documentation of a basic neurological examination
was done with a focus on orthopedics (i.e., musculoskeletal system, which
comprises the bones, muscles, joints, ligaments and tendons). In contrast, Dr.
Macyszyn’s proposed neurological examination will focus on the neurological
function of Plaintiff’s upper and lower extremities, as well as Plaintiff’s
spinal nerves and spinal cord function, which are outside the framework of
general orthopedic surgery and have not yet been performed. Further, Plaintiff
did not oppose this motion and thus makes no arguments to negate Catalina
Pacific’s arguments establishing good cause for the second examination. 
Additionally,
Catalina Pacific properly specified the time, place, manner, conditions, scope,
and nature of the examination, as well as the identity and the specialty of
neurosurgeon Dr. Macyszyn, the person who will perform the examination. The
proposed order properly specified the diagnostic tests and procedures to be
employed. 
The
motion was also accompanied by a meet and confer declaration wherein Catalina
Pacific’s counsel describes multiple attempts to resolve the matter before
filing the instant motion. (Watts Decl., ¶¶ 6-9.) Specifically, Catalina
Pacific’s counsel sent a meet and confer letter and had a phone call with
Plaintiff’s counsel in an attempt to reach an agreement, after which Plaintiff
refused to submit to the proposed exam and served an objection. (Id.) 
Accordingly,
the Motion to compel the neurological examination of Plaintiff is GRANTED. 
            Moving party is ordered to give
notice.
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. 
Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to
appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the
hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you
receive a submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume
that others might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive emails from the
parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 
 Dated this 23rd day of December 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Lee S.
  Arian
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 




 