 Case Number:  23AHCV01836    Hearing Date:   April 19, 2024    Dept:  P [TENTATIVE]
ORDER DENYING PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO QUASH DEPOSITION SUBPOENA SERVED ON KAISER
PERMANENTEand[TENTATIVE]
ORDER DENYING DEFENDANT RALPH GROCERY COMPANY’S MOTION FOR RECONSIDERATION I.        INTRODUCTION          This is an action for premises
liability. Plaintiff Bryce Harris (Harris) alleges that on April 23, 2023, he slipped
and fell while checking out at Defendant Ralph’s Grocery Company in Pasadena. Before
the Court is Plaintiff’s motion to quash subpoenas served on his medical care
provider, Kaiser Permanente. Plaintiff
filed the motion to quash on February 28, 2024. Ralph’s filed an opposition on
April 8, 2024. Plaintiff filed a reply on April 12, 2024.II.      LEGAL
STANDARD          Code Civ. Proc. §1987.1:“(a) If a subpoena requires
the attendance of a witness or the production of books, documents,
electronically stored information, or other things before a court, or at the
trial of an issue therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the court, upon
motion reasonably made by any person described in subdivision (b), or upon the
court’s own motion after giving counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard,
may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing
compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as the court shall declare,
including protective orders. In addition, the court may make any other order as
may be appropriate to protect the person from unreasonable or oppressive
demands, including unreasonable violations of the right of privacy of the
person.”          Subd. (b)(1) permits a party to seek relief.          Code Civ. Proc. §1987.2 provides for an award of sanctions
in the court’s discretion. “[I]n making an order pursuant to motion made under.
. . Section 1987.1, the court may in its discretion award the amount of the
reasonable expenses incurred in making or opposing the motion, including
reasonable attorney's fees, if the court finds the motion was made or opposed
in bad faith or without substantial justification or that one or more of the
requirements of the subpoena was oppressive.”          Code
Civ. Proc. §1985.3: “(g) Any consumer whose
personal records are sought by a subpoena duces tecum and who is a party to the
civil action in which this subpoena duces tecum is served may, prior to the
date for production, bring a motion under Section 1987.1 to quash or modify the
subpoena duces tecum. Notice of the bringing of that motion shall be given to
the witness and deposition officer at least five days prior to production. The
failure to provide notice to the deposition officer shall not invalidate the
motion to quash or modify the subpoena duces tecum but may be raised by the
deposition officer as an affirmative defense in any action for liability for
improper release of records.Any other consumer or
nonparty whose personal records are sought by a subpoena duces tecum may, prior
to the date of production, serve on the subpoenaing party, the witness, and the
deposition officer, a written objection that cites the specific grounds on
which production of the personal records should be prohibited.No witness or deposition
officer shall be required to produce personal records after receipt of notice
that the motion has been brought by a consumer, or after receipt of a written
objection from a nonparty consumer, except upon order of the court in which the
action is pending or by agreement of the parties, witnesses, and consumers
affected.” (CCP § 1985.3(g).)III.     ANALYSISA. MotionThe Complaint alleges that plaintiff was injured when
he slipped and fell at Ralph’s in Pasadena. (Complaint ¶¶ 9-11.) Defendant seeks
evidence as to these injuries. The deposition subpoenas seek “Any and all documents and records pertaining to the
care, treatment, and examination of BRYCE HARRIS AKA BRYCE ALPHONCE HARRIS SR.,
born October 24, 1940, with SS# UNK, including, but not limited to all office,
emergency room, inpatient and outpatient charts and records, pathology slides
of specimens, hard copy of EEG’s, ECG’s, & EKG’s, color photographs and/or color
surgical photographs and electronical files and/or electronic charts from any
and all dates”, “Any and all
records of payment and/or discount regarding any medical billing as well as the
bill themselves, billing information, including but not limited to procedure,
service and diagnosis codes, statements, computer printouts, itemized breakdown
of all charges, payments, adjustments/write-offs or balance due” and “Any and all x-ray films, to
include MRI films, CAT scans, myelograms, radiological images, ultrasounds and
any other films specific to BRYCE HARRIS AKA BRYCE ALPHONCE HARRIS SR., born
October 24, 1940, with SS# UNK[.]”(Burkes
Decl. Exh. 1 [three separate subpoenas to Kaiser were served- one seeking
general medical records, one seeking billing records and one seeking radiology
records.])Plaintiff Harris seeks to quash the subpoena on three
grounds: (1) the records sought are not relevant; (2) the records sought are
overbroad and (3) disclosure would violate privacy rights. i. RelevancyThe
Court notes that Harris is seeking damages for the injuries he sustained from
the accident. Plaintiff urges that his entire medical record is not relevant,
as the only relevant records are those pertaining to the incident. (Motion p.
6: 25-28.) Plaintiff
urges he did not open discovery into his entire medical record by way of
asserting damages from a slip and fall in 2023. Plaintiff cites Rancho
Publications v. Superior Court (1999) 68 Cal.App.4th 1538, 1549 and  Heda v. Superior Court (1990) 225
Cal.App.3d 525, 528 for the proposition that due to his privacy interests in
not disclosing his medical records, the standard for relevancy is higher. Plaintiff
further cites Tylo v. Superior Court (1997) 55 Cal. App. 4th 1379,
1387-1388 for the proposition that “the patient thus is not obligated to
sacrifice all privacy to seek redress for a specific mental or emotional
injury; the scope of the inquiry permitted depends upon the nature of the
injuries which the patient-litigant himself has brought before the court.”
(Tylo v. Superior Court (1997) 55 Cal. App. 4th 1379, 1387-1388,
internal citations omitted.)In
opposition, Ralph’s urges that the records sought are relevant, as this is a
personal injury action where Plaintiff is asserting back and neck pain arising
from underlying incident and Plaintiff has a prior history of back issues. (See
Opposition p. 7: 18-19.) The
Court agrees; the scope of discovery is broad by nature and medical records are
relevant to evaluate Plaintiff’s claims and/or Defendant’s defenses. The
Court declines to quash the deposition subpoena for irrelevancy. ii. PrivacyThe subpoena seeks medical records. Plaintiff argues
that these records are protected by his right to privacy. In support, Harris
cites case law for the proposition that his claim of injury does not invite
discovery into his entire medical record, but just the records relevant to the car
accident injuries. (See, e.g., Britt v. Superior Court (1978) 20 Cal.3d
844, 849; see also Tylo v. Superior Court (1997) 55 Cal.App.4th 1379;
Hallendorf v. Superior Court (1978) 85 Cal. App. 3d 553, 556-557.) When a party seeks
information sought to be protected by a privacy interest, that party must
demonstrate a compelling need for the information’s disclosure and then balance
the interest in privacy versus the need for discovery. (Davis v. Superior
Court (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1008, 1017; Lantz v. Superior Court
(1994) 28 Cal.App.4th 1839, 1853.)Harris urges that even if Defendant has shown that
the information sought is relevant, Defendants would then need to (1)
demonstrate a compelling need for the records, and then (2) balance the privacy
interest against the need for discovery. Plaintiff urges that this has not been
done. In its opposition, Ralph’s urges that though medical
records are private information, Plaintiff has put his medical condition at
issue in this case, as he seeks redress for back injuries allegedly sustained
when he slipped and fell at Ralph’s. Citing Vinson v. Superior Court (1987)
43 Cal.3d 833, 841-842, Ralph’s urges that there is an implicit waiver of
discovery directly relevant to Plaintiff’s claim. Ralph’s further urges “[t]he
discovery responses provided by Plaintiff confirm he has had an ongoing history
of chronic back pain for at least 20-30 years.” (Opposition p. 7: 18-19.)The Court declines to quash the deposition subpoena on
privacy grounds.           iii. Overbreadth          Here, the subpoena seeks records without
a time limit. The incident occurred in 2023. Any inquiry into them must be
narrowly tailored to limit impingement on privacy. (Wood vs. Superior Court
(1985) 166 Cal.App.3d 1138, 1149.) Specifically, the party seeking the subpoena
must “identify the particular records that contain pertinent information and,
unless it is obvious to a lay person, show why that information must be
obtained to resolve the investigation.” (Id. at 1150.) The deposition
and its associated request for production of records is not narrowly tailored,
as it simply seeks all records involving Harris.            In its opposition, Ralph’s points out that “Plaintiff's
own discovery responses and medical records confirm that
his history of back problems extends back to at least the 1990s[.]” In fact, Plaintiff’s
medical records indicate that his back problems go back to the 1980s. Exhibit B
of Ralph’s opposition includes pages from these records. Bates stamped page
PLTF000340 indicates “Thoraco/lumbar revision 2015,” “Lumbar fusion-2002,” and “Cervical
fusion- 1980s….” While the parties admirably attempted to limit the document
production request by body part, Kaiser was unable to comply because it can
only produce documents based on date.  Given Plaintiff’s lengthy history
of back problems, Ralph’s should be allowed to obtain medical records going
back to 1980.          The Court declines to quash the subpoena for overbreadth.  However, the Court modifies the request,
limiting it to documents from 1980 to the present.B. Sanctions          The Court declines to award monetary sanctions, as the
Court does not find the motion was made nor opposed in bad faith. IV.     CONCLUSION
AND ORDER          Plaintiff Bryce Harris’s motion to quash the subpoenas is denied.
His request for monetary sanctions is denied.           Counsel for Defendant Ralph’s Grocery Company to give
notice of this ruling.         Dated:  April 16, 2024                                      _______________________________                                                                                 JARED
D. MOSES
                                                                     JUDGE
OF THE SUPERIOR COURT[TENTATIVE]
ORDER DENYING DEFENDANT RALPH GROCERY COMPANY’S MOTION FOR RECONSIDERATION I.        INTRODUCTION          This
is an action for premises liability. Plaintiff Bryce Harris (Harris) alleges
that he slipped and fell on April 23, 2023, while checking out at Defendant
Ralph’s Grocery Company in Pasadena. Plaintiff is now 82 years old. Plaintiff Harris filed a motion for trial preference
on November 3, 2023. The Court granted the motion for trial preference on
January 30, 2024.Before the Court is Defendant’s motion for
reconsideration filed on February 16, 2024. Ralph’s argues that upon a review
of Mr. Harris’ complete medical record, trial preference is not warranted. Plaintiff
filed an opposition on April 8, 2024. Defendant filed a reply on April 12,
2024.The Court DENIES the motion for reconsideration.II.      LEGAL
STANDARD Code of Civil Procedure Section 1008 provides, in
pertinent part: “(a)
When an application for an order has been made to a judge, or to a court, and
refused in whole or in part, or granted, or granted conditionally, or on terms,
any party affected by the order may, within 10 days after service upon the
party of written notice of entry of the order and based upon new or different
facts, circumstances, or law, make an application to the same judge or court
that made the order, to reconsider the matter and modify, amend, or revoke the
prior order. The party making the application shall state by affidavit what
application was made before, when and to what judge, what order or decisions
were made, and what new or different facts, circumstances, or law are claimed
to be shown.  (b)
A party who originally made an application for an order which was refused in
whole or in part, or granted conditionally or on terms, may make a subsequent
application for the same order upon new or different facts, circumstances, or
law, in which case it shall be shown by affidavit what application was made
before, when and to what judge, what order or decisions were made, and what new
or different facts circumstances, or law are claimed to be shown. For a failure
to comply with this subdivision, any order made on a subsequent application may
be revoked or set aside on an ex parte motion. … (e)
This section specifies the court’s jurisdiction with regard to applications for
reconsideration of its orders and renewals of previous motions, and applies to
all applications to reconsider any order of a judge or court, or for the
renewal of a previous motion, whether the order deciding the previous matter or
motion is interim or final. No application to reconsider any order or for the
renewal of a previous motion may be considered by any judge or court unless
made according to this section.” (CCP § 1008(a), (b), (e).) A motion for reconsideration under § 1008 requires
that the moving party present new or different facts that were not previously
considered by the Court.  (New York Times Co. v. Superior Court
(2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 206, 212-13.)  However, the burden under CCP
Section 1008 “is comparable to that of a party seeking a new trial on the
ground of newly discovered evidence: the information must be such that the
moving party could not, with reasonable diligence, have discovered or produced
it at the trial.”  (Ibid.; Even Zohar Construction &
Remodeling, Inc. v. Bellaire Townhouses, LLC (2015) 61 Cal.4th 830, 833
[finding that § 1008 imposes the special requirement of having to not only show
new or different facts, circumstances, or law, but also to “show diligence with
a satisfactory explanation for not presenting the new or different information
earlier…”].)  Reconsideration cannot be granted based on claims that the
court misinterpreted the law in its initial ruling because this is not a
"new" or "different" matter.  (Gilberd v. AC
Transit (1995) 32 Cal.App.4th 1494, 1500.) III.     ANALYSISA.
Timeliness of the Motion for ReconsiderationPer CCP Section 1008, a motion for reconsideration
must be brought within 10 days of notice of the ruling the party wishes to be
reconsidered. (CCP § 1008(a).) Here, the notice of ruling of the 1/30/24 Order granting
trial preference was e-served 2/6/24 giving 10 days from that date in which to
file this motion. This motion was filed on February 16, 2024. The motion is timely.B.
Discussion of Plaintiff’s Medical RecordsDefendant urges that the January 30 order granting
the motion for trial preference should be reconsidered. In support, Defendant
cites a medical record dated November 1, 2023 deeming Plaintiff cleared for
surgery. (McIntosh Decl. Exh. B.) Defendant also cites a medical record dated
November 9, 2023 that Plaintiff was cleared for the rotator cuff surgery.
(McIntosh Decl. Exh. C.) In considering these records attached to the motion, it
is unclear to the Court how these records were obtained and if they are
properly authenticated. Secondly, Defendant urges that Plaintiff has failed
to provide medical documentation for his heart attack in September of 2023.
However, as the Court stated in its order on trial preference, there is no such
requirement. (Fox v. Superior Court
(2018) 21 Cal. App. 5th 529, 534 [“The standard under subdivision (a), unlike
under subdivision (d), which is more specific and more rigorous, includes no
requirement of a doctor's declaration.”], referencing CCP § 36(a).)          Lastly, Defendant urges that certain
discovery disputes between the parties show gamesmanship and unfair tactics by
Plaintiff and his counsel. It is unclear to the Court how this is relevant to a
motion for reconsideration or indeed, the standard for trial preference.           In his opposition, Plaintiff urges that
the two medical records raised by this motion were provided to Defendant in
discovery served November 17, 2023. (See Opposition p. 4: 25- p. 5:7, Paterson
Decl. Exhs 1-2.) To prevail on a motion for reconsideration, Defendant must
demonstrate that these new or different facts were not available earlier,
despite diligence. (Even Zohar Construction & Remodeling, Inc. v.
Bellaire Townhouses, LLC (2015) 61 Cal.4th 830, 833.) Plaintiff urges that
these medical records, to the extent that they are new or different facts, were
available to Defendant before its opposition to the Motion for Trial Preference
was due. Defendant’s opposition was due on January 18, 2024. These records were
available to defendant two months before that date. The Court holds that these
medical records were in fact available earlier and that Defendant did not
demonstrate otherwise. (Paterson Decl. Exhs. 1, 2.)          The Court denies the motion for
reconsideration for failure to demonstrate new or different facts not
considered by the Court previously were not available earlier, despite
diligence.           IV.     CONCLUSION
AND ORDER          Defendant’s motion for
reconsideration is denied. Plaintiff Bryce Harris is ordered to give notice.                     Dated:  April 16, 2024                                      _______________________________                                                                                     JARED D. MOSES                                                                     JUDGE OF THE SUPERIOR COURT 
 