..................... ..................... ..................... ......
The summary displayed below was created by an LLM named 'llama3-8b-8192':
Here is the summary in YAML format:

```
Case Number: Not specified
Plaintiff's Name: Not specified
Defendant's Name: Johnson and/or CHRW
People-Names: Johnson
Company-Names: CHRW
Places: Not specified
Dates: Not specified
Events: Wrongful death, negligence, breach of duty
Money: Pecuniary loss
Intentions: Not specified
Facts: Death, negligence, breach of duty, declaration by Johnson
Disputes: Cause of action for wrongful death, negligence
Acts: Breach of duty, resulting injury
Agreements: None specified
Laws: California Civil Code, Quiroz v. Seventh Ave. Center, Federico v. Superior Court, Sperl v. CHRHI
Case Citations: Quiroz v. Seventh Ave. Center (2006) 140 Cal.App.4th 1256, 1263, Federico v. Superior Court (1997) 59 Cal.App.4th 1207, 1211, Sperl v. CHRHI (94 N.Ed.2d 463, 470 (Ill.App.Ct. 3d Dist.2011)
Statutes: Not specified
Roles: Judge, Plaintiff, Defendant, Johnson
Significant Statements: 
* "The elements of the cause of action for wrongful death are the tort (negligence or other wrongful act), the resulting death, and the damages, consisting of the pecuniary loss suffered by the heirs." 
* "To establish a cause of action for Negligence, the plaintiff must prove the following: 1) a legal duty to use due care, 2) a breach of that duty, and 3) the breach as the proximate or legal cause of the resulting injury." 
* "The court declines to address Sperl because it relies on Illinois law and the court is not bound by out-of-state authority."
```

And here is a summary of the judge's tentative ruling in English text:

The judge has reviewed the numerous filings in this case and is issuing a tentative ruling. The plaintiff is seeking damages for wrongful death, alleging that the defendant was negligent and breached its duty of care. The judge notes that the elements of a cause of action for wrongful death are the tort, the resulting death, and the damages suffered by the heirs. To establish a cause of action for negligence, the plaintiff must prove that the defendant had a legal duty to use due care, breached that duty, and that the breach was the proximate cause of the resulting injury.

The judge has overruled the plaintiff's objection to the defendant's declaration, finding that it lacks foundation, personal knowledge, authentication, and inadmissible hearsay. The judge also notes that the defendant is not providing the declaration as expert testimony and that expert testimony was not required.

The judge declines to address the plaintiff's reliance on Sperl v. CHRHI, a case from Illinois, as it relies on out-of-state authority. The judge concludes that the issue of whether the defendant acted as a broker or not is further blurred by the plaintiff's opposition.

Overall, the judge's tentative ruling suggests that the case will proceed with the plaintiff's claim for wrongful death and negligent breach of duty, subject to further argument and evidence at the upcoming court hearing.
