


[1] Due to the numerous
filings in this case, the procedural history has been shortened.  
                        


[2]
"The elements of the cause of action for wrongful death are the tort
(negligence or other wrongful act), the resulting death, and the damages,
consisting of the pecuniary loss suffered by the heirs." Quiroz, uiroz v.
Seventh Ave. Center (2006) 140 Cal.App.4th 1256, 1263. To establish a cause of
action for Negligence, the plaintiff must prove the following: 1) a legal duty
to use due care, 2) a breach of that duty, and 3) the breach as the proximate
or legal cause of the resulting injury. See Federico v. Superior Court (1997)
59 Cal.App.4th 1207, 1211; J


[3]
Plaintiff heavily relies upon Sperl v. CHRHI (94 N.Ed.2d 463, 470
(Ill.App.Ct. 3d Dist.2011) presumably for the reason that it involves the
instant Defendant. However, that case relied upon Illinois law. For the same
reason that Plaintiff in opposition to Utility’s MSJ urged the court not to
follow Miehers—because Illinois is a modified
contributory state—the court declines to address Sperl. This is
especially so in light “ample” in-state. (Opp.p.2:7-8), which precludes
citation to out-of-state authority. 
 


[4]
Plaintiff relied upon Sperl and Secci. 


[5]
Ruling Re: Evidentiary Objection: OVERRULED. 
Plaintiff objects to Johnson’s declaration on the grounds
that it, amongst other objections, lacks foundation, personal knowledge,
authentication, and inadmissible hearsay. As noted by Defendant in response to
the objections, Johnson specifically states that he has personal knowledge of
the matters set forth in his declaration. As for hearsay, there is none. As for
expert testimony, Defendant is not providing Johnson’s declaration as expert
testimony, and expert testimony was not required. 
 


[6] The
issue is further blurred as Plaintiff’s opposition characterizes CHRW as a
broker. (See e.g., Opp. p. 18.) See also TAC p. 27:1-2 [“These defendants acted
as a broker, freight broker, and logistics coordinator and did so negligently,
causing damages to plaintiff.”].) 

