  Case Number:  22STCV28654    Hearing Date:   November 30, 2023    Dept:  52 Defendant Los Angeles Unified School
District’s Motion for Summary Judgment, or, in the Alternative, Summary
Adjudication 
            Defendant Los Angeles Unified School
District summary judgment or, in the alternative, summary adjudication of all three
of plaintiff Alma Fonseca’s causes of action.
Evidentiary
Objections
            Plaintiff makes two objections to
defendant’s evidence.  Both objections
are overruled.    
Defendant makes eight objections to plaintiff’s evidence.  All eight objections are overruled.
Legal
Standard
Summary judgment
should be granted where no triable issues of fact exist and the moving party is
entitled to judgment as a matter of law. 
(CCP § 437c(c); Villa v. McFerren
(1995) 35 Cal.App.4th 733, 741.)  Courts
use a three-step analysis: “(1) identify the issues framed by the pleadings;
(2) determine whether the moving party has negated the opponent’s claims; and
(3) determine whether the opposition has demonstrated the existence of a
triable, material factual issue.”  (Hinesley v. Oakshade Town Center (2005)
135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.)
Plaintiff’s Complaint
Plaintiff brings
three causes of action: (1) whistleblower retaliation, (2) retaliation under
the Fair Employment and Housing Act (FEHA), and (3) failure to prevent
discrimination or retaliation under FEHA. 

First and Second Causes
of Action for Retaliation
In
employment discrimination or retaliation cases, “[a]n employer defendant may
meet its initial burden on summary judgment, and require the employee plaintiff
to present evidence establishing a triable issue of material fact, by
presenting evidence that either negates an element of the employee’s
prima facie case, or establishes a legitimate nondiscriminatory reason for
taking the adverse employment action against the employee.”  (Swanson v. Morongo Unified School Dist.
(2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 954, 966.)  Once
the defendant does so, the plaintiff “need only present evidence establishing a
triable issue on the specific element the [defendant] challenges.”  (Id. at p. 968.)
For
whistleblower retaliation claims under Labor Code section 1102.5, the plaintiff
bears the initial burden at trial “to establish, by a preponderance of the evidence, that
retaliation for an employee’s protected activities was a contributing factor in
a contested employment action.”  (Lawson
v. PPG Architectural Finishes, Inc. (2022) 12 Cal.5th 703, 718 (Lawson).)  “Once the plaintiff has made the required
showing, the burden shifts to the employer to demonstrate, by clear and
convincing evidence, that it would have taken the action in question for
legitimate, independent reasons even had the plaintiff not engaged in protected
activity.”  (Ibid.)  “[A] plaintiff does not need to show that the
employer’s nonretaliatory reason was pretextual.  Even if the employer had a genuine, nonretaliatory
reason for its adverse action, the plaintiff still carries the burden assigned
by statute if it is shown that the employer also had at least one retaliatory
reason that was a contributing factor in the action.”  (Id. at pp. 715-716.)
The elements of retaliation under
FEHA are “ ‘(1) the employee’s engagement in a protected activity ...; (2)
retaliatory animus on the part of the employer; (3) an adverse action by the
employer; (4) a causal link between the retaliatory animus and the adverse
action; (5) damages; and (6) causation.’ ” 
(Brown v. Los Angeles Unified School District (2021) 60
Cal.App.5th 1092, 1105.)
A. Adverse Employment Action
Defendant argues that plaintiff
cannot prevail on her first two causes of action because she cannot establish
the element of an adverse employment action. 
The court rejects this argument because defendant does not meet its
initial burden of negating this element.
“To prove a claim of retaliation …, the
plaintiff ‘must demonstrate that he or she has been subjected to an adverse
employment action that materially affects the terms, conditions, or privileges
of employment.’ ”  (Francis v. City of
Los Angeles (2022) 81 Cal.App.5th 532, 540–541.)  “ ‘Minor or relatively trivial adverse
actions by employers or fellow employees that, from an objective perspective,
are reasonably likely to do no more than anger or upset an employee do not
materially affect the terms or conditions of employment.’ ”  (Id. at p. 541.) 
“The ‘materiality’ test of adverse employment action … looks to ‘the
entire spectrum of employment actions that are reasonably likely to adversely
and materially affect an employee’s job performance or opportunity for
advancement in his or her career,’ and the test ‘must be interpreted
liberally ... with a reasonable appreciation of the realities of the
workplace... .’ ”  (Patten v. Grant
Joint Union High School Dist. (2005) 134 Cal.App.4th 1378, 1389, overruled
on other grounds by Lawson, supra.)  
Defendant
argues plaintiff did not suffer an adverse employment action because she “was
paid her entire salary … and kept all her benefits.”  (Motion, p. 15.)  That is insufficient.  Laws prohibiting discrimination and retaliation are “not limited
to adverse employment actions that impose an economic detriment.”  (Yanowitz v. L'Oreal USA, Inc.
(2005) 36 Cal.4th 1028, 1052.)  “[A]
job reassignment may be an adverse employment action when it entails materially
adverse consequences,” even if the “plaintiff ‘ “suffers no diminution in pay
or benefits.” ’ ”  (Simers v. Los
Angeles Times Communications, LLC (2018) 18 Cal.App.5th 1248, 1279.)  The Court of Appeal has noted that “administrative
leave may constitute an adverse employment action.”  (Whitehall v. County of San Bernardino
(2017) 17 Cal.App.5th 352, 367.)  Defendant
fails to address the materiality test.  
Here,
the potential adverse employment action was that defendant sent plaintiff home
and prohibited her from working, a practice it calls “housing” an employee.  In other words, defendant put her on
administrative leave.  Prohibiting
plaintiff from working at all did not merely adversely affect her job
performance.  It eliminated her job
performance.  A reasonable factfinder
could conclude that doing so would naturally impede her opportunities for
advancement.  There is a triable issue of
material fact as to whether “housing” plaintiff constituted an adverse
employment action.  
B. Causation
Defendant argues that plaintiff
cannot meet her burden of showing a prima facie case because she does not have
evidence of a causal link between plaintiff’s complaints and defendant’s
adverse employment action.  The court
rejects this argument. 
Triable issues of material fact on
this element preclude summary adjudication of the first two causes of action.  Defendant attempts to show it “housed”
plaintiff for a legitimate reason: violating Policy Bulletin 6887.1, which
concerns disclosure and privacy of student records.  As plaintiff’s opposition notes, defendant
never provides a meaningful explanation of what part of this policy bulletin
(or the Education Code or the federal Family Education Rights and Privacy Act) plaintiff
supposedly violated.  Defendant’s reply
responds to this argument with conclusory statements and evidence that do
little more than point to pages 2 through 8 of the policy bulletin, large
portions of several statutes, and one provision merely describing the policy
behind the chapter of the Education Code on pupil records (Ed. Code, §
49060(a)).  (Reply, p. 5.)  Defendant does not quote any provision
plaintiff violated.  
Assuming defendant met its initial
burden of showing a legitimate reason for “housing” plaintiff, plaintiff presents
sufficient evidence to establish triable issues of fact.  “The central issue is … whether the evidence
as a whole supports a reasoned inference that the challenged action was the
product of discriminatory or retaliatory animus.”  (Mamou v. Trendwest Resorts, Inc. (2008)
165 Cal.App.4th 686, 715.)  “[C]iting a
legitimate reason for the challenged action will entitle the employer to
summary judgment only when the employee’s showing, while sufficient to invoke
the presumption, is too weak to sustain a reasoned inference
in the employee’s favor.”  (Ibid.)
Plaintiff presents evidence casting
doubt on the legitimacy of defendant’s explanation.  “Proof that the employer’s proffered reasons
are unworthy of credence may ‘considerably assist’ a circumstantial case of
discrimination, because it suggests the employer had cause to hide its true
reasons.”  (Guz v. Bechtel Nat. Inc. (2000)
24 Cal.4th 317, 361.)  Plaintiff presents
evidence she only disclosed student records to people permitted to see
them.  She showed copies of student
records to Principal Trinidad when she “confronted” her (Fonseca Decl., ¶ 10)
and to Instructional Director Eduardo Solorzano (id., ¶ 25).  She states she “brought printed transcripts
to the meeting to show Mr. Solorzano how Principal Trinidad had changed the
grades from ‘Fs’ to ‘Ds.’ ”  (Ibid.)      
Defendant’s own evidence also
undermines its reasons for “housing” plaintiff. 
Human resources representative Krishna Nunnally describes plaintiff’s
meeting with Solorzano.  She states, “Plaintiff
had taken these [student] records from Mission HS by accessing the students’
records on her school computer and then downloading the records and taking the
records off campus.”  (Nunnally Decl., ¶
4.)  But plaintiff took the records to another
LAUSD location to meet with Instructional Director Eduardo Solorzano.  (Ibid.)  A trier of fact could reasonably conclude
that a district employee printing student records to show a superior is a
harmless and minor violation of the rules governing confidentiality of student
records.         
Plaintiff’s evidence of the timing of
events further supports a reasoned inference of retaliation.  “ ‘Close proximity in time of an adverse
action to an employee’s resistance or opposition to unlawful conduct is often
strong evidence of a retaliatory motive.’ ” 
(Mendoza v. Western Medical Center Santa Ana (2014) 222
Cal.App.4th 1334, 1344; accord Zirpel v. Alki David Productions, Inc.
(2023) 93 Cal.App.5th 563, 578.)  Plaintiff
presents evidence she disclosed potential violations of law by Principal Trinidad
on October 28, 2019 (Fonseca Decl., ¶ 10), on January 13, 2020 (id., ¶
24), January 23 (id., ¶ 25), January 29 (id., ¶ 28), and February
2 (id., ¶ 29).  Defendant “housed”
plaintiff on February 4, 2020.  This
close temporal proximity supports the inference that defendant did so in
retaliation for plaintiff’s protected activity.
The record also includes evidence casting
doubt on the fairness of defendant’s process in disciplining plaintiff.  A biased or otherwise problematic investigation
of the reason for disciplining the plaintiff may constitute evidence of
pretext.  (Nazir v. United Airlines,
Inc. (2009) 178 Cal.App.4th 243, 277, 280, 287; accord Mendoza
v. Western Medical Center Santa Ana (2014) 222 Cal.App.4th
1334, 1344.)  Defendant presents an “incident
report form” dated February 18, 2020.  (Grable
Decl., Ex. 1-A [ex. 5 to plaintiff’s deposition].)  It states, “On or around December 10, 2019, I
was informed by Staff Relations Krishna Nunnally that [plaintiff] may be
copying student records for personal use and/or removing from school
site.”  (Id., p. 2.)  But the document indicates it was created on
February 4, 2020.  (Id., p. 3.)  The delay between administrators learning of
the supposed violation and creating an “incident report” suggests plaintiff’s
violation was not serious.  
Moreover, plaintiff remained “housed”
for over two years.  (Nunnally Decl., ¶¶
7-9.)  The facts supporting defendant’s
decision to “house” plaintiff (and never return her to work) arose from events
from December 2019 to February 2020.  Defendant
explains the long delay by stating the COVID-19 pandemic caused “an
unprecedented strain on the disciplinary system.”  (Id., ¶ 6.)  Even so, a reasonable factfinder could
conclude that someone who committed a violation of district policy or education
law warranting serious discipline would not remain on payroll without working
for over two years.    
Plaintiff presents sufficient
evidence to support a reasoned inference that defendant subjected her to an
adverse employment action in retaliation for her protected activity.  The
evidence in the record is consistent with the conclusion that defendant
retaliated against her.  Plaintiff disclosed
information that, if true, would constitute serious wrongdoing by Principal
Trinidad.  Soon after, defendant disciplined
plaintiff for a relatively minor infraction in how she reported Principal
Trinidad’s alleged misconduct.  The court
cannot find that, as a matter of law, plaintiff’s evidence is too weak to
support a rational inference that defendant retaliated against her.  
3rd Cause of
Action: Failure to Prevent Discrimination and Harassment
Triable issues of material fact
preclude summary adjudication of this cause of action.  FEHA requires an employer “to take all
reasonable steps necessary to prevent discrimination and harassment from
occurring.”  (Gov. Code, § 12940(k).)  Defendant relies on authority that this claim
cannot stand on its own without an underlying claim for violating FEHA.  (Dickson
v. Burke Williams, Inc. (2015) 234 Cal.App.4th 1307, 1309; Trujillo v.
North County Transit Dist. (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 280, 289.)  But since the court concludes there are
triable issues of material facts relating to plaintiff’s underlying FEHA claim,
this cause of action also survives summary adjudication.
Disposition
            Defendant Los Angeles Unified School
District’s motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication is denied.