  Case Number:  23TRCV01551    Hearing Date:   June 11, 2024    Dept:  M 
LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT – SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 




Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                                                            Tuesday, June 11,2024  
Department M                                                                                                                            Calendar No. 3   



 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Bruno
L. Perron v. Deborah L. Howard, et al.  
23TRCV01551
1.     
Deborah Howard’s,
individually and as Trustee of the Deborah Howard Trust, Demurrer to First
Amended Complaint  
 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Deborah Howard’s, individually and as Trustee of the
Deborah Howard Trust, Demurrer to First Amended Complaint is sustained with 20
days leave to amend, in part, and without leave to amend, in part. 
 
Background
 
Plaintiff’s Complaint was filed on May 16, 2023. The
First Amended Complaint was filed on January 19, 2024. Plaintiff alleges the
following facts. Plaintiff alleges he was fraudulently induced into entering
into various agreements and instruments and that the underlying promissory note
and deed of trust are invalid and unenforceable. Plaintiff alleges that Defendant
Deborah L. Howard represented that she would never collect under the note and
Plaintiff relied on this representation to sign separate deeds of trust with
respect to the subject property. However, Defendants proceeded to attempt to
foreclose on the real properties which secured the note. 
 
Meet and Confer
 
Defendants filed a meet and confer declaration in
sufficient compliance with CCP § 430.41. (Decl., Thomas P. Carter.)
 
Demurrer

A demurrer tests the sufficiency of a complaint as a
matter of law and raises only questions of law. (Schmidt v. Foundation Health
(1995) 35 Cal.App.4th 1702, 1706.)  In
testing the sufficiency of the complaint, the court must assume the truth of
(1) the properly pleaded factual allegations; (2) facts that can be reasonably
inferred from those expressly pleaded; and (3) judicially noticed matters. (Blank
v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) 
The Court may not consider contentions, deductions, or conclusions of
fact or law.  (Moore v. Conliffe
(1994) 7 Cal.App.4th 634, 638.) Because a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency
of a complaint, the plaintiff must show that the complaint alleges facts
sufficient to establish every element of each cause of action.  (Rakestraw v. California Physicians
Service (2000) 81 Cal.App.4th 39, 43.) 
Where the complaint fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action, courts should sustain the demurrer.  (C.C.P., § 430.10(e); Zelig v. County of
Los Angeles (2002) 27 Cal.App.4th 1112, 1126.)
 
Sufficient facts are the essential facts of the case
"with reasonable precision and with particularity sufficiently specific to
acquaint the defendant with the nature, source, and extent of his cause of
action.”  (Gressley v. Williams
(1961) 193 Cal.App.2d 636, 643-644.) 
"Whether the plaintiff will be able to prove the pleaded facts is
irrelevant to ruling upon the demurrer." 
(Stevens v. Superior Court (1986) 180 Cal.App.3d 605,
609–610.)  Under Code Civil Procedure §
430.10(f), a demurrer may also be sustained if a complaint is “uncertain.”  Uncertainty exists where a complaint’s
factual allegations are so confusing they do not sufficiently apprise a
defendant of the issues it is being asked to meet.  (Williams v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp.
(1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 135, 139, fn. 2.)
 
Defendants demur to Plaintiff’s First Amended
Complaint and each cause of action pursuant to CCP § 430.10(e) and (f) on the
grounds that the causes of action fail to state facts sufficient to constitute
a cause of action and that the causes of action are uncertain. The demurrer to
the FAC is sustained. As to certain causes of action, the demurrer is sustained
with 20 days leave to amend, and as to certain causes of action, the demurrer
is sustained without leave to amend.
 
The Court notes that Plaintiff alleged seventeen purported
“causes of action.” Some of the causes of action are not causes of action at
all as noted below.
 
Defendants argue that Plaintiff has failed to allege
tender of the payment of the debt secured by the Deed of Trust. Defendants also
argue that the causes of action are barred by the statute of limitations.
Defendants contend that the causes of action accrued in or around 2015 more
than three or four years beyond the applicable statute of limitations.
Defendants also demur to several causes of action on the grounds that they are
not causes of action, and on the grounds that certain elements of the causes of
action are not met.
 
The Court rules as follows.
 
As to the third cause of action for Constructive
Trust, the demurrer is sustained without leave to amend. 
 
Constructive Trust is a remedy and not a cause of
action. “Glue–Fold's complaint had a fourth cause of action seeking imposition
of a constructive trust and an accounting. The former is not an independent
cause of action but merely a type of remedy for some categories of underlying
wrong.” Glue-Fold, Inc. v. Slautterback Corp. (2000) 82 Cal.App.4th
1018, 1023.
 
As to the ninth cause of action for Conspiracy to
Commit Fraud and tenth cause of action for Aiding and Abetting Fraud, the
demurrer is sustained without leave to amend.
 
Civil Conspiracy and Aiding and Abetting are not
independent cause of action. “Civil conspiracy is not an independent tort.
Instead, it is a legal doctrine that imposes liability on persons who, although
not actually committing a tort themselves, share with the immediate tortfeasors
a common plan or design in its perpetration.” City of Industry v. City of
Fillmore (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 191, 211–212. “Liability based on an aiding
and abetting or conspiracy theory is also “derivative,” i.e., liability is imposed
on one person for the direct acts of another. Conspiracy is not a cause of
action, but a legal doctrine that imposes liability on persons who, although
not actually committing a tort themselves, share with the immediate tortfeasors
a common plan or design in its perpetration. [Citation.] By participation in a
civil conspiracy, a coconspirator effectively adopts as his or her own the torts
of other coconspirators within the ambit of the conspiracy.” Richard B.
LeVine, Inc. v. Higashi (2005) 131 Cal.App.4th 566, 579 (internal
quotations omitted; emphasis in original).
 
As to the fourteenth cause of action for Injunctive
Relief, the demurrer is sustained without leave to amend. Injunctive Relief is
not an independent cause of action. It is a remedy. “An [i]njunction is an
equitable remedy available to a person aggrieved by certain torts or other
wrongful acts ....” Connerly v. Schwarzenegger (2007) 146
Cal.App.4th 739, 748 (emphasis in original).
 
As to the third, ninth, tenth, and fourteenth causes
of action, the scope of leave to amend is not to reassert these remedies and
legal doctrines as independent causes of action but Plaintiff may set forth allegations
to support these remedies and/or legal doctrines in the context of other causes
of action and allegations alleged.
 
As to the thirteenth causes of action for Declaratory
Relief, the demurrer is sustained without leave to amend.
 
            Code Civ. Proc., § 1060 states, in
relevant part:
“Any person interested under a written instrument,
excluding a will or a trust, or under a contract, or who desires a declaration
of his or her rights or duties with respect to another, or in respect to, in,
over or upon property, [. . .]may, in cases of actual controversy relating to
the legal rights and duties of the respective parties, bring an original action
or cross-complaint in the superior court for a declaration of his or her rights
and duties in the premises, including a determination of any question of
construction or validity arising under the instrument or contract. He or she
may ask for a declaration of rights or duties, either alone or with other
relief; and the court may make a binding declaration of these rights or duties,
whether or not further relief is or could be claimed at the time. The
declaration may be either affirmative or negative in form and effect, and the
declaration shall have the force of a final judgment. The declaration may be
had before there has been any breach of the obligation in respect to which said
declaration is sought.”
 
“To qualify for declaratory relief, [Plaintiff] would
have to demonstrate its action presented two essential elements: “(1) a proper
subject of declaratory relief, and (2) an actual controversy involving
justiciable questions relating to [Plaintiff’s] rights or obligations.... But
even assuming that [Plaintiff’s] action satisfies the first requirement, it
must still present an ‘actual controversy.’ The ‘actual controversy’ language
in Code of Civil Procedure section 1060 encompasses a probable future controversy
relating to the legal rights and duties of the parties. It does not embrace
controversies that are conjectural, anticipated to occur in the future, or an
attempt to obtain an advisory opinion from the court. Thus, while a party may
seek declaratory judgment before an actual invasion of rights has occurred, it
must still demonstrate that the controversy is justiciable. And to be
justiciable, the controversy must be ripe.” Wilson & Wilson v. City
Council of Redwood City (2011) 191 Cal.App.4th 1559, 1582 (internal
citations and quotations omitted; emphasis in original). “The court may refuse
to exercise the power granted by this chapter in any case where its declaration
or determination is not necessary or proper at the time under all the
circumstances.” Code Civ. Proc., § 1061.
 
Here, a declaration of rights and duties under CCP §
1060 is not necessary as the rights and duties of the parties will be
adjudicated pursuant to, at least, the first, second, and seventeenth causes of
action. CCP § 1061.
 
As to the sixteenth cause of action for Negligent
Infliction of Emotional Distress, the demurrer is sustained without leave to
amend.
 
NIED is not an independent cause of action. Emotional
distress is a component of damages that can be recovered in a negligence cause
of action. See Burgess v. Superior Court (1992) 2 Cal.4th 1064, 1072.
Plaintiff has set forth a separate cause of action for Professional Negligence.
 
 
As to the remaining causes of action, the demurrer is
sustained with 20 days leave to amend.
 
The face of the allegations of the pleading reveals a
bar based on the applicable statutes of limitations. While unclear and not
supported with any authority, Plaintiff appears to attempt to invoke the
continuing violation doctrine in his opposition.
 
“Generally, a cause of action accrues when [it] is
complete with all of its elements[.][....] An exception to this rule is the
continuing violation doctrine. The continuing violation doctrine
aggregates a series of wrongs or injuries for purposes of the statute of
limitations, treating the limitations period as accruing for all of them upon
commission or sufferance of the last of them. Consequently, the continuing
violation doctrine allows liability for unlawful ... conduct occurring outside
the statute of limitations if it is sufficiently connected to unlawful conduct
within the limitations period. For the continuing violation doctrine to apply,
a plaintiff must show the defendant engaged in a pattern of reasonably frequent
and similar acts [that] may, in a given case, justify treating the acts as an
indivisible course of conduct actionable in its entirety, notwithstanding that
the conduct occurred partially outside and partially inside the limitations
period. [¶] Unlike equitable tolling, the continuing tort/continuing violation
theory affects a cause of action's accrual.[....] [A] court must consider
whether the employer's actions (1)...[were] sufficiently similar in
kind—recognizing ... that similar kinds of unlawful employer conduct,
such as acts of harassment or failures to reasonably accommodate
disability, may take a number of different forms [citation]; (2) have occurred
with reasonable frequency; (3) and have not acquired a degree of permanence.” Willis
v. City of Carlsbad (2020) 48 Cal.App.5th 1104, 1124–1125 (internal
citations and quotations omitted).
 
Plaintiff appears to argue that Defendants committed a
fraudulent act in July 2021. However, the allegations of fraud are vague and
lacking in specificity to meet the elements of fraud. 
 
The Court further makes comments regarding these
specific causes of action as other pleading defects exist within these causes
of action. 
 
As to the fourth cause of action for Accounting,
Plaintiff has failed to allege facts demonstrating that a relationship exists
between the Plaintiff and Defendants that requires an accounting. “A cause of
action for an accounting requires a showing that a relationship exists between
the plaintiff and defendant that requires an accounting, and that some balance
is due the plaintiff that can only be ascertained by an accounting. An action
for accounting is not available where the plaintiff alleges the right to
recover a sum certain or a sum that can be made certain by calculation.” Teselle
v. McLoughlin (2009) 173 Cal.App.4th 156, 179. 
 
As to the fifth cause of action for Breach of
Fiduciary Duty, Plaintiff has failed to allege facts demonstrating the
existence of a fiduciary relationship between the parties.
 
As to the sixth through eighth causes of action for
Fraud and Negligent Misrepresentation, Plaintiff has failed to allege specific
facts to meet the elements of the causes of action. 
 
“A complaint for fraud must allege the following
elements: (1) a knowingly false representation by the defendant; (2) an intent
to deceive or induce reliance; (3) justifiable reliance by the plaintiff; and
(4) resulting damages.”  Service by
Medallion, Inc. v. Clorox Co. (1996) 44 Cal.App.4th 1807, 1816. “[T]he
elements of an action for fraud and deceit based on a concealment are: (1) the
defendant must have concealed or suppressed a material fact, (2) the defendant
must have been under a duty to disclose the fact to the plaintiff, (3) the
defendant must have intentionally concealed or suppressed the fact with the
intent to defraud the plaintiff, (4) the plaintiff must have been unaware of
the fact and would not have acted as he did if he has known of the concealed or
suppressed fact, and (5) as a result of the concealment or suppression of the
fact, the plaintiff must have sustained damage.” Boschma v. Home Loan
Center, Inc. (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 230, 248.
 
“Every element of the cause of action for fraud must
be alleged in the proper manner and the facts constituting the fraud must be
alleged with sufficient specificity to allow defendant to understand fully the
nature of the charge made.”  Tarmann
v. State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co. (1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 153, 157.  Plaintiff must state facts which “show how,
when, where, to whom, and by what means the representations were
tendered.”  Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.
 
“For a claim of negligent misrepresentation, [a]
plaintiff must prove the following in order to recover[:] [M]isrepresentation
of a past or existing material fact, without reasonable ground for believing it
to be true, and with intent to induce another's reliance on the fact
misrepresented; ignorance of the truth and justifiable reliance on the
misrepresentation by the party to whom it was directed; and resulting damage.” Goonewardene
v. ADP, LLC (2016) 5 Cal.App.5th 154, 175. 
Negligent misrepresentation is a species of fraud and requires
specificity in pleading.  See Small v. Fritz Companies, Inc.
(2003) 30 Cal.4th 167, 184-85. 

 
In addition, all the allegations are made on in
information and belief. “[P]laintiff may allege on information and belief any
matters that are not within his personal knowledge, if he has information
leading him to believe that the allegations are true and thus a pleading made
on information and belief is insufficient if it merely assert[s] the facts so
alleged without alleging such information that lead[s] [the plaintiff] to
believe that the allegations are true.”  Gomes
v. Countrywide Home Loans, Inc. (2011) 192 Cal.App.4th 1149, 1158–1159
(internal citations and quotations are omitted; emphasis in original.) Plaintiff
failed to allege sufficient facts that would support the contention that the
belief is true. 
 
As to the eleventh cause of action for Violation of
Bus. & Prof. Code 17200, Plaintiff failed to allege facts to support an
underlying cause of action to demonstrate unlawful, unfair, or fraudulent
business practices.
 
“California Business and Professions Code Sections
17000, et seq., and 17200, et seq., states [sic] that unfair competition shall
mean and include unlawful, unfair or fraudulent business practices.” Khoury
v. Maly's of California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 618–19. “By
proscribing ‘any unlawful’ business act or practice, the UCL “borrows” rules
set out in other laws and makes violations of those rules independently
actionable. [Citation.] However, a practice may violate the UCL even if it is
not prohibited by another statute.” Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum Com. v.
Insomniac, Inc. (2015) 233 Cal.App.4th 803, 835. “The unfair competition
law is independent of the Unfair Practices Act and other laws. Its remedies are
“cumulative ... to the remedies or penalties available under all other laws of
this state” (§ 17205), but its sanctions are less severe than those of the
Unfair Practices Act. Prevailing plaintiffs are generally limited to injunctive
relief and restitution. (§ 17203; see ABC Internat. Traders, Inc. v.
Matsushita Electric Corp. (1997) 14 Cal.4th 1247, 1268 [61 Cal.Rptr.2d
112, 931 P.2d 290].) Plaintiffs may not receive damages, much less treble damages,
or attorney fees.” Cel-Tech Communications, Inc. v. Los Angeles Cellular
Telephone Co. (1999) 20 Cal.4th 163, 179.
 
As to the twelfth cause of action for Professional
Negligence, Plaintiff has failed to allege facts to demonstrate a duty of care
based on Defendants’ status as a “professional.”
 
As to the fifteenth cause of action, for IIED,
Plaintiff has failed to allege facts to meet the elements of the cause of
action – namely element (1) noted below.
 
“A cause of action for IIED requires proof of: (1)
extreme and outrageous conduct by the defendant with the intention of causing,
or reckless disregard of the probability of causing, emotional distress; (2)
the plaintiff suffered severe emotional distress; and (3) the defendant's
extreme and outrageous conduct was the actual and proximate cause of the severe
emotional distress.” Crouch v. Trinity Christian Center of Santa Ana, Inc.
(2019) 39 Cal.App.5th 995, 1007.
 
For the foregoing reasons, Defendants’ demurrer to the
First Amended Complaint is sustained with 20 days leave to amend, in part, and
without leave to amend, in part.
 
Defendants are ordered to give notice of this ruling.