  Case Number:  23AHCV00524    Hearing Date:   January 31, 2024    Dept:  X    Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Joel L. Lofton,
Department X
 
 
HEARING DATE:      January 31, 2024                                             TRIAL
DATE: No date set. 
                                                           
CASE:                         CHIA HUEY LIN, v.
CHUNG HUEI LING, WILLY LING; All Persons unknown, claiming any legal or
equitable right, title, estate, lien, or interest in the property described in
the complaint adverse to Plaintiff’s title thereto; and DOES 1 through 15,
inclusive.  
 
CASE NO.:                 23AHCV00524
 
            
 
MOTION
TO BE RELIEVED AS COUNSEL

 
MOVING PARTY:               Ching K. Chiao, on behalf of Chia
& Wu, LLP
 
RESPONDING PARTY:      No
response filed. 
 
SERVICE:                              Filed January 3, 2024
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED 
 
             Ching K. Chiao (“Chiao”), on
behalf of Chia & Wu, LLP, moves to be relieved as counsel of record for
Defendants Chung Huei Ling and Willy Ling. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
             This case arises out of Plaintiff Chia Huey
Lin’s (“Plaintiff”) quiet title claim for property located at 6400 Trelawney
Avenue, Temple City, California 91780. Plaintiff filed this complaint on March
9, 2023.
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Chiao’s motion to be relieved as counsel is tentatively
GRANTED.
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
Code of Civil Procedure §284(1) allows for a change or substitution of
attorney “[u]pon the consent of both client and attorney, filed with the clerk,
or entered upon the minutes.” If both parties do not consent to a substitution
of attorney, Code of Civ. Proc. §284(2) allows for a substitution “[u]pon the
order of the court, upon the application of either client or attorney, after
notice from one to the other.” California Rules of Court Rule 3.1362 sets forth
procedures for relieving counsel without the mutual consent of both parties.
 
Under California Rules of Court Rule 3.1362, an attorney seeking to
withdraw by motion rather than by consent of the client, as here, is required
to make that motion using approved Judicial Council forms. The motion also
requires a declaration stating “in general terms, and without compromising the
confidentiality of the attorney-client relationship why a motion under Code of
Civil Procedure section 284(2) is brought instead of filing a consent under
Code of Civil Procedure section 284(1).” (Cal. Rules of Ct., Rule
3.1362(c).)  Judicial Council form
MC-052, the attorney’s declaration, requires that the client be provided no
less than five days’ notice before hearing on the motion.  A proposed order prepared on form MC-053 must
also be lodged with the court with the moving
papers.
 
            California
Rules of Court Rule 3.1362 subd. (d) also requires that the motion, notice of
motion, the declaration, and the proposed order must be served on the client
and all other parties who have appeared in the case. The notice served on the
client by mail must be accompanied by a declaration stating facts that show
that either the service address is current or “that [t]he service address is the last known residence or business
address of the client and the attorney has been unable to locate a more current
address after making reasonable efforts to do so within 30 days before the
filing of the motion to be relieved.”
(California Rules of Court Rule 3.1362 subd. (d)). 
 
The Court of Appeals has recognized, “A lawyer violates his or her
ethical mandate by abandoning a
client [citation], or by withdrawing at a critical point and thereby
prejudicing the client’s case. 
[Citation.]  We are, however,
aware of no authority preventing an attorney from withdrawing from a case when
withdrawal can be accomplished without undue prejudice to the client’s
interests.” (Ramirez v. Sturdevant
(1994) 21 Cal. App. 4th 904, 915.)
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Chiao moves to be relieves as counsel of record for Defendants Chung Huei Ling and Willy Ling.
Chiao provides that this motion is made pursuant to Rule 1.16(b)(4). Rule
1.16(b)(4) provides that a lawyer may withdraw if “the client by other
conduct renders it unreasonably difficult for the lawyer to carry out the
representation effectively.” Chiao does not provide any other details as to
what conduct gives rise to this request to be relieved as counsel. At hearing,
Chiao is ordered to provide additional details, without violating
attorney-client privilege, regarding what lead to this motion. 
 
            Chiao
provides that the clients were served at the last known address which was
confirmed by the client’s discovery responses. 
 
CONCLUSION
 
            Chiao’s motion to be relieved as counsel is tentatively
GRANTED.
 
The court will delay the effective
date of the order relieving counsel until (1) proof of service of a copy of the
signed order on the client and (2) proof that the client has been properly
served with notice of the next trial date have been filed with the court.
 
            Moving
Party to provide notice 
 
 
            
Dated:   January 31,
2024                                           ___________________________________
                                                                                    Joel
L. Lofton
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court