 Case Number:  23AHCV02199    Hearing Date:   January 31, 2024    Dept:  X    Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Joel L. Lofton,
Department X
 
 
HEARING DATE:      January 31, 2024                                             TRIAL
DATE: No date set. 
                                                           
CASE:                         CARMEN CHENG and
JOHN GAO, Trustees of the Gao Family Trust v. YVONNE CHU, TRUSTEE OF THE YVONNE
CHU FAMILY TRUST, and Does 1 through 10.  
 
CASE NO.:                 23AHCV02199
 
            
 
MOTION
FOR PRELIMINARY INJUNCTION

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant Yvonne Chu
(“Cross-Complainant”)
 
RESPONDING PARTY:      Plaintiffs
Carmen Cheng and John Gao
 
SERVICE:                              Filed November 27, 2023
 
OPPOSITION:                       Untimely filed January 23, 2024
 
REPLY:                                   No reply filed. 
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED 
 
             Cross-Complainant moves for a
preliminary injunction ordering Plaintiff to remove equipment attached to a
wall encroaching on her property. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
             This case arises out of Plaintiffs Carmen
Cheng and John Gao’s (“Plaintiffs”) claim that Defendants seek to improperly
remove a wall between the parties’ properties. Plaintiff filed this complaint
on September 21, 2023. 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Cross-Complainant’s motion for a preliminary injunction
is DENIED.
 
LEGAL STANDARD
Code of Civil Procedure section 526, subdivision
(a), provides: 
An injunction may be granted in the following cases: [¶] (1) When it appears by the complaint that the
plaintiff is entitled to the relief demanded, and the relief, or any part
thereof, consists in restraining the commission or continuance of the act
complained of, either for a limited period or perpetually. [¶] (2) When it appears by the complaint or
affidavits that the commission or continuance of some act during the litigation
would produce waste, or great or irreparable injury, to a party to the action. [¶] (3) When it appears, during the litigation, that
a party to the action is doing, or threatens, or is about to do, or is
procuring or suffering to be done, some act in violation of the rights of
another party to the action respecting the subject of the action, and tending
to render the judgment ineffectual. [¶] (4) When pecuniary
compensation would not afford adequate relief. [¶] (5) Where it
would be extremely difficult to ascertain the amount of compensation which
would afford adequate relief. [¶] (6) Where the restraint is
necessary to prevent a multiplicity of judicial proceedings. [¶] (7) Where the obligation arises from a trust.
DISCUSSION
 
            Cross-Complainant
moves for a preliminary injunction ordering Plaintiffs to remove pool equipment
and mechanical components that are attached to a wall purportedly on
Cross-Complainant’s property. 
 
            “A trial court may grant a
preliminary injunction upon a showing that (1) the party seeking the injunction
is likely to prevail on the merits at trial, and (2) the ‘interim harm’ to that
party if an injunction is denied is greater than ‘the [interim] harm the
[opposing party] is likely to suffer if the ... injunction is issued.’
[citation.] These two showings operate on a sliding scale: ‘[T]he more likely
it is that [the party seeking the injunction] will ultimately prevail, the less
severe must be the harm that they allege will occur if the injunction does not
issue.’ [citation.] ” (Integrated Dynamic Solutions, Inc. v. VitaVet Labs,
Inc. (2016) 6 Cal.App.5th 1178, 1183.) 
 
            “To obtain a preliminary injunction, a
plaintiff ordinarily is required to present evidence of the irreparable injury
or interim harm that it will suffer if an injunction is not issued pending an
adjudication of the merits.” (White v. Davis. (2003) 30 Cal.4th 528,
554.)
 
            As a preliminary note, although Cross-Complainant argues
that this present motion is an effort to maintain the status quo, this motion
is more akin to a mandatory injunction. Preliminary
injunctions may also be issued to mandate “an affirmative action that changes
the status quo”. (City of Corona v. AMG Outdoor Advertising, Inc. (2016)
244 Cal.App.4th 291, 299.) However, “[t]he granting of a mandatory injunction
pending trial ‘ “is not permitted except in extreme cases where the right
thereto is clearly established.” ’ ” (Ibid.)  Cross-Complainant is seeking an order, i.e. for Plaintiffs to
remove equipment attached to a wall, that goes directly to the core of both the
complaint and the cross-complaint. Thus, Cross-Complainant is seeking relief
through this motion that effectively could determine the main substantive
issues underlying this case.
 
            Cross-Complainant asserts that she is able to demonstrate
a likelihood of prevailing on her claim for trespass.
 
“The elements of trespass are: (1) the plaintiff's ownership
or control of the property; (2) the defendant's intentional, reckless, or
negligent entry onto the property; (3) lack of permission for the entry or acts
in excess of permission; (4) harm; and (5) the defendant's conduct was a
substantial factor in causing the harm.” (Ralphs
Grocery Co. v. Victory Consultants, Inc. (2017) 17 Cal.App.5th 245, 262.) 
 
            Cross-Complainant
argues that the concrete block wall at issue exists entirely on her property,
as confirmed by a surveyor. (Chu Decl. ¶ 13, Exhibit E.) She provides
she was never asked for permission for the encroaching wall nor provided it. (Id. ¶ 13.) She also provides that a previous listing for Plaintiff’s
property stated there was a possible encroachment. (Id. ¶ 14; Wong Decl. ¶¶ 2-6.)
 
            Cross-Complainant
also argues that the pool equipment and mechanical equipment have been
relocated within the last four years. Cross-Complainant provides that the pool
equipment is different than the pool equipment photographed in a 2017 listing.
(Kacherian Decl. ¶ 3-5.) Cross-Complainant also argues that the equipment is
relatively new. (Id. ¶¶ 7-8.) 
 
            Cross-Complainant also argues she
will suffer irreparable harm because she would be hindered or prevented in her
efforts to complete her $1 million renovation project and have to obtain new or
extended permits. (Chu Decl. ¶¶
27-29.) Cross-Complainant asserts that the harm to Plaintiff’s
would be $5,000-$6,000. (Kacherian Decl. ¶ 16.)
 
            In
reviewing Cross-Complainant’s evidence, the court finds that Cross-Complainant
has demonstrated some level of success on the merits and some showing that the
harm balances in her favor. However, Cross-Complainant has not demonstrated
that the right to a mandatory injunction is clearly established here.
Cross-Complainant’s demonstration of harm as to Plaintiff’s harm is
speculative. Further, she has not stated with specificity her harm. Although
Cross-Complainant argues her “$1 million” renovation project is in jeopardy,
she does not state how much of the project will be hindered by Plaintiff’s
action or how much it would cost to obtain permit extensions. 
 
            Cross-Complainant
seeks extraordinary relief that goes to the direct issues underpinning both
Plaintiff’s complaint and the cross-complaint. However, Cross-Complainant has
not demonstrated that she is clearly entitled to such drastic relief. 
 
CONCLUSION
 
            Cross-Complainant’s motion for a preliminary injunction
is DENIED.
 
            Moving Party to provide notice. 
 
 
 
            
Dated:   January 31,
2024                                           ___________________________________
                                                                                    Joel
L. Lofton
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an
email to the court indicating their 
intention to submit.  alhdeptx@lacourt.org
