 Case Number:  23SMCV01851    Hearing Date:   July 16, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


July 16, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23SMCV01851




MOTION


Motion for Leave to File a Cross-Complaint




MOVING PARTY


Defendant Fidelity National Home Warranty, Inc. dba FNHW




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff Ian Herzog



 
MOTION
 
On April 27, 2023, Plaintiff Ian Herzog (“Plaintiff”) brought suit
against Defendants Fidelity National Home Warranty, Inc. dba FNHW; Dameriol L.;
and Monet R. (“Defendants”) alleging four causes of action for (1) breach of
contract; (2) fraud; (3) intentional infliction of emotional distress; (4) and
insurance bad faith.  
 
Defendant Fidelity National Home Warranty, Inc. dba FNHW (“FNHW”)
moves for leave to file a cross-complaint against Plaintiff for declaratory
relief.  Plaintiff opposes the motion and
FNHW replies.
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
A
party against whom a cause of action has been asserted in a complaint or
cross-complaint may file a cross-complaint setting forth either or both of the
following:
 
(a)   Any
cause of action he has against any of the parties who filed the complaint or
cross-complaint against him. Nothing in this subdivision authorizes the filing
of a cross-complaint against the plaintiff in an action commenced under Title 7
(commencing with Section 1230.010) of Part 3.
 
(b)   Any
cause of action he has against a person alleged to be liable thereon, whether
or not such person is already a party to the action, if the cause of action
asserted in his cross-complaint (1) arises out of the same transaction,
occurrence, or series of transactions or occurrences as the cause brought
against him or (2) asserts a claim, right, or interest in the property or
controversy which is the subject of the cause brought against him.
 
(Code
Civ. Proc., § 428.10, subds. (a)-(b).)  
 
(a)   A
party shall file a cross-complaint against any of the parties who filed the
complaint or cross-complaint against him or her before or at the same time as
the answer to the complaint or cross-complaint.
 
(b)   Any
other cross-complaint may be filed at any time before the court has set a date
for trial.
 
(c)   A
party shall obtain leave of court to file any cross-complaint except one filed
within the time specified in subdivision (a) or (b). Leave may be granted in
the interest of justice at any time during the course of the action.
 
(Code
Civ. Proc., § 428.50, subds. (a)-(c).)  
 
Indeed, where a cause of action would
otherwise be lost, leave to amend is appropriate even if the party was
negligent in not moving for leave to amend earlier.  “The legislative mandate is clear.  A policy of liberal construction of section
426.50 to avoid forfeiture of causes of action is imposed on the trial
court.  A motion to file a
cross-complaint at any time during the course of the action must be granted
unless bad faith of the moving party is demonstrated where forfeiture would
otherwise result.”  (Silver
Organizations, Ltd. v. Frank (1990) 217 Cal.App.3d 94, 98-99.)   Further, “Cross-complaints for comparative
equitable indemnity would appear virtually always¿transactionally¿related to
the main action.”¿¿(Time for Living, Inc. v. Guy Hatfield Homes¿(1991)
230 Cal.App.3d 30, 38; see also Countrywide Home Loans, Inc. v.
Superior Court (1999) 69 Cal.App.4th 785, 799 [“Undoubtedly, a claim
for contribution or indemnity ‘arises out of’ the same transaction or
occurrence as the plaintiff's claim”].)¿
 
DISCUSSION
 
            FNHW seeks leave to file a
cross-complaint against Plaintiff for declaratory relief that the parties’
contract limits FNHW’s liability to Plaintiff to a maximum of $1500.  Plaintiff opposes the motion on the grounds
that declaratory relief is not available where, as here, Plaintiff’s cause of
action for breach of contract has already matured.  
 
            However, the Court does not
generally consider the merits of the proposed pleading in determining whether
to grant leave.  Instead, the Court
implements the legislative mandate to liberally construe requests for leave to
avoid forfeiture of causes of action.  To
the extent Plaintiff takes issue with the proposed cross-complaint, Plaintiff
may raise those by appropriate motion.  (See
Kittredge Sports Co. v. Superior Court (1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1048 [“the
preferable practice would be to permit the amendment and allow the parties to
test its legal sufficiency by demurrer, motion for judgment on the pleadings or
other appropriate proceedings”].)
 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
            For these reasons, the Court grants FNHW’s
motion for leave to file a cross-complaint, and orders FNHW to file and serve
the proposed cross-complaint on or before July 30, 2024. 
 
            Further, the Court orders FNHW to
provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file the notice with a proof of
service forthwith.
 
 
 
DATED: 
July 16, 2024                                  ___________________________
                                                                  Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                  Judge
of the Superior Court