 Case Number:  23SMCV02555    Hearing Date:   July 16, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


July 16, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23SMCV02555 (c/w 23SMCV03059)




MOTION


Motion for a Preliminary Injunction




MOVING PARTY


Defendant and Cross-Complainant Elisa Perlman




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff and Cross-Defendant Malibu Road Homeowners
  Association



 
BACKGROUND
 
The consolidated actions arise from a dispute between Defendant and
Cross-Complainant Elisa Perlman (“Perlman”), and her neighbors, Andrea and
Gelly Valero (collectively, the “Valeros”). 
Cross-Defendant Andrea Valero (“Valero”) was also the sole member of the
board of directors for the Plaintiff and Cross-Defendant Malibu Road Homeowners
Association (“HOA”) that governs the property during most of the events giving
rise to the consolidated actions.  The
Valeros and the HOA brought two separate lawsuits against Perlman stemming from
the same factual dispute concerning water leaks into the Valeros’ unit,
allegedly caused by Perlman.
 
Perlman filed a Cross-Complaint against the HOA and Valero, alleging
nineteen causes of action for breach of the CC&Rs; breach of other
governing documents; violations of Civil Code sections 5210; 4950; 4910; 4920;
4765; 5600; 4923; 4930; 5605; 4925; 4935; 5610; 5615; and 4040; two causes of
action for breach of fiduciary duties; and declaratory relief.
 
Perlman now move for a preliminary injunction enjoining the HOA from collecting
special assessments, including any late fees or interest, by foreclosing on
Perlman’s home for the duration of the consolidated actions.
 
The HOA opposes the motion and Perlman replies.
 
REQEST
FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
            Perlman requests Judicial Notice of:
 
1.    
Restated Declaration of Covenants, Conditions &
Restrictions for 25366 Malibu Road recorded on July 30, 2018, in the Official
Records of Los Angeles County as Document No. 20180761460 (a true and correct
copy of which is attached as Exhibit 1.)
 
2.    
Certificate of Amendment to Restated Declaration of
Covenants, Conditions and Restrictions for the Malibu Road Homeowners
Association recorded on March 19, 2024, in the Official Records of Los Angeles
County as Document No. 20240180312 (a true and correct copy of which is
attached as Exhibit 2.)
 
Courts can take judicial
notice of the existence and recordation of real property records, including
deeds, if authenticity is not reasonably disputed.  (Fontenot v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A.
(2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 256, 264-265.) 
“The official act of recordation and the common use of a notary public
in the execution of such documents assure their reliability, and the
maintenance of the documents in the recorder’s office makes their existence and
text capable of ready confirmation, thereby placing such documents beyond
reasonable dispute.”  (Ibid.)  Moreover, courts can take judicial notice not
only of the existence and recordation of recorded documents but also matters
that can be deduced from the documents, including the parties, dates, and legal
consequences of recorded documents relating to real estate transactions.  (Ibid.)  
 
Therefore, the Court takes
judicial notice of the existence, recordation, and legal consequences of
Exhibits 1 and 2.
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 527, subdivision (a), “[a]
preliminary injunction may be granted at any time before judgment upon a
verified complaint, or upon affidavits if the complaint in the one case, or the
affidavits in the other, show satisfactorily that sufficient grounds exist
therefor.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 527, subd. (a).) “The purpose of a preliminary
injunction is to preserve the status quo pending final resolution upon a
trial.” (Grothe v. Cortlandt Corp. (1992) 11 Cal.App.4th 1313, 1316.)
The status quo has been defined to mean the last actual peaceable, uncontested
status which preceded the pending controversy. (14859 Moorpark Homeowner’s
Assn. v. VRT Corp. (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 1396. 1402.) Preliminary
injunctive relief requires the use of competent evidence to create a sufficient
factual showing on the grounds for relief. (See, e.g., ReadyLink Healthcare
v. Cotton (2005) 126 Cal.App.4th 1006, 1016; Ancora-Citronelle Corp. v.
Green (1974) 41 Cal.App.3d 146, 150.)
 
The trial court considers two factors in determining whether to issue
a preliminary injunction: (1) the likelihood the plaintiff will prevail on the
merits of its case at trial, and (2) the interim harm the plaintiff is likely
to sustain if the injunction is denied as compared to the harm the defendant is
likely to suffer if the court grants a preliminary injunction. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 526, subd. (a); Husain v. McDonald’s Corp. (2012) 205
Cal.App.4th 860, 866-867 (hereafter Husain).) The balancing of harm
between the parties “involves consideration of such things as the inadequacy of
other remedies, the degree of irreparable harm, and the necessity of preserving
the status quo.” (Husain, supra, 205 Cal.App.4th at p. 867.)
 
“The decision to grant a preliminary injunction rests in the sound
discretion of the trial court . . . before the trial court can exercise its
discretion the applicant must make a prima facie showing of entitlement to
injunctive relief. The applicant must demonstrate a real threat of immediate
and irreparable injury.” (Triple A Machine Shop, Inc. v. State of Cal.
(1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 131, 138.) “[A]n injunction is an unusual or
extraordinary equitable remedy which will not be granted if the remedy at law (usually
damages) will adequately compensate the injured plaintiff,” and the party
seeking injunctive relief bears the burden to prove its absence. (Department
of Fish & Game v. Anderson-Cottonwood Irrigation Dist. (1992) 8
Cal.App.4th 1554, 1564-1565.)
            
ANALYSIS
 
            “The trial courts consider two
interrelated questions in deciding whether to issue a preliminary injunction:
1) are the plaintiffs likely to suffer greater injury from a denial of the
injunction than the defendants are likely to suffer from its grant; and 2) is
there a reasonable probability that the plaintiffs will prevail on the merits.”  (Robbins v. Superior Court (1985) 38
Cal.3d 199, 206.)
 
1.    
IMMEDIATE AND IRREPARABLE HARM
 
Under
Code of Civil Procedure section 526, an injunction may be granted “[w]hen it
appears by the complaint or affidavits that the commission or continuance of
some act during the litigation would produce waste, or great or irreparable
injury, to a party to the action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 526, subd. (a)(2).) The
threat of irreparable harm must be imminent as opposed to a mere possibility of
harm sometime in the future. “An injunction cannot issue in a vacuum based on
the proponents’ fears about something that may happen in the future. It must be
supported by actual evidence that there is a realistic prospect that the party
enjoined intends to engage in the prohibited activity.” (Korean Philadelphia
Presbyterian Church v. California Presbytery (2000) 77 Cal.App.4th 1069,
1084.) Plaintiffs need not wait until they have suffered actual harm before
applying for an injunction, however, they may seek injunctive relief against
threatened infringement of their rights. (Maria P. v. Riles (1987) 43
Cal.3d 1281, 1292.)
 
            Perlman contends that already during
the pendency of this lawsuit, the HOA has twice attempted special assessments
against Perlman, and continues to assess late fees thereon, in order to raise money
for its legal fees to prosecute the instant lawsuits against Perlman.         (Galal Decl. ¶¶ 2-10 and Exs. AA, BB,
CC, DD, EE, FF, GG, and HH thereto; Perlman Decl. ¶¶ 11-31 and Exhibits A
through P attached thereto.)  As a
result, “the HOA can now record a lien and start foreclosure proceeding
whenever it wants.”  (Perlman Decl. ¶
30.)  Indeed, three days after the Motion
was filed, Perlman received a pre-lien notice letter from the HOA’s counsel, threatening
to record a lien and commence foreclosure proceedings thereafter.  (Supp. Galal Decl. ¶ 2-3 and Ex. II thereto.)
 
            Thus, Perlman has demonstrated that
if the requested injunction does not issue, she will suffer irreparable harm
(losing her home to foreclosure) that far exceeds the potential pecuniary harm
to the HOA (delay in obtaining the special assessment amounts owed until after
the litigation).   
 
2.    
REASONABLE PROBABILITY OF SUCCESS ON THE
MERITS
 
A
preliminary injunction may not issue unless it is “reasonably probable that the
moving party will prevail on the merits. (San Francisco Newspaper Printing
Co., Inc. v. Superior Court (1985) 170 Cal.App.3d 438, 442; see Costa
Mesa City Employees’ Association v. City of Costa Mesa (2012) 209
Cal.App.4th 298, 309 [no injunction may issue unless there is at least “some
possibility” of success].)
 
The
first special assessment appears no longer at issue because the HOA withdrew
it.  (Perlman Decl. ¶ 16; Opp. at p.
13:16-21.)  Plaintiff contends the second
assessment is invalid because it is based on an unrecorded amendment to the operative
Covenants, Conditions & Restrictions (“CC&R”).  Specifically, the CC&R’s requires that
modifications or amendments to the CC&Rs can only be effectuated “by the
affirmative vote or written approval of at (sic) majority of the Owners
entitled to vote” and “Said amendments shall be effective upon recordation in
the Office of the Recorder of Los Angeles County.”  (RJN Ex. 1 at p. 67, Art. XIV, Section 14.2.)
 
At
the March 8, 2024 special meeting of members, the membership voted on two changes
relevant to this motion: (1) to modify the original uniform rate of assessments
to a variable rate of assessment based on percentage interest for each unit;
and (2) to issue the second special assessment for $50,000, to be allocated
based upon each owner’s percentage interest in the assessment.  (Perlman Decl. ¶ 22-24 and Exs. K-L thereto.)  However, because both issues were passed in
the same meeting, the first resolution had not yet been recorded, such that the
allocation of the second special assessment could not properly be based on that
amendment.  
 
Further,
Perlman argues that the assessment itself is an abuse of the Valeros’ majority
stake in the HOA to improperly shift the Valeros’ and HOA’s legal expenses to
Perlman, in violation of their fiduciary duties to her.  In support, Perlman provides the various
inconsistent and changing grounds the HOA has provided ,for the assessments,
including the statement that the second assessment is to pay the HOA’s legal
expenses.  (Perlman Decl. ¶¶ 11-12, 22,
26 and Exs. K & M thereto.)
 
In
Opposition, the HOA argues that the Lamden rule (which it contends is
akin to the business judgment rule for homeowners associations) requires that
the Court defer to the HOA’s judgment in assessing the second special
assessment.  Specifically, Lamden explains:
 
Where a duly constituted community association
board, upon reasonable investigation, in good faith and with regard for the
best interests of the community association and its members, exercises
discretion within the scope of its authority under relevant statutes, covenants
and restrictions to select among means for discharging an obligation to
maintain and repair a development's common areas, courts should defer to the
board's authority and presumed expertise.
 
(Lamden v. La
Jolla Shores Clubdominium Homeowners Assn. (1999) 21 Cal.4th 249, 253.)
 
The
HOA also argues that it owes its members no fiduciary duties except those
required by statute or the CC&Rs, and is not otherwise required to deal
fairly with its members in good faith.
 
Here,
the Court finds that Perlman has established a probability of establishing that
the HOA violated the CC&Rs by issuing the second special assessment allocated
according to the unrecorded (and therefore invalid) amendment it had just
passed in the same meeting, an issue the Opposition does not squarely address.  Similarly, even if it were procedurally
proper, the HOA’s disproportionate allocation of the second special assessment
for “legal fees” to Perlman appears to violate the “American Rule” that each
party must generally pay its own attorneys’ fees, unless otherwise provided by statute
or agreement.  (See Code Civ. Proc., §§
1033.5, subd. (a)(10); 1021; 1717.)
 
3.    
UNDERTAKING
 
Section
529 of the Code of Civil Procedure provides, “On granting an injunction, the
court or judge must require an undertaking on the part of the applicant to the
effect that the applicant will pay to the party enjoined any damages, not
exceeding an amount to be specified, the party may
sustain by reason of the injunction, if the court
finally decides that the applicant was not entitled to the injunction.”  (Emphases added.)
 
However, an undertaking is not required if the party
to be enjoined either waives or forfeits the right to an undertaking.  (Smith v. Adventist Health System/West
(2010) 182 Cal.App.4th 729, 739.)
 
Here,
neither party has specified what the amount of the undertaking should be, and it
is unclear what, if any damages the HOA will incur by reason of the injunction,
which merely delays the HOA’s ability to collect on Perlman’s special
assessment by foreclosing on Perlman’s home during the pendency of this lawsuit.  Should the HOA ultimately prevail in the
lawsuit, it may simply foreclose on Perlman’s property at that point to collect
the assessment Perlman owes.  Thus, there
is no indication that the HOA will suffer any damages by reason of this delay,
and the HOA has not specified any.
 
As
such, the Court finds that the HOA has forfeited its right to an undertaking by
failing to specify what damages it would incur by reason of the injunction’s
delay.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court grants Perlman’s motion for a preliminary
injunction, in part, and enjoins the HOA from foreclosing on Perlman’s property
to collect special assessments during the pendency of the consolidated actions.  Further, because the Court cannot discern any
damages that the HOA will suffer by reason of the delay, and the HOA has not
specified any, the Court finds the HOA has forfeited its right to an
undertaking.  
 
Perlman shall prepare and lodge a proposed Order in conformance with
the Court’s ruling on or before July 30, 2024. 
Further, the Court orders Perlman to provide notice of the Court’s
ruling and file the notice with a proof of service forthwith.  
 
 
DATED:  July 16, 2024                                                          ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court
 