  Case Number:  21SMCV00991    Hearing Date:   July 16, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


July 16, 2024




CASE NUMBER


21SMCV00991




MOTION


Motion for Leave to File a Cross-Complaint




MOVING PARTY


Defendant Marmar Corning, LLC




OPPOSING PARTY


Defendant Berkoz & Assoc., Inc.



 
MOTION
 
This lawsuit arises from a dispute between the owners of adjoining
residential properties.  Plaintiff
1059Corning, LLC (“Plaintiff”) a complaint on May 28, 2021, alleging that excavation
and construction of Defendant Marmar Corning, LLC’s (“Marmar”) building caused
damage to Plaintiff’s adjacent building. 
Defendants Subsurface Designs, Inc.; Berkoz & Assoc., Inc.; and West
Pacifica Design Construction, Inc. are also named in the primary complaint for
their respective roles in the design and construction of Marmar’s building.
 
            Marmar now moves for leave to file a
cross-complaint against Defendant Berkoz & Assoc., Inc. (“Berkoz”), with
whom it contracted to do structural designs for the construction project, for (1)
negligence; (2) equitable indemnity; (3) contribution; (4) declaratory relief;
(5) professional negligence; and (6) breach of written contract.
 
            Berkoz opposes the motion and Marmar
replies.
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
A
party against whom a cause of action has been asserted in a complaint or
cross-complaint may file a cross-complaint setting forth either or both of the
following:
 
(a)   Any
cause of action he has against any of the parties who filed the complaint or
cross-complaint against him. Nothing in this subdivision authorizes the filing
of a cross-complaint against the plaintiff in an action commenced under Title 7
(commencing with Section 1230.010) of Part 3.
 
(b)   Any
cause of action he has against a person alleged to be liable thereon, whether
or not such person is already a party to the action, if the cause of action
asserted in his cross-complaint (1) arises out of the same transaction,
occurrence, or series of transactions or occurrences as the cause brought
against him or (2) asserts a claim, right, or interest in the property or
controversy which is the subject of the cause brought against him.
 
(Code
Civ. Proc., § 428.10, subds. (a)-(b).)  
 
(a)   A
party shall file a cross-complaint against any of the parties who filed the
complaint or cross-complaint against him or her before or at the same time as
the answer to the complaint or cross-complaint.
 
(b)   Any
other cross-complaint may be filed at any time before the court has set a date
for trial.
 
(c)   A
party shall obtain leave of court to file any cross-complaint except one filed
within the time specified in subdivision (a) or (b). Leave may be granted in
the interest of justice at any time during the course of the action.
 
(Code
Civ. Proc., § 428.50, subds. (a)-(c).)  
 
Indeed, where a cause of action would
otherwise be lost, leave to amend is appropriate even if the party was
negligent in not moving for leave to amend earlier.  “The legislative mandate is clear.  A policy of liberal construction of section
426.50 to avoid forfeiture of causes of action is imposed on the trial
court.  A motion to file a
cross-complaint at any time during the course of the action must be granted
unless bad faith of the moving party is demonstrated where forfeiture would
otherwise result.”  (Silver
Organizations, Ltd. v. Frank (1990) 217 Cal.App.3d 94, 98-99.)   Further, “Cross-complaints for comparative
equitable indemnity would appear virtually always¿transactionally¿related to
the main action.”¿¿(Time for Living, Inc. v. Guy Hatfield Homes¿(1991)
230 Cal.App.3d 30, 38; see also Countrywide Home Loans, Inc. v.
Superior Court (1999) 69 Cal.App.4th 785, 799 [“Undoubtedly, a claim
for contribution or indemnity ‘arises out of’ the same transaction or
occurrence as the plaintiff's claim”].)¿
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Marmar seeks leave to file a
cross-complaint against Berkoz for its role in the construction project that contributed
to Plaintiff’s damages.  Although the
original complaint was filed on May 28, 2021, alleging Berkoz’s structural engineering
and design work on the project caused or contributed to Plaintiff’s damages,
Marmar did not move to file a cross-complaint against Berkoz until June 17,
2024.  In support of the motion, Marmar contends
that through the course of discovery it discovered “Berkoz’s scope of work on
the Project may have contributed to the damages alleged by Plaintiff.”  (Coppola Decl. ¶ 9.)
 
            Berkoz opposes on the grounds that
Marmar unreasonably delayed three years in seeking to file its cross-complaint
against Berkoz, and Berkoz will be prejudiced because trial is scheduled in
October of 2024.  Further, Berkoz
contends that the new cross-claims will expand the scope of Berkoz’s defense
from its design and professional work only to also include its construction-related
work.  In the alternative, Berkoz seeks
at least a six-month trial continuance so that it can have adequate time to
retain an expert and conduct discovery on the new cross-claims prior to trial.
 
            The Court agrees that Marmar was
dilatory in seeking leave to file a cross-complaint against Berkoz seemingly
without explanation, as it should have been clear from the original complaint filed
on May 28, 2021 that “Berkoz’s scope of work on the Project may have
contributed to the damages alleged by Plaintiff.”  Marmar also does not explain when in the past
three years it obtained the discovery in question or what specifically it
learned that implicates Berkoz, warranting the cross-complaint.              
 
Nonetheless, as Marmar points out on reply, it could simply file the proposed
cross-complaint as a separate lawsuit against Berkoz, and then move to have the
cases related and consolidated.  Yet, the
Court finds that the interests of judicial economy is best served by allowing
the cross-complaint to be filed in this action. 

 
Moreover, Marmar indicates it does not oppose Berkoz’s request for a
trial continuance.  But the Court cannot
grant Berkoz’s request for a continuance without proper notice and an
opportunity for the other parties to the action to be heard.  The Court will, however, entertain any
stipulation or properly noticed motion to continue the trial the parties wish
to bring.
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
            For these reasons, the Court grants Marmar’s
motion for leave to file a cross-complaint, and orders Marmar to file and serve
the proposed cross-complaint on or before July 30, 2024. 
 
            Further, the Court orders Marmar to
provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file the notice with a proof of
service forthwith.
 
 
 
DATED: 
July 16, 2024                                  ___________________________
                                                                  Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                  Judge
of the Superior Court
 