 Case Number:  24SMCP00283    Hearing Date:   July 16, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


July 16, 2024




CASE NUMBER


24SMCP00283




MOTION


Petition for Order Confirming Arbitration Award




MOVING PARTY


Petitioner Vertical Entertainment, LLC




OPPOSING PARTY


(none)



 
BACKGROUND
 
            On or about May 21, 2024, an
arbitrator issued an Arbitration Award in favor of Petitioner Vertical
Entertainment, LLC (“Petitioner”) and against Respondents Redbox Entertainment,
LLC; Redbox Holdings, LLC; and Redbox Automated Retail, LLC (collectively, “Respondents”)
in the amount of $683,978.25, inclusive of attorneys’ fees and costs.  On June 5, 2024, Petitioner filed the instant
Petition for an Order Confirming Arbitration Award (the “Petition.)  On June 18, 2024, a hearing was scheduled for
July 16, 2024.  To date, no response has
been filed.  
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
            “Any party to an arbitration in which an award has been made may
petition the court to confirm, correct or vacate the award.  The petition
shall name as respondent all parties to the arbitration and may name as
respondents any other persons bound by the arbitration award.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1285.)
 
            “A petition under this chapter
shall: (a) Set forth the substance of or have attached a copy of the agreement
to arbitrate unless the petitioner denies the existence of such an agreement;
(b) Set forth the names of the arbitrators; and (c) Set forth or have attached
a copy of the award and the written opinion of the arbitrators, if any.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1285.4.)  
 
            “If a petition or response under
this chapter is duly served and filed, the court shall confirm the award as
made, whether rendered in this state or another state, unless in accordance
with this chapter it corrects the award and confirms it as corrected, vacates
the award or dismisses the proceeding. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1286.)
 
ANALYSIS
 
            Service of the Petition and
Notice of Hearing
 
            Code of Civil Procedure section 1290.4 requires the Petition
and Notice of Hearing to be served on Respondents “in the manner provided in
the arbitration agreement for the service of such petition and notice” or “[i]f
the arbitration agreement does not provide the manner in which such service
shall be made . . . [s]ervice within this State shall be made in the manner
provided by law for the service of summons in an action.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
1290.4, subds. (a)-(b).)
 
            As a
threshold matter, the Court notes that the Petition is not verified, and the
attachments to the Petition have not been authenticated, and therefore hold no
evidentiary value.
 
            Moreover,
the (unauthenticated) agreements containing the arbitration provisions provide
the following notice provision:
 
Notices. Notices, authorizations, and
requests in connection with this Agreement must be sent by personal delivery,
certified mail (return receipt requested), or express courier to the addresses
listed in this contract. Notices will be treated as delivered on the date shown
on the return receipt or on the courier confirmation of delivery. Notices sent
to Licensee must be separately copied and sent to the “Legal Department,” c/o
Redbox Automated Retail, LLC, 1 Tower Lane, Ste. 900, Oakbrook Terrace, IL
60181, and to “SVP – Chief Strategy & Business Development Officer, c/o
Redbox Automated Retail, LLC, 1800 114th Ave. SE, Bellevue, WA 98004” (and
after June 30, 2018, such address changing to 15500 SE 30th Place, Suite 105,
Bellevue, WA 98007).
 
(Ex. C at p.
16, ¶ 7; see also Ex. D at p. 8 ¶ 15.)
 
            Although the Petition was served on
Respondents via notices of acknowledgment and receipt, the proof of service
indicates the notice of hearing was served on Respondent’s counsel only electronically.  Therefore, the Court finds service of the Notice
of Hearing to be faulty.
 
            Petitioner contends that electronic
service is proper because the arbitration award provides:
 
5.
The Redbox Parties’ counsel agrees to accept service of documents via email in
connection with Claimant’s filing of the Stipulated Judgment with the
California court.
 
(Ex. B. at
p. 3, ¶ 5.)
 
            However, the arbitration award was purportedly
issued pursuant to the parties’ settlement agreement, stipulation, and proposed
stipulated judgment.  (Ex. A to Petition.)  Nowhere in those documents does there appear
any agreement to receive electronic service.
 
            Therefore, Petitioner has not adequately
served the Notice of Hearing on Respondents.
 
            Substance of Petition
 
            As discussed above, in addition to
the procedural issues regarding the Notice of Hearing, because none of the
evidence is authenticated, the Court cannot make any substantive findings with
respect to the Petition.       
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
For the foregoing
reasons, the Court denies Petition without prejudice on procedural
grounds.  Petitioner shall provide notice
of the Court’s order and file the notice with a proof of service forthwith.  
 
 
 
 
DATED: 
July 16, 2024                                                          ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court
 