 Case Number:  24SMCV02485    Hearing Date:   July 16, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


July
  16, 2024




CASE NUMBER


24SMCV02485




MOTION


Motion
  to Quash Service of Summons




MOVING PARTIES


Defendants
  Lajos Gerbino and Edith Molnar




OPPOSING PARTY


none
  



 
BACKGROUND
 
On May 23, 2024, Plaintiff Silver Block Holding Company, LLC
(“Plaintiff”) filed an unlawful detainer complaint against Defendants Lajos
Gerbino and Edith Molnar (“Defendants.”) 
On June 13, 2024, Plaintiff applied for an order to serve the summons by
posting, which was granted the same day.
 
The next day, on June 14, 2024, Defendants moved in pro per to
quash service of the summons and complaint. 
The Court has not yet received an opposition, although because this is
an unlawful detainer action, Plaintiff may file and serve a written opposition
the day before the hearing or may make an opposition orally at the time of the
hearing.  (California Rules of Court, rule
3.1327(b)-(c).)
 
LEGAL
STANDARDS
            
A.    SERVICE
 
“A summons in an action for unlawful detainer of real property may be
served by posting if upon affidavit it appears to the satisfaction of the court
in which the action is pending that the party to be served cannot with
reasonable diligence be served in any manner specified in this article other
than publication[.]”  (Code Civ. Proc., §
415.45, subd. (a).)  “The court shall
order the summons to be posted on the premises in a manner most likely to give
actual notice to the party to be served and direct that a copy of the summons
and of the complaint be forthwith mailed by certified mail to such party at his
last known address.”  (Id. at
subd. (b).)  Service is complete on the
10th day after posting and mailing. 
(Id. at subd. (c).)
 
On June 13, 2024, Plaintiff applied for an order to serve Defendants
by posting.  That application included a
declaration of diligence, outlining several unsuccessful attempts to personally
serve Defendants with a copy of the summons and complaint.  Plaintiff’s application to post was granted
the same day.
 
The following day, June 14, Defendants filed the instant motion to
quash, arguing that Plaintiff “only left a copy of the first page of the
Complaint with one person, and without completing substitute service.”  (Motion at p. 3; Gerbino Decl. at lines
16-18.)
 
As a threshold matter, the Court finds Defendants’ proof of service
for the motion faulty.  It indicates the
declarant, Chelsea Cooper served a copy of the notice of motion and motion to
Plaintiff’s counsel “AS FOLLOWS. I am “readily familiar” with the firm’s
practice of collection and processing correspondence for mailing.  Under that practice, it would be deposited
within U.S. Postal Service on that same day with postage thereon fully prepaid
at San Diego, California in the ordinary course of business.  I am aware that on motion of the party
served, service is presumed invalid if postal cancellation date of postage
meter date is more than one day after the date of deposit for mailing in
affidavit.”  
 
This does not indicate that the declarant actually left the notice of
motion and motion anywhere for mailing, or otherwise deposited it in the mail.  Further, declarant does not specify which
“firm” or “firm’s practice” the declarant refers to.
 
Further, to the extent that, at the time Defendants filed the instant
motion, Defendants had only received the copy of the summons that had been
posted, such conduct would be consistent with service by posting, but such
service would not yet have been complete, as service by posting is not complete
until 10 days after posting and mailing a copy of the summons and complaint.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
            Therefore, the Court continues the
hearing on the motion to September 23, 2024 at 8:30 A.M. in Department
207.  Defendants shall provide notice of
the motion and continued hearing by either personal service or by mail (regular
or overnight) on or before July 26, 2024. 
Thereafter, Defendants shall file the notice with the Court with a proof
of service on or before August 9, 2024.
 
            
DATED:  July 16, 2024                                                          ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court
 