 Case Number:  24STCV05212    Hearing Date:   January 10, 2025    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



EVANGELINA MUNOZ VASQUEZ 
                           
         vs.
 
FORD MOTOR COMPANY  
 


 Case No.: 
  24STCV05212
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  January 10, 2025
 



 
 
Plaintiff’s
motion to compel further responses to her Requests for Production is GRANTED IN
PART, DENIED IN PART, consistent with the ruling set forth below.  In light of this ruling, the Court declines
to award sanctions at this time.
 
Plaintiff’s
motion to compel further responses to her Special Interrogatories is GRANTED.
Defendant is sanctioned, jointly and severally with counsel, $700.00. 
 
            On
3/1/2024, Plaintiff Evangelina Munoz Vasquez (Plaintiff) filed suit against
Ford Motor Company (Defendant or Ford), alleging: (1) violation of Civil Code
section 1793.2, subdivision (d); (2) violation of Civil Code section 1793.2,
subdivision (b); (3) violation of Civil Code section 1793.2, subdivision
(A)(3); (4) breach of express written warranty; (5) breach of implied warranty
of merchantability; and (6) negligent repair.
 
            On
7/9/2024, Plaintiff moved to compel further responses to her Requests for
Production (RFPs) (Set One) and her Special Interrogatories. 
 
Discussion 
 
I.                  
RFPs
 
Plaintiff
argues that good cause exists to compel further responses to RFP Nos. 1-2, 4,
8, 10-12, 14-25, 27-28, 32, 46, 49-52, 57, 60-61, 69, 72. 
 
After review,
the Court agrees in part, disagrees in part. 
 
In addition
to all requested materials related to Plaintiff’s car itself:
 
1.     
Defendant shall produce the “Warranty
Policy and Procedure Manual” published by Defendant and provided to its
authorized repair facilities, within the State of California, for the period of
purchase to present.
 
2.     
Defendant shall produce any internal
analysis or investigation regarding defects concerning the transmission defect
in vehicles for the same year, make, and model of the subject vehicle.
 
3.     
 Defendant shall produce any customer
complaints relating to defects that are similar to the alleged defects claimed
by plaintiff in vehicles within California for the same year, make, and model
of the subject vehicle, for the period of purchase to present.
 
4.     
 Defendant shall produce all documents
evidencing policies and procedures used to evaluate customer requests for
repurchase pursuant to the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act, for the period
of purchase to present.
 
5.     
 Technical Service Bulletins and Recall Notices
for vehicles purchased in California for the same year, make and model of the
subject vehicle. 
 
6.     
  All other requests for further
production are DENIED.
 
In light of
this ruling, the Court declines to award sanctions at this time. 
 
Based on the
foregoing, Plaintiff’s motion to compel further is granted in part, denied in
part, consistent with the ruling set forth above.  In light of this ruling, the Court declines
to award sanctions at this time. 
 
II.               
Special Interrogatories 
 
Plaintiff
argues good cause exists to compel Defendant to provide further responses, and
that Defendant’s boilerplate objections are unfounded and untimely. 
 
After review,
the Court agrees that Defendant’s responses are not as complete and
straightforward as the information reasonably available to the responding party
permits.” (CCP § 2030.220(a).) 
 
For example,
Interrogatory No. 2 asks Defendant to “Please IDENTIFY each and every written
warranty, including any warranty extensions, issued by YOU for the SUBJECT
VEHICLE.” 
 
Defendant
referred Plaintiff to https://www.ford.com/support/owner-manuals/, and then
objected to the Interrogatory as overly broad. 
Such a response is improper. 
 
Based on the
foregoing, Plaintiff’s motion to compel further is granted. Defendant is
sanctioned, jointly and severally with counsel, $700.00. ($350/hr x 2 hr.) 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  January   
, 2025
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 