 Case Number:  22STCV18952    Hearing Date:   April 3, 2024    Dept:  29 Petition to Approve Compromise of Jesse Contreras, an adult
with a disability 
 
TENTATIVE 
 
The Court excuses the personal appearance of the claimant
and the guardian ad litem.  Counsel may
appear by telephone or video conference call.
 
The Petition is GRANTED, with one modification to the
proposed order.
 
Background
 
Claimant
Jesse Louis Contreras (“Claimant”), an adult with a disability, by and through
his guardian ad litem, Erica Elizabeth Cordero (“Petitioner”), has agreed to
settle his claims against Defendant Franklin Feng (“Defendant”) in exchange for
$500,00, subject to court approval.  
 
Petitioner
filed a petition to approve the settlement on August 14, 2023.  While the proposed settlement was under
review, Petitioner filed an Amended Petition on November 16 and a Second
Amended Petition on January 18, 2024.  As
set forth in the Second Amended Petition, the proposed distribution of settlement
funds is as follows: $95,000 for medical expenses; $125,000 for attorney’s fees;
$49,948.63 for non-medical expenses; and the balance of $230,051.37 for
Claimant, to be placed into a new Special Needs Trust (“SNT”).
 
Discussion  
 
Court approval is
required for all settlements of claims by an adult with a disability. 
(Probate Code §§ 3500, 3600, et seq.; Code of Civ. Proc. § 372.)  The
Court finds that the settlement amount is fair and reasonable and that the requested
attorney’s fees of 25 percent are also fair and reasonable. 
 
The Court cannot approve the Amended Petition at this time,
however, because of numerous issues relating to the creation of the proposed
SNT.  These issues are summarized below.
 
Petitioner proposes to fund all net settlement proceeds into a
special needs trust (SNT).  An SNT is used to
receive the settlement funds in these situations so that plaintiff does not
lose benefits eligibility for Medi-Cal, SSI, and other benefits.  Historically, a person receiving Medi-Cal or
SSI benefits could have only up to $2,000 in non-exempt assets, and any
additional non-exempt assets over $2,000 would cause the loss of benefits
eligibility under the relevant federal and state law.  Funds held in a valid SNT, however, are
exempt assets that do not count toward the $2,000 asset limit for purposes of
calculating benefits eligibility.  On January
1, 2024, the Medi-Cal asset qualification limit was eliminated and there is no
longer a means test for Medi-Cal.  The
asset qualification for other benefits, such as SSI, did not change and therefore
there might remain a reason for creation and funding of an SNT to maintain
other benefits. 
Notice
 
When seeking approval of a special needs trust (SNT), notice
of the hearing and service of the petition must be made upon three state
agencies including the Dept. of Mental Health, Dept. of Developmental Services,
and Dept. of Health Care Services. 
(Probate Code sections 3602(f), 3611(c).). The required notice has been
provided. 
Proposed Trust Instrument
Petitioner provides the
proposed trust instrument at Attachment 18b(4) (court’s pdf at p. 49).  The main requirements for court created or funded trusts
are set forth at California Rules of Court, rule 7.903(c), and LASC rule
4.116(b). 
The
Court has carefully reviewed the revised proposed trust instrument and finds
that it meets all applicable requirements and is ready for creation and
funding.
Findings When Proposed
Trust is an SNT


When approving the establishment or funding of a SNT from
settlement proceeds, the court must make the following findings pursuant to
Probate Code section 3604(b):

The SNT beneficiary
     has a disability which substantially impairs the individual’s ability to
     provide for her own care or custody and constitutes a substantial
     handicap;
The SNT beneficiary
     is likely to have special needs that will not be met without the trust; 
The money to be paid
     to the trust does not exceed the amount that appears reasonably necessary
     to meet the SNT beneficiary’s special needs.

 
Based on the evidence in the record, the Court makes each of
these findings.
Trustee and Bond
The
proposed initial trustee is Michelle Ruiz.  The Court previously
stated that a bond in the amount of $266,000 would be required; Petitioner reports
that this bond has been secured.
The bond
in the amount of $266,000 bond to be submitted to this Department by the
trustee (and the bond will later be resubmitted to the Probate court in any
trust supervision action). 
Proposed Order
The proposed order (received 1/18/24)
is appropriate, complete, and meets all applicable requirements, with one
exception.
On page 2, lines 24-28, paragraph
B states, “The assets of The 2024 Irrevocable Special Needs Trust FBO Jesse
Luis Contreras shall be deemed unavailable to Jesse Luis Contreras, and shall
not constitute a resource to Jesse Luis Contreras, for determination of his
financial eligibility for Medi-Cal, SSI, or any other program of public
benefits.”
The Court determines that it is
not appropriate at this time to make a finding or order regarding the effect of
the assets in the SNT on claimant’s eligibility for benefits.  The Court will strike this language and, with
this language stricken, will approve the proposed order.
Conclusion
The Court GRANTS the petition,
with one modification to the proposed order.
The Court STRIKES the following provision
of the proposed order filed on 1/18/24: “The assets of The 2024 Irrevocable
Special Needs Trust FBO Jesse Luis Contreras shall be deemed unavailable to
Jesse Luis Contreras, and shall not constitute a resource to Jesse Luis
Contreras, for determination of his financial eligibility for Medi-Cal, SSI, or
any other program of public benefits.”
The Court sets the OSC in
Paragraph L of the Proposed Order in Department 29 of the Spring Street
Courthouse in approximately 70 days. 
With these modifications, the
proposed order is APPROVED.
Moving party is
ORDERED to give notice.
 
