 Case Number:  21STCV14135    Hearing Date:   April 3, 2024    Dept:  29 Motion to be Relieved as Counsel, filed by Plaintiff’s Rodrigo
Suarez.
 
Tentative
The motion of counsel Rodrigo Suarez of the
Law Offices of Jacob Emrani, APC, to be relieved as counsel for Plaintiff
Rigoberto J. Magana (only) is granted.
Background
On April 13, 2021, Jaime Rodriguez-Palos,
Rigoberto J. Magana, and Juana Garcia Rolon filed a complaint against Henry
Muyomba, The Estate of Henry Muyomba, Susan Tamae Nantongo, Fook Choon Lee, PV
Holding Corp. and Does 1 to 100 for motor vehicle negligence and general
negligence causes of action arising from an automobile accident on May 26,
2019.
All three plaintiffs were initially
represented by Kyle H. Valero of the Southwest Legal Group.  In May 2022, the Court granted Mr. Valero’s
motion to be relieved as counsel for two of the plaintiffs – Mr. Magana and Ms.
Garcia Rolon.  In July 2023, Douglas
Younglove of the Law Offices of Jacob Emrani, APC, substituted in as counsel
for Mr. Magana and Ms. Garcia Rolon.
On March 5, 2024, Rodrigo Suarez of the Law
Offices of Jacob Emrani filed a motion to be
relieved as counsel for Plaintiff Rigoberto J. Magana (only). No opposition has
been filed. 
On April 2, 2024, Plaintiff Rodriguez-Palos
filed a request for dismissal of his claims in their entirety with prejudice.
Legal
Standard
The court may order that an attorney be changed or
substituted at any time before or after judgment or final determination upon
request by either client or attorney and after notice from one to the other.
(Code of Civ. Proc., § 284(b).) An attorney is permitted to withdraw where
conflicts between the attorney and client make it unreasonable to continue the
representation. (See Cal. Rules of Prof. Conduct 3-700(C)(1).) “The
determination whether to grant or deny a motion to withdraw as counsel lies
within the sound discretion of the trial court.” (Manfredi & Levine v.
Superior Court (1998) 66 Cal.App.4th 1128, 1133.)   
 
An application to be relieved as counsel must be made on
Judicial Counsel Form MC-051 (Notice of Motion and Motion) (Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 3.1362(a)), MC-052 (Declaration) (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.136(c)), and MC-053 (Proposed Order) (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1362(e)).   
 
Further, the requisite forms must be served on the client
and all other parties who have appeared in the case. (Cal. Rules of Court,
rule 3.1362(d).) The court may delay effective date of the order relieving
counsel until proof of service of a copy of the signed order on the client has
been filed with the court. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362(e).) 
 
Discussion
Counsel has
filed the Notice, Declaration and Order to be Relieved as Counsel. On the
Declaration, Counsel states there has been a breakdown of the attorney-client
relationship. Counsel has confirmed Plaintiff’s last known address by text
message and conversation with Plaintiff Rigoberto J. Magana’s “common law
spouse.” (Decl., No. 3.b.(1)(d).)  
Counsel has
served the motion, declaration, and order on all parties. Counsel includes the
upcoming hearing date on the declaration and order.
The Court finds
Counsel has shown good cause to be relieved as counsel, all procedural
requirements are satisfied, and service has been made on all parties. 
Accordingly, the
motion is GRANTED.
Conclusion
The motion to be
relieved as counsel is GRANTED.
The order is
effective upon the filing with the Court of a proof of service showing service
of the signed order (not the minute order) on the client.
Moving counsel
to give notice.