 Case Number:  22STC19757    Hearing Date:   April 3, 2024    Dept:  29 Motion to be Relieved as Counsel, filed by Plaintiff’s Counsel
Nathan Samooha.
 
Tentative
The motion is granted, subject to an updating
of the proposed order (MC-053) to reflect a continuance ordered after this
motion and the proposed order were filed.
Background
On June 16, 2022, Maria Becerra (“Plaintiff”)
filed a complaint against MV Transportation, Inc., LADOT Transit, City of Los
Angeles, County of Los Angeles, and Does 1 to 100 for motor vehicle negligence
and general negligence causes of action arising from bus traffic collision
occurring on July 2, 2021. No Defendant has made an appearance in this matter.
On March 7, 2024, Nathan Samooha of B&D
Law Group, APLC (“Counsel”) filed this motion to be relieved as counsel. No
opposition has been filed.
Legal
Standard
The court may order that an attorney be changed or
substituted at any time before or after judgment or final determination upon
request by either client or attorney and after notice from one to the other.
(Code of Civ. Proc., § 284(b).) An attorney is permitted to withdraw where
conflicts between the attorney and client make it unreasonable to continue the
representation. (See Cal. Rules of Prof. Conduct 3-700(C)(1).) “The
determination whether to grant or deny a motion to withdraw as counsel lies
within the sound discretion of the trial court.” (Manfredi & Levine v.
Superior Court (1998) 66 Cal.App.4th 1128, 1133.)   
 
An application to be relieved as counsel must be made on
Judicial Counsel Form MC-051 (Notice of Motion and Motion) (Cal. Rules of Court,
rule 3.1362(a)), MC-052 (Declaration) (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.136(c)), and
MC-053 (Proposed Order) (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1362(e)).   
 
Further, the requisite forms must be served on the client
and all other parties who have appeared in the case. (Cal. Rules of Court,
rule 3.1362(d).) The court may delay effective date of the order relieving
counsel until proof of service of a copy of the signed order on the client has
been filed with the court. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362(e).) 
 
Discussion
 
Counsel has
filed the Notice, Declaration and Order to be Relieved as Counsel. On the
Declaration, Counsel states there has been a breakdown of the attorney-client
relationship. Counsel has attempted to confirmed Plaintiff’s last known address
by contacting Plaintiff’s aunt and conducting a TLO search. (Decl., No. 3.b.(2)(c)&(d).)
 
No Defendant has
made an appearance in this action. Counsel includes the hearing date on the
declaration and order for OSC, however, this date was continued after this
motion was filed.
The Court finds
Counsel has shown good cause to be relieved as counsel due to the breakdown in
attorney-client relationship.  All
substantive and procedural requirements are satisfied.
Accordingly, the
motion is GRANTED.
Conclusion
The motion to be
relieved as counsel is GRANTED.
Moving counsel
is ordered to file a revised proposed order to update the information is
paragraphs 7 and 8.
The order is
effective upon the filing with the Court of a proof of service showing service
of the signed order (not the minute order) on the client.
Moving counsel
to give notice.