 Case Number:  22STCV30042    Hearing Date:   April 3, 2024    Dept:  29 Plaintiffs’ Motion to Quash Subpoenas
 
Tentative
The motion is granted in part and denied in
part.
The request for sanctions is denied.
BACKGROUND
 
This case arises from an incident on August 3, 2021, in
which a police dog allegedly attacked a young child in front of his family
during a demonstration performed at a community event.  Plaintiffs Sebastian I. Forbes, through his
guardian ad litem; Lincoln Forbest, through his guardian ad litem; Joshua Chad
Forbes; and Andrea Forbes (collectively, “Plaintiffs’) filed the Complaint in
this action on September 14, 2022, followed by a First Amended Complaint and
Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”).  At the
time of the incident, Sebastian was 5 years old and Lincoln was 9.
In the SAC, Plaintiffs assert claims against City of
South Pasadena (“City”); National Association of Town Watch, Inc. (“Town
Watch”); and Does 1 through 100. 
Plaintiffs include in their SAC four causes of action for strict liability
(against all defendants); negligent hiring, training, supervision, and
retention (against City and Does 1 through 50); general negligence (against
Town Watch and Does 51 through 100); and negligent infliction of emotional
distress (against Town Watch and Does 51 through 100).
On June 7, 2023, the Court, at the request of
Plaintiffs, dismissed without prejudice the cause of action for negligent
hiring, training, supervision, and retention.
On June 12, 2023, City filed its Answer to the SAC. 
On or about January 18, 2024, City issued the five subpoenas
that are at issue.  (Nguygen Decl., ¶¶
3-4.) Two subpoenas were addressed to Queenscare Health Centers and seek all
medical records regarding the two minor plaintiffs (Sebastian and Lincoln) for
the period of January 1, 2018, to the present. 
(Id., Exhs. A & D.) Two subpoenas were addressed to South
Pasadena Unified School District and seek all school records of the two minor
plaintiffs for the period of January 1, 2021, to the present for Sebastian and
for the period of July 1, 2022, to the present for Lincoln.  (Id., Exhs. B & E.) The fifth
subpoena was addressed West San Gabriel Valley SELPA and seeks education and medical
records of Sebastian for the period of January 1, 2016, to the present.  (Id., Exh. C.)
Following an unsuccessful effort to resolve the
disputes regarding the subpoenas, Plaintiffs filed this motion to quash on February
16, 2024.  Plaintiffs also seek
sanctions.  City filed its opposition on
March 20, and Plaintiffs filed their reply on March 26.
The parties discussed the issues relating to these
subpoenas (as well as other issues) at an Informal Discovery Conference on
March 27, 2024.  No agreement was
reached.
LEGAL
STANDARD 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 1987.1, subdivision(a), states:  
If
a subpoena requires the attendance of a witness or the production of books,
documents, electronically stored information, or other things before a court,
or at the trial of an issue therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the
court, upon motion reasonably made by any person described in subdivision (b),
or upon the court's own motion after giving counsel notice and an opportunity
to be heard, may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or
directing compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as the court shall
declare, including protective orders. In addition, the court may make any other
order as may be appropriate to protect the person from unreasonable or
oppressive demands, including unreasonable violations of the right of privacy
of the person.  
The California Constitution recognizes that
all people have “inalienable rights,” including “pursuing and obtaining safety,
happiness, and privacy.”  (Cal. Const.,
art. 1, § 1.)
For discovery purposes, information is
relevant if it might reasonably assist a party in evaluating the case,
preparing for trial, or facilitating settlement.  (Gonzalez
v. Superior Court (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 1539, 1546.)  Generally,
all unprivileged information that is relevant to the subject matter of the
action is discoverable if it would itself be admissible evidence at trial or if
it appears reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible
evidence.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 2017.010; Schnabel v.
Superior Court (1993) 5 Cal.4th 704, 711.) 
DISCUSSION 
Plaintiffs seeks
an order to quash five subpoenas issued by City.  
Two subpoenas were issued to Queenscare Health Centers.  These
subpoenas seek, for each of the minor plaintiffs, “[a]ny and all medical
records, files, reports, correspondence, itemized billing records and payment
records (proof of amounts paid) and any and all radiological films and film
breakdown, including but not limited to any x-rays, MRl's, CT Scans, Bone Scans,
Nerve Conduction Studies EMGs, CT Myelograms, Diskograms, etc., whatsoever
relating to any care, treatment, diagnosis, prognosis, consultation and/or
findings.” (Nguyen Decl., Exhs. A & D.) The time period covered by the
subpoenas is from January 1, 2018, to the present. (Ibid.)
Two subpoenas were issued to South Pasadena Unified
School District.  These subpoenas seek “[a]ny and all documents, records, and
computer-generated data, including the cumulative file, special education file,
504 plans, accommodations, enrollment, report cards and transcripts,
disciplinary and scholastic records (as well as any behavioral reports], parent
communication, absence records, test scores, medical records, mental health
care records, counseling records, DIS service records, incident reports,
teacher comments, communications to other organizations including but not
limited to law enforcement, Department of Mental Health, Department of Children
and Family Services, all records reflecting services provided by outside
agencies” from January 1, 2021, for to the present for Sebastian and from July
1, 2022, to the present for Lincoln. (Id., Exhs. B & E.)
The fifth subpoena was issued to West San Gabriel
Valley SELPA.  It seeks, for Sebastian
only, “[a]ny and all
documents, records, and computer-generated data, including academic records
including but not limited to, applications, academic transcripts, attendance,
grades/report cards, the cumulative file, special education file, 504 plans,
accommodations, enrollment, report cards and transcripts, disciplinary and
scholastic records [as well as any behavioral reports], parent communication,
absence records, test scores, medical records, mental health care records,
counseling records, DIS service records, incident reports, teacher comments,
communications to other organizations including but not limited to law
enforcement, Department of Mental Health, Department of Children and Family
Services, pertaining to [Plaintiff], and records reflecting services provided
by outside agencies” from January 1, 2016 to the present. (Id., Exh. C.) 
Plaintiffs argue that all five subpoenas are overly
broad and violate the minor plaintiffs’ privacy rights.  City contends that the subpoenas seek
discoverable information in a case in which Sebastian seeks to recover for
physical injuries from the alleged dog bite and both minor plaintiffs assert that
the incident had negative effects on their mental health and school
performance.
California’s
Constitutional right to privacy protects against the unwarranted, compelled
disclosure of various private or sensitive information regarding one’s personal
life.¿ (Britt v. Superior Court (1978)20 Cal.3d 844, 855-856.)¿¿This
includes such things as medical records, employment records, and financial
information.¿¿(John B. v. Super. Ct. (2006) 38 Cal.4th 1177, 1198
(medical records); Valley Bank of Nevada v. Super. Ct. (1975) 15 Cal.3d
652, 656 (financial records); l Dorado Savings & Loan Assn. v. Super.
Ct. (1987) 190 Cal.App.3d 342, 345 (employment records); Board of
Trustees v. Super. Ct. (1981) 119 Cal.App.3d 516, 526 (employment records).)

In Williams
v. Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, Hill v. Nat'l Collegiate
Athletic Assn. (1994) 7 Cal. 4th 1, and other cases, the California Supreme
Court has established “a framework for evaluating potential invasions of
privacy.” (Williams, supra, 3 Cal.5th at p. 552.) First, a party
asserting a privacy right must establish “a legally protected privacy interest,
an objectively reasonable expectation of privacy in the given circumstances,
and a threatened intrusion that is serious.” (Id., citing Hill,
supra, 7 Cal.4th at pp. 35-37.) In response, the party seeking the
information may raise “whatever legitimate and important countervailing
interests disclosure serves,” and “the party seeking protection may identify
feasible alternatives that serve the same interests or protective measures that
would diminish the loss of privacy.” (Id., citing Hill, supra, 7
Cal.4th at pp. 37-40.) The court must then “balance these competing
considerations.” (Ibid.) The party seeking the information need not,
however, establish a “compelling interest” unless the disclosure would be “an
obvious invasion of an interest fundamental to personal autonomy.” (Id.
at p. 556.)
Under
the Williams and Hill framework, Plaintiffs here must first
establish a legally protected privacy interest and a reasonable expectation of
privacy. Plaintiffs have done so.  The medical
and educational records covered by the subpoenas are protected by the right to
privacy, and Plaintiffs have an objectively reasonable expectation of privacy
in these records.  
Next,
the subpoenas appear on their face to be a serious intrusion into Plaintiffs’
right to privacy. The subpoenas are broad in scope and seek information
regarding medical care, mental health care, school performance, school
behavioral issues, and related matters, all of which are private, personal, and
sensitive.
At this
point, under Williams and Hill, City must identify the
“legitimate and important countervailing interests” that disclosure would
serve. For example, City may attempt to show that the discovery sought is
“directly relevant” to the claims or defenses in dispute and is “essential to
the fair resolution of the lawsuit.” (Lantz v. Super. Ct. (1994) 28
Cal.App.4th 1839, 1854.) 
City
has made this showing, at least in part. 

Sebastian
claims that as a result of the incident, he suffered physical injuries to his
face, left shoulder, and left forearm. 
(Nguyen Decl., Exh. I, at p. 8.)  City
has a legitimate and important interest in obtaining medical records regarding injuries
and treatments to these parts of Sebastian’s body, both as a result of this incident
and any other incidents that caused injury or required treatment.
City
also states that it has learned in discovery that Sebastian may have been
attacked by dogs on at least two other occasions prior to the incident.
City
has shown that it has a legitimate and important interest in obtaining medical
records regarding any injuries to Sebastian and treatments he received as a result
of other dog bites.
Both
minor children mental health injuries. 
Sebastian claims that he was diagnosed with PTSD as a result of the
attack and has suffered from significant emotional distress and engages in
safety behaviors.  (Ibid.)  He also asserts that as a result of the
incident he “exhibited disruptive behaviors at school and had to change schools.”  (Ibid.)  Lincoln claims that the incident resulted in “serious
emotional distress” to him and that he continues to experience anxiety because
of the incident.  (Id. Exh. J., at p. 8.)
City
has shown that it has a legitimate and important interest in obtaining the mental
health records of both minor children and Sebastian’s educational records. 
But City
has not made the required showing as to other aspects of the subpoenaed
records, including (for example) medical records of Lincoln for physical
injuries; medical records of Sebastian for physical injuries not related to his
face, left shoulder, left forearm, or other dog bite incidents; educational
records for Lincoln; or law enforcement, Department of Mental Health, or DCFS records relating to either child.
Plaintiffs
have not identified any feasible alternatives that would serve the same
interests and diminish the loss of privacy. 
City proposes a “first look” arrangement under which Plaintiffs would be
able to review the subpoenaed documents and withhold or redact (and log) any
materials that Plaintiffs contend are unrelated to the claims at issue.  (Valencia Decl., ¶ 19.)  
Finally,
under the framework set out in Hill and reaffirmed in Williams,
the Court must balance the “competing considerations” of the serious intrusion
into Plaintiffs’ privacy and City’s legitimate need for the information.  This balancing of competing considerations is
necessarily a difficult and delicate task, and it is particularly challenging
here as the Court does not know what the subpoenaed records will reveal.
Nonetheless, the Court must and will conduct the balancing based on the
information before it in the record. 
On
balance, and after considering all of the evidence in the record and the
arguments of both sides, the Court finds in certain respects City’s legitimate
interest in obtaining the subpoenaed records outweighs Plaintiffs’ substantial
privacy interests.  Accordingly, the Court
rules as follows:
1.     
The subpoena issued to Queenscare
Health Centers as to Sebastian is limited to (a) physical injuries to, and
treatment for, Sebastian’s face, left shoulder, and left forearm; (b) physical
injuries to, and treatment for, any part of Sebastian’s body as a result of a
reported dog bite; and (c) mental health issues and treatment.
 
2.     
The subpoena issued to
Queenscare Health Centers as to Lincoln is limited to mental health issues and
treatment.
 
3.     
The subpoena issued to
South Pasadena Unified School District as to Sebastian is limited to exclude law
enforcement, Department of Mental Health, or DCFS records.
 
4.     
The subpoena issued to
South Pasadena Unified School District as to Lincoln is limited to medical
records pertaining to mental health, mental health care records, and counseling
records.
 
5.     
The subpoena issued to West
San Gabriel Valley SELPA is limited as follows: (a) medical records are limited
to physical injuries to, or treatment for, Sebastian’s face, left shoulder, and
left forearm, or physical injuries to, and treatment for, any part of Sebastian’s
body as a result of a reported dog bite; and (b) law enforcement,
Department of Mental Health, or DCFS
records are excluded.
 
6.     
All subpoenaed records
are to be delivered to Plaintiffs’ counsel. 
Plaintiffs’ counsel will have a “first look” and may redact or withhold any
materials that Plaintiffs contend are unrelated to the claims at issue.  Any redacted or withheld materials must be
listed on a proper log that has all of the information required of a privilege
log.
With
these modifications, limitations, and other terms, the Court will otherwise
deny the motion to quash the subpoenas.
The Court also DENIES Plaintiffs’
request for sanctions.  The Court finds
that Defendants have not acted in bad faith or without substantial
justification and that the requirements of the subpoena were not
oppressive.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.2,
subd. (a).)
CONCLUSION
The Court GRANTS in
part and DENIES in part Plaintiffs’ Motion to Quash.
The five subpoenas at issue are MODIFIED
as set forth above.  With these
modifications made, and with the “first look” provision set forth above, the
Court DENIES the motion to quash the subpoenas as modified.
Moving Party is to give notice.