 Case Number:  23STCV16017    Hearing Date:   October 22, 2024    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



GEORGE RAHME, 
 
                                  Plaintiff,
  
         v.
 
 
THE BICYCLE CASINO, L.P., et al.,
 
                                  Defendants.
         


 Case No: 
  23STCV16017
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  October 22, 2024
 Calendar Number:  4



 
 
 
Plaintiff George Rahme (“Plaintiff”) moves for an order
deeming admitted the matters contained in the Requests for Admission (Set One)
served on Defendant TBC, L.P. (“TBC”) and the Requests for Admission (Set One)
served on Defendant Hashem Minaiy (“Minaiy”) (collectively with TBC,
“Defendants”). Plaintiff alternatively seeks an order compelling further responses
by each Defendant. Plaintiff seeks sanctions of $4,000.00 against each
defendant.
 
The Court DENIES the motions to deem the matters in
Plaintiff’s RFAs admitted. 
 
The Court GRANTS the motions to compel further responses.
Defendants shall provide further responses to the RFAs within 30 days.
 
The Court deems Defendants’ opposition to the motions to
deem the RFAs admitted to be substantially justified and therefore does not
award sanctions.
 
Background
 
            This
is an employment case. Plaintiff worked for TBC for approximately 35 years. In
April 2022, TBC was sold to Parkwest Bicycle Casino LLC. Over 1,500 employees
were terminated as part of this transaction, including Plaintiff.
 
            Plaintiff
filed this action on July 10, 2023 against TBC and Hashem Minaly, raising
claims for (1) discrimination; (2) hostile work environment; (3) failure to
prevent discrimination, harassment, or retaliation; (5) breach of express oral
contract not to terminate employment without good cause; (6) breach of
implied-in-fact contract not to terminate employment without good cause; (7)
negligent hiring, retention, and supervision; (8) wrongful termination in
violation of public policy; (9) whistleblower retaliation under Labor Code,
section 1102.5; and (10) intentional infliction of emotional distress (“IIED”).
 
            On
June 28, 2024, Plaintiff served his Requests of Admission (Set One) on TBC.
Plaintiff separately served Requests of Admission (Set One) on Minaiy.
 
            Defendants
served responses which Plaintiff deemed not to be code-compliant. (Feldman
Decl. ¶ 8.) A meet and confer process ensued. Plaintiff eventually granted
Defendants an extension until September 18, 2024.
 
            Defendant’s
counsel wrote to Plaintiff’s counsel at 4:30 a.m. on September 19, 2024 stating
that she needed more time to provide supplemental responses. Defendant’s
counsel experienced a medical emergency and was in the emergency room for most
of the day on September 19, 2024.
 
            Plaintiff
filed this motions on September 20, 2024. Defendants filed a large number of
oppositions which appear to be substantially the same. Plaintiff filed a reply
in support of each motion.
 
Legal Standard
 
            If
a party fails to serve a timely response to requests for admission, the
requesting party may move for an order deeming the truth of the matters and
authenticity of any documents specified in the requests admitted. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2033.280.)
 
“(a) On receipt of a response
to requests for admissions, the party requesting admissions may move for an
order compelling a further response if that party deems that either or both of
the following apply:
(1) An answer to a particular request
is evasive or incomplete.
(2) An objection to a particular
request is without merit or too             general.
….
 
(d) The court shall
impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010)
against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a
motion to compel further response, unless it finds that the one subject to the
sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make
the imposition of the sanction unjust.
 
(e) If a party then
fails to obey an order compelling further response to requests for admission,
the court may order that the matters involved in the requests be deemed
admitted. In lieu of, or in addition to, this order, the court may impose a
monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010).”
 
(Code Civ. Proc. §
2033.290.)
 
Discussion
 
 Although it is not
entirely clear from the moving papers themselves, responses were, in fact,
served. (See Plaintiff’s Ex. 4.) Defendants objected to every request for
admission solely on the basis of relevance. Each request relates to the reasons
for Plaintiff’s termination. Defendants object that the requests are not
relevant because “Plaintiff was laid off along with all other employees when
the assets of The Bicycle Casino, L.P. were sold to an unaffiliated third
party.” (See generally Plaintiff’s Ex. 4.) The fact that Defendants have their
own factual theory as to the reason for Plaintiff’s termination does not render
irrelevant Plaintiff’s own discovery inquiries into the reasons for Plaintiff’s
termination.
 
The Court denies the motions to deem the matters in
Plaintiff’s RFAs admitted. The Court grants the motion to compel further
responses. Defendants shall provide further responses within 30 days.
 
The Court deems Defendants’ opposition to the motions to
deem the RFAs admitted to be substantially justified and therefore does not
award sanctions.