 Case Number:  23STCV14032    Hearing Date:   October 1, 2024    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



BURLESQUE ENTERPRISE, INC., 
 
                                  Plaintiff,
  
         v.
 
 
CITY OF LOS ANGELES, et al.,
 
                                  Defendants.
 


 Case No: 
  23STCV14032
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  October 1, 2024
 Calendar Number:  9



 
 
 
Defendants City of Los Angeles (the “City”) and Los Angeles
Board of Police Commissioners (the “Board”) (collectively, “Defendants”) demur to
the Complaint filed by Plaintiff Burlesque Enterprise, Inc. (“Plaintiff”).
Defendants additionally move to strike portions of the Complaint relating to
declaratory and injunctive relief.
 
The Court SUSTAINS the demurrer to Plaintiff’s first claim
for denial of due process on the grounds that the claim must be stayed and
abated pending the outcome of Case No. 21STCV40709 (the “2021 Lawsuit”).  The first claim is not dismissed.  It is stayed pending the outcome of the 2021
Lawsuit.
 
The SUSTAINS the demurrer to Plaintiff’s second and third
claims for freedom of expression and equal protection WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND.  
 
The Court DENIES the motion to strike.
 
Background
 
This is a land use case. The following facts are taken from
the allegations of the Complaint, which the Court accepts as true for the
purposes of the demurrer.
 
Plaintiff operates an adult entertainment business known as
“Burlesque” at 13324 Sherman Way, North Hollywood, CA 91605. Burlesque has been
in operation since around 1984, through multiple owners.
 
On April 30, 1987, Defendants issued Conditional Use Permit
ZA 86-1011 (A) (B) (the “CUP”), approving Plaintiff’s adult entertainment
presentations. The CUP allegedly permitted Plaintiff’s use of the property for
the existing adult entertainment business in perpetuity. Plaintiff’s use was
annually licensed by Defendants’ issuance of Los Angeles Police Commission Café
Entertainment and Shows/Adult Permits (the “Police Permit”). 
 
In the 1980’s, the City enacted Los Angeles Municipal Code,
section 12.70 (C), which prohibits the establishment or operation of an adult
entertainment business within 500 feet of any lot in an “A” or “R” zone, inter
alia.
 
Plaintiff contends that it has a constitutionally protected
vested fundamental right to continue adult operations under the United States
and California Constitutions.
 
On November 11, 2021, Plaintiff filed Case No. 21STCV40709 (defined
above as the 2021 Lawsuit) in the Los Angeles Superior Court against the City
only, raising claims for (1) denial of equal protection; (2) denial of due
process; (3) chilling effect on exercise of freedom of expression; (4)
statutory inapplicability; and (5) imposition of cruel and unusual punishment.
The operative complaint in the 2021 Lawsuit is now the Second Amended Complaint
(“SAC”), which raised one claim for denial of equal protection.
 
The SAC in the 2021 Lawsuit alleges that on February 6,
2020, defendants revoked Plaintiff’s Police Permit to operate Burlesque without
an administrative hearing, violating Plaintiff’s due process rights. In the 2021
Lawsuit, Plaintiff seeks declaratory relief that Plaintiff’s business is not
subject to Los Angeles Municipal Code, section 12.70 (C). Plaintiff also seeks
an injunction against Defendants’ enforcement of that ordinance as to
Plaintiff.
 
On May 10, 2023, Defendants granted Plaintiff a Zoning and
Use Clearance Form which again confirmed that Plaintiff’s premises were
permitted for adult entertainment.
 
On January 10, 2023, Plaintiff asked the Board to renew its
Police Permit. On June 1, 2023, the Board refused to process Plaintiff’s
request for renewal.
 
On August 16, 2022, the Court sustained the City’s demurrer
to the SAC in the 2021 Lawsuit without leave to amend. Judgment was entered for
the City on September 26, 2022. Plaintiff appealed.
 
Plaintiff filed this action on June 16, 2023, raising claims
for (1) denial of due process; (2) denial of freedom of expression; (3) denial
of equal protection; and (4) damages.
 
Defendants filed the demurrer and motion to strike on August
31, 2023. Plaintiff filed an opposition to each, and Defendants filed a reply
to each opposition.
 
On October 11, 2023, the Court found that this case was
related to the 2021 Lawsuit.
 
On November 9, 2023, the Court took notice of the judgment
and appeal in the 2021 Lawsuit. Because Defendants contended in this case that
the 2021 Lawsuit would have a preclusive effect on this case, the Court stayed
this case pending the outcome of the appeal.
 
A notice of decision and remittitur was filed in this case
on March 11, 2024 as to the appeal in the 2021 Lawsuit. 
 
On April 16, 2024, the Court ordered that the parties file
additional information on the issues of (1) whether this action should be stayed
in light of the Court of Appeal’s decision in the 2021 Lawsuit; and (2) any
preclusive effect that the Court of Appeal’s decision in the 2021 Lawsuit has
on Plaintiff’s claims in this case. Both Plaintiff and Defendants filed an
additional brief.
 
The Court held a further hearing on August 24, 2024 and
allowed further briefing by the parties on certain preclusion issues.
 
Legal Standard
 
Demurrer
 
As a general matter, in a demurrer proceeding, the defects
must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial
notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins.
Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) “A demurrer tests the pleading
alone, and not the evidence or facts alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc. v. Accountants,
Inc. Servs. (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) The court assumes the truth
of the complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual allegations. (Ibid.) The only issue a demurrer is
concerned with is whether the complaint, as it stands, states a cause of
action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)
 
Where a demurrer is sustained, leave to amend must be
allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335,
348.) The burden is on the plaintiff to show the court that a pleading can be
amended successfully. (Ibid.;
Lewis v. YouTube, LLC (2015) 244 Cal.App.4th 118, 226.) However, “[i]f
there is any reasonable possibility that the plaintiff can state a good cause
of action, it is error to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend.” (Youngman v. Nevada Irrigation Dist.
(1969) 70 Cal.2d 240, 245).
 
Motion to Strike
 
The court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its
discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or
improper matter inserted in any pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436(a).) The
court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 436(b).) The grounds for a motion to strike are that the
pleading has irrelevant, false or improper matter, or has not been drawn or
filed in conformity with laws. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436.) The grounds for moving
to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 437.)
 
Discussion
 
The Court of Appeal’s Opinion
 
In the 2021 Lawsuit, the Court of Appeal ordered the Court
to overrule the demurrer to the cause of action for violation of procedural due
process in the First Amended Complaint and to sustain without leave to amend
the demurrers to the remaining causes of action in the First Amended Complaint
and SAC. (Remittitur at p. 27.) Thus, Plaintiff’s only remaining claim in the 2021
Lawsuit is the claim for violation of procedural due process.
 
On the procedural due process claim, the Court of Appeal
found that Plaintiff had adequately alleged a property interest in the Police
Permit. (Remittitur at p. 24.) The Court found that Plaintiff had alleged a
procedural due process right to notice and an opportunity to be heard before
the City revoked the Police Permit. (Remittitur at pp. 25-26.) The Court of
Appeal noted that the City’s arguments that it had grounds to revoke the Police
Permit did not go to the issue of whether Plaintiff had been denied procedural
due process. (Remittitur at pp. 25-26.)
 
On the equal protection claim, the Court of Appeal found
that Plaintiff had not alleged that it was treated differently from similarly
situated persons or entities. (Remittitur at p. 15.) The Court of Appeal
explained that Plaintiff had failed to allege that it was “similarly situated
to the proposed comparator in all material respects.” (SmileDirectClub, LLC
v. Tippins (9th Cir. 2022) 31 F.4th 1110, 1123.) The Court of Appeal noted
that “[t]he ‘similarly situated’ requirement must be enforced with particular
rigor in the land-use context because zoning decisions ‘will often, perhaps
almost always, treat one landowner differently from another.’ ” (Cordi-Allen
v. Conlon (1st Cir. 2007) 494 F.3d 245, 251.) 
 
The Court of Appeal explained that, unlike Plaintiff,
Plaintiff’s comparators had participated in the litigation Topanga Press,
Inc, v. City of Los Angeles (February 22, 1995), Case No. CV-88-7838,
United States District Court for the Central District of California (“Topanga
Press”), which resulted in a stipulated order for a permanent injunction
preventing the City from enforcing Los Angeles Municipal Code, section 12.70
(C) against the participating parties in that case. (Remittitur at pp. 16-17;
SAC, 2021 Lawsuit ¶¶ 5, 18.) “This difference is an obvious reason the City
would enforce section 12.70 against Burlesque but not against the other adult
entertainment businesses Burlesque tried to compare itself to. Had the City attempted
to enforce section 12.70 against the parties in the Topanga Press litigation,
it might have violated a federal court order. No such limitation precluded it
from enforcing section 12.70 against Burlesque.” (Remittitur at p. 17.)
 
Preclusion
 
“As generally understood, [t]he doctrine of res judicata
gives certain conclusive effect to a former judgment in subsequent litigation
involving the same controversy.’ The doctrine has a double aspect. In its
primary aspect, commonly known as claim preclusion, it operates as a bar to the
maintenance of a second suit between the same parties on the same cause of
action. In its secondary aspect, commonly known as collateral estoppel, [t]he
prior judgment ... operates in a second suit ... based on a different cause of
action ... as an estoppel or conclusive adjudication as to such issues in the
second action as were actually litigated and determined in the first action.” (Boeken
v. Philip Morris USA, Inc. (2010) 48 Cal.4th 788, 797 [internal citations
and quotation marks omitted.)
 
“Claim preclusion, the primary aspect of res judicata, acts
to bar claims that were, or should have been, advanced in a previous suit
involving the same parties.” (DKN Holdings LLC v. Faerber (2015) 61
Cal.4th 813, 824 [internal quotations and citations omitted].) “Claim
preclusion arises if a second suit involves: (1) the same cause of action (2)
between the same parties (3) after a final judgment on the merits in the first
suit.” (Ibid.) “To determine whether two proceedings involve identical
causes of action for purposes of claim preclusion, California courts have
consistently applied the ‘primary rights’ theory.” (Boeken v. Philip Morris
USA, Inc. (2010) 48 Cal.4th 788, 797 [internal quotations and citations
omitted].) “When two actions involving the same parties seek compensation for
the same harm, they generally involve the same primary right.” (Id. at
798.) A dismissal ordered by a court constitutes a final judgment. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 581d.)
 
“Issue preclusion differs from claim preclusion in two ways.
First, issue preclusion does not bar entire causes of action. Instead, it
prevents relitigation of previously decided issues. Second, unlike claim
preclusion, issue preclusion can be raised by one who was not a party or privy
in the first suit.” (DKN Holdings LLC v. Faerber, supra, 61
Cal.4th at p. 824.) “In summary, issue preclusion applies: (1) after final
adjudication (2) of an identical issue (3) actually litigated and necessarily
decided in the first suit and (4) asserted against one who was a party in the
first suit or one in privity with that party.” (Id. at p. 825.)
 
Because the order sustaining the demurrer to the procedural
due process claim was reversed, the 2021 Lawsuit has not reached a final
judgment. The City has filed an answer in the 2021 Lawsuit and litigation
appears to be ongoing. Thus, none of the claims addressed in the 2021 Lawsuit
are ripe for collateral estoppel.  
 
Notwithstanding this formal analysis of collateral estoppel,
the Court of Appeal opinion and its reasoning are for practical purposes
entitled to significant deference.
 
Denial of Due Process – First Claim
 
Defendants demur to
the first cause of action, for Denial of Due Process, arguing among other
things that the cause of action must be abated and stayed pending resolution of
the 2021 Lawsuit.  The Court agrees,
sustains the demurrer on this ground and stays the current lawsuit until the 2021
Lawsuit is resolved. 
 
“A plea in abatement pursuant to
section 430.10, subdivision (c), may be made by demurrer or answer when there
is another action pending between the same parties on the
same cause of action.” (Plant Insulation Co. v.
Fibreboard Corp. (1990) 224 Cal.App.3d 781, 787 (“Plant
Insulation”).) “Abatement . . . is recognized to prevent a multiplicity of
suits and unnecessary vexatious litigation. (Hamm v. San Joaquin & Kings
River Canal Co. (1941) 44 Cal.App.2d 47, 56.) 
 
Plaintiff argues the
2021 Lawsuit does not warrant abatement because it is not between the same
parties. Whereas Plaintiff sued only the City of Los Angeles in the 2021
Lawsuit, here it names both the City and the Los Angeles Board of Police
Commissioners.
 
The City and the
Board are not separate entities. “[G]enerally a political subdivision and the
officers, boards, commissions and representatives thereof form but a single
entity.” (Servente v. Murray (1935) 10 Cal.App.2d 355, 361; see also French
v. Rishell (1953) 40 Cal.2d 477 [for preclusion, “immaterial” if City was a
party where respondent pension board was party to prior administrative
proceeding]; Pathe v. City of Bakersfield (1967) 255 Cal.App.2d 409,
415-416 [applying French].)  Plaintiff
does not establish why any exception to the general rule should apply. The City
and the Board are one entity for purposes of abatement.
 
Plaintiff also
argues that the claims are different. 
The Court disagrees. They are both claims for denial of due process in
connection with the regulatory process for Plaintiff’s business.  Indeed, Plaintiff has emphasized in opposing
other aspects of this demurrer that the claim at issue in the current lawsuit
is integrally related to the due process claim in the 2021 Lawsuit.  
 
Moreover, “ ‘ “[A]
‘cause of action’ is comprised of a ‘primary right’ of the plaintiff, a
corresponding ‘primary duty’ of the defendant, and a wrongful act by the
defendant constituting a breach of that duty. [Citation.] ... .” [¶] “As far as
its content is concerned, the primary right is simply the plaintiff’s right to
be free from the particular injury suffered.” ’ ” ’ ” (Colebrook
v. CIT Bank, N.A. (2021) 64 Cal.App.5th 259, 263, citations omitted.)  Plaintiff alleges Defendant breached a
primary duty to provide him due process. 
The factual instances when this purportedly took place simply elaborate
on his single cause of action.
 
The Court sustains
the demurrer to the first cause of action on the grounds that it must be stayed
and abated pending resolution of the 2021 Action.  As a result, the Court does not reach the
Defendants’ other arguments as to the first cause of action.
 
Freedom of Expression – Second Claim
 
The First Amendment states that government “shall make no
law... abridging the freedom of speech”. (U.S. Const., First Amend.) The
Liberty and Speech Clause of the California Constitution, Article I, Section
2(a), states that, “Every person may freely speak, write and publish his or her
sentiments on all subjects, being responsible for the abuse of that right. A
law may not restrain or abridge liberty of speech or press.” (Cal. Const., Art.
I, § 2(a).)
 
Defendants argue that zoning of adult businesses does not
violate free speech and locations need not be the plaintiff’s first choice,
unless sites are not otherwise ‘reasonably available’ for such speech. Where
land zoned for an adult entertainment business’s usage is reasonably available,
and the plaintiff need only compete on the real estate market on an equal
footing with other prospective buyers and lessees, there is not a First
Amendment violation. (City of Renton v. Playtime Theatres, Inc. (1986)
475 U.S. 41, 54.) Plaintiff has not alleged that other land is not reasonable
available for its use. 
 
The Court of Appeal decision indicates that the demurrer to
this claim ought to be dismissed without leave to amend on this ground.  Plaintiff conceded at the hearing on August
15, 2024 that this was the case.  
 
The Court therefore sustains the demurrer to this claim without
leave to amend.
 
Equal Protection – Third Claim
 
As explained by the Court of Appeal, a plaintiff raising an
equal protection claim must show that it is “similarly situated to the proposed
comparator in all material respects.” (SmileDirectClub, LLC v. Tippins, supra,
31 F.4th at p. 1123.) The Court of Appeal noted that “[t]he ‘similarly
situated’ requirement must be enforced with particular rigor in the land-use
context because zoning decisions ‘will often, perhaps almost always, treat one
landowner differently from another.’ ” (Cordi-Allen v. Conlon, supra,
(1st Cir.) 494 F.3d at p. 251.) 
 
As explained by the Court of Appeal, Plaintiff is not
similarly situated to the plaintiffs in the Topanga Press litigation
because it did not obtain a stipulated injunction preventing the City from
enforcing section 12.70 (C) against it. Plaintiff is the only entity other than
the Topanga Press plaintiffs against which Plaintiff alleges that the
City did not enforce the ordinance. Plaintiff therefore has not alleged a
similarly situated person or entity.
 
The Court of Appeal decision indicates that the demurrer to
this claim ought to be dismissed without leave to amend.  Plaintiff conceded at the hearing on August
15, 2024 that this was the case.  
 
The Court therefore sustains the demurrer without leave to
amend.  
 
Motion to Strike
 
Defendants argue that Plaintiff’s requests for declaratory
and injunctive relief should be stricken. Defendants’ basis for this argument
is that the Café Entertainment and Shows Permit (“CES Permit”), which is the
permit Plaintiff applied for, does not authorize a business to operate in
violation of any zoning laws.
 
This argument is not meritorious at the pleading stage.
Plaintiff alleges that it had a permit that allowed it to operate its
business notwithstanding Los Angeles Municipal Code, section 12.70 (C).
Furthermore, the form that Plaintiff submitted contains a field in which to
indicate that the applicant has a CUP permitting their usage. (Complaint, Ex.
C.) Plaintiff filled out that section, indicating the number of its CUP
relating to its use. Thus, reading the CES Permit application together with
Plaintiff’s allegations of the CUP, Plaintiff has alleged a basis on which it
has a right to continue operating its business.
 
The Court therefore denies the motion to strike.
 