 Case Number:  20STCV40677    Hearing Date:   October 1, 2024    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



SALVADOR
  BARRIOS, et al.,
 
                                  Plaintiffs,
  
         v.
 
 
HEALTH START-EAST LA, INC.,
 
                                  Defendant.
 


 Case No:  20STCV40677
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  October 1, 2024
 Calendar
  Number:  2



 
Defendants
move for an order compelling Plaintiffs to permit Defendants to inspect their
residence. 
 
The
Court DENIES the motion.
 
Background
 
            Plaintiffs
Salvador and Elena Barrios sued ten (10) defendants on October 22, 2020 asserting
five causes of action based on various negligence theories and one for loss of
consortium. Plaintiffs filed their operative first amended complaint (“FAC”) on
April 8, 2021, asserting the same claims: (1) negligence (motor vehicle
collision), (2) negligence (negligent entrustment and vicarious liability, (3)
dangerous condition of public property, (4) negligent/reckless acts of
public employees, agents, or contractors, (5) general negligence, and (6) loss
of consortium.
 
            Plaintiffs
subsequently dismissed all defendants except the moving defendants here, the
County of Los Angeles (“County”) and City of Commerce (“City”) (together
“Defendants”).
 
            The
parties’ dispute arises from a car accident that occurred on February 25, 2020.
(FAC, ¶¶ 20-21.) On that date, Plaintiffs allege one of the initially-named
defendants, Daniel Tercero Neri, struck Salvador Barrios’ Toyota Camry while
driving negligently operating a van owned by his employer, Healthy Start-East
LA, Inc. (Ibid.) Barrios sustained “serious and life-threatening
injuries.” (Id., ¶ 22.) As to Defendants, Plaintiffs allege they negligently
designed or maintained the intersection where the accident took place. (Id.,
¶¶ 23-28.)
 
            On
August 13, 2024, the City moved for an order compelling Plaintiffs to permit an
inspection of their home and imposing sanctions for their failure to comply
with the City’s inspection demand. The County joined the City’s motion on
August 21, 2024.
 
            On
September 17, 2024, Plaintiffs filed their opposition. Neither the City nor the
County filed a reply.
 
Legal Standard
 
“A party may demand that any other party allow the party
making the demand, or someone acting on the demanding party’s behalf, to enter
on any land or other property that is in the possession, custody, or control of
the party on whom the demand is made, and to inspect and to measure, survey,
photograph, test, or sample the land or other property, or any designated
object or operation on it.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.010(d).) 
 
The party to whom a demand for inspection has been directed
must respond with (1) a statement that the party will comply with the
particular demand, (2) a representation that the party lacks the ability to
comply with the demand or (3) an objection to the particular demand.¿ (Id.,
§ 2031.210(a).) If the propounding party contends a response is incomplete or
an objection lacks merit, it may move the court for an order compelling a
further response. (Id., 2031.310(a).)
 
Evidentiary
Matters
            
Plaintiff argues in its opposition papers that “Defendant’s
use and production of a privileged and protected life care plan[,] produced in
the course of a confidential mediation, was improper.” (Opp., 2:23-24.)       
 
The Court construes this argument as an evidentiary
objection and sustains the objection. “No evidence of anything said or any
admission made for the purpose of, in the course of, or pursuant to, a
mediation or a mediation consultation is admissible or subject to discovery,
and disclosure of the evidence shall not be compelled, in any arbitration,
administrative adjudication, or other noncriminal proceeding ... .” (Evid.
Code, § 1119.) 
 
Exhibit A is clearly marked: “DRAFT FOR PURPOSES OF
MEDIATION ONLY.” (Mot., Exh. A, p. 1.) The City’s attempt to introduce the
mediation materials in its evidentiary showing is entirely improper. 
 
            
 
Discussion
 
            Defendants served
Plaintiffs with an inspection demand on May 28, 2024. (Ferrante-Alan Decl., ¶ 5
and Exh. B.) 
 
Plaintiffs responded to Defendants’ demand with objections
as permitted by Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.210(a). (Ferrante-Alan
Decl., ¶ 8 and Exh. E.) Defendants argue in their moving papers that “Plaintiff
has failed to formally respond” (Mot., 7:9) – this contention is contradicted
by the City’s exhibits providing the objections.  Plaintiff replied with objections on June 24,
2024. (See Mot., Exh. E, p. 4 [POS for Plaintiffs’ objections to demand].)
 
Because Plaintiffs
timely responded with objections, Defendants have properly filed a motion to
compel further response to an inspection demand under section 2031.310. To the
extent Defendants characterize their motion as a motion to compel initial
response, that characterization is incorrect. 
 
Procedurally, the Court
relieves Defendant from the separate statement requirement as permitted by
section 2031.310(c), and meet and confer requirements in section 2031.310(b)(2)
have been satisfied. (See Mot., Exh. C [meet and confer email].)
 
1. Defendant have not
established good cause for the inspection.
 
If the party
propounding an inspection demand believes a responsive objection is “without
merit or too general”, the propounding party may move for an order compelling
further response. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310(a)(3).) The motion must set
forth specific facts showing good cause for the discovery demand. (Id.,
subd. (b)(1).)
 
Defendants contend that
because Plaintiffs’ expert made damages estimates based in part on home
remediation, there is good cause for Defendants to examine Plaintiffs’ home. As
an initial matter, Defendants rely on mediation-privileged material that has
been excluded.  Moreover, Plaintiffs’
expert did not inspect Plaintiffs’ home before making her estimate; the
estimate is based on any home where Plaintiffs might live, not the specific
residence they reside in now. (See Mot., Exh. B, p. 1.) Moreover, Plaintiffs
have offered to stipulate that their own expert will not examine the home for
purposes of their opinion or trial testimony. 
The Court cannot conclude Defendants have made a good cause showing on
the facts of this case.
 
 
2. Defendants have
not overcome Plaintiffs’ privacy objection.
 
Even
if there were good cause for the inspection, the Court agrees with Plaintiffs’
argument that Defendants’ motion should be denied based on privacy concerns. A
party asserting a privacy objection must make an initial showing of “a legally
protected privacy interest, an objectively reasonable expectation of privacy in
the given circumstances, and a threatened intrusion that is serious”. (Williams
v. Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 552.) The party seeking disclosure
must show a legitimate countervailing interest and the Court must balance any
such interest against narrower feasible alternatives. (Id., citing Hill
v. National Collegiate Athletic Assn. (1994) 7 Cal.4th 1, 39-40.)
 
Defendants
argue Plaintiffs have not satisfied their initial burden under Williams
and Hill. Not so. Defendants want to enter and inspect all the areas
Plaintiffs occupy in their private residence. There are few intrusions more
profound.  There are also other family
members who live in the same home. 
Defendants have not shown a countervailing interest that outweighs the
privacy concerns here. 
 
Because the Court denies the motion
on the merits, the Court denies the Defendants’ request for sanctions.