 Case Number:  23STCV11836    Hearing Date:   October 1, 2024    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



ROSENDIN ELECTRIC, INC., 
 
                                  Plaintiff,
  
         v.
 
 
CORE/RELATED GRAND AVE. OWNER, LLC, et al.,
 
                                  Defendants.
 


 Case No:  23STCV11836
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  October 1, 2024
 Calendar
  Number:  5



 
            Defendants
Core/Related Grand Ave. Owner, LLC and United States Fire Insurance Company (collectively,
“Moving Defendants”) move to bifurcate trial and discovery related to alter ego
allegations.
 
            The
Court DENIES the motion. 
 
Background
 
            Plaintiff Rosendin Electric, Inc.
sued defendants Core/Related Grand Ave. Owner, LLC (“Core”); The Related
Companies, L.P. (“TRC”); Deutsche Bank AG; U.S. Bank; Hanover Street Capital,
LLC; and Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc. on May 25, 2023, for breach of
contract, foreclosure of mechanic’s lien, quantum meruit, and violation of the
prompt payment act. Plaintiff added defendant United States Fire Insurance
Company in its First Amended Complaint filed July 19, 2023.  Plaintiff filed its operative second amended
complaint (“SAC”) on December 1, 2023, replacing its claims for foreclosure and
quantum meruit with a single cause of action for recovery against a mechanic’s
lien release bond. 
 
On February 5, 2024, Moving Defendants answered.  Core cross-complained against Plaintiff
(“REI”) and a newly named entity, Rosendin Holdings, Inc., (together “the
Rosendin Entities”) on September 28, 2023. It filed its operative second
amended cross-complaint (“SAXC”) on June 3, 2024. Core asserts nine causes of
action: two for breach of contract, one for restitution based on unjust
enrichment, four for various species of fraud, one for contractual
indemnification, one for negligence, and one for declaratory relief.
 
            The parties’ dispute arises from
REI’s work on a high-rise construction project (“Project”) located at 100 S.
Grand Avenue in downtown Los Angeles. REI “acted as the design-builder and
engineer of the complex electrical and fire alarm systems for the Project ...
.” (DMPA, 2:14-15, citing Teitelbaum Decl., ¶ 7.) REI argues it performed on
the parties’ contract and Core refused to pay. Core argues it has paid REI all
it is owed (more than $50 million), and REI breached the parties’ contract by
providing delayed and/or inadequate work.
 
            The SAC and the SAXC both rely on
alter ego theories to impose liability on certain defendants. In the SAC, REI
argues Core and TRC are alter egos; in the SAXC, Core argues the same about REI
and Rosendin Holdings.
 
            On August 12, 2024, Moving Defendants
moved for an order “bifurcating [Plaintiff] and Core’s respective alter ego
allegations from all other claims at trial as well as all discovery related
thereto ... .” (Not. of Mot., 1:11-13.)
 
            Rosendin filed its opposition on
September 17, 2024. On September 23, 2024, the Moving Parties replied.
 
Discussion
 
            Upon
a properly noticed motion of a party made no later than the close of pretrial
conference, or in other cases, no later than 30 days before the trial date, a
court may bifurcate a trial into separate issues when the convenience of
witnesses, the ends of justice, or the economy and efficiency of handling the
litigation would be promoted thereby.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 598.) 
 
The court may also, in furtherance of convenience or
to avoid prejudice, or when separate trials will be conducive to expedition and
economy, order a separate trial of any cause of action, or of any separate
issue of any number of causes of action, preserving the right of trial by jury
as required by the Constitution or a statute of this state or of the United
States. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1048, subd. (b).)¿ 
            
            The Court does not agree that bifurcation of the alter
ego issues will serve judicial  economy or
streamline the litigation.  To the
contrary, the Court envisions that such bifurcation would make the litigation
more complicated and potentially lengthy and unwieldy.
This
litigation involves high dollar amounts and multiple complex issues.  Bifurcating alter ego will not make the case
significantly less complicated.  Core’s
bifurcation requests seeks to defer any discovery into alter ego issues until
after the trial of the liability issues. 
This would potentially lengthen the case by years.  It would also raise issues about what
discovery is permissible in the current phase and what is not. The Court concludes
that deferring certain issues is likely to delay a final resolution of this
case, whether by trial or settlement. 
This concern outweighs the speculative possibility that the parties
could potentially save monies by not conducting discovery on alter ego issues
at this time.  
 
The
most practical approach to discovery is also the simplest.  While discovery is proceeding apace, it makes
sense for the parties to take discovery of all factual issues.
 
            Moving Defendants make certain arguments about the
conduct of the trial.  The Court cannot
make a decision about how it will handle the alter ego issues at trial until the
parties complete discovery and present the issues of trial management to the
Court with specificity.  There are many
tools available to the Court in terms of staging or managing the trial to make
sure that the jury is not confused by any technical alter ego matters.  
 
            Moving Defendants’ arguments about bifurcation are not persuasive.  Moreover, the Court envisions significant
complications and delays if it granted bifurcation.
 
The
Court therefore denies Moving Defendants’ motion.  The denial is without prejudice to Moving
Defendants raising during the pretrial proceedings the issue of how to handle
the alter ego issues at trial.