 Case Number:  22SMCV01060    Hearing Date:   March 22, 2024    Dept:  I The court has reviewed the transcript.  The motion is GRANTED.
 
The court is, frankly, disappointed at the tenor and tone of
the opposition.  While the ex parte
was hardly an exercise in civility, the opposition is simply over the top.  The court lost count of the number of
personal attacks on defendant’s counsel therein.  And plaintiff seems to think it is an
extraordinary show of restraint to allow ten questions to be asked without a
speaking objection.  It is not.  The court does not here address or attempt to
address the defendant’s behavior at defendant’s deposition—that is not before
the court.  But the court has read the
entire transcript—front to back.  It was
a painful exercise, but necessary.  While
neither side was perfect, it appears that plaintiff’s view of proper deposition
behavior and the court’s view are quite different.  Certainly the court will not sua sponte
sanction the defense, as plaintiff aggressively requests.  The court has read the objections and
declaration filed by defendant yesterday. 
The objections are OVERRULED.
 
In the court’s view, plaintiff’s counsel’s deposition
conduct was unacceptable.  The speaking
objections were too numerous to count and, in the court’s view, quickly crossed
the line into improper coaching. 
Further, when plaintiff and counsel left the deposition, they lacked any
cause.  Rather, it appears that they
returned from a break after they discovered that two additional people were
present.  Plaintiff is correct that
defendant mis-handled that situation. 
Additional counsel had the right to be present and did not need to be
identified ahead of time.  But counsel
did need to state and appearance as soon as possible after logging in.  And plaintiff is correct about the client
representative.  There is no “right” to
have a client representative present at the deposition.  That person must be identified days before
the deposition.  The reason is to give
the deponent time to object.  A human
litigant has the right to be present, but not a “representative.”  Moreover, under any circumstance, the person
must state an appearance as soon as possible. 
That was not done, and plaintiff had a legitimate grievance.  But the response is to go off the record and
meet and confer.  Had plaintiff done so,
presumably defense counsel would have made the offer made on the record when
the deposition resumed—to have those individuals leave.  That would have allowed the deposition to go
forward.  The parties could deal with the
violation later—if it was serious enough to warrant further discussion (it
likely was not).  Instead, it appears
that plaintiff was only on the record long enough to state plaintiff was
leaving.  And, if plaintiff’s counsel’s
declaration is to be believed, plaintiff and counsel must have then sprinted
out of the room.  The transcript shows
that plaintiff’s counsel announced “Mr. Amir and I are going to excuse
ourselves, and we’ll leave it up to you to bring it up to the judge.”  He concludes, a sentence later with “So thank
you.”  Defense counsel immediately says
“No. We’re not” but plaintiff’s counsel interrupts and says “We’re off the
record.”  Defense counsel immediately
says “We’re not going off the record.  On
the record, as I would like to state, that is not a basis to leave.  I am happy to have the individuals not be
present if it bothers you.”  But
apparently in that time, plaintiff and counsel had left.  Or perhaps they were there but just not
listening.  The offer is on the record,
so it is hard for plaintiff’s counsel to say credibly that it was not made.
 
Because the trial date is so close, defendant may set the
continued deposition date for any time between Thursday March 28, 2024 and
April 5, 2024, during the work week, but notice will be given no later than
Friday, March 22, 2024 at 4:00 pm. 
Plaintiff and plaintiff’s counsel are ORDERED to attend, although they
may request (but not demand) a different day. 
Any objections shall be limited to the word “Objection” followed by the
statute number or case name supporting the nature of the objection.  If counsel instructs the witness, counsel may
do so, but only on the ground of a statutory privilege found in the Evidence
Code.  If counsel believes that the
deposition has become badgering, counsel may object by saying “Objection,
badgering.”  If it becomes so bad that
counsel believes that it is necessary to stop the deposition, counsel may do
so, but if counsel is incorrect, plaintiff will not be permitted to testify at
trial.  If there is an answer that
plaintiff’s counsel in good faith believes is confidential or private in
nature, counsel may designate that part of the transcript to be confidential
pursuant to the Los Angeles County Superior Court’s confidentiality standard
order, which the court hereby adopts.  No
one shall be present at the deposition other than counsel, the witness,
defendant (if defendant chooses to attend) the court reporter, the
videographer, and anyone else the parties agree may be present.  More than one counsel may attend, but all
shall be announced immediately upon joining. 
The first day of deposition will count as 1 hour, leaving plaintiff with
an additional 6 hours.  The 6 hours will
exclude any time plaintiff’s counsel is speaking.  If plaintiff’s counsel conducts a re-direct,
defense counsel will have a like amount of time after the re-direct to ask
additional questions.  There will be no
more than1 break before lunch and 1 after lunch, each for 10 minutes.  Lunch will start between 12:30 and 12:45 at
defendant’s discretion and will last no more than 30 minutes.  Additional breaks may be had by agreement of
the parties or by request of the court reporter or to change video tapes.  If necessary to consult with the client on a
matter of privilege, and additional break of no more than 1 minute may be
taken; however, this is limited to consultations of privilege relating to a
question asked.  No break will occur
other than for consultation as to privilege while a question or line of
questions (closely related) is pending. 
The deposition will start at 9:30 and end at 5:30.  If not completed, it will go day to day,
weekends and holidays excepted.  If this
goes beyond the discovery cut off, the cut off is extended to allow the
completion.  The parties may, by stipulation,
alter these rules.
 
Because this came up ex parte, sanctions will not be
awarded.  However, plaintiff’s counsel
will be responsible for the costs of the continued deposition, meaning court
reporter fees (but not the cost of the transcript to defendant), videographer
fees, and any other fees related to the deposition other than attorneys’ fees.
 
The court expects the behavior of all counsel to
improve—especially plaintiff’s counsel. 
The court warns the parties that the failure to improve will result in a
very difficult trial for the offender.