  Case Number:  23PSCV03534    Hearing Date:   September 24, 2024    Dept:  34 Chen Feng, et al. v. Blake Sing Hon, et al.
(23PSCV03534)
 
1.         Plaintiffs’ Motion to Seal is
DENIED.  
 
2.         Plaintiffs’ Motion for Summary Judgment is
DENIED.  Plaintiffs’ motion for summary
adjudication of the third cause of action for unjust enrichment is DENIED.  Plaintiffs’ motion for summary adjudication
of the first cause of action for breach of the Settlement Agreement, second
cause of action for breach of the Purchase Agreement and third cause of action
for declaratory relief is GRANTED.  
 
Background
 
Plaintiffs Chen Feng
and Zhen Zhong Cao (collectively “Plaintiffs”), Defendant Blake Sing Hon
(“Defendant Hon”) and non-party Stephen Hon (collectively, the “Members”) were equal
members of Defendant Cheyenne LLC (the “Company”), each holding a 25%
membership interest therein.  The Company
purchased a warehouse located at 4775 E. Cheyenne Avenue in Las Vegas, Nevada
(the “Property”).  
 
On November 29,
2007, the Members executed a Management Agreement (the “Management Agreement”)
pursuant to which Defendant Hon would manage the Company for an 8% bonus of the
Company’s tax basis accumulated earnings each year, including net gain from
sale of the Property.  
 
A dispute arose
between Plaintiffs and Defendant Hon regarding Hon’s management of the
Company.  Plaintiffs filed a derivative
suit against Defendant Hon and the Company in October 2021 entitled Chen
Feng, et al. v. Blake Sing Hon, Case No. 21STCV38166  (“Feng I”).  
 
Plaintiffs,
Defendant Hon and the Company settled Feng I on May 31, 2023 pursuant to
a settlement agreement.  Under the
settlement agreement, (1) Hon would purchase Plaintiffs’ 50% interest in the
Company for $8,000,000; (2) the Company would retain the Property; and (3) Plaintiffs
would receive a 25% pro rata share of the Company’s assets.
 
On July 11, 2023,
Plaintiffs, Defendant Hon and the Company entered into a Purchase Agreement
further detailing the transfer of Plaintiffs’ membership interests to Defendant
Hon.  Plaintiffs allege the Purchase
Agreement clearly described the transaction as a sale of Plaintiffs’ membership
interests in the Company, not the sale of any real property.  
 
Plaintiffs did not
receive the proceeds from the Settlement Agreement and the Purchase Agreement
until October 2023.  Plaintiffs
discovered upon receiving the proceeds that Defendants paid them $402,949.78
less.  Plaintiffs allege Defendants
included this amount in a bonus paid to Defendant Hon of $805,899.56.  Plaintiffs allege half of this amount should
have been paid to them as part of the equal division of the non-property assets
of the Company.  


Plaintiffs allege
Defendant Hon maintains his purchase of their 50% interest in the Company
triggered the 8% bonus under the Management Agreement.  Plaintiffs disagree. 
 
On November 13,
2023, Plaintiffs filed this action against Defendant Hon and the Company
alleging (1) breach of settlement agreement; (2) breach of purchase agreement;
(3) unjust enrichment; and (4) declaratory relief.  
 
1.         Plaintiffs’
Motion to Seal 
 
Legal Standard           
 
Under California Rules of Court 2.551(b)-(d):
 
(b)       Motion or
application to seal a record
(1)       Motion or application required
A party requesting that a record
be filed under seal must file a motion or an application for an order sealing
the record. The motion or application must be accompanied by a memorandum and a
declaration containing facts sufficient to justify the sealing.
 
(2)       Service of motion or application
A copy of the motion or
application must be served on all parties that have appeared in the case.
Unless the court orders otherwise, any party that already has access to the
records to be placed under seal must be served with a complete, unredacted
version of all papers as well as a redacted version. Other parties must be
served with only the public redacted version. If a party's attorney but not the
party has access to the record, only the party's attorney may be served with
the complete, unredacted version.
 
(3)       Procedure for party not intending to file motion or
application
(A)      A party that files or intends to file with
the court, for the purposes of adjudication or to use at trial, records
produced in discovery that are subject to a confidentiality agreement or
protective order, and does not intend to request to have the records sealed,
must:
 
(i)        Lodge the unredacted records subject to
the confidentiality agreement or protective order and any pleadings,
memorandums, declarations, and other documents that disclose the contents of
the records, in the manner stated in (d);
(ii)       File copies of the documents in (i) that
are redacted so that they do not disclose the contents of the records that are
subject to the confidentiality agreement or protective order; and
(iii)      Give written notice to the party that
produced the records that the records and the other documents lodged under (i)
will be placed in the public court file unless that party files a timely motion
or application to seal the records under this rule.
 
(B)       If the party that produced the documents
and was served with the notice under (A)(iii) fails to file a motion or an
application to seal the records within 10 days or to obtain a court order
extending the time to file such a motion or an application, the clerk must
promptly transfer all the documents in (A)(i) from the envelope, container, or
secure electronic file to the public file. If the party files a motion or an
application to seal within 10 days or such later time as the court has ordered,
these documents are to remain conditionally under seal until the court rules on
the motion or application and thereafter are to be filed as ordered by the
court.
 
(4)       Lodging
of record pending determination of motion or application
The party requesting that a record
be filed under seal must lodge it with the court under (d) when the motion or
application is made, unless good cause exists for not lodging it or the record
has previously been lodged under (3)(A)(i). Pending the determination of the
motion or application, the lodged record will be conditionally under seal.
 
(5)       Redacted and unredacted versions
If necessary to prevent
disclosure, any motion or application, any opposition, and any supporting
documents must be filed in a public redacted version and lodged in a complete,
unredacted version conditionally under seal. The cover of the redacted version
must identify it as “Public--Redacts materials from conditionally sealed
record.” The cover of the unredacted version must identify it as “May Not Be
Examined Without Court Order--Contains material from conditionally sealed
record.”
 
(6)       Return of lodged record
If the court denies the motion or
application to seal, the moving party may notify the court that the lodged
record is to be filed unsealed. This notification must be received within 10
days of the order denying the motion or application to seal, unless otherwise
ordered by the court. On receipt of this notification, the clerk must unseal
and file the record. If the moving party does not notify the court within 10
days of the order, the clerk must (1) return the lodged record to the moving
party if it is in paper form or (2) permanently delete the lodged record if it
is in electronic form.
 
(c)        References
to nonpublic material in public records
A record filed publicly in the
court must not disclose material contained in a record that is sealed,
conditionally under seal, or subject to a pending motion or an application to
seal.
 
(d)       Procedure
for lodging of records
(1)       A record that may be filed under seal must
be transmitted to the court in a secure manner that preserves the
confidentiality of the records to be lodged. If the record is transmitted in
paper form, it must be put in an envelope or other appropriate container,
sealed in the envelope or container, and lodged with the court.
(2)       The materials to be lodged under seal must
be clearly identified as “CONDITIONALLY UNDER SEAL.” If the materials are
transmitted in paper form, the envelope or container lodged with the court must
be labeled “CONDITIONALLY UNDER SEAL.”
(3)       The party submitting the lodged record
must affix to the electronic transmission, the envelope, or the container a
cover sheet that:
(A)      Contains all the information required on a
caption page under rule 2.111; and
(B)       States that the enclosed record is subject
to a motion or an application to file the record under seal.
 
(4)       On receipt of a record lodged under this
rule, the clerk must endorse the affixed cover sheet with the date of its
receipt and must retain but not file the record unless the court orders it
filed.
 
Applicable Case Law
 
Unless confidentiality is required
by law, court records are presumed to be open to the public.  (California Rules of Court, Rule
2.550(c).)  Therefore, pleadings,
motions, discovery documents, and other papers may not be filed under seal
merely by stipulation of the parties. 
The parties' agreement that certain documents be filed under seal is
improper and insufficient.  (Savaglio
v. Wal–Mart Stores, Inc. (2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 588, 600.)  A prior court order must be obtained.  (California Rules of Court, Rule 2.551(a); H.B.
Fuller Co. v. Doe (2007) 151 Cal.App.4th 879, 888.)  At a minimum, a party seeking to seal
documents must come forward with a specific list of facts sought to be withheld
and specific reasons for withholding them. 
(Id. at 894.)  
 
“Before substantive courtroom
proceedings are closed or transcripts are ordered sealed, a trial court must
hold a hearing and expressly find that (i) there exists an overriding interest
supporting closure and/or sealing; (ii) there is a substantial probability that
the interest will be prejudiced absent closure and/or sealing; (iii) the
proposed closure and/or sealing is narrowly tailored to serve the overriding
interest; and (iv) there is no less restrictive means of achieving the
overriding interest.”  (NBC Subsidiary
(KNBC-TV), Inc. v. Supr. Ct. (1999) 20 Cal.4th 1178, 1217-1218.)       
 
Discussion
 
Plaintiffs move to seal Exhibit B
to Plaintiff Feng’s declaration in support of Plaintiff’s Motion for Summary
Judgment.  Exhibit B to the Feng
Declaration is the parties’ Confidential Settlement Agreement.  Plaintiffs filed a Notice of Lodging on May
6, 2024, attaching an unredacted version of the Feng Declaration.  
 
Although Plaintiffs filed a redacted
version of the Feng Declaration for the public record, Plaintiffs did not
redact or seek to seal their memorandum of points and authorities or their separate
statement, both of which quote large sections of the Confidential Settlement
Agreement.  Defendants also submitted a
full copy of the Confidential Settlement Agreement with no redactions as
Exhibit A to their opposition.  Although
Plaintiffs objected to Defendants’ Exhibit A for lack of foundation, they made
no objection based on confidentiality. 
Plaintiffs did not object to Defendant’s failure to comply with the
requirements for sealing or their failure to maintain confidentiality.  
 
In light of these facts,
Plaintiffs’ have waived their right to request that the Settlement Agreement be
sealed.  Plaintiffs have themselves
disclosed large portions of the Settlement Agreement in publicly filed
documents.  They also failed to object to
Defendants’ attachment of the Settlement Agreement to the opposition.  
 
Plaintiffs’ Motion to Seal is
DENIED. 
 
2.         Plaintiffs’ Motion for Summary Judgment  
 
Legal Standard
 
“A plaintiff or cross-complainant has met his
or her burden of showing that there is no defense to a cause of action if that
party has proved each element of the cause of action entitling the party to
judgment on the cause of action. Once the plaintiff or cross-complainant has
met that burden, the burden shifts to the defendant or cross-defendant to show
that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of
action or a defense thereto.”  (CCP
§437c(p)(1).)
 
“A party is entitled to summary judgment only
if it meets its initial burden of showing there are no triable issues of fact
and the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law. This is true
even if the opposing party fails to file any opposition.  The court's assessment of whether the moving
party has carried its burden—and therefore caused a shift—occurs before the
court's evaluation of the opposing party's papers.  Therefore, the burden on the motion does not
initially shift as a result of what is, or is not, contained in the opposing
papers.”  (Mosley v. Pacific Specialty
Insurance Company (2020) 49 Cal.App.5th 417, 434–435 (landlord’s failure to
address issue of whether they were aware of their tenant’s marijuana growing
operation was not grounds to grant summary judgment where moving party failed
to satisfy its initial burden as to the issue); Thatcher v. Lucky Stores,
Inc. (2000) 79 Cal.App.4th 1081, 1086-1087 (court cannot grant summary
judgment based merely on lack of opposition; court must first determine if the
moving party has satisfied its burden).)
 
In addition, the evidence and affidavits of
the moving party are construed strictly, while those of the opponent are
liberally read.  (Government Employees
Ins. Co. v. Sup. Ct. (2000) 79 Cal.App.4th 95, 100.)  “All doubts as to the propriety of granting
the motion (whether there is any issue of material fact [Code of Civil
Procedure] § 437c) are to be resolved in favor of the party opposing the motion
(i.e., a denial of summary judgment).”  (Hamburg
v. Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 497, 502.)  
 
Evidentiary Objections 
 
            Plaintiffs’ Objections to Johnson
Declaration—OVERRULED
 
            Plaintiffs’ Objection to Defendants’
Exhibits—OVERRULED as to Exs. A (Settlement Agreement) and C (Management
Agreement), SUSTAINED as to Exs. B, D and E.
 
            Plaintiffs’ Request for Judicial
Notice—GRANTED 
 
Discussion 
 
            Law governing interpretation of
contract
 
Interpretation of contract is a question of law for the court, and the goal should be to
give effect to the mutual intent of the parties.  (Pacific
Gas & E. Co. v. G.W. Thomas Drayage etc. Co. (1968) 69 Cal.2d 33, 37; MacKinnon
v. Truck Ins. Exch. (2003) 31 Cal.4th 635, 647-648. (citing
Cal. Civ.Code § 1636). Such intent is to be inferred, if possible, from the
written provisions of the contract based on their “ordinary and popular
sense,” unless a “technical sense or special meaning is given to them by their
usage.”  (Id. at 648 (citing Cal. Civ.Code
§§ 1639, 1644, 1638).)  If the contractual language is clear
and explicit, it governs. (Id.)     
 
“When the parties dispute the meaning of a contract term, the trial
court's first step is to determine whether the term is ambiguous, i.e., it is
‘reasonably susceptible’ to either of the meanings urged by the parties.  In making this determination, the court is not
limited to the contract language
itself but provisionally receives, without actually admitting, any extrinsic
evidence offered by a party which is relevant to show the contract could or could not
have a particular meaning.  If, in light of the language
of the contract and
the extrinsic evidence as to its meaning, the trial court determines the
language is ‘reasonably susceptible’ to either of the meanings urged by the
parties the court moves on to the second step which is to determine just what
the parties intended the contract term
to mean.”  (Curry v. Moody (1995) 40
Cal.App.4th 1547, 1552.) 
 
“If no extrinsic evidence was presented or if the extrinsic
evidence was not in conflict, the resolution of the ambiguity is a question of law, which is subject to
independent review on appeal.  Even where
uncontroverted evidence allows for conflicting inferences to be drawn, our
Supreme Court treats the interpretation of
the written contract as
solely a judicial function.”  (Scheenstra
v. California Dairies, Inc. (2013) 213 Cal.App.4th 370, 390.)   
 
Plaintiffs satisfy
their burden on the first, second and fourth causes of action.  Plaintiffs fail to satisfy their burden on
the third cause of action for unjust enrichment.
 
            Plaintiffs’ move for summary
judgment as to the breach of Settlement Agreement, breach of Purchase
Agreement, unjust enrichment and declaratory relief claims.  The elements of Plaintiffs’ causes of action
are as follows:
 
(1)       “A
settlement agreement is a contract, and the legal principles [that] apply to
contracts generally apply to settlement contracts.  The elements of a cause of action for breach
of contract include the existence of a contract, the plaintiff's performance or
excuse for nonperformance, the defendant's breach, and resulting damages to the
plaintiff.”  (J.B.B. Investment
Partners Ltd. v. Fair (2019) 37 Cal.App.5th 1, 9.)  
 
(2)       “There
is no cause of action in California labeled ‘unjust enrichment.’  But common law principles of restitution
require a party to return a benefit when the retention of such benefit would
unjustly enrich the recipient; a typical cause of action involving such remedy
is ‘quasi-contract.  Whether termed
unjust enrichment, quasi-contract, or quantum meruit, the equitable remedy of
restitution when unjust enrichment has occurred is an obligation (not a true
contract) created by the law without regard to the intention of the parties.”  (City of Oakland v. Oakland Raiders
(2022) 83 Cal.App.5th 458, 477.)                                                                          
 
(3)       “The complaint is
sufficient if it shows an actual controversy; it need not show that plaintiff
is in the right.”  (Lockheed Corp. v.
Continental Ins. Co. (2005) 134 Cal.App.4th 187, 222 (citing 5 Witkin, Cal.
Procedure, (4th ed. 1997) Pleading § 831, pp. 288-289.).    “A complaint for declaratory relief is
sufficient if it sets forth facts showing the existence of a controversy
relating to the legal rights and duties of the parties under a written
instrument and requests that those rights and duties be adjudicated.”  (Taschner v. City Council (1973) 31
Cal.App.3d 48, 57 (disapproved of by Associated Home Builders etc., Inc. v.
City of Livermore (1976) 18 Cal.3d 582 on other grounds).)
 
Plaintiffs establish that the parties entered into the Settlement
Agreement and the Purchase Agreement.  (Feng
Dec., ¶¶3, 4, 8, Exs. B (Lodged with Court) and C.)  Under both agreements, Defendant Hon would
pay $8,000,000 in total for Plaintiffs’ 50% membership interests in the
Company.  (Feng Dec., Ex. B, §2(a) and
(d); Ex. C, §2(e).)  
 
Pursuant to the Settlement Agreement, Plaintiffs were also to receive a
distribution of 50% of their pro rata share of all assets of the Company, other
than the Property or ownership interest in it, less Plaintiffs’ proportionate
share of the loan liabilities.  (Feng
Dec., Ex. B, §2(d).)  The Purchase
Agreement also incorporated this provision, entitling Plaintiffs to a
distribution of 50% of their pro rata share of the Company’s assets, other than
the Property.  (Feng Dec., Ex. C, §2(e).)
 
In exchange for these distributions, Plaintiffs agreed to dismiss Feng
I within seven days of the Effective Date of May 31, 2023.  (Feng Dec., Ex. B, §8.)  Plaintiffs filed a dismissal of Feng I  on June 9, 2023.  (Related Case 21STCV38166.)  
 
Upon close of the escrow for Defendants’ payment of Plaintiffs’ 50% pro
rata share of the Company’s assets, other than the Property, the Company paid
Defendant Hon an 8% commission as a bonus or commission under the Management
Agreement.  (Feng Dec., ¶2, Adams Dec.,
¶4.)  The Management Agreement provides that
Defendant Hon would receive “an eight percent (8%) bonus of the Company’s tax
basis accumulated earnings each year, including net gain from the sale of the
Cheyenne Industrial Center property.”  (Feng
Dec., Ex. A, §1.)  
 
Plaintiffs establish that Defendants did not sell the Property to anyone
and Defendant Hon’s purchase of Plaintiffs’ membership interests does not
qualify as a sale of the Property under the Management Agreement.  (Feng Dec., Ex. B., §§1, 2(a), Rectial G; Ex.
C, §§1, 2(a), (b) and (e), Recitals F, G.) 
Plaintiffs establish that Defendant Company still owns the Property, as
reflected in the Clark County Assessor’s records.  (Plaintiffs’ Request for Judicial Notice, Ex.
A.)  
 
Plaintiffs establish that Defendants’ payment or designation of $805,899.56
of the Company’s assets as a commission to Defendant Hon under §1 of the
Management Agreement breached the parties’ Settlement Agreement and Purchase
Agreement.  In doing so, Defendants
refused to distribute to Plaintiffs their 50% pro rata share of all of
the Company’s assets, other than the Property. 
This would include 50% of the $805,899.56 Defendants have designated as a
commission due Defendant Hon.  Defendants
have refused to pay Plaintiffs 50% of this amount pending resolution of this
action.  
 
Plaintiffs therefore establish the existence of the Settlement and
Purchase Agreements, Defendants’ breach of these agreements by refusing to pay
Plaintiffs 50% of the $805,899.56 of Company’s assets earmarked as a commission
for Defendant Hon, Plaintiffs’ performance under both Agreements and Plaintiffs’
damages in the amount of $402,949.78.  Plaintiffs
have also established a justiciable controversy over their entitlement to the
$402,949.78 and Defendant Hon’s entitlement to an 8% commission under the Management
Agreement. The burden therefore shifts to Defendants to raise a triable issue
of fact as to the first, second and fourth causes of action.  
 
However, Plaintiffs fail to establish entitlement to judgment on the
third cause of action for unjust enrichment. 
Unjust enrichment is not a cause of action. 
 
Defendants fail
to raise a triable issue of fact as to Plaintiffs’ first, second and fourth
causes of action
 
Defendants do not dispute any of the material facts submitted by
Plaintiffs.  Defendants only dispute
Plaintiffs’ interpretation of what qualifies as a sale under the Management
Agreement.
 
Defendants argue that the terms of the Settlement Agreement make clear
that Plaintiffs’ sale of their membership interests to Hon qualify as a “sale
of the Cheyenne Industrial Center property” under the Management Agreement.
 
Defendants argue the Settlement Agreement reflects the parties’ intentions
regarding the purchase and sale of the Property.  (Defendants’ Ex. A, Recitals G and I.)  However, Recital G only sets forth Plaintiffs’
offer to purchase the Property, which parties ultimately decided to forgo and
replace with Defendant Hon’s purchase of Plaintiffs’ membership interests, “Rather
than purchase the entire Property from [Company]…the Parties agree Hon
shall purchase Plaintiffs’ respective member interests….”  (Defendants’ Ex. A, Recital G.)  This same language was included in Recital F
of the Purchase Agreement.  (Feng Dec.,
Ex. C, Recital F.) 
 
            Defendants
also cite to Recital I as evidence that Defendant Hon’s purchase of Plaintiffs’
membership interests was a sale of the Property.  Recital I states, “The Parties have now
decided, as more specifically described below, to effectuate a full and
complete settlement of the Lawsuit, sale of the Property, and end to
their joint ownership in [the Company].” 

 
            Recital
I does not establish that the sale of Plaintiffs’ membership interests in the
Company is a sale of the Property under the Management Agreement.  Parties statement that “in lieu of
paying LV Cheyenne the entire $16 million purchase price” for the Property, the
parties agreed that Defendant Hon “has the right to purchase and acquire the
25% membership interests owned by each Plaintiff in LV Cheyenne….”  (Defendants’ Ex. A, §2(a).)  If, however, Defendant Hon was unable to
complete the purchase of Plaintiffs’ membership interests, Plaintiffs were
granted the “right to purchase the Property.” 
(Id. at §3(a).)
 
            Based
on this language, Defendant Hon’s purchase of Plaintiff’s membership interest
was not a sale of the Property or a “deemed sale of the property.”  Defendant’s Hon’s purchase of Plaintiffs’
interests was “in lieu of” and “rather than” a sale of the Property to
Plaintiffs.  A right to purchase the
Property was only created in Plaintiffs and that right was never exercised,
because Defendant Hon purchased Plaintiffs’ membership interests.
 
            Defendants
also rely on the phrase “Deemed Property Purchase” in Recital F of the
Settlement Agreement, which states “Rather than purchase the entire Property
from the Company, however, the Parties agreed that Hon would purchase Seller’s
pro rata interest in the Property by purchasing all of the Sellers’ Interests
in the Company on the terms, and subject to the conditions, set forth herein
and in the Parties’ related Settlement Agreement (defined below), thus
effectively transferring to Hon the Sellers’ complete pro rata share of the
Property (the “Deemed Property Purchase”).”  (Defendants’ Ex. A, Recital F.)
 
Defendants fail to submit any evidence that the parties intended the
phrase “sale of the Cheyenne Industrial Center property” under the Management
Agreement to include the “Deemed Property Purchase” under the Settlement
Agreement.  The phrase “deemed property
purchase” itself indicates there was no true purchase or sale of the Property,
hence the parties’ use of the word “deemed.” 
The phrase “Deemed Property Purchase” was specifically defined as Defendant
Hon’s purchase of Plaintiffs’ membership interests, not the Property itself.  Parties also refrained from referring to
Hon’s purchase of Plaintiffs’ interests as a “Deemed Property Sale.”  
 
            Defendant
Hon submits no evidence that the Property was ever sold to anyone, that there
was ever a “net gain” from a sale (a requirement for the 8% commission under
the Management Agreement), or that the parties’ ever intended to include
Defendant Hon’s purchase of the Plaintiffs’ membership interests as a “sale” of
the Property under §1 of the Management Agreement.  A reasonable interpretation of the plain
language of the Management Agreement, Settlement Agreement and Purchase
Agreement does not support Defendants' position that the 8% commission was
triggered by Defendant Hon’s purchase of Plaintiffs’ membership interest.  
 
            Parties
could easily have inserted language addressing whether Defendant Hon’s purchase
of Plaintiffs’ membership interests or the “Deemed Property Purchase” qualified
as a “sale” of the Property under §1 of the Management Agreement.  Parties did not do so, however, nor did they
ever refer to Defendant Hon’s purchase of Plaintiffs’ membership interest as a
“sale” of the Property.  
 
            Defendants
therefore fail to raise a triable issue of fact as to the first, second and
fourth causes of action for breach of the Settlement Agreement, breach of the
Purchase Agreement and declaratory relief. 
Based on the undisputed facts, Plaintiffs’ motion for summary
adjudication of the first, second and fourth causes of action is GRANTED.  
 
Conclusion
 
            Plaintiffs’
Motion for Summary Judgment is DENIED. 
Plaintiffs’ motion for summary adjudication of the third cause of action
for unjust enrichment is DENIED. 
Plaintiffs’ motion for summary adjudication of the first cause of action
for breach of the Settlement Agreement, second cause of action for breach of
the Purchase Agreement and third cause of action for declaratory relief is
GRANTED.  