  Case Number:  21STCV42547    Hearing Date:   March 1, 2024    Dept:  C Natalie
Tenaud, et al. vs State of California, et al., Case No. 21STCV42547
This is a
wrongful death action. 
Plaintiffs
Natalie Tenaud, Breanne Rose Aguilar, Stevie Brynn Aguilar, and Estate of
Byrant Aguilar apply Ex Parte to Advance and Set Hearing Date on Plaintiffs’
Motion to Compel Defendant to Comply with Plaintiffs’ Demand for Inspection of
Tangible Things, Land, or Other Property to the Earliest Possible Date and
Time. 
A party may
seek ex parte relief upon an affirmative factual showing "irreparable
harm, immediate danger, or any other statutory basis for granting relief ex
parte." (Cal. R. Ct. 3.1202(c).)
Defendant
argues that expert discovery cutoff is March 28, 2024 and it is impractical to
hear the motion and allow inspection before the cutoff date and that Plaintiff
should have filed their motion earlier. However, the Court notes the inspection
took place on December 13, 2022 and Plaintiffs filed their motion on February
8, 2024. 
Trial in this
matter is scheduled for April 12, 2024. Plaintiffs’ Motion to Compel is not set
to be heard until September 24, 2024, which would leave no time for Defendant
to provide further responses prior to the discovery cut-off for the current
trial date in the event Plaintiffs’ Motion to Compel is granted. The Court
finds that Plaintiff would be irreparably harmed by not allowing the motion to
be heard prior to the discovery cut-off dates. 
Accordingly,
Plaintiffs Natalie Tenaud, Breanne Rose Aguilar, Stevie Brynn Aguilar, and
Estate of Byrant Aguilar’s Ex Parte Application to ADVANCE Ex Parte the Hearing
Date on Plaintiffs’ Motion to Compel Defendant to Comply with Plaintiffs’
Demand for Inspection of Tangible Things, Land, or Other Property to the
Earliest Possible Date and Time is GRANTED. The Hearing for Plaintiffs’ Motion
to Compel Defendant to Comply with Plaintiffs’ Demand for Inspection of
Tangible Things, Land, or Other Property is ADVANCED from Tuesday, September
24, 2024 and CONTINUED to Tuesday, March 19, 2024 in Department SE-C at 9:30
a.m.
Plaintiff to
give notice. 