 Case Number:  23PSCV00314    Hearing Date:   January 18, 2024    Dept:  G Plaintiff Sahdiq Rahshan McNair’s Motion to Set Aside
Dismissal
Respondent: NO OPPOSITION
TENTATIVE RULING
The court requests additional information from counsel
for Plaintiff Sahdiq Rahshan McNair regarding the missed court hearings.
BACKGROUND
This
is a premises liability action. In February 2021, Plaintiff Sahdiq Rahshan
McNair was making a delivery to a Covina property allegedly owned by Defendants
Richard Burgos, Cameron Burgos, and Fredi Becker. As McNair was heading up a
set of allegedly steep steps before the Covina property’s front door, McNair
tripped or slipped and suffered a series of injuries.
On
February 1, 2023, McNair filed a complaint against Richard Burgos, Cameron
Burgos, Becker, and Does 1-50, alleging the following causes of action: (1)
general negligence and (2) premises liability.
On
June 20, 2023, Becker filed a motion to quash the service of summons. On August
21, the court granted Becker’s motion. Subsequently, McNair agreed to dismiss
Becker from the present action.
On
November 7, 2023, McNair’s counsel failed to appear for a case management
conference and OSC Re: Default/Default Judgment. As a result, the court set an
OSC Re: Sanctions and Dismissal for November 20. After McNair’s counsel failed
to appear on November 20, the court dismissed McNair’s Complaint without
prejudice pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 575.2.
On December
22, 2023, McNair filed the present motion. A hearing on the motion is set for January
18, 2024.
ANALYSIS
McNair
seeks to vacate the court’s dismissal of McNair’s action on the grounds of unintended
neglect, mistake, or inadvertence. For the following reasons, the court GRANTS
McNair’s motion.
Legal
Standard
Whenever
an application for relief from dismissal is made no more than six months after
entry of the judgment of dismissal, is in proper form, and is accompanied by
the moving party’s sworn affidavit attesting to his or her mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect, the court may vacate any
dismissal entered against the moving party unless the court finds that the dismissal
was not in fact caused by the moving party’s mistake, inadvertence, surprise,
or excusable neglect. (Code Civ. Proc., §473, subd. (b).) The court shall grant
relief if the moving party’s counsel provides a “sworn affidavit attesting to his or her mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or neglect.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (b).) “The
court shall, whenever relief is granted based on an attorney's affidavit of
fault, direct the attorney to pay reasonable compensatory legal fees and costs
to opposing counsel or parties.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (b).) “The six-month time limit for granting statutory relief is
jurisdictional and the court may not consider a motion for relief made after
that period has elapsed.” (Manson, Iver & York v. Black (2009) 176
Cal.App.4th 36, 42.)
Discussion
In this case,
McNair’s counsel, Tom Kinan, states counsel failed to appear for the case
management conference on November 7, 2023, and November 20 due to calendaring
errors. (Kinan Decl., ¶ 16.) Kinan blames a paralegal for failing to calendar
relevant filing deadlines and appearance dates. (Kinan Decl., ¶ 15-16.) But,
the court notes that attorney Kinan failed to explain why he was unaware of the
November 7 case management conference when attorney Kinan was present at the previous case
management conference on October 2. There, the court directed attorney Kinan to serve
statements of damages on the Burgos Defendants before filing additional
requests for the entry of default. (10/02/2023 Minute Order.)
The court
notes that it is counsel’s responsibility to ensure upcoming court
hearings are properly and correctly calendared; not the paralegal’s
responsibility.  While counsel may delegate
those responsibilities to a paralegal, counsel remains responsible and
accountable to the court.  Furthermore,
there is no explanation in attorney Kinan’s declaration regarding any progress on the
default judgment applications that counsel was supposed to be preparing during
this time.
CONCLUSION
At
the hearing on January 18, 2024, the court will hear from counsel regarding the
issues identified above which were not addressed in the declaration. 