  Case Number:  22PSCV00600    Hearing Date:   January 18, 2024    Dept:  G Plaintiff Alma Coronado’s Motion for Reconsideration
of Order Granting Defendant’s Motion to Compel Arbitration
Respondent: Defendant Nissan
North America, Inc.
TENTATIVE RULING
Plaintiff Alma Coronado’s Motion for Reconsideration
of Order Granting Defendant’s Motion to Compel Arbitration is DENIED.
BACKGROUND
This
is a lemon law action. In March 2021, Plaintiff Alma Coronado leased a new 2021
Nissan Sentra and alleges the existence of an express written contract with
Defendant Nissan North America, Inc. (Nissan) in which Nissan undertook to
preserve or maintain the utility or performance of Coronado’s vehicle and
provide compensation if there was a failure in such utility or performance. Coronado
alleges the vehicle’s continuously variable transmission was defective.
On June
17, 2022, Coronado filed a complaint against Nissan, KAB Group Investments,
Inc. (KAB Group), and Does 1-10, alleging (1) violation of the Song-Beverly Act
– breach of express warranty, (2) misrepresentation, (3) concealment, and (4)
negligent repair.
On
October 27, 2022, Nissan filed a motion to compel arbitration of Coronado’s
claims. On February 6, 2023, the court granted Nissan’s motion.
On
June 30, 2023, Coronado filed a motion for reconsideration of the court’s order
compelling arbitration. On July 31, the court denied Coronado’s motion.
On
October 13, 2023, Coronado filed the present motion. A hearing on the motion is
set for January 18, 2024, along with an OSC Re: Arbitration Completion.
REQUEST
FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
Coronado’s
request for judicial notice of trial court records in Kielar v. Superior
Court (2023) 94 Cal.App.5th 614, is GRANTED.
ANALYSIS
For
the second time, Coronado moves for the court to reconsider its previous order
granting Nissan’s motion to compel arbitration because of a new change in the
law. For the following reasons and for the same reasons previously noted, the
court DENIES Coronado’s motion.
Legal
Standard
Code
of Civil Procedure section 1008 sets out two means by which a party can seek
reconsideration of a prior trial court order. First, “[w]hen an application for
an order has been made to a judge, or to a court, and refused in whole or in
part, or granted, or granted conditionally, or on terms, any party affected by
the order may, within 10 days after service upon the party of written notice of
entry of the order and based upon new or different facts, circumstances, or
law, make application to the same judge or court that made the order, to
reconsider the matter and modify, amend, or revoke the prior order.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 1008, subd. (a).) Second, “A party who originally made an application
for an order which was refused in whole or part, or granted conditionally or on
terms, may make a subsequent application for the same order upon new or
different facts, circumstances, or law, in which case it shall be shown by
affidavit what application was made before, when and to what judge, what order
or decisions were made, and what new or different facts, circumstances, or law
are claimed to be shown.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1008, subd. (b).)
Code
of Civil Procedure section 1008 “specifies the court's jurisdiction with regard
to applications for reconsideration of its orders and renewals of previous
motions, and applies to all applications to reconsider any order of a judge or
court, or for the renewal of a previous motion, whether the order deciding the
previous matter or motion is interim or final. No application to reconsider any
order or for the renewal of a previous motion may be considered by any judge or
court unless made according to this section.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1008, subd.
(e).)
Discussion
In this case, Coronado seeks
reconsideration of the court’s order to compel arbitration pursuant to Code of
Civil Procedure section 1008, subdivision (c). But as the court noted in
previously denying Coronado’s motion for reconsideration, this subdivision does not provide authority for Coronado to
bring a motion for reconsideration. Instead, it states “[i]f a court at any
time determines that there has been a change of law that warrants it to
reconsider a prior order it entered, it may do so on its own motion and enter a
different order.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1008, subd. (c).) This provision merely
codifies the court’s inherent power to reconsider prior rulings on its own
motion and does not authorize parties to file written motions on this ground. (See
Le Francois v. Goel (2005) 35 Cal.4th 1094, 1108.) And for the same reasons
noted previously, Coronado’s motion is untimely pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 1008, subdivision (a).
Last,
to the extent Coronado invites the court to exercise its discretion to reconsider
the previous order, the court declines to do so. Accordingly, Coronado’s motion
is DENIED.