 Case Number:  23PSCV00100    Hearing Date:   January 18, 2024    Dept:  G Plaintiff Tai Ku’s Motion for Leave to File First  Amended Complaint for Damage Respondent: Defendants Gonde  He and Manyl Shen TENTATIVE RULING Plaintiff Tai Ku’s Motion for Leave to File First  Amended Complaint for Damage is GRANTED. Plaintiff is ordered to file the proposed First Amended Complaint  attached to the declaration of Plaintiff’s counsel separately with the court  forthwith. BACKGROUND This  action arises from a landlord-tenant dispute. In February 2022, Plaintiff Tai  Ku and Ku’s family were tenants at a property in Rowland Heights. Ku alleges  Defendants Gonde He and Manyl Shen attempted a self-help eviction of Ku and Ku’s  family by shutting off Ku’s utilities, locking Ku out of the Rowland Heights  property, and moving Ku’s personal property to the Rowland Heights property’s  backyard where it was exposed to the elements. On  January 12, 2023, Ku filed a complaint against He and Shen, alleging (1)  forcible entry and detainer, (2) assault, (3) false imprisonment, (4)  conversion, (5) trespass, and (6) intentional infliction of emotional distress. On  July 25, 2023, He and Shen filed a cross-complaint against Ku and Does 1-20,  alleging the following causes of action: (1) breach of oral contract, (2) trespass,  (3) private nuisance, (4) invasion of privacy, (5) intentional infliction of  emotional distress (IIED), and (6) negligent infliction of emotional distress  (NIED). On December  14, 2023, Ku filed the present motion. A hearing on the motion is set for  January 18, 2024, with a case management conference on February 28. ANALYSIS Ku seeks  leave to file a First Amended Complaint (FAC) that adds Shugui Gu as a second  plaintiff. For the following reasons, the court GRANTS Ku’s motion. Legal  Standard “A  court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow  a party to amend any pleading.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (a)(1).) The  court’s discretion will usually be exercised liberally to permit amendments of  the pleadings. (Nestle v. City of Santa Monica (1972) 6 Cal.3d 920,  939.) “A motion to amend a pleading before trial must . . . [s]tate what allegations in the  previous pleading are proposed to be deleted, if any, and where, by page,  paragraph, and line number, the deleted allegations are located; and [s]tate what allegations are  proposed to be added to the previous pleading, if any, and where, by page,  paragraph, and line number, the additional allegations are located.” (Cal.  Rules of Court, rule 3.1324(a).) The declaration must also specify the  amendment’s effect, why it is necessary and proper, when the facts supporting  the amended allegations were discovered, and why the request was not made  earlier. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324(b).) If  the party seeking the amendment has needlessly delayed, and the delay has  prejudiced the opposing party, the court has the discretion to deny leave to  amend. (See Hirsa v. Superior Court (1981) 118 Cal.App.3d 486, 490.) Prejudice exists where the amendment would require delaying the trial,  resulting in loss of critical evidence, or added costs of preparation. (Solit v. Tokai Bank, Ltd. New  York Branch (1999) 68 Cal.App.4th 1435, 1448.) Discussion In this case,  Ku’s counsel provides that the effect of the FAC is to add Gu as a plaintiff to  the present action. (Lin Decl., ¶ 12.) But the declaration of Ku’s counsel did  not state why this amendment is necessary and proper. The declaration of Ku’s  counsel also failed to state when the facts supporting the amendment were  discovered. In fact, Ku’s original verified Complaint suggests they were known  since the beginning of this action as the Complaint references Gu by name on at  least three occasions. (Complaint, ¶ 14, 21, 37.) The only reason given for this  almost one-year delay is that Gu was initially afraid of retaliation and only  agreed to participate as a plaintiff in July 2023. (Lin Decl., ¶ 7-8; Motion,  p. 1:21-23.) In opposition,  He and Shen argue Ku’s amendment was unreasonably delayed and should be denied  as untimely. Generally, while courts may permit amendment even at the eve of  trial, unwarranted delay itself is a valid ground for denying leave to amend. (Huff  v. Wilkins (2006) 138 Cal.App.4th 732, 746 [holding denial of leave to  amend proper where moving party “failed to offer any explanation for his delay  in seeking leave to amend”]; see Permalab-Metalab Equipment Corp. v.  Maryland Cas. Co. (1972) 25 Cal.App.3d 465, 472 [“[C]ourts are much more  critical of proposed amendments . . .  when offered after long unexplained delay . .  . .”].) But here, Ku  has provided an explanation for the delay by stating Gu initially did not want  to participate and had ongoing health issues that needed to be resolved first. The  court finds this to be a reasonable excuse and does not find the delay was  unexplained or unwarranted. And to the extent He and Shen claim Ku could  prejudice them by continuing to add new plaintiffs, this is a meritless  contention as Ku would have to obtain additional leave from the court to make  such amendments. He and Shen also claim they will suffer prejudice in the form  of delay of trial. The court finds this contention without merit as trial has  not yet been, set and therefore has not been delayed. Accordingly,  the court finds good cause to allow Ku’s amendment as the delay was not  unwarranted and any prejudice to He and Shen is minimal or nonexistent.  Accordingly, Ku’s motion is GRANTED. CONCLUSION Based on the foregoing, Ku’s motion for leave to  file a FAC is GRANTED.  Ku is ordered to file the  proposed FAC attached to the declaration of Ku’s counsel separately with the  court forthwith.  