  Case Number:  21IWUD00456    Hearing Date:   October 12, 2023    Dept:  M 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. M




 
ADRIENNE
  L. SPRUTH, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
21IWUD00456




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
MARK
  J. SPRUTH,


 
 
 
Defendant.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                         October 12,
2023
 
Moving
Parties:                      Plaintiff Adrienne L. Spruth
Responding
Party:                  None
Motion
to Reclassify
 
            The court considered the moving
papers.
RULING
            The motion is GRANTED.  The case is reclassified as an unlimited
civil case.  Plaintiff is ordered to pay
the reclassification fee.
BACKGROUND
On August 20, 2021, plaintiff
Adrienne L. Spruth filed an unlawful detainer complaint (as a limited civil
case) against Mark J. Spruth based on tenancy at will and a 30-day notice to
quit as to property at 26202 Grayslake Road, Rancho Palos Verdes.
On October 8, 2021, the court
denied defendant’s motion to quash service of summons.
            On December 17, 2021, the court
sustained with leave to amend defendant’s demurrer as to proper service of the
30-day notice to quit.
            On December 22, 2021, plaintiff
filed a FAC.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
            Under CCP §403.020, “(a) If a
plaintiff, cross-complainant, or petitioner files an amended complaint or other
amended initial pleading that changes the jurisdictional classification from
limited to unlimited, the party at the time of filing the pleading shall pay
the reclassification fee provided in Section 403.060, and the clerk shall
promptly reclassify the case. If the amendment changes the jurisdictional
classification from unlimited to limited, no reclassification fee is required,
and the clerk shall promptly reclassify the case.”
            Under CCP §403.040, “(a) The
plaintiff, cross-complainant, or petitioner may file a motion for
reclassification within the time allowed for that party to amend the initial
pleading. The defendant or cross-defendant may file a motion for
reclassification within the time allowed for that party to respond to the
initial pleading.  The court, on its own
motion, may reclassify a case at any time.  A motion for reclassification does not extend
the moving party's time to amend or answer or otherwise respond.  The court shall grant the motion and enter an
order for reclassification, regardless of any fault or lack of fault, if the
case has been classified in an incorrect jurisdictional classification.
(b) If a party files a motion for
reclassification after the time for that party to amend that party's initial
pleading or to respond to a complaint, cross-complaint, or other initial
pleading, the court shall grant the motion and enter an order for reclassification
only if both of the following conditions are satisfied:
(1) The case is incorrectly
classified.
(2) The moving party shows good
cause for not seeking reclassification earlier.
(c) If the court grants a motion
for reclassification, the payment of the reclassification fee shall be
determined, unless the court orders otherwise, as follows:
(1) If a case is reclassified as an
unlimited civil case, the party whose pleading causes the action or proceeding
to exceed the maximum amount in controversy for a limited civil case or
otherwise fails to satisfy the requirements of a limited civil case under
Section 85 shall pay the reclassification fee provided in Section 403.060. . .
.”
DISCUSSION
            Plaintiff
Adrienne Spruth requests that the court reclassify the case from limited civil jurisdiction
to unlimited civil jurisdiction.
            Plaintiff
asserts that the 30-day notice to quit expired on August 16, 2021, and that she
is seeking holdover damages.  She filed
this action in limited civil jurisdiction “believing that the case would
proceed to trial quickly,” and if it had, the holdover damages would have been
below $25,000.  She contends that “with
the delay of these proceedings” and defendant’s continued occupancy of the
subject property, the potential holdover damages exceed $25,000, as plaintiff
alleges that the daily rate is $166.67.  Thus,
plaintiff argues, this case no longer qualifies as a limited civil action.
            The
court finds that the case is incorrectly classified, and that plaintiff has
shown good cause for not seeking reclassification earlier.
            The
court orders that the case is reclassified as an unlimited case.  Plaintiff is ordered to pay the
reclassification fee.
            Plaintiff
is ordered to give notice of ruling.
 