  Case Number:  22SMCV01932    Hearing Date:   January 6, 2025    Dept:  P Tentative Ruling
Chun v. Smith, Case no. 22SMCV01932
Hearing date January 6, 2025
Plaintiff’s
Demurrer to Second Amended Cross-complaint
Plaintiff/cross-defendant
Chun sues defendant/cross-complainant Smith, in pro per, for injuries arising
out of an alleged assault. Defendant cross-complained for intentional tort
arising from defendant’s arrest subsequent to the assault. Defendant filed a
first amended cross complaint for intentional tort and fraud arising from
plaintiff’s police reports and filed a second amended cross-complaint for
intentional infliction of emotional distress arising from his arrest. Plaintiff
demurs. Defendant was given leave to file a late opposition by 12/20/24. Min.
Order 12/3/24. Defendant opposes. 
“The
function of a demurrer is to test the sufficiency of the complaint as a matter
of law.” Holiday Matinee, Inc. v. Rambus, Inc. (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th
1413, 1420. A complaint “is sufficient if it alleges ultimate rather than
evidentiary facts,” Doe v. City of Los Angeles (2007) 42 Cal.4th 531,
550, but plaintiff must allege essential facts “with reasonable precision and
with particularity sufficient to acquaint [the] defendant with the nature,
source and extent” of the plaintiff’s claim. Doheny Park Terrace Homeowners
Ass’n., Inc. v. Truck Ins. Exchange (2005) 132 Cal.App.4th 1076, 1099. 
Plaintiff
argues the SACC fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action. The court previously noted defendant’s cross-complaint sought to
penalize plaintiff for protected activity under Cal. Code Civ. Proc §47(2). See
Min. Order 9/10/24. Via the SACC, Defendant repeats claims the court previously
found unavailing, including arguing plaintiff’s claims were knowingly false
without substantiating said argument and referring to videos that are not in
evidence. Id.
Defendant
argues the videos in question are in evidence but offers no declaration as to their
contents. Further, defendant fails to allege facts or provide sufficient
evidence to establish that plaintiff knowingly made false statements to the
police. As before, the gravamen of defendant’s claims stem from plaintiff’s
reports to law enforcement, which are protected under Cal. Code Civ. Proc
§47(2). Whether defendant suffered harm as a result of plaintiff’s reporting
does not remove that protection. “An absolute privilege exists to protect
citizens from the threat of litigation for communications to government
agencies whose function it is to investigate and remedy wrongdoing.” Wise v.
Thrifty Payless, Inc. (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 1296, 1303.
Defendant
argues Wise does not apply to intentionally false reports. This is
unavailing; defendant offers no legal support that Wise is inapplicable.
Defendant fails to offer allegations showing outrageous conduct by plaintiff
sufficient to establish a cause of action for intentional infliction of
emotional distress. Further, defendant’s allegations stem from plaintiff’s
reports to law enforcement, which is protected activity. Defendant failed to
state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action despite being given
multiple opportunities to amend the pleading and leave to file late opposition.
SUSTAINED without leave to amend. 