  Case Number:  23STCV19227    Hearing Date:   July 5, 2024    Dept:  49 Yvonne Lan v. Elie George Samaha, et al.DEFENDANT FORWARD BEVERLY HILLS, INC. d.b.a. KELLER WILLIAMS REALTY-BEVERLY HILLS’S DEMURRER TO FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT MOVING PARTY: Defendant Forward Beverly Hills, Inc. dba Keller Williams Realty-Beverly HillsRESPONDING PARTY(S): NoneSTATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS: Plaintiff Yvonne Lan brings this action against certain real estate brokers or agents who represented her in the sale of her property. Plaintiff alleges certain defendants convinced Plaintiff to make various improvements to the property, but that said defendants failed to exercise care in making the improvements. This forced Plaintiff to expend additional money to remedy defects left by said defendants’ work. Defendant Forward Beverly Hills, Inc. now demurrers to the First Amended Complaint. Plaintiff has not filed an opposition. [FN 1]  TENTATIVE RULING:Defendant’s Demurrer to First Amended Complaint is SUSTAINED. Generally speaking, leave to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) At the demurrer hearing Plaintiff must tender an offer of proof on how she could successfully amend her complaint as to Defendant Forward Beverly Hills, Inc.  If she fails to do so, leave to amend shall be denied.Defendant is ordered to give notice, unless waived. DISCUSSION:DemurrerI. Judicial NoticePursuant to Defendant’s request, the court takes judicial notice of the existence of the State of California Department of Real Estate (DRE), Public Licensee Lookup information, https://www2.dre.ca.gov/publicasp/pplinfo.asp (dated April 2, 2024), regarding public DRE license information for Elie George Samaha, DRE License ID number 02168672. (Exh. B.) The court does not “take judicial notice of the truth of the matters stated therein.” (In re Joseph H. (2015) 237 Cal. App. 4th 517, 541.)II. Meet and ConferThe declaration of Peter T. Haven, counsel for Defendants, reflects that counsel met and conferred before the filing of the initial demurrer to the Complaint. (Haven Decl. ¶¶ 4-11.) After Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint, counsel attempted to meet and confer before the filing of a second demurrer to the FAC. (Id.) Plaintiff’s former counsel was nonresponsive to these meet and confer attempts, and ultimately withdrew as Plaintiff’s counsel of record. (Id.)Considering the foregoing, this court considers the meet and confer obligation satisfied. III. Legal StandardA demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action.  (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal. App. 4th 740, 747.)  When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in context.  (Taylor v. City of Los Angeles Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal. App. 4th 1216, 1228.)  In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or by proper judicial notice.  (CCP § 430.30(a).)  A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters.  (SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153 Cal. App. 3d 902, 905.)  Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed.  (Id.)  The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.  (Hahn, 147 Cal.App.4th at 747.)  IV. AnalysisDefendant Forward Beverly Hills demurrers to all eight causes of action in the First Amended Complaint. Defendant argues it “had nothing to do with the matters alleged in the FAC,” and “was not a party to any alleged contract or transaction with Plaintiff Yvonne Lan.” (Dem. 4: 6-7.) Plaintiff alleges she entered into a Residential Listing Agreement with Defendant Elie George Samaha, a licensed real estate agent, for the sale of property at 23800 Tiara Street, Woodland Hills, CA, 91367 (FAC ¶¶ 2, 24.) Defendant Rodeo Realty was Defendant Samah’s broker. (Id. ¶ 3.) Defendant Forward Beverly Hills is alleged to be “a licensed real estate brokerage firm.” (Id. ¶ 4.) Plaintiff alleges that Defendant Samaha represented to Plaintiff “that in order to secure a desired sale price of $1.39 million, [Plaintiff] needed to make some improvements on the Property,” including “painting, flooring, cabinetry, bathroom remodel, electrical work, and fencing.” (Id. ¶ 30.)  Defendant Samaha therefore convinced Plaintiff, “who was not experienced with real estate transactions, to agree to an Addendum to the Agreement drafted on KELLER documents, allowing for the purported improvements to the Property.” (Id. ¶ 31.) Later, Defendant Samaha convinced Plaintiff that additional improvements were “necessary to achieve the desired higher sale price,” “including but not limited to, removal of curtains, removal of a piano, repair to walls, clean and paint HVAC unit, remove popcorn ceiling, remove and replace all recessed lighting, and painting of 2 bedrooms, for a total of $15,950.00.” (Id. ¶¶ 33, 34.) The terms were again memorialized in Addendum 2 to the Agreement. (Id. ¶ 35.) Plaintiff alleges that Defendants did the work “without a contractor’s license,” and in an “unworkmanlike and defective” manner. (Id. ¶¶ 38, 39.) As a result, Plaintiff “was forced to pay at least $40,000 to get the defects repaired,” and “[a]s such, [Plaintiff] effectively paid twice for the same unnecessary improvements, and all in reliance on Defendants’ misrepresentations.” (Id. ¶ 40.) “Plaintiff alleges “that there exists, and at all times herein mentioned, there existed a unity of interest and ownership and alter ego between Defendants RODEO and KELLER; and Defendants SAMAHA, LEIBOVITCH, GOULD, and RICHETTE such that any individuality and separateness between Defendants have ceased to exist, and Defendants are the alter egos of each other in that they completely controlled, dominated, managed, operated, and intermingled their assets and Defendants RODEO and KELLER were not properly capitalized and corporate formalities were not met.” (Id. ¶ 10.) Plaintiff alleges that Defendants were “acting for himself, herself or itself and was acting as the agent, employee, and/or representative of each other within the course and scope of such agency, employment and/or representation.” (Id. ¶ 9.) Finally, Plaintiff alleges “that the acts and conduct of” the Defendants “were known to, authorized and ratified by each of the other Defendants.” (Id.)Here, Plaintiff has not pled the facts necessary to support her claims against the moving Defendant. (See Davaloo v. State Farm Ins. Co. (2005) 135 Cal. App. 4th 409, 415, a plaintiff must “allege ultimate facts that ‘as a whole apprise[ ] the adversary of the factual basis of the claim. [Citations.]’”].) The only specific allegation in the complaint as Defendant Forward Beverly Hills, Inc is that it is “a licensed real estate brokerage firm.” (Id. ¶ 4.) However, there are no factual allegations showing that the moving Defendant was the brokerage firm involved in the underlying scheme to defraud Plaintiff, or that said Defendant had any relation to any other Defendant who was. Therefore, Plaintiff has failed to state facts sufficient against the moving Defendant on any cause of action.Accordingly, Defendant’s Demurrer to First Amended Complaint is SUSTAINED. IT IS SO ORDERED.Dated:   July 5, 2024 ___________________________________ Randolph M. Hammock Judge of the Superior CourtFN 1 - On April 3, 2024, this court granted counsel Jason A. Feazell’s motion to be relieved as counsel for Plaintiff. (See April 3, 2024 Ruling and Order.) There is no indication Plaintiff has retained new counsel.  Service of this demurrer was proper as to both the Plaintiff (in pro per) and as to her prior attorney of record.