 Case Number:  22STCV32931    Hearing Date:   May 15, 2024    Dept:  29 Application for Determination of Good Faith
Settlement filed by Plaintiff Zara Leybovich
Motion to Challenge Application for Determination of Good Faith Settlement
filed by JMDG European Design LLC, dba Michel Clair Design.
 
Tentative
 
The Court will hear from counsel.
 
Before reaching the Tech-Bilt factors
under Code of Civil Procedure section 877.6, the Court has two preliminary
questions for counsel:
 
First, JMDG and Benjamin Leybovich have
dismissed, with prejudice, their cross-complaints against each other. Does that
mean that JMDG’s motion to challenge the good faith settlement is moot and
should be placed off calendar?
 
Second, if JMDG is no longer challenging the
good faith of the settlement, should the Court treat this as an unopposed
application? What is Arko’s position? If Arko is opposed to a good faith
determination, why has Arko not filed any documents in relation to either
matter before the Court on May 15?
 
Background
This case arises out of a fall incident on August
19, 2022. On October 6, 2022, Plaintiff Zara Leybovich (“Plaintiff”) filed a
complaint against Defendants JMDG European Design LLC dba Michel Clair Design (“JMDG”),
Benjamin Leybovich, and Does 1 through 80, asserting causes of action for premises
liability and general negligence. 
On January 12, 2023, JMDG filed an answer to
the complaint. On April 6, 2023, JMDG filed a cross-complaint against Defendant
Benjamin Leybovich, Arko Enterprise Inc. dba A1 Construction & Remodeling (“Arko”),
and Roes 1 through 50. 
On July 6, 2023, Defendant Benjamin Leybovich
filed an answer to JMDG’s cross-complaint. On the same day, Benjamin Leybovich filed
his own cross-complaint against JMDG, Arko, and Roes 1 through 40. Benjamin
Leybovich did not file an answer to the complaint.
On July 10, 2023, Arko filed its answer to
JMDG’s cross-complaint. 
On July 26, 2023, Plaintiff filed a request
for dismissal, with prejudice, of her claims against JMDG. 
On August 21, 2023, Plaintiff filed a request
for dismissal, with prejudice, of her entire complaint (the only remaining
defendant at the time was Benjamin Leybovich). 
On August 25, 2023, Defendant Benjamin
Leybovich filed a request for dismissal of the Cross-Defendant JMDG European
Design LLC dba Michel Clair Design of his cross-complaint. 
On August 25, 2023, JMDG filed a request for
dismissal, with prejudice, of its cross-complaint as against Benjamin Leybovich.
On the same day, Benjamin Leybovich filed a request for dismissal, with
prejudice, of its cross-complaint against JMDG. 
Currently set for hearing on May 15, 2024,
are two matters.
First, on April 27, 2023, Plaintiff filed the
application for determination of good faith settlement between her and
Defendant Benjamin Leybovich. The hearing on that application was initially set
for January 19, 2024. The Court, on its own motion, continued the hearing to
May 15. 
Second, on May 17, 2023, JMDG filed a motion to
challenge Plaintiff’s application for determination of good faith settlement. The
hearing on that motion was initially, and is, set for May 15, 2024.
Other than the application filed on April 27,
2023, and the motion filed on May 17, 2023, the Court has not received any
other filings in connection with this hearing.
Legal Standard
In a case involving two or more alleged joint
tortfeasors, a party may seek a court order under Code of Civil Procedure
section 877.6 determining that a settlement between the plaintiff and one or
more of the alleged tortfeasors is in good faith. A judicial determination of
good faith generally “bar[s] any other joint tortfeasor … from any further
claims against the settling tortfeasor … for equitable comparative
contribution, or partial or comparative indemnity, based on comparative
negligence or comparative fault.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 877.6, subd. (c).)
In evaluating whether a settlement has been
made in good faith, courts consider the following factors, as set forth by the
California Supreme Court in the landmark case Tech-Bilt, Inc. v. Woodward-Clyde & Associates (1985) 38 Cal.3d
488: 
             1) “a rough approximation of plaintiffs’
total recovery”;
             2) “the settlor’s proportionate
liability”;
            3)
“the amount paid in settlement”;
     
4) “the allocation of the settlement proceeds among plaintiffs”;
5) “a recognition that a settlor should pay less in settlement
than he would if he were found liable after a trial”;
             6) the settling party's “financial
conditions and insurance policy limits”;
7) any evidence of “collusion, fraud, or tortious conduct aimed to
injure the interests of nonsettling defendants.”
(Id. at p. 499.) “Practical
considerations obviously require that the evaluation be made on the basis of
information available at the time of settlement.” (Ibid.)
The “good faith” concept in Code of Civil
Procedure section 877.6 is a flexible principle imposing on reviewing courts
the obligation to guard against the numerous ways in which the interests of
nonsettling defendants may be unfairly prejudiced. (Rankin v. Curtis
(1986) 183 Cal. App. 3d 939, 945.) Accordingly, under Tech-Bilt, the party asserting the lack of “good faith” may meet
this burden by demonstrating that the settlement is so far "out of the
ballpark" as to be inconsistent with the equitable objectives of the
statute. (Tech-Bilt, supra, 38 Cal.3d at pp. 499-500.) Such a
demonstration would establish that the proposed settlement was not a
“settlement made in good faith” within the terms of section 877.6. (Ibid.)

The Supreme Court explained that Code of
Civil Procedure section 877.6 is designed to further two equitable policies: 
1)
encouragement of settlements; and 
2) equitable
allocation of costs among joint tortfeasors. 

(Ibid.)  
Those policies would not be served by an
approach which emphasizes one to the virtual exclusion of the other. (Ibid.)
Accordingly, a settlement will not be found in good faith unless the amount is
reasonable in light of the settling tortfeasor's proportionate share of
liability. (Std. Pac. of San Diego v. A. A. Baxter Corp. (1986) 176 Cal.
App. 3d 577, 589.) Or, as the California Supreme Court has stated, a
“defendant’s settlement figure must not be grossly disproportionate to what a
reasonable person, at the time of the settlement, would estimate the settling
defendant’s liability to be.” (Tech-Bilt, supra, 38 Cal.3d at p. 499.)
When a motion seeking a determination under
Code of Civil Procedure section 877.6 is not opposed, the burden on the moving
parties to show that the settlement was made in good faith is slight. (City
of Grand Terrace v. Superior Court (1987) 192 Cal.App.3d 1251, 1261
[holding that a “barebones motion” including a declaration setting forth “a
brief background of the case is sufficient”].) 
When a good faith motion is contested,
however, the moving parties have the initial burden of producing evidence in
support of the requested good faith determination. (Id. at pp. 1261-1262.)
“Section 877.6 and Tech-Bilt require an evidentiary showing, through expert
declarations or other means, that the proposed settlement is within the
reasonable range permitted by the criterion of good faith.” (Mattco Forge v.
Arthur Young & Co. (1995) 38 Cal.App.4th 1337, 1351.) “Substantial
evidence” is required. (Id. at p. 1352.) A declaration from a settling
defendant’s attorney that states, in conclusory fashion, that the client has little,
or no share of the liability may not be sufficient. (Greshko v. County of
Los Angeles (1987) 194 Cal.App.3d 822, 834-35; see also 3 Weil & Brown,
California Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (The Rutter Group 2023)
¶¶ 12:774, 12:872-873.)  
The ultimate burden of persuasion is on the
party opposing the good faith determination. 
The “party asserting a lack of good faith shall have the burden of proof
on that issue.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 877.6,
subd. (d); see also 3 Weil & Brown, supra, at ¶ 12:875.) 
Discussion
The Court considers
each of the Tech-Bilt factors as follows:
 
(1) Rough
approximation of Plaintiff’s total recovery 
 
Plaintiff offers
no evidence of her likely approximate total recovery and does not address this
factor in her application.
 
JMDG offers
evidence that Plaintiff incurred $356,019 in medical bills from her hospital
stay after the accident and that Plaintiff’s expert opined that the cost of
future care for Plaintiff is at least $1,088,000. (O’Day Decl., ¶¶ 6-7, 10
& Exhs. A-B.)
 
Based on the
limited evidence in record, and considering the likely recovery of general
damages in addition to special damages, the Court finds that a rough approximation
of Plaintiff’s total recovery is in the range of $1.5 million to $3 million.
 
(2)
The settlor’s proportionate liability. 
 
The parties have
vastly different views on this factor. 
 
Plaintiff
argues that Benjamin Leybovich, the owner, testified in his deposition that he
was never warned of the danger and had no knowledge of the danger. (Papa Decl.,
¶ 6 & Exh. 3.) Plaintiff accepts this testimony as true and concludes, as a
result, that Benjamin Leybovich has no possible liability in this matter.
 
JMDG argues
that both of its owners, Julien Savino and Dimitri Chalupka, testified during
their depositions that they warned Benjamin Leybovich about the dangerous
condition and advised that the cabinet removal should should not be performed,
but Benjamin Leybovich instructed them to proceed. (O’Day Decl., ¶ 16; see also
id., Exh. C, at p. 2:6-11 & Exh. D, at p. 78:19-21.)
 
The Court need
not and does not, in ruling of a motion under Code of Civil Procedure section
877.6, resolve this factual dispute. For purposes of analyzing the good faith
of the settlement, however, the Court finds that the settlement value of Plaintiff’s
claims against Benjamin Leybovich were significantly greater than zero. Even if
his proportionate liability is 10 percent (and of course it would be much
higher if the trier of fact were to believe the testimony of JMDG’s owners),
Benjamin Leybovich’s proportionate liability would be in the range of $150,000
to $300,000. 
 
(3) The
amount paid in settlement. 
The settlement
requires no payment. Each party agrees to bear their own legal fees and costs.
 
(4) The
allocation of the settlement proceeds among plaintiffs. 
 
There is
only one plaintiff, so this factor is not applicable. 
 
(5) A recognition
that a settlor should pay less in settlement than he would if he were found
liable after a trial. 
 
This factor
supports the request for a good faith determination. 
 
(6) The
settling party’s financial conditions and insurance policy limits. 
 
Plaintiff presented
evidence that there is no insurance coverage available to Benjamin Leybovich
for this incident. (Papa Decl., ¶ 5 & Exh. 2.) Plaintiff presents no other evidence
of Benjamin Leybovich’s financial condition. There is no evidence (for example)
that Benjamin Leybovich is judgment proof or of such limited means as to
support a good faith determination of a settlement that might otherwise appear
to be inadequate.
 
(7) Any
evidence of collusion, fraud, or tortious conduct aimed to injure the interests
of nonsettling defendants. 
 
Plaintiff
presents argument (but no sworn testimony or other evidence) that the parties
reached the settlement after the deposition of Benjamin Leybovich, that the
negotiations were “conducted independently of the interest of any other party
and without regard to the their effect on said parties,” and that there was “no
collusion, fraud, or tortious conduct or effort to injure the interests of the non-settling
defendants. (Application, at p. 9:15-21.)
 
There is,
however, at least some circumstantial evidence that gives rise to a concern
about collusion. The settling parties are close relatives (mother and son).
Plaintiff and the settling defendant cooperated before and during the
litigation; the settling defendant asked Plaintiff’s attorney to represent
Plaintiff, allowed Plaintiff’s attorney and expert to inspect the premises
before the suit was filed. (O’Day Decl., ¶ 14.) Moreover, Plaintiff filed an
opposition to JMDG’s motion for leave to file a cross-complaint against
Benjamin Leybovich, and Plaintiff never sought or obtained a default against
him, even though he never filed an answer to the complaint. And, as JMDG notes,
Plaintiff and settling defendant do not submit any evidence (or even argue) that
their settlement was reached after arms-length negotiations.
 
The Court
will hear argument from counsel these factors.
 
Conclusion
 
The Court will
hear argument. 
 