 Case Number:  23STCV19098    Hearing Date:   May 15, 2024    Dept:  29 Motion to Strike filed by Defendant DoorDash, Inc. 
 
Tentative
The motion is denied without prejudice.
Background
The case arises out of a fatal automobile accident on June 7,
2023, on La Cienega Boulevard in the Pico-Robertson area of Los Angeles.  Plaintiffs The Estate of Bing Wang (by and
through its successor-in-interest Xiaomei Wang), Xiaomei Wang, and Wenxuan Wang
(collectively, “Plaintiffs”) filed the Complaint in this action on August 10,
2023, asserting causes of action for wrongful death/negligence, negligence,
negligent infliction of emotional distress, and loss of consortium against
Defendant DoorDash, Inc. (“DoorDash”), Vladimir Tishchenko (“Tishchenko”), and
Does 1 through 10.
DoorDash and Tishchenko filed their Answers to the Complaint
on September 26 and October 17, 2023.
On February 7, 2024, Plaintiffs filed
a motion for leave to file a proposed First Amended Complaint.  The Court granted that motion on March 8,
2024, and granted Plaintiffs leave to file the proposed First Amended Complaint
within 14 days.
 
Plaintiffs never filed the First
Amended Complaint.
 
On April 16, 2024, DoorDash filed its
motion to strike. Plaintiff filed an opposition on May 2, and DoorDash filed a
reply on May 8.
 
Legal
Standard
“Before filing a motion to strike
pursuant to this chapter, the moving party shall meet and confer in person or
by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to the
motion to strike for the purpose of determining if an agreement can be reached
that resolves the objections to be raised in the motion to strike. If an
amended pleading is filed, the responding party shall meet and confer again
with the party who filed the amended pleading before filing a motion to strike
the amended pleading.” (Code of Civ. Proc. § 435.5(a).)
Code Civ. Proc. Section 436 permits trial
courts to strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in a
pleading: 
 “The
court may, upon a motion made pursuant to Section 435, or at any time in its
discretion, and upon terms it deems proper: 
 (a) Strike out any irrelevant, false, or
improper matter inserted in any pleading. 
 (b) Strike out all or any part of any
pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court
rule, or an order of the court.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 436.)
A motion to strike challenges “any irrelevant, false, or
improper matter inserted in any pleading” or “all or any part of any pleading
not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or
an order of the court.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 436.) In ruling on a motion to
strike, the court must assume the truth of the properly pleaded facts in the
complaint or other pleading. (Turman v. Turning Point of Central California,
Inc. (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 53, 63.)
“‘In order to state a prima facie
claim for punitive damages, a complaint must set forth the elements as stated
in the general punitive damage statute, Civil Code section 3294.’ (Citation.)”
(Today IV’s Inc. v. Los Angeles County MTA (2022) 83 Cal.App.5th 1137, 1193.)
Civil Code section 3294 provides that on a non-contract cause of action, a
plaintiff may recover punitive damages when they prove “by clear and convincing
evidence that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.”
(Civil Code § 3294(a).)  Oppression,
fraud and malice are defined as: “(1) ‘Malice’ means conduct which is intended
by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which
is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the
rights or safety of others.¿(2) ‘Oppression’ means despicable conduct that
subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that
person's rights.¿(3) ‘Fraud’ means an intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or
concealment of a material fact known to the defendant with the intention on the
part of the defendant of thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights
or otherwise causing injury.”¿(Civil Code § 3294(c).) 
Discussion
DoorDash requests the Court to strike
punitive damages from Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint. 
The First Amended Complaint has
not, however, been filed with the Court. 
It is not the operative pleading. 
“If the complaint is amended, a
copy of the amendments shall be filed, or the court may, in its discretion,
require the complaint as amended to be filed, and a copy of the amendments or
amended complaint must be served upon the defendants affected thereby.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 471.5.)
As such, DoorDash’s motion to
strike portions of the First Amended Complaint is DENIED without prejudice. 
Conclusion
The Court DENIES
without prejudice DoorDash’s Motion to Strike.  
Moving Party is to give notice.