 Case Number:  22STCV21496    Hearing Date:   May 15, 2024    Dept:  29 Motion for Pre-Trial Discovery (Pitchess Motion) filed by Defendants Samantha Friedman and Evan Wildstein.TentativeThe Court will hear from counsel.The Court’s tentative ruling is that the motion is granted in part and denied in part.BackgroundThree cases arise out of an alleged vehicle accident on April 29, 2021, near the intersection of Temple Street and Main Street in downtown Los Angeles. On July 1, 2022, Plaintiff Diego Esparza (“Esparza”) filed the complaint in Case No. 22STCV21496 against Samantha Friedman (“Friedman”), Evan Wildstein (“Wildstein”), and Does 1 through 50 asserting causes of action for motor vehicle negligence and general negligence (the “Esparza Action”).  Friedman and Wildstein filed their answers in August and October 2022.On September 13, 2022, Plaintiff City of Los Angeles (“City”) filed the complaint in Case No. 22STCV29848 against Friedman, Wildstein, and Does 1 to 50 asserting causes of action for subrogation of worker’s compensation benefits paid and property damage (the “City Action”).  City alleges that defendants negligently caused the accident and injured Jeffri Norat and Diego Ramirez during the course of their employment with City and that, as a result, City paid Norat and Ramirez benefits, including as compensation and as medical treatment.  Friedman and Wildstein filed their answers on March 2, 2023.These two actions, the Esparza Action and the City Action, were related on April 28, 2023, and then consolidated on June 27, 2023.  (As a side note, it appears that the full name of the plaintiff in the Esparza Action is Diego Esparza Ramirez and, accordingly, that the person described in the complaint in the City Action as “Diego Ramirez” is in fact Esparza.)In the third action, filed on April 24, 2023, Plaintiff Jeffri K. Norat (“Norat”) filed the complaint in Case No. 23STCV09094 against Friedman, Wildstein, and Does 1 through 50 asserting one cause of action for personal injuries (the “Norat Action”).  By order dated April 4, 2024, the Norat Action was related to the consolidated Esparza Action (which includes within it the City Action).On January 18, 2024, in the Esparza Action, Friedman and Wildstein (collectively “Defendants”) filed a motion for pre-trial discovery of personnel records of Esparza and Norat, who are Los Angeles Police Department (“LAPD”) officers.  On February 14, 2024, the motion was denied, without prejudice, on procedural grounds.On March 6, 2024, Defendants filed this renewed motion for pre-trial discovery of personnel records of Esparza and Norat.  City filed an opposition on April 2, which Esparza joined.  Defendants filed their reply on April 9.The motion came on for hearing on April 16.  The Court continued the hearing to allow for further opposition.  No further opposition was filed.Legal StandardA motion to obtain discovery of a law enforcement officer’s personnel file or other police agency records is called a Pitchess motion. (Pitchess v. Super. Ct. (1974) 11 Cal.3d 531, 536-540.) The procedures for a Pitchess motion have been codified, at least in part, in Evidence Code sections 1043 through 1047 and Penal Code sections 832.5, 832.7, and 832.8. (People v. Mooc (2001) 26 Cal.4th 1216, 1226.) Within the scope of their provisions, these statutes provide the exclusive means of discovery of such records in both criminal and civil proceedings. (County of Los Angeles v. Super. Ct. (1990) 219 Cal.App.3d 1605, 1609-1610.)Evidence Code section 1043 provides, in pertinent part, as follows:(a)  In any case in which discovery or disclosure is sought of peace or custodial officer personnel records or records maintained pursuant to Section 832.5 of the Penal Code or information from those records, the party seeking the discovery or disclosure shall file a written motion with the appropriate court or administrative body upon written notice to the governmental agency that has custody and control of the records ….(b)  The motion shall include all of the following:(1)  Identification of the proceeding in which discovery or disclosure is sought, the party seeking discovery or disclosure, the peace or custodial officer whose records are sought, the governmental agency that has custody and control of the records, and the time and place at which the motion for discovery or disclosure shall be heard.(2)  A description of the type of records or information sought.(3)  Affidavits showing good cause for the discovery or disclosure sought, setting forth the materiality thereof to the subject matter involved in the pending litigation and stating upon reasonable belief that the governmental agency identified has the records or information from the records.(c) Upon receipt of a notice served pursuant to subdivision (a), the governmental agency shall immediately notify the individual whose records are sought.(d) No hearing upon a motion for discovery or disclosure shall be held without full compliance with the notice provisions of this section except upon a showing by the moving party of good cause for noncompliance, or upon a waiver of the hearing by the governmental agency identified as having the records.A party seeking discovery of a peace officer’s personnel records must follow a two-step process. (Warrick v. Superior Court (2005) 35 Cal.4th 1011, 1019.) “First, the party must file a written motion describing the type of records sought, supported by affidavits showing good cause for the discovery…, setting forth the materiality thereof to the subject matter involved in the pending litigation and stating upon reasonable belief that the governmental agency identified has the records or information from the records. This initial burden is a ‘relatively relaxed standard.’  Information is material if it will facilitate the ascertainment of the facts and a fair trial. A declaration by counsel on information and belief is sufficient to state facts to satisfy the ‘materiality’ component of that section.” (Haggerty v. Super. Ct. (2004) 117 Cal.App.4th 1079, 1085-1086 [citations omitted].) The motion must provide a “specific factual scenario” that establishes the materiality of the discovery sought. (City of Santa Cruz v. Municipal Ct. (1989) 49 Cal.3d 74, 85-86.) The documents must be requested “with adequate specificity” to preclude the possibility that the moving party is engaged in a “fishing expedition.” (People v. Memro (1985) 38 Cal.3d 658, 678 [overruled on other grounds in People v. Gaines (2009) 46 Cal.4th 172, 181, n. 2].) Nonetheless, the good cause standard is in this context a “relatively low threshold.” (Santa Cruz, supra, 49 Cal.3d at p.  83; see also, e.g., Gaines, supra, 46 Cal.4th at p. 179.)“Second, if the trial court concludes [a party] has fulfilled these prerequisites and made a showing of good cause, the custodian of records should bring to court all documents ‘potentially relevant’ to the [requesting party’s] motion…. The trial court ‘shall examine the information in chambers, out of the presence and hearing of all persons except the person authorized to possess the records and such other persons the custodian of records is willing to have present…. Subject to statutory exceptions and limitations ...the trial court should then disclose to the defendant such information that is relevant to the subject matter involved in the pending litigation.” (Haggerty, supra, 117 Cal.App.4th at p. 1086 [citations omitted]; see also, e.g., Warrick, supra, 35 Cal.4th at 1019.)DiscussionDefendants seek eleven categories of records from the personnel files of Esparza and Norat:(1)  All documents that refer or relate to any workers’ compensation claims made by Jeffri Norat while employed by the City of Los Angeles in the five (5) years prior to the incident;(2)  All documents that refer or relate to any workers’ compensation claims made by Diego Esparza Ramirez while employed by the City of Los Angeles in the five (5) years prior to the incident;(3)  A copy of Jeffri Norat’s personnel file related to his employment with the City of Los Angeles;(4)  A copy of Diego Esparza Ramirez’s personnel file related to his employment with the City of Los Angeles;(5)  All documents that refer in any way to any collective bargaining agreement that involved Jeffri Norat and/or Diego Esparza Ramirez;(6)  Any and all documents of any injury sustained by Jeffri Norat prior to the incident, that involve the same parts of Jeffri Norat’s body that he claims were injured in the incident;(7)  Any and all documents of any injury sustained by Diego Esparza Ramirez prior to the incident, that involve the same parts of Diego Esparza Ramirez’s body that he claims were injured in the incident;(8)  Any and all documents reflecting any correspondence between City of Los Angeles and Jeffri Norat after the incident regarding the incident;(9)  Any and all documents reflecting any correspondence between City of Los Angeles and Diego Esparza Ramirez after the incident regarding the incident;(10)                     All documents pertaining to any imaging studies (including but not limited to x-rays, MRI scans, or CT scans) performed of any part of Jeffri Norat’s body that he claims to have injured as a result of this incident, during the ten (10) years prior to the incident;(11)                     All documents pertaining to any imaging studies (including but not limited to x-rays, MRI scans, or CT scans) performed of any part of Diego Esparza Ramirez’s body that he claims to have injured as a result of this incident, during the ten (10) years prior to the incident.Before reaching the merits, the Court considers a threshold argument raised by City.City argues that Defendants failed to meet and confer as required by Code of Civil Procedure section 2016.040.  Although it is certainly good practice for parties to meet and confer before filing a motion, City cites no statutory basis for this Court to require such a meet-and-confer prior to filing a Pitchess motion (and of course Evidence Code 1043 is not part of the Civil Discovery Act).  The Legislature has made the decision to require a meet and confer prior to filing some motions relating to discovery, but not for Pitchess motions. Accordingly, the Court now proceeds to the merits.Requests Nos. 1 & 2Defendants seek documents regarding workers compensation claims filed by Norat or Esparza in the five years prior to the incident.  Defendants have shown good cause for production of these materials.  City is seeking to recover from Defendants (among other things) reimbursement for workers compensation benefits paid to Norat and Esparza in connection with this accident; the requested materials could show that benefits paid after the accident were caused (in whole or in part) by other, prior incidents.  (Salata Decl., ¶ 11.)The motion is granted as to these requests.Requests Nos. 3 & 4Defendants seek the entire personnel file of Norat and Esparza.  This requests, as phrased, is overly broad, is not adequately specific, and appears to be a “fishing expedition.”  Defendants have not shown good cause for the requested materials.The motion is denied as to these requests.Request No. 5Defendants seek documents relating to any collective bargaining agreement (“CBA”) covering Norat or Esparza.  Although it is unclear to the Court whether these materials would be in the personnel files of Norat or Esparza, Defendants have shown good cause for production of these materials if they are.  (Salata Decl., ¶ 12.) The motion is granted as to this request.Requests Nos. 6, 7, 10 & 11Defendants seek documents relating to injuries sustained by Norat and Esparza “that involve the same parts of [the] body that [they] claim[] were injured in the incident” and imaging studies of these same body parts.  Defendants have shown good cause for production of these materials.  (Salata Decl., ¶¶ 13, 14, 17, 18.)There is one problem with these requests, however.  If the Court grants Defendants’ motion, the next step is an in camera review of the produced records so that the Court may review the documents for relevance.  (Warrick, supra, 35 Cal.4th at 1019; Haggerty, supra, 117 Cal.App.4th at p. 1086.)  At this point, the Court is unable to conduct this relevance review as the Court does not have sufficient information regarding the parts of the body that Norat and Esparza claim were injured in the accident.The Court will hear from counsel on these requests.Requests Nos. 8 & 9Defendants seek correspondence regarding the accident between Norat and City and between Esparza and City.  Defendants have shown good cause for production of these materials.  (Salata Decl., ¶¶ 15-16.)City argues in passing that some of the material covered by Requests Nos. 8 and 9 could be covered by attorney-client privilege.   (Opp. at p. 7:20-21.)  The party asserting the attorney-client privilege has the initial burden of establishing the factual basis for the claim.  (E.g., Citizens for Ceres v. Super. Ct. (2013) 217 Cal.App.4th 889, 911.)  City has not done so yet, and the issue appears to be potentially more theoretical than real, but if City asserts that some document in the personnel file of Norat or Esparza is protected by the attorney-client privilege, it may withhold the document from production and produce a privilege log that contains sufficient information to allow Defendants, and ultimately the Court, to evaluate the privilege claim.The motion is granted as to these requests.ConclusionThe Court GRANTS in part and DENIES in part Defendants’ Pitchess motion.The Court ORDERS the production, for in camera review by the Court, of the documents described in Requests Nos. 1, 2, 5, 8, and 9, along with the attendance of a custodian of records to give testimony, on __________, 2024, at 3:00 pm.Moving party is ORDERED to arrange for a court reporter to be present for the proceedings.Moving Party is ORDERED to give notice.