  Case Number:  19STCV00813    Hearing Date:   May 15, 2024    Dept:  29 Motion to Substitute Successor in Interest for Plaintiff Deborah Harris.
 
Tentative
The motion is granted.
Background
On January 1, 2019, Deborah Harris (“Plaintiff”)
filed a complaint. ON August 11, 2022, Plaintiff filed the First Amended
Complaint relating to a slip and fall incident on April 17, 2018, involving
Defendants City of Los Angeles, Regency Plastering, Inc., Oklahoma Court, LLC,
and Does 1 through 25, alleging the causes of action for (1) Negligence and (2)
Premise Liability.
Trial was most recently scheduled for February
27, 2024.  On February14, 2024, Plaintiff
died.
On April 17, 2024, Petitioner John Harris (“Petitioner”)
filed a motion to substitute a successor in interest. Defendants Regency
Plastering, Inc. and Oklahoma Court LLC (collectively “Defendants”) filed an objection
and declaration on May 3, 2024.
 
Legal Standard
 
“A cause
of action that survives the death of the person entitled to commence an action
or proceeding passes to the decedent’s successor in interest . . . and an
action may be commenced by the decedent’s personal representatives or, if none,
by the decedent’s successor in interest.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 377.30.) 
After the death of a plaintiff, the court, on motion, shall allow a
pending action that does not abate to be continued by the decedent’s personal
representative or successor-in-interest. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 377.31.)  
The
person who seeks to commence or continue a pending action as the decedent’s
successor-in-interest shall execute and file an affidavit or declaration that
includes (1) the decedent’s name; (2) the date and place of decedent’s death;
(3) “No proceeding is now pending in California for administration of the
decedent’s estate”; (4) a copy of the final order showing the distribution of
the decedent’s cause of action to the successor-in-interest, if the decedent’s
estate was administered; (5) either the declarant is the decedent’s successor
in interest or the declarant is authorized to act on behalf of the decedent’s
successor in interest, with facts in support thereof; (6) “No other
person has a superior right to commence the action or proceeding or to be
substituted for the decedent in the pending action or proceeding”; and (7) that
the statements are true, under penalty of perjury.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 377.32, subd. (a).)  The affidavit or declaration must attach a
certified copy of the decedent’s death certificate.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 377.32, subd. (c).)
Discussion
Since the time of the filing of the complaint,
Plaintiff Deborah Harris has died. In light of her death, her husband, John
Harris, is her successor in interest. 
Mr. Harris moves
for an order permitting his substitution as the Successor in Interest to Plaintiff’s
causes of action. 
The Declaration
of John Harris includes:
(1) the decedent’s name, Deborah Harris;
(2) the place and date of Plaintiff’s death, Las
Vegas, February 15, 2024;
(3) that there is no proceeding now pending in California
for the administration of Plaintiff’s estate;
(4) that Petitioner is successor in interest; 
(5) that no other person has a superior right to be
substituted in for Plaintiff;
(6) and Petitioner declares these statements are true under
penalty of perjury. 
Petitioner also
attaches copy of death certificate to this motion. (Exh. A.) 
Defendants object only to the possible
reopening of discovery if Petitioner substitutes in as the cut-off dates have
expired. (Silver Decl., ¶3.)  As no one has
asked to reopen discovery, the Court makes no ruling on this issue.
The Court finds
Petitioner has met the requirements under Code of Civil Procedure section
377.32.)
Therefore, the
Court GRANTS Petitioner’s motion to substitute a successor in interest.
Conclusion
 
The Court GRANTS Petitioner’s motion to
substitute a successor in interest for Plaintiff.
The Court sets a Trial Setting Conference in
approximately 21 days.
Moving party is
ORDERED to give notice.