  Case Number:  23STCP02375    Hearing Date:   July 15, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
CRANE BOULEVARD
  SAFETY COALITION, an unincorporated association, 


 
 
 
Petitioner,


 
Case
  No.:
 


 
23STCP02375




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




CITY OF LOS ANGELES,
  a municipal corporation,


 
 
 
Respondent.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date: July
15, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice
Leiter
Motion to Compel
Discovery for Inclusion in the Administrative Record and Further Responses to
Written Discovery
Moving Party: Petitioner Crane
Boulevard Safety Coalition
Responding Party: Respondent City of
Los Angeles
 
T/R:     PETITIONER’S MOTION TO COMPEL DISCOVERY IS
GRANTED IN PART AND DENIED IN PART.
 
PETITIONER TO NOTICE. 
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative,
please email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with notice to opposing counsel (or
self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the day of the hearing.
 
            The Court considers the moving
papers, opposition and reply. 
 
 
BACKGROUND
 
This is an action arising under the California Environment Quality Act
(“CEQA”). On August 7, 2023, Petitioner Crane Boulevard Safety Coalition filed
the operative First Amended Petition for Writ of Mandate (“FAP”) against
Respondent City of Los Angeles and Real Parties in Interest Rachel Foullon and Ian
Cooper. The FAP concerns a proposed development housing project at 464-466
Crane Boulevard, Los Angeles, CA (“Project”).  
 
Petitioner
moves to compel further discovery of (1) matters related to the completeness of
the Administrative Record (“AR”) and (2) matters related to the fairness of the
CEQA appeal hearing. Petitioner improperly combines a motion to compel
deposition and motions to compel further special interrogatories, request for
admission, form interrogatories, and request for production into one single
motion. (See Cal. Gov. Code, § 70617(a)(4) (setting forth the required filing
fee for each motion, application, or any other paper or request requiring a
hearing). Petitioner also improperly combines the separate statement for each motion
into a single separate statement. Respondent opposes the motion on the merits. The
Court will exercise discretion and rule on the motion. 
Petitioner
seeks: (1) An order clarifying Respondent’s obligation to provide a copy
of their Google Services contract and related documents;
(2)
An order compelling Respondent to provide further responses to RFA, Set Two;
(3)
An order compelling Respondent to produce 1,652 emails deemed “irrelevant” and
“duplicative” because Respondent already admitted to significant omissions from
the record it certified; and 
(4) An order compelling Respondent to provide further responses to
SROGs, Set One; RFA, Set One and Form Interrogatory No. 17.1; and RFP Nos. 5
and 6. 
 
Petitioner
argues Respondent has a duty to disclose all records that may contain
project-related communications and information and PLUM Briefing Notes; and to
appropriately respond to discovery related to the pattern and practice cause of
action. Petitioner contends RFA, Set Two may confirm the truth of Roberto
Mejia’s testimony that Respondent’s Councilmembers do not have sufficient time
to read the materials in the Council File to prepare to hear a land use/CEQA
appeal. And Petitioner asserts that because Respondent failed to perform the
requested searches on the narrowed email custodian list it must be ordered to
supplement its responses. 
In
opposition, Respondent argues it has complied with all discovery obligations. Respondent
asserts that it cannot be compelled to produce Google Contracts or
irrelevant/duplicate documents that were never requested in discovery. Respondent
has offered its Person Most Knowledgeable twice to address e-discovery searches
and whether Respondent can search for Google Chats and Google Cloud activities.
Respondent says deposition testimonies have demonstrated that Respondent does
not retain Google Chats for more than 24 hours. Respondent argues it has
offered the depositions of 19 employees as PMKs for private electronic
communication searches, but Petitioner declined to depos them. 
Respondent
argues that whether councilmembers have read the Council File is privileged. Respondent
argues that SROGs, Set One are overbroad. As to RFA, Set One/Form Interrogatory
No. 17.1, Respondent asserts their responses are code compliant. And Respondent
contends RFP Nos. 5 and 6 seek emails to and from pre-PLUM meeting attendees
but Respondent has spent $35,000 for email review and production of over 5,737
pages of emails over the course of 120 hours. Nevertheless, Respondent
indicates that it is amenable to one last eDiscovery search.  
In Madera Oversight Coalition, Inc. v. County of Madera (2011)
199 Cal.App.4th 48, the court held that Public Resources Code Section 21167.4,
subdivision (c) “permits the trial court to extend the schedule for ‘good
cause,’ which includes the ‘determination of the completeness’ of the
administrative record. (Madera Oversight Coalition, Inc. v. County of Madera
(2011) 199 Cal.App.4th 48, 63.) “Though the statute does not identify who
makes the “determination of the completeness” of the administrative record, we
interpret the statutory phrase to include the action taken by the trial court
to resolve disputes between the parties over what should be included in, or
excluded from, the administrative record. This interpretation necessarily
implies that trial courts have the authority to resolve those disputes.” (Id.)
Furthermore, “[i]t has been observed that this section ‘contemplates that the
administrative record will include pretty much everything that ever came near a
proposed development or to the agency's compliance with CEQA in responding to
that development.’” (Id. at 64; see Cal. Public Resources Code, §
21167.6(e).)
 
Petitioner has shown that the Google Chats and related documents, and
the emails, may concern communications regarding the issues raised in the FAP. Respondent
has not disputed that these documents constitute records that can be included
in the AR. 
 
Petitioner cannot compel further responses to RFA, Set Two because they
ask each Councilmember who voted on the Project to confirm they did not read
any document in the Council File. This is prohibited under California law. (State
of California v. Superior Court (1974) 12 Cal.3d 237, 258.) 
 
No further response is required for RFA, Set One and Form Interrogatory
No. 17.1 because Respondent either admits or denies the admissions in
compliance with Code of Civil Procedure Section 2033.220. 
 
No further response is required for SROG, Set One because Respondent
properly objects based on overbreadth, relevance, vagueness, attorney-client
and/or deliberative process privileges. These requests are not limited in time
or scope. 
 
Respondent has provided Petitioner with an adequate privilege log.  
 
Therefore, the motion is granted in part, as to production of the Google
Chats, related documents, and 1,652 emails, and denied as to the request for
supplemental written discovery responses. The Court does not reach the issue of
the RFPs since the parties state they are actively attempting to resolve it
informally. 


 



Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
CRANE BOULEVARD
  SAFETY COALITION, an unincorporated association, 


 
 
 
Petitioner,


 
Case
  No.:
 


 
23STCP02375




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




CITY OF LOS ANGELES,
  a municipal corporation,


 
 
 
Respondent.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date: July
15, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice
Leiter
Motion to Compel
Discovery Re: Supplemental Privilege Logs
Moving Party: Petitioner Crane
Boulevard Safety Coalition
Responding Party: Respondent City of
Los Angeles
 
T/R:     PETITIONER’S MOTION TO COMPEL DISCOVERY RE:
SUPPLEMENTAL PRIVILEGE LOGS IS DENIED.
 
PETITIONER TO NOTICE. 
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative,
please email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with notice to opposing counsel (or
self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the day of the hearing.
 
            The Court considers the moving
papers, opposition, and reply. 
 
 
BACKGROUND
 
This is an action arising under the California Environment Quality Act
(“CEQA”). On August 7, 2023, Petitioner Crane Boulevard Safety Coalition filed
the operative First Amended Petition for Writ of Mandate (“FAP”) against
Respondent City of Los Angeles and Real Parties in Interest Rachel Foullon and Ian
Cooper. The FAP concerns a proposed development housing project at 464-466
Crane Boulevard, Los Angeles, CA (“Project”).
 
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE 
 
Respondent’s request for judicial notice is GRANTED (except as to the
truth of the contents of the documents) pursuant to Evidence Code Section
452(b). 
 
 
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS
 
Respondent objections to portions of the declaration of Christopher
Rodriguez are SUSTAINED. 
 
Petitioner
moves for an order compelling Respondent to: (1) Lodge with the Court for in
camera review a tabbed binder containing all emails or documents withheld
on the grounds of deliberative process privilege and/or attorney-client
privilege; (2) amend its privilege logs including 2021-2022 and 2023-2024
Pre-PLUM Process privilege logs, to provide discrete and specific information
for each email or document withheld; (3) produce all emails listed in its
attorney client privilege section of its original privilege log; (4) produce or
add to all three privilege logs all emails or other paper documents for each
PLUM Committee meeting that were used to convey pre-PLUM process information;
and (5) attach a declaration to the amended privilege logs under the penalty of
perjury. 
“A
privilege log must identify with particularity each document the responding
party claims is protected from disclosure by a privilege and provide sufficient
factual information for the propounding party and court to evaluate whether the
claim has merit.” (Catalina Island Yacht Club v. Superior Court (2015)
242 Cal.App.4th 1116, 1130.) Typically, a privilege log “should provide the
identity and capacity of all individuals who authored, sent, or received each
allegedly privileged document, the document's date, a brief description of the
document and its contents or subject matter sufficient to determine whether the
privilege applies, and the precise privilege or protection asserted.” (Id.)
In
Torres v. Superior Court (2000) 80 Cal.App.4th 867, the court held “[t]he
official information privilege, once asserted, should not be sustained unless
the court is presented with a showing that the information sought to be
protected is covered by the privilege. There are, no doubt, circumstances where
this is self-evident, or nearly so.” (Torres v. Superior Court (2000) 80
Cal.App.4th 867, 873.) “But if it is not, the party claiming the privilege must
either show in open court why the matter is privileged, or declare that doing
so would compromise the privilege. If it appears to the trial court, based on
this representation, that the claim cannot be determined in open court without ‘disclosure
of the information claimed to be privileged,’ the court may call for that
disclosure in camera, pursuant to section 915, subdivision (b).” (Id.)
Petitioner
argues that all three of Respondent’s privilege logs are deficient and
declarations are flawed because they fail to provide discrete and specific information
for each document withheld. In opposition, Respondent contends the privilege
logs and declarations clearly identify the privileged documents and provide
sufficient information for determining the claim of privilege. 
The
Court finds that the declarations and privilege logs provide sufficient information
to determine whether the documents are protected under the deliberative process
privilege and/or the attorney-client privilege. The declarations identify the
privilege logs, the privilege being claimed, the specific type of documents
subject to the privilege, the dates of these documents, who authored the
documents, descriptions of the documents and their contents, the time the
emails were sent. (Hall Decl., ¶¶25-27, Exs. 1-3; Bonilla Decl., ¶8, Ex. 4.) The
evidence submitted by Petitioner merely speculates that the privilege logs do
not include all the emails and/or other related documents. In camera
review is not necessary.


 



Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
CRANE BOULEVARD
  SAFETY COALITION, an unincorporated association, 


 
 
 
Petitioner,


 
Case
  No.:
 


 
23STCP02375




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




CITY OF LOS ANGELES,
  a municipal corporation,


 
 
 
Respondent.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date: July 15,
2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice
Leiter
Motion for Judgment
on the Pleadings 
Moving Party: Respondent City of
Los Angeles 
Responding Party: Petitioner Crane
Boulevard Safety Coalition
 
T/R:     RESPONDENT’S MOTION FOR JUDGMENT ON THE
PLEADINGS IS GRANTED WITH 20 DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND.
 
RESPONDENT TO NOTICE. 
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative,
please email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with notice to opposing counsel (or
self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the day of the hearing.
 
            The Court considers the moving
papers, opposition, and reply. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
This is an action arising under the California Environment Quality Act
(“CEQA”). On August 7, 2023, Petitioner Crane Boulevard Safety Coalition filed
the operative First Amended Petition for Writ of Mandate (“FAP”) against
Respondent City of Los Angeles and Real Parties in Interest Rachel Foullon and Ian
Cooper. The FAP concerns a proposed development housing project at 464-466
Crane Boulevard, Los Angeles, CA (“Project”).
 
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE 
 
Respondent’s request for judicial notice of Exhibits 1 through 15 is
GRANTED (except as to the truth) pursuant to Evidence Code Sections
452(b), (c), and (h). 
 
 
 
EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
 
Respondent’s objection to Exhibits 1-3 of Jamie Hall’s Declaration is
SUSTAINED.
Respondent’s objection to Exhibits 4-5 of Jamie Hall’s Declaration is OVERRULED[1].
 
ANALYSIS
 
The standard for ruling on a motion for judgment on the pleadings is
essentially the same as that applicable to a general demurrer: whether the pleadings
together with matters that may be judicially noticed show that a party is
entitled to judgment as a matter of law.¿(Bezirdjian v. O'Reilly (2010)
183 Cal.App.4th 316, 321-322, citing Schabarum v. California Legislature
(1998) 60 Cal.App.4th 1205, 1216.) ¿¿ 
 
When the moving party is a defendant, he or she must demonstrate that
“The court has no jurisdiction of the subject of the cause of action alleged in
the complaint” or “The complaint does not state facts sufficient to constitute
a cause of action against that defendant.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
438(c)(1)(B)(i)-(ii).)¿¿¿
 
1. Third Cause of Action for Violation of Mount Washington/Glassell
Park Specific Plan
 
Respondent argues the third cause of action is barred by the statute of
limitations in Government Code § 65009 because it was filed and served more
than one year after the expiration of the 90-day statute of limitations for
actions challenging an agency’s final determination of compliance with a
specific plan. Respondent also argues the FAP fails to state facts
demonstrating its timeliness. 
 
In opposition, Petitioner contends the East Los Angeles Planning Commission’s
Project approval could not become final for purposes of Section 65009 until the
conclusion of the state-mandated administrative appeal process under Public
Resources Code § 21151(c). 
 
Under Government Code § 65009, subdivision (c)(1), “Except as provided
in subdivision (d), no action or proceeding shall be maintained in any of the
following cases by any person unless the action or proceeding is commenced and
service is made on the legislative body within 90 days after the legislative body's
decision: [¶](E) To attack, review, set aside, void, or annul any decision on
the matters listed in Sections 65901 and 65903, or to determine the
reasonableness, legality, or validity of any condition attached to a variance,
conditional use permit, or any other permit. [¶](F) Concerning any of the proceedings, acts, or determinations taken, done,
or made prior to any of the decisions listed in subparagraphs (A), (B), (C),
(D), and (E).” (Cal. Gov. Code, § 65009(c)(1)(E)-(F).) “Under section 65009,
subdivision (e), after expiration of the filing and service limitations period,
“all persons are barred from any further action or proceeding.” There are no
exceptions.” (Weiss v. City of Del Mar (2019) 39 Cal.App.5th 609, 619.)
 
The East Los Angeles Planning Commission (“APC”) determined that the
Project is consistent with the Specific Plan and issued a Letter of
Determination (“LOD”) on December 28, 2021, following an administrative hearing
on Petitioner’s appeal. The LOD constitutes a final determination of the
Specific Plan because it was issued in response to Petitioner’s administrative
appeal. Petitioner had 90 days, until March 28, 2022, to file the petition. The
original petition was not filed until July 7, 2023. 
 
Petitioner’s assertion that under Public Resources Code § 21151(c) the
APC’s determination was not final until the decision on appeal is unavailing. Section
21151(c), states in pertinent part, “If a nonelected decision-making body of a
local lead agency certifies an environmental impact report, approves a negative
declaration or mitigated negative declaration, or determines that a project is
not subject to this division, that certification, approval, or determination
may be appealed to the agency’s elected decision-making body, if any.” (Cal.
Public Resources Code, § 21151(c).) But Petitioner provides no authority holding
that Section 21151(c) or LAMC Section 11.5.13D tolls the statute of limitations
in Government Code § 65009, subdivision (c)(1). The operative FAP does not
allege any facts showing that the third cause of action is timely. 
 
Petitioner asserts that more facts can be pleaded to cure the defect. The
motion is GRANTED with 20 days leave to amend as to the third cause of action. 
 
2. Fourth Cause of Action for Violation of California Due
Process/Fair Hearing
 
Respondent argues the fourth cause of action fails to state facts sufficient
for a cause of action under the California Constitution because Respondent’s
process met the minimum standards required for a “fair hearing,” and Petitioner
fails to state facts showing they have the requisite property interests to
warrant a different process than the one Respondent provided. 
 
In opposition, Petitioner first argues the motion is procedurally
improper because it seeks to conduct a premature summary judgment before
completion of discovery and seeks to use evidence not judicially noticeable.
The Court disagrees. The motion asserts that the fourth cause of action fails
to allege sufficient facts. The exhibits offered are judicially noticeable.
 
Petitioner argues the FAP adequately pleads Petitioner’s property
interest and those of its individual supporters who live within the Project’s
impact zone. Petitioner also contends the FAP adequately pleads a pattern and
practice of Respondent’s attorneys’ drafting zoning ordinances that
systematically deprive persons likely to have constitutionally protected
interests. And Petitioner asserts the FAP adequately pleads a pre-PLUM process
pattern and practice that established a biased decision-making process
resulting in an unfair hearing. 
 
In Pinheiro v. Civil Service Com. for County of Fresno (2016) 245
Cal.App.4th 1458, the court held “[t]he ‘fair trial’ requirement of section
1094.5 is not synonymous with constitutional due process and does not mandate ‘a
formal hearing under the due process clause.’” (Pinheiro v. Civil Service
Com. for County of Fresno (2016) 245 Cal.App.4th 1458, 1463.) Only “a fair
administrative hearing, which affords the appellant a reasonable opportunity to
be heard,” is required. (Id.) Deprivation of a fair administrative
hearing requires a deficiency in the process which resulted in prejudice to a
party. (Hipsher v. Los Angeles County Employees Retirement Association
(2020) 58 Cal.App.5th 671, 702.) “[T]hese principles apply to governmental land
use decisions which are adjudicative in nature, not those which are ministerial
or legislative in nature, and they serve to protect both adjacent landowners
and applicants.” (Linovitz Capo Shores LLC v. California Coastal Com. (2021)
65 Cal.App.5th 1106, 1122.) “Land use decisions which ‘substantially affect’
the property rights of owners of adjacent parcels may constitute ‘deprivations’
of property within the context of procedural due process.” (Horn v. County
of Ventura (1979) 24 Cal.3d 605, 615.)
 
            The FAP alleges that Respondent
mailed notices to property owners and tenants who might be impacted by the
Project. It also alleges that review of the Project report “merits special
investigation to protect safety of on-site residents and surrounding persons
and property.” And the FAP alleges that Petitioner and property owners affected
by the Project were not given a fair hearing. But the FAP fails to allege any
facts demonstrating that Petitioner is an adjacent landowner, property owner,
or even a permit applicant with Respondent such that it would have a
constitutionally protected due process claim against Respondent. Although Petitioner
does allege its members are adjacent landowners/property owners, the FAP fails
to allege any facts showing that the Specific Plan and Project substantially
affect the rights of its members, such as their access to public roads/streets,
air pollution, or increase in traffic. (See, e.g., Horn v. County of Ventura (1979) 24 Cal.3d
605, 615.)
The FAP merely alleges that an expert report contends there is a reasonable
possibility of geology or soils impact. 
 
Barri v. Workers’
Comp. Appeals Bd.
(2018) 28 Cal.App.5th 428, relied on by Petitioner, does not support its
contention that filing an appeal under CEQA gives it a statutory property right.
The case holds only that worker’s compensation administrative proceedings are
protected property interests under the due process clause. (See Barri v.
Workers’ Comp. Appeals Bd. (2018) 28 Cal.App.5th 428, 461.) 
 
Petitioner asserts
that there is a reasonable possibility of curing the defects through amendment.
The motion is GRANTED with 20 days leave to amend as to the fourth cause of
action. 
 
 
 
 
 


