 Case Number:  22STCV19770    Hearing Date:   November 27, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



LETICIA VASQUEZ,
  
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
CENTRAL BASIN MUNICIPAL WATER
DISTRICT, a California Public Agency,
ALEX ROJAS; and DOES 1 through 25,
inclusive, 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.         
 
                      


 


     
  CASE NO.:  22STCV19770
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
MOTION FOR PROTECTIVE ORDER
 
Date: November 27, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant CENTRAL BASIN
MUNICIPAL WATER DISTRICT (“Defendant”)
 
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff
LETICIA VASQUEZ (“Plaintiff”)
 
            The Court has considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers. 
 
BACKGROUND
              Plaintiff’s complaint (the “Complaint”)
alleges violations of the Tom Bane Civil Rights Act (the “Bane Act”).  
 
            On October 7, 2024, Defendant filed
the instant Motion for Protective Order (the “Motion”), seeking a protective
order that as to Requests for Production of Documents, Set No. 5 (“Fifth RFPs”),
propounded by Plaintiff on Defendant, all of the documents requested need not
be produced and all of the requests need not be answered.  In the alternative, Defendant seeks an order
of the Court limiting or setting conditions for the subject discovery.  Plaintiff filed an opposition on November 13,
2024, and Defendant filed a reply on November 20, 2024.
 
MEET AND CONFER 
             The meet and confer requirement has been met.
 
DISCUSSION¿
“The court shall limit the scope of discovery if it
determines that the burden, expense, or intrusiveness of that discovery clearly
outweighs the likelihood that the information sought will lead to the discovery
of admissible evidence.  The court may
make this determination pursuant to a motion for protective order by a party or
other affected person.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2017.020(a).) Moreover, “[t]he
court, for good cause shown, may make any order that justice requires to
protect any party or other natural person or organization from unwarranted
annoyance, embarrassment, or oppression, or undue burden and expense.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2031.060, subd. (b).)  
 
The decision as to whether to enter a protective
order lies within the sound discretion of the court. (Raymond Handling
Concepts Corp. v. Sup. Ct. (1995) 39 Cal.App.4th 584, 588, 591; Meritplan
Ins. Co. v. Sup. Ct. (1981) 124 Cal.App.3d 237, 242.) The moving party has
the burden of showing good cause for protective order. (Emerson Elec. Co. v
Sup. Ct. (1997) 16 Cal.4th 1101, 1110; Fairmont Insurance Co. v.
Superior Court (2000) 22 Cal.4th 245, 255.)¿
“In accordance with the liberal policies underlying
the discovery procedures, California courts have been broad-minded in
determining whether discovery is reasonably calculated to lead to admissible
evidence.” (Pacific Tel. & Tel. Co. v. Superior Court (1970) 2
Cal.3d 161, 172; Pettie v. Superior Court (1960) 178 Cal.App.2d 680,
687.) As a practical matter, it is difficult to define at the discovery stage
what evidence will be relevant at trial. Therefore, the party seeking discovery
is often entitled to substantial leeway. (Pacific Tel. & Tel. Co., supra,
2 Cal.3d at p. 172.) Furthermore, California’s liberal approach to permissible
discovery generally has led the courts to resolve any doubt in favor of
permitting discovery. (Id. at p. 173.) In doing so, the courts have
taken the view if an error is made in ruling on a discovery motion, it is
better that it be made in favor of granting discovery of the nondiscoverable
rather than denying discovery of information vital to preparation or
presentation of the party’s case or to efficacious settlement of the
dispute.”  (Norton v. Superior Court
(1994) 24 Cal.App.4th 1750, 1761.)¿¿ 
 
Motion
Here, Defendant seeks the issuance of a protective
order mainly on the ground that the discovery propounded by Plaintiff is
irrelevant and not likely to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.  Defendant emphasizes that Plaintiff asserts a
Bane Act claim, and that as such, Plaintiff need only prove: (1) violence or
intimidation by threat of violence against Plaintiff; and (2) resulting
interference with Plaintiff’s exercise or enjoyment of rights secured by the
state or federal constitutions, here the First Amendment.  (Opposition, p. 6, citing Civ. Code § 52.1 and
Cabesuela v. Browning-Ferris Indus. of Calif., Inc. (1998) 68
Cal.App.4th 101, 111.) Defendant points out that motive and intent are not
elements of a Bane Act claim.  Defendant
thus argues that the records sought are not relevant to a Bane Act claim. 
 
As a note, although Defendant suggests in the
alternative that the Fifth RFPs be limited or that conditions be imposed on
production, Defendant does not propose how such limitations or conditions should
be imposed.
 
Opposition
In opposition, Plaintiff asserts that the Bane Act
entitles Plaintiff to recover exemplary or punitive damages.  Plaintiff argues that the emails requested in the
Fifth RFPs will likely demonstrate and reveal Defendant Alex Rojas’ motivation
and state of mind regarding his alleged threats, intimidation and coercion
against Plaintiff and provide relevant evidence on the issues of actual malice,
oppression, fraud, hatred and ill will towards Plaintiff.  Plaintiff further argues that the emails
identified in the Fifth RFPs will also provide evidence to disprove, refute and
contradict the affirmative defenses asserted by Defendant, specifically the allegations
that the only reason Plaintiff continually requested certain information and
documents was to harass and mistreat Defendant’s employees. 
 
Reply
In reply, Defendant re-asserts that the records
sought are not relevant to proving a Bane Act claim.  
 
Relevance
With respect to the relevance of the information
sought, the scope of discovery is¿broad and encompasses any matter that is
relevant to the subject matter of the action¿if the matter appears reasonably
calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 2017.010;¿Greyhound Corp. v. Superior Court of Merced
County¿(1961) 56 Cal. 2d 355, 376.)¿
Any doubts are resolved in favor of permitting discovery.¿(Pacific Tel. & Tel. Co. v. Superior Court¿(1970) 2 Cal.3d
161, 173.)
 
The burden of proof is generally on the party
seeking the protective order to show good cause for whatever order is sought. (Fairmont
Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (2000) 22 Cal.4th 245, 255.) The concept of good
cause requires a showing of specific facts demonstrating undue burden, etc.,
and justifying the relief sought. (See Goodman v. Citizens Life &
Casualty Ins. Co. (1967) 253 Cal.App.3d 807, 819.) The facts are normally
established in declarations by counsel for the party seeking the protective
order. The declaration must contain competent evidence - i.e.,
first-hand knowledge of the facts. Hearsay allegations on information and
belief and conclusory statements that a particular relief is necessary are not
enough. (Ibid.)¿ 
 
As to relevance-related objections to discovery,
judges have taken a liberal approach in favor of granting discovery, including
when “‘possible objections to discovery should be resolved by protective orders
addressing the specific harm shown by the respondent as opposed to a more
general attack on the ‘relevancy’ of information the proponent seeks to
discover.’” (Volkswagen of America, Inc. v. Superior Court (2006) 139
Cal.App.4th 1481, 1497.) 
 
The
court finds that Defendant has not met the burden of showing “good cause” for a
protective order.  The specific requests
are targeted to documents referenced in a single report prepared by Carr, Riggs
& Ingram.  Defendant has offered no
evidence suggesting that responding to the requests themselves will require a
significant and unreasonable amount of work, and simply focuses on the
purported lack of relevance of the documents sought.  While the documents sought in the Fifth RFPs
are only tangentially reasonably calculated to the discovery of admissible
evidence, they are sufficiently related as to avoid a protective order.  Neither has Defendant presented any specific
harm posed by the production of the records sought in the Fifth RFPs that a
protective order could resolve.  Any
issues with the relevance of the requested documents for use at the time of
trial may be addressed by motions in limine. 

¿¿¿¿
RULING
In
light of the foregoing, Defendant’s Motion for a Protective Order is
DENIED.  
¿¿¿¿ 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.            
 
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at
www.lacourt.org.  If the department does
not receive an email and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion
will be placed off calendar.
 
Dated this 27th day of November 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 



