  Case Number:  21STCV44739    Hearing Date:   November 27, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



NORMA OROZCO, an
  individual, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
BODEGA LATINA CORPORATION, a
Delaware corporation; MARIO MORALES,
an individual; and DOES 1 through 10,
inclusive, 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.      
 
                         


 


     
  CASE NO.:  21STCV44739
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT OR, ALTERNATIVELY,
  SUMMARY
ADJUDICATION OF ISSUES
 
Date: November 27, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING PARTY: Defendants
Chedraui USA, Inc. f/k/a Bodega Latina Corporation (“Bodega”) and Mario Morales
(“Morales”) (collectively, “Defendants”)
 
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff
Norma Orozco (“Plaintiff”)
 
            The Court has considered the moving,
opposition and reply papers. 
 
BACKGROUND
This
action arises out of alleged sexual harassment during Plaintiff’s employment
with Defendant.  Plaintiff’s complaint
alleges: (1) hostile work environment harassment; and (2) failure to prevent
and/or remedy harassment.
 
On
May 16, 2024, Defendants filed the instant Motion for Summary Judgment or, Alternatively,
Summary Adjudication of Issues (the “Motion”). 
Plaintiff filed an opposition to the Motion on November 13, 2024, and
Defendants filed a reply on November 22, 2024.
 
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS 
            In their reply, Defendants have filed: (1) Objections to Plaintiff’s
Response to Defendant’s Separate Statement of Undisputed Facts; and (2) Objections
and Responses to Plaintiff’s Separate Statement of Additional Undisputed Material
Facts.  


A
review of these objections reveals that with the exceptions of Objection Nos. 9
and 10 contained in the Objections to Plaintiff’s Response to Defendant’s Separate
Statement of Undisputed Facts, the remaining objections are not properly
objections to evidence, but are objections to the facts listed in the separate statements
submitted by Plaintiff.  As made clear by
California Rules of Court Rule 3.1354, which governs objections on summary
judgment, objections must be directed to a specific piece of evidence – the
document must be named and identified by exhibit, page, and line number.  Objections may not be directed to the separate
statement itself because that is merely counsel’s characterization of the
evidence.  To the extent that a ruling on
these objections is necessary, they are OVERRULED.  
 
Objection
Nos. 9 and 10 are not material to the disposition of this Motion but are
preserved.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 437c(q).)
 


 
DISCUSSION
Legal Standard
The
function of a motion for summary judgment or adjudication is to allow a
determination as to whether an opposing party cannot show evidentiary support
for a pleading or claim and to enable an order of summary dismissal without the
need for trial.  (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.)  CCP Section 437c(c) “requires the trial judge
to grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences
reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences
or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and
that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.”  (Adler
v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)  “The function of the pleadings in a motion
for summary judgment is to delimit the scope of the issues; the function of the
affidavits or declarations is to disclose whether there is any triable issue of
fact within the issues delimited by the pleadings.”  (Juge
v. County of Sacramento (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67, citing FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima
(1991) 231 Cal. App. 3d 367, 381-382.)
 
As
to each claim as framed by the complaint, the defendant moving for summary
judgment must satisfy the initial burden of proof by presenting facts to negate
an essential element or to establish a defense. 
(CCP § 437c(p)(2); Scalf v. D. B.
Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.)  Courts “liberally construe the evidence in
support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning
the evidence in favor of that party.”  (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006)
39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)
 
Once
the defendant has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show
that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of
action or a defense thereto.  To
establish a triable issue of material fact, the party opposing the motion must
produce substantial responsive evidence. 
(Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68
Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)
 
First Cause of
Action: Hostile Work Environment
To
state a claim of harassment under FEHA, Plaintiff must show “(1) she is a
member of a protected class; (2) she was subjected to unwelcome harassment; (3)
the harassment was based on her protected status; (4) the harassment
unreasonably interfered with her work performance by creating an intimidating,
hostile, or offensive work environment; and (5) defendants are liable for the
harassment.”  (Galvan v. Dameron Hosp.
Assn. (2019) 37 Cal.App.5th 549, 563.)
 
Importantly,
the Court notes that Defendants do not dispute but, in fact, acknowledge that
there is substantial evidence that Plaintiff experienced at least three
isolated incidents of purported sexual harassment, citing Plaintiff’s
deposition testimony.  Defendant also acknowledges
a fourth alleged incident consisting of Morales punching Plaintiff but argues
that the conduct is not sexual in nature and, therefore, does not constitute
sexual harassment as a matter of law.  (Motion,
p. 10; Reply, p. 2.)  In essence, Defendants
argue that Plaintiff’s first cause of action for a hostile work environment
based on sexual harassment fails because the conduct complained of – e.g.,
Morales’ grabbing Plaintiff’s leg and touching Plaintiff’s behind –  were not sufficiently severe or pervasive.   
 
Defendants’
argument is unavailing.  The Legislature
has expressly eliminated that argument for summary judgment purposes, in an
amendment to FEHA.  Government Code §
12923, effective as of January 1, 2019, provides in relevant part as follows:
 
“The Legislature hereby declares its
intent with regard to application of the laws about harassment contained in
this part.
…
(b) A single incident of harassing
conduct is sufficient to create a triable issue regarding the existence of a
hostile work environment if the harassing conduct has unreasonably interfered
with the plaintiff's work performance or created an intimidating, hostile, or
offensive working environment…
…
(e) Harassment cases are rarely
appropriate for disposition on summary judgment. In that regard, the
Legislature affirms the decision in Nazir v. United Airlines, Inc.
(2009) 178 Cal.App.4th 243 and its observation that hostile working environment
cases involve issues “not determinable on paper.”
 
These
provisions remove the court’s ability to say, as a matter of law, that a
single, isolated incident is insufficient to create liability for harassment in
any context.  Even more so here, where there
are at least three incidents of alleged sexual harassment that Defendants do
not dispute.  
 
In
Beltran v. Hard Rock Hotel Licensing, Inc. (2023) 97 Cal.App.5th 865,
855, the Court of Appeal held: 
 
The trial court relied heavily on case law decided
before section 12923 was adopted. This failed to take into account several key
principles, including the definition of a hostile work environment, the
clarification that ‘[a] single incident of harassing conduct is sufficient to
create a triable issue regarding the existence of a hostile work environment if
the harassing conduct ... created an intimidating, hostile, or offensive work
environment,’ and the instruction that ‘[h]arassment cases are rarely
appropriate for disposition on summary judgment.’ (§ 12923, subds. (a), (b),
(e).) [¶] Instead, the trial court relied on older cases that did not take
these principles into account, such as Mokler v. County of Orange (2007) 157
Cal.App.4th 121, 68 Cal.Rptr.3d 568, where the court concluded that three
incidents of harassment over five weeks was not severe and pervasive, and
Fisher v. San Pedro Peninsula Hospital (1989) 214 Cal.App.3d 590, 609, 262
Cal.Rptr. 842, which stated that ‘plaintiff must show a concerted pattern of
harassment of a repeated, routine or a generalized nature.’ These cases are no
longer good law when it comes to determining what conduct creates a hostile
work environment in the context of a motion for summary judgment or
adjudication. (§ 12923; CACI No. 2524.)
 
Therefore,
the Motion is DENIED as to this cause of action.
 
Second Cause of
Action: Failure to Prevent 
This
cause of action can only be prosecuted if there is a viable claim for
discrimination, harassment or retaliation.  (Dickson v. Burke Williams, Inc. (2015)
234 Cal.App.4th 1307, 1314-15; Trujillo v. North County Transit Dist.
(1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 280, 284-285.)
 
Defendants
argue that Plaintiff’s claim for failure to prevent and/or remedy work
environment harassment is derivative of her other meritless claim, and should
therefore fail.  (Motion, p. 14.)  Since Plaintiff’s first claim for work
environment harassment remains viable, that hurdle has been passed.  For the reasons given above, summary adjudication
as to Plaintiff’s first cause of action is denied. Therefore, the second cause
of action which relies upon the first cause of action similarly survives this
Motion.  
 
Accordingly,
the Motion is also DENIED as to this cause of action.
 
Punitive Damages
Civil Code § 3294 states, in relevant
part, as follows:
“(a)
In an action for the breach of an obligation not arising from contract, where
it is proven by clear and convincing evidence that the defendant has been
guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice, the plaintiff, in addition to the
actual damages, may recover damages for the sake of example and by way of
punishing the defendant.
(b)
An employer shall not be liable for damages pursuant to subdivision (a), based
upon acts of an employee of the employer, unless the employer had advance
knowledge of the unfitness of the employee and employed him or her with a
conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others or authorized or ratified
the wrongful conduct for which the damages are awarded or was personally guilty
of oppression, fraud, or malice. With respect to a corporate employer, the
advance knowledge and conscious disregard, authorization, ratification or act
of oppression, fraud, or malice must be on the part of an officer, director, or
managing agent of the corporation.
 
(c)
As used in this section, the following definitions shall apply:
 
(1)   “Malice” means
conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or
despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and
conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.
 
(2)   “Oppression” means
despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in
conscious disregard of that person’s rights.
 
(3)   “Fraud” means an
intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known
to the defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby
depriving a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.”
 
Punitive
damages are available in FEHA cases should the jury find that the defense
engaged in deliberate discrimination, especially if they find a pretext (which
is, by definition, deceptive behavior meant to mask ill intent).  (Cloud v. Casey (1999) 76 Cal.App.4th
895, 911-912.)  Plaintiff, however, still
needs to prove that the relevant acts were performed or approved by a managing
agent.
 
“[T]he
Legislature intended the term “managing agent” to include only those corporate
employees who exercise substantial independent authority and judgment in their
corporate decisionmaking so that their decisions ultimately determine corporate
policy. The scope of a corporate employee's discretion and authority under our
test is therefore a question of fact for decision on a case-by-case basis.”  (White v. Ultramar, Inc. (1999) 21
Cal.4th 563, 566-567.)
 
Defense
argues that no managing agent was involved in Plaintiff’s case.  Specifically, Defendants submit that Maria
Guerrero (“Guerrero”), to whom Plaintiff reported her complaints regarding
Morales, managed day-to-day operations at the store, but that there is no
evidence that she had authority to resolve Plaintiff’s complaint unilaterally.  Defendants also argue that Guerrero had no
authority to make company policy for Bodega, on either a formal or an ad hoc basis,
and Plaintiff has not presented any evidence that she did.  (Reply, p. 9.)  As this is a motion for summary judgment and,
as such, Defendants bear the initial burden of providing significant or
concrete evidence regarding the actual scope of an alleged managing agent’s
discretion and authority.  Defendants
have failed to meet their initial burden on that argument. (Aguilar v.
Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850-851, 854.)  Moreover, as noted above, this is a question
of fact to be decided on a case-by-case basis. 
(White v. Ultramar, Inc., supra.)
 
In
the alternative, Defendants suggest that Plaintiff cannot show that anyone
acted with malice, oppression or fraud.  Similarly, that is a question of fact for the
jury to determine.  Harassment may be
found by a jury to be despicable and to constitute willful or conscious
disregard of Plaintiff’s rights.
 
There
is thus a triable issue of fact on the claim for punitive damages.
 
RULING
Defendants
have not met their burden of showing that they are entitled to either summary judgment
or adjudication in their favor.  Accordingly,
the Motion is DENIED.  
 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.            
 
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at
SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If the
department does not receive an email and there are no appearances at the
hearing, the motion will be placed off calendar.
 
Dated this 27th day of November 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 



