 Case Number:  23SMCV01618    Hearing Date:   December 6, 2024    Dept:  I This is (or was) a Song-Beverly Act case.  There is presently a motion for summary
judgment on file by the defense as well as a motion for leave to amend by
plaintiff.  This ex parte is an
effort to advance the latter (which would moot the former).  This involves the fallout from the recent
California Supreme Court decision in Rodriguez, issued on October 31,
2024.  As is relevant here, the Court
resolved the question whether the Song-Beverly Act applies to cars that were
purchased used but where the original warranty had not expired.  Before Rodriguez, there was some
authority suggesting that the answer was yes, and so a number of cases,
including this one, were filed under the Song-Beverly Act even though the
plaintiff had not purchased a new vehicle. 
In Rodriguez, the Supreme Court held to the contrary, that is,
that the Song-Beverly Act applies only to purchases of new cars, not used
ones.  In light of that authority, it is
plain that the current case cannot proceed under the Song-Beverly Act.  Plaintiff, however, would like to amend the
complaint to allege more typical causes of action for breach of warranty.  After all, plaintiff claims, the warranty is
not void; it is still in effect.  It is
only the special Song-Beverly Act remedies that are precluded. 
 
The court agrees that the motion for leave to amend ought to
be heard sooner rather than later.  Right
now, that motion is set for December 26, 2024—the same date as the MSJ.  Normally, the court would urge the parties to
work this out, as the court suspects that plaintiff does not intend to oppose
the motion insofar as it argues that no Song-Beverly Act cause of action can
survive.  And, again normally, the court
would leave the dates on calendar.  But
here, there is a trial set for next month. 
The court will therefore discuss with the parties how best to
proceed.  At a minimum, the court will
discuss scheduling.  The court’s general
thoughts would be to allow the amendment, but recognize that the current trial
date might not survive.  Even though the
underlying facts would overlap, the court cannot say that they are
identical.  Further, the parties might
want to take another run at resolution.  
 