 Case Number:  SC123117    Hearing Date:   December 6, 2024    Dept:  I The motion for entry of judgment is DENIED.  A bit of history.  This very old case arises from a dispute that
began well over a decade ago.  The
procedural twists and turns are labyrinthian, and need not be recounted
here.  Suffice it to say that the case
finally went to trial and a jury rendered a verdict.  There was some issue at the time the verdict
came in as to jury misconduct, but based on the record at the time the court
denied the motion for a mistrial and took the verdict.  After that, the parties briefed and argued
the remaining equitable issues and the court issued a Statement of Decision
thereon.  The Statement of Decision and
the verdict were then merged into a judgment, which the court entered.  Among other motions, the court received a
motion for new trial from Illulian.  He
included juror declarations attesting to alleged misconduct during (and to an
extent even before) deliberations. 
Rav-Noy opposed the motion and had counter-declarations.  The court heard argument on the motion and
ultimately felt it was compelled to grant the motion, albeit reluctantly.  Granting a motion for a new trial is an
appealable order (unlike in the federal system).  Before the time to appeal had run, Rav-Noy
suggested that the court could nonetheless enter judgment based on the court’s
determination of the equitable issues because that determination left nothing for
a new jury to decide.  Faced with a
timing deadline before Rav-Noy’s right to appeal the new trial order expired,
the court noted the following.  First,
the court did not believe it lacked jurisdiction over any matter not
encompassed within the new trial appeal or that would effectively deprive the
Court of Appeal of jurisdiction over the appeal.  Second, even if the court lacked
jurisdiction, it always had jurisdiction to suggest to the Court of Appeal that
if the matter were remanded the court would enter a judgment without the need
for a new trial and that the appellate court might then remand the matter (or
the appeal might be dismissed).  Thus,
Rav-Noy filed a protective appeal, and the question whether the court could
enter a judgment even in the teeth of the new trial order was continued.
 
Illulian argues that the court lacks jurisdiction—an
argument Illulian did NOT waive at the prior hearing.  The court disagrees, but even were the court
of Illulian’s view, it would still resolve the instant motion and the chips
would then fall where they may. 
Therefore, the court will proceed to the merits.
 
The court agrees with Rav-Noy that the logic in the
Statement of Decision is what it is, and that it has an effect on any judgment
with or without the jury verdict.  But
that does not answer the question.  The
question is whether the Statement of Decision disposes of the entire case.  For his part, Rav-Noy is willing to waive any
additional relief to which he might be entitled in a new jury trial in return
for a judgment.  That, however, is only
half of the equation.  Illulian also had
causes of action and claims (in fact, he is the plaintiff).  The jury essentially rejected them.  For example, Illulian contends that he was
wrongly terminated from the two LLC’s. 
Had the jury found in his favor, he would argue that he is entitled to
his proportionate share of the proceeds from the sale of the buildings.  Both sides had evidence on this point, but
the court does not believe that its Statement of Decision addresses the issue
squarely.  Even if there was misconduct,
a jury might or might not find that the misconduct was sufficient to warrant
termination or might conclude that Rav-Noy’s motive to terminate was not the
misconduct but rather an attempt to keep 100% of the proceeds.  Or, of course, a jury might find the termination
to be fully justified based on Illulian’s conduct.  The point is that whether Illulian was
wrongfully terminated is a jury question and one that must be resolved in that
way.  The Statement of Decision did not
purport to address that issue, expressly or impliedly.  Because the determination of that question
could well lead to a more favorable judgment for Illulian than a judgment based
solely on the Statement of Decision, the court agrees with Illulian that, on
the merits, no judgment can be entered at this time, even assuming that the court
has jurisdiction to do so.  Because the
only question before the court at this time is whether a judgment can be
entered without the need for a new trial in light of the Statement of Decision,
the court need not, and does not, address any of the other issues or arguments
made.