  Case Number:  20SMCV00872    Hearing Date:   December 6, 2024    Dept:  I The court has before it plaintiff’s application to have
King’s auction off certain Michael Jackson paintings.  Defendants oppose.  The court notes that this all stems from a
loan secured by the “Museum Collection.” 
The court has previously identified what that encompasses.  The parties settled the case over a year
ago.  Their settlement agreement was
entered into as of May 3, 2023.  The gist
of the agreement was that defendants would have an opportunity to sell the
artwork on their own, but if they were unsuccessful the artwork would be
auctioned off within 6 months of the agreement’s effective date—which would
mean that the sale should have been on or before November 3, 2023.  (This followed another settlement agreement
from October 2022 that ultimately fell through.)  Suffice it to say that defendants were unable
to effect a sale within the six month period and defendants have been delaying
ever since.  The first auction house,
which the parties had agreed upon, quit due to defendants’ actions.  The next auction house, King’s, has been in
the picture for a long time.  Every time
the sale was close, there was a glitch. 
The paintings could not be examined; there were provenance questions;
custody was debated or access was not given fully; a new buyer came up; another
new buyer came up.  The list went on and
on.  Each time defendants attempted to
impede the sale, the court had to issue an order to clear the way.  And every time defendants had anyone who
resembled a potentially qualified buyer, the court and plaintiff gave that
buyer a chance to consummate the deal. 
But each time the sale was postponed for a new buyer, that buyer fell
through.  Finally, when the court had
cleared all the roadblocks and a sale was imminent, a defendant declared
bankruptcy.  The documents provided by
plaintiff convincingly demonstrate to the court’s satisfaction that the
bankruptcy was in bad faith and intended to delay.  After debtor’s counsel abruptly resigned and
returned its fees, the bankruptcy action was discharged with an order that no other
petitions be filed for six months.  Now,
defendants raise a series of issues regarding King’s and the auction.  But the court finds none of the arguments
persuasive.  That is largely because
defendants have squandered their credibility and, as a matter of credibility,
the court finds defendants to be not credible. 
The court also puts little value in their declarations or of unsworn
letters they put into evidence as if those letters should be taken at face
value.  
 
One major issue defendants raise is that King’s will only
vouch for Jackson’s signature, not that he actually painted the artwork.  The court takes no issue with that.  For King’s to warrant that the artwork is
actually painted by Jackson it would need some provenance to do so, and there
is none.  The court does not fault King’s
for not wanting to warrant more than it knows to be true.  What King’s does know is that an expert has
verified Jackson’s signature.  It has
advertised that, but that is all it need say. 
The court sees no reason for King’s to make itself vulnerable to future
litigation.
 
Defendants also suggest that King’s is trying to depress the
price.  The court has no idea why King’s
would do that.  They gain no money from a
low sale price; their goal (one would think) would be to maximize the
proceeds.  The court recognizes the
potential of after-auction proceedings, but if sales occur after that, the
court is unsure that the benefit of such a transaction would not inure to the
seller (broadly speaking).  And perhaps
had the artwork been sold on schedule, King’s could have netted more than can
or will be netted now.  But the fault
there lies with the defense.
 
Defendants also suggest that Vinson will submit a credit bid
and take the art for much less than it is really worth, implying Vinson will
later sell it at a profit.  The theory is
that Vinson will put in a credit bid that defendants assert is way less than
the art is worth.  Of course, if that is
true, defendants or anyone else is welcome to bid higher.  But the theory goes that no one will bid
higher and Vinson will turn around and re-sell the art at a big profit—one that
it will claim it need not share with other claimants or the defendants.  There are a series of problems with
that.  First, there are issues concerning
a credit bid where others claim an interest in the proceeds.  If Vinson really puts in the cash as the bid
(which is not the same thing), perhaps that can be dealt with at some level,
but Vinson will need to deal with those also claiming an interest.  And if Vinson is really hoping to snag the
art for less than its true value and turn a profit with a quick re-sale, there
are, or at least could be, ways to deal with that.  The court would not object to some protection
requiring Vinson to inform defendants prior to any sale of the artwork after a
credit bid, which would allow defendants to make at least an argument that any
proceeds should be added to the pot because of a shady deal.  And if Vinson intends to seek a deficiency
judgment, any profits from a subsequent sale would, presumably, be taken into
account.
 
The fact is that the time has come.  Defendants have delayed the sale for a very
long time.  Now, as the court said over a
year ago, plaintiff is driving the boat as to the auction and how it goes
forward.  Defendants can be heard, but
they have neither vote nor veto.  Of
course, they can complain after the fact, and if it is truly the case that
King’s puts out a brochure chalk full of typos or fails to act appropriately to
the point where King’s is breaching its contract, there are remedies.  And if they believe that they have the
evidence, they can seek redress from this court before the fact.  But for now, the court will allow the sale to
go forward under the auspices of a King’s auction.  The proceeds are to be held in
conformity  with the court’s prior orders
and will be divided after all claimants have an opportunity to be heard.
 
Defendants have done a remarkable job delaying an auction
that they agreed would take place no later than early November 2023 until
now.  But the delay is over.  If defendants want to seek appellate review,
they are, of course, free to do so.  But
this court will not stay its ruling or the effect thereof absent an order from
the appellate court.
 
Finally, the court notes that there has been a hint of other
litigation.  To date, the court has no
information about it.  If there is an
order directed to this court from that court, the court will of course give
that order its due weight.  If it is from
a federal court, this court would almost certainly obey the order.  Even if it is from a state court, this court
would at least give that order due consideration.  But once again, this seems to be more smoke
and mirror from the defense than an actual impediment to the sale.