 Case Number:  22SMCV02004    Hearing Date:   December 6, 2024    Dept:  I The motion will be CONTINUED.  This is a motion to compel the deposition of
defendant’s PMK.  Plaintiff contends that
it sent out a deposition notice.  Although
the notice had a unilaterally chosen date, plaintiff invited defendant to pick
a different date.  Defendant objected to
the date, but despite repeated requests has yet to provide a date for the
deposition.  Plaintiff also seeks
documents and a witness familiar with a particular defect.  
 
It is clear that the parties have utterly failed to have a
meaningful meet and confer, not to mention the defects in plaintiff’s notice of
motion and the untimely opposition. 
Given that both parties are present today (in person or virtually),
right now might be a good time for a voice to voice meet and confer.
 
For the parties’ aid, the court appends its standard
Song-Beverly order.  The matter will be
continued, but the parties will be well-advised to resolve this matter between
them without court intervention. 
 
Song-Beverly Discovery
 
These motions follow a pattern.  Plaintiff brings suit under the Song-Beverly
Act, claiming that the client bought a vehicle, that the vehicle needed repair,
and that after a reasonable number of attempts the defendant did not offer to
buy back the vehicle.  Further, because
the decision not to buy back the vehicle was improper (as defined in the
statute) according to plaintiff, plaintiff seeks enhanced damages.  Defendant answers and denies the
allegations.  Plaintiff sends out
discovery concerning not only the vehicle in question, but more broadly seeking
information about other vehicles.  The
defendant usually provides whatever is sought as to the particular car in
question, but otherwise objects on a raft of grounds.  The parties “meet and confer,” but generally
they get nowhere because they have a fundamental difference of opinion as to
how much discovery is appropriate. 
Unfortunately, appellate authority on this question is not conclusive,
although it tends to favor plaintiff to a point.
 
This court has reached the conclusion that a defendant
generally has two choices: (1) it can successfully resist the discovery by
stipulating that if plaintiff wins the case on the merits, enhanced damages are
appropriate (thereby relieving plaintiff of the need to prove the factors that
would give rise to such damages); or (2) it can provide the requested
information to the extent it seeks information pertaining to the same make,
model, year, and defect as the subject vehicle. 
If, after that discovery has been produced, plaintiff seeks broader
discovery, plaintiff will need to make an appropriate showing.  For example, plaintiff might demonstrate that
if the defect is with the battery, the identical battery is used in other model
years or other specific vehicle models. 
Privileged documents may be withheld, but they must be logged.  Documents that truly disclose trade secrets
must be produced but may be redacted to the extent of the trade secret and
produced with a log.  
 
