 Case Number:  24STCV04935    Hearing Date:   October 17, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




pastor victor chey

   , et al.;
 


   Plaintiffs,
 
 
vs.
 
 
ju yun kim

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


24STCV04935




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


October
   17, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[tentative]
  Order RE:
 
defendants’ demurrer to complaint
 



 
MOVING PARTIES:              Defendants Ju Yu Kim, Roy Chang,
and Gina Han   
 
RESPONDING PARTIES:    Plaintiffs Pastor Victor Chey and T.A. Chey
Demurrer to Complaint
The court
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers filed in connection with
this demurrer. 
DISCUSSION
Defendants Ju Yu Kim (“Kim”), Roy Chang (“Chang”), and Gina Han (“Han”)
(collectively, “Defendants”) move the court for an order sustaining their
demurrer to each cause of action alleged against them by plaintiffs Pastor
Victor Chey and T.A. Chey (“Plaintiffs”) in their Complaint on the ground that they
do not state facts sufficient to constitute causes of action and are uncertain.

The court sustains defendants Chang and Han’s demurrer to the first
cause of action for financial elder abuse because it does not state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action against those defendants since
Plaintiffs have not alleged specific facts establishing that they assisted in
taking, secreting, appropriating, or obtaining the personal property of
decedent Geroge Chey (“Decedent”) for a wrongful use or with intent to
defraud.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10,
subd. (e); Wel. & Inst. Code, § 15610.30, subd. (a)(2); Compl., p. 25:9-16
[alleging, in conclusory fashion, that defendants Chang and Han acted in
concert and came into a mutual understanding to accomplish their unlawful
plan]; Travelers Indemnity Company of Connecticut v. Navigators Specialty
Insurance Company (2021) 70 Cal.App.5th 341, 358 [court does not assume the
truth of contentions, deductions, or conclusions of law].) 
            The court overrules defendant Kim’s
demurrer to the first cause of action for financial elder abuse because it
states facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action since Plaintiffs have
alleged facts establishing that Kim took the personal property of Decedent, an
elder, for a wrongful purpose by using Decedent’s credit card for “lavish
dinner parties in the thousands” and to pursue “her own legal ends with Han
& Park . . . as she began her scheme to take [Decedent’s] properties.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e); Compl.,
p. 6, ¶ 22 [alleging that Kim married Decedent while Decedent was in his 80s],
p. 23, ¶ 16 [incorporating prior allegations], ¶ 18, p. 19, ¶¶ 98-102 [alleging
use of Decedent’s credit card without his knowledge]; Wel. & Inst. Code, §§
15610.27 [defining elder to be any person residing in California that is 65
years of age or older], 15610.30, subds. (a)(1), (a)(3) [defining financial
elder abuse]; Dem., p. 8:1-4 [demurring to this cause of action only on the
ground that Plaintiffs did not allege facts showing that Defendants took
Decedent’s property].) 
            The court sustains Defendants’
demurrer to the second cause of action for interference with right to inherit
because it does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action
since, although California has recognized the tort of intentional interference
with expected inheritance, it “is only available when the aggrieved party has
essentially been deprived of access to the probate system[,]” and Plaintiffs
have not alleged that they were so deprived and do not have an adequate remedy
in the Probate Court.  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 430.10, subd. (e); Beckwith v. Dahl (2012) 205 Cal.App.4th 1039, 1053
[“the tort of IIEI is only available when the aggrieved party has essentially
been deprived of access to the probate system”].) 
The court sustains defendant Kim’s demurrer to the third cause of
action for constructive fraud because (1) it does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action since Plaintiffs have not alleged specific facts
establishing each element of fraud with the requisite particularity, and (2) it
is ambiguous and unintelligible and therefore uncertain since Plaintiffs have
alleged that Kim (i) “used the confidence placed in her by Plaintiff Geroge[,]”
which appears to be referring to Decedent, who is not a plaintiff in this
action, and (ii) “threatened Plaintiffs that he would be alone
with no one to care for him[,]” which again appears to refer to conduct
or statements made to Decedent despite the inclusion of “Plaintiffs,” such that
it is unclear to whom Kim’s alleged conduct was directed.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subds. (e), (f);
Compl., p. 29, ¶¶ 51-52 [emphasis added]; Prakashpalan v. Engstrom, Lipscomb
& Lack (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 1105, 1131 [elements of constructive
fraud]; Lauckhart v. El Macero Homeowners Assn. (2023) 92 Cal.App.5th
889, 903 [“Fraud must be pleaded with particularity.  General and conclusory allegations are
inadequate”].)
The court sustains Defendants’ demurrer to the fourth cause of action
for fraud and deceit because it does not state facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action since (1) to the extent that it is alleged against defendants Chang
and Han, Plaintiffs did not allege facts establishing each element of the cause
of action against them, and (2) Plaintiffs have not alleged, with the requisite
particularity, the (i) alleged misrepresentations made by defendant Kim to
Plaintiffs, (ii) her knowledge of the misrepresentations’ falsity, (iii) her
intent to induce Plaintiffs’ reliance thereon, (iv) Plaintiffs’ justifiable and
actual reliance, and (v) Plaintiffs’ resulting damage.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e); Aton
Center, Inc. v. United Healthcare Ins. Co. (2023) 93 Cal.App.5th 1214, 1245
[elements of intentional misrepresentation]; Lauckhart, supra, 92
Cal.App.5th at p. 903.) 
The court further notes that this cause of action does not clearly identify
the defendants against whom this cause of action is brought.  (Compl., p. 29:25 [alleging, without
specification, “Count 4 – Fraud and Deceit].)  Although Plaintiffs have alleged that
defendant Kim committed fraud in the allegations supporting this cause of
action, it is unclear whether Plaintiffs have alleged this cause of action
against any other defendants.  (Compl.,
p. 30:5-7.)  The court therefore sustains
Defendants’ demurrer to this cause of action on the ground of uncertainty
because it is ambiguous and unintelligible. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (f).) 
The court sustains Defendants’ demurrer to the fifth cause of action
for conspiracy to defraud and undue influence because it does not state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action since (1) Plaintiffs did not allege
facts establishing the formation and operation of a conspiracy, and (2) even if
Plaintiffs did allege the formation and operation of a conspiracy, Plaintiffs
did not allege facts sufficient to constitute the underlying tort of fraud for
the reasons set forth above.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e); Navarrete v. Meyer (2015) 237 Cal.App.4th
1276, 1291 [explaining that civil conspiracy is not an independent cause of
action, but a theory of co-equal liability, and requires “the actual commission
of a tort”].)
The court sustains Defendants’ demurrer to the sixth cause of action
for breach of fiduciary duty because it is ambiguous and unintelligible and
therefore uncertain because (1) it states that it is alleged “against
Defendants and Defendant Han & Park” but (2) it does not appear to allege
facts establishing that Defendants breached fiduciary duties to Plaintiffs, and
instead appears to concern the conduct of defendant Han & Park only.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (f); Compl.,
p. 33:20-21; Compl., p. 33, ¶ 92 [alleging that defendants Mr. Han, Ms. Park,
and Han & Park owed a fiduciary duty to Decedent].) 
The court sustains defendant Kim’s demurrer to the eighth cause of
action for fraudulent concealment because it does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action since Plaintiffs have not alleged facts, with the
requisite particularity, establishing that Kim concealed or suppressed a
material fact that she had a duty to disclose to Plaintiffs, with the intent to
defraud Plaintiffs, and that caused Plaintiffs harm.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e); Hambrick
v. Healthcare Partners Medical Group, Inc. (2015) 238 Cal.App.4th 124, 162
[elements of fraudulent concealment].) 
The court sustains Defendants’ demurrer to the ninth cause of action
for economic duress because (1) it does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action because economic duress is a defense to the
enforcement of a contract but is not an affirmative cause of action, and (2) it
is ambiguous and unintelligible and therefore uncertain.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subds. (e), (f); Perez
v. Uline, Inc. (2007) 157 Cal.App.4th 953, 950 [applying economic duress to
set aside settlement agreement].)  
            The court sustains Defendants’
demurrer to the 10th cause of action for intentional misrepresentation because
it does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action since (1) to
the extent it is alleged against defendants Chang and Han, Plaintiffs have not
alleged any misrepresentations made to them by those defendants, and (2)
Plaintiffs have not alleged, with the requisite particularity, facts
establishing that (i) Kim made misrepresentations to Plaintiffs (ii) with the
intent to induce Plaintiffs’ reliance thereon, and (iii) Plaintiffs reasonably
and justifiably relied on the misrepresentations made by defendant Kim.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e); Aton
Center, Inc., supra, 93 Cal.App.5th at p. 1245 [elements of
intentional misrepresentation].)  The
court notes that, for example, Plaintiffs have alleged that they “relied on
Defendant [Kim] that she was taking good care of his father.”  (Compl., p. 39, ¶ 122.)  However, this fact does not allege that Kim
represented that she would be caring for Plaintiffs’ father, and instead
alleges that Plaintiffs relied on Kim to take care of their father.  (Ibid.)  Moreover, even if the court were to construe
the Complaint as alleging that Kim made such a misrepresentation, Plaintiffs
did not allege that Kim intended Plaintiffs to rely on that misrepresentation
and that Plaintiffs actually and justifiably relied on it.  
            The court sustains Defendants’
demurrer to the 11th cause of action for promissory fraud because it does not
state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action since (1) to the extent
it is alleged against defendants Chang and Han, Plaintiffs have not alleged that
those defendants made promises regarding material facts without any intention
of performing them to Plaintiffs, and (2) Plaintiffs did not allege specific
facts establishing (i) that Kim made a promise regarding a material fact
without any intention of performing it, (ii) Kim’s intent not to perform the
promise at the time it was made, (iii) Kim’s intent to deceive Plaintiffs, and
(iv) Plaintiffs’ reasonable reliance.[1]  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e); Missakian
v. Amusement Industry, Inc. (2021) 69 Cal.App.5th 630, 654 [elements of
promissory fraud].) 
            The court sustains Defendants’
demurrer to the 12th cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional
distress because it does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action against Defendants.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e).) 
            First, as to defendants Chang and
Han, Plaintiffs did not allege facts establishing that they engaged in extreme
and outrageous conduct by failing to allege facts regarding their conduct in
support of this cause of action. 
(Compl., p. 42, ¶ 138 [alleging that defendant Kim’s behavior was
extreme and outrageous].) 
            Second, as to defendant Kim, the
court finds that Plaintiffs have not alleged facts establishing that she
directed extreme and outrageous conduct at Plaintiffs.  The court acknowledges that Plaintiffs have
alleged facts regarding her treatment of Decedent, including that she elected
not to call 911 when Decedent “lay on the ground unable to move.”  (Compl., p. 7, ¶ 30, p. 8, ¶¶ 32-33.)  However, the extreme and outrageous conduct
“must be conduct directed at the plaintiff, or occur in the presence of
the plaintiff of whom the defendant is aware.”  (Berry v. Frazier (2023) 90
Cal.App.5th 1258, 1273 [internal quotation marks and citation omitted]
[emphasis in original].)  Here, Plaintiffs
have not alleged facts establishing that defendant Kim engaged in extreme and
outrageous conduct directed at them, and therefore has not alleged facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action for intentional infliction of
emotional distress.  (Ibid.) 
The court sustains Defendants’ demurrer to the 13th cause of action
for civil conspiracy because it does not state facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action since (1) Plaintiffs did not allege facts establishing the
formation and operation of a conspiracy, and (2) even if Plaintiffs did allege
the formation and operation of a conspiracy, Plaintiffs did not allege facts
sufficient to constitute the underlying tort of fraud for the reasons set forth
above.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd.
(e); Navarrete, supra, 237 Cal.App.4th at p. 1291; Compl., p. 43,
¶ 147 [alleging the underlying tort to be “criminal fraud and financial
abuse”].) 
The court sustains Defendants’ demurrer to the 15th cause of action
for promissory estoppel because it does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action since (1) as to defendants Chang and Han,
Plaintiffs did not allege any facts regarding their conduct, and (2) as to
defendant Kim, Plaintiffs did not allege specific facts establishing that she
made clear and unambiguous promises to Plaintiffs, on which they reasonably and
foreseeably relied, and that they suffered injury as a result thereof.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e); Jones
v. Wachovia Bank (2014) 230 Cal.App.4th 935, 945 [elements of promissory
estoppel claim]; Compl., p. 44, ¶ 162 [generally alleging that Plaintiffs
relied on defendant Kim’s promises].) 
            The court sustains Defendants’
demurrer to the 17th cause of action for interference with prospective business
advantage because it does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action since (1) as to defendants Chang and Han, Plaintiffs have not alleged
any facts describing their alleged wrongful acts or omission in support of this
cause of action; (2) Plaintiffs have not alleged facts establishing each
element of the tort of intentional interference with prospective business
advantage; and (3) to the extent that Plaintiffs are again attempting to allege
a cause of action for financial elder abuse, Plaintiffs have already alleged
facts sufficient to constitute that cause of action against defendant Kim, such
that this cause of action is duplicative and superfluous.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e); Roy
Allan Slurry Seal, Inc. v. American Asphalt South, Inc. (2017) 2 Cal.5th
505, 512 [elements of intentional interference with prospective economic
advantage]; Compl., p. 46, ¶¶ 170-174 [alleging financial elder abuse]; Palm
Springs Villas II Homeowners Assn., Inc. v. Parth (2016) 248 Cal.App.4th
268, 290 [duplicative causes of action may be a basis for sustaining a
demurrer].)
            The court sustains Defendants’
demurrer to the 18th cause of action for declaratory and injunctive relief
because it does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action
since Plaintiffs have not requested that the court issue “a declaration of
[their] rights or duties with respect to” Defendants or with respect to
property.  (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 430.10
subd. (e), 1060.) 
The burden is on the plaintiff “to articulate how it could amend its
pleading to render it sufficient.”¿ (Palm Springs Villas II Homeowners
Assn., Inc., supra, 248 Cal.App.4th at p. 290.)  To satisfy that burden, a plaintiff “must
show in what manner he can amend his complaint and how that amendment will
change the legal effect of his pleading.”¿ (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18
Cal.3d 335, 349.)   The court finds
that Plaintiffs have not met their burden to show how they can amend (1) each
cause of action to render it sufficient against defendants Chang and Han, and
(2) the second through sixth, eighth through 13th, 15th, 17th, and 18th causes
of action as alleged against defendant Kim. 
The court therefore sustains the demurrer as to those causes of action
without leave to amend. 
            The court denies Defendants’ request
for monetary sanctions against Plaintiffs because Defendants did not comply
with the safe harbor provision since Defendants served the demurrer on
Plaintiffs on the same day that they filed it with the court.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 128.5, subd. (f)(1)(B)
[“If the alleged action or tactic is . . . the filing and service of a
complaint . . . that can be withdrawn or appropriately corrected, a notice of
motion shall be served as provided in Section 1010, but shall not be filed with
or presented to the court, unless 21 days after service of the motion or any
other period as the court may prescribe, the challenged action or tactic is not
withdrawn or appropriately corrected”]; Transcon Financial, Inc. v. Reid
& Hellyer, APC (2022) 81 Cal.App.5th 547, 551 [“Failure to comply with
the safe harbor provisions ‘precludes an award of sanctions’”]; Demurrer, pp. 53-54
[proof of service of demurrer on Plaintiffs on April 15, 2024].) 
            The court denies Plaintiffs’ request
for monetary sanctions against Defendants. 
(Opp., p. 21:14-15 [requesting the court overrule the demurrer and order
Defendants to pay monetary sanctions].) 
ORDER
            The court overrules defendant Ju Yun
Kim’s demurrer to plaintiffs Pastor Victor Chey and T.A. Chey’s first cause of
action for financial elder abuse. 
            The court sustains defendant Ju Yun
Kim’s demurrer to plaintiffs Pastor Victor Chey and T.A. Chey’s second through
sixth, eighth through 13th, 15th, 17th, and 18th causes of action without leave
to amend. 
            The court sustains defendants Roy
Chang and Gina Han’s demurrer to plaintiffs Pastor Victor Chey and T.A. Chey’s
Complaint without leave to amend. 
            The court orders defendants Roy
Chang and Gina Han to prepare, serve, and lodge a proposed judgment of
dismissal as to those defendants no later than 10 days from the date of this
order.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 581, subd.
(f)(1).) 
            The court orders defendant Ju Yun
Kim to file an answer to plaintiffs Pastor Victor Chey and T.A. Chey’s
Complaint no later than 10 days from the date of this order. 
            The court orders defendants Ju Yun
Kim, Roy Chang, and Gina Han to give notice of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  October 17, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court


