 Case Number:  21STCV22711    Hearing Date:   October 17, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




marlyn jimenez

   ;
 


   Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
rpb lending, inc.

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


21STCV22711




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


October
   17, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[tentative]
  Order RE:
 
motion to be relieved as counsel for
  defendant
 



 
MOVING PARTY:                 Zuli Ali           
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Unopposed
Motion to be Relieved as Counsel for Defendant
The court
considered the moving papers filed in connection with this motion.  No opposition papers were filed. 
DISCUSSION
Zuli Ali (“Defendant’s Counsel”) moves to be relieved as counsel for
defendant CP Electric (“Defendant”). 
“The question of granting or denying an application of an attorney to
withdraw as counsel (Code Civ. Proc., § 284, subd. 2) is one which lies within
the sound discretion of the trial court ‘having in mind whether such withdrawal
might work an injustice in the handling of the case.’”¿ (People v. Prince
(1968) 268 Cal.App.2d 398, 406 [internal quotations omitted].)¿ The court
should also consider whether the attorney’s “withdrawal can be accomplished
without undue prejudice to the client’s interests.”¿ (Ramirez v. Sturdevant (1994)
21 Cal.App.4th 904, 915.)¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
For a motion to be relieved as counsel under Code of Civil Procedure
section 284, subdivision (2), California Rules of Court, rule 3.1362 requires
(1) a notice of motion and motion directed to the client (made on the Notice of
Motion and Motion to be Relieved as Counsel -- Civil form (MC-051)); (2) a
declaration stating in general terms and without compromising the
confidentiality of the attorney-client relationship why a motion under Code of
Civil Procedure section 284, subdivision (2) is brought instead of filing a
consent under Code of Civil Procedure section 284, subdivision (1) (made on the
Declaration in Support of Attorney’s Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel -- Civil
form (MC-052)); (3) service of the notice of motion and motion, declaration,
and proposed order on the client and on all other parties who have appeared in
the case; and (4) the proposed order relieving counsel (prepared on the Order
Granting Attorney’s Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel -- Civil form
(MC-053)).¿¿¿ 
The court finds that Defendant’s Counsel has filed all mandatory forms
required by California Rules of Court, rule 3.1362, and has shown sufficient
reasons why the motion should be granted and why counsel has brought the motion
under Code of Civil Procedure section 284, subdivision (2) instead of filing a
consent under section 284, subdivision (1).¿ (MC-052, ¶¿2.)¿¿However, the court
finds that Defendant’s Counsel has not shown that counsel served Defendant and
all other parties who have appeared in this action with this motion. 
First, the court acknowledges that Defendant’s Counsel, has stated in
the “Declaration in Support of Attorney’s Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel –
Civil,” that counsel served Defendant with this motion by mail at Defendant’s
last known address.  (MC-052, ¶ 3, subd.
(a)(2).)  However, Defendant’s Counsel
did not file a proof of service with this motion, such that the court cannot
determine the date on which Defendant’s Counsel served Defendant with this
motion and whether Defendant’s Counsel served the motion on Defendant with
sufficient notice.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
1005, subd. (b).) 
Moreover, on September 26, 2024, the court issued a “Notice re
Continuance of Hearing and Order,” in which the court (1) continued the hearing
on this motion from October 2, 2024 to October 17, 2024, and (2) ordered
Defendant’s Counsel to give notice of the continuance.  (Sep. 26, 2024 Notice, pp. 1 [Order], 2
[Certificate of Mailing on Defendant’s Counsel].)  However, Defendant’s Counsel did not file a
proof of service of the Notice re Continuance of Hearing and Order.  Thus, Defendant’s Counsel has not shown that
Defendant has received notice of the new hearing date on the motion to be
relieved as its counsel. 
Second, Defendant’s Counsel did not file a proof of service
establishing that counsel served the moving papers on all of the parties who
have appeared in this action as required. 
(Cal. Rules of Ct., rule 3.1362, subd. (d) [“The notice of motion and
motion, the declaration, and the proposed order must be served on the client and
on all other parties who have appeared in the case”] [emphasis added].) 
Third, the court notes that the proposed “Order Granting Attorney’s
Motion to be Relieved as Counsel – Civil” is incomplete because it does not
include Defendant’s current or last known address and telephone number in
section 6.  
The court therefore denies Zulu Ali’s motion to be relieved as counsel
for defendant CP Electric, without prejudice to Zulu Ali’s filing a new motion
to be relieved as counsel for defendant CP Electric that is accompanied by a
proof of service of the motion on defendant CP Electric and on all other
parties who have appeared in this action.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  October 17, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court