 Case Number:  22SMCV00510    Hearing Date:   September 6, 2024    Dept:  I This is yet another discovery motion.  This is defendant’s motion to compel the
discovery of a third party witness, Jessie Guthrie.  Plaintiffs oppose the motion.  The opposition is one day late, but the court
has considered it.  The court has also
considered the reply. 
 
If there is a date certain for the deposition, the court
will GRANT the motion and order the witness to be present (remotely) at the
agreed upon date and time.  If not, then
the motion will be GRANTED and the court will describe the way that the date
will be set.  The court notes as
background that plaintiff’s position is that the deposition is being used for
purposes of harassment rather than to get any actual information.  That might or might not be the case, but the
court does not believe that the evidence establishes as much.  Given that it appears that the defense will
agree to a remote deposition, the better course would not be to expend the
resources necessary to fight this battle—not to mention the judicial resources—but
rather to let the deposition go forward. 
After all, while plaintiffs contend that the witness knows nothing, the
court is unaware of any case law that suggests that the defense has to take
plaintiffs’ counsel’s word for it.  
 
Defendant seeks sanctions. 
As the court has previously stated, it does not believe that Mr. Shiri
is entitled to recover as a lawyer in this case given that he is the
defendant’s beneficial owner.  However,
the only evidence in the moving papers relates to Mr. Shiri’s fees and
time.  On August 26, 2024, Mr. Barton
filed an untimely declaration claiming that he did much of the work on the case
and sought $1950 in fees.  The Barton
declaration is not only untimely, it is also suspect.  Mr. Shiri’s declaration says nothing about
any time spent by Mr. Barton; rather, it alludes only to time Mr. Shiri spent
on the motion (5 hours).  The court has
some reason to doubt (as a logical matter) that Mr. Barton spent time on this
motion but Mr. Shiri elected to waive it. 
It might be that such is the case, but no one has put in a declaration
explaining that odd result.  And the
court does not want to hear it now. 
Suffice it to say that the Barton declaration is untimely and is
DISREGARDED.  The court had been inclined
to award $60 (representing the filing fee), but the late-filed Barton
declaration—improper and suspect on its face—suggests that the better path is
to exercise the court’s discretion and deny the request for sanctions outright.  Therefore, the request for sanctions is
DENIED.
 
Once again, and for the last time, the court asks the
parties to stop this blood feud.  The
rules on discovery are clear and the court has provided its guidelines.  And this is twice now (recently) that
plaintiff has been abusing the system. 
The court strongly suspects that defendant has now learned that Mr.
Barton’s time is recoverable and Mr. Shiri’s time is not.  The court further suspects that as a result
Mr. Barton will start having a larger role in the discovery process.  It is time to stop the discovery battles and
get the case ready for trial.  There will
be no continuances of the trial date other than: (1) for an unforeseen and
unforeseeable medical emergency; (2) to allow the parties to finalize a
settlement that has been definitively reached; or (3) because the court is
otherwise engaged in trial—something the parties may not know until the final
status conference and that will not extend any deadlines.  More to the point, the court strongly urges
the parties to attempt to resolve this case. 
The court will inquire the parties to engage in some form of ADR before
the trial and before the FSC.  The court
strongly believes mediation is the best course, but if that is not possible,
the court will order an MSC.  