 Case Number:  24STCV10164    Hearing Date:   October 23, 2024    Dept:  34 Defendant ENI-JR286,
Inc.’s Motion to Compel Arbitration is DENIED.
 
Background
 
On April 23, 2024, Plaintiff Krista Circenis (“Plaintiff”)
filed a complaint against Defendant ENI-JR286, Inc. (“Defendant”) and Does 1-50
arising from Plaintiff’s employment with Defendant alleging causes of action
for: 
 
1.              
Gender-based Harassment, Discrimination, and Retaliation in Violation of
the FEHA (Cal. Govt. Code § 12940(a), (h) and (j));
2.              
Failure to Prevent Harassment, Discrimination and Retaliation in
Violation of the FEHA (Cal. Govt. Code § 12940(k)); 
3.              
Retaliation for Reporting Unlawful Conduct (Labor Code § 1102.05); and 
4.              
Wrongful Termination in Violation of Public Policy. 
 
On July 24, 2024, Defendant filed an answer to
Plaintiff’s complaint. 
 
On August 2, 2024, Defendant filed this Motion to
Compel Arbitration. On October 10, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition to
Defendant's motion. On October 14, 2024, Defendant filed a reply to Plaintiff’s
opposition.
 
Legal
Standard
“On petition of a party to an
arbitration agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement to
arbitrate a controversy and that a party to the agreement refuses to arbitrate
that controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to
arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement to arbitrate the
controversy exists, unless it determines that: (a) The right to compel
arbitration has been waived by the petitioner; or (b) Grounds exist for
rescission of the agreement.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2, subds. (a) and (b).)
The party seeking to compel
arbitration bears the burden of proving the existence of a valid arbitration
agreement by the preponderance of the evidence. (Hotels Nevada v. L.A.
Pacific Center, Inc. (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 754, 761.) The burden
then shifts to the opposing party to prove by a preponderance of the evidence a
defense to enforcement (e.g., fraud, unconscionability, etc.) (Ibid.)
“In these summary proceedings, the trial court sits as a trier of fact,
weighing all the affidavits, declarations, and other documentary evidence, as
well as oral testimony received at the court’s discretion, to reach a final
determination.” (Engalla v. Permanente Medical Group, Inc. (1997)
15 Cal.4th 951, 972.)
“If a court of competent
jurisdiction. . . has ordered arbitration of a controversy which is an issue
involved in an action or proceeding pending before a court of this State, the
court in which such action or proceeding is pending shall, upon motion of a
party to such action or proceeding, stay the action or proceeding until an
arbitration is had in accordance with the order to arbitrate or until such
earlier time as the court specifies.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.4).
Discussion
 
            Defendant moves the court for orders
compelling arbitration of Plaintiff’s claims and staying all further judicial
proceedings in this action pending completion of arbitration. 
 
1.              
Existence of an Arbitration Agreement
 
            Defendant argues that Plaintiff and
Defendant entered into an arbitration agreement on November 5, 2018[1],
when Plaintiff signed an arbitration agreement as part of her onboarding
documents. (Motion to Compel Arbitration, at p. 2; Fix Decl., ¶ 6.) Defendant
provides a copy of the signed arbitration agreement. (Fix Decl., Exh. A.) The
arbitration agreement provides, in relevant part, as follows: 
 
ENI-JR286,
Inc. (referred to below as "the Company"), encourages open
communication, but we recognize that disputes or disagreements may arise in any
employment relationship that may not be capable of informal resolution.
Accordingly, both the Company and you voluntarily agree that any claim,
dispute, or controversy arising out of or relating to your employment with the
Company or the separation of that employment shall be submitted to final and
binding arbitration in accordance with the terms of this Mutual Agreement to
Arbitrate Disputes.
 
…
 
You
and the Company agree that this agreement to arbitrate and any arbitration
under this agreement shall be governed by the Federal Arbitration Act
("FAA") and California Code of Civil Procedure sections 1280, et
seq. (including without limitation section 1283.05 and its mandatory and
permissive rights to discovery). The arbitration process shall be administered
by JAMS pursuant to its Employment Arbitration Rules & Procedures in effect
at the time the dispute is submitted. The JAMS Rules are available from Human
Resources and may also be obtained online free of charge at
http://www.jamsadr.com/rules-employment-arbitration/. The arbitration
proceedings will be held before a single, neutral arbitrator in the State of
California in the County in which you provide services for the Company. The
fees of the arbitrator and all other costs that are unique to the arbitration
process shall be paid by the Company to the extent required by law. Otherwise,
each party shall be solely responsible for paying his/her/its own costs for the
arbitration, including but not limited to attorneys' fees. However, if either
party prevails on a claim which affords the prevailing party attorneys' fees
pursuant to law, statute, or contract, the arbitrator may award reasonable
attorneys' fees to the prevailing party.
 
(Fix Decl.,
Exh. A [emphasis added].)
 
            “With respect to the moving party's
burden to provide evidence of the existence of an agreement to arbitrate, it is
generally sufficient for that party to present a copy of the contract to the
court. (See Condee v. Longwood Management Corp. (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th
215, 218, 105 Cal.Rptr.2d 597.) Once such a document is presented to the court,
the burden shifts to the party opposing the motion to compel, who may present
any challenges to the enforcement of the agreement and evidence in support of
those challenges. [Citation]” (Baker v. Italian Maple Holdings, LLC
(2017) 13 Cal.App.5th 1152, 1160.) 
 
            As such, the court finds that
Defendant has met its initial burden of proving the existence of an arbitration
agreement between the parties wherein the parties agreed to arbitrate this
dispute by providing Exhibit A in the Declaration of Blake Fix. The burden thus
shifts to Plaintiff, who may present any challenges to the enforcement of the
agreement and evidence in support of those challenges.
 
2.              
California Code of Civil Procedure §§ 1281.97-1281.98
 
            On August 31, 2023, Plaintiff
initiated arbitration proceedings of her claims against Defendant by filing a
demand for arbitration before the Judicial Arbitration and Mediation Services,
Inc. (“JAMS”). (Yadidsion Decl., ¶ 3.) Plaintiff then served Defendant with a copy
of the Demand for Arbitration and Statement of Claims on September 11, 2023. (Id.,
¶ 4.) On December 13, 2023, JAMS issued an invoice for payment of arbitration
fees. (Id., ¶ 4, Exh. B.) After multiple reminders, on March 11, 2024,
JAMS issued a notice advising the parties that it had not received full payment
of fees for retainer services and that if payment was not made within 30 days,
JAMS would close its file. (Id., ¶ 8, Exh. E.) Defendant’s counsel was
aware that payment was due to JAMS by January 13, 2024, but Defendant did not
learn that the fees had not been paid until March 26, 2024, at which time Defendant
immediately tendered payment. (Fix Decl., ¶ 17.) As such, on April 24, 2024,
Plaintiff withdrew from arbitration pursuant to California Code of Civil
Procedure section 1281.98. (Yadidsion Decl., ¶ 9.)
 
            In opposition, Plaintiff argues that
Defendant’s failure to pay the JAMS arbitration fees within 30 days of the due
date constitutes a material breach of the arbitration agreement under California
Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.98. (Opp., at p. 4.) Additionally,
Plaintiff argues that JAMS’s acceptance of Defendant's late payment did not
extend the deadline or cure Defendant's material breach. (Id., at p. 7.)

 
            In its moving papers and reply,
Defendant contends that Defendant’s delay of payment of the arbitration fees
was reasonable and excusable under Section 473(b). (Motion to Compel
Arbitration, at pp. 14-15; Reply, at pp. 3-4.) 
 
            California Code of Civil Procedure
section 1281.97 provides that “[i]n an employment or consumer arbitration
that requires . . . the drafting party to pay certain fees and costs before the
arbitration can proceed, if the fees or costs to initiate an arbitration
proceeding are not paid within 30 days after the due date, the drafting party
is in material breach of the arbitration agreement, is in default of the
arbitration, and waives its right to compel arbitration under Section 1281.2.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.97(a)(1) [emphasis added].) “If the drafting party
materially breaches the arbitration agreement and is in default under
subdivision (a), the employee or consumer may . . . [w]ithdraw the claim from
arbitration and proceed in a court of appropriate jurisdiction.” (Id.,
subd. (b).) The same applies to fees assessed during the pendency of an
arbitration. (Id., § 1281.98.)
 
            The statute is applied strictly, and
a court may not consider any other factors or mitigating circumstances. (Espinoza
v. Superior Court (2022) 83 Cal.App.5th 761, 775-76; DeLeon v. Juanita
Foods (2022) 85 Cal.App.5th 740, 749.) A drafting party is in breach of the
arbitration agreement simply if it does not pay the requisite fees within
thirty days.
 
            As such, the court finds that
Defendant’s failure to pay the requisite fees by the due date of January 13, 2024,
constitutes a material breach of the arbitration agreement between the parties
as Defendant was required to pay arbitration fees and costs. Defendant’s
argument that its delay in payment was reasonable and excusable cannot be
considered to determine whether a material breach occurred under California
Code of Civil Procedure sections 1281.97 and 1281.98. 
 
3.              
FAA v. CAA 
 
            Defendant argues that the California
Court of Appeals in Hernandez v. Sohnen Enterprises, Inc. (2024) 102
Cal.App.5th 222 (“Hernandez”) held that where the FAA governs an
arbitration agreement, the FAA preempts California Code of Civil Procedure
section 1281.97 and its corresponding findings of material breach and waiver of
arbitration. (Motion to Compel Arbitration, at p. 5.) As such, Defendant
contends that because Plaintiff withdrew from arbitration pursuant to Section
1281.97, now preempted by the FAA, a return to arbitration is appropriate. (Ibid.)

            
            In opposition and in response,
Plaintiff argues that Hernandez considered the fact that the arbitration
agreement at issue explicitly indicated the FAA as the only law
governing the agreement, as such, the failure to pay arbitration fees did not
rise to a material breach in that case. (Opp., at p. 8.) Plaintiff contends
that the current case is different from Hernandez since the arbitration
agreement at issue here specifically submits to California Code of Civil
Procedure section 1280 as it provides that: 
 
You
and the Company agree that this agreement to arbitrate and any arbitration
under this agreement shall be governed by the Federal Arbitration Act
("FAA") and California Code of Civil Procedure sections 1280, et
seq. (including without limitation section 1283.05 and its mandatory and
permissive rights to discovery).                            
 
(Fix Decl.,
Exh. A [emphasis added].)
 
            Thus, Plaintiff argues that the FAA
does not preempt California’s definition of failure to pay arbitration fees as
a material breach, constituting waiver. (Ibid.)  In reply, Defendant argues that the parties selected
procedure under both the FAA and CAA which would render the arbitration
agreement within the scope of the FAA and the Hernandez preemption rule
would apply. (Reply, at p. 2.) 
 
            The court relies upon Hernandez
for its persuasive authority. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 8.1115.)  
 
            In Hernandez, an employer did
not pay arbitration costs within 30 days of the due date and the employee filed
a motion to withdraw from arbitration and litigate in state court as permitted
under Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.97. (Hernandez, supra, 102 Cal.App.5th
at p. 230.) The Court held that the arbitration agreement was governed by the
FAA, both substantively and procedurally, rather than by California’s
arbitration laws. (Id., at p. 238.)  Further, the Court held that when an agreement
falls within the scope of the FAA and does not expressly adopt California
arbitration laws, the FAA preempts the provisions of section 1281.97 that
mandate findings of breach and waiver. (Ibid. [“When an agreement falls
within the scope of the FAA and the parties have not expressly elected California
law, we hold the FAA preempts the portion of section 1281.97 that requires
findings of material breach and a waiver of the right to arbitrate as a matter
of contract law.”]) As the Court reasoned, because the arbitration agreement
states, “this agreement is governed by the FAA,” the statement is broad and
encompasses both the procedural and substantive provisions of the FAA. (Id.,
at p. 241.) Further, there was no provision explicitly referring to California
law in the agreement. (Id. at p. 242.) 
 
            Here, however, the parties selected
to be governed by both the FAA and California Code of Civil Procedure sections
1280, et seq. While conceivably the agreement “falls” within the scope
of the FAA, Hernandez is distinguishable in this case because the
parties here have expressly elected California law, thereby finding that
section 1281.97 applies. Moreover, after Hernandez, another Court concluded
the FAA does not preempt section 1281.98. (Keeton v. Tesla, Inc. (2024)
103 Cal.App.5th 26, 41.) Such expression of consent to California law forms the
basis for Plaintiff’s withdrawal from arbitration after Defendant failed to
submit timely payment to JAMS.[2]

 
             As
such, Defendant waived its right to arbitrate by failing to pay arbitration
fees in a timely manner because Section 1281.97 is explicitly applicable to this
arbitration agreement sought to be enforced. 
 
            Conclusion
 
Defendant
ENI-JR286, Inc.’s Motion to Compel Arbitration is DENIED.  


