 Case Number:  21STCV26131    Hearing Date:   October 25, 2023    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  ZHENGYAN ZHANG, Plaintiff(s),  vs.  DONG CHEN, ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 21STCV26131  [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO COMPEL COMPLIANCE WITH SUBPOENA FOR PRODUCTION OF RECORDS  Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  October 25, 2023  I. Background Plaintiff Zhengyan Zhang (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendants Chen Dong, erroneously sued as Dong Chen (“Dong”), and Estate of Dylan Tszking Chan (“Chan” or “Decedent”) (collectively, “Defendants”) for damages arising from a motor vehicle accident on February 21, 2021.   Plaintiff issued a subpoena to Dong’s insurer, National General Premier Insurance Company (“National”), seeking documents related to Dong’s insurance coverage, claims, collisions, and citations related to two vehicles driven by Chan months prior to the incident. Plaintiff served a notice of the subpoena to defense counsel on August  7, 2023, and on August 22, 2023, Dong served objections. Plaintiff avers that Dong objections to the subpoenas are insufficient and that he must file a motion to quash. Plaintiff, thus, seeks an order compelling National to comply with the subpoena.   In opposition, Defendants contend Plaintiff’s motion is procedurally defective because Plaintiff failed to serve the instant motion on National. Furthermore, Defendants argue that the parties met and conferred about the objections, and this is the first time Plaintiff complained that Defendants did not file a motion to quash subpoena. Lastly, Defendants aver the subpoena to National seeks personal insurance records, and that the records are related to a vehicle not involved in the incident. In reply, Plaintiff contends that the motion is not procedurally defective because Plaintiff personally served National on September 15, 2023. (Reply, Needleman Decl. ¶3; Exh. 1.)  II. Legal Standard Procedural Per CRC 3.1346, when moving to compel a non-party to comply with a deposition subpoena, all moving papers must be served on the non-party by personal service.  The separately filed proof of service demonstrates personal service of the moving papers on National. (Notice of Filing POS, Sept. 18, 2023.) Therefore, the Court will consider the motion on the merits.  Deposition Subpoena A deposition subpoena may command only the production of business records without attendance at a deposition from a nonparty. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.020, subd. (b).) A deposition subpoena that requires only the production of documents “shall designate the business records to be produced either by specifically describing each individual item or by reasonably particularizing each category of item…” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.410, subd. (a).) A deposition subpoena for the production of business documents need not be accompanied by an affidavit of good cause and must be directed at the custodian of records or other person qualified to certify those documents. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.410, subd. (c).) The responding party must comply with a deposition subpoena on a date that is no earlier than 20 days after the issuance or 15 days after service of the subpoena, whichever is later. (Id.)   A deposition subpoena is enforceable under Code of Civil Procedure section 1987.1. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.030.) After notice and opportunity to be heard, the Court may issue an order quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance with it upon terms and conditions as the Court may declare. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1, subd. (d).) Courts also have the authority to protect the responding person from unreasonable or oppressive demands, including unreasonable violations of the right of privacy of the person. (Id.) In this case, Plaintiff contends decedent Chan had a history of street racing, crashes and speeding violations. Plaintiff argues Chan was street racing when he lost control of the vehicle, which killed Chan, and injured two passengers of the vehicle, one of which was Plaintiff. Plaintiff contends Defendant Dong’s insurer may have information pertaining to notice that Dong negligently entrusted the vehicle to Chan, because Chan received two speeding tickets in Dong’s BMW 7 months before the subject crash. Defendants aver that Defendant Dong was not present at the time of the incident, but that Dong provided to decedent Chan permission to drive a blue Tesla Model Y, the specific vehicle involved in the incident. Plaintiff contends Chan hit a dip in the road, causing him to lose control of the vehicle. Plaintiff was an unrestrained passenger in the subject Tesla, and was ejected from the vehicle.  The deposition subpoenas to Dong’s insurer seeks documents related to Dong’s insurance coverage generally, and claims, collisions, or citations related to two vehicles owned by Dong. The Court examines each request objected to by Defendants.  Document Requests 1-7 Request 1 seeks, “Any and all DOCUMENTS, including any and all policies and correspondence, pertaining to insured DONG (owner of insurance policy No. 2007924398).”  Request 2 seeks, “Any and all DOCUMENTS, including any and all policies and correspondence, pertaining to a 2020 BMW with License Plate No. 8RGN407, owned by DONG from about 2019 to 2022.” Request 3 seeks, “Any and all DOCUMENTS pertaining to Dylan Tszking Chan (DOB: 3/22/2000), including but not limited to any citations, claims, and/or collisions from about 2018 to 2022.” Request 4 seeks, “Any and all DOCUMENTS indicating insurance coverage in force and effect for DONG’s 2020 BMW with License Plate No. 8RGN407, from January 1, 2019 to present.” Request 5 seeks, “Any and all DOCUMENTS indicating insurance coverage in force and effect for DONG’s 2020 Tesla Model Y, License Plate No. 8SZR339, from January 1, 2019 to present.” Request 6 seeks, “Any and all DOCUMENTS relating to any insurance claims involving DONG’s 2020 BMW with License Plate No. 8RGN407, from January 1, 2019 to present.” Request 7 seeks, “Any and all DOCUMENTS relating to any insurance claims involving DONG’s 2020 Tesla Model Y, License Plate No. 8SZR339, from January 1, 2019 to present.”  As to each of the above requests, except for request 3, the Court agrees that the requests are overly broad and encompass information not relevant to the subject action. Specifically, the requests are not limited to claims related to use of a vehicle by decedent Chan, and/or are not limited to a time period relevant to the date of the subject incident. In terms of Defendants’ contention regarding the BMW, which was not involved in the incident, narrowly tailored document requests may potentially lead to admissible evidence to support Plaintiff’s allegations that Dong permitted Chan use of Dong’s vehicle despite knowledge of Chan’s unfitness to drive.   Therefore, the Court orders the following: National is ordered to produce documents responsive to Request 3. National is ordered to produce documents responsive to Requests 1, 2, 6, and 7 in part, limited as follows:  Requests 1, 2, 6, and 7 are limited to documents related to raised insurance rates, speeding tickets, insurance claims, and/or correspondence for use of either the 2020 Tesla Model Y, bearing License Plate No. 8SZR339, and/or 2020 BMW bearing License Plate No. 8RGN407, specifically related to Dylan Tszking Chan from the years January 1, 2019 to the present day.  National is ordered to produce documents responsive to Request 5, but limited to only the applicable period providing insurance coverage for the date of the incident, February 21, 2021.  Request 4 is not relevant. Therefore, the request to compel compliance with Request 4 is denied.   III. Conclusion For the foregoing reasons, Plaintiff’s Motion to compel compliance with deposition subpoena for production of business records is GRANTED IN PART. Non-party National General Premier Insurance Company is ordered to produce documents responsive to the Subpoena as discussed herein.   Plaintiff is ordered to give notice.    PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the Court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 24th day of October 2023      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court   