 Case Number:  24STCV07612    Hearing Date:   January 9, 2025    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




matthew arnold

   ;
 


   Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
brent zacky, d/b/a zacky
   family partnership

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


24STCV07612




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


January
   9, 2025




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[tentative]
  Order RE:
 
defendants’ special motion to strike and
  request for attorney’s fees
 



 
MOVING PARTIES:              Defendants Zacky Family
Partnership (erroneously sued and served as Brent Zacky d/b/a Zacky Family
Partnership, and Hayden A. Zacky, d/b/a Zacky Family Partnership), and Brent
Zacky, as trustee of the Ronald A. and Sandra L. Zacky Family Trust
(erroneously sued and served as Hayden A. Zacky as trustee of the H and B Zacky
Deed Trust)
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiff Matthew Arnold
Special Motion to Strike and Request for Attorney’s Fees
The court
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers filed in connection with
this motion. 
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
The court grants defendants Zacky
Family Partnership (erroneously sued and served as Brent Zacky d/b/a Zacky
Family Partnership, and Hayden A. Zacky, d/b/a Zacky Family Partnership), and
Brent Zacky, as trustee of the Ronald A. and Sandra L. Zacky Family Trust
(erroneously sued and served as Hayden A. Zacky as trustee of the H and B Zacky
Deed Trust)’s request for judicial notice. 
(Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (d).) 
The court exercises its discretion to consider and grant the request
for judicial notice filed by plaintiff Matthew Arnold on January 6, 2025, as to
Exhibits 2 and 10, because the parties have referenced the filing of the actions
and content of the complaints filed therein in their moving and opposition papers.  (Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (d); Mot., p. 3:22-25,
4:1-3; Opp., pp. 2:7-8, 9:1-3.) 
The court sustains defendants Zacky
Family Partnership (erroneously sued and served as Brent Zacky d/b/a Zacky
Family Partnership, and Hayden A. Zacky, d/b/a Zacky Family Partnership), and
Brent Zacky, as trustee of the Ronald A. and Sandra L. Zacky Family Trust
(erroneously sued and served as Hayden A. Zacky as trustee of the H and B Zacky
Deed Trust)’s objection to the remaining exhibits set forth in plaintiff
Matthew Arnold’s request for judicial notice, filed on January 6, 2025 and
served on January 5, 2025, and therefore denies the request for judicial notice
as to those exhibits because the request was not filed and served at least nine
court days before the hearing on this motion. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1005, subd. (b); Pl. Req. for Judicial Notice, p.
186 [proof of service on January 5, 2025].) 
DISCUSSION
Plaintiff Matthew Arnold (“Plaintiff”) filed the operative First
Amended Complaint in this action on September 30, 2024 against defendants Brent
Zacky, d/b/a Zacky Family Partnership, Hayden A. Zacky, d/b/a Zacky Family
Partnership, and Hayden A. Zacky, as trustee of the H and B Zacky Deed Trust.
Defendants Zacky Family Partnership (erroneously sued and served as
Brent Zacky d/b/a Zacky Family Partnership, and Hayden A. Zacky, d/b/a Zacky
Family Partnership), and Brent Zacky, as trustee of the Ronald A. and Sandra L.
Zacky Family Trust (erroneously sued and served as Hayden A. Zacky as trustee
of the H and B Zacky Deed Trust) (“Defendants”) now move the court for an order
striking Plaintiff’s eighth cause of action for malicious prosecution and any
references to the prior unlawful detainer actions, as set forth in paragraphs
32-51 and 94, subdivision (d) and (e) of the First Amended Complaint, pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure section 425.16, also known as the anti-SLAPP
(“strategic lawsuit against public participation”) statute. 
¿“The anti-SLAPP procedures are designed to shield a defendant’s
constitutionally protected conduct from the undue burden of frivolous
litigation.”¿ (Baral v. Schnitt (2016) 1 Cal.5th 376, 393.)¿ “The
anti-SLAPP statute does not insulate defendants from any liability for claims
arising from the protected rights of petition or speech.¿ It only provides a
procedure for weeding out, at an early stage, meritless claims arising from
protected activity.”¿ (Id. at p. 384.)¿¿“Resolution of an anti-SLAPP
motion involves two steps.¿ First, the defendant must establish that the
challenged claim arises from activity protected by section 425.16.¿ If the
defendant makes the required showing, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to
demonstrate the merit of the claim by establishing a probability of success.”¿
(Ibid. [citation omitted].)¿ The California Supreme Court has “described
this second step as a ‘summary-judgment-like procedure.’¿ The court does not
weigh evidence or resolve conflicting factual claims.¿ Its inquiry is limited
to whether the plaintiff has stated a legally sufficient claim and made a prima
facie factual showing sufficient to sustain a favorable judgment.¿ It accepts
the plaintiff’s evidence as true, and evaluates the defendant’s showing only to
determine if it defeats the plaintiff’s claim as a matter of law.¿ ‘[C]laims
with the requisite minimal merit may proceed.’”¿ (Id. at pp. 384-385
[citations omitted].)¿ 
1.    
First Prong: Protected Activity
As set forth above, courts analyze special motions to strike under a
two-step approach.¿ “Initially, the moving defendant bears the burden of
establishing that the challenged allegations or claims ‘aris[e] from’ protected
activity in which the defendant has engaged.”¿ (Park v. Board of Trustees of
California State University (2017) 2 Cal.5th 1057, 1061.)¿ “[T]he statutory
phrase ‘cause of action…arising from’ means simply that the defendant’s act
underlying the plaintiff’s cause of action must itself have been an act
in furtherance of the right of petition or free speech.¿ [Citation.]¿ In the
anti-SLAPP context, the critical point is whether the plaintiff’s cause of
action itself was based on an act in furtherance of the defendant’s
right of petition or free speech.”¿ (City of Cotati v. Cashman (2002) 29
Cal.4th 69, 78.)¿ The moving defendant will meet this burden by demonstrating
that the plaintiff’s claim fits one of the categories outlined in Code of Civil
Procedure section 425.16, subdivision (e).¿ (Ibid.)¿¿¿ 
The protected acts in furtherance of a defendant’s right of petition
or free speech include:¿¿ 

Any written or oral statement
     or writing made before a legislative, executive, or judicial proceeding,
     or any other official proceeding authorized by law; or¿¿ 


Any written or oral statement
     made in connection with an issue under consideration or review by a
     legislative, executive, or judicial body, or any other official proceeding
     authorized by law; or¿¿ 


Any written or oral statement
     or writing made in a place open to the public or a public forum in
     connection with an issue of public interest; or¿¿¿ 


Any other conduct in
     furtherance of the exercise of the constitutional right of petition or
     free speech in connection with a public issue or an issue of public
     interest.¿¿¿ 

(Code Civ. Proc. § 425.16, subd. (e).)¿¿¿ 
First, the court finds that Defendants have not shown that the
allegations set forth in paragraphs 45 and 52, which request punitive damages
(FAC ¶ 45) and prejudgment interest (FAC ¶ 52), arise from Defendants’
protected activity since those allegations do not describe Defendants’ conduct
and instead pray for relief. 
Second, the court finds that Defendants have shown that the
following claims and allegations arise from Defendants’ protected activity in
making statements before a judicial proceeding: (1) the allegations set forth
in paragraphs 32-37, 46-49, and 94, subdivisions (d) and (e), which allege (i)
facts relating to the filing of the first unlawful detainer action filed on
October 25, 2022 (Case No. 22SMUD01624) (the “First Unlawful Detainer Action”) and
that  (ii) Defendants knew that the First
Unlawful Detainer Action lacked probable cause, prosecuted the Unlawful
Detainer Action for an improper purpose, maliciously prosecuted the Unlawful
Detainer Action, and demonstrated malice during the Unlawful Detainer Action by
committing certain specified conduct, (2) the allegations set forth in
paragraphs 38-40, 43-44, 50-51, and 94, subdivisions (d) and (e), which allege
(i) facts relating to the filing of the subsequent unlawful detainer action (Case
No. 24STUD02832) (the “Second Unlawful Detainer Action”), and (ii) that
Defendants demonstrated malice as to the filing of the Second Unlawful Detainer
Action, and  (3) the eighth cause of
action for malicious prosecution, which alleges that Defendants maliciously
prosecuted both the First Unlawful Detainer Action (FAC ¶ 99) and Second
Unlawful Detainer Action (FAC ¶ 100) (collectively, the “Unlawful Detainer
Actions”).  (Code Civ. Proc., § 425.16,
subd. (e); Winslett v. 1811 27th Avenue, LLC (2018) 26 Cal.App.5th 239,
248 [“The filing of an unlawful detainer complaint is anti-SLAPP protected
activity, as is service of a notice of termination preceding an unlawful
detainer complaint”]; Maleti v. Wickers (2022) 82 Cal.App.5th 181, 200
[“‘[S]ection 425.16 potentially may apply to every malicious prosecution
action, because every such action arises from an underlying lawsuit, or
petition to the judicial branch.  By definition,
a malicious prosecution suit alleges that the defendant committed a tort by
filing a lawsuit.  [Citation.]’”].) 
The court also finds that, to the extent that paragraphs 41 and 42 are
alleged to support the eighth cause of action for malicious prosecution, the
conduct described therein arises from Defendants’ conduct in furtherance of
their right to file the Second Unlawful Detainer Action.  (FAC ¶¶ 41 [alleging that Plaintiff sent a
check for $12,903.03 in rent], 42 [alleging that Defendants’ attorney demanded
Plaintiff provide proof that the check was mailed prior to the expiration of
the three-day notice], 100 [alleging that Defendants are liable for the
malicious prosecution of the Second Unlawful Detainer Action because, inter
alia, Defendants “acted with full knowledge that they had received the full
amount of rent demanded in the 3-Day Notice via check mailed from” Plaintiff].)
 However, those allegations may also
support Plaintiff’s allegation that he performed his legal obligations and
therefore “was not in default of rental obligations” alleged in support of his ninth
cause of action for breach of contract. 
(FAC ¶ 104.)  Thus, if the court
determines that Plaintiff has not demonstrated that his malicious prosecution
claim has merit, the court will strike these paragraphs only to the extent that
they are alleged in support of that claim. 
Third, the court notes that Plaintiff has argued that “retaliatory
eviction is exempt from SLAPP[,]” citing Banuelos v. LA Investment, LLC (2013)
219 Cal.App.4th 323, 335.  (Opp., p.
3:14-15.)  To the extent that Plaintiff
is arguing that Defendants cannot meet their burden on the first prong on the
ground that Banuelos provides that claims alleging retaliatory eviction do
not fall within the scope of the anti-SLAPP statute, the court disagrees.  The Banuelos Court concluded that the
litigation privilege does not bar a tenant from suing a landlord under Civil
Code section 1942.5, and did not hold that such claims are not subject to the
anti-SLAPP statute.  (Banuelos, supra,
219 Cal.App.4th at pp. 333, 335.)  
The court therefore evaluates whether Plaintiff has met his burden to
demonstrate that his claims for malicious prosecution based on Defendants’
filing the Unlawful Detainer Actions have minimal merit. 
2.     Second
Prong: Probability of Prevailing on the Merits
The second prong places the burden on the plaintiff to establish that
there is a probability of prevailing on the challenged claim.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 425.16, subd. (b)(1).)  To satisfy this burden, the plaintiff
must show that the challenged claim is both legally sufficient and supported by
a prima facie showing of facts to sustain a favorable judgment.  (Oliveras
v. Pineda (2019) 40 Cal.App.5th 343, 353.)  “This is a ‘
“summary-judgment-like procedure.” ’  [Citation.]  The pleadings and
evidentiary submissions of both parties are considered [citation], and the
evidence favorable to plaintiffs is accepted as true.  [Citation.] 
Plaintiffs need only establish that their claim has ‘ “minimal merit” ’ to
avoid being stricken as a SLAPP.”  (Ibid. [internal citations
omitted].)  
“To establish a cause of action for malicious prosecution, the
malicious prosecution plaintiff must demonstrate that the prior action was ‘(i)
initiated or maintained by, or at the direction of, the defendant, and pursued
to a legal termination in favor of the malicious prosecution plaintiff; (ii)
initiated or maintained without probable cause; and (iii) initiated or
maintained with malice.’”  (Kinsella v. Kinsella (2020) 45
Cal.App.5th 442, 453, n. 6 [internal italics omitted].)  “If the plaintiff
seeks to recovery monetary relief [on a claim for malicious prosecution], she
[or he] ‘must also prove [(4)] damages.’”  (Gruber v. Gruber (2020)
48 Cal.App.5th 529, 537.) 
A.   
Legal Termination 
The court finds, and Defendants do not appear to dispute, that Plaintiff
has met his burden to make a prima facie showing that the Unlawful Detainer
Actions were each pursued to legal termination in favor of Plaintiff.  (Kinsella, supra, 45
Cal.App.5th at p. 453, n. 6; Arnold Decl., p. 15:6-7 [“The jury found [in] my
favor [on the First Unlawful Detainer Action] determining that the breaches
were unsubstantial and immaterial”]; Arnold Decl., Ex. T, April 17, 2024 Order
in Case No. 24STUD02832, p. 1 [“Ruling on Defendant’s [i.e., Plaintiff’s] Demurrer
[¶] The demurrer is sustained without leave to amend.”].)  
B.   
Lack of Probable Cause
For the reasons set forth below, the court finds that Plaintiff has
not met his burden to make a prima facie showing that Defendants initiated or
maintained the Unlawful Detainer Actions without probable cause.  (Kinsella, supra, 45
Cal.App.5th at p. 453, n. 6.) 
i.                
First Unlawful Detainer Action
Plaintiff contends that Defendants initiated and maintained the First
Unlawful Detainer Action without probable cause “because Defendants knew or
should have known about the agreement between Matt Zacky and [Plaintiff]” and
because Defendants knew that the alleged breaches of the lease were immaterial.  (Opp., p. 9:1-4; Arnold Decl., p. 15:9-13
[the First Unlawful Detainer Action lacked probable cause because Defendants
knew Plaintiff had an agreement in place with Matt Zacky and because Defendants
knew the breaches were immaterial].)  
Plaintiff has alleged that the First Unlawful Detainer Action “alleged
that [Plaintiff] failed to remove his air conditioning unit after being served
with a 3-day notice to abate nuisance or quit.” 
(FAC ¶ 32.)  To establish lack of
probable cause, Plaintiff has asserted that he and Matt Zacky (“Zacky”), the
previous manager of the premises, “made a verbal agreement to install a window
air conditioning unit in the bedroom[,]” such that Defendants lacked probable
cause to seek unlawful detainer against him based on his alleged failure to
remove the air conditioning unit.  (Arnold
Decl., p. 12:20-21; Opp., pp. 7:14-15, 9:1-4.)  
In support of this assertion, Plaintiff has submitted a copy of the October
20, 2022 “Hearing Examiner’s Decision on Rent Decrease Application D-4686,” in
which the Hearing Officer for the Rent Stabilization Division of West Hollywood
concluded—five days before the First Unlawful Detainer Action was filed—that
(1) Plaintiff and Zacky “agreed that [Plaintiff] could install a second air
conditioning appliance in his bedroom at [Plaintiff’s] expense, and that it
would be an internally mounted window unit to avoid having to cut new holes in
the apartment wall[,]” and (2) because the landlord agreed to allow Plaintiff
to purchase and install the second air conditioning appliance, such
installation and use thereof was a housing service provided to Plaintiff.  (Arnold Decl., Ex. O, pp. 23, 25; FAC ¶ 32
[the First Unlawful Detainer Action was filed on October 25, 2022].)  The Hearing Officer further stated “that
reinstallation [of the air conditioning unit] must be done safely by a licensed
contractor at [Plaintiff’s] expense” and that Plaintiff “may restore this
housing service by retaining a licensed contractor to reinstall the bedroom AC
appliance.”  (Arnold Decl., Ex. O, p.
25.)  The court also notes that Plaintiff
has stated, in his declaration, that he informed Defendants of this verbal
agreement, but that they refused to acknowledge the agreement and thereafter
issued the three-day notice to abate nuisance or quit.  (Arnold Decl., p. 14:13-15.) 
The court finds that this evidence is insufficient to make a prima
facie showing that the First Unlawful Detainer Action lacked probable cause. 
First, the court acknowledges that Plaintiff has presented evidence
that (1) he had a verbal agreement with Zacky permitting him to install the air
conditioning unit, and (2) he informed Defendants of that agreement.  (Arnold Decl., p. 14:13-15.)  However, even accepting these assertions as
true, the court finds that this evidence does not show that Defendants, in
initiating and maintaining the First Unlawful Detainer Action, relied upon
facts which they had no reasonable cause to believe to be true or sought
recovery upon a legal theory that is untenable under the facts known to
him.  (Olivares, supra, 40
Cal.App.5th at p. 353 [on the second prong of the anti-SLAPP analysis, “the
evidence favorable to plaintiffs is accepted as true”]; Kinsella, supra,
45 Cal.App.5th at p. 455 [“A litigant will lack probable cause for his action
either if he relies upon facts which he has no reasonable cause to believe to
be true, or if he seeks recovery upon a legal theory which is untenable under
the facts known to him”] [internal quotation marks and citations
omitted].)  
The Complaint filed in the First Unlawful Detainer Action alleged that
Plaintiff “again installed an air conditioning unit, but did so without
[Defendants’] prior written consent/approval[,]” and was in breach of the
parties’ lease by, inter alia, “installing an air conditioner without
[Defendants’] permission and without using a licensed, insured
professional[.]”  (Pl. RJN Ex. 2, First
Unlawful Detainer Action Compl., Attachment No. 17, ¶¶ c, e.)  The First Unlawful Detainer Action was therefore
based on Plaintiff’s alleged breach of the lease by installing an air
conditioning unit (1) without obtaining Defendants’ written consent, and
(2) without using a licensed professional. 
(Ibid.)  Thus, Plaintiff
has not shown that Defendants’ knowledge of Plaintiff’s verbal prior agreement
with Zacky is sufficient to make a prima facie showing that Defendants based
the First Unlawful Detainer Action on facts which they had no reasonable cause
to believe to be true, since the First Unlawful Detainer Action was based on
allegations that were not inconsistent with their knowledge of such verbal agreement
(i.e., because the First Amended Complaint was based on allegations that
Plaintiff breached the lease by failing to obtain written, rather than verbal,
consent, and failing to install the air conditioner with a licensed
professional). 
Second, the court acknowledges that, as set forth above, Plaintiff
submitted evidence showing that the Hearing Officer concluded that Plaintiff
and Zacky agreed that Plaintiff could install an air conditioning unit, and
that such installation must be completed by a licensed contractor.  (Arnold Decl., Ex. O, p. 25.)  However, Plaintiff did not (1) present
argument or authority establishing that the findings by the Hearing Officer had
preclusive effect on Defendants or otherwise prevented them from filing the
First Unlawful Detainer Action, such that Plaintiff has not made a prima facie
showing that Defendants sought recovery upon a legal theory untenable under the
facts known to them, and (2) show that Defendants’ knowledge of the Hearing
Officer’s decision and findings is sufficient to make a prima facie showing
that Defendants initiated and maintained the First Unlawful Detainer Action
based on facts which they had no reasonable cause to believe to be true since
the First Unlawful Detainer Action was based on allegations that (i) Plaintiff
did not have written consent to install the air conditioner, which is not
inconsistent with this decision, and (ii) the air conditioning unit was not
installed by a licensed contractor as required, which is not inconsistent with
this decision.  (Kinsella, supra,
45 Cal.App.5th at p. 455; Pl. RJN Ex. 2, First Unlawful Detainer Action Compl.,
Attachment No. 17, ¶¶ c, e.)  
Third, Plaintiff has not made a prima facie showing that Defendants
knew that the alleged breaches of lease were immaterial, such that Defendants
lacked probable cause to initiate and maintain the First Unlawful Detainer
Action.  Although Plaintiff has stated that
fact in his declaration, Plaintiff did not lay a foundation for that fact and
does not have personal knowledge thereof. 
(Arnold Decl., p. 15:10-11.)  
Thus, for the reasons set forth above, the court finds that Plaintiff
has not met his burden to make a prima facie showing that Defendants initiated
and/or maintained the First Unlawful Detainer Action without probable cause. 
ii.              
Second Unlawful Detainer Action
Plaintiff contends that Defendants initiated the Second Unlawful
Detainer Action without probable cause because (1) Plaintiff paid the due rent
by sending a check, by mail, to the address that was in the three-day notice,
and (2) the three-day notice was defective. 
The court finds that Plaintiff has not shown that the Second Unlawful
Detainer Action lacked probable cause on those grounds. 
First, the court finds that Plaintiff did not support his assertion
that he paid the owed rental monies due within three days of Defendants’
issuance of the three-day notice to pay rent or quit. 
Defendants issued a “Three-day Notice to Pay Rent or Quit [¶]]
(Nonpayment of Rent)” to Plaintiff on February 6, 2024, demanding that
Plaintiff pay the amount due within three days (excluding Saturdays, Sundays,
and other judicial holidays).[1]  (Arnold Decl., Ex. Q, pp. 1, 2.) Plaintiff
asserts that he sent the owed rent via a check, but did not state the date on
which he mailed the check in his declaration. 
(Arnold Decl., p. 15:22-24.) 
Plaintiff has also attached a copy of an email, dated February 9, 2024,
in which Plaintiff stated he was “letting [Defendants] know that the check was
sent yesterday.”  (Arnold Decl., Ex. R,
p. 1.)  However, the attached page,
entitled “This payment is processing[,]” states that “[p]ayment check was sent
to Zacky Family Partnership on Feb 15, 2024 for estimated delivery on
Feb 15, 2024.”  (Arnold Decl., Ex. R, p.
2 [emphasis added].)  Plaintiff did not
address this discrepancy in his opposition. 
Thus, Plaintiff’s own evidence appears to show that he did not pay the
owed rent within three days after issuance of the three-day notice to pay rent
or quit, and instead shows that he paid the owed rent on February 15, 2024,
which is more than three days (excluding holidays and weekends) after issuance
of the February 6, 2024 notice to pay rent or quit.  The court therefore finds that Plaintiff has
not made a prima facie showing that the Second Unlawful Detainer Action was
based on facts that Defendants had no reasonable cause to believe to be true or
was legally untenable.  (Kinsella,
supra, 45 Cal.App.5th 422, 455.) 
Second, the court finds that Plaintiff has not shown that Defendants’
initiating the Second Unlawful Detainer Action lacked probable cause on the
ground that the underlying court found that the notice was defective.  Plaintiff did not submit evidence
establishing that Defendants knew or should have known that the notice was
defective, such that Plaintiff has not shown that they initiated or maintained
the Second Unlawful Detainer Action without probable cause.  (Kinsella, supra, 45
Cal.App.5th at p. 455.)  The court
further notes that “[a] prior action was not initiated without probable cause
merely because it was ultimately found to lack merit . . . .”[2]  (Gruber, supra, 48 Cal.App.5th
at pp. 537-538.) 
Thus, for the reasons set forth above, the court finds that Plaintiff
has not met his burden to make a prima facie showing that Defendants initiated
and/or maintained the Second Unlawful Detainer Action without probable cause. 
C.   
The Court Grants Defendants’ Special Motion
to Strike
Based on the findings set forth above, the court finds that (1)
Defendants have met their burden to show that (i) the allegations set forth in
paragraphs 32-40, 43-44, 46-49, 50-51, and 94, subdivisions (d) and (e), (ii) the
allegations set forth in paragraphs 41 and 42 (to the extent that they are
alleged in support of the malicious prosecution cause of action), and (iii) the
eighth cause of action for malicious prosecution arise from Defendants’
protected activity, and (2) Plaintiff has not met his burden to show that there
is a probability that Plaintiff will prevail on those claims.  
The court therefore grants Defendants’ special motion to strike and
orders that those claims are stricken. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 425.16, subd. (b)(1).) 
D.   
Request for Attorney’s Fees
Defendants request that the court award attorney’s fees in their favor
and against Plaintiff in the amount of $2,460. 
The court grants Defendants’ request. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 425.16, subd. (c)(1).) 
“[A] prevailing defendant on a special motion to strike shall be
entitled to recover that defendant’s attorney’s fees and costs.”  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 425.16, subd. (c)(1); RGC Gaslamp, LLC v. Ehmcke Sheet Metal
Co., Inc. (2020) 56 Cal.App.5th 413, 447 [“A defendant that prevails on an
anti-SLAPP motion to strike is generally entitled to recover attorney’s fees
and costs”].)  “It is well established that ‘[t]he amount of an attorney
fee award under the anti-SLAPP statute is computed by the trial court in accordance
with the familiar “lodestar” method.  [Citation.]  Under that method,
the court “tabulates the attorney fee touchstone, or lodestar, by multiplying
the number of hours reasonably expended by the reasonably hourly rate
prevailing in the community for similar work.  [Citations.]” ’”  (569
East County Boulevard LLC v. Backcountry Against the Dump, Inc. (2016) 6
Cal.App.5th 426, 432.)   
The court finds that Defendants have shown that (1) a reasonable
hourly rate for Defendants’ counsel is $200 per hour, and (2) Defendants’
counsel reasonably expended 12 hours to prepare the pending motion, review the
opposition and prepare a reply, and to appear at the hearing on this
motion.  (Tetzlaff Decl., ¶ 3.)  Thus, the court finds that Defendants have
established a lodestar amount of $2,400. 
(Ibid.)  The court further
finds that Defendants have shown that they incurred $60 in costs to file this
motion.  (Ibid.)  The court therefore grants Defendants’
request for attorney’s fees and costs in the total amount of $2,460.
The court denies Plaintiff’s request for attorney’s fees against
Defendants because Plaintiff did not prevail on the special motion to
strike.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 425.16,
subd. (c)(1).) 
ORDER
            The court grants defendants Zacky Family Partnership
(erroneously sued and served as Brent Zacky d/b/a Zacky Family Partnership, and
Hayden A. Zacky, d/b/a Zacky Family Partnership), and Brent Zacky, as trustee
of the Ronald A. and Sandra L. Zacky Family Trust (erroneously sued and served
as Hayden A. Zacky as trustee of the H and B Zacky Deed Trust)’s  special motion to strike and request for
attorney’s fees as follows.
            Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
section 425.16, the court orders that the following is stricken from plaintiff
Matthew Arnold’s First Amended Complaint: (1) paragraphs 32-40, 43-44, 46-49,
50-51, and 94, subdivisions (d) and (e), (2) paragraphs 41 and 42 (to the
extent that they are alleged in support of the malicious prosecution cause of
action), and (3) the eighth cause of action for malicious prosecution.
            The court orders that defendants Zacky Family Partnership
(erroneously sued and served as Brent Zacky d/b/a Zacky Family Partnership, and
Hayden A. Zacky, d/b/a Zacky Family Partnership), and Brent Zacky, as trustee
of the Ronald A. and Sandra L. Zacky Family Trust (erroneously sued and served
as Hayden A. Zacky as trustee of the H and B Zacky Deed Trust) shall recover
from plaintiff Matthew Arnold attorney’s fees and costs in the amount of $2,460
pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 425.16, subdivision (c)(1).
            The court orders defendants Zacky
Family Partnership (erroneously sued and served as Brent Zacky d/b/a Zacky
Family Partnership, and Hayden A. Zacky, d/b/a Zacky Family Partnership), and
Brent Zacky as trustee of the Ronald A. and Sandra L. Zacky Family Trust
(erroneously sued and served as Hayden A. Zacky as trustee of the H and B Zacky
Deed Trust) to give notice of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
DATED:  January 9, 2025
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court


