 Case Number:  24STCV16981    Hearing Date:   January 9, 2025    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




amanda swuilius

   , et al.;
 


   Plaintiffs,
 
 
vs.
 
 
haely sawyer, a/k/a haely
   carney

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


24STCV16981




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


January
   9, 2025




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[tentative]
  Order RE:
 
specially appearing defendant’s motion to
  quash service of summons
 



 
MOVING PARTY:                 Specially appearing defendant
Joselyn Ancheta        
 
RESPONDING PARTIES:     Plaintiffs Amanda Swulius, Bunny’s Buddies,
and The Organic Bunny Inc.
Motion to Quash Service of Summons
The court
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers filed in connection with
this motion. 
DISCUSSION
Specially appearing defendant Joselyn Ancheta (“Defendant”) moves the
court for an order quashing service of the summons and complaint in this action
filed by plaintiffs Amanda Swulius (“Swulius”), Bunny’s Buddies (“Bunny’s”),
and The Organic Bunny Inc. (“Organic Bunny”) (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) on
the ground that the court lacks general and specific personal jurisdiction over
Defendant. 
“A court of this state may exercise jurisdiction on any basis not
inconsistent with the Constitution of this state or of the United
States.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §¿410.10.)  “Under those Constitutions,
jurisdiction is proper if a defendant has minimum contacts with California such
that a suit in the state does not offend traditional notions of fair play and
substantial justice.”  (Farina v. SAVWCL III, LLC (2020) 50
Cal.App.5th 286, 294.)  “A defendant, on or before the last day of his or
her time to plead or within any further time that the court may for good cause
allow, may serve and file a notice of motion . . . [¶] (1)  To quash
service of summons on the ground of lack of jurisdiction of the court over him
or her.”  (Code Civ. Proc.,¿§ 418.10, subd. (a)(1).)  
“‘When a defendant moves to quash service of process on jurisdictional
grounds, the plaintiff has the initial burden of demonstrating facts justifying
the exercise of jurisdiction.  [Citation.]  Once facts showing
minimum contacts with the forum state are established, however, it becomes the
defendant’s burden to demonstrate that the exercise of jurisdiction would be
unreasonable.  [Citation.]’”  (Burdick v. Superior Court (2015)
233 Cal.App.4th 8, 17.)   “‘Personal jurisdiction may be either
general or specific.  A nonresident defendant may be subject to the
general jurisdiction of the forum if his or her contacts in the forum state are
“substantial . . . continuous and systematic.”’”  (Jayone Foods, Inc.
v. Aekyung Industrial Co. Ltd. (2019) 31 Cal.App.5th 543, 553.) 
Alternatively, to determine whether specific jurisdiction exists, “‘courts
consider the “ ‘relationship among the defendant, the forum, and the
litigation.’ ”  [Citation.]’”  (Ibid.)  
As a threshold matter, the court notes that Plaintiffs do not appear
to argue, and therefore have not met their burden to establish, that the court
has general jurisdiction over Defendant, who is alleged to reside in
Texas.  (Burdick, supra,
223 Cal.App.4th at p. 17 [the plaintiff has the initial burden to demonstrate
facts justifying jurisdiction]; FAC ¶ 22; Sacramento Suncreek Apartments,
LLC v. Cambridge Advantaged Properties II, L.P. (2010) 187 Cal.App.4th 1, 9
[“‘General jurisdiction exists when a defendant is domiciled in the forum state
or his activities there are substantial, continuous, and systematic’”].)  Plaintiffs did not, for example, submit
evidence establishing that Defendant resides in California.  Thus, the court evaluates whether Plaintiffs
have shown that Defendant is subject to the specific jurisdiction of the court.

The court finds that Plaintiffs have not shown that Defendant
purposefully availed herself of forum benefits under the effects test and
therefore have not met their burden to show that the court has specific
jurisdiction over Defendant.  
“‘A court may exercise specific jurisdiction over a nonresident
defendant only if: (1) “the defendant has purposefully availed himself or
herself of forum benefits” [citation]; (2) “the ‘controversy is related to or
“arises out of” [the] defendant’s contacts with the forum’ ” [citation]; and
(3) “ ‘the assertion of personal jurisdiction would comport with “fair play and
substantial justice” ’ ” [citation].’”¿ (Jayone Foods, Inc., supra,
31 Cal.App.5th at p. 553.)¿  
 “[I]n libel, defamation, and
some other intentional tort cases, courts have applied an ‘effects test’ to
assess the purposeful availment requirement.”  (Strasner v. Touchstone
Wireless Repair & Logistics, LP (2016) 5 Cal.App.5th 215, 227; DVI,
Inc. v. Superior Court (2002) 104 Cal.App.4th 1080, 1098 [“Personal
jurisdiction can be based upon tortious conduct outside of California that is
expressly aimed at causing tortious effects in this state”].)  The effects
test “requires ‘evidence of express aiming or intentional targeting’
[citation], in addition to ‘the defendant’s knowledge that his intentional
conduct would cause harm in the forum [citation].”  (Burdick, supra,
233 Cal.App.4th at p. 20 [internal citations omitted]; DVI, Inc., supra,
104 Cal.App.4th at pp. 1098-1099 [“‘additional evidence of express aiming or
intentional targeting’ is required to establish jurisdiction under the effects
test”].)  
            Plaintiffs contend that Defendant’s
actions were directed at California because that is the state in which Bunny’s
is headquartered and where its operations are based.  (Opp., p. 3:8-9.)  As a threshold matter, the court notes that
Plaintiffs did not present evidence to support that fact.  Plaintiff Swulius did not, for example, state
in her declaration that Bunny’s is headquartered in California and bases its
operations out of California, nor did she attach an exhibit to her declaration
to establish that fact.  (Swulius Decl.,
¶¶ 1-8.)  While the court acknowledges
that Plaintiffs have alleged, in their operative First Amended Complaint, that
Bunny’s is a California nonprofit public benefit corporation (FAC ¶ 2),[1]
in opposition to a motion to quash based on lack of personal jurisdiction, a
“plaintiff must come forward with affidavits and other competent evidence to
carry this burden [to prove jurisdiction] and cannot simply rely on allegations
in an unverified complaint.”  (ViaView,
Inc. v. Retzlaff (2016) 1 Cal.App.5th 198, 210.)  
Thus, Plaintiffs have not submitted evidence to support the
foundational fact that they reside or are headquartered in California, such
that Plaintiffs have not shown that they each “felt the brunt of the harm
caused by [the tort allegedly committed by Defendant] in the forum state such
that the forum state was the focal point of [Plaintiffs’] injury[.]”  (Burdick, supra, 233 Cal.App.4th
at p. 19.)
However, even if Plaintiffs had submitted evidence establishing that
they are residents of California, are headquartered in California, or conduct
operations in California, the court finds that Plaintiffs have not shown that
Defendant, in making the subject posts and statements online, expressly aimed
her conduct at California.  
First, the “mere posting of defamatory comments on the Internet, even
with the knowledge that the plaintiff is in the forum state, is not enough to
establish personal jurisdiction.”  (Dongxiao
Yue v. Wenbin Yang (Yue) (2021) 62 Cal.App.5th 539,
547.)  Here, the evidence does not show
that Defendant “even [had] the knowledge that [Plaintiffs] [are] in the forum
state,” since (1) as set forth above, Plaintiffs did not present evidence of
the foundational facts relating to the domiciles of Plaintiffs, and (2) although
Plaintiffs cited “Exhibit ‘M’” to argue that Defendant followed Bunny’s on
Instagram, which “regularly posted about its California headquarters and
ongoing needs within the state[,]” Plaintiffs did not attach an Exhibit “M” to
Swulius’s declaration, and therefore have not shown that Defendant knew that
some or all of Plaintiffs were in California. 
(Opp., p. 4:9-11; Swulius Decl., Exs. A-K.) 
Second, the court acknowledges that “specific jurisdiction may be
established under the effects test where a defendant sends ‘California-focused’
social media messages ‘directly’ to California residents ‘with knowledge the
recipients [are] California residents’ for the alleged purpose of causing
reputational injury there.”  (Yue,
supra, 62 Cal.App.5th at p. 547.) 
However, the court finds that Plaintiffs did not show that Defendant’s
posts were “California-focused” and had the purpose of causing reputational
injury in California.  
The court has reviewed the statements allegedly made by Defendant online,
as attached to the declaration of plaintiff Swulius as Exhibits A through I.  (Burdick, supra, 233
Cal.App.4th at p. 24 [“‘[w]here conspiracy is alleged, an exercise of personal
jurisdiction must be based on forum-related acts that were personally committed
by each nonresident defendant’”]; FAC ¶¶ 97-100 [alleging conspiracy against
Defendant].)  While these statements made
references to Plaintiffs, none of those statements referenced California or
were California-focused.  (Swulius Decl.,
Exs. A, p. 1 [comment that Defendant, inter alia, wanted Swulius to go
away, did not trust Swulius, and believed that someone needed to take over
Bunny’s], B, p. 1 [comment that Swulius’ antics prevented people from wanting
to adopt the dog Mars and taking issue with the running of Bunny’s], C, p. 1
[commenting on content of Bunny’s Instagram story], D, p. 1 [commenting about
Defendant’s dislike of Swulius and her conduct in running Bunny’s], E, p. 1 [posting
that comments should be made only if the speaker knows that the information is
true or false], F, p. 1 [Defendant’s statements made, inter alia, in commenting
in response to Bunny’s comments, that Bunny’s “can sue anyone for anything in
this world[,]” questioning “exactly where [Defendant] threatened” Bunny’s and
asserting that “No one is threatening physical violence on you,” stating that
Bunny’s is pathological], G, p. 1 [commenting on Plaintiffs’ conduct in having
a lawyer send cease and desists letters because of the subject subreddit], H,
p. 1 [messages regarding an SEO position above Plaintiffs’ website], I, p. 1
[commenting that Swulius shames and attacks potential adopters if they ask her
questions about dogs’ behaviors].)  
Thus, the content of Defendant’s statements did not concern California,
such that Plaintiffs have not shown that the content of Defendant’s statements
created a connection to California.  (Swulius
Decl., Exs. A-I; Yue, supra, 62 Cal.App.5th at pp. 547-548
[“Plaintiff also offered competent evidence that Yang’s posts had a California
focus: Yang threatened to ‘bully’ plaintiff in California and communicated his
plan to travel to San Francisco.  Yang
also announced that he had ‘arrived in California’ and urged his
‘collaborators’ to join him”]; Zehia v. Superior Court (2020) 45
Cal.App.5th 543, 557 [finding that “the allegedly defamatory conversations had
a distinct California focus” because the alleged conversations stated that the
plaintiff “ruined the reputation of Chaldean women in San Diego” and referenced
the arranged introduction of the plaintiff and a third party “which occurred in
San Diego”].)
The court further finds that Plaintiffs did not show that the
reputation-based effects of the defamatory statements allegedly posted by
Defendant connected Defendant to California. 
(Burdick, supra, 233 Cal.App.4th at p. 25 [“‘The crux of Calder
was the reputation-based ‘effects’ of the alleged libel connected the
defendants to California, not just to the plaintiff’”].)  Plaintiffs did not submit evidence showing
that the statements made online were “expressly aimed or intentionally targeted
at California[,]” or that the Reddit forum pages “had a California audience” or
a significant number of people who might see the subject postings online lived
in California.  (Ibid.)  Plaintiffs also did not present evidence
showing that their alleged injuries occurred only when Defendant’s statements
were transmitted to a California audience. 
(Zehia, supra, 45 Cal.App.5th at p. 557 [“the alleged
reputational injury to [the plaintiff] occurred only when the defamatory statements
were transmitted to California residents”].) 
            For the reasons set forth above, the
court finds that Plaintiffs have not met their burden to show that Defendant “committed
an intentional act, expressly aimed at or targeting [California], with the
knowledge that [her] act would cause harm in the state[,]” and therefore have
not met their burden to show that Defendant purposefully availed herself of
forum benefits.  (Strasner, supra,
5 Cal.App.5th at pp. 227, 229.)  
Thus, the court finds that Plaintiffs have not met their burden to “‘demonstrat[e]
facts justifying the exercise of jurisdiction’” over Defendant.  (Burdick, supra, 233
Cal.App.4th at p. 17 [internal citations omitted].)  The court therefore grants Defendant’s motion
to quash service of summons. 
ORDER
            The court grants specially appearing
defendant Jocelyn Ancheta’s motion to quash service of summons. 
            The court orders that service of
summons on specially appearing defendant Jocelyn Ancheta is quashed. 
            The court orders that specially
appearing defendant Jocelyn Ancheta is dismissed from this action.  
            The court orders specially appearing
defendant Jocelyn Ancheta to give notice of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  January 9, 2025
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court


