 Case Number:  23STCV12724    Hearing Date:   January 9, 2025    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




patricia hernandez de adams

   ;
 


   Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
barrett business services,
   inc.

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


23STCV12724




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


January
   9, 2025




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[tentative]
  Order RE:
 
(1)  
  defendant’s
  motion to compel arbitration
(2)  
  defendant’s
  joinder to motion to compel arbitration
 



 
MOVING PARTIES:              Defendant Barrett Business
Services, Inc., joined by defendant Michael Kors (USA), Inc. on December 13,
2024    
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Unopposed
Motion to Compel Arbitration
The court
considered the moving and joinder papers filed in connection with this motion.  No opposition papers were filed. 
DISCUSSION
Defendant Barrett Business Services, Inc. (“Defendant”) moves the
court for an order   (1) compelling
plaintiff Patricia Hernandez de Adams (“Plaintiff”) to submit her claims to
binding arbitration, and (2) staying this action pending completion of
arbitration.[1]  
On December 13, 2024, defendant Michael Kors (USA), Inc. (“Joining
Defendant”) filed its joinder to Defendant’s motion.
1.    
Applicability of the Federal
Arbitration Act
As a threshold matter, the court finds that Defendant has not met its
burden to show that the Federal Arbitration Act (9 U.S.C. § 1 et seq.) (the
“FAA”) governs this motion.  (Evenskaas v. California Transit, Inc. (2022)
81 Cal.App.5th 285, 292 [“The party asserting the FAA applies to an agreement
has ‘the burden to demonstrate FAA coverage by declarations and other
evidence’”] [internal citation omitted].)
“‘The FAA’s basic coverage provision, section 2, makes the FAA
applicable to contracts “evidencing a transaction involving commerce.”  (9
U.S.C. § 2.)  Courts broadly construe section 2 to “provide for the
enforcement of arbitration agreements within the full reach of the Commerce
Clause.”  [Citation.]  “Accordingly, in most cases, the FAA mandates
arbitration when contracts involving interstate commerce contain arbitration
provisions.” ’  [Citations.]”  (Mendoza v. Trans Valley Transport
(2022) 75 Cal.App.5th 748, 761-762; 9 U.S.C. § 2 [“A written provision in . . .
a contract evidencing a transaction involving commerce” to arbitrate a
controversy shall be valid, irrevocable, and enforceable, save upon such
grounds as exist at law or in equity for revocation of any contract].) 
“The United States Supreme Court has identified ‘three categories of activity
that Congress may regulate under its commerce power: (1) “the use of the
channels of interstate commerce”; (2) “the instrumentalities of interstate
commerce, or persons or things in interstate commerce, . . .”; and (3) “those
activities having a substantial relation to interstate commerce, . . . i.e.,
those activities that substantially affect interstate commerce.” ’ 
[Citations.]”  (Evenskaas, supra, 81 Cal.App.5th at p.
293.) 
The court acknowledges that Defendant has presented evidence
establishing that (1) it “provides staffing services to find and place
temporary employees for clients nation-wide[,]” and (2) once hired by Defendant
and assigned to a client, its employees may conduct telephone calls, send mail
and documents, and are placed on assignment across state lines and throughout
the United States.  (Long Decl., ¶ 2.)  However, Defendant did not present evidence
showing that Plaintiff was placed with a client outside of the State of California,
was engaged in arranging employment with companies outside of the State of
California, or conducted work that involving products that were distributed
outside of California or meaningfully engaged in interstate commerce.  Moreover, Plaintiff has alleged that
Defendant hired her to work at Michael Kors’s distribution center in Whittier,
California.  (Compl., ¶ 25.)
Thus, the court finds that Defendant has not shown that the
arbitration agreement executed by and between Defendant, on the one hand, and
Plaintiff, on the other hand, is a contract “evidencing a transaction involving
commerce” and therefore has not met its burden to show that the FAA applies to
this motion.[2]  (9 U.S.C. § 2; Carbajal v. CWPSC, Inc. (2016)
245 Cal.App.4th 227, 239 [the FAA did not apply because the defendant
“presented nothing about the nature of its business or [the plaintiff’s] work
that showed any connection with interstate commerce[,]” and the complaint
“show[ed] [the plaintiff] worked for [the defendant] in California serving
California customers]; Hoover v. American Income Life Ins. Co. (2012)
206 Cal.App.4th 1193, 1207-1208 [although the defendant was based in Texas and
the plaintiff in California, “there was no evidence in the record establishing
that the relationship between [the defendant and the plaintiff] had a specific
effect or ‘bear[ing] on interstate commerce in a substantial way[,]’” including
because the plaintiff did not work in other states or engage in loan activity
that affected interstate commerce by engaging with a bank headquartered in
another state].)  
The court therefore evaluates Defendant’s motion under the California
Arbitration Act.  (Notice of Mot., p.
2:8-9 [moving for relief under the FAA and California Arbitration Act].) 
2.    
Existence of Agreement to Arbitrate 
“On petition of a party to an arbitration agreement alleging the
existence of a written agreement to arbitrate a controversy and that a party to
the agreement refuses to arbitrate that controversy, the court shall order the
petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it determines
that an agreement to arbitrate the controversy exists[,]” unless the court
finds that the right to compel arbitration has been waived by the petitioner or
that grounds exist for rescission of the agreement.¿ (Code Civ. Proc.,
§¿1281.2.)¿¿¿¿  
“‘ “The party seeking to compel arbitration bears the burden of
proving the existence of an arbitration agreement, while the party opposing the
petition bears the burden of establishing a defense to the agreement’s
enforcement.” ’”¿ (Beco v. Fast Auto Loans (2022) 86 Cal.App.5th 292,
302.)¿ To determine the existence of an arbitration agreement, the court uses
“a three-step burden-shifting process.”¿ (Iyere v. Wise Auto Group (2023)
87 Cal.App.5th 747, 755.)¿ “The arbitration proponent must first recite verbatim,
or provide a copy of, the alleged agreement.¿ [Citations.]¿ A movant can bear
this initial burden ‘by attaching a copy of the arbitration agreement
purportedly bearing the opposing party’s signature.’”¿ (Ibid. [internal
citations omitted].)¿ “If the movant bears its initial burden, the burden
shifts to the party opposing arbitration to identify a factual dispute as to
the agreement’s existence . . . .”¿ (Ibid.)¿ If the opposing party meets
its burden to “submit sufficient evidence to create a factual dispute” as to
the existence of the agreement, the burden shifts back to the arbitration
proponent, who retains the ultimate burden of proving its existence by a
preponderance of the evidence.¿ (Ibid.; Gamboa v. Northeast Community
Clinic (2021) 72 Cal.App.5th 158, 165-166.)¿ 
The court finds that Defendant has met its burden to prove the
existence of an arbitration agreement between itself and Plaintiff.  (Beco, supra, 86 Cal.App.5th at
p. 302.) 
Defendant has submitted a copy of the Arbitration Agreement signed by
Plaintiff and an authorized representative of Defendant’s on November 17,
2021.  (Long Decl., Ex. A, Arbitration
Agreement [signed version in Spanish] and Ex. B, Arbitration Agreement [in
English].)  The Arbitration Agreement
states that the parties “agree to arbitrate any disputes, claims, or
controversies (‘claims’) that either party may have against each other . . .
which arise from the application for employment, the employment relationship
between Employee and Employer or the termination thereof.”  (Long Decl., Ex. B, Arbitration Agreement, p.
1.)  The claims that are covered by the
Arbitration Agreement specifically include, inter alia, claims under
California’s Fair Employment and Housing Act, wage and salary claims, and
wrongful discharge claims.  (Ibid.)

Thus, the court finds that Defendant has met its burden to prove that
an arbitration agreement exists between Plaintiff and Defendant.  The court further finds that Defendant has
shown that the Arbitration Agreement encompasses the claims alleged in
Plaintiff’s Complaint, since (1) the Arbitration Agreement applies to claims
arising out of the employment relationship between the parties or the
termination thereof, including claims under the Fair Employment and Housing
Act, wage and hour claims, and wrongful termination causes of action, and (2)
Plaintiff has alleged causes of action for retaliation under the Labor Code,
discrimination, harassment, retaliation, and failure to prevent harassment,
discrimination, or retaliation under the Fair Employment and Housing Act, and
failure to provide employment records, all of which arise out of Plaintiff’s
employment relationship (and termination thereof) with Defendant and Joining
Defendant.  (Long Decl., Ex. B,
Arbitration Agreement, p. 1; Compl., ¶¶ 28, 41, 4450-52, 58-61, 70-74, 79-82, 87-89,
94-97.) 
Plaintiff did not file an opposition to this motion arguing that she
did not sign the Arbitration Agreement or that the Arbitration Agreement is
invalid, unconscionable, or unenforceable for any other reason.[3]  Thus, the court finds that Plaintiff has not
met her burden (1) to identify a factual dispute as to the Arbitration
Agreement’s existence, or (2) to establish a defense to the enforceability of
the Arbitration Agreement.  (Iyere,
supra, 87 Cal.App.5th at p. 755; Beco, supra, 86
Cal.App.5th at p. 302.) 
The court therefore grants Defendant’s motion to compel Plaintiff to
submit her claims against Defendant to binding arbitration. 
 
3.    
Michael Kors’s Joinder to Motion to
Compel Arbitration
Joining Defendant has joined Defendant’s motion to compel arbitration,
requesting that the court further order Plaintiff to submit her claims against Joining
Defendant to binding arbitration.  (Joinder, p. 3:6-9 [Joining Defendant “moves
separately to enforce its right to arbitration Plaintiff’s claims against
Michael Kors, as a client of [Defendant], or alternatively, as a third party
beneficiary of the arbitration agreement Plaintiff signed, and/or under the
doctrine of equitable estoppel”].) 
First, as set forth above, the court has concluded that Defendant has
met its burden to prove that an agreement to arbitrate this action exists
between Defendant, on the one hand, and Plaintiff, on the other hand. 
Second, the court finds that Joining Defendant has met
its burden to show that it may enforce the Arbitration Agreement against
Plaintiff as a nonsignatory. 
“Because arbitration is a matter of contract, the basic rule is that
one must be a party to an arbitration agreement to be bound by it or invoke
it—with limited exceptions.”  (Soltero
v. Precise Distribution, Inc. (2024) 102 Cal.App.5th 887, 892-893.)  The “[t]hird-party beneficiary theory is [an]
exception to the usual rule that only a party to an arbitration agreement may
enforce it.”  (Id. at p.
898.)  “To invoke the third-party
beneficiary exception, the nonsignatory ‘“ha[s] to show that the arbitration
clause . . . was made expressly for [its] benefit.”’”  (Ibid. [internal citations omitted]
[emphasis in original].)  Courts consider
the following three factors to determine whether a party is a third-party
beneficiary of an agreement: “(1) whether the third party would in fact benefit
from the contract, but also (2) whether a motivating purpose of the contracting
parties was to provide a benefit to the third party, and (3) whether permitting
a third party to bring its own breach of contract action against a contracting
party is consistent with the objectives of the contract and the reasonable
expectations of the contracting parties.” 
(Goonewardene v. ADP, LLC (2019) 6 Cal.5th 817, 830.) 
As noted by Joining Defendant, the Arbitration Agreement states that
it was “made by and between employee signed below (‘Employee’) [i.e.,
Plaintiff] and Barret Business Services Inc. [i.e., Defendant] and its
clients (collectively, ‘Employer’ or ‘Company’), (collectively, the
‘Parties’).  (Long Decl., Ex. B,
Arbitration Agreement, p. 1 [emphasis added].)  Joining Defendant is Defendant’s client.  (Long Decl., ¶¶ 6 [“Plaintiff initially
applied for employment with [Defendant] to be staffed at [Defendant’s] client,
[Joining Defendant]”], 9 [“Plaintiff’s assignment with [Defendant’s] client,
[Joining Defendant], ended on July 23, 2022].)  
Thus, the court finds, based on the language of the Arbitration
Agreement naming the class of persons to which Joining Defendant belongs (i.e.,
Defendant’s clients) as a party thereto, that (1) Joining Defendant would, in
fact, benefit from the Arbitration Agreement since it is entitled to compel
arbitration thereunder, (2) a motivating purpose of Plaintiff and Defendant in
executing the Arbitration Agreement was to provide such a benefit to Joining
Defendant, and    (3) permitting Joining
Defendant to compel Plaintiff to submit her claims to arbitration is consistent
with the objectives of the Arbitration Agreement.  (Goonewardene, supra, 6 Cal.5th
at p. 830; Soltero, supra, 102 Cal.App.5th at p. 898.) 
Third, the court finds that Plaintiff has not met her burden (1) to identify
a factual dispute as to the authenticity of the Arbitration Agreement, (2) to
show that the Arbitration Agreement is invalid or unenforceable, and (3) to
show that the third-party beneficiary exception does not apply, since Plaintiff
did not file an opposition to Defendant’s motion or Joining Defendant’s joinder
to the motion. 
Thus, the court grants Joining Defendant’s joinder to Defendant’s
motion to compel arbitration. 
ORDER
The court grants (1) defendant Barrett Business Services, Inc.’s
motion to compel arbitration, and (2) defendant Michael Kors (USA), Inc.’s
joinder to motion to compel arbitration. 
            The court orders (1) plaintiff
Patricia Hernandez de Adams and defendants Barrett Business Services, Inc. and
Michael Kors (USA) Inc. to arbitrate the claims alleged in plaintiff Patricia
Hernandez de Adams’s Complaint, and (2) this action is stayed until arbitration
is completed.
            The court sets an Order to Show
Cause re completion of arbitration for hearing on August 5, 2025, at 8:30 a.m.,
in Department 53.
            The court orders defendants Barrett
Business Services, Inc. and Michael Kors (USA) Inc. to give notice of this
ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  January 9, 2025
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court


