 Case Number:  22STCV02037    Hearing Date:   January 9, 2025    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




carlos duarte

   ;
 


   Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
marquez brothers
   enterprises, inc.

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


22STCV02037




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


January
   9, 2025




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[tentative]
  Order RE:
 
(1)  
  motion
  to be relieved as counsel for defendant diversified staffing services, inc. 
(2)  
  motion
  to be relieved as counsel for cross-defendant diversified staffing services,
  inc.
 



 
MOVING PARTY:                 Thomas Sands
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Unopposed
(1)  
Motion
to be Relieved as Counsel for Defendant Diversified Staffing Services, Inc.
(2)  
Motion
to be Relieved as Counsel for Cross-Defendant Diversified Staffing Services,
Inc.
The court considered
the moving papers filed in connection with each motion.  No opposition papers were filed. 
DISCUSSION
Thomas D. Sands (“Counsel”) separately moves to be relieved as counsel
for Diversified Staffing Services, Inc. (“Diversified Staffing”) in its
capacity as (1) defendant and (2) cross-defendant.  In the interest of efficiency, the court
discusses Counsel’s two motions together. 
“The question of granting or denying an application of an attorney to
withdraw as counsel (Code Civ. Proc., § 284, subd. 2) is one which lies within
the sound discretion of the trial court ‘having in mind whether such withdrawal
might work an injustice in the handling of the case.’”¿ (People v. Prince
(1968) 268 Cal.App.2d 398, 406 [internal quotations omitted].)¿ The court
should also consider whether the attorney’s “withdrawal can be accomplished
without undue prejudice to the client’s interests.”¿ (Ramirez v. Sturdevant (1994)
21 Cal.App.4th 904, 915.)¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿  
For a motion to be relieved as counsel under Code of Civil Procedure
section 284, subdivision (2), California Rules of Court, rule 3.1362 requires
(1) a notice of motion and motion directed to the client (made on the Notice of
Motion and Motion to be Relieved as Counsel -- Civil form (MC-051)); (2) a
declaration stating in general terms and without compromising the
confidentiality of the attorney-client relationship why a motion under Code of
Civil Procedure section 284, subdivision (2) is brought instead of filing a
consent under Code of Civil Procedure section 284, subdivision (1) (made on the
Declaration in Support of Attorney’s Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel -- Civil
form (MC-052)); (3) service of the notice of motion and motion, declaration,
and proposed order on the client and on all other parties who have appeared in
the case; and (4) the proposed order relieving counsel (prepared on the Order
Granting Attorney’s Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel -- Civil form
(MC-053)).¿¿¿¿ 
The court notes the following defects with Counsel’s motions. 
First, Counsel has not filed a proof of service of the motions on
Diversified Staffing as required.  (Cal.
Rules of Ct., rule 3.1300, subd. (c) [“Proof of service of the moving papers
must be filed no later than five court days before the time appointed for the
hearing”].)  While the court acknowledges
that Counsel has stated, in his supporting declarations, that Counsel served
Diversified Staffing with the moving papers filed in connection with each
motion, Counsel did not file a proof of service showing the date and address of
service, such that the court cannot verify that Diversified Staffing was given
sufficient notice of the hearing on these motions.  (MC-052 as to Def. Diversified, ¶ 3, subd.
(a)(2); MC-052 as to Cross-Def. Diversified, ¶ 3, subd. (a)(2).) 
Second, Counsel did not file a proof of service establishing that
Counsel served the pending motions on all other parties who have appeared in
the action as required.  (Cal. Rules of
Ct., rule 3.1362, subd. (d) [the notice of motion, motion, declaration, and
proposed order “must be served on the client and on all other parties who have
appeared in the case”].) 
Third, Counsel has not shown that Counsel gave Diversified Staffing
and all other parties who have appeared in the action notice of the continued
hearing date on the pending motions.
Counsel filed these motions on August 14, 2024, for a hearing date of
December 4, 2024.  (MC-051 as to Def.
Diversified, p. 1; MC-051 as to Cross-Def. Diversified, p. 1.)  On November 22, 2024, the court issued a
“Notice re Continuance of Hearing and Order,” in which the court (1) notified
Counsel that the hearing on the two motions to be relieved as counsel for
Diversified Staffing was continued from December 4, 2024 to January 9, 2025,
and (2) ordered Counsel to give notice of the continuance and to file a proof
of service of the notice of continuance with the court.  (Nov. 22, 2024 Notice re Continuance, pp. 1
[notice], 2 [Cert. of Mailing on Counsel].) 
Counsel did not file a proof of service of the notice of continuance
with the court.[1] 
Thus, Counsel has not shown that he has given Diversified Staffing
notice of the continued hearing date on the motions to be relieved as its
counsel.  The court finds that it is
appropriate, and therefore exercises its discretion, to continue the hearing on
the pending motions to ensure that Diversified Staffing, and all other parties
who have appeared in this action, receive notice of the hearing date on the
motions to be relieved as counsel for Diversified Staffing. 
The court orders that the
hearing on Thomas D. Sands’s (1) motion to be relieved as counsel for defendant
Diversified Staffing Services, Inc., and (2) motion to be relieved as counsel for cross-defendant
Diversified Staffing Services, Inc. is continued to February 14, 2025, at 10:00 a.m., in Department 53. 
The court orders Thomas D.
Sands (1) to serve the moving papers filed in connection with this motion on
all parties who have appeared in this action, and to file a proof of such
service with the court no later than January 16, 2025, and (2) to give notice
of this ruling to Diversified Staffing Services, Inc. and to all other parties
who have appeared in this action, and to file a proof of service of the notice
of ruling with the court no later than January 16, 2025. 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  January 9, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court


