 Case Number:  22STLC01369    Hearing Date:   September 28, 2023    Dept:  25  Mochayoff v. Gordan, et al. 22STLC01369 ANALYSIS:   I.                 Background               Plaintiff  alleges Defendant ordered $13,815.56 worth of customized prescription  lenses.  Plaintiff alleges Defendant  failed to pay for the lenses.     COMPLAINT FILED ON 3-1-22 1st c/a—breach of written contract 2nd c/a—fraud and deceit based upon intentional  misrepresentation 3rd c/a—breach of implied covenant of good faith  and fair dealing 4th c/a—unjust enrichment                II.               Legal Standard             Discovery in a limited  action is permitted only to the extent provided by in Code of Civil Procedure  section 94, which includes any combination of 35 written discovery requests and  one oral or written deposition. (Code Civ. Proc., § 94.) Under Code of Civil  Procedure section 95, subdivision (a),   The  court may, on noticed motion and subject to such terms and conditions as are  just, authorize a party to conduct additional discovery, but only upon a  showing that the moving party will be unable to prosecute or defend the action  effectively without the additional discovery. In making a determination under  this section, the court shall take into account whether the moving party has  used all applicable discovery in good faith, and whether the party has  attempted to secure the additional discovery by stipulation or by means other  than formal discovery.   (Code Civ. Proc., §  95, subd. (a).)   III.             Discussion    Defendant asks that the Court grant  leave to propound additional discovery in the form of:  (1) RFAs (Set One), Form Interrogatories (Set  One), Requests for Production (Set Two) and Special Interrogatories (Set Two).  Defendant argues he attempted to obtain  certain phone records from Plaintiff in discovery that was already propounded  but Plaintiff did not produce these records, claiming that such records did not  exist and/or were not in his possession.   Defendant argues he only discovered the existence of the phone records  after deposing Plaintiff on 6-19-23.   Defendant argues the phone records are crucial to his defense, because  they are the basis for Plaintiff’s fraud claim.      Defendant failed to provide a proof  of service of the motion for additional discovery.  For this reason, the motion is continued.      In addition, the discovery cutoff expired on  7-29-23.  Although the Court granted  Defendant’s ex parte application to continue trial date on 7-14-23, it denied  Defendant’s request to continue the discovery cutoff.  Any request to propound additional discovery  must be preceded by a motion to reopen discovery and discovery motion cut-offs  pursuant to CCP §2024.050.     IV.             Conclusion & Order Defendant’s  Motion for Court Order Requesting  Permission to Conduct Additional Discovery on Plaintiff pursuant to CCP §95(a)  is CONTINUED to OCTOBER 30, 2023 at 10:00 a.m. in DEPARTMENT 25 OF THE SPRING STREET COURTHOUSE to allow Counsel for the moving party time to provide proof of service in conformity with  CCP §§1005, 1013, as discussed herein, at least 16 court days before the next scheduled
hearing.  Failure to do so will result in the Motion being
placed off calendar or denied.   Moving party is  ordered to give notice. 