 Case Number:  21STCV37567    Hearing Date:   November 3, 2023    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


November 3, 2023




CASE NUMBER


21STCV37567




MOTION


Demurrer




MOVING PARTIES


Defendants Soma Surgery Center, Inc.; Melanie Kerr; and
  Sean Ravaei




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff Pericles Chamis



 
MOTION
 
Defendants Soma Surgery Center, Inc. (“Soma”); Melanie Kerr (“Kerr”);
and Sean Ravaei (“Defendants”) demur to all three causes of action alleged in Plaintiff’s
Fifth Amended Complaint (“5AC”) on the grounds of uncertainty pursuant to Code
of Civil Procedure section 430.10, subdivision (f).  Defendants additionally demur to the second
and third causes of action for breach of fiduciary duty and intentional
misrepresentation for failure to state causes of action pursuant to Code of
Civil Procedure section 430.10, subdivision (e).  
 
Plaintiff opposes the demurrer and Defendants reply. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
1.      DEMURRER
 
“It is black letter law that a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of
the allegations in a complaint.”  (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015)
235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  In ruling on a demurrer, the court must
“liberally construe[]” the allegations of the complaint.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 452.)  “This rule of liberal
construction means that the reviewing court draws inferences favorable to the
plaintiff, not the defendant.”  (Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist.
(2012) 209 Cal.App.4th 1228, 1238.)  
 
A.   
DEMURRER
FOLLOWING ANSWER
 
As a threshold issue,
Plaintiff argues in opposition that the demurrer is procedurally improper
because Defendants have already answered the third amended complaint.
 
By way of background, on April
11, 2022, Plaintiff filed the second amended complaint, alleging three causes
of action for (1) professional negligence [medical malpractice]; (2) breach of
fiduciary duty; and (3) intentional misrepresentation.  Defendant Soma Surgery Center, Inc. demurred
to the second and third causes of action in Plaintiff’s second amended
complaint, which the Court sustained, on the basis that all allegations were as
to Dr. Prokupek himself, and there were insufficient allegations as to Soma.  (July 1, 2022 Minute Order.)
 
On September 1, 2022,
Plaintiff filed the third amended complaint, alleging the same three causes of
action.  On October 31, 2022, Soma again
demurred to the third amended complaint, which the Court overruled on the basis
that the new allegations sufficiently alleged agency as to Soma.  (December 7, 2022 Minute Order.)  
 
On November 18, 2022,
Defendant Kerr was named as Doe defendant 2 and on December 1, 2022, Defendant
Ravaei was named as Doe defendant 5. 
Defendants Soma, Kerr, and Ravaei each answered the third amended
complaint on January 11, 2023.
 
Plaintiff’s fifth amended
complaint alleges the same three causes of action as the third amended
complaint,  But Plaintiff added a
paragraph describing each of the Defendants that were subsequently added to the
lawsuit via Doe amendments; inserted more specific allegations in paragraphs
40-62, and included information Plaintiff apparently learned in discovery. 
 
Defendants contend that they
have a statutory right to demur to the fifth amended complaint, arguing “If it
were otherwise, Plaintiff would, for example, (1) be able to file a ‘vanilla’
complaint, (2) have the defendants answer, and (3) amend it to add improper
material, but without fear of a demurrer to that later objectionable
complaint.”  The Court disagrees.  The purpose of a demurrer is to test the
legal sufficiency of the complaint.  The
Court already determined that the allegations in the Third Amended Complaint
were legally sufficient as to Soma, and all three Defendants have already
answered as to these allegations and causes of action.  Plaintiff’s inclusion of specific facts
learned through discovery do not generally operate to undermine allegations the
Court already deemed to be legally sufficient.
 
Therefore, it is improper for
Defendants to demur to the same allegations and causes of action to which they
have already Answered.
 
B.    
UNCERTAINTY
 
Even if it were proper for Defendants to demur to allegations and
causes of action they already answered, or if the Court were to construe the
demurrer as a motion for judgment on the pleadings, Defendants’ arguments are
without merit.
 
A demurrer for uncertainty will be sustained only where the pleading
is so bad that the responding party cannot reasonably respond - i.e., he or she
cannot reasonably determine what issues must be admitted or denied, or what
claims are directed against him or her. 
(Khoury v. Maly’s of California (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)  Where a demurrer is made upon the ground of
uncertainty, the demurrer must distinctly specify exactly how or why the
pleading is uncertain, and where such uncertainty appears by reference to page
and line numbers.  (See Fenton
v. Groveland Comm. Services Dist. (1982) 135 Cal.App.3d 797, 809.)  
 
Defendants argue that the 5AC conflates the conduct of all of the
defendants, making the 5AC uncertain. 
The Court disagrees.  The 5AC
clearly alleges that Defendant Kerr is the nurse who assisted Dr. Prokupek
during the procedure (5AC ¶¶ 79) and Defendant Ravaei owns and operates Soma
Surgery Center “without proper certification” (5AC ¶ 56) and the “mastermind”
who directed the other Defendants’ conduct (5AC ¶¶ 56, 86.)  
 
Soma also renews its arguments that the allegations are too conclusory
to establish respondeat superior, and therefore demurs to all causes of action
for uncertainty.  The Court already
specifically rejected these arguments in its decision overruling Soma’s
demurrer to the Third Amended Complaint. 
(See December 7, 2022 Minute
Order.)  
 
Therefore, Defendants do not demonstrate that any of the portions of
the 5AC are so bad that they cannot reasonably determine what issues must be
admitted or denied, or what claims are directed against which Defendants.  The Court thus declines to sustain the
demurrers on the basis of uncertainty.
 
C.   
FAILURE TO STATE A CAUSE OF ACTION
 
                                                                   
i.           
Second Cause
of Action – Breach of Fiduciary Duty – Lack of Informed Consent
 
To prevail on a claim of breach of fiduciary duty, Plaintiff must
prove (1) the existence of a fiduciary duty; (2) breach of the fiduciary duty;
and (3) damage proximately caused by the breach. (Jameson v. Desta
(2013) 215 Cal.App.4th 1144, 1164.) “A physician has a fiduciary duty to
disclose all information material to the patient’s decision when soliciting a
patient’s consent to a medical procedure. (Ibid.)
 
“A claim based on lack of
informed consent—which sounds in negligence—arises when the doctor performs a
procedure without first adequately disclosing the risks and alternatives.”  (Saxena v. Goffney (2008) 159
Cal.App.4th 316, 324; see also Moore v. Regents of University of California (1990)
51 Cal.3d 120, 129 [“[I]n soliciting the patient's consent, a physician has a
fiduciary duty to disclose all information material to the patient's decision”].)  “[W]e hold, as an integral part of the
physician's overall obligation to the patient there is a duty of reasonable
disclosure of the available choices with respect to proposed therapy and of the
dangers inherently and potentially involved in each.” (Cobbs v. Grant
(1972) 8 Cal.3d 229, 243.)  
 
[T]he patient's right of
self-decision is the measure of the physician's duty to reveal.  That right can be effectively exercised only
if the patient possesses adequate information to enable an intelligent choice.
The scope of the physician's communications to the patient, then, must be
measured by the patient's need, and that need is whatever information is
material to the decision.  Thus the test
for determining whether a potential peril must be divulged is its materiality
to the patient's decision.  . . .   There must be a causal relationship between
the physician's failure to inform and the injury to the plaintiff. Such causal
connection arises only if it is established that had revelation been made
consent to treatment would not have been given. Here the record discloses no
testimony that had plaintiff been informed of the risks of surgery he would not
have consented to the operation.
 
(Id. at p. 245 [cleaned up]
 
To prevail on a claim for failure to obtain informed consent, a
plaintiff must prove (1) the defendant performed a medical procedure on
Plaintiff; (2) the defendant did not disclose to Plaintiff the important
potential results and risks of and alternatives to the medical procedure; (3) a
reasonable person in Plaintiff’s position would not have agreed to the medical
procedure if that person had been adequately informed; and (4) Plaintiff was
harmed by a result or risk that the defendant should have explained.  (CACI No. 533.)
 
Defendants argue that there
was no fiduciary duty here.  In so
arguing, Defendants again attempt to renew Soma’s argument that the allegations
are too conclusory to establish respondeat superior.  This Court already found the allegations
sufficient to allege an agency relationship between Dr. Prokupek and Soma to
withstand demurrer.  Similarly, the new
allegations demonstrate that Ravaei “owns and operates [Soma] unlawfully and without
proper licensing or insurance.  Ravaei
sought out doctors in financial distress to undertake risking outpatient
procedures often with no medical necessity” [5AC ¶ 16] and is the “mastermind” who
directed Dr. Prokupek and the other Defendants’ actions.  (5AC ¶¶ 40, 56, 106.)  Plaintiff’s allegations are sufficient to
withstand demurrer.
 
Moreover, Plaintiff alleges
that Kerr was the treating nurse during the procedure [5AC ¶ 79], that Kerr
chose to move forward participating in the procedure, “[k]nowing that there was
a risk of potential complications” [5AC ¶ 25] without disclosing the risks to
Plaintiff, and when complications did arise, Kerr did not administer emergency
treatment, and in fact left Plaintiff alone in the emergency room “for twenty
minutes while his vital signs were dropping” [5AC ¶ 27.]  Thus, Plaintiff has alleged Kerr personally participated
in performing a medical procedure on Plaintiff, and Defendants’ case law
standing for the proposition that only the treating physician can breach a
fiduciary duty applies with equal force to Kerr, as the treating nurse during
the procedure.
 
The Court therefore overrules
Defendants’ demurrer to the second cause of action for breach of fiduciary duty
– lack of informed consent.
 
                                                                 
ii.           
Third
Cause of Action – Intentional Misrepresentation
 
“The elements of intentional misrepresentation are (1) a
misrepresentation, (2) knowledge of falsity, (3) intent to induce reliance, (4)
actual and justifiable reliance, and (5) resulting damage.”  (Aton Center, Inc. v. United Healthcare
Ins. Co. (2023) 93 Cal.App.5th 1214, 1245.)
 
“In California, fraud must be
pled specifically; general and conclusory allegations do not suffice.”  (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12
Cal.4th 631, 645.)  “This particularity
requirement necessitates pleading facts which show how, when, where, to whom,
and by what means the representations were tendered.”  (Ibid.)  
 
“One of the purposes of the
specificity requirement is notice to the defendant, to furnish the defendant
with certain definite charges which can be intelligently met.”  (Alfaro v. Community Housing Improvement
System & Planning Assn., Inc. (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1356, 1384, as
modified on denial of reh'g (Mar. 18, 2009).) 
As such, less specificity is required “when it appears from the nature
of the allegations that the defendant must necessarily possess full information
concerning the facts of the controversy[.]” 
(Ibid.)  “Even under the
strict rules of common law pleading, one of the canons was that less
particularity is required when the facts lie more in the knowledge of the
opposite party.”  (Ibid.)
 
Defendants contend that
Plaintiff fails to plead the elements of intentional misrepresentation with the
requisite specificity.  
 
The Court disagrees.  The 5AC alleges that in June 2020 and October
2020, Dr. Prokupek and Hershey Weber, acting as agents for Soma, and at the
direction of Defendant Ravaei, who owns and operates Soma, “falsely advised
Plaintiff that it was safe for him to stop taking Xarelto for one week prior to
his procedure[.]”  (5AC ¶¶ 86, 108.)  Plaintiff further alleges “Plaintiff
reasonably relied on Defendants fraudulent statements and stopped taking his
Xarelto one week prior to his surgery. 
This resulted in Plaintiff suffering a massive stroke.”  (5AC ¶ 109.) 

 
As to Defendant Kerr, the 5AC
alleges “Kerr met with the Plaintiff individually, on November 4, 2020, prior
to the procedure, to ensure there would be no complications with the procedure”
and “indicated that Plaintiff had been off his Xarelto for four days.”  (5AC ¶¶ 116-117.)  Thus, all Defendants are alleged, with
specificity, to have informed Plaintiff that it was safe to go forward with the
surgery after being off Xarelto for 4 days to a week prior to surgery, which
Plaintiff relied on to his detriment.
 
Plaintiff further alleges Dr.
Prokupek and Soma “doctored and manipulated” Dr. Prokupek’s notes “to remove
the fact that he told Plaintiff to stop taking his blood thinner medication
Xarelto for one week prior to the scheduled procedure” and acted “in concert to
obscure the cause of Plaintiff’s stroke.” 
(5AC ¶¶ 111-112.)  This delayed
Plaintiff and Plaintiffs’ representations from uncovering the truth behind
Plaintiff’s condition by approximately a year, delaying Plaintiff’s treatment
which “further exasperated his injuries.” 
(5AC ¶ 112.)   
 
Thus, the 5AC adequately alleges the elements of intentional
misrepresentation with sufficient particularity.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
For the reasons stated, the Court overrules Defendants’ Demurrer to
the Fifth Amended Complaint in its entirety.
 
Defendants may elect to have their answer to the third amended
complaint stand as their answer to the fifth amended complaint, or Defendants
may file and serve a new answer to the fifth amended complaint on or before November
22, 2023.
 
Defendants shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof
of service regarding the same.
 
 
DATED:  November 3, 2023                                                  ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court