 Case Number:  22SMCV01313    Hearing Date:   November 3, 2023    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


November 3, 2023




CASE NUMBER


22SMCV01313




MOTIONS


Demurrer and Motion to Strike Portions of First Amended Complaint




MOVING PARTIES


Defendants Pacific Source Insurance Agency, Inc. and
  Antionette Turner




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff Glenn Vallecillos M.D., Inc.



 
MOTIONS
 
This case stems from a dispute over the remodel of Plaintiff Glenn
Vallecillos, M.D., Inc.’s (“Plaintiff”) surgical center.  Defendants Pacific Source Insurance Agency,
Inc. (“Pacific”) and Antoinette Turner (“Turner”), who is the Chief Executive
Officer, Secretary, Chief Financial Officer, and Director of Pacific Source
Insurance Agency (collectively, “Defendants”) demur to the second, twelfth,
fourteenth, fifteenth, and sixteenth causes of action alleged in Plaintiff’s
First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) on the basis that they fail to state a cause of
action, pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10, subdivision (e).  
 
Plaintiff opposes the demurrer and Defendants reply.
 
EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
 
            Defendants object to the Declarations
of David Glaubiger and the proposed Second Amended Complaint filed in
opposition to the demurrer on the basis that demurrers test the legal
sufficiency of the operative complaint, and it is improper for the Court to
consider extrinsic evidence.
 
            The Court agrees that with respect
to the demurrer, intrinsic evidence is improper, and the Court will not
consider the intrinsic evidence with respect to its determination of the
demurrers.  However, to the extent Plaintiff
has presented the Court with additional facts it could add to cure any
deficiencies identified in the operative complaint, the Court may properly
consider such additional facts in determining whether granting Plaintiff leave
to amend is proper.
 
            Therefore, the Court overrules
Defendants’ objections to the Glaubiger Declarations and proposed Second
Amended Complaint, in accordance with these principles.
 
REQUEST
FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
            Paragraph 2 of the Glaubiger
Declaration requests that the Court take judicial notice of its April 13, 2023
Minute Order.  California Rules of Court,
rule 8.252(a)(1) requires “To obtain judicial notice by a reviewing court under
Evidence Code section 459, a party must serve and file a separate motion with a
proposed order.”  Because Plaintiff’s
request does not conform with the procedural requirements, the Court denies
Plaintiff’s request for Judicial Notice.
 
ANALYSIS
 
1.      DEMURRER
 
“It is black letter law that a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of
the allegations in a complaint.”  (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015)
235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  In ruling on a demurrer, the court must
“liberally construe[]” the allegations of the complaint.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 452.)  “This rule of liberal
construction means that the reviewing court draws inferences favorable to the
plaintiff, not the defendant.”  (Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist.
(2012) 209 Cal.App.4th 1228, 1238.)  
 
A.   
Second Cause of Action – Unjust Enrichment
 
“The elements for a claim of unjust enrichment are ‘receipt of a
benefit and unjust retention of the benefit at the expense of another.”  (Lyles v. Sangadeo-Patel (2014) 225
Cal.App.4th 759, 769.)  “The theory of
unjust enrichment requires one who acquires a benefit which may not justly be
retained, to return either the thing or its equivalent to the aggrieved party
so as not to be unjustly enriched.”  (Ibid.)  
 
Defendants argue that the FAC fails to allege any benefit that they,
as the Keyes Defendants’ insurance provider on the project, received.  Rather, Defendants contend, the FAC merely
alleges that the other Defendants received money from Plaintiff, for
construction services they did not render or did not render adequately.  But, as Defendants contend, there is no
direct relationship between Plaintiff and Defendants, and Plaintiff does not
allege Defendants received any benefit.
 
The FAC alleges that “defendants Keyes, Pacific and Turner benefited
from the monies plaintiff paid to defendant Keyes pursuant to the construction
contracts Keyes was able to secure with the aid of defendants Pacific and
Turner” and “defendants Keyes, Pacific and Turner unlawfully accepted the
benefits of that which plaintiff furnished” and “have been unjustly enriched”
as a result.  (FAC ¶¶ 27-29.)
 
Thus, the FAC alleges sufficient “ultimate facts” to withstand
demurrer.[1]  The specific extent to which Pacific and/or
Turner received sums from or at the expense of Plaintiff is a factual issue to
be fleshed out in discovery.  
 
B.     Twelfth
Cause of Action – Negligence 
 
“The elements of any negligence cause of action are duty, breach of
duty, proximate cause, and damages.”  (Peredia
v. HR Mobile Services, Inc. (2018) 25 Cal.App.5th 680, 687.)
 
Defendants first argue that insurance brokers owe only a limited duty
to their clients, to “use reasonable care, diligence and judgment in procuring
the insurance required by an insured.” 
(Demurrer at p. 6.)  Because there
is no direct relationship between Plaintiff and Defendants, Defendants argue,
they did not owe Plaintiff any duty.  The
Court disagrees.
 
“To state a cause of action
for negligence, a plaintiff must establish the defendant owed a legal duty of
care.  Generally speaking, all persons
have a duty to take reasonable care in their activities to avoid causing injury,
though particular policy considerations may weigh in favor of limiting that
duty in certain circumstances.”  (Brown
v. USA Taekwondo (2021) 11 Cal.5th 204, 209 [hereafter, “Brown”].)  In general, “[e]veryone is responsible, not
only for the result of his or her willful acts, but also for an injury occasioned
to another by his or her want of ordinary care or skill in the management of
his or her property or person, except so far as the latter has, willfully or by
want of ordinary care, brought the injury upon himself or herself.”  (Civ. Code, § 1714.)  Section 1714 “establishes the default rule that
each person has a duty to exercise, in his or her activities, reasonable care
for the safety of others.”  (Brown,
supra, 11 Cal.5th at p. 214.)  
 
“Section 1714 states a broad
rule, but it has limits. We have explained that the law imposes a general duty
of care on a defendant only when it is the defendant who has created a risk of
harm to the plaintiff, including when the defendant is responsible for making
the plaintiff's position worse.   The law does not impose the same duty on a
defendant who did not contribute to the risk that the plaintiff would suffer
the harm alleged.  Generally, the person
who has not created a peril is not liable in tort merely for failure to take affirmative
action to assist or protect another from that peril.”  (Brown, supra, 11 Cal.5th at p. 214 [cleaned
up].)
 
In the case cited by Defendants, the court determined the insurance broker,
that was not a party to the underlying contract, owed no duty to notify the
insured of the insurer’s post-issuance insolvency, especially where the party
to the contract was contractually obligated to do so.  (Pacific Rim Mechanical Contractors, Inc.
v. Aon Risk Ins. Services West, Inc. (2012) 203 Cal.App.4th 1278, 1282
(hereafter Pacific Rim).)  It does
not stand for the proposition, as Defendants contend, that insurance brokers
owe no general duty of care to third parties, even when they stand to benefit
from the insurance.  Indeed, a broker can
be held liable where the broker “misrepresents the nature, extent or scope of
the coverage being offered or provided[.]” 
(Pacific Rim, supra, 203 Cal.App.4th at p. 1283.)  
 
Here, Plaintiff alleges Defendants “misrepresented the terms of
worker’s compensation policy no. 9217479 by claiming that ‘Global Ocean and
Land Construction’ was the named insured (when it was not the named insured on
that policy.)”  (FAC ¶ 84.)  Thus, based on the allegations the law imposes a general duty of care on Defendants
because they in conjunction with Keyes created a risk of harm to Plaintiff.  As such, the Court finds that Plaintiff  has adequately alleged a duty of due care and a
breach of that duty.  
 
Defendants next argue that Plaintiff does not allege any damages
caused by the alleged misrepresentation of the worker’s compensation insurance
policy, because Plaintiff’s $252,020 in alleged damages stem from Keyes’ faulty
and incomplete construction work, plus an additional $100,000 to hire alternate
contractors to fix and complete the project do not bear any connection to Defendants’
misrepresentation on the initial certificate of insurance.  (Demurrer at p. 6.)  Moreover, Defendants contend that the initial
certificate of insurance was issued a year after Keyes was hired and months
after he abandoned the project.  (Id.
at p. 7.)  
 
The FAC alleges “as a direct and proximate result of the
aforementioned conduct [Defendants’ misrepresentation regarding the worker’s
compensation policy], plaintiff has been damaged in a sum to be determined at
time of trial in this matter, but in excess of $250,000.”  Stated differently, but for Defendants’
breach of the duty of due care, Plaintiff would not have hired Keyes and would
not have suffered the alleged harm.  
 
Thus, Plaintiff has pleaded sufficient ultimate facts to withstand
demurrer as to the twelfth cause of action.
 
C.    Fourteenth
Cause of Action – Intentional Misrepresentation 
 
“The elements of intentional misrepresentation are (1) a
misrepresentation, (2) knowledge of falsity, (3) intent to induce reliance, (4)
actual and justifiable reliance, and (5) resulting damage.”  (Aton Center, Inc. v. United Healthcare
Ins. Co. (2023) 93 Cal.App.5th 1214, 1245.)
 
“In California, fraud must be
pled specifically; general and conclusory allegations do not suffice.”  (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12
Cal.4th 631, 645.)  “This particularity
requirement necessitates pleading facts which show how, when, where, to whom,
and by what means the representations were tendered.”  (Ibid.)  
 
“One of the purposes of the
specificity requirement is notice to the defendant, to furnish the defendant
with certain definite charges which can be intelligently met.”  (Alfaro v. Community Housing Improvement
System & Planning Assn., Inc. (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1356, 1384.)  As such, less specificity is required “when
it appears from the nature of the allegations that the defendant must
necessarily possess full information concerning the facts of the
controversy[.]”  (Ibid.)  “Even under the strict rules of common law
pleading, one of the canons was that less particularity is required when the
facts lie more in the knowledge of the opposite party.”  (Ibid.)
 
Defendants contend Plaintiff fails to plead the elements for a cause
of action for intentional misrepresentation against them with the requisite
particularity.  Specifically, Defendants
contend they made no misrepresentation to Plaintiff, and when they
created the certificate of insurance, they did not have knowledge that Keyes
lacked worker’s compensation coverage or that having worker’s compensation
insurance was a pre-condition of Keyes being hired.
 
The FAC alleges: “At the time Pacific and Turner ‘created’ the
Certificate of Insurance bearing the date April 1, 2022, they knew that the
Certificate of Insurance contained false statements and that the false
statements were material, i.e. Global Ocean and Land Construction was the named
insured on worker’s compensation policy no. 9217479.”  (FAC ¶ 91.) 
Thus, Plaintiff has pleaded specific facts with respect to the first two
elements of misrepresentation and knowledge of falsity.
 
As for the third and fourth elements, intent to induce reliance and
justifiable reliance, the FAC alleges, “Defendants tendered the aforementioned
misrepresentation to plaintiff with the intention to induce plaintiff’s
reliance on the false statement by hiring defendant Keyes (dba Global Ocean and
Land Construction) to remodel the surgical center and, thereafter, paying him
hundreds of thousands of dollars.”  However,
Plaintiff alleges to have paid Keyes a sum of $258,200 between June 2021 and
January 2022 for work on the project, and that Keyes abandoned the job in
December 2021.  (FAC ¶¶ 15, 17.)  Thus, Defendants’ purported April 1, 2022
misrepresentation occurred long after Plaintiff hired and paid Keyes to
construct the project.  As such, the
timing of the allegations precludes an inference that in April 2022, Defendants
intentionally misrepresented the worker’s compensation coverage in order to
induce Plaintiff to hire and pay Keyes, which Plaintiff had already done.  
 
Therefore, the Court sustains Defendants’ demurrer to the fourteenth
cause of action.
 
D.    Fifteenth
Cause of Action – Negligent Misrepresentation 
 
“The essential elements of a
count for negligent misrepresentation are the same except that it does not
require knowledge of falsity but instead requires a misrepresentation of fact
by a person who has no reasonable grounds for believing it to be true.”  (Chapman v. Skype Inc. (2013) 220
Cal.App.4th 217, 230-231.)   Like intentional misrepresentation, causes of
action for negligent misrepresentation sound in fraud, and must also, therefore,
be pleaded with particularity.  (Ibid.)  
 
Therefore, Plaintiff’s
fifteenth cause of action fails for the same reasons as the fourteenth cause of
action—namely, the allegations do not demonstrate an intent to induce reliance or
actual reliance on the April 2022 misrepresentation.
 
E.     Sixteenth
Cause of Action – Conspiracy to Commit Fraud
 
“The elements of an action for civil conspiracy are (1) formation and
operation of the conspiracy and (2) damage resulting to plaintiff (3) from a
wrongful act done in furtherance of the common design.”  (Prakashpalan v. Engstrom, Lipscomb &
Lack (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 1105, 1136 (hereinafter Prakashpalan).)  “There is no separate tort of civil
conspiracy and no action for conspiracy to commit a tort unless the underlying
tort is committed and damage results therefrom.”  (Ibid.)  “The significance of a conspiracy theory of
liability is that each member may be held jointly liable as a tortfeasor, even
though he or she may not have participated directly in the underlying
tort.”  (Ibid.)
 
Defendants first contend that Plaintiff has not alleged any underlying
fraud tort.  As discussed above,
Plaintiff fails to state a cause of action for intentional or negligent
misrepresentation.  Thus, without a valid
underlying fraud tort, Plaintiff’s conspiracy to commit fraud cause of action
also fails.  
 
Moreover, “[w]here fraud is alleged to be the object of the
conspiracy, the claim must be pleaded with particularity.”  (Prakashpalan, supra, 223
Cal.App.4th at 1136.)  Here, Plaintiff’s
conspiracy allegations are all alleged on information and belief.  (See FAC ¶¶ 101, 102, 103, 104.)  “[I]t is not sufficient to allege fraud or
its elements upon information and belief unless the facts upon which the belief
is founded are stated in the pleading.”  (Dowling
v. Spring Val. Water Co. (1917) 174 Cal.218, 221.)  As discussed above, the purportedly fraudulent
certificate of insurance was created and presented to Plaintiff long after
Plaintiff hired and paid Keyes, and therefore could not have formed the basis
of their alleged scheme to induce Plaintiff to hire and pay Keyes.  (See FAC ¶ 102 [These defendants agreed or
understood that the purpose of their meetings and agreements was as described
above, i.e. to induce plaintiff to agree to hire defendant Keyes to remodel the
surgical center, make payment to defendant Keyes, etc.”].)
 
Therefore, the Court finds that Plaintiff’s sixteenth cause of action is
flawed.
 
2.      MOTION
TO STRIKE
 
Defendants move to strike from the FAC references to punitive damages
and attorneys’ fees.
 
Punitive Damages
 
Any party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading, may serve
and file a motion to strike the whole pleading or any part thereof.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(1); Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1322, subd. (b).) 
On a motion to strike, the court may: (1) strike out any irrelevant,
false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (2) strike out all or
any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of
California, a court rule, or an order of the court.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a)-(b); Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767,
782.)  
 
In ruling on a motion to strike punitive damages, “judges read
allegations of a pleading subject to a motion to strike as a whole, all parts
in their context, and assume their truth.” 
(Clauson v. Superior Court
(1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255.)  To
state a prima facie claim for punitive damages, a plaintiff must allege the
elements set forth in the punitive damages statute, Civil Code section 3294.  (College
Hosp., Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 721.)  Per Civil Code section 3294, a plaintiff must
allege that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.  (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a).)   As set forth in the Civil Code, 
 
(1) “Malice” means conduct which is intended
by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which
is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard
of the rights or safety of others.  (2)
“Oppression” means despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and
unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person's rights.  (3) “Fraud” means an intentional
misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the
defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving
a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.
 
(Civ.
Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(1)-(3), emphasis added.)  
 
Further, a plaintiff must assert facts with specificity to support a
conclusion that a defendant acted with oppression, fraud or malice.  To wit, there is a heightened pleading
requirement regarding a claim for punitive damages.  (See Smith v. Superior Court (1992) 10
Cal.App.4th 1033, 1041-1042.)  “When
nondeliberate injury is charged, allegations that the defendant’s conduct was
wrongful, willful, wanton, reckless or unlawful do not support a claim for
exemplary damages; such allegations do not charge malice.  When a defendant must produce evidence in
defense of an exemplary damage claim, fairness demands that he receive adequate
notice of the kind of conduct charged against him.” (G. D. Searle & Co.
v. Superior Court (1975) 49 Cal.App.3d 22, 29 [cleaned up].)  In Anschutz Entertainment Group, Inc. v.
Snepp, the Court of Appeal noted that the plaintiffs’ assertions related to
their claim for punitive damages were “insufficient to meet the specific
pleading requirement.”  (Anschutz
Entertainment Group, Inc. v. Snepp (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 598, 643
[plaintiffs alleged “the conduct of Defendants was intentional, and done
willfully, maliciously, with ill will towards Plaintiffs, and with conscious
disregard for Plaintiff's rights. Plaintiff's injuries were exacerbated by the
malicious conduct of Defendants. Defendants' conduct justifies an award of
exemplary and punitive damages”]; see also Grieves
v. Superior Court (1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 159, 166 [“The mere allegation an
intentional tort was committed is not sufficient to warrant an award of
punitive damages.  Not only must there be
circumstances of oppression, fraud, or malice, but facts must be alleged in the
pleading to support such a claim”].)   
 
Here, as discussed above, Plaintiff has not alleged facts with
requisite specificity to state a cause of action for Intentional or Negligent
Misrepresentation or Conspiracy to Commit Fraud to support a claim of punitive
damages.  Similarly, there are no other
allegations that Defendants intended to cause Plaintiff injury or acted with a
willful and conscious disregard of Plaintiff’s rights or safety, or that
Defendants subjected Plaintiff to despicable conduct resulting in cruel and
unjust hardship.  
 
Attorneys’ Fees
 
Code of Civil Procedure
section 1033.5, which outlines recoverable costs to a prevailing party under
section 1032, permits the recovery of attorney fees when authorized by
contract, statute, or law.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 1033.5, subd. (a)(10).)  Code of
Civil Procedure section 1021 provides “[e]xcept as attorney’s fees are
specifically provided for by statute, the measure and mode of compensation of
attorneys and counselors at law is left to the agreement, express or implied,
of the parties [….]”  Similarly, Civil
Code section 1717 provides “[i]n any action on a contract, where the contract
specifically provides that attorney’s fees and costs, which are incurred to
enforce that contract, shall be awarded either to one of the parties or to the
prevailing party, then the party who is determined to be the party prevailing
on the contract, whether he or she is the party specified in the contract or
not, shall be entitled to reasonable attorney’s fees in addition to other
costs.”  (Civ. Code, § 1717, subd. (a).)
 
Here, Plaintiff has not cited
to any governing statute or agreement entitling Plaintiff to recover attorneys’
fees from Defendants.  
 
3.     
LEAVE TO AMEND
 
A plaintiff has the burden of
showing in what manner the complaint could be amended and how the amendment
would change the legal effect of the complaint, i.e., state a cause of action.
(See The Inland Oversight Committee v City of San Bernardino (2018) 27
Cal.App.5th 771, 779; PGA West Residential Assn., Inc. v Hulven Int'l, Inc.
(2017) 14 Cal.App.5th 156, 189.) A plaintiff must not only state the legal
basis for the amendment, but also the factual allegations sufficient to state a
cause of action or claim. (See PGA West Residential Assn., Inc. v Hulven
Int'l, Inc., supra, 14 Cal.App.5th at p. 189.) Moreover, a plaintiff
does not meet his or her burden by merely stating in the opposition to a
demurrer or motion to strike that “if the Court finds the operative complaint
deficient, plaintiff respectfully requests leave to amend.” (See Major
Clients Agency v Diemer (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1116, 1133; Graham v Bank
of America (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 594, 618 [asserting an abstract right to
amend does not satisfy the burden].)
 
Causes of Action 14, 15,
16, and Punitive Damages
 
Here, Plaintiff has provided additional allegations that (1)
Defendants first issued a certificate of insurance misrepresenting that Keyes
carried the requisite insurance on June 17, 2021, which they communicated to
Welltower, the manager of the subject property, who, in turn, communicated to
plaintiff that Keyes had the necessary insurance; (2) the language of the Certificate
of Insurance issued by Defendants contains the exact same language as the
Welltower Tenant Improvement Project Guide, which also indicated Welltower
required its contractors to carry worker’s compensation insurance, suggesting
that Defendants knew about the worker’s compensation insurance requirement when
they issued the certificate misrepresenting that Keyes had such insurance; and
(3) the October 2021 end date alleged in paragraph 16 of the FAC is an error,
and in fact, Keyes continued to actively work on the construction project
through April 2022.  Plaintiff has also
filed a proposed second amended complaint, with additional allegations.
 
Thus, Plaintiff has met its burden to demonstrate there are
additional, specific facts it can add to the FAC to cure the deficiencies
identified by the Court with respect to the Fourteenth, Fifteenth, and
Sixteenth causes of action, and Plaintiff’s request for punitive damages.  
 
Attorneys’ Fees
 
With respect to attorneys’ fees, Plaintiff points to Business
& Professions Code section 7160, which provides, “Any person who is induced
to contract for a work of improvement … in reliance on false or fraudulent
representations or false statements knowingly made, may sue and recover from
such contractor … reasonable attorneys’ fees” and Code of Civil Procedure,
section 1029.8, subd. (a), which provides “Any unlicensed person who causes
injury or damage to another person as a result of providing goods or performing
services for which a license is required … shall be liable to the injured
person for treble the amount of damages assessed in a civil action in any court
having proper jurisdiction.  The court
may … award all costs and attorney’s fees to the injured person….”  While these provisions could apply to Keyes,
as the “contractor” who “performed services,” they do not, on their face,
provide a basis to hold the moving Defendants liable for Plaintiff’s attorneys’
fees.  
 
Plaintiff cites to Applied Equipment Corp. v. Litton Saudia
Arabia Ltd. (1994) 7 Cal.4th 503, 510-511 (hereafter Applied Equipment)
for the proposition that “a coconspirator incurs tort liability co-equal with
the immediate tortfeasors.”  Even if
Plaintiff is able to cure the deficiencies identified in the conspiracy to
commit fraud cause of action, Applied Equipment does not support
Plaintiff’s contention that the statutory fee shifting provisions can be
expanded to other parties not contemplated by the statutes.  
 
First, Applied Equipment determined that there was no
co-conspirator liability at all.  (Applied
Equipment, supra, 7 Cal.4th at p. 519.) 
Second, the damages at issue in Applied Equipment were punitive
damages, not attorneys’ fees.  Finally,
and most notably, the appellate court held: 
 “we decline to allow a conspiracy
theory to accomplish an ‘end run’ around the statutory rule that punitive
damages are per se not recoverable in ordinary actions for breach of
contract.”  (Ibid.)  Similarly, here, Plaintiff has provided no
legal basis to allow a conspiracy theory to accomplish an “end run” around the
statutory rule shifting attorneys’ fees to the “contractor” who “provid[es]
goods or perform[s] services for which a license is required.”  
 
Thus, even if Plaintiff is able to revive the sixteenth cause of
action for conspiracy, Plaintiff has not established a contractual or statutory
basis to recover attorneys’ fees from the Defendants.  
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
For the reasons stated, the Court overrules Defendants’ Demurrer to
the Second and Twelfth cause of action, and sustains Defendants’ Demurrer to
the Fourteenth, Fifteenth, and Sixteenth causes of action with leave to amend.      
 
Further, the Court grants Defendants’ Motion to Strike in its entirety,
but grants Plaintiff leave to amend with respect to the claim for punitive
damages.
 
Further, Plaintiff shall file and serve a second amended complaint in
conformance with the Court’s ruling on or before November 27, 2023.    
 
Defendants shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof
of service regarding the same.  
 
 
DATED:  November 3, 2023                                                  ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court


