  Case Number:  20SMUD00869    Hearing Date:   November 3, 2023    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


November 3, 2023




CASE NUMBER


20SMUD00869




MOTION


Demurrer to Cross-Complaint




MOVING PARTIES


Defendants and Cross-Complainants Birgitta Lauren and Eric
  K. Yohan AKA Eric Knipe




OPPOSING PARTIES


Plaintiff and Cross-Defendant American Financial Center
  and Cross-Defendant Mark Crittenden aka Mark Afincen



 
MOTION
 
This case arises from a dispute over real property.  Plaintiff American Financial Center alleges
Defendants Birgitta Lauren (“Lauren”) and Erik K. Yohan AKA Eric Knipe
(“Knipe”) (“Defendants”) unlawfully continued to occupy the subject condominium
following its foreclosure of the property and subsequent purchase of the
property at the foreclosure sale.  With
possession no longer at issue, Plaintiff’s operative complaint seeks damages.
 
Defendants have now brought a cross-complaint against Plaintiff and Mark
Crittenden aka Mark Afincen (“Cross-Defendant”), alleging that they fraudulently
acquired an interest in the subject property upon which they initiated the
foreclosure proceedings.  
 
Plaintiff and Cross-Defendant demur to the cross-complaint (which
alleges a single cause of action for fraud) for uncertainty, for failure to
state a cause of action with sufficient particularity, and as being barred by
the applicable statute of limitations and laches.
 
Defendants oppose the demurrer, and Plaintiff and Cross-Defendant reply.
 
REQUEST
FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
            Plaintiff and Cross-Defendant
request the Court to take judicial notice of a Deed of Trust recorded with the
Official Records of the Recorder’s Office of Los Angeles County, California, on
September 3, 2019 (No. 20190895516).  
 
Courts can take judicial
notice of the existence and recordation of real property records, including
deeds, if authenticity is not reasonably disputed.  (Fontenot v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A.
(2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 256, 264-265.) 
“The official act of recordation and the common use of a notary public
in the execution of such documents assure their reliability, and the
maintenance of the documents in the recorder’s office makes their existence and
text capable of ready confirmation, thereby placing such documents beyond
reasonable dispute.”  (Ibid.)  Moreover, courts can take judicial notice not
only of the existence and recordation of recorded documents but also matters
that can be deduced from the documents, including the parties, dates, and legal
consequences of recorded documents relating to real estate transactions.  (Ibid.)
 
            Here, Defendants contest the “accuracy”
of the deed, but not its authenticity. 
In other words, Defendants do not contend that the deed attached to the
Request for Judicial notice is not a true and correct copy of the Deed recorded
in the Los Angeles Recorder’s Office on September 3, 2019 as No.
20190895516.  Rather, Defendants argue
that the deed transferring an interest in the subject property to Plaintiff was
fraudulent.  Therefore, the Court takes
judicial notice of the existence and recordation of the deed, but not the truth
of the matters asserted therein.
 
ANALYSIS
1.      DEMURRER
 
Plaintiff and Cross-Defendant demur to the single cause of action in Defendants’
cross-complaint for fraud on the bases that (1) it is uncertain; (2) it fails
to state a cause of action; (3) it fails to plead fraud with sufficient
particularity; (4) it contradicts facts of which the Court may take judicial
notice pursuant to Evidence Code section 452; (5) it is barred by the
applicable statute of limitations; and (6) it is barred by the doctrine of
laches.  
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10 outlines the applicable bases
for a demurrer as follows:
 
The party against whom a complaint or cross-complaint
has been filed may object, by demurrer or answer as provided in Section 430.30,
to the pleading on any one or more of the following grounds:
 
(a)   The
court has no jurisdiction of the subject of the cause of action alleged in the
pleading.
 
(b)   The
person who filed the pleading does not have the legal capacity to sue.
 
(c)   There
is another action pending between the same parties on the same cause of action.
 
(d)   There
is a defect or misjoinder of parties.
 
(e)   The
pleading does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.
 
(f)    The
pleading is uncertain. As used in this subdivision, “uncertain” includes
ambiguous and unintelligible.
 
(g)   In an
action founded upon a contract, it cannot be ascertained from the pleading
whether the contract is written, is oral, or is implied by conduct.
 
(h)   No
certificate was filed as required by Section 411.35.
 
Thus,
the Court construes the demurrer as being brought pursuant to subdivision (f)
for uncertainty and subdivision (e) for failure to state a cause of action.  
 
“It is black letter law that a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of
the allegations in a complaint.”  (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015)
235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  In ruling on a demurrer, the court must
“liberally construe[]” the allegations of the complaint.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 452.)  “This rule of liberal
construction means that the reviewing court draws inferences favorable to the
plaintiff, not the defendant.”  (Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist.
(2012) 209 Cal.App.4th 1228, 1238.)  
 
A.   
UNCERTAINTY
 
A demurrer for uncertainty will be sustained only where the pleading
is so bad that the responding party cannot reasonably respond - i.e., he or she
cannot reasonably determine what issues must be admitted or denied, or what
claims are directed against him or her. 
(Khoury v. Maly’s of California (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612,
616.)  Where a demurrer is made upon the
ground of uncertainty, the demurrer must distinctly specify exactly how or why
the pleading is uncertain, and where such uncertainty appears by reference to
page and line numbers.  (See Fenton
v. Groveland Comm. Services Dist. (1982) 135 Cal.App.3d 797, 809.)  
 
Plaintiff and Cross-Defendant do not demonstrate that any portions of
the Cross-Complaint are so bad that they cannot reasonably determine what
issues must be admitted or denied, or what claims are directed against them.  The Court thus declines to sustain the
demurrer on the basis of uncertainty.  
 
B.    
FAILURE TO STATE A CAUSE OF ACTION
 
                                                                   
i.           
Particularity
 
“The essential elements of
fraud, generally, are (1) a misrepresentation; (2) knowledge of falsity; (3)
intent to induce reliance; (4) justifiable reliance; and (5) resulting damage.”  (City of Industry v. City of Fillmore
(2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 191, 211.)
 
“In California, fraud must be
pled specifically; general and conclusory allegations do not suffice.”  (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12
Cal.4th 631, 645.)  “This particularity
requirement necessitates pleading facts which show how, when, where, to whom,
and by what means the representations were tendered.”  (Ibid.)  
 
“One of the purposes of the
specificity requirement is notice to the defendant, to furnish the defendant
with certain definite charges which can be intelligently met.”  (Alfaro v. Community Housing Improvement
System & Planning Assn., Inc. (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1356, 1384.)  As such, less specificity is required “when
it appears from the nature of the allegations that the defendant must
necessarily possess full information concerning the facts of the
controversy[.]”  (Ibid.)  “Even under the strict rules of common law
pleading, one of the canons was that less particularity is required when the
facts lie more in the knowledge of the opposite party.”  (Ibid.)
 
            Here,
Defendants allege, in pertinent part, the following:
 
In or about January 2020,
Cross Defendants AFC and CRITTENDEN offered to refinance the subject
condominium located at 2010 S. Beverly Glen Blvd., Unit 101, Los Angeles, CA
90025 and owned solely by LAUREN in order to lessen LAUREN’s financial burden.
LAUREN, in good faith, trusted CRITTENDEN and his company, AFC, and signed a
Deed of Trust and several blank documents which CRITTENDEN stated were
necessary for the refinancing and which would give favorable terms to LAUREN.
 
Unbeknownst to LAUREN and
KNIPE, CRITTENDEN and AFC doctored the documents and, instead of providing a
refinancing for LAUREN with favorable financial terms, they prepared documents
without LAUREN’s knowledge or consent wherein LAUREN became the guarantor of an
unrelated unsecured “factoring” agreement with a company known as Strong Arm
LLC and which was affiliated with KNIPE. This guarantor agreement was also not
disclosed to KNIPE, who is LAUREN’s husband. Cross complainants discovered the
wrongful and fraudulent actions of cross defendants in or about February 2021,
through the original unlawful detainer action, which is part of this case.
 
(Cross-Complaint, 2:15-3:6.)  Defendants also allege:  
 
AFC and Crittenden promised to
refinance the subject condominium for LAUREN at a lower interest rate that
would help LAUREN and KNIPE out financially. AFC and CRITTENDEN presented
documents to LAUREN to sign, including but not limited to a Deed of Trust and
various blank papers with the representation that Cross Defendants would help
Cross Plaintiffs get out of the financial troubles they were in. LAUREN relied
on these promises and signed the documents.
 
The truth was that AFC and
CRITTENDEN has no intention of helping Cross Plaintiffs. Rather, AFC and
CRITTENDEN doctored the documents to reflect that LAUREN was the guarantor for
Strong Arm LLC who held an unsecured loan with AFC and CRITTENDEN. As such,
LAUREN was not "on the hook" for securing a loan between Strong Arm
LLC and AFC/CRITTENDEN and was not benefitting at all from lower monthly
payments on condo.
 
AFC and CRITTENDEN promised to
refinance the subject condominium to lower LAUREN's monthly payments and help
her get through hard financial times as well as Covid struggles. No such
refinancing between LAUREN and AFC/CRITTENDEN took place. No disclosure of the
fact that at all times AFC/CRITTENDEN intended to substitute LAUREN as the guarantor
of an unrelated unsecured factoring agreement between Strong Arm LLC and
AFC/CRITTENDEN was made.
 
LAUREN signed all the
documents presented to her by AFC/CRITTENDEN thereby causing her to become a
guarantor of an unsecured factoring agreement between Strong Arm and
AFC/CRITTENDEN.
 
As a result, LAUREN and KNIPE
lost condominium through foreclosure and were ultimately removed from the
premises through the Unlawful Detainer Action which initiated the within
lawsuit. Moreover, LAUREN and KNIPE are now subject to a lawsuit in the Amended
Complaint for monetary damages related to the wrongful acts of AFC and
CRITTENDEN.
 
(Cross-Complaint, Attachment, pp. 1-2.)  
 
            Based
upon those allegations, the Court finds that Defendants have alleged the
elements of a fraud cause of action with the required particularity for
pleading purposes.
 
                                                                 
ii.           
Contradicted by Judicially Noticed Deed
 
The Court rejects Plaintiff’s and Cross-Defendant’s argument that the Cross-Complaint
fails to state a cause of action because it is contradicted by the judicially
noticed deed.  Defendants dispute the
validity of the contents of the deed. 
Therefore, the Court finds that the deed evidences a potential factual
dispute.  At this juncture, the Court
cannot determine that the Cross-Complaint fails to state a cause of action as a
matter of law when Defendants contest the genesis of the deed.
 
                                                               
iii.           
Statute of Limitations
 
A demurrer lies where the
dates alleged in the complaint show the cause of action is barred by the
statute of limitations.  (Saliter v.
Pierce Bros. Mortuaries (1978) 81 Cal.App.3d 292, 300.)  The running of the statute must appear
“clearly and affirmatively” from the face of the complaint. (Committee for
Green Foothills v. Santa Clara County Board of Supervisors (2010) 48 Cal.4h
32, 42.)  
 
Fraud claims are subject to a
three year statute of limitations  -- “An
action for relief on the ground of fraud or mistake. The cause of action in
that case is not deemed to have accrued until the discovery, by the aggrieved
party, of the facts constituting the fraud or mistake.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 338, subd. (d).)  
 
First, Plaintiff’s and Cross-Defendant’s statute of limitations
argument relies upon the date of the contested deed, August 30, 2019.  But Defendants challenge the validity of the
deed which they claim was the result of fraudulent acts of Plaintiff and
Cross-Defendant.  As such, the Court finds
Plaintiff’s and Cross-Defendant’s argument on that basis to be fatally flawed.
 
Second, Plaintiff and Cross-Defendant argue that even if the Court
does not consider the August 2019 deed, the claim is time barred by the face of
the complaint, which alleges the fraud occurred in January 2020, yet Defendants
did not file the cross-complaint until August 9, 2023.  
 
However, the delayed discovery rule “postpones accrual of a cause of
action until the plaintiff discovers, or has reason to discover, the cause of
action.”  (Stella v. Asset Management
Consultants, Inc. (2017) 8 Cal.App.5th 181, 191–192.)  “In order to rely on the discovery rule for
delayed accrual of a cause of action, “[a] plaintiff whose complaint shows on
its face that his claim would be barred without the benefit of the discovery
rule must specifically plead facts to show (1) the time and manner of discovery
and (2) the inability to have made earlier discovery despite reasonable
diligence.”  (Fox v. Ethicon
Endo-Surgery, Inc. (2005) 35 Cal.4th 797, 808.)
 
Here, the cross-complaint alleges that Plaintiff and Cross-Defendant
“concealed or suppressed material acts” by not showing Defendants the doctored
documents (see Cross-Complaint ¶ FR-3) and that Defendants did not discover the
fraud until “February 2021, through the unlawful detainer action, which is part
of this case.”  (Cross-complaint at p.
3:3-5.)
 
  Thus, Defendants have
adequately alleged that their fraud claim is not time barred by virtue of the
delayed discovery rule.[1]
 
                                                               
iv.           
Laches
 
“If, in light of the lapse of time and other relevant circumstances, a
court concludes that a party's failure to assert a right has caused prejudice
to an adverse party, the court may apply the equitable defense of laches to bar
further assertion of the right.”  (In
re Marriage of Fellows (2006) 39 Cal.4th 179, 183.)  “The doctrine of laches is to actions in
equity what statutes of limitations are to actions in law.”  (In re Marriage of Parker (2017) 14
Cal.App.5th 681, 687.)  
 
“The defense of laches requires unreasonable delay plus either
acquiescence in the act about which plaintiff complains or prejudice to the
defendant resulting from the delay.”  (Johnson
v. City of Loma Linda (2000) 24 Cal.4th 61, 68.)  “Laches may be raised by demurrer, but
only if the complaint shows on its face unreasonable delay plus
prejudice or acquiescence. In the absence of prejudice or acquiescence delay
does not establish a defense . . . .”  (Conti
v. Board of Civil Serv. Com. (1969) 1 Cal.3d 351, 362, citations omitted
& emphasis added.)   
 
Here, Plaintiff and Cross-Defendant argue that the deed demonstrates
Defendants secured a loan in the amount of $250,000 on August 30, 2019, yet
Defendants did not raise the issue of fraud or misrepresentation throughout the
foreclosure process in 2020, the unlawful detainer process in 2020, or any of
the pleadings in this case until four years later.  (Demurrer at p. 9.)
 
As discussed above, the disputed deed Defendants allege Plaintiff and
Cross-Defendant doctored and concealed from them, and which they did not allegedly
discover until February 2021, in connection with the unlawful detainer action
in this case, does not demonstrate an unreasonable delay as a matter of law.
 
With respect to the foreclosure process in 2020 and the unlawful
detainer process in 2020, the face of the cross-complaint does not indicate
those events occurred in 2020, or that Defendants were aware of those events in
2020.  Moreover, there is nothing to
suggest Defendants acquiesced or that Plaintiff or Cross-Defendant were
prejudiced by the delay.  To wit, the
allegations that Defendants remained in possession of the property until after
the resolution of the unlawful detainer matter suggests Defendants did not
acquiesce.  
 
As for prejudice, “Prejudice is never presumed; rather it must be
affirmatively demonstrated by the defendant in order to sustain his burdens of
proof and the production of evidence on the issue.”  (Miller v. Eisenhower Medical Center
(1980) 27 Cal.3d 614, 624.)  Here, the
only prejudice Plaintiff and Cross-Defendant raise is “the unnecessary time and
expense defending against a non-sensical Cross-Complaint that appears frivolous
on its face.”  (Demurrer at p. 9.)  But Plaintiff and Cross-Defendant cite no authority
supporting their contention that having to defend against a cross-complaint
constitutes prejudice in and of itself.  
 
Therefore, the Court cannot sustain the demurrer on the basis of
laches.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
For the reasons stated, the Court overrules Plaintiff’s and
Cross-Defendant’s Demurrer to the Cross-Complaint in its entirety.  
 
Plaintiff and Cross-Defendant shall file and serve an answer to the
Cross-Complaint on or before November 17, 2023. 
  
 
Plaintiff and Cross-Defendant shall provide notice of the Court’s
ruling and file a proof of service regarding the same.  
 
 
DATED:  November 3, 2023                                                  ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court


