 Case Number:  22PSCV02309    Hearing Date:   May 7, 2024    Dept:  O Tentative Ruling
 
Plaintiff’s
Application for Default Judgment is DENIED with prejudice, notably
for the failure to plead particular, sufficient facts that establish an UCRA
violation. 
 
Background
 
This is a
disability rights action. Plaintiff Rebecca Castillo is a visually impaired and
legally blind individual.
 
On December
5, 2022, Plaintiff filed suit against Defendant CATSA, INC for VIOLATIONS OF
THE UNRUH CIVIL RIGHTS ACT, CALIFORNIA CIVIL CODE § 51 et seq (“UCRA”).
 
On November
22, 2023, Plaintiff filed her first amended complaint (FAC).
 
On February
8, 2024, default was entered against Defendant.
 
On March 26,
2024, Plaintiff filed the instant application.
 
Discussion
 
The
application is denied with prejudice for two reasons. 
 
1.     First Defect
 
First, the FAC
fails to adhere to California Code of Civil Procedure (CCP) section 425.10
subdivision (a), subsection (1), which provides that a complaint “shall contain
. . . [a] statement of the facts constituting the cause of action, in ordinary
and concise language.” 
 
Here, the FAC
is 20 pages with 53 factual allegations, most of which provide no relevant or
material facts to the UCRA COA. Rather, the complaint largely provides case
citations and statutory citations. What is more, despite being a statutory
cause of action, which are
required to be pled with particularity (see e.g., Vedder v. City of Imperial (1974)
36 Cal.App.3d 654, 659), Plaintiff does not plead specific, relevant
facts. Thus, absent specific, particular, and relevant facts that establish an
UCRA violation, the complaint fails to meet basic pleading standards. 
 
Therefore,
for the foregoing reason, the application for entry of default judgment is
denied with prejudice. 
 
2.     Second Defect
 
Related to the issue of pleading, the court turns to Kim
v. Westmoore Partners, Inc. (2011) 201 Cal.App.4th 267 as the appellate
court articulated the following regarding a trial court’s role in determining
default judgments:
 
The second cautionary
tale is for trial courts. And it is not the first time we have told this tale.
As we previously explained [citation], [i]t is imperative in a default case
that the trial court take the time to analyze the complaint at issue and
ensure that the judgment sought is not in excess of or inconsistent with it. It
is not in plaintiffs' interest to be conservative in their demands, and without
any opposing party to point out the excesses, it is the duty of the court to
act as gatekeeper, ensuring that only the appropriate claims get through. That
role requires the court to analyze the complaint for itself—with guidance from
counsel if necessary—ascertaining what relief is sought as against each
defaulting party, and to what extent the relief sought in one cause of action
is inconsistent with or duplicative of the relief sought in another. The court
must then compare the properly pled damages for each defaulting party with the
evidence offered in the prove-up . . . Because [plaintiff’s] complaint does
not state any cognizable cause of action against defendants, it does
not support any judgment in his favor . . . But [plaintiff’s] problems do
not end there, because his complaint also fails to set forth any clear demand
for damages, let alone one which would support the enormous judgment he
obtained from the trial court. As this court has iterated and then
reiterated, Code of Civil
Procedure section 580 prohibits the entry of a default judgment in an amount
in excess of that demanded in the complaint.
 
(Id. at pp.
272-286) (emphasis added). 
 
In short, a
necessary condition prior to the entry of default judgment is that a complaint
be well-pled, i.e., state sufficient facts to support a cause of action. 
Alleging an UCRA Violation

Pursuant to UCRA, “All
persons within the jurisdiction of this state . . . no matter what their . . .
disability . . . are entitled to the full and equal accommodations, advantages,
facilities, privileges, or services in all business establishments of every
kind whatsoever.” (Civil Code, § 51, subd. (b).) 
“A plaintiff can recover
under the [UCRA] on two alternate theories:
(1) a violation of the ADA
[Civil Code section 51, subd. (f)]; or 
(2) denial of access to a
business establishment based on intentional discrimination.
(Martinez v. San Diego
County Credit Union (2020) 50 Cal.App.5th 1048, 1059 (SDCCU).)
a.    
Method #1: Establishing an ADA Violation 
In turn, to establish a
violation of the ADA, “a plaintiff must show: (1) a covered disability; (2)
‘the defendant is a private entity that owns, leases, or operates a place of
public accommodation; and (3) the plaintiff was¿denied¿public
accommodations¿by the defendant because of [the] disability.’”[1]
(Id., at p. 1060, quoting Molski v. M.J. Cable, Inc. (9th Cir.
2007) 481 F.3d 724, 730.) Websites alone are not considered places of public
accommodation under the ADA. (Martinez v. Cot’n Wash, Inc. (2022) 81
Cal.App.5th 1026, 1043-1044, 1052-1053 (Cot’n Wash).) However, pursuant
to the nexus test, courts will “consider whether the alleged website
deficiencies impinge on the plaintiff's ability to have equal access to, and
enjoyment of, the products and services offered at the physical location.” (SDCCU,
supra, 50 Cal.App.5th at p. 1067.) That said, even if there are
accessibility issues, “a
plaintiff who fails to allege any connection between the website barriers and a
physical location does not have an ADA claim.” (Gomez v.
Trinitas Cellars, LLC (N.D. Cal. March 9, 2022) 3:21-cv-09006-WHO [2022 WL
704857, at *3], quoting Langer v. Pep Boys Manny Moe & Jack of
California (N.D. Cal. Jan. 15, 2021) 20-cv-06015-DMR [2021 WL 148237, at
*5],.) 
b.     Method #2: Establishing Intentional
Discretion 
Pursuant to the UCRA, if a
claim is not an ADA violation, the plaintiff must prove the discrimination was
intentional or willful and affirmative misconduct. (Id., at p. 1036.) “A claimant may not ‘rel[y] on
the¿effects¿of a facially neutral policy on a particular group . . . to
infer¿solely¿from such effects a discriminatory intent.’” (Ibid,
quoting Koebke v. Bernardo Heights Country Club (2005) 36 Cal.4th 824,
854.)
Merits 
 
Here, Plaintiff claims to have “multiple”
barriers in that the homepage had, for example, incorrectly labeled graphics,
links, and buttons. (See Castillo Decl., p. 2.) But Plaintiff does not specify
how those barriers have a connection to Defendant’s physical store locations.
The only explanation Plaintiff provides is that she “intended to browse the
products, place an order, sign up for email notifications, and [sic] before
visiting the nearest brick-and-mortar location.” (Castillo Decl., p. 2.) Without
a factual showing of a connection between the website barriers and a physical
location, there is no ADA claim. Without an ADA claim, that leaves the other
method of establishing an UCRA violation: “denial of access to a business
establishment based on intentional discrimination.” (Martinez v. San Diego
County Credit Union (2020) 50 Cal.App.5th 1048, 1059 (SDCCU).) However,
even as to intentional discrimination, Plaintiff has not alleged facts
establishing Defendant’s website was intended to discriminate against the
visually impaired. While Plaintiff claims Defendant’s actions amounted to
intentional discrimination, these allegations are conclusory without any facts
pled as support. (Complaint ¶50.) 
 
Therefore, without either a showing of an ADA
violation or intentional discrimination, Plaintiff has not pled a violation of
UCRA to reach the merits of the default judgment application. 
 
Conclusion
 
Based on the foregoing, the default judgment
application is denied with prejudice. 


