 This is an action in which Plaintiff Latoya S. Redd claims that Defendants failed to pay her $35,489.51 attorneys’ fee lien with settlement funds from case no. YC072873.  Redd asserts claims for (1) conversion, (2) intentional interference with prospective economic damage, (3) intentional interference with contractual relations, (4) breach of fiduciary duty, (5) common count, and (6) negligent interference with prospective economic damages.  Defendants Thomas Kovich, William R. Johnson, and Defendant Tyson & Mendes, LLP (“T&M”) now demur to the Complaint for failure to state sufficient facts. Johnson is an attorney at T&M.  Johnson/T&M represented Kovich as a defendant in  YC072873.  Kovich’s liability for the settlement was apparently $1,500.  Redd represented the plaintiff in YC072873.  Around September 25, 2019, Redd’s representation of the client was terminated.  Redd then asserted a fee lien.  Redd contends that it was wrongful for Defendants not to pay her lien and instead attempt to “settle around” the lien.  When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in context, and “treat the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.” (Serrano v. Priest (1971) 5 Cal.3d 584, 591.)  “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed. The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.”  (Hahn v. Mirda¿(2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)  It is error “to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if the plaintiff shows there is a reasonable possibility any defect identified by the defendant can be cured by amendment.”  (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist.¿(1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.)As an initial matter, Plaintiff argues the Demurrer is untimely, but the Court granted a motion to set aside default and allowed the Demurrer to move forward.  To rule otherwise would be to acquiesce to circular logic.  Plaintiff’s other procedural arguments also lack merit.Defendants argue that all claims fail because Plaintiff did not establish the validity and amount of the subject lien in an independent action.  Actually, however, Plaintiff did obtain a judgment in an independent action for this purpose on March 15, 2024.  (Plaintiff’s RNJ, Exhibit A.)Defendants also argue that all claims fail because “the settlement funds have not been disbursed and are subject to further adjudication in the Mezheritsky case.” Defendants filed a complaint-in-intervention in YC072873.  The complaint-in-intervention asserts only a claim for declaratory relief with respect to the settlement funds and the distribution amongst the lienholders.  It is Defendants’ contention therein that all money should be given only to the plaintiff because Liberty Mutual Insurance cannot cut a check payable to seven individuals/entities.  Plaintiff cites State Bar Opinion 1998-101.  Therein the issue was somewhat similar: “Client employs attorney to represent client in a personal injury matter on a contingent fee basis. Client is also in need of health care. Health care provider agrees to treat client with the understanding that health care provider will be paid out of the proceeds from any recovery in the personal injury matter. Attorney and client both acknowledge in writing health care providers' interest in the recovery. Thereafter when recovery is had, client instructs attorney not to disburse any funds to health care provider, but to disburse the proceeds to client alone. What is the ethical duty of the attorney in this situation?”The State Bar concluded: “It is the opinion of the Committee that the safest course of action is to commence an action in interpleader. In the alternative, the attorney may contact both parties to the dispute, stating: a) the existence and nature of the dispute; b) that the attorney cannot represent either side in the dispute; c) that the attorney can retain the funds in trust pursuant to the agreement of the parties until the dispute is resolved; and d) that if the parties do not so agree, an interpleader action will be commenced.”The complaint-in-intervention is different from an interpleader because the funds have not apparently been deposited with the court.  Actually, Plaintiff has filed a motion requesting interpleader.  This is all notable because while Defendants have not wrongfully distributed the cash, they could be said to have wrongfully interfered with Plaintiff’s possession of the funds.  Lastly, attorney Defendants argue they have no fiduciary duty to Plaintiff.  This is rejected because “[w]hen an attorney receives money on behalf of a third party who is not his client, he nevertheless is a fiduciary as to such third party . . . . When an attorney assumes a fiduciary relationship and violates his duty in a manner that would justify disciplinary action if the relationship had been that of attorney and client, he may properly be disciplined for his misconduct.”  (Johnstone v. State Bar (1966) 64 Cal.2d 153, 155-156.)The Demurrer is overruled.  The RJNs are granted.  An answer is to be filed within 20 days.Moving party to give notice.If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic. 