 Case Number:  23STCV35490    Hearing Date:   July 30, 2024    Dept:  14 Case Background
This is an action for breach of contract. Plaintiff
rented commercial space from Defendants for the purpose of opening a
Mediterranean restaurant. While Plaintiff was building necessary improvements,
he fell behind on the payments and Defendant filed an unlawful detainer.
Plaintiff alleges that when Defendant served the unlawful detainer, they told
Plaintiff that nothing would come of the action and he should keep working on
the improvements. Inevitably, Defendants secured possession of the now-improved
property. Plaintiff wishes to recover for the value of the improvements he
made, which he claims have increased the rental value of the property.
On November 3, 2022, Plaintiff Samvel Karapetyan filed
his Complaint against Defendants Jui Chuan and Golden Valley Stores, LLC.
On May 17, 2023, Plaintiff filed a First Amended
Complaint.
On August 14, 2023, Plaintiff filed a Second Amended
Complaint (SAC).
Instant Pleading
Defendant Jui Chuan moves to quash service of summons.
Decision
Chuan’s motion is DENIED.
Legal Standard
“A defendant . . . may serve and file a notice of motion for
one or more of the following purposes:  (1) To quash service of summons on
the ground of lack of jurisdiction of the court over him or her. . .
.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 418.10(a).) The motion must be filed on or
before the last day on which the defendant must plead or within any further
time that the court may for good cause allow. (Id.)
“[C]ompliance
with the statutory procedures for service of process is essential to establish
personal jurisdiction. [Citation.]” (Dill v. Berquist Construction Co.
(1994) 24 Cal.App.4th 1426, 1444.) “[T]he filing of a proof of service
creates a rebuttable presumption that the service was proper” but only if it
“complies with the statutory requirements regarding such proofs.” (Id.
at 1441-1442.) When a defendant moves to quash service of the summons and
complaint, the plaintiff has “the burden of proving the facts that did give the
court jurisdiction, that is the facts requisite to an effective
service.” (Coulston v. Cooper (1966) 245 Cal.App.2d 866,
868.) “A court lacks jurisdiction over a party if there has not been
proper service of process.” (Ruttenberg v. Ruttenberg (1997) 53
Cal.App.4th 801, 808.)
Code Civ. Proc. section 415.20
provides that “[i]f a copy of the summons and complaint cannot with reasonable
diligence be personally delivered to the person to be served . . . a summons
may be served by leaving a copy of the summons and complaint at the person’s
dwelling house, usual place of abode, usual place of business, or usual mailing
address . . . in the presence of a competent member of the household . . . at
least 18 years of age, who shall be informed of the contents thereof, and by
thereafter mailing a copy of the summons and of the complaint by first-class
mail…to the person to be served at the place where a copy of the summons and
complaint were left . . . .” (Code Civ. Proc., section 415.20(b).) Service of a
summons in this matter is deemed complete on the 10th day after the mailing.
(Id.)
“Evidence Code section 647 provides
that a registered process server’s declaration of service establishes a
presumption affecting the burden of producing evidence of the facts stated in
the declaration.” (American Express Centurion Bank v. Zara (2011) 199
Cal.App.4th 383, 390; Evid. Code § 647.)
DiscussionHere, according to Plaintiff’s proof of service of
summons filed March 8, 2024, Plaintiff served Chuan via substituted service by
leaving the papers on an individual named Mary Beth Leal at a hospital located
at 605 Garfield Avenue, Monterey Park, CA 91754. Plaintiff’s process server
thereafter mailed the documents to the same address.Plaintiff’s counsel contends that the address does not
exist. (Chiao Decl., ¶9.) It appears the address is missing a direction, N. or
S. Plaintiff’s counsel alleges that 605 N. Garfield is an outpatient medical
facility while 605 S. Garfield is a single-family residence belonging to an
unrelated family. (Id., ¶¶11-12.) Despite the error on the proof of
service of summons, it is reasonable to infer that Plaintiff served the papers
at 605 N. Garfield because the process server references a hospital in the declaration
of reasonable diligence and this address is a medical facility. The Court finds that this error alone is insufficient to show that
service was not proper. Moreover, there is no evidence that 605 N. Garfield is not
Chuan’s usual place of business.