 Case Number:  23STCV30103    Hearing Date:   July 30, 2024    Dept:  14 #3Case Background
Plaintiff alleges that his talent agents worked against
Plaintiff’s best interests in the compensation negotiations for Plaintiff’s
appearance on the hit television show ‘Empire.’
On December 8, 2023, Plaintiff filed his Complaint for
(1) Breach of Fiduciary Duty, (2) Constructive Fraud, and (3) Fraudulent
Concealment against Defendants Creative Artists Agency, LLC (“Creative
Artists”), David Bugliari, Jon Teiber, Michael Katcher, and DOES 1-10.
On November 16, 2023, the Court sustained Creative
Artists’ first demurrer with leave to amend. 
On April 16, 2024, Plaintiff filed a First Amended
Complaint (FAC).
On July 1, 2024, the Court granted Plaintiff’s ex
parte application to continue the hearing on this matter. Plaintiff’s
opposition was due on July 9, 2024.
Plaintiff filed his opposition on July 18, 2024.
On July 24, 2024, Creative Artists filed an ex parte
application to strike Plaintiff’s untimely opposition.
Instant Pleading
Creative Artists demurs to Plaintiff’s FAC.
Decision
Creative Artists’ demurrer is SUSTAINED with 15 days leave to amend.
Discussion
As a preliminary matter, Plaintiff failed to file a
timely opposition.
The Court has broad discretion to refuse to consider
papers that are filed and served beyond the deadline without a prior court
order finding good cause for the late submission. (Cal. Rules of Courr, Rule
3.1300(d).) The Court may also overlook a party’s failure to file motion papers
in accordance with the applicable deadline and to resolve the matter on the
merits. (Gonzalez v. Santa Clara County Dept. of Social Services (2017)
9 Cal.App.5th 162, 168.) 
Here, the Court ordered Plaintiff to file his
opposition to Creative Artists’ demurrer no later than July 9, 2024 when it
granted Plaintiff’s ex parte motion to continue the motion. Despite the
Court’s order, Plaintiff filed his opposition late on July 18, 2024. The
opposition would have been late even under the normal 9-court day deadline. Plaintiff’s
opposition contains no explanation for the late filing. Additionally,
Plaintiff’s counsel previously missed an opposition deadline when he filed the ex
parte motion to continue this matter. (Plaintiff’s ex parte motion,
Bryant Decl., ¶¶10-12.) Because this is the second time Plaintiff has failed to
meet an opposition deadline, the Court will exercise its discretion and refuse
to consider the opposition filed on July 18, 2024.
Creative Artists demurs to the FAC on the same grounds
as the previous demurrer, that Plaintiff’s claims were time-barred. 
The Discovery Rule “postpones accrual of a cause of
action until the plaintiff discovers, or has reason to discover, the cause of
action.” (Fox v. Ethicon Endo-Surgery, Inc. (2005) 35 Cal.4th
797, 807.) “The discovery rule only delays accrual until the plaintiff has, or
should have, inquiry notice of the cause of action.” (Id.) A Plaintiff
who wishes to rely on the Discovery Rule has the burden of specifically
pleading “(1) the time and manner of discovery and (2) the
inability to have made earlier discovery despite reasonable diligence.” (Id.
at 808 (emphasis in original).)
Previously, the Court ruled that Plaintiff’s Complaint
only generally stated when Plaintiff discovered the alleged misrepresentations
regarding his pay in 2018 and failed to describe the manner in which he made
the discovery. Plaintiff also failed to plead why he could not make the
discovery earlier. Because Plaintiff alleged he was unhappy with his pay as
early as 2016, Plaintiff needed to provide a more detailed explanation as to
why the discovery of the harm alleged did not lead him to find the source.
Plaintiff’s FAC made significant changes to the facts
about the events leading up to Plaintiff’s discovery of the alleged
misrepresentations made by Creative Artists. However, Plaintiff’s explanation still falls short. By
2018, Plaintiff received comparisons from his agents showing other lead actors
in less successful shows were earning between $100,000 to $200,000 more than
Plaintiff. Plaintiff also represents Creative Artists failed to make a good
faith effort to renegotiate the fees. Plaintiff now alleges essentially that he
did not discover Creative Artists’ misrepresentations until 2020 because he
relied on this list of comparable fees in 2018 and because he trusted Creative
Artists. However, based on these facts, Plaintiff could have discovered the
alleged misrepresentations as early as 2018 when Creative Artists refused to
renegotiate his salary given the wide disparity between his compensation and
the compensation of lead actors in lesser projects. As pled, it is not
reasonable to infer that Plaintiff’s reliance on the list of comparable fees
prevented him from discovering Creative Artists’ alleged misconduct because the
difference between his episodic fees and those of other actors on less successful shows is
so significant. There is also no explanation for why Plaintiff could not have
discovered the alleged misrepresentations between 2018 and 2020 while he was
still receiving much lower pay than he believed he was entitled to. Plaintiff
thus fails to meet his burden of pleading facts which show he could not have
discovered the alleged harm earlier.Conclusion:Creative Artists’ demurrer is SUSTAINED with 15 days leave to amend.