

 
SERVICE: 

 
[   ] Proof of Service Timely Filed (CRC,
rule 3.1300)                     OK
[   ] Correct Address (CCP §§ 1013, 1013a)                                      OK 
[   ] 16/21 Court Days Lapsed (CCP §§ 12c,
1005(b))                       OK  
 
OPPOSITION:          Filed as of February 20,
2024                         [ ] Late             [  
] None
REPLY:                     Filed as of February
28, 2024                         [ ] Late            [   ] None
 
BACKGROUND
 
On December 05, 2023, Petitioner Estella Williams
(“Petitioner”), filed the instant Petition for Release of Property from Lien
(“Petition”) against Respondent AB Renovations Corp.
(“Respondent”).  The Petition seeks an order releasing property commonly
known as 534 W School St., Compton, CA 90220 (“Subject
Property”) from a mechanic’s lien recorded on October 14, 2022, by
Respondent. 
 
On January 30, 2024, Respondent filed its Answer to Complaint
stating that the mechanic’s lien had been removed from the Subject Property as
of December 11, 2023. Petitioner did not file a reply. On its own motion, the
Court continued the hearing to March 06, 2024, and ordered Petitioner to file
supplemental papers providing the Court and serving Respondent with a verified
petition consistent with Civil Code §8484. The Court also ordered Petitioner to
submit a proposed order consistent with Civil Code § 8490.
 
On February 09, 2024, Petitioner filed the
instant Amended Verified Petition for Release of Property from Lien Pursuant to
Civil Code § 8490. Respondent filed in opposition on February 20, 2024.
Petitioner files in reply. 
 
MOVING PARTY
POSITION
 
Petitioner prays to the Court for
judgment against Respondent releasing the Subject property from Respondent’s
claim of lien. Petitioner additionally seeks attorney’s fees and costs for
pursuing the motion. 
 
OPPOSITION
            
In opposition, Respondent answers
that the mechanic’s lien on the subject property has been removed as of
December 11, 2023, pursuant to law that the time on that lien had expired. Respondent
additionally argues that it was never properly served with the original
petition by personal service and that there is no agreement to accept electronic
service. 
 
REPLY
 
            In reply,
Petitioner argues that since Respondent made a general appearance and has filed
an answer to the Petition, the Court therefore has jurisdiction over the
Respondent. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
I.          Legal
Standard  
After a mechanic’s lien has been
recorded, “[t]he owner of property or the owner of any interest in property
subject to a claim of lien may petition the court for an order to release the
property from the claim of lien if the claimant has not commenced an action to
enforce the lien within the time provided in Section 8460.”  (Civ. Code, §
8480(a).)  A claimant must commence an action to enforce a lien within 90
days of recording the lien, otherwise, “the claim of lien expires and is
unenforceable.”  (Civ. Code, § 8460(a).)  However, the 90-day time
limit to commence an action to enforce a lien does not apply if there was an
agreement to extend credit and a notice of that fact was recorded within 90
days after recordation of the claim of lien or more than 90 days after
recordation of the claim of lien but before a purchaser or encumbrancer for
value and in good faith acquires rights in the property.  (Civ. Code, §
8460(b).) 
 
II.        Request for Judicial Notice 
 
1.     
Petitioner’s
Request for Judicial Notice of Exhibit A is GRANTED. Under Evidence Code §
452(g) & (h), because it is a copy of Respondent’s recorded mechanic’s lien
recorded with the LA County Recorder’s Office, the document is not reasonably
subject to dispute.
 
 
 
 
II.        Discussion

A. Service
Requirements 
 
“The petitioner
shall serve a copy of the petition and a notice of hearing on the claimant at
least 15 days before the hearing.  Service shall be made in the same
manner as service of summons, or by certified or registered mail, postage
prepaid, return receipt requested, addressed to the claimant as provided in Section
8108.”  (Civ. Code § 8486(b).)  Civil Code § 8108 provides addresses
at which a respondent must be served, depending on the title of the person to
be served.  For example, a claimant should be served at the address on the
“claimant’s contract, preliminary notice, claim of lien, stop payment notice,
or claim against a payment bond, or on the records of the Contractors' State
License Board.”  (Civ. Code § 8108(e).)  The petitioner bears the
burden of proving that he or she complied with service and date for hearing
requirements.  (Civ. Code. §¿8488(a).) 
 
Here, the Petition includes Proof
of Service demonstrating that Respondent was served with the Petition, Notice
of Hearing, and supplemental papers, by certified mail, postage prepaid, return
receipt requested, at 19210 S. Vermont Ave. Bldg. A Ste 115.
Gardena, CA 90248, on
December 09, 2023.  (Pet. p. 14.) The same address is listed for
Respondent on the Mechanic’s Lien.  (Pet. p. 8, Exh. A.) 
 
B. Petition Requirements  
 
Civil Code § 8484 requires that
the petition for release order be verified by the petitioner and allege the
following: 
 
(a) The date of recordation of the claim of lien. A
certified copy of the claim of lien shall be attached to the petition. 
(b) The county in which the claim of lien is recorded. 
(c) The book and page or series number of the place in the
official records where the claim of lien is recorded. 
(d) The legal description of the property subject to the
claim of lien. 
(e) Whether an extension of credit has been granted under
Section 8460, if so to what date, and that the time for commencement of an
action to enforce the lien has expired. 
(f) That the owner has given the claimant notice under
Section 8482 demanding that the claimant execute and record a release of the
lien and that the claimant is unable or unwilling to do so or cannot with
reasonable diligence be found. 
(g) Whether an action to enforce the lien is pending. 
(h) Whether the owner of the property or interest in the
property has filed for relief in bankruptcy or there is another restraint that
prevents the claimant from commencing an action to enforce the lien. 
 
A property owner may not petition
for a release order until he or she gives the claimant notice demanding that
the claimant execute and record a release of lien claim at least ten days
before filing the petition. (Civ. Code § 8482.) 
 
In its prior order, the Court
noted that Petitioner did not provide the Court with a verified petition
complaint with Civil Code § 8490. 
 
Here,
the Court notes that since its previous order, the Petitioner has filed an
amended verified petition and a proposed order. (See 02/09/24 Amended Verified
Petition; See also Proposed order.) Petitioner provides that she is the owner
of the Subject Property. (Pet. ¶ 1.) Petitioner states that on July 10, 2023,
Petitioner sent the Respondent correspondence demanding a release of the lien,
and Respondent has not responded to Petitioner (Id. at
¶ 6, Exh. B.) The Petition sets forth the legal description of the Subject
Property and states that “[n]o action has been filed to foreclosure the Lien,”
and the period for enforcing the lien has expired. (Id. at ¶ 4.) Petitioner also states that “[n]o
extension of credit has been granted,” Petitioner has not filed for bankruptcy
relief, and no other restraint exists preventing Respondent from filing an
action to enforce the lien and the period during which suit can be brought to
foreclose the lien has expired. (Id. ¶¶
4, 8.) 
 
Petitioner has filed the instant Petition,
which states that the mechanic’s lien, Document No. 20220990561, was recorded with the Los
Angeles County Office of the County Recorder on October 14, 2022.  (Id.
at ¶ 3; Exh. A.) 
 
Thus, because Petitioner has
complied with the notice requirement and the Petition complies with Civil Code
§ 8484, the Court grants the instant Petition.
 
C. Attorney’s Fees and Cost
 
Pursuant
to Civil Code § 8488, the prevailing party in an action seeking a release order
of a mechanic’s lien is entitled to reasonable attorney’s fees.
 
The Court notes that while Petitioner
requests attorney’s fees and costs, the Petition does not provide the amount sought.
Petitioner may request attorney’s fees and cost pursuant to a separate noticed
motion under Civil Code § 8488. 
 
Accordingly, the Petition for
Release of Property from Lien is GRANTED.
 
 
III.       Conclusion 
            
            Petitioner Estella
Williams’s Amended Petition for Release of Property from Lien Pursuant to Civil
Code § 8490 is GRANTED.
 
Petitioner is ordered to give notice to any Party legally
entitled.