 Case Number:  22STCV12232    Hearing Date:   September 24, 2024    Dept:  T Motion for New Trial Moving Party: Plaintiff Vivi DevereauxResponding Party: Defendants Mr. Furleys Bar, LLC; Richard Norman Foster; Mr. Furleys, LLC, et al.Tentative Ruling: DENYBACKGROUNDThis is a personal injury case. Plaintiff patroned Mr. Furley’s Bar and was assaulted at an unknown time and place sometime after, waking up with injuries the next morning in a nearby parking lot. Plaintiff asserted a negligence claim against Defendants alleging they failed to protect him from the attack by third parties. The Court granted Defendants’ motion for summary judgement against Plaintiff on the basis that Plaintiff failed to raise a triable issue of fact that Defendants had notice of foreseeable harm giving rise to a duty to protect Plaintiff from a third-party assault. (See Plaintiff’s Undisputed Material Facts (“UMF”) 2-7.) Plaintiff since conducted a deposition of the security company which provided security to the bar at the time of the incident, revealing additional information on bar policies and the nature of the relationship between them. (See Deposition of Chardell Powell, Declaration of Neer Lerner, Exh. A.)MOVING PARTY POSITIONPlaintiff argues the Court should grant his motion for a new trial under Code Civil Procedure section 657, on the bases of newly discovered evidence, accident or surprise, insufficient evidence to justify the verdict/order, and an error in law. (CCP §§ 657 (4)-(7).)OPPOSITIONDefendants argue there is no “newly discovered” evidence nor new facts that warrant a new trial or reversal of the Court’s order. Defendants further provides arguments that each piece of evidence Plaintiff points to in support of his motion does not justify a new trial and fails to raise triable issue with respect to negligence.REPLYNo reply has been filed with respect to this motion.ANALYSISI. Evidentiary ObjectionsDefendants set out 11 objections relating to the Declaration of Neer Lerner in Support of Plaintiff’s Motion for a New Trial Sustained: No. 5 (lack of foundation) Overruled: Nos. 1–4, 6–11.II. Motion for New TrialA motion for new trial is a creature of statute; . . .” (Neal v. Montgomery Elevator Co.¿(1992) 7 Cal. App. 4th 1194, 1198.) A movant must satisfy Code of Civil Procedure sections 657 and 659. Under Code of Civil Procedure section 657, a motion for new trial may be granted if there is any:¿[¶] 1. Irregularity in the proceedings of the court, jury, or adverse party, or any order of the court or abuse of discretion by which either party was prevented from having a fair trial. [¶] 2. Misconduct of the jury; and whenever any one or more of the jurors have been induced to assent to any general or special verdict, or to a finding on any question submitted to them by the court, by a resort to the determination of chance, such misconduct may be proved by the affidavit of any one of the jurors. [¶] 3. Accident or surprise, which ordinary prudence could not have guarded against. [¶] 4. Newly discovered evidence, material for the party making the application, which he could not, with reasonable diligence, have discovered and produced at the trial. [¶] 5. Excessive or inadequate damages. [¶] 6. Insufficiency of the evidence to justify the verdict or other decision, or the verdict or other decision is against law. [¶] 7. Error in law, occurring at the trial and excepted to by the party making the application.¿¿¿(Code Civ. Proc., section 657.)¿¿¿A motion for new trial must be filed within 15 days of the date of mailing of entry of judgment by the clerk of the court or within 180 days after entry of judgment, whichever is earliest. (Code Civ. Proc., section 659.) “A motion for a new trial is appropriate following an order granting summary judgment.” (Aguilar v. Atl. Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal. 4th 826, 858.)Granting a new trial is not appropriate in this case, as Plaintiff has not met the burden of showing new facts or circumstances, accident or surprise, insufficiency of the evidence, or an error in law justifying a new trial. The conditions of changed circumstances and new evidence are not met here. Namely, Plaintiff’s deposition of the security company that serviced the bar at the time of the incident does not provide new evidence giving rise to a duty of care.  Plaintiff argues that the new deposition “substantially rebuts” the claims by Mr. Foster and the Mr. Furley’s Bar entities that they did not exercise any ownership or control over the premises, and that the deposition reveals the bar’s policies concerning intoxicated patrons. (See Powell Deposition.) However, Plaintiff’s new evidence, read in the most favorable light, fails to establish that Defendants owed him a duty.  Plaintiff does not even know where his assault took place, nor when it occurred, or whom his assailants were; Plaintiff thus cannot show a triable issue that a duty to protect from third-party assault existed by relation of a party’s control over the premises when the premises at issue here is completely speculative. Plaintiff’s other evidence regarding the Bar’s security arrangements and the past access to video evidence taken on the date of the incident are also unavailing. That video footage once existed and was lost is not new information. Moreover, evidence regarding specific policies the Bar adopted or declined to adopt has no bearing on this case because Plaintiff here cannot recall when, where, or how he was assaulted, let alone how the Bar’s policies may have impacted his assault, if at all. Thus, Plaintiff fails to show evidence of changed circumstances to justify a new trial. Further, Plaintiff fails to provide a persuasive argument that the Court misapplied or misunderstood applicable law in granting summary judgement. A new trial is therefore inappropriate.RULINGPlaintiff’s motion for a new trial is DENIED.