 Case Number:  20STCV44417    Hearing Date:   September 24, 2024    Dept:  T Motion to Tax CostsMoving Party: Defendants Monika Arakse Mkhitaryan; Armenuhi YeginyanResponding Party: Plaintiff Dylan HuertaTentative Ruling: GRANTED IN PARTBACKGROUND This case arises from a May 2019 rear-end traffic collision. A jury verdict was returned in the sum of $290,098.59 to compensate Plaintiff for the damages he sustained as a result of negligence. Plaintiff in this matter seeks more than $70,000 in costs.Plaintiff claims $42,150.00 in expert fees. $21,250 of those fees are for Dr. Nassos, who testified at trial. The remaining $20,900 in claimed expert fees are for “Arbio”. Additionally, Plaintiff claims $3,857.59 in deposition costs of Defendant’s psychological expert, Dr. Marc Cohen; Plaintiff declined to stipulate not to seek psychological damages, but later waived psychological damages prior to trial. Plaintiff also claims $595 for Access Multilingual Services for interpreter fees. Plaintiff also claims costs under labels “USPS”, “FedEx”, “verdict downloads”, “TLO on Defendants”, “Advanced Legal Research”, and “Service to Defendants.” MOVING PARTY POSITIONDefendants request the Court tax Plaintiff’s claimed costs they contend are not shown to be reasonable or necessary to the litigation because Plaintiff has not provided enough information to allow the reasonableness of these costs to be determined. Defendants also argue the claimed expert fees and deposition costs were unreasonable and/or unnecessary. Each cost Defendants object to are provided as follows:o Service of Process Fees: $7,675.10. Defendants object to Plaintiff’s requested recovery of $7,675.10 in service of process fees related to Plaintiff’s treating providers’ custodians of records. Defendants state the subpoenas were unnecessary as when they were served, Defendants immediately stipulated to authenticity and foundation for the records at trial. Defendants also challenge that no information has been provided as to why Defendant’s retained expert needed to be personally served with anything in this matter.o Deposition Costs: $3,857.59. Defendants challenge the $3,857.59 in deposition costs related to psychological expert Marc Cohen, M.D. as Plaintiff knew the deposition of Dr. Cohen was unnecessary and could have avoided this expense by simply advising Defendants that he had waived his psychological and brain injury claims.o Interpreter Fees: $595.00.   Defendants argue Plaintiff does not itemize these costs or provide any supporting documentation to allow Defendants and the Court to determine what the costs were for and whether they are reasonable and necessary. o Expert Fees: $42,150.00.Defendants argues the Court has discretion not to grant Plaintiff’s expert fees in this instance based on reasonableness. Defendants contend Plaintiff claims $21,250.00 attributed to one expert witness, Dr. Nassos, and contend that at trial Dr. Nassos testified that his total bill was less than $17,000. (Motion to Tax Costs, p.7; see also, Exhibit “C”.) Defendant states Plaintiff provides no documentation of what these expenses are for, and states that any cost beyond $20,000.00 is unreasonable in the context of this case.Defendants argue Plaintiff’s $20,900.00 claim for costs to “Arbio” is unreasonable, as Plaintiff provides no information on their identity and neither called nor deposed other retained experts, and no other experts provided reports or any other materials in this matter.o Other Fees; $2,729.38.Defendants challenge and object to Plaintiff’s claimed $2,729.38 in other fees, arguing Plaintiff is seeking unrecoverable costs and provided insufficient information to determine the reasonableness and necessity of these costs.OPPOSITIONPlaintiff argues the items contained in the memorandum of costs are proper, reasonable, and necessary. Plaintiff accordingly argues: (1) the service of process fees as they were all reasonably necessary to litigation; (2) that Plaintiff is entitled to costs of deposing Defendants’ expert witness; (3) that interpreter costs were for the deposition of Defendant Yeginyan; (4) that Plaintiff is entitled to expert fees for Dr. Nassos and “Arbio,” who is Dr. Jesse Wobrock, an accident reconstructionist and biomechanic expert retained by Plaintiff in response to Defendants’ designation of their own accident reconstructionist and biomechanic expert; (5) that other costs — such as copy costs for exhibits and other trial-related documents — were reasonable (Opposition, p. 13; Exhibit J.)REPLYDefendants argue the cost associated with Dr. Wobrock is unsupported and patently unreasonable. Additionally, Defendants challenge the fees and other costs Plaintiff seeks are not recoverable, as the bill for advanced legal research was for a “policy limits trace” from February 6, 2020, making it an unrecoverable investigation expense under Code of Civil Procedure section 1033.5(b)(2), whereas other expenses sought do not appear to have supporting documents.Defendants argue Plaintiff’s claimed $3,857.59 deposition costs related to psychological expert Dr. Cohen is not the result of Defendants’ actions, but rather by Plaintiff’s refusal to stipulate to not seek damages for psychological injuries. Defendants lastly argue Plaintiff’s claim for prejudgment interest is untimely because it was not requested in the memorandum of cost.ANALYSISCCP Section 1032 provides that a prevailing party may recover their costs. (CCP § 1032.) CCP Section 1033.5(a) itemizes allowable costs; CCP Section 1033.5(b) itemizes costs that are not allowed. Subsection (c) provides that costs shall be necessary to the litigation and reasonable in amount, and that items of cost not mentioned in the statute are recoverable in the court’s discretion.  “If items on a memorandum of costs appear to be proper charges on their face, those items are prima facie evidence that the costs, expenses, and services are proper and necessarily incurred. [citations.] The burden then shifts to the objecting party to show them to be unnecessary or unreasonable.” (Doe v. Los Angeles County Dept. of Children & Family Services (2019) 37 Cal.App.5th 675, 693.) “In ruling upon a motion to tax costs, the trial court's first determination is whether the statute expressly allows the particular item and whether it appears proper on its face. ‘If so, the burden is on the objecting party to show [the costs] to be unnecessary or unreasonable.’ [citation.] (Foothill-De Anza Community College Dist. v. Emerich (2007 ) 158 Cal.App.4th 11, 29.)   “[T]he mere filing of a motion to tax costs may be a ‘proper objection’ to an item, the necessity of which appears doubtful, or which does not appear to be proper on its face. [citation.] However, ‘[i]f the items appear to be proper charges, the verified memorandum is prima facie evidence that the costs, expenses and services therein listed were necessarily incurred by the defendant [citations], and the burden of showing that an item is not properly chargeable or is unreasonable is upon the [objecting party].’ ” (Nelson v. Anderson (1999) 72 Cal.App.4th 111, 131.) The award of expert witness expenses where there is a failure to accept a pretrial 998 Offer is discretionary, not automatic. (Santantonio v. Westinghouse Broadcasting Co., Inc. (1994) 25 Cal.4th 102, 121-24; Rouland v. Pacific Specialty Ins. Co. (2013) 220 Cal.4th 280, 289.) The expert fee recovery under Code of Civil Procedure §998 is limited to the reasonable fees and the claiming party has the burden to prove reasonableness. (Michelson v. Camp (1999) 72 Cal.4th 955, 974.)I. Service of Process FeesWhile Plaintiff does justify that the subpoenas — all to medical providers — were reasonable and necessary as a part of Plaintiff’s independent discovery, Plaintiff is still responsible for providing information as to the method of service in justifying the costs in his memorandum of costs. (See (Nelson v. Anderson (1999) 72 Cal.App.4th 111, 132, as modified on denial of reh'g (June 14, 1999) (finding a prevailing party’s memorandum of costs failed to state how the subpoenas were served, making it impossible to determine from the face of the cost bill whether the items are proper).) Here, Plaintiff’s memorandum of costs similarly does not provide information as to the service of process costs. However, Plaintiff provides an accounting in his Opposition that provides responsive documentation as to the subpoena expenses. The Court finds these records sufficient to meet Plaintiff’s burden, and therefore that Plaintiff may recover.II. Interpreter Fees Plaintiff is entitled to interpreter fees, as an interpreter was specifically requested by Defendant Yeginyan for her deposition. This $595.00 cost is therefore a reasonable and necessary expense Defendants must pay.III. Expert Witness Fees A. Marc Cohen, M.D. Plaintiff meets the burden of showing reasonableness of deposing Dr. Cohen. That Defendants retained Dr. Cohen solely because Plaintiff chose not to stipulate against claiming psychological injuries is itself unavailing; Plaintiff never made claims for psychological damages beyond those ordinarily expected from the injury for an individual with his preexisting diagnoses. (See Plaintiff’s Opposition, p. 9.) Moreover, that Dr. Cohen intended to testify that Plaintiff may be dishonest about his medical condition — which Defendants do not contest in their reply — provides a compelling reason for Plaintiff to depose him. The Court thus finds that Plaintiff satisfies the reasonable standard for deposing Dr. Cohen. B. Dr. Jonathan NassosPlaintiff supports the expenses of expert Dr. Nassos in documentation in his Opposition (Opposition p. 127.) Dr. Nassos’ full-day trial testimony fee of $17,000.00; however, while it was anticipated originally that Dr. Nassos’ testimony would conclude in the morning session, his testimony continued into the afternoon, which required payment for a full day of trial testimony. The Court finds Plaintiff’s expense was therefore reasonable and is sufficiently accounted for in Plaintiff’s attached documentation. (Plaintiff’s Opposition, Exhibit J.)C. Jesse L. Wobrock, M.D.The fees labeled as “Arbio” refers to accident reconstructionist Dr. Jesse L. Wobrock, whom Plaintiff retained in order to respond to Defendants’ expert witness and strategy of challenging the mechanics of the accident itself. When Defendants de-designated their expert witness, so too did Plaintiff. (See Plaintiff’s Opposition, Exhibits G-H.) Given that Defendants brought the biomechanics of the accident into issue by designating an accident reconstructionist, the Court finds it was reasonable for Plaintiff to do so in response. However, Plaintiff only provides invoices for completed work in the amount of $5,900.  (See Plaintiff’s Opposition, Exhibit I.)  As such, the Court finds that Plaintiff is only entitled to $5,900.  IV. Miscellaneous ExpensesPlaintiff does not address or justify several miscellaneous expenses, such as $15.00 for “Central Justice Center verdict downloads”, $5.00 for “Stanley Mosk verdict downloads” and $100.00 for “Advanced Legal Research”. Because Plaintiff provides no explanation for purposes of these services, the Court cannot conclude that they are reasonable. (See Plaintiff’s Opposition, Exhibit J.) Rather, these appear to fall within the investigation expenses expressly disallowed. Plaintiff’s multiple charges for “USPS” totaling $46.34, $32.95 in charges for “FedEx” and multiple charges for messenger/runner delivery are similarly left unjustified by Plaintiff.  Accordingly, Plaintiff’s “Other” costs are reduced from $2,729.38 by $1,303.78 to $1,425.60.  V. Prejudgment InterestPlaintiff should have included prejudgment interest in the memorandum of costs.  Here, Plaintiff requested prejudgment interest in his opposition to the Motion to Tax Costs filed on September 11, 2024, more than a month after the Court served notice of entry of judgment on August 6, 2024.  As such, the request for prejudgment interest is untimely and is therefore denied.  Jones v. John Crane, Inc. (2005) 132 Cal.App.4th 990, 1012.   RULINGDefendants’ Motion to Tax Costs is GRANTED IN PART.  Plaintiff’s Witness Fees are reduced from $42,150 to $27,150, Plaintiff’s “Other” costs are reduced from $2,729.38 to $1,425.60.  Plaintiff’s request for prejudgment interest is denied as untimely.   