  Case Number:  19STCV43701    Hearing Date:   September 24, 2024    Dept:  T Motion to be Relieved as CounselMoving Party: Attorney Tom G. Antunovich (Plaintiff’s Counsel)Responding Party: N/ATentative Ruling: Continued BACKGROUNDThis is a premises liability case resulting from an injury Plaintiff allegedly suffered while at a store owned and operated by Defendants, alleging Defendants negligently maintained the property and are liable for the dangerous condition that caused Plaintiff’s injury. MOVING PARTY POSITIONAttorney Tom G. Antunovich submits this request to be relieved as counsel, citing a significant breakdown in the relationship and communication between counsel and client which has made it difficult to represent Plaintiff effectively.OPPOSITIONNo opposition was filed in response to this motion. ANALYSISCode of Civil Procedure section 284 states that an attorney in an action may be changed at any time before or after judgment: (1) upon the consent of both client and attorney; or (2) upon the order of the court, upon the application of either client or attorney, after notice from one to the other. (Code Civ. Proc. § 284; Rules of Ct., Rule 3.1362.)  The court has power to permit withdrawal of an attorney within its sound discretion.¿(Jones v. Green¿(1946) 74 Cal.App.2d 223, 230.) An attorney may withdraw without cause as long as the withdrawal can be accomplished without undue prejudice to the client’s interest – i.e., counsel cannot withdraw at a critical point, but if the case is not at a critical point withdrawal is permitted because the client will not be prejudiced.¿(Ramirez v. Sturdevant¿(1994) 21 Cal.App.4th 904, 915.) The court has discretion to deny the withdrawal request when withdrawal would work an injustice or cause undue delay in proceeding; but the court’s discretion in this area is one to be exercised reasonably.¿(See Mandell v. Superior¿(1977) 67 Cal.App.3d 1, 4.)  Counsel must make a motion to be¿relieved¿as attorney of record. The form, content and service of such motion are governed by the Rules of Court, Rule 3.1362. The motion must be made using mandatory forms: Notice of Motion and Motion to be¿Relieved¿as Counsel – Civil (MC-051), Declaration (MC-052), and Proposed Order (MC-053).Attorney Tom G. Antunovich filed a Motion to be Relieved as Counsel as well as a Declaration in Support of Attorney’s Motion to be Relieved as Counsel. However, Attorney Antunovich did not file a Proposed Order Granting Attorney’s Motion to be Relieved as Counsel, which he must serve on his client with an accompanying Proof of Service for the Proposed Order. These requirements have not been met. RULINGThe hearing of this matter is continued to October 31, 2024 at 8:30 a.m. to allow sufficient time for counsel to serve his client with a proposed order.  