 Case Number:  20STCV47957    Hearing Date:   February 28, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposing and reply papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
December 16, 2020, Plaintiff Carmen Beatriz Rivera (“Plaintiff”) filed this
action against Defendants Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation
Authority, Joaquin Medina (“Medina”), and Does 1-10 for motor vehicle tort and
general negligence. 
On
October 1, 2021, Defendant Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation
Authority dba Metro (erroneously sued and served as Los Angeles County Metropolitan
Transportation Authority) (“Metro”) filed an answer and a cross-complaint
against Cross-Defendants Patricia
Sarmiento (“Sarmiento”), Plaintiff, and Roes 1-10 for comparative indemnity and
apportionment of fault, total equitable indemnity, declaratory relief, and
negligence and property damage. 
On
May 25, 2022, the Court granted Plaintiff’s counsel’s motion to be relieved as
counsel. 
On
August 24, 2023, Medina filed an answer to the complaint. 
On
January 25, 2024, Sarmiento and Plaintiff (“Cross-Defendants”) filed a motion
to strike portions of Metro’s cross-complaint, to be heard on February 28,
2024. On February 14, 2024, Metro filed an opposition. On February 21, 2024,
Cross-Defendants filed a reply. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for October 14, 2024. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Cross-Defendants
ask the Court to strike Metro’s claim for negligence and property damage and
request for attorneys’ fees. 
Metro
asks the Court to deny the motion to strike the request for attorneys' fees. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
 “Any party, within the time allowed to respond
to a pleading may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the whole or any
part thereof . . . .”  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 435, subd. (b)(1).)  The Court may
“[s]trike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a).)  “The grounds for a motion to strike shall appear on the
face of the challenged pleading or from any matter of which the court is
required to take judicial notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437, subd. (a).)  “Where the motion to strike is based on
matter of which the court may take judicial notice pursuant to Section 452 or
453 of the Evidence Code, such matter shall be specified in the notice of
motion, or in the supporting points and authorities, except as the court may
otherwise permit.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437, subd. (b).) 
“In
passing on the correctness of a ruling on a motion to strike, judges read
allegations of a pleading subject to a motion to strike as a whole, all parts
in their context, and assume their truth.” (Clauson v. Superior Court (1998)
67 Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255 (Clauson).)  “In ruling on a motion to strike, courts do
not read allegations in isolation.”  (Ibid.) 
DISCUSSION 
A.   Plaintiff’s complaint 
Plaintiff’s
complaint alleges that on April 24 or 25, 2020, at the intersection of Spring Street
and 1st Street in Los Angeles, a Metro vehicle operated by Medina in the course
of his employment collided with Plaintiff’s vehicle, causing personal injuries
and property damage. 
B.   Metro’s cross-complaint     
Metro’s
cross-complaint alleges that Metro is not liable for the events described in
Plaintiff’s complaint.  Instead, Metro
alleges, Cross-Defendants were responsible, in whole or in part, for Plaintiff’s
injuries. 
In
the cross-complaint's fourth cause of action for negligence and property damage, Metro alleges
that “[a]s a legal result of the
negligence of Cross-Defendants, and each of them, [Metro] has been damaged in
that its vehicle sustained property damage which required repair” and Metro “sustained
a loss of use of its vehicle . . . .” 
The
cross-complaint’s prayer includes a request for “costs and expenses incurred in
the defense of this matter and in bringing this Cross Complaint, including
reasonable attorneys’ fees.” 
C.   Legal arguments 
1.    The property damage claim 
Cross-Defendants
ask the Court to strike the cross-complaint’s fourth cause of action because “the
property damage portion of this action has been resolved in [Metro’s] favor . .
. .”  According
to Cross-Defendants, on or about August 18, 2021, Metro’s representative, Carl
Warren & Company, submitted a demand to Cross-Defendants’ carrier, GEICO,
for reimbursement of the damage to the bus involved in the accident.  Cross-Defendants assert that on or about March
4, 2022, GEICO tendered $6,602.33, the full amount of the estimated damage, to
Metro’s representative.  Metro accepted
the check “as payment in full for its property damage claim.”  (Motion pp. 2, 4-6.) 
Metro
concedes that the property damage issue has been resolved and does not oppose
Cross-Defendants’ motion to strike the claim. 
Nonetheless, the Court declines to strike this claim because Cross-Defendants’
motion does not assert grounds that “appear on the face of the challenged
pleading or from any matter of which the court is required to take judicial
notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437, subd. (a).) 
2.    The attorneys’ fee request 
Cross-Defendants
ask the Court to strike Metro’s request for attorneys’ fees because the
cross-complaint does not allege the existence of a contract or assert claims for
which a statute authorizes fees.  (See
Code Civ. Proc., § 1021 [“Except as attorney’s fees are specifically provided
for by statute, the measure and mode of compensation of attorneys and
counselors at law is left to the agreement, express or implied, of the parties”].) 
Metro
argues the Court should not strike the request for attorneys’ fees because it is
not facially false, irrelevant, or improper.  However, Metro has identified nothing in the cross-complaint that would support an award of attorneys' fees.  The Court therefore
grants the motion to strike the attorneys’ fees request from Metro’s cross-complaint.  
CONCLUSION 
The Court DENIES the motion of Cross-Defendants
Carmen
Beatriz Rivera and Patricia Sarmiento to strike the fourth cause of
action for negligence and property damage from the cross-complaint filed by Cross-Complainant
Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority dba Metro. 
The
Court GRANTS the motion of Cross-Defendants Carmen Beatriz Rivera and Patricia
Sarmiento to strike the attorneys’ fee request from the cross-complaint filed
by Cross-Complainant Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority
dba Metro. 
Moving
parties are ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
parties are ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.