 Case Number:  23STCV14492    Hearing Date:   February 28, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposing and reply papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
June 21, 2023, Plaintiff Justin Ybarra (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against
Defendants Greystar California, Inc. (“Greystar”), SBDTLA 1, LLC, SBDTLA 2,
LLC, SBDTLA 3, LLC, SBDTLA 4, LLC, Defense International Corporation, Inc., and
Does 1-50 for assault, battery, intentional infliction of emotional distress,
false imprisonment, and negligence. 
On
December 6, 2023, the Court granted Greystar’s motion to strike the punitive
damage claim and related allegations from Plaintiff’s complaint with 30 days leave
to amend.  The Court overruled Greystar’s
demurrer. 
On
December 7, 2023, Plaintiff amended the complaint to include Defendant Yuri
Ochoa (“Ochoa”) as Doe 1. 
On
December 15, 2023, Plaintiff apparently filed a first amended complaint. However,
the Court’s only copy of the first amended complaint is a service
copy attached as an exhibit to a December 26, 2023 declaration supporting Greystar’s
motion to strike the punitive damage allegations in the first amended complaint.[1]
On
December 26, 2023, Greystar filed a motion to strike the punitive damage allegations in Plaintiff’s first amended
complaint, to be heard on February 28, 2024. On February 14, 2024, Plaintiff
filed an opposition. On February 22, 2024, Greystar filed a reply. 
Trial
is scheduled for December 18, 2024. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Greystar
asks the Court to strike the request for punitive damages and related allegations
from the first amended complaint without leave to amend. 
Plaintiff
asks the Court to deny the motion. 
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL
NOTICE 
The
Court grants Greystar’s request for judicial notice. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
A.   Motion to strike 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 436 provides: 
“The court may, upon a motion made pursuant to Section
435, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper: 
“(a) Strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper
matter inserted in any pleading. 
“(b) Strike out all or any part of any pleading not
drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an
order of the court.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 436.) 
“The grounds for a motion to strike shall appear on
the face of the challenged pleading or from any matter of which the court is
required to take judicial notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437, subd. (a).)  “Where the
motion to strike is based on matter of which the court may take judicial notice
pursuant to Section 452 or 453 of the Evidence Code, such matter shall be
specified in the notice of motion, or in the supporting points and authorities,
except as the court may otherwise permit.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437, subd. (b).) 
“In
passing on the correctness of a ruling on a motion to strike, judges read
allegations of a pleading subject to a motion to strike as a whole, all parts
in their context, and assume their truth.” (Clauson v. Superior Court (1998)
67 Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255 (Clauson).)  “In ruling on a motion to strike, courts do
not read allegations in isolation.”  (Ibid.) 
“In
order to survive a motion to strike an allegation of punitive damages, the
ultimate facts showing an entitlement to such relief must be pled by a
plaintiff.” (Clauson, supra, 67 Cal.App.4th at p. 1255; see Grieves v. Superior Court (1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 159, 166 [“The mere allegation an intentional tort was committed is not sufficient to warrant an award of punitive damages. [Citation.] Not only must there be circumstances of oppression, fraud or malice, but facts must be alleged in the pleading to support such a claim”]; Doe v. City of Los Angeles (2007) 42 Cal.4th 531, 550 [“the complaint ordinarily is sufficient if it alleges ultimate rather than evidentiary facts”].)
B.   Punitive damages 
Civil
Code section 3294 provides in part: 
“(a) In an action for the breach of an obligation not
arising from contract, where it is proven by clear and convincing evidence that
the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice, the plaintiff,
in addition to the actual damages, may recover damages for the sake of example
and by way of punishing the defendant. 
“(b) An employer shall not be liable for damages
pursuant to subdivision (a), based upon acts of an employee of the employer,
unless the employer had advance knowledge of the unfitness of the employee and
employed him or her with a conscious disregard of the rights or safety of
others or authorized or ratified the wrongful conduct for which the damages are
awarded or was personally guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice. With respect
to a corporate employer, the advance knowledge and conscious disregard, authorization,
ratification or act of oppression, fraud, or malice must be on the part of an
officer, director, or managing agent of the corporation. 
“(c) As used in this section, the following
definitions shall apply: 
“(1) “Malice” means conduct which is intended by the
defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is
carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the
rights or safety of others. 
“(2) “Oppression” means despicable conduct that
subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that
person’s rights. 
“(3) “Fraud” means an intentional misrepresentation,
deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the defendant with the
intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving a person of
property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury. . . .” 
(Civ. Code, § 3294, subds. (a),
(b), (c).) 
“In
addition to the requirement that the complaint set forth the elements as stated
in [Civil Code] section 3294, it must include specific factual allegations
showing that defendant's conduct was oppressive, fraudulent, or malicious to
support a claim for punitive damages.” (Today's IV, Inc. v. Los Angeles
County Metropolitan Transportation Authority (2022) 83 Cal.App.5th 1137,
1193, citing Brousseau v. Jarrett (1977) 73 Cal.App.3d 864, 872 (Brousseau).)
“Punitive damages may not be pleaded generally.”  (Ibid., citing Brousseau, supra,
73 Cal.App.3d at p. 872.) 
DISCUSSION 
          Greystar argues that Plaintiff’s first amended complaint
fails to plead facts showing that a
managing agent, officer, or director of Greystar authorized or ratified the
wrongful conduct for which Plaintiff seeks punitive damages. 
As
the Court previously explained, Greystar cannot be liable for punitive damages
based on the actions of Doe Defendant 1 (or any other employee of Greystone)
“unless [Greystar] had advance knowledge of the unfitness of the employee and
employed him or her with a conscious disregard of the rights or safety of
others or authorized or ratified the wrongful conduct for which the damages are
awarded or was personally guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice. . . . [T]he
advance knowledge and conscious disregard, authorization, ratification or act
of oppression, fraud, or malice must be on the part of an officer, director, or
managing agent of [Greystar].”  (See Civ.
Code, § 3294, subd. (b).) 
Like
Plaintiff’s original complaint, the first amended complaint alleges: “To the
extent a Defendant is a distinct legal entity, it is believed that any such
Defendant’s officers, directors, principals, and/or partners ratified and
approved any wrongful conduct alleged in this Complaint, or were directly responsible
for perpetrating such conduct.”  (First
amended complaint ¶ 11.)  The Court previously
found this allegation did not support a claim for punitive damages against Greystar. 
The
first amended complaint also includes the following allegations: 
“[Greystar] committed, allowed, encouraged, tolerated,
and ratified the above described acts and conduct deliberately, oppressively,
fraudulently and maliciously, in conscious disregard for Plaintiff’s rights and
safety, and with the intent to vex, injure, and annoy Plaintiff.  [Greystar] trained and incentivized its
security guard, including DOE Defendant 1, to use unreasonably violent and
excessive force in the course and scope of providing security services.
Additionally, [Greystar] knew or should have known that DOE Defendant 1, had a
propensity to use, and a history of using, unreasonably violent force in the
course and scope of providing security services. Finally, [Greystar] knew
and/or [was] made aware that DOE Defendant 1 used unreasonably unnecessary,
and unprovoked force against Plaintiff, a disabled tenant, and failed and/or
refuse[d] to take any corrective action against such conduct. As such, [Greystar
has] caused Plaintiff to suffer cruel and unjust hardship needlessly, and [Greystar’s]
acts and conduct warrant an award of punitive and exemplary damages in an
amount sufficient to punish and deter [Greystar] from ever engaging in such
conduct again in the future.”  (First amended
complaint ¶¶ 30, 35, 42, 47, 60.) 
Even
with these new allegations, Plaintiff has not pleaded ultimate facts showing
that an officer, director, or managing
agent of Greystar had advance knowledge
of the unfitness of Doe Defendant 1 and employed him with a conscious disregard
of the rights or safety of others or authorized or ratified the wrongful
conduct or was personally guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.  (See Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (b).) 
Therefore,
the Court grants the motion to strike. 
CONCLUSION 
The Court GRANTS Defendant Greystar California, Inc.’s
motion to strike and strikes paragraphs
30, 35, 42, 47, and 60 and the prayer for punitive damages from the first amended
complaint with 30 days leave to amend. 
Plaintiff
is ordered to file (or re-file) the first amended complaint. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.


