  Case Number:  20STCV35340    Hearing Date:   February 28, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
September 15, 2020, Plaintiff Katheryn Drexler (“Plaintiff”) filed this action
against Defendants Jeannine Rosete (“Rosete”), Shay
Rose Bolton (“Bolton”), and Does 1-50 for negligence. 
On
June 17, 2022, Bolton filed an answer. On August 8, 2022, Rosete filed an
answer. 
On
January 8, 2024, Bolton filed a motion to compel Plaintiff to appear for a
medical examination and for sanctions, to be heard on February 28, 2024.  Plaintiff has not filed an opposition. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for April 15, 2024. 
PARTY’S REQUESTS 
Bolton
asks the Court to order Plaintiff to appear for a medical examination by Dr.
Russel W. Nelson at his office at 250 Lombard Street, First Floor, Thousand
Oaks, CA 91360. Bolton also requests monetary sanctions. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2032.220 provides: 
“(a) In any case in which a plaintiff is seeking
recovery for personal injuries, any defendant may demand one physical
examination of the plaintiff, if both of the following conditions are
satisfied: 
“(1) The examination does not include any diagnostic
test or procedure that is painful, protracted, or intrusive. 
“(2) The examination is conducted at a location within
75 miles of the residence of the examinee. 
“(b) A defendant may make a demand under this article
without leave of court after that defendant has been served or has appeared in
the action, whichever occurs first. 
“(c) A demand under subdivision (a) shall specify the
time, place, manner, conditions, scope, and nature of the examination, as well
as the identity and the specialty, if any, of the physician who will perform
the examination. 
“(d) A physical examination demanded under subdivision
(a) shall be scheduled for a date that is at least 30 days after service of the
demand. On motion of the party demanding the examination, the court may shorten
this time. 
“(e) The defendant shall serve a copy of the demand
under subdivision (a) on the plaintiff and on all other parties who have
appeared in the action.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., §
2032.220.) 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 2032.230 provides: 
“(a) The plaintiff to whom a demand for a physical
examination under this article is directed shall respond to the demand by a
written statement that the examinee will comply with the demand as stated, will
comply with the demand as specifically modified by the plaintiff, or will
refuse, for reasons specified in the response, to submit to the demanded
physical examination. 
“(b) Within 20 days after service of the demand the
plaintiff to whom the demand is directed shall serve the original of the
response to it on the defendant making the demand, and a copy of the response
on all other parties who have appeared in the action. On motion of the
defendant making the demand, the court may shorten the time for response. On
motion of the plaintiff to whom the demand is directed, the court may extend
the time for response.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., §
2032.230.) 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 2032.240 provides: 
“(a) If a plaintiff to whom a demand for a physical
examination under this article is directed fails to serve a timely response to
it, that plaintiff waives any objection to the demand. The court, on motion,
may relieve that plaintiff from this waiver on its determination that both of
the following conditions are satisfied: 
“(1) The plaintiff has subsequently served a response
that is in substantial compliance with Section 2032.230. 
“(2) The plaintiff’s failure to serve a timely response
was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect. 
“(b) The defendant may move for an order compelling
response and compliance with a demand for a physical examination. 
“(c) The court shall impose a
monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against
any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to
compel response and compliance with a demand for a physical examination, unless
it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust. 
“(d) If a plaintiff then fails to obey the order
compelling response and compliance, the court may make those orders that are
just, including the imposition of an issue sanction, an evidence sanction, or a
terminating sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010). In
lieu of or in addition to that sanction the court may impose a monetary
sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010).” 
(Code
Civ. Proc., § 2032.240.) 

DISCUSSION 
On
September 19, 2023, Bolton served Plaintiff with a demand that Plaintiff attend
an independent medical examination by Dr. Nelson, Bolton’s retained orthopedic
expert, on October 19, 2023.  Although Plaintiff
did not object to the demand or inform Bolton’s counsel that she would not
appear, Plaintiff failed to appear for the scheduled examination.  As a result, Bolton incurred a $1,500.00
cancellation fee. 
Bolton’s counsel attempted to reschedule the
examination with Plaintiff’s counsel, without success. 
The Court grants Bolton's motion under Code of Civil
Procedure section 2032.240, subdivision (b), and orders Plaintiff to attend an
independent medical examination with Dr. Nelson on the first available date on
Dr. Nelson’s calendar. 
Bolton asks the Court to impose $2,160.00 in sanctions on Plaintiff based on the $1,500.00 cancellation fee and the cost to prepare the motion.  However, Bolton has not identified a statute
that authorizes a sanctions award here. 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2032.240, subdivision
(c), provides that “[t]he court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter
7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel response and compliance with
a demand for a physical examination, unless it finds that the one subject to
the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances
make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.240, subd. (c).)  Plaintiff did not make or oppose a motion to
compel compliance with a demand for a physical examination. 
Bolton also relies on the statutory definition of
misuse of the discovery process.  (Code
Civ. Proc, § 2023.010.)  However, Code
of Civil Procedure section 2023.010 is “ ‘definitional’ and monetary sanctions
may not be imposed based solely on [the statute].  Monetary sanctions may be imposed only if
authorized by some other provision of the Discovery Act.”  (L. Edmon & C. Karnow, Cal. Practice
Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (Rutter 2023) ¶ 8:1900, p. 8M-2; see Code
Civ. Proc., § 2023.030 [court may impose sanctions for misuse of the discovery
process “[t]o the extent authorized by the chapter governing any particular
discovery method or other provision of this title”].) 
Because Bolton has not identified a statutory basis
for sanctions, the Court denies the request for monetary sanctions. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court GRANTS Defendant Shay Rose Bolton’s motion to
compel Plaintiff Katheryn Drexler to
attend an independent medical examination with Dr. Russel W. Nelson.  The Court orders Plaintiff Katheryn Drexler to appear for an examination by Dr.
Russel W. Nelson at his office at 250 Lombard Street, First Floor, Thousand
Oaks, CA 91360 on the first available date on Dr. Nelson’s calendar. 
The
Court DENIES Defendant Shay Rose Bolton’s request for monetary sanctions. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.