  Case Number:  22SMCV02253    Hearing Date:   October 31, 2023    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Finerty, et
al., v. Lobb & Plewe LLP, et al.
CASE NO.:                22SMCV02253
MOTION:                  (1) Motion to Quash Subpoena
for Production of Documents;
(2) Motions to Compel Further Responses
and Compliance with Deposition Subpoena
HEARING DATE:   10/31/2023

 
 
Legal
Standard
 
California’s standard for discovery
is broad: “any party may obtain discovery regarding any matter, not privileged,
that is relevant to the subject matter involved in the pending action or to the
determination of any motion made in that action, if the matter either is itself
admissible in evidence or appears reasonably calculated to lead to the
discovery of admissible evidence.” (CCP, § 2017.010.) Courts construe the right
to discovery liberally to permit discovery whenever possible. (Williams v.
Superior Court (1997) 3 Cal.5th 531, 541.) One of the purposes of the
discovery is “to educate the parties concerning their claims and defenses so as
to encourage settlements and to expedite and facilitate trial.” (Emerson
Electric Co. v. Superior Court (1997) 16 Cal.4th 1101, 1107.)
 
Motion to Quash
 
Code of
Civil Procedure section 1987.1 provides in part:
 
If a subpoena requires the attendance of a witness
or the production of books, documents, electronically stored information,
or other things before a court, or at the trial of an issue therein, or at the
taking of a deposition, the court, upon motion reasonably made by any person
described in subdivision (b), or upon the court's own motion after giving
counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard, may make an order quashing the
subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance with it upon those terms
or conditions as the court shall declare, including protective orders. In
addition, the court may make any other order as may be appropriate to protect
the person from unreasonable or oppressive demands, including unreasonable
violations of the right of privacy of the person.
 
Motion to Compel Further 
 
            Personal service of a deposition
subpoena obligates the production of whatever documents or things are specified
in the subpoena and to appear in any proceedings to enforce discovery. (CCP §
2020.220(c). If a nonparty disobeys a deposition subpoena, the subpoenaing
party may seek a court order pursuant to CCP section 1987.1 compelling the
nonparty to comply with the subpoena within 60 days after completion of the
deposition record. (CCP § 2025.480(b); see also UnzippedApparel, LLC v. Bader (2007) 156 Cal.App.4th 123,
127.)
 
The motion must be accompanied by a
meet and confer declaration. (CCP § 2025.480(b).) There is no “good cause”
requirement when seeking to compel documents from a nonparty. (CCP §
2020.410(c).)
 
Analysis
 

Plaintiff Cynthia D. Finerty moves
for an order compelling non-party witnesses Joseph Duerr, Christopher Duerr and
Reality Advisors Asset Managers (RAAM) (hereinafter, the Responding Parties or
“RP”) to comply with deposition subpoenas for production of business records
(the “Subpoenas”), served on July 14, 2023. Specifically, Plaintiff requests
that the Court compel the RPs to comply with the Subpoena by i) authenticating
the documents that were produced by providing a custodian of records’
affidavit; ii) providing further Code-compliant responses to Requests Nos.
1-57; iii) withdrawing their meritless objections, and iv) producing the
requested documents in native format.  As
Plaintiff may be aware, the Court has an informal discovery conference standing
order that applies to all motions to compel further responses.  While the RPs are not parties to this
lawsuit, the Court expects Plaintiff to engage in the IDC process, and if the RP
refuses to participate, let the Court know of efforts made to arrange an
IDC.  In the future, the parties are
ordered to comply with the Court’s IDC order. 
 
RP make a counter motion to quash
the subpoenas, as well as an additional deposition subpoena on RAAM for
personal appearance of a person most qualified (“PMQ”) on 14 separate
categories of testimony. 
 
PMQ Testimony Categories
 
RP argues that that the subpoena is
improper because the categories are not reasonably particularized, it would be
unduly burdensome and harassing to force RP to prepare for a deposition with
limitless deposition categories, and the deposition is sought for improper attempt
to obtain discovery that it otherwise could not get in the arbitration
proceeding.
 
The Court agrees that the
categories should be tailored to the allegations of legal malpractice made in this
action. This would be matters related to the trust or RSH, Howard’s assets, and
work/services performed for Howard or for the attorney-defendants. The first
and seventh categories go well beyond this limitation, and therefore are not
“reasonably calculated” to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. The
first category seeks testimony related to “Howard” generally from January 1,
2007, to the present. As the Duerrs and RAAM apparently had a personal and
professional relationship with Howard outside the context of the alleged
malpractice, this category would impermissibly seek information on all topics
“related” to Howard, no matter how attenuated from this action. Similarly,
category 7 requests all “communications” with Howard, irrespective of their
relationship to this action. Thus, these two categories will be quashed. The
remaining categories are adequately limited in time and scope, as they
naturally relate to the malpractice issues alleged against the
defendant-attorneys.
 
Accordingly, the motion to quash is
GRANTED in part, as to categories 1 and 7, and DENIED as to the other
categories. 
 
RP also requests limiting the
deposition to 7 hours. However, RP does not provide good cause or adequate
reasoning as to this time limit. Thus, based upon the record before he Court, the
Court would decline this request.
 
Production Only Subpoenas
 
On July 14, 2023, Plaintiff served
RPs each with a Deposition Subpoena for the Production of Business Records. The
Subpoenas included 57 requests for production, all which related to the RP’s
management of Howard’s assets. (Lee Decl. ¶ 3, Exh. A.) The Subpoena’s due date
for production was set for August 11, 2023. (Id.) Plaintiff seeks further code
compliant responses and responsive documents with respect to RPDs Nos. 1-57.
The Court will address the RPDs as numbered in the separate statement. The
analysis is equally applicable to any identical categories between the RPs.
 
By way of background, the FAC
alleges various claims against Howard’s former attorneys who each represented
Howard from 2007 through approximately 2021. Defendants allegedly acted as
estate planning attorneys on behalf of Howard, and had a duty to oversee the
management of his assets. Defendants were also allegedly aware that Howard was
highly susceptible to fraud and undue influence due to his diminished mental
capacity. On March 31, 2007, Howard entered into an Asset Overview and Property
Management Contract with RPs. (FAC ¶ 11.) Duerr also acted as Howard’s
attorney-in-fact and as the Vice President of RSH Properties I LLC (“RSH”). In
March of 2015, RP caused RSH to renew the RAAM Agreement. (Id.) The FAC alleges
that the Agreement imposed unconscionable fees on Howard and RSH, exceeding
standard property management and/or advisory fees. (¶ 18.) RP also collaborated
with the other Defendants to build a series of agreements which would allow RPs
to ransack Howard’s assets. (See FAC ¶¶ 25-29.) Howard’s attorneys failed to
take reasonable steps to prevent the Duerrs and RAAM from misappropriating
Howard’s assets. (FAC ¶¶ 37-38.)
 
Overbreath 
 
RPs principally rely on two
objections, overbreadth and attorney-client privilege.  Substantively, several of Plaintiffs’
requests are overbroad and improper. Certain requests are unlimited in scope,
such as RPD no. 1 which requests “ANY DOCUMENTS RELATED TO HOWARD including
without limitation ANY COMMUNICATION between YOU and HOWARD.” (RPD no. 1.)
Interpreted literally, this request asks the RP to produce every document
related to Howard, whether or not related to his business, trust, or any other
relevant point to this action. This is impermissibly overbroad.
 
Likewise, request no. 43 is also
overbroad and seeks irrelevant and potentially privileged information. This
request seeks “ANY DOCUMENT RELATED TO ANY litigation to which YOU have been a
party since January 1, 2007.” A request for any document related to any
litigation would not be “reasonably calculated” to lead to the discovery of
admissible evidence regarding this malpractice action. For instance, documents
related to litigation between RP and unrelated third parties would have no
tendency to educate the parties concerning the instant claims or defenses. Conversations
between the RP and their attorneys would fall into this category and have no
relevance to this instant action and would be privileged. Thus, the overbroad
objections to these categories are well-taken without further limiting
language. 
 
The following RPD are overbroad for
the same reasons: RPD nos. 1, 8, 26, 38-39, and 43. Accordingly, no further
response is required as to these objections.
 
Privilege
 
RPs object to RPD nos. 2-5, 7-10,
13-19, 30-35, 42, 43, 53-57 on the grounds that the requests seek
attorney-client privileged and/or confidential information.
             
“If an objection is based on a
claim of privilege or a claim that the information sought is protected work
product, the response shall provide sufficient factual information for other
parties to evaluate the merits of that claim, including, if necessary, a
privilege log.” (CCP § 2031.240.) “The purpose of a “privilege log” is to
provide a specific factual description of documents in aid of substantiating a
claim of privilege in connection with a request for document production.” (Hernandez
v. Superior Court (2003) 112 Cal.App.4th 285, 292.) “The purpose of
providing a specific factual description of documents is to permit a judicial
evaluation of the claim of privilege.” (Id.) “If the response and any
privilege log fails to provide sufficient information to allow the trial court
to rule on the merits, the court may order the responding party to provide a
further response by serving a privilege log...” (Catalina Island Yacht Club
v. Superior Court (2015) 242 Cal.App.4th 1116, 1127.) 
 
Notably, several of the categories
would potentially call for privileged information. For instance, RPD nos. 53-57
regard documents related to certain lawsuits and legal advice. Such categories
would naturally require privileged information. However, these categories would
also require non-privileged information. Moreover, it is undisputed that Howard
(and thus Plaintiff) would be the relevant holder of the privilege as to many responsive
documents. Thus, a privilege log would be required in response to show that RPs
properly hold the privilege as opposed to Plaintiff. RPs do not provide
sufficient information in the response or in opposition to show that the
attorney-client privilege applies to any documents. Accordingly, further
responses are required as to the above RPDs.
 
            Statements
of Compliance
 
RPs do not provide statements of compliance
consistent with Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.220, 2031.230, and
2031.240. If only part of an item or category of item in a demand for
inspection, copying, testing, or sampling is objectionable, the response shall
contain a statement of compliance, or a representation of inability to comply
with respect to the remainder of that item or category. (CCP § 2031.240(a).) If
the responding party objects to the demand for inspection, copying, testing, or
sampling of an item or category of item, the response shall do both of the
following:
 
“(1) Identify with particularity
any document, tangible thing, land, or electronically stored information
falling within any category of item in the demand to which an objection is
being made.
 
(2) Set forth clearly the extent
of, and the specific ground for, the objection…”
 
(CCP §2031.240(b).)
 
CCP section 2031.220 provides that
a “statement that the party to whom a demand for inspection, copying, testing,
or sampling has been directed will comply with the particular demand shall
state that the production, inspection, copying, testing, or sampling, and
related activity demanded, will be allowed either in whole or in part, and that
all documents or things in the demanded category that are in the possession,
custody, or control of that party and to which no objection is being made will
be included in the production.”  CCP
section 2031.230 provides that a “representation of inability to comply with
the particular demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling shall
affirm that a diligent search and a reasonable inquiry has been made in an
effort to comply with that demand. This statement shall also specify whether
the inability to comply is because the particular item or category has never
existed, has been destroyed, has been lost, misplaced, or stolen, or has never
been, or is no longer, in the possession, custody, or control of the responding
party. The statement shall set forth the name and address of any natural person
or organization known or believed by that party to have possession, custody, or
control of that item or category of item.”
 
As to most of the categories of the
RPDs, RP provided objections, and then followed with this vague statement of
compliance: “Subject to the foregoing general and specific objections,
documents responsive to a reasonable interpretation of the request will be
produced.” This does not attest that the production will be allowed either “in
whole or in part” or that all responsive documents “in the possession, custody,
or control” of RPs will be included in the production.  Responding Party must attest whether or not additional
responsive documents exist and are being withheld. To the extent that RP would
be unable to comply with any request, RP does not provide whether a diligent
search or reasonable inquiry was made. Accordingly, further responses are
required as to each RPD that was not an objection-only response.
 
Affidavit 
 
RP argues that none of the
subpoenas served by Plaintiffs complied with the provisions requiring a
custodian of records declaration. RP reasons that they do not have to provide
an affidavit verifying the records because the subpoenas were not directed to
the custodian of records. However, they do not cite authority showing that they
would not be required to submit an affidavit. To the contrary, Code of Civil Procedure
section 2020.430 states in pertinent part: “(a) If a deposition subpoena
commands only the production of business records for copying, the custodian
of the records or other qualified person shall, in person, by messenger, or
by mail, deliver both of the following only to the deposition officer specified
in the subpoena… (2) An affidavit in compliance with Section 1561 of the
Evidence Code.” (Emphasis added.) RP apparently ignores the requirement that an
“other qualified person” would still be required to produce an affidavit. Therefore,
RP must provide an affidavit regarding the produced records.
 
Format
 
Plaintiff requests that RP produce
the documents in their “native” unedited format. 
 
CCP section 2031.030(a)(2) provides
that a party demanding inspection, copying, testing, or sampling of
electronically stored information may specify the form or forms in which each
type of electronically stored information is to be produced.  CCP section 2031.280(d) provides that unless
“the parties otherwise agree or the court otherwise orders, the following shall
apply: [¶] (1) If a demand for production does not specify a form or forms for
producing a type of electronically stored information, the responding party
shall produce the information in the form or forms in which it is ordinarily
maintained or in a form that is reasonably usable. [¶] (2) A party need not
produce the same electronically stored information in more than one form.”
 
The Subpoenas requested the
following formatting for ESI:
 
ESI AND DOCUMENTS that are stored
in electronic form in the ordinary course of YOUR business must be produced in
their native format. ESI consisting of images shall be produced in .jpeg or
.tif format. ESI consisting of word processing material, spreadsheets OR
accounting data shall be produced in its native format. If hard copies of such
DOCUMENTS also are maintained in the ordinary course of YOUR business, copies
of those must also be produced.
 
ANY non-identical hard copies of
electronically-stored DOCUMENTS must be produced (e.g., printouts with
handwritten annotations, printouts of prior versions that have not been
retained in electronic form, etc.), DOCUMENTS that are stored in electronic form
(e.g., word processing, database and spreadsheet files, Microsoft outlook
database (".pst") files, other electronic mail files, project
management files, source-code files, etc.) shall be produced in their original,
native format "as they are kept in the usual course of business," and
should not be converted to another format, unless the data is stored in a
proprietary file format. In that event, the file should be copied to an
industry-standard file format (e.g., Microsoft Excel for spreadsheet files,
Microsoft Access, dbase III, OR comma separate value (CSV) for database files).
If special procedures must be used to "translate"
electronically-stored data into "reasonably usable [or non-proprietary]
form," AND YOU expect DEFENDANTS to cover the cost of such translation or
data conversion, YOU must consult first with DEFENDANTS' counsel. For purposes
of production, ANY electronically-stored DOCUMENTS should be copied onto
electronic media (DVD, CD-ROM, external hard drive OR other mutually agreed
upon medium) that can be read using Microsoft Windows 10.
 
The subpoenas thereby reasonably
require that responsive ESI be produced in their “original, native format ‘as
they are kept in the usual course of business.’” On August 18, 2023, Plaintiff
received a FileShare link from the Duerrs’ counsel which contained the
documents responsive to the Subpoena (the “Document Production”) marked as
“RAAM000001-RAM008473.” (Lee Decl. ¶ 10.) The subpoenaed records were produced
as a single pdf file. It is unlikely that the myriad of records were kept in
the ordinary course of business as a single pdf file. Thus, the production of
the single pdf file did not comply with the subpoena. 
 
Therefore, RP must be compelled to
produce the ESI in their native format, as instructed in the subpoena.
 
Accordingly, RP’s motions to compel
further responses are GRANTED. 
 
Sanctions
 
In light of RP’s refusal: a) to
provide a privilege log, b) to respond with valid statements of compliance, c)
to issue an affidavit verifying the production, or d) to produce the ESI in
requested format, the Court is inclined to impose the noticed sanctions against
RAAM and their counsel of record. Accordingly, the Court will impose sanctions
in the noticed amount of $2,650.00 against RAAM and their counsel, Murphy Rosen
LLP, in favor of Plaintiff, in the total sum of $2,650.00, jointly and
severally. The individual RPs cannot be sanctioned because Plaintiff did not
notice sanctions against those individuals. 
Sanctions are payable within 30 days.
 
Considering the totality of the
record, the Court exercises its discretion and declines to issue sanctions
against Plaintiffs regarding RAAM’s motion to quash Plaintiff’s PMQ subpoena.