 Case Number:  23SMCV03468    Hearing Date:   October 31, 2023    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           La Verne
Rambla, LLC, v. Jayco Premium Finance of California Inc.
CASE NO.:                23SMCV03468
MOTION:                  OSC
Re: Preliminary Injunction 
HEARING DATE:   10/31/2023
 
Legal
Standard
 
            Under Code of Civil Procedure
section 526(a), a preliminary injunction may be issued in the following cases: 
 
1)
When it appears by the complaint that the plaintiff is entitled to the relief
demanded, and the relief, or any part thereof, consists in restraining the
commission or continuance of the act complained of, either for a limited period
or perpetually. 
2)
When it appears by the complaint or affidavits that the commission or
continuance of some act during the litigation would produce waste, or great or
irreparable injury, to a party to the action. 
3)
When it appears, during the litigation, that a party to the action is doing, or
threatens, or is about to do, or is procuring or suffering to be done, some act
in violation of the rights of another party to the action respecting the
subject of the action, and tending to render the judgment ineffectual. 
            4) When pecuniary compensation would
not afford adequate relief.  
5)
Where it would be extremely difficult to ascertain the amount of compensation
which would afford adequate relief. 
6)
Where the restraint is necessary to prevent a multiplicity of judicial
proceedings. 
            7) Where the obligation arises from
a trust. 
 
            In determining whether to issue a
preliminary injunction, the trial court considers two factors: 1) the
reasonable probability that the plaintiff will prevail on the merits at trial
(CCP §526(a)(1)); and 2) a balancing of the “irreparable harm” that the moving
party is likely to sustain if the injunction is denied compared to the harm
that the non-moving party is likely to suffer if the court grants a preliminary
injunction. (CCP §526(a)(2); 14859 Moorpark Homeowner’s Assn. v. VRT Corp.
(1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 1396, 1402.) “A preliminary injunction is an interim
remedy designed to maintain the status quo pending a decision on the
merits.” (MaJor v. Miraverde Homeowners
Assn. (1992) 7
Cal.App.4th 618, 623.) “[A] cause of action must exist before injunctive
relief may be granted.” (Id.)
 
            The court’s ruling on a preliminary
injunction is not an adjudication of the merits, is not a trial, and does not
require a statement of decision. (Cohen v. Board of Supervisors,
(1985) 40 Cal.3d 277, 286.) The judge is not required to state her reasons for
granting or denying a preliminary injunction; a cursory statement is
sufficient. (City of Los Altos v. Barnes, (1992) 3 Cal.App.4th
1193, 1198.) A proposed order must be presented to the judge for signature,
with any required undertaking, within one day after the preliminary injunction
is granted, or other time ordered by the judge. (CRC 3.1150(f).)
 
 
Request
for judicial notice
 
Plaintiff’s evidentiary objection
is SUSTAINED as to the declaration of Kathy Cole. Cole does not lay foundation
or personal knowledge as to the mailing of the February 28, 2023, demand letter.

 
Plaintiff’s evidentiary objections are
OVERRULED as to the declaration of Janino Hoak, paragraphs 3-7.  As an initial matter, the Court agrees that
Ms. Hoak’s declaration is vague as to whether she has any independent
recollection of the events described in those paragraphs, or if her testimony
is based upon a past recorded recollection as set forth in Evidence Code §
1237.  If a past recorded recollection, then
the written notes, etc. would be the admissible evidence and not Ms. Hoak’s
testimony.  While the declaration is
vague, for the purpose of this hearing, the Court will consider the
evidence.  
 
Defendant’s evidentiary objections
are SUSTAINED as to the reply declaration of Dominick Sarno.
 
The requests for judicial notice
are GRANTED.
 
Analysis
 
Plaintiff requests a preliminary
injunction against Defendants, enjoining them from proceeding with the
trustee’s sale or from otherwise selling, assigning, conveying, or transferring
the Subject Property during the pendency of this suit. Plaintiff demonstrates grounds
for injunctive relief regarding the real property dispute at issue in the
complaint. In its complaint, Plaintiff alleges a single claim for declaratory
relief regarding the cure of an alleged technical default on its mortgage. 
 
On December 16, 2022, Plaintiff
borrowed $5,500,000 from Jayco. (Compl., ¶ 8.) The loan documents called for an
interest rate of 11.875% which Plaintiff prepaid in its entirety by writing a
check for $674,895.84. (Id.) The loan was secured by a Deed of Trust for the
Subject Property located at 3229 Rambla Pacifico, Malibu, CA 90265. (¶ 7.) The
loan was also personally guaranteed by LVR’s only member, Bernhard Fritsch. (¶
8.) 
 
On February 9, 2023, the trustee
recorded a notice of default against the Subject Property. (Compl., ¶ 9.) Upon
learning of the notice, Plaintiff immediately called to inquire why the notice
had been recorded. Plaintiff was told that the default was due to a transfer of
the property from LVR to Mr. Fritsch on December 22, 2022. (Id.) Plaintiff explained
that Fritsch was the sole owner of LVR, and that there had not been a change in
beneficial ownership. (Id.) Plaintiff alleges that Jayco’s representative
apologized for its mistake and promised to rescind the notice of default. (Id.)
According to the complaint, Jayco’s representative never suggested or otherwise
implied that the Subject Property needed to be transferred from Fritsch back to
LVR, nor did Jayco’s representative state or otherwise imply that LVR would be
required to pay default interest to cure any technical default. (Id.) The next
day, the notice of default was officially rescinded. (Id., Ex. 1.)  Following this, Plaintiff and Fritsch assumed
that there were no complications with the loan. (Id.)
 
However, a second notice of default
was recorded against the Subject Property on March 23, 2023. (Compl., ¶ 10, Ex.
2.) LVR discovered the second notice of default in April and immediately
reached out to Jayco to inquire what the issue was and was informed that second
notice of default was based on the same transfer of title from LVR to Mr.
Fritsch in December 2022. (Id.) In May 2023, Defendants informed Plaintiff that
Jayco would not provide a reinstatement demand until LVR provided evidence that
Fritsch had transferred the Subject Property back to LVR. (¶ 11.) Mr. Frisch
immediately complied with the request and asked for a reinstatement demand.
(Id.) Jayco did not provide a reinstatement demand until May 24, 2023. (Compl.,
¶ 12, Ex. 3.) The reinstatement demand called for $149,722.22 in default
interest for the time period of December 22, 2022, to May 31, 2022. (Id.) Thus,
Jayco took the position that LVR owed default interest of 18% for the entire
time period, despite the fact that Jayco had previously apologized for the
original notice of default and had not asked that the Subject Property be
transferred back to LVR. (Id.) On or about July 3, 2023, LVR was provided with
an unsigned notice of sale indicating that the Subject Property would be sold
on August 3, 2023, by the Geraci Firm acting as the Trustee. (Id., ¶13, Ex. 4.)
The amount stated in the notice of sale was $5,707,771.15, indicating that
Jayco was seeking $207,771.15 for an alleged technical default that was both “waived
and cured.” (Id.)
 
Defendants contend that Plaintiff
breached the “Due-on-Sale” clause and that the operative notice of default and
subsequent notice of sale gives them the legal right to sell the Subject
Property at a trustee’s sale on August 3, 2023, and LVR contends that it did
not breach the Due-on-Sale clause, the operative notice of default does not
identify a legitimate breach, and the sale of the Subject Property at a
trustee’s sale would be improper and illegal. (Compl., ¶ 22.) Plaintiff requests
a judicial declaration of the respective rights, duties, and obligations of LVR
and Defendants under the parties’ agreements, specifically, LVR requests a
Court decree that:
 
(1) LVR did not breach the
Due-on-Sale clause, (2) the operative notice of default is of no legal effect,
and (3) any attempts by Defendants to sell the Subject Property are illegal.
LVR is informed and believes and, based thereon, alleges that it has no
adequate remedy at law, that such decree is necessary and appropriate at this
time in order that LVR may ascertain its rights and duties with respect to the
matter herein in controversy.
 
(Compl., ¶ 23.)
 
            Based upon
the submitted evidence, Plaintiff may be entitled to a favorable declaration on
the second and third grounds provided. Specifically, Plaintiff may be entitled
to a declaration that the operative notice of default is of no legal effect and,
thus, any attempts by Defendants to sell the Subject Property under the
operative notice of default are illegal. Critically, if the operative notice of
default is of no legal effect, a resulting foreclosure would be invalid. The
statutory requirements for foreclosure must be strictly complied with, and a
trustee's sale based on a statutorily deficient notice of default is invalid. (Anderson
v. Heart Federal Sav. & Loan Assn. (1989) 208 Cal.App.3d 202, 211.) 
 
Civil Code section 2924c provides
the procedures for curing defaults under a deed of trust. This section provides
that whenever there is a curable default, reinstatement is accomplished by
tendering performance of the entire amount then due under the terms of the deed
of trust or mortgage and the obligation secured thereby, including reasonable
costs and expenses actually incurred in enforcing the terms of the obligation,
deed of trust or mortgage, and trustee's or attorney's fees, but
excluding the portion of the principal that would not then be due had no
default occurred. (Civ. Code § 2924c(a)(1).) The consequence of such a cure is
that “all [foreclosure] proceedings theretofore had or instituted shall be dismissed
or discontinued and the obligation and deed of trust . . . shall be reinstated
. . ..” (Anderson, supra, 208 Cal.App.3d at 212; see Taniguchi v.
Restoration Homes LLC (2019) 43 Cal. App. 5th 478 [a borrower can cure a
default and reinstate a mortgage loan by paying the amount of the default,
including fees and costs resulting from the default, rather than the entire
accelerated balance; the mortgage lender must inform the borrower of the
correct amount due to reinstate the loan].) These provisions embody the “good
public policy” that homeowners have the right to make up payments in default and
avoid calling the entire loan and sale under a trust deed. (Magnus v.
Morrison (1949) 93 Cal.App.2d 1.)  
 
Plaintiff presents evidence consistent
with the allegations of the complaint. Plaintiff argues that the record demonstrates
that the demand for cure incorrectly stated the sum of money owed, and that
Defendants’ agent’s actions led to a waiver of their rights. “Waiver is an intentional relinquishment of a known right.” (Gould
v. Corinthian Colleges, Inc. (2011) 192 Cal.App.4th 1176, 1179.) A
waiver may be implied by a party's conduct that is inconsistent with the right
being asserted. (Id. at 1179-80.)
 
The Court also
notes the potential for equitable estoppel. “The doctrine of
equitable estoppel is based on the theory that a party who by his declarations
or conduct misleads another to his prejudice should be estopped from obtaining
the benefits of his misconduct.” (Stillwell v. The Salvation Army (2008)
167 Cal. App. 4th 360, 368.) The four elements for the application of equitable
estoppel are that (1) the party to be estopped must be apprised of the facts; (2)
he must intend that his conduct shall be acted upon, or must so act that the
party asserting the estoppel had a right to believe it was so intended; (3) the
other party must be ignorant of the true state of facts; and (4) he must rely
upon the conduct to his injury. (Id.)
 
The record shows that Defendants’
agent(s) made representations to plaintiff’s principal that reasonably led
Fritsch to believe that he needed to do nothing further to correct the alleged
technical default. After Plaintiff received notice of the first attempt at
default on February 9, 2023, Plaintiff immediately called Jayco’s loan
servicer. Critically, Jayco’s representative apologized and promised to rescind
the notice of default. (Fritsch Decl., ¶ 3.) Consistent with Plaintiff’s
version of events, Jayco rescinded the notice of default the next day, on
February 10, 2023. (RJN, Ex. 2.) Plaintiff relied on these representations and
actions to conclude that nothing further was required of it for curing the
purported default at that time.
 
Yet, on March 30, 2023, Jayco
recorded a second notice of default based on the same December 2022 transfer.
(RJN, Ex. 3.) Jayco claims to have mailed the demand letter on February 28,
2023. (Mortorella Decl., ¶3.) However, Fritsch claims that he never received
the letter and that he was unaware of the problem until the second notice of
default was recorded. (Supp. Fritsch Decl., ¶ 3.) Moreover, the Court sustained
the objection to Ms. Martorella’s testimony that the demand letter was placed
into the mail.  When Mr. Fritsch learned
about the second notice of default he called Jayco’s servicer again. (Fritsch
Decl., ¶5.) Fritsch then had his counsel reach out to Jayco’s counsel, the
Geraci Law Firm, to try and resolve the dispute. (Fritsch Decl., ¶6.) On May 4,
2023, the Geraci Firm told LVR’s counsel that Mr. Fritsch needed to transfer
the property back to Plaintiff. (See Mortorella Decl., Ex. 2.) Mr. Fritsch
immediately complied with the request that same day. (Fritsch Decl., ¶ 6, Ex.
5.) 
 
Defendants do not adequately dispute
the material points of this claim. Jayco has submitted the declaration of
Dyanna Pelayo who claims that she never talked to Mr. Fritsch. (Pelayo Decl.)
Jayco also submits the declaration of Joanina Hoak, who claims that she was the
person who talked to Mr. Fritsch, that the conversation took place on February
17, 2023, that she told Mr. Fritsch the transfer was a default, but concedes
that she did inform Mr. Fritsch that the foreclosure trustee “would be
rescinding” the original notice of default without further elaboration. (Hoak
Decl.)  On the other hand, Fritsch declared
that he talked to someone on February 9, 2023, and Jayco rescinded the Notice
of Default the next day. This Fritsch version of events is far more plausible
and supported by extrinsic evidence. According to Ms. Hoak, she informed Mr.
Fritsch that the trustee “would be rescinding” the original notice of default,
yet the rescission notice is dated a week prior: on February 10, 2023. (Hoak
Decl., ¶¶5-6, see RJN Ex. 2.) Hoak also does not affirmatively state that she
has an independent recollection of the conversation with Mr. Fritsch, as she
admits that Ms. Hoak’s testimony is “based upon [her] review” of her files. Mr.
Fritsch’s account, however, is based upon his independent recollection.  The undisputed evidence also shows that when
Defendants eventually asked Fritsch to transfer the property back to Plaintiff,
Fritsch immediately complied and transferred the property on the same day he
was asked. (Mortorella Decl., Ex. 2; Fritsch Decl., ¶6, Ex. 5.) Given the
technical nature of the default, and that it was not a default in payment, the
Court sees no reason why Fritsch would not have attempted to cure the default
earlier if he were aware of the need to cure. 
 
Based on the above record,
Plaintiff is more likely than not to prevail on the judicial declaration claim.
The record is sufficient to find that Defendants’ actions led to a waiver of
their rights to call up the loan for the transfer. At a minimum, Plaintiff
justifiably relied on the representations to its detriment, and as such, Defendants
should be estopped from claiming excessive default interest. If not for the
above-noted statements, Plaintiff’s principal would have immediately made
further efforts to cure the default by transferring the property back to
Plaintiff. This would have limited the reasonable costs and expenses
actually incurred in enforcing the default. Unfortunately, Defendants now claim
hundreds of thousands of dollars in increased default interest, despite the
fact they caused the default interest to be incurred after February 9, 2023. Equitably,
Defendants cannot claim this amount of default interest, as they caused the
default to continue after February 9, 2023. 
This failure infects Defendants’ second default attempt.
 
Following a notice of default, a
trustor may request a statement from the beneficiary showing the payment
required for cure and reinstatement. (Civ. Code § 2943.) In response to an
inquiry for reinstatement, Defendants were required to provide, within 21 days,
accurate information regarding the sums for reinstatement. (Civ. Code §
2924c(b)(1); Anderson, supra, 208 Cal.App.3d at 212; see Taniguchi,
supra, 43 Cal. App. 5th 478.) On May 24, 2023, Jayco informed Plaintiff
that in addition to having Fritsch transfer the property, Jayco wanted an
additional $168,433.24 to have the loan reinstated. (Cornejo Decl., Ex. 4.) On
July 3, 2023, Jayco recorded a Notice of Sale. (RJN, Ex. 4.) The Notice of Sale
states that the unpaid balance is $5,707.771.15, which is $207,771.15 more than
the principal amount and the prepaid interest. On August 11, 2023, Jayco sent a
new payoff demand, this time demanding $5,835,278.52, which is $333,278.20 more
than the principal amount and prepaid interest. (Sarno Decl., ¶3, Ex. 1.) However,
as explained, Defendants either waived the default or should be equitably
estopped from claiming these amounts. Plaintiff should have been afforded the
opportunity to tender the amounts due. At a minimum, Defendants should be enjoined
from the foreclosure until a proper demand is made by the beneficiary.
 
Defendants also are unlikely to
experience significant harm if the Court issues an injunction. Beyond the
technical default at issue, Defendants do not show that Plaintiff has defaulted
on any payments. Further, Defendants interest is already pre-paid for the
entire term. Defendants are unlikely to be harmed by the issuance of a
preliminary injunction. 
 
Given the strict construction of the
foreclosure statutes, the evidence of waiver and equitable estoppel, and that
the foreclosure threatens irreparable injury to Plaintiff, the Court grants the
injunction. The Court also modifies the preliminary injunction to preclude
Defendants from listing the property for sale.
 
Bond
 
The amount of bond is fixed by the court
based on the probable damage the enjoined party may sustain because of the
injunction (CCP § 529; Hummell v. Republic Fed. Savings & Loan Assn.
(1982) 133 Cal.App.3d 49, 51.)  Here, an
appropriate bond would be $62,078.58.  This
is the reasonable amount of damages sustained by Defendants in light of the
record, which includes the default interest rate through February 9, 2023, and late/service
fees. 