  Case Number:  20SMCV00417    Hearing Date:   January 15, 2025    Dept:  N TENTATIVE RULINGCross-Defendant Aaron Celious’s Motion to Deem Admitted Celious’ First Set of Requests for Admission is DENIED.Cross-Defendant Aaron Celious to give notice. REASONINGPursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 2033.280, subdivision (b), a “party may move for an order that the genuineness of any documents and the truth of any matters specified in the requests be deemed admitted, as well as for a monetary sanction.” The court “shall” grant the motion to deem requests for admission admitted “unless it finds that the party to whom the requests for admission have been directed has served, before the hearing on the motion, a proposed response to the requests for admission that is in substantial compliance with Section 2033.220.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (c).)Cross-Defendant Aaron Celious (“Celious”) served Defendant/Cross-Complainant Nisha Shah (“Shah”) with his Requests for Admission, Set One, on October 11, 2024. (Mot., Celious Decl. ¶ 2.) Responses were due on or before November 12, 2024, and Shah’s counsel communicated with Celious to extend the response date to November 22, 2024. (Mot., Celious Decl. ¶ 5.) Celious represents that “Shah served non-code complaint responses to the RFAs without the mandatory verification” on that date. (Mot., Celious Decl. ¶ 6.) As of the date of filing the motion, verifications had not been served. (Mot., Celious Decl. ¶ 16.) Shah’s counsel represents that verifications were inadvertently omitted, but they were provided on January 3, 2025. (Opp’n, Hodges Decl. ¶ 5.)Because responses and verifications have been provided, Cross-Defendant Aaron Celious’s Motion to Deem Admitted Celious’ First Set of Requests for Admission is DENIED. Insofar as Celious takes issue with the substance of the responses, this is not properly considered in the context of a motion to compel initial responses. The Court will only consider and rule on such arguments in the context of a motion to compel further responses, if such a motion is filed.