 Case Number:  23SMCV00997    Hearing Date:   January 15, 2025    Dept:  N TENTATIVE RULINGDefendant/Cross-Defendant SP Plus Corporation’s Demurrer is OVERRULED.Defendant/Cross-Defendant SP Plus Corporation’s Motion to Strike is DENIED.Defendant/Cross-Defendant SP Plus Corporation shall file and serve an answer to Defendants/Cross-Complainants N & J - #1, L.P and Ness Moadeb’s First Amended Cross-Complaint within ten (10) days of entry of this order. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1320(j).)Defendant/Cross-Defendant SP Plus Corporation to give notice. REASONINGDefendant/Cross-Defendant SP Plus Corporation (“SP Plus”) demurs to the third cause of action for express indemnity alleged in Defendants/Cross-Complainants N & J - #1, L.P and Ness Moadeb (“Defendants”)’s First Amended Cross-Complaint (“FACC”) and moves to strike lines 21 to 26 of the third cause of action.Legal Standard“[A] demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of the allegations in a complaint.” (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.) A demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. (See Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994 [in ruling on a demurrer, a court may not consider declarations, matters not subject to judicial notice, or documents not accepted for the truth of their contents].) For purposes of ruling on a demurrer, all facts pleaded in a complaint are assumed to be true (Aubry v. Tri-City Hosp. Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967), but the Court does not “assume the truth of contentions, deductions, or conclusions of fact or law” (Moore v. Regents of University of California (1990) 51 Cal.3d 120, 125).Further, the court may, upon motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a).) The court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (b).) The grounds for a motion to strike are that the pleading has irrelevant, false, or improper matter, or has not been drawn or filed in conformity with laws. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436.) The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437.)Leave to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (See Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349 [court shall not “sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if there is any reasonable possibility that the defect can be cured by amendment”]; Kong v. City of Hawaiian Gardens Redevelopment Agency (2002) 108 Cal.App.4th 1028, 1037 [“A demurrer should not be sustained without leave to amend if the complaint, liberally construed, can state a cause of action under any theory or if there is a reasonable possibility the defect can be cured by amendment.”]; Vaccaro v. Kaiman (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 761, 768 [“When the defect which justifies striking a complaint is capable of cure, the court should allow leave to amend.”].) The burden is on the complainant to show the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.)Third Cause of Action: Express Indemnity“An indemnitee seeking to recover on an agreement for indemnification must allege the parties’ contractual relationship, the indemnitee’s performance of that portion of the contract which gives rise to the indemnification claim, the facts showing a loss within the meaning of the parties’ indemnification agreement, and the amount of damages sustained.” (Four Star Electric, Inc. v. F & H Construction (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1375, 1380.)SP Plus demurs to the third cause of action on the ground that the contractual language is different than what is quoted in the FACC, as the language places an indemnity burden on SP Plus only for its own negligence, not for the negligence of the owner, such that the cause of action misstates the contractual obligation. In the third cause of action, Defendants allege that SP Plus agreed to indemnify and hold Defendant N & J -#1, L.P. harmless from any and all losses, claims, expenses, and liabilities that Defendant might sustain at any time within the terms of the contract. (FACC, p. 3, ll. 21-26.) The agreement attached to the FACC states that SP Plus agreed to indemnify and hold harmless for conduct caused by the negligence of the operator, but the operator shall not be liable for damage or injury caused by the negligence of the owner. (FACC, Ex. B.) While the contract does provide that SP Plus may not be liable for indemnification where the damages are the result of Defendant’s own negligence, it is a question of fact whether Defendant is entitled to indemnification, i.e., even accepting the limitation of the contract, Defendants have still stated a claim for express indemnity. Accordingly, SP Plus’s demurrer to the third cause of action is OVERRULED.Motion to StrikeSP Plus moves to strike the same lines at issue in the demurrer on the ground the allegations contradict facts set forth in an exhibit. While the claim does conflict with the contractual language, the Court finds no basis to strike the language, as the contract makes clear that there is a limitation, the exhibit is incorporated into the FACC, and the trier of fact will determine the propriety of indemnification in light of the contractual language. Thus, SP Plus’s motion to strike is DENIED.ConclusionDefendant/Cross-Defendant SP Plus Corporation’s Demurrer is OVERRULED. Defendant/Cross-Defendant SP Plus Corporation’s Motion to Strike is DENIED. Defendant/Cross-Defendant SP Plus Corporation shall file and serve an answer to Defendants/Cross-Complainants N & J - #1, L.P and Ness Moadeb’s First Amended Cross-Complaint within ten (10) days of entry of this order. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1320(j).)