 Case Number:  23VECV00288    Hearing Date:   October 13, 2023    Dept:  W WHITE
ZUCKERMAN WARSAVSKY LUNA & HUNT, LLP. V. BRYAN K. BOND
 
DEMURRER TO FIRST
AMENDED CROSS-COMPLAINT
 
Date
of Hearing:        October 13, 2023                                          Trial
Date:       None set.  
Department:
             W                                                                    Case No.:        23VECV00288
 
Moving
Party:            Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant
White Zuckerman Warsavsky Luna & Hunt, LLP 
Responding
Party:     Defendant/Cross-Complainant
Bryan K. Bond
Meet and Confer:      Yes. (Goodman Decl.) 

 
BACKGROUND
 
On
January 23, 2023, Plaintiff White Zuckerman Warsavsky Luna & Hunt, LLP
filed a complaint against Bryan K. Bond for failing to remit payment of
statements for forensic accounting services rendered. 
 
Defendant
Bond filed a cross-complaint on May 30, 2023 for breach of contract. Defendant
Bond filed his first amended cross-complaint on July 31, 2023.  
 
[TENTATIVE]
RULING:
 
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant
White Zuckerman Warsavsky Luna & Hunt, LLP’s Demurrer to the First Amended Cross-Complaint
is SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND.
 
REQUEST
FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant White
Zuckerman Warsavsky Luna & Hunt, LLP requests this court take judicial
notice of the following court documents filed in this action: (1) Complaint;
(2) Cross-Complaint; (3) Court ruling on demurrer on cross-complaint; and (4)
First Amended cross-complaint (RJN, Exhs. 1-4.) The court GRANTS
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant’s request for judicial notice. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant
White Zuckerman Warsavsky Luna & Hunt, LLP (“White Zukerman”) demurs to the
first amended cross-complaint on the grounds the first cause of action for
breach of written contract is barred by the two-year statute of limitations and
the second cause of action for breach of oral agreement does not support a
claim for damages or affirmative relief and is actually a malpractice action
barred by the two-year statute of limitations. 
 
White
Zuckerman first argues Bond’s first cause of action for breach of contract is
subject to the two-year statute of limitations for malpractice. White Zuckerman
notes Bond changed the prior allegations from “[f]ailing to provide
Cross-Complainant with professional accounting and reports (the accounting and
reports contained material errors which Cross-Defendant refused to correct)[]”
to “Cross-Defendant breached the contract by failing to provide the contracted
litigation support services within the nature and scope as directed by the Cross-Complainant's
attorney.” White Zuckerman contends this change is dishonest and Bond willfully
avoids using this terminology to avoid alleging a malpractice claim. The court
agrees. Bond’s attempt to use more ambiguous words does not disguise the fact
that the allegations sound in malpractice. Bond’s allegations that White
Zuckerman failed to provide the contracted litigation support centers around
malpractice. Actions whose gravamen is accounting malpractice are subject to
the two-year statute of limitations set forth in section 339(1). (Curtis v.
Kellogg & Andelson (1999) 73 Cal.App.4th 492, 503; Sahadi v.
Scheaffer (2007) 155 Cal.App.4th 704, 715.) Because this is a malpractice
claim, the two years ran in April 2021 and Bond did not file his complaint
until January 2023. The court notes White Zuckerman’s judicial estoppel
argument; however, since the court has already found the statute of limitations
has ran, the court does not address White Zuckerman’s final argument.
 
White
Zuckerman next argues Bond’s second cause of action for breach of contract based
on an alleged oral agreement entered in February 2021 fails because an
agreement affecting the statute of limitations to waive a claim must be in
writing to be enforceable. As noted by White Zuckerman, Bond essentially
alleges the parties orally agreed that White Zuckerman agreed to ‘zero out’ the
outstanding balance Bond owed and Bond would agree to waive any damages claim
from White Zuckerman’s alleged failure to provide contractual litigation
services.  It is alleged that this
agreement was breached by White Zuckerman initiating an action to recover
unpaid amounts from Bond in January 2023.
 
First,
the court notes Bond did not seek leave to add this additional claim against
White Zuckerman. The court also agrees with White Zuckerman that Code of Civil
Procedure section 360.5 is applicable.  Plaintiff is seeking to enforce an agreement,
which while silent on the point, is actually an agreement by White Zuckerman
that it would waive the statute of limitations for claims against it – a
statute of limitations which had already run the prior year.   Such an agreement must be in writing to be
enforceable.  
 
White
Zuckerman’s Demurrer to the Cross-Complaint is SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO
AMEND.