 Case Number:  23VECV01666    Hearing Date:   October 13, 2023    Dept:  W MARIBEL
VASQUEZ V. SHERMAN POINTE INC.
 
DEFENDANT SHERMAN
POINTE INC’S MOTION TO QUASH SERVICE OF SUMMONS 
 
Date
of Hearing:        October 13, 2023                              Trial
Date:       None set.  
Department:
             W                                                        Case No.:        23VECV01666
Complaint
Filed:        March 15, 2023
 
Moving
Party:            Defendant Sherman Pointe
Inc.
Responding
Party:     Plaintiff Maribel Vasquez 
 
BACKGROUND
 
This
is an action based on alleged breach of the warranty of habitability, nuisance
and retaliatory eviction brought by tenants Maribel Vasquez and her children
against her landlord, Defendant Sherman Pointe Inc. and a management
company.   Defendant Sherman Pointe, Inc.
filed a motion to quash service on June 21, 2023.  
 
[TENTATIVE]
RULING:
 
Defendant
Sherman Pointe Inc’s motion to quash is Denied. 
Defendant is ordered to file a responsive pleading within 30 days.  
 
ANALYSIS
 
Defendants
Sherman Pointe Inc. moves to quash service of summons on the basis that the
corporation was not properly served.  Defendant
argues that the purported service on Sherman Pointe, Inc. fails because service
was not made on the agent for service of process; nor on an officer of the
corporation like the “president, chief executive officer, or other head of the
corporation,” etc. CCP §416.10(b) or  a
“general manager” who is “apparently in charge” of the corporation’s office or
headquarters.  Plaintiff counters that
defendant corporation was evading service of process and that substitute
service was appropriate under those circumstances.  The court agrees. 
 
As
a corporation doing business in the state of California, Sherman Pointe Inc.
was required to have an agent for service of process available to accept
service during regular business hours. 
Plaintiff presented evidence that Sherman Pointe, Inc., had listed as
its registered agent for service of process, Ritesh Desai. The address for the
Registered Agent, Ritesh Desai, is 2016 Riverside Dr., Los Angeles, CA 90039.
 
Despite
repeated efforts to serve Mr. Desai at that address during regular business
hours, service could not be accomplished; Mr. Desai either had absented himself
or disallowed service to be accepted by individuals at the office.  Registered California process server,
Humberto Palacio, made repeated attempts to serve the registered agent on May
1, 2023; May 2, 2023; May 3, 2023; May 5, 20; and May 28, 2023. A true and
correct copy of the Non-Service Report signed under penalty of perjury by
Humberto Palacio was attached as Exhibit “A” to the Declaration of Zolfaghari.
All of the attempts were made during regular business hours.  The final attempt was greeted by an answer
from inside that no access would be given. 
Thus, Sherman Pointe Inc. effectively thwarted California’s statutory
requirement that an agent for service of process be available at all times to
accept service at a registered address, effectively evading service.  “A person who
deliberately conceals himself to evade service of process is scarcely in a
position to complain overmuch of unfairness in substitutive methods of
notification enacted by the Legislature to cope with such situations. When it
satisfactorily appears that a defendant by his own design successfully has
secreted himself from the process server and thus thwarted personal service, it
would indeed be anomalous to heed an assertion that he had been denied notice
and an opportunity to be heard.”  (Miller
v Superior Court (1961) 195 Cal.App.2d 779, 786.)
 
Plaintiff
pursued service by finding a residential address for Mr. Desai and attempting
service there.  The process server
attested to leaving the service documents with someone who identified herself
as Mr. Desai’s wife.  The person was over
age 18.  C.C.P. Section 425.20(b)
provides:
 
 If a copy of the summons and complaint cannot
with reasonable diligence be personally delivered to the person to be served,
as specified in Section 416.60, 416.70, 416.80, or 416.90, a summons may be
served by leaving a copy of the summons and complaint at the person's dwelling
house, usual place of abode, usual place of business, or usual mailing address
other than a United States Postal Service post office box, in the presence of a
competent member of the household or a person apparently in charge of his or
her office, place of business, or usual mailing address other than a United
States Postal Service post office box, at least 18 years of age, who shall be
informed of the contents thereof, and by thereafter mailing a copy of the
summons and of the complaint by first-class mail, postage prepaid to the person
to be served at the place where a copy of the summons and complaint were left.
Service of a summons in this manner is deemed complete on the 10th day after
the mailing. 
 
While
defendant contests that the woman served was his wife, he does not dispute that
it was his residence address or that it was left with someone over age 18.  
 
 “Section 415.20, subdivisions (a) and (b)
authorize substitute service of process in lieu of personal delivery. Statutes
governing substitute service shall be ‘liberally construed to effectuate
service and uphold jurisdiction if actual notice has been received by the
defendant.... [Citation.]’ [Citation.]” (Ellard v. Conway, supra, 94
Cal.App.4th at p. 544, 114 Cal.Rptr.2d 399.) 
The court finds that substitute service made on adult of over 18 years
in the household of a registered agent for service of process complies with the
service requirements of C.C.P. Section 425.20 under the circumstances presented
here. (See, e.g. Hearn v. Howard 
(2009) 117 Cal.App.4th 1193 (approving substitute service on mail
store clerk at mail rental boxes where plaintiff unable to serve attorney at
her business address.)  
 