  Case Number:  24STCV07793    Hearing Date:   September 12, 2024    Dept:  78  



DATALOT,
  INC,
Plaintiff,
vs.
DIGITAL
  MEDIA SOLUTIONS, LLC.,
Defendant.


Case
  No.: 


24STCV07793




Hearing
  Date: 


September
  13, 2024








[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER GRANTING NEIL ASNEN’S MOTION TO
  APPEAR PRO HAC VICE



 
I.
        BACKGROUND
Plaintiffs Datalot Inc. (“Datalot” or “Plaintiff”) filed
this action against Defendant Digital Media Solutions, LLC, a Delaware limited
liability company, directly and as successor-in-interest to Underground
Elephant (“Defendant”) premised upon various allegations, such as contractual
indemnity, indemnity by operation of law, breach of contract – transfer of
outbound calls on inbound-only campaign, breach of contract – failure to
indemnify, and breach of contract – failure to maintain insurance. 
On July 2, 2024, Counsel Neil Asnen filed the instant Pro
Hac Vice application.   
No oppositions to the motion have been filed. 
A.    Moving
Argument
            Counsel Neil
Asnen seeks to be appear pro hac vice to serve as Defendant’s counsel.  
B.    Opposing
Argument
            None filed.
C.    Reply
Argument
None filed.
 
II.        PRO
HAC VICE 
A.   
Legal Standard
 
Pro
hac vice admission in California is governed by California Rules of Court, Rule
9.40. To be admitted pro hac vice, one must be “a member in good standing of
and eligible to practice before the bar of any United States court or the
highest court in any state, territory, or insular possession of the United
States.” (California Rules of Court, Rule 9.40(a).) However, in no case shall
an attorney appear pro hac vice if the attorney is a resident of California,
regularly employed in California, or “regularly engaged in substantial
business, professional, or other activities in the State of California.” Ibid.
A
person who is not a licensee of the State Bar of California but who is an
attorney in good standing of and eligible to practice before the bar of any
United States court or the highest court in any state, territory, or insular
possession of the United States, and who has been retained to appear in a
particular cause pending in a court of this state, may in the discretion of
such court be permitted upon written application to appear as counsel pro
hac vice, provided that an active licensee of the State Bar of California
is associated as attorney of record. No person is eligible to appear as
counsel pro hac vice under this rule if the person is: (1)
 A resident of the State of California; (2)  Regularly employed in
the State of California; or (3)  Regularly engaged in substantial
business, professional, or other activities in the State of California. 
An
attorney seeking pro hac vice admission must file a verified application in
both court and the State Bar of California establishing: 
(1)
[t]he applicant's residence and office address; (2)[t]he courts to which the
applicant has been admitted to practice and the dates of admission; (3)[t]hat
the applicant is a member in good standing in those courts; (4)[t]hat the
applicant is not currently suspended or disbarred in any court; (5)[t]he title
of court and cause in which the applicant has filed an application to appear as
counsel¿pro hac vice¿in this state in the preceding two years, the date of each
application, and whether or not it was granted; and (6)[t]he name, address, and
telephone number of the active member of the State Bar of California who is
attorney of record. (California Rules of Court, Rule 9.40(d). )
B.    Discussion
Mr.
Asnen has complied with Rule 9.40 and therefore, this application will be
granted. Here, Mr. Asnen resides at 128 Hewlett Avenue, Merrick, NY 11566 and
not in the State of California. (Asnen Decl. 11.) Mr. Asnen also practices in
New York, New York, where he is a partner of the law firm Klein Moynihan Turco
20 LLP, 450 7th Avenue, 40" Floor, New York, New York 10123. (Id.)
Mr. Asnen has been admitted to, and is in good standing with, the Bar of the
State of New York (admitted in 2010), and the Bar of the State of New Jersey
(admitted in 2009). Mr. Asnen is not suspended or disbarred from any court. (Id.
at ¶ 4.) Mr. Asnen's residence and office are outside California, and he is not
a resident of California, nor is he regularly employed or engaged in
substantial business, professional, or other activities in  California. (Id. at ¶ 2.) Mr. Asnen
further provides the information of the two prior cases where he has appeared
as counsel pro hac vice. (Id. at ¶ 5.) Mr. Asnen also provides the
Lawrence K. Iglesias, Esq.’s information who is counsel of record. (Id.
at ¶ 7.)
 
IV. CONCLUSION
Neil Asnen’s Pro Hac Vice application is GRANTED.
 
Moving Party is ordered to give notice.
 
DATED:
September 13, 2024
__________________________
Hon. Michelle C. Kim
Judge of the Superior Court
 
PLEASE
TAKE NOTICE:
•           Parties
are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if
they can reach an agreement.
•           If
a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party must send an
email to the court at SMCDEPT78@lacourt.org with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number. The body of the email must include the hearing
date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party
submitting.
•           Unless
all parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should
arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument. You
should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.
•           If
the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion
off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court. After the
Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of
the subject motion without leave.