  Case Number:  19STCV24054    Hearing Date:   January 21, 2025    Dept:  61 CEDRIC L PRICE vs JARRELL D DAVISAnalysis:I. MOTION TO ENFORCE SETTLEMENTCode Civ. Proc. section 664.6 states that:If parties to pending litigation stipulate, in a writing signed by the parties outside the presence of the court or orally before the court, for settlement of the case, or part thereof, the court, upon motion, may enter judgment pursuant to the terms of the settlement. If requested by the parties, the court may retain jurisdiction over the parties to enforce the settlement until performance in full of the terms of the settlement.“Section 664.6 permits the trial court judge to enter judgment on a settlement agreement without the need for a new lawsuit. [Citation.] It is for the trial court to determine in the first instance whether the parties have entered into an enforceable settlement. [Citation.] In making that determination, ‘the trial court acts as the trier of fact, determining whether the parties entered into a valid and binding settlement. [Citation.] Trial judges may consider oral testimony or may determine the motion upon declarations alone. [Citation.] When the same judge hears the settlement and the motion to enter judgment on the settlement, he or she may consult his [or her] memory. [Citation.]’ [Citation.]” (Osumi v. Sutton (2007) 151 Cal.App.4th 1355, 1359–1360.)Defendant Precision Dental (Precision) seeks an order directing Plaintiff Cedric Price (Price) to sign a written memorialized settlement agreement, agreed to in oral form before the court, despite Plaintiff’s objection to a term thereof containing a prospective waiver of Plaintiff’s right to appeal, including the right to appeal any decision on upcoming motions for attorney fees and costs. (Motion at p. 7.) Alternatively, Precision seeks an order directing the dismissal of Plaintiff’s cross-complaint, a modification of the preliminary injunction to allow Precision to foreclose upon real property on Llano Drive in Woodland Hills, and setting a date for service of the upcoming motions for attorney fees and to tax costs, reserved for hearing on March 4, 2025. (Motion at pp. 7–8.)Plaintiff in opposition agrees that a settlement was entered into, and agrees to Defendant’s proposed modification of the injunction. (Opposition at p. 2.) But Plaintiff argues that there was no agreement to limit appellate rights on the prospective issues of attorney fees and costs, which are set for hearing before the court. (Opposition at pp. 1–2.)Plaintiff is correct. The sole term related to waiver of appellate rights before the court at the time the settlement was entered orally into the record was the following exchange:THE COURT: So the party waives appellate rights?MS. WIDENER: Yes.(Widener Decl. Exh. 7 at p. 14.)This is sufficient to establish the parties’ intent to waive then-existing appellate rights, but not as to the prospective judicial rulings on disputed attorney fees and costs. “[I]f the parties to a contract want their agreement to encompass a waiver of the right to appeal from an anticipated judicial ruling, they must say so explicitly and unambiguously; they cannot leave their intent to be inferred from the language of the agreement.” (Concepcion v. Amscan Holdings, Inc. (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 1309, 1322.) Here, there was no explicit and unambiguous statement of an intent to waive prospective appellate rights, and no such right can be inferred.Precision contends that only a waiver of all appellate rights, retrospective and prospective, can give effect to the parties’ intent that the settlement “be final as to all issues between the parties.” (Motion at p. 7, italics in original.) But neither the oral settlement before the court nor the written memorialization proposed by Precision was ever intended to be final as to all issues — the agreement in both formats expressly contemplated further litigation on the issues of fees and costs, now set for hearing before the court on March 4, 2025 (Widener Decl. Exh. 3, § 3.6; Exh. 7 at p. 12.) The inference of a prospective waiver of appellate rights as to these rulings would be inconsistent with the parties’ clear intent to further dispute these issues.Thus Price cannot be directed to sign the settlement agreement that Precision now proposes. Nor is there any reason to order the alternative relief that Precision requests — a dismissal, a modification of the injunction, and special dates of service on upcoming motions. The parties have stipulated to both dismissal and the modification that Precision requests, as of January 13, 2025. And the dates for filing and serving the motions can be determined by reference to the hearing date, as ordinarily done according to Code of Civil Procedure § 1005 and California Rules of Court, Rules 3.1700, subd. (a)(1) [costs], and 3.1702, subd. (b) [attorney fees].The motion is therefore DENIED.