 Case Number:  23VECV03021    Hearing Date:   February 8, 2024    Dept:  107 


 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT
  OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS
  ANGELES
NORTHWEST
  DISTRICT
 




TATIANA
  VERSHININA, et al., 
 
Plaintiffs.
 
   v.
 
 
STATE
  BANK OF INDIA,
Defendant.
 


 
 
   Case Number             Department
  23VECV03672              107




 
 
COURT’S [TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: Motion to be Relieved
  as Counsel
                  



[THE FOLLOWING IS A TENTATIVE RULING IN THE ABOVE CASE]: 
 
TENTATIVE
RULING:
 
Counsel’s motion to be relieved as counsel is GRANTED.  
 
FACTUAL
BACKGROUND
 
 
Plaintiffs’ attorney Bleau Fox, a Professional Law Corporation (“Counsel”)
moves to be relieved as counsel. 
 
Background
 
Plaintiffs filed this action on August 22, 2023, stating claims for (1)
negligence, (2) premise liability, (3) unsafe conditions, and (4) intentional
infliction of emotional distress.
 
Counsel filed these motions on January 10, 2024. No opposition was filed.
 
Legal Standard
 
An attorney in an action may be changed at any time before or after
judgment or final determination upon the order of the court, upon the application
of either client or attorney, after notice from one to the other. (CCP §
284(2)).  Rules of Court, rule 3.1362
requires:
 
1.         Notice of motion and
motion to be directed to the client (made on the Notice of Motion and Motion to
be Relieved as Counsel Civil form (MC-051));
2.         A declaration stating in
general terms, and without compromising the confidentiality of the attorney
client relationship, why a motion under CCP §284(2), is brought instead of
filing a consent under CCP §284(1) (made on the Declaration in Support of
Attorney's Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel Civil form (MC-052));
3.         Service of the notice of
motion and motion and declaration on all other parties who have appeared in the
case; and
4.         The proposed order
relieving counsel (prepared on the Order Granting Attorney's Motion to Be
Relieved as Counsel Civil form (MC-053)).
 
The motion should be denied if withdrawal would prejudice the client.  (Rules Prof. Conduct, Rule 3-700(A)(2); Weil
& Brown, Cal. Prac. Guide: Civ. Pro. Before Trial, 9:385.2 (2008); 1 Witkin
Cal. Pro., Attorneys §72 (2008).)  The
motion should be denied if it will cause undue delay in the proceeding or cause
injustice.  (Mandell v. Superior
Court, (1977) 67 Cal.App.3d 1, 4.) 
The determination whether to grant or deny an attorney’s motion to
withdraw as counsel of record lies within the sound discretion of the trial
court, having in mind whether such withdrawal might work an injustice in the
handling of the case.  (Lempert v.
Superior Court (2003) 112 Cal.App.4th 1161, 1173.)  A breakdown in the attorney-client
relationship (or personality clash) is grounds for withdrawal.  (Estate of Falco (1987) 188 Cal.App.3d
1004, 1014.) An attorney is not limited to withdrawing from a case for cause
and may withdraw when withdrawal can be accomplished without undue prejudice to
the client.  (Ramirez v. Sturdevant
(1994) 26 Cal. Rptr. 2d 554, 559.)     
 
Discussion
 
The motion satisfies the procedural requirements.
Specifically, as it relates to notice under CRC Rule 3.1362(a), a notice of motion and
motion to be relieved as counsel under Code of Civil Procedure section 284(2)
must be directed to the client and must be made on the Notice of Motion
and Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel-Civil (form MC-051). Here, that
is complied with and the hearing date on the notices is correct (February 13,
2024). Next, under the requirement of a Declaration under CRC Rule 3.1362(c), the
motion to be relieved as counsel must be accompanied by a declaration on
the Declaration in Support of Attorney's Motion to Be Relieved as
Counsel-Civil (form MC-052). The declaration must state in general
terms and without compromising the confidentiality of the attorney-client
relationship why a motion under Code of Civil Procedure section 284(2) is
brought instead of filing a consent under Code of Civil Procedure section
284(1).
The declaration in this case provides three reasons: (1) a “breakdown in
attorney-client communication,” (2) failure by client to “cooperate with his
counsel,” and (3) failure by client to “fulfil his financial obligations.” The
reasons provided are identical on both declarations. (The declaration Form
MC-052 lists the wrong hearing date.) Furthermore, under the service
requirement pursuant to CRC Rule 3.1362(d) and LASC Local Rule 4.35, the notice
of motion and motion, the declaration, and the proposed order must be served on
the client and on all other parties who have appeared in the case. The notice
may be by personal service or mail. If the notice is served on the client by
mail under Code of Civil Procedure section 1013, it must be accompanied by a
declaration stating facts showing that either:
 
(1)The
service address is the current residence or business address of the client; or
(2)The
service address is the last known residence or business address of the client
and the attorney has been unable to locate a more current address after making
reasonable efforts to do so within 30 days before the filing of the motion to
be relieved.
 
As used in this rule, "current" means that the address was
confirmed within 30 days before the filing of the motion to be relieved. Merely
demonstrating that the notice was sent to the client's last known address and
was not returned is not, by itself, sufficient to demonstrate that the address
is current. If the service is by mail, Code of Civil Procedure section 1011(b)
applies.
 
When an attorney files a motion to withdraw as attorney of record for a
fiduciary, service must be made by citation. The citation must be served in the
manner provided in Code of Civil Procedure sections 415.10 or 415.30. If the
fiduciary resides outside of California, service may also be made in the manner
provided in Code of Civil Procedure section 415.40.  (LASC Local Rules, Rule 4.35.)
 
In the current case, the declaration states that
the motion was served at the client's current electronic address, which was
confirmed within 30 days before the filing of the motion. It attaches (to the
Notices of Motion) an attachment purporting to prove that the electronic
mailing address was confirmed on January 9, 2024, but that attachment shows an
email from a Sergey Vershinin, who is not party to this case, and does not
explain any relationship between Sergey Vershinin and either Plaintiff.
 
Also, as it pertains to the requirement of a
proposed order and CRC Rule 3.1362(e), the proposed order relieving counsel
must be prepared on the Order Granting Attorney's Motion to Be Relieved
as Counsel-Civil (form MC-053) and must be lodged with the court with
the moving papers. The order must specify all hearing dates scheduled in the
action or proceeding, including the date of trial, if known. If no hearing date
is presently scheduled, the court may set one and specify the date in the
order. After the order is signed, a copy of the signed order must be served on
the client and on all parties that have appeared in the case. The court may
delay the effective date of the order relieving counsel until proof of service
of a copy of the signed order on the client has been filed with the court. In
this case, the hearing date on proposed orders is incorrect. The proposed
orders have the date of hearing therefore as February 9, 2024, but it is
actually set for February 13, 2024. The proposed orders also do not list the
Case Management Conference set for February 13, 2024, though they do list the
prior Case Management Conference. Trial is not yet set.
 
The court has discretion to allow an attorney to
withdraw, and such a motion should be granted provided that there is no
prejudice to the client, and it does not disrupt the orderly process of
justice. (See Ramirez v. Sturdevant (1994) 21 Cal.App.4th 904, 915.) Here,
no trial date has been set and there is no prejudice to either side. 
 
Accordingly, the motion is GRANTED.
 
Plaintiff’s counsel is ordered to serve a copy
of the order granting leave to withdraw on the client and all parties who have
appeared in the action or proceeding. Counsel will be relieved upon filing
proof of service on the client of the Order Granting Attorney's Motion to Be
Relieved as Counsel--Civil (Judicial Council form MC-053).
 
Plaintiff’s counsel is ordered to give notice of
the ruling on the motion to be relieved. Counsel for Plaintiff is ordered to file the
proof of service of this ruling with the Court within five days.
 
 
Dated:  February 13, 2024                                           _______­­­­­­­­­­___________________________                                                                                                      
            Hon. Eric Harmon
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court