 Case Number:  20STCV46768    Hearing Date:   March 26, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian¿¿¿ 
Department 27¿¿¿ 
Tentative Ruling¿¿ 
¿¿ 
Hearing Date:                3/26/2024 at 1:30 p.m.¿¿¿¿ 
Case No./Name.:         20STCV46768 LINDA WANG, et al. vs
SHU GUANG FANG
Motion:                              Motion for Trial Preference 
Moving Party:                 Plaintiff 
Responding Party:      Defendant Shu Guang Fang
Notice:                                Sufficient¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿ 
Ruling:                               PLAINTIFF’S MOTION FOR TRIAL
PREFERENCE IS GRANTED 
¿ 
 
Legal Standard 
 
A party who is over 70 years old may petition
the court for a preference, which the court shall grant if the court makes both
of the following findings: (1) the party has a substantial interest in the
action as a whole; and (2) the health of the party is such that a preference is
necessary to prevent prejudicing the party’s interest in the litigation.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 36, subd. (a).)¿ An
affidavit submitted in support of a motion for preference under subdivision (a)
of Section 36 may be signed by the attorney for the party seeking preference
based upon information and belief as to the medical diagnosis and prognosis of
any party.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 36.5.)¿¿ 
¿ 
“Upon the granting of such a motion for
preference, the court shall set the matter for trial not more than 120 days
from that date and there shall be no continuance beyond 120 days from the
granting of the motion for preference except for physical disability of a party
or a party’s attorney, or upon a showing of good cause stated in the record.¿ Any continuance shall be for no more than 15 days and no more than
one continuance for physical disability may be granted to any party.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 36, subd. (f).)¿ 
¿ 
“The issue under subdivision (a) is not
whether an elderly litigant might die before trial or become so disabled that
she might as well be absent when trial is called.¿ Provided there is evidence that the party involved is over 70, all
subdivision (a) requires is a showing that the party’s “health . . . is such that a
preference is necessary to prevent prejudicing [his/her] interest in
the litigation.¿ (Italics
added.)”¿ (Fox v. Superior Court (2018) 21 Cal.App.5th 529, 534.)¿ The absence of specifics regarding plaintiff’s prognosis is
insufficient reason to deny a request for calendar preference.¿ “Subdivision (a) requires the granting of
calendar preference to ‘prevent’ prejudice to a stricken litigant’s
interests.¿ (Italics added.)¿ The idea that [plaintiff] should be made to wait to file a
preference motion until she is clearly in her final days—when attendance at a trial is hardly what she
should be doing—makes no sense at all.”¿ (Id. at p. 536.)¿ 
¿ 
“Where a party meets the requisite standard
for calendar preference under subdivision (a), preference must be granted.¿ No weighing of interests is involved.”¿ (Fox, supra, 21 Cal.App.5th at p. 535; see also Koch-Ash
v. Superior Court (1986) 180 Cal.App.3d 689, 692 [“section 36, subdivision
(a) . . . is mandatory and absolute in its application and does not allow a
trial court to exercise the inherent or statutory general administrative
authority it would otherwise have”].)¿ Any
inconvenience to the court or to other litigants is irrelevant and “[f]ailure to complete discovery or other
pretrial matters does not affect the absolute substantive right to trial
preference for those litigants who qualify for preference.”¿ (Swaithes v. Superior Court (1989) 212 Cal.App.3d 1082,
1085.)¿ 
¿ 
Analysis and Conclusion 
 
On December 8, 2020,
Plaintiff filed the present case, alleging a fall at Defendant's residence
resulting in a femoral neck fracture and an L4-5 back injury. The current trial
date is set for April 24, 2024. Due to the unavailability of courtrooms, the trial
date has been continued three times. Plaintiff now moves the court for trial
preference to ensure the trial date of April 24, 2024, remains fixed or is
rescheduled to a date within 120 days of today.
Plaintiff satisfies all
three requirements for trial preference under Section 36(a): First, Plaintiff
is over the age of 70; second, she possesses a substantial interest in the
action as the Plaintiff; third, considering Plaintiff's advanced age, numerous
pre-existing health conditions, memory issues, two neck surgeries, and the need
for future surgeries, a trial preference is necessary to prevent prejudicing
her interests before her health condition further deteriorates. Defendant does
not oppose the motion. Thus, Plaintiff’s present motion is GRANTED; the current
trial date is maintained.
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:            
         
If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by
the case number.  The body of the email must include the
hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the
party submitting.              
       
Unless all parties submit by email to this tentative
ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person
for oral argument.  You should assume that others may appear at
the hearing to argue.              
       
If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the
Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the
order of the Court.  After the Court has issued a tentative
ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without
leave.             
     
 