 Case Number:  22STCV15399    Hearing Date:   March 26, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian¿¿¿ 
Department 27¿¿¿ 
Tentative Ruling¿¿ 
¿¿ 
Hearing Date:                3/26/2024 at 1:30 p.m.¿¿¿¿ 
Case No./Name.:         22STCV15399 JULIAN HART vs VARTAN
DARBINYAN
Motion:                              MOTION TO DEEM REQUEST FOR
ADMISSIONS ADMITTED SET ONE; REQUEST FOR MONETARY SANCTIONS
Moving Party:                 Plaintiff 
Responding Party:      Defendant Vartan Darbinyan
Notice:                                Sufficient¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿ 
Ruling:                               PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO DEEM REQUEST
FOR ADMISSIONS ADMITTED SET ONE AND REQUEST FOR MONETARY SANCTIONS ARE GRANTED.
 
 
Legal Standard 
¿ 
“Any party may obtain discovery . . . by a
written request that any other party to the action admit the genuineness of
specified documents, or the truth of specified matters of fact, opinion
relating to fact, or application of law to fact. A request for admission may
relate to a matter that is in controversy between the parties.”¿ CCP § 2033.010.¿ “Within
30 days after service of requests for admission, the party to whom the requests
are directed shall serve the original of the response to them on the requesting
party, and a copy of the response on all other parties who have appeared . . .
.”¿ CCP § 2033.250(a).¿ 
¿ 
If a party to whom request for admissions are
served fails to provide a timely response, the party to whom the request was
directed waives any objections, including based on privilege or the work
product doctrine. CCP § 2033.280(a). The requesting party can move for an order
that the genuineness of any documents and the truth of any matters specified in
the request be deemed admitted, as well as for monetary sanctions. CCP §
2033.280(b). The court shall issue this order unless the party to whom the request
was made serves a response in substantial compliance prior to the hearing on
the motion. CCP § 2033.280(c).¿ 
 
Analysis and Conclusion
On May 9, 2022, Plaintiff filed the present slip and
fall case. On June 27, 2023, Plaintiff served Request for Admissions, Set One,
on Defendant Vartan Darbinyan via email transmission. On January 17, 2024, Defendant’s
counsel informed Plaintiff's counsel that responses would be delivered within
the next week or two; however, none were provided. Plaintiff now moves the
court to deem Plaintiff's Request for Admissions, Set One, admitted. Defendant
did not file an opposition, and there is no indication that substantially
compliant discovery responses were provided before the hearing. Thus,
Plaintiff's motion is GRANTED, and Plaintiff's Request for Admissions, Set One,
is deemed admitted.
Defendant’s failure to respond forced Plaintiff to
incur attorney's fees by filing the present motion. Defendant requests
sanctions in the amount of $2,560.00. Considering the simplicity of the motion
and the absence of an opposition, the Court exercises its discretion and
reduces the sanctions amount to $1,250.00. Defendant and his counsel are
ORDERED, jointly and severally, to pay sanctions of $1,250.00 to Plaintiff
within 20 days of today’s date.
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:            
         
If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by
the case number.  The body of the email must include the
hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the
party submitting.              
       
Unless all parties submit by email to this tentative
ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person
for oral argument.  You should assume that others may appear at
the hearing to argue.              
       
If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the
Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the
order of the Court.  After the Court has issued a tentative
ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without
leave.             
     
 
 
 
 
 