 Case Number:  23STCV08596    Hearing Date:   March 25, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     March 25, 2024                      TRIAL
DATE: NOT SET
                                                           
CASE:                         Martin Melendez-Murillo et al. v. AKG
Trading (USA), Inc., et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 23STCV08596            
 
MOTION
TO QUASH SERVICE OF SUMMONS AND COMPLAINT

 
MOVING PARTY:               Specially Appearing Defendant Stylenquaza, LLC.
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiffs Martin
Melendez-Murillo and Rufina Barajas
 
CASE
HISTORY:
·        
04/18/23: Complaint filed.
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is a toxic tort action alleging that Plaintiff Melendez-Murillo
developed silicosis and consequential injuries by breathing in dust from
Defendants’ stone products generated by his work as a fabricator and polisher
of stone countertops.
 
Specially Appearing Defendant Stylenquaza,
LLC moves to quash service of the summons and complaint for lack of personal
jurisdiction. 
 
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Specially Appearing Defendant
Stylenquaza LLC’s Motion to Quash Service of the Summons and Complaint is
DENIED.
 
            Defendant
is deemed to have made a general appearance this date. 
 
            Defendant
is ordered to file a demurrer, answer, or other responsive pleading per code. 
 
//
 
//
DISCUSSION:
 
Specially Appearing Defendant Stylenquaza
LLC moves to quash service of the summons and complaint for lack of personal
jurisdiction. 
 
Special Appearance 
 
No motion under Code of Civil Procedure 418.10 “shall be
deemed a general appearance by the defendant.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 418.10(d).)
Here, Specially Appearing Defendant (“Defendant”) brought this motion under
section 418.10. Thus, filing this motion does not constitute a general
appearance.  
 
Defendant’s
Evidentiary Objections
 
            Defendant raises several evidentiary
objections to the Declaration of Raphael Metzger in support of the opposition
to this motion. As this evidence is not material to the Court’s ruling on this
motion, the Court declines to address Defendant’s objections. 
 
            Defendant also raises evidentiary
objections to the evidence provided by Plaintiffs in their supplemental
briefing. As this evidence is likewise immaterial to the Court’s ruling, the
Court declines to address these objections as well. 
 
Legal Standard
 
On a motion to quash service of the summons and
complaint, the moving party must first present some admissible evidence, such
as declarations or affidavits, to place the issue of minimum contacts before
the Court. (School Dist. of Oskaloosa County v. Superior Court (1997) 58
Cal.App.4th 1126, 1131.) “When a motion to quash is
properly brought, the burden of proof is placed upon the plaintiff to establish
the facts of jurisdiction by a preponderance of the evidence.”  (Aquila, Inc. v. Sup. Ct. (2007) 148
Cal.App.4th 556, 568; see also Elkman v. National States Ins. Co. (2009)
173 Cal.App.4th 1305, 1312-13 [“Where a nonresident defendant challenges
jurisdiction by way of a motion to quash, the plaintiff bears the burden of
establishing by a preponderance of the evidence that minimum contacts exist
between the defendant and the forum state to justify imposition of personal
jurisdiction.”].) Evidence of the facts giving rise to personal jurisdiction or
their absence may be in the form of declarations. (Arensen v. Raymond Lee
Organization, Inc. (1973) 31 Cal.App.3d 991, 995.) The Court should
exclude evidence that would be inadmissible at trial. (See, e.g., Judd v.
Superior Court (1976) 60 Cal.App.3d 38, 43-44 [Court of Appeal excluded
inadmissible hearsay evidence offered in support of affirmation of trial
court’s denial of motion to quash, and subsequently reversed the trial court’s
denial].) A non-resident defendant may be subject to either general or specific
jurisdiction. (See Elkman v. National States Insurance Co., supra, 173
Cal.App.4th at 1314.) 
 
//
 
General Jurisdiction
 
Defendant first contends that the Court lacks general
personal jurisdiction over it.
 
General jurisdiction exists when a defendant is domiciled
in the forum state or his activities there are substantial, continuous, and
systematic.  (F. Hoffman-La Roche, Inc. v. Sup. Ct. (2005) 130
Cal.App.4th 782, 796.)  “In such circumstances, it is not necessary that
the specific cause of action alleged be connected with the defendant’s business
relationship to the forum.”  (Id.) “The standard for
establishing general jurisdiction is ‘fairly high,’ [citation] and requires
that the defendant’s contacts be of the sort that approximate physical presence.”
(Elkman, supra, 173 Cal.App.4th at 1315 (emphasis in original).) 
“Factors to be taken into consideration are whether the defendant makes sales,
solicits or engages in business in the state, serves the state’s markets,
designates an agent for service of process, holds a license, or is incorporated
there.” (Id.)
 
Plaintiffs concede that Defendant is not
subject to the general jurisdiction of this Court. Instead, Plaintiff claims
that the basis for the Court’s jurisdiction over Defendants is specific. 
 
Specific Jurisdiction
 
Defendant also contends that the Court lacks specific
personal jurisdiction over Styenquaza LLC.
 
“Where
general jurisdiction cannot be established, a court may assume specific
jurisdiction over a defendant in a particular case if the plaintiff shows the
defendant has purposefully availed himself or herself of forum benefits; [ie.]
the nonresident purposefully directed its activities at forum residents or
purposefully availed itself of the privilege of conducting activities within
the forum state, thus invoking the benefits and protections of local law. 
(Hanson v. Denckla (1958) 357 U.S. 235.)
 
Specific
jurisdiction involves a 3-part test in California.  California courts
adopt the same test as the test used by the court in Boschetto v.
Hansing (9th Cir. 2008) 539 F.3d 1011, 1016): (1) The nonresident
defendant must do some act or consummate some transaction with the forum or
perform some act by which he purposefully avails himself of the privilege of
conducting activities in the forum, thereby invoking the benefits and protections
of its laws; (2) the claim must be one which arises out of or results from the
defendant's forum-related activities; and (3) exercise of jurisdiction must be
reasonable.” (Panavision International, L.P. v. Toeppen (9th Cir. 1998)
141 F.3d 1316, 1320 [applying California law].).” (Jewish Defense
Organization, Inc. v. Sup. Ct. of Los Angeles County (Rambam) (1999)
72 Cal.App.4th 1045, 1054.) Purposeful availment as defined by Boschetto requires
affirmative conduct promoting the transaction. “To have purposefully
availed itself of the privilege of doing business in the forum, a defendant
must have ‘performed some type of affirmative conduct which allows or promotes
the transaction of business within the forum state.’” (Boschetto, 539
F.3d at 1016.) If the plaintiff satisfies the first two prongs of the test, the
burden shifts to the defendant to present a compelling case that the exercise
of jurisdiction would be unreasonable. (Burger King Corp. v. Rudzewicz (1985)
471 U.S. 462, 476-78.)
 
1.     
Purposeful Availment or Direction
 
            The parties agree that the proper test for the case at
hand is whether Defendant purposefully directed its conduct at the forum state.
(See Schwarzenneger v. Fred Martin Motor Co. (9th Cir. 2004) 374 F.3d
797, 803.) “Purposeful direction” requires that the defendant has (1) committed
an intentional act, (2) expressly aimed at the forum state, (3) causing harm
that the defendant knows is likely to be suffered in the forum state. (Id.)
“The question is whether a defendant has followed a course of conduct directed
at the society or economy existing within the jurisdiction.” (J. McIntyre
Machinery, Ltd. v. Nicastro (2011) 564 U.S. 873, 884.) The proper
inquiry is the nature and quality of the defendant’s activity in the forum
state, not the quantity. (As You Sow v. Crawford Laboratories, Inc.
(1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 1859, 1870.) Minimum contacts may be created via a
non-resident’s use of telephone or email, and the Defendant need not set foot
in the forum state. (See Hall v. LaRonde (1997) 56 Cal.App.4th 1342,
1344.) However, “merely asserting that a defendant knew or should have known
that his intentional acts would cause harm in the forum state is not enough to
establish jurisdiction under the effect test.” (Pavlovich v. Superior Court,
(2002) 29 Cal.4th 262, 270.) The plaintiff must show that California was
the “focal point” of the tortious activity. (Burdick v. Superior Court
(2015) 233 Cal.App.4th 8, 20.) 
 
Defendant contends that it
did not engage in a course of conduct that was directed at California or
purposefully availed itself of the benefits of California. To place the matter
at issue, Defendant offers a sworn declaration from its manager and part owner,
An Nguyen, as support for this position. Defendant states that it is a Texas
LLC with its principal place of business, main office, and registered agent in
Texas, doing business as “Vicostone USA” solely as a distributor of quartz
slabs supplied by Vicostone JSC, a Vietnamese quartz manufacturer. (Declaration
of An Nguyen ISO Mot. ¶ 3.) Defendant’s other owners are Hoang Anh Ho, a
citizen and resident of Vietnam, and Style Stone Joint Stock Company, a
Vietnamese corporation. (¶ 4.) Defendant principally does business in 24
states, none of which are California. (¶ 5.) Defendant concedes, however, that
it distributed “insubstantial amounts” of pre-fabricated stone tops—which do
not require polishing—to California between 2018 and 2022, as well as 22 stone
slabs across six shipments during that period. (¶ 8.) Defendant avers that it
does not own property, market its products, maintain inventory or bank
accounts, pay taxes, or have offices or employees in California, nor has it
ever been licensed to do business in California. (¶¶ 13-21.) 
 
Defendant contends that
another named defendant in this action, Pental Granite and Marble, LLC, is
responsible for distributing Vicostone-made products in California, and does so
entirely without any control by Defendant. (Nguyen
Decl. ¶ 6.) Defendant admits Pental occasionally purchases stone slabs from
Defendant when Pental has inventory shortages but does so “on very rare
occasions” and “in very insignificant amounts,” and in those instances,
Defendant states that it has no control over the distribution of those
products. (¶ 7.) Defendant concedes that Vicostone’s English-language website
lists regional distributors in California, but states that these distributors
are affiliated with Pental, and that the website is operated by Vicostone JCS,
not Defendant. (Id. ¶ 21.) 
 
Following oral argument on
this motion on January 16, 2024, the Court permitted Defendant to file a
supplemental Declaration from Mr. Nguyen on or before January 23, 2024, ordered
the parties to meet and confer regarding jurisdictional discovery, and set a schedule
for supplemental briefing based on the results of that discovery. (January 16,
2024 Notice of Ruling.) 
 
Mr. Nguyen’s supplemental
declaration describes the six shipments discussed in the previous declaration.
Mr. Nguyen states that these shipments consisted of:
 
1.     
Two slabs sent to
Commerce, CA in January 2020;
2.     
One slab sent to
Watsonville, CA in December 2020;
3.     
Five slabs sent to
Watsonville CA in April 2021;
4.     
Three slabs sent to
Watsonville CA in August 2021;
5.     
One slab sent to
Escondido, CA in March 2022;
6.     
Ten slabs picked up by
the purchaser from Texas in May 2021. 
 
(Supplemental Declaration of An Nguyen ISO Mot. ¶ 3.) 
 
            In
opposition, Plaintiffs argue that Mr. Nguyen’s supplemental declaration concedes
the essential argument that Defendant shipped its products to California and
thereby purposefully availed itself of the benefits of doing business in
California. Defendant argues, as it did in its moving papers and initial reply,
that these contacts are too attenuated or insubstantial to establish purposeful
availment. The Court disagrees. Defendant admits that it explicitly and
intentionally sold and shipped products, including 12 stone slabs of exactly
the type that is at issue in the pleadings, directly to California. Contrary to
Defendant’s assertions, this conduct is not merely placing the products in the
stream of commerce with knowledge that the products might arrive in
California, but rather a series of transactions with the knowledge and purpose
of conveying the products to California. (See Jayone Foods Inc. v. Aekyung
Indus. Co. (2019) 31 Cal.App.5th 543, 559.) 
2. Claim Arising Out of
Defendants’ Activities
 
            Plaintiffs contend that the claims asserted against
Defendants arise out of the activities for which evidence is provided above.
After reviewing the essential allegations in the Complaint, the Court agrees.
Plaintiffs’ claims arise out of the sale of stone slabs in California which,
when polished or fabricated, emit toxic dust. (See Complaint ¶¶ 99-103.) Defendant’s
own papers provide evidence of the sale of these slabs. The burden now shifts
to Defendants to present a compelling case that the exercise of jurisdiction
would be unreasonable.
 
//
3.     
Reasonableness of Exercise of Jurisdiction
 
            Defendant contends that the assertion of jurisdiction in
this matter over Defendant would be unreasonable. 
 
            If plaintiffs have satisfied their burden on a motion to
quash for lack of personal jurisdiction, the burden shifts to the moving party
to demonstrate that the exercise of jurisdiction would be unreasonable. (Burger
King Corp. v. Rudzewicz (1985) 471 U.S. 462, 476-78.) The moving party must
show that litigating the case in a foreign state would be “so gravely difficult
and inconvenient that it would put him at a severe disadvantage in comparison
to his opponent.” (Doe v. Damron (2021) 70 Cal.App.5th 684, 693.) Mere
inconvenience is insufficient to defeat jurisdiction. (Id.) When
evaluating the reasonableness of the exercise of jurisdiction, courts commonly
balance several factors in making that determination, including (1) the extent
of the defendant’s purposeful interjection into the forum state; (2) the burden
on the defendant; (3) the extent of conflict with the sovereignty of the
defendant’s state; (4) the forum state’s interest in adjudicating the dispute;
(5) the most efficient judicial resolution of the controversy; (6) the
importance of the forum to the plaintiff’s interests in convenient and
effective relief; and (7) the existence of an alternate forum. (See Core-Vent
Corp. v. Nobel Indus. (9th Cir. 1993) 11 F.3d 1482, 1488-89.) 
 
            Here, the evidence before the Court indicates that the
extent of the Defendant’s interjections into California consisted of, at
minimum, the sale and shipping of 12 stone slabs across 5 transactions between
2018 and 2022, plus an unspecified number of prefabricated counter tops.
(Nguyen Decl. ¶ 8.) Defendant does not state the number of slabs sold to
Pental, or whether it knew how many of those slabs were destined for
California. (See Id. ¶ 7.)  Defendant also argues that there would be a
substantial burden on Defendant to hear this case in California because all its
operations are based in Texas, rather than California, and it would be unduly
burdensome to require its owners to travel to California from either Texas or
Vietnam to appear in this state. Defendants offer no evidence establishing that
either individual owner traveling to California would be unduly burdensome, and
no authority establishing that out of state or international travel is an undue
burden per se. 
 
            Neither party addresses the extent of any conflict with
the sovereignty of the state of Texas, nor do they address California’s
interest in adjudication of this dispute, or the importance of the forum to
securing effective and convenient relief for Plaintiff. It is undisputed that
Texas courts would offer an alternative forum for this dispute. 
 
            In aggregate, Defendant offers very little in the way of
evidence or substantive argument supporting its position that the exercise of
jurisdiction by this Court would be gravely difficult or inconvenient for
Defendants. This is not sufficient to satisfy Defendant’s burden on this prong
of the determination of specific jurisdiction. The Court therefore does not
find good cause to quash service of the summons.
 
//
CONCLUSION:

 
            Accordingly,
Specially Appearing Defendant Stylenquaza LLC’s Motion to Quash Service of the
Summons and Complaint is DENIED.
 
            Defendant
is deemed to have made a general appearance this date. 
 
            Defendant
is ordered to file a demurrer, answer, or other responsive pleading per code. 
 
            Moving
Party to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  March 25, 2024                                  ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 