  Case Number:  22STCV29576    Hearing Date:   March 25, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     March 25, 2024                      TRIAL
DATE: April 23, 2024
                                                           
CASE:                         Airline Geo Sky, LLC v. CSDS Aircraft
Sales & Leasing, Inc., et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 22STCV29576
            
 
(1)
MOTION TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO REQUESTS FOR PRODUCTION (SET THREE);
(2)
MOTION TO COMPEL DEPOSITION; REQUEST FOR SANCTIONS 

 
MOVING PARTY:               (1)(2) Plaintiff Airline Geo Sky LLC
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): (1) No response on
eCourt as of 3/20/24; (2) Defendant Benedict Sirimanne
 
CASE
HISTORY:
·        
09/12/22: Complaint filed.
·        
10/26/22: Cross-Complaint filed.
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
This action involves a cancelled
transaction to purchase a cargo aircraft, wherein the parties entered into a
Cancellation Agreement and Plaintiff alleges that Defendants failed to repay a
$5 million balance. Plaintiff asserts the following causes of action: (1)
breach of contract; (2) constructive trust; and (3) judicial foreclosure.
 
Plaintiff moves to compel responses
to requests for production propounded to Defendants, and to compel Defendant
Sirimanne to sit for a deposition. 
 
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel
Responses to Requests for Production is GRANTED. This ruling is conditioned on
the payment of an additional $120 in filing fees within 10 days of this order.
 
            Defendants
are ordered to provide verified, code-compliant responses without objections to
the discovery that is the subject of these motions within 20 days of this
order. 
 
            Plaintiff’s
Motion to Compel Deposition is GRANTED.
 
            Defendant
Benedict Sirimanne is ordered to sit for deposition at a time and place of
Plaintiff’s choosing within 10 days of this order. 
 
            Plaintiff’s
request for sanctions is GRANTED in the amount of $1,050. Payment is to be made
within 30 days of this order.  
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Motion to Compel Responses to Requests for Production
 
            Plaintiff
moves to compel responses to requests for production propounded to each
Defendant.
 
Multiple Motions
 
            Multiple
motions should not be combined into a single filing.¿(See¿Govt. Code,¿§
70617(a)(4) [setting forth the required filing fee for each motion,
application, or any other paper or request requiring a hearing];¿see¿also¿Weil
& Brown, Civil Procedure Before Trial, [8:1140.1] at 8F-60 (The Rutter
Group 2011)¿[“Motions to compel compliance with separate discovery requests
ordinarily should be filed separately.”].) 
 
Here, Plaintiff seeks in one motion
to compel responses to three sets of requests for production, one propounded to
each Defendant in this action. Combining multiple motions under the guise of
one motion with one hearing reservation manipulates the Court Reservation
System and unfairly jumps ahead of other litigants. Moreover, combining motions
to avoid payment of separate filing fees deprives the Court of filing fees it
is otherwise entitled to collect.
 
            The Court
therefore conditions its ruling on this motion on the payment of an additional
$120 in filing fees within 10 days of this order.
 
Legal Standard
 
When a party to whom an inspection
demand is directed fails to respond under Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.300(b), a
party making the demand may move for an order compelling a response to the
inspection demand. A party who fails to provide timely responses waives any
objection, including one based on privilege or work product. (Code Civ. Proc. §
2031.300(a).) For a motion to compel initial responses, no meet and confer is
required. All that must be shown is that a set of requests for production was
properly served on the opposing party, that the time to respond has expired,
and that no response has been served. (Leach
v. Sup. Ct. (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 902, 905-06.) 
 
Analysis
 
            Plaintiff
served Requests for Production (Set Three) on Defendants on December 4, 2023
via email. (Declaration of Kevin Hughes ISO Mot. Exh. A.) The parties agreed to
extend the deadline to respond to January 19, 2024. (Id. ¶ 3 Exh. B.) As
of the date this motion was filed on January 21, no response had been received.
(Id. ¶ 4.) Plaintiff states in its reply that it has since received
written responses promising production with documents attached, but that it is
not apparent from the responses whether all documents have been produced, or if
further production is forthcoming. On this record, the Court finds that
Plaintiff is entitled to an order compelling responses to these requests. 
 
Conclusion
 
            Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Responses to Requests for Production is GRANTED. 
 
            Defendants
are ordered to produce verified, code-compliant responses and all responsive
documents in their possession, custody, or control within 10 days of this
order. 
 
Motion to Compel Deposition of Defendant Benedict
Sirimanne
 
            Plaintiff
also moves to compel the deposition of Defendant Benedict Sirimanne. 
 
Legal Standard
 
California Code of Civil Procedure section
2025.450, subdivision (a) provides: 
 
If, after service of a deposition notice,
a party to the action or an officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a
party, or a person designated by an organization that is a party under Section
2025.230, without having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails
to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for inspection
any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in
the deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move for an order
compelling the deponent's attendance and testimony, and the production for
inspection of any document, electronically stored information, or tangible
thing described in the deposition notice.
 
(Code
Civ. Proc. § 2025.450(a).) Further, where production of documents is sought in
connection with the deposition, the motion must set forth specific facts
showing good cause justifying the production. (Code Civ. Proc. §
2025.450(b)(1).) 
 
Meet
and Confer
 
A motion to compel a deposition must
include a meet and confer declaration stating facts showing a reasonable and
good faith attempt at an informal resolution of each issue presented by the
motion. (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 2025.450(b); 2016.040.)  
 
The Declaration of Kevin Hughes attached
to the Motion states that he attempted to meet and confer with Defendant’s
counsel via email on February 20, 2024 regarding rescheduling the deposition,
but Defendant’s counsel could not confirm the deponent’s availability.
(Declaration of Kevin Hughes ISO Mot. ¶¶ 7-9.) Plaintiff has therefore
satisfied its statutory meet-and-confer obligation. 
 
Analysis
 
            On October 31, 2023, Plaintiff
noticed two depositions of Defendant, one for November 15, 2023, and one for
January 23, 2024, to secure Defendant Sirimanne’s testimony as an individual
and as the person most qualified for the entity Defendants. (Hughes Decl. ¶ 2.)
The first deposition was rescheduled for November 27, 2023, and Defendant
Sirimanne gave testimony for 4.5 hours before ending the deposition early to
attend to business calls. (¶¶ 3-4.) The parties agreed to schedule a third
deposition to account for the lost time. These depositions were scheduled for
February 20 and 21, 2024. (¶ 5, Exh. C.) On February 16, 2024, Defendant’s
counsel stated that Defendant had to cancel the February 21, 2024 deposition
but offered March 12 through 14 as alternative dates. (¶ 6.) No explanation was
given. (Id.) On February 20, 2024, Defendant’s counsel emailed
Plaintiff’s counsel at 9:06 am to inform Plaintiff that Defendant was feeling
ill and would be unable to attend the deposition. (Id. ¶ 7.) Plaintiff’s
counsel states that at the same time as this email exchange occurred, Defendant
was making political posts on social media. (Hughes Decl. ¶ 8 Exh. F.) 
 
            In opposition, Defendant contends that
he sat for a further deposition on March 13, 2024. In reply, Plaintiff states
that Defendant again terminated the deposition early, claiming an “emergency
meeting” after 2.5 hours of testimony. 
 
            The record before the Court
demonstrates that Defendant Sirimanne is not serious about complying with his
discovery obligations, and the Court will not permit Defendant to profit from
this behavior. Benedict Sirimanne is required to sit for a deposition just the
same as any other defendant. Plaintiff is entitled to an order compelling
deposition. 
 
Sanctions
 
Plaintiff also seeks sanctions against
Defendant Sirimanne. 
 
Code of Civil
Procedure section 2025.450(g)(1) requires the Court to impose sanctions against
any party who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel deposition,
unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust.
 
            Plaintiff requests sanctions against
Defendant Sirimanne in the amount of $1,050,
accounting for the last-minute cancellation fee incurred by Plaintiff. (Hughes
Decl. ¶ 8.) Defendant contends that he was substantially justified in
cancelling because he was genuinely ill, and because he and his counsel were
not aware of the cancellation policy. While there may be some truth to the
first statement, the latter contention is not credible. The Court finds sanctions
should be awarded to reimburse Plaintiff for the costs incurred because of
Defendant Sirimanne’s late cancellation of the deposition and his opposition to
these discovery motions.  
 
CONCLUSION:

            
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s Motion to
Compel Responses to Requests for Production is GRANTED. This ruling is
conditioned on the payment of an additional $120 in filing fees within 10 days
of this order.
 
            Defendants
are ordered to provide verified, code-compliant responses without objections to
the discovery that is the subject of these motions within 20 days of this
order. 
 
            Plaintiff’s
Motion to Compel Deposition is GRANTED.
 
            Defendant
Benedict Sirimanne is ordered to sit for deposition at a time and place of
Plaintiff’s choosing within 10 days of this order. 
 
            Plaintiff’s request for sanctions is GRANTED in the amount
of $1,050. Payment is to be made within 30 days of this order. 
 
            Moving
Party to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  March 25, 2024                                  ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 