  Case Number:  23SMCV05413    Hearing Date:   November 15, 2024    Dept:  205    Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles – West District  Beverly Hills Courthouse / Department 205   ASHLEY MATTHAU, et al.,    Plaintiffs, v.  GARTH FISHER, M.D., et al.,    Defendants.    Case No.:  23SMCV05413     Hearing Date:  November 15, 2024   ORDER RE:    DEFENDANTS’ motion for     reconsideration OF PLAINTIFFS’     MOTION TO AMEND THE COMPLAINT     TO ASSERT PUNITIVE DAMAGES     BACKGROUND This is a medical malpractice case.  Plaintiff Ashley Matthau was diagnosed with breast cancer.  Ms. Matthau was seeing non-party Dr. Kristi Funk, a noted oncologist who specializes in the treatment of breast cancer.  Ms. Matthau was also seeing Dr. Garth Fisher, a cosmetic surgeon who had performed cosmetic surgeries on both Matthau and her mother, co-Plaintiff Katherine Parnello.   The initial plan was for Ms. Matthau to coordinate her care between Dr. Funk and Dr. Fisher. The first step was for Dr. Funk to surgically remove the cancerous material at St. John’s Hospital, using advanced medical technology to determine the margins necessary to maximize a successful outcome.  The second step was for Dr. Fisher to do the cosmetic work to restore Ms. Matthau’s breasts to the way they appeared before surgery.   Plaintiffs claim, however, that Dr. Fisher unilaterally decided to perform the entire procedure on his own.  Dr. Funk’s office was told that she was not needed and Dr. Fisher would be the one to remove the mass.  Plaintiff claims that instead of telling Plaintiffs that he made a unilateral decision, Dr. Fischer misrepresented that Dr. Funk had agreed for him to do the entire procedure without her.  Plaintiffs claim they learned later that this statement was false and that Dr. Funk had not been part of the decision to exclude her from the procedure.   Further, instead of performing the procedure at a hospital where they had the necessary equipment to calculate the proper margins, Dr. Fisher switched the location to his own surgical center.  Plaintiffs relied on Dr. Fisher’s representation that Dr. Funk agreed to the change in who was to remove the tumor (from Dr. Funk to Dr. Fisher) and that Dr. Funk agreed that the procedure should be done at Dr. Fisher’s surgery center and not a hospital.   The surgical procedure was not successful. Dr. Fisher failed to take out sufficient margins, leaving cancer in Ms. Matthau’s body.  The pathology report indicated that he did not remove all of the tumor.  Dr. Fisher later admitted his fault and apologized by text.  Ms. Matthau returned to Dr. Funk because “the excision performed by Dr. Fisher upgraded the phyllodes from benign to borderline, and the margins were not clear.”  As a result, a second surgery was scheduled with Dr. Funk and at the hospital. This second surgery would not have been necessary if clear margins had been taken in the first surgery.  Ms. Matthau lost more tissue because the procedure had to be repeated.   On these facts, the operative first amended complaint alleges claims for (1) medical malpractice/negligence, (2) lack of informed consent, (3) breach of contract, (4) medical battery, (5) fraud, (6) breach of fiduciary duty, (7) invasion of privacy and (8) negligent infliction of emotional distress.   The Court granted Plaintiffs’ leave to file a Second Amended Complaint to include a claim for punitive damages.  The Court concluded there was a substantial probability that Plaintiffs would prevail on their fraud claim, entitling them to punitive damages, based in part on the fact that Dr. Fisher mispresented that Dr. Funk agreed to the procedure.       Defendants now seek a motion for reconsideration of this Court’s ruling.  Defendants submit the declaration of Dr. Funk which attests she did in fact agree that Dr. Fisher should perform the medical procedure.  Dr. Funk avers “I agreed that Dr. Fisher could and would excise the right breast mass without my assistance or involvement in the surgical procedure. I agreed to the surgical plan as relayed to my office by Dr. Fisher’s office. Further, it was acceptable to perform the tumor excision at Dr. Fisher’s surgical center.”  LEGAL STANDARD Pursuant to¿Code Civ. Proc. §1008(a):¿ “When an application for an order has been made to a judge, or to a court, and refused in whole or in part, or granted, or granted conditionally, or on terms, any party affected by the order may, within 10 days after service upon the party of written notice of entry of the order and based upon new or different facts, circumstances, or law, make application to the same judge or court that made the order, to reconsider the matter and modify, amend, or revoke the prior order. The party making the application shall state by affidavit what application was made before, when and to what judge, what order or decisions were made, and what new or different facts, circumstances, or law are claimed to be shown.” (Code of Civ. Proc., §1008(a).)¿  A court acts in excess of jurisdiction when it grants a motion to reconsider that is not based upon “new or different facts, circumstances or law.”¿ (Gilberd v. AC Transit (1995) 32 Cal. App. 4th 1494, 1499.)  There is a strict requirement of diligence, meaning the moving party must present a satisfactory explanation for failing to provide the evidence, different facts, or law earlier.¿ (Garcia v. Hejmadi (1997) 58 Cal. App. 4th 674, 690.)¿ A motion for reconsideration is properly denied when it is based on evidence that could have been presented in connection with the original motion.¿ (Morris v. AGFA Corp. (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1452, 1460;¿Hennigan v. White (2011) 199 Cal.App.4th 395, 406.) ¿¿ DISCUSSION Defendants’ motion is untimely.  The Court issued its order granting the motion for leave to amend on September 30, 2024.  The Clerk of the Court mailed a copy of the order on the same date.  Accordingly, Defendants’ motion for reconsideration was due within 10 days plus 5 days for mailing or by October 15, 2024.  Defendants did not file their motion until October 18, 2024.  Notwithstanding, the 10 day limit is not jurisdictional.  (Ziller Electronics Lab Gmbh v. Superior Court (1988) 206 Cal.App.3d 1222, 1231.)¿ Trial courts have always had inherent jurisdiction to reconsider interim rulings until the ruling is finalized by entry of judgment. (Id.)  Accordingly, the Court exercises its discretion to consider the motion for reconsideration on its merits. Code of Civil Procedure §1008(a) requires: “The party making the application shall state by affidavit what application was made before, when and to what judge, what order or decisions were made, and what new or different facts, circumstances, or law are claimed to be shown.” Here, Defendants have filed a declaration addressing each of the Code’s requirements to bring their Motion for Reconsideration. However, the motion is not based on new or different facts, circumstances or law that could not have been presented earlier.  A “motion for reconsideration requires both new or different facts, circumstances, or law and a satisfactory explanation of the failure to produce the evidence earlier.”  (People v. Accredited Surety and Casualty Co., Inc (2015) 239 Cal.App.4th 293, 298 (2015); see also Forrest v. Department of Corporations (2007) 150 Cal.App.4th 183, 202 (2007) (a motion for reconsideration may only be brought if the party moving for reconsideration can offer “new or different facts, circumstances, or law” which it could not, with reasonable diligence, have discovered and produced at the time of the prior motion).)  Even assuming Dr. Funk’s declaration were a “new fact,” Defendants present no credible reasons for why Dr. Funk’s declaration could not have been obtained to file with their original opposition.  Defendants had the chance to question Dr. Funk at her deposition.  Defense counsel questioned Dr. Funk for 10 pages of testimony and was not prevented from asking further questions.  Defendants first approached Dr. Funk for a declaration before their opposition was due. Yet, they did nothing to pursue that declaration at the time.  Moreover, at the oral argument for the original motion, defense counsel stated he could obtain a declaration from Dr. Funk, suggesting he had already obtained her consent to cooperate with Defendants. Given that availability, there is no reason why they could not have obtained a declaration to submit with their original opposition. Plaintiffs ask the Court to sanction Defendants pursuant to Code Civ. Proc. § 1008(d), which reads: ”A violation of this section may be punished as a contempt and with sanctions as allowed by Section 128.7.”  But a section 128.7 motion “shall be made separately from other motions or requests[.]”  (Code Civ. Proc. 128.7(c)(1).)  Moreover, “[n]otice of motion shall be served as provided in¿Section 1010, but shall not be filed with or presented to the court unless, within 21 days after service of the motion, or any other period as the court may prescribe, the challenged paper, claim, defense, contention, allegation, or denial is not withdrawn or appropriately corrected.”  (Id.)¿Plaintiffs’ request for sanctions is not made in a separate motion, and Plaintiffs also failed to provide Defendants with the 21-day safe harbor.  Accordingly, the Court denies Plaintiffs’ request for sanctions.    CONCLUSION Based on the foregoing, the Court DENIES Defendants’ motion for reconsideration.  IT IS SO ORDERED.  DATED: November 15, 2024    ___________________________ Edward B. Moreton, Jr. Judge of the Superior Court 

 Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles – West District  Beverly Hills Courthouse / Department 205   ASHLEY MATTHAU, et al.,    Plaintiffs, v.  GARTH FISHER, M.D., et al.,    Defendants.    Case No.:  23SMCV05413     Hearing Date:  November 15, 2024   ORDER RE:    PLAINTIFFs’ motion for leave to     conduct financial discovery     BACKGROUND This is a medical malpractice and fraud case.  Plaintiffs Ashley Matthau and her mother, Katherine Parnello had a long standing relationship with Defendant Dr. Garth Fisher.  He had done multiple cosmetic surgeries for both Plaintiffs, and they had become friends with him and members of his staff.  (Parnello Decl. ¶3; Matthau Decl. ¶3.)  Because of this history, Plaintiffs trusted Dr. Fisher without question. (Parnello Decl. ¶4; Matthau Decl. ¶4.)  In or about 2022, Ms. Matthau was diagnosed with a form of breast cancer, which is rare and difficult to treat.  (Parnello Decl. ¶5; Matthau Decl. ¶5.)  Dr. Fisher’s office recommenced that Ms. Matthau consult with Dr. Kristi Funk, a noted oncologist who specializes in the treatment of breast cancer.  (Parnello Decl. ¶6; Matthau Decl. ¶6.)  Dr. Funk is a “member of the American College of Surgeons, the American Society of Breast Surgeons and the American College of Lifestyle Medicine.”  (Funk Depo. 13:12-14.)   Plaintiffs selected Dr. Funk to evaluate the breast mass. (Funk Depo. 16:18-17:18.)  The diagnosis was a Phyllodes tumor.  (Funk Depo. 26:4-28:25.)  In removing a phyllodes tumor, it is important to leave clear margins, which is a “rim of healthy, normal benign tissue around the diseased tissue so it’s clear from disease.”  (Funk Depo. 37:5-38:4.)   The initial plan was for Ms. Matthau to coordinate her care between Dr. Funk and Dr. Fisher. The first step was for Dr. Funk to surgically remove the cancerous material at St. John’s Hospital, using advanced medical technology to determine the margins necessary to maximize a successful outcome.  The second step was for Dr. Fisher  to do the cosmetic work to restore Ms. Matthau’s breasts to the way they appeared before surgery.  (Parnello Decl. ¶8; Matthau Decl. ¶8; Funk Depo 23:1-18, 24:12-25:3, 30:21-31:7.)  Dr. Fisher assured Plaintiffs that the appearance after he was finished would be nearly identical to the appearance before the cancer surgery.  (Parnello Decl. ¶9; Matthau Decl. ¶9.)  Prior to the procedure, Dr. Fisher’s office unilaterally, and without informing Plaintiffs beforehand, told Dr. Funk’s office that she was not needed and Dr. Fisher would be the one to remove the mass. The change in plan was not Dr. Funk’s choice.  In response to being informed of the change in plan Dr. Funk did respond that it was “fine” and gave Dr. Funk advice as to how to perform the procedure.  But the decision already had been made by Dr. Fisher, without prior input or agreement by Dr. Funk.  At that time, Dr. Fisher did not inform Plaintiffs of the change.  (Parnello Decl. ¶10; Matthau Decl. ¶10.) Instead of telling Plaintiffs that he made a unilateral decision, Dr. Fischer misrepresented that Dr. Funk had agreed for him to do the entire procedure without her.  Plaintiffs learned later that this statement was false and that Dr. Funk had not part of the decision to exclude her from the procedure.  (Parnello Decl. ¶11; Matthau Decl. ¶11.)   Plaintiffs were not pleased with this change. Dr. Funk was selected because of her expertise in removing breast cancer.  Plaintiffs’ understanding was that she, unlike Dr. Fisher, was experienced and qualified in that surgical procedure and had access to medical equipment designed to enhance the probability of a successful outcome.  Dr. Fisher’s practice was focused on cosmetic surgeries, and while he was one of the top breast implant surgeons at the time, he was not an oncologist.  (Parnello Decl. ¶12; Matthau Decl. ¶12.)  Moreover, instead of performing the procedure at a hospital where they had the necessary equipment to calculate the proper margins, Dr. Fisher switched the location to his own surgical center.  (Parnello Decl. ¶14; Matthau Decl. ¶13.)  Plaintiffs relied on Dr. Fisher’s representation that Dr. Funk agreed to the change in who was to remove the tumor (from Dr. Funk to Dr. Fisher) and that Dr. Funk agreed that the procedure should be done at Dr. Fisher’s surgery center and not a hospital.  (Parnello Decl. ¶15; Matthau Decl. ¶14.)  This reliance was reasonable based on Plaintiffs’ extensive history with Dr. Fisher.  (Parnello Decl. ¶16; Matthau Decl. ¶15.)   The surgical procedure was not successful. Dr. Fisher failed to take out sufficient margins, leaving cancer in Ms. Matthau’s body.  (Parnello Decl. ¶17.)  The pathology report indicated that he did not remove all of the tumor.  (Parnello Decl. ¶17.)  Dr. Fisher later admitted his fault and apologized by text. (Parnello Decl. ¶17; Ex. 2.) Ms. Matthau returned to Dr. Funk because “the excision performed by Dr. Fisher upgraded the phyllodes from benign to borderline, and the margins were not clear.”  (Funk Depo. 44:15 to 45:14.)  As a result, a second surgery was scheduled with Dr. Funk and at the hospital. (Parnello Decl. ¶19.)  This second surgery would not have been necessary if clear margins had been taken in the first surgery.  (Funk Depo. 45:16-25.)  Ms. Matthau lost more tissue because the procedure had to be repeated.  (Funk Depo. 48: 13-17.) On these facts, the operative first amended complaint alleges claims for (1) medical malpractice/negligence, (2) lack of informed consent, (3) breach of contract, (4) medical battery, (5) fraud, (6) breach of fiduciary duty, (7) invasion of privacy and (8) negligent infliction of emotional distress.    This hearing is on Plaintiffs’ motion for leave to conduct financial discovery to support Plaintiffs’ claim for punitive damages.  This Court previously granted Plaintiffs leave to add the punitive damages claim, concluding there is a substantial probability that Plaintiffs will prevail on their claim for fraud, thus entitling them to punitive damages.  Plaintiffs argue that this conclusion also supports their motion for leave to conduct financial discovery.    LEGAL STANDARD A plaintiff may obtain pre-trial¿discovery¿into a defendant’s¿financial¿condition, as well as profits from the wrongful¿conduct¿at issue, “upon¿motion¿by the plaintiff… if the court finds, on the basis of the supporting and opposing affidavits presented, that the plaintiff has established that there is a substantial probability that the plaintiff will prevail on the claim [for punitive damages].”  (Civ. Code., § 3295, subds. (a)¿&¿(c).)   Before the court may enter an order allowing discovery of financial condition under Civ. Code § 3295, subd. (c), it must (1) weigh the evidence presented by both sides, and (2) make a finding that it is very likely the plaintiff will prevail on the claim for punitive damages.  (Weeks v. Baker & McKenzie (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 1128, 1151.)   DISCUSSION Plaintiffs argue that the Court’s order allowing a claim for punitive damages also established a right to conduct pretrial discovery on financial condition.  Plaintiffs are incorrect.   As explained by Jabro v. Superior Court (2002) 95 Cal.App.4th 754, an order pursuant to section 425.13(a) does not also satisfy the standard for allowing pretrial discovery of financial condition. (Id. at 758-759.)  Jabro explained that the “substantial probability” requirement of section 3295( c) “mean[ s] that before a court may enter an order permitting discovery of a defendant’s financial condition, it must (1) weigh the evidence submitted in favor of and in opposition to motion for discovery, and (2) make a finding that it is very likely the plaintiff will prevail on his claim/or punitive damages.” (Jabro, 95 Cal.App.4th 754, 758.)  The court in Jabro explicitly distinguished the standard applicable to section 425.13( a), recognizing the words “substantial probability” have a different meaning in that context, and imposes “a burden only to demonstrate a sufficient prima facie showing of facts to sustain a favorable decision if the evidence submitted by the [plaintiff] is credited.” (Id. at 759.)  Jabro explained that the section 425.13(a) hurdle was not appropriate or sufficient to protect “a defendant’s right to privacy” under section 3295. (Id.)  Thus, in determining whether the plaintiffs can conduct financial discovery, the Court must weigh the evidence and decide that it is “very likely” that the plaintiffs will actually prevail on the claim for punitive damages at trial. That stands in sharp contrast to the standard for allowing a plaintiff to amend to add a claim for punitive damages under section 425.13, which requires that the plaintiff merely establish a prima facie claim for punitive damages.   Here, Plaintiffs have not shown that the evidence presented supports a conclusion that plaintiff is “very likely” to prevail on the claim for punitive damages at trial.  The motion relies exclusively on the alleged fraud related to Dr. Fischer’s claim that Dr. Funk agreed to the procedure.  Dr. Fischer has now presented the declaration of Dr. Funk who confirms she agreed to the procedure.  Given this declaration, the Court cannot conclude Plaintiff is “very likely” to prevail on the claim for punitive damages.  While the reply now raises different grounds for the fraud claim, new arguments cannot be raised for the first time in reply.  (Neighbours v. Buzz Oates Enterprises (1990) 217 Cal. App. 3d 325, 335, fn. 8¿(“points raised in the reply brief for the first time will not be considered, unless good reason is shown for failure to present them before”);¿Tyler v. Children’s Home Soc’y (1994) 29 Cal. App. 4th 511, 526 (footnote 8)¿(“it is unfair to raise new arguments for the first time in a reply brief; we therefore need not consider the contention”).)¿ Accordingly, the Court denies Plaintiffs’ motion for leave to conduct financial discovery.     CONCLUSION Based on the foregoing, the Court DENIES Plaintiffs’ motion for leave to conduct financial discovery.    IT IS SO ORDERED.  DATED: November 15, 2024    ___________________________ Edward B. Moreton, Jr. Judge of the Superior Court 