 Case Number:  23STCV12363    Hearing Date:   January 10, 2024    Dept:  55 CASE NAME: Orlando Garcia v. Esperanza
Molina (23STCV12363)
NATURE OF PROCEEDINGS:
Defendant’s Demurrer and Motion to Strike to Plaintiff’s Complaint
 
Tentative Ruling: Defendant’s Demurrer To
Plaintiff’s Complaint is OVERRULED. Defendant’s Motion to Strike Plaintiff’s
Complaint is DENIED. 

 

A.    Background
 
Procedural Background –
            Orlando
Garcia (“Plaintiff”) filed suit against Esperanza Molina (“Defendant”) in her individual
and representative capacity as Trustee of the Esperanza Molina Revocable Trust
– 1995, alleging two causes of action: (1) Violation of the Unruh Civil Rights
Act (“Unruh”) and (2) Violation of the California Disabled Persons Act (“CDPA”).
Defendant filed a Demurrer and Motion to Strike the Complaint. Plaintiff
opposes both. 
Factual Background – 
            Plaintiff
is a high-frequency litigant as defined by CCP § 425.55, and an ADA advocate
and tester. (Complaint, ¶ 29.) The suit stems from Plaintiff’s visit to
Defendant’s business, Maytag Coin Wash (the “Laundromat”) on November 10, 2022.
(Complaint, ¶ 10.) Plaintiff alleges that he visited the Laundromat with the
dual intent to avail himself to its services and as a tester to determine if
the Laundromat complied with disability access laws. (Id.) Plaintiff,
who suffers from cerebral palsy, uses a wheelchair for mobility, and upon
entering Defendant’s business and availing himself to services of the
Laundromat, Plaintiff alleges that he encountered the following conditions
which were not compliant with the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA):
·        
The common area sink in the Laundromat had a cabinet
style that did not provide any knee clearance.
·        
The entrance door hardware had a pull bar style handle that
required tight grasping to operate.
·        
The operable parts on the change machines were too high.
(Complaint, ¶¶  1, 13.)
 
Additionally, Plaintiff observed, but did not encounter
the following:
 
·        
The operable parts on the vending machines are too high.
·        
The tables/counters used to fold clothing are too high.
·        
The paper towel and soap dispensers in the Laundromat are
too high. Additionally, there is no clear floor space in front of the paper
towel and soap dispensers. 
(Complaint, ¶ 21.)
 
            Plaintiff
alleges that the non-compliant conditions are violations of the ADA, Unruh, and
the CDPA.      

B.     DISCUSSION
– 
Meet and Confer – 
            “Before
filing a demurrer…the demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by
telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for
the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would
resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (CCP § 430.41(a); see
also CCP § 435.5 (imposing similar requirements for a motion to strike).)
Defendant provides the Declaration of Monica R. Molina which states that the
parties conferred telephonically on August 14, 2023 but did not come to an
agreement. Nevertheless, the requirements of CCP §§ 430.41(a) and 435.5 are
satisfied.        

       
I.           
Demurrer – 
Legal Standard for Demurrer – 
            “[A]
demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of the allegations in a complaint.” (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015) 235
Cal.App.4th 385, 388.) A demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that
appear on the face of the pleading under attack or from matters outside the
pleading that are judicially noticeable. (See Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994 [in
ruling on a demurrer, a court may not consider declarations, matters not
subject to judicial notice, or documents not accepted for the truth of their
contents].) For purposes of ruling on a demurrer, all facts pleaded in a
complaint are assumed to be true, but the reviewing court does not assume the
truth of conclusions of law. (Aubry v.
Tri-City Hosp. Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.)
            The
question of plaintiff’s ability to prove these allegations is of no concern at
the pleadings stage. (See Committee on Children’s Television, Inc. v.
General Foods Corp., (1983) 35 Cal.3d 197, 213-214. [“It is not the
ordinary function of a demurrer to test the truth of the plaintiff's
allegations or the accuracy with which he describes the defendant’s
conduct.”])  
Analysis for Demurrer – 
            Defendant
demurs arguing that (1) Plaintiff lacks standing and (2) that Plaintiff fails
to allege facts detailing how Plaintiff was injured by Defendant. The Court
disagrees on both counts, takes each in turn, and overrules the Demurrer. 
Plaintiff has standing – 
            Defendant
first argues that Plaintiff lacks standing to bring suit, pointing to Angelucci
v. Century Supper Club 41 Cal.4th 160, 175, where the Supreme
Court of California notes that “In general terms, in order to have standing,
the plaintiff must be able to allege injury – that is, some ‘invasion of the plaintiff’s
legally protected interests.’” (Id.) Defendant goes on to argue that in
the context of anti-discrimination laws like Unruh, only a plaintiff who has
actually experienced discrimination in their enjoyment of products or services
has standing. (Demurrer, 5:12-15.) 
            Here,
a definition of “discrimination” is instructive. The ADA provides that
“discrimination” includes “…a failure to take such steps as may be necessary to
ensure that no individual with a disability is excluded, denied services,
segregated or otherwise treated differently than other individuals” (42 U.S.C.
§ 12182(b)(2)(A)(ii)) and “…a failure to remove architectural barriers…” (42
U.S.C. § 12182(b)(2)(A)(iv).)
            The
Court agrees that only a plaintiff who has experienced discrimination has
standing, and that is what Plaintiff here has properly alleged in his
Complaint. Plaintiff alleges in his Complaint that he has cerebral palsy, has
manual dexterity issues, cannot walk, and uses a wheelchair. (Complaint, ¶ 1.) Plaintiff
alleges that “the failure to provide accessible sinks denied Plaintiff full and
equal access because the Plaintiff was not able to use the sink without
difficulty.” (Complaint, ¶ 15.) Plaintiff additionally had trouble with using
the door (Id. at ¶ 16) and using the change machines. (Id. at ¶
17.) Plaintiff additionally observed issues with the vending machines, work
surfaces, and paper towel and soap dispensers, however, Plaintiff did not
personally encounter these issues. (Id. at ¶ 21.) Plaintiff has
sufficiently alleged an invasion of a legally protected interest, to have fair
and equal access to the benefits of a business establishment open to the
public. Plaintiff therefore has proper standing.       
 
Plaintiff provides facts meeting the
necessary elements for a violation of Title III of the ADA – 
            Defendant also demurs arguing that
the Complaint lacks facts that detail specifically how Plaintiff was injured by
Defendant in the two causes of action. “To prevail on a Title III
discrimination claim, plaintiff must show that: (1) he is disabled within the
meaning of the ADA; (2) the defendant is a private entity that owns, leases, or
operates a place of public accommodation; and (3) the plaintiff was denied
public accommodations by the defendant because of his disability.” (42 U.S.C.
§§ 12182(a)-(b). Also see Molski v. M.J. Cable, Inc., (2007) 481
F.3d 724, 730.) Plaintiff notes that the third element is met if there is a
violation of applicable accessibility standards. (Moeller v. Taco Bell Corp.,
816 F.Supp.2d 831, 847.) Defendant does not address whether any of Plaintiff’s
named violations are ones that are not able to be remedied to comply with the
ADA. But Plaintiff alleges they are, and the Court applies the general policy
of liberality regarding reading pleadings. (Rickley v. Goodfriend (2013)
212 Cal.App.4th 1136, 1141.)
             
            Plaintiff
has sufficiently alleged the elements of an ADA claim. Plaintiff lives with physical
disabilities including suffering from Cerebral Palsy. (Complaint, ¶ 1.)
Plaintiff cannot walk and uses a wheelchair for mobility. (Id.) The ADA
defines disability as “a physical or mental impairment that substantially
limits one or mor major life activities of such individual…” (42 U.S.C. § 12102(1)(A)).
Plaintiff alleges that Defendant is the owner of the Laundromat, a business
that provides laundry services to the public. (Complaint, ¶¶ 4-5.) Finally,
Plaintiff alleges that when he visited the Laundromat, the sink had a cabinet
style that did not provide knee clearance for an individual in a wheelchair,
the door hardware had a pull bar style handle that was difficult for Plaintiff
to operate, and the change machines were too high for Plaintiff to reach
without difficulty. (Complaint, ¶¶ 13-17.) Under Civil Code § 51(f) (Unruh), a
violation of the ADA also constitutes a violation of Unruh. Additionally, under
Cal. Civ. Code § 54.1(d) (the CDPA), a violation of the ADA also constitutes a
violation of the CDPA. Therefore, Plaintiff’s first and second causes of action
withstand demurrer, and Defendant’s Demurrer is overruled.               
 
Motion to Strike - 
Legal Standard for Motion to Strike –
            The
court may, upon motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it
deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any
pleading. (CCP § 436, subd. (a).) The court may also strike all or any part of
any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a
court rule, or an order of the court. (CCP § 436, subd. (b).) The grounds for a
motion to strike are that the pleading has irrelevant, false, or improper
matter, or has not been drawn or filed in conformity with laws. (CCP § 436.)
The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by
way of judicial notice. (CCP § 437.)
            A motion to strike any pleading must be filed “within the
time allowed to respond to a pleading”—e.g., 30 days after service of the
complaint or cross-complaint unless extended by court order or stipulation.
[CCP § 435(b)(1)]. This does not affect the court's power to strike sua sponte.
Courts are specifically authorized to strike a pleading upon a motion or at any
time in the court's discretion. (CCP § 436)
 
Analysis for Motion to Strike – 
            Defendant
bases her Motion to Strike on two arguments. First, that Plaintiff failed to
meet the pleading requirements for high-frequency litigants under CCP §
425.50(a)(4)(A). And second, that Plaintiff is not automatically granted
standing under the ADA as a tester. The Court disagrees with both arguments and
will deny the Motion to Strike. 
            Plaintiff’s
Complaint contains all the facts required for a high frequency litigation to
allege under CCP § 425.50(a)(4)(A). Plaintiff states that he is in fact a
high-frequency litigant (Complaint, ¶ 29), and that in the prior 12 months
preceding this Complaint he has filed 546 lawsuits alleging violations of
construction-related accessibility standards. (Id. at ¶ 30.) Per CCP §
425.50(a)(4)(A)(iii), the Complaint states that Plaintiff was in the geographic
area to conduct constitutionally protected tester activities. (Id. at ¶
31.) Finally, the Complaint states that the reason Plaintiff desired access to
the Defendant’s business was to use the services in the same manner as any
other patron. (Id. at ¶ 32.)  
            Defendant’s second argument regarding standing has been
addressed above. Moreover, Plaintiff’s standing is not entirely based on his
status as a tester. Separately, Plaintiff demonstrates standing as an
individual who has properly alleged an invasion of a legally protected right. He
has suffered an injury in fact, the injury is connected to the Defendant’s act
or omission, and the injury can be redressed with a favorable decision. To
conclude, the Motion to Strike is denied.  
C.    CONCLUSION
- 
            Accordingly,
Defendant’s Demurrer To Plaintiff’s Complaint is OVERRULED.
Defendant’s Motion to Strike Plaintiff’s Complaint is DENIED.
 