 Case Number:  24STCV06153    Hearing Date:   January 14, 2025    Dept:  34 Plaintiff Sonia Elizabeth Romero Martinez’ Motion For
Leave to file a First Amended Complaint is GRANTED. 
 
Background
 
            On March 12, 2024, Plaintiff Sonia Elizabeth Romero Martinez
(“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Defendants Majestic Management Company,
Majestic Realty Inc., Liftech Elevator Services Inc., and Does 1-20
(“Defendants”) arising from injuries sustained by Plaintiff when riding
Defendants’ elevator alleging causes of action for: 
 
1.              
Negligence; 
2.              
Premises Liability; and 
3.              
Products Liability. 
 
On May 31,
2024, Defendant Majestic Realty Inc. filed an answer to Plaintiff’s complaint. 
            
On June 18,
2024, Defendant Liftech Elevator Services Inc. filed
an answer to Plaintiff’s complaint. 
 
On November
6, 2024, Plaintiff filed an amendment
to the complaint naming Doe 1 as 6055 Washington, LLC. 
 
On
November 13, 2024, Plaintiff filed this Motion for Leave to file a first
amended complaint (“FAC”). On December 30, 2024 and January 2, 2025, Defendants
Liftech Elevator
Services Inc. (“Liftech”) and Majestic Realty Inc. (“Majestic”) filed
individual oppositions. No reply has been filed.
 
Legal Standard
 
Under Code of Civ. Proc. section 473,
subd. (a)(1), “[t]he court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as
may be proper, allow a party to amend any pleading.”¿Amendment may be allowed
at any time before or after commencement of trial. (Code Civ. Proc., § 576.)
“[T]he court’s discretion will usually be exercised liberally to permit
amendment of the pleadings. The policy favoring amendment is so strong that it
is a rare case in which denial of leave to amend can be justified.” (Howard
v. County of San Diego (2010) 184 Cal.App.4th 1422, 1428 (internal
citations omitted).) “If the motion to amend is timely made and the granting of
the motion will not prejudice the opposing party, it is error to refuse
permission to amend . . .”¿ (Morgan v. Sup. Ct. (1959) 172 Cal.App.2d
527, 530.) Prejudice includes “delay in trial, loss of critical evidence, or
added costs of preparation.” (Solit v. Tokai Bank, Ltd. New York Branch
(1999) 68 Cal.App.4th 1435, 1448.)¿¿¿ 
¿ 
A motion to amend a pleading before trial
must include a copy of the proposed amendment or amended pleading, which must
be serially numbered to differentiate it from previous pleadings or amendments.
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324(a).) The motion must also state what
allegations are proposed to be deleted or added, by page, paragraph, and line
number.¿ (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324(a).) Finally, a separate supporting
declaration specifying the effect of the amendment, why the amendment is
necessary and proper, when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations
were discovered, and the reason the request for amendment was not made earlier
must also accompany the motion. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.134(b).)¿
 
Discussion 
 
            Plaintiff
seeks leave to file an FAC to include two causes of action for common carrier
and product liability. (Motion, at p. 3.) Plaintiff contends that further
research has revealed that proprietors of buildings and servicers of elevators
are common carries within the definition of Civil Code section 2100, et seq.
giving rise to a heightened duty of care and allowing Plaintiff to allege a
common carrier and product liability causes of action against Defendants. (Id.,
at pp. 3-7.) 
 
            In
opposition, Liftech argues that Plaintiff fails to adequately explain when the
facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered or why leave to
amend was not sought earlier. (Liftech Opp., at pp. 3-5.) Additionally, Liftech
argues that Plaintiff’s motion should be denied as the two causes of action for
common carrier and product liability fail as a matter of law. (Id., pp.
5-6.) Lastly, Liftech argues that it would be prejudiced by Plaintiff’s
amendment. (Id., pp. 7-8.) Similarly, Majestic opposes Plaintiff’s
motion on the grounds that Plaintiff’s proposed causes of actions fail as a
matter of law. (Majestic Opp., at pp. 3-6.)
            
The court finds that Plaintiff has
complied with the requirements of rule 3.1324(a) and 3.134(b) by identifying
the changes to be made; providing an explanation for why the amendment was not
made earlier; and attached the proposed amended complaint with a supporting
declaration. 
 
Further, Defendants will not be
prejudiced, as a trial date has not yet been set. Defendants will have ample
time to object to the amended complaint and conduct discovery. Defendants will also have an opportunity to dispute
Plaintiff’s proposed causes of action through the appropriate procedural
methods. 
 
Conclusion
 
Plaintiff
Sonia Elizabeth Romero Martinez’s Motion For Leave to file a First Amended
Complaint is GRANTED.