  Case Number:  21STCV06598    Hearing Date:   April 15, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




jesika yeroomian, individually, as trustee of the Yeroomian Living
   Trust dated December 18, 2018, and as trustee derivatively on behalf of
   Ocean Front Urgent Care P.C.

   , et al.;
 


   Plaintiffs,
 
 
vs.
 
 
DR.
  MOSTAFA S. RAHIMI

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


21STCV06598




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


April
   15, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[Tentative]
  Order RE:
 
PLAINTIFF’S MOTION FOR ORDER APPOINTING
  NEUTRAL TO CONDUCT DISSOLUTION
 



 
MOVING PARTY:                Plaintiff Jesika Yeroomian,
individually, as trustee of the Yeroomian Living Trust dated December 18, 2018,
and as trustee derivatively on behalf of Ocean Front Urgent Care P.C.
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Defendant Dr. Mostafa Rahimi
Motion for Order Appointing Neutral to Conduct Dissolution
The court
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers filed in connection with
this motion. 
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS
The court rules on
the evidentiary objections and request to strike portions of the declaration of
Jesika Yeroomian, filed by defendant Dr. Mostafa Rahimi on April 2, 2024, as
follows:
Objection
No. 6 is sustained. 
Objections
Nos. 1-5 and 7 are overruled. 
The
court denies defendant Dr. Mostafa Rahimi’s request to strike pages 3:7-6:6 and
4:9-4:12 of the memorandum of points and authorities filed in support of the
pending motion. 
DISCUSSION
Plaintiff Jesika Yeroomian,
individually, as trustee of the Yeroomian Living Trust dated December 18, 2018,
and as trustee derivatively on behalf of Ocean Front Urgent Care P.C.
(“Plaintiff”) moves the court for an order appointing a neutral to conduct the
winding up of Ocean Front Urgent Care P.C. (“Ocean Front”).  Plaintiff contends that the appointment of a
neutral is necessary because she has alleged that defendant Dr. Mostafa Rahimi
(“Defendant”) has engaged in wrongdoing regarding Ocean Front, such that it
would be inappropriate to permit Defendant to wind up Ocean Front on his own. 
“If a corporation is in the
process of voluntary winding up, the superior court of the proper county, upon
the petition of (a) the corporation, or (b) a shareholder or shareholders who
hold shares representing 5 percent or more of the total number of any class of
outstanding shares, or (c) any shareholder or shareholders of a close
corporation, or (d) three or more creditors, and upon such notice to the
corporation and to other persons interested in the corporation as shareholders
and creditors as the court may order, may take jurisdiction over such voluntary
winding up proceeding if that appears necessary for the protection of any
parties in interest.  The court, if it
assumes jurisdiction, may make such orders as to any and all matters concerning
the winding up of the affairs of the corporation and for the protection of its
shareholders and creditors as justice and equity may require.”  (Corp. Code, § 1904.)  The statutory provisions regarding involuntary
dissolution (with the exception of Corporations Code sections 1800 and 1801) also
apply to such court proceedings.  (Ibid.)
 Pursuant to Corporations Code section
1805, “the board shall conduct the winding up of the affairs of the
corporation, subject to the supervision of the court, unless other persons are
appointed by the court, on good cause shown, to conduct the winding up.”  (Corp. Code, § 1805, subd. (b).) 
First, the court finds that
Ocean Front is in the process of voluntarily winding up.  (Corp. Code, § 1904.)  The parties do not dispute that (1) on
September 21, 2023, the California Department of Justice, on behalf of the
Medical Board of California, sent a letter to Defendant  (i) outlining “two immediate areas of concern
for the Board concerning the corporate structure and current ownership of Ocean
Front[,]” including (A) Ocean Front’s failure to comply with a legal
requirement during corporate formation, and (B) the transfer of ownership to
Plaintiff, since she, as an individual, as well as the Yeroomian Living Trust
“are not qualified to be a shareholder and/or owner of a professional
corporation because neither are licensed physicians[,]” and (ii) requesting
voluntary compliance from Defendant to dissolve the corporate entity Ocean
Front, and (2) on January 4, 2024, the court entered an order on the parties’
stipulation that Defendant may file a “Certificate of Election to Wind U[p] and
Dissolve Ocean [F]ront Urgent Care, P.C.” with the California Secretary of
State.  (Lachant Decl., Ex. A; Def.
Decl., Ex. 1, pp. 2, 3; Jan. 4, 2024 Order, ¶ 2.)  Defendant has submitted evidence showing that
he has since signed an intent to dissolve Ocean Front.  (Def. Decl., ¶¶ 5, 7; Def. Decl., Ex. 2 [Certificate
of Election to Wind Up and Dissolve for Ocean Front signed by Defendant on
December 13, 2023].)
Second, the court notes that
Defendant has requested, in his operative First Amended Cross-Complaint, that
the court take jurisdiction over the winding up of Ocean Front.  (Def. FACC, p. 11:1-5 [requesting the court
“take jurisdiction as necessary of the winding up of affairs of” Ocean Front]; Mot.,
p. 7:8-9.)  However, that is not the
petition requesting relief pursuant to Corporations Code section 1904 that is
pending before the court.  Thus, the
court evaluates the request made in Plaintiff’s motion independent from this
allegation in the First Amended Cross-Complaint. 
Third, the court finds that
Plaintiff has not shown that she has standing to request this relief under
Corporations Code section 1904. 
As set forth above, the court
may, “upon the petition of” certain parties, take jurisdiction over the
voluntary winding up of a corporation and make any orders as to all matters
concerning the winding up of the corporation as justice and equity may
require.  (Corp. Code, § 1904.)  Plaintiff contends that she has standing to
bring this motion (1) because she has a 50 percent interest in Ocean Front, and
(2) as a creditor.  (Mot., pp.
7:25-10:26.)
Plaintiff has presented
evidence showing that her husband, Dr. Valod Yeroomian-Massihi (“Dr. Massihi”)
transferred 50 percent of his interest in the issued and outstanding shares of
stock in Ocean Front to the Yeroomian Living Trust (the “Trust”).  (Pl. Decl., ¶ 10; Pl. Decl., Ex. I [Stock
Assignments].)  Plaintiff succeeded Dr.
Massihi as trustee of the Trust following his death.  (Pl. Decl., ¶ 9.)  Plaintiff contends that this transfer was not
contrary to law because the Trust document did not give voting powers to
Plaintiff or the Trust.  
Pursuant to Corporations Code
section 13406, “shares of capital stock in a professional corporation may be
issued only to a licensed person or to a person who is licensed to render the
same professional services in the jurisdiction or jurisdictions in which the
person practices, and any shares issued in violation of this restriction shall
be void.”  (Corp. Code, § 13406, subd.
(a).)  Here, Plaintiff has not (1) set
forth authority establishing that the “transfer” of stock should be
distinguished from the “issuance” of stock, or (2) presented evidence that she
or the Trust are “licensed to render the same professional services in the
jurisdiction” in which Dr. Massihi practiced, and therefore has not shown that
the shares transferred to the Trust are valid. 
(Ibid.) 
The court acknowledges that
(1) section 13406 also states that “[a] shareholder of a professional
corporation . . . qualified to render professional services in this state shall
not enter into a voting trust, proxy, or other arrangement vesting another person
(other than another person who is a shareholder of the same corporation) with
the authority to exercise the voting power of any or all of the shareholder’s
shares, and any purported voting trust, proxy, or other arrangement, shall be
void[,]” and (2) the document entitled “Yeroomian Living Trust” provided that
any non-licensed co-trustee shall not have the power to vote such professional
shares.  (Corp. Code, § 13406, subd. (a);
Pl. Decl., Ex. E, § 12.31.)  However, the
statutory restriction on the execution of arrangements vesting others with
voting powers appears to be separate from the restriction on the issuance of
stock to unlicensed persons. 
Specifically, it appears that section 13406 restricts both (1) the
issuance of stock of a professional corporation to an unlicensed person, and
(2) the execution of arrangements vesting another person with the authority to
exercise the voting power of a shareholder’s shares.  (Corp. Code, § 13406, subd. (a).)  Thus, even if the Trust document did not
violate the second restriction set forth therein, the transfer of stocks to the
Trust violated the first restriction barring the transfer of stocks of a
professional corporation (here, Ocean Front) to an unlicensed person (here, the
Trust and Plaintiff as its trustee).  (Ibid.)

Plaintiff further asserts that
she has standing to request this relief as a creditor of Ocean Front.  However, section 1904 specifies that the
court may take jurisdiction over the winding up proceedings of a corporation
“upon the petition of . . . (d) three or more creditors . . ..”  (Corp. Code, § 1904 [emphasis added].)  Plaintiff did not bring this motion on behalf
of three or more creditors and therefore does not have standing under this
provision of section 1904. 
Fourth, even if the court had
found that Plaintiff had met her burden to show that she has standing to
request this relief, the court finds that Plaintiff has not shown that justice,
equity, or good cause warrant the appointment of a neutral.  (Corp. Code, §§ 1904, 1805, subd. (b).)  The court finds that Plaintiff has not
submitted (1) admissible evidence establishing that Defendant engaged in
financial fraud against Dr. Massihi, or (2) competent evidence establishing
that Defendant is improperly taking Ocean Front’s assets.  For example, although Plaintiff has submitted
evidence showing that Defendant has issued new 1099s, Plaintiff has not
produced evidence showing that this is evidence that Defendant has breached any
fiduciary duties, and Defendant has explained that those forms were issued
following discussions with his accountant to report income that was not
reported earlier.  (Lachant Decl., Ex. D;
Def. Decl., ¶ 20.)  Similarly, Plaintiff
has not submitted competent evidence establishing that Defendant has
transferred Ocean Front assets to himself; instead, Plaintiff relies on the
declaration of her counsel, who states only that Defendant intends to transfer
his medical practice “to a new business, where he will be continuing to treat
his patients.”  (Lachant Decl., ¶ 4.) 
            For
the reasons set forth above, the court finds that Plaintiff has not met her
burden (1) to show that she has standing to request the appointment of a
neutral to conduct the dissolution of Ocean Front pursuant to Corporations Code
sections 1904 and 1805, and (2) to show, even if she had standing to request
this relief, that there is good cause, or that justice or equity require, the
appointment of a neutral to conduct the dissolution of Ocean Front.  The court therefore denies Plaintiff’s motion.
ORDER
            The
court denies plaintiff Jesika Yeroomian, individually, as trustee of the
Yeroomian Living Trust dated December 18, 2018, and as trustee derivatively on
behalf of Ocean Front Urgent Care P.C.’s motion for order appointing neutral to
conduct dissolution. 
            The
court orders defendant Dr. Mostafa Rahimi to give notice of this ruling.

IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  April 15, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court