 Case Number:  21STCV27069    Hearing Date:   April 15, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




siamak rezvani

   , et al.;
 


   Plaintiffs,
 
 
vs.
 
 
amir rad, individually and as trustee of the Amir H. Rad
   Trust dated March 10, 2018

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


21STCV27069




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


April
   15, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[tentative]
  Order RE:
 
defendant’s motion to bifurcate trial on
  issue of licensure
 



 
MOVING PARTY:                 Defendant Amir Rad,
individually and as trustee of the Amir H. Rad Trust dated March 10, 2018
 
RESPONDING PARTIES:    Plaintiffs and cross-defendants Siamak
Rezvani and SAP Construction Enterprises, Inc. 
Motion to Bifurcate Trial on Issue of Licensure
The court
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers filed in connection with
this motion. 
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS
The court rules on defendant Amir
Rad, individually and as trustee of the Amir H. Rad Trust dated March 10,
2018’s evidentiary objections, filed on April 5, 2024, as follows:
            Objection
No. 1 is sustained. 
            Objections
No. 2-4 are overruled.
DISCUSSION
Defendant Amir Rad, individually and as trustee of the Amir H. Rad
Trust dated March 10, 2018 (“Defendant”) moves the court for an order
bifurcating trial in this action and, specifically, requests an order that the
issue of whether plaintiffs Siamak Rezvani and SAP Construction Enterprises,
Inc. (“Plaintiffs”) held a valid contractor’s license be tried prior to other
issues.  Defendant contends that
bifurcation is appropriate because, if Plaintiffs are determined to be
unlicensed contractors, all of their claims fail as a matter of law. 
“[T]rial
courts have broad discretion to determine the order of proof in the interests
of judicial economy.”¿ (Grappo v. Country Financial Corp. (1991) 235
Cal.App.3d 496, 504.)  Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 1048,
“[t]he court, in furtherance of convenience or to avoid prejudice . . . may
order a separate trial . . . of any separate issue or of any number of causes
of action or issues . . . .”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 1048, subd. (b).)¿ Similarly,
Code of Civil Procedure section 598 provides that “[t]he court may, when the
convenience of witnesses, the ends of justice, or the economy and efficiency of
handling the litigation would be promoted thereby . . . make an order . . .
that the trial of any issue or any part thereof shall precede the trial of any
other issue or any part thereof in the case . . . .”¿ (Code Civ. Proc.,
§¿598.)¿¿ 
The court finds that it is not in furtherance of convenience, the ends
of justice, or judicial economy and efficiency to bifurcate the trial in this
action to first determine Plaintiffs’ licensure.  (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 598, 1048, subd.
(b).)  Plaintiffs have presented argument
showing that, if the court finds that Plaintiffs were properly licensed and
therefore that their claims could proceed to the second phase of trial, the
parties may call the same witnesses to testify, including Plaintiffs, their
employees, and their subcontractors and/or suppliers.  (Opp., p. 3:21-26.)  Thus, bifurcating trial into two phases could
lengthen trial, which would not promote judicial efficiency and economy.  
The court finds that bifurcating trial in the manner requested by
Defendant will not serve the ends of justice, convenience, or judicial economy
and efficiency.  The court therefore denies
Defendant’s motion.  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§§ 598, 1048, subd. (b).) 
ORDER
            The court denies defendant Amir Rad,
individually and as trustee of the Amir H. Rad Trust dated March 10, 2018’s
motion to bifurcate trial on the issue of licensure. 
            The court orders plaintiffs and
cross-defendants Siamak Rezvani and SAP Construction Enterprises, Inc. to give
notice of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  April 15, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court