 Case Number:  22STCV15307    Hearing Date:   April 15, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




romana ortiz-leon

   ;
 


   Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
diana’s flowers, inc.

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


22STCV15307




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


April
   15, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[tentative]
  Order RE:
 
plaintiff’s motion to set aside dismissal
 



 
MOVING PARTY:                 Plaintiff and cross-defendant
Romana Ortiz
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Unopposed
Motion to Set Aside Dismissal
The court
considered the moving papers filed in connection with this motion.  No opposition papers were filed. 
DISCUSSION
Plaintiff and cross-defendant
Romana Ortiz (“Plaintiff”) moves the court for an order     (1) setting aside the dismissal of this
action entered by the court on February 14, 2024, pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 581, subdivision (b)(3) on the ground that no party appeared
for trial, (2) reinstating this case, and (3) permitting the parties to file a
Notice of Settlement.  (Feb. 14, 2024
Minute Order, p. 1; Feb. 14, 2024 Order of Dismissal.) 
“[T]he court shall, whenever
an application for relief is made no more than six months after entry of
judgment, is in proper form, and is accompanied by an attorney’s sworn
affidavit attesting to his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect,
vacate any (1) resulting default entered by the clerk against his or her
client, and which will result in entry of a default judgment, or (2) resulting
default judgment or dismissal entered against his or her client, unless the
court finds that the default or dismissal was not in fact caused by the
attorney’s mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (b).) 
Plaintiff has submitted the
declaration of her counsel, Roger Haag (“Haag”), in which Haag states that (1)
on January 29, 2024, Plaintiff and defendants Diana Covarrubias and Diana’s
Flower’s, Inc. agreed to settle this case; (2) Haag instructed his office to
file a Notice of Settlement; (3) Haag’s office did not file the Notice of
Settlement, but removed all litigation dates from the calendar; (4) Haag,
therefore, did not see any February dates on his calendar for this action; and
(5) Haag realized that he did not clearly communicate his instructions about
the Notice of Settlement.  (Haag Decl.,
¶¶ 6-9.)  
The court finds that (1)
Plaintiff has filed this motion no more than six months after entry of the
February 14, 2024 order of dismissal, and (2) the declaration of Plaintiff’s
counsel, Haag, establishes that resulting dismissal was taken as a result of
Haag and his office’s mistake, inadvertence, surprise, and neglect in failing
to properly file with the court a Notice of Settlement and vacate trial.
However, the court finds that
Plaintiff’s motion is not “in proper form” because Plaintiff did not submit a
copy of the proposed Notice of Settlement with her motion.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (b); Dollase
v. Wanu Water, Inc. (2023) 93 Cal.App.5th 1315, 1324 [“there is precedent
stating the Legislature ‘intended the phrase “ ‘in proper form’ ” to encompass
the mandate that the application for relief . . . be accompanied by the
pleading proposed to be filed therein’”].)  Thus, the court exercises its discretion to
continue the hearing on Plaintiff’s motion to allow Plaintiff an opportunity to
lodge a copy of the proposed Notice of Settlement of Entire Case (CM-200) with
the court.[1]
ORDER
            The court orders that plaintiff and
cross-defendant Romana Ortiz’s motion to set aside dismissal is continued to
April 29, 2024, at 10:00 a.m.
            The court orders plaintiff and
cross-defendant Romana Ortiz to give notice of this ruling and to file a proof
of service of the notice of ruling with the court. 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  April 15, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court


