  Case Number:  20STCV17991    Hearing Date:   July 5, 2024    Dept:  T Motion to Bifurcate Trial Re: Issue of Liability and/or DamagesMoving Parties:  Defendant Cal-Quake Construction, Inc. and Salvatore MartinezResponding Party:    Plaintiff Nanette PriceThe court considered the moving, and opposition papers.BACKGROUNDOn May 12, 2020, Plaintiff Nanette Price (Plaintiff) initiated the action in this matter.  On December 20, 2023, Plaintiff filed the operative Second Amended Complaint against Defendants Cal-Quake Construction, Inc., Salvatore Martinez, Joseph Goldberger, and John Taferner, alleging a cause of action for negligence. The complaint alleges that on November 22, 2019, Defendant Martinez, while operating a commercial truck in the course and scope of employment for Defendant Cal-Quake, struck the rear of Plaintiff’s vehicle and fled the scene.On March 20, 2023, Defendants Cal-Quake Construction, Inc. and Martinez filed this motion to bifurcate. On March 20, 2023, Plaintiff filed an opposition. No reply has been filed.LEGAL STANDARDCCP § 598 states:  The court may, when the convenience of witnesses or the ends of justice, or the economy and efficiency of handling the litigation would be promoted thereby, on motion of a party, after notice and hearing, make an order… that the trial of any issue or any part thereof shall precede the trial of any other issue or any part thereof in the case, except for defenses which may be tried first pursuant to Sections 597 and 597.5.  Next, CCP § 1048(b) provides: The court, in furtherance of convenience or to avoid prejudice, or when separate trials will be conducive to expedition and economy, may order a separate trial of any cause of action… or of any separate issue or of any number of causes of action or issues…  Bifurcation serves to (1) promote judicial economy by avoiding introduction and consideration of unnecessary evidence; and (2) prevent the determination of liability from being tainted by the consideration of irrelevant, confusing, misleading, and prejudicial evidence related to the issue of damages. (Tulare v. Tradewell Stores, Inc. (1989) Cal.App.3d 522, 524.)  Bifurcating trial may be proper to achieve the purpose of affording a more logical presentation of the evidence and simplifying the issues for the jury. (Foreman & Clark Corp. v. Fallon (1971) 3 Cal.3d 875, 888, n. 8.)  “It is within the discretion of the court to bifurcate issues or order separate trials of actions …, and to determine the order in which those issues are to be decided.”  (Royal Surplus Lines Ins. Co., Inc. v. Ranger Ins. Co.¿(2002) 100 Cal.App.4th 193, 205.) DISCUSSIONDefendants move to bifurcate trial on the issue of liability and damages, arguing that liability is greatly disputed as this is a case of mistaken identity. Defendants further argue that Plaintiff’s damages claims will necessitate the testimony of a dozen retained and non-retained medical experts, witnesses in support of Plaintiff’s claim for wage loss, life care planning experts, general damages witnesses, and Plaintiff herself. Moreover, Defendants also argue that as Plaintiff’s damages claims are extensive, unique and wide-ranging, they will be prejudiced if trial is not bifurcated due to emotional reactions the jury may have to her claims, which will affect their right to an impartial determination.The Court exercises its discretion and concludes that the issue of liability and damages should be bifurcated at trial.The damages phase of trial should be deferred until, and only if, liability is established in Plaintiff’s favor. If there is a defense verdict, then there will be no need to have to present a case on the issue of damages. A “separate trial of the liability issue was considered desirable to avoid wasting court time in cases where the plaintiff loses on the liability issue, to promote settlements where the plaintiff wins on the liability issue, and to afford a more logical presentation of the evidence, thus simplifying the issues for the jury.” (Foreman, supra, 3 Cal.3d at 891.)  CONCLUSIONFor the foregoing reasons, Defendants’ Motion to Bifurcate is GRANTED.  