 Case Number:  21STCV39402    Hearing Date:   July 5, 2024    Dept:  T Motion to Set Aside Dismissal 
Moving Party:                   Plaintiff Heidi Putallaz
Responding Party:          None

Tentative Ruling:             Granted

BACKGROUND
                This case arises out of an automobile
collision that occurred on November 2, 2019. Heidi Putallaz (Plaintiff) alleges
that her vehicle was hit by Yuan Zhou’s (Defendant) vehicle while traveling on
the freeway. (Complaint, ¶GN-1.) Plaintiff filed a Complaint on October 26,
2021 alleging two causes of action: (1) general negligence and (2) motor
vehicle negligence. 
               On
December 14, 2023, the Court dismissed the case without prejudice for
Plaintiff’s failure to prosecute, more specifically, for not serving the
Defendant after two years pursuant to Code Civ. Proc. §583.420(a)(1). The
motion before the Court now is Plaintiff’s Motion to Set Aside Dismissal (the
Motion), arguing that Plaintiff’s prior attorney was at fault for not locating
and serving Defendant. No opposition is made, as it appears that Defendant has
still not been located nor served.  
DISCUSSION
Applicable Law 
               Code of
Civil Procedure section 473(b) provides: 
"The court may, upon any terms as may be just, relieve a party or
his or her legal representative from a judgment, dismissal, order, or other
proceeding taken against him or her through his or her mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or excusable neglect....” 
               Judges
must vacate dismissals, default entries, and default judgments “whenever (1) an
application is made no more than six months after entry of judgment, (2) the
application is accompanied by an attorney's sworn affidavit attesting to his or
her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect, and (3) the attorney's
mistake, inadvertence, surprise or neglect in fact caused the dismissal or
entry of default.”  (Benedict v. Danner
Press  (2001) 87 Cal.App.4th 923, 927
(citing CCP §473(b)). Also see Wagner v. Wagner (2008) 162 Cal.App.4th 249,
258.)
               Where
counsel seek relief alternatively under both the excusable and attorney-fault
provisions of Code of Civil Procedure Section 473, and confirms that any act or
omission leading to the entry of the default was done without the client's
knowing participation, relief is mandatory. (Solv-All v. Sup. Ct. (2005) 131
Cal.App.4th 1003, 1012. Under Code of Civil Procedure Section 473,
"surprise" means “‘“some condition or situation in which a party . .
. is unexpectedly placed to his injury, without any default or negligence of
his own, which ordinary prudence could not have guarded against.”’”  State Farm Fire & Casualty Co. v. Pietak
(2001) 90 Cal. App. 4th 600, 611.)
Analysis 
               The
Court will grant Plaintiff’s Motion to Set Aside Dismissal because Plaintiff
has demonstrated that the failure to prosecute the matter was not the client’s
fault, but the fault of the prior attorney. Plaintiff’s prior counsel was Leora
Sedaghati (Sedaghati). For purposes of the instant Motion, Plaintiff retained
Gary Kurtz (Kurtz). Plaintiff and Kurtz allege that the reason the case was
dismissed is because Sedaghati stopped communicating with Plaintiff shortly
after being retained for this action, and made no effort to pursue the case.
(Declaration of Heidi Putallaz, ¶3.) Plaintiff attests that she reached out to
Sedaghati multiple times requesting updates on the status of the case, but was
ignored, and became increasingly concerned about the lack of communication.
(Id. at ¶¶3-5.) 
               Plaintiff
then asked a personal friend, Kurtz, to look into the case. That is when Kurtz
found the case had been dismissed. (Id. at ¶4.) Kurtz himself reached out by
email to Sedaghati, but Kurtz never received a response. (Declaration of Gary
Kurtz, ¶¶4-5.) Kurtz then filed the instant Motion on May 22, 2024, within the
six-months required by Code Civ. Proc. §473.
                Without an attorney's sworn affidavit
attesting to his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect, the
decision to vacate is not mandatory, but well within the discretion of the
trial court. (See Code Civ. Proc. §473(b).) The moving party argues that
Plaintiff is in no way at fault, as she trusted her former attorney – Sedaghati
– to perform as a diligent and skilled attorney should. The Court notes that
the case was dismissed precisely because such diligence was lacking, as service
of the summons and complaint failed to occur within two years. (See December
14, 2023 Minute Order.) However, after review of the moving papers, it is clear
to the Court that this lack of diligence was no fault of Plaintiff’s but of her
former attorney, Sedaghati. 
               Plaintiff’s
current counsel for the purposes of this Motion – Kurtz – argues that Plaintiff
should have the benefit of the discretionary portion of Code Civ. Proc. §473.
The Court agrees. The moving papers, which include the Declaration of both
Kurtz and Plaintiff, demonstrate that Plaintiff did what a reasonable client
would do in her circumstances. The Court sees no reason to punish the client
for the fault of her prior attorney.            

CONCLUSION
               Plaintiff’s
Motion to Set Aside Dismissal is GRANTED.