  Case Number:  23STCV27311    Hearing Date:   December 23, 2024    Dept:  39  TENTATIVE RULING
 



DEPT:


39




HEARING DATE:


December 23, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


23STCV27311




MOTION:  


Motion to Compel Deposition




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiff Teresita Mahayag Teichmann




OPPOSING PARTY:


Defendant Mag Estate Property LLC



 
MOTIONS
            Plaintiff
Teresita Mahayag Teichmann (“Plaintiff”) moves to compel Defendant Mag Estate
Property LLC (“Defendant”) to produce its person most qualified to testify at
deposition.  Defendant opposes the
motion.
ANALYSIS
Pursuant to Code
of Civil Procedure section 2025.450, if a party to the action fails to appear
for deposition after service of a deposition notice and the party has not
served a valid objection to that deposition notice, the party that noticed the
deposition may move for an order to compel the deponent to attend and testify
at deposition.  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§2025.450, subd. (a).)  
Plaintiff served
Defendant with a notice of deposition, and Defendant has not produced its
person most knowledgeable for the deposition. 
In opposition, Defendant concedes that it must produce its person most
knowledgeable for deposition.  Accordingly,
the Court grants the motion to compel Defendant’s deposition.  (See Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd.
(a).)  
Although the Court
credits Plaintiff’s accounting of the difficulties she has experienced in
scheduling the deposition, it declines to impose sanctions against Defendant at
this time because, after the Court granted Plaintiff’s motion for trial preference,
Defendant did offer dates in January 2025 for the deposition to take place.  (See Opposition to Motion to Compel
Deposition, p. 2.)   Accordingly, the Court finds an award of
sanctions against Defendant would be unjust under the circumstances.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (g).)  
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
Plaintiff’s motion to compel Defendant to
produce its person most qualified to testify on specified topics is
granted.  Defendant is to produce its
person most qualified for an in-person deposition within 20 days of notice of
this order, unless Plaintiff stipulates otherwise.  The scope of the deposition is as set forth
in Exhibit A attached to the Declaration of Andres Rapoport filed on December
2, 2024 in support of this motion.
Plaintiff is ordered to provide notice of
this order and to file proof of service of same.