  Case Number:  23AVCV00234    Hearing Date:   January 14, 2025    Dept:  A14 Background
 
This is a quiet title action. Plaintiffs
The Juan Hinojosa Family Trust (the “Trust”) and Juan Hinojosa (“Juan” and
collectively “Plaintiffs”)[1]
allege that (1) Juan and his late wife purchased 37058 Calle Grande, Palmdale,
CA 93550 (the “Property”) as joint tenants; (2) the Property was transferred to
Juan upon his wife’s death by Affidavit Death of Joint tenant as Juan is the
surviving joint tenant; (3) Defendant Angela Hinojosa (“Angela”) prepared or
had someone prepare the Affidavit Death of Joint Tenant; (4) Angela and
Defendant Joey Martinez (“Martinez” and collectively “Defendants”) informed
Juan that if he allowed them to live at the Property, they would help Juan with
his taxes, insurance, and household bills; (5) Defendants moved in around April
or May 2018; (6) upon moving in, Angela urged Juan to put her on deed, claiming
that the Property would remain Juan’s, that she would pay the property taxes,
utilities, and all other related costs; (7) Juan signed a grant deed on May 02,
2018 and did not know that the language in the grant deed stated that the
Property was a “bona fide gift” due to his limited English skills; (8) upon
being placed on the grant deed, Angela demanded that Juan pay half of the
property taxes and insurance, and all of the utilities; (9)  the relationship between Juan and Angela
dissolved further when Juan intended to marry a second wife and have her live
at the Property; and (1) on July 02, 2021, Angela filed a temporary restraining
order against Juan which was unsuccessful.
 
On March 07, 2023, Plaintiffs
filed their Complaint.
 
A First Amended Complaint (“FAC”)
was filed on May 28, 2024.
 
The operative pleading is the
Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”) filed August 08, 2024 which alleges seven[2]
causes of action: (1) Imposition of Constructive Trust; (2) Quiet Title to Real
Property; (3) Fraud; (4) Elder Abuse; (5) Abuse of the Judicial Process; (6) Unjust
Enrichment; and (7) Declaratory Relief. 
 
On October 23, 2024, Defendants
filed a Demurrer with Motion to Strike and a Special Motion to Strike based on anti-SLAPP
statutes.
 
On November\ 18, 2024, Defendants
filed their Reply which discussed Plaintiffs’ failure to oppose the filings. 
 
On November 20, 2024, Plaintiff
filed an Ex Parte Application for an Order Shortening Time or for A Continuance
of a Demurrer, Motion to Strike, and Motion to Strike (Anti-SLAPP) and their
Oppositions.
 
On November 21, 2024, the Court
held a hearing on the Ex Parte Application. The Court struck Plaintiffs’
Oppositions and continued the motions to January 14, 2025 to allow Plaintiff to
file timely Oppositions.
 
On January 06, 2025, Plaintiff
filed his Oppositions. “All papers opposing a motion so noticed shall be filed
with the court and a copy served on each party at least nine court days. . .
before the hearing.” (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 1005(b).) “Section 1013, which
extends the time within which a right may be exercised or an act may be done,
does not apply to a notice of motion, papers opposing a motion, or reply papers
governed by this section.” (Id.) The hearing is set for January 14,
2025. Nine court days before the hearing is December 31, 2024. Plaintiffs’
Oppositions are not timely.
 
On January 07, 2025, Defendants
filed Replies to the Demurrer and the Anti-SLAPP Motion to Strike. Chief among
the arguments is that Plaintiffs’ Oppositions are untimely and discusses
Plaintiffs’ attempt to reinstate his Oppositions as improper and against the
Court’s November 21, 2024 Minute Order. 

“No paper may be rejected for filing on the ground that it was untimely
submitted for filing. If the court, in its discretion, refuses to consider a
late filed paper, the minutes or order must so indicate.” (Cal. Rules of Court,
Rule 3.1300(d).) The Court does not consider Plaintiffs’ untimely Oppositions.
 
-----
 
Legal Standard
 
Standard for Demurrer – A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether
the complaint states a cause of action.¿ (Hahn v.¿Mirda¿(2007) 147 Cal.
App. 4th 740, 747.) ¿When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations
liberally and in context.¿ (Taylor v. City of Los Angeles Dept. of Water and
Power¿(2006) 144 Cal. App. 4th 1216, 1228.)¿ In a demurrer proceeding, the
defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or by proper judicial
notice.¿ (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 430.30(a).)¿A demurrer tests the pleadings
alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters.¿ (SKF Farms v.
Superior Court¿(1984) 153 Cal. App. 3d 902, 905.)¿ Therefore, it lies only
where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially
noticed.¿¿(Ibid.)¿¿The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is
whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters,
states a cause of action.¿ (Hahn,¿supra,¿147 Cal.App.4th at
747.)¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
A general demurrer admits the truth of all
factual, material allegations properly pled in the challenged pleading,
regardless of possible difficulties of proof.¿¿(Blank v. Kirwan
(1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.)¿ Thus, no matter how unlikely or improbable,
plaintiff’s allegations must be accepted as true for the purpose of ruling on
the demurrer.¿¿(Del E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials Co.¿(1981) 123
Cal.App.3d 593, 604.)¿ Nevertheless, this rule does not apply to allegations
expressing mere conclusions of law, or allegations contradicted by the exhibits
to the complaint or by matters of which judicial notice may be taken.¿¿(Vance
v. Villa Park¿Mobilehome¿Estates¿(1995) 36 Cal.App.4th 698, 709.)¿A general
demurrer does not admit contentions, deductions, or conclusions of fact or law
alleged in the complaint; facts impossible in law; or allegations contrary to
facts of which a court may take judicial notice.¿¿(Blank,¿supra,
39 Cal.3d at p. 318.)¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
Pursuant to¿Code Civ. Proc.¿§430.10(e), the
party against whom a complaint has been filed may object by demurrer to the
pleading on the grounds that the pleading does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action.¿ It is an abuse of discretion to sustain a
demurrer without leave to amend if there is a reasonable probability that the
defect can be cured by amendment.¿¿(Schifando¿v. City of Los Angeles¿(2003)
31 Cal.4th 1074, 1082,¿as modified (Dec. 23, 2003).)¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
 
Standard
for Motion to Strike –
The Court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms
it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in
any pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436(a).) The Court may also strike all or any
part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this
state, a court rule, or an order of the court. (Id., § 436(b).) The
grounds for a motion to strike are that the pleading has irrelevant, false or
improper matter, or has not been drawn or filed in conformity with laws. (Id.
§ 436.) The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of the
pleading or by way of judicial notice. (Id. § 437.)¿¿ 
 
Standard for Special Motion to Strike under
Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 425.16 – Under Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 425.16, a cause of action asserted
against a person arising from any act of that person in furtherance of his/her
right of petition or free speech under the United States or California
Constitution, in connection with a public issue, is subject to a special motion
to strike, unless the court determines that the plaintiff has established that
there is a probability that the plaintiff will prevail on the claim. (Cal. Code
Civ. Proc. § 425.16(b)(1); See also Wilbanks v. Wolk (2004) 121
Cal.App.4th 883, 892.)¿ 
 
In determining
whether to grant or deny a special motion to strike, the Court engages in a
two-step process.¿ (See, e.g.,¿Shekhter¿v. Fin.¿Indemn. Co.¿(2001), 89
Cal.App.4th 141, 150.)¿ This process is essentially a “summary-judgment-like
procedure at any early stage of the litigation.” (Varian Med. Sys., Inc.
v.¿Delfino¿(2005), 35 Cal.4th 180, 192.)¿ “First, the court must determine
whether defendant has made a threshold showing that the challenged cause of
action ‘arises from’ a protected activity.¿ Second, if the defendant makes this
showing, the trial court must determine whether the plaintiff has established a
probability of prevailing on the claim.”¿ (Optional Capital, Inc. v. Das
Corp.¿(2014), 222 Cal.App.4th 1388, 1398.)¿¿¿¿ 
¿ 
The motion requires the moving party to bear
the initial burden of establishing a prima facie showing that the
plaintiff’s cause of action arises from the defendant’s free speech or petition
activity. (Wilbanks, supra, 121 Cal.App.4th at 894.) The
defendant may meet this burden by showing the act which forms the basis for the
plaintiff's cause of action was a written or oral statement made before a
legislative, executive, or judicial proceeding; or such a statement in
connection with an issue under consideration or review by a legislative,
executive, or judicial body; or such a statement was made in a place open to
the public or a public forum in connection with an issue of public interest.¿ (Wilcox
v. Superior Court (1994) 27 Cal. App. 4th 809, 820 [overruled in part as to
showing of intent of party that filed the complaint].)¿ 
¿ 
Once a defendant meets their
burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to establish a probability that the
plaintiff will prevail on the claim, i.e., make a prima facie showing of
facts which would, if proved at trial, support a judgment in plaintiff’s favor.
(Feldman v. 1100 Park Lane Associates (2008) 160 Cal.App.4th 1467,
1497-78.) Specifically, the plaintiff carries their shifting burden by making
an evidentiary showing like that required under Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 437c. (Id.;
See also Ludwig v. Superior Court (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 8, 15.)¿ 
 
If the special
motion to strike is granted, the court must enter judgment for the defendant.¿
(DuPont Merck Pharmaceutical Co. v. Superior Court¿(2000), 78
Cal.App.4th 562, 564.)¿ No leave to amend may be given.¿ (Schaffer v. City
and County of San Francisco¿(2008), 168 Cal.App.4th 992, 1005.)¿ 
 
¿¿¿¿¿ 
-----¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿ 
Meet and Confer Requirement– Before filing a demurrer or a motion to
strike, the demurring or moving party is required to meet and confer with the
party who filed the pleading demurred to or the pleading that is subject to the
motion to strike for the purposes of determining whether an agreement can be
reached through a filing of an amended pleading that would resolve the
objections to be raised in the demurrer. (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §§ 430.41 and
435.5.) If the parties are unable to meet and confer, a declaration stating
under penalty of perjury that a good faith attempt to meet and confer was made
and explaining the reasons why the parties could not meet and confer. (Ibid.)
It appears from Patricia Rodriguez’s Declaration that a meet and confer did not
occur. (See Decl. of Demurring or Moving Party RE: Meet and Confer.) A
determination by the court that the meet and confer process was insufficient
shall not be grounds to overrule or sustain a demurrer, or to grant or deny a
motion to strike. (See Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §§ 430.41 and 435.5.)
 
-----
 
Discussion
 
Application – 
 
       
i.           
Demurrer
 
a.     
First Cause of Action (Imposition
of Constructive Trust)
 
Defendants argue that the SAC
fails to allege any wrongful act that resulted in unjust enrichment. That is,
Defendants argue that the deed transfer was conducted with the full awareness
and voluntary participation of Juan and that Angela has been contributing to
the maintenance and expenses of the property as agreed upon by both parties.
 
Defendants’ arguments fail as
they attempt to contradict the allegations within the pleadings. The SAC
states, in relevant part: 
 
Plaintiff alleges
that he did not prepare the Affidavit of Death of Joint Tenant (Exhibit 2) nor
the deed in Exhibit 3. Plaintiff has very limited English ability and does not
read English. Although the Grant Deed has typed in the form ““xx_Or transfer is
EXEMPT from tax for the following reason: “This is a bona fide gift and the
grantor received nothing in return, R & T 11911.” The plaintiff did not
know that the words “bona fide gift” was written into the deed.
 
[. . .]
 
However, when the
second tax bill came due by April 2019, Defendant demanded that he pay half of
the property taxes and insurance, and she and Joey would continue paying all
the utilities. She was no longer friendly and loving as she had been before the
Deed (Exhibit 3) was recorded, and defendant Angela forced him to pay half of
his taxes and insurance before April 10, 2019. She thereby breached her
agreement with Plaintiff that she would pay all the property tax bills in
exchange for living in the home and placing her on the title to the subject
property.
 
(SAC ¶¶ 20 and 25.)
 
A general demurrer admits the truth of all
factual, material allegations properly pled in the challenged pleading,
regardless of possible difficulties of proof.¿¿(Blank v. Kirwan
(1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.)¿ Thus, no matter how unlikely or improbable,
plaintiff’s allegations must be accepted as true for the purpose of ruling on
the demurrer.¿¿(Del E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials Co.¿(1981) 123
Cal.App.3d 593, 604.)¿ Nevertheless, this rule does not apply to allegations
expressing mere conclusions of law, or allegations contradicted by the exhibits
to the complaint or by matters of which judicial notice may be taken.¿¿(Vance
v. Villa Park¿Mobilehome¿Estates¿(1995) 36 Cal.App.4th 698, 709.)¿A general
demurrer does not admit contentions, deductions, or conclusions of fact or law
alleged in the complaint; facts impossible in law; or allegations contrary to
facts of which a court may take judicial notice.¿¿(Blank,¿supra,
39 Cal.3d at p. 318.)¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
 
Defendants do not argue that the
allegations are conclusory, only that the alleged facts are untrue. This is not
appropriate for a demurrer.
 
Accordingly, the Demurrer to the
First Cause of Action is OVERRULED.
 
b.     
Second Cause of Action (Quiet Title to Real
Property)
 
Defendants argue that the
allegations show that Juan voluntarily added Angela to the deed, thereby
conceding her co-ownership in the Property and, as such, Juan has negated any
basis for his Quiet Title claim.
 
Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 761.020
provides that a complaint for quiet title shall be verified and include: (1) a
description of the property that is the subject of the action, including both
the legal description and its street address or common designation if the
subject property is real property; (2) the plaintiffs title as to which
determination is sought and basis of the title; (3) the adverse claims to the
plaintiffs title against which determination is sought; (4) the date of which
the determination is sought; and (5) a prayer for the determination of the
title of the plaintiff against the adverse claims. (Code Civ. Proc, § 761.020,
subds. (a)-(e).)
 
A review of the SAC reveals this
cause of action relates to the Property and is based on Angela’s adverse claim
to title based upon a fraudulently obtained grant deed due to Juan’s inability
to speak English and understand what he was signing and a breach of verbal
agreement. (See SAC ¶¶ 20, 25.) 
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s Demurrer
to the Second Cause of Action is OVERRULED.
 
c.      
Third Cause of Action (Fraud)
 
Defendants argue that the
allegations of fraud in the SAC fail to meet the heighted pleading requirements
as the SAC does not demonstrate how Juan justifiably relied on any alleged
misrepresentation by Angela, that Juan added Angela voluntarily to the deed,
that there are no claims of justifiable reliance on any purported
misrepresentation due to the voluntary nature of Angela’s addition to the deed,
and that the allegations show that Angela’s addition was made by Juan
voluntarily and with full awareness. 
 
“The elements of fraud that will
give rise to a tort action for deceit are: “ ‘(a) misrepresentation (false
representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (b) knowledge of falsity (or
‘scienter’); (c) intent to defraud, i.e., to induce reliance; (d) justifiable
reliance; and (e) resulting damage.’ ” (Engalla v. Permanente Medical Group,
Inc. (1997) 15 Cal.4th 951, 974 [internal quotation marks omitted].)
 
Here, the fraud is based on
misrepresentation. There is an allegation regarding what would occur after
Angela was placed on the deed (i.e., full payment of certain items) as well as
an English contract that was signed by Juan, who had limited English. Defendants
do not address how Juan could have signed the document with full awareness as
it is alleged that his English is limited. While Rosenthal v. Great Western
Fin. Securities Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394 (“Rosenthal”) held that
misrepresentations by themselves would not deprive the other party of a
reasonable opportunity to discover the essential terms of an agreement, it also
held that misrepresentations made to a party who had a limited understanding of
English might warrant a different result. (Rosenthal, supra, 14
Cal.4th at p. 428 [“In light of plaintiffs' prior relationship with [the
corporation], which they were led to believe was also the employer of Divine
and Daikovich, their limited ability to understand English, and Divine and
Daikovich's representations that their oral recitals accurately reflected the
terms of the agreements, plaintiffs would not have been negligent in relying on
the [corporation's] representatives instead of reading the agreements
themselves”].) As such, unlike Defendants’ representations, there is a basis
for misrepresentation and reliance on that misrepresentation. 
 
The Court notes that there are no
allegations related to Martinez that form the underlying basis for this action.

 
Accordingly, the Demurrer to the
Third Cause of Action is SUSTAINED in part as to Martinez and OVERRULED as to
Angela. 
 
d.     
Fourth Cause of Action (Elder Abuse)
 
Defendants argue that Juan
voluntarily added Angela to the Deed, that it was motivated by other reasons,
there was no undue influence or manipulation, that Juan’s lifestyle contradicts
that he is vulnerable or incapable of making an informed decision, the
allegations related to emotional and psychological abuse are not sufficient,
and Juan did not adequately connect the alleged conduct to his status as an
elder.
 
The allegations in the SAC for
this cause of action are based on the following, including:
 
·        
Angela’s petition for temporary restraining
order against Juan;
·        
Preventing Juan from parking in his garage;
·        
Taking documents personal documents related to
ownership of the Property, insurance, and medical records;
·        
Installed locks to bedroom doors in the
Property;
·        
Changed the mailbox locks, preventing Juan from
accessing his mail;
·        
Removed Juan’s refrigerator and clothes dryer
from the house without approval;
·        
Defendants installed cameras in and around the
home with large signs that state “you are being watched;”
·        
Nonstop insults, slurs, and threats from June
12, 2021 to the present;
·        
One defendant took Juan’s keys on or about July
26, 2022 and threw the keys into Plaintiff’s bedroom; 
·        
Spraying noxious odors into Juan’s bedrooms and
hallway bathroom;
·        
Playing radio or other device for hours; and
·        
Installing an alarm system that is triggered
when Juan leaves his bedroom.
 
(See SAC ¶¶ 52-57.) 
 
Defendants’ legal standard for
this cause of action focuses on financial elder abuse. This does not appear to
be what Plaintiffs are alleging.
 
 “Abuse of an elder or a dependent adult” is
defined as “[p]hysical abuse, neglect, financial abuse, abandonment, abduction,
or other treatment with resulting physical harm or pain or mental suffering[,]”
“[t]he deprivation by a care custodian of goods or services that are necessary
to avoid physical harm or mental suffering[,]” or “[f]inancial abuse as defined
in Section 15610.30.” (Cal. Wel. & Inst. Code, §15610.07.) Each phrase is
further defined by various statutes. Plaintiffs have not identified what statute
they are moving under, making this cause of action uncertain.
 
Accordingly, the Court SUSTAINS the Demurrer
to the Fourth Cause of Action.
 
e.      
Fifth Cause of Action (Abuse of Judicial Process)
 
Defendants argue that Juan has not alleged
facts that meet the elements of malicious prosecution or abuse of process and
the SAC does not specify any prior action that Defendants have pursued against
Juan without probable cause or malice. Defendants argue that the allegations
are vague and do not provide detail to support the claim of abuse of the
judicial process. 
 
While Defendants argue that this cause of
action is a claim for malicious prosecution, it is not sufficiently clear to
the Court that the malicious prosecution standard is the correct legal standard
for the Fifth Cause of Action. Specifically, the Fifth Cause of Action focuses
on the temporary restraining order only and states that it was “merely another
in a series of attempts to force plaintiff from his home.” (SAC ¶ 64.)
 
The Court seeks clarification at the
hearing.
 
At this time, the Court is inclined to
SUSTAIN the Demurrer to the Fifth Cause of Action due to uncertainty.
 
f.       
Sixth Cause of Action (Unjust Enrichment)
 
Defendants argue that the SAC
fails to demonstrate how Defendants have been unjustly enriched as the property
transfer was agreed upon and Defendants have shared in the property expenses as
agreed upon.
 
Defendants’ arguments fail for
the same reasons outlined in the Court’s analysis for the First Cause of
Action. As such, the Court incorporates its analysis, ante, for the Sixth Cause
of Action.
 
Accordingly, the Demurrer to the
Sixth Cause of Action is OVERRULED.
 
g.     
Seventh Cause of Action (Declaratory Relief)
 
Defendants argue that the SAC
does not present a valid controversy regarding declaratory relief as the
property transfer was willingly executed and all other causes of actions have
been properly demurred to. 
 
Defendants’ argument regarding a
willingly executed transfer fails for the same reasons outlined in the Court’s
analysis for the First Cause of Action. As such, the Court incorporates its
analysis, ante, for the Seventh Cause of Action.
 
As to the argument that all other
claims have been properly demurred to, based on the Court’s analysis, various
claims remain.
 
Accordingly, the Demurrer to the
Seventh Cause of Action is OVERRULED.
 
     
ii.           
Motion to Strike
 
Defendants seek to strike the
following:
 
Paragraph 47: 
 
The acts,
statements, and conducts of Defendant Angela Hinojosa as aforesaid were done
intentionally, maliciously, fraudulently, oppressively, despicably, and in
conscious disregard for the rights and wellbeing of Plaintiff, thereby
justifying the award of punitive damages and exemplary damages in an amount to
be determined at trial. 
 
Paragraph 64: 
 
Defendants who used
abusive language and threats of physical violence in attempts to eject him from
the Subject Property, and Plaintiff therefore is entitled to punitive damages. 
 
Paragraph 67: 
 
The Plaintiff
alleges that the aforementioned acts of the Defendant to attempt to eject him
from the Subject Property was willful and malicious in that the Defendant
without any rights; to do so used abusive language and threats of physical
violence in attempts to eject him from the Subject Property, and Plaintiff
therefore is entitled to punitive damages. Plaintiff is also entitled to
reasonable attorney’s fees. 
 
PRAYER FOR RELIEF
REQUEST: 
 
1) Third Cause of
Action - For punitive damages 
 
2) Fourth Cause of
Action – For punitive damages 
 
3) Fifth Cause of
Action – For punitive damages 
 
4) Sixth Cause of
Action – For Punitive damages
 
(Motion to Strike 2:9-28.)
 
The gravamen of Defendants’
argument is that the claims for punitive damages are not properly pled as the
fraud claim fails to be pled with particularity.
 
The Court notes that the Demurrer
to the Fourth and Fifth Causes of Action has been sustained.
 
To state a prima facie claim for
punitive damages, a plaintiff must allege the elements set forth in the
punitive damages statute, Civil Code section 3294. (Coll. Hosp., Inc. v.
Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 721.) A plaintiff must allege that the
defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud or malice. (Civ. Code, § 3294,
subd. (a).) “Malice is defined in the statute as conduct intended by the
defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is
carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the
rights or safety of others.” (Coll. Hosp., Inc. v. Superior Court, supra,
8 Cal.4th 704, 725.) “The mere allegation an intentional tort was committed is
not sufficient to warrant an award of punitive damages. Not only must there be
circumstances of oppression, fraud or malice, but facts must be alleged in the
pleading to support such a claim.” (Grieves v. Superior Ct. (1984) 157
Cal.App.3d 159, 166 [internal citations and footnotes omitted].)
 
The remaining Third Cause of
Action focuses on fraud. As the fraud claim has survived demurrer, the Court
believes that punitive damages have been pled with enough specificity to move
past the pleading stages.
 
Accordingly, the Motion to Strike
is DENIED in part as to punitive damages related to the Third Cause of Action
(Fraud), and GRANTED in part as to the Fourth Cause of Action (Elder Abuse) and
Fifth Cause of Action (Abuse of Judicial Process).
   
iii.           
Anti-SLAPP Motion to Strike
 
Defendants bring this Anti-SLAPP Motion
to Strike based on Plaintiffs’ Fourth Cause of Action (Abuse of Process).
Defendants present that the Fourth Cause of Action stems from a Domestic
Violence Restraining Order (Case # 21STR0002978) and that such an action is
protected under Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 425.16(e)(1) and (e)(2). Defendants
argue that Plaintiffs have not demonstrated that the temporary restraining
order was filed for any purpose other than addressing alleged harassment or that
the process itself was improper, and that the allegations of malice or wrongful
intent are conclusory and lack factual support.
 
In the first step, the trial
court determines whether the claim “‘arises from’ an ‘“‘act in furtherance of a
person's right of petition or free speech under the United States or California
Constitution in connection with a public issue.’”’” (Laker v. Board of
Trustees of California State University (2019) 32 Cal.App.5th 745, 759–760
[quoting City of Montebello v. Vasquez (2016) 1 Cal.5th 409, 422].) The
court must evaluate whether the moving defendant has shown the speech or act
underlying the plaintiff's claim falls within one or more of the four
categories of protected acts set out in Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 425.16(e).
(Wilson, supra, 7 Cal.5th at p. 884.)
 
Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 425.16(e)
provides:
 
As used in this
section, “act in furtherance of a person’s right of petition or free speech
under the United States or California Constitution in connection with a public
issue” includes: (1) any written or oral statement or writing made before a
legislative, executive, or judicial proceeding, or any other official
proceeding authorized by law, (2) any written or oral statement or writing made
in connection with an issue under consideration or review by a legislative,
executive, or judicial body, or any other official proceeding authorized by
law, (3) any written or oral statement or writing made in a place open to the
public or a public forum in connection with an issue of public interest, or (4)
any other conduct in furtherance of the exercise of the constitutional right of
petition or the constitutional right of free speech in connection with a public
issue or an issue of public interest.
 
The filing of a temporary
restraining order is protected petitioning activity under Cal. Code Civ. Proc.
§ 425.16 as well as Kenne v. Stennis (2014) 230 Cal.App.4th 953. (See Kenne
v. Stennis (2014) 230 Cal.App.4th 953, 970 [“We agree with the holding in Siam,
supra, 130 Cal.App.4th 1563, as well as the reasoning and policies upon
which that holding is based, and conclude that plaintiff cannot prevail on her
malicious prosecution claim against Hatter because that claim is based on the
filing and prosecution of the two civil harassment petitions under section
527.6, which petitions, for public policy reasons, cannot form the basis of a
malicious prosecution action. The trial court therefore erred when it denied
the special motion to strike the malicious prosecution claim against Hatter.
 
Our conclusion in this regard is
supported by the recent decision in S.A. v. Maiden (2014) 229
Cal.App.4th 27 [176 Cal. Rptr. 3d 567]. In that case, a wife requested and
obtained a TRO against her husband under the Domestic Violence Prevention Act,
Family Code section 6200 et seq. (S.A., at p. 33.) When the wife subsequently
voluntarily withdrew her request for a restraining order, the husband sued her
for malicious prosecution, as well as for other torts. (Id. at p. 34.) Relying
on, inter alia, Siam, supra, 130 Cal.App.4th 1563, the court held
that a request for and the issuance of a restraining order under the Domestic
Violence Protection Act, like one requested and issued under section 527.6,
cannot as a matter of law be the basis of a claim for malicious prosecution. (S.A.,
at pp. 36–38.)”].)
 
Accordingly, Defendants have met
their burden to establish a prima
facie showing that the Plaintiffs’ Fourth Cause of Action arises from the
defendant’s free speech or petition activity. The burden shifts to Plaintiffs.
 
The Court does not consider Plaintiffs’ untimely Opposition. As such,
Plaintiffs do not meet their burden to establish a
probability that they will prevail on the claim, i.e., make a prima facie
showing of facts which would, if proved at trial, support a judgment in
plaintiff’s favor.
 
Accordingly, the Anti-SLAPP
Motion to Strike is GRANTED.
 
-----
 
Leave to Amend
 
Regarding leave to amend, leave to amend
must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful
amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy¿(1976), 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) While under
California law leave to amend is liberally granted, “leave to amend should not
be granted where, in all probability, amendment would be futile.” (Vaillette
v. Fireman's Fund Ins. Co. (1993), 18 Cal. App. 4th 680, 685).¿ “A trial
court does not abuse its discretion when it sustains a demurrer without¿leave
to amend¿if either (a) the facts and the nature of the claims are clear and no
liability exists, or (b) it is probable from the nature of the defects and
previous unsuccessful attempts to plead that the plaintiff cannot state a
claim.” (Cantu v. Resolution Trust Corp.¿(1992)¿4 Cal.App.4th 857, 889.) 
 
The Demurrer to the following causes of
action have been sustained: (1) Third Cause of Action (Fraud) as to Martinez
only, (2) Fourth Cause of Action (Elder Abuse), (3) Fifth Cause of Action
(Abuse of Judicial Process). 
 
As to the Third Cause of Action, the facts
and the nature of the claims are clear and no liability exists as to Martinez.
The Court does not allow leave to amend for the Third Cause of Action.
 
As to the Fourth Cause of Action, the
Court allows leave to amend as the claims are uncertain.
 
As to the Fifth Cause of Action, the Court
does not allow leave to amend due to its analysis in the Anti-SLAPP Motion to
Strike.
 
Accordingly, leave to amend is allowed as
to the Fourth Cause of Action only.
 
-----
 
Conclusion
 
Defendants Angela Hinojosa and
Joey Martinez’s Demurrer is OVERRULED in part as to the First Cause of Action (Imposition
of Constructive Trust), Second Cause of Action (Quiet Title to Real Property),
Third Cause of Action (Fraud) as to Defendant Angela Hinojosa only, Sixth Cause
of Action (Unjust Enrichment), and Seventh Cause of Action (Declaratory
Relief); and SUSTAINED as to the Third Cause of Action (Fraud) as to Defendant
Joey Martinez only, Fourth Cause of Action (Elder Abuse), and Fifth Cause of
Action (Abuse of Judicial Process).
 
Defendants Angela Hinojosa and
Joey Martinez’s Motion to Strike is DENIED in part as to punitive damages
related to the Third Cause of Action (Fraud), and GRANTED in part as to the
Fourth Cause of Action (Elder Abuse) and Fifth Cause of Action (Abuse of Judicial
Process).
 
Defendants Angela Hinojosa and
Joey Martinez’s Anti-SLAPP Motion to Strike is GRANTED.
 
Leave to amend is allowed as to the Fourth Cause of
Action (Elder Abuse) only. The Juan Hinojosa Family Trust and Juan Hinojosa are
to file an amended pleading within 30 days of this Court Order.


