 Case Number:  24AVCP00139    Hearing Date:   January 14, 2025    Dept:  A14 While Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants Frankie Lowe, Tennell
Brady, Peggy Lofton, Yvonne Coulson, and Willie Scott (“Plaintiffs”) argue that
no settlement was reached as there were material terms undecided (see Opp.
5:6-2), this is incorrect. The parties reached a settlement at a mandatory
settlement conference on September 26, 2024 with the Honorable Alan Z.
Yudkowsky presiding. This is memorialized in a Minute Order. The parties were
ordered to file a notice of settlement. The terms are as follows:
• Plaintiffs will pay to defendants the balance of its
outstanding attorney's fees, subject to a cap, through the date of execution of
the Settlement and Mutual Release Agreement.
• Plaintiffs will reimburse Pastor Goodman and Mr. Richardson
in the amount of $3,855.40 personally paid by them to defendants' counsel
(after the church funds were exhausted).
• Defendants are to provide plaintiffs with an itemized
statement of all attorney's fees incurred by the church to date, and an
estimate of the fees to be incurred through the date of execution (which will
be the basis for the cap).
• Plaintiffs will provide an accounting of all church funds
in their possession.
• Defendants will provide an accounting of all church funds
expended to date with backup therefor.
• Pastor Goodman will return the church's laptop and
"black bag" and the church will return to him his chair and bookcase.
Such exchange is to take place upon the payment of the settlement amount.
• Pastor Goodman will resign concurrent with the payment of
the settlement amount and the exchange of property.
(09/26/2024 Minute Order.)
“Although a judge hearing a section 664.6 motion may receive
evidence, determine disputed facts, and enter the terms of a settlement
agreement as a judgment [citations], nothing in section 664.6 authorizes a
judge to create the material terms of a settlement, as opposed to deciding what
terms the parties themselves have previously agreed upon.” (Weddington
Productions, Inc. v. Flick (1998) 60 Cal.App.4th, 793, 809–810 [emphasis in
original].) Once the parties have reached a settlement, however, they “may not
escape their obligations by refusing to sign a written agreement that conforms
to the oral terms.” (Elyaoudayan v. Hoffman (2003) 104 Cal.App.4th 1421,
1431.)
Plaintiffs cannot avoid the settlement that they agreed to.
(See Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 664.4(a) [“If parties to pending litigation
stipulate, in a writing signed by the parties outside of the presence of the
court or orally before the court, for settlement of the case, or part
thereof, the court, upon motion, may enter judgment pursuant to the terms of
the settlement.”][emphasis added].) 
Accordingly, Defendants/Cross-Complainants
Christ Missionary Bible Church of Lancaster’s Motion to Enforce Settlement is
GRANTED.