  Case Number:  22GDCV01128    Hearing Date:   June 5, 2024    Dept:  P [TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING PLAINTIFF'S REQUEST FOR INTERNATIONAL JUDICIAL ASSISTANCEI.               
Background
This case concerns allegations of childhood sexual abuse and childhood
sexual assault. The two plaintiffs, Jane Doe AH and Jane Doe KC allege that
they suffered childhood sexual abuse at the hands of Defendants Gloria De Los
Angeles Trevino Ruiz aka Gloria Trevi (Trevi), Sergio Gustavo Andrade Sanchez
aka Sergio Andrade (Andrade), and Maria Raquenel Portillo Jimenez aka Mary
Boquitas and Mary Raquenel (Raquenel). The alleged abuse took place in
1991-1992, when Jane Doe AH was 13 and Jane Doe KC was 15. The abuse occurred
in both Mexico and California, while the Doe plaintiffs were backup singers and
dancers for Defendant Trevi, a Mexican popstar.
 On March 20, 2024, Plaintiffs filed
the instant Motion to Request International Judicial Assistance.
 No opposition has been filed.
II.             
Legal Standard & Discussion
Plaintiff moves
the Court for an order directing the Clerk to sign their Request for Service
Abroad of Judicial or Extrajudicial Documents as to Defendant Andrade.
The Hague
Convention provides various means for serving documents in foreign countries.
These include by way of a “Central Authority,” through diplomatic or consular
agents, by mail providing the state of destination does not object, or through
judicial or other competent officials. See Weil & Brown, Cal. Practice
Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (The Rutter Group 2023),
¶¶4:325-4:330.  
Failure to comply
with the Hague Convention voids service. (Kott v. Superior Court (1996)
45 Cal.App.4th 1126, 1136.)  
Plaintiffs’
counsel explains that, since filing the Complaint “Plaintiffs’ Counsel have
been diligent in their search for Defendant Andrade.”  Specifically, “[a]gents working on behalf of
Plaintiffs have investigated potential addresses for Defendant Andrade in
Mexico and Spain.” (Motion p. 3: 19-21, Barth Menzies Decl. ¶¶ 5-7.) The motion
contends that Plaintiffs have not located a residential address for Andrade in
Mexico but have learned that his business in Mexico is active and intend to
serve him with the Summons and Complaint at the business address.
Plaintiffs rely
on Code of Civil Procedure § 413.10, which provides:
Except
as otherwise provided by statute, a summons shall be served on a person:
(a)
Within this state, as provided in this chapter.
(b)
Outside this state but within the United States, as provided in this chapter or
as prescribed by the law of the place where the person is served.
(c)
Outside the United States, as provided in this chapter or as directed by the
court in which the action is pending, or, if the court before or after service
finds that the service is reasonably calculated to give actual notice, as
prescribed by the law of the place where the person is served or as directed by
the foreign authority in response to a letter rogatory…
 As Andrade
is an individual, the proposed service is acceptable at his place of business
in Mexico. The letters rogatory are attached as Exh. 1 to the motion.
III.           
Conclusion & Order
Plaintiffs’
motion is GRANTED.
Moving party is
ordered to give notice.Dated: 6/4/24 JUDGE JARED D. MOSES