 Case Number:  22STCV35673    Hearing Date:   May 14, 2024    Dept:  31  SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  JUAN PABLO ALCANTAR, Plaintiff(s), vs.  ALEXANDER ESCALANTE, ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 22STCV35673  [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: MOTION FOR RECONSIDERATION  Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  May 14, 2024  I. BACKGROUND FACTS Plaintiff Juan Pablo Alcantar (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against defendant Alexander Escalante (“Defendant”) for injuries arising from a motor vehicle v. bicycle incident.  On March 19, 2024, the Court granted Defendant’s motion compelling Plaintiff to appear for a mental examination with neuropsychologist John T. Dunn, Ph.D., and ordered the parties to draft a stipulated protective order regarding disclosure and use of the raw test data. (Min. Order, March 19, 2024.) On April 8, 2024, Plaintiff filed the instant motion for reconsideration of the Court’s March 19, 2024 Order on the grounds that Plaintiff will stipulate within the meaning of CCP § 2032.320. Defendant opposes the motion, and Plaintiff filed a reply.   II. MOTION FOR RECONSIDERATION A. Timeliness of Motion CCP § 1008(a) states:   When an application for an order has been made to a judge, or to a court, and refused in whole or in part, or granted, or granted conditionally, or on terms, any party affected by the order may, within 10 days after service upon the party of written notice of entry of the order and based upon new or different facts, circumstances, or law, make application to the same judge or court that made the order, to reconsider the matter and modify, amend, or revoke the prior order. The party making the application shall state by affidavit what application was made before, when and to what judge, what order or decisions were made, and what new or different facts, circumstances, or law are claimed to be shown. CCP § 1008(a), thus, requires a motion for reconsideration to be filed within ten days after notice of the subject ruling. Defendant served the Notice of Ruling on April 25, 2024. The motion for reconsideration was filed on April 8, 2024. Thus, the motion filed prior to the notice service date is timely since the clock had yet to run at the time.  B. Legal Standard CCP § 1008(a), thus, requires the Court to reconsider a prior ruling if it finds there are new or different facts, circumstances, or law than those before the Court at the time of the original ruling.  Once the Court determines the existence of new or different facts, circumstances, of law, it can either modify or affirm its prior decision. (Corns v. Miller (1986) 181 Cal.App.3d 195, 202.)  “[A] court acts in excess of jurisdiction when it grants a motion to reconsider that is not based upon ‘new or different facts, circumstances, or law.’” (Ibid.) The burden under § 1008 “is comparable to that of a party seeking a new trial on the ground of newly discovered evidence: the information must be such that the moving party could not, with reasonable diligence, have discovered or produced it at the trial.” (New York Times Co. v. Sup.Ct. (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 206, 212-213.) There is a strict requirement of diligence, so the moving party must present a satisfactory explanation for failing to provide the evidence or different facts earlier.  (Garcia v. Hejmadi (1997) 58 Cal.App.4th 674, 690.)   C. Discussion In the original briefs regarding this issue of Plaintiff’s mental examination, the factual circumstance of Plaintiff offering to Defendant to stipulate to not making any psychological claim, and to maintain nothing more than garden variety emotional damages claim was raised. However, Plaintiff’s opposition at the time did not offer a CCP § 2032.320 stipulation in order for this Court to preclude the granting of the mental examination absent a showing of exceptional circumstances. As cited by both Plaintiff and Defendant, aside from showing that evidence of new or different facts exist, the moving party must also provide a satisfactory explanation for failing to produce such evidence earlier. (Pazderka v. Caballeros Dimas Alang, Inc. (1998) 62 Cal. App. 4th 658, 670.) Here, Plaintiff provides no explanation as to why a stipulation under CCP § 2032.320 was not raised earlier. The legislative intent was to restrict motions for reconsideration to circumstances where a party offers the court some fact or circumstance not previously considered, and some valid reason for not offering it earlier. (Gilberd v. AC Transit (1995) 32 Cal.App.4th 1494, 150.)  On its face, Plaintiff’s application for reconsideration has not met the mandatory prerequisites.  III. CONCLUSION Accordingly, Plaintiff’s motion for reconsideration is DENIED.   Moving party is ordered to give notice.    PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 13th day of May 2024      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court   