 Case Number:  21GDCV01154    Hearing Date:   February 1, 2024    Dept:  X    Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Joel L. Lofton,
Department X
 
 
HEARING DATE:     February
1, 2024                                             TRIAL DATE: No date set. 
                                                           
CASE:                         BREANN HOWARD, on
behalf of the State of California, as a private attorney general, v. KOULAX
ENTERPRISES, a California corporation; and DOES 1 through 50, inclusive.  
 
CASE NO.:                 21GDCV01154
 
            
 
MOTION
FOR LEAVE TO AMEND
 
MOTION
TO COMPEL FURTHER

 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff Breann Howard
 
RESPONDING PARTY:      Defendant
Koulax Enterprises
 
SERVICE:                              Filed November 17, 2023
 
OPPOSITION:                       Filed December 1, 2023
 
REPLY:                                   Filed January 24, 2024
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED 
 
             Plaintiff move for leave to file
an amended complaint and for an order compelling further responses to her
special interrogatories. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
            This case arises out of
Breann Howard’s (“Plaintiff”) Private Attorneys General Act (“PAGA”) claim
against Defendant Koulax Enterprises (“Defendant”). Plaintiff alleges that
Defendant engaged in employment law violations against Plaintiff and other
aggrieved employees. Plaintiff filed this complaint on September 8, 2021,
alleging one cause of action for violation of PAGA.
 
TENTATIVE RULING
             
            Plaintiff’s motion for leave to file a first amended
complaint is GRANTED. Plaintiff is ordered to file the amended complaint within
10 days of the date of this order.
 
            Plaintiff’s motion to compel further responses to her
special interrogatories is DENIED.
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (a)(1), provides in
relevant part:  “The court may likewise, in its discretion, after notice
to the adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an amendment to any
pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may upon like terms allow an
answer to be made after the time limited by this code.” Trial courts have discretion to permit amendments, which
should be exercised liberally in favor of amendments to promote the judicial
policy to resolve all disputed matters in one lawsuit. (Kittredge
Sports Co. v. Superior Court (1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045,
1047. “But this policy applies only [w]here no prejudice is shown to
the adverse party.” (Melican v. Regents of University of California (2007)
151 Cal.App.4th 168, 175, quotation marks omitted.)
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Motion for Leave to Amend
 
            Plaintiff
moves for leave to file a first amended complaint. 
 
            Rule 3.1324
subdivision (b), requires a motion to amend a pleading to include a declaration
that provides: “[¶] (1) The effect
of the amendment; [¶] (2) Why the
amendment is necessary and proper; [¶] (3) When the facts giving rise to the amended
allegations were discovered; and [¶] (4) The reasons why the request for amendment was
not made earlier.”
 
            Plaintiff
provides that the effect of the amendment would be to add various individual
and class claims. (Joyce Decl. ¶¶ 10-11.) Plaintiff amendment
is necessary and proper in light of Defendant’s breach of the arbitration
agreement. (Id. ¶ 13.) Plaintiff seeks to add the additional claims
following this court’s order lifting the arbitration stay. (Id. ¶ 12.) 
 
            In
opposition, Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s claims are barred because
Plaintiff has expressly waived class claims, Defendant would suffer prejudice,
and judicial efficiency warrants staying the case pending appeal.
 
            “Under
Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (a)(1), a court has ample
discretion to deny a motion for leave to amend where a proposed amendment is legally
futile or where there has been inexcusable delay in making the motion, but this
discretion is not without limits.” (Jo Redland Trust, U.A.D. 4-6-05 v. CIT
Bank, N.A. (2023) 92 Cal.App.5th 142, 161-62.) 
 
            Defendant
argues that Plaintiff’s class claims are expressly waived. While the court
recognizes there could be some merit to Defendant's argument, Defendant’s
arguments are nonetheless rejected. The issue of which claims would be barred
by the class-action waiver is unclear. Plaintiff seeks to file an amended
complaint with eight causes of action, but the current moving papers do not
specify which ones would or should be barred. Further, it would be more prudent
for this issue to be adjudicated when the parties have been given the
opportunity to fully brief the issues at the demurrer stage.
 
            Additionally,
Defendant’s claims that it would suffer prejudice is unwarranted. Although this
case has been pending for over two years, few motions have been filed and trial
is not currently set. Thus, Defendant has not demonstrated prejudice.
 
            Defendant
lastly argues that this case should be stayed pending appeal. This request
undermines Defendant’s assertion that Plaintiffs delay caused it prejudice.
Additionally, Defendant does not posit sufficient reason or justification for a
stay of the proceeding. Plaintiff’s motion for leave to file an amended
complaint is granted.
 
            Motion
to Compel Further Responses
 
            Plaintiff
moves for an order compelling further responses to her special interrogatories.
The procedural irregularities of the present case create a confusing timeline
of events. Plaintiff initially served her special interrogatory containing a
single interrogatory on August 19, 2022. (Alvarado Decl. ¶ 16.) The parties
agreed to various extensions. The parties dispute whether the initial motion to
compel further filed on February 14, 2023, was timely. Regardless, since then,
arbitration was ordered, Defendant subsequently found to have breached the
agreement, and the stay was ordered lifted. 
 
            Plaintiff’s
motion is based on discovery requests served a year and a half ago based on the
parties’ agreements to delay the deadlines for discovery responses and the
filing of a motion to compel further. However, Plaintiff does not provide any
basis for resurrecting the previous motion or that the parties agreed to allow
the motion to be refiled after the stay was lifted.
 
            Plaintiff’s
motion to compel further responses is denied.
 
CONCLUSION
 
            Plaintiff’s motion for leave to file a first amended
complaint is GRANTED. Plaintiff is ordered to file the amended complaint within
10 days of the date of this order.
 
            Plaintiff’s motion to compel further responses to her special
interrogatories is DENIED.  
 
 
 
 
 
            
Dated:   February 1,
2024                                           ___________________________________
                                                                                    Joel
L. Lofton
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 
 
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the court
indicating their 
intention
to submit.  alhdeptx@lacourt.org 