 Case Number:  22AHCV01264    Hearing Date:   February 1, 2024    Dept:  X    Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Joel L. Lofton,
Department X
 
 
HEARING DATE:      February 1, 2024                                             TRIAL
DATE: No date set. 
                                                           
CASE:                         KEVIN JON RITCHIE,
an individual, v. GENERAL MOTORS LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, and
DOES 1 through 10, inclusive.  
 
CASE NO.:                 22AHCV01264
 
            
 
DEMURRER
WITH MOTION TO STRIKE

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant General Motors LLC
 
RESPONDING PARTY:      Plaintiff
Kevin Jon Ritchie
 
SERVICE:                              Filed December 13, 2023
 
OPPOSITION:                       Filed January 18, 2024
 
REPLY:                                   Filed January 25, 2024
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED 
 
             Defendant demurrers to Plaintiff’s
fourth cause of action for fraudulent concealment and moves to strike
Plaintiff’s prayer for punitive damages. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
             This case arises out of Plaintiff Kevin Jon
Ritchie’s (“Plaintiff’) lemon law claim against Defendant General Motors LLC
(“Defendant”). Plaintiff alleges he purchased a 2021 GMC Sierra, Vehicle
Identification Number 3GTU9CEDXMG169786 (“Subject Vehicle”) on December 18,
2020. Plaintiff filed a second amended complaint (“SAC”) on November 13, 2023,
alleging four causes of action for (1) violation of Song-Beverly Act – breach
of express warranty, (2) violation of Song-Beverly Act – breach of implied
warranty, (3) violation of the Song Beverly Act section 1793.2, and (4) fraud –
fraudulent inducement – concealment. 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s
fourth cause of action for fraudulent concealment is OVERRULED.
 
            Defendant’s
motion to strike Plaintiff’s claim for punitive damages is DENIED.
 
            Plaintiff’s
motion to compel further responses to his requests for the production of
documents is DENIED.
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
            Demurrer 
 
A general
demurrer may be taken to a complaint where “[t]he pleading does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action.” (Code of Civ. Proc. § 430.10(e).) A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the
complaint states a cause of action.  (Hahn
v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal. App. 4th 740, 747.) In a demurrer proceeding, the
defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or by proper judicial
notice.  (Code Civ. Proc. section
430.30(a).)  A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or
other extrinsic matters.  (SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153
Cal. App. 3d 902, 905.)  The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is
whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters,
states a cause of action.  (Hahn v.
Mirda, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)
 
Additionally, a
special demurrer to a complaint may be brought on the ground the pleading is uncertain,
ambiguous, or unintelligible. Code
Civ. Proc section 430.10(f); Beresford
Neighborhood Assn. v. City of San Mateo (1989) 207 Cal.App.3d 1180,
1191.) A demurrer based
on uncertainty is disfavored and will be strictly construed even when the
pleading is uncertain in some respects. (Khoury v. Maly's of California, Inc. (1993) 14
Cal.App.4th 612, 616.) A demurrers based on uncertainty are “granted only if
the pleading is so incomprehensible that a defendant cannot reasonably
respond.” (Lickiss v. Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (2012) 208
Cal.App.4th 1125, 1135.) 
 
Motion to Strike
 
Any party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading
may serve and file a notice of motion to strike a pleading or any part
thereof.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(1).)  The
court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms
it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in
any pleading.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a).)  The court may
also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with
California law, a court rule, or an order of the court.  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 436, subd. (b).)  An immaterial or irrelevant allegation is one that is
not essential to the statement of a claim or defense; is neither pertinent to
nor supported by an otherwise sufficient claim or defense; or a demand for
judgment requesting relief not supported by the allegations of the
complaint.  (Code Civ. Proc., 431.10, subd. (b).)  The grounds for
moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial
notice.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437.)   
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Defendant
demurrers to Plaintiff’s fourth cause of action for fraudulent concealment. Defendant’s two previous demurrers to
Plaintiffs’ fraudulent inducement cause of action were sustained with leave to
amend on the grounds that Plaintiff failed to allege a direct transaction
giving rise to a duty to disclose. 
  
“The elements of fraud, which give
rise to the tort action for deceit, are (a) misrepresentation (false
representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (b) knowledge of falsity (or
‘scienter’); (c) intent to defraud, i.e., to induce reliance; (d) justifiable
reliance; and (e) resulting damage.” (Beckwith v. Dahl (2012) 205
Cal.App.4th 1039, 1060, citations omitted.
 
“[F]raud may consist of a
suppression of a material fact in circumstances under which the defendant has a
legal duty of disclosure.” (Hoffman v. 162 North Wolfe LLC (2014)
228 Cal.App.4th 1178, 1186, internal citations omitted.) “[W]here material
facts are known to one party and not to the other, failure to disclose them is
not actionable fraud unless there is some relationship between
the parties which gives rise to a duty to disclose such known facts. A
relationship between the parties is present if there is ‘some sort of transaction between the parties.’ ” (Id.
at p. 1187.) “Thus, a duty to disclose may arise from the relationship between
seller and buyer, employer and prospective employee, doctor and patient, or
parties entering into any kind of contractual agreement.” (Ibid.)
 
            “There are ‘four circumstances in which nondisclosure or concealment may
constitute actionable fraud: (1) when the defendant is in a fiduciary
relationship with the plaintiff; (2) when the defendant had exclusive knowledge
of material facts not known to the plaintiff; (3) when the defendant actively
conceals a material fact from the plaintiff; and (4) when the defendant makes
partial representations but also suppresses some material facts. [Citation.]’ ”
(LiMandri v. Judkins (1997) 52 Cal.App.4th 326, 336.) 
 
            “These
[latter] three circumstances, however, ‘presuppose[ ] the existence of some
other relationship between the plaintiff and defendant in which a duty to
disclose can arise.’ ” (Bigler-Engler v. Breg, Inc. (2017) 7 Cal.App.5th
276, 311.) “Such a transaction must necessarily arise from direct dealings
between the plaintiff and the defendant; it cannot arise between the defendant
and the public at large.” (Id. at p. 312.) 
 
            Plaintiff
has remedied the deficiencies in his allegations. He alleges that he purchased
the Subject Vehicle from Thorson GMC Trk-Buick MTR on December 18, 2020. (SAC ¶ 4.) He alleges that the dealership is an authorized retailer
dealership of Defendant, and that Defendant provided the dealership with a
selling business associate code. (Id. ¶¶
6-8.) Plaintiff alleges he communicated with Thorson GMC. (Id. ¶ 11.) Plaintiff alleges that Thorson GMC is an authorized
agent and representative of Defendant. (Id. ¶ 14.)
 
“Material facts alleged in the complaint are treated as true for
the purpose ruling on the demurrer. [Citation.] Also taken as true are facts
that may be implied or inferred from those expressly alleged. [Citation.]
However, contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law alleged in the
complaint are not considered in judging its sufficiency.” (Kisesky v.
Carpenters’ Trust for So. California. (1983) 144 Cal.App.3d, 228.)
 
Plaintiff’s allegations, at the pleading stage, are sufficient to
allege the existence of a relationship giving rise to a duty to disclose.
Defendant also argues that Plaintiff fails to allege fraud with specificity. 
 
“The requirement that ‘[f]raud must be pleaded
with specificity’ applies equally to a cause of action for fraud and deceit
based on concealment.” (Cansino v. Bank of America (2014) 224
Cal.App.4th 1462, 1472.) “Less specificity in pleading fraud is required ‘when “it
appears from the nature of the allegations that the defendant must necessarily
possess full information concerning the facts of the controversy....” ’ ” (Id.
at p. 1469.)
 
Plaintiff alleges
that Defendant knew of and actively concealed information related to the
defective transmissions in the Subject Vehicle. (Id. ¶¶ 136-137.) Plaintiff alleges that Defendant
concealed the fact that the components were prone to premature wear and
required repeated repairs. (Id. ¶
138.) Plaintiff alleges that Defendant and its agents knew of the issue but
represented that it was able to fix it. (Id. ¶ 147.) At the pleading
stage, Plaintiff’s allegations are sufficient to state a claim for fraudulent
concealment. Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s fourth cause of action is
overruled.
 
            Motion to Strike
 
            Defendant also
moves to strike Plaintiff’s prayer for punitive damages.
 
            Punitive
damages may be imposed where it is proven by clear and convincing evidence that
the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.  (Civ.
Code, § 3294, subd. (a). A plaintiff seeking punitive damages “must include
specific factual allegations showing that defendant's conduct was oppressive,
fraudulent, or malicious to support a claim for punitive damages. [Citation.]
Punitive damages my not be pleaded generally.” (Today’s IV, Inc. v. Los
Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority (2022) 83 Cal.App.5th
1137, 1193.)
 
            Here,
because Plaintiff’s fraudulent concealment claim survives, Plaintiff has
alleged sufficient grounds to plead a claim for punitive damages. Defendant’s
motion to strike is denied.
 
            Motion
to Compel Further Responses
 
            Plaintiff
moves for an order compelling further responses to his requests for production.
Plaintiff provides he served his discovery requests on September 21, 2023.
(Jacobson Decl. ¶ 29.) Plaintiff provides that Defendant served deficient
responses on October 25, 2023. (Id. ¶ 30.) 
 
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1345 requires a separate
statement to include “[a] statement of the factual and legal reasons for
compelling further responses, answers, or production as to each matter
in dispute”. While Plaintiff facially complies with this requirement by
including a “statement of insufficiency” next to each discovery request,
Plaintiff merely includes stock language claiming that Defendant’s objections
are meritless and boilerplate. Much like Defendant’s boilerplate objections are
unhelpful to Plaintiff, Plaintiff’s boilerplate statements of insufficiency are
not helpful to this court to determine whether further responses should be
ordered as to the specific discovery requests. 
 
Plaintiff has failed to submit a
code complaint separate statement. Thus, Plaintiff’s motion to compel further
responses is denied. 
 
CONCLUSION
 
Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s
fourth cause of action for fraudulent concealment is OVERRULED.
 
            Defendant’s
motion to strike Plaintiff’s claim for punitive damages is DENIED.
 
            Plaintiff’s
motion to compel further responses to his requests for the production of
documents is DENIED.
 
 
            Moving
Party to provide notice. 
 
            
Dated:   February 1,
2024                                           ___________________________________
                                                                                    Joel
L. Lofton
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court


Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the court
indicating their 
intention to submit.  alhdeptx@lacourt.org
