 Case Number:  24SMCV00596    Hearing Date:   June 5, 2024    Dept:  I This is an unlawful detainer action.  Defendant demurred on the basis that the
notice to pay or quit was improper because it did not list among the ways
defendant could pay the option to pay in cash. 
Specifically, the notices stated that payment could be “by money order,
certified funds, or by personal check as provided in your rental
agreement.”  But defendant argues that
cash is legal tender—it says so on the bills themselves.  Further, defendant cites to 31 U.S.C. § 5103,
which provides that currency “are legal tender for all debts, public charges,
taxes, and dues.” 
 
This demurrer is troubling. 
First, it was noticed for an overlong period.  The demurrer was filed on March 4, 2024, but
it was not scheduled for hearing until today, July 2, 2024.  That is 120 days, although the statute
requires that it be noticed within 30 days. 
(The court advanced the hearing to today on plaintiff’s request.)  Of course, if this was the first available
date on the calendar, then the court would at least understand it (although an
argument could be made that defendant should have sought an earlier hearing ex
parte).  At least this court’s
calendar is not that bad, but at the time the demurrer was filed, this matter
was in a different court.  The court will
inquire as to the over-length notice. 
That alone would be cause to strike the demurrer.
 
On the other hand, at the ex parte hearing to advance
this hearing date, the court noted that plaintiff’s opposition did not so much
as address the argument defendant had made. 
The court pointed that out and allowed for a supplemental opposition to be
filed 9 court days before today’s date specifically so that plaintiff could
address the argument.  Plaintiff elected
to ignore the court’s suggestion and dids not filed an opposition until Monday.  Normally, the failure to oppose a demurrer is
not a concession that the demurrer has merit. 
But where the court specifically asks that an opposition be filed (if
any there is) but the opposing party elects not to do so, the rule can be
different.  (Hester v. Public Storage
(2020) 49 Cal.App.5th 668.)  The court,
under those circumstances, is tempted to take plaintiff’s lack of effort as a
concession that the notice was invalid, in which case the demurrer would be
sustained without leave to amend.  In any
event, the untimely opposition is STRICKEN and will be DISREGARDED.  As the court stated at the last hearing,
plaintiff’s counsel will need to step up its game or it will have a lot of
difficulty in this court.  This sort of
behavior—ignoring court orders and then strategically filing an opposition such
to deprive the other side of its right to reply—will not be tolerated and the
next time it is done, the court will sanction counsel.
 
That said, the court is more likely to simply take the
demurrer at face value and view it as unopposed.  An unopposed demurrer is not a concession
that the demurrer has merit.  Rather, the
court must look independently to determine whether the demurrer, on its face,
should be sustained.  If not, then the
demurrer is overruled even without an opposition.  And that is the case here.  The reason is that the parties agreed in the
lease as to how rent was to be paid. 
Absent such an agreement, cash would suffice.  But where there is such an agreement, the
agreement governs and cash need not be accepted.  The California Uniform Commercial Code,
section 3301, states that “Unless otherwise agreed, if a certified check
. . . is taken for an obligation, the obligation is discharged to the same
extent discharge would result if an amount of money . . . were taken in payment
of the obligation.”  The court’s view is,
therefore, that where the parties have, by contract, agreed that payment would
be made in a particular (and reasonable) way, the pay or quit notice can
conform to that contractual agreement. 
For what it is worth, the history of section 5103, the federal statute
upon which defendant relies, has its roots in Article I, sections 8 and 10, of
the Constitution.  Section 8 (clause 5)
gives Congress the exclusive power to coin money and establish a uniform
currency.  Section 10 states that no
state could make any thing other than gold or silver coin a lawful tender.  The thrust of the constitutional provisions
was to stop states from forcing a creditor to take something other than lawful
money—federal coinage or gold or silver—in payment of debt, including coinage
declared by a state.  This was due to the
practice at the time that states coined worthless currency or allowed debtors
to repay a debt using some devalued asset; it was not to compel a creditor to
take such coinage if the parties had agreed otherwise.  (Kirkpatrick v. Stelling (1940) 36
Cal.App.2d 658; Spurgeon v. Franchise Tax Board (1984) 160 Cal.App.3d
524.)  So here.  Parties may, by agreement, refuse to allow
cash to be used to purchase a good or service—indeed, cashless businesses are
becoming more and more prevalent.  Once a
debt has been established, it can be satisfied in cash at least if there is no
agreement to the contrary.  But that does
not mean that a buyer has the right to buy things using cash.  The lease here apparently does not allow the
tenant to walk up to the landlord with a briefcase full of coins or currency;
it requires other forms of payment. 
Those other forms are better than cash for many reasons, among them is
that there is a paper trail.  To cure the
failure to pay rent under the lease, it does not strike the court as improper
(let alone unconstitutional) for the landlord to require the tenant to make the
payment in the form required by the lease as a condition for restoring the
tenant to the tenancy.
 
Further, in this particular case, it is not clear to the
court that the notice precluded the use of cash in any event.  It set forth particular ways in which payment
could be made, but it did not say “only” in the notice.  It could well be that had defendant attempted
to pay in cash, the landlord would have accepted it.  Absent some evidence that the landlord would
not have accepted cash, the entire demurrer fails of its premise.
 
Thus, although the court is not happy with plaintiff’s
election to ignore the court’s request to provide some briefing on the merits,
for these purposes the demurrer is OVERRULED. 
Defendant has 5 court days to answer.