 Case Number:  23SMCV04998    Hearing Date:   June 5, 2024    Dept:  I This is a demurrer brought by defendant Sarah Solis.  The case involves a contract between
plaintiff Warnick and Solis Design Studio (SDS).  The individual, Sarah Solis, is SDS’s
principal.  In the agreement, SDS agreed
to perform interior design services on the property for a fee.  The agreement did not identify SDS as a
general contractor nor did the agreement include any general contracting work
that SDS was responsible for doing. 
Plaintiff asserts that defendants, including Solis, introduced her to
general contractors and led her to believe that a general contractor would
oversee all of the construction work. 
Plaintiff further alleges that defendants actually performed general
contractor duties on the property. 
Plaintiff claims that she told defendants that she wanted a general
contractor on the job and was told one was on the job, but that in fact there
was no general contractor.  According to
plaintiff, defendants told her in September 2021 that the project was soon to
be complete and would require an additional $20,000 to complete.  That was allegedly reiterated on February 24,
2022 and plaintiff paid that amount. 
After payment, though, defendants allegedly demanded an additional $10,000,
which plaintiff refused to pay. 
According to plaintiff, the project was never completed and what was
done was done wrong due to defendants’ lack of knowledge in overseeing
construction.
 
In the earlier demurrer, both defendants demurred.  The court overruled the demurrer by SDS and
also overruled the demurrer as to Solis individually as to some of the causes
of action.  However, the court noted that
if Warnick wanted to hold Solis personally liable on an alter ego theory for
SDS’s liability, it would have to do more than plead the bare bones allegations
out of Witkin.  As to that, the demurrer
was sustained with leave to amend. 
Despite the court’s prior rulings, Solis brings the same arguments that
were rejected before.  They are rejected
again and Solis’s counsel ought to know better. 
It is improper conduct.  (Bennett
v. Suncloud (1997) 56 Cal.App.4th 91.) 

 
Solis also contends that the alter ego allegations remain
insufficient.  The court thinks that is a
close question.  It would seem that
Warnick essentially went a bit deeper into Witkin, but still is not pleading
particular facts.  Even so, that sort of
allegation has been considered sufficient in the past.  (Rutherford Holdings, LLC v. Plaza Del Rey
(2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 221.)  Further,
the specifics are more likely known to defendants than to plaintiff.  For now, it will be sufficient to withstand
the pleading motion, although plaintiff will have to do better to defeat
summary judgment.
 
The demurrer is OVERRULED in its entirety.  Defendant Solis has 30 days to answer.  The court will hold the CMC today. 