..................... ..................... ..................... ......
The summary displayed below was created by an LLM named 'llama3-8b-8192':
Here is the YAML summary of the legal document:

Case Number: 23STCV23517
Plaintiff's Name: Jody Kay Meade and Arthur Meade
Defendant's Name: The Stephan Co.
People-Names: Joy Meade, Jody Kay Meade, Arthur Meade, Jacobi
Company-Names: The Stephan Co., Old 97 Company
Places: California, Florida
Dates: July 1984, 1988, 1996, 2021, 2022, April 4, 2024, January 4, 2024
Events: Exposure to asbestos, filing of lawsuit, motion to quash service of summons
Money: None specified
Intentions: To determine if the court has jurisdiction over the defendant
Facts: Plaintiff Joy Meade developed mesothelioma due to asbestos exposure; defendant The Stephan Co. argues lack of personal jurisdiction; defendant is incorporated and headquartered in Florida; defendant's subsidiary Old 97 Company purchased in 1988 and ran as a wholly owned subsidiary without conducting business in California
Disputes: Whether the court has personal jurisdiction over the defendant
Acts: Filing of lawsuit, motion to quash service of summons, opposition to motion, reply brief
Agreements: None specified
Laws: California Code of Civil Procedure, United States Constitution
Case Citations: Burger King Corp. v. Rudzewicz, Asahi Metal Industry Co., Ltd. v. Superior Court of California, Solano County, Jayone Foods, Inc. v. Aekyung Industrial Co. Ltd., Strasner v. Touchstone Wireless Repair & Logistics, LP, Daimler AG v. Bauman, Vons Companies, Inc. v. Seabest Foods, Inc., Ford Motor Co. v. Montana Eighth Judicial District Court
Statutes: Code Civ. Proc., ยง 418.10, subd. (a)(1), Code Civ. Proc., ยง 581, subd. (h), Code Civ. Proc., ยง 410.10
Roles: Judge, Plaintiff, Defendant, Attorney
Significant Statements:

* "A court of this state may exercise jurisdiction on any basis not inconsistent with the Constitution of this state or of the United States."
* "When a defendant moves to quash service of process on jurisdictional grounds, the plaintiff has the initial burden of demonstrating facts justifying the exercise of jurisdiction."
* "A nonresident defendant may be subject to the specific jurisdiction of the forum 'if the defendant has purposefully availed himself or herself of forum benefits [citation], and the 'controversy is related to or "arises out of" a defendant's contacts with the forum.' [Citations.]"
* "The 'arise out' of standard 'asks about causation,' but 'relate to' does not."
* "When a corporation has 'continuously and deliberately exploited [a State's] market, it must reasonably anticipate being haled into [that State's] court[s] to defend actions 'based on' products causing injury there."

And here is the English-text summary of the judge's tentative ruling:

The judge has tentatively ruled to continue the hearing on the defendant's motion to quash service of summons for lack of personal jurisdiction. The judge has determined that the plaintiff must conduct jurisdictional discovery to establish the defendant's contacts with California and whether the defendant or its subsidiary Old 97 Company knew that their asbestos-containing products would be sold in California. The judge has ordered the hearing to be continued to April 4, 2024, at 9 a.m. and has granted the parties permission to file supplemental opposition and reply briefs on regular notice.
