  Case Number:  20STCV44120    Hearing Date:   January 4, 2024    Dept:  15 [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE MOTION FOR SUMMARY ADJUDICATIONOn March 3, 2023, Plaintiffs
Erica Blafield, Elizabeth Arredondo, Diana G. Lenkiewicz, Gustavo Martinez,
Hugo Martinez, Juan Martinez, Maria V. Martinez, Rocio M. Martinez, and Maria
G. Russel filed this action alleging Eugene Montano developed mesothelioma as a
result of exposure to asbestos in Defendant Amcord, Inc.’s products.  Defendant filed a motion for summary
adjudication of Plaintiffs’ third cause of action for negligent
misrepresentation, fourth cause of action for fraud by nondisclosure, and
punitive damages claim. 
In their opposition,
Plaintiffs state they waive their third and fourth causes of action against
Defendants.
Plaintiffs filed a
response to Defendant’s Separate Statement in which Plaintiffs asserted
objections to Defendant’s Undisputed Material Facts.  This is improper.  Objections should be made to evidence, not
the facts that the other party contends are undisputed.  (Rules of Court, rule 3.1354.)  The objections to evidence must state the
exhibit, title, page, and line number of the material objected to and quote or
set forth the objectionable statement or material.  (Ibid.)  The rule of court sets out two proper formats
for objections to evidence used in a summary judgment motion.  (Ibid.)  Plaintiffs’ objections do not use one of the
proper formats, do not state the exhibit, title, page, and line number of the
objectionable material, and do not quote or set forth the objectionable
statement.  The objections are overruled.
Defendant filed 46 pages
of objections to Plaintiffs’ evidence. 
The court did not rely on most of the objected-to evidence.  The court overrules the objections to
Exhibits H-M and R.
When the motion targets a
request for punitive damages, a higher standard of proof is at play.  “Although the clear and convincing evidentiary
standard is a stringent one, ‘it does not impose on a plaintiff the obligation
to “prove” a case for punitive damages at summary judgment [or summary
adjudication.’  [Citations.]  Even so, ‘where the plaintiff’s ultimate
burden of proof will be by clear and convincing evidence, the higher standard
of proof must be taken into account in ruling on a motion for summary judgment
or summary adjudication, since if a plaintiff is to prevail on a claim for
punitive damages, it will be necessary that the evidence presented meet the
higher evidentiary standard.’ 
[Citation.]”  (Butte Fire Cases
(2018) 24 Cal.App.5th 1150, 1158-1159.) 
“Summary judgment or summary adjudication ‘ “ ‘on the issue of punitive
damages is proper’ only ‘when no reasonable jury could find the plaintiff’s
evidence to be clear and convincing proof of malice, fraud or oppression.’ ”
’.  [Citation.]”  (Id. at p. 1159.) 
For a corporate
defendant, the oppression, fraud or malice “must be on the part of an officer,
director, or managing agent of the corporation.”  (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (b).)  That requirement can be satisfied “ ‘if the
evidence permits a clear and convincing inference that within the corporate
hierarchy authorized persons acted despicably in “willful and conscious
disregard of the rights or safety of others.” ’ [Citation.]”  (Morgan v. J-M Manufacturing Company, Inc.
(2021) 60 Cal.App.5th 1078, 1090.) A plaintiff also “can satisfy the ‘managing
agent’ requirement ‘through evidence showing the information in the possession
of the corporation and the structure of management decision making that permits
an inference that the information in fact moved upward to a point where
corporate policy was formulated.’  [Citation.]”  (Id. at p. 1091.) 
“ ‘[I]ntentionally
marketing a defective product knowing that it might cause injury and death is
‘highly reprehensible.’ 
[Citation.]”  (Bankhead v.
ArvinMeritor, Inc. (2012) 205 Cal.App.4th 68, 85.)  Punitive damages may be available when a
defendant knows the dangers of asbestos, took action to protect its own
employees from the hazard, knew that its products were likely to pose a danger
to users, and did not warn them.  (Pfeifer
v. John Crane, Inc. (2013) 220 Cal.Ap.4th 1270, 1300.)  Such evidence “was sufficient to show malice,
that is, despicable conduct coupled with conscious disregard for the safety of
others.”  (Id. at pp. 1300-1301.)  
Defendant argues
Plaintiffs’ discovery responses are factually deficient, citing Plaintiffs’
responses to special interrogatories asking Plaintiffs to state all facts supporting
their punitive damages claim.  (Motion at
p. 14; Ex. B at p. 5.)  Plaintiffs,
incorporating the response to special interrogatory No. 1, responded that
Defendant designed, manufactured, and sold, supplied, distributed, and
otherwise marketed Riverside Gun Plastic Cement from 1959 through Spring 1979
containing 2.3% asbestos.  (Ex. C at pp.
3, 9.)  Defendant was aware of the
hazards of asbestos in the 1970s, does not know when it began placing asbestos
warning on packages, and conducted air sampling at its plant.  (Id. at p. 4.)  Defendant also cites Plaintiffs’ responses to
request for production relating to punitive damages  (Undisputed Material Facts (“UMF”) 56; Ex. D
at p.12.)  Plaintiffs’ response referred
to the deposition testimony of Defendant’s employees and expert witnesses and Plaintiffs,
Decedent’s records, non-case specific documents, testimony of Beverly
Saverance, Robert Hyche, and William Duran, and Defendants’ discovery
responses.  (Ex. E at pp. 16-17.)  The responses did not provide specific
evidence concerning Defendant’s knowledge or intent to harm to prove malice,
oppression, fraud, or conscious disregard for the safety of others.  Therefore, Defendant shifted the burden.
In opposition, Plaintiffs
argue that Defendant knew of the hazards of asbestos by the early 1970s but
continued to sell its products without providing warnings.  (Opposition at p. 3)  Plaintiffs cite Defendant’s interoffice memos
and correspondence to the City of Los Angeles in the 1970s about Defendant
developing asbestos-free products because of regulations against asbestos, the
higher costs of such alternative products, and Defendant’s efforts to change laws
limiting asbestos-containing products and to allow them to continue selling
asbestos-containing products.  (Exs. H-M,
R.) 
The evidence proffered by
Plaintiffs creates disputed issues of material fact about Defendant’s knowledge
of the hazards of asbestos in its products, the need to minimize exposure, and
Defendant’s efforts to continue selling its products despite regulations
limiting or prohibiting such sales.  The
court cannot conclude that no reasonable jury could find clear and convincing
proof of malice, fraud, or oppression. 
The motion for summary
adjudication is DENIED on the request for punitive damages. 
The moving party is to
give notice. 
 