

 
BACKGROUND
 
On August
2, 2022, Plaintiff State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Company (“Plaintiff”)
filed this action against Defendants Eduardo Martinez Cruz (“Defendant”) and
Does I through V, inclusive, for damages. 
 
The
Complaint alleges the following: Plaintiff is an insurance company that insured
a vehicle owned by its insured The Estate of Carol Cartwright (“Insured”).
(Complaint, ¶¶ 1, 5.) On or about October 31, 2021, the defendants (among other
things) negligently and carelessly drove their vehicle, causing it to collide
with the Insured’s vehicle. (Complaint, ¶¶ 5, 7.) As a result of the
defendants’ negligence, the Insured’s vehicle was damaged in the total sum of
$18,204.91. (Complaint, ¶ 8.) Pursuant to the insurance policy between
Plaintiff and the Insured, Plaintiff paid for those damages and, therefore, is
subrogated to all the Insured’s rights against the defendants. (Complaint, ¶ 9.)

 
On
February 17, 2023, Defendant filed an Answer to the Complaint setting forth a
general denial and the following nine affirmative defenses: (1) Failure to
State a Cause of Action; (2) Failure to Mitigate; (3) Statute of Limitations;
(4) Comparative Fault of Plaintiff; (5) Comparative Fault of Third Parties; (6)
Assumption of Risk; (7) Laches; (8) Superseding Cause; and (9) Prop 51. 
 
On
September 6, 2023, Plaintiff filed a motion to deem the Requests for
Admissions, Set One, it propounded on Defendant as admitted. 
 
On
October 31, 2023, the Court granted Plaintiff’s motion to deem its Requests for
Admissions, Set One as admitted. (10/31/23 Minute Order.) 
 
Pursuant
to its October 31, 2023 order, the following matters in Plaintiff’s RFAs were
admitted:
 
1.     
Admit that at the time of the INCIDENT, you were
driving a motor vehicle. (For purposes of these requests, the term INCIDENT
refers to the accident upon which this action was based).
2.     
Admit that at the time of the INCIDENT, you failed to
drive with reasonable care.
3.     
Admit that your driving was the sole cause of the
COLLISION with plaintiff’s INSURED VEHICLE. (For purposes of these requests,
the term COLLISION refers to the motor vehicle accident which is the basis of
the INCIDENT; the term INSURED VEHICLE refers to the other vehicle involved in
the INCIDENT for which plaintiff is seeking to recover damages.)
4.     
Admit that you were at least 1% at fault in causing the
COLLISION.
5.     
Admit that you were 100% at fault in causing the
COLLISION.
6.     
Admit that as a result of the COLLISION, you caused the
INSURED to incur damages. (For purposes of these requests, the term INSURED
refers to the owner of the INSURED VEHICLE.)
7.     
Admit that as a result of the COLLISION, you caused the
INSURED to incur damages of at least $18,204.91. 
8.     
Admit that plaintiff as the insurer for the INSURED has
been damaged in the amount of at least $18,204.91, the amount which it paid its
INSURED on the claim its INSURED made for his/her losses arising from INCIDENT
plus any other uncovered losses the INSURED suffered and assigned to plaintiff.

9.     
Admit that the affirmative defenses you have asserted
in this matter lack merit and evidentiary support. 
 
(10/31/23 Minute Order at pp. 4-5.)

 
On January 17, 2024, pursuant to a
stipulation between the parties, the Court entered an 
order continuing trial from January 30, 2024 to May 31,
2024.
 
            On March
22, 2024, Plaintiff filed and served the instant unopposed Motion for Judgment
on the Pleadings. Any opposition to the motion was required to have been filed
and served at least nine court days prior to the hearing pursuant to CCP §
1005(b). 
 
MOVING PARTY
POSITION
 
            Plaintiff
contends that due to the Court granting its motion to deem its Requests for
Admissions, Set One as admitted, any issues raised by Defendant under a general
denial or any affirmative defenses are removed.  
 
 
 
OPPOSITION
 
            No opposition brief filed as of
May 7, 2024.    
 
REPLY
 
            No reply brief filed as of May 7,
2024.
 
ANALYSIS
 
I.          Motion
for Judgment on the Pleadings 
A.               
Meet and Confer Requirement 
            Before
filing a motion for judgment on the pleadings, a moving party's counsel must
meet and confer, in person, by telephone, or by videoconference with counsel
for the party who filed the pleading “that is subject to the motion for
judgment on the pleadings for the purpose of determining if an agreement can be
reached that resolves the claims to be raised in the motion for judgment on the
pleadings.” (CCP § 439(a).) “A determination by the court that the meet
and confer process was insufficient shall not be grounds to grant or deny the
motion for judgment on the pleadings.” (CCP § 439(a)(4).) 
            Plaintiff’s counsel, Christina
Cicione (“Cicione”), provides a declaration in support of the motion. Counsel
declares that she spoke to Defendant’s counsel on November 20, 2023, and
Defendant’s counsel indicated that he did not have contact with Defendant.
(Cicione Decl., ¶ 1.) On February 9, 2024, Ms. Cicione called defense counsel
to see if he had made contact with Defendant; however, she was unable to speak
with defense counsel and therefore left a message for defense counsel followed
by an e-mail to follow up. (Cicione Decl., ¶ 2.) On March 7, 2024, Ms. Cicione
sent a final e-mail to Defendant’s attorney in an attempt to meet and confer
prior to filing a motion for judgment on the pleadings. (Cicione Decl., ¶ 3.)
Later that day, Ms. Cicione received a call from Defendant’s attorney who
advised that he had not been able to contact Defendant. (Id.) To date,
the parties have been unable to resolve the issue. (Cicione Decl., ¶ 4.)  
            The Court finds that
the meet and confer requirement has not been met. The Court, however, will
assess the merits of the motion for judgment on the pleadings. The Court reminds
the parties of the need to comply with the requirements of the Code of Civil
Procedure. 
B.        Judicial Notice  
            The Court GRANTS
Plaintiff’s request for judicial notice pursuant to Evid. Code §§ 452 and 453.
The Court therefore takes judicial notice of Defendant’s Answer, Plaintiff’s
Motion to Deem Admissions, and the Court’s October 31, 2023 order granting
Plaintiff’s Motion to Deem Admissions. 
C.         Legal Standard 
“A party may move for judgment on the
pleadings.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 438, subd. (b)(1).) “If the moving party is a
plaintiff, [the motion may only be made on the grounds] that the complaint
states facts sufficient to constitute a cause or causes of action against the
defendant and the answer does not state facts sufficient to constitute a
defense to the complaint.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 438, subd. (c)(1)(A).) In
assessing a motion for judgment on the pleadings, a court “may consider matters
that may be judicially noticed.” Pang v. Beverly Hosp., Inc. (2000) 79
Cal.App.4th 986, 990, citation omitted. A motion for judgment on the
pleadings may be filed by a plaintiff if “the defendant has already filed his
or her answer to the complaint and the time for the plaintiff to demur to the
answer has expired.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 438, subd. (f)(1).) A motion pursuant
to CCP § 438 “may be made . . . if a pretrial conference order has been entered
pursuant to Section 575, or within 30 days of the date the action is initially
set for trial, whichever is later, unless the court otherwise permits.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 438, subd. (e).) 
 “A motion for judgment on the
pleadings has the same function as a general demurrer, and hence attacks only
defects disclosed on the face of the pleadings or by matters that can be
judicially noticed.” Cloud v. Northrop Grumman Corp. (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th
995, 999. “A motion for judgment on the pleadings is akin to a general
demurrer; it tests the sufficiency of the complaint to state a cause of
action.” Wise v. Pacific Gas and Elec. Co. (2005) 132 Cal.App.4th 725, 738.  
“Judicial admissions may be made in a
pleading, by stipulation during trial, or by response to request for
admission.” Barsegian v. Kessler & Kessler (2013) 215 Cal.Ap.4th 446,
451, citations omitted. “[I]n discovery when a party propounds requests for
admission, any facts admitted by the responding party constitute judicial
admissions.” Id. at p. 452. “A judicial admission is therefore
conclusive both as to the admitting party and as to that party’s opponent.”
Ibid., emphasis in original. “[I]f a factual allegation is treated as a
judicial admission, then neither party may attempt to contradict it—the
admitted fact is effectively conceded by both sides.” Ibid., emphasis
in original. 
1.         Appropriateness
of Granting the Instant Motion   

 
            Plaintiff
contends that its Requests for Admissions served upon Defendant have been
deemed admitted and such admissions establish both liability and the amount of
damages. (Motion at p. 5:2-5.) Plaintiff states that based on such admissions,
it moves for judgment on the pleadings. (Motion at p. 5:5-6.)  
 
            The Court
finds that the Notice of Motion is defective as it merely states that Plaintiff
“will and does hereby move for an order granting Judgment on the Pleadings
against defendant EDUARDO MARTINEZ CRUZ. Said motion will be based on this
Notice, the Memorandum of Points and Authorities, Declaration of Christina
Cicione and the Request for Judicial Notice which establish that Plaintiff is
entitled to such relief.” (Motion at p. 1:22-26.) 
 
            However,
“[a] notice of motion must state in the opening paragraph the nature of the
order being sought and the grounds for the issuance of the order.” (Cal. Rules
of Court, Rule 3.1110(a).) Here, the Notice of Motion is void of any indication
of the basis for Plaintiff’s request for judgment on the pleadings. Given that
Plaintiff is the moving party, the motion can only be made on the grounds “that
the complaint states facts sufficient to constitute a cause or causes of action
against the defendant and the answer does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a defense to the complaint.” (CCP § 438(c)(1)(A).) Here, Plaintiff
does not even argue that the Complaint states facts to constitute a cause of
action against Defendant. Plaintiff also does not explicitly argue that the
Answer fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a defense to the
Complaint. To the contrary, Plaintiff argues that, due to the Court’s order
granting its motion as to deem the RFAs as admitted, its motion for judgment on
the pleadings is proper. 
 
            The Court
is unsure whether Plaintiff is asking the Court to determine that the Complaint
states facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action along with a
determination that—based on the Court’s October 30, 2023 Minute
Order—Defendant’s Answer fails to state sufficient facts to constitute a
defense. “[D]ue process requires a party to be fully advised of the issues to
be addressed and to be given adequate notice of what facts it must rebut in
order to prevail.” Fenn v. Sherriff (2003) 109 Cal.App.4th 1466, 1481. 
 
            Additionally, the Court finds that
Plaintiff is improperly relying on the truth of deemed requests for admissions
to seek judgment on the pleadings against Defendant. The Court notes that on a
motion for judgment on the pleadings, the Court analyzes the pleadings and does
not rely on deemed admissions granted through discovery motions. Barker v.
Hull (1987) 191 Cal.App.3d 221, 224. Plaintiff’s cited authority also does
not support the proposition which it advances. The case of Barsegian, supra,
215 Cal.App.4th 446 is inapposite as such case addressed judicial
admissions in the context of a motion to compel arbitration and not a motion
for judgment on the pleadings. Plaintiff’s citation to Addy v. Bliss (1996) 44
Cal.App.4th 205 is also inapposite as such case involved judicial
admissions concerning a motion for summary judgment. 
 
It appears that Plaintiff is arguing that there is no
factual dispute concerning the Complaint or Defendant’s Answer based on the
Court’s October 31, 2023 order. The appropriate motion for Plaintiff to file is
not a motion for judgment on the pleadings, but rather a motion for summary
judgment. If Plaintiff contends that there are no triable issues of fact, then
Plaintiff should file a motion for summary judgment since a motion for summary
judgment allows the Court to determine whether there is any triable issue of
material fact. Saldana v. Globe-Weis Systems Co. (1991) 233 Cal.App.3d 1505,
1511. Only the legal sufficiency of allegations in a pleading are tested
pursuant to a motion for judgment on the pleadings. Lee v. Kotyluk (2021) 59
Cal.App.5th 719, 728. Here, pursuant to the instant motion, Plaintiff
improperly requests that the Court make a factual determination that certain issues
of fact have been determined in Plaintiff’s favor pursuant to the Court’s
ruling on a discovery motion and therefore judgment should enter in Plaintiff’s
favor and against Defendant. Thus, the basis for the instant motion is
improper. 
 
            Plaintiff may properly file and
serve a motion for summary judgment and/or summary adjudication. The Court will
assess the merits of such a motion if and when such a motion is filed. 
 
II.        Conclusion

            
            Based on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s motion for judgment
on the pleadings is DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE. 
 
            Moving party is ordered to give
notice. 