  Case Number:  24STCV12254    Hearing Date:   October 21, 2024    Dept:  68 


Dept. 68


 




Date: 10-21-24


 




Case No: 24STCV12254
Trial Date: Not Set
 


 



 
DEMURRER TO THE COMPLAINT
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant, Los Angeles Unified School District
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff, Carolyn Johnson
 
RELIEF REQUESTED:
Demurrer to the Complaint
·        
1st
Cause of Action: Discrimination in Violation of Government Code section 12940,
et seq.
·        
2nd
Cause of Action: Failure to Prevent Discrimination in Violation of Government
Code section 12940, et seq.
·        
4th
Cause of Action: Failure to Engage in Good Faith Interactive Process in
Violation of Government Code 12940, et seq.
 
SUMMARY OF ACTION
Plaintiff Carolyn Johnson began work as a schoolteacher for
Defendant Los Angeles Unified School District (LAUSD) in 1999. On July 26,
2021, Plaintiff underwent surgery for treatment of a brain tumor, which led to
Plaintiff’s designation as a disabled employee requiring accommodation.
Plaintiff subsequently began remote instruction for remote students. In June
2022, LAUSD required Plaintiff to start physically reporting to school premises
for work. Plaintiff requested continued remote work. Notwithstanding the
recommendation of the medical director for LAUSD recommending continued remote
work, and submission of additional supporting documentation, the request was
denied.
 
On May 15, 2024, Plaintiff filed a complaint for Discrimination
in Violation of Government Code section 12940, et seq., Failure to Prevent
Discrimination in Violation of Government Code section 12940, et seq., Failure
to Provide Reasonable Accommodations in Violation of Government Code section
12940, et seq., Failure to Engage in Good Faith Interactive Process in
Violation of Government Code 12940, et seq., and Declaratory Judgment.
 
RULING: Sustained with Leave to Amend in
Part/Overruled in Part.
“Objections” to “New Evidence” in Opposition: Overruled/Not
Relied Upon (See Standard)
 
Defendant Los Angeles Unified School District (LAUSD) brings
a demurrer to the first, second and fourth causes of action for Discrimination
in Violation of Government Code section 12940, et seq., Failure to Prevent
Discrimination in Violation of Government Code section 12940, et seq., and Failure
to Engage in Good Faith Interactive Process in Violation of Government Code
12940, et seq. LAUSD challenges the subject causes of action on grounds that
the complaint lacks articulation of an adverse employment action, and
insufficiently articulates separate and distinct claims based a common core of
disability discrimination/failure to accommodate allegations. Plaintiff in
opposition maintains the complaint is properly pled, and LAUSD improperly
relies on extrinsic facts and inference. Plaintiff alternatively requests leave
to amend. LAUSD in reply reiterates the lack of distinctive claims and sole
reliance on the failure to accommodate due to the requirement that Plaintiff
report in person to a LAUSD facility.
 
A demurrer is an objection to a pleading, the grounds for
which are apparent from either the face of the complaint or a matter of which
the court may take judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd. (a); see
also Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d
311, 318.) The purpose of a demurrer is to challenge the sufficiency of a
pleading “by raising questions of law.” (Postley
v. Harvey (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 280, 286.) “In the construction of a
pleading, for the purpose of determining its effect, its allegations must be
liberally construed, with a view to substantial justice between the parties.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 452.) The court “ ‘ “treat[s] the demurrer as admitting all
material facts properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions
of fact or law . . . .” ’ ” (Berkley v.
Dowds (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 518, 525.) In applying these standards, the
court liberally construes the complaint to determine whether a cause of action
has been stated. (Picton v. Anderson
Union High School Dist. (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 726, 733.)
 
“A demurrer for
uncertainty is strictly construed, even where a complaint is in some respects uncertain,
because ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery procedures.” (Khoury v. Maly's
of California, Inc. (1993) 14
Cal.App.4th 612, 616; Williams v.
Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 135, 139 [“[U]nder our liberal pleading rules, where the
complaint contains substantive factual allegations sufficiently apprising
defendant of the issues it is being asked to meet, a demurrer for uncertainty
should be overruled or plaintiff given leave to amend.]
 
1st Cause of Action: Discrimination in Violation
of Government Code section 12940, et seq.
“The
specific elements of a prima facie case [for discrimination] may vary depending
on the particular facts. (Citation) Generally,
the plaintiff must provide evidence that (1) [s]he was a member of a protected
class, (2) [s]he was qualified for the position he sought or was performing
competently in the position he held, (3) [s]he suffered an adverse employment
action, such as termination, demotion, or denial of an available job, and (4)
some other circumstance suggests discriminatory motive.” (Guz v. Bechtel Nat. Inc. (2000) 24
Cal.4th 317, 355.) 
 
Disability
discrimination requires a plaintiff show she “(1) suffered from a disability, (2)
could perform the essential duties of a job with or without reasonable
accommodation, and (3) was subjected to an adverse employment action because of the disability or
perceived disability.
(Citation.)
To establish a prima
facie case, the
employee must show ‘actions taken by the employer from which one can infer, if
such actions remain unexplained, that it is more likely than not that such
actions were “based on a [prohibited] discriminatory criterion ....”’ (Citation.)
The employee's burden of proving a prima facie case is not onerous, and very
little evidence is required at this step.” (Zamora
v. Security Industry Specialists, Inc.
(2021) 71 Cal.App.5th 1, 37 [internal quotation marks omitted].)
 
“[A]n
adverse employment action is not limited to ‘ultimate’ employment acts, such as
a specific hiring, firing, demotion, or failure to promote decision. The
legislative purpose underlying FEHA's prohibition against retaliation is to
prevent employers from deterring employees from asserting good faith discrimination
complaints, and the use of intermediate retaliatory actions may certainly have
this effect. ... [T]he retaliation must result in a substantial adverse change
in the terms and conditions of the plaintiff's employment. A change that is
merely contrary to the employee's interests or not to the employee's liking is
insufficient. Requiring an employee to prove a substantial adverse job effect ‘guards
against both “judicial micromanagement of business practices,” [citation] and
frivolous suits over insignificant slights.’ (Citation.) Absent this
threshold showing, courts will be thrust into the role of personnel officers,
becoming entangled in every conceivable form of employee job dissatisfaction.
While the Legislature was understandably concerned with the chilling effect of
employer retaliatory actions and mandated that FEHA provisions be interpreted
broadly to prevent unlawful discrimination, it could not have intended to
provide employees a remedy for any possible slight resulting from the filing of
a discrimination complaint.” (Akers v. County of San Diego (2002)
95 Cal.App.4th 1441, 1455.)
 
LAUSD maintains Plaintiff improperly conflates all claims on
the basis of the failure to accommodate. “[T]he FEHA scheme prohibits specific
unlawful employment practices by covered employers, e.g., discrimination,
retaliation, failure to make reasonable accommodation, failure to engage in the
interactive process with the employee. We conclude that the commission of one
specific prohibited employment practice does not, in and of itself, constitute
commission of all other prohibited employment practices under the broad rubric
of policies or practices affecting the ‘terms, conditions or privileges of
employment.’ Such an interpretation would be contrary to the whole point
of specifically separating conduct into individual unlawful employment
practices.” (Brown v. Los Angeles Unified School District (2021) 60
Cal.App.5th 1092, 1106–1107.)
 
The court appreciates the position of LAUSD in that the
complaint consists of the “factual allegations” providing the foundation for
the individually identified causes of action without separately articulated
elemental bases. Instead, the individual causes of action consist of a series
of conclusions relying on incorporation of the foundational allegations. 
 
It remains undisputed that Plaintiff suffers from a
disability as a result of the brain surgery and requires accommodation. The
failure to accommodate cause of action in fact remains unchallenged. While the
result of the failure to accommodate may result from discriminatory motive, the
mere existence of the lack of accommodation will not excuse the required
elements for the discrimination claim—the adverse action was the result of the
disability itself. (Zamora v. Security Industry Specialists, Inc., supra, 71 Cal.App.5th at p. 37; Brown v.
Los Angeles Unified School District, supra, 60 Cal.App.5th at pp.
1106–1107.) The complaint lacks any facts even alleging said element. 
 
The demurrer is therefore sustained. 
 
2nd Cause of Action: Failure to Prevent
Discrimination in Violation of Government Code section 12940, et seq.
 
LAUSD follows that without a separate basis of articulated
discrimination, Plaintiff cannot state failure to prevent discrimination. (Featherstone
v. Southern California Permanente Medical Group (2017) 10 Cal.App.5th
1150, 1166.) The demurrer is sustained.
 
4th Cause of Action: Failure to Engage in Good
Faith Interactive Process in Violation of Government Code 12940, et seq.
LAUSD challenges the instant cause of action on grounds that
while the complaint alleges engagement in the interactive process, the
substance of the cause of action only pleads a failure to accommodate in
different form, rather than an actual claim of improper process. Plaintiff
counters that the complaint articulates bad faith engagement in the process,
and no reasonable accommodation occurred. “The purpose of the interactive
process is to determine what accommodations is required. Once a reasonable
accommodation has been granted, then the employer has a duty to provide that
reasonable accommodation.” (Brown v. Los Angeles Unified School District (2021)
60 Cal.App.5th at p. 1109.)
 
The complaint alleges the ultimate denial of the request to
accommodate (e.g. continued remote work). The process leading to the apparent denial
of the requested accommodation constitutes the issue. The court declines to
engage in any qualitative determination as to the reasonableness of the conduct
by LAUSD in the subject demurrer. The court finds the allegations sufficient
for purposes of alleging the subject cause of action.
 
The demurrer is overruled.
 
In summary, the demurer is sustained with 30 days leave to
amend as to the first and second causes of action for Discrimination in
Violation of Government Code section 12940, et seq., and Failure to Prevent
Discrimination in Violation of Government Code section 12940, et seq., and
overruled as to the fourth cause of action for Failure to Engage in Good Faith
Interactive Process in Violation of Government Code 12940, et seq. 
 
Plaintiff
may only amend the existing causes of action. Plaintiff may not add any new
causes of action or damages claims. (Harris v. Wachovia Mortgage,
FSB (2010)
185 Cal.App.4th 1018, 1023.) If Plaintiff declines or fails to file a first
amended complaint, moving defendant shall answer the operative complaint within
10 days of the lapsed deadline. Any new causes of action or allegations outside
the scope of the order may be addressed via a motion to strike.
 
LAUSD to give notice to all parties.
 