  Case Number:  23STCV29877    Hearing Date:   December 11, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
ACCIDENT
  FIGHTERS, APC, 
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
NOVA
  FUNDING CORPORATION, et
  al.,
  
                        Defendants.
  


 
  Case No.:  23STCV29877
 
  Hearing Date:  Dec. 11, 2024
 
[TENTATIVE] order RE:
PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO SET ASIDE
  DISMISSAL



BACKGROUND
            Plaintiff Accident Fighters, APC
(“Plaintiff”) filed this action against defendants Nova Funding Corporation and
Ron Sinai (“Defendants”) on December 5, 2023. Plaintiff filed its operative
first amended complaint (“FAC”) on March 18, 2024, asserting claims for
(1) intentional interference with contractual relations, (2) intentional
interference with prospective economic advantage, (3) unfair business
practices, and (4) unjust enrichment. 
            Plaintiff alleges Defendant Nova
Funding was, at relevant times, “a California corporation performing litigation
funding services” with defendant Sinai as its principal. (FAC, ¶ 2.)
According to the FAC, Defendants provided one of Plaintiff’s litigation clients,
a Mr. Libby, with “financial assistance” on the condition that he replace
Plaintiff with counsel of Defendants’ choice. (Id., ¶ 3.) Mr. Libby replaced
Plaintiff as requested. (Ibid.) Mr. Libby’s litigation (“the Libby
Suit”) subsequently settled. Plaintiff has raised a dispute over the allocation
of attorney’s fees in that proceeding (id., ¶ 6); Plaintiff also filed
this suit, arguing Defendants’ conduct deprived it of fees it would have earned
if Libby had not hired new counsel. (Id., ¶ 16.)
            On April 2, Joseph S. Farzam
(“Farzam”), the attorney who replaced Plaintiff in the Libby Suit, filed a
motion to quash Plaintiff’s subpoenas for production of his business records.
            On April 5, 2024, Defendants
demurred to Plaintiff’s FAC.
            On April 8, 2024, Defendants moved
for a protective order to stay discovery pending the hearing on Defendants’
demurrer.
            On April 22, 2024, Plaintiff
dismissed its FAC without prejudice.
            On October 18, 2024, Plaintiff filed
the instant motion to set aside and vacate the dismissal pursuant to Code of
Civil Procedure section 473(b).
            On November 26, 2024, Defendants
filed their opposition.
On December 2, 2024, Plaintiff replied.
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
Code of Civil Procedure section 473,
subdivision (b) provides for either discretionary or mandatory relief from
certain prior actions or proceedings in the trial court. (Luri¿v. Greenwald¿(2003)
107 Cal.App.4th 1119, 1124.)¿¿
“ ‘Under the discretionary relief
provision, on a showing of “mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable
neglect,”¿the court has discretion to allow relief from a “judgment, dismissal,
order, or other proceeding taken against”¿a party or his or her attorney.¿¿Under
the mandatory relief provision, on the other hand, upon a showing by attorney
declaration of “mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect,”¿the court shall
vacate any “resulting default judgment or dismissal entered.”’ [Citation.]
Applications seeking relief under the mandatory provision of section 473 must
be ‘accompanied by an attorney’s sworn affidavit attesting to his or her
mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect.’ ¿”  (Ibid.; Code Civ. Proc., § 473(b).)¿¿
 
/
/ /
DISCUSSION
A.             
Plaintiff is not
entitled to mandatory relief because its voluntary dismissal is not equivalent
to a default.
Plaintiff’s
motion and reply papers rely almost entirely on the mandatory portion of
section 473, which conditions relief on attorney neglect, etc. 
Mandatory relief
is not available to Plaintiff here.
“[T]he mandatory
relief provision [of section 473] is intended to reach only those dismissals
that are ‘procedurally equivalent to a default.’ [Citations.] … [¶] … [D]ismissals
that are sufficiently distinct from a default, thereby falling outside the
scope of the mandatory provision, include ‘(1) a dismissal following the
sustaining of a demurrer without leave to amend on the ground the
statute of limitations had run [citation]; (2) a voluntary dismissal pursuant
to a settlement agreement [citation]; and (3) a mandatory dismissal for failure
to serve a complaint within three years [citation].’ [Citation.]” (Jackson
v. Kaiser Foundation Hospitals, Inc. (2019) 32 Cal.App.5th 166,
174–175; see also Leader v. Health Industries of America Inc. (2001) 89
Cal.App.4th 603, 620, cited at Mot., 4:1.)
Plaintiff filed
a voluntary dismissal on April 22, 2024. Plaintiff contends it dismissed for
erroneous reasons. The dismissal was voluntary, regardless; it was not in the
nature of a default. In its reply papers, Plaintiff contends “Courts have
consistently held that mandatory relief is available” in this circumstance.
(Reply, 3:6-7.) But Plaintiff cites no law to support this contention. Vanishingly
few of the cases cited in Plaintiff’s moving papers discuss mandatory relief,
and none of them granted relief upon facts similar to these.
As a rule, a
voluntary dismissal is not subject to the mandatory relief described in section
473. Plaintiff has cited no law showing why the Court should depart from that
rule. Mandatory relief is not available.
 
B.        Plaintiff
has not demonstrated mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect that would
justify relief under section 473.
            In
a footnote in its reply, Plaintiff contends “[it] would also be entitled to
discretionary relief under the plain language of CCP § 473(b).” (Reply, 4:1,
fn. 3.) Plaintiff did not discuss this argument in its moving papers;
nonetheless, the Court takes up the question for the sake of completeness.
In this regard, Plaintiff
contends it dismissed its FAC due to an excusable mistake of fact, because
“Plaintiff reasonably believed that no documentary evidence supporting
Plaintiff’s claims would ever be produced”. (Mot., 5:25-27.) Plaintiff later
discovered such evidence, and so it seeks to reopen its claims.
1. Plaintiff is
not entitled to discretionary relief based on counsel’s professional mistake.
First:
discretionary relief is not available because Plaintiff relies not on its own
mistake, but the mistake of its counsel. Plaintiff’s counsel attests he
dismissed the FAC because he “reasonably believed that no documentary evidence
… would ever be produced”. (Id., ¶ 10.) This is a professional judgment
about the likelihood of the claims’ success. “ ‘[A]n attorney acting within his
or her professional capacity ... may not be excused by section 473 from errors
occurring during the discharge of strictly professional duties.’ ” (Younessi
v. Woolf (2016) 244 Cal.App.4th 1137, 1146 [no discretionary relief
where attorney “just assumed” 30-day period to amend complaint].) “ ‘ “ …[T]he
discretionary relief provision of section 473 only permits relief from attorney
error “fairly imputable to the client, i.e., mistakes anyone could have made.”
“Conduct falling below the professional standard of care, such as failure to
timely object or to properly advance an argument, is not therefore excusable.
…” ’ ” (Comunidad en Accion v. Los Angeles City Council (2013) 219
Cal.App.4th 1116, 1132, internal citations omitted; see also Toho-Towa Co.,
Ltd. v. Morgan Creek Productions, Inc. (2013) 217 Cal.App.4th 1096,
1112; Generale Bank Nederland v. Eyes of the Beholder Ltd. (1998)
61 Cal.App.4th 1384, 1399.)
Plaintiff’s
motion is based on its counsel’s erroneous belief about Plaintiff’s inability
to plead its claims. This is a mistake of practice or strategy, not a mistake
“anyone could have made.” Plaintiff must rely on mandatory relief based on
attorney neglect, which, for reasons stated above, is not available here.
            2. Plaintiff has not demonstrated
counsel’s mistake was excusable.
Even if
Plaintiff were entitled to discretionary relief, Plaintiff does not demonstrate
its counsel’s mistake was excusable. “ ‘A party who seeks relief under section
473 on the basis of mistake or inadvertence of counsel must demonstrate that
such mistake, inadvertence, or general neglect was excusable . . . .’ ” (Zamora
v. Clayborn Contracting Group, Inc. (2002) 28 Cal.4th 249, 258.) “In
deciding whether counsel's error is excusable, this court looks to: (1) the
nature of the mistake or neglect; and (2) whether counsel was otherwise
diligent in investigating and pursuing the claim. [Citations.] In examining the
mistake or neglect, the court inquires whether ‘a reasonably prudent person
under the same or similar circumstances’ might have made the same error.” (Bettencourt
v. Los Rios Community College Dist. (1986) 42 Cal.3d 270, 276.)
Plaintiff filed
its complaint in December 2023. On March 18, 2024, Plaintiff filed its FAC
pursuant to the parties’ stipulation. On March 22, 2024, Plaintiff propounded
discovery on Defendants. (Zeesman Decl., ¶ 5.) At some point, Plaintiff also
served a subpoena for business records on the attorney who replaced Plaintiff
in the Libby Suit, Joseph S. Farzam. (See id., ¶ 6 [stating that Farzam
moved to quash subpoenas].)
On March 29,
2024, Mr. Farzam moved to quash Plaintiff’s subpoena. (Id., ¶ 6.) On
April 4, 2024, Defendants demurred to Plaintiff’s FAC. (Id., ¶ 7.)
On April 4, 2024, Defendants moved for a stay of discovery. (Id., ¶ 8.)
On April 22,
2024, before the motions and demurrer were heard, Plaintiff dismissed its FAC.
Plaintiff ostensibly agreed with Defendant’s contention that “Plaintiff did not
(and … could not) properly allege an ‘independently wrongful act engaged in’ by
Defendants.” (Zeesman Decl., ¶ 3.)
In August 2024,
during an attorney fee arbitration proceeding involving Mr. Libby, Plaintiff
discovered two emails that it now cites as evidence of the “independent
wrongful acts” it was unable to plead in the first instance. (Id.., ¶¶
11-13, Exhs. A-B.)
Plaintiff now
contends the dismissal was caused by its mistaken, but reasonable, belief that
no evidence “would ever be produced” in support of Plaintiff’s claims.
Plaintiff’s
mistake was not reasonable, because it did not litigate the matter of
production in the first instance. Plaintiff did not oppose Mr. Farzam’s motion
to quash, nor did it oppose Defendants’ motion for a discovery stay. Counsel’s
declaration only states the conclusion that “Plaintiff had no reasonable means
of compelling the production of evidence” because “such evidence may constitute
an admission to criminal conduct.” (Zeesman Decl., ¶¶ 9-10.) 
The Court never
heard Defendants’ discovery motion or Mr. Farzam’s. Plaintiff does not explain
why it was reasonable for it to assume those motions would be granted.
Plaintiff had several opportunities to raise the importance of the pending
discovery to the Court, and Plaintiff neglected to do so. If Plaintiff is
correct that its claims could not have survived without the disputed discovery,
then failing to raise the issue to the Court was not excusable as contemplated
by section 473(b).
Also, whether
the discovery was essential to the FAC is an open question because Plaintiff
did not oppose Defendants’ demurrer. The Court never heard any challenge to the
FAC; Plaintiff does not explain its assumption that it could not plead its
claims without the documents it uncovered in August. A complaint does not need
to be supported by evidentiary facts. California’s fact-pleading standards are
not onerous, and pleadings frequently allege facts upon information and belief.
Even if Plaintiff believed its FAC was insufficient as pled, it could have
sought leave to amend.
Plaintiff decided
to dismiss its FAC based on several unilateral assumptions about the Court’s
rulings on pending matters. Plaintiff has not demonstrated any of these
assumptions were reasonable; its mistaken assumptions are not excusable.
Plaintiff is not
entitled to discretionary relief; even if it were, it has not demonstrated its
counsel’s alleged mistake was reasonable.
 
            C.        The
parties’ merits arguments are irrelevant.
The parties each
spend considerable time litigating the underlying merits of Plaintiff’s claims.
Defendants, in particular, stress their argument that the claims are
time-barred. The Court makes no ruling in this regard, because it is not
relevant to the disposition of the motion.
 
CONCLUSION
            The motion is denied. Plaintiff is
ordered to give notice.
 