  Case Number:  21STCV41026    Hearing Date:   January 26, 2024    Dept:  F51  JANUARY 25, 2024    MOTIONS TO COMPEL FURTHER  DISCOVERY RESPONSES (Form Interrogatories,  Special Interrogatories, and Requests for  Production of Documents, Set One)  Los Angeles Superior Court Case  # 21STCV41026     Motions Filed: 10/25/23   MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff Kimberly Gallegos,  individually and as successor-in-interest to Sebastian Gallegos (“Plaintiff”) RESPONDING PARTY: Defendant Consolidated Disposal  Service LLC (“Defendant”) NOTICE: OK   RELIEF REQUESTED: Orders compelling Defendant to  provide further responses to the following discovery requests: ·          Plaintiff’s Form Interrogatories, Set One, No. 4.1. ·          Plaintiff’s Special Interrogatories, Set One, Nos.  2, 3, 4, 8, 9, 10, 20, 21, 31, 32, 35, 39, 40, 41, and 43. ·          Plaintiff’s Requests for Production of Documents  (“RFPs”), Set One, Nos. 2, 5, 10, 12, 13, 14, 16, 17, 18, and 22.   TENTATIVE RULING: The motions are continued to March  27, 2024. Defendant is ordered to supplement its responses as represented in  its opposition papers, and to produce responses and responsive documents  subject to the Court’s below-outlined Protective Order, within 30 days.   The parties’ counsel are ordered to meet and further confer  either telephonically or in-person within 60 days of Defendant’s service of its  supplemental responses, to resolve and/or narrow all remaining discovery  issues. Plaintiff’s counsel is to file a declaration with the Court which  confirms compliance with this order or explains why no meaningful meet and  confer occurred.   BACKGROUND   This is a personal injury/wrongful  death action in which Plaintiffs, the parents of decedent Sebastian Gallegos  (“Decedent”), allege that on 11/20/19, the vehicle in which Decedent was a  passenger rear-ended a commercial truck driven by defendant Logan Jose Lizares  while in the course and scope of his employment with Defendant, causing  Decedent’s fatal injuries. (FAC ¶¶  23–26.)   On 11/10/21, Plaintiffs filed their original complaint. On 11/17/21,  Plaintiffs filed their first amended complaint (“FAC”), alleging against 8  named defendants the following causes of action: (1) Negligence; (2) Negligent  Hiring/Retention/Supervision/Training & Entrustment; (3) Strict Product  Liability; (4) Negligence – Product Liability; and (5) Breach of Warranties.  Only the first and second causes of action are alleged against Defendant. On  10/17/22, Defendant filed its answer to Plaintiffs’ FAC.   On 10/25/23, Plaintiff filed the instant motions to compel Defendant’s  further responses to her first set of Form Interrogatories, Special  Interrogatories, and RFPs. On 1/12/24, Defendant filed its oppositions. On 1/19/24,  Plaintiff filed her replies.   ANALYSIS   Plaintiff seeks to compel Defendant’s  further responses to the subject discovery requests, arguing that Defendant’s  objections thereto are without merit, and that “Defendants CDS and Lizares have  produced no documents, despite many of the requests having no bearing on any  kind of confidential information and where it is doubtful that any confidential  information is actually implicated under California law.” (Pl.’s RFP Mot. 4:10–13.)   A.     Meet and Confer   Plaintiff’s attorney declares that “following  the receipt of the responses, the parties engaged in a lengthy meet and confer  process, including the matter of a Protective Order.” (Decl. of Katherine  Harvey-Lee, ¶ 3.) Accordingly, the parties have satisfied the preliminary meet  and confer requirement under Code of Civil Procedure sections 2030.300,  subdivision (b)(1) and 2031.310, subdivision (b)(2).   B.      Protective Order   “The court, for good cause shown,  may make any order that justice requires to protect any party, deponent, or  other natural person or organization from unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment,  or oppression, or undue burden and expense.” (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 2025.420,  subd. (b), 2030.090, subd. (b), 2031.060, subd. (b).)   Here, it appears that the parties  are unable to agree on the terms of a proposed Protective Order concerning  Defendant’s responses to Plaintiff’s Special Interrogatories Nos. 39, 40, and  41, and RFP Nos. 12, 13, 17, and 18. The subject interrogatories seek  information regarding training materials given to Lizares regarding the subject  route taken and the operation of the vehicle’s rear underride guard, while the  subject RFPs seek the production of Defendant’s internal policies, procedures,  and training materials.   Plaintiff argues that “here, it is  difficult to understand what information CDS maintains is so confidential that  the use of such information within litigation requires a highly restrictive  protective order. Nonetheless, if the Court is inclined to enter such an order,  it should be the least restrictive possible.” (Pl.’s RFP Mot. 9:16–19.) In  opposition, Defendant argues that “its training materials are proprietary and  confidential, the disclosure of which would be subject to a Confidentiality  Agreement (or Protective Order, as it is referred to in Plaintiffs’ motion).” (Def.’s  RFP Opp. 3:8–10.)   Defendant further argues that a  sharing provision of any proposed Protective Order is unwarranted, as “there is  no justification whatsoever for Plaintiffs’ insistence on being allowed to  share this information with non-parties, whatever their particular  circumstances might be.” (Id. at 4:8–10.) On reply, Plaintiff correctly  argues that the burden rests with Defendant, as the responding party, to show  why the protective order is necessary, but “CDS provides no company  representative declarations, no examples of how the information being sought  could be used by competitors or how it keeps this information secret.” (Pl.’s  Rog. Reply 3:24–26.) Plaintiff further argues that “California law provides  that sharing provisions, which allow attorneys in similar litigation to have  access to discovery materials produced in another case, ‘is an effective means  to insure full and fair disclosure.’” (Pl.’s RFP Reply, 3:5–8, quoting Raymond  Handling Concepts Corp. v. Superior Court (1995) 39 Cal.App.4th 584, 589.)  “Moreover, the provision permitting the use of confidential documents with mock  jurors in focus groups should also be allowed, as it is critical for plaintiffs  to be able to prepare for trial in a complex case with all the materials  available.” (Id. at 3:8–11.)   The Court finds that the subject  responses are properly subject to a protective order limiting their  dissemination to parties involved in the litigation of the instant action,  including but not limited to expert witnesses and mock juror focus groups.  However, Plaintiff may not disseminate the discovery materials to any third  parties outside of the instant action.   The parties are ordered to draft and sign a protective order consistent  with the Court’s order.     C.     Remaining Discovery Responses   Defendant contends that “Defendants  agreed to supplement several responses and intend to do so. Defendants will  make every effort to have supplemental responses served prior to the hearing on  this motion.” (Def.’s Rog. Opp. 2:1–3.) However, Plaintiff represents that “as  of the date for the filing of this Reply, no supplemental responses or  documents were received.” (Pl.’s RFP Reply 1:9–10.)   Based on the foregoing, the Court  orders Defendant to supplement its responses as represented in its opposition  papers, and to produce responses and responsive documents subject to the  Court’s above-outlined Protective Order, within 30 days.   The motions  are therefore continued. The parties’ counsel are ordered to meet and further  confer either telephonically or in-person within 60 days of Defendant’s service  of its supplemental responses, to resolve and/or narrow all remaining discovery  issues. Plaintiff’s counsel is to file a declaration with the Court which  confirms compliance with this order or explains why no meaningful meet and  confer occurred.   CONCLUSION    The motions are continued to March 27, 2024. Defendant is ordered to supplement  its responses as represented in its opposition papers, and to produce responses  and responsive documents subject to the Court’s above-outlined Protective  Order, within 30 days.  The parties are  ordered to draft and sign a protective order consistent with the Court’s  order.     The parties’ counsel are ordered to  meet and further confer either telephonically or in-person within 60 days of  Defendant’s service of its supplemental responses, to resolve and/or narrow all  remaining discovery issues. Plaintiff’s counsel is to file a declaration with  the Court which confirms compliance with this order or explains why no  meaningful meet and confer occurred.  