 Case Number:  24VECV01014    Hearing Date:   September 4, 2024    Dept:  W REZA
VEISEH VS ENCINO OAKS HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATION
 
DEFENDANT’S MOTION
TO SET ASIDE ENTRY OF DEFAULT AND/OR DEFAULT JUDGMENT 
 
Date
of Hearing:        September 4, 2024                                       Trial
Date:       N/A  
Department:
             W                                                                    Case
No.:        24VECV01014
 
Moving
Party:            Defendant Encino Oaks
Homeowners Association
Responding
Party:     Plaintiff Reza Veiseh  
 
BACKGROUND
 
On
March 6, 2024, Plaintiff Reza Veiseh filed a complaint against Defendant Encino
Oaks Homeowners Association alleging the Homeowners Association has failed to
make repairs to Plaintiff’s common area and Plaintiff’s unit including failing
to check Plaintiff’s unit for water intrusion after plumbing in the common area
backed up or leaked from the main pipe. Plaintiff alleges as a result,
Plaintiff’s unit was subject to mold. 
 
Request
for entry of default was entered against Defendant on April 19, 2024. 
 
[TENTATIVE]
RULING:
 
Defendant’s Motion to Set
Aside Entry of Default and/or Default Judgment is GRANTED. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Defendant
Encino Oaks Homeowners Association moves the court to set aside entry of
default entered on April 19, 2024 and the default judgment entered on June 18,
2024 on the grounds: (1) Defendant did not have notice of a default until after
a default had been entered in this action, and should be allowed to defend this
action on the merits, and (2) Defendant’s failure to file a timely responsive pleading
was through mistake, inadvertence, surprise or excusable neglect.
 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 473(d) provides in relevant part that “[t]he court
may, upon motion of the injured party…set aside any void judgment or
order.”  (CCP §473(d).)  Code of Civil Procedure section 473.5(a)
provides that “[w]hen service of a summons has not resulted in actual notice to
a party in time to defend the action and a default judgment has been entered
against him or her in the action, he or she may serve and file a notice of
motion to set aside the default or default judgment and for leave to defend the
action.”  Such a motion “shall be
accompanied by an affidavit showing under oath that the party's lack of actual
notice in time to defend the action was not caused by his or her avoidance of
service or inexcusable neglect.  
 
Under
section 473(b), the court may, upon any terms as may be just, relieve a party
or their legal representative from a judgment, dismissal, order, or other
proceeding taken against them through their own mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or excusable neglect. Application for relief must be made within six
months after judgment and must be accompanied by a copy of the answer or other
pleading proposed to be filed. If an application for relief is made no more
than six months after entry of judgment, is in proper form, and is accompanied
by an attorney's sworn affidavit attesting to his or her mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or neglect, vacate any default, default judgment, or dismissal
entered against his or her client, unless the court finds that the default or
dismissal was not in fact caused by the attorney's mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or neglect.   
 
Defendant
argues the court should exercise its discretion to grant Defendant relief from
the default. On March 15, 2024, General Manager of Defendant, Mr. Johnson,
received an e-mail from corporate counsel of Defendant, Ms. Nourmand, informing
him that the instant action had been filed by Plaintiff on July 21, 2022 and
according to the complaint, a claim had been made with the Defendant’s
insurance carrier (which was denied) suggesting that the carrier might already
be aware of it. (Johnson Decl. ¶3, Exh. F.) Based on this representation, Mr.
Johnson did not notify Defendant’s insurance carrier about the instant lawsuit.
On March 25, 2024, Ms. Nourmand informed Mr. Johnson via email that Plaintiff
had not yet served the lawsuit on Defendant and told Mr. Johnson “[s]ince the
carrier already has notice of this action, we will reach out to you with the
Board’s directions on whether to tender this action for defense.” (Johnson
Decl. ¶4, Exh. G.) Accordingly, Mr. Johnson relied on Ms. Nourmand’s
representation as corporate counsel that the Defendant’s insurance carrier
already had notice of the lawsuit. (Johnson Decl. ¶6.) However, Defendant’s
insurance carrier did not learn about the lawsuit until June 18, 2024, after
default had already been taken. On June 18, 2024, Defendant’s insurance carrier
retained insurance defense counsel to represent the Defendant in this matter. (Farkhondeh
Decl. ¶3.) Upon reviewing the Register of Actions, Defense counsel discovered
that a default had been entered on April 19, 2024. Defendant also argues
granting relief will not prejudice Plaintiff and Defendant has attached their
proposed answer to the motion. 
 
In
opposition, Plaintiff first argues Defendant’s registered agent was personally
served on March 8, 2024. Defendant does not necessarily make this argument in
their motion but in Reply, submits the declaration of their agent for service
of process who testifies he was never served with the summons and complaint.
(Watson Decl. ¶¶4-7.) As discussed below, the court will grant the motion on
separate grounds and will not take into consideration this contention or other
new contentions Defendant made in Reply. 
 
Plaintiff
makes several other arguments why relief should not be granted, but the court
finds Defendant has shown Defendant’s failure to file a timely responsive pleading
was through mistake, inadvertence, surprise or excusable neglect. As noted
above, based on Ms. Nourmand’s representation, Mr. Johnson did not notify
Defendant’s insurance carrier about the instant lawsuit. When Ms. Nourmand
informed Defendant Plaintiff had not yet served the lawsuit, she informed
Defendant they would reach out with the Board’s decision and as such, relied on
the representation that the insurance carrier had notice of the lawsuit. This
is sufficient to show inadvertence or excusable neglect. As noted by Defendant,
“the policy of the law is to have every litigated case tried upon its merits,
and it looks with disfavor upon a party, who, regardless of the merits of the
case, attempts to take advantage of the mistake, surprise, inadvertence, or
neglect of his adversary.” (Au-Yang v. Barton (1999) 21 Cal.4th 958, 963.)
Moreover, Plaintiff has not demonstrated they would be prejudiced setting aside
the default. Plaintiff contends it would have additional legal cost but does
not explain how. Moreover, entry of default was entered less than six months
ago. Default judgment was never entered. 
 
Accordingly,
Defendant’s
Motion to Set Aside Entry of Default and/or Default Judgment is GRANTED.  Defendant to file an answer within 10
days.   
 