 Case Number:  22VECV02441    Hearing Date:   September 4, 2024    Dept:  W R. V. v. LOS
ANGELES UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT
 
plaintiff’s motion to compel
defednant los angeles unified school district to provide further responses to
request for production of documents, set one and special interrogatories, set
one 
 
Date of Hearing:        September
4, 2024               Trial
Date:       March
3, 2025 
Department:              W                                            Case
No.:        22VECV02441
 
Moving Party:            Defendant
Los Angeles Unified School District   
Responding Party:     Plaintiff
R.V.    
Meet and Confer:      Yes.
(Mullane Decl. ¶¶7-10.) 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On December 16, 2022, Plaintiff R.V.
filed a complaint against Defendant Los Angeles Unified School District. On
March 17, 2023, Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint asserting causes of
action for Negligent Supervision of Employee/Agent; Negligent Retention of
Employee/Agent; Negligent Hiring, Supervision, and Retention of Unfit Employee;
Breach of Mandatory Duty (Under Education Code Section 44807); Breach of
Mandatory Duty (Failure to Report Under Penal Code Section 11166, et seq.); Negligent
Supervision of a Minor; and Negligence. On April 19, 2023, Plaintiff dismissed
the third, fourth, and sixth causes of action against LAUSD. On August 2, 2024,
Plaintiff filed a Second Amended Complaint. 
 
Plaintiff alleges when she was
approximately five years old, she met JOHN DOE at LAUSD’s Hart Elementary
School, where Plaintiff was a student. Plaintiff alleges after meeting JOHN
DOE, JOHN DOE began “grooming” Plaintiff with the specific intent of manipulating
her emotions and taking advantage of her vulnerabilities and young age. During
approximately the 1994-1995 and/or 1995-1996 school year, Plaintiff alleges JOHN
DOE regularly and repeatedly sexually assaulted and abused Plaintiff. Plaintiff
alleges LAUSD failed to take reasonable steps and implement reasonable
safeguards to avoid inappropriate or unlawful conduct by JOHN DOE against
students. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
I.                   
Defendant
LAUSD’s Motion to Compel Further Responses of Plaintiff to Request for Admissions,
Set Two, is granted in part. 
II.                 
Defendant LAUSD’s Motion to
Compel Further Responses of Plaintiff to Form Interrogatories, Set Three is
GRANTED in part. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
I.                   
MOTION TO
COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES OF PLAINTIFF TO REQUEST FOR ADMISSIONS, SET TWO
 
Defendant Los
Angeles Unified School District moves this court for an order compelling
Plaintiff R.V. to serve full and complete responses to Request for Admissions,
Set Three without objections herein on the grounds Plaintiff has failed to
provide proper responses. 
 
A motion to
compel further responses may be brought based on responses to requests for
admission (“RFA”) that: (1) provide evasive or incomplete answers; or (2) make
unmeritorious or overly-generalized objections.  (CCP §
2033.290(a).)   
 
Defendant
argues Plaintiff has failed to provide proper and complete responses to all
Requests for Admission. The Requests essentially asks to admit that on a
particular date, the District asked to interview Plaintiff and that Plaintiff
herself or by and through her counsel denied the request for an interview.
However, Plaintiff objected on the grounds it was vague, ambiguous, overbroad,
or unintelligible. Defendant contends the RFAs are clear and relates directly
to the availability of information in its investigation of the claims against
Mr. Palomares. Defendant contends Plaintiff cannot refuse to provide any
information and then claim that the District’s investigation in the claims was
insufficient. Moreover, Plaintiff’s contention that such information should be
obtained through deposition is incorrect. Defendant contends deposition is not the
exclusive means of investigation after a lawsuit has been filed. 
 
In
opposition, Plaintiff argues Plaintiff has sufficiently responded to Defendant's
Requests for Admission, Set Two. Notwithstanding that the RFAs are completely
irrelevant and were clearly "loaded" requests and propounded merely
to harass Plaintiff, Plaintiff contends a party who has answered an RFA by
denying it cannot be forced to admit the request. 
 
The court
finds Plaintiff’s objections to be meritorious. 
Defendant is seeking to have plaintiff admit something, which might cast
her in a bad light, when she was under no obligation to allow herself to be
interviewed by the district, given that she had commenced litigation months
earlier.  Defendant’s proper method for
obtaining information from the plaintiff was through ordinary discovery
measures, as provided by the Code of Civil Procedure.   Her response to RFA No. 10, however, is
different.  Plaintiff can answer whether
or not she made any complaint prior to the date of the filing of this
lawsuit.  She either did or did not make
a complaint.   Further responses to RFA
No. 10 are required to be provided within 20 days.  
 
Accordingly,
Defendant LAUSD’s Motion to Compel Further Responses of Plaintiff to Request for
Admissions, Set Two, is granted in part. 

 
II.                 
MOTION TO
COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES OF PLAINTIFF TO FORM INTERROGATORIES, SET THREE
 
Defendant Los Angeles Unified
School District moves the court for an order compelling Plaintiff R.V. to serve
full and complete responses to form interrogatories (specifically, Form
Interrogatory 17.1) without objections herein on the grounds that Plaintiff has
failed to provide proper responses. 
 
“On receipt of a response to
interrogatories, the propounding party may move for an order compelling a
further response if the propounding party deems that any of the following
apply: (1) An answer to a particular interrogatory is evasive or incomplete. (2)
An exercise of the option to produce documents under Section 2030.230 is
unwarranted or the required specification of those documents is inadequate. (3)
An objection to an interrogatory is without merit or too general.”¿ (CCP §
2030.300(a).)¿ 
 
Defendant argues Plaintiff
has failed to provide a proper and complete response to Form Interrogatory 17.1.
Defendant contends subsection (b) for each denial requests that Plaintiff
identify facts in support of their response. Plaintiff, however, simply
reiterates its response that she would have participated in a deposition. 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff
argues each response is proper and complete because it does state the reason
for the denial, identifies the parties and/or counsel with knowledge and
affirmatively states that Plaintiff is unaware of any documents that support her
response. 
 
The court finds the responses
are incomplete only as they relate to RFA 10. 
As plaintiff has been required to admit or deny RFA 10 without further
objection, she must also provide a further response to Form Interrogatory 17.1,
without objection (if she denies the RFA).  

 
Accordingly, Defendant’s Motion
to Compel Further Responses of Plaintiff to Form Interrogatories, Set Three is
GRANTED, inpart. 