  Case Number:  21VECV00335    Hearing Date:   September 4, 2024    Dept:  W NPI DEBT FUND
I, LP v. ROBERT BRARD, et al.
 
motion for new
trial 
 
Date of Hearing:        September
4, 2024                           Trial Date: 
     None set.  
Department:              W                                                        Case
No.:        21VECV00335
 
Moving Party:            Defendant Robert Brard 
Responding Party:     Plaintiff
NPI Debt Funds I, LP 
 
BACKGROUND
 
Plaintiff alleges Defendant Belle
Maison Partners and Arch CBT SPE, LLC entered into an agreement by which Arch
CBT SPE, LLC agreed to loan Defendant Belle some monies. Defendant Brard
guaranteed the loan. Plaintiff further alleges Defendants defaulted on the loan
and the loan was assigned to Plaintiff. 
 
On March 11, 2021, Plaintiff NPI Debt
Fund I, LP filed a complaint against Defendants asserting causes of action for
(1) Breach of Contract; (2) Goods Sold and Delivered; (3) Book Account; and (4)
Account Stated. 
 
This action is related to 21VECV00329 (NPI
Debt Fund I, LP v. Brard, et al.) and 21VECV00333 (NPI Debt Fund I, LP
v. Property Cowboys, LLC, et al.)
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Defendant
Robert Brard’s Motion for New Trial is DENIED. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Defendant
Robert Brard moves for a new trial following the court’s order granting summary
judgment in favor of Plaintiff NPI Fund I, LP on the grounds the
award of damages was excessive (CCP §657(5)) and the decision is contrary to
law (CCP §657(6)). 
 
“A motion for new trial is a creature of statute; . . .” (Neal
v. Montgomery Elevator Co. (1992) 7 Cal. App. 4th 1194, 1198.) “The
determination of a motion for a new trial rests so completely within the
court’s discretion that its action will not be disturbed unless a manifest and
unmistakable abuse of discretion clearly appears.” (Jiminez v. Sears,
Roebuck & Co. (1971) 4 Cal.3d 379, 387.) “[A]ny other decision may be
modified or vacated, in whole or in part, and a new or further trial granted on
all or part of the issues, on the application of the party aggrieved, for any
of the following causes, materially affecting the substantial rights of such
party: …5. Excessive or inadequate damages. 6. Insufficiency of the evidence to
justify the verdict or other decision, or the verdict or other decision is
against law.”
 
Timeliness
 
Plaintiff opposes the motion for new trial on the grounds the
motion is untimely. Plaintiff argues Code of Civil Procedure §659 requires that
a memorandum in support of the motion must be served and filed within 10 days
after the notice of intention is served. However, Defendant did not serve his
memorandum in support of the motion until eleven days after the notice. 
 
In reply, Defendant argues NPI misconstrues the applicable statute
pertaining to the timing for new trial motions by equating the term “filing”
with “service” in the applicable statute, claiming that the ten-day deadline
for filing supporting papers should be measured from the date of service of
notice of intent to move for a new trial and not the date of filing. 
 
Notice of intention to move for new trial must be filed within
fifteen days of notice of entry of judgment.  (CCP § 659(a)(2).) 
Within ten days of filing the notice of intention to move for a new trial, the
moving party must serve and file the memorandum and any supporting
affidavits.  (CCP § 659a.) 
 
Defendant filed their notice of intent to move for new trial on July
24, 2024 -- fifteen days after the July 9, 2024 notice of entry of judgment. Defendant
filed their memorandum and supporting papers on August 2, 2024 – ten days after
their notice of intention to move for a new trial.  Accordingly, this motion is timely.
 
Deficiency Judgment 
 
Defendant argues Plaintiff is not entitled to a judgment as a matter
of law because Plaintiff’s complaint improperly seeks to collect damages that
are barred by California’s anti-deficiency statutes; the guaranty is a “sham”
that renders it unenforceable; and Defendant submitted evidence that, at a
minimum, created a triable issue of fact as to whether he was a “true guarantor
or a principal obligor in guarantor's guise”. 

Defendant first asserts since Plaintiff elected to pursue
nonjudicial foreclosure by which it acquired the subject property via a
trustee's sale, NPI “may not seek a deficiency judgment.” (Robin v. Crowell (2020)
55 Cal.App.5th 727d.) This appears to be based on the contention Defendant was
not a guarantor but an obligor under the loan. However, at the hearing,
Defendant failed to present evidence to support the argument they were not
guarantors. (See February 27, 2024 Order p. 4.) 
 
Defendant next asserts that the guaranty was a sham. Defendant
contends when a party is not a “true guarantor,” but rather the principal
obligor “in guarantor's guise,” the “guarantor” is nonetheless entitled to
anti-deficiency statute protections under the Code. (See River Bank America.
v. Diller (1995), 38 Cal. App. 4th 1400,1422-23; Union Bank v. Dorn
(1967) 254 Cal. App. 2d 157, 158-59.) In determining whether a guaranty is a
sham, “the court examines whether the guarantor is actually the principal
obligor, which occurs when '(1) the guarantor personally executes underlying
loan agreements or a deed of trust or (2) the guarantor is, in reality, the
principal obligor under a different name by operation of trust or corporate law
or some other applicable legal principle.’” (LSREF2 Clover Property 4, LLC
v. Festival Retail Fund 1, LP (2016) 3 Cal.App.5th 1067.) 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues Defendant attempts to re-litigate
the matter by attempting to reintroduce evidence that was improperly brought in
its opposition to NPI’s motion for summary judgment. Plaintiff contends the
evidence presented continues to be insufficient to demonstrate a sham guaranty
and moreover, the defense was waived (Defendant did not raise this defense in
their answer to the complaint). 
 
Again, the court considered whether the guaranty was a sham and
found that none of the arguments or assertions were supported by any of the
evidence submitted. Defendant cannot now submit evidence for a new trial when
it had an opportunity to do so at the summary judgment stage. Defendant has not
demonstrated how such a finding was against law when Defendant failed to
present evidence it was the principal obligor or the guaranty was a sham. 
 
Lastly, Defendant argues while the opposition to the motion for
summary judgment could have articulated in grater detail evidence establishing
that he was the principal obligor under the loan, his opposition (at minimum)
created a triable issue of fact relative to the “sham guaranty” argument.
Again, the court had found Defendant did not submit any evidence creating a
triable issue of fact as to the “sham guaranty” at the hearing. As noted in Wall
Street Network, Ltd. v. New York Times Co. (2008) 164 Cal.App.4th 1171,
1193, “[t]o accord a new trial to a party who asserts the existence of fresh
evidence in “the minutes of the court” (§ 658) but fails to meet the
requirements for newly discovered evidence, would render the fourth statutory
ground a nullity.” In other words, when a motion is made upon the ground the
decision was ‘made against the law’, it “must be made on the minutes of the
court.” (CCP §658.) There is nothing contrary to the law when the court
considered Defendant’s sham guarantor argument as well as their principal
obligor contention. 
 
Unlawful Penalty 
 
Defendant argues the summary judgment should not have been granted
because Plaintiff’s motion for summary judgment seeks excessive damages of more
than $500,000.00, presumably because of the punitive default interest rate of
24%. Defendant contends Plaintiff failed to offer evidence to establish how the
interest was calculated and certainly did not highlight that it was imposing a
default interest rate that doubled the 12% Contract Rate. Similarly, Defendant
contends Plaintiff did not offer any evidence to establish that punitive
Default Rate was a reasonable estimate of its anticipated damages.
 
The court disagrees. Again, motions for new trial not based on the
first four grounds must be made on the minutes of the court. The court
considered the interest rate at the time of the motion for summary judgment and
the court found the interest rate in excess of 10% was not usurious as a matter
of law because Plaintiff is a private money lender whose loans are exempt.
Defendant has not demonstrated the damages were excessive. 
 
 
 