  Case Number:  23STCV06977    Hearing Date:   January 15, 2025    Dept:  17 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING 
 



MICHELLE
  RAMOS 
                           
         vs.
 
CAROLINE
  RAMOS, et al. 
 


 Case No.: 23STCV06977
 
 
 
 Hearing
  Date:  January 15, 2025



 
 
RDF’s motion
to compel further responses to its Form Interrogatories is granted in part,
consistent with the ruling set forth below. Cross-Defendants are sanctioned,
jointly and severally with counsel, $700.00.
 
RDF’s motion
to compel further responses to its Special Interrogatories is granted in part,
consistent with the ruling set forth below. Cross-Defendants are sanctioned,
jointly and severally with counsel, $700.00.
 
RDF’s motion
to compel further responses to its Requests for Production is granted in part,
consistent with the ruling set forth below. Cross-Defendants are sanctioned,
jointly and severally with counsel, $700.00.
 
Responses are
due within 20 days.  Payment of sanctions
is due within 30 days.
 
On 3/29/2023,
Plaintiff Michelle Ramos (Plaintiff) filed suit. On 9/8/2023, Plaintiff filed a
first amended complaint (FAC) against Caroline Ramos, Katherine Ramos, and
Rituel De Fille, Inc. (collectively, Defendants), alleging: (1) breach of
license agreement; (2) breach of license agreement; (3) breach of fiduciary
duty (partnership); (4) breach of fiduciary duty (corporate); (5) breach of employment
agreement/wrongful termination; (6) misappropriation of trade secret; (7)
accounting; and (8) unfair competition. 
 
On
10/10/2023, Cross-Complainant Rituel de Fille, Inc. (RDF) filed a
Cross-Complaint (XC1) against Michelle Ramos, Steven Wright, and Wright Myers
& Co., Inc., alleging: (1) breach of contract; (2) breach of fiduciary
duty; (3) aiding and abetting breach of fiduciary duty; (4) professional
negligence; (5) intentional interference with contractual relation; (6)
conversion; (7) unfair business practices; and (8) intentional
misrepresentation. 
 
On
10/11/2023, Cross-Complainant Caroline and Katherine Ramos filed a
Cross-Complaint (XC2) against Michelle Ramos, Steven Wright, and Wright Myers
& Co., Inc., alleging: (1) breach of contract; (2) breach of fiduciary
duty; (3) aiding and abetting breach of fiduciary duty; (4) professional
negligence; (5) intentional interference with contractual relation; (6)
conversion; (7) unfair business practices; and (8) intentional
misrepresentation.
 
            On
11/15/2024, RDF moved to compel Cross-Defendants Steven Wright and Wright Myers
& co. Inc. (collectively, Cross-Defendants) to provide further responses to
Form Interrogatories, Special Interrogatories, and Requests for Production
(RFPs). RDF seeks monetary sanctions in connection with these motions.
 
Discussion 
 
            RDF
seeks to compel further responses to: Wright Form Interrogatory Nos. 4.1, 12.1,
15.1, 16.1, 16.2, 16.3, 17.1, 50.1, 50.2, 50.3, 50.4, 50.5, 50.6; and WMCI Form
Interrogatory Nos. 3.6, 3.7, 4.1, 12.1, 15.1, 16.1, 16.2, 16.3, 17.1, 50.1,
50.2, 50.3, 50.4, 50.5, 50.6.
 
            RDF
seeks to compel further responses to: Wright Special Interrogatory Nos. 1-18;
WMCI Special Interrogatory Nos.1- 18. 
 
            RDF
seeks to compel further responses to: Wright RFP Nos. 1-15; WMCI RFPs Nos.1-15
 
I.                   
FROGs
 
            As
for the Wright Form Interrogatories, Wright responded to each of the
Interrogatories with the same response: 
 
Responding
Party was diagnosed with Alzheimer’s with dementia in October 2020, has no ability
to recall any of the information requested and is therefore unable to answer
this Interrogatory.
 
RDF contends
“[i]f Wright cannot answer this Form Interrogatory completely, Wright has to
answer “to the extent possible” which is more than stating its knowledge of
Wright’s Alzheimer’s with dementia diagnosis.” (CCP § 2030.220(b).) 
 
The Court
agrees. Wright must supplement the response to clarify to provide as much
information as possible, e.g., whether there is anyone, such as Mr. Ramos who
has been identified as the person most knowledgeable about Wright’s Business,
would have responsive information. 
 
Moreover, RDF
argues that Cross-Defendants’ responses fail to include their failure to retain
RDF’s records and to notify RDF of WMCI’s sale. 
 
California
accountants are required to maintain client accounting records, including but
not limited to “programs, analyses, memoranda, letters of confirmation and
representation, copies of abstracts of company documents, and schedules or
commentaries prepared or obtained by the licensee” for a minimum of seven
years. (Bus. and Prof. Code., § 5097(e); see also Cal. Code Reg., §
68.3). In addition, California accountants are required to send notice to their
clients regarding the sale or transfer of their business that must include “a
request for the client’s consent to transfer that client’s records.” (Cal. Code
Reg., § 54.3.) 
 
Apparently,
Wright not only failed to retain any files, documents, flash drives, or hard
drives of his and/or WMCI’s client records for a minimum of seven years but
apparently shredded all of them before selling WMCI. RDF contends that
“[a]lthough the destruction of documents cannot be undone, at a minimum, RDF is
entitled to supplemental responses describing the details related to the
destruction of WMCI’s client records and sanctions for destruction of
evidence.” (RDF, 6: 4-6.) 
 
However, a
motion for sanctions related to destruction of evidence is not properly raised
through a motion to compel further. Here, unless the requests pertain to the
actual process of destruction of evidence, Cross-Defendants need not provide
that explanation in response to unrelated questions. While, of course,
Cross-Defendants must explain if no response is possible due to destruction of
evidence, the Court finds that sanctions related to destruction of evidence
must be raised through a motion for sanctions, wherein evidence documenting the
destruction can be submitted and reviewed.  
 
Still, the
Court finds Cross-Defendants’ responses to be deficient as they fail to provide
as much information as possible and “to the extent possible” as their ability
to provide responsive answers in light of Wright’s Alzheimer’s diagnosis.  (CCP § 2030.220(b).) As such, supplemental
responses must be provided. 
 
Based on the
foregoing, RDF’s motion to compel further responses is granted in part. Cross-Defendants
are sanctioned, jointly and severally with counsel, $700.00. ($350/hr x 2 hr.) 
 
II.                
SROGs
 
As for the
SROGS, Wright provided the following response to the Requests:
 
Responding
Party was diagnosed with Alzheimer’s with dementia in October 2020, has no
ability to recall any of the information requested and is therefore unable to
answer this Interrogatory.
 
WMCI  provided the following response to the
Requests:
 
Steven Wright
was diagnosed with Alzheimer’s with dementia in October 2020, Wright Myers’
client list was sold and the corporation was essentially defunct. The company
has not existed since then and there is no other corporate officer or employee
who might be able to respond to these Interrogatories.
 
For the same
reasons set forth above, the Court finds these responses to be deficient as
they fail to provide as much information as possible and “to the extent
possible” as their ability to provide responsive answers in light of Wright’s
Alzheimer’s diagnosis.  (CCP §
2030.220(b).) As such, supplemental responses must be provided. 
 
Based on the
foregoing, RDF’s motion to compel further responses is granted in part.
Cross-Defendants are sanctioned, jointly and severally with counsel, $700.00.
($350/hr x 2 hr.) 
 
III.             
RFPs
 
As for the
RFPs, Wright provided the following response to the Requests:
 
Upon a
diligent search and reasonable inquiry, Responding Party is unable to produce
any responsive documents. Because he was diagnosed in October 2020 with
Alzheimer’s with dementia, he is unable to state whether any such documents
ever existed, whether he ever had such documents in his custody, possession or
control, whether any such documents, if they existed, were destroyed or lost.
Responding Party does not currently have any such documents in his custody,
possession or control
 
(See
Separate Statement.)
 
WCMI provided
the following response to the Requests: 
 
Upon diligent
search and reasonable inquiry, Responding Party is unable to produce any
responsive documents. Steven Wright was diagnosed with Alzheimer’s with
dementia in October 2020, Wright Myers’ client list was sold and the
corporation was essentially defunct. The company has not existed since then and
there is no other corporate officer or employee who might be able to respond to
these Requests. Responding Party is unable to state whether any such documents
ever existed whether it ever had such documents in its custody, possession or
control, whether any such documents, if they existed, were destroyed or lost.
Responding Party does not currently have any such documents in its custody,
possession or control.
 
(See
Separate Statement.) 
 
RDF contend
that these responses are deficient, arguing :
 
Wright not
only failed to retain any files, documents, flash drives, or hard drives of his
and/or WMCI’s client records for a minimum of seven years but apparently
shredded all of them before selling WMCI. Wright’s failure to maintain the
records and likely destruction of client records is even more shocking because
of his failure to send his clients notification. These egregious violations
only strengthen RDF’s allegations against Wright and WMCI and demonstrate an
active attempt to conceal their wrongdoing by destroying any evidence. Although
the destruction of documents cannot be undone, at a minimum, RDF is entitled to
supplemental responses describing the details related to the destruction of
WMCI’s client records and sanctions for destruction of evidence.
 
            (Motion,
5:24-6:2.) 
 
            Moreover,
RDF contends that while Cross-Defendants’ responses affirm a diligent search
with reasonable inquiry was made and stated the reason for its inability to
produce any responsive documents, Cross-Defendants were required to set forth
the name and address of any natural person or organization known or believed by
that party to have possession, custody, or control of that item or category of
item. CCP § 2031.230 requires:
 
A
representation of inability to comply with the particular demand for
inspection, copying, testing, or sampling shall affirm that a diligent search
and a reasonable inquiry has been made in an effort to comply with that demand.
This statement shall also specify whether the inability to comply is because the
particular item or category has never existed, has been destroyed, has been
lost, misplaced, or stolen, or has never been, or is no longer, in the
possession, custody, or control of the responding party. The statement shall
set forth the name and address of any natural person or organization known or
believed by that party to have possession, custody, or control of that item or
category of item.
 
            (emphasis
added.) 
 
            As
noted above, RDF’s contentions that Cross-Defendants have destroyed evidence
are properly the subject of a motion for sanctions, rather than a motion to
compel further, as the latter motion is only intended to compel supplemental
production. If evidence has, in fact, been destroyed, its production cannot be
compelled. 
 
            However,
the Court agrees that Cross-Defendants response is not a complete as possible,
as it does not comply with CCP section 2031.230. In particular,
Cross-Defendants must amend their responses to clarify whether any person
exists with documents and/or communications possibly maintained electronically
or perhaps with access to Wright’s e-mail account that could have potentially
responsive documents.
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  January    , 2025
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 