 Case Number:  24STCV11209    Hearing Date:   January 15, 2025    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles   DEPARTMENT  17   TENATIVE RULING      CALEX ENGINEERING CO.                 vs.   WENDELL BENIGA, et al.       Case    No.:  24STCV11209      Hearing Date:  January 15, 2024      Defendant’s  demurrer is SUSTAINED IN PART, OVERRULED IN PART. Defendant’s demurrer is  OVERRULED as to all causes of action but the fifth cause of action. Defendant’s  demurrer is SUSTAINED, WITH 10 DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND, as to the fifth cause of  action.    As part of  leave to amend, Plaintiff may also add back general allegations related to  “Beniga’s and Ironmark’s Wrongdoing” if the deletion of these allegations was  in error.    On 5/30/2024,  Plaintiff Calex Engineering Co. (Plaintiff) filed suit against Wendell Beniga  and Ironmark Earthworks, Inc. (collectively, Defendants)    On  10/21/2024, Plaintiff filed a first amended complaint (FAC)  alleging: (1) breach of contract; (2) breach  of implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing; (3) breach of fiduciary duty;  (4) aiding and abetting breach of fiduciary duty; (5) inducing breach of  contract; (6) misappropriation of trade secrets; (7) violation of Business and  Professions Code section 17200; (8) intentional interference with economic  relations; (9) negligent interference with economic relations; and (10)  violations of Comprehensive Computer Data access and Fraud Act.                Now,  Defendant Ironmark demurs to the fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh, eighth, ninth,  and tenth causes of action.    Discussion    Defendant  argues that Plaintiff’s claims against it are insufficiently plead and  ambiguous.               After  review, the Court agrees in part.                As  for the fourth cause of action, Defendant argues that this claim lacks factual  support as Plaintiff has omitted all of its factual allegations related to  Defendant’s wrongdoing. However, FAC ¶¶ 42-50 clearly set forth specific facts  relating to Defendant which could show that it aided and abetted a breach of  fiduciary duty. As such, the Court finds this cause of action sufficiently pled.                 As  for the fifth cause of action, Defendant notes that there are no substantive  allegations underneath the caption of this cause of action. Indeed, it appears  there was an editing error wherein the supporting allegations were deleted. Plaintiff  concedes this and seeks leave to amend to reinsert these allegations.                As  for the sixth cause of action, Defendant argues the claim is vague and  ambiguous. However, FAC ¶¶ 51-67 sets forth specific facts which clearly put  Defendant on notice on the basis of Plaintiff’s claim against it.                As  for the seventh, eighth, and ninth cause of action, Defendant argues broadly  that “Plaintiff has omitted all of its factual allegations related to  IRONMARK’s wrongdoing.” (FAC at p. 6:1). In so arguing, Defendant is referring  to the section of the FAC which sets forth general allegations. While it is  true that there is a heading on page 6 reading “Beniga’s and Ironmark’s  Wrongdoing” without anything underneath it, it is also true that the individual  causes of action set forth allegations which specifically allege facts related  to Ironmark. As such, Plaintiff has alleged factual allegations related to  Ironmark’s wrongdoing. Given that Defendant does not advance any specific  arguments as to the deficiencies of the factual allegations advanced, the Court  finds no basis for finding these claims insufficiently pled.                Finally,  as for the tenth cause of action, Defendant argues that Plaintiff still has not  alleged specific facts which could show a violation of Penal Code section 502.  The Court disagrees. The Court previously sustained Defendant’s demurrer to  this claim directing that Plaintiff “must clarify the nature of its section 502  claim against Plaintiff, and allege facts which could show aiding and abetting  beyond the conclusory allegations that Defendant has done so.” (10/4/2024  Minute Order). Now, Plaintiff alleges the specific provisions of the Penal Code  which were allegedly violated (See FAC ¶ 101, subd. (a)-(e)) and Plaintiff  alleges:   Defendant  Ironmark, with full knowledge of the unauthorized nature of the information  that Defendant Beniga misappropriated, actively aided and abetted Beniga in his  violation of Penal Code § 502. Ironmark’s involvement was not passive or  incidental but was a deliberate and integral part of the unlawful scheme to  access and use Calex’s confidential information.   Defendant  Ironmark knowingly facilitated Beniga’s unauthorized access to Calex’s computer  systems by encouraging and enabling Beniga’s use of unauthorized devices and  cloud services to transfer Calex’s data. By doing so, Ironmark provided or  assisted in providing a means of accessing Calex’s computer systems in  violation of Penal Code § 502(c)(6 & 13).   Defendant  Ironmark then knowingly accessed and used the stolen proprietary information,  fully aware that Beniga had obtained it without permission. Ironmark’s wrongful  use of this data in its competitive business dealings, including underbidding  Calex on contracts and soliciting Calex’s clients, constituted violations of  Penal Code § 502(c)(1, 2, & 7).               (FAC  ¶¶ 102-104.)                These  facts are sufficiently specific at the pleading stage to clarify the basis of  the section 502 claim and the facts which could show aiding and abetting.                Based  on the foregoing, the Court sustains Defendant’s demurrer in part, overrules it  in part. Defendant’s demurrer is overruled as to all causes of action but the  fifth cause of action. Defendant’s demurrer is sustained, with 10 days leave to  amend, as to the fifth cause of action. As part of leave to amend, Plaintiff  may also add back general allegations related to “Beniga’s and Ironmark’s  Wrongdoing” if the deletion of these allegations was in error.    It is so ordered.    Dated:  January     , 2025                                                                                                                                                                Hon. Jon R.  Takasugi    Judge of the  Superior Court       Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must  send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org  by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court  website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits  on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must  identify the party submitting on the tentative.   If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this  tentative as the final order.  If the department  does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the  tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed  off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)  633-0517.    