 Case Number:  24STCV18999    Hearing Date:   January 15, 2025    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT
17
 
TENATIVE RULING
 



PETER STONE, et al. 
  
        
  vs.
 
GREEN PASTURES GROUP, INC., et al. 
 


 Case
  No.:  24STCV18999
 
 
 Hearing Date:  January 15, 2025



 
 
Defendants’ demurrer is OVERRULED IN
PART, SUSTAINED IN PART. Defendants’ demurrer is OVERRULED as to the third
cause of action, but SUSTAINED, WITH 15 DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND, as to the second
cause of action.
 
On 7/30/2024,
Plaintiffs Peter Stone, individually and as Trustee of the Stone Family Trust,
and Barbara Stone, individually and as Trustee of the Stone Family Trust
(collectively, Plaintiffs), failed suit against Green Pastures Group, Inc. and
John M. Cohen (collectively, Defendants).
 
On 11/2/2024,
Plaintiffs filed a first amended complaint (FAC) alleging: (1) violation of
Business and Professions Code section 7159; (2) negligence; (3) unfair business
practices; and (4) breach of contract. 
 
            On
12/13/2024, Defendants demurred to Plaintiff’s second and third causes of
action. 
 
Discussion 
 
            Defendants
argues that Plaintiffs’ second cause of action is insufficiently pled because
Plaintiffs fail to allege tortious conduct independent from contractual duties.
Defendants argue that Plaintiffs have failed to allege unfair business
practices because the FAC does not adequately identify the supporting
allegations.    
 
            After
review, the Court agrees in part. 
 
            As
to the negligence cause of action, the Court agrees that Plaintiffs have not
alleged that Defendants violated an independent duty arising from principles of
tort law. It is well-established that conduct equating to a breach of contract
is tortious only when it “also violates an independent duty arising from
principles of tort law.” (Applied Equipment Corp v. Litton Saudi Arabia Ltd.
(1994) 7 Cal. 4th 503, 515.) Here, Plaintiffs use the phrase “due care” in
relation to GPG’s performance of the terms of the contract, and thus have not
alleged a violation of duty separate and apart from their duties under the
contract.
 
            As
to the third cause of action, the Court finds Plaintiffs’ FAC adequately sets
forth the supporting allegations. In particular, the FAC alleges:
 
Defendant’s
actions and inactions, discussed at length above, amount to unfair, deceptive,
and/or fraudulent business practices, as said actions and inactions were
immoral, unethical, oppressive, unscrupulous and/or substantially harmful to
consumers, like Plaintiffs. Defendants’ actions and inactions, including, but
not limited to: (1) failing to conduct their work in a workmanlike manner; (2)
disregarding the scope of work set forth in the Agreement; (3) the April 13
Failures; (4) completely removing the gunite in the Incorrect Work Area and the
Second Incorrect Work Area; (5) severing the trunks of the ivy plants in the
Incorrect Work Area; (6) representing that they could complete the Project
despite only holding a swimming pool contractor license; and (7) agreeing to
work on the Project despite only holding a swimming pool contractor license.
 
            (FAC
¶ 37.) 
 
            These
allegations are sufficient at the pleadings stage to support a claim for unfair
business practices.
 
            Based
on the foregoing, Defendants’ demurrer is overruled in part, sustained in part.
Defendants’ demurrer is overruled as to the third cause of action, but
sustained, with 15 days leave to amend, as to the second cause of action.
 
 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  January   
, 2025
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 