 Case Number:  23STCV08440    Hearing Date:   January 15, 2025    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los
Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



JOSE GUADALUPE SOTO-
RODRIGUEZ, et al. 
 
  
        
  vs.
 
AKG TRADING (USA) INC., et al. 
  


 Case
  No.:  23STCV08440  
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  January 15, 2025




 
Plaintiff’s
motion to compel Defendant LX Hausys to produce its custodian of records is
MOOT. The Court declines to award sanctions at this time. 
 
On 4/17/2023,
Plaintiffs Jose Guadalupe-Soto Rodriguez and Sara Sanchez (collectively,
Plaintiffs) filed suit against 39 Defendants, alleging: (1) negligence; (2)
strict liability—warning defect; (3) strict liability—design defect; (4)
fraudulent concealment; (5) breach of implied warranties; and (6) loss of
consortium. 
 
            Now,
Plaintiffs move to compel Defendant LX Hausys America, Inc. to produce its
custodian of record. 
 
Discussion 
 
            Plaintiffs
argue that Defendant LX Hausys should be ordered to produce its custodian of
record. 
 
            In
opposition, Defendant indicated that new counsel of record for LX Hausys
substituted into this particular matter on December 4, 2024. (Decl. Barba ¶4 –
Ex. 1) Counsel has had ongoing meet and confers with counsel for Plaintiffs in
this matter and other matters regarding LX Hausys producing its corporate
representative for deposition. (Decl. Barba ¶ 5). Plaintiffs’ counsel and LX
Hausys have reached an agreement that LX Hausys will be producing its corporate
representative for deposition in this matter as well as the Solano-Claustro
(LASC No. 23STCV11602) and Garcia-Rosas (LASC No. 22STCV39957) matters. (Decl.
Barba ¶5). New counsel for LX Hausys is in process of obtaining a date for this
multi-captioned deposition and a date for the deposition will be provided to Plaintiffs’
counsel before the hearing date on this motion. (Decl. Barba ¶7).
 
            Accordingly,
the relief sought by Plaintiffs is moot. Moreover, given the circumstances of
Defendant’s counsel’s recent substitution and good faith efforts to meet and
confer, the Court finds substantial justification for Defendant’s conduct, and
declines to award sanctions at this time. 
 
            Based
on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s motion to compel Defendant LX Hausys to produce
its custodian of record is moot. The Court declines to award sanctions at this
time. 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  Janaury   
, 2025
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 
 