 Case Number:  24PSCV02445    Hearing Date:   December 16, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE  NAME:  Carmen  Rodriguez v. County of Los Angeles, et al.  Plaintiff  Carmen Rodriguez’s Petition for Order Permitting a Late Claim Against a  Government Entity Pursuant to Government Code Section 946.6  TENTATIVE  RULING  The Court GRANTS Plaintiff Carmen Rodriguez’s petition and hereby  permits Plaintiff’s late claim against Defendant Hacienda La Puente Unified  School District under Government Code section 946.6.              Plaintiff is ordered to give notice  of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.  BACKGROUND  This is a personal injury action involving public property. On July  30, 2024, plaintiff Carmen Rodriguez (Plaintiff) filed this action. On December  3, 2024, Plaintiff filed the operative First Amended Complaint against defendants  County of Los Angeles, Suburban Water Systems, Hacienda La Puente Unified  School District (School District) and Does 1 through 100, alleging causes of  action for liability for dangerous condition of public property, and premises  liability.  On October 14, 2024, Plaintiff petitioned the Court for an order  permitting a late claim against a government entity under Government Code  section 946.6. On December 3, 2024, School District opposed the petition. On  December 9, 2024, Plaintiff replied.  LEGAL  STANDARD Before a suit for damages may be filed against a public entity, a  claimant must present a timely written claim to the public entity and the claim  must have been acted upon by the board or deemed rejected. (Gov. Code, § 945.4;  Munoz v. State of Cal. (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 1767, 1777 (Munoz).)  A claim relating to a cause of action for injury to person or personal property  must be presented to the public entity not later than six months after the  accrual of the cause of action. (Gov. Code, § 911.2; Munoz, supra, 33  Cal.App.4th at p. 1777.) If a claimant fails to present a claim within the statutory  period, he may apply “within a reasonable time not to exceed one year after the  accrual of the cause of action” to the public entity for leave to present a  late claim. (Gov. Code, § 911.4.) If the public entity denies leave to present  a late claim, a claimant may petition the Court under Government Code section  946.6 for relief from the requirements of Government Code section 945.4. (Munoz,  supra, 33 Cal.App.4th at p. 1777.) A petition under Government Code section 946.6 must be “filed  within six months after the application to the board is denied or deemed to be  denied pursuant to Section 911.6.” (Gov. Code, § 946.6, subd. (b); see also City  of Los Angeles v. Superior Court (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 621, 627.) This  requirement is mandatory. (Lineaweaver v. S. Cal. Rapid Transit Dist.  (1983) 139 Cal.App.3d 738, 741.) If the Government Code section 946.6 petition is timely filed, the  court may relieve a claimant from the requirements of section 945.4 if it makes  certain findings, including: (1) the claimant made a timely application to the  public entity for leave to present a late claim; (2) the application was  denied; and (3) the failure to timely present a claim was the result of  mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect; and/or that the injured person was  a minor during the claim period, or incapacitated during the claim period, or  deceased prior to the deadline for filing a claim. (Gov. Code, § 946.6, subd. (c).)  In determining whether relief is warranted under Government Code section 946.6,  the court considers the petition, any affidavits submitted in support of or in  opposition to the petition, and any other evidence presented at the hearing.  (Gov. Code § 946.6, subd. (e); Munoz, supra, 33 Cal.App.4th at p. 1778.) The excusable neglect standard assumes that there has been some  sort of inattention or carelessness and asks, “whether a reasonably prudent  person might have made the same error under the same or similar circumstances.”  (Munoz, supra, at p. 1783, citations omitted.) In applying this  standard, a court must also examine whether the party or her counsel were  “otherwise diligent in investigating and pursuing the claim.” (Id. at  pp. 1782-1783; see also Dep't of Water & Power v. Superior Court  (2000) 82 Cal. App. 4th 1288, 1293.) “Government Code section 946.6 is a remedial statute intended to  provide relief from technical rules which otherwise provide a trap for the  unwary. The remedial policy underlying the statute is that wherever possible  cases should be heard on their merits. Thus, a denial of such relief by the  trial court is examined more rigorously than where relief is granted and any  doubts which may exist should be resolved in favor of the application.” (Munoz,  supra, 33 Cal.App.4th at p. 1778, citations omitted.) Because of the  remedial character of the statute, “the modern trend of judicial decisions  favors granting relief unless absolutely forbidden by statute.” (Ibid.) “A petition for relief from the claim presentation requirement  under Government Code section 946.6 is a special proceeding. The court hearing  the petition makes an independent determination on the petition. If the court  grants relief from the claim presentation requirement, the petitioner must file  a complaint on the cause of action within 30 days after the order granting  relief.” (Ovando v. County of Los Angeles (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 42, 64,  citations omitted.)  OBJECTIONS              The Court SUSTAINS  School District’s Objection Number 9 for lack of foundation and an improper  conclusion. The Court OVERRULES School District’s remaining evidentiary  objections.  DISCUSSION  Summary of Arguments  Plaintiff indicates that on August 27, 2023, Plaintiff was injured  when she fell into an open hole on the road verge in the city of Hacienda  Heights, which is an unincorporated city within the County of Los Angeles.  Plaintiff states that Plaintiff’s counsel mistakenly thought the location was  within the county boundaries, and thereby submitted claims to the County of Los  Angeles and the City of Industry. In May 2024, Plaintiff indicates that  Plaintiff’s counsel received rejection letters in May 2024, in which the County  of Los Angeles advised Plaintiff’s counsel that School District controlled the  area in question. Plaintiff then indicates submitting the claim to School  District, who rejected the claim on June 4, 2024, as being untimely. Plaintiff  then indicates having applied on July 10, 2024, for permission to present a  late claim against School District, but more than 45 days elapsed without  Plaintiff receiving a response, thus denying Plaintiff’s application.  Plaintiff contends the Petition sufficiently states the reason for  the failure to present the claim was through mistake, inadvertence, surprise,  and/or excusable neglect. Plaintiff contends the Petition sufficiently contains  all information required under Government Code section 910, that the Petition  was filed within six months of the denial of the application for leave to  present a late claim, and that the application for leave to file a late claim  was made within one year of the date of injury and within a reasonable time.  Plaintiff further contends School District cannot establish that it would be  prejudiced if the Petition was granted.  In opposition, School District contends Plaintiff failed to file a  claim or apply for leave to submit a claim within a reasonable time. School  District contends Plaintiff failed to present competent evidence explaining why  a claim could not have been pursued in a timely fashion, or the actions taken  after expiration of the claims filing period. School District contends that  Plaintiff’s claims accrued on August 27, 2023. School District contends  Plaintiff did not timely file a claim or apply for leave to file a late claim  until almost eleven months after the accident and that Plaintiff failed to  provide competent evidence explaining the nature of the delay or why she was  not able to pursue her claim for nine months until May 23, 2024. School  District contends Plaintiff’s counsel’s declaration fails to provide any  supporting materials to establish diligence in pursuing Plaintiff’s claim  against School District, and that there is no competent evidence showing that School  District is any involved in the accident giving rise to Plaintiff’s claim. School  District further contends Plaintiff did not apply for late claim relief to the  governing board within a reasonable time, as Plaintiff waited until May 2024 to  file the claim July 2024 to apply for late relief. School District contends  Plaintiff has not demonstrated her failure to file a claim was due to mistake,  inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect.  In reply, Plaintiff contends School District failed to meet its  burden in establishing that it would be prejudiced in defense of Petitioner’s  claim. Plaintiff contends School District’s own counsel performed due diligence  and believed the subject premises were controlled by the County or the city. Plaintiff  further contends School District’s opposition makes multiple misstatements  regarding who controlled the area in question.  Analysis  The Court finds Plaintiff’s Petition persuasive. First, School  District denied Plaintiff’s claim for relief on the grounds that it was  untimely. (Tishbi Decl., ¶ 13, Ex. 9; Gov. Code, § 946.6, subds. (b)(1)-(b)(2).)  Second, the Petition contained all the information required under Government  Code section 910. (Tishbi Decl., Ex. 1; Gov. Code, §§ 910, 946.6, subd.  (b)(3).) Third, Plaintiff applied to School District to present a late claim  within one year of the accident. (Tishbi Decl., ¶ 15, Ex. 10; Gov. Code, § 911.4,  subd. (b).) Fourth, School District rejected Plaintiff’s application to present  late claim by failing to respond to it within 45 days. (Tishbi Decl., ¶ 16;  Gov. Code, § 911.6, subd. (a).) Fifth, Plaintiff filed the Petition within six  months of the rejection. (Gov. Code, § 946.6, subd. (b), hanging paragraph.)              Moreover, the Court finds  Plaintiff’s Petition adequately demonstrates that Plaintiff’s failure to timely  file the claim with School District was due to mistake, inadvertence, or  excusable neglect, and that Plaintiff was otherwise diligent in investigating  the claim. (Gov. Code, § 946.6, subd. (c)(1); Munoz, supra, at pp.  1782-1783.) Plaintiff’s  counsel indicates that he mistakenly thought the County of Los Angeles  controlled the area in question because it was on the road verge in the city of  Hacienda Heights, which is an unincorporated community within the County of Los  Angeles. (Tishbi Decl., ¶ 3; see Munoz, supra, at p. 1783, citations omitted [“whether a reasonably prudent  person might have made the same error under the same or similar circumstances”].) It wasn’t until Plaintiff  received a rejection letter from the County of Los Angeles, almost four months  after submitting the claim, that Plaintiff was advised School District  controlled the area in question. (Tishbi Decl., ¶ 8, Ex. 6.) While the  proximity of the school grounds to the area in question might arguably put  Plaintiff on notice that School District may control that area, the Court  nevertheless does not find this to be a sufficiently unreasonable mistake to  make. (See Tishbi Supp. Decl., Exs. 12-13; Munoz, supra, at pp.  1782-1783.) Indeed, Plaintiff’s  supplemental declaration also demonstrates that School District’s counsel, in communications  with Plaintiff’s counsel, believed that the County of Los Angeles controlled  the area in question. (Tishbi Supp. Decl., Exs. 13, 15.) Additionally,  policy favors adjudication of government claims on the merits. (Id. at  p. 1778.)              Furthermore, School District did not  present sufficient evidence demonstrating that it would be prejudiced if the  Court grants the Petition, other than to note the amount of time that has  passed since the accident. (See Opp., 3:8-12; Gov. Code, § 946.6, subd.  (c)(1).) The Court does not find enough time has passed to justify denying the  Petition, especially given the policy favoring adjudication of these claims on  their merits. (Munoz, supra, at p. 1778.)  Based on the foregoing, the Court GRANTS the Petition. Since  Plaintiff filed this action before filing the Petition, Plaintiff has already satisfied  the requirement of filing suit within 30 days of the Court granting the  Petition. (Gov. Code, § 946.6, subd. (f); (Ovando v. County of Los Angeles  (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 42, 64.)  CONCLUSION  The Court GRANTS Plaintiff Carmen Rodriguez’s petition and hereby  permits Plaintiff’s late claim against Defendant Hacienda La Puente Unified  School District under Government Code section 946.6.              Plaintiff is ordered to give notice  of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.