

 
BACKGROUND
 
            This case
stems from an automobile collision in which Nelson Alfredo Bonilla Montano
(Plaintiff) alleges that Jose Ramon Cervantes (Defendant) negligently operated
his vehicle causing the collision. (Complaint, ¶ MV-1.) Plaintiff filed their
Complaint on February 8, 2022. The motions before the Court are: (1) Defendant’s
Motion to Compel Plaintiff’s Responses to Form Interrogatories (Set 1) and
Request for Monetary Sanctions in the Amount of $1,061.65 and (2) Defendant’s
Motion to Compel Plaintiff’s Responses to Inspection Demands Request (Set 1) and
Request for Monetary Sanctions in the Amount of $1,061.65 (collectively, the
Motions). Both Motions are unopposed.
 
 
DISCUSSION
 
 
Legal Standard for Motion to Compel Responses
to Form Interrogatories
 
            If a party to whom
interrogatories are directed fails to serve a timely response, the propounding
party may move for an order compelling responses and for a monetary sanction.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subds. (b), (c).) Failure to timely respond
waives all objections, including privilege and work product, unless “[t]he party
has subsequently served a response that is in substantial compliance” and
“[t]he party’s failure to serve a timely response was the result of mistake,
inadvertence, or excusable neglect.” (CCP § 2030.290, subds. (a)(1), (a)(2).)
The statute contains no time limit for a motion to compel where no responses
have been served and no meet and confer is required when a party does not
respond to discovery requests. All that need be shown in the moving papers is
that a set of interrogatories was properly served on the opposing party, that
the time to respond has expired, and that no response of any kind has been
served. (Leach v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 902, 905-906.)
 
            If a motion
to compel responses to interrogatories is filed, the Court may impose a
monetary sanction against the losing party “unless it finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., §§
2030.290, subd. (c).) Further, “[t]he court may award sanctions under the
Discovery Act in favor of a party who files a motion to compel discovery, even
though no opposition to the motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was
withdrawn, or the requested discovery was provided to the moving party after
the motion was filed.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1348(a).)
 
Legal Standard for Motion to Responses to
Demand for Inspection of Documents 
 
            “If a party
to whom a demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling is directed
fails to serve a timely response to it, the following rules shall apply: (a)
The party to whom the demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling is
directed waives any objection to the demand, including one based on privilege
or on the protection for work product under Chapter 4…(b) The party making the
demand may move for an order compelling response to the demand. (c) Except as
provided in subdivision (d), the court shall impose a monetary sanction under
Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or
attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to a
demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling, unless it finds that the
one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (CCP § 2031.300)
 
            “The court
may impose a monetary sanction ordering that one engaging in the misuse of the
discovery process, or any attorney advising that conduct, or both pay the
reasonable expenses, including attorney's fees, incurred by anyone as a result
of that conduct.” (CCP § 2023.030(a).) “Misuses of the discovery process
include, but are not limited to, the following: (d) Failing to respond or to
submit to an authorized method of discovery.” (CCP § 2023.010)
 
Analysis
 
            Defendant
submits the Declaration of Alexandra Barreno (Barreno Decl.) for both Motions,
which states that on July 31, 2023, Defendant served both Form Interrogatories
and Inspection Demands on Plaintiff. (Barreno Decl., ¶ 2.) The deadline to
serve responses was August 31, 2023, however, no responses were received. (Id.)
Defense counsel sent a meet and confer letter to Plaintiff’s counsel on October
4, 2023 via email. On October 26, 2023, Defense counsel was informed that the
handling attorney had passed away, and that the associate working with that
attorney had left the firm. (Barreno Decl., ¶ 3-4.) After granting Plaintiff’s
counsel a 30-day extension to November 28, 2023, responses were never received.
(Barreno Decl. ¶ 4-5.) As responses were never served, the Motions are granted,
and sanctions warranted.    
 
 
Sanctions
 
            Defense
counsel provides the calculations below:
 
·        
Counsel’s
hourly rate is $250.00
·        
Counsel
spent 1 hour preparing each Motion
·        
Counsel
anticipated spending 3 hours reviewing opposition papers and attending the
hearing related to these Motions
·        
Counsel
incurred a filing fee of 61.65
·        
Counsel
is requesting a total of $1,061.65 per Motion
 
            Considering
no opposition papers were filed and considering the similarities between the
Motions, the Court will award sanctions to Defendant, and impose them on
Plaintiff in the total amount of $873.30, inclusive of both Motions.
 
Conclusion
 
            Accordingly,
Defendant’s Motion to Compel Plaintiff’s Responses to Form Interrogatories (Set
1) and Defendant’s Motion to Compel Plaintiff’s Responses to Inspection Demands
Request (Set 1) are GRANTED. 
 
The request for monetary sanctions is also GRANTED.

 
The Court awards
sanctions to Defendant and imposes them on Plaintiff in the total amount of $873.30, inclusive of both Motions, payable within
30-days from notice of this Court’s Ruling.
 
Moving Party is
ordered to give notice.
 
            