    BACKGROUND               On April  28, 2023, Mollie Avinger-Anderson (Plaintiff) filed an initial Complaint  against Cassandra Bible (Defendant) for defamation. Plaintiff filed a First  Amended Complaint (FAC) on May 18, 2023.  After the demurrer to the FAC was sustained,  Plaintiff filed the operative Second Amended Complaint (SAC) on December 1,  2023, which appears to allege one cause of action for a form of defamation.  Defendant has demurred to the SAC as well. No opposition papers were  filed.      MOVING PARTY  POSITION               Defendant’s  arguments upon Demurrer are two-fold: (1) the report made to the DMV is  protected under litigation privilege and (2) the Complaint fails to state a  cause of action for defamation.    DISCUSSION     Legal Standard and Analysis for Meet and  Confer               “Before filing a demurrer…the  demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party  who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of  determining whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections  to be raised in the demurrer.” (CCP § 430.41(a).) Defendant submits the  Declaration of Bahram Madaen (Madaen Decl.) which states that Defense counsel  sent a meet and confer letter to Plaintiff, but never heard back. (Madaen  Decl., ¶ 4.) The requirements of CCP § 430.41(a) remain unsatisfied. However,  per CCP § 430.41(a)(4), “A determination by the court that the meet and confer  process was insufficient shall not be grounds to overrule or sustain a demurrer.”  Therefore, the Court now turns its attention to the Demurrer.       Legal Standard for Demurrer               “[A]  demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of the allegations in a complaint.” (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015) 235  Cal.App.4th 385, 388.) A demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that  appear on the face of the pleading under attack or from matters outside the  pleading that are judicially noticeable. (See Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994 [in  ruling on a demurrer, a court may not consider declarations, matters not  subject to judicial notice, or documents not accepted for the truth of their  contents].) For purposes of ruling on a demurrer, all facts pleaded in a  complaint are assumed to be true, but the reviewing court does not assume the  truth of conclusions of law. (Aubry v.  Tri-City Hosp. Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.)   Analysis for Demurrer                As an initial note, the SAC is  ambiguous and unintelligible. Defendant makes two arguments upon Demurrer: (1)  the report made to the DMV is protected under litigation privilege and (2) the  Complaint fails to state a cause of action for defamation. As explained below,  the Court agrees with both and sustains the Demurrer without leave to amend.    A.     The “Litigation Privilege” applies                    The  incident before the Court appears to have stemmed from a report made to the DMV  that Plaintiff’s vehicle was stolen. Defendant is alleged to have made this  report. Defendant argues that the statement is not defamation because it is  protected by the “litigation privilege”. The litigation privilege provides that  a “publication or broadcast” made as part of a “judicial proceeding” is  privileged. (Action Apartment Assn., Inc., v. City of Santa Monica  (2007) 41 Cal.4th 1232, 1241.) The privilege is not limited to  statements made during trial but may extend to steps taken prior to trial. (Id.)  “The principal purpose of [the litigation privilege] is to afford litigants and  witnesses the utmost freedom of access to the courts without fear of being  harassed subsequently by derivative tort actions.” (Id.) The litigation  privilege “derives from common law principles establishing a defense to the  tort of defamation.” (Id.) The reporting of a vehicle that may have been  stolen falls well within the scope of this privilege because it is the  reporting of a crime, which if prosecuted triggers litigation within the courts.  The privilege operates as an absolute privilege; therefore, the reporting of  the alleged stolen vehicle is protected.    B.      The SAC is ambiguous and unintelligible                  “The  elements of a defamation claim are (1) a publication that is (2) false, (3)  defamatory, (4) unprivileged, and (5) has a natural tendency to injure or  causes special damage. The defamatory statement must specifically refer to, or  be of and concerning, the plaintiff.” (John  Doe 2 v. Superior Court (2016) 1 Cal.App.5th 1300, 1312, quotation marks  and citation omitted.)                          Defendant’s  second argument is that the SAC fails to state a cause of action. The Court  agrees. The SAC is ambiguous and unintelligible. The SAC describes how  Plaintiff received the vehicle from her brother who had passed away (SAC, pg.  1, lines 27-28), then notes that Plaintiff had been in contact with an  investigator by the name of “Mr. Madrid” from the DMV (Id. at lines  25-26.) However, at no point are the elements for defamation articulated, nor  are the facts to support them. Therefore, the Demurrer to Plaintiff’s SAC is  sustained.       Legal  Standard and Analysis for Leave to Amend               Leave to amend must be  allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (See Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335,  349 [court shall not “sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if there is any  reasonable possibility that the defect can be cured by amendment”]. As noted in the Minute Order regarding the  ruling on the FAC, if the Demurrer to the SAC was sustained, the Court would  consider denying leave to amend. (Minute Order for November 8, 2023, pg. 4.) “Pro.  per. litigants are held to the same standards as attorneys.” (Kobayashi v.  Superior Court (2009) 175 Cal.App.4th 536, 543.) This is Plaintiff’s third  attempt at submitting an intelligible complaint, however, the Court finds that none  of the complaints filed articulate a proper cause of action. As such, the Court  will deny leave to amend the SAC.    CONCLUSION               Accordingly,  Defendant’s Demurrer to Plaintiff’s Second Amended Complaint is SUSTAINED without leave to amend.   Counsel for Plaintiff is ordered to  electronically submit to the Court a proposed form of Judgment of Dismissal as to the Complaint within 10-days of notice of this Court’s Ruling.   Moving Party is ordered to give notice.             