

 
BACKGROUND
 
            On December
8, 2023, Darrell Earl Williams (Plaintiff) filed a Complaint against Wells
Lawson (Defendant). The Complaint consists of one sentence alleging racism and
favoritism (Complaint, pg. 1, lines 15-18), but nothing more. Defendant files
the Demurrer now before the Court.  
 
 
MOVING PARTY
POSITION
 
            Defendant
argues upon Demurrer that the Complaint fails to state a cause of action.
 
 
DISCUSSION
 
 
Legal Standard and Analysis for Meet and
Confer
 
            “Before filing a demurrer…the
demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party
who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of
determining whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the
objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (CCP § 430.41(a).) Defendant submits
the Declaration of John M. Bergerson (Bergerson Decl.) which states that
Defense counsel sent a meet and confer letter to Plaintiff on January 11, 2024,
but never heard back. (Bergerson Decl., 2:7-8.) Moreover, there was no phone
number nor email address provided on the Complaint. The requirements of CCP §
430.41(a) remain unsatisfied. However, per CCP § 430.41(a)(4), “A determination
by the court that the meet and confer process was insufficient shall not be
grounds to overrule or sustain a demurrer.” Therefore, the Court now turns its
attention to the Demurrer.    
 
Legal Standard for Demurrer
 
            “[A]
demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of the allegations in a complaint.” (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015) 235
Cal.App.4th 385, 388.) A demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that
appear on the face of the pleading under attack or from matters outside the
pleading that are judicially noticeable. (See Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994 [in
ruling on a demurrer, a court may not consider declarations, matters not
subject to judicial notice, or documents not accepted for the truth of their
contents].) For purposes of ruling on a demurrer, all facts pleaded in a
complaint are assumed to be true, but the reviewing court does not assume the
truth of conclusions of law. (Aubry v.
Tri-City Hosp. Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.)
 
Analysis for Demurrer
 
            Here,
the Complaint contains one sentence alleging “racism and favoritism” but with
no further information as to how it manifested, and in what context. Defendant
clarifies upon Demurrer that it may be within the context of an application for
federally subsidized housing, however, Plaintiff provides no facts supporting
their allegations, nor do they articulate a cause of action against Defendant. The
Complaint at present is insufficient to place Defendant on notice of the issues
and allegations against them, such that Defendant is enabled to prepare a
defense. (Doe v. City of Los Angeles (2007) 42 Cal.4th 531,
549-550. Also see CCP § 430.10(e).) As such, Defendant’s Demurrer must be
sustained.
 
Legal
Standard and Analysis for Leave to Amend
 
            Leave to amend must be allowed where
there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (See Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335,
349 [court shall not “sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if there is any
reasonable possibility that the defect can be cured by amendment”]. As there is
reasonable possibility of successful amendment, Plaintiff is granted 20 days
leave to amend.  
  
CONCLUSION
 
            Defendant’s
Demurrer to Plaintiff’s Complaint is SUSTAINED with 20 days leave
to amend.
 
Moving Party is ordered to give notice.