  Case Number:  22STCV32743    Hearing Date:   June 5, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




gladys hampton

   ;
 


   Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
department of motor
   vehicles

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


22STCV32743




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


June
   5, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[tentative]
  Order RE:
 
(1)  
  defendant’s
  demurrer to second amended complaint
(2)  
  defendant’s
  motion to strike portions of second amended complaint
 



 
MOVING PARTY:                 Defendant Department of Motor
Vehicles
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiff Gladys Hampton
(1)  
Demurrer
to Second Amended Complaint
(2)  
Motion
to Strike Portions of Second Amended Complaint
The court
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers filed in connection with the
demurrer and motion to strike. 
BACKGROUND
Plaintiff Gladys Hampton
(“Plaintiff”) filed the operative Second Amended Complaint in this action on
November 13, 2023, against defendant Department of Motor Vehicles
(“Defendant”).  Plaintiff alleges 10
causes of action for (1) disability discrimination; (2) failure to accommodate;
(3) failure to engage in the interactive process; (4) discrimination on the
basis of gender; (5) discrimination on the basis of age; (6) harassment on the
basis of disability, gender, and age; (7) retaliation; (8) failure to prevent
discrimination, harassment, and retaliation; (9) negligence; and (10)
intentional infliction of emotional distress. 
Defendant now moves the court
for an order (1) sustaining its demurrer to each cause of action alleged by
Plaintiff, and (2) striking from the Second Amended Complaint the ninth and
10th causes of action and various allegations that it contends are inconsistent
or sham allegations. 
DEMURRER
The court overrules
Defendant’s demurrer to the first through third causes of action because they
state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action on the ground that
Plaintiff has adequately alleged that she suffers from a mental disability by
alleging that she (1) developed severe anxiety, stress, depression, and
post-traumatic stress disorder after being assaulted by a coworker (SAC ¶¶ 13,
30, 38), which (2) limited her ability to perform major life activities,
including interference with her ability to perform her job (SAC ¶¶ 45, 74-75),
and therefore has alleged that she has a mental or psychological disorder or
condition or emotional or mental illness that limits a major life activity.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e); Higgins-Williams
v. Sutter Medical Foundation (2015) 237 Cal.App.4th 78, 84 [elements of
prima facie case of mental disability discrimination under FEHA]; Cuiellette
v. City of Los Angeles (2011) 194 Cal.App.4th 757, 766 [elements of failure
to accommodate claim]; Gov. Code, §§ 12926, subd. (j) [defining mental
disability], 12940, subd. (n).)  
The court acknowledges, as
Defendant argues, that “[a]n employee’s inability to work under a particular
supervisor because of anxiety and stress related to the supervisor’s standard
oversight of the employee’s job performance does not constitute a disability
under FEHA.”  (Higgins-Williams, supra,
237 Cal.App.4th at p. 84.)  The court
further acknowledges that Plaintiff has alleged that she “suffered from several
disabilities, including but not limited to psychological hardship, including
high levels of stress and anxiety, caused by conditions at her
workplace, as well as physical disabilities due to hostile work environment,” such
that the resultant stress and anxiety may not qualify as a mental disability to
the extent that the alleged emotional distress may be interpreted to constitute
an inability to work for Defendant because of its employees’ standard oversight
of Plaintiff’s job performance.  (SAC ¶
65 [emphasis added].)  However, Plaintiff
has also alleged—and thus the court must accept as true—that she suffers from
anxiety, depression, and post-traumatic stress disorder as a result of the
assault committed by a coworker, which is not a mere inability to work with a
certain individual “because of anxiety and stress related to the
supervisor’s standard oversight of the employee’s job performance . . . .”  (SAC ¶ 13; Higgins-Williams, supra,
237 Cal.App.4th at p. 84 [emphasis added].)
The court sustains Defendant’s
demurrer to the first cause of action for disability discrimination because it
does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action since Plaintiff
did not allege facts establishing that the adverse employment actions alleged (i.e.,
the denials of her requests for transfer) were taken because of her mental
disability.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10,
subd. (e); Higgins-Williams, supra, 237 Cal.App.4th at p. 84 [plaintiff
alleging mental disability discrimination must allege that “she was subjected
to an adverse employment action because of the disability”] [emphasis
added].)  Instead, Plaintiff has
expressly alleged that (1) her request for a lateral transfer “was denied by
Ms. Bowie in retaliation for Plaintiff’s complaints about her supervisor,
Ms. Bowie” (SAC ¶ 27 [emphasis added]) and to subject her “to further
harassment” (SAC ¶ 28), and (2) her request to be transferred to the El Segundo
office was denied (i) as a result of Defendant’s failure to engage in the
interactive process, which does not constitute an adverse employment action,
and (ii) to subject her to further harassment (SAC ¶ 42).  
To the extent that Plaintiff
has attempted to allege that Defendant’s failure to accommodate her and to
timely interact in a good faith interactive process constitutes adverse
employment actions, the court disagrees. 
(SAC ¶ 67; Doe v. Department of Corrections & Rehabilitation (2019)
43 Cal.App.5th 721, 735-736 [“No court has ever held that a failure to
reasonably accommodate an employee’s disability—which is a separate cause of
action under FEHA [citation]—can qualify as the adverse action underlying a discrimination
or retaliation claim”] [internal citation omitted]; Brown v. Los Angeles
Unified School District (2021) 60 Cal.App.5th 1092, 1106 [“the commission
of one specific prohibited employment practice does not, in and of itself,
constitute commission of all other prohibited employment practices under the
broad rubric of policies or practices affecting the ‘terms, conditions or
privileges of employment’”].)   Moreover, although Plaintiff has also alleged
that she “received . . . negative performance review[s]” in 2019 and 2020 (SAC
¶¶ 23-24), Plaintiff also alleged that she never “receive[d] a write-up or
performance improvement plan” and that “[n]one of the procedures associated
with a negative performance review were followed” (SAC ¶ 25), such that she has
not alleged facts establishing that the negative performance reviews “‘materially
affect[ed] the terms, conditions, or privileges of [Plaintiff’s] employment.’”  (Feathersone v. Southern California
Permanente Medical Group (2017) 10 Cal.App.5th 1150, 1161 [internal
citation omitted] [emphasis in original].)
The court overrules
Defendant’s demurrer to the second and third causes of action because they
state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action because (1) Plaintiff
has alleged that she was not offered a reasonable accommodation, and (2) even
if the First Amended Complaint alleged that she was offered telework to prevent
her from working in the presence of the coworker that assaulted her, that allegation
alone does not establish that such an offer constitutes a reasonable
accommodation within the meaning of the Fair Employment and Housing Act (Gov.
Code, § 12900 et seq.).  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e); SAC ¶¶ 44 [Defendant “never provided reasonable
accommodations that accommodated Plaintiff’s mental health disabilities”], 50.)

The court sustains Defendant’s
demurrer to the fourth cause of action for discrimination on the basis of
gender because it does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action since (1) in support of this cause of action, Plaintiff has alleged that
she “was subjected to an adverse employment decision in that she was subjected
to unjustified harassment due to her gender relating to her duties as an
employee of Defendant” (SAC ¶ 94), which describes harassment, and not
discrimination, and (2) Plaintiff has not alleged, in the factual background of
the Second Amended Complaint, facts establishing that she suffered an adverse
employment action under circumstances suggesting discriminatory motive.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e); Roby
v. McKesson Corp. (2009) 47 Cal.4th 686, 706 [“Because the FEHA treats
harassment in a separate provision, there is no reason to construe the FEHA’s
prohibition against discrimination broadly to include harassment”]; Khoiny
v. Dignity Health (2022) 76 Cal.App.5th 390, 397 [elements of prima facie
case of discrimination].) 
The court sustains Defendant’s
demurrer to the fifth cause of action for discrimination on the basis of age
because it does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action
since Plaintiff has not alleged facts establishing that she suffered an adverse
employment action under circumstances that give rise to an inference of
unlawful discrimination on the basis of her age.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e); Sandell
v. Taylor-Listug, Inc. (2010) 188 Cal.App.4th 297, 321 [elements of prima
facie case of age discrimination].) 
The court overrules Defendant’s
demurrer to the sixth cause of action for harassment because it states facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action since Plaintiff has alleged facts
establishing that Defendant harassed her (1) by forcing her “to oversee the
‘onboarding’” of the coworker who assaulted her (SAC ¶ 34), and (2) such
harassment was committed on the basis of her disability, age, and gender (SAC
¶¶ 115-116).  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10,
subd. (e); Martin v. Board of Trustees of California State University (2023)
97 Cal.App.5th 149, 170 [elements of prima facie case of unlawful harassment].)
The court overrules Defendant’s
demurrer to the seventh cause of action for retaliation because it states facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action since Plaintiff has alleged facts
establishing that (1) she engaged in protected activity by complaining about
harassment (SAC ¶¶ 18-21, 126), and (2) Defendant subjected her to an adverse
employment action by denying her 2019 lateral transfer request (SAC ¶ 27).  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e); Meeks
v. Autozone, Inc. (2018) 24 Cal.App.5th 855, 878-879 [elements of prima
facie case for retaliation under FEHA].) 
The court overrules
Defendant’s demurrer to the eighth cause of action for failure to prevent
discrimination, harassment, and retaliation because it states facts sufficient
to constitute a cause of action since the court has overruled Defendant’s
demurrer to the harassment and retaliation causes of action, and therefore those
causes of action may support this derivative claim.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e).) 
            The court finds, for the reasons set forth in
connection with the court’s ruling on the motion to strike, that the ninth and
10th causes of action should be stricken. 
The court therefore does not rule on Defendant’s arguments that the
ninth and 10th causes of action do not state facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action on the grounds that (1) Plaintiff did not comply with the claim
presentation requirements, and (2) Defendant is immune from liability. 
The
burden is on the plaintiff “to articulate how it could amend its pleading to
render it sufficient.”¿ (Palm Springs Villas II Homeowners Assn., Inc. v.
Parth (2016) 248 Cal.App.4th 268, 290.)¿ To satisfy that burden, a
plaintiff “must show in what manner he can amend his complaint and how that
amendment will change the legal effect of his pleading.”¿ (Goodman v.
Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349.) 
The court finds that Plaintiff has not met her burden to show in what
manner she can amend her first, fourth, and fifth causes of action to render
them sufficient against Defendant.  The
court therefore sustains Defendant’s demurrer to those causes of action without
leave to amend. 
MOTION TO STRIKE
Defendant moves the court for an order striking from Plaintiff’s
Second Amended Complaint (1) the ninth and 10th causes of action in their
entirety; (2) the portions of paragraphs 42, 43, 44, 49, and 50 that allege that
Defendant did not engage in a meaningful interactive process with Plaintiff and
failed to provide her reasonable accommodations; (3) the references to or
allegations regarding the existence of Plaintiffs “post-traumatic stress
disorder” set forth in portions of paragraphs 13, 30, 32, 38, 51, 137, and 143;
and (4) paragraphs 31, 34, 34, and 36, in their entirety, which allege facts
regarding the employment of Mr. Burns, the coworker that allegedly assaulted
Plaintiff, and the effect thereof on Plaintiff. 
First, the court grants Defendant’s motion to strike Plaintiff’s ninth
and 10th causes of action because those causes of action were not filed in
conformity with an order of the court. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (b).) 
“Following an order sustaining a demurrer or a motion for judgment on
the pleadings with leave to amend, the plaintiff may amend his or her complaint
only as authorized by the court’s order. 
[Citation.]  The plaintiff may not
amend the complaint to add a new cause of action without having obtained
permission to do so, unless the new cause of action is within the scope of the
order granting leave to amend.”  (Harris
v. Wachovia Mortgage, FSB (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 1018, 1023 [internal
citation omitted].)  On October 23, 2023,
the court issued an order (1) sustaining Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s
first through eighth causes of action, and (2) granting Plaintiff 20 days leave
to file an amended complaint “that cures the deficiencies set forth above” in
that order.  (Oct. 23, 2023 Order, p.
5:8-10.)  The court did not authorize
Plaintiff to add two new causes of action for negligence and intentional
infliction of emotional distress against Defendant.  (Ibid.)  Thus, the court finds that Plaintiff violated
the scope of the court’s October 23, 2023 order granting leave to amend by
adding the ninth and 10th causes of action and therefore exercises its
discretion to strike them from the Second Amended Complaint in their
entirety.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd.
(b).)  Plaintiff did not address this issue
in her opposition papers.  Thus, the
court strikes these causes of action without leave to amend.
Second, the court denies Defendant’s motion to strike the portions of
paragraphs 42, 43, 44, 49, and 50 that allege that Defendant did not engage in
a meaningful interactive process with Plaintiff and failed to provide her with accommodations,
the references to Plaintiffs “post-traumatic stress disorder” in paragraphs 13,
30, 32, 38, 51, 137, and 143, and paragraphs 31, 34, 34, and 36, in their
entirety, because the court finds that Defendant has not met its burden to show
that those allegations are improper, irrelevant, or false sham
allegations.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436,
subd. (a); Deveny v. Entropin, Inc. (2006) 139 Cal.App.4th 408, 426
[“Under the sham pleading doctrine, plaintiffs are precluded from amending
complaints to omit harmful allegations, without explanation, from previous
complaints to avoid attacks raised in demurrers or motions for summary
judgment”].) 
ORDER
            The court sustains defendant
Department of Motor Vehicle’s demurrer to plaintiff Gladys Hampton’s first
cause of action for disability discrimination, fourth cause of action for
gender discrimination, and fifth cause of action for age discrimination,
without leave to amend.  
            The court overrules defendant
Department of Motor Vehicle’s demurrer to plaintiff Gladys Hampton’s second,
third, and sixth through eighth causes of action. 
            The court grants defendant
Department of Motor Vehicle’s motion to strike plaintiff Gladys Hampton’s ninth
cause of action for negligence and 10th cause of action for intentional
infliction of emotional distress without leave to amend.
            The court denies all other relief
requested in defendant Department of Motor Vehicle’s motion to strike.
The court orders defendant Department of Motor Vehicle to file an
answer to plaintiff Gladys Hampton’s Second Amended Complaint within 10 days of
the date of this order. 
            The court orders defendant
Department of Motor Vehicle to give notice of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  June 5, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court