 Case Number:  BC665258    Hearing Date:   June 5, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




madeline moore

   ;
 


   Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
dennis p. riley

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


BC665258




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


June
   5, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[tentative]
  Order RE:
 
(1)  
  plaintiff’s
  motion for reconsideration
(2)  
  defendants’
  motion for reconsideration
 



 
MOVING PARTY:                 Plaintiff and cross-defendant
Madeline Moore          
 
RESPONDING PARTIES:    Defendants Dennis P. Riley and Mesisca, Riley
& Kreitenberg LLP
(1)  
Motion
for Reconsideration
MOVING PARTIES:              Defendants Dennis P. Riley and
Mesisca, Riley & Kreitenberg LLP
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiff and cross-defendant Madeline Moore
(2)  
Motion
for Reconsideration  
The court
considered the moving and opposition papers filed in connection with plaintiff
Madeline Moore’s motion for reconsideration.  
The court
considered the moving and opposition papers filed in connection with defendants
Dennis P. Riley and Mesisca, Riley & Kreitenberg LLP’s motion for
reconsideration. 
 
PLAINTIFF’S MOTION FOR RECONSIDERATION
Plaintiff Madeline Moore (“Plaintiff”)
requests that the court reconsider its order, dated May 22, 2024 and filed May
23, 2024, granting the motion in limine number 16 filed by defendants Dennis P.
Riley and Mesisca, Riley & Kreitenberg LLP (“Defendants”). 
The court denies Plaintiff’s
motion for reconsideration because Marshall Oldman does not have special
knowledge, skill, experience, training, or education sufficient to qualify him
as an expert on the subject to which his testimony relates (Evid. Code, § 720).
DEFENDANTS’ MOTION FOR RECONSIDERATION
Defendants request that the
court reconsider its order, dated May 22, 2024 and filed May 23, 2024, denying
their motions in limine numbers 2 and 13 to, respectively, preclude Plaintiff
from presenting (1) evidence relating to the matter of Madeline Moore v.
Crystal Ann Smith (Case No. LC101816), and (2) the expert opinion of Marc
Sallus regarding the filing of the Madeline Moore v. Crystal Ann Smith (Case
No. LC101816) matter. 
The court finds that it should
reconsider and modify its order denying Defendants’ motions in limine numbers 2
and 13 and therefore grants Defendants’ motion.[1]  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1008, subd. (a); State
of California v. Superior Court (Flynn) (2016) 4 Cal.App.5th 94, 100 [“Even
without a change of law, a trial court has the inherent power to reconsider its
prior rulings on its own motion at any time before entry of judgment”].) 
First, although Plaintiff
argued, in her opposition papers filed in connection with these motions in
limine, that Defendants’ “conduct in connection with the case of Moore v.
Smith has always been part of the action and MRK’s cross-action for fees[,]”
the court disagrees.  (Pl. Opp. to MIL
No. 2, filed Dec. 20, 2023, p. 1:26-27 [italics added]; Pl. Opp. to MIL No. 13,
filed Feb. 15, 2024, p. 1:27-28 [italics added].)  In support of that assertion, Plaintiff cited
(1) paragraph 29 of her First Amended Complaint, and (2) her response to form
interrogatory number 15.1.  However, that
allegation in the First Amended Complaint does not allege that Defendants
breached their fiduciary duties to Plaintiff in connection with the Moore v.
Smith action.  (FAC ¶ 29.)  Similarly, although the court recognizes that
Plaintiff’s response to form interrogatory number 15.1 alleges that Mr. Riley insisted
that she file Moore v. Smith, she did not allege that that conduct was
negligent or breached a duty of care owed to her.  (Pl. Opps., Ex. A.)  Instead, she alleges that “it appears from
propounding party’s billing invoices that responding party overpaid on the Moore
v. Smith matter by approximately at least $13,500, an amount that must be
credited or returned to her.”  (Ibid.)
 Thus, the court finds that Plaintiff did
not support her contention that Defendants’ conduct in connection with the Moore
v. Smith action “has always been part of” this action. 
Second, the court finds that
the evidence regarding Defendants’ conduct in connection with the Moore v.
Smith action is not relevant to Plaintiff’s affirmative defense of offset because
Plaintiff’s affirmative defenses of offset do not allege that they are based on
Defendants’ conduct in connection with that action.  (Pl. Answer to Cross-Complaint filed May 31,
2018, pp. 5:10-23, 6:23-27.)  The court further
finds that Plaintiff’s affirmative defense of offset is limited to her
allegation that she overpaid approximately $13,500 to Defendants in connection
with the Moore v. Smith action because, as set forth above, Plaintiff
(1) did not allege that Defendants’ conduct in the Moore v. Smith action
forms the basis of her affirmative defense of offset, and (2) alleged that she
overpaid this amount in her response to form interrogatory number 15.1. 
Third, the court finds that,
because the affirmative defense of offset “is equitable in nature” and “‘occurs
at the end of litigation[,]’” the court, not the jury, will decide whether the
defense applies, at the end of trial.  (Los
Angeles Unified School District v. Torres Construction Corp. (2020) 57
Cal.App.5th 480, 500.)  Thus, the court
finds that Plaintiff is not entitled to present evidence to prove offset as an
affirmative defense at trial before the jury. 
(Ibid. [noting that the plaintiff “would not have been required
to disprove the affirmative defense of setoff at a jury trial, and [the
defendant] would not have been entitled to prove it as an affirmative defense
at such trial”].) 
The court therefore orders
that its order dated May 22, 2024 and filed May 23, 2024 is modified as follows.
The portion of the court’s
order denying defendants Dennis P. Riley and Mesisca, Riley & Kreitenberg
LLP’s motion in limine number 2 is vacated. 
The court issues a new order granting defendants Dennis P. Riley and
Mesisca, Riley & Kreitenberg LLP’s motion in limine number 2 because (1) evidence
relating to the matter of Moore v. Smith (Case No. LC101816) is not
relevant to the issues to be determined by the jury (Evid. Code, § 350), and
(2) the court exercises its discretion to exclude such evidence because its
probative value is substantially outweighed by the probability that its
admission will (a) necessitate undue consumption of time and (b) create
substantial danger of undue prejudice, of confusing the issues, or of
misleading the jury (Evid. Code, § 352). 

The court grants defendants
Dennis P. Riley and Mesisca, Riley & Kreitenberg LLP’s motion in limine
number 2, and orders that plaintiff Madeline Moore shall not introduce evidence
relating to the matter of Moore v. Smith (Case No. LC101816), without
prejudice to plaintiff Madeline Moore’s presenting evidence to the court (out
of the presence of the jury) at the end of the trial to support her affirmative
defense of offset for her alleged overpayment of approximately $13,500 in fees
in connection with the Moore v. Smith (Case No. LC101816) action. 
The portion of the court’s
order denying defendants Dennis P. Riley and Mesisca, Riley & Kreitenberg
LLP’s motion in limine number 13 is vacated, and the court issues a new order
granting defendants Dennis P. Riley and Mesisca, Riley & Kreitenberg LLP’s
motion in limine number 13 because (1) the expert opinion of Plaintiff’s
standard of care expert, Marc Sallus, regarding the filing of the Moore v.
Smith (Case No. LC101816) action is not relevant to the issues to be
determined by the jury (Evid. Code, § 350), and (2) the court exercises its
discretion to exclude such evidence because its probative value is
substantially outweighed by the probability that its admission will (a)
necessitate undue consumption of time and (b) create substantial danger of
undue prejudice, of confusing the issues, or of misleading the jury (Evid.
Code, § 352).  
The court grants defendants
Dennis P. Riley and Mesisca, Riley & Kreitenberg LLP’s motion in limine
number 13, and orders that plaintiff Madeline Moore shall not introduce the expert
opinion of Plaintiff’s standard of care expert, Marc Sallus, regarding the
filing of the Moore v. Smith (Case No. LC101816) action.
The court orders defendants
Dennis P. Riley and Mesisca, Riley & Kreitenberg LLP to give notice of this
ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  June 5, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court


