 Case Number:  22STCV38520    Hearing Date:   June 5, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




patricia galea

   ;
 


   Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
prosodos holdings v. llc

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


22STCV38520




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


June
   5, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[tentative]
  Order RE:
 
cross-defendants’ demurrer to second amended
  cross-complaint
 



 
MOVING PARTIES:              Cross-defendants Westchester Playa
Realty Alliance, Inc., and Andre Morgan                     
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Cross-complainant Prosodos Holdings V, LLC
Demurrer to Second Amened Cross-Complaint
The court
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers filed in connection with
this demurrer. 
DISCUSSION
Cross-defendants Westchester Playa Realty Alliance, Inc. and Andre
Morgan (“Cross-Defendants”) move the court for an order sustaining their
demurrer to the third, fourth, and fifth causes of action alleged by
cross-complainant Prosodos Holdings V, LLC (“Cross-Complainant”) in its Second
Amended Cross-Complaint. 
The court overrules Cross-Defendants’ demurrer to the third cause of
action for negligence because it states facts sufficient to constitute a cause
of action since Cross-Complainant has alleged facts establishing that Cross-Defendants,
who acted as the real estate broker and agent for plaintiff and cross-defendant
Patricia Galea (“Galea”), owed Cross-Complainant a duty of care.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e); Romero
v. Los Angeles Rams (2023) 91 Cal.App.5th 562, 567 [elements of cause of
action for negligence].) 
“The extent of the broker’s duty of care is determined under common
law by examining whether a reasonable person would have foreseen an
unreasonable risk of harm to a third party and whether, in view of such risk,
the broker exercised ordinary care under the circumstances.  [Citation.] 
Whether a real estate broker has a duty of care to a third party is a
question of law that is determined by weighing the following factors: (1) the
extent that the transaction was intended to affect the third party; (2) the foreseeability
of harm; (3) the degree of certainty that the third party suffered injury; (4)
the closeness of the connection between the broker’s conduct and the injury
suffered; (5) the moral blame attached to the broker’s conduct; and (6) the
policy of preventing future harm . . . .” 
(Greif v. Sanin (2022) 74 Cal.App.5th 412, 428 [internal
citations omitted].)  
Here, Cross-Complainant has alleged, for purposes of demurrer, facts
establishing the existence of a duty by alleging that (1) Cross-Complainant
entered into the subject purchase contract with Galea (such that the transaction
was directly intended to affect Cross-Complainant) (SACC ¶ 3), (2) it was
foreseeable to Cross-Defendants that failing to prepare the contingency removal
with accuracy would harm Cross-Complainant since Cross-Complainant relied on
the details of the contingency removal in order to proceed with the transaction
(SACC ¶¶ 34-35),   (3) Cross-Complainant
has been damaged by Cross-Defendants’ failure to accurately prepare the
contingency removal, including because it has had to expend attorney’s fees and
costs to pursue this action against Galea and has suffered lost profits because
of the downturn in the market for similar properties (SACC ¶ 35), and (4) Cross-Defendants
“failed to include receipt of the Certificate of Occupancy prior to the date
scheduled for close of escrow as an additional excepted item despite the
ongoing, openly discussed, and transparent discussion surrounding the City’s
delay in issuance of the C of O” (SACC ¶ 30), such that Cross-Defendants knew that
Galea required issuance of the certificate of occupancy but failed to include
that in the contingency removal, thereby establishing the closeness of the
connection between Cross-Defendants’ conduct and Cross-Complainant’s injury and
the moral blame attached to Cross-Defendants’ conduct.  (Greif, supra, 74 Cal.App.5th
at pp. 428, 434.)  The court, in
considering the factors set forth above and the facts alleged in the Second
Amended Cross-Complaint, finds that Cross-Complainant has alleged sufficient facts
to establish the existence of a legal duty in support of this cause of action. 
The court overrules Cross-Defendants’ demurrer to the third cause of
action for negligence on the ground of misjoinder because Cross-Defendants have
not met their burden to show that there is a misjoinder or defect of
parties.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10,
subd. (d).) 
The court sustains Cross-Defendants’ demurrer to the fourth cause of
action for breach of fiduciary duty because it does not state facts sufficient
to constitute a cause of action since Cross-Complainant has not alleged the
element of the existence of a fiduciary relationship between it and
Cross-Defendants.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.10, subd. (e); O’Neal v. Stanislaus County Employees’ Retirement Assn. (2017)
8 Cal.App.5th 1184, 1215 [elements of cause of action for breach of fiduciary
duty].) 
“While real estate brokers owe their own clients fiduciary duties,
they owe third parties who are not their clients, including the adverse party
in a real estate transaction, only those duties imposed by regulatory statutes.  [Citation.] 
These duties include a general obligation of                 ‘ “honesty, fairness, and full
disclosure toward all parties.” ’”  (Saffie
v. Schmeling (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 564, 568 [internal citations omitted].)
 Cross-Complainant contends that
Cross-Defendants owed it fiduciary duties of honesty, fair dealing, and good
faith pursuant to Civil Code section 2079.16. 
(SACC ¶ 39.) 
As set forth above, Cross-Complainant has alleged that
Cross-Defendants “served as the real estate broker and agent for Galea” (SACC ¶
38.)  As the buyer’s agent,
Cross-Defendants owed (1) to Galea, a fiduciary duty of utmost care, integrity,
honesty, and loyalty in dealings with her, and (2) to both Galea and
Cross-Complainant, obligations to diligently exercise reasonable skill and care
in performing their duties, duties of honest and fair dealing and good faith,
and a duty to disclose all facts known to them materially affecting the value
or desirability of the property that are not known to, or are not within the
diligent attention and observation of, the parties.  (Civ. Code, § 2079.16.)  Thus, pursuant to this statutory disclosure
form, Cross-Defendants did not owe Cross-Complainant a fiduciary duty,
and instead owed it only general duties and obligations to exercise reasonable
care and skill in the discharge of their duties and a duty of honest and fair
dealing and good faith.  (Ibid.; Horiike
v. Coldwell Banker Residential Brokerage Co. (2016) 1 Cal.5th 1024, 1031
[“the disclosure form says that an agent representing only one of the two
parties (i.e., an exclusive agent of the buyer or the seller) does not owe
fiduciary duties to the other party to the transaction, though it does owe
duties of ‘[d]iligent exercise of reasonable skill and care in performance of
the agent’s duties’ and ‘honest and fair dealing and good faith’ to both
parties”].)  Cross-Complainant has
neither alleged nor argued that Cross-Defendants were acting as a dual agent
for both itself and Galea so as to impose the existence of a fiduciary duty on
that ground.  (Civ. Code, § 2079.16 [“In
a dual agency situation, the agent has the following affirmative obligations to
both the Seller and the Buyer; [¶] (1) A fiduciary duty of utmost care,
integrity, honesty, and loyalty in the dealings with either the Seller or the
Buyer”].)  Thus, the court finds that
Cross-Complainant has not alleged facts establishing the existence of a
fiduciary relationship between it and Cross-Defendants. 
The court overrules Cross-Defendants’ demurrer to the fifth cause of
action for indemnification because it states facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action since Cross-Complainant has alleged that (1) Galea has filed
suit against Cross-Complainant in this action, alleging that it is liable for
her injuries, but that Cross-Defendants caused the injuries described by Galea
in her Complaint due to their negligent or wrongful conduct (SACC ¶¶ 44, 46), and   (2) Cross-Complainant
is entitled to recover from Cross-Defendants all amounts which may be paid by
way of compromise, settlement or judgment in favor of Galea, as well as costs
and expenses.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.10, subd. (e); C.W. Howe Partners Inc. v. Mooradian (2019) 43
Cal.App.5th 688, 700 [“The elements of a cause of action for [equitable]
indemnity are (1) a showing of fault on the part of indemnitor and (2)
resulting damages to the indemnitee for which the indemnitor is . . . equitably
responsible”] [internal quotations and citations omitted].) 
The
burden is on the plaintiff “to articulate how it could amend its pleading to
render it sufficient.”¿ (Palm Springs Villas II Homeowners Assn., Inc. v.
Parth (2016) 248 Cal.App.4th 268, 290.)¿ To satisfy that burden, a
plaintiff “must show in what manner he can amend his complaint and how that
amendment will change the legal effect of his pleading.”¿ (Goodman v.
Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349.) 
The court finds that Cross-Complainant has not met its burden to show in
what manner it can amend its fourth cause of action for breach of fiduciary
duty against Cross-Defendants.  The court
therefore sustains the demurrer to that cause of action without leave to amend.

ORDER
            The court overrules cross-defendants
Westchester Playa Realty Alliance, Inc., and Andre Morgan’s demurrer to
cross-complainant Prosodos Holdings V, LLC’s third and fifth causes of action.
            The court sustains cross-defendants
Westchester Playa Realty Alliance, Inc., and Andre Morgan’s demurrer to
cross-complainant Prosodos Holdings V, LLC’s fourth cause of action for breach
of fiduciary duty without leave to amend.
            The court orders cross-defendants
Westchester Playa Realty Alliance, Inc., and Andre Morgan to file an answer to
cross-complainant Prosodos Holdings V, LLC’s Second Amended Cross-Complaint
within 10 days of the date of this order.
            The court orders cross-defendants
Westchester Playa Realty Alliance, Inc., and Andre Morgan to give notice of
this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  June 5, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court