Here is the summary in YAML format:

```yaml
Case Number: 23STCV20072
Plaintiff's Name: Mark Ong
Defendant's Name: PARKWEST BICYCLE CASINO LLC, et al.
People-Names: Mark Ong, Grisel Fernandez
Company-Names: PARKWEST BICYCLE CASINO LLC, PARK West Casinos, Inc., The Bike Casino, L.P., TBC, L.P.
Places: California, Los Angeles
Dates: August 22, 2023, September 25, 2023, October 27, 2023, November 21, 2023, November 27, 2023, January 25, 2024, October 15, 2024
Events: Filing of complaint, filing of first amended complaint, filing of motion to compel arbitration, filing of opposition to motion, hearing
Money: None mentioned
Intentions: To compel Plaintiff's claims to arbitration
Facts: Plaintiff filed employment law action, Plaintiff alleges age and disability discrimination, Plaintiff amended complaint to substitute defendant, Defendant seeks to compel arbitration
Disputes: Unconscionability of arbitration agreement
Acts: Filing of motions, oppositions, and declarations
Agreements: Employment At-Will and Arbitration Agreement
Laws: California Arbitration Act, Federal Arbitration Act, Fair Employment and Housing Act, California Family Rights Act, Business and Professions Code
Case Citations: Weiler v. Marcus & Millichap Real Estate Investment Services, Inc., Rodriguez v. American Technologies, Inc., Armendariz v. Foundation Health Psychcare Services, Inc., OTO, L.L.C. v. Kho, Torrecillas v. Fitness International, LLC, Carmona v. Lincoln Millennium Car Wash, Inc., Swain v. LaserAway Medical Group, Inc., Stephens v. DIRECTV, LLC, Revitch v. DIRECTV, LLC, Smith v. Steinkamp, Adolph v. Uber Techs., Inc.
Statutes: California Civil Code section 1281.2, 9 U.S.C. ยง 2, Code of Civil Procedure section 1281, Labor Code section 1102.5, Business and Professions Code section 17200
Roles: Judge, Plaintiff, Defendant
Significant Statements: The Court grants Defendant's motion to compel arbitration, the Court severs the limitation of remedies regarding attorney's fees and costs from the remainder of the arbitration provision.
```

Here is a summary of the judge's tentative ruling in English text:

The judge has granted Defendant TBC, L.P.'s motion to compel Plaintiff Mark Ong's claims to arbitration. The judge finds that the arbitration agreement is valid and that Plaintiff's claims are subject to arbitration. The judge also severs the limitation of remedies regarding attorney's fees and costs from the remainder of the arbitration provision, finding that it is unconscionable. The judge grants a stay of the litigation pending completion of the arbitration proceedings. The judge sets a status conference for October 15, 2024, at 8:30 a.m.