 Case Number:  23STCV20072    Hearing Date:   January 25, 2024    Dept:  72 SUPERIOR COURT
OF CALIFORNIA 
COUNTY OF LOS
ANGELES 
 
DEPARTMENT 72 
 
TENTATIVE RULING  
 



MARK ONG,  
 
                                 
  Plaintiff, 
   
         v. 
 
 
PARKWEST BICYCLE CASINO LLC, et al., 
 
                                 
  Defendants. 
  


 Case No:  23STCV20072 
 
 
 
  
 
 Hearing Date:  January 25, 2024 
 Calendar Number:  8 



 
 
 
Defendant TBC, L.P. (“Defendant”) moves for an order
compelling Plaintiff Mark Ong to submit his claims against Defendant to binding
arbitration.  
 
Defendant’s motion to compel arbitration is GRANTED. The
Court orders Plaintiff to arbitrate his claims against Defendant. Any limitation
of remedies regarding attorney’s fees and costs in the arbitration agreement is
severed. 
 
The request for a stay is GRANTED.  The litigation is stayed pending completion
of the arbitration proceedings.  
 
The Court sets a status conference re arbitration for October 15, 2024 at
8:30 a.m.  Defendant shall give notice.
 
Background 
 
Plaintiff Mark Ong (“Plaintiff”) filed this employment law
action on August 22, 2023.  
 
On September 25, 2023, Plaintiff filed the operative First
Amended Complaint (“FAC”) against Parkwest Bicycle Casino, LLC, Park West
Casinos, Inc. Grisel Fernandez, The Bike Casino, L.P. and Does 1 to 100,
inclusive, asserting the following 18 causes of action: (1) age discrimination
in violation of the Fair Employment and Housing Act (“FEHA”); (2) disability
discrimination in violation of FEHA; (3) failure to accommodate/engage in a good
faith interactive process of others in violation of FEHA; (4) interference with
the California Family Rights Act (“CFRA”) rights and retaliation for
taking/requesting CFRA leave in violation of FEHA; (5) race/color/national
origin/ancestry discrimination in violation of FEHA; (6) hostile work
environment in violation of FEHA; (7) retaliation for opposing practices
forbidden by FEHA and requesting reasonable accommodation; (8) failure to do
everything reasonably necessary to prevent discrimination, harassment, and
retaliation from occurring in violation of FEHA; (9) retaliation and
interference/violation of kin care; (10) violation of paid sick
leave/retaliation for taking/requesting paid sick leave; (11) interference
with/violations of Covid-19 supplemental paid sick leave; (12) violation of
suitable seating laws; (13) invasion of privacy; (14) wrongful
termination/adverse employment action in violation of public policy; (15)
negligent hiring and retention; (16) intentional infliction of emotional
distress; (17) retaliation for whistleblowing in violation of Labor Code section
1102.5; and (18) violation of Business and Professions Code § 17200, et
seq.  
 
The FAC alleges, among other things, that during
Plaintiff’s employment with the defendants, the defendants denied Plaintiff
leave of absence for his disabilities, even though the leave was covered by
various federal and state laws, and then disciplined Plaintiff when he missed
work due to those disabilities. (FAC, ¶¶ 6, 26,
29, 30, 32, 33.) The defendants also denied Plaintiff other accommodations for
his disabilities, failed to engage in a good faith interactive process,
subjected him to racial and age harassment, invaded his privacy, and subjected
him to Labor Code violations. (FAC, ¶¶ 35, 38,
43, 49, 52.)  
 
On October 27, 2023, Plaintiff amended the FAC to
substitute Defendant TBC, L.P. for the defendant sued fictitiously as Doe
1.  
 
On November 21, 2023, Defendant TBC, L.P. (“Defendant”) filed
the instant motion to compel arbitration and stay proceedings.  
 
On November 27, 2023, Plaintiff filed his opposition to the
motion.  
 
          No reply has
been filed. 
 
 
Legal Standard 
 
Both the California Arbitration Act (“CAA”) and the Federal
Arbitration Act (“FAA”) “are driven by a strong public policy of enforcing
arbitration agreements.” (Weiler v. Marcus & Millichap Real Estate
Investment Services, Inc. (2018) 22 Cal.App.5th 970, 979.) “Thus, a court
generally must compel arbitration in accordance with the agreement when
requested by one of the parties. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2; 9 U.S.C. § 2.)” (Ibid.)  
 
“The FAA applies to arbitration clauses in contracts
involving interstate commerce and ‘was designed “to overrule the judiciary’s
long-standing refusal to enforce agreements to arbitrate,” [citation], and to
place such agreements “‘upon the same footing as other contracts.’”’
[Citation.]” (Rodriguez v. American Technologies, Inc. (2006) 136
Cal.App.4th 1110, 1117 (“Rodriguez”).)  
 
Section 2 of the FAA states that “[a] written provision in
... a contract ... to settle by arbitration a controversy thereafter arising
out of such contract ... shall be valid, irrevocable, and enforceable, save
upon such grounds as exist at law or in equity for the revocation of any
contract.” (9 U.S.C. § 2.) 
 
The CAA “echoing the FAA’s language and its policy favoring
arbitration, likewise provides that a written arbitration agreement ‘is valid,
enforceable and irrevocable, save upon such grounds as exist for the revocation
of any contract.’” (Rodriguez, supra, 136 Cal.App.4th at p. 1117
[discussing Code of Civil Procedure section 1281].)  
 
“The court’s role under the [FAA] is … limited to
determining (1) whether a valid agreement to arbitrate exists and, if it does,
(2) whether the agreement encompasses the dispute at issue.” (Chiron Corp.
v. Ortho Diagnostic Systems, Inc. (9th Cir. 2000) 207 F.3d 1126, 1130.) “If
the response is affirmative on both counts, then the Act requires the court to
enforce the arbitration agreement in accordance with its terms.” (Ibid.)  
 
Even when the FAA applies, “[i]n determining the rights of
parties to enforce an arbitration agreement within the FAA’s scope, courts
apply state contract law while giving due regard to the federal policy favoring
arbitration.” (Pinnacle Museum Tower Assn. v. Pinnacle Market Development
(US), LLC (2012) 55 Cal.4th 223, 236.) 
 
Under California law, “[t]he petitioner [seeking to compel
arbitration] bears the burden of proving the existence of a valid arbitration
agreement by a preponderance of the evidence, while a party opposing the
petition bears the burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence any
fact necessary to its defense.” (Ruiz v. Moss Bros. Auto Group, Inc. (2014)
232 Cal.App.4th 836, 842; see also Knutson v. Sirius XM Radio Inc. (9th
Cir. 2014) 771 F.3d 559, 565 [discussing an arbitration agreement governed by the
FAA and stating that “the party seeking to compel arbitration, has the burden
of proving the existence of an agreement to arbitrate by a preponderance of the
evidence”].)  
 
“The trial court sits as the trier of fact, weighing all
the affidavits, declarations, and other documentary evidence, and any oral
testimony the court may receive at its discretion, to reach a final
determination.” (Ruiz v. Moss Bros. Auto Group, Inc., supra, 232
Cal.App.4th at p. 842.) 
 
Discussion 
 
Existence of a Valid Agreement to Arbitrate  
 
“The moving party ‘can meet its initial burden by attaching to the
[motion or] petition a copy of the arbitration agreement purporting to bear the
[opposing party’s] signature.’ [Citation.] Alternatively, the moving party can
meet its burden by setting forth the agreement’s provisions in the motion.
[Citations.] For this step, ‘it is not necessary to follow the normal
procedures of document authentication.’ [Citation.] If the moving party meets
its initial prima facie burden and the opposing party does not dispute the
existence of the arbitration agreement, then nothing more is required for the
moving party to meet its burden of persuasion.” (Gamboa v. Northeast
Community Clinic (2021) 72 Cal.App.5th 158, 165 (“Gamboa”.) 
 
Here, Defendants have submitted a copy of the arbitration agreement
purporting to bear the Plaintiff’s signature. 
Plaintiff does not deny that an arbitration agreement exists.  Nor does Plaintiff deny that it covers the
allegations in the complaint.  Instead,
Plaintiff argues that the arbitration agreement is unenforceable.
 
Accordingly, Defendant has met its initial burden.  The Court proceeds to discuss Plaintiff’s
enforceability arguments.  
 
Unconscionability  
 
Plaintiff argues that the arbitration agreement is
unenforceable because it is unconscionable and does not comply with Armendariz
v. Foundation Health Psychcare Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 98 (“Armendariz”).) 
 
“The burden of proving unconscionability rests upon the
party asserting it.” (OTO, L.L.C. v. Kho (2019) 8 Cal.5th 111,
126.)  
 
“‘[U]nconscionability has both a “procedural” and a
“substantive” element,’ the former focusing on ‘oppression’ or ‘surprise’ due
to unequal bargaining power, the latter on ‘overly harsh’ or ‘one-sided’
results.” (Armendariz, supra, 24 Cal.4th at p. 114 [citations
omitted].)   
 
“As a matter of general contract law, California courts
require both procedural and substantive unconscionability to invalidate a
contract.” (Torrecillas v. Fitness International, LLC (2020) 52
Cal.App.5th 485, 492 (“Torrecillas”).) California courts “apply a
sliding scale, meaning if one of these elements is present to only a lesser
degree, then more evidence of the other element is required to establish
overall unconscionability. In other words, if there is little of one, there
must be a lot of the other.” (Ibid.)      
 
(a)  Procedural
Unconscionability 
 
Procedural unconscionability concerns the manner in which
the contract was negotiated and the parties’ circumstances at that time. It
focuses on the factors of oppression or surprise. (Kinney v. United
Healthcare Servs. (1999) 70 Cal.App.4th 1322, 1329.)  
 
“[P]rocedural unconscionability requires either oppression
or surprise.” (The McCaffrey Group, Inc. v. Superior Court (2014) 224
Cal.App.4th 1330, 1349.) 
 
Surprise occurs “where the allegedly unconscionable
provision is hidden within a prolix printed form.” (Pinnacle, supra,
55 Cal.4th at p. 247.)  
 
“Oppression generally takes the form of a contract of
adhesion, which, imposed and drafted by the party of superior bargaining
strength, relegates to the subscribing party only the opportunity to adhere to
the contract or reject it.” (Carmona v. Lincoln Millennium Car Wash, Inc.
(2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 74, 84 [quotations and citations omitted].)  
 
“The circumstances relevant to establishing oppression
include, but are not limited to (1) the amount of time the party is given to
consider the proposed contract; (2) the amount and type of pressure exerted on
the party to sign the proposed contract; (3) the length of the proposed contract
and the length and complexity of the challenged provision; (4) the education
and experience of the party; and (5) whether the party’s review of the proposed
contract was aided by an attorney.” (Swain v. LaserAway Medical Group, Inc.
(2020) 57 Cal.App.5th 59, 69, citation and quotations omitted.)  
 
Here, Plaintiff cannot establish surprise because there is
no evidence that the arbitration agreement was hidden within a prolix printed
form; it was a standalone document with legible font.  
 
As for oppression, Plaintiff testifies Defendant forced the arbitration
agreement on him, refused to explain it to him, told him he had to sign the
agreement right then and there to keep his job and could not negotiate it, and did
not give him time to review the agreement. (Ong Decl., ¶¶ 4-9.) 
 
Although Plaintiff’s declaration establishes some degree of oppression,
the Court finds that the degree of oppression was not high based on the
following. Plaintiff
provides that Defendant did not explain to him what the agreement was, but at the top of the
agreement it is titled “Employment At-Will and Arbitration Agreement.” The
agreement is a standalone document that is only a little more than one page
long. It consists of only three provisions which are titled in bold and include
few subsections which are numbered. The provisions and subsections and
separated by a space, and the font is legible. Also, Plaintiff presents no
evidence that he attempted to negotiate the agreement; nor does Plaintiff
present any evidence that he attempted to take more time to review the
agreement but was not allowed to. 
 
For those reasons, the Court finds that Plaintiff has shown low
procedural unconscionability.  
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff would have to show a high level of substantive
unconscionability to invalidate the entire arbitration agreement.  
 
(b)  Substantive
Unconscionability  
 
“‘Substantive unconscionability pertains to the fairness of
an agreement’s actual terms and to assessments of whether they are overly harsh
or one-sided. [Citations.] A contract term is not substantively unconscionable
when it merely gives one side a greater benefit; rather, the term must be “so
one-sided as to ‘shock the conscience.’”’” (Carmona, supra, 226
Cal.App.4th at p. 85.) “‘“[T]he paramount consideration in assessing
[substantive] unconscionability is mutuality.”’” (Ibid.) 
 
In Armendariz, the California Supreme Court held
that, for the enforcement of a mandatory employment arbitration agreement to be
lawful, it must satisfy the following five minimum requirements: “(1) provides
for neutral arbitrators, (2) provides for more than minimal discovery, (3)
requires a written award, (4) provides for all of the types of relief that
would otherwise be available in court, and (5) does not require employees to
pay either unreasonable costs or any arbitrators’ fees or expenses as a condition
of access to the arbitration forum.” (Armendariz, supra, 24
Cal.4th at p. 102.)  
 
1.    
Limitation of Remedies: Attorney’s Fees and Costs 
 
Plaintiff argues that the agreement to arbitrate is
substantively unconscionable because it limits Plaintiff’s remedies regarding
attorney fees.  Specifically, Plaintiff
argues that agreement requires Plaintiff pay for his own attorney fees, but if
Plaintiff were to prevail on his FEHA claims, then FEHA permits him to recover
his attorney’s fees and costs. 
(Opposition, pp. 12:13-26; see Stephens Decl., Ex. “A,” p. 1, ¶ 2, [“…[plaintiff]
will…be responsible for [his] own attorney’s fees and costs.”].) 
 
However, it is by no means clear that Plaintiff is correctly interpreting
this clause.  The attorney fee provision
states:  “The company and [Plaintiff]
will each be responsible for our own attorney’s fees and costs.”  ((Stephens Decl., Ex. “A,”
p. 1, ¶ 2.)  This is hardly a clear
statement that no fees and costs are recoverable under FEHA.  Rather, it may set a baseline rule; it does
not expressly provide for attorney’s fees from the outset but does not by its
terms forbid recovery of attorney’s fees under FEHA.
 
To the extent the term is interpreted to forbid the
recovery of attorney’s fees under FEHA, the Court agrees with Plaintiff that
such a term is unconscionable. Under Armendariz, where a party seeks to arbitrate nonwaivable
statutory civil rights in the workplace, such as the FEHA claims that are
involved here, there are five minimum requirements for the lawful arbitration
of such rights pursuant to a mandatory employment arbitration agreement
including that the arbitration agreement “provides for all of the types of
relief that would otherwise be available in court.” 
 
Thus, the attorney’s
fees provision is unenforceable to the extent it purports to preclude the award
of attorney’s fees to Plaintiff under FEHA. 
However, as explained below, the Court in any event severs such an
unenforceable term from the remainder of the arbitration provision.
 
2.    
Mutuality 
 
Plaintiff also argues that the agreement to arbitrate is
unconscionable because it requires Plaintiff to arbitrate his claims against
Defendant including Defendant’s “agents, attorneys, insurers, shareholders,
partners, officers, directors, members, representatives, investors,
administrators, and employees in any capacity,” but does not require those
affiliates to arbitrate their claims against Plaintiff.  (Opposition, pp. 13:12-17, see Stephens
Decl., Ex. “A,” p. 1, ¶ 2.) 
 
The Court disagrees. The Arbitration Agreement clearly
states that both parties must arbitrate any issue related to Plaintiff’s
employment. (Stephens Decl., Exhibit A, p. 1, ¶¶ 2-3 [“Both the Company and
[Plaintiff] agree that any claim, dispute, and/or controversy that either
[Plaintiff] may have against the Company (or any of its current, former, and
future direct or indirect parent companies, subsidiaries, affiliates,
divisions, predecessors, successors, assigns, and employee benefit or health
plans including The Bicycle Casino, Inc., and each of their agents, attorneys, insurers, shareholders, partners, officers,
directors, members, representatives, investors, administrators, and employees
in any capacity) or that the Company may have against [Plaintiff], arising
from, related to, or having any relationship or connection whatsoever with [Plaintiff]
seeking employment with, employment by, or other association with the Company,
shall be submitted to and determined exclusively by binding arbitration…”].) 
 
3.    
Infinite Scope 
 
Plaintiff also argues that the agreement to arbitrate is
unconscionable because it requires Plaintiff and Defendant to arbitrate all
claims “arising from, related to, or having any relationship or
connection whatsoever with [Plaintiff] seeking employment with, employment by,
or other association with the Company…” (Opposition, pp. 14:7-10, See Stephens
Decl., Ex. “A,” p. 1, ¶ 2.)
 
The
Court disagrees. Each of Plaintiff’s claims in this action do arise out of his employment
with defendants. As such, the practical applicability of this argument is
tangential. Also, Plaintiff cites several cases that are inapposite. Plaintiff
first relies on Revitch v. DIRECTV, LLC  (9th Cir. 2020) 977 F.3d 713, 717 in which the
U.S. Court of Appeals found an agreement to arbitrate did not exist between the
Plaintiff and a third party, because the third party did not qualify as an
“affiliate” of the signatory party to the agreement, because it only became an
affiliate years after the parties entered into their agreement; the language
requiring the plaintiff to arbitrate claims with then-unknown corporate entities
could not bind the plaintiff. Plaintiff then relies on Smith v. Steinkamp
(7th Cir. 2003) 318 F.3d 775, 777, which stands for the proposition that
language in an arbitration agreement for one loan requiring arbitration of “all
disputes” could not be extended to a future loan between the parties.  This is not analogous to the issues here. The third case that Plaintiff relies on is the only California
case, and it is unpublished and uncitable. (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 8.1115.)
 
4.    
PAGA Waiver 
 
Plaintiff lastly argues that the agreement to arbitrate is
unconscionable because it contains the following PAGA waiver: “[Plaintiff] and the Company
further agree that there will be no right or authority for any dispute to be
brought, heard, or arbitrated as a private attorney general representative
action ("Private Attorney General Waiver")." (Opposition, pp.
16:2-5, See Stephens Decl., Ex. “A,” p. 1, ¶ 3).  
 
The Court disagrees. The agreement to arbitrate states, “[Plaintiff]
and the Company agree that this Arbitration Provision requires all disputes
between the Company and [Plaintiff] (except as provided in section 2 above) to
be resolved only by an arbitrator through final and binding arbitration on an
individual basis only and not by way of court or jury trial, or by way of class
or collective action.” (Stephens
Decl., Ex. “A,” p. 1, ¶ 3). Consequently,
in any theoretical PAGA case, Plaintiff’s individual PAGA claims would proceed
in arbitration. 
 
This outcome
is allowable because of a recent California Supreme Court decision. Adolph
v. Uber Techs., Inc. (2023) 14 Cal.5th 1104 held that when a Plaintiff’s
individual PAGA claims are compelled to arbitration, the Plaintiff’s
representative/non-individual PAGA claims may still be stayed pending
arbitration and litigated in court. Arbitrating the individual claims does not
strip a plaintiff of standing to litigate non-individual claims in court. 
 
Moreover,
this is not a PAGA case.  Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s argument has limited relevance to the issues here.
 
5.    
Whether the Unconscionable Provisions are
Severable  
 
“In the context of severing unconscionable provisions from
an arbitration agreement, ‘the strong legislative and judicial preference is to
sever the offending term and enforce the balance of the agreement: Although
“the statute appears to give a trial court some discretion as to whether to
sever or restrict the unconscionable provision or whether to refuse to enforce
the entire agreement[,] ... it also appears to contemplate the latter course
only when an agreement is ‘permeated’ by unconscionability.” [Citation.]’
[Citations.]” (Alberto v. Cambrian Homecare (2023) 91 Cal.App.5th 482,
495.) “One factor weighing against severance is when ‘the arbitration agreement
contains more than one unlawful provision.’ [Citation.]” (Id. at pp.
495–496; Armendariz, supra, 24 Cal.4th at p. 126 [“Civil Code
section 1670.5 makes clear … that an arbitration agreement permeated by
unconscionability, or one that contains unconscionable aspects that cannot be
cured by severance, restriction, or duly authorized reformation, should not be
enforced”].) 
 
Here, the Court has found a low level of procedural
unconscionability and the limitation of remedies regarding attorney’s fees and
costs in the agreement substantively unconscionable.  
 
However, the attorney’s fees and costs requirement can be
severed without impacting the rest of the agreement. 
 
Therefore, the Court does not find that the agreement to
arbitrate is permeated with unconscionability and finds it proper to compel
Plaintiff’s claims to arbitration.  
 
Request for Stay 
 
Defendant asks the Court to stay or dismiss this case
should it grant their request to compel Plaintiff’s claims to arbitration.
(Motion, p. 14:3-6.) The request for stay is granted. 
 
 