 Case Number:  22STCV01951    Hearing Date:   May 14, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers, the Court rules as
follows. 
BACKGROUND 
A.   Prior proceedings On
January 18, 2022, Plaintiff Vanessa Coats (“Plaintiff”) filed this action
against Defendants Michael V. Jenkins (“Jenkins”)
and Does 1-50 for general negligence and premises liability. 
On
March 29, 2022, Jenkins filed an answer and a cross-complaint against
Cross-Defendants Norma Burks (“Burks”) and Roes 1-25 for declaratory relief,
implied indemnity and equitable apportionment. 
On
December 22, 2022, Plaintiff amended the complaint to include Defendant
Emotional Health Association (“EHA”) as Doe 1. 
(EHA later clarified that its correct name was Emotional Health
Association Corporation dba Share!) 
On
June 8, 2023, Plaintiff filed a first amended complaint. On July 12, 2023,
Jenkins filed an answer. 
On
September 7, 2023, the Court sustained EHA’s demurrer with leave to amend. 
On
October 3, 2023, Plaintiff filed a second amended complaint against Jenkins,
EHA, and Does 1-50 for general negligence and premises liability. 
On
November 6, 2023, Jenkins filed an answer. 
On
December 12, 2023, the Court sustained EHA’s demurrer to the second amended
complaint with leave to amend. 
On
January 10, 2024, Plaintiff filed a third amended complaint against Jenkins,
EHA, and Does 1-50 for general negligence and premises liability. 
On
January 10, 2024, Jenkins filed an answer. 
On
January 18, 2024, EHA filed an answer and a cross-complaint against
Cross-Defendant Norma Burkes (“Burkes”) and Moes 1-25 for indemnification,
apportionment of fault, and declaratory relief.  B. Jenkins' motion for summary judgment
On
March 30, 2023, Jenkins filed a motion for summary judgment, to be heard on
June 27, 2023.  On June 14, 2023, Jenkins
withdrew the motion.  On August 9, 2023,
Jenkins filed an amended motion for summary judgment, to be heard on March 27,
2024.  On January 12, 2024, Jenkins filed
a second amended motion for summary judgment, to be heard on March 27, 2024.  On March 13, 2024, Plaintiff filed an
opposition. On March 22, 2024, Jenkins filed a reply.  The Court continued the hearing to May 14,
2024. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for November 14, 2024. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Jenkins
asks the Court to grant summary judgment. 
Plaintiff
asks the Court to deny the motion. 
JENKINS’S REQUEST FOR
JUDICIAL NOTICE 
          Granted 
JENKINS’S EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS 
          Sustained: 1-4
(see Discussion, Section C.3) 
LEGAL STANDARD 
A.   Summary judgment 
“‘[F]rom
commencement to conclusion, the party moving for summary judgment bears the
burden of persuasion that there is no triable issue of material fact and that
he is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.’”  (LAOSD Asbestos Cases (2023) 87
Cal.App.5th 949, 945, quoting Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001)
25 Cal.4th 826, 850 (Aguilar).) “[T]he party moving for summary judgment
bears an initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing of the
nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact; if he carries his burden of
production, he causes a shift, and the opposing party is then subjected to a
burden of production of his own to make a prima facie showing of the existence
of a triable issue of material fact.”  (Aguilar,
supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 850.)  
          When the moving party is a
defendant, it must show that the plaintiff cannot establish at least one
element of the cause of action.  (Aguilar,
supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 853.) “The defendant has shown that the
plaintiff cannot establish at least one element of the cause of action by
showing that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain,
needed evidence.”  (Id. at p.
854.) The defendant must “present evidence, and not simply point out that the
plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, needed
evidence.”  (Ibid.) Thus, “the
defendant must ‘support[ ]’ the ‘motion’ with evidence including ‘affidavits,
declarations, admissions, answers to interrogatories, depositions, and matters
of which judicial notice’ must or may ‘be taken.’ [Citation.] The defendant
may, but need not, present evidence that conclusively negates an element of the
plaintiff’s cause of action. The defendant may also present evidence that the
plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence—as
through admissions by the plaintiff following extensive discovery to the effect
that he has discovered nothing.”  (Id.
at p. 855, original emphasis.)  
          “Supporting and opposing affidavits or declarations . . .
shall set forth admissible evidence.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (d).)
“Matters which would be excluded under the rules of evidence if proffered by a
witness in a trial as hearsay, conclusions or impermissible opinions, must be
disregarded in supporting affidavits.”  (Hayman
v. Block (1986) 176 Cal.App.3d 629, 639.) 
          In addition, a party moving for summary judgment must support the motion with “a separate statement setting forth
plainly and concisely all material facts which the moving party contends are
undisputed. Each of the material facts stated shall be followed by a reference
to the supporting evidence.” (Parkview Villas Assn. v. State Farm Fire &
Casualty Co. (2006) 133 Cal.App.4th 1197, 1209 (Parkview Villas),
quoting Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (b)(1).)
The party opposing the motion must file with the opposition papers “a separate
statement that responds to each of the material facts contended by the moving
party to be undisputed, indicating whether the opposing party agrees or
disagrees that those facts are undisputed. The statement also shall set forth
plainly and concisely any other material facts that the opposing party contends
are disputed. Each material fact contended by the opposing party to be disputed
shall be followed by a reference to the supporting evidence.” (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 437c, subd. (b)(3).)  If either party
fails to comply with the applicable separate statement requirement, that
failure may in the court’s discretion constitute a sufficient ground to decide
the motion adversely to the offending party. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subds.
(b)(1), (3).)   
          In ruling on the motion, the court
must consider all of the evidence and all of the inferences reasonably drawn
from it and must view such evidence and inferences in the light most favorable
to the opposing party.  (Aguilar, supra,
25 Cal.4th at p. 843.)  “[A] court
cannot grant summary judgment based on inferences that are contradicted by
other inferences or evidence. And a triable issue of fact exists when the
evidence permits a reasonable trier of fact to find a contested fact in favor
of the party opposing the motion. 
[Citation.] Put slightly differently, a summary judgment may not be
granted unless the evidence is incapable of supporting a judgment for the
losing party.” (California-American Water Co. v. Marina Coast Water Dist.
(2022) 86 Cal.App.5th 1272, 1296.) 
B.   Negligence and premises liability 
“The elements of a negligence claim and a premises
liability claim are the same: a legal duty of care, breach of that duty, and
proximate cause resulting in injury.” (Kesner v. Superior Court (2016) 1
Cal.5th 1132, 1159.) 
DISCUSSION 
A.   The third amended complaint 
The third
amended complaint alleges the following: 
Jenkins
owned the property at 3241 Flower St, Lynwood, CA 90262-4226. Jenkins hired EHA
to help manage the property including finding tenants, addressing tenant
problems, resolving conflicts between tenants, and relocating tenants. 
Plaintiff,
a tenant, reported to EHA and Jenkins that Burks, another tenant, had
threatened her. EHA and Jenkins did not take reasonable steps to protect
Plaintiff from Burks. 
About
one month before April 2, 2020, Jenkins investigated reports that Burks
threatened and assaulted a resident named “Shauna” at the property and pulled a
knife on a resident named Sherryl Encer.  Burks remained on the property. 
Prior
to April 2, 2020, Plaintiff communicated to Jenkins that Burks had threatened
to harm Plaintiff physically.  Jenkins
told Plaintiff to contact ESA’s employees. 
On
April 2, 2020, Burks pushed Plaintiff out of a window on the second floor of
the property, injuring Plaintiff. 
B.   Undisputed facts 
Jenkins
owns the property located at 3241 Flower St., Lynwood, CA 90262 (the “property”).  EHA referred individuals to live at Jenkins’
property under a memorandum of understanding.  Jenkins did not compensate EHA for these
referrals. 
EHA
employed Amberlin Morse (“Morse”) as a “peer bridger” to manage and supervise
the residents at Jenkins’ property.  Jenkins
was not involved in the decision to assign a specific peer-bridger to his
property.  Morse’s duties included supporting residents and homeowners, referring
residents to self-help support groups, problem-solving with residents, and
documenting case notes.  Morse was not
required to report tenant safety concerns to Jenkins and was not required to
report explicit threats to homeowners.  Plaintiff
lived at Jenkins’ property.  When Burks
moved into the property, she shared a room with Plaintiff. 
C.   Jenkins’s summary judgment motion 
1.    Landlord’s duty to prevent third-party criminal
conduct 
“Landowners
under California law are required to maintain land in their possession and
control in a reasonably safe condition.” (Williams v. Fremont Corners, Inc.
(2019) 37 Cal.App.5th 654, 663 (Williams), citing Ann M. v. Pacific
Plaza Shopping Center (1993) 6 Cal.4th 666, 674 (Ann M.).) “The
underlying principle, set forth in Civil Code section 1714, subdivision (a), is
that “‘[e]veryone is responsible ... for an injury occasioned to another by his
or her want of ordinary care or skill in the management of his or her property
or person . . . .’” (Ibid.) This rule “‘establishes the general duty of
each person to exercise, in his or her activities, reasonable care for the
safety of others.’” (Ibid., quoting Vasilenko v. Grace Family Church
(2017) 3 Cal.5th 1077, 1083 (Vasilenko).) 
“ ‘
“ ‘Courts ... invoke[ ] the concept of duty to limit generally “the otherwise
potentially infinite liability which would follow from every negligent act
....” ’ ” ’ ” (Williams, supra, 37 Cal.App.5th at p. 663, quoting
Vasilenko, supra, 3 Cal.5th at p. 1083.) “Our Supreme Court has
explained that an exception to the general rule of Civil Code section 1714 must
be “ ‘ “ ‘clearly supported by public policy.’ ” ’ ” (Ibid., quoting Vasilenko,
supra, 3 Cal.5th at p. 1083.) “Courts look to what are commonly called
‘the Rowland factors’ in determining whether policy considerations favor
such an exception.” (Ibid., citing Vasilenko, supra, 3
Cal.5th at p. 1083.) “These are “ ‘ “the foreseeability of harm to the
plaintiff, the degree of certainty that the plaintiff suffered injury, the
closeness of the connection between the defendant's conduct and the injury
suffered, the moral blame attached to the defendant's conduct, the policy of
preventing future harm, the extent of the burden to the defendant and
consequences to the community of imposing a duty to exercise care with
resulting liability for breach, and the availability, cost, and prevalence of
insurance for the risk involved.” [(Rowland v. Christian (1968) 69
Cal.2d 108, 113)]’ ” (Williams, supra, 37 Cal.App.5th at p. 663,
quoting Vasilenko, supra, 3 Cal.5th at p. 1083.) 
“One
well-established limit is that there is no duty to act to protect others from
the conduct of third parties.” (Williams, supra, 37 Cal.App.5th
at p. 663, citing Delgado v. Trax Bar & Grill (2005) 36 Cal.4th 224,
235 (Delgado).) “In the case of a landlord, however, the general duty of
maintenance that is owed to tenants and patrons ‘has been held to include the
duty to take reasonable steps to secure common areas against foreseeable
criminal acts of third parties that are likely to occur in the absence of such
precautionary measures.’” (Id. at p. 664, quoting Ann M., supra,
6 Cal.4th at p. 674.) “This exception to the ‘general no-duty-to-protect rule’
comes under the “ ‘ “special relationship” doctrine’” (ibid., quoting Delgado,
supra, 36 Cal.4th at p. 235), which courts have found “‘in cases
involving the relationship between business proprietors such as shopping
centers, restaurants, and bars, and their tenants, patrons, or invitees.’” (Ibid.,
quoting Delgado, supra, 36 Cal.4th at p. 235.) 
“As
explained more fully in Ann M., ‘the question of the scope of a
landlord's duty to provide protection from foreseeable third party crime ... is
determined in part by balancing the foreseeability of the harm against the
burden of the duty to be imposed.’” (Williams, supra, 37
Cal.App.5th at p. 664, quoting Ann M., supra, 6 Cal.4th at p.
678.) Where “ ‘ “ ‘the burden of preventing future harm is great, a high degree
of foreseeability may be required’ ” ’ ” (ibid., quoting Ann M., supra,
6 Cal.4th at p. 678), but “ ‘ “ ‘where there are strong policy reasons for
preventing the harm, or the harm can be prevented by simple means, a lesser
degree of foreseeability may be required.’ ” ’ ” (Ibid., quoting Ann
M., supra, 6 Cal.4th at pp. 678-679.) “ ‘[D]uty in such
circumstances is determined by a balancing of “foreseeability” of the criminal
acts against the “burdensomeness, vagueness, and efficacy” of the proposed
security measures.’ ” (Ibid., quoting Ann M., supra, 6
Cal.4th at p. 679.) 
“
‘[A] duty to take affirmative action to control the wrongful acts of a third
party will be imposed only where such conduct can be reasonably anticipated.’ ”
(Sakai v. Massco Investments, LLC (2018) 20 Cal.App.5th 1178, 1187-1188,
quoting Ann M., supra, 6 Cal.4th at p. 676.) “The prescribed duty
analysis ‘requires the court in each case . . . to identify the specific action
or actions the plaintiff claims the defendant had a duty to undertake. “Only
after the scope of the duty under consideration is defined may a court
meaningfully undertake the balancing analysis of the risks and burdens present
in a given case to determine whether the specific obligations should or should
not be imposed on the landlord.” ’ ” (Hanouchian v. Steele (2020) 51
Cal.App.5th 99, 108 (Hanouchian), quoting Castaneda v. Olsher
(2007) 41 Cal.4th 1205, 1214 (Castaneda).) 
“ ‘
“First, the court must determine the specific measures the plaintiff asserts
the defendant should have taken to prevent the harm. This frames the issue for
the court's determination by defining the scope of the duty under
consideration. Second, the court must analyze how financially and socially
burdensome these proposed measures would be to a landlord, which measures could
range from minimally burdensome to significantly burdensome under the facts of
the case. Third, the court must identify the nature of the third party conduct
that the plaintiff claims could have been prevented had the landlord taken the
proposed measures, and assess how foreseeable (on a continuum from a mere
possibility to a reasonable probability) it was that this conduct would occur.
Once the burden and foreseeability have been independently assessed, they can
be compared in determining the scope of the duty the court imposes on a given
defendant. The more certain the likelihood of harm, the higher the burden a
court will impose on a landlord to prevent it; the less foreseeable the harm,
the lower the burden a court will place on a landlord.” ’ ” (Hanouchian,
supra, 51 Cal.App.5th at p. 108, quoting Castaneda, supra,
41 Cal.4th at p. 1214.) “[O]ther Rowland factors may come into play in a
given case, but the balance of burdens and foreseeability is generally primary
to the analysis.” (Ibid., quoting Castaneda, supra, 41
Cal.4th at p. 1214.) 
“To
establish heightened foreseeability for third party criminal conduct, our
authorities have consistently required actual knowledge—not constructive,
inferential, or knowledge by association—to impose a burdensome legal duty.” (Hanouchian,
supra, 51 Cal.App.5th 99, 111.) 
2.    Jenkins has carried his initial burden on summary
judgment 
Jenkins
argues that he is entitled to summary judgment because Burks’s conduct was
unforeseeable.  According to Jenkins, he
was unaware of Burks’s prior threatening or violent conduct toward other
residents.  Jenkins has presented
evidence that supports his argument.  (See,
e.g., Exh. B., pp. 46, 62-64.) 
Jenkins
has carried his initial burden on summary judgment, shifting the burden to
Plaintiff. 
3.    Plaintiff has not raised a triable issue of fact 
Plaintiff
has submitted a declaration stating in part: “Prior to April 2, 2020, I told
Michael Jenkins that Norma Burks threatened to physically drag me down the
stairs to remove me from the subject property and picked up my cane and held it
up in a physically threatening manner towards me.”  (Coats dec. ¶ 8.) 
Jenkins
objects to this statement, arguing (1) it is hearsay and (2) it conflicts with Plaintiff’s
previous discovery responses. 
The
statement is not hearsay because it is offered to show Jenkins’ knowledge.  (See 1 Witkin, Cal. Evidence
(6th ed 2023) § 46, p. 793 [“The principle allowing admission of a statement that
tends to show the mental state of its recipient [citation] finds frequent
application in negligence cases where liability is based on the dangerous
condition of the defendant’s property. 
Statements of a third person concerning a dangerous condition are
admissible for the limited purpose of showing knowledge on the part of the
defendant who heard them, through they are inadmissible hearsay on the issue
whether there was in fact a defect or dangerous condition”].) 
However,
Plaintiff’s statement contradicts her earlier discovery response.  (See D’Amico v. Board of Medical Examiners
(1974) 11 Cal.3d 1, 20-22.)  In response
to a special interrogatory, Plaintiff stated that she “does not specifically
recall communicating with [Jenkins] that she was in fear for her safety but she
may have.”  (Exh. F. to Ducey dec., no.
22.)  Plaintiff has not offered any explanation
for the difference between her special interrogatory response and the statement
in her declaration.  (See Field v. U.S. Bank National Assn. (2022) 79 Cal.App.5th 703, 706-08 [plaintiff who responded
to contention interrogatory by saying she was “ ‘unsure’ ” if notice was proper
did not create triable issue of fact by swearing, in opposition to summary
judgment motion, that she was now sure she never received the notice].) 
The other
statements in Plaintiff’s declaration do not raise a triable issue of fact
because (1) Plaintiff has not shown that she has personal knowledge of the
facts asserted (Coats dec. ¶¶ 6-7) and (2) Plaintiff has not shown that Jenkins was
aware of the information contained in the statement (Coats dec. ¶ 9). 
Plaintiff
has not raised a triable issue of fact regarding whether Jenkins could have
foreseen Burks’ conduct.  Therefore, as
a matter of law, Jenkins had no duty to protect Plaintiff from Burks.  The Court grants the motion. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court GRANTS Defendant Michael V. Jenkins’s motion for summary judgment. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.