  Case Number:  22SMCV01853    Hearing Date:   December 15, 2023    Dept:  P Tentative Ruling 
Von Neitsch v.
Naysan, et. al., Case No. 22SMCV01853
Hearing Date
December 15, 2023 
Plaintiff Von
Neitsch’s Motion for Protective Order 
 
In this dental malpractice
action defendants noticed depositions of plaintiff Von Neitsch and eleven treating/consulting
dentists. Plaintiff seeks a protective order regarding her own deposition and
that of eleven of treating/consulting dentists.
 
Before a
deposition takes place, a court may issue a protective order that it not be
taken at all to prevent “any party, deponent … from unwanted …. burden or
expense.” Cal. Code of Civ. Proc. §2025.420. 
 
Von Neitsch argues
her deposition should not take place due to ongoing medical issues, allegedly
caused by Dr. Naysan. Additionally, she argues proposed deposition topics
violate her right to privacy. She raises the same privacy concerns with respect
to the dentist depositions and argues that deposing eleven dentists constitutes
an improper fishing expedition. 
 
Plaintiff put her
medical history and condition at issue by filing this claim for dental
malpractice. She waived her right to privacy with respect to matters related to
the procedure that allegedly caused her injury and her prior and subsequent
medical/dental issues. A defendant has a right to depose plaintiff regarding
her allegations. Cal. Code of Civ. Proc. §2025.010.
 
As to the dentist
depositions, the complaint alleges plaintiff saw other dentists who opined defendant’s
treatment did not meet the standard of care. Complaint ¶7 and exhibit 4.
Defendants may depose subsequent treating dentists regarding their treatment and
consulting dentists to determine their opinions and the basis of those opinions.
 
Deposing eleven treaters/consultants
may be excessive, but defendants may depose all dentists who may be called as a
witness. If plaintiff is not planning to call a particular consulting dentist
to testify, nor to seek to introduce testimony regarding their opinions,
deposing that individual consultant is not appropriate, and a proactive order
as to those individuals may issue. Defendant may depose any treating doctor,
even if plaintiff does not intend to call them to testify. The complaint puts
the treatment and opinions of Dr. Naysan’s peers at issue. Complaint ¶7. 
 
GRANTED only to
the extent plaintiff agrees not to call a particular consultant to testify, nor
to seek to introduce evidence regarding their opinions. DENIED as to other
consultants and all treaters. Plaintiff’s deposition to be completed by January
31, 2024. The court orders plaintiff to provide at least three potential
deposition dates by close of business December 18, 2023.