 Case Number:  23SMCV04183    Hearing Date:   December 15, 2023    Dept:  P Tentative Ruling 
Hill v. Sundquist,
et al., Case No. 23SMCV04183
Hearing Date
December 15, 2023 
Defendants
Sundquist’s Demurrer to Complaint and Motion to Strike 
 
Plaintiff alleges
defendant neighbors failed to contribute to replacing a shared fence that had
fallen into disrepair. Defendants Sundquist demurs and moves to strike punitive
damages.
 
Cal. Civ. Code
§841(b)(2) 
Under Cal. Civ.
Code §841(b)(2), “[a]djoining landowners shall share equally in the
responsibility for maintaining the boundaries and monuments between them[,]”
and “[w]here a landowner intends to incur costs for a fence described in
paragraph (1), the landowner shall give 30 days’ prior written notice to each
affected adjoining landowner.” 
 
Defendant demurs,
arguing the complaint does not allege Hill gave thirty days’ notice. Hill’s
opposition does not address this argument. SUSTAINED with ten days leave to
amend to allege compliance with statutory notice requirements.
 
Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress 
A cause of action
for IIED requires plaintiff to allege conduct “so extreme and outrageous as to
exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized community.” Hughes
v. Pair (2009) 46 Cal.4th 1035, 1050-1051. The question of whether a
defendant’s conduct can reasonably be called outrageous is a question of law
that can be determined on demurrer. Berkley v. Dowds (2007) 152
Cal.App.4th 518, 533-534.
 
The only wrongdoing
alleged is Sundquist allowing a hydrangea vine to grow out of control and
failing to contribute to the cost of replacing a fence. None of the conduct
alleged is shocking or outside the bounds of basic decency. As a matter of law,
no reasonable fact finder could conclude Hill’s allegations qualify as “extreme
and outrageous” behavior justifying a cause of action for IIED. SUSTAINED.
 
Negligent
Infliction of Emotional Distress
Generally, there
is no legal duty to avoid negligently causing emotional distress to another. GU
v. BMW of North America, LLC (2005) 132 Cal.App.4th 195, 204. Such duty,
however, can be imposed by law, voluntarily assumed by defendant or exist by
virtue of a special relationship between the parties. Id.
 
Hill has not
alleged facts establishing Sundquist owed a duty to avoid negligently causing
emotional distress. Hill cites no law imposing such duty, has not alleged
Sundquist assumed such duty and has not claimed any special relationship that
creates the duty. SUSTAINED without leave to amend.
 
Punitive Damages 
Punitive damages
are recoverable against a defendant who acts with fraud, malice, or oppression.
Cal. Civ. Code §3294. The complaint alleges conduct that, while it may be
tortious, does not rise to the level of wrongdoing required to support punitive
damages. GRANTED.  