  Case Number:  21STCV44285    Hearing Date:   July 3, 2024    Dept:  T The following is the ruling of the Court.  The parties waived notice. BACKGROUND On December 3, 2021, Plaintiff Jane Y.G. Doe (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against Defendants Residences on Main L.P., a California Limited Partnership, Residences on Main GP, a Limited Liability Company, GTO Security Corp., a Corporation, The John Stewart Company, a Corporation, and DOES 1 through 20 (“Defendants”), inclusive for: (1) Negligence/Negligence Per Se and (2) Premises Liability. The Complaint alleges in pertinent apart as follows: Defendants Residences on Main L.P., Residences on Main GP, and The John Stewart Company hired and/or contracted Defendant GTO Security Group (“GTO”) to conduct ongoing security work at 6901 South Main Street, Los Angeles, CA 90003 (“Subject Premises”). (Compl., ¶¶10, 23.) Defendants Residences on Main L.P., Residences on Main GP, and The John Stewart Company did not confirm whether Defendant GTO had proper licenses or insurance to perform this work. (Compl., ¶24.) Defendant GTO did not have a license or insurance to perform security work. (Compl., ¶25.) Plaintiff was an employee of Defendant GTO. (Compl., ¶26.) On July 24, 2021, Plaintiff was forcefully raped, sodomized, and beaten by a male identified as Christopher Hicks, while performing work at the subject premises. (Compl., ¶27.) Prior to the incident, Plaintiff had noticed Mr. Hicks watching pornography in the lobby area of the subject premises and asked him to leave but he refused. (Id.) Plaintiff informed her supervisor that she felt uncomfortable by Mr. Hicks but her concerns were not addressed. (Id.) On March 4, 2022, Defendants Residences on Main L.P., Residences on Main GP, and The John Stewart Company were dismissed without prejudice from this action.  On July 14, 2023, Plaintiff filed an amendment identifying Defendant LA Family Housing Corporation as Doe 6.  On May 23, 2024, Defendant LA Family Housing Corporation (“LAFH”) filed the instant Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings. On June 10, 2024, Defendants Residences on Main L.P., Residences on Main GP, Sonny Construction, LLC (Doe 1), and Coalition of Responsible Community Development (Doe 4) filed a joinder to the instant motion. On June 20, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition. On June 26, 2024, Defendant LAFH filed a reply. LEGAL STANDARD The standard for ruling on a motion for judgment on the pleadings is essentially the same as that applicable to a general demurrer, that is, under the state of the pleadings, together with matters that may be judicially noticed, it appears that a party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.¿(Bezirdjian v. O'Reilly (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 316, 321-322, citing Schabarum v. California Legislature (1998) 60 Cal.App.4th 1205, 1216.)¿Matters which are subject to mandatory judicial notice may be treated as part of the complaint and may be considered without notice to the parties. Matters which are subject to permissive judicial notice must be specified in the notice of motion, the supporting points and authorities, or as the court otherwise permits. (Id.)¿The motion may not be supported by extrinsic evidence. (Barker v. Hull (1987) 191 Cal.App.3d 221, 236.)¿  When the moving party is a defendant, he or she must demonstrate that “The court has no jurisdiction of the subject of the cause of action alleged in the complaint” or “The complaint does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action against that defendant.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 438(c)(1)(B)(i)-(ii).)¿¿ PRELIMINARY ISSUES The Court notes that Defendants Residences on Main L.P., Residences on Main GP (collectively, “Residence Defendants”), Sonny Construction, LLC (“SCL”), and Coalition of Responsible Community Development (“CRCD”) have joined Defendant LAFH motion. It is unclear whether Residence Defendants have standing to join the instant motion because they were dismissed from this action back in 2022 and have recently dismissed their Cross-Complaint against The John Stewart Company (“JSC”). Also, they are not named as cross-defendants in JSC’s cross-complaint. Therefore, to extent that the Residence Defendants do have standing the ruling set forth below will apply to them as well. DISCUSSION Defendant LAFH moves for judgment on the pleadings on the grounds that a complete defense to Plaintiff’s claims is disclosed on the face of the Complaint defeating her claims as a matter of law. Specifically, Defendant LAFH argues it has a complete defense under either the Privette doctrine or the absence of facts to support a duty of care on Defendant LAFH’s part to prevent the horrific intentional third party sexual assault alleged in the complaint. Likewise, Defendant LAFH contends it had no duty to protect Plaintiff under the primary assumption of risk doctrine because she was hired to address security threats including a third party attack at the subject premises.  In opposition, Plaintiff contends that the Privette doctrine is an affirmative defense that cannot be resolved without extrinsic evidence. However, where an affirmative defense appears on the faces of a complaint, a party can move for a demurrer. (See e.g., Czajkowski v. Haskell & White, LLP (2012) 208 Cal.App.4th 166, 174.) Thus, the Privette doctrine can be resolved without extrinsic evidence because judgment on the pleadings is subject to the same standard as a demurrer. Plaintiff also argues California law requires businesses that employ security guards/officers to be licensed with the State, so this Court is required to presume she was also an employee of Defendant LAFH. Moreover, Plaintiff asserts the allegations in the Complaint do not implicate the assumption of risk defense because she alleges Defendant LAFH knew or should have known that the building lacked proper security but failed to warn her of this danger and did not purchase worker’s compensation insurance to cover her work-related injuries. Alternatively, Plaintiff argues she should be granted leave to amend.  In reply, Defendant LAFH argues the Privette doctrine, assumption of risk, and existence of a duty of care are appropriate for determination during the pleadings stage under California law. Furthermore, Defendant LAFH reiterates that Plaintiff’s claims against it are barred because she fails to plead facts giving rise to a duty of care and/or support exceptions to the Privette doctrine/rule and assumption of risk. Additionally, Defendant LAFH contends Plaintiff misrepresents the law in her opposition. The Court agrees. California Business & Professions Code Section 7582 requires a business engaged in providing security services be licensed with the State and the only defendant alleged to be in the business of providing security services is Defendant GTO. Similarly, Labor Code Section 2750.5 governs licensure in the field of building construction not security work. Lastly, Defendant LAFH argues the opposition fails to address that no allegations support a duty to protect against third party crime.  The Privette Doctrine  Under the Privette doctrine, “when employees of independent contractors are injured in the workplace, they cannot sue the party that hired the contractor to do the work.” (SeaBright Ins. Co. v. US Airways, Inc. (2011) 52 Cal.4th 590, 594 (citing Privette v. Superior Court (1993) 5 Cal.4th 689).) “By hiring an independent contractor, the hirer implicitly delegates to the contractor any tort law duty it owes to the contractor’s employees to ensure the safety of the specific workplace that is the subject of the contract.” (Id.) This is because “the employees of an independent contractor are not considered to be the hirer’s own employees” under Labor Code Section 6304. (Id.) California courts have identified two limited circumstances where the Privette doctrine will not apply. First, “a hirer may be liable when it retains control over any part of the independent contractor’s work and negligently exercises that retained control in a manner that affirmatively contributes to the worker's injury.” (Gonzalez v. Mathis (2021) 12 Cal.5th 29, 38.) Second, “a landowner who hires an independent contractor may be liable if the landowner knew, or should have known, of a concealed hazard on the property that the contractor did not know of and could not have reasonably discovered, and the landowner failed to warn the contractor of the hazard.” (Id.) On the face of Plaintiff’s Complaint her claims against Defendant LAFH are barred by the Privette doctrine. As cited above, the Complaint alleges that Defendant GTO was hired as an independent contractor to provide security services at the subject premises for Defendant LAFH. (Compl., ¶) Furthermore, the Complaint alleges that Plaintiff was an employee of Defendant GTO.  (Compl., ¶) Moreover, the Complaint fails to allege either of the two limited exceptions to the Privette doctrine. In fact, Plaintiff concedes these points in her opposition. (Opp. 8:14, 9:16-23.) Also, Plaintiff’s argument that she satisfies the second exception fails because she misstates the rule. The second exception requires the landowner knew or should have known of a concealed hazard on the property that the independent contractor did not know or and could have reasonably discovered, and failed to warn the independent contractor about said hazard. Plaintiff provides no legal authority to support ‘hazard’ means a person.  Assumption of Risk Doctrine Under the primary assumption of risk doctrine, “one who hires a person to confront a particular risk, owes no duty to protect the person against that risk” because “it is unfair to charge the defendant with a duty of care to prevent injury to the plaintiff arising from the very condition or hazard the defendant has contracted with the plaintiff to remedy or confront.” (Tilley v. CZ Master Assn. (2005) 131 Cal.App.4th 464, 489.) Here, Plaintiff simply contends that she was an employee of Defendant LAFH, thus the primary assumption of risk rule cannot apply/bar her claims. As discussed above, the Complaint specifically alleges that Plaintiff was employed by Defendant GTO not Defendant LAFH. Furthermore, the statutes Plaintiff cited in her opposition do not support her contention that she was an employee of Defendant LAFH. Similarly, Plaintiff contends that without conceding that assumption of risk does not apply in this case, secondary assumption of the risk would apply rather than primary. The Court disagrees. In Gregory v. Cott (2014) 59 Cal.4th 996, the court held “[s]econdary assumption of risk…is predicated on the existence of a duty.” (Gregory v. Cott (2014) 59 Cal.4th 996, 1007.) As explained below, the Complaint does not sufficiently allege that Defendant LAFH owed Plaintiff a duty of care.  Duty of Care for Third-Party Crime California courts have held that absent prior similar incidents of violent crime on the landowners premises, there is no duty of care owed for a third-party’s criminal conduct. (See Ann M. v. Pacific Plaza Shopping Center (1993) 6 Cal.4th 666, 679-680.) Here, the Complaint alleges that Defendant LAFH owed Plaintiff a duty of care to protect her from attacks by assailants and visitors. (Compl., ¶36.) The Complaint further alleges that Defendant LAFH knew or should have known that the subject premises was at all time in an unsafe condition and constituted an unreasonable risk of harm to Plaintiff, which was unknown to Plaintiff. (Compl., ¶46.) However, the Complaint does not allege that prior incidents like her attack have occurred at the subject premises. Furthermore, Plaintiff provides no response in her opposition by way of case or statutory law to refute the arguments raised by Defendant LAFH.  Therefore, the Complaint fails to state sufficient facts to support any cause of action against Defendant LAFH under Privette doctrine, Primary Assumption of Risk doctrine, and absence facts alleging a duty of care. However, alleging a duty of care is not a high standard and Plaintiff could reasonably amend the Complaint in a way that could state a viable cause of action against Defendant LAFH and the joinder defendants.  Based on the foregoing, the court GRANTS with 20 days leave to amend, Defendant LA Family Housing Corporation’s Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings. 