  Case Number:  23CHCV01957    Hearing Date:   June 4, 2024    Dept:  F49    Dept.    F49      Date:    6/4/24     Case    Name:  Taylor Schwartz v. Jerald    Baker, Sheila Baker, and Does 1 to 20     Case    # 23CHCV01957      LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT NORTH VALLEY DISTRICT DEPARTMENT F49    JUNE 4, 2024    SPECIAL MOTION TO STRIKE (C.C.P.  Section 425.16)  Los Angeles Superior  Court Case No. 23CHCV01957    Motion  filed: 8/31/23   MOVING PARTY: Defendants Jerald Baker (“Mr. Baker”)  and Sheila Baker (“Ms. Baker”) (collective, “Defendants”)  RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff Taylor Schwartz  (“Plaintiff”) NOTICE: OK.    RELIEF  REQUESTED: An  order from this Court to strike the third and fourth causes of action in the  Complaint, pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 425.16.    TENTATIVE  RULING: The  motion is GRANTED.   BACKGROUND   This action stems from allegations by Plaintiff, a realtor,  who claims to have sustained damages caused by Defendants’ breach of contract  to sell their real property and by Defendants’ defamatory online statements  against her.   On July 5, 2023, Plaintiff filed her Complaint against  Defendants and Does 1 to 20, alleging the following causes of action: (1) Breach  of Contract, (2) Breach of the Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing,  (3) Libel Per Se, and (4) Trade Libel. Subsequently, on August 18, 2023,  Defendants filed their Answer to the Complaint.   On August 31, 2023, Defendants filed the instant Special Motion to  Strike under Code of Civil Procedure section 425.16 (the “Anti-SLAPP Motion”).               In  response, Plaintiff filed her Opposition on January 4, 2024, to which Defendants  replied on January 9, 2024.   ANALYSIS   Special motions to strike  pursuant to the California Anti-SLAPP Statute are considered using a  two-pronged approach.  The first prong places the burden on the moving  defendant(s) to prove that the allegations arise from conduct protected by the  constitutional freedoms of speech or petition. If the first prong is  satisfied, then the second prong shifts the burden on the opposing plaintiff to  demonstrate a probability of success on the merits using credited evidence.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 425.16, subd. (b).)   A.     Special  Motion to Strike under Code of Civil Procedure Section 425.16    1.       Nature of the  Conduct Underlying Plaintiff’s Allegations   “A cause of action. . . arising from any act of that person  in furtherance of the person’s right of petition” is subject to the anti-SLAPP  statute.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 425.16, subd. (b)(1).)  Protected  activities include: “(1) any written or oral statement or writing made before  a…judicial proceeding…, (2) any written or oral statement or writing made in  connection with an issue under consideration or review by a…judicial body…, (3)  any written or oral statement…made in a place open to the public or a public  forum in connection with an issue of public interest, or (4) any other conduct  in furtherance of the exercise of the constitutional right of petition or the  constitutional right of free speech in connection with a public issue or an  issue of public interest.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 425.16, subd.  (e).)      “Unlike the first and second category of statement[s] or  conduct protected by section 425.16, the third and fourth categories protect  only statements or conduct connected to an issue of public interest. Beyond  that requirement, however, these categories are quite broad, applying by their  terms to any statements made in a place open to the public or in a public  forum, or any conduct engaged in, in furtherance of the rights of petition or  free speech.” (Wilbanks v. Wolk (2004) 121 Cal.App.4th 883, 893.) “The most  commonly articulated definitions of “statements made in connection with a  public issue” focus on whether (1) the subject of the statement or activity  precipitating the claim was a person or entity in the public eye; (2) the  statement or activity precipitating the claim involved conduct that could  affect large numbers of people beyond the direct participants; and (3) whether  the statement or activity precipitating the claim involved a topic of  widespread public interest.” (Id. at 898; see also Rivero v. American  Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, AFL–CIO (2003) 105  Cal.App.4th 913, 924.)    i.                     Defendants’ Statements   In Plaintiff’s Complaint, the third cause of action  for Libel Per Se and the fourth cause of action Trade Libel arise from  Defendants’ conduct of posting two online reviews on Zillow and Yelp sites.  (Compl., ¶¶ 34-35.) However, the Complaint lacks verbatim excerpts of these  statements. Notably, both the moving and opposing papers include the following quotes  as the basis for Plaintiff’s third and fourth causes of action:   (1)    “Unfortunately,  my experience with Taylor Schwartz and Agents of LA was extremely negative. She  told me one thing upfront but didn't stay true to her word. I was told that I  was under no obligation to accept any offer, and she would cancel the listing  agreement if we were ever dissatisfied with her services. When we asked to  cancel the agreement, she told me that both parties had to agree to cancel, and  her dad / attorney sent me an 80K "Demand for Payment" letter as we  didn't accept her offer that didn't meet our expectations. The demand letter  was unethical because she was required to try mediation. We brought that to her  attention and she then proceeded with mediation. At this point, we are headed  to arbitration because she still believes that she earned $80,000 in  commission, even though there was not an accepted offer. ¶ In my opinion, she's  a high pressure, dishonest, manipulative fraud who doesn't look out for her  client's best interest. I would NOT recommend her!!!!!!” (Jerald Baker Decl., ¶  21, Ex. “L,” Opp’n., at p. 6.)   (2)    Unfortunately,  my experience with Taylor Schwartz and Agents of LA was extremely negative. She  told me one thing upfront but didn’t stay true to her word. I was told that I  was under no obligation to accept any offer, and she would cancel the listing  agreement if we were ever dissatisfied with her services. When we asked to  cancel the agreement, she told me that both parties had to agree to cancel, and  her dad / attorney sent me an 80K “Demand for Payment” letter as we didn’t  accept her offer that didn’t meet our expectations. The demand letter was  unethical because she was required to try mediation. We brought that to her  attention and she then proceeded with mediation. At this point, we are headed  to arbitration because she still believes that she earned $80,000 in  commission, even though there was not an accepted offer. ¶ I would NOT  recommend her!!!!!! (Jerald Baker Decl., ¶ 22, Ex. “M,” Opp’n., at p. 6.)   Additionally, Defendant Mr. Baker states in his declaration  that “[Exhibit “M”] is a true and correct copy of the Zillow page for Plaintiff  that contains my review, as well as a separate review that I understand was  posted by Ms. Baker.” (Jerald Baker Decl., ¶ 22.) However, neither party has presented  the content of the “separate review” believed to be posted by Ms. Baker.    The Court will therefore focus its examination on the two  statements quoted above, as acknowledged by both parties.   ii.                   Public  Forum   Here, there is no dispute that the websites, Zillow and  Yelp, qualify as public forums. (See e.g., D.C. v. R.R. (2010) 182  Cal.App.4th 1190, 1226 [“Web sites accessible to the public are public forums  for purposes of the anti-SLAPP statute.” (internal quotations omitted).])   iii.                 Public  Interest   “The most commonly articulated definitions of “statements  made in connection with a public issue” focus on whether (1) the subject of the  statement or activity precipitating the claim was a person or entity in the  public eye; (2) the statement or activity precipitating the claim involved  conduct that could affect large numbers of people beyond the direct  participants; and (3) whether the statement or activity precipitating the claim  involved a topic of widespread public interest.” (Wilbanks v. Wolk,  supra, 121 Cal.App.4th at p. 898.)    Courts have recognized that reviews posted to internet  websites are in connection with an issue of public interest. (See, e.g., Abir  Cohen Treyzon Salo, LLP v. Lahiji (2019) 40 Cal.App.5th 882, 888 (Abir)  [“...reviews posted to an Internet website meet this definition of protected  activity.” Citing Chaker v. Mateo (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th 1138, 1145-1147  (Chaker), and Demetriades v. Yelp, Inc. (2014) 228 Cal.App.4th  294, 310 (Demetriades).])    Here, Plaintiff argues that Mr. Baker’s acts of posting  reviews on Internet websites cannot be characterized as in furtherance of his  right to petition or free speech under the Code of Civil Procedure section  425.16, subdivision (b)(1). (Opp’n., at p. 5.) Plaintiff maintains that using  the phrase “in my opinion” does not negate the factual implications contained  in the statement, rendering the statements not protected. (Opp’n., at pp. 6-7.)   However, Defendants contend that whether Defendants’  statements constitute actionable opinion or factual assertions pertains more to  the second prong of the analysis – the probability of prevailing on the merits  – rather than the initial determination of protected activity. (Reply, at p.  3.) The Court agrees.   Plaintiff’s Complaint identifies that the defamatory  statements made on Zillow and Yelp are the basis for the third and fourth  causes of action (Compl., ¶¶ 34-35), yet does not effectively counter  Defendants’ argument that posting review on these platforms falls within  protected activity, as delineated in Abir, Chaker, and Demetriades.   Consequently, the Court concludes that Defendants have met  their burden of demonstrating that the third and fourth  causes of action arise from conduct protected by the constitutional free speech  rights, thus shifting the burden to the Plaintiff to establish a probability of  success on the merits using credited evidence. (Code Civ. Proc., § 425.16,  subd. (b).)   2.       Plaintiff’s  Showing of Probability of Prevailing    “Despite the fact [appellant] ... made a threshold showing  that [respondent’s] action is one arising from statutorily protected activity,  [respondent] may defeat the anti-SLAPP motion by establishing a probability of  prevailing on [his] claim.” (Navellier v. Sletten (2002) 29 Cal.4th 82,  95.) Respondent’s “second- [prong] burden is a limited one. [He] need not prove  [his] case to the court [citation]; the bar sits lower, at a demonstration of  ‘minimal merit’ [citation]. At this stage, ‘“[t]he court does not weigh  evidence or resolve conflicting factual claims. Its inquiry is limited to  whether the plaintiff has stated a legally sufficient claim and made a prima  facie factual showing sufficient to sustain a favorable judgment. It accepts  the plaintiff’s evidence as true, and evaluates the defendant’s showing only to  determine if it defeats the plaintiff’s claim as a matter of law.”’” (Wilson  v. Cable News Network, Inc. (2019) 7 Cal.5th 871, 891.) “The  plaintiff must demonstrate this probability of success with admissible  evidence. [Citation.] ‘“The plaintiff may not rely solely on its complaint,  even if verified; instead, its proof must be made upon competent admissible  evidence.” [Citation.]’” (Laker v. Board of Trustees of California State  University (2019) 32 Cal.App.5th 745, 768, 244 Cal.Rptr.3d 238(Laker).)            i.             Third Cause of Action – Libel Per Se   “Libel per se ... is based in common law defamation,  and thus relates to the standing and reputation of the businessman as distinct  from the quality of his or her goods.” (Barnes-Hind, Inc. v. Superior Court  (1986) 181 Cal.App.3d 377, 381.)    Libel is a false and unprivileged  written publication tending to injure a victim's occupation. (Civ. Code, § 45.)  Libel  is per se when  the words require no explanation and thus are actionable without a showing of  special damages. (Slaughter v. Friedman (1982) 32  Cal.3d 149, 153.)   Before proceeding, the Court  notes that Defendant Mr. Baker’s Yelp review of Plaintiff’s service includes  the statement: “In  my opinion, she's a high pressure, dishonest, manipulative fraud who doesn't  look out for her client's best interest,” in contrast to his Zillow review.  This is identified in the declarations and exhibits. (See Jerald Baker Decl., ¶¶  21-22, Ex. “L,” and “M,” Compl., ¶ 32.)    Here, Defendants argue that  Plaintiff cannot meet the burden of establishing a probability of prevailing  based on several grounds:    (1) Plaintiff fails to  identify any specific libelous statement attributable to Ms. Baker;  (2) Plaintiff does not  sufficiently identify a specific libelous statement by Mr. Baker;  (3) Mr. Baker’s statement qualifies  as an expression of opinion, which is substantiated by facts that are substantively  true.   a)       Plaintiff fails  to identify any specific libelous statement attributable to Ms. Baker.   “The general rule is that the words constituting an alleged libel must  be specifically identified, if not pleaded verbatim, in the complaint.’” (Vogel v. Felice (2005) 127 Cal.App.4th  1006 (Vogel), fn. 3, quoting Kahn v. Bower (1991)  232 Cal.App.3d 1599, 1612, fn. 5.)              Here, the Complaint alleges  that Defendants, including Ms. Baker, have willingly, without justification,  and without privilege, published false and defamatory statements claiming  Plaintiff “dishonest, manipulative fraud” and imputing criminal conduct on  Plaintiff (Compl., ¶ 32). It specifies that “some of the defamatory statements  were published on Zillow” (id. ¶ 33), and that “other defamatory  statements were published via a Yelp site” (id. ¶ 34.)                However, this  claim is challenged by new evidence presented by Plaintiff herself. In her  Declaration, she references Ms. Baker’s statement: “I have never used the words  or phrase ‘dishonest, manipulative fraud’ with respect to Taylor  Schwartz.”  (Schwartz Decl., ¶ 7, Ex.  “E.”)               Given this  contradiction and the lack of specification of alleged libelous statements as  required, the Court concludes that Plaintiff has not met the burden of  establishing a probability of prevailing on her Libel per se claim against Ms.  Baker.               Thus, the  Court GRANTS the Anti-SLAPP Motion as to Ms. Baker.              b)      Plaintiff does  not sufficiently identify a specific libelous statement by Mr. Baker.   Defendants argue that Plaintiff has  only partially identified a statement by Mr. Baker – specifically quoting  “dishonest, manipulative fraud.” However, they contend that the complete  statement, as per Jerald Baker’s declaration, should read, “In my opinion, she’s a high  pressure, dishonest, manipulative fraud who doesn’t look out for her client’s  best interest.” (Jerald Baker Decl., Ex. “L”.)    The Court finds this  argument unconvincing. The legal standard, as established in Vogel,  supra, asserts that “the words  constituting an alleged libel must be specifically identified, if not pleaded  verbatim, in the complaint.” (Vogel, supra, 127 Cal.App.4th  fn.3.) The requirement emphasizes specificity but does not necessitate  completeness of the context in the initial pleading phase.    It is evident to the Court that Plaintiff’s Complaint sufficiently  specifies the statements attributed to Defendant Mr. Baker’s statements,  meeting the threshold for a libel claim.   Therefore, Defendants’ argument based on the alleged  incompleteness of the citation fails.   c)      Mr. Baker’s statement qualifies as an expression  of opinion, which is substantiated by facts that are substantively true.   “Though mere opinions are generally not actionable,” a “statement that  implies a false assertion of fact is actionable.” (Issa v. Applegate (2019) 31 Cal.App.5th  689, 702.) In Milkovich v. Lorain Journal Co. (1990) 497 U.S. 1, 19 (Milkovich),  the Supreme Court of the United clarified that “Simply couching such a  statement in terms of opinion does not dispel these implications [of false  assertion of fact].” It further states that “four factors are considered to ascertain whether, under the  ‘totality of circumstances,’ a statement is fact or opinion. These factors  are: (1) ‘the specific language used’; (2) ‘whether the statement is  verifiable’; (3) ‘the general context of the statement’; and (4) ‘the broader  context in which the statement appeared.’” (Id. at p. 9, citing Scott  v. News-Herald (1986) 25 Ohio St.3d 243, 250-252.)    Applying the Milkovich criteria, the Court  finds that Mr. Baker’s statements, although presented as opinions, imply assertions  of facts when viewed in their totality.     However, Defendants  further argue that Mr. Baker's statements are underpinned by substantively true  facts and assert it is Plaintiff’s burden to demonstrate the falsity of these  statements to prevail. (Mot., at pp. 13-14.) The Court agrees with this  assessment.    Plaintiff’s Complaint merely asserts that  “Defendants knew the statements were about the Plaintiff, knew the statements  were false and/or failed to take reasonable care to determine the truth or  falsity of the statements.” (Compl., ¶ 36.) However, her Opposition cite a  “First Amended Complaint,” claiming, “By the First Amended Complaint, Plaintiff  submits to the court more than mere allegations,” and “Plaintiff’s Declaration  contains testimony as to the substance of her Complaint.” (Opp’n., at p. 7.) Nonetheless,  the case record does not show a filed First Amended Complaint. Plaintiff’s declaration,  submitted concurrently with her Opposition to the Anti-SLAPP Motion, contains  merely two statements (Schwartz Decl., ¶¶ 1-2), two exhibits presented by  Defendants in their moving papers (id. ¶¶ 6-7), and three additional exhibits  including the Listing Agreement, Prequalified Buyer Offer to Purchase Property,  and MLS Listings. (Id. ¶¶3-5.)    The Court  finds the evidence presented by Plaintiff patently deficient to meet the  necessary threshold to demonstrate ‘minimal merit’ that Mr. Baker’s  statements imply a false assertion of fact.   Consequently,  the Court GRANTS the Anti-SLAPP Motion as to the Third Cause of Action for  Libel per se against Defendants.          ii.             Fourth Cause of Action – Trade Libel   Trade libel  is generally defined as “an intentional disparagement of the quality of  property, which results in pecuniary damage to plaintiff.” (Polygram Records, Inc. v. Superior Court (1985) 170  Cal.App.3d 543, 548.) To constitute trade libel, a statement must be false. (Leonardini  v. Shell Oil Co. (1989) 216 Cal.App.3d 547, 572.)    While a cause of action for trade libel “‘resembles that for defamation ... [it] differs  from it materially in the greater burden of proof resting on the plaintiff, and  the necessity for special damage in all cases. ... [T]he plaintiff must prove  in all cases that the publication has played a material and substantial part in  inducing others not to deal with him, and that as a result he has suffered  special damages.’” (Erlich v. Etner (1964) 224  Cal.App.2d 69, 73(Erlich).) At a minimum, a trade libel  cause of action requires: “(1) a publication; (2) which induces others not to  deal with plaintiff; and (3) special damages.” (Nichols v. Great American Ins.  Companies (1985) 169 Cal.App.3d 766, 773.)   Thus, unlike a claim for defamation, trade libel requires as an essential element  that the plaintiff suffered direct financial harm because someone else acted in  reliance on the defendant's statement. (CACI No. 1731.) To establish this element,  “‘is not enough to show a general decline in [plaintiff's] business resulting  from the falsehood, even where no other cause for it is apparent, ... it is  only the loss of specific sales that can be recovered. This means, in the usual  case, that the plaintiff must identify the particular purchasers who have  refrained from dealing with him, and specify the transactions of which he  claims to have been deprived.’” (Erlich, supra, 224  Cal.App. 2d at p. 73.)   As discussed above, Plaintiff’s pleading and new evidence have not  substantiated the falsity of Defendants’ statements. As a result, she cannot demonstrate  a probability of prevailing on the Trade Libel claim, where the falsity of the  statement is a required element.   Therefore, the Court GRANTS the Anti-SLAPP Motion as to the Fourth Cause  of Action for Trade Libel.   CONCLUSION   Defendants’  Special Motion to Strike pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 425.16 is  GRANTED.   Moving  party to give notice.