  Case Number:  20STCV31675    Hearing Date:   January 13, 2025    Dept:  55  NATURE OF PROCEEDINGS: Hearing on Defendant's Motion  for Leave to File a Cross-Complaint   Defendant's Motion  for Leave to file a Cross-Complaint is granted.   BACKGROUND Plaintiff Margarita Rosiak  filed this action against Richard Rosiak  (Defendant), seeking to quiet title to property located at 9917 Wiley Burke  Avenue, Downey, CA 90242.   Defendant filed a Motion for Leave to File a Cross-Complaint.  Plaintiff filed an opposition.    LEGAL STANDARD Code of Civil Procedure  section 426.50 provides, “A party who fails to plead a cause of action subject  to the requirements of this article, whether through oversight,  inadvertence, mistake, neglect, or other cause, may apply to the court for  leave to amend his pleading, or to file a cross-complaint, to assert such cause  at any time during the course of the action. The court, after notice to the  adverse party, shall grant, upon such terms as may be just to the parties,  leave to amend the pleading, or to file the cross-complaint, to assert such  cause if the party who failed to plead the cause acted in good faith. This  subdivision shall be liberally construed to avoid forfeiture of causes of  action.” A trial court lacks  discretion to deny a motion to file a compulsory cross-complaint under Code of  Civil Procedure section 426.50. Silver Orgs. v. Frank (1990) 217 Cal.App.3d 94, 98 (Silver Orgs.). “A motion to  file a cross-complaint at any time during the course of the action must be  granted unless bad faith of the moving party is demonstrated where forfeiture  would otherwise result. Id. at p. 99. A finding of bad faith  must be supported by substantial evidence. Ibid. Substantial evidence is  “evidence . . . ‘of ponderable legal significance, . . . reasonable in nature,  credible, and of solid value.’ Ibid. “‘Bad faith is defined as “[t]he  opposite of ‘good faith,’ generally implying or involving actual or  constructive fraud, or a design to mislead or deceive another, or a neglect or  refusal to fulfill some duty or some contractual obligation, not prompted by an  honest mistake . . ., but by some interested or sinister motive[,] . . . not  simply bad judgment or negligence, but rather . . . the conscious doing of a  wrong because of dishonest purpose or moral obliquity; . . . it contemplates a  state of mind affirmatively operating with furtive design or ill will.’” Id.  at p. 100 (quoting Pugh v. See's Candies, Inc.  (1988) 203 Cal.App.3d 743, 764) (citations omitted).  “[D]elay only may  constitute the requisite bad faith to preclude the granting of the request to  file a cross-complaint when it appears that a delayed cross-complaint, if  allowed, would work a substantial injustice to the opposing party and  would prejudice that party's position in some way.” Foot's Transfer &  Storage Co. v. Superior Court (1980) 114 Cal.App.3d 897, 903.    ANALYSIS Defendant seeks leave to file a Cross-Complaint containing six  causes of action relating to the subject property. Defendant argues, and  Plaintiff does not dispute, that the proposed Cross-Complaint is compulsory.  Nor does Plaintiff argue that Defendant failed to file the Cross-Complaint  earlier in bad faith. Instead, Plaintiff argues that the issues raised in the  Cross-Complaint were previously adjudicated in the family law matter in Nevada,  Case No. D-180578580-D. However, in ruling on a motion to file a compulsory cross-complaint,  the Court does not examine the pleading’s merits. If Plaintiff believes the Cross-Complaint is subject to collateral estoppel, she  may make that argument in a demurrer. See Silver Orgs., supra217  Cal.App.3d at p.102 (noting issue preclusion “might be appropriately raised by  demurrer, summary judgment, or other pretrial proceeding after the compulsory  cross-complaint has been filed.”). Accordingly, the Court must grant the motion because there  is no evidence that Defendant acted in bad faith by failing to file the  cross-complaint earlier.   CONCLUSION Defendant's Motion for Leave to File a Cross-Complaint is granted. Defendant shall serve and file the Cross-Complaint within 10 days of this order.       