 Case Number:  21STCV24228    Hearing Date:   October 4, 2023    Dept:  56  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



TED WAITT,
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
 
TYLER DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION, et al.,
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.                               


 


     
  CASE NO.: 21STCV24228
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: MOTION TO CONTEST
  GOOD FAITH SETTLEMENT
 
Date: 
  October 4, 2023
Time: 8:30 a.m. 
Dept. 56
 



AND RELATED
CROSS-ACTIONS
 
MOVING
PARTY: Cross-Defendant/Cross-Complainant Angelus Waterproofing and Restoration,
Inc. (“Angelus”)
 
RESPONDING
PARTY: Cross-Defendant James West (“West”)
 
The
Court has considered the moving, opposition and reply papers. 
 
BACKGROUND
This
action arises out of alleged construction defects at a residential property.  In the Complaint, Plaintiff alleges that
defendants, including West, breached their contracts with Plaintiff and were
negligent in the performance of their duties in the construction of a single
family residence (the “Project”). 
Plaintiff alleges that West is a “roofing and waterproofing consultant
hired by Plaintiff for the Project.” (Complaint, para. 6.)  West filed a Cross-Complaint for indemnity
and contribution against various Cross-Defendants but did not name Angelus as a
Cross-Defendant.  Angelus was brought
into the case on Cross-Complaints by ECM Exotic Pools & Spas and by Landry
Design Group, Inc.  Angelus then filed
its own Cross-Complaint but did not name West as a Cross-Defendant, although it
now states that it intends to do so.  
 
On
July 7, 2027, West filed a Notice of Settlement indicating that West and
Plaintiff had entered into a settlement agreement (the “West Settlement
Agreement”) and an application to determine good faith settlement (the
“Application”).  The Application contends
that the West Settlement Agreement, which provides for the payment of $200,000
to Plaintiff, was entered into in good faith after the parties participated in
mediation and should be approved.
 
On
July 28, 2023, Angelus filed a motion to contest good faith settlement (the
“Motion”).  The Motion argues that the
West Settlement Agreement was not entered into in good faith and does not
reflect West’s proportion of liability for Plaintiff’s damages. 
 
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS
Angelus’s
objections to the Declaration of Katie Brach (“Brach Decl.”) are OVERRULED. 
 
Angelus’s
objections to deposition testimony of Ted Waitt are OVERRULED. 
 
Angelus’s
objections to the Declaration of Gerald A. Schneider are OVERRULED. 
 
DISCUSSION
Under
California Code of Civil Procedure (“CCP”) section 877, a release,
dismissal with or without prejudice, or a covenant not to sue or not to enforce
judgment is given in good faith before verdict or judgment to one or more of a
number of tortfeasors claimed to be liable for the same tort reduces the claims
against other defendants in the amount stipulated by the release, the dismissal
or the covenant, or in the amount of the consideration paid for it, whichever
is the greater and  discharges discharge the
party to whom it is given from all liability for any contribution to any other
parties.  (CCP § 877, subds.
(a)-(b).)  A determination by the court
that the settlement was made in good faith bars any other joint tortfeasor or
co-obligor from any further claims against the settling tortfeasor or
co-obligor for equitable comparative contribution, or partial or comparative
indemnity, based on comparative negligence or comparative fault.  (CCP § 877.6, subd. (c).)  The party asserting the lack of good faith has
the burden of proof on that issue.  (CCP
§ 877.6, subd. (d).)
 
In
Tech-Bilt, Inc. v. Woodward-Clyde & Associates (1985) 38 Cal.3d 488,
499 (“Tech-Bilt”), the California Supreme Court identified the following
nonexclusive factors courts are to consider in determining if a settlement is
in good faith under CCP section 877.6: (1) a rough approximation of plaintiffs'
total recovery and the settlor's proportionate liability; (2) the amount paid
in settlement; (3) the allocation of settlement proceeds among plaintiffs; (4)
a recognition that a settlor should pay less in settlement than he would if he
were found liable after a trial; (5) the financial conditions and insurance
policy limits of settling defendants; and (6)  the existence of collusion, fraud, or tortious
conduct aimed to injure the interests of nonsettling defendants.  (Id.) 
 
The
evaluation of whether a settlement was made in good faith is required to be
made on the basis of information available at the time of settlement.  (Id.) 
A defendant’s settlement figure must not be grossly disproportionate to
what a reasonable person, at the time of the settlement, would estimate the
settling defendant’s liability to be.  (Id.)
 
The
party asserting the lack of good faith, who has the burden of proof on that
issue should be permitted to demonstrate, if he can, that the settlement is so
far “out of the ballpark” in relation to these factors as to be inconsistent
with the equitable objectives of the statute. 
Such a demonstration would establish that the proposed settlement was
not a “settlement made in good faith” within the terms of CCP section 877.6.  (Id. at
499-500.)
 
In
addition to considering the alleged tortfeasor's potential liability to the
plaintiff, the court must also consider the culpability of the tortfeasor
vis-à-vis other parties alleged to be responsible for the same injury.  (TSI Seismic Tenant Space, Inc. v.
Superior Court (2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 159, 166.)  The settling party’s ability to pay may also be
a factor.  (County of Los Angeles v.
Guerrero (1989) 209 Cal.App.3d 1149, 1156-1158.)
 
In City
of Grand View Terrace v. Superior Court (1987) 192 Cal.App.3d 1251, 1261,
the court provided the following guidance regarding a motion for a good faith
settlement determination:
This
court notes that of the hundreds of motions for good faith determination
presented for trial court approval each year, the overwhelming majority are
unopposed and granted summarily by the trial court.  At the time of filing in many cases, the
moving party does not know if a contest will develop.  If each motion required a full recital by
declaration or affidavit setting forth a complete factual response to all of
the Tech-Bilt factors, literally thousands of attorney hours would be
consumed and inch-thick motions would have to be read and considered by trial
courts in an exercise which would waste valuable judicial and legal time and
clients’ resources. . . . That is to say, when no one objects, the barebones
motion which sets forth the ground of good faith, accompanied by a declaration
which sets forth a brief background of the case is sufficient.  If the good faith
settlement is contested, section 877.6, subdivision (d), sets forth a workable
ground rule for the hearing by placing the burden of proving the lack of good
faith on the contesting party.  Once
there is a showing made by the settlor of the settlement, the burden of proof
on the issue of good faith shifts to the nonsettlor who asserts that the
settlement was not made in good faith.  If
contested, declarations by the nonsettlor should be filed which in many cases
could require the moving party to file responsive counterdeclarations to negate
the lack of good faith asserted by the nonsettling contesting party.
 
(City
of Grand View Terrace v. Superior Court 192 Cal.App.3d 1251, 1260-61 (citations
omitted).)
 
Application of the Tech-Bilt
Factors
Where
a settlement's good faith is contested, the party seeking the settlement must
show that the Tech-Bilt factors are satisfied.  (See City of Grand Terrace v. Superior
Court (1987) 192 Cal.App.3d 1251, 1261.) 
Once such a showing is made, the burden of proof on the issue of good
faith shifts to the non-settlor, who asserts that the settlement was not made
in good faith.  (Id. at 1261-62
(citing CCP § 877.6, subd. (d)).)  Therefore,
while Angelus has the burden of proof of demonstrating that the West Settlement
Agreement was not entered into in good faith, West is required to make a prima
facie showing of good faith that is supported by competent evidence.  
 
The
ultimate determinant of good faith is whether the settlement is grossly
disproportionate to what a reasonable person at the time of settlement would
estimate the settlor's liability to be. 
(City of Grand View Terrace v. Superior Court (1987) 192
Cal.App.3d 1251, 1262.)  The court
must consider the settlor's potential liability to the plaintiff and its
proportionate share of culpability as among all parties alleged to be liable
for the same injury. (TSI Seismic Tenant Space, Inc. v. Sup.Ct. (Geocon) (2007)
149 Cal.App.4th 159, 166.)  Substantial
evidence (e.g., factual declarations) showing the nature and extent of the
settling defendant's liability is required and without such evidence, a “good
faith” determination is an abuse of discretion.  (See Mattco Forge, Inc. v. Arthur Young
& Co. (1995) 38 Cal.App.4th 1337, 1348 (“questionable assumptions"
in moving party's memorandum of points and authorities insufficient to show the
settlement was reasonable); Greshko v. County of Los Angeles (1987) 194
Cal.App.3d 822, 834 (attorney's declaration resettling defendant's liability
insufficient where he failed to provide specific supporting facts or expert
opinion).)
 
The
Application contends that $200,000 is a reasonable settlement amount given the
nature of the work West performed for Plaintiff at the Property and West’s
potential total liability.  West contends
that his participation in the Project was limited to a consultant role as
provided in the Consulting Agreement he entered into in August 2014.  (App. 4:8-11; see Declaration of James
West (“West Decl.”) ¶ 4, Exhibit A.)  The
Application and the Complaint alleges that West’s services were limited to
consulting work regarding the execution of waterproofing and roofing work.  (App. 4:23-24.)  West did not perform design or construction
work and was not involved in pre-construction development of designs and
specifications.  (App. 4:16-20.)  West contends that at trial, West “would
likely be found to have no liability with respect to Plaintiff’s claims because
of his lack of involvement in the activities that gave rise to alleged defects
that Plaintiff is claiming damages for.” 
(West Opposition Brief, pp. 11-12.) 

 
Angelus
provides evidence that Plaintiff’s total damages exceed $13.1 million, $1.9
million of which are related to swimming pool repairs.  (See Declaration of Loni K.
Harada-Orosz (“Harada-Orosz Decl.”) ¶ 4.) 
Plaintiff has not yet made a settlement demand specific to damages
related to the swimming pool. 
(Harada-Orosz Decl. ¶ 3.)  Neither
West nor Angelus specified in the Application or the Motion whether the damages
claimed against West related to the swimming pool.
 
The
Motion argues that West has not demonstrated that the settlement amount is fair
in light of his proportionate liability to Plaintiff compared to other named
parties in this litigation.  The Court disagrees
with Angelus’s argument that the Application does not provide an approximation
of Plaintiff’s total recovery in the action or evidence of West’s potential proportionate
liability to Plaintiffs.  West contends
that if this case were tried it would be found not to be liable at all for
Plaintiff’s damages – a point uncontested by Angelus, which did not, however, provide
evidence of West’s potential liability, nor did it even see fit to name West as
a Cross-Defendant on its own Cross-Complaint as originally filed.  Angelus further does not provide its own
estimation of West’s liability, other than to say that $200,000 is not
proportional to that liability.  Angelus
also does not address the potential liability of the other Defendants,
including itself or the general contractor which sued it and West, and which
West sued as a Cross-Defendant in its Cross-Complaint.  
 
Because
it contends that it would not be held liable at all at trial, West bases its
analysis of whether $200,000 is a reasonable settlement amount primarily in
light of his insurance policy and ability to pay a larger amount of damages.  (See Opposition 11-14.)  The Court finds that this argument is persuasive
in light of the exclusion for professional services liability in the only
insurance policy available to West and the nature of the work West performed --
whether or not it included the work asserted by Angelus.  Angelus does not attempt to argue that the
scope of West’s work, whether as asserted by Plaintiff or as contended by
Angelus, would come within the scope of West’s insurance policy.
 
Because
West has provided a satisfactory showing of an approximation of Plaintiff’s
recovery and West’s proportionate liability under Tech-Bilt, the Court
finds that West has established that the West Settlement Agreement was entered
into in good faith. The Court further finds that Angelus has failed to
establish by sufficient evidence that the $200,000 evidenced by the West
Settlement Agreement was so far “out of the ballpark” in relation to West’s
potential liability under the Tech-Bilt factors as to be inconsistent
with the equitable objectives of CCP section 877.6.  Angelus has therefore failed to establish
that the West Settlement Agreement was not entered into in good faith.    The
Court therefore DENIES the Motion and GRANTS the Application.
 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.
 
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at
SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If the
department does not receive an email and there are no appearances at the
hearing, the motion will be placed off calendar.
 
              Dated this 4th day of October 2023
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 



