 Case Number:  23NWCV01707    Hearing Date:   December 7, 2023    Dept:  C BEATRIZ CAMARILLO vs SUNRUN, INC., et al.
CASE
NO.:  23NWCV01707
HEARING: 
 12/7/23
 
#7
TENTATIVE ORDER
 
Plaintiff’s unopposed demurrer
to Defendant’s answer is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND.
 
Moving Party to give NOTICE.

 
Procedural
History
 
On
June 5, 2023, Plaintiff Beatriz Camarillo filed an action against Defendants
Sunrun, Inc. and Hartman Home Transformation alleging causes of action for (1)
Constructive Fraud; (2) Fraudulent Misrepresentation; (3) Statute of Frauds
Violation; (4) Breach of Contract; (5) Inducement of Breach; (6) Intentional
Interference with Contractual Relations; (7) Civil Reckless Abuse of Process;
(8) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress; (9) Civil Extortion; (10)
Professional Negligence; (11) Cal Civ Code section 3425.3 Violation; (12)
Wrongful Use of Administrative Process; (13) Abuse of Process; (14)
Discrimination; and (15) Defamation. Plaintiff also seeks injunctive and
declaratory relief.
 
On
October 5, 2023, Plaintiff filed the instant demurrer to Defendant Sunrun’s
unverified answer. To date, no opposition has been filed. 
 
Meet
and Confer
 
Plaintiff
provides a declaration wherein she claims that various meet and confer sessions
have been proposed and transmitted to Defendants for this demurrer motion against
their Answer in accordance with CCP 430.41 (a) and had been continually
communicated and mentioned to the defendants by the plaintiff. (Camarillo Decl.
¶ 22.) The Court finds this to be sufficient. 
 
Merits
 
Plaintiff
demurs to all of Defendant’s answers for all of Plaintiff’s causes of action.
Plaintiff argues that Defendant’s answers fail to state facts constituting a
valid answer and that the pleading is uncertain. Specifically, Plaintiff argues
that (1) the answer fails to contain a general or specific denial of the
material allegations of the complaint; (2) fails to make a statement of any new
matter constituting a defense; (3) improperly asserts affirmative relief; (4)
did not deny the allegations positively or according to belief; (5) did not
state that it had no information or belief upon the subject sufficient to
enable him or her to answer an allegation of the complaint; (6) did not make
denials by referencing specific paragraphs or parts of complaint, expressly
admitting certain allegations with general denial, denying certain allegations
upon information and belief, or for lack of sufficient information or belief;
and (7) failed to separately state defenses, referring to causes of action
which they are intended to answer. 
 
Plaintiff
requests that Defendant’s entire answer should be dismissed as if no answers
were submitted and thereby subject to default judgment. 
 
The
Court finds Plaintiff’s arguments to have merit. Further, Defendant fails to
provide any opposition. Thus, the Court SUSTAINS the answer WITH LEAVE TO AMEND.
The Court declines to grant Plaintiff’s request to dismiss the answer in the
entirety. The Court notes that a motion to strike is the proper mechanism.
 
 
 