  Case Number:  22NWCV00857    Hearing Date:   December 7, 2023    Dept:  C VESTAR CALIFORNIA
XXVI, LLC, v. ALONDRA'S PICO, LLC, et al.
CASE NO.:  22NWCV00857
HEARING:  12/7/23
 
#6
TENTATIVE ORDER 
 
Cross-Defendants’ Demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH 20 DAYS’ LEAVE
TO AMEND.  
 
Moving Party to give notice. 
 
JUDICIAL NOTICE is taken of Defendant’s exhibits. (Ev. Code 452.) The
Court notes that while it takes judicial notice of the existence of findings of
fact made in the other action, any order is not binding on this Court or
control this case.
 
Procedural History
 
On September 20, 2022, Plaintiff Vestar California XXVI, LLc filed an
action for breach of lease and breach of guaranty against Defendants Alondra’s
Pico, LLC and Mark Markarian. 
 
On December 27, 2022, Defendant and Cross-Complainant Mark Markarian
(“Cross-Complainant”) filed a cross-complaint against Cross-Defendant Alondra’s
Pico, LLC for breach of contract and express indemnity. On April 19, 2023,
Cross-Complainant filed a first amended cross-complaint alleging the same
causes of action, but added additional cross-defendants, including
Cross-Defendants Randall S. Teffeteller and West Coast Resources &
Consulting, Inc. (“Cross-Defendants”), who are the moving parties to this
demurrer. 
 
On July 20, 2023, Cross-Defendants filed the instant demurrer. On
November 27, 2023, Cross-Defendant filed an opposition. On November 30, 2023,
Cross-Defendants replied.
 
Merits
 
Although Cross-Defendant filed the opposition one day late,
the Court, in its discretion, will consider the merits of its argument, since
there is no apparent showing of prejudice.
 
Alter Ego
 
“The essence of the alter ego doctrine is that justice be
done. ‘What the formula comes down to, once shorn of verbiage abound control,
instrumentality, agency, and corporate entity, is that liability is imposed to
reach an equitable result.’ ” (Mesler v. Bragg Management Co. (1985) 39
Cal.3d 290, 301.) “ ‘It is the law in California as elsewhere that, although a
corporation is usually regarded as an entity separate and distinct from its
stockholders, both law and equity will, when necessary to circumvent fraud,
protect the rights of third persons and accomplish justice, disregard this
distinct existence and treat them as identical.’” (Kohn v. Kohn (1950)
95 Cal.App.2d 708, 718.)  
 
In Rutherford Holdings, LLC v. Plaza Del Rey (2014)
223 Cal.App.4th 221, 235-36, the court of appeal held that the following alter
ego allegations were sufficient to survive a demurrer: that the individual
defendant dominated and controlled the entity defendant; that a unity of
interest and ownership existed between the individual defendant and entity
defendant; that the entity defendant was a mere shell and conduit for the
individual defendant’s affairs; that the entity defendant was inadequately
capitalized; that the entity defendant failed to abide by corporate
formalities; that the individual defendant used the entity defendant’s assets
as her own; and that recognizing the separate existence of the entity defendant
would promote injustice. 
 
The Court finds the existing allegations to be sufficient to
allege an alter ego theory of liability against Cross-Defendants.  
 
          Sufficiency:
Breach of Contract and Express Indemnity
 
“To establish a cause of action for breach of contract, the
plaintiff must plead and prove (1) the existence of the contract, (2) the
plaintiff’s performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3) the defendant’s
breach, and (4) resulting damages to the plaintiff.  [Citation.]” (Maxwell
v. Dolezal (2014) 231 Cal.App.4th 93, 97-98.) “The elements of a breach of
oral contract are the same as those for breach of a written contract.
[Citations.]” (Stockton Mortgage, Inc. v. Tope (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th
437, 453.)  
 
“A written contract may be pleaded either by its terms – set
out verbatim in the complaint or a copy of the contract attached to the
complaint and incorporated therein by reference – or by its legal effect.
[Citations.] In order to plead a contract by its legal effect, plaintiff must
‘allege the substance of its relevant terms. This is more difficult, for it
requires a careful analysis of the instrument, comprehensiveness in statement,
and avoidance of legal conclusions.’ [Citation.]” (McKell v. Washington Mutual,
Inc. (2006) 142 Cal.App.4th 1457, 1489.)  
 
Cross-Defendants argue that Cross-Complainant has failed to
properly plead the existence of the Contract. The Cross-Complaint alleges the
existence of the Contract as a written contract. However, the Cross-Complaint
neither attaches a copy of the written instrument to the Cross-Complaint, nor
does the Cross-Complaint set out the relevant terms verbatim in the body of the
Cross-Complaint. Cross-Complainant fails to address this in its opposition.
 
The Court agrees with Cross-Defendants in that the
Cross-Complaint fails to allege the material terms of the contract or provide a
copy of the written instrument. Because all material terms are not clearly
alleged, it is unclear how Cross-Defendants’ alleged actions (e.g., failure to
perform all covenants required under the lease, such as upholding their duty to
defend and indemnify Cross-Complainant in underlying action pursuant to the
contract) are a breach of the parties’ agreement(s) or that Cross-Complainant
is entitled to damages thereunder. Cross-Complainant’s statement that Cross-Defendants
breached the parties written and oral agreement is a legal conclusion, not a
factual allegation, and thus is insufficient.  

 
Given the liberal policy in favor of granting leave to amend
to cure form and substantive defects, the Demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH 20 DAYS’
LEAVE TO AMEND.  
 
          
 
 