 Case Number:  23NWCV02452    Hearing Date:   December 7, 2023    Dept:  C FAXON, et al. v. FORD MOTOR COMPANY, et al.
CASE
NO.:  23NWCV02452
HEARING: 
 12/7/23
 
#3
TENTATIVE ORDER
 
Defendant Ford’s demurrer
to Plaintiffs’ second cause of action for fraudulent inducement is OVERRULED. 
 
Moving Party to give NOTICE.

 
 
Defendant
Ford Motor Company demurs to the second cause of action for Fraudulent
inducement – Concealment on the grounds that it fails to meet the requisite
pleading requirements and is barred by the economic loss rule.
 
Procedural
History
 
On
August 4, 2023, Plaintiffs Sean Faxon and Veronica Faxon filed an action
against Defendants Ford Motor Company, Joe Machperson Ford dba Autonation Ford
Tustin, and Does 1-10, alleging 
(1) 
Violation
of Song-Beverly Act – Breach of Express Warranty;
(2) 
Fraudulent
inducement – Concealment; and 
(3) 
Negligent
Repair.
 
Plaintiffs
allege their fraud cause of action arises out of the facts that surround the misrepresentations
and concealment of material facts at the time Plaintiffs purchased or leased a
new motor vehicle. Plaintiffs allege their cause of action for violations of
the Song-Beverly Act arise from warranty obligations of FORD in connection with
a vehicle purchased or leased by Plaintiffs and for which FORD issued written
warranties. Plaintiffs allege that FORD was unable to repair the vehicle in accordance
with the written warranty or the consumer protection and warranty laws of the
State of California. 
 
On
October 6, 2023, Defendant Ford Motor Company (“Ford”) filed the instant
demurrer. On November 22, 2023, Plaintiff opposed. On November 30, 2023,
Defendant replied.
 
Meet
and Confer
 
Ford
states that its counsel sent Plaintiffs’ counsel a meet-and-confer
correspondence on September 1, 2023, seven (7) days before its responsive
pleading was due. (Sloas Decl., ¶ 2.) The September 1, 2023, correspondence set
forth the legal basis for this Demurrer. (Id.) Defense counsel declares
that to date, Plaintiff’s counsel has not responded to Ford’s attempt to meet
and confer ahead of the filing of this demurrer. (Sloas Decl., ¶ 3.) The Court
finds this to be sufficient in satisfying the meet and confer requirement.
 
Merits
 
Ford
demurs to the second cause of action for Fraudulent inducement – Concealment on
the grounds that it fails to meet the requisite pleading requirements and is
barred by the economic loss rule.
 
Moving Party’s Arguments
 
Ford
argues that Plaintiffs’ cause of action for fraud fails as a matter of law
because there is no transactional relationship between Ford and Plaintiffs, and
Plaintiffs fail to plead facts supporting their claim with requisite
particularity. Alternatively, Ford argues the economic loss rule bars
Plaintiffs’ claim. 
 
As
to the transactional relationship, Ford relies on LiMandri v. Judkins
(1997) 52 Cal.App.4th 326, 336, for the assertion that a party must “in a
fiduciary relationship” to state a cause of action for fraudulent concealment. (Mot.
p. 3:4-6.) Ford argues that it did not sell the Subject Vehicle to Plaintiffs,
there was no relationship or transaction between Ford and Plaintiffs, and the bare
assertion that dealerships are authorized retailers and repair facilities is
insufficient. (Mot. p. 3:13-19.) Ford asserts that it had no duty to disclose,
and that Plaintiffs’ Complaint fails to identify any individual authorized to
speak on Ford’s behalf during the leasing process. (Id. at p. 4:16-21,
5:2-3.) In fact, Ford states that Plaintiffs’ Complaint does not identify a
single individual with knowledge that any representations were false and/or who
concealed information, or who acted with intent to induce reliance. (Id. at p. 5:3-5.) 
 
As
to requisite specificity, Ford argues that Plaintiffs’ fraudulent concealment
claim is also legally inadequate because a claim for fraudulent concealment
“must consist of affirmative acts or representations designed to prevent discovery
of the cause of action.” (Scafidi v. Western Loan & Bldg. Co. (72
Cal.App.2d 550, 563.) Ford asserts that Plaintiffs’ Complaint is defective for
the following reasons:
 
Plaintiffs’ Complaint fails to explain how
Plaintiffs’ criticisms regarding the transmission were due to Ford’s statements.
Plaintiffs’ Complaint does not state any facts to support a finding that
Plaintiffs relied on any communications with Ford about the transmission. Plaintiffs
also fail to include any statements by Ford that they relied upon, but instead
they merely allege that they relied on brochures and commercials prior to the
lease process along with oral statements made during the process. (See Complaint
¶53.) Plaintiffs do not allege any facts that support their claim that Ford
“actively concealed the existence and nature of the 10R80 Transmission Defect
from Plaintiffs at the time of purchase or lease, repair, and thereafter.” (Complaint
¶46.) Plaintiffs only cite Ford’s alleged concealment regarding the purported transmission
defects. (Complaint ¶21.) This alleged concealment is not enough to support Plaintiffs’
claim that Ford fraudulently concealed any purported transmission defects. The Complaint
is vague and does not explain how Ford’s assertions, or lack thereof, amount to
an affirmative act or representation about the transmission or quality of the
Subject Vehicle. Plaintiffs’ Complaint does not allege, nor could it,
affirmative acts of concealment by Ford, e.g., that Ford sought to suppress
information in the public domain or obscure consumers’ ability to discover it.
 
To the contrary, Plaintiffs’ Complaint is
self-defeating as to their Fraudulent Concealment claim because it includes
publicly available Technical Service Bulletins regarding the purportedly defective
10R80 transmission. Plaintiffs allege that Ford allowed the Subject Vehicle to
be sold to consumers with a transmission that causes “abrupt harsh shifting,
erratic shifting, jerking (commonly known as “juddering” or “shuddering”),
lunging while slowing down, hesitation between gears, lack of acceleration,
loss of power, stalling, slipping gears, failure to change gears, clunking or
banging noises, and other drivability concerns that impede the driver's
safety...” (Complaint ¶14.) Yet Plaintiffs’ Complaint also includes some of
Ford’s Technical Service Bulletins, which are publicly available documents that
were clearly seen by Plaintiffs, which outline “harsh/bumpy upshift, downshift
and/or engagement concerns” and “harsh engagement, harsh shift, and delayed
shift with or without an illuminated malfunction indicator lamp.” (See Complaint
pages 6-7.) Plaintiffs cannot claim that Ford knew of this information and
concealed it from the public while also asserting that the information was
openly issued to the public in a Technical Service Bulletin. 
 
(Mot.
p. 5-6.) 
 
As
to the economic loss rule, Ford argues this is another basis which bars
Plaintiffs’ fraud claim given that Plaintiffs’ allegations that Ford
fraudulently concealed information about the Subject Vehicle and its
transmission arise directly from the warranty. (Mot. p. 6:26-28, 7:1.) Ford
cites Robinson Helicopter Co., Inc. v. Dana Corp. (2004) 34 Cal.4th 979,
989: “[T]he economic loss rule allows a plaintiff to recover in strict products
liability in tort when the defect causes damage to ‘other property,’ that is,
property other than the product itself. The law of contractual warranty governs
damage to the product itself.” (emphasis in original) (Id. [citing Jiminez
v. Superior Court (2002) 29 Cal.4th 473, 482- 83].) (Mot. p. 7:1-6.) Defendant
asserts: “The only duty that was breached, if any, was the duty created by the
terms of the warranty. The only harm suffered as a result of Ford’s alleged
omissions about the ‘Transmission Defect’ was that had it been disclosed,
Plaintiffs would not have leased the Subject Vehicle. (Complaint ¶ 91.) Thus,
any economic loss arises solely if at all from the breach of contract, not from
Ford’s alleged fraudulent concealment.” (Mot. p. 7:10-14.) Given that the fraud
claim is based on Ford’s “omissions” and “concealment” rather than affirmative misrepresentations,
Ford asserts that the fraud claim is directly related to Ford’s alleged breach
of warranty, and that the only claimed damage is of economic loss arising from
the warranty and purchase contracts alone. (Id. at p. 7:19-24.) 
 
In
anticipation of Plaintiffs’ reliance on Dhital v. Nissan North America, Inc.

(2022)
84 Cal.App.5th 828 [review granted, February 1, 2023, S277568], Ford argues
that this case cannot be relied upon because it is under review and no longer
citable, and there is no showing of agency between Ford and the authorized
dealerships as required under Ochoa v. Ford Motor Company, (April 4,
2023), Court of Appeal of the State of California, Second Appellate
District,
B312262. 
 
          Arguments in Opposition
 
In
opposition, Plaintiffs argue that they have sufficiently pled their fraud claim
and that the economic loss rule does not apply under California law. 
 
As
to the economic loss rule, Plaintiffs argue that “California has a longstanding
exception to the economic loss rule in cases of fraudulent inducement to enter
into a contract because, unlike tortious conduct in the performance of a contract,
the fraudulent conduct is a violation of an independent duty that occurs before
the contract is ever breached—indeed, before the contract is even formed.”
(Opp. p. 2:4-7.) Plaintiffs rely on Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12
Cal.4th 631, 645, where the court allowed tort damages where the contract was
induced by fraud. (See Opp. p. 3:6-20.) Plaintiffs argue that “[t]he economic
loss rule does not apply to fraudulent inducement because the duty not to commit
fraud is independent of the contract and the fraud occurs prior to the contract
formation.” (Opp. p. 3:21-22.) Plaintiffs argue that Robinson addressed
the application of the economic loss rule to fraud committed during the
performance of a contract rather than to induce its formation, and further
created a new and separate exception for fraud in the performance of an
existing contract. (See Opp. p. 4-5.) Plaintiffs also cite Dhital,
where the Court of Appeal held that the economic loss rule does not bar a claim
for fraudulent inducement by concealment. (See id.) Plaintiffs argue
Ford’s reliance on Robinson because that case did not consider whether
fraudulent inducement was barred by the economic loss rule, but rather fraud
committed during the performance of a contract. (Id. at p. 5.) Rather, Robinson allowed tort damages “where the contract was fraudulently induced” (Robinson, supra, 34 Cal.4th at p. 990, quoting Erlich, supra, 21 Cal.4th 543, at 551-552), and further
expanded protections against fraud by allowing claims for fraud based on a
defendant’s affirmative representations during the performance of the contract
which expose the plaintiff to liability for personal damages independent of the
plaintiff’s economic loss. (See Opp. p. 6:3-21.) Plaintiffs request that the
Court disregard Ford’s citation to federal district court rulings since there
are California cases directly on point, such as Dhital.
 
As to requisite specificity, Plaintiffs assert that
“the rule of specifically pleading how, when, where, to whom, and by what
means, misrepresentations were communicated, is only intended to apply to affirmative
misrepresentations and not to concealment. (Alfaro, supra, 171
Cal.App.4th 1356, 1384 [“This statement of the rule [of specificity] reveals
that it is intended to apply to affirmative misrepresentations . . . it is
harder to apply this rule to a case of simple nondisclosure—How does one show
‘how’ and ‘by what means’ something didn’t happen, or ‘when’ it never happened,
or ‘where’ it never happened?”].)” (Opp. p. 7:13-19.) Plaintiffs argue they
have sufficiently pled facts to establish a claim for concealment by alleging “the
10R80 transmissions installed in numerous Ford vehicles (including the one
plaintiffs leased) were defective; Ford knew of the defects and the hazards
they posed; Ford had exclusive knowledge of the defects but intentionally
concealed and failed to disclose that information; Ford intended to deceive
plaintiffs by concealing known transmission problems; plaintiffs would not have
leased the car if they had known of the defects; and plaintiffs suffered damages
in the form of money paid to lease the car.” (Opp. p. 7:28, 8:1-5.) 
 
Plaintiffs also argue that they sufficiently pled a
duty to disclose which “may arise when a defendant possesses or exerts control
over material facts not readily available to the plaintiff,’ including when
those material facts concern allegedly concealed safety risks known only to the
manufacturer” (Jones v. ConocoPhillips (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 1187, 1198-1199.) (See Opp p. 8:8-26.) Plaintiffs assert they have pled sufficient facts to
show that Ford had superior knowledge of the transmission and its defects since
at least 2018 and that Ford actively concealed this information from
Plaintiffs. (See Opp p. 8-9; Complaint ¶ 16-40, 41-46.) 
 
The Complaint
alleges that “FORD knew or should have known about the safety hazard posed by
the defective transmissions before the sale of 10R80-equipped vehicles from
pre-market testing, consumer complaints to the National Highway Traffic Safety
Administration (“NHTSA”), consumer complaints made directly to FORD and its
dealers, warranty claims for repairs to the 10R80 transmission from its
dealers, and other sources which drove FORD to issue Technical Service
Bulletins and Recalls acknowledging the transmission’s defect.” (Complaint ¶
16.)
 
The Complaint adds
that “Plaintiffs is informed and believes that by March 2018, if not earlier,
FORD was aware that the 10R80 transmission installed in the vehicles was
defective and would manifest symptoms as described above when it began
receiving consumer complaints from NHSTA and issued Technical Service
Bulletins, which are internal memorandums from the manufacturer to its
dealerships on how to diagnose and repair recurring problems with a particular line
of vehicles. FORD knew that the 10R80 transmissions installed in its vehicles
were prematurely failing, requiring repeated repair or replacement. FORD knew
that the repairs were inadequate and had no fix for the rampant problems, and
merely states that the abrupt and harsh shifting is normal.” (Complaint ¶ 17)
 
(Id. p. 9.) Plaintiffs state “[n]one of this information was disclosed to
consumers or Plaintiffs. In sum, Plaintiffs have alleged sufficient facts to demonstrate
that Ford had a duty to disclose.” (Id. p. 9:7-8.) Plaintiffs also cite two federal cases: Falk v. Gen. Motors Corp. (N.D. Cal.
2007) 496 F.Supp.2d 1088, 1096-97, where the court found that General Motors
had a duty to disclose based under the exclusive knowledge prong; and In re Toyota Motor Corp. Unintended Acceleration Mktg.,
Sales Practices, & Prods. Liab. Litig. (C.D. Cal.
2010), 754 F.Supp.2d 1145, 1174, 1192, where the court found that the plaintiffs had established “a duty to disclose
because they allege[d] that Toyota has superior knowledge of the SUA defects.”
 
Plaintiffs argue that they have sufficiently
alleged a transactional relationship under Dhital, which found the allegations “that they bought the car from a Nissan dealership,
that Nissan backed the car with an express warranty, and that Nissan’s
authorized dealerships are its agents for purposes of the sale of Nissan
vehicles to consumers” were sufficient to support the fraudulent concealment
cause of action. (Dhital v.
Nissan North America, Inc. (2022) 84 Cal.App.5th 828, 844
[“In light of these allegations, we decline to hold plaintiffs’ claim is barred
on the ground there was no relationship requiring Nissan to disclose known
defects.”].) (See Opp. p. 10:24-28, 11:1-4.) Here, Plaintiffs allege that they leased the
subject vehicle from a Ford dealership, (Complaint ¶ 9, 54,) that Ford provided
an express warranty, (Complaint ¶ 10,) and that Ford’s authorized dealerships
are its agents for purposes of the sale of Nissan vehicles to consumers.” (Complaint
¶ 57, 84.) (See Opp. p. 11:5-9.) 
 
Finally, Plaintiffs argue that the economic loss
rule does not bar Plaintiffs’ negligent repair claim. 
 
          Arguments
in Reply
 
In reply, Ford argues that Plaintiffs’ claim is
barred by the economic loss rule and that Plaintiffs’ arguments that the fraud
claim relies on conduct separate from the contract claims, that the economic
loss rule categorically does not apply to fraudulent inducement claims, and
that Plaintiffs’ claims fit within various exceptions, are meritless. 
 
Ford argues that any economic losses that
Plaintiffs claim arise from Ford’s alleged breach of contract because the only
duty that was breached was the duty created by the terms of the warranty. (See Reply p. 2:20-24.) Ford also
explains that Plaintiffs misread Robinson in that its holding was “narrow in scope and limited to a defendant’s
affirmative misrepresentations on which a plaintiff relies, and which expose a
plaintiff to liability for personal damages independent of the Plaintiff’s
economic loss.” (Robinson, 34 Cal.4th at 276.) Ford argues that Plaintiffs fail to provide a
California case that rejected the economic loss rule where the fraud claim was
based on an alleged omission, where the plaintiff alleged only contractual harm
or where the alleged omission related directly to a matter addressed by the
parties’ contract. (See Reply p. 3.) Ford distinguishes the cases Plaintiffs
cite, which addressed the border between tort and contract, as they fail to
expand the scope of Robinson or create additional exceptions to the economic loss rule. Ford argues
that Robinson is
inapplicable because Plaintiffs do not allege that Ford made any affirmative
misrepresentations and its alleged inducement and concealment are directly
related to its alleged breach of warranty. Ford relies on Ochoa, for the proposition that
economic loss doctrine bars fraudulent inducement claims. 
 
Ford also argues that Plaintiffs fail to address
the pleading requirements of factual specificity for their fraud claim. “Plaintiffs
have utterly failed to allege who at Ford Motor Company purportedly failed to
disclose material information to Plaintiffs specifically. Plaintiffs have
likewise failed to allege the scheme by which Ford purportedly affirmatively
sought to withhold material information pertaining to the Subject Vehicle
specifically from Plaintiffs. (Reply p. 5:11-15.) Ford also claims that Plaintiffs
identify no facts demonstrating a “specific relationship” between Plaintiffs
and Ford giving rise to a duty to disclose. (See Reply p. 7-8.) 
 
Finally, Ford asserts that its demurrer does not
address Plaintiffs’ negligent repair claim and that this analysis is
irrelevant. 
 
In Robinson Helicopter Co., Inc., the Court found
at page 993 that the fraudulent representations exposed the plaintiff to
personal damages independent of the economic loss caused by the failure to
deliver conforming products, e.g., injuries that could result from the defect
helicopter parts.  There was no claim
that the fraud induced the helicopter manufacturer into the contract; instead,
the fraudulent conduct occurred after the parties entered into the contract when
the parts supplier provided false certificates with the goods. 
In the pending case, Plaintiff alleges that
Defendant knew of the defects in the Vehicle before it sold the vehicle to the
Plaintiff.  (Compl., ¶¶ 77-78.)  Plaintiff alleges that Defendant concealed
the defect and that Plaintiffs would not have purchased the vehicle if she had
known that the Vehicle suffered from the defect in the engine. (Id., ¶¶ 77-82.)
These allegations show that Plaintiff was induced into the contract by Defendant’s
fraudulent conduct, i.e., the intentional concealment of facts regarding the
defects in the Vehicle and its engine.   
These allegations show that the Plaintiffs’ claim
arises from a tort duty independent of the contractual duties, i.e., the tort
duty not to engage in fraud. California also has a legitimate and compelling
interest in preserving a business climate free of fraud and deceptive
practices.  (Diamond Multimedia Systems,
Inc. v. Superior Court (1999) 19 Cal.4th 1036, 1064.) As a result, the Court
does not find that the Economic Loss Rule bars Plaintiff’s claim for fraudulent
omission.
 
 
Legal Standard for
Fraud Based on Concealment or Omission 
 
“[T]he elements of an action for fraud and deceit
based on concealment are: (1) the defendant must have concealed or suppressed a
material fact, (2) the defendant must have been under a duty to disclose the
fact to the plaintiff, (3) the defendant must have intentionally concealed or
suppressed the fact with the intent to defraud the plaintiff, (4) the plaintiff
must have been unaware of the fact and would not have acted as he did if he had
known of the concealed or suppressed fact, and (5) as a result of the
concealment or suppression of the fact, the plaintiff must have sustained
damage.” (Boschma v. Home Loan Center, Inc. (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 230, 248.)  

 
“Witkin sets out the four circumstances in which nondisclosure
or concealment may constitute actionable fraud: (1) when the defendant is in a
fiduciary relationship with the plaintiff; (2) when the defendant had exclusive
knowledge of material facts not known to the plaintiff; (3) when the defendant
actively conceals a material fact from the plaintiff; and (4) when the
defendant makes partial representations but also suppresses some material
facts. (Heliotis v. Schuman (1986) 181 Cal.App.3d 646, 651 (Heliotis); see also Warner Constr. Corp. v. L.A. (1970) 2 Cal.3d 285, 295 (Warner).) 
 
                   Fiduciary
Relationship
 
The parties dispute whether Ford had a fiduciary
relationship with Plaintiffs. Ford argues that the parties did not enter into a
transaction and that dealerships are not agents of automobile manufacturers. Ford
relies on federal case law to support its argument that dealerships are not
agents of manufacturers, and that Plaintiffs’ transaction with Ford’s
dealership does not constitute a transaction with Ford itself. On the other
hand, Plaintiffs rely on Dhital, where the court found that the plaintiffs’ purchase of a car from a
Nissan dealership which came with an express warranty and allegation that
Nissan’s authorized dealerships are agents for purposes of sale of Nissan
vehicles, were sufficient to support the fraudulent concealment claim. Plaintiffs
make similar allegations. (See Complaint ¶ 57, 84.) Although the Court notes that Dhital is pending review by the
Supreme Court of California, the case may still be cited for persuasive value.
(See Cal. Rules of Court, 8.1115 subdiv. (e)(1) [“Pending
review and filing of the Supreme Court’s opinion, unless otherwise ordered by
the Supreme Court under (3), a published opinion of a Court of Appeal in the
matter has no binding or precedential effect, and may be cited for potentially
persuasive value only. Any citation to the Court of Appeal opinion must also
note the grant of review and any subsequent action by the Supreme Court.”].)
The Court finds Dhital to be more persuasive in establishing the
existence of a fiduciary relationship between the parties than Ford’s reliance
on federal cases.
 
However, even if the parties did not have a
fiduciary relationship, the Court finds that there are sufficient facts to show
that Ford had exclusive knowledge of material facts not known to Plaintiffs,
which is sufficient to establish nondisclosure or concealment for a fraud
claim.
 
                   Materiality
of the Alleged 10R80 Transmission Defect
 
Courts have recognized that a manufacturer’s
failure to inform its customers of a product’s defects that pose “safety”
concerns constitutes a material omission. (See, e.g., Keegan v. Am. Honda Motor Co. (C.D.Cal. 2012) 838 F.Supp.2d 929, 942-944 (Keegan) [“In other words,
under California law, and as recently described by the Ninth Circuit: ‘A
manufacturer's duty to consumers is limited to its warranty obligations absent
either an affirmative misrepresentation or a safety issue.’ ”]; see also Jones v. ConocoPhillips Co. (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 1187, 1198 [“[G]enerally speaking, manufacturers
have a duty to warn consumers about the hazards inherent in their products.
[Citation.] The requirement's purpose is to inform consumers about a product's
hazards and faults of which they are unaware, so that they can refrain from
using the product altogether or evade the danger by careful use.”].)  
 
It is alleged in the Complaint that the Subject
Vehicle suffers from a defect in its automatic transmission in that it “causes
consumers to experience the following unexpected manifestations of the defect:
abrupt harsh shifting, erratic shifting, jerking (commonly known as ‘juddering’
or ‘shuddering’), lunging while slowing down, hesitation between gears, lack of
acceleration, loss of power, stalling, slipping gears, failure to change gears,
clunking or banging noises, and other drivability concerns that impede the
driver’s safety, each and all of which prevent a 10R80 equipped vehicle from
operating as intended by the driver.” (Compl. ¶¶ 12-14.) The Complaint alleges
that “[t]his Transmission Defect creates unreasonably dangerous situations
while driving and increases the risk of a crash when trying to accelerate from
a stop; when slowing down to a stop, at low speeds when drivers intend to
accelerate to merge with highway traffic; and when attempting to drive uphill.
The Transmission Defect creates a serious safety risk that can lead to
accidents, injuries, or even death to the driver, the vehicles’ occupants,
other drivers, and pedestrians.” (Compl. ¶ 15.) 
 
On demurrer, the court must treat all properly pled
allegations of material fact as admitted. (See Berkley
v. Dowds (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 518, 525.) Here, the
Complaint alleges that the Transmission Defects can occur when slowing down to
a stop, at low speeds when drivers intend to accelerate, or when attempting to
drive uphill. (See Compl. ¶ 15.) At this stage of the proceedings, these
allegations are sufficient for Plaintiffs to plead that the alleged Transmission
Defects constituted a safety concern sufficient to qualify as “material facts”
that Ford was required to disclose, if known. 

 
 Duty to Disclose Material
Facts  
 
Plaintiffs allegedly leased the Subject Vehicle on
August 5, 2020. (Compl. ¶ 9.) The Complaint alleges that Ford acquired
exclusive knowledge of the Transmission Defect as early as March 2018, if not
earlier, “when it began receiving consumer complaints from NHSTA and issued
Technical Service Bulletins, which are internal memorandums from the
manufacturer to its dealerships on how to diagnose and repair recurring
problems with a particular line of vehicles.” (Compl. ¶ 17.) Plaintiffs allege
that “FORD knew that the 10R80 transmissions installed in its vehicles were
prematurely failing, requiring repeated repair or replacement. FORD knew that
the repairs were inadequate and had no fix for the rampant problems, and merely
states that the abrupt and harsh shifting is normal.” (Id.) Plaintiffs also provide
specific examples of TSBs and service campaigns issued by Ford which identified
the 10R80 Transmission Defect. (See Compl. ¶¶ 24-36.) 
 
At this stage of the proceedings, these allegations
are sufficient for Plaintiffs to plead that Defendant had exclusive knowledge
of the alleged Engine Oil Defects (the material facts at issue) prior to
Plaintiffs’ lease of the Subject Vehicle. (See Falk v.
GMC (N.D.Cal. 2007) 496 F.Supp.2d 1088, 1096-1097.)
These allegations are sufficient to state a cause of action for fraud based on
nondisclosure of exclusively known material facts. (See Heliotis v. Schuman (1986) 181
Cal.App.3d 646, 651.) 
 
Sufficient
Specificity
 
Unlike with fraud based on misrepresentation, the
specificity requirements do not apply to actions for fraud based on omission or
concealment. (Alfaro v. Cmty. Hous.
Imp. Sys. & Planning Ass'n Inc. (2009) 171
Cal.App.4th 1356, 1384 (Alfaro) [“This statement of the rule reveals that it is
intended to apply to affirmative misrepresentations.  ...As plaintiffs accurately respond, it is
harder to apply this rule to a case of simple nondisclosure.  How does one show ‘how’ and ‘by what means'
something didn't happen, or ‘when’ it never happened, or ‘where’ it never
happened?”]; see also Jones v. ConocoPhillips
Co. (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 1187, 1198-1199 (Jones).)5 
 
Here, Plaintiffs allege that they purchased the
Subject Vehicle on August 5, 2020 (Compl., ¶ 9), that the Subject Vehicle
contained the alleged Transmission Defects (id., at ¶ 80), that these defects became apparent during the warranty
period (id., at ¶ 58),
that Ford knew that the engine installed on the Subject Vehicle was defective
but failed to disclose this fact to Plaintiffs at the time of lease and
thereafter (id., at ¶¶ 16-52), and that Plaintiffs could not reasonably have
been expected to learn or discover the alleged Transmission Defects until after
they leased the subject Vehicle (id. at ¶ 88).  

 
Plaintiffs additionally allege reliance, in that they
would not have purchased the Subject Vehicle if she had known of the alleged Transmission
Defects. (Compl., ¶ 94.) The requisite intent is the intent to induce reliance.
(Lovejoy v. AT&T Corp. (2001) 92 Cal.App.4th 85, 93.) Intent is a fact, and when it comes to
pleading an intent to commit fraudulent conduct, an averment that the
particular act was committed with that intent (or any other general allegation
with similar purport is sufficient. (See Hall v.
Mitchell (1922) 59 Cal.App. 743, 749.) The Complaint makes
clear that Plaintiffs allege Ford knowingly and intentionally failed to
disclose the alleged Transmission Defects in order to induce Plaintiffs to
purchase the Subject Vehicle. (Compl., ¶¶ 79-82; see also Duval v. Board of
Trustees (2001) 93 Cal.App.4th 902, 906.) 
 
At this stage of the proceedings, these allegations
are sufficiently specific for Plaintiff to plead a cause of action for fraud
based on omission. (See Doe v. City of Los
Angeles (2007) 42 Cal.4th 531, 550.)   
 
For the foregoing reasons, Ford’s demurrer is
OVERRULED on this basis.  
 
Economic Loss Rule 
 
The Court also finds that the Economic Loss Rule
does not bar the claim. This is a doctrine created to ensure that tort and
contract claims are kept separate and that tort remedies cannot be recovered on
a contract claim. For example, when there is a claim based on the difference
between price paid and value receive or deviations of quality that do not
result in property damage or personal injury, the claims are primary in the
domain of contract or fraud. When there are personal injuries, the claims are
primary in negligence. The economic loss rule requires a purchaser to recover
in contract for purely economic loss due to disappointed expectations, unless
the purchaser can demonstrate harm above and beyond a broken contractual
promise. (Robinson Helicopter Co., Inc. v. Dana
Corp. (2004) 34 Cal.4th 979, 988.) 
 
Further, under California law, conduct amounting to
a breach of contract becomes tortious only when it also violates a duty
independent of the contract arising from principles of tort law. (Erlich v. Menezes (1999) 21 Cal.4th
543, 551.) An omission to perform a contract obligation is never a tort, unless
that omission is also an omission of a legal duty.¿(Id.) Examples of cases permitting tort damages in contract cases are the
following: 
 
1)   breaches of contractual duties that cause physical injuries; 
2)   breaches of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing in insurance
contracts; 
3)   wrongful discharge in violation of public policy; 
4)   the fraudulent inducement of a contract. 
 
(Id. at 551-552.)
 
As a result, the analysis of a claim is based on
whether the duty arises from contract or tort. For example, in Robinson Helicopter Co., Inc., a helicopter manufacturer brought an action against a parts supplier
after the parts supplier changed the manufacturing process for the parts. The
parts supplier provided parts that failed more often and the parts supplier
provided certificates that falsely stated that the parts were in conformance
with written specifications. The helicopter manufacturer brought claims for
breach of contract, breach of warranty, and fraud. The court found that the
fraud claims based on the false statements in the certificates were independent
of the breach of contract and, as a result, were not barred by the economic
loss rule. (Robinson, supra, 34 Cal.4th 979, 991.) The court also found that the
fraudulent representations exposed the plaintiff to personal damages
independent of the economic loss caused by the failure to deliver conforming
products, e.g., injuries that could result from the defect helicopter parts. (Id. at p. 993.) There was no claim that the fraud induced the helicopter
manufacturer into the contract; instead, the fraudulent conduct occurred after
the parties entered into the contract when the parts supplier provided false
certificates with the goods. 
 
Here, Plaintiffs allege that Ford knew of the
defects in the Vehicle before it sold the vehicle to the Plaintiffs. (Compl.,
¶¶ 16-39.) Plaintiffs allege that Ford concealed the defect and that Plaintiffs
would not have purchased the vehicle if she had known that the Vehicle suffered
from the defect in the engine. (Id., ¶¶ 46-52, 79-98.) These allegations show that Plaintiffs were induced
into the contract by Ford fraudulent conduct, i.e., the intentional concealment
of facts regarding the defects in the Vehicle and its engine.   
 
These allegations show that the Plaintiffs’ claim
arises from a tort duty independent of the contractual duties, i.e., the tort
duty not to engage in fraud. California also has a legitimate and compelling
interest in preserving a business climate free of fraud and deceptive
practices. (Diamond Multimedia
Systems, Inc. v. Superior Court (1999) 19 Cal.4th
1036, 1064.) As a result, the Court does not find that the Economic Loss Rule
bars Plaintiff’s claim for fraudulent omission. 
 
Accordingly, Ford’s demurrer is OVERRULED on this
basis.  
 