 Case Number:  23NEWCV00745    Hearing Date:   December 7, 2023    Dept:  C COMPLETE CLOTHING
COMPANY v. BUCHALTER, a Professional Corporation, et al.
CASE NO.: 23NWCV00745
HEARING:  12/07/23 
 
#2
TENTATIVE ORDER
 
PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES IS DENIED
AS TO THOSE DOCUMENTS IDENITIFIED AT ¶30(A), (B), (D), (F)-(GG) OF THE KILGORE
DECLARATION FILED ON NOVEMER 22, 2023 (“KILGORE DECLARATION”).  
 
PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER REPONSES IS GRANTED
AS TO THOSE DOCUMENTS IDENTIFIED AT ¶30(C) and (E) OF THE KILGORE DECLARATION.  DEFENDANTS TO PRODUCE THESE DOCUMENTS WITHIN
10 DAYS.  
 
Moving party(s) to give notice. 
 
Background
 
Plaintiff Complete Clothing is a fashion company
specializing in women’s clothing. 
Plaintiff contracted with non-party Star Ace to locate a manufacturer in
China to manufacture its clothing.  Star
Ace sourced Plaintiff’s clothing for manufacture by non-party Ningbo Brother
Apparel Co., Ltd.  Star Ace was not
paying Ningbo for the clothing manufactured for Plaintiff.  As a result, a dispute arose among all three
entities, Plaintiff, Star Ace and Ningbo, regarding amounts due to Ningbo for
clothing manufactured for Plaintiff.  
 
Plaintiff alleges Defendants Buchalter and Jeffrey Kapoor negligently
provided substandard legal counsel regarding the dispute among all three
entities.  As a result, Plaintiff was allegedly
forced to pay significant legal fees and monies to third parties.  Plaintiff also alleges Buchalter failed to
disclose its preexisting or concurrent attorney-client relationship with Oneworld,
Star Ace and/or Star Ace’s principal, Young Bin Luo.  
 
On March 13, 2023, Plaintiff filed a complaint against
Buchalter and Kapoor alleging (1) legal malpractice and (2) breach of fiduciary
duty.
 
Analysis
 
          (1)  Legal Standard Applicable to Motion to
Compel Further Responses to RFPs
 
CCP § 2031.310
 
(a) On receipt of a response to a demand for inspection,
copying, testing, or sampling, the demanding party may move for an order
compelling further response to the demand if the demanding party deems that any
of the following apply:
          (1) A
statement of compliance with the demand is incomplete.
          (2) A
representation of inability to comply is inadequate, incomplete, or evasive.
          (3) An
objection in the response is without merit or too general.
(b) A motion under subdivision (a) shall comply with each of
the following:
          (1) The
motion shall set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the
discovery sought by the demand.
          (2) The
motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section
2016.040.
          (3) In lieu
of a separate statement required under the California Rules of Court, the court
may allow the moving party to submit a concise outline of the discovery request
and each response in dispute.
(c) Unless notice of this motion is given within 45 days of
the service of the verified response, or any supplemental verified response, or
on or before any specific later date to which the demanding party and the
responding party have agreed in writing, the demanding party waives any right
to compel a further response to the demand.
… (h) Except as provided in subdivision (j), the court shall
impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010)
against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a
motion to compel further response to a demand, unless it finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.
 
Where a party is seeking to compel further responses to
requests for document production, the burden is on the moving party to show
both relevance to the subject matter and specific facts justifying discovery.
(CCP §2031.310(b)(1); Kirkland v. Supr. Ct. (2002) 95 Cal.App.4th 92, 98
(“Once good cause was shown, the burden shifted to Kirkland to justify his
objection”); Glenfed Develop. Corp. v. Superior Court (1997) 53
Cal.App.4th 1113, 1117.)  Once good cause
is established by the moving party, the burden then shifts to the responding
party to justify any objections made to document disclosure. (Hartbrodt v.
Burke (1996, 2nd Dist.) 42 Cal.App.4th 168, 172-174.)
 
          (2)  Parties’ Positions
 
Plaintiff propounded largely identical RFPs on Defendants
Buchalter and Kapoor on April 14,2 023. 
Defendants provided responses on May 16, 2023.  On July 7, 2023, Defendants provided their
privilege log, which identified documents being withheld to RFP Nos. 2, 4,
9-12.  
 
Plaintiff filed this motion to compel further responses on
grounds that the documents listed on the privilege log are not protected by the
attorney-client privilege or work product, and any confidential communications
are subject to the protective order and must be produced.  Plaintiff argues the attorney-client
privilege and work product protection do not apply to this action for legal
malpractice.  
 
In opposition, Defendant argues that after the IDC before
the Court on October 6, 2023, only 125 documents on the log remain in
dispute.  Defendant argues the remaining
documents cannot be produced, because they (1) involve confidential
communications with clients other than Plaintiff; (2) are protected by the
mediation privilege; and (3) are work product prepared for purposes other than
Defendants’ representation of Plaintiff. 

 
In reply, Plaintiff argues Defendants did not raise the
mediation privilege when it initially responded and they have produced
mediation documents.  Plaintiff argues
Defendants have withheld communications that were created long before any mediation
was scheduled and not materially linked to the mediation.  Plaintiff argues any documents withheld based
on the attorney-client privilege arising from Defendant Buchalter’s
attorney-client relationship with Star Ace’s principal, Luo must be produced,
because Defendant failed to timely raise the objection and Kapor voluntarily
produced communications between Luo and himself to the  third party. 
Finally, Plaintiff argues work product protection does not exist in
legal malpractice actions.  
 
          (3)  Mediation Privilege
 
Evidence Code §1119
 
Except as otherwise provided in this chapter:
 
(a) No evidence of anything said or any admission made for
the purpose of, in the course of, or pursuant to, a mediation or a mediation
consultation is admissible or subject to discovery, and disclosure of the
evidence shall not be compelled, in any arbitration, administrative
adjudication, civil action, or other noncriminal proceeding in which, pursuant
to law, testimony can be compelled to be given.
(b) No writing, as defined in Section 250, that is prepared
for the purpose of, in the course of, or pursuant to, a mediation or a
mediation consultation, is admissible or subject to discovery, and disclosure
of the writing shall not be compelled, in any arbitration, administrative
adjudication, civil action, or other noncriminal proceeding in which, pursuant
to law, testimony can be compelled to be given.
(c) All communications, negotiations, or settlement
discussions by and between participants in the course of a mediation or a
mediation consultation shall remain confidential.
 
Evidence Code §1120
 
Evidence otherwise admissible or subject to discovery
outside of a mediation or a mediation consultation shall not be or become
inadmissible or protected from disclosure solely by reason of its introduction
or use in a mediation or a mediation consultation.
 
A “writing” for purpose of the mediation privilege includes
photographs, videotapes and written witness statements.  (Ev.C. §250.) 

 
Mediation cannot be used as a pretext to shield materials
from discovery. Evidence otherwise subject to discovery outside of a mediation
is not protected from disclosure “solely by reason of its introduction or use
in a mediation.”  (Ev.C. §1120(a); Rojas
v. Sup.Ct. (Coffin) (2004) 33 Cal.4th 407, 417; Ev.C. §1120(b)(4)
(implementing rule of Lappe v. Sup.Ct. (Lappe) (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th
774, 784-785 (no mediation confidentiality protection for statutorily-mandated
financial disclosure declarations exchanged in mediation because they were
required by Family Code to be exchanged in parties' marital dissolution action
and thus would have existed regardless of parties' participation in mediation).)  
 
All discussions conducted in preparation for a mediation, as
well as all mediation-related communications that take place during the
mediation itself, are protected from disclosure by Ev.C. § 1119(a).  (Cassel v. Sup.Ct. (Wasserman, Comden,
Casselman & Pearson, L.L.P. (2011) 51 Cal.4th 113, 128 (law firm
defending malpractice action could assert mediation confidentiality to prevent
disclosure of allegedly negligent advice given client before and during
mediation); Amis v. Greenberg Traurig LLP (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 331, 339
(mediation confidentiality provisions effectively block client's legal
malpractice action based on advice given in mediation).)  Mediation briefs are protected from
disclosure by Ev.C. § 1119(b).  (Wimsatt
v. Sup.Ct. (Kausch) (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 137, 158.)  
 
Courts have recognized that the mediation privilege may
prevent a client from bringing a malpractice action against his or her attorney
based on the attorney's alleged malpractice in connection with the settlement
of the case; the balancing of conflicting policy concerns is a matter left to
the Legislature, not the courts. (Cassel, supra, 51 Cal.4th at 122,
132, 136 (mediation confidentiality statutes may negatively affect the client's
ability to prove a legal malpractice claim against the lawyers); Amis, supra,
235 Cal.App.4th at 339-340 (protecting attorneys from malpractice claims is an
“unintended consequence” of mediation confidentiality); Wimsatt, supra,
152 Cal.App.4th at 162-163 (participation in mediation in effect relinquishes
client's claims for new and independent torts arising from mediation, including
legal malpractice).)
 
Any reference at trial to the mediation or statement of
nonagreement is ground for new trial (or a mistrial) as an “irregularity in the
proceedings.”  (CCP § 1775.12.)  
 
Defendants are withholding documents based on the mediation
privilege.  Defendants argue the
documents relate to the mediation between Ningbo and Plaintiff that was
originally scheduled to take place on March 24, 2022 but was postponed to May
4, 2022.  The parties first agreed to
mediate on October 28, 2021.  
 
Of the remaining documents being withheld based on mediation
privilege, the Court denies the motion to compel further responses.  Defendants sufficiently establish that these
documents are protected under Evidence Code §1119 and Plaintiff fails to raise
any points that would call into question application of the mediation privilege
to them.  The documents identified fall
within the time period after Ningbo agreed to mediation and after the parties May
2, 2022 mediation, are communications relating to the mediation, were prepared
for mediation or forwarded documents protected by the mediation privilege after
the May 4, 2022 mediation and include the actual mediation brief.  
 
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further Responses is DENIED as
to those documents identified at ¶30(F)-(BB), (DD)-GG) of the declaration of
Sarah Kelly-Kilgore.  
 
          (4)
Attorney-Client Privilege
 
Section 952 defines a confidential attorney-client
communication: “[A] ‘confidential communication between client and lawyer’
means information transmitted between a client and his or her lawyer in the
course of that relationship and in confidence by a means which, so far as the
client is aware, discloses the information to no third persons other than those
who are present to further the interest of the client in the consultation or
those to whom disclosure is reasonably necessary for the transmission of the
information or the accomplishment of the purpose for which the lawyer is
consulted, and includes a legal opinion formed and the advice given by the
lawyer in the course of that relationship.”
 
Section 912, subdivision (d), similarly addresses whether
disclosure of an attorney-client communication to a third person waives the
privilege: “A disclosure in confidence of a communication that is protected by
a privilege provided by Section 954 (lawyer-client privilege) ..., when
disclosure is reasonably necessary for the accomplishment of the purpose for
which the lawyer...was consulted, is not a waiver of the privilege.”
 
The burden of establishing the applicability of the
attorney-client privilege depends on the specific facts of the case.  “Generally, the burden of establishing that a
particular matter is privileged is on the party asserting the privilege.  There is an exception:  Whenever a privilege is claimed on the ground
that the matter sought to be disclosed is a communication made in the course of
the lawyer-client relationship, the communication is presumed to have been made
in confidence and the opponent of the claim of privilege has the burden of
proof to establish that the communication was not confidential.”  (Behunin v. Supr. Ct. (2017) 9
Cal.App.5th 833, 844-845.)
 
However, if the communications in question involve a third
party, the burden of proof in litigating attorney-client privilege
changes.  (Id. at 844.)  “Where a third party is present, no
presumption of confidentiality obtains, and the usual allocation of burden of
proof, resting with the proponent of the privilege, applies in determining
whether confidentiality was preserved under §952.”  (Id.)
 
“The attorney-client privilege may be claimed only by the
holder of the privilege, a person who is authorized by the holder to claim the
privilege or the person who was the lawyer at the time of the confidential
communication. (Evid.Code, § 954.) As relevant here, the ‘holder of the
privilege’ is defined as the client.  The
lawyer who received or made a privileged communication is obligated to claim
the privilege whenever he is present when the communication is sought to be
disclosed and is authorized to claim the privilege under Evidence Code section
954.”  (Kerner v. Superior Court
(2012) 206 Cal.App.4th 84, 111–112.)  
 
A waiver of the attorney-client privilege occurs “if any
holder of the privilege, without coercion, has disclosed a significant part of
the communication or has consented to disclosure made by anyone. Consent to
disclosure is manifested by any statement or other conduct of the holder of the
privilege indicating consent to the disclosure, including failure to claim the
privilege in any proceeding in which the holder has the legal standing and
opportunity to claim the privilege.”13 (Evid.Code, § 912, subd. (a).) Failure
to claim the privilege constitutes consent to disclosure and a waiver of the
privilege only if the holder, in a proceeding in which he or she has the legal
standing and opportunity to claim the privilege, fails to claim the privilege
knowing that the disclosure of privileged information is sought.  If these conditions are satisfied, the
holder's failure to assert the privilege through his or her attorney
constitutes a waiver if the holder had an opportunity to consult with the
attorney.”  (Id.)  
 
Defendants are withholding several documents based on
attorney-client privilege based on their attorney-client privilege with “Rainbow”
Luo, a client of Defendants who is not affiliated with Plaintiff.  Plaintiff’s claim that Defendants previously
produced 2 binders of privileged documents does not establish waiver.  Plaintiff fails to establish that those
binders contained the specific documents currently being withheld based on
privilege, and there is nothing indicating that waiver was done with Luo’s knowledge
or consent.  Plaintiff also cannot deny
that Luo was a client of Defendants. 
Plaintiff alleges that Luo was a client in the complaint.  (Complaint, ¶28.)  Defendants withholding of the documents based
on “confidential communication” initially does not render the privilege
objection untimely.  Defendants
sufficiently raised a general objection on attorney-client privilege at the
outset that was clarified through informal meet and confer efforts, including
the IDC.  
 
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further Responses is DENIED as
to those documents identified at ¶30(A)-(D) and (CC) of the Kilgore Declaration.
 
          (5) Work
Product
 
No work product protection exists in litigation between an
attorney and client on matters “relevant to an issue of breach by the attorney
of a duty to the client arising out of the attorney-client relationship.”  (CCP § 2018.080.)  Lawyers sued for malpractice or any other
“breach of duty” may not withhold their research notes or other documents as
“work product.” Moreover, the statute is not limited to malpractice actions.
Even fee disputes or actions involving business dealings between attorney and
client may involve “duties” owed by the attorney arising out of the
attorney-client relationship (e.g., duty not to charge “unconscionable” fees;
CRPC 1.5).
 
Defendants’ claim of work product protection over the 4/8/2019
(Kilgore Dec., Ex. A, Amended Privilege Log, Items 5-7) draft email re:
Complete, Star Ace, Ningo and the draft document dated 8/28/19 (Kilgore Dec.,
Ex. A, Amended Privilege Log, Item 12) are directly related to the breach of
fiduciary duty and legal malpractice alleged in this action.  Plaintiff claims Defendants breached their
fiduciary duty and provided substandard legal counsel in the dispute and
litigation among Plaintiff, Star Ace and Ningo. 
The titles of the draft documents refer expressly to these three parties
and were drafted April and August 2019, when the relevant events occurred.  
 
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further Responses is GRANTED as
to Items (C) and (E) identified in ¶30 of the Kilgore Declaration.  Defendants to produce these documents within
10 days.  
 
[Conclusion]