 Case Number:  22STCV16659    Hearing Date:   November 2, 2023    Dept:  27 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Lee S. Arian, Department 27
 
 
HEARING DATE:     November
2, 2023                             TRIAL
DATE:  May 16, 2024
                                                           
CASE:                                Eduardo Antonio Fuentes Medina v. Amazon.com Services LLC,
et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 22STCV16659
 





















 
MOTION
TO COMPEL INDEPENDENT MEDICAL EXAMINATIONS 



 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendants
Rapid Pasadena Services, LLC, et al.
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Plaintiff Eduardo
Antonio Fuentes Medina
 
 
I.          INTRODUCTION
            
            On May 19, 2022, Plaintiff Eduardo Antonio Fuentes Medina
filed this action against Defendants Amazon.com Services LLC (“Amazon”), Rapid
Pasadena Services, LLC (“RPS”), and Mark Ronnie Ramos (“Ramos”), asserting
causes of action for (1) general negligence, (2) vicarious liability, (3)
negligent hiring, training, retention and supervision, (4) negligent
entrustment, and (5) joint enterprise.       
Plaintiff alleges Ramos was driving a motor vehicle in the course and scope of
his employment with Amazon and RPS when he collided with Plaintiff’s vehicle on
September 24, 2020.  On February 22, 2023,
Plaintiff filed an amendment to the Complaint naming Rapid Logistics Courier,
LLC (“Rapid Logistics”) as Doe 1.  Plaintiff claims he sustained injuries to his
back and spinal cord, among other parts of his body.
            
            On
September 11, 2023, RPS and Rapid Logistics (hereafter,
“Defendants”) filed this motion to
compel Plaintiff to submit to two medical examinations with Defendants’
orthopedic and neuro-spinal experts.  Defendants
do not seek sanctions.  
 
            On
October 17, 2023, Plaintiff filed an opposition.  Plaintiff seeks sanctions against Defendants
and their counsel. 
 
            On
October 26, 2023, Defendants filed a reply. 

 
II.        LEGAL PRINCIPLES FOR
COMPELLING PHYSICAL EXAMINATIONS
 
            In
any case in which a plaintiff is seeking recovery for personal injuries, any
defendant may demand one physical examination of the plaintiff where: (1) the
examination does not include any diagnostic test or procedure that is painful,
protracted, or intrusive; and (2) the examination is conducted at a location
within 75 miles of the residence of the examinee.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2032.220, subd. (a).)  A defendant may make a demand for physical
examination without leave of the court after that defendant has been served or
has appeared (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.220, subd. (b)), and the physical
examination demanded shall be scheduled for a date at least 30 days after
service (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.220, subd. (d)).  
 
             If any party desires to
obtain discovery by a physical examination other than that described in Article
2 (commencing with Section 2032.210), or by a mental examination, the
party shall obtain leave of court.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2032.310, subd. (a).)  The court shall grant a motion for a
physical or mental examination under Section 2032.310 only for good
cause shown.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.320,
subd. (a).)  
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.030 is a general
statute authorizing the Court to impose discovery sanctions for “misuse of the
discovery process,” which includes (without limitation) a variety of conduct
such as: making, without substantial justification, an unmeritorious objection
to discovery; making an evasive response to discovery; and unsuccessfully and
without substantial justification making or opposing a motion to compel or
limit discovery.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010.)¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
If sanctions are sought, Code of Civil Procedure section
2023.040 requires that the notice specify the identity of the person against
whom sanctions are sought and the type of sanction requested, that the motion
be supported in the points and authorities, and the facts be set forth in a
declaration supporting the amount of any monetary sanction.¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ ¿ 
Sanctions against counsel:¿ The court in Kwan
Software Engineering, Inc. v. Hennings (2020) 58 Cal.App.5th 57, 81 (Hennings)
noted that discovery sanctions against an attorney are governed by a different
standard than sanctions against a party:¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
By the terms of the statute, a trial court under section
2023.030(a) may not impose monetary sanctions against a party’s attorney unless
the court finds that the attorney “advised” the party to engage in the conduct
resulting in sanctions. (§ 2023.030(a); Ghanooni v. Super Shuttle (1993) 20 Cal.App.4th 256, 261, 24
Cal.Rptr.2d 501.)¿ “Unlike monetary sanctions against a party, which are based
on the party's misuse of the discovery process, monetary sanctions against the
party's attorney require a finding the ‘attorney advis[ed] that conduct.’ ”
(Ibid.) “It is not enough that the attorney's actions were in some way
improper.” (Corns v. Miller (1986) 181 Cal.App.3d 195, 200, 226 Cal.Rptr. 247 (Corns).)
Because an attorney's advice to  client
is “peculiarly within [his or her] knowledge,” the attorney has the burden of
showing that he or she did not counsel discovery abuse. (Ibid.)
Accordingly, when a party seeking sanctions against an attorney offers
sufficient evidence of a misuse of the discovery process, the burden shifts to
the attorney to demonstrate that he or she did not recommend that conduct. (Id.
at pp. 200–201, 226 Cal.Rptr. 247; Ghanooni, at p. 262, 24 Cal.Rptr.2d 501.)¿¿
 
 
III.       DISCUSSION
            
            Defendants
move for an order compelling Plaintiff to appear for two medical examinations.  One examination would be with orthopedist Dr.
Arthur Kreitenberg and the second examination would be with neurosurgeon Dr.
Wesley King.  Defendants argue good cause
exists to grant this motion because Plaintiff claims injuries to his back and
spine which require examinations by doctors with different
specializations.  
 
            Plaintiff
does not oppose an examination with Dr. Kreitenberg.  Instead, Plaintiff argues he should not be
compelled to appear for two examinations because Dr. Kreitenberg is qualified
to diagnose the extent of Plaintiff’s back and spinal injuries.  In support, Plaintiff cites cases where Dr.
Kreitenberg opined on injuries affecting the plaintiff’s nerves or spine.  Plaintiff further points out that Defendants’
motion and Demand for Independent Medical Examination with Dr. Kreitenberg are
defective.  The motion is not accompanied
by a separate statement and the Demand does not specify which tests Dr.
Kreitenberg will conduct during Plaintiff’s examination.
 
            After
review of the moving papers, Defendants do not show Dr. Kreitenberg lacks the
qualifications to diagnose Plaintiff’s spinal cord injury.  Dr. Kreitenberg’s curriculum vitae indicates
he has published on treatment of femoral haft fractures in the spinal
cord injury patient.  (Stecker Decl., Ex. 7.)  Nor have Defendants submitted a declaration
from Dr. Kreitenberg attesting to his inability to opine on the extent of Plaintiff’s
spinal cord injury.  
 
            Plaintiff
is also correct that the motion and Demand for Independent Medical Examination
with Dr. Kreitenberg are defective.  First,
Defendants did not include a separate statement.  Any motion involving the content of a
discovery request or the responses to such a request must be accompanied by a
separate statement.  The motions that
require a separate statement include a motion for medical examination over
objection.  (Cal. Rules of Court,
rule3.1345(a)(6).)  Here, Plaintiff
objected to the Demand.  As such,
Defendants were required to file a separate statement.  Second, the Demand does not state the type of
tests Dr. Kreitenberg will conduct.  “The
requirement for specification of the “manner, conditions, scope,
and nature of the examination” apparently requires disclosure of
whatever diagnostic tests and procedures will be utilized (x-rays, blood and
urine samples, etc.). [See CCP § 2032.220(c)].” (Weil & Brown, Cal. Prac.
Guide, Civ. Proc. Before Trial (The Rutter Group 2023), ¶ 8:1516.)  The Demand states in relevant part that the “examination
shall consist of basically the same type of tests, questions and procedures as
conducted by Plaintiff’s doctors.” 
(Stecker Decl., Ex. 5.) 
Defendants must identify the types of tests Dr. Kreitenberg expects to
conduct.   
 
            Monetary
Sanctions
 
            Plaintiff
requests sanctions against Defendants and their counsel.  Given that the Court has denied the motion,
sanctions against Defendants and their counsel are warranted.  Pursuant to Hennings, supra,
imposition of monetary sanctions against counsel is also proper unless counsel
shows that he or she did not counsel the discovery abuse.¿ (Hennings, 58
Cal.App.5th at p. 81.)¿ Defense counsel does not meet their burden.  Accordingly, sanctions are imposed against Defendants
and their counsel of record in the reduced amount of $960, consisting of 3
hours at plaintiff’s counsel’s hourly rate and $60 in filing fees.¿¿ 
 
IV.       CONCLUSION
 
            The
motion is DENIED.[1]  
 
            Plaintiff’s
request for sanctions is GRANTED. 
Defendants are their counsel are ordered to pay, jointly and severally,
sanctions in the sum of $960 to Plaintiff, by and through his counsel within 30
days of this order.
 
Moving party to give notice. 

 
 
Dated:   November 2,
2023                                      ___________________________________
                                                                                    Lee
S. Arian
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 
            Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an
email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on
the tentative as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at
www.lacourt.org.  Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative
and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless
appear at the hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive
emails from the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and
there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion,
adopt the tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar. 
 
 


