 Case Number:  19STCV18752    Hearing Date:   November 2, 2023    Dept:  27 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Lee S. Arian, Department 27
 
 
HEARING DATE:      November 2, 2023                       TRIAL DATE:  January
17, 2024
                                                           
CASE:                         California Joint
Powers Insurance Authority v. Soto Provision, Inc., et al. 
 
CASE NO.:                 19STCV18752
 





















 
MOTION
TO COMPEL COMPLIANCE WITH DEPOSITION SUBPOENA FOR PERSONAL APPEARANCE OF RAMIN
GHANEEIAN
 
MOTION
TO COMPEL COMPLIANCE WITH DEPOSITION SUBPOENA OF PERSON MOST KNOWLEDGEABLE AT
ROCKPOINT FUNDING LLC 



 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendants
Soto Provision and Salvador Gabriel 
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Plaintiff Monica
Ruiz Herrera  
 
 
I.          BACKGROUND
 
            This action for personal injury damages and workers
compensation subrogation arises from a July 21, 2017 multiple vehicle rear-end
collision.  Monica Ruiz Herrera (“Herrera”) was driving on the freeway in
the course and scope of her employment with California Joint Powers Insurance
Authority (“CJPIA”) when Salvador Gabriel (“Gabriel”) collided his tractor
trailer with a vehicle driven by Delma Barragan-Garcia, who then rear-ended
Herrera’s vehicle. Gabriel was operating his vehicle in the course of his
employment with Soto Provision, Inc. (“Soto Provision”) at the time of the
collision. 
 
            On July 1,
2019, Ms. Herrera filed a Complaint against Soto Provision and Gabriel.  This is the only remaining case in the
consolidated action.
 
            On June 8,
2023, Soto Provision and Gabriel (hereafter, “Defendants”) filed these motions
to compel nonparty Ramin Ghaneeian to personally appear for deposition and to
compel Rockpoint Funding, LLC  (“Rockpoint”) to produce a person most
knowledgeable for deposition.  Rockpoint
is a legal funding company offering medical liens, case costs, and client
funding to law firms.  Mr. Ghaneeian is
the owner and founder of Rockpoint.  Ms.
Herrera filed oppositions and Defendants filed replies. 
 
            The motions
were heard on October 6, 2023.  The Court
continued the motions because nonparties Mr. Ghaneeian and Rockpoint were not
personally served with the motions. 
Defendants were directed to file proofs of service showing personal
service was effectuated. 
 
            On October
19, 2023, Defendants filed proofs of service.
 
            On October
20, 2023, Mr. Ghaneeian and Rockpoint filed a consolidated opposition to the
motions.  They request sanctions against
Defendants and their counsel.  Defendants
filed replies.
 
II.        LEGAL STANDARDS 
 
            Any
party may obtain discovery by taking in California the oral deposition of any
person.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.010.)  A deposition subpoena may
command the attendance and the testimony of a nonparty deponent, as well as the
production of business records, other documents, electronically stored
information, and tangible things. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.020.)  If a nonparty deponent fails to answer any
question or to produce any document, electronically stored information, or
tangible thing under the deponent’s control that is specified in the deposition
notice or a deposition subpoena, the party seeking discovery may move the court
for an order compelling that answer or production.  (Code Civ. Proc. §§
2024.480, 2025.480.)   
 
            If
the nonparty deponent is a natural person, any person may serve the subpoena by
personal delivery of a copy of it to that person.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2020.220, subd. (b)(1).)  Personal service of any deposition subpoena is
effective to require the personal attendance and testimony of the nonparty
deponent, if the subpoena so specifies.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.220,
subd. (c)(1).)   
 
            “A
written notice and all moving papers supporting a motion to compel an answer to
a deposition question or to compel production of a document or tangible thing
from a nonparty deponent must be personally served on the nonparty deponent
unless the nonparty deponent agrees to accept service by mail or electronic
service at an address or electronic service address specified on the deposition
record.”¿ (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1346.)  
 
III.      DISCUSSION
 
            Defendants move
for an order compelling Mr. Ghaneeian and Rockpoint’s person most knowledgeable
to appear for deposition.  Defendants
argue Rockpoint paid for Plaintiff’s medical treatment.  As such, the depositions are needed (1) to
determine if Plaintiff’s medical treatment and expenses were reasonable and
necessary, (2) to determine bias or financial incentives of witnesses, and (3)
to quantify the potential jurors in the jury pool.  
 
            Mr. Ghaneeian
(and Ms. Herrera) argue that he cannot be compelled for deposition because
Defendants do not show that Mr. Ghaneeian, as an apex official, has unique or
superior knowledge of this matter or the funding provided by Rockpoint to Ms
Herrera.  In support, Mr. Ghaneeian cites
Liberty Mutual Ins. Co v. Sup. Ct. (1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 1282 (Liberty Mutual).  Liberty Mutual is unavailing.  In that case, the Court of Appeal held “that
when a plaintiff seeks to depose a corporate president or other
official at the highest level of corporate management, and that official
moves for a protective order to prohibit the deposition, the trial
court should first determine whether the plaintiff has shown good
cause that the official has unique or superior personal knowledge of
discoverable information.”  (Liberty
Mutual, 10 Cal.App.4th at p. 1289 (emphasis added).)  Here, Defendants are seeking to depose an
apex official (Mr. Ghaneeian) in his capacity as the principal of Rockpoint,
not Ms. Herrera.  And even if Liberty
Mutual may be read to pertain to any litigant such as Defendants here, Liberty
Mutual is inapplicable for the additional reason that Mr. Ghaneeian did not
move for a protective order to prohibit his deposition.  
 
            Nevertheless,
the Court finds Mr. Ghaneeian should not be compelled to appear for
deposition.  Mr. Ghaneeian’s counsel
offered to provide a sworn affidavit[1]
attesting that Mr. Ghaneeian has no knowledge of this case or Ms. Herrera’s pre-settlement
advance, and to provide the pre-settlement agreement pursuant to a protective
order.  (Mir Decl., Ex. I.)   Defendants’
counsel accepted the offer on condition that the declaration and pre-settlement
agreement could be used for the sole purpose of impeachment in other cases.  (Id.)  Based on the foregoing, Mr. Ghaneeian
demonstrates that Defendants do not seek admissible or relevant evidence by
attempting to depose him.  Rather, the
foregoing appears to be an attempt to obtain an advantage in other cases.   Defendants
are not entitled to an order compelling Mr. Ghaneeian to appear for deposition.
 
 
            However,
the deposition of Rockpoint’s person most knowledgeable (PMK) is a different
matter.  Rockpoint and Ms. Herrera argue
that Rockpoint should not be compelled to produce a PMK for deposition because
Rockpoint and Ms. Herrera’s financial records are private and protected from
disclosure.  In support, Rockpoint and
Ms. Herrera cite Valley Bank of Nevada v. Superior Court (1975) 15
Cal.3d 652 (Valley Bank) and Tylo v. Superior Court (1997) 55
Cal.App.4th 1379.  These cases are also
unavailing.  Valley Bank concerned
the disclosure of nonparty bank records. 
Tylo held that the marital relationship serves as a foundation
for assertion of right to privacy of information regarding emotional distress
arising from the marital relationship.  Here,
Defendants seek testimony and records directly pertaining to Rockpoint’s role
in Ms. Herrera’s case.  Nonparty
financial records or the right to privacy in the marital relationship are not
issues in this case.  Moreover,
Defendants provide support for compelling a PMK deposition.  In their reply, Defendants submitted email
correspondence and an underwriting notice between Ms. Herrera’s treating
physician, Dr. Pasquale X. Montesano, and Rockpoint to show Rockpoint was given
notice of Ms. Herrera’s treatment and retained approval of those treatments.  (Reply, Ortiz Decl., Exs. E, F, G, H.)  Defendants seeks relevant information with
Rockpoint’s PMK deposition.
 
            Rockpoint
next argues Rockpoint’s pre-settlement funding agreement with Ms. Herrera
references collateral source payments which are inadmissible under the
collateral source rule.  However, “admissibility
is not a prerequisite to discovery.”¿ (Volkswagen of Am., Inc. v. Superior
Court (2006) 139 Cal.App.4th 1481, 1491.) 
Rockpoint cannot resist the PMK deposition at the discovery stage of the
litigation.
            
            Monetary
Sanctions
 
            Code of
Civil Procedure section 2023.030 is a general statute authorizing the Court to
impose discovery sanctions for “misuse of the discovery process,” which
includes (without limitation) a variety of conduct such as: making, without
substantial justification, an unmeritorious objection to discovery; making an
evasive response to discovery; and unsuccessfully and without substantial
justification making or opposing a motion to compel or limit discovery.¿ (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2023.010.)¿¿¿ 
            
            Rockpoint
and Mr. Ghaneeian request sanctions against Defendants and their counsel.  Given that the Court has granted the motion
to compel as to Rockpoint, sanctions are not warranted for that motion.  Nor are sanctions warranted for the motion to
compel Mr. Ghaneeian’s deposition.  Mr.
Ghaneeian did not cite relevant authority in support of the opposition to his
deposition.  As such, the Court finds
Defendants were substantially justified in making their motion.
 
IV.       CONCLUSION 
 
Based on the foregoing, the motion to compel Ramin Ghaneeian
to personally appear for deposition is DENIED.
 
The motion to compel Rockpoint Funding, LLC to produce a
person most knowledgeable for deposition is GRANTED.  Rockpoint is ordered to produce a person most
knowledgeable for deposition within 30 days of this order.
 
Rockpoint and Mr. Ghaneeian’s request for sanctions is
denied.
 
Moving party to give notice. 

 
 
Dated:   November 2,
2023                                      ___________________________________
                                                                                    Lee
S. Arian
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 
            Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an
email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on
the tentative as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at
www.lacourt.org.  Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative
and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless
appear at the hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive
emails from the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and
there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion,
adopt the tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar. 
 
 


