 Case Number:  21STCV38312    Hearing Date:   November 2, 2023    Dept:  27 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Lee S. Arian, Department 27
 
 
HEARING DATE:     November
2, 2023                             TRIAL
DATE:  February 1, 2024
                                                           
CASE:                                Francisco Quintero, et al. v. HHS Construction, LLC, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 21STCV38312
 





















 
MOTION
FOR LEAVE TO FILE FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT



 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff
Francisco Quintero
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     No opposition
 
 
I.          INTRODUCTION

 
On October 18, 2021, Plaintiffs Francisco Quintero and Ciria
Quintero filed this action against Defendants HHS Construction, LLC and Adrian
Rendon (“Rendon”) for injuries arising from a motor vehicle collision.  Plaintiff alleges was driving in the course
of his employment with HHS Construction at the time of the incident.
 
On April 7, 2023, Plaintiff filed this motion for leave to amend
the complaint to add punitive damages allegations.  
 
The motion is unopposed.[1]
 
II.        LEGAL STANDARD
 
            The court
may, in its discretion and after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any terms
as may be just, an amendment to any pleading, including adding or striking out
the name of any party, or correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a
mistake in any other respect.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (a)(1).)¿ “Public
policy dictates that leave to amend be liberally granted.”¿ (Centex Homes v.
St. Paul Fire & Marine Ins. Co. (2015) 237 Cal.App.4th 23, 32.)¿
“Although courts are bound to apply a policy of great liberality in permitting
amendments to the complaint at any stage of the proceedings, up to and
including trial . . . this policy should be applied only ‘where no prejudice is
shown to the adverse party.’¿ [Citation].¿ A different result is indicated
‘where inexcusable delay and probable prejudice to the opposing party’ is shown.¿
[Citation.]” ¿(Magpali v. Farmers Group, Inc. (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 471,
487.)¿ 
 
            A motion to
amend a pleading must include a copy of the proposed amendment or amended
pleading which must be serially numbered to differentiate it from previous
pleadings or amendments and must state what allegations in the previous
pleading are proposed to be deleted or added, if any, and where, by page,
paragraph, and line number, the allegations are located. (Cal. Rules of Court,
Rule 3.1324, subd. (a).)¿ The motion shall also be accompanied by a declaration
attesting to the effect of the amendment, why the amendment is necessary and
proper, when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered,
and why the request for amendment was not made earlier.¿ (Cal. Rules of Court,
Rule 1.324, subd. (b).)¿ 
 
            In ruling
on a motion for leave to amend a pleading, the court does not consider the
merits of the proposed amendment, because “the preferable practice would be to
permit the amendment and allow the parties to test its legal sufficiency by
demurrer, motion for judgment on the pleadings or other appropriate
proceedings.”¿ (Kittredge Sports Co. v. Superior Court (1989) 213
Cal.App.3d 1045, 1048.)¿ While the court may deny leave to amend where the
proposed amendment is insufficient to state a valid cause of action or defense,
such denial is most appropriate where the insufficiency cannot be cured by
further amendment—i.e., where the statute of limitations has expired or the
insufficiency is established by controlling caselaw. (California Casualty
Gen. Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (1985) 173 Cal.App.3d 274, 280-281,
disapproved on other grounds in Kransco v. American Empire Surplus Lines
Ins. Co. (2000) 23 Cal.4th 390.)¿ 
 
III.       DISCUSSION
 
Plaintiffs seek leave to file the proposed First Amended
Complaint which add factual allegations in support a request for punitive
damages.  Specifically, Plaintiffs
explain that Rendon was legally intoxicated at the time of the incident.  These allegations were inadvertently left out
of the Complaint.  As such, Plaintiffs contend
it is in the interests of justice that leave be granted to file the proposed
first amended complaint.¿  
 
Because the motion is unopposed, the Court finds no
prejudice will result if leave is granted to file the amended pleading. 
 
IV.       CONCLUSION 
 
            Accordingly,
the unopposed motion is granted. 
Plaintiffs are ordered to file the attached First Amended Complaint within
10 days of this order.
 
Moving party to give notice. 

 
Dated:   November 2,
2023                                      ___________________________________
                                                                                    Lee
S. Arian
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 
            Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an
email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on
the tentative as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at
www.lacourt.org.  Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative
and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless
appear at the hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive
emails from the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and
there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion,
adopt the tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar. 
 
 


