 Case Number:  20STCV23221    Hearing Date:   November 2, 2023    Dept:  27 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Lee S. Arian, Department 27
 
 
HEARING DATE:     November
2, 2023                             TRIAL
DATE:  April 23, 2024
                                                           
CASE:                         Angelina Yu v. Coach Max Corp., et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 20STCV23221
 





















 
DEMURRER
WITHOUT MOTION TO STRIKE



 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant
California Commerce Club Inc.
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Plaintiff Angelina
Yu
 
 
I.          BACKGROUND
 
            On June 18, 2020, Plaintiff Angelina Yu filed this action on
a Judicial Council form complaint against Defendants Coach Max Corp. (“Coach
Max”), California Commerce Club, Inc. (“Commerce”), and Does 1 to 50, for
injury and damages arising from a January 23, 2019, motor vehicle incident.  Plaintiff
alleges that Defendants negligently owned, operated, entrusted and maintained
their motor vehicle (a bus) in such a negligent manner that caused the vehicle
to stop suddenly, causing injury to Plaintiff who was a passenger on the bus.  Plaintiff also alleges that Does 6 to 10
employed the persons who operated a motor vehicle in the course of their
employment.  Plaintiff asserts causes of
action for Motor Vehicle – Personal Injury against Does 1 to 25 and General
Negligence against Coach Max, Commerce, and Does 26 to 50. 
 
            On August
25, 2020, Plaintiff dismissed Commerce without prejudice.  
 
            On March
20, 2023, Plaintiff filed a Doe amendment to the Complaint naming Commerce as
Doe 10.  
 
On July 12, 2023, Commerce filed a Demurrer to the Complaint.  The Demurrer was heard on August 8,
2023.  The Court sustained the Demurrer
with leave to amend.  Plaintiff was given
twenty days to file an amended complaint.
 
On August 28, 2023, Plaintiff filed the First Amended
Complaint (“FAC”).  
 
On September 28, 2023, Commerce filed this Demurrer to the
FAC.  Plaintiff opposes and Commerce
replies.
II.        LEGAL STANDARD FOR DEMURRER  
 
A demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of the pleadings and
will be sustained only where the pleading is defective on its face.  (City
of Atascadero v. Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith, Inc. (1998) 68
Cal.App.4th 445, 459.)  “We treat the demurrer as admitting all material
facts properly pleaded but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact
or law.  We accept the factual allegations of the complaint as true and also consider
matters which may be judicially noticed.  [Citation.]”  (Mitchell
v. California Department of Public Health (2016) 1 Cal.App.5th 1000, 1007; Del
E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials Co. (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 593, 604
[“the facts alleged in the pleading are deemed to be true, however improbable
they may be”].)  Allegations are to be liberally construed.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 452.)  In construing the allegations, the court is to give
effect to specific factual allegations that may modify or limit inconsistent
general or conclusory allegations.  (Financial Corporation of America
v. Wilburn (1987) 189 Cal.App.3rd 764, 769.)   Judicial
Council forms are not immune to demurrer.  (People ex rel. Dept. of Transportation v.
Superior Court (1992) 5 Cal.App.4th 1480, 1486.) 
 
A demurrer may be brought if insufficient facts are stated
to support the cause of action asserted.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10,
subd. (e).)  “A demurrer for uncertainty is strictly construed, even where
a complaint is in some respects uncertain, because ambiguities can be clarified
under modern discovery procedures.”  (Khoury v. Maly’s of California,
Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)   


Where the complaint contains substantial factual
allegations sufficiently apprising defendant of the issues it is being asked to
meet, a demurrer for uncertainty will be overruled or plaintiff will be given
leave to amend.  (Williams v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (1986) 185
Cal.App.3d 135, 139, fn. 2.)  Leave to amend must be allowed where there
is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment.  (Goodman v.
Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.)  The burden is on the complainant
to show the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully.  (Ibid.)  
When an amended complaint
adds a new defendant, “the general rule is that [the] amended complaint … does
not relate back to the date of filing the original complaint and the statute of
limitations is applied as of the date the amended complaint is filed, not the
date the original complaint is filed.”  (Woo
v. Superior Court (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 169, 176.)  “A recognized exception to the general rule is
the substitution under [Code of Civil Procedure] section 474 of a new defendant
for a fictitious Doe defendant named in the original complaint as to whom a
cause of action was stated in the original complaint.”  (Id.)  “Section 474 allows a plaintiff who is
ignorant of a defendant’s identity to designate the defendant in a complaint by
a fictitious name (typically, as a “Doe”), and to amend the pleading to state
the defendant’s true name when the plaintiff subsequently discovers it.  When a defendant is properly named under
section 474, the amendment relates back to the filing date of the original
complaint.  [Citation.]” (McClatchy v.
Coblentz, Patch, Duffy & Bass, LLP (2016) 247 Cal.App.4th 368, 371, fn.
omitted.)
III.      DISCUSSION
 
A.   
Judicial Notice
            Commerce
requests judicial notice of four documents: (1) Plaintiff’s original Complaint
filed on June 18, 2020; (2) Plaintiff’s Dismissal of Commerce, filed on August
25, 2020; (3) Plaintiff’s Amendment to Complaint naming Commerce as Doe 10,
filed on March 20, 2023; and (4) Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint, filed
August 28, 2023.  
            The
unopposed request to take judicial notice is GRANTED.  (Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (d).)
B.    
Meet and
Confer
 
Defense counsel has complied with the meet and confer
requirement.  (See Declaration of Jessica
S. Jin-Tenney.) 
 
C.    
Application
 
“Unless an amended complaint relates back to a timely filed
original complaint, it will be barred by the statute of limitations.  [Citation.] 
Under the relation-back doctrine, in order to avoid the statute of
limitations, the amended complaint must: rest on the same general set of facts
as the general complaint, refer to the same accident and same injuries as the
original complaint, and refer to the same instrumentality as the original
complaint.  [Citation.]”  (Scholes v. Lambirth Trucking Co.
(2017) 10 Cal.App.5th 590, 597-598.)
 
“A complaint must contain a statement of the facts
constituting the cause of action in ordinary and concise language.  (§ 425.10, subd. (a)(1).)  This requirement obligates the plaintiff to
allege ultimate facts that, taken as a whole, apprise the defendant of the
factual basis of the claim. 
[Citation.]  The requirement that
the complaint allege ultimate facts forming the basis for the plaintiff’s cause
of action is central to the relation-back doctrine and the determination of
whether an amended complaint should be deemed filed as of the date of the
original pleading.  [Citation.]”  (Id. at p. 598.)  
 
An action for personal injury must be commenced within two
years of the incident that caused the injury.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 335.1.)  Under Code of Civil Procedure section 474, a
plaintiff is not barred from bringing the defendant back into the suit after
the statute of limitations has run.  (Woo
v. Superior Court (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 169, 176.)  Generally, plaintiffs must be ignorant of the
name of the defendant to use the Doe amendment procedure under section 474.  However, “it is well established that
amendment is permitted, even though the plaintiff knew a defendant’s name, if
plaintiff was ignorant of the facts giving rise to a cause of action against
that defendant.”  (Parker v. Robert E.
McKee, Inc. (1992) 3 Cal.App.4th 512, 516 (Parker).)  Doe amendments are allowed where “the
plaintiff [knows] the name of the defendant but [does] not know the capacity in
which the defendant acted.”  (Id.)
 
As with its prior Demurrer, Commerce argues Plaintiff’s
claims are barred by the statute of limitations.  In sustaining Commerce’s Demurrer to the original
Complaint, the Court noted this case presented the same procedural posture and
arguments as in Parker.  Further,
Plaintiff demonstrated by way of declaration what facts she could allege that may
entitle her to name a dismissed defendant as a Doe.  As such, the Court gave Plaintiff
leave to amend.
 
The disposition of this Demurrer requires the Court to
compare the allegations of the original Complaint and the FAC.  In the original Complaint, Plaintiff alleged
that Commerce “negligently owned, operated, entrusted and maintained its motor
vehicle in such a negligent manner that caused the vehicle to stop suddenly
thereby proximately causing damages and injuries to Plaintiff.”  (Complaint, p. 5.)  In the FAC, Plaintiff alleges, in relevant
part, that: (1) Commerce and Coach Max were joint venturers in promoting the
gambling business; (2) Commerce and Coach Max shared confidential patron
information; (3) Coach Max buses carry Commerce’s logo on the exterior of the
buses;(4) Commerce required Coach Max to provide confirmation of annual
inspections and a list of vehicle identification numbers; (5) Coach Max acted
as Commerce’s agent in marketing Commerce’s casino to elderly Asian clients; and
(6) Commerce fixed the bus routes to and from its casino and instructed Coach
Max to follow those routes.  (FAC, pp.
5-6.)  Liberally construed, these
allegations show the relationship between Commerce and Coach Max went beyond transportation
services to and from Commerce’s casino. 
Rather, the allegations show Commerce was the principal and Coach Max
its agent whereby Commerce directed how the services were to be carried
out.  Like Parker, Plaintiff
alleges facts which show Commerce acted in a different legal capacity than
Plaintiff previously understood.  The
allegations in the FAC are different.  Plaintiff’s doe amendment is proper.
 
IV.        CONCLUSION
            
Accordingly, the demurrer is OVERRULED.  
 
Defendant California Commerce Club Inc. is ordered to serve
and file its Answer to the FAC within 10 days of this order.
 
Demurring party to give notice.  
 
 
Dated:   November 2,
2023                                      ___________________________________
                                                                                    Lee
S. Arian
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 
            Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an
email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on
the tentative as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at
www.lacourt.org.  Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative
and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless
appear at the hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive
emails from the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and
there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion,
adopt the tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar. 
 