  Case Number:  24STCP02942    Hearing Date:   October 16, 2024    Dept:  68 Dept.
68
Date:
10-16-24 (specially set via 9-24-24 ex parte order)
Case
# 24STCP02942
Trial
Dates: N/A
 
DISMISS PETITION QUASH/PROTECTIVE ORDER
 
MOVING
PARTY: Respondents, Ilona Klar, et al.
RESPONDING
PARTY: Petitioner, American International Industries
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Motion
to Dismiss the Petition to Quash or Alternatively a Protective Order on a
Deposition Subpoena
 
SUMMARY
OF ACTION
On
September 12, 2024, American International Industries filed a petition for
protective order and to quash deposition subpoena in action pending outside of
California. The petition involves deponent Jerry Allyn Whittemore, designated
corporate representative of The Neslemur Company, predecessor of A-I-I for
Clubman Talc. Whittemore resides in Los Angeles.
 
Petitioner
represents Plaintiffs’ counsel improperly made personal contact with Whittemore
despite Whittemore being represented by counsel for The Neslemur Company. The
contact resulted in the creation of an affidavit without the consent of The
Neslemur Company to issue such a statement on behalf of the company. 
 
Respondent
now seeks to take the deposition testimony of Whittemore. The subject action
involves an asbestos contaminated cosmetic talc action currently pending in New
Jersey. 
 
Petitioner
moves to quash the subpoena and prohibit the deposition; issuance of a
protective order prohibiting further ex parte communication within Whittemore;
identification of all persons an affidavit was shared with and in contact with
attorney Simmons; destruction of said affidavit; and the affidavit be deemed
void and stricken. 
 
RULING: Denied.
Respondents
Ilona Klar and Ronald Glaser move to dismiss the petition for protective order
and to quash the deposition subpoena regarding the deposition of The Neslemur
Company designated corporate representative, Jerry Allyn Whittemore, in Los
Angeles. On September 24, 2024, the court granted the ex parte application of
Respondent to set the subject hearing. The motion comes before the setting of
any hearing date on the petition itself.
 
The
motion is based on claimed dilatory conduct in bringing the subject petition,
and challenge to the right to take the deposition of Whittemore as an
individual, rather than as a corporate representative of The Neslemur Company.
Respondents maintain contact was only made directly prior to any identified
representation of counsel. The affidavit was voluntarily prepared and executed
by Whittemore. Petitioner in opposition contends the motion is procedurally
defective in that Respondents should have filed an opposition to the motion
rather than a separate motion to dismiss. The motion itself relies on improper
extrinsic evidence. Petitioner maintains the petition was timely filed.
Petitioner denies any impropriety in bringing the petition and intends to
challenge use of the affidavit. Petitioner maintains Whittemore appears as a
corporate representative of The Neslemur Company. Direct contact with the
witness violated New Jersey and California rules of professional conduct.  Respondents in reply maintain the motion is
procedurally proper, the petition lacks authority or admissible evidence for
the requested relief, the petition is untimely, and the subpoena is justified.
 
The
court addresses the first issue: the basis for dismissal of the petition
itself. Respondent offers statutory authority regarding discovery, including
Code of Civil Procedure sections 128, 1005, 1987.1, 2020.010, 2025.410,
2025.420, and 2029.500, but no actual address for the basis of the dismissal of
the entire petition itself. 
 
Dismissals
of special civil proceedings appear governed at least in part by Code of Civil
Procedure section 583.120, subd. (b): “[T]he court may, by rule or otherwise
under inherent authority of the court, apply this chapter to a special
proceeding or part of a special proceeding except to the extent such
application would be inconsistent with the character of the special proceeding
or the statute governing the special proceeding.” “In general, even without
express statutory authority, a trial court has certain inherent discretionary
powers to dismiss claims. (Citation.) However, these grounds are typically
limited to lack of jurisdiction, forum non conveniens, absence of a justiciable
controversy, plaintiff's failure to give security for costs, failure to appeal
at trial, or failure to amend the complaint.” (Conservatorship of
Kayle (2005) 134 Cal.App.4th 1, 8.)
 
Respondents
motion constitutes a preemptive challenge to the petition itself. Rather than
compelling Petitioner to set the hearing, Respondent seeks to effectively
strike a motion to quash or alternative request for protective order. The court
finds no basis of procedural authority to “strike” an effective motion filed by
another party, compared to simply opposing the motion itself. The court
therefore finds no equivalent or analogous basis for the outright dismissal of
the subject petition simply based on impatience with the process.
 
While
an argument can be made for consideration of the merits of the petition itself
and all of the extensively requested relief, the burden falls on petitioner to
make the showing. The court declines to force Petitioner to defend the petition
in response to a preemptive challenge. Even if the court considered the motion,
the motion itself lacks address of each and every articulated claim for relief,
and instead only seeks to distinguish the propriety of making contact with the
witness and the execution of the affidavit. To the extent the petition remains
without any order as to the conduct of the parties, nothing prevents
Respondents from continuing on their course of conduct in discovery thereby
putting any burden challenging admission to the evidence on Petitioner before
the New Jersey trial court. 
 
The
court therefore DENIES the motion to dismiss the petition on grounds of lack of
a showing for relief. The motion lacks both a showing of procedural and
substantive authority for an order granting all requested relief allowing a
determination of a legally invalid petition.
 
Even
considering some of the argument, however, the court finds the petition timely
filed. Respondents reference a failure to submit objections within three
calendar days of the deposition. Other than a reference to an August 22, 2024,
change to start time, the court cannot determine the actual date of the
deposition simply based on an indication of an agreement for a later date.
Petitioner maintains the petition was only prompted after disclosure of the
existence of the affidavit, and the petition was filed within 24 hours. The
admitted delay on the deposition appears to render any determination of
dilatory conduct unnecessary. Alternatively, if the deposition occurred for
whatever reason, a determination of untimeliness would alternatively be moot on
this particular item.
 
As
for justification of the petition to quash, Petitioner still seeks to challenge
use of the witness affidavit. The court finds nothing invalid in this claim for
relief, though, again, admission of the document appears to remain an issue for
the New Jersey trial court.
 
As
for whether Whittemore appears on behalf of The Neslemur Company or as a
voluntary individual witness, the motion and reply lacks any address of this
potential situation. The court declines to make the argument for Respondent.
The court also refrains from considering any potential ethical rule violations
given the uncertainty as to the status of Whittemore to appear for deposition
in an individual capacity separate and apart from a PMQ/PMK designation. (See Maldonado v. Superior Court (2002) 94 Cal.App.4th
1390, 1398.)
 
The
motion to dismiss the petition is therefore DENIED on this basis as well.
 
Respondents to give notice.
 