  Case Number:  21STCV13916    Hearing Date:   May 7, 2024    Dept:  30 MARIA GRANADOS vs CITY OF INGLEWOOD, et al.TENTATIVEDefendant City of Inglewood’s motion for summary judgment is GRANTED.  Moving party is ordered to give notice.Legal StandardThe purpose of a motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication “is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) “Code of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)“On a motion for summary judgment, the initial burden is always on the moving party to make a prima facia showing that there are no triable issues of material fact.” (Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.) A defendant moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication “has met his or her burden of showing that a cause of action has no merit if the party has shown that one or more elements of the cause of action . . . cannot be established, or that there is a complete defense to the cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c(p)(2).) “Once the defendant . . . has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff . . . to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” (Id.) “If the plaintiff cannot do so, summary judgment should be granted.” (Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.)“When deciding whether to grant summary judgment, the court must consider all of the evidence set forth in the papers (except evidence to which the court has sustained an objection), as well as all reasonable inferences that may be drawn from that evidence, in the light most favorable to the party opposing summary judgment.” (Avivi, 159 Cal.App.4th at 467; Code Civ. Proc., §437c(c).)Evidentiary ObjectionsA. Plaintiff’s Objections to Defendant City’s Evidence· The following objections are overruled: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5· The following objections are sustained: n/aB. Defendant City’s Objections to Plaintiff’s Evidence:· The following objections are overruled: 1, 2, 3, 4· The following objections are sustained: n/aC. Plaintiff’s Objections to Defendant City’s Augmented Evidence· The following objections are overruled: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6· The following objections are sustained: n/aDiscussionDefendant City of Inglewood moves for summary judgment or summary adjudication, on the grounds that it did not own, operate, or control the vault or metal plate which caused Plaintiff to fall.“Except as otherwise provided by statute, a public entity is not liable for an injury, whether such injury arises out of an act or omission of the public entity or public employee or any other person.” (Gov. Code § 815.)Government Code section 835 states:¿“Except as provided by statute, a public entity is liable for injury caused by a dangerous condition of its property if the plaintiff establishes that the property was in a dangerous condition at the time of the injury, that the injury was proximately caused by the dangerous condition, that the dangerous condition created a reasonably foreseeable risk of the kind of injury which was incurred, and either:(a) A negligent or wrongful act or omission of an employee of the public entity within the scope of his employment created the dangerous condition; or¿(b) The public entity had actual or constructive notice of the dangerous condition under Section 835.2 a sufficient time prior to the injury to have taken measures to protect against the dangerous condition.”¿“Property of a public entity” and “public property” are defined as real or personal property owned or controlled by the public entity, but do not include easements, encroachments and other property that are located on the property of the public entity but are not owned or controlled by the public entity. (Gov. Code § 830(c).) “Where the public entity's relationship to the dangerous property is not clear, aid may be sought by inquiring whether the particular defendant had control, in the sense of power to prevent, remedy or guard against the dangerous condition; whether his ownership is a naked title or whether it is coupled with control; and whether a private defendant, having a similar relationship to the property, would be responsible for its safe condition.” (Low v. City of Sacrament (1970) 7 Cal.App.3d 826, 833-834.)Here, City presents evidence that at Plaintiff’s deposition, she identified that she tripped and fell over a raised metal plate located at 515 S. Grevillea Avenue in the City of Inglewood. (UMF No. 4.)City also presents the declaration of Flynn Marine, City’s Public Works Manager. In his position, he is aware of, or has the capacity of making himself aware of, those locations that the City has responsibility for inspection, maintenance, ownership and/or control. (Marine Decl., ¶ 2.) He states that Plaintiff alleges that on April 24, 2020, she sustained injuries when she tripped and fell on a metal plate on the sidewalk located at 515 South Grevillea Avenue, Inglewood, California (the “subject location”). He declares that a review of records of the City indicates the location described as the “subject location,” was not, on the date of the incident, nor is it now, within the jurisdiction of the City, but was rather within the jurisdiction of Pacific Bell Telephone Company. (Id., ¶ 6.) He also declares that the City did not on the date of the incident, nor does it now, have any authority, duty, or responsibility to own, operate, maintain, inspect, repair, and control the aforesaid location. (Id., ¶ 8.)The Court finds that City has brought forth evidence sufficient to show there are no triable issues of material fact as to whether it owned, controlled, or operated the metal plate or the cement vault. The burden shifts to Plaintiff to present triable issues of material facts.In opposition, Plaintiff argues that the City exerted control over the subject vault. City of Inglewood’s Engineering Department had to issue a permit for the construction of the vault. (AF No. 2; Marine Depo., 53:11-19; Fernandez Depo., 31:9-11; 32:13-22; 35:15-36:17.) Permits for burying a vault are issued by the City of Inglewood Public Works Engineering Department according to employee Raul Fernandez. (Fernandez Depo. 31:9-11; 32:13-22; 35:15-36:17.)Additionally, Plaintiff argues that City of Inglewood demonstrated its control of the vault when caution barricades were placed on top of the subject vault. (AF No. 1; Burns Decl. ¶¶ 10. 12; Marine PMQ 32:24-33:9.) Public works placed two barricades on the subject utility vault after their inspection. (Marine PMQ 32:24-33:9; AF No. 1.) Further, the barricades were placed without contacting the vault owner. (Id.)Pacific Bell also provides evidence that the City contracts with companies to provide services to the subject location, including street sweeping (AMF No. 5) and weekly garbage collection (AMF No. 3). Pacific Bell argues that the residents of that area place their garbage containers next to the raised sidewalk and utility cover, which the City collects every week. (AMF Nos. 1, 4.) Further, the City had the authority over the vault to the extent that it could have filled the vault with dirt and concrete had it chosen to. (AMF No. 15.)“[T]he crucial element is not ownership, but rather control.” (Mamola v. State of California ex rel. Department of Transportation (1979) 94 Cal.App.3d 781, 788; Low v. City of Sacramento (1970) 7 Cal.App.3d 826, 831 [“Possession, in turn, is equated with occupancy plus control. [Citation.] Thus, in identifying the party vulnerable to a verdict, control dominates over title”].) “For liability to be imposed on a public entity for a dangerous condition of property, the entity must be in a position to protect against or warn of the hazard. (Gov. Code, § 835, subd. (b).)However, Plaintiff cites no authority holding that issuing a permit supports a finding that the landowner dramatically asserted control and the rights normally associated with ownership or possession over a publicly owned property. (See Contreras v. Anderson (1997) 59 Cal.App.4th 188, 200 [Court found no “dramatic assertion of a right normally associated with ownership or ... possession” by the defendants where although the defendants admitted to trimming a tree, sweeping leaves, and doing some “gardening” on city-owned property, the evidence was nothing more than “neighborly maintenance” and “[s]tanding alone, such evidence cannot support a finding of control over that property.”]; compare with Alcaraz v. Vece (1997) 14 Cal.4th 1149, 1154, 1170 [Evidence that defendants maintained lawn from defendants’ property line to sidewalk, including city-owned portion of the lawn, and that subsequent to injury on the property, defendants constructed a fence that enclosed the lawn, was sufficient to raise triable issue of fact as to whether defendants exercised control over city-owned strip of land.], and Lopez, 55 Cal.App.5th at 258 [“courts have held owners and occupiers liable for a hazard created by a third party on abutting, publicly owned land when the owners or occupiers erected a fence around, as well as maintained, the property … put up a lighted sign to illuminate the property … installed sprinklers, planted trees and maintained the property … or mowed and watered grass, removed debris and repaired damage to the property…”].)Instead, Plaintiff cites to Holmes v. City of Oakland (1968) 260 Cal.App.2d 378, 385, where the court found that the city had control over a railroad right-of-way over a city street where a city ordinance had reserved extensive powers to regulate and inspect the railroad company’s easement. But here, there is no evidence that the City reserved any powers to regulate and inspect the vault through an ordinance. Plaintiff has not shown that issuing a permit reserves these powers to regulate and inspect. Rather, the evidence presented by the City shows the opposite, that it had no authority, duty, or responsibility to control or inspect the vault found at the incident location. (Marine Decl., ¶ 8.)Next, the City’s placement of the barricades on top of the vault does not show it exercised the requisite control or had the right to control the vault. That City could have taken action with respect to the vault does not mean it had the duty to do so. In Donnell v. California Western School of Law (1988) 200 Cal.App.3d 715, the plaintiff was attacked on an adjacent public sidewalk when leaving his law school late at night. The plaintiff alleged the school was aware of criminal activity on adjacent or surrounding areas and should have put exterior lights on its buildings to influence the condition of the adjoining city-owned sidewalk. (Id. at p. 725.) However, the court held that the “existing legal standard does not require Cal Western to seek to exert such influence or effect wherever it may have such potential. Instead, premises liability is based on ownership, possession or control. The mere possibility of influencing or affecting the condition of property owned or possessed by others does not constitute ‘control’ of such property.” (Id. at p. 726.)Further, even where an adjacent landowner has taken some action or performed some maintenance to adjoining public property, there is a difference between the “‘notorious and open public display of control’ over adjacent property, such that members of the general public might reasonably rely on the apparent owner to warn or protect them from known hazards thereon,” such as the complete maintenance and fencing off of an adjoining strip of property (Alcaraz v. Vece (1997) 14 Cal.4th 1149, 1154), and “minimal, neighborly maintenance.” (Contreras v. Anderson (1997) 59 Cal.App.4th 188, 201.) Here, the only affirmative conduct by City was the placement of the cones, which is not a “dramatic assertion of a right normally associated with ownership or at least . . . possession” which would indicate the requisite control to impose liability. (Ibid.) Moreover, the City’s street sweeping and collection of garbage occurred on City property and thus is not relevant to show control. Additionally, Pacific Bell’s evidence that the City had the authority to fill the vault with dirt and concrete was expressly based on speculation. (Pacific Bell’s Exh. C: Marine Depo page 95:2-3.)Next, Plaintiff appears to argue that City can be held liable for an accident caused by a condition that exists on property adjacent to its own. However, abutting property owners are only liable to the public where the property owner created the defect or exercised dominion or control over the abutting sidewalk. (Jordan v. City of Sacramento (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 1487, 1490-91.) As discussed above, there is no evidence that City had the requisite control over the vault, and Plaintiff does not argue City created the defect.Lastly, Plaintiff and Pacific Bell both argue that the height differential on the sidewalk on the date of incident was a tripping hazard. However, as evidenced from the photographs, the sidewalk was raised due to the vault, which the City has shown it does not own, or control. (City’s Exh. 6.)As to this last point, Pacific Bell further argues that City has a duty to inspect and repair its sidewalks, and the raised portion of sidewalk cannot be isolated from Pacific Bell’s vault cover. The Court disagrees. “Property of a public entity” and “public property” are defined as real or personal property owned or controlled by the public entity, but do not include easements, encroachments and other property that are located on the property of the public entity but are not owned or controlled by the public entity. (Gov. Code § 830(c).) While the vault and its cover may be located on the City’s sidewalk, they are not owned and controlled by the City. As such, the duty to inspect and repair City sidewalks is irrelevant here because the vault and its cover are not City property under Government Code section 830(c).As Plaintiff failed to meet her burden, Defendant City of Inglewood is entitled to summary judgment.ConclusionBased on the foregoing, Defendant’s motion for summary judgment is GRANTED.