 Case Number:  22STCV28938    Hearing Date:   August 2, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



MI YOUNG KIM
                           
         vs.
 
HANNAM CHAIN, USA, INC. 
 


 Case No.: 
  22STCV28938  
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  August 2, 2024
 



 
Defendant’s
motion for terminating sanctions is GRANTED.
 
            On
9/6/2021, Plaintiff Mi Young Kim (Plaintiff) filed suit against Hannam Chain
USA, Inc., alleging: (1) breach of written contract; (2) breach of covenant of
quiet enjoyment; (3) negligent infliction of emotional distress; and (4)
constructive eviction. 
 
            Now,
Defendant moves for terminating sanctions.
 
            The
motion is unopposed. 
 
Discussion 
 
            Defendant
argues that terminating sanctions are appropriate because Plaintiff has failed
to litigate this action. Plaintiff failed to respond to any of Defendant’s
discovery or correspondence regarding the same, Plaintiff did not oppose
Defendant’s motions to compel discovery, and Plaintiff failed to comply with
the Court order to provide discovery by 4/14/2024.
 
            Plaintiff
did not oppose this motion and thus is considered to have conceded to the
merits of the motion.
 
In sum, the
Court concludes that Plaintiff is either unwilling or unable to litigate this
action. Terminating sanctions are therefore appropriate. 
 
Based on the
foregoing, Defendant’s motion for terminating sanctions is granted. 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  August   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 