 Case Number:  24STCV00660    Hearing Date:   August 2, 2024    Dept:  17  
Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



IMMIGRANTS
  RIGHTS DEFENSE COUNCIL, LLC
                           
         vs.
 
ELIZABETH
  VARTANIAN 
 


 Case No.: 24STCV00660
 
 
 
 Hearing
  Date: August 2, 2024



 
 
Plaintiff’s
motions to compel initial responses to its Form Interrogatories and Requests
for Production are MOOT. 
 
Plaintiff’s
motion to have its RFAs deemed admitted is GRANTED. 
 
Defendant is
sanctioned $350.00. 
 
            On
1/9/2024, Plaintiff Immigrant Rights Defense Council, LLC (Defendant) filed
suit against Elizabeth Vartanian (Defendant), alleging a violation of the Immigration
Consultant Act. 
 
            Now,
Plaintiff moves to compel initial responses to discovery from Defendant and
have its Requests for Admission (RFAs) deemed admitted as to Defendant.  
 
Discussion 
 
            On
1/30/2024, Plaintiff served Defendant with Form Interrogatories, Requests for
Production, and Requests for Admission. As such, responses were due by
3/5/2024.
 
            As
for the Form Interrogatories and Requests for Production, Defendant clarified
that she provided amended responses on 7/3/2024. While Plaintiff contends that
those responses are inadequate, such an issue is appropriately addressed
through a motion to compel further, after adequate meet and confer has taken
place. The Court also notes that it requires that the parties participate in an
informal discovery conference (IDC) before any motion to compel further is
heard on the merits.
 
            As
for the Requests for Admission, Defendant served amended responses on 7/3/2024.
However, in reply, Plaintiff indicated that the responses are based on
information and belief and thus are not validly verified. (Weil & Brown, Cal Prac.
Guide: Civ. Pro. Bef. Trial Ch. 8F-5 (The Rutter Group 2023), § 8:1104) (“A
verification on behalf of an individual stating, ‘I am informed and believe
that the matters stated herein are true’ is insufficient.”) “Unverified
or unsworn responses to requests for admission [are] tantamount to no
responses at all and [are] not merely incomplete responses....” (Appleton
v. Superior Court (1988) 206 Cal.App.3d 632, 634.) Defendant, while pro per,
must be held to the same standard as other litigants and is bound by the
standards set forth in Code of Civil Procedure and Rules of Court. As such, Defendant’s
improperly verified responses are tantamount to no respond at all. Defendant
must provide proper responses and seek relief. 
 
            Based
on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s motions to compel initial responses to its Form
Interrogatories and Requests for Production are moot. Plaintiff’s motion to
have its RFAs deemed admitted is granted. Defendant is sanctioned $350.00 in
connection with the motion to deemed Requests for Admission admitted.  
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  August   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 