  Case Number:  20STCV40085    Hearing Date:   August 2, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT
17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



MARION NEWMAN by and through her
  successor-in-interest Tiffany Newman, et al. 
 
        
  vs.
 
KND DEVELOPMENT
  52, LLA dba Kindred Hospital Baldwin Park 
 


 Case
  No.:  20STCV40085 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date: August 2, 2024



 
 
Defendant’s
demurrer is OVERRULED. 
 
Defendant’s
motion to strike is DENIED.
 
On
10/19/2020, Plaintiff Marion Newman by and through her successor-in-interest
Tiffany Newman, and Tiffany Newman individually filed suit against KND
Development 52, LLC dba Kindred Hospital Baldwin Park as Defendant and Debbie
Newman, Donna Shelvin, Wesley Newman, Marion Newman, Christine Newman, and Jill
Newman as nominal Defendants. On 1/6/2023, Plaintiff filed a first amended
complaint (FAC). On 4/26/2026, Plaintiff filed a fourth amended complaint (4AC)
alleging: (1) elder abuse; and (2) wrongful death. 
 
            On
5/12/2022, Plaintiff substituted Pomona Valley Hospital Medical Center for Doe
2. 
 
On 6/5/2024,
Pomona Valley Hospital Medical (Pomona or Defendant) demurred to Plaintiff’s
4AC. Defendant also moved to strike portions of Plaintiff’s 4AC. 
 
Discussion 
 
Pomona argues
that Plaintiff has still failed to allege elder abuse and wrongful death with
the requisite specificity. 
 
In
relation to the claims being subject to demurrer, to state a private cause of
action for elder abuse, the plaintiff must plead facts showing two elements:
(1) the defendant has subjected an elder to statutorily-defined physical abuse,
neglect or financial abuse; and (2) the defendant acted with recklessness,
malice, oppression, or fraud in the commission of the abuse. (Welf. & Inst.
Code § 15657.) “Neglect”
in this case is statutorily defined in relevant part as “[t]he negligent
failure of any person having the care or custody of an elder or a dependent
adult to exercise that degree of care that a reasonable person in a like
position would exercise” (Welf. & Inst. Code § 15610.57,¿subd.
(a)(1)); and “abuse” is defined in relevant part as “[p]hysical¿abuse,
neglect, abandonment, isolation, abduction, or other treatment with resulting
physical harm or pain or mental suffering” or “[t]he deprivation by a care
custodian of goods or services that are necessary to avoid physical harm or
mental suffering.”¿(Id.,
§ 15610.07,¿subd. (a)(1)-(2).)¿
 
            In
two previous rounds of motion practice, the Court sustained Defendant’s demurrers
on the grounds that Plaintiff had not alleged sufficient facts with specificity
and particularity as to when and on what basis the alleged skin breakdown
developed and whether Defendant’s staff caused any of the alleged injuries. The
Court noted:
 
First,
Plaintiff has not alleged facts which could show that Defendant’s conduct
caused Plaintiff’s injury five month later. Rather, inexplicably, Plaintiff’s
SAC entirely omits the allegation that Decedent was discharged from
Defendant’s care, and was admitted to Pomona Valley Rehabilitation Center, not
a party to this action, for skilled nursing care. The Court agrees with
Defendant that this omission gives the appearance that Decedent was under the
care of Defendant the entire time until she was admitted to Co-Defendant
Baldwin Park on 3/25/2020. As such, “[t]his omission
is not trivial or minor; it is a major inconsistency that Plaintiffs fail to
explain. The omission of these allegations without any explanation as to why
Plaintiffs did not make these allegations in earlier pleadings, or any
explanation of the inconsistencies, renders the SAC a sham pleading.” (Motion,
13: 7-10.) 
 
Plaintiff
must set forth facts to explain the omission of the allegation that Decedent
was actually discharged from Defendant's facility and was admitted to an
entirely different facility - not a party to this action -before she was ever
admitted to Baldwin Park.  
 
Second,
Plaintiff has not alleged facts which could show the requisite custodial
relationship existed between Decedent and Defendant. As noted by Defendant,
“…here, beyond the assertion that Decedent was admitted to Defendant's facility
with a pre-existing skin injury and that Defendant provided treatment to her
just like any other hospital would, Plaintiffs fail to offer any other
explanation as to why these allegations forge a caretaking or custodial
relationship between Decedent and Defendant.” (Motion, 23: 7-10.) 
 
            (1/3/2024
Minute Order, SAC Demurrer.) 
 
            Defendant
argues that the same deficiencies remain.  
 
            After
review, the Court disagrees. 
 
Defendant
argues that Plaintiff has not alleged particular facts related to Decedent's
alleged pressure injuries and skin breakdown and the circumstances surrounding
the pressure ulcers and infections attributed to alleged wrongdoing. However,
many of the specific facts which support this claim are contemplated by the
discovery process, and are not expected to be in Plaintiff’s possession.
Plaintiff alleges that Defendant’s nurse documented a stage II pressure injury
on Decedent on 2/3/2020, and that Defendant’s staff failed to inspect
Decedent’s skin for breakdown as required by her care plan from 2/4-2/9/2020.
(4AC ¶ 35-44.) In support of this, Plaintiff alleges that on 2/11/2020,
Defendant’s nurse indicated that a stage III pressure injury had appeared. (4AC
¶ 45.) Plaintiff alleges that from 2/12-2/19/2020, Defendant’s staff failed to
inspect Decedent’s skin for breakdown. (4AC ¶ 46-49.) In support of this,
Plaintiff alleges that Decedent’s coccyx pressure injury had progressed to
stage IV. (4AC ¶ 50.) Plaintiff alleges that Defendant’s records indicate that
Decedent was only sporadically repositioned or not at all, and on many
occasions staff failed to inspect her skin for breakdown. (4AC ¶ 52-53.)
Accepted as true at the pleading stage, these allegations are sufficiently
particular. 
 
            Defendant
also contends that Plaintiff’s 4AC is a sham pleading based on two contentions:

 
(1)  “absent
from the TAC and the 4AC is the allegation that Decedent was free from pressure
injuries and skin breakdown" at the time of her admission to Defendant's
facility on February 3, 2020. (FAC, 134.) Instead, the 4AC alleges that
"on or about February 3, 2020, after a skin evaluation, a POMONA nurse
documented NEWMAN with a stage II pressure injury to her coccyx with erythema,
measuring 6cm x 5cm." (4AC, 135.) Plaintiffs do not provide any
explanation as to why now Decedent magically has a pre-existing pressure injury
that somehow did not exist at the time the FAC was filed.” (Motion, 17: 5-12.)
 
(2)  “The
4AC alleges that Decedent was discharged from PVHMC on February 22, 2020 and
transferred to Pomona Valley Rehabilitation Center. (4AC, 55.) Interestingly,
despite the fact that Pomona Valley Rehabilitation Center "provided
excellent nursing care," as alleged in the 4AC, Decedent's wounds became
infected at that same exact facility. (4AC, 156.) The 4AC then falsely alleges
that Decedent's wounds "developed' at Defendant's facility even though the
same 4AC alleges that Decedent was found to have pressure wounds in those exact
locations upon her admission to Defendant's facility. (4AC, 1135, 56, 59, 67,
68.)
 
As to the
first contention, the Court agrees that this technically represents an
inconsistency. However, here, Plaintiff’s claim could still be viable
regardless of which version of events is true. For example, if Decedent did, in
fact, present at Defendant’s facility with no pressure injury, Plaintiff has
still alleged facts which show a casual degradation of Decedent’s condition. On
the other hand, if Decedent did not present at Defendant’s facility with a
pressure injury, Plaintiff has still alleged facts which could show that
Decedent experienced a pressure injury and skin breakdown that progressed from
stage II to stage IV over the course of her time in Defendant’s case. As such,
given that this discrepancy is not determinative of the viability of
Plaintiff’s claim, the Court declines to conclude this is an instance of a sham
pleading such that the demurrer should be sustained. 
 
As to the
second contention, the Court accepts well-pled allegations as true at the
pleading stage. Thus, while Defendant may be correct that Plaintiff’s
allegation is “false” that Decedent’s wounds developed at the facility, this is
not properly determined at this stage. Similarly, it is not properly determined
whether Plaintiff’s allegation that one of the Decedent’s causes of death was
sepsis. 
 
The Court also
finds that Plaintiff has alleged sufficient facts to how that Defendant acted
with recklessness, oppression, or fraud, or malice. Plaintiff alleges that
despite knowing that her care plan required her to be inspected and
repositioned, and knowing that her condition would (and did) condition to worse
if she wasn’t, Defendant’s staffed knowingly failed to abide by the care plan.
Accepted as true at the pleading stage, this is sufficient.
 
Finally, the
Court finds that whether or not Plaintiff “erroneously” refers to Defendant as
a skilled nursing facility and as providing “custodial care” is a factual determination
not properly decided at this stage. Moreover, Plaintiffs cited Fenimore v.
Regents of University of California (2016) 245 Cal.App.4th 1339, wherein
the Court there found claims for elder abuse and negligent hiring and
supervision could be maintained where a plaintiff, who suffered from a history
of wandering that led to numerous falls, was admitted to an acute psychiatric
care hospital on a “5150 hold” as an extreme fall risk that required 24-hour
supervision. Defendant argues that this case is distinguishable because
Plaintiff here did not fall and because Plaintiff has not adequately alleged
understaffing. However, first, there is no indication that the fact that the
injury was a fall was determinative there. Second, Plaintiff has adequately alleged
understaffing here. Specific facts which could prove understaffing can only be
contemplated by the discovery process, and it would be a nearly impossible
hurdle to require a plaintiff to be able to establish understaffing without
access to staffing records and information. Fenimore shows that Courts
have found that plaintiffs may pursue claims against facilities comparable to
Defendant here for elder abuse claims. As such, the Court declines to conclude
at the pleading stage that Plaintiff’s claim cannot be maintained against
Defendant as a matter of law. 
 
Based on the
foregoing, Defendant’s demurrer is overruled. 
 
Motion to Strike
 
            Defendant
argues that Plaintiff cannot support a prayer for punitive damages or attorney
fees.              
 
The Court overruled
Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s substantive claims. Accordingly, Plaintiff
has necessarily alleged facts which could support a prayer of punitive damages.
Similarly, Plaintiff has alleged facts which could show an entitlement to
attorney fees for Elder Abuse/Neglect, pursuant to California Welfare &
Institutions Code section 15657.
 
Based on the
foregoing, Defendant’s motion to strike is denied. 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  August   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
  
 