  Case Number:  22CMCV00293    Hearing Date:   October 5, 2023    Dept:  A 22CMCV00293
 City of Compton v. Hotbox, et al.
Thursday,
 October 5, 2023 at 8:30 a.m.
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER
CONTINUING THE RECEIVER’S MOTION FOR AN ORDER TERMINATING RECEIVERSHIP
I.       
BACKGROUND
      The City of
Compton brought this action to abate a nuisance created by Defendants’
operation of a business distributing illegal narcotics. Plaintiff alleges
claims for abatement, injunction, equitable relief, and civil penalties. On
January 10, 2023, the Court entered default against Defendants, Howard Ly,
Mainline Property Management and Hotbox. Defendant, Nora Natarajan, answered
the complaint on November 22, 2022.
      The
Court appointed Ryan C. Baker as receiver on September 14, 2022. The receiver
requests an order terminating the receivership having completed all of his
duties, for an order approving the Receiver’s final report, to appoint
Buchalter as Receiver’s counsel, and for payment of remaining fees, costs, and
expenses. The balance from the sale of the property will be deposited with the
Court. 
      Defendant
Natarajan contends that she holds a first priority lien against the property to
secure a $330,000 debt. The Receiver took the property subject to Defendant’s
lien. The super-priority lien has been paid off. Any other fees and costs should
be allocated as direct liabilities of the parties who created the conditions,
namely the owner Mainline Property Management and its principal, Howard Ly. The
Receiver did not obtain an order approving counsel. 
      In
reply, the Receiver contends that the Court’s order appointing receiver
authorized the Receiver to retain counsel. Defendant never objected Receiver’s six
reports. The Receiver’s fees and counsel’s fees are entitled to super-priority
status. 
IV.  DISCUSSION
      A receiver may request a discharge,
provide a final account and report, and request exoneration of the Receiver’s
surety. (Cal. Rules of
Court, Rule 3.1184.) A memorandum of points and authorities is not required. (Id.)
The power to discharge a receiver is a “necessary adjunct” to the power of
appointment and is addressed to the court’s sound discretion. (Sly v.
Superior Court of California (1925) 71 Cal.App. 290, 294.) The court
controls the order of proof at the hearings for approval of the receiver’s
account. (Macmorris
Sales Corp. v. Kozak (1967) 249 Cal.App.2d 998, 1003 [“The
petition, which was verified, and which contained the receiver's report and
accounting in detail, constituted such evidence.”].) 
      Receivers are entitled to compensation for
their own services as well as those of its counsel, which are generally paid
from the property in the receivership estate.” (City of Chula
Vista v. Gutierrez (2012) 207 Cal.App.4th 681, 685.) A receiver cannot employ an
attorney without Court approval. (California
Rules of Court, Rule 3.1180.) The Court authorized the Receiver to “retain legal counsel to
represent him and assist him with the performance of his duties as set forth
herein. All reasonable expenses incurred in connection with the hiring and
retention of such personnel and counsel shall be expenses of and paid for by
the Defendants.”  (Ord. filed 9/14/22,
4:25-28.)  
      Defendant complains that the Receiver did
not make a separate motion for appointment of Receiver’s counsel pursuant to
California Rules of Court. However, the Receiver gave notice to all interested
parties of each of his reports of fees incurred by its counsel, Buchalter, and
included Buchalter’s invoices. (See for example Initial Report, filed
10/13/22.; Second Report filed 11/18/22; Third Report filed 12/21/22); Fourth
Report, filed 1/31/23.) There is no record that Defendant objected to the
hiring of Receiver’s counsel. (County of
Sonoma v. Quail (2020) 56 Cal.App.5th 657, 676 ["where a receiver is
lawfully appointed at the instance and for the benefit of lien creditors, all
proper charges, expenses, and liabilities incurred as incident to duly
conferred receivership powers and duties are a charge on the earnings and corpus
of the property superior to the lien creditors, who take part in, or expressly
or impliedly consent to, or acquiesce in, the receivership proceedings’”].) Sonoma
acknowledges that the Receiver’s charges and expenses are “superior” to lien
creditors.
      The Receiver was also authorized to borrow
funds to pay for repairs and to correct the conditions which debt may be
secured with a lien on the real property. (Health &
Saf. Code, § 17980.7 (c)(4)(G).) The recorded Certificate secures a first priority
lien on the property for the amount borrowed. (Id., 5:25-6:2.) As shown
previously, Defendant Natarajan received notice of the Receiver’s application
for appointment of a receiver including authority to retain legal counsel and was
given notice that all reasonable fees and expenses would be paid for by the
receivership estate. (POS filed 9/9/22.) Objections to interim accounts and
reports must be made within 10 days of notice.  (California
Rules of Court, 3.1183.) There is no record that Defendant filed an objection to any of
the Receiver’s reports or the order appointing receiver and permitting
employment of counsel. 
      The Receiver’s certificate was for $75,000
and is entitled to super priority status. Defendant argues the Receiver should
have obtained an increase in the amount of the certificate to secure any liens
in excess of $75,000 which he did not. Therefore, Defendant argues that the
Receiver’s remaining and unsecured fees and costs are not entitled to the same
priority and are subject to Defendant’s existing lien.
      Defendant relies on County of
Sonoma v. Quail (2020) 56 Cal.App.5th 657 which is inapposite. There, the court
held that while the County was instrumental in bringing an enforcement action
to abate conditions on real property, its fees and costs were not payable on equal
footing as the Receiver’s, whose fees and costs were entitled to super priority.
The statute authorizing a receiver to secure a debt for moneys owed with a lien
on the subject property does not extend to payment of governmental costs of
enforcement, which are payable by the owner. (County of
Sonoma v. Quail (2020) 56 Cal.App.5th 657, 687.) The case does not address
whether the Receiver’s fees and costs in excess of the Receiver’s Certificate
are entitled to super priority status. 
      Schreiber v.
Ditch Road Investors (1980) 105 Cal.App.3d 675 is instructive. The Schreiber
court acknowledged that a receiver takes control of property subject to the
interests therein which existed before the Receiver’s appointment. (Schreiber at 679.) However, the
court found that the trial court did not err when it gave precedence to the
costs of the receivership over a creditor’s secured interest where the lien
creditors “take part in, or expressly or impliedly consent to, or acquiesce in,
the receivership proceedings." (Id.)  Since the creditor participated in the
proceeding with knowledge of the powers conferred on the receiver, and availed
itself of the receivership “as a means of enforcing its security interest,” the
creditor impliedly consented that the operating expenses of the receivership would
be given priority over its security interest. (Schreiber at 679.) As in Schreiber,
Defendant’s assertion that its lien has priority “came too late.” (Id.) 
      Defendant’s objections to the attorney’s
fees sought prior to the Receiver’s final report are equally as late. However,
the Court is not able to
determine the reasonableness of attorney’s fees sought by Buchalter in the
final report. To
determine whether fees are reasonable, the court begins with the lodestar,
which is the number of hours reasonably spent multiplied by the reasonable
hourly rate. (PLCM Group v.
Drexler (2000)
22 Cal.4th 1084, 1095.) The court considers several factors including "the nature
of the litigation, its difficulty, the amount involved, the skill required
in its handling, the skill employed, the attention given, the success or
failure, and other circumstances in the case.’” (PLCM Group at 1096.) The
lodestar figure can be adjusted based on the factors specific to the case. (Id.)
      To determine a reasonable market rate,
"the courts will look to equally difficult or complex types of
litigation.” (Syers
Properties III, Inc. v. Rankin (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 691, 700.) The
“market rate” is generally based on the rates prevalent in the community where
the court is located. (Id.) The trial court is in the best position to
value the services rendered by the attorneys in his or her courtroom for the
type of litigation at issue. Detailed time records are not required; the request
can be based on counsel’s declarations. (Raining Data
Corp. v. Barrenechea (2009) 175 Cal.App.4th 1363, 1375.) The court
can reduce the award based on evidence showing duplicative efforts. Plaintiff
is entitled to reasonable compensation; “‘padding” in the form of inefficient
or duplicative efforts is not subject to compensation." (Ketchum v.
Moses (2001)
24 Cal.4th 1122, 1132.)
      Absent
declarations from counsel providing the necessary facts to determine whether
their rates of $375, $700, and $795 per hour are reasonable, the Court cannot approve
the Receiver’s request for attorney’s fees. 
V.   CONCLUSION
      Based on the foregoing, the Court
continues the hearing to November 3, 2023, at 8:30 a.m. in Department A of the Compton
Courthouse. The receiver is ordered to provide further evidence and
declarations to substantiate the attorney fee request, which shall be filed no
later than 10 court days before the hearing. 
 