 Case Number:  23CMCV01051    Hearing Date:   October 5, 2023    Dept:  A 23CMCV01051
 Beatriz Jimenez and Maria Aguirre v. American Honda motor Co., Inc.
Thursday,
 October 5, 2023 at 8:30 a.m.
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER
OVERRULING DEMURRER TO COMPLAINT
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING MOTION TO STRIKE PORTIONS OF THE COMPLAINT
 
 
I.       
BACKGROUND
      The complaint
alleges that Plaintiff bought a vehicle made by Defendant. The vehicle
developed defects which Defendant failed to repair or replace. Plaintiff
alleges violations of the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act (the “Warranty Act”)
and a claim for fraudulent concealment.
II.     
ARGUMENTS
      Defendant argues
that all claims are barred by the three-year statute of limitations for fraud
and the four-year statute of limitations for violations of the Act.  The limitations period is not tolled. The
fraud claim does not meet the heightened standard of pleading. 
      The
claim for fraudulent concealment fails because Defendant would owe a duty if
Defendant knew of the defect, and there was a direct transaction between
Defendant and Plaintiff such that the material information could be disclosed.
Neither element is supported by the facts. The allegations are inconsistent. Defendant
separately moves to strike the claim for punitive damages. 
      In
opposition, Plaintiffs argue that the statute of limitations is tolled by
delayed discovery. The fraudulent concealment claim is alleged with specificity.
Alternatively, Plaintiffs request leave to amend. The claim for punitive
damages is adequately supported by the alleged facts. 
III.   
LEGAL STANDARDS
      A demurrer tests the
sufficiency of a complaint as a matter of law and raises only questions of law.
(Schmidt
v. Foundation Health (1995) 35
Cal.App.4th 1702, 1706.) The court must assume the truth of (1) the properly
pleaded factual allegations; (2) facts that can be reasonably inferred from
those expressly pleaded; and (3) judicially noticed matters. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39
Cal.3d 311, 318.) The court
may not consider contentions, deductions, or conclusions of fact or law. (Moore
v. Conliffe (1994) 7 Cal.4th
634, 638.) 
      Plaintiff
must allege facts sufficient to establish every element of each cause of
action. (Rakestraw
v. California Physicians Service (2000) 81 Cal.App.4th 39, 43.) Where the complaint fails to state
facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action, courts should sustain the
demurrer. Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10(e); (Zelig
v. County of Los Angeles (2002) 27 Cal.4th 1112, 1126.) The Plaintiff is required to allege
facts "with reasonable precision and with particularity sufficiently
specific to acquaint the defendant with the nature, source, and extent of his
cause of action.” (Gressley
v. Williams (1961) 193
Cal.App.2d 636, 643-644.) Whether the Plaintiff will be able to prove the
pleaded facts is irrelevant. (Stevens
v. Superior Court (1986) 180 Cal.App.3d 605, 609–610.)j
      A
demurrer may also be sustained if a complaint is “uncertain.” Uncertainty
exists where a complaint’s factual allegations are so confusing, they do not
sufficiently apprise a defendant of the issues it is being asked to meet. (Williams
v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 135, 139, fn. 2; Code Civ.
Proc., § 430.10 subd. (f).)
IV.   
DISCUSSION
A.     
Statute of limitations on a claim for violation
of the Warranty Act
      For the court to sustain demurrer to
the complaint based on a statute of limitations defect, “the defect must
clearly and affirmatively appear on the face of the complaint… . A demurrer
will not lie where the action may be but is not necessarily barred.” (Citizens for a Responsible Caltrans
Decision v. Department of Transportation (2020) 46 Cal.App.5th 1103, 1117.) 
      An action for breach of
contract of a contract for sale must be commenced within four years after the
cause of action has accrued. (Cal. U. Com. Code, § 2725.) The claim does not accrue on the
date of sale as Defendant argues as the statute provides for an exception based
on delayed discovery “where a warranty explicitly extends to future performance
of the goods and discovery of the breach must await the time of such
performance the cause of action accrues when the breach is or should have been
discovered." (Id.) 
      The Court in Krieger v. Nick Alexander Imports,
Inc. (1991) 234
Cal.App.3d 205 rejected the
contention that the claim accrued on the date of sale reasoning that "[i]f
we adopted the position urged by respondent and held that a cause of action for
breach of express warranty accrues on tender of delivery, before the seller has
an opportunity to repair any defects, we would undermine the legislative
purpose that the parties attempt to resolve any deficiencies in performance before
resorting to the remedies provided in the [Warranty] Act.” (Id. at
218-219.)        Plaintiffs expressly allege that
the warranty issued by Defendant covered any repairs needed to correct defects
in material or workmanship of a covered part. (Complaint, ¶ 9.) The warranty
assured consumers that Defendant would repair any defect in materials or
workmanship under normal use. (Complaint, ¶ 9.) Plaintiffs complained of
numerous problems involving the transmission and other defects all within the
warranty period commencing on February 2, 2018, through February 17, 2023.
Plaintiffs allege that it was not until November 22, 2021, that they discovered
information indicating that the transmission defect was not unique but was a
pervasive problem. (Complaint, ¶ 80.) Plaintiffs commenced this action on July
13, 2023, 20 months later.  The claim
under the Warranty Act is not clearly barred by the four-year statute of
limitations based on the allegations of the Complaint. 
 
B.   Statute
of limitations on a claim for fraudulent concealment
      The statute of limitations
on a claim for fraud is three years from the date of accrual. The claim “is not
deemed to have accrued until the discovery, by the aggrieved party, of the
facts constituting the fraud or mistake." (Code Civ. Proc., § 338 subd. (d).) Defendant again argues that the fraud
claim accrued on the date of sale. 
      To rely on
the discovery rule for delayed accrual of a cause of
action, “[a] plaintiff whose complaint shows on face that the claim would be
barred without the benefit of the discovery rule must
specifically plead facts to show (1) the time and manner of discovery and (2)
the inability to have made earlier discovery despite reasonable diligence. … In
assessing the sufficiency of the allegations of delayed discovery,
the court places the burden on the plaintiff to show diligence; conclusory
allegations will not withstand demurrer.” (Doe v. Roman Catholic Bishop of
Sacramento (2010) 189
Cal.App.4th 1423, 1430.)
      Plaintiffs have adequately
alleged delayed discovery and reasonable diligence.  Plaintiffs allege they attempted repair on the
vehicle 17 times over a five-year period. (Complaint, ¶ 9.)  Plaintiffs allege that they could not have
discovered these issues prior to that time despite their reasonable diligence
because Defendant allegedly concealed these defects by representing that the
transmission issues were repaired. (Complaint, ¶ 80.) The allegations of delayed
discovery are sufficient to delay accrual.
      Whether Plaintiffs are
entitled to the benefit of other tolling doctrines applicable to class action
plaintiffs is superfluous. Defendant improperly states the date of accrual for these
claims although the statutes governing both claims expressly provide for accrual
based on delayed discovery. 
 
B.     
The claim
for fraudulent concealment is adequately alleged. 
      The
elements of a fraud claim based on concealment are: “(1) the defendant must
have concealed or suppressed a material fact, (2) the defendant must have
been under a duty to disclose the fact to the plaintiff, (3) the defendant
must have intentionally concealed or suppressed the fact with the intent to
defraud the plaintiff, (4) the plaintiff must have been unaware of the fact and
would not have acted as he did if he had known of the concealed or suppressed
fact, and (5) as a result of the concealment or suppression of the fact, the
plaintiff must have sustained damage.” (Bigler-Engler
v. Breg, Inc. (2017) 7 Cal.App.5th 276, 310–311.)    There are “four circumstances in which
nondisclosure or concealment may constitute actionable fraud: (1) when the
defendant is in a fiduciary relationship with the plaintiff; (2) when the
defendant had exclusive knowledge of material facts not known to the plaintiff;
(3) when the defendant actively conceals a material fact from the plaintiff;
and (4) when the defendant makes partial representations but also suppresses
some material facts.” (Id. at
311). If a fiduciary
relationship does not exist, but the latter three circumstances are present, plaintiff
must still show “the existence of some other relationship between the plaintiff
and defendant from which a duty to disclose can arise.” (Id. at 311.)
      A duty to disclose may arise as a result
of a transaction between the parties. However, the transaction "must
necessarily arise from direct dealings between the plaintiff and the defendant;
it cannot arise between the defendant and the public at large." (Bigler-Engler at
312 [noting that the duty of a manufacturer to
warn consumers of a product’s hazards and faults applies in the context of
strict products liability actions but does not apply in a suit for intentional
misrepresentation.].)
      Plaintiffs cite Dhital
v. Nissan North America, Inc. (2022) 84 Cal.App.5th 828, wherein
the Plaintiffs sued Nissan North America, Inc. (Nissan), alleging a
transmission defect. Plaintiffs alleged claims under the Song-Beverly Consumer
Warranty Act and a common law fraud claim alleging that Nissan fraudulently
concealed the defects and induced them to purchase a car. (Dhital at
838). The California
Supreme Court granted review of Dhital on February 1, 2023, however, the
request for de-publication was denied. (Dhital
v. Nissan North America (Cal. 2023) 304 Cal.Rptr.3d 82,
83). Since review is pending and the Supreme
Court did not otherwise order, Dhital does not have binding effect,
however, “it may be cited for potentially persuasive value only.” (Cal
Rules of Court, Rule 8.1115 (e)(1).) 
      The Dhital court concluded that
allegations were sufficient to support the existence of a buyer-seller
relationship between the parties as “Plaintiffs alleged that they bought the
car from a Nissan dealership, that Nissan backed the car with an express
warranty, and that Nissan's authorized dealerships are [the manufacturer’s]
agents for purposes of the sale of Nissan vehicles to consumers. In light
of these allegations, we decline to hold plaintiffs’ claim is barred on the
ground there was no relationship requiring Nissan to disclose known
defects." (Dhital
at 845.) Plaintiffs’
allegations conform with the allegations found by the Court of Appeal to
establish a relationship with the manufacturer sufficient to withstand
demurrer. (Complaint, ¶¶ 8-9, 50.)
      In its reply brief, Defendant contends in
a footnote, that none of Plaintiffs’ case authority applies since they are
federal cases that precede Bigler-Engler. As previously explained, Dhital,
a state court decision, remains persuasive authority. 
      Ordinarily,
fraud claims are subject to strict requirements of particularity in pleading
which necessitate pleading facts showing “how, when, where, to whom, and by
what means the representations were tendered." (Stansfield
v. Starkey (1990) 220 Cal.App.3d 59, 73.)  However, the specificity rule is intended to
apply to affirmative misrepresentations and not to concealment. (Alfaro
v. Community Housing Improvement System & Planning Assn., Inc. (2009)
89 Cal.Rptr.3d 659.) Accordingly, the allegation that
Defendant had exclusive knowledge of the transmission defects and the alleged
facts supporting the existence of a direct transactional relationship with
Defendant’s agent are sufficient to support a duty not to conceal material
facts.
      Defendant argues that the allegations that
Defendant published Technical Service Bulletins (TSBs) to NHTSA cuts against
the allegation that Defendant failed to disclose the defects. (Dem. 16:9-14.) Defendant
does not cite any authority to suggest that it owes no duty to Plaintiff as a
consumer if it publishes TSBs to the public at large. This argument contradicts
Defendant’s argument that a direct transaction with the manufacturer and a
relationship with the dealer is required to impose liability. The concealment
claim is adequately alleged.  
      In its reply, Defendant contends that Plaintiff misconstrues the economic loss rule which
states that “[i]n general, there is no recovery in tort for negligently
inflicted ‘purely economic losses,’ meaning financial harm unaccompanied by
physical or property damage.” (Dhital, supra 721-722.)  Defendant argues that because
the economic loss doctrine bars Plaintiff’s claim for fraudulent concealment, Plaintiffs
attempt to recast the concealment claim as one for fraud in the inducement of a
contract, is without merit because Defendant and Plaintiffs did not enter into
a contract. (Reply, 9:18-26.) 
      The complaint alleges that
the dealership was Defendant’s agent and that Defendant, and its agents
concealed material facts relating to the transmission defect. (Complaint ¶ 122-123.)
Plaintiffs also allege that Defendant produces and distributes marketing
materials touting the characteristics of the vehicle’s performance. (Complaint,
¶ 127.) These allegations support Plaintiffs’ contention that they were induced
to enter into a sale contract with Defendant’s agent. 
      Additionally, the Dhital court held that the tort of fraudulent inducement
by concealment is excepted from the economic loss rules since "the duty
that gives rise to tort liability is either completely independent of the
contract or arises from conduct which is both intentional and intended to harm.
(Dhital at 828.) Accordingly, since Plaintiffs’ claim for inducement by concealment is
adequately alleged, it is not barred by the economic loss rule. [1]
 
V.                 
CONCLUSION
      Based on the
foregoing, demurrer to Plaintiff’s complaint is overruled. Defendant shall file
an answer within 10 days. 
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING DEFENDANT’S MOTION TO STRIKE
I.                   
ARGUMENTS
      Defendant separately moves
to strike the claim for punitive damages on grounds Plaintiffs did not allege
facts showing that Defendant acted with malice, fraud, or oppression to warrant
recovery of such damages. The fraudulent concealment claim is defective and
cannot serve as a predicate to support recovery of punitive damages. 
      In opposition, Plaintiffs
argue that the fraudulent concealment claim is well pleaded and supports
recovery of punitive damages.  
      In reply, Defendant contends
that punitive damages may not be presumed as Plaintiffs argue. Plaintiffs’
allegations supporting corporate liability for punitive damages are mere
conclusions. 
II.                 
LEGAL STANDARDS
      The court may, upon motion
or at any time in its discretion and upon terms it deems proper: (1) strike out
any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (2)
strike out all or any part of the pleading not drawn or filed in conformity
with the laws of California, a court rule, or an order of the Court. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436 subd (a)-(b).) Grounds for the motion to strike
are limited to matters that appear on the face of the pleading or on any matter
which the court shall or may take judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437.)
III.               
DISCUSSION
      Plaintiffs may recover on a
claim for exemplary damages if Plaintiffs establish “by clear and convincing
evidence that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.” (Civ. Code, § 3294 subd. (a).) The predicate acts to support a claim for punitive
damages must be intended to cause injury or must constitute “malicious” or
“oppressive” conduct as defined by statute. “Malice” is defined as “conduct
which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or
despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and
conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.”
(Civ. Code,
§ 3294 subd. (c)(1); College
Hospital Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8
Cal.4th 704, 725 ["malice involves awareness of dangerous consequences and a
willful and deliberate failure to avoid them"].) "Oppression" is
defined as “despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust
hardship in conscious disregard of that person's rights.” (Civ. Code, § 3294 subd. (a) subd. (c)(2).)
      Absent an intent to injure
the plaintiff, the conduct must be “despicable” which is defined as “base,
vile, or contemptible.” (College Hospital Inc. at 725.) Plaintiffs must demonstrate that “the defendant acted in such an
outrageous and reprehensible manner that the jury could infer that he knowingly
disregarded the substantial certainty of injury to others." (Dawes v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 82, 90.) Additionally, liability for punitive damages will
not be imposed against a corporate employer absent proof of advance knowledge
or ratification by an officer, director or managing agent. (Civ. Code, § 3294 subd. (b).)      
      As explained previously,
Plaintiffs are not required to allege specific facts where the claim is based
on fraudulent concealment. Notwithstanding, Plaintiffs allege that the
published materials and Defendant’s active concealment induced Plaintiffs to
purchase the vehicle. (Complaint ¶ 77, ¶ 131, ¶ 136.) 
      The claim for fraudulent
concealment survives demurrer and provides a predicate for recovery of punitive
damages. Plaintiffs also allege that all acts of a corporate employees were
authorized by an officer, director, or managing agent of the corporate
employer. (Complaint, ¶7). Defendant relies on White
v. Ultramar, Inc. (1999) 21
Cal.4th 563, contending that
Plaintiff is required to identify the corporate agent who engaged in the
unlawful acts. (Mot. 6:18-21.) White considered whether plaintiff’s evidence at trial
was sufficient to establish that plaintiff’s supervisor was a managing agent
for purposes of imposing punitive damages. 
(White
at 573.) The White Court did not address the requirements of
pleading. Whether a corporate employee has broad discretionary powers and
exercises substantial discretionary authority in the corporation to be
considered a managing agent requires evidence, which Plaintiffs are not
required to allege. (White
at 577.) 
 
IV.              
CONCLUSION
      Based on the foregoing,
Defendant’s motion to strike is DENIED. Defendant is ordered to answer within
10 days. 
 
 
      
 
 


