  Case Number:  20STLC09822    Hearing Date:   June 27, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     June 27, 2024             TRIAL DATE: September
10, 2024
                                                           
CASE:                         Stanford Neighborhood Association LLC v.
Miranda Logistics Enterprise, Inc.
 
CASE NO.:                 20STLC09822            
 
MOTION
FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT OR SUMMARY ADJUDICATION

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendants/Cross-Complainants Miranda Logistics
Enterprise, Inc., Grit & Gravel Inc, and United Pacific Waste
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiff Stanford
Neighborhood Association, LLC
 
CASE
HISTORY:
·        
11/24/20: Complaint filed
·        
02/09/21: Cross-Complaint filed as to Stanford
Neighborhood Association, LLC; DGT Holdings LLC, and LA Catering Truck MFG,
Inc.
·        
02/26/21: First Amended Complaint filed.
·        
04/09/21: Cross-Complaint filed as to Grit &
Gravel Inc. and Miranda Logistics Enterprise, Inc.
·        
07/01/21: Second Amended Complaint filed. 
·        
07/21/21: First Amended Cross Complaint filed as
to Stanford Neighborhood Association, LLC; DGT Holdings LLC, and LA Catering
Truck MFG, Inc.
·        
08/09/21: First Amended Cross-Complaint filed as
to Grit & Gravel Inc. and Miranda Logistics Enterprise, Inc.
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is an action for trespass, nuisance, negligence, and intentional
interference with contract. Plaintiff alleges that Defendants have failed to
comply with local zoning ordinances pertaining to a building materials salvage
yard which they operate. 
 
Defendants move for summary
judgment, or, in the alternative, for summary adjudication of all causes of
action. 
 
//          
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
            Defendants’ Motion for Summary Judgment is DENIED. 
 
            Defendants’ Motion for Summary
Adjudication is DENIED. 
 
DISCUSSION: 
 
Motion for Summary
Judgment
 
            Defendants move for summary judgment
on the Second Amended Complaint and on the First Amended Cross-Complaint of
Stanford Ventures, LLC. 
 
            For the reasons stated below in
connection with Defendants’ alternative Motion for Summary Adjudication,
Defendants’ Motion for Summary Judgment is DENIED. 
 
Motion for Summary
Adjudication
 
            Defendants move in the alternative
for summary adjudication of each cause of action asserted against them in the
Second Amended Complaint and the First Amended Cross-Complaint of Stanford
Ventures, LLC. 
 
Legal Standard
 
The function of a motion for
summary judgment or adjudication is to allow a determination as to whether an
opposing party can show evidentiary support for a pleading or claim and, if
not, to enable an order of summary dismissal without the need for trial. (Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) Code of Civil
Procedure Section 437c(c) “requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment
if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from
the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that
there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is
entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” 
(Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110,
1119.)  “The function of the pleadings in
a motion for summary judgment is to delimit the scope of the issues; the
function of the affidavits or declarations is to disclose whether there is any
triable issue of fact within the issues delimited by the pleadings.” (Juge
v. County of Sacramento (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67, citing FPI
Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal. App. 3d 367, 381-82.)
 
As to each claim as framed by the
complaint, the defendant moving for summary judgment must satisfy the initial
burden of proof by presenting facts to negate an essential element, or to
establish a defense. (Code Civ Proc. § 437c(p)(2); Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes,
Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.) Courts “liberally construe the
evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts
concerning the evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide,
Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.) The lack of opposition by a plaintiff is
not grounds to grant a motion for summary judgment if a defendant cannot meet
their initial burden of proof. (See Thatcher v. Lucy Stores, Inc. (2000)
79 Cal.App.4th 1081, 1087.)
 
            Once the
defendant has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that
a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action
or a defense thereto. To establish a triable issue of material fact, the party
opposing the motion must produce substantial responsive evidence. (Sangster
v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)
 
Defendants’ Request for Judicial Notice
 
            Defendants
request that the Court take Judicial Notice of (1) the South Coast Air Quality
Management District’s Rule 403 regarding PM10 particulate levels; (2-13), Defendants’
various filings in support of their opposition to Plaintiff’s Motion for
Preliminary Injunction and Motino for Summary Judgment and the Court’s rulings
thereon; (14) the Certificate of Occupancy for the subject property; (15) the
South Coast Air Quality Management Board’s particulate readings from 2014 to
2024; and (16) the Declaration of Donald Velez in Support of the Motion for
Terminating Sanctions filed on May 2, 2023. 
 
            Defendants’
Request Nos 1 and 14 are GRANTED pursuant to Evidence Code section 452(c)
(official acts) and Requests Nos. 2 through 13 and 16 are GRANTED pursuant to
Evidence Code section 452(d) (court records). Request No. 15 is DENIED as
immaterial to the Court’s ruling. (Gbur
v. Cohen (1979) 93 Cal.App.3d 296, 301 [“[J]udicial notice . . . is always
confined to those matters which are relevant to the issue at hand.”].) 
 
Plaintiff’s Request for Judicial Notice
 
            Plaintiff
requests that the Court take judicial notice of various records. As none of
these documents are material to the Court’s ruling, Plaintiff’s requests are DENIED.
(Gbur v. Cohen (1979) 93
Cal.App.3d 296, 301 [“[J]udicial notice . . . is always confined to those
matters which are relevant to the issue at hand.”].) 
 
Plaintiff’s Improper Evidentiary Objections
 
            Plaintiff
asserts numerous evidentiary objections in its Separate Statement of Material
Fact in Opposition to the Motion. California Rule of Court 3.1354(b) requires
that all written objections to evidence be served and filed separately
from the other papers in opposition to the motion. As Plaintiff has not
complied with this requirement, the Court refuses to consider Plaintiff’s
evidentiary objections. 
 
Challenge to Merits of Second Amended Complaint. 
 
            Defendants
contend that they are entitled to summary adjudication of each of the seven
causes of action in the Second Amended Complaint for (1) trespass, (2)
nuisance, (3) intentional interference with contractual relations, (4)
intentional interference with economic relations, (5) negligent interference
with economic relations; (6) negligence, and (7) negligence per se on the basis
that Plaintiffs have no evidence to support any of the elements of any of these
causes of action. 
 
            As the
moving party on a motion for summary adjudication, Defendants bear a burden of
production to make a prima facie showing of the nonexistence of a triable issue
of any material fact. (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at 850.) Defendants
must demonstrate that one or more elements of each cause of action cannot be
established by Plaintiffs. (Id. at 853.) Defendants carry this burden by
demonstrating, first, that the Plaintiffs do not possess needed evidence, and,
second, that they cannot reasonably obtain that evidence. (Id. at 854.) 
 
            Defendants
first offer sweeping assertions that Plaintiffs cannot establish the requisite
intent, causal connection, or harm elements of any of their causes of action. These
contentions are based entirely on bare conclusions in the Separate Statement
supported by sweeping citations to more than a dozen exhibits filed by
Defendants in connection with previous motions. (Separate Statement of
Undisputed Material Facts Nos. 1-2, 9-11, 18-24, 31-34, 41-47, 54-55, 62-64.) None
of these exhibits are included in Defendants moving papers, nor do copies of
these exhibits accompany Defendants’ request for judicial notice. Even if these
exhibits were properly cited and discussed—and they are not, as will be
discussed shortly—referencing the exhibits in this manner rather than providing
them with the papers obligates the Court and Plaintiffs to plumb the depths of
the docket to locate and review these exhibits, wasting considerable time and
resources. What is more, these bulk citations do not satisfy the procedural
requirements of a separate statement by citing to exhibits with title, page,
and line numbers. (Cal. Rules of Court 3.1350(d)(3).) Moreover, as stated in Aguilar,
a burden of production “entails . . . the presentation of evidence.” (Aguilar,
supra, 25 Cal.4th at 850.) While presentation does not
necessarily require that the evidence be persuasive, even though the moving
party also bears a burden of persuasion, (Id. at 850), the moving party
nevertheless bears the burden to show that the opposing party cannot
prevail. (Id. at 853-54.) Vague citations to more than a dozen exhibits
show nothing of value, nor do they satisfy either of the purposes of a separate
statement. (Parkview Villas Assn., Inc. v. State Farm Fire & Casualty
Co. (2005) 133 Cal.App.4th 1197, 1210 [“The requirement of a separate
statement from the moving party and a responding statement from the party
opposing summary judgment serves two functions: to give the parties notice of the
material facts at issue in the motion and to permit the trial court to focus on
whether those facts are truly undisputed.”].) Defendants’ challenge to these
elements are woefully deficient, both procedurally, because they do not comply
with the rules for a separate statement, and substantively, as they do not
satisfy the burden of production because they do not contain a proper
presentation of evidence. 
 
            While
Defendants also purport to present evidence that their particulate emissions and
noise levels were within regulatory boundaries, and that Defendants employed
noise mitigation measures, as with their challenge to Plaintiffs’ ability to
produce evidence, Defendants merely cite to reams of exhibits filed in support
of other motions, without specificity. (SSUMF Nos. 3-8, 12-17, 25-30, 35-40,
48-53, 56-61, 65-70.) For the reasons discussed above, these arguments are
likewise procedurally and substantively deficient. 
 
            Defendants
also challenge each cause of action as to Plaintiff and each assignor with
respect to their claims against Grit & Gravel, Inc. and United Pacific
Waste by arguing that Plaintiff does not have assignments to pursue claims
against these parties. As above, Defendants’ position is based on a bulk
citation without specifics. (SSUMF No. 75.) For the reasons stated above, this
is not sufficient to carry Defendants’ burden on summary adjudication. 
 
            Finally,
Defendant United Pacific Waste seeks summary adjudication of each cause of
action on the basis that it is not the owner of the subject property as of May
19, 2022. (SSUMF No. 74.) Defendants cite no authority for the conclusory
assertion that, even though Defendant United Pacific Waste owned the subject
property when the alleged misconduct occurred, all claims against this entity are
invalid now that United Pacific Waste no longer owns the property. Defendants
have thus failed to carry their burden to demonstrate that Plaintiffs cannot
prevail against this Defendant on this basis.
 
            Accordingly,
Defendants’ Motion for Summary Adjudication of the Second Amended Complaint is
DENIED. 
 
Challenge to
Merits of First Amended Cross-Complaint
 
            Defendants also move for summary
adjudication of the sole cause of action of Stanford Ventures, LLC’s First
Amended Cross-Complaint for invasion of privacy. The First Amended
Cross-Complaint, filed on August 9, 2021, alleges that Defendants have
installed security cameras which are pointed into Cross-Complainant’s property.
(FAXC ¶ 14.) Cross-Complainant asserts the claim for invasion of privacy under
Civil Code section 1708.8. This section states, in relevant part:
 
(a) A person is liable for physical invasion
of privacy when the person knowingly enters onto the land or into the airspace
above the land of another person without permission or otherwise commits a
trespass in order to capture any type of visual image, sound recording, or
other physical impression of the plaintiff engaging in a private, personal, or
familial activity and the invasion occurs in a manner that is offensive to a
reasonable person. 
 
(b) A person is liable for constructive
invasion of privacy when the person attempts to capture, in a manner that is
offensive to a reasonable person, any type of visual image, sound recording, or
other physical impression of the plaintiff engaging in a private, personal, or
familial activity, through the use of any device, regardless of whether there
is a physical trespass, if this image, sound recording, or other physical
impression could not have been achieved without a trespass unless the device
was used.
 
(Civ. Code §
1708.8(a)-(b).) Defendants contend that, first, the cameras were removed on
October 3, 2022, and, second, that the cameras never made any recordings of
Stanford Ventures because they were not pointed at their property, but at the
street in front of 6510 Stanford Avenue. (SSUMF Nos. 72-73; Declaration of
Mario Antonio Miranda ISO Mot. ¶ 5.) Whether the cameras were removed in
October 2022 is immaterial where, as here, the Cross-Complainant is seeking
relief in part for the alleged invasion of privacy up to that point. Defendants
also contend that Cross-Complainant’s evidence does not demonstrate that any
recording was made, but their citation to that evidence is, once again,
deficient. (SSUMF No. 71.) That said, Defendants’ evidence that the camera was
never pointed at the Cross-Complainant’s property is sufficient to carry their
burden of production to show that Cross-Complainant cannot prevail on this
cause of action. In opposition, Cross-Complainant squarely addresses this
contention by offering a sworn affidavit that the cameras were visible from
Cross-Complainant’s property and pointed directly into the property.
(Plaintiffs’ Separate Statement of Material Fact No. 73; Declaration of Martin
Smith ISO Opp. ¶¶ 3-4.) Cross-Complainant has therefore established a triable
issue of fact as to whether the cameras were pointed at the property, and,
thus, whether any recording was, in fact, made. Defendants are therefore not
entitled to summary adjudication of this cause of action.
 
            Accordingly, Defendants’ Motion for
Summary Adjudication of the First Amended Cross-Complaint by Stanford Ventures,
LLC is DENIED. 
            
CONCLUSION:

 
            Accordingly, Defendants’ Motion for Summary Judgment is
DENIED. 
 
            Defendants’ Motion for Summary
Adjudication is DENIED. 
 
            Moving Party to give notice. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated: June 27, 2024                          ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 