 Case Number:  BC720314    Hearing Date:   June 27, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     June 27, 2024             TRIAL DATE: October
8, 2024
                                                           
CASE:                         Annabel Aghajanian v. City of Glendale,
et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 BC720314            
 
MOTION
FOR LEAVE TO AMEND ANSWER

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendants City of Glendale, Stephen Zurn, Burhan
Alshanti, and Matthew Doyle
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiff Annabel
Aghajanian
 
CASE
HISTORY:
·        
08/30/18: Complaint filed by Annabel Aghajanian
·        
09/20/18: Complaint filed by Vahik Haddadian
·        
11/19/21: Cases ordered consolidated.
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is an action for employment discrimination and wrongful termination.
Plaintiff alleges that she was subjected to a campaign of harassment by
Defendant Alshanti on the basis of her race, national origin, religious
beliefs, and marital status, and that she was terminated by Defendant City of
Glendale in retaliation for complaining about this treatment. 
 
Defendants move for leave to amend
their answer to assert the affirmative defense of Plaintiff’s failure to
mitigate.  
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Defendants’ Motion for Leave to
Amend the Answer is DENIED.  
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Defendants move for leave to amend
their answer to assert the affirmative defense of Plaintiff’s failure to
mitigate.  
 
Legal Standard
 
The court may, in furtherance of
justice, and on such terms as may be proper, allow a party to amend any
pleading. (Code Civ. Proc. § 473(a)(1).) Amendments of pleadings may be
permitted up to and during trial, absent prejudice to the adverse party. (Atkinson
v. Elk Corp. (2003) 109 Cal.App.4th 739, 761.) Judicial policy favors
liberal exercise of discretion to permit amendment of the pleadings. (Royal
Thrift & Loan Co. v. County Escrow, Inc. (2004) 123 Cal.App.4th 24,
41-42.) Absent prejudice to the Plaintiffs, a denial of leave to amend is an
abuse of discretion. (Kittridge Sports Co. v. Superior Court (1989) 213
Cal.App.3d 1045, 1048.) At the same time, “if a party seeking amendment has
been dilatory and/or the delay has prejudiced or will prejudice the opposing
party, the trial court in its discretion may deny leave to amend.” (M&F
Fishing, Inc. v. Sea-Pac Ins. Managers, Inc. (2012) 202 Cal. App. 4th 1509,
1534.)
 
A motion to amend a pleading before
trial must meet the following requirements:
 
(a) Contents of
motion
 
A motion to amend a
pleading before trial must:
 
(1) Include a copy of
the proposed amendment or amended pleading, which must be serially numbered to
differentiate it from previous pleadings or amendments;
 
(2) State what
allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to be deleted, if any, and
where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the deleted allegations are
located; and
 
(3) State what
allegations are proposed to be added to the previous pleading, if any, and
where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the additional allegations are
located.
 
(b) Supporting
declaration
 
A separate declaration
must accompany the motion and must specify:
 
(1) The effect of the
amendment;
 
(2) Why the amendment
is necessary and proper;
 
(3) When the facts
giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered; and
 
(4) The reasons why
the request for amendment was not made earlier.
(Cal. Rules of Court Rule 3.1324.)
 
Contents of Motion
 
Defendants included a copy of the
proposed Amended Answer as Exhibit 3 with the moving papers. Defendants have
therefore substantially complied with California Rule of Court 3.1324(a)(1). The
motion does not, however, set forth the proposed amendments by page, paragraph,
and line number as required by Rule 3.1324(a)(2) and (a)(3). However, as the
proposed amendment is a single affirmative defense which is plainly shown in
the proposed amended pleading, the Court finds that Defendants have
substantially complied with subdivision (a).
 
Supporting Declaration
 
            The
Declaration of Antony R. Pizarro in support of the motion does not directly
state the effect of the proposed amendment, as required by Rule 3.1324(b)(1),
although the motion plainly states its purpose in seeking to assert the
affirmative defense of failure to mitigate. The declaration also does not state
why the amendment is necessary and proper beyond a bare assertion that
Defendants intend to argue that Plaintiff failed to mitigate her damages and
“recently discovered that the failure to mitigate affirmative defense was
inadvertently omitted from the answer.” (Declaration of Atony R. Pizarro ISO
Mot. ¶ 5.) No details are provided showing when the facts giving rise to these
allegations were discovered, nor why the request for amendment was not made
earlier. For this reason alone, the Court would be inclined to deny the motion
for failure to satisfy the requirements of Rule 3.1324(b). 
 
Prejudice to Plaintiff
 
            Even if
Defendants’ motion were procedurally compliant, Plaintiff’s forceful opposition
demonstrates that leave to amend would not be proper in this instance. To demonstrate
that Plaintiff failed to mitigate her damages, Defendants would be required to
establish (1) that employment substantially similar to her former job was
available; (2) that she failed to make reasonable efforts to seek and retain
that employment; and (3) the amount that she could have earned from that
employment. (Parker v. Twentieth Century Fox Film Corp. (1970) 3 Cal.3d
176, 182.) As Plaintiff states in her opposition, by seeking to assert this
affirmative defense at such a late date, after the close of discovery,
Plaintiff would not be able to retain a vocational expert in time for trial.
Moreover, any such testimony would require an expert to opine on the state of
the job market in 2017, seven years ago, calling the value of that testimony
into question. While Defendants contend in reply that Plaintiff had fair notice
of this issue and declined to pursue discovery on the subject, the Court has
already determined in the context of Defendants’ Motion for Leave to Reopen
Discovery that the record belies that position. (May 14, 2024 Ruling on Matter
Taken Under Submission.) As the Court stated then, Defendants raised the issue
in a deposition on September 29, 2021 and then entirely failed to follow up until
February 2024. (Ruling p. 4.) Defendants’ laxness in pursuing this discovery
does not and cannot constitute fair notice to Plaintiff that a failure to
mitigate defense would be an issue for trial. Further, Defendants offer no
indication as to what facts or evidence would support the affirmative defense,
which is itself asserted only as a bare legal conclusion that “Plaintiff has
failed to mitigate damages,” (Defendants’ Exh. 3). Leaving aside the
evidentiary issues, a bare legal conclusion such as the proposed amendment
would be subject to demurrer for failure to allege sufficient facts. (Westly v. Board of Administration (2003) 105 Cal. App.
4th 1095, 1117.) Permitting amendment to assert this affirmative defense
would be facially prejudicial to Plaintiff, as the defense would be
insufficiently pled, and Plaintiff would be deprived of a fair opportunity to
pursue discovery on the issue. For that reason, the Court could not countenance
granting leave to amend. 
 
CONCLUSION:

 
Accordingly, Defendants’
Motion for Leave to Amend the Answer is DENIED.  
 
Moving Parties to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated: June 27, 2024                          ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 