 Case Number:  23STCV16435    Hearing Date:   August 8, 2024    Dept:  73 08/08/2024
Dept. 73
Hon. Rolf Treu, Judge presiding 
 
GEORGE W. CARROLL v. TAYLOR & LIEBERMAN, AN ACCOUNTANCY
CORPORATION, et al. 
(23STCV16435)
 
Counsel for
Plaintiff/opposing party: Neal S. Salisian (Salisian Lee LLP)
 
Counsel for Defendants/moving
party: J. Andrew Wright (Chapman Glucksman)
 
Demurrer WITH MOTION TO STRIKE SECOND
AMENDED complaint (filed 05/14/24)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Defendants’ demurrer is SUSTAINED without leave
to amend as to the second, third, fourth and fifth causes of action against all
Defendants. 
 
Defendants’
demurrer to the first cause of
action against Defendant Sweeney as an individual is OVERRULED. 
 
Defendants’ motion
to strike is MOOT. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On July 13, 2023, Plaintiff George W. Carroll (“Plaintiff”) filed
this action against Defendants Taylor and Lieberman and Joseph Sweeney
(collectively “Defendants”). 
 
Plaintiff alleges that on September 11, 2018, Plaintiff
retained Defendants to provide professional consulting and accounting services
in connection with a petition for dissolution of marriage between Plaintiff and
Laura Petrucci (“Petrucci”). (SAC, ¶ 12.) Plaintiff alleges during the course of Defendants’ provision of
accounting services, Plaintiff repeatedly told Defendants to not concede certain
reimbursement claims requested by Petrucci because they were duplicative and
fraudulent. (SAC, ¶ 14.) However, Plaintiff alleges despite his instructions, Defendants
conceded at least $525,707.00 of fraudulent expense reimbursements to Petrucci.
(SAC, ¶ 20.)
 
On September 11, 2023, Defendants filed
a demurrer and motion to strike portions of the Complaint. The Court sustained
Defendants’ demurrer and granted its motion to strike. (Court’s 11/22/23 Minute
Order.)
 
On
December 7, 2023, Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”). On March 14, 2024, the Court sustained Defendants’
demurrer to the FAC as to all causes of action, except for the first cause of
action. (Court’s 03/14/24 Minute Order.) Defendants’ motion to strike was moot
in light of this ruling. (Ibid.)
 
On
April 8, 2024, Plaintiff filed a Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”) alleging causes
of action for: (1) Negligence, (2) Breach of Fiduciary Duty, (3) Fraud
(Concealment), (4) Breach of Contract, and (5) Quasi Contract. 
 
On May 14, 2024, Defendants filed a demurrer
and motion to strike portions of the SAC arguing:
·       
The second, third, fourth and fifth causes of action fail because
they are duplicative causes of action. This action is purely a negligence claim.
·       The second
cause of action in the SAC, Breach of Fiduciary Duty, fails as it does not
state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action
o   There is no
fiduciary or confidential relationship 
§  There is no
authority to support an inherent fiduciary relationship between accountants and
clients. The requirement that control over the property of another is necessary
to create a fiduciary relationship was reaffirmed in Apollo Capital Fund,
158 Cal.App.4th 226, 246. Here, there is no indication that the Accountants’
work was anything beyond providing consulting services in relation to
Plaintiff’s dissolution of marriage. (SAC ¶¶ 12-23).
§  Confidential
relationships depend on the circumstances and require vulnerability of one
party. Vulnerability usually arises from youth, lack of education, sickness,
etc. Here, being a lay person and providing financial information to an
accountant would not create a confidential relationship.
o  
No actionable breach of fiduciary duty occurred. There is no
allegation that the accountants acted to take advantage of their supposed
position of trust.
·      
The third cause of action in the SAC for fraud fails to state
sufficient facts
·       
The fourth cause of action in the SAC for Quasi-Contract fails because
(1) it is the same as the previous unjust enrichment claim and it cannot be
simultaneously pled to a breach of contract claim 
·       
All five causes of action against Sweeney as an individual should
be eliminated
o   
Sweeney, as to what he did individually, is not specified in the SAC
other than Plaintiff asserting he sent Sweeney an Email and general allegations.
(SAC, ¶ 18). 
·       
Defendants move to strike the claims for punitive damages
o   
Plaintiff improperly pleads for punitive damages. The claim for punitive damages is merely a conclusory assertion
made at paragraphs 33, 40 and in the prayer for relief in contravention of
California law. Simply saying the Accountants’ action were undertaken
maliciously is insufficient to permit the recovery of punitive damages. 
o   
Plaintiff’s allegations only amount to a negligence claim that
does not support recovery of punitive damages
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues:
·       Plaintiff’s claims are not duly duplicative 
o   Each of Plaintiff’s
claims, although arising out of the same professional services rendered by
Defendants, “plead different theories on which relief is sought,” and thus do
not merely seek damages on the theory that all the claims are concurrent causes
of Plaintiff’s damages. 
o   Omitting the
word “negligent” throughout the SAC does not violate thesham pleading doctrine.
See e.g., Colapinto v Cty. Of Riverside, 230 Cal. App. 3d 147, 151
(1991) (changes to “facts” gives rise to sham pleading doctrine); Zakk v.
Diesel, 33 Cal. App. 5th 431, 449 (2019) (changes having no “practical
effect” do not create sham pleading concerns).
·       The second
cause of action, Breach of Fiduciary Duty, does not fail
o   A fiduciary duty existed
§  The
determination of whether the accountant in discharge of his duties created a
fiduciary duty is a question of fact based on the totality of the circumstances
that cannot be adjudicated on demurrer.
§  In the course
of their services, Defendants necessarily acted as Plaintiff’s agents in
connection with their carrying out of his instructions, Plaintiff reposed trust
and confidence in Defendants to carry out his instructions and otherwise act
professionally, and Defendants’ services were analogous to an attorney, such
that imposing a fiduciary duty on them is a fact question not susceptible to
adjudication on demurrer. See e.g., Persson, 125 Cal. App. 4th at 1161; Oakland
Raiders, 131 Cal. App. 4th at 632-633
o   Defendants
breached their fiduciary duties by failing to adhere to Plaintiff’s
instructions and failing to notify him of that failure
·       The fraud claim is properly pled
o   The fiduciary
Defendants suppressed and concealed material facts they were obligated to
disclose, as set out above; Defendants must have known they conceded the
expense reimbursements, but knowingly failed to tell Mr. Carroll intending to
further their own financial personal interests; Mr. Carroll justifiably relied
on that fraud, reasonably believing that the Fraudulent Expense Reimbursements
were not conceded against his instructions because he reasonably expected
professionals he hired to act as instructed; and Mr. Carroll was damaged
because he was unable to discover the unauthorized concession until it was too
late—in the midst of trial when his ex-wife’s counsel did. [See SAC, ¶ 36-37.]
·       Quasi-Contract
is properly pled
o   Quasi
contract is a cause of action. Plaintiff can seek this remedy without
rescinding the engagement agreement between Defendants and him or otherwise
relying on it, as that contract has no provision related to return of funds he
has paid to Defendants
·       The Claims
Against Mr. Sweeney Are Proper As They Are Premised On His Commission Of
Unlawful Acts.
·       The motion to
strike should be denied
o   Punitive
damages are warranted as the SAC alleges intentional torts undertaken by
Defendants in the form of Mr. Carroll’s claims for breach of fiduciary duty and
fraud.
 
In reply, Defendants argue:
·       Plaintiff’s opposition is comprised of the same arguments and same
authorities as its previous opposition which the Court found unavailing when it
sustained the demurrer to the FAC
·       Plaintiff’s claims are duplicative
o   Here, the
right, duty, breach, and injury are the same for all causes of action
regardless of title: Plaintiff’s had the right to receive competent expert
services, the Accountants had the duty to provide competent expert services,
the Accountants purportedly breached their duty by conceding the so called
‘fraudulent’ expenses despite instructions to the contrary, and Plaintiff was
injured by paying the Accountants and paying his ex-wife for the ‘fraudulent’
expenses
·       Fourth cause of action for Breach of Fiduciary Duty fails
o   Whether a fiduciary
relationship exists is generally determined by the ability to control the
property of another. (Persson v. Smart Inventions, Inc., (2005) 125
Cal.App.4th 1141, 1161.) The lack of control over the Plaintiff’s money or
property establishes that there is no foundation to make a finding that the
Accountants owed the Plaintiff a fiduciary duty.
o   The
authorities Plaintiff relies on are not binding
§  The binding,
majority opinion in Wolf v. Superior Court (2003) 107 Cal.App.4th 25, 40
specifically found that there was no fiduciary duty established. However,
Plaintiff relied on the dissenting opinion despite it not being binding.
§  Moreover, the
federal authorities and authorities from Arizona Plaintiff relies upon are
similarly not binding.
o   Plaintiff
misguidedly goes on to assert the existence of a fiduciary relationship because
the Accountants were supposedly in receipt of Plaintiff’s confidential
information. 
·      
Defendants maintain that Plaintiff has not properly pled fraud and
quasi contract
·      
Defendants reiterate that Plaintiff has
failed to allege facts sufficient to support punitive damages 
ANALYSIS
 
A.      Legal
Standard for Demurrer
 
A demurrer tests the sufficiency of whether the
complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When
considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in context—any
defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial
notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968,
994.) “A demurrer tests the pleading alone, and not the evidence or facts
alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc. v. Accountants, Inc. Servs. (2007) 153
Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) As such, the court assumes the truth of the
complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual allegations. (Id.) The
only issue a demurrer is concerned with is whether the complaint, as it stands,
states a cause of action. (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at p.
747.) 
 
B.      Meet and
Confer Requirement 
 
“Before filing a demurrer pursuant to
this chapter, the demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by
telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for
the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would
resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.41, subd. (a).)  
 
Here, counsel for Defendants submitted a declaration stating he sent
Plaintiff’s counsel correspondence on December 18, 2023 detailing the issues
raised by the demurrer and that the parties further discussed these issues through
additional correspondence. (Pearse Decl., ¶ 2.) An agreement was not reached between the parties. (Ibid.) Although the moving party did not meet its obligations under
CCP § 430.41 as
the parties did not meet and confer in person or by
telephone, the Court continues on the merits.   
 
C.      Request for
Judicial Notice 
 
Defendants request
judicial notice of the following:
(1) Court’s Tentative Decision and [Proposed] Statement of Decision from
underlying action Carroll v. Carroll, California Superior Court No. BD559999;
and (2) Court order issuing Tentative Decision and [Proposed] Statement of
Decision from underlying action Carroll v. Carroll, California Superior Court
No. BD559999.
 
The court
may take judicial notice of “official acts of the legislative, executive, and
judicial departments of the United States and of any state of the United
States,” “[r]ecords of (1) any court of this state or (2) any court of record
of the United States or of any state of the United States,” and “[f]acts and
propositions that are not reasonably subject to dispute and are capable of
immediate and accurate determination by resort to sources of reasonably
indisputable accuracy.” (Evid. Code § 452, subds. (c), (d), and (h).)¿¿ 
 
The Court grants Defendants’ requests
for judicial notice.
 
D.     Second Cause
of Action: Breach of Fiduciary Duty 
 
The elements for a breach of fiduciary
duty cause of action are “the existence of a fiduciary relationship, its
breach, and damage proximately caused by that breach.” (Thomson v. Canyon
(2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 594, 604.)
 
Fiduciary or
confidential relationships give rise to a fiduciary duty, that is, a duty “to
act with the utmost good faith for the benefit of the other party.” (Bacon v. Soule (1912) 19
Cal.App. 428, 434.) “
‘Technically, a fiduciary relationship is a recognized legal relationship such
as guardian and ward, trustee and beneficiary, principal and agent, or attorney and client ...
whereas a “confidential relationship” may be founded on a moral, social,
domestic, or merely personal relationship as well as on a legal
relationship.’” (Richelle L. v. Roman Cath. Archbishop (2003) 106 Cal. App. 4th
257, 271.) 
 
A confidential relation may exist
where there is no fiduciary relation. (Vai v. Bank of America (1961) 56 Cal.2d 329, 337–338.) The existence of a confidential relationship generating
a fiduciary duty is a question of fact. Nonetheless, because of “[t]he
vagueness of the common law definition of the confidential relation that gives
rise to a fiduciary duty, and the range of the relationships that can
potentially be characterized as fiduciary,” the “essential elements” have been
distilled as follows:
“ ‘1) The vulnerability of one party to the other
which 2) results in the empowerment of the stronger party by the weaker which
3) empowerment has been solicited or accepted by the stronger party and 4)
prevents the weaker party from effectively protecting itself.’ ” (Richelle L., supra, 106 Cal.App.4th at p. 272.) A key
factor in the existence of a fiduciary relationship lies in control by a person
over the property of another. (Apollo Cap. Fund, LLC v. Roth Cap. Partners,
LLC (2007) 158 Cal. App. 4th 226, 246.)
 
Defendants
argue the SAC does not contain allegations showing a fiduciary or confidential relationship
existed. Defendants argue there is no indication that their work was anything
beyond providing consulting and accounting services in relation to Plaintiff’s
dissolution of marriage. 
 
Plaintiff asserts that unlike an attorney-client relationship, an
accountant-client relationship may not create fiduciary duties as a matter of
law, however, a fiduciary duty can arise depending on what happened in the
course of that relationship. Plaintiff argues that here, Defendants owed Plaintiff
a fiduciary duty because they acted as his agents, confidants and provided
professional services analogous to an attorney, as they created, drafted, and
provided numerous documents to Plaintiff for filing in the dissolution case. (SAC,
¶¶ 29-34.) Plaintiff asserts the SAC alleges Defendants received confidential
information that they were entrusted to handle, in line with their professed
professional expertise, concerning Plaintiff’s dissolution action, creating a
confidential relationship. (Ibid.) The SAC alleges “Sweeney was
repeatedly provided with specific instructions by Carroll to act on Carroll’s
behalf in a specific manner concerning the Fraudulent Expense Reimbursements,
subject to Carroll’s control.” (SAC, ¶ 32.) Plaintiff contends that accountants
may be fiduciaries as a matter of law, but the authorities Plaintiff relies on
are not binding. (Wolf v.
Super. Ct., 107 Cal. App. 4th 25, 40 (citing the concurring and dissenting
opinion); Kanani v. Frost, Ruttenberg & Rothblatt, P.C., 2005 WL
1661521 at *4; Gemstar Ltd. v. Ernst & Young, 185 Ariz. 493, 505
(1996); Concha v. London, 62 F. 3d 1493, 1501-1502 (1995).)
 
Here, the SAC fails to allege Defendants had control over
Plaintiff’s property. Whether a
fiduciary relationship exists is generally determined by the ability to control
the property of another. (Persson v. Smart Inventions, Inc., (2005) 125
Cal.App.4th 1141, 1161.) Since the SAC is devoid of allegations that Defendants
had control over the Plaintiff’s money or property, Plaintiff has not
sufficiently pled a fiduciary relationship. 
 
In addition, the SAC fails to allege that Plaintiff was in a
vulnerable position in his relationship with Defendants. “In short,
vulnerability ‘is the necessary predicate of a confidential relation,’ and the
law treats it as ‘absolutely essential.’” (Persson, 125 Cal.App.4th at
1161 [citation omitted]). “The vulnerability that is the necessary predicate of
a confidential relation ... usually arises from advanced 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
age, youth, lack of education, weakness of mind, grief, sickness,
or some other incapacity ... In the absence of evidence of any similar
vulnerability or incapacity, we decline to extend the scope of fiduciary
obligations.” (Id. at 1162). Plaintiff argues the SAC alleges that
Plaintiff was vulnerable in connection with the engagement because he lacks
education as to the professional services rendered by Defendants—Plaintiff was
relying on Defendants’ professed expertise. However, relying on Defendants’
professional services that Plaintiff purchased, creates a contractual
obligation between the parties as opposed to placing Plaintiff in a vulnerable
position. As the court noted in Zumbrun
v. University of Southern California (1972) 25
Cal.App.3d 1, 13, “[t]he
mere placing of a trust in another person does not create a fiduciary
relationship” and “an agreement to communicate one's knowledge, exercising his
special knowledge and skill in the area of learning concerned, does not create
a trust but only a contractual obligation.” Plaintiff fails to show how his relationship with Defendants was
more than a contractual obligation for services. Therefore, the Court does not
find the SAC has sufficiently pled that Defendants owed Plaintiff a fiduciary
duty. 
 
Based
on the foregoing, Defendants’ demurrer to the second cause of action is
SUSTAINED.
 
E.      Third Cause
of Action: Fraud - Concealment
 
Defendants argue the SAC’s third cause of action fails
because Plaintiff has failed to plead all the elements for fraudulent
concealment.
 
“The required
elements for fraudulent concealment are: (1) concealment or suppression of a
material fact; (2) by a defendant with a duty to disclose the fact to the
plaintiff; (3) the defendant intended to defraud the plaintiff by intentionally
concealing or suppressing the fact; (4) the plaintiff was unaware of the fact
and would not have acted as he or she did if he or she had known of the
concealed or suppressed fact; and (5) plaintiff sustained damage as a result of
the concealment or suppression of the fact.” (Hambrick v. Healthcare
Partners Medical Group, Inc. (2015) 238 Cal.App.4th 124, 162.)   
 
Here, the SAC
alleges that: (1) Defendants suppressed and concealed the material fact that
they conceded Fraudulent Expense Reimbursements; (2) Defendants were under a
duty to disclose all material facts related to their fiduciary relationship
with Plaintiff; (3) Defendants must have known they conceded the expense
reimbursements, but knowingly failed to tell Plaintiff intending to further
their own financial personal interests; (4) Plaintiff justifiably relied on
that fraud, reasonably believing that the Fraudulent Expense Reimbursements
were not conceded against his instructions because he reasonably expected
professionals he hired to act as instructed; and (5) Plaintiff was damaged
because he was unable to discover the unauthorized concession until it was too
late—in the midst of trial when his ex-wife’s counsel did. (SAC, ¶¶ 39-46.)
Plaintiff argues that these allegations are sufficient to plead fraudulent
concealment. 
 
However, as discussed above, Plaintiff has failed to show that
Defendants owed Plaintiff a fiduciary duty. “[T]o
establish fraud through nondisclosure or concealment of facts, it is necessary
to show the defendant ‘was under a legal duty to disclose them.’” (OCM
Principal Opportunities Fund v. CIBC World Markets Corp. (2007) 157
Cal.App.4th 835, 845.) Thus, the SAC’s allegation that
Defendants owed Plaintiff
a duty to disclose all material facts because they were Plaintiff’s fiduciaries
is insufficient to support Plaintiff’s fraud cause of action. 
 
Accordingly,
Defendants’ demurrer to the third cause of action is SUSTAINED.
 
F.       Fifth Cause
of Action: Quasi-Contract
 
Defendants argue that Plaintiff’s quasi-contract
cause of action fails because it is
the same as the previous unjust enrichment claim and it cannot be
simultaneously pled to a breach of contract claim.
 
As the Court previously
found in sustaining Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiff’s Complaint, Plaintiff
cannot state a cause of action for unjust enrichment because in California,
there is no separate cause of action for unjust enrichment. (See Rutherford
Holdings LLC v. Plaza Del Rey (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 221, 231; Levine v.
Blue Shield of California (2010) 189 Cal.App.4th 1117, 1138.) 
 
Defendants
first assert that Plaintiff’s quasi-contract cause of action fails because “Plaintiff simply relabeled [the Complaint’s unjust enrichment
claim] as a quasi-contract claim even though such is still synonymous with
unjust enrichment.” (Oppos., p. 13.) However, courts have found that quasi-contract actions can be based on unjust
enrichment. (California Medical
Ass’n, Inc. v. Aetna U.S. Healthcare of California, Inc. (2001) 94
Cal.App.4th 151.) Yet, “as a matter of law, a quasi-contract action for unjust
enrichment does not lie where, …, express binding agreements exist and define
the parties’ rights.” (Id., at 172.) “A plaintiff may not…pursue or
recover on a quasi-contract claim if the parties have an enforceable agreement
regarding a particular subject matter.” (Klein v. Chevron U.S.A., Inc.
(2012) 202 Cal.App.4th 1342, 1388.)
 
Here, Plaintiff never alleges the absence of an
enforceable agreement, which would entitle plaintiff to pursue the
quasi-contractual cause of action. The SAC alleges an express contract between
the parties that
obligated Defendants to render professional consulting services to Plaintiff in
exchange for payment. (SAC, ¶ 52.) Plaintiff’s quasi-contract cause of action
is premised on Plaintiff’s payment for Defendant’s professional service. (SAC,
¶ 58.) The SAC alleges that Defendants breached their duties to Plaintiff and
Plaintiff is entitled to his payment back. (Ibid.)
 
Plaintiff argues the express contract did not
contain a specific provision related to the return of funds paid to Defendants.
However, the Court does not find Plaintiff’s argument persuasive. The express contract
covers the same subject matter, Plaintiff’s payment for Defendants’
professional services. Therefore, Defendants’ failure to render professional
services and the return of Plaintiff’s payment would be covered by the express
contract. Thus, Plaintiff cannot pursue his quasi-contract cause of action
because the parties have an express contract regarding the same subject matter.

 
Accordingly,
Defendants’ demurrer to the fifth cause of action is SUSTAINED.
 
G.     The Second,
Third, Fourth and Fifth Causes of Action are Duplicative 
 
Next, Defendants demur as to Plaintiff’s second,
third and fourth causes of action because they are duplicative of Plaintiff’s
first cause of action for negligence. 
 
“California defines a ‘cause of action’ in accord
with Pomeroy's ‘primary right’ theory. [Citation.] A cause of action
consists of (1) a primary right possessed by the plaintiff and
a corresponding primary duty imposed upon the defendant, and
(2) a delict or wrong committed by the
defendant which constitutes a breach of such primary right and duty.
[Citation.]” (Miranda v. Shell
Oil Co. (1993) 17 Cal.App.4th 1651, 1658.) The cause of action is based on the injury to the plaintiff,
not on the legal theory or theories advanced to characterize it. Thus, if a
plaintiff states several purported causes of action which allege an invasion of
the same primary right he has actually stated only one cause of action. On the
other hand, if a plaintiff alleges that the defendant's single wrongful
act invaded two different primary rights, he has stated two causes of action,
and this is so even though the two invasions are pleaded in a single count of
the complaint. (Lilienthal &
Fowler v. Superior Court (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 1848, 1854–1855; Freidberg v. Cox (1987) 197
Cal.App.3d 381, 388.) A
cause of action that “add[s] nothing to the complaint by way of fact or theory
of recovery” is a recognized basis for demurrer. (Rodrigues v. Campbell
Industries, (1978) 87 Cal.App.3d 494, 501.)
 
As discussed above, the Court finds that
Plaintiff fails to state a claim for his second cause of action for breach of
fiduciary duty, third cause of action for fraud and fifth cause of action for
quasi contract. Thus, whether these causes of action are duplicative is moot. 
 
Defendant argues Plaintiff’s first cause of
action for negligence and fourth cause of action for breach of contract are
duplicative because they invoke a single primary right.
 
In opposition, Plaintiff cites to Gilman v.
Nemetz (1962) 203 Cal. App. 2d 81, 94 in support of his contention that a
plaintiff may plead multiple causes of action and legal theories based on the
same or similar set of facts. Yet, whether or not Plaintiff’s causes of action rely
on the same set of facts does not appear to be disputed. 
 
Here, Defendants instead argue that Plaintiff’s first
cause of action for negligence and fourth cause of action for breach of
contract are duplicative because they invoke the same primary right. The Court
agrees. 
 
Plaintiff alleges his negligence cause of action
is predicated on his “primary right to receive competent professional services
from Defendants, which Defendants violated by conceding the Fraudulent Expense
Reimbursements without any basis.” (Oppos., pp. 6-7.) Plaintiff also argues his
breach of contract cause of action is premised on “Defendants’ failure to
adhere to their promise to provide competent professional services and disclose all conflicts of interest, as well as not render
services tainted by such interests.” (Ibid.) Therefore, both causes of
action appear to be premised on Plaintiff’s right to receive competent
professional services. Here, the right, duty, breach, and injury
are the same for both causes of action regardless of title: Plaintiff had the
right to receive competent expert services, Defendants had the duty to provide
competent expert services, Defendants purportedly breached their duty by
conceding fraudulent expenses despite instructions to the contrary, and
Plaintiff was injured by paying Defendants and paying his ex-wife for the
fraudulent expenses. Thus, the Court finds Plaintiff’s fourth cause of action for
breach of contract is duplicative of his first cause of action for negligence. 
 
Thus,
Defendants’ demurrer to the fourth cause of action is SUSTAINED.
 
H.     All Causes of
Action Against Defendant Sweeney 
 
Defendants argue that the first, second, third,
fourth and fifth causes of action against Sweeney as an individual should be
dismissed. As discussed above, the Court finds that Plaintiff fails to state a
claim for his second cause of action for breach of fiduciary duty, third cause
of action for fraud, fourth cause of action for breach of contract, and fifth
cause of action for quasi contract. Thus, the Court will only discuss whether
the first cause of action for negligence has been adequately pled against
Sweeney. 
 
In order to state a claim for negligence,
Plaintiff must allege the elements of (1) “the existence of a legal duty of
care,” (2) “breach of that duty,” and (3) “proximate cause resulting in an
injury.”  (McIntyre v.
Colonies-Pacific, LLC (2014) 228 Cal.App.4th 664, 671.)
 
“Ordinarily,
a corporation is regarded as a legal entity, separate and distinct from its
stockholders, officers, and directors, with separate and distinct liabilities
and obligations.” (Sonora Diamond Corp. v. Superior Court, (2000) 83
Cal.App.4th 523, 538). “Directors and officers are not personally liable on
contracts signed by them for and on behalf of the corporation unless they
purport to bind themselves individually.” (United States Liab. Ins. Co. v.
Haidinger-Hayes, Inc., (1970) 1 Cal.3d 586, 595). “The legal fiction of the
corporation as an independent entity is partly intended to insulate corporate
officers from personal liability for corporate contracts.” (Michaelis v.
Benavides, (1998) 61 Cal.App.4th 681, 688). “To maintain a tort claim
against [an employee] in his or her personal capacity, a plaintiff must first
show that the director specifically authorized, directed, or participated in
the allegedly tortious conduct.” (Frances T. Village Green Owners Ass’n,
(1986) 42 Cal. 3d 490. 466-467).
 
Plaintiff contends the SAC “alleges that Mr. Sweeney personally committed acts
amounting to negligence … while he was acting as Mr. Carroll’s accountant
(i.e., his agent and fiduciary).” (Oppos., p. 15.)
 
The SAC alleges that Sweeney is a Certified Public Accountant licensed in California,
is Defendant Taylor’s Chief Executive Officer and Co-Director of the Litigation
Services Department. (SAC, ¶ 6.)
The SAC further alleges: “During the course of rendering services to Mr. Carroll,
Defendants conceded certain grossly exaggerated reimbursement claims asserted
by Mr. Carroll's former wife, Laura Petrucci, and then concealed that they had
done so while allowing the dissolution action to proceed to Carroll’s
detriment. Ultimately, these claims were settled without Mr. Carroll’s actual
knowledge or consent.” (SAC, ¶ 2.) The SAC alleges: “The Fraudulent Expense
Reimbursements could not withstand the most relaxing scrutiny. Indeed, they
were easily rebuttable: Petrucci’s own forensic accountant’s data showed their
fraudulent or duplicative
nature.” (SAC, ¶ 16.) The SAC further alleges: “Sweeney did not indicate that
he would not follow this instruction when preparing certain litigation
documents in the dissolution action related to the Fraudulent Expense
Reimbursement.” (SAC, ¶ 18.) The SAC further alleges: “As a result of
Defendants’ unauthorized concession of the Fraudulent Expense Reimbursements,
Carroll unknowingly transferred at least $525,707.00 to Petrucci that should
not have been transferred to her (the “Funds”).” (SAC, ¶ 21.) The SAC further
alleges: “Defendants’ conduct caused Carroll to transfer the Funds to Petrucci
for no legitimate reason, and without Carroll’s actual consent or
authorization.” (SAC, ¶ 23.)
 
As the Court
found in its prior order on March 14, 2024, these allegations adequately set
forth a negligence cause of action against both Defendants, including Sweeney.
(Court’s 3/14/24 Minute Order.)
 
Based on the
foregoing, Defendants’ demurrer to the
first cause of action against Sweeney as an individual is OVERRULED. 
 
I.       
Leave to
Amend
 
Where a
demurrer is sustained, leave to amend must be allowed where there is a
reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy
(1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) The burden is on the plaintiff to show the court
that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.; Lewis v. YouTube,
LLC (2015) 244 Cal.App.4th 118, 226.) However, “[i]f there is any
reasonable possibility that the plaintiff can state a good cause of action, it
is error to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend.” (Youngman v. Nevada
Irrigation Dist. (1969) 70 Cal.2d 240, 245). The burden is on the
complainant to show the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Blank
v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) 
 
Here, Plaintiff
has had multiple chances to state a valid claim for its second, third, fourth
and fifth causes of action. Plaintiff did not materially amend its allegations
as to these causes of action in the SAC. In the opposition, Plaintiff does not
show how these causes of action can be successfully amended to state a valid
cause of action. Therefore, the Court does not grant leave to amend. 
 
J.       
Motion to
Strike 
 
A motion to strike lies only where the
pleading has irrelevant, false or improper matter, or has not been drawn or
filed in conformity with laws. (Civ. Proc. Code § 436.) The grounds for moving
to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice.
(Id. § 437.) 
 
Defendants request the Court to strike
all allegations for punitive damages as follows:
1.      “Carroll
seeks punitive damages for Defendants’ malicious conduct in subverting his
interests in the dissolution action in favor of Defendants’ financial interest
to get promptly paid for their work in the dissolution action. Defendants
intentionally concealed their unauthorized concession from Carroll, and allowed
Carroll and his counsel to proceed to trail without knowledge of it to further
their own interest in willful and concisions disregard of Carroll’s interests
and rights in the dissolution action.” (SAC ¶ 38). 
2.      “Carroll
seeks punitive damages for Defendants’ malicious conduct in subverting his
interests in the dissolution action in favor of Defendants’ financial interest
to get promptly paid for their work in the dissolution action. Defendants
intentionally concealed their unauthorized concession from Carroll, and allowed
Carroll and his counsel to proceed to trail without knowledge of it to further
their own interest in willful and concisions disregard of Carroll’s interests
and rights in the dissolution action.” (SAC ¶ 48). 
3.      “For punitive
damages arising from Defendants’ intentional concealment undertaken maliciously
and for the purpose of furthering their own interests to Carroll’s extreme
detriment.” (SAC, page 13:15-17). 
4.      “For punitive
damages arising from Defendants’ intentional concealment undertaken maliciously
and for the purpose of furthering their own interests to Carroll’s extreme
detriment.” (SAC, page 13:22-24).
 
The adequacy of a claim for punitive damages is properly tested by a
motion to strike. (Grieves v. Superior
Court (1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 159, 164.) Civil Code section 3294, subdivision
(a) authorizes the recovery of punitive damages where the defendant has been
guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice, express or implied. Malice means
conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or
despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and
conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others. (Civ. Code, § 3294,
subd. (c)(1).) Oppression is despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel
and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person’s rights. (Id., subd. (c)(2).) Fraud means an
intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known
to the defendant with the intention on the party of the defendant of thereby
depriving a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury. (Id., subd. (c)(3).) 
 
Here, Plaintiff argues he is entitled to punitive damages based on Defendants’
breach of fiduciary duties and his fraud cause of action. However, as discussed
above, the Court finds Plaintiff has failed to state facts sufficient for his
breach of fiduciary duty and fraud causes of action. In light of this ruling,
the motion to strike punitive damages is moot.
 
Accordingly, Defendants’ motion to
strike is MOOT.
 
III. DISPOSITION
 

Defendants’ demurrer is SUSTAINED
without leave to amend as to the second, third, fourth and fifth causes of
action against all Defendants. 
 
Defendants’ demurrer to the first cause of action against Defendant Sweeney as an individual is
OVERRULED. 
 
Defendants’
motion to strike is MOOT. 