 Case Number:  BC642674    Hearing Date:   August 8, 2024    Dept:  73 08/08/2024
Dept. 73
Hon. Rolf Treu, Judge presiding
 
SMITH, et al. v. FORSHPAN CAPITAL,
LLC, et al. (BC642674)
 
Counsel for
Plaintiffs/moving party:  Ethan Brown (Brown
Neri Smith & Khan LLP) 
Counsel for
Defendants: Norm Rodich (Palmieri, Tyler, Wiener, Wilhelm & Waldron LLP),
Michael McCollum (McCollum Counsel)
 
PLAINTIFFS’ MOTION FOR ATTORNEYS’ FEES
AND LITIGATION COSTS (filed on 06/28/2024)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Plaintiffs’
Motion for Attorneys’ Fees and Litigation Costs is GRANTED. The Court awards Plaintiffs $46,900.85 in attorneys’ fees and $50,557.29
in costs to be paid out of the settlement fund.
 
BACKGROUND
 
On December 2,
2016, Plaintiffs Steven Smith,
Oscar George, Robert Margolis, and Tirso George Jr. (collectively
“Plaintiffs”), filed this shareholder derivative action. In their operative
complaint, Plaintiffs allege derivative claims for breach of contract, breach
of fiduciary duty and an accounting against Defendants Forshpan Capital, LLC
and Morton Forshpan, and nominal Defendant Mojave Square LLC. 
 
Plaintiffs
allege that Forshpan Capital, as managed by Morton Forshpan, caused harm to the company by failing to pay property taxes owed
by Mojave Square, failing to prudently manage the property and ensure timely
payment of taxes, failing to file necessary corporate documents, failing to
consummate a sale of the property to limit any losses, and refusing to maintain
and provide books and records as required.
 
On April 19, 2024, the parties executed a settlement agreement for
this proceeding and filed a motion for preliminary approval of the settlement
with the Court on May 15, 2024.
 
On June 26,
2024, the Court granted Plaintiffs’ Motion for Preliminary Approval of
Derivative Claims Settlement. 
 
On June 28,
2024, Plaintiffs filed the instant Motion for Attorneys’ Fees and Litigation
Costs, arguing:
·      
The Settlement Agreement provides for the payment of money back to
the LLC to be distributed to the members according to their interests.
·      
Since Plaintiffs obtained a benefit for the LLC and its members,
Plaintiffs seek court approval of an award of attorneys’ fees and costs.
o  
The Supreme Court of the United States has long held that, where a
representative party has, through its efforts, created a “common fund” for, or
conferred a “substantial benefit” upon, an identifiable class or corporate
entity, like Plaintiffs and their counsel did here, that party is entitled to
attorneys’ fees for the creation of such benefits. See, e.g., Boeing v. Van
Gernert, 444 U.S. 472 (1980); Mills v. ElectricAuto Lite Co., 396
U.S. 375 (1970)
·      
Plaintiffs’ requests for attorneys’ fees and costs are also
reasonable. Plaintiffs’ attorneys’ fees are a fraction of their regular hourly
rate fees.
·       Plaintiffs
also incurred all costs in the ordinary course of litigation. These included
arbitration fees, deposition costs, mailings, copying fees, and filing fees,
among others.
 
No opposition
has been filed. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
A.     
Legal
Standard
 
“As a general
rule, the prevailing party may recover certain statutory costs incurred in the
litigation up to and including entry of judgment. [Citations.] These costs may
include attorney fees, if authorized by contract, statute . . . or law.
[Citation.] . . . attorney fees require a separate noticed motion.
[Citations.]” (Lucky United Props. Inv., Inc. v. Lee (2010) 185
Cal.App.4th 125, 137.) This motion may be brought: (1) after judgment or
dismissal, for fees incurred “up to and including the rendition of judgment in
the trial court--including attorney’s fees on an appeal before the rendition of
judgment…”; and (2) on an interim basis, upon remittitur of appeal, of only
fees incurred on appeal. (CRC, Rule 3.1702(b)-(c).)
 
In
determining what fees are reasonable, California courts apply the “lodestar”
approach. (See, e.g., Holguin v. DISH Network LLC (2014) 229 Cal.App.4th
1310, 1332.) This inquiry “begins with the ‘lodestar,’ i.e., the number of
hours reasonably expended multiplied by the reasonable hourly rate.” (See PLCM
Group v. Drexler (2000) 22 Cal.4th 1084, 1095.) From there, the “[t]he
lodestar figure may then be adjusted, based on consideration of factors
specific to the case, in order to fix the fee at the fair market value for the
legal services provided.” (Id.) Relevant factors include: “(1) the novelty and
difficulty of the questions involved, (2) the skill displayed in presenting
them, (3) the extent to which the nature of the litigation precluded other
employment by the attorneys, [and] (4) the contingent nature of the fee award.”
(Ketchum v. Moses (2001) 24 Cal.4th 1122, 1132.)
 
B.     
Discussion 
 
a.      
Entitlement
to Attorneys’ Fees
 
Plaintiffs move
for an award of attorneys’ fees to be paid out of the settlement in this case.
Plaintiffs contend that they are entitled to attorneys’ fees under the
common-fund doctrine.
 
“ ‘Under the
American rule, which is embodied in Code of Civil Procedure section 1021 in
California, as a general proposition each party to a litigation must pay his or
her own attorneys fees. There are statutory exceptions to this rule, and the
courts have created several exceptions pursuant to their inherent equitable
powers.’ Exceptions to the American rule created under the courts' equitable
powers include the ‘common fund’ and ‘substantial benefit’ doctrines.” (Cziraki
v. Thunder Cats, Inc. (2003) 111 Cal.App.4th 552, 557, footnotes omitted.)
 
“ ‘[I]f the
litigation has succeeded in creating or preserving a common fund for the
benefit of a number of persons, the plaintiff may be awarded attorney fees out
of that fund. [Citation.] Likewise, if a judgment confers a substantial benefit
on a defendant, such as in a corporate derivative action, the defendant may be
required to pay the attorney fees incurred by the plaintiff.’ In Fletcher v.
A.J. Industries, a California appellate court concluded a ‘substantial
benefit’ warranting an award of attorney fees to a successful plaintiff in a
shareholder derivative action exists where ‘the results of the action “maintain
the health of the corporation and raise the standards of ‘fiduciary
relationships and other economic behavior,’ ” or “prevent [s] [sic] an abuse
which would be prejudicial to the rights and interests of the corporation or
affect the enjoyment or protection of an essential right to the stockholder's
interest.” ’ ” (Cziraki, supra, 111 Cal.App.4th 552, 557-58, footnotes
omitted.)
 
“In a
derivative action, the corporation represents the class of beneficiary
shareholders. When the corporation pays attorney fees to the successful
plaintiff, all shareholders indirectly share the cost of the beneficial
litigation with the shareholder who brought the action.” (Cziraki, supra,
111 Cal.App.4th 552, 558.)
 
Here,
Plaintiffs assert that the common-fund doctrine applies because Plaintiffs
successfully prosecuted their derivative claims against Defendants, resulting
in a settlement fund to be paid by Defendants to Plaintiffs for the benefit of
its shareholders. 
 
The Court
finds Plaintiffs meet their burden in establishing that the common-fund
doctrine applies. Plaintiffs were successful in prosecuting its derivative
claims against Defendants, which resulted in a common fund for the benefit of
the shareholders. As such, Plaintiffs’ counsel may be awarded its attorneys’
fees out of this fund. Defendants do not oppose this motion and, therefore, do
not show why Plaintiffs should not be entitled to attorneys’ fees.
 
b.     
Reasonableness
of Attorneys’ Fees and Costs
 
Plaintiffs
request $46,900.85 in attorneys’ fees and $50,494.74 in litigation costs to be
paid out of the settlement fund. 
 
The parties
settled for a total of $193,750. That payment includes a $35,000 payment for
the services that Plaintiffs rendered in this action, with $12,500 to Oscar
George, $7,500 to Robert Margolis, $10,000 to Steven Smith, and $5,000 to Tirso
George, Jr. The $193,750 payment, minus the payment to Plaintiffs for their
services rendered, and minus Plaintiffs’ attorneys’ fees (33%) and costs (as
incurred), shall be distributed pro-rata to all members of Mojave Square
(excepting Defendants Forshpan Capital and Morton Forshpan) based on their
investment percentage as calculated after removing those not entitled to any
settlement proceeds. (Court’s 6/26/24 Minute Order, p. 4.)
 
Plaintiffs’
counsel submits its billing invoices which show that counsel spent more than
470 hours on litigation tasks in this case. (Brown Decl. ¶ 4, Ex. A.) Plaintiffs’
counsel, Mr. Brown and Mr. Barnes, were the only two attorneys primarily
involved in this case. (Brown Decl. ¶ 7.) Plaintiff’s counsel’s hourly rates
are typically $675 and $395 per hour. (Brown Decl. ¶ 8.) Plaintiffs’ counsel
attest to their experience and that their rates are comparable to rates for
attorneys of similar skill. (Brown Decl. ¶¶ 8-9.) Plaintiffs assert that
calculating the amount of hours spent by counsel on this case at their typical
hourly rate would equal $176,447.50 in attorneys’ fees. However, here, Plaintiffs’
request for attorneys’ fees is only $46,900.85 at the 33% contingency fee.
 
As to the
work performed in this matter, Plaintiffs assert the parties litigated the case
extensively. (Brown Decl. ¶ 4.) Written
discovery was exchanged, more than 2,500 documents were exchanged, all parties
and one third-party deposition was taken, and subpoenas for business records
were served. (Ibid.) Discovery was extensive given that the LLC was
formed in 2005, thus, investigation included facts going back more than a
decade after the case was filed. (Ibid.) Once discovery was completed,
Defendants moved for summary judgment/adjudication. That motion was partially
granted and partially denied. (Ibid.)
 
Regarding the
litigation costs, Plaintiffs assert they reasonably and necessarily incurred $50,494.74
in litigation expenses in connection with commencing, prosecuting, and settling
the claims against Defendants. Reimbursement
of litigation expenses is also appropriate under the Common Fund Doctrine. (See
Fletcher v. A.J. Industries, Inc. (1968) 266 Cal.App.2d 313, 319 and 329
(affirming an order awarding costs and attorney’s fees in a derivative action).
Plaintiffs’ counsel submitted their invoices showing the expenses incurred for
this case included filing fees, service fees, mailings, copying and printing,
parking, arbitration fees, court reporter fees, and mediation fees. (Brown
Decl. ¶ 10, Ex. B.) The biggest
expense, $25,334.37, in this case was arbitration fees, for the Honorable
Richard Stone of Signature Resolution. (Ibid.)
 
Based on the foregoing,
the court finds that Plaintiffs’ request for $46,900.85 in attorneys’ fees and
$50,494.74 in litigation costs is reasonable. The Court finds Plaintiffs’
counsel establishes that they have performed a substantial amount work
litigating Plaintiffs’ claims against Defendants and have generally been
successful. The amount of work discussed above well exceeds the $46,900.85 in
attorneys’ fees that Plaintiffs request in this motion. Plaintiffs’ counsel
submits their billing invoices and establishes the reasonableness of their
hourly rates, of the hours spent prosecuting Plaintiffs’ claims against
Defendants and of the litigation costs incurred. Neither Defendants nor any
other party opposes this motion and, therefore, does not show why it should not
be granted.
 
The Court therefore GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion for attorneys’ fees.
The Court awards Plaintiffs $46,900.85 in attorneys’ fees and $50,557.29 in
costs to be paid out of the settlement fund.
 

DISPOSITION
 
Plaintiffs’
Motion for Attorneys’ Fees and Litigation Costs is GRANTED. The Court
awards Plaintiffs $46,900.85 in attorneys’ fees and $50,557.29 in costs to be
paid out of the settlement fund.