  Case Number:  22STCV03726    Hearing Date:   August 8, 2024    Dept:  73 8/08/2024 
Dept. 73
Hon. Rolf Treu, Judge presiding 
 
YVONNE E. HALLADA v. NISSAN NORTH
AMERICA, INC. (22STCV03726)
 
Counsel for
Plaintiff/moving party:  Tionna Carvalho
(Strategic Legal Practices, APC)
Counsel for
Defendants/opposing party: Amir Nassihi (Shook, Hardy & Bacon LLP)
 
PLAINTIFF’S MOTION FOR RECONSIDERATION (filed 02/28/2024)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
The Court reconsiders the January 5, 2023 ruling. Defendant’s
Motion to Compel Arbitration is DENIED.  
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
This is a lemon law action. On January 31, 2022, Plaintiff
Younghyeon Lee filed this action against Defendant Nissan North America, Inc.
alleging the following causes of action:
1.     
Violation of Civil Code Section 1793.2(d); 
2.     
Violation of Civil Code Section 1793.2(b); 
3.     
Violation of Civil Code Section 1793.2(a)(3); 
4.     
Breach of Implied Warranty of Merchantability; and
5.     
Fraudulent Inducement – Concealment.
 
The Complaint
alleges the following. On May 7, 2021, Plaintiff entered into a warranty contract with Defendant
regarding a 2020 Nissan Pathfinder vehicle identification number
5N1DR2BN4LC636334 (“Vehicle”) which was manufactured and or distributed by
Defendant. (Complaint ¶ 9.)  The Subject Vehicle
has an express written warranty and had nonconformities that arose during the
warranty period.  (Id. ¶¶ 10-14, Ex. A.)  These defects
“substantially impair the use, value or safety of the [Subject] Vehicle.” 
(Id. ¶ 15.)  Defendant was unable to conform the Subject Vehicle to
the applicable express warranty after a reasonable number of repair
attempts.  (Id. ¶ 17.) In addition, the sale of the Subject Vehicle was
accompanied by an implied warranty of merchantability. (Id. ¶ 39.) 
However, these warranties were breached due to the defects with the electrical,
transmission, and engine.  (Id. ¶ 14.)   
 
On
February 28, 2024, Plaintiff filed the instant Motion for Reconsideration arguing:
·        Ochoa constitutes
a change in law warranting reconsideration of the Court’s January 5, 2023 order granting
Defendant’s Motion to Compel Arbitration. 
·       The Court’s January 5, 2023 order
granted arbitration based on applying the Felisilda case. However, the
Court’s ruling is counter to the holdings in Kielar, Ochoa,
Montemayor, and Yeh.
 
Defendant did
not file an opposition. 
 
II.
DISCUSSION 
 
A.      Request for
Judicial Notice 
 
Plaintiff requests
judicial notice of the following:
1.      Third
District Court of Appeal’s response to a Petition for Writ of Mandate in Ortiz
et al. v. Superior Court of Sacramento County (C099135); notice sent to
Superior Court of Sacramento County;
2.      Third
District Court of Appeal’s response to a Petition for Writ of Mandate in Campos
v. Superior Court of Butte County (C098848); notice sent to Superior Court
of Butte County;
3.      The Minute
Order in Dina C. Felisilda, et al. v. FCA US, LLC, et al. (Sacramento
County Superior Court case 34-2015-00183668-CU-BC-GDS) on signatory dealership
Elk Grove Auto Group’s Motion to Compel Arbitration and Stay Action.
 
The court
may take judicial notice of “official acts of the legislative, executive, and
judicial departments of the United States and of any state of the United
States,” “[r]ecords of (1) any court of this state or (2) any court of record
of the United States or of any state of the United States,” and “[f]acts and
propositions that are not reasonably subject to dispute and are capable of
immediate and accurate determination by resort to sources of reasonably
indisputable accuracy.” (Evid. Code § 452, subds. (c), (d), and (h).)¿¿ 
 
Plaintiff’s unopposed
Requests for Judicial Notice are GRANTED.  
 
B.      Review by a
Different Judge
 
As an initial matter, the Court addresses whether
a judge who did not make the initial ruling can consider this motion.
 
Generally, a motion for reconsideration must be
made to the same judge.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1008(a); Marriage of
Oliverez (2015) 238 Cal.App.4th 1242, 1248.)  “However, there are
narrow exceptions to this general rule.”  (Marriage of Oliverez, supra,
238 Cal.App.4th at 1248.)  “‘[W]here the judge who made the initial
ruling is unavailable to reconsider the motion, a different judge may entertain
the reconsideration motion.’”  (Id. (quoting Ziller Electronics
Lab GmbH v. Superior Court (1988) 206 Cal.App.3d 1222, 1232) (alteration in
original).)  “Another exception is when the facts have changed or when the
judge has considered further evidence and law.”  (Id.) 
“Additionally, a second judge may reverse a prior ruling of another judge if
the record shows that it was based on inadvertence, mistake, or fraud.”  (Id.
at 1248-49.)  “Mere disagreement . . . with the prior trial judge’s
ruling, however, is not enough to overturn that ruling.”  (Id. at
1249.)   
 
Here, Plaintiff moves for reconsideration of the January
5, 2023 order made in this Department, Department 73, by Judge Timothy Dillon.
However, Judge Dillon is unavailable to hear the instant Motion due to his
temporary reassignment to another Department. Therefore, the Court finds that
the assigned judge to Department 73, Judge Rolf Treu, may consider this motion.

 
C.      Legal Standard
for Motion for Reconsideration
 
Code Civ. Proc., section 1008 states: 
a.                  
When an application for an order has been made to a judge, or
to a court, and refused in whole or in part, or granted, or granted
conditionally, or on terms, any party affected by the order may, within 10 days
after service upon the party of written notice of entry of the order and based
upon new or different facts, circumstances, or law, make application to the
same judge or court that made the order, to reconsider the matter and modify,
amend, or revoke the prior order.¿The party making the application shall state
by affidavit what application was made before, when and to what judge, what
order or decisions were made, and what new or different facts, circumstances,
or law are claimed to be shown.¿ 
… 
c.                  
If a court at any time determines that there has been a
change of law that warrants it to reconsider a prior order it entered, it may
do so on its own motion and enter a different order. 
 
A court acts in excess of jurisdiction when it grants a
motion to reconsider that is not based upon “new or different facts,
circumstances or law.”¿(Gilberd v. AC Transit (1995) 32 Cal.App.4th
1494, 1499.) Motions for reconsideration are restricted to circumstances where
a party offers the Court some fact or circumstance not previously considered,
and some valid reason for not offering it earlier.¿(Id.)¿¿¿ 
 
An
appellate decision published during an action’s pendency may be a change of law
under section 1008, subdivision (c), and requires a trial court to reconsider
its earlier ruling if the decision materially changed the law. (Valdez v.
Himmelfarb (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1261, 1276.) A change in the law is
always an appropriate basis, up until final judgment is entered, for changing
an interim order. (State of California v. Superior Court (Flynn) (2016)
4 Cal.App.5th 94, 101.) 
 
A trial court may exercise its inherent jurisdiction to
reconsider an interim ruling.¿(Le Francois v. Goel (2005) 35 Cal.4th
1094, 1096-1097.)¿ The trial court is specifically authorized to exercise such
inherent jurisdiction to reconsider orders compelling arbitration.¿(Malek v.
Blue Cross of California (2004) 121 Cal.App.4th 44, 59–60.) 
 
D.     Timeliness
 
Plaintiff moves for reconsideration of the Court’s January 5,
2023 order granting Defendant’s motion to compel arbitration and stay action on
the grounds that there is a change of law that warrants reconsideration. 
 
On
January 5, 2023, the Court relied on Felisilda¿v.
FCA US LLC¿(2020) 53 Cal.App.5th 486 to determine that Defendant was a
third-party beneficiary to the sale agreement between Plaintiff and the
Dealership. On April 4, 2023, the Second
Appellate District of the California Court of
Appeal reached a decision contrary to Felisilda in Ochoa v. Ford
Motor Company (Ford Motor Warranty Cases) (2023) 89 Cal. App. 5th 1324,
review granted July 19, 2023, S279969 (“Ochoa”). Moreover, several other
appellate decisions on this issue have followed Ochoa, including Montemayor
v. Ford Motor Co. (2023) 92 Cal. App. 5th 958, review granted
September 20, 2023, S281237; Kielar v. Superior Court of Placer County (2023)
94 Cal. App. 5th 614, review granted October 25, 2023, S281937; and Yeh v.
Superior Court of Contra Costa County (2023) 95 Cal. App. 5th 264, review granted November 15,
2023, S282228. Plaintiff argues the law found in Ochoa and
these new cases, which specifically addresses the reasoning in Felisilda,
justifies reconsideration of the motion.  
 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 1008 subdivision (a) limits the time in which a
party may file a motion for reconsideration. Subdivision (a) of Section 1008 does
not give Plaintiff the authority to move for reconsideration more than ten days
after the order where there is a change of law. (See Advanced Building
Maintenance v. State Comp Ins. Fund (1996) 49 Cal.App.4th 1388, 1392
[finding the trial court’s denial of the motion for reconsideration correct
where the motion was served more than 10 days after service of written notice
of entry of the order].) 
 
However,
Code of Civil Procedure section 1008 subdivision (c) gives the court authority
to sua sponte reconsider a ruling where there is a change in law at any time. A
court may consider a number of factors in determining whether to exercise its
discretion, including the importance of the change of law, the timing of the
motion, and the circumstances of the case. (Farmers Ins. Exchange v.
Superior Court (2013) 218 Cal.App.4th 96, 107.) Here,
the parties have not completed arbitration, a final judgment has not been
entered, and the Court finds the change in law warrants reconsideration of its
prior order.  
 
The Court notes that Ochoa
did not overrule Felisilda, but created a split of authority. Under the doctrine of stare decisis, superior courts
are bound by all published decisions of the Court of Appeal, but where there is
a split in authority, the superior court may choose which appellate decision to
follow. (Auto Equity Sales, Inc. v. Superior Court (1962) 57 Cal.2d 450,
456.)  In the cases under review, the
California Supreme Court has ruled that the cases can be cited to establish
“the existence of a conflict in authority” and that trial courts can “choose
between sides of any such conflict.” 
As
explained further below, the Court follows the holdings in Ochoa, Montemayor,
Kielar and Yeh. 
 
Accordingly,
the Court reconsiders its prior ruling on the motion to compel arbitration
pursuant to its own authority.  
 
E.      Compel
Arbitration
 
Plaintiff
urges the Court to follow Ochoa and reverse the January 5, 2023 order compelling arbitration. Both Felisilda and
Ochoa discuss a nonsignatory vehicle manufacturer’s right to invoke the
arbitration provision of a sales contract entered into between a plaintiff
buyer and a nonparty dealership.  
 
In Felisilda,
the Court of Appeal held that a vehicle buyer who signed an arbitration
provision as part of her vehicle sales contract with the dealer may be
compelled to arbitrate her claim against an automobile manufacturer, even
though the manufacturer was a non-signatory to the sales contract containing
the relevant arbitration provision. (Felisilda, supra, 53
Cal.App.5th at pp. 496-497.) The Felisilda Court reasoned that where the
buyer expressly agreed to arbitrate claims arising out of the condition of the
vehicle, even against third party non-signatories to the sales contract, and
where the buyer’s claim against the manufacturer relates to the condition of
the vehicle that allegedly violated the contract’s warranty, the buyer is
estopped from refusing to arbitrate. (Ibid.)¿ 
 
However, on
April 4, 2023, the Second Appellate District of the California Court of Appeal
reached a decision contrary to Felisilda in Ochoa. In Ochoa, the
Court of Appeal expressly declined to follow Felisilda, finding that
equitable estoppel should not apply to compel arbitration in such circumstances
because “manufacturer vehicle warranties that accompany the sale of a motor
vehicle without regard to the terms of the sale contract between the purchaser
and the dealer are independent of the sale contract.” (Ochoa, supra,
89 Cal.App.5th at p. 1334.) The Ochoa Court held that because the
plaintiffs alleged breaches of warranties in violation of the Song-Beverly Act,
rather than violations of the sales contracts’ express terms, the agreement to
arbitrate in the sales contract did not estop the plaintiff from refusing to
arbitrate breach of warranty claims against the manufacturer, who was not a
party to the sales contract.¿ (Id. at p. 1335-1336 (“California law does
not treat manufacturer warranties imposed outside the four corners of a retail
sale contract as part of the sale contract”).)
Additionally, on June 26, 2023, the Second District
Court of Appeal decided the case Montemayor, in which the Court also rejected
Felisilda’s holding that equitable estoppel applies to enable a
non-signatory manufacturer to enforce an arbitration provision in a sales
contract like the contract at issue in this case. (Montemayor, supra,
92 Cal. App. 5th 958.)¿On August 16, 2023, the Third District also joined the Second
District’s holdings in Ochoa and Montemayor and concluded in Kielar that equitable estoppel does not apply
when the court examined an identical arbitration clause in a financing
contract. (Kielar, supra, 94 Cal. App. 5th
614.) Further, on September 6, 2023, the First District Court of Appeal held
in Yeh that the plaintiffs’ Song-Beverly Act claims are not founded in a
similar sales contract “because . . . they did not allege violations of the
lease agreement or RISC or sue on any warranties in the agreements, but instead
seek to recover based upon [defendant’s] statutory obligations.” (Yeh, supra, 89 Cal.App.5th at 278.) 
Plaintiff argues the Court should follow the decisions in Ochoa,
Montemayor, Kielar and Yeh and reverse the January 5, 2023 order compelling arbitration. The Ochoa court ultimately found that
“manufacturer vehicle warranties that accompany the sale of motor vehicles
without regard to the terms of the sale contract between the purchaser and the dealer
are independent of the sale contract.” (Ochoa, supra, 89
Cal.App.5th at 1334.) The Ochoa court proceeded to distinguish Felisilda
by reading the “third party” language in the arbitration provision “as a
further delineation of the subject matter of claims the purchasers and
dealers agreed to arbitrate” rather than the parties’ consent to arbitrate
claims with nonsignatories to the agreement. (Id. at 1334–1335 [emphasis
in original].) Thus, the Ochoa court found that the plaintiffs’ claims
did not rely on the sales contracts with the dealership, and therefore
equitable estoppel did not apply. (Id. at 1336.)
Similarly here, as in Ochoa, “the sale contracts
include no warranty, nor any assurance regarding the quality of the vehicle
sold, nor any promise of repairs or other remedies in the event problems
arise,” and Plaintiff does not otherwise allege any violation of the Sales
Contract’s express terms. (Ochoa, supra, 89 Cal.App.5th at 1335.) 
Based on the
foregoing, the Court finds that Plaintiff’s claims against Defendant concerns
the express manufacturer warranty issued by Defendant, which is independent of
and not “intimately founded in and intertwined with” the Sales Contract.
Accordingly, equitable estoppel does not apply to allow Defendant to compel
arbitration of Plaintiff’s claims. 
 
Further, the Ochoa
court discussed the issue of third-party beneficiary standing, and found
that “the sale contracts reflect no intention to benefit a vehicle manufacturer
under Goonewardene.” (Ochoa, supra, 89 Cal.App.5th at
1338.) The court further asserted that “if the signatories had intended to
benefit [the defendant], such a purpose would have been easy to articulate,”
and the contract’s reference to “third parties” concerns only “what may
be arbitrated, not who may arbitrate.” (Id. at 1339 [emphasis in
original].) 
 
Here, the
Court agrees with Plaintiff that Defendant is not an intended third-party
beneficiary of the Sales Contract.¿ Any
assertion that Defendant may “incidentally or remotely” benefit from the
contract, without a further showing of the parties’ specific motivation to
provide Defendant with a benefit under the Sales Contract, does not render
Defendant a third-party beneficiary to the contract. (Ochoa, supra,
89 Cal.App.5th at 1336.) 
 
The Court
follows the reasoning set forth in Ochoa, and notes that if the parties
to the Sales Contract had intended to benefit Defendant, they could have easily
articulated as such in the contract. (Id. at 1339.) Here, as in Ochoa,
“the parties’ choice of the subject of the disputes they agree to
arbitrate does not evince an intention to benefit nonparties so as to affect who
is entitled to compel arbitration.” (Ibid.) Here, the contractual
language is unambiguous that only Plaintiff or the nonparty dealership may
invoke the arbitration agreement. For these foregoing
reasons, the Court finds that Defendant is not an intended third-party
beneficiary to the Sales Contract, and therefore cannot compel Plaintiff’s
claims to arbitration. 
 
The Court notes that Defendant did
not file an opposition. “A party who
has not timely filed written opposition to a motion…may not be afforded an
opportunity to offer oral argument at the hearing.” (Sexton v. Superior
Court (1997) 58 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1410.) “The failure to file opposition
creates an inference that the motion or demurrer is meritorious.”¿ (Id.)¿
“In such cases, the court may hear argument limited to a request for a
continuance of the hearing in order to afford an opportunity for written
opposition.” (Id.) “[T]he rule is patently intended to prevent the
introduction of legal theories without prior notice to opposing counsel and the
court.” (Id.)
 
In sum, the
Court finds that equitable estoppel does not apply to allow Defendant to compel
arbitration of Plaintiff’s claims and Defendant is not an intended third-party
beneficiary to the Sales Contract. ¿ 
 
III. DISPOSITION
 

Accordingly, the Court reconsiders the motion to
compel arbitration under its own authority in light of Ochoa v Ford Motor
Company (Ford Motor Warranty Cases) (2023) 306 Cal.Rprt.3d 611. (See Code
Civ. Proc., section 1008, subd. (c).) Upon reconsidering the Court ruling on
Defendant’s motion to compel arbitration, the Court denies the motion to compel
arbitration