 Case Number:  23STCV25862    Hearing Date:   August 8, 2024    Dept:  73 8/08/2024
Dept. 73
Hon. Rolf
Treu, Judge presiding 
 
PRIMARKET, LLC v. RN WELLNESS, LLC, et al. (23STCV25862)
 
Counsel for
Plaintiff/opposing party:  Valerie Horn (Valerie
F. Horn & Associates)
Counsel for
Defendants/moving party: Maurice Pessah (Pessah Law Group, PC)
 
(1)   DEFENDANT rn wellness, llc’s motion FOR
RELIEF FROM ENTRY OF DEFAULT (filed on 06/13/2024)
(2)   DEFENDANT jacob perler’s motion FOR
RELIEF FROM ENTRY OF DEFAULT (filed on 06/13/2024)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
Defendants RN
Wellness, LLC and Jacob Perler’s motions for relief from entry of default are DENIED.
Moving party
is ordered to give notice. 
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
On October 23, 2023, Plaintiff Primarket, LLC
filed this action against Defendants RN Wellness, LLC (“RN”) and Jacob Perler
(“Perler”). 
 
On January 31, 2024, Plaintiff filed a First
Amended Complaint (“FAC”) alleging the following causes of action:
1.     
Breach of Contract;
2.     
False Designation of Origin;
3.     
Trafficking of Counterfeit Goods;
4.     
Violation of California Business and Professions Code section
17200 et seq.;
5.     
Intentional Misrepresentation;
6.     
Negligent Misrepresentation; and
7.     
Breach of Implied Warranty of Merchantability.
 
The FAC alleges the following. Plaintiff alleges
that Defendant RN is a merchant and wholesaler of personal protective equipment
(“PPE”) and COVID-19 testing kits. Plaintiff further alleges that Defendant Perler
is the sole member and/or manager of RN and responsible for RN. Plaintiff
alleges that Defendants purchased, promoted, distributed, advertised, sold
and/or offered to sell counterfeit COVID-19 testing kits. 
 
On
June 13, 2024, Defendants RN and Perler each filed Motions for relief from entry
of default, arguing:
·      
Defendants request that the court set aside the default entered by
Plaintiff and grant leave to file a responsive pleading. Defendant attaches an
Answer to the instant Motion.
·      
Defendant brings this motion for relief from default on the
grounds that mistake, inadvertence, surprise, and/or excusable neglect pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure section 473(b) has resulted in a default being
entered.
·      
Defendants have moved quickly to correct this mistake,
after first reaching out to Plaintiff’s counsel who refuses to stipulate to set
aside the defaults.
·      
The mistake made by Defense counsel was to delay
filing the Notice of Removal, after receiving the Notice of Ruling regarding
the March 13, 2024, Case Management Conference, mailed by Plaintiff’s counsel
to Mr. Perler’s father. (Greene Decl. ¶10). Defendants’ counsel did not
anticipate that Plaintiff’s counsel, aware that Defendants were represented by
the same counsel since the first correspondence from Plaintiff’s predecessor
counsel, would file Request for Entry of Default before contacting their office.
(Greene Decl. ¶10.) The other mistake by Defendants’ counsel was to schedule
the filing of Notice of Removal for in advance of the April 30, 2024, Case
Management Conference, but failing to anticipate that Plaintiff’s counsel would
rush to get the Request for Entry of Default on file well in advance of that
hearing. (Greene Decl. ¶11.)
·      
No prejudice will be suffered by Plaintiff if the defaults
are set aside.
 
Plaintiff
filed a combined opposition to both Defendants’ motions for relief, arguing:
·      
Defendants, and their counsel, had
received actual notice of the filing of the first amended complaint in February
2024, and after Defendants were duly served with the amended Summons and first
amended complaint (“FAC”), they did nothing to respond to the FAC.
·      
Defendants have not met the legal standard for setting aside
default pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure 473(b).
·      
Defendants have not established that default was entered against
it due to mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect.
·      
If the Court grants Defendants’ motion, it should order Defendants
to pay Plaintiff’s attorney’s fees in the amount of $4,000. 
 
Defendants
filed a reply, maintaining that it is entitled to have the default against it set aside, and to
pursue a defense on the merits, based on Code of Civil Procedure section
473(b). 
 
II.
ANALYSIS
 
A.     
Legal Standard
 
Section 473, subdivision (b) states in pertinent
part: “The court may, upon any terms as may be just, relieve a party or
his or her legal representative from a judgment, dismissal, order, or other
proceeding taken against him or her through his or her mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect.... Notwithstanding any other
requirements of this section, the court shall, whenever an application
for relief is made no more than six months after entry of judgment, is in
proper form, and is accompanied by an attorney's sworn affidavit attesting to
his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect, vacate any (1)
resulting default entered by the clerk against his or her client, and which
will result in entry of a default judgment, or (2) resulting default
judgment or dismissal entered against his or her client, unless the court
finds that the default or dismissal was not in fact caused by the attorney's
mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect.” (Italics added.) 
 
Section
473, subdivision (b), provides for two distinct types of relief.  “Under
the discretionary relief provision, on a showing of “mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or excusable neglect,” the court has discretion to allow relief from
a “judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken against” a party or
his or her attorney. Under the mandatory relief provision, on the other hand,
upon a showing by attorney declaration of “mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
neglect,” the court shall vacate any “resulting default judgment or dismissal
entered.”  The range of attorney conduct for which relief can be granted
in the mandatory provision is broader than that in the discretionary provision,
and includes inexcusable neglect.  But the range of adverse litigation
results from which relief can be granted is narrower. Mandatory relief only
extends to vacating
a default which will result in the entry of a default judgment, a default
judgment, or an entered
dismissal.”  (Leader v. Health Industries of America, Inc.
(2001) 89 Cal.App.4th 603, 615–616.)  ¿¿ 
 
To gain the
statutory benefits, a party or legal representative must seek such relief
“within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment,
dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken.”¿(Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (b);
see Rappleyea v. Campbell (1994) 8 Cal.4th 975, 980 (Rappleyea). 
If relief is sought after the six-month period, a trial court may still vacate
a default on equitable grounds even if statutory relief is unavailable.¿ (Olivera
v. Grace (1942) 19 Cal.2d 570, 575-76.)
“It is well settled that appellate courts have always
been and are favorably disposed toward such action upon the part of the trial
courts as will permit, rather than prevent, the adjudication of legal
controversies upon their merits.” (Benjamin v. Dalmo Mfg. Co. (1948) 31
Cal.2d 523, 525.) “[T]he law strongly favors trial and disposition on the
merits, [and] any doubts in applying section 473 must be resolved in favor of
the party seeking relief from default.” (Shapell Socal Rental Properties,
LLC v. Chico’s FAS, Inc., supra, 85 Cal.App.5th 198, 212.)
“An order denying relief is therefore scrutinized more carefully than an order
granting relief and permitting trial on the merits.” (Id. at p. 213.)
“[T]he provisions of section 473 . . . are to be liberally construed and sound
policy favors the determination of actions on their merits.” (Id. at p.
212, citation and internal quotations omitted.)  
B.     
Discussion 
 
Defendants seek relief based on the attached affidavit of fault (mandatory
grounds) or, if for any reason the Court finds that the requirements for
mandatory relief have not been met, then on grounds of mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or excusable neglect (discretionary grounds).
 
On or about February 21, 2022, Defendants received via email
correspondence from Plaintiff’s prior counsel contending that Defendants had
breached the contract with Plaintiff two-weeks earlier, and therefore must
refund $151,200, within four days of the letter, by February 25, 2022. (Greene
Decl., ¶ 1.) Defendants’ counsel responded to the Plaintiff’s Demand Letter on
March 1, 2022 but did not receive a response. (Greene Decl., ¶ 2.) Plaintiff
filed its Complaint on October 23, 2023, however, Defendants assert that the
Summons and Complaint were never served on Defendants. (Motion, p. 4.)
 
On February 29, 2024, Plaintiff’s current counsel served both
Defendants with the amended summons and First Amended Complaint by substituted
service on February 29, 2024, and mailed a copy of the amended summons and
First Amended Complaint on March 5, 2024. (Horn Decl., ¶ 7.) Defendants’
responses to the First Amended Complaint were due on April 15, 2024. Defendants
dispute that substituted service on Defendant Perler was proper as it was sent
to his father’s address and not Perler’s home address. (Motion, p. 4.) 
 
Defendants did not timely respond to the First Amended Complaint
and on April 22, 2024, the Clerk entered defaults against both Defendants. (Horn
Decl., ¶ 7.)
 
Defendants assert that Plaintiff’s counsel mailed a Notice of
Ruling, with respect to the March 13, 2024, Status Conference, again to the
home of Perler’s father. Upon learning of the recent Case Management Conference
and without being aware that the Requests for Entry of Default had been
entered, Defendants’ counsel was preparing a Notice of Removal, based upon
diversity and Federal question. (Greene Decl., ¶ 4). As part of that effort,
Defendants’ counsel contacted Plaintiff’s counsel telephonically on April 22,
2024, and then again by telephone and email on April 23, 2024. (Exh B to Greene
Decl. ¶ 5). Defendants’ counsel offered to accept service on behalf of both
Defendants by Notice and Acknowledgement. (Exh. B to Greene Decl. ¶ 5). Plaintiff’s counsel rejected that offer on April 23, 2024, and
reported that the Court had already entered defaults against both the
Defendants. (Exh. C to Greene Decl. ¶ 6).
 
Under the mandatory relief provision of Code of Civil Procedure
section 473(b), the application for relief must be made within six months after
default was entered. Here, Defendants’ motions are timely. Default was entered
on April 22, 2024. Defendants’ filed their motions for relief on June 13, 2024.
Thus, Defendants can seek mandatory relief under Code of Civil Procedure
section 473(b). 
 
Defendants’ counsel provides a declaration attesting that: (1) the
“mistake made by Defense counsel was to delay filing the Notice of Removal,
after receiving the Notice of Ruling regarding the March 13, 2024, Case
Management Conference, mailed by Plaintiff’s counsel to Mr. Perler’s father. I
did not anticipate that Plaintiff’s counsel, aware that Defendants were
represented by the same counsel since the first correspondence from Plaintiff’s
predecessor counsel, would file Request for Entry of Default before contacting
our office” and (2) the “other mistake was to schedule the filing of Notice of
Removal for in advance of the April 30, 2024, Case Management Conference,
failing to anticipate that Plaintiff’s counsel would rush to get the Request
for Entry of Default on file before that hearing.” (Greene Decl. ¶¶ 10-11).
 
However, the Court does not find that the entry of default occurred
because of these mistakes. As Plaintiff asserts in its opposition, Defendants’
counsel’s mistakes were not the cause of the entry of default because the
Notice of Removal had to be filed by March 6, 2024, (30 days from the date of
Defendants’ receipt of the initial pleading in the civil action through their
counsel) or at the very latest March 10, 2024, (30 days from the date that
Plaintiff’s counsel emailed the amended summons and first amended complaint
directly to Perler and RN Wellness.) (28 USC 1446 (b).) By the time Defendants’
counsel claims to have received the Notice of Ruling regarding the March 13,
2024, Case Management Conference, the deadline to file Defendants’ Notice of
Removal had already passed.
Relief is mandatory when an attorney files the
required affidavit attesting to the attorney’s mistake or neglect, unless the
trial court finds that the dismissal did not occur because of these reasons.¿ (Graham
v. Beers (1994) 30 Cal.App.4th 1656, 1660.) Here, Defendants have not
shown that entry of default occurred because of Defendants’ counsel’s mistakes.
Defendants’ counsel’s declaration
does not explain why Defendants did not respond to the First Amended Complaint
by April 15, 2024.
 
The Court finds Defendants have also not established a basis to
set aside the default on the Court’s discretionary basis either. Defendants’
counsel has not submitted a declaration attesting to a mistake made by
Defendants’ counsel that caused the entry of default. Defendants have also not established
that the entry of default occurred because of any inadvertence, surprise, or
excusable neglect. As such, Defendants’ motion is denied.
 
Since Defendants’ motion is denied, the Court does not grant Plaintiff’s
request for attorney’s fees.  
 
III. DISPOSITION

Accordingly,
Defendants’ motions for relief from entry of default are DENIED.
Moving
party is ordered to give notice. 