  Case Number:  23STCV06003    Hearing Date:   November 8, 2024    Dept:  19 PLAINTIFF'S MOTION TO LIFT ARBITRATION STAY IS DENIEDTENTATIVE RULING 
After consideration of the briefing filed and oral
argument at the hearing, Plaintiff Maria Aracely Rivas’s Motion to
Invalidate Arbitration Agreement and Lift Arbitration Stay is DENIED. 
Counsel for Defendants to give notice.
 
STATEMENT OF THE CASE 
This is an employment dispute case. Plaintiff Maria
Aracely Rivas (“Plaintiffs”) brings suit against Defendants Frida Restaurant
Sherman Oaks, LLC (“Frida”) and Pedro Apoloni (erroneously sued as Pedro
Apolonio) (collectively, “Defendants”) alleging the following causes of action:
 
1.      Gender Discrimination [Cal. Gov. Code § 12940, Et Seq.];
2.      Harassment/Hostile Work Environment [Cal. Gov. Code §12940 Et Seq.];
3.      Failure To Prevent Harassment/Hostile Work Environment [Cal. Gov. Code §12940
Et Seq.]; 
4.      Retaliation [Cal. Gov. Code § 12940, Et Seq.];
5.      Constructive Wrongful Termination [In Violation Of Public Policy]; and
6.      Negligent Supervision, Hiring, And Retention. 
On December 13, 2023, the Court GRANTED Defendants’ “Motion
to Compel Arbitration of Plaintiff Maria Aracely Rivas’ Individual Claims and
Stay Litigation Pending Completion of Arbitration” (the “Motion to Compel
Arbitration”). 
On May 10, 2024, Plaintiff filed the instant Motion
to Invalidate Arbitration Agreement and Lift Arbitration Stay (the “Motion”). 
GROUNDS FOR MOTION 
Plaintiff moves for an order invalidating and rendering
unenforceable the arbitration agreement executed between Plaintiff and
Defendant Frida and lifting the arbitration stay on the ground that Plaintiff
is entitled to such relief pursuant to 9 U.S.C. §§ 401 and 402, i.e., the
Ending Forced Arbitration of Sexual Assault and Sexual Harassment Act. 
 
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE 
On May 10, 2024, Plaintiff filed a request for judicial
notice requesting that the Court take judicial notice of Exhibit 1, which is a March
28, 2024 Minute Order issued in Simms v. Epione Medical Corporation, et al.,
Case No. 22STCV15941. 
Defendants object to the request. (See Opposition, pp.
9-10.) 
The Court DENIES Plaintiff’s request to take judicial
notice of Exhibit 1. 
Exhibit 1 is a minute order issued in a different,
unrelated case. In that case there was no dispute that the Federal Arbitration
Act governed the analysis. That is not the case here. In addition, no evidence
that the facts in this case implicate interstate travel were presented in the
moving papers. Therefore, the Court does not find that Exhibit 1 contains any
judicially noticeable “facts” relevant to an issue material to the
determination of the instant Motion. (See, e.g. Budrow v. Dave &
Buster's of California, Inc. (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 875, 885 (citing Santa
Ana Hospital Medical Center v. Belshé (1997) 56 Cal.App.4th 819, 831)
[declining to take judicial notice of trial court ruling in different case
because “[a] written trial court ruling in another case has no precedential
value….”]; People ex rel. Lockyer v. Shamrock Foods Co. (2000) 24
Cal.4th 415, 422, n.2 [“any matter to be judicially noticed must be relevant to
a material issue.”].) 
For the same reasons, the Court also DENIES Plaintiff’s
request, filed with her reply papers, to take judicial notice of Exhibit 2,
which is another minute order issued in a different case. 
DISCUSSION 
A.    Reply Papers
 
As an initial matter, Plaintiff filed her reply papers on
November 4, 2024, which is only four (4) court days before the hearing and
therefore are untimely. 
However, in the interests of justice, the Court
nonetheless considers the reply papers but admonishes Plaintiff to comply with
all filing requirements. 
Plaintiff argues that 9 United States Code sections 401
and 402, i.e., the Ending Forced Arbitration of Sexual Assault and Sexual
Harassment Act (hereafter, the “EFAA” or the “Act”), entitles her to invalidate
the arbitration agreement upon which the Court ordered Plaintiff to arbitrate
her individual claims (hereafter, the “Arbitration Act”) and to lift the stay
imposed by the Court pending the arbitration of those claims, on the grounds
that the instant action is a “sexual harassment dispute” and the EFAA was
effective at the time the dispute arose. (Motion, pp. 2-7.) 
As explained by the Court of Appeal in Kader v.
Southern California Medical Center, Inc. (2024) 99 Cal.App.5th 214: 
The Act consists of two sections.
Section 402, subdivision (a), provides that at the election of the person
alleging conduct constituting a sexual harassment dispute or sexual assault
dispute, “no predispute arbitration agreement or predispute joint-action waiver
shall be valid or enforceable with respect to a case which is filed under
Federal, Tribal, or State law and relates to the sexual assault dispute or the
sexual harassment dispute.” Any issue as to whether the Act applies to a
dispute is to be determined under federal law. (9 U.S.C. § 402, subd. (b).)
 
Section 401 of the Act defines several
relevant terms: (1) a predispute arbitration agreement is “any agreement to
arbitrate a dispute that had not yet arisen at the time of the making of the
agreement;” (2) a sexual assault dispute is “a dispute involving a
nonconsensual sexual act or sexual contact;” and (3) a sexual harassment
dispute is “a dispute relating to conduct that is alleged to constitute sexual
harassment under applicable Federal, Tribal, or State law.” (9 U.S.C. § 401,
subds. (1), (3), & (4).) 
 
A statutory note to the Act adds:
“This Act, and the amendments made by this Act, shall apply with respect to any
dispute or claim that arises or accrues on or after the date of enactment of
this Act.” (Pub.L. No. 117-90, § 3, reprinted in notes foll. 9 U.S.C. § 401.)
[….] 
(Id. at 221-222.) 
Defendants argues that, since the Court determined that
the Federal Arbitration Act (the “FAA”) does not apply, the EFAA also does not
and cannot apply, (Opposition at p. 2), and that, even assuming the FAA
applied, the Motion must be denied on the basis that it is a procedurally
improper motion for reconsideration. (Id. at pp. 2-7.) Defendants also
argue that, even if the FAA applied and the Motion was not a procedurally
improper motion for reconsideration, the EFAA does not apply to Plaintiff’s
claims because they accrued prior to the Act’s effective date, i.e., March 3,
2022. (Id. at pp. 7-9.) 
The Court agrees with Defendants that, because in ruling
on the Motion to Compel Arbitration the Court determined that the FAA does not
apply, the EFAA also does not apply and does not permit Plaintiff to invalidate
the Arbitration Agreement and proceed with all of her claims in court. 
In granting Defendants’ Motion to Compel Arbitration, the
Court determined that the FAA did not apply because there was insufficient
evidence “establishing that Plaintiff’s employment and the arbitration
agreement at issue affect activities having a substantial relation to
interstate commerce….” (December 13, 2023 Minute Order, p. 4.) The Court notes
that, in opposition to Defendants’ Motion to Compel Arbitration, Plaintiff did
not contend that the FAA applied and failed to present any evidence
demonstrating that the Arbitration Agreement affected any of the three (3)
categories of activity that Congress may regulate under the commerce power.
(See Carbajal v. CWPSC, Inc. (2016) 245 Cal.App.4th 227, 238 (internal
citations and quotations omitted) [“…the United States Supreme Court has
identified three categories of activity that Congress may regulate under the
commerce power: (1) the channels of interstate commerce, (2) the
instrumentalities of interstate commerce and persons or things in interstate
commerce, and (3) those activities having a substantial relation to interstate
commerce. The party asserting FAA preemption bears the burden to present
evidence establishing a contract with the arbitration provision affects one of
these three categories of activity, and failure to do so renders the FAA
inapplicable.”].) 
Since this Court determined that the FAA did not apply in
this case, the Court agrees with Defendants that the EFAA therefore also does
not apply. 
Plaintiff relies on Kader, Turner v. Tesla, Inc.
(N.D. Cal. 2023) 686 F.Supp.3d 917, Johnson v. Everyrealm, Inc.
(S.D.N.Y. 2023) 657 F.Supp.3d 535, and Molchanoff v. SOLV Energy, LLC
(S.D. Cal., Mar. 1, 2024, No. 23CV653-LL-DEB) 2024 WL 899384. (Motion at pp.
2-7.) However, in all of these cases, it was determined that the FAA governed
the arbitration agreements at issue. (Kader, supra, 99
Cal.App.5th at 218 [“The parties agreed that any arbitration would be governed
by the Federal Arbitration Act (FAA; 9 U.S.C., §§ 1–16).”]; Turner, supra,
686 F.Supp.3d at 922-924; Johnson, supra, 657 F.Supp.3d at
548-551; Molchanoff, supra, 2024 WL 899384 at *1-2.) 
Since it was determined in this case that the FAA did not
apply, the Court agrees with Defendants that the EFAA cannot be a basis to
grant the relief requested by Plaintiff. 
The Court rejects Plaintiff’s reply brief argument that,
even if the FAA does not apply, the EFAA still applies because the Complaint
involves state law claims. (Reply, p. 1.) Plaintiff provides no legal authority
to support her argument, and the case authority cited by Plaintiff in the
Motion makes clear that the EFAA amends the FAA and therefore is a part of the
FAA. (Turner, supra, 686 F.Supp.3d at 923 [“The EFAA amends the FAA”]; Johnson,
supra, 657 F.Supp.3d at 549 [“The EFAA, however, amends the FAA.”];
Molchanoff, supra, 2024 WL 899384 at *2 [“The Ending Forced Arbitration of
Sexual Assault and Sexual Harassment Act of 2021… amended the FAA to invalidate
and prohibit enforcement of arbitration agreements for ‘case[s] ... filed under
Federal, Tribal, or State law’ and ‘relat[ing] to” a sexual assault or sexual
harassment dispute.’].) 
For the reasons stated, Plaintiff’s Motion to Lift
Arbitration Stay is DENIED. 
The Court reminds the parties that they must
expeditiously complete the ordered arbitration. The parties should be prepared
to inform the Court of the efforts they have undertaken to initiate the
arbitration proceedings. 
Plaintiff to give notice, unless the parties waive notice
at the hearing.
 
 