 Case Number:  23STCV10787    Hearing Date:   November 8, 2024    Dept:  19 MOTION FOR JUDGMENT ON THE PLEADINGS IS GRANTEDTENTATIVE RULING  After consideration of the briefing filed and oral  argument at the hearing, Plaintiff ODK Capital, LLC’s unopposed Motion  for Judgment on the Pleadings is GRANTED, in part.  For the reasons explained below,  while the Court GRANTS the Motion, the Court also GRANTS thirty (30) days leave  to amend.  Thus, the Court DENIES  Plaintiff’s request for judgment to be entered in favor of Plaintiff and  against Defendant Rita Ortiz “¿in  the amount of $46,644.00 plus court costs and attorney’s fees.”  Counsel for Plaintiff ODK  Capital, LLC to give notice.  STATEMENT OF THE CASE This is a  breach of contract action. Plaintiff ODK Capital, LLC (“Plaintiff”) brings suit  against Defendants Organic Quinoa Products Corp. (“Organic Quinoa”) and Rita  Ortiz (collectively, “Defendants”) alleging the following cause of action:   1.       Breach of Contract.  Plaintiff alleges that Defendants “executed a Business  Loan and Security Agreement with accompanying supplement (hereinafter ‘BLSA’)  in favor of Celtic Bank (‘Celtic’),” that Defendant Ortiz executed a Personal  Guaranty (hereinafter the 'Guaranty”), that Celtic assigned its rights to Plaintiff,  and that Defendants breached the agreements by failing to pay $46,644.00 due  under the BLSA.  On December 11, 2023, Defendant Organic Quinoa’s default  was entered.  Plaintiff filed the instant Motion for Judgment  on the Pleadings (the “Motion”).  GROUNDS FOR MOTION  Pursuant to Code of Civil  Procedure section 438, Plaintiff moves for judgment on the pleadings, including an award of costs and  attorneys fees, on the ground that Defendant Ortiz’s Answer fails to  state facts sufficient to constitute a defense.  MEET AND CONFER  The Court finds that Plaintiff satisfied  the meet and confer requirements prior to filing the Motion. (Alison K. Schlick  Decl., ¶¶ 7-8.)  REQUEST FOR  JUDICIAL NOTICE   The Court notes that in the  Notice of Motion and in the memorandum filed in support of the Motion,  Plaintiff requests that the Court take judicial notice “of the contents of its  file.”  The Court DENIES Plaintiff’s  request because “[a]ny request for judicial notice must be made in a separate  document listing the specific items for which notice is requested and must  comply with rule 3.1306(c).” (Cal. R. Ct., 3.1113(l).)  California Rules of Court, rule  3.1306, subdivision (c) provides that:  A  party requesting judicial notice of material under Evidence Code sections 452  or 453 must provide the court and each party with a copy of the material. If  the material is part of a file in the court in which the matter is being heard,  the party must: (1)   Specify in writing the part of the court file sought to be judicially  noticed; and (2)   Either make arrangements with the clerk to have the file in the courtroom  at the time of the hearing or confirm with the clerk that the file is  electronically accessible to the court. (Cal. R. Ct., 3.1306(c).)  Plaintiff’s request was not made  in a separate document, and Plaintiff does not specify the specific items for  which notice is requested. For this reason, Plaintiff’s request for judicial  notice is denied.    DISCUSSION  As an initial matter, Defendant  Ortiz failed to file any opposition, effectively consenting to the Court  granting the requested relief. (See Cal. R. Ct., 8.54(c) [“A failure to oppose  a motion may be deemed a consent to the granting of the motion.”]; Sexton v.  Superior Court (1997) 58 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1410.)   I.                    MOTION FOR JUDGMENT ON THE  PLEADINGS   “A motion for judgment on the pleadings  performs the same function as a general demurrer, and hence attacks only  defects disclosed on the face of the pleadings or by matters that can be  judicially noticed.” (Burnett v. Chimney  Sweep (2004) 123 Cal.App.4th 1057, 1064.) “A motion for judgment on the  pleadings may be made either prior to trial or at trial, on the same grounds as  could be urged by a general demurrer.” (Ponderosa Homes, Inc. v. City of San  Ramon (1994) 23 Cal.App.4th 1761, 1767 (citing Stockton Newspapers, Inc. v.  Redevelopment Agency (1985) 171 Cal.App.3d 95, 99).) “In deciding or reviewing  a judgment on the pleadings, all properly pleaded material facts are deemed to  be true, as well as all facts that may be implied or inferred from those  expressly alleged.” (Fire Ins. Exchange  v. Superior Court (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 446, 452.) However, the court does  not accept as true “conclusions of law or fact, opinions, speculation, or  allegations contrary to law or facts that are judicially noticed.” (Stevenson  Real Estate Servs., Inc. v. CB Richard Ellis Real Estate Servs., Inc. (2006)  138 Cal.App.4th 1215, 1219-20.) Further, like a general demurrer, a motion for  judgment on the pleadings does not lie as to a portion of a cause of action,  and if any part of a cause of action is properly pleaded, the motion will be  overruled (Fire Ins. Exchange, supra, 116 Cal.App.4th at 552.) “In the case  of either a demurrer or a motion for judgment on the pleadings, leave to amend  should be granted if there is any reasonable possibility that the plaintiff can  state a good cause of action.” (Gami v.  Mullikin Medical Ctr. (1993) 18 Cal.App.4th 870, 876.)   Plaintiff argues that it is entitled to judgment on the pleadings as  against Defendant Ortiz because Defendant Ortiz’s Answer, filed on July 3,  2024, does not deny Plaintiff’s allegations in the Complaint, reasoning that  Defendant Ortiz failed to use paragraph numbers, failed to explain, or  otherwise state facts sufficient to constitute a defense to the Complaint.  (Motion, pp. 2-5.)  As an initial matter, the Court rejects Plaintiff’s argument that the  Answer is defective because, in checking box 3b, Defendant Ortiz failed to use  paragraph numbers. In the Answer, Defendant Ortiz checked box 3b, stating that  she admits all of the allegations in the Complaint except “ALL PARAGRAPGHS.”  While Defendant Ortiz could have simply checked box 3a, the Court finds that  Defendant Ortiz, in Section 3 of the Answer, sufficiently explains that she  generally denies each and every paragraph in the Complaint.  However, the Court agrees with Plaintiff that the Answer fails to  sufficiently plead the affirmative defenses.  California law requires an answer to plead facts with as  much detail as are required for a cause of action. (FPI Development, Inc. v.  Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 367, 384; see C.A. v. William S. Hart  Union High School District (2012) 53 Cal.4th 861, 872 [“To survive a  demurrer, the complaint need only allege facts sufficient to state a cause of  action; each evidentiary fact that might eventually form part of the  plaintiff's proof need not be alleged.”].)  “Affirmative defenses must not be pled as ‘terse legal conclusions,’  but ‘rather ... as facts ‘averred as carefully and with as much detail as the  facts which constitute the cause of action and are alleged in the complaint.’’”  (Quantification Settlement Agreement Cases (2011) 201 Cal.App.4th 758,  812–813 (quoting FPI Development, Inc., supra, 231 Cal.App.3d at  384).)  In Section 4 of the Answer (“Affirmative Defenses”),  Defendant Ortiz asserts affirmative defenses, including that the “contract” is void and unenforceable, that Plaintiff has  waived “rights to the contract,” that Plaintiff breached the “contract,” and  that the contract is unconscionable.  However, the Court agrees with Plaintiff that the facts alleged in  Section 4 are insufficient to constitute an affirmative defense. For example,  Defendant Ortiz must allege additional factual allegations as to which  “contract” she is referring to, i.e., the BSLA, the Guaranty, or both, and must allege additional factual  allegations as to why the  “contract” is void and  unenforceable, how Plaintiff waived “rights to the contract,” how Plaintiff  breached the “contract,” and how/why the contract is unconscionable.  Nonetheless, the Court rejects Plaintiff’s suggestion that Defendant  Ortiz’s failure to sufficiently allege the affirmative defenses, or failure to  use paragraph numbers in generally denying “ALL PARAGRAPGHS,” compels the  conclusion that Defendant Ortiz does not deny Plaintiff’s allegations in the  Complaint.  For the foregoing reasons, the Motion is GRANTED.  II.                 LEAVE  TO AMEND  “In the case of either a  demurrer or a motion for judgment on the pleadings, leave to amend should be  granted if there is any reasonable possibility that the plaintiff can state a  good cause of action.” (Gami, supra, 18  Cal.App.4th at 876.) After a judgment on the pleadings is granted, the same  standards apply in granting leave to amend as for demurrers and leave is  routinely granted. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 438(h); Virginia G. v. ABC  Unified Sch. Dist. (1993) 15 Cal. App. 4th 1848, 1852 [holding that when a  motion for judgment on the pleadings is granted, denial of leave to amend  constitutes an abuse of discretion if the pleading does not show on its face  that it is incapable of amendment].) If leave to amend is granted, the party  against whom the motion is granted must be given 30 days to file an amended  pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 438(h)(2).)  The Court finds that there is a  reasonable possibility that Defendant can allege additional factual allegations  with respect to the affirmative defenses and therefore GRANTS 30 days leave to  amend.  Plaintiff is to give notice.    