


            [1] Smith
requests judicial notice of (1) HA’s Administrative
Plan (RJN Ex. 1); (2) “Reasonable Accommodations Under the Fair Housing Act,” a
Joint Statement of the Department of Housing and Urban Development and the Department
of Justice, dated May 7, 2004 (RJN Ex. 2); and (3) declarations in support of Smith’s
motion for a stay, including Smith (RJN Exs. 3-4), (4) Jessica (RJN Ex. 5), and
(5) Rachel Steinback (“Steinback”) (RJN Ex. 6).  The requests for RJN Ex. 1 and 2 are
granted.  Evid. Code §452(c) 
The court need not judicially
notice the declarations (RJN Exs. 4-6) because it is always free to review prior
filings in the current case, if relevant. 
Smith makes no showing of relevance. 
The determination of administrative mandamus is based solely on the
Administrative Record unless the evidence meets the criteria of CCP section
1094.5(e).  Smith makes no attempt to
show that the declarations meet these criteria. 
Smith also failed to make a motion to augment the record with this
evidence as required by LASC 3.231(g)(3). 
The court would exclude the declarations except that the City has no
objection.  As a result, they have been
considered.


[2] It is not clear whether the witnesses were sworn under
oath.


[3] Assistant Housing Manager Soto added that HA’s policy
is that when clients already have a repayment agreement, we can’t enter into a
new one.”  AR 80.  “And we cannot allow them to pay us in
full.  This is an automatic termination
and we just come to the commission to hear, you know, if there’s anything that
we can do to rescind that, but in this situation, we can’t.”  AR 80.


[4] The August 8,
2022 declaration by Smith and Jessica contains a handwritten note stating that
the family “did not make enough to file” a tax return.  AR 14. 
This handwritten statement is contradicted by Jessica’s admission at the
Commission hearing that she filed a tax return for her employment with
Molina.  AR 79.
 


[5] Smith does not
show that the December 12, 2022 hearing was required to be recorded and the
lack of a recording does not alter the fact that Smith failed to provide any
evidence to substantiate her reasonable accommodation claim.  Nor did HA’s denial of reasonable
accommodation find that Smith committed fraud, although her conduct could be
characterized as such.  See AR 86-87.
 

