  Case Number:  18STCV06807    Hearing Date:   March 14, 2024    Dept:  50  
Superior Court of
California
County of Los
Angeles
Department 50



brian weiner, et al.,
 
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
onyx tower group, llc, et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


18STCV06807 




Hearing Date:


March 14, 2024




Hearing Time:


10:00 a.m.




[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE:
 
PLAINTIFFS’
  MOTION FOR TERMINATING, ISSUE AND/OR MONETARY SANCTIONS IN THE AMOUNT OF
  $203,243.30 AGAINST DEFENDANTS ONYX TOWER, LLC, SAM HAKIM, MICHAEL HAKIM,
  JULIA HAKIM, TANYA HAKIM, ONYX TOWER GROUP, LLC, SAID HAKIM, AND ONYX TOWER
  HOLDINGS, LLC




AND RELATED CROSS-ACTION


 



Background
Plaintiff Brian Weiner,
individually and derivatively on behalf of Onyx Tower Management, LLC
(“Plaintiff”) filed this action on November 30, 2018, against a number of
defendants. The operative Third Amended Complaint was filed on October 22, 2020,
asserting causes of action for breach of contract, breach of the covenant of
good faith and fair dealing, constructive trust, accounting, declaratory
relief, constructive fraud, fraud, and appointment of receiver. 
On March 6, 2020, defendant
Michael Hakim filed a Cross-Complaint against a number of cross-defendants,
including Onyx Tower Management, LLC. On April 12, 2023, Michael Hakim filed a
“Cross-Complaint to the Third Amended Complaint.” In addition, on January 19,
2021, a number of defendants filed a Cross-Complaint against Plaintiff.   
Plaintiff now moves for
“terminating, issue, and/or monetary sanctions in the amount of
$203,243.30 against Defendants Onyx Tower, LLC, Sam Hakim, Michael Hakim, Julia
Hakim, Tanya Hakim, Onyx Tower Group, LLC, Said Hakim, and Onyx Tower Holdings,
LLC.” The motion is opposed by Onyx Tower Group, Onyx Tower LLC, Onyx Tower
Holdings, Onyx Tower Management, LLC, Sam Hakim, Julia Hakim, Tanya Hakim, and
Said Hakim (collectively, the “Onyx
Parties”) oppose. In addition, Michael Hakim opposes.
Discussion
Disobeying a
court order to provide discovery is a misuse of the discovery process. (¿Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010, subd. (g)¿.) There
are a broad range of sanctions available against anyone engaging in conduct
that is a misuse of the discovery process. ((Code Civ.
Proc., § 2023.030.) 
“The
court may impose a terminating sanction by one of the following orders: (1)¿An order striking
out the pleadings or parts of the pleadings of any party engaging in the misuse
of the discovery process. (2)¿An order staying further proceedings by that party until
an order for discovery is obeyed. (3)¿An order dismissing the action, or any part of the action,
of that party. (4)¿An order rendering a judgment by default against that
party.” ((Id., § 2023.030, subd. (d).) In addition, “[t]he court may impose an issue sanction ordering that
designated facts shall be taken as established in the action in accordance with
the claim of the party adversely affected by the misuse of the discovery
process. The court may also impose an issue sanction by an order prohibiting
any party engaging in the misuse of the discovery process from supporting or
opposing designated claims or defenses.” ((Id., § 2023.030,
subd. (b).)  
In addition, Plaintiff
notes that pursuant to Government Code section 68608,
subdivision (b), “[j]udges shall have all the powers to impose sanctions
authorized by law, including the power to dismiss actions or strike pleadings,
if it appears that less severe sanctions would not be effective after taking
into account the effect of previous sanctions or previous lack of compliance in
the case. Judges are encouraged to impose sanctions to achieve the purposes of
this article.” 
As
set forth above, Plaintiff moves for “terminating, issue, and/or
monetary sanctions in the amount of $203,243.30 against Defendants Onyx Tower,
LLC, Sam Hakim, Michael Hakim, Julia Hakim, Tanya Hakim, Onyx Tower Group, LLC,
Said Hakim, and Onyx Tower Holdings, LLC.” (Notice of Motion at p. 1:7-9.)
Plaintiff states that “[t]he motion will be made on the grounds that Defendants
have failed to comply with Court orders regarding discovery and have engaged in
conduct designed to disrupt the timely disposition of this case.” (Mot. at p.
1:10-11.)
Plaintiff notes that the parties participated in an informal
discovery conference (“IDC”) on July 18, 2022. Per the Court’s July 18, 2022
minute order, the parties
agreed and the Court ordered as follows: “1. The depositions of Sam Hakim as the PMK for all three Onyx
entities regarding the identification of documents only, as set forth in the
Plaintiff’s amended notices of deposition dated July 11, 2022, will take place
on July 26, 2022, at the times designated in the amended notice via Zoom. 2.
The cut-off date for completing all depositions is extended from July 29, 2022,
to October 7, 2022.” 
On July 19, 2022, Plaintiff’s counsel sent a Zoom link for a July 26,
2022 deposition, and asked for dates of availability in August and September so
that the other depositions could
be set. (Levine Decl., ¶ 12.) On July 22, 2022, defendants served objections to the deposition notices objecting to each topic. (Levine Decl. ¶ 13.) On
July 24, 2022, counsel for all defendants except Michael Hakim indicated that Sam
Hakim would not be attending his July 26, 2022 PMK deposition because “he is
feeling very ill and has Covid like symptoms and will be seeking medical
attention tomorrow.” (Levine Decl., ¶ 14, Ex. 9.) Ultimately, Sam Hakim’s PMK
deposition took place on November 30, 2022. (Levine Decl., ¶ 20.) 
Plaintiff asserts that Sam Hakim did not properly prepare as the Onyx entities’ PMK. Plaintiff indicates that Sam Hakim
failed to identify documents in the noticed
categories of documents except for an undated deed of trust. (Levine Decl., ¶
20, Ex. 15, p. 71:15-24.) Plaintiff also contends that Sam Hakim testified “I don’t know” approximately 300 times to certain questions, including
questions about his own job title, and whether he does anything for certain
Onyx entities or receives income from such Onyx entities. (Mot. at p. 5:15-16; Levine
Decl., ¶ 20, Ex. 15, pp. 10:12-11:22.)
Plaintiff’s counsel notes that on April 18, 2023, the parties
participated in another IDC. (Levine Decl., ¶ 23.) The Court’s April 18, 2023
minute order states, inter alia, “[t]he parties participated in the
Informal Discovery Conference. The parties agreed and the Court ordered as
follows: On May 23, 2023 and May 24, 2023 Defendant Tanya Hakim will testify at
deposition as the person most knowledgeable for the identification of documents
as referenced in plaintiff’s IDC statement dated January 31, 2023. By April 25,
2023 Plaintiff will eserve the defendants with a new deposition notice that
includes the list of document categories.” 
Plaintiff’s counsel
states that “[a]s ordered, the following week, Plaintiffs served upon each of
the Onyx Entities second amended PMK deposition notices for May 23, 2023 and
May 24, 2023.” (Levine Decl., ¶ 24.) Plaintiff’s counsel indicates that “[t]he second
deposition of the Onyx Entities PMK to identify documents commenced on May 23,
2023. Defendants produced Tanya Hakim as the PMK for the Onyx Entities for the
categories of identification of documents.” (Levine Decl., ¶ 26.) 
Plaintiff argues that “Tanya, by her own admission, did not
take the Court order seriously and did nothing to properly prepare as the Onyx
Entities’ PMK…” (Mot. at p. 8:1-2.) Plaintiff asserts that “Tanya only
conducted a search for communications as to emails to which she was directly
copied and which were sent only to her personal email address, and neglected to
search her own text messages or those of anyone else related to the Subject
Property.” (Mot. at p. 8:7-9.) Plaintiff cites to the following testimony from
Tanya Hakim’s deposition: “A. Okay. So, I have about 31 e-mails that include
Sam and any relation to Onyx including accountants, including agents, et
cetera. Q. So, since the inception of these entities and the purchase of Onyx
Tower to today, you are only aware of 31 e-mails -- A. That is -- Q. -- that
would show a communication with Sam? A. Correct. Q. How about text messages? A.
That I don’t really -- I haven’t really checked that, but I don’t now how I
would search that.” (Levine Decl., ¶ 26, Ex. 22, p. 87:10-21.) The deposition
transcript for Tanya Hakim also provides, “Q. Did you search your own personal
next messages to see if the word ‘Onyx’ was ever mentioned? A. I have not, but
I can go ahead and do so.” (Id. at p. 88:2-4.)  Plaintiff also cites to the following
testimony from Tanya Hakim’s deposition: “Q. So, you’re only telling me about
the e-mails on which you were copied and not any of the e-mails for the
company? Is that correct? A. I would not have access to other people’s e-mails
so I only have access to my e-mails.” (Id. at p.
89:12-17.)
In addition, Plaintiff
asserts in the motion that “Defendants also attempted to obstruct discovery by
wrongfully objecting to Plaintiffs’ requests for production on baseless
grounds, relying on outdated court orders to do so, and refusing to stipulate
or confer with Plaintiffs to timely resolve discovery disputes.” (Mot. at p.
9:9-11.) 
Plaintiff’s counsel
states that “[o]n or about May 28, 2023, Defendants served objections to
Plaintiffs’ document requests on the basis that written discovery is cut off
pursuant to the February 17, 2022 and the October 4, 2022 Minute Orders.”
(Levine Decl., ¶ 27.) Plaintiff’s counsel further states that “[a]fter my
office provided notice that Plaintiffs would appear ex parte the following day
to resolve the discovery issue, Defense Counsel provided Plaintiffs’ with its
Opposition, wherein Defendants conceded that discovery was open pursuant to the
March 9, 2023 Minute Order.” (Levine Decl., ¶ 29.) 
Plaintiff also notes that on July 5, 2023, the Court issued a
minute order in this action providing, inter alia, that “[t]he Ex Parte
Application TO REOPEN THE WRITTEN DISCOVERY DEADLINE FOR THE PURPOSE OF
PERMITTING DOCUMENT REQUESTS filed by Brian Weiner on 06/22/2023 is Denied. The
Exparte Application is denied because the Court’s 3/9/23 order permits all
discovery until the cut-off that is tied to the 11/1/23 trial date.”
Plaintiff’s counsel asserts that “[d]efense Counsel stated that Defendants
would substantively respond to Plaintiffs’ requests, but they still have yet to
make any overtures to do so.” (Levine Decl., ¶ 32.)
A.   
Plaintiff’s Request for Terminating Sanctions 
In the motion, Plaintiff asserts that “despite the Court
ordering said depositions, the deposition transcripts more than demonstrate
that Defendants in general, and Sam and Tanya in particular, failed to comply
with their duties of being designated agents for the Onyx Entities as
delineated in Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.230.”
(Mot. at p. 13:9-12.) Pursuant to ¿Section 2025.230¿, “¿[i]f the
deponent named is not a natural person, the deposition notice shall describe
with reasonable particularity the matters on which examination is requested. In
that event, the deponent shall designate and produce at the deposition those of
its officers, directors, managing agents, employees, or agents who are most
qualified to testify on its behalf as to those matters to the extent of any
information known or reasonably available to the deponent.”¿ (¿Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.230¿.)   
In addition, Plaintiff
asserts that “Defendants have also willfully violated this Court’s orders and
presented arguments in bad faith when Plaintiffs have sought requests for
production of documents. To date, Plaintiffs have yet to receive a substantive
response to a single request for production, which were due in May 2023.” (Mot.
at p. 13:1-3.)
As an initial matter,
Michael Hakim notes in his opposition that Plaintiff’s motion states that
“[t]he motion will be made on the grounds that Defendants have failed to comply
with Court orders regarding discovery and have engaged in conduct designed to disrupt
the timely disposition of this case.” (Notice of Mot. at p. 1:10-11.) Michael
Hakim’s counsel states that “[t]here is NO COURT ORDER against my client
compelling him to provide responses or further responses to any form of
discovery in this case.” (Mann Decl., ¶ 5.) Michael Hakim asserts that “[t]here
was no court order directed against Hakim, no prior imposition of sanctions in
relation to the subjects of the present motion, and absolutely no basis for
awarding terminating sanctions against Hakim.” (Michael Hakim Opp’n at p. 10:1-4.)

In the reply to Michael
Hakim’s opposition, Plaintiff counters that “the disobedient deponents are Sam
Hakim and Tanya Hakim, designated by the Onyx Entity Defendants. As a member,
manager, and owner for the Onyx Defendants, Michael Hakim agreed to put forward
Sam and Tanya Hakim to represent his companies, and otherwise has done nothing
to distance himself from their conduct. As such he must be held responsible for
the violations of the Onyx Entities. Michael Hakim cannot hide behind the
corporate veil to avoid being held responsible for the acts of the entities.”
(Reply at p. 4:11-16.) However, Plaintiff does not cite any legal authority (or
evidence) to support this argument. Moreover, Plaintiff raises this argument
for the first time in the reply. The Court notes
that “[p]oints raised for the first time in a reply brief will ordinarily not be considered, because
such consideration would deprive the respondent of an opportunity to counter
the argument.” ((American Drug Stores, Inc. v. Stroh (1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 1446, 1453.)
Plaintiff raises an
additional argument for the first time in the reply, specifically, that “Dennis
Wilson, Counsel for all Defendants except Michael Hakim in this case, in
violation of the California Rules of Professional Conduct, also recently
represented Michael Hakim in several other actions while this action was
pending, including in case numbers 19SMCV01587 and 19STCV36690. SSD¶6, Ex. 1-2.
This shows that Michael Hakim’s entire cross-complaint with Mr. Wilson
representing Michael Hakim’s family against him is more than likely a sham, and
further warrants sanctions upon Mr. Wilson in particular.” (Reply at pp.
2:27-3:4.) As discussed, “[p]oints raised for the first time in a reply
brief will ordinarily not be considered, because such consideration would
deprive the respondent of an opportunity to counter the argument.” ((Ibid.)
In
addition, “¿[t]he general rule of motion practice…is that new evidence is not
permitted with reply papers.”¿(Jay¿v. Mahaffey¿(2013)
218 Cal.App.4th 1522, 1537.)
In light of the
foregoing, the Court denies Plaintiff’s request for terminating, issue, and
monetary sanctions against Michael Hakim. 
In their opposition to
the instant motion, the Onyx
Parties assert that Plaintiff’s motion is not appropriate, as Plaintiff failed
to meet and confer prior to bringing the motion. However, the Onyx Parties do
not cite to any legal authority demonstrating that Plaintiff is required to
meet and confer with the Onyx Parties in advance of bringing a motion for
sanctions. 
The Onyx Parties also asserts that “Plaintiff’s motion for terminating
sanctions is not warranted as Defendants have produced information and
documentation on all issues.” (Onyx Parties’ Opp’n at p. 8:10-12.) The Onyx
Parties’ counsel states in his supporting declaration that “[t]he Onyx
Defendants did produce two different PMKs for Deposition in this case, Sam
Hakim, who sat for a number of days, and Tanya Hakim who also sat for several
days. A total of approximately 4371 documents were produced to the Plaintiffs.
These documents were in response to Plaintiffs’ Requests for Production to the
4 different ONYX entities. The Onyx Entitles served Responses including Amended
Responses and Further Supplemental Responses all without objections.” (Wilson
Decl., ¶ 3.)
The Court also does
not find that the circumstances warrant the imposition of terminating sanctions
against the Onyx Parties at this time. The Court thus denies such request. As
set forth above, Plaintiff’s motion is made on the grounds that “Defendants
have failed to comply with Court orders regarding discovery and have engaged in
conduct designed to disrupt the timely disposition of this case.” (Notice of Mot.
at p. 1:10-11.) As discussed, the relevant July 18, 2022 minute order in this
case states, “[t]he parties agreed and the Court ordered as follows: 1. The
depositions of Sam Hakim as the PMK for all three Onyx entities regarding the
identification of documents only, as set forth in the Plaintiff’s amended
notices of deposition dated July 11, 2022, will take place on July 26, 2022, at
the times designated in the amended notice via Zoom. 2. The cut-off date for
completing all depositions is extended from July 29, 2022, to October 7, 2022.”
Plaintiff’s counsel acknowledges that the “the PMK depositions for Sam
Hakim…took place November 30, 2022, December 5, 2022…” (Levine Decl., ¶ 38(a).)

In addition, the Court’s
April 18, 2023 minute order states, inter alia, “[t]he parties
participated in the Informal Discovery Conference. The parties agreed and the
Court ordered as follows: On May 23, 2023 and May 24, 2023 Defendant Tanya
Hakim will testify at deposition as the person most knowledgeable for the
identification of documents as referenced in plaintiff’s IDC statement dated
January 31, 2023. By April 25, 2023 Plaintiff will eserve the defendants with a
new deposition notice that includes the list of document categories.”
Plaintiff’s counsel acknowledges that the depositions of Tanya Hakim “took
place May 23, 2023, and May 24, 2023…” (Levine Decl., ¶ 38(a).) 
In Lopez v. Watchtower Bible & Tract Society of
New York, Inc. (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th 566, 604, cited by the Onyx Parties, the Court of Appeal noted that “the courts have long recognized that the terminating
sanction is a drastic penalty and should be used sparingly. A trial court must be cautious when imposing a terminating
sanction because the sanction eliminates a party’s fundamental right to a
trial, thus implicating due process rights.” (Internal citation omitted.) “The
discovery statutes…evince an incremental approach to discovery sanctions, starting with monetary sanctions and ending with the ultimate sanction of termination. Although
in extreme cases a court has the authority to order a terminating sanction
as a first measure, a terminating sanction should generally not be imposed
until the court has attempted less severe alternatives and found them to be
unsuccessful and/or the record clearly shows lesser sanctions would be
ineffective.” ((Id. at pp. 604-605 [internal quotations, citations, and emphasis omitted.].) Here, it does not appear that any less severe
sanctions have been issued against the Onyx Parties in this case. 
B.   
Plaintiff’s Request for Issue Sanctions 
Next, Plaintiff asserts
that “[i]f this Court declines to issue terminating sanctions, at bare minimum,
issue sanctions are necessary in this case to remedy Defendants’ violations of
the aforementioned Court orders, which frustrate Plaintiffs’ ability to prepare
for trial and prove daamges [sic].” (Mot. at pp. 13:28-14:2.) 
As an initial matter, the
Onyx Parties assert that
Plaintiff’s motion is defective as it has no separate statement. Pursuant to California Rules of Court, rule 3.1345,
subdivision (a)(7), “[e]xcept as provided in (b), any motion involving the
content of a discovery request or the responses to such a request must be
accompanied by a separate statement. The motions that require a separate
statement include a motion:…(7) For issue or evidentiary sanctions.” (Emphasis added.)[1]
Indeed, it does not appear that Plaintiff filed a separate statement in
connection with the instant motion. 
Plaintiff also asserts that “the
requested documents that Defendants refuse to identify and/or produce would
directly establish each of the particular issues identified and would expressly
address the issue of the amount of damages that Defendants owe OTM and
Plaintiff related to the gross rents Defendants collected and/or diverted to
pay their personal expense unrelated to the Subject Property.” (Mot. at p.
14:18-21.)[2] As
set forth above, the Onyx Parties’ counsel states that “[a] total of
approximately 4371 documents were produced to the Plaintiffs. These documents
were in response to Plaintiffs’ Requests for Production to the 4 different ONYX
entities. The Onyx Entitles served Responses including Amended Responses and Further
Supplemental Responses all without objections.” (Wilson Decl., ¶ 3.) 
Based on the foregoing, the
Court denies Plaintiff’s request for issue sanctions. 
C.   
Requests for Monetary Sanctions 
Plaintiff asserts that he
has been “forced to incur a total of $203,243.30 in attorneys’ fees and costs
in pursuit of discovery, in response to Defendants’ delay tactics, and act upon
[sic] Defendants’ discovery abuses.” (Mot. at p. 15:16-17.) However, it is
unclear what legal authority Plaintiff is relying on with respect to his
request for monetary sanctions. Plaintiff does not appear to cite to legal
authority authorizing the Court to award monetary sanctions against the Onyx
Parties or Michael Hakim, nor does Plaintiff apply any such legal authority to
the facts here. (See Mot. at pp. 14:28-15:23.)[3]
Thus, the Court denies Plaintiff’s request for monetary sanctions. 
The Onyx Parties state
that they “requests [sic] sanctions to be imposed against Plaintiff and its
attorneys of record, in the amount of $3,300.00 pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 2025, subd. (o).”
(Onyx Parties’ Opposition at p. 10:19-21.) The Court notes that Code of Civil Procedure section 2025 was repealed in
2005. (See Code Civ.
Proc., § 2025.) Thus,
the Onyx Parties do not appear to cite any legal authority to support their
request for sanctions against Plaintiff. The Court thus declines such request. 
Lastly, Michael Hakim
asserts that “monetary sanctions should be awarded in favor of Hakim and
against Plaintiff and his attorneys of record...” (Michael Hakim Opp’n at p.
10:5-6.) In the opposition, Michael Hakim cites to Code
of Civil Procedure section 2023.030, subdivision (a), which provides in
part that “[t]he court may also impose this sanction
on one unsuccessfully asserting that another has engaged in the misuse of the
discovery process, or on any attorney who advised that assertion, or on both.
If a monetary sanction is authorized by any provision of this title, the court
shall impose that sanction unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction
acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the
imposition of the sanction unjust.” The Court finds that Plaintiff acted with
substantial justification in presenting his position and thus declines to award
monetary sanctions against Plaintiff pursuant to Code
of Civil Procedure section 2023.030, subdivision (a). 
Michael Hakim also cites
to Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.480,
subdivision (j), which
provides that “[t]he court shall impose a
monetary sanction…against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully
makes or opposes a motion to compel an answer or production, unless it finds
that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or
that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” Pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.480,
subdivision (a), “[i]f a deponent
fails to answer any question or to produce any document, electronically stored
information, or tangible thing under the deponent’s control that is specified
in the deposition notice or a deposition subpoena, the party seeking discovery
may move the court for an order compelling that answer or production.” However,
in the instant motion, Plaintiff does not move for an order compelling an
answer or production pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 2025.480. Thus, the
Court does not see how this Code section is applicable. Thus, the Court denies Michael
Hakim’s request for monetary sanctions. 
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s
motion is denied in its entirety.  
The Onyx Parties are
ordered to give notice of this Order. 
 
DATED:  March 14, 2024      
                        ________________________________
Hon. Teresa A. Beaudet
Judge, Los Angeles Superior Court


