 Case Number:  21STCV35243    Hearing Date:   February 22, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
September 23, 2021, Plaintiff Nancy Stewart (“Nancy Stewart”) filed this action
against Defendants Audrey Forte (“Forte”) and Does 1-50 for wrongful
death-negligence. 
On
November 3, 2021, Forte filed an answer. 
On
October 11, 2022, Forte filed a cross-complaint against Cross-Defendants Estate
of Westin Lee Stewart, Deceased, Nancy Stewart, as an individual and as successor
in interest to Westin Lee Stewart, Deceased, and Roes 1 through 100 for
negligence, negligence per se, equitable indemnity, contribution, and
declaratory relief. 
On
June 30, 2023, the Estate of Westin Lee Stewart, Deceased, and Nancy Stewart (“Cross-Defendants”)
filed an answer. 
On
January 17, 2024, Cross-Defendants filed a motion to continue the trial and
extend discovery cutoff dates, to be heard on February 22, 2024.  No opposition has been filed. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for April 5, 2024. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Cross-Defendants
ask the Court to continue the trial and extend discovery cutoff dates. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
A.   Request to continue trial 
California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(b), provides that “a party seeking a continuance of
the date set for trial, whether contested or uncontested or stipulated to by
the parties, must make the request for a continuance by a noticed motion or an
ex parte application under the rules in chapter 4 of this division, with
supporting declarations. The party must make the motion or application as soon
as reasonably practical once the necessity for the continuance is discovered.” 
          Under
California Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(c), the Court may grant a continuance
only on an affirmative showing of good cause requiring the continuance.
Circumstances that may indicate good cause include “a party's excused inability
to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other material evidence despite
diligent efforts,” or the unavailability of a party, counsel, or expert due to
death, illness or other excusable circumstance. The Court should consider all
facts and circumstances relevant to the determination, such as proximity of the
trial date, prior continuances, prejudice suffered, whether all parties have
stipulated to a continuance, and whether the interests of justice are served.
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(d).) 
B.   Request to continue or reopen discovery 
 Code of Civil Procedure section 2024.020 provides: 
“(a) Except
as otherwise provided in this chapter, any party shall be entitled as a matter
of right to complete discovery proceedings on or before the 30th day, and to
have motions concerning discovery heard on or before the 15th day, before the
date initially set for the trial of the action. 
“(b) Except
as provided in Section 2024.050, a continuance or postponement of the trial
date does not operate to reopen discovery proceedings.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.020.) 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2024.050 provides: 
“(a) On
motion of any party, the court may grant leave to complete discovery
proceedings, or to have a motion concerning discovery heard, closer to the
initial trial date, or to reopen discovery after a new trial date has been set.
This motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section
2016.040. 
“(b) In
exercising its discretion to grant or deny this motion, the court shall take
into consideration any matter relevant to the leave requested, including, but
not limited to, the following: 
“(1) The
necessity and the reasons for the discovery. 
“(2) The
diligence or lack of diligence of the party seeking the discovery or the
hearing of a discovery motion, and the reasons that the discovery was not
completed or that the discovery motion was not heard earlier. 
“(3) Any
likelihood that permitting the discovery or hearing the discovery motion will
prevent the case from going to trial on the date set, or otherwise interfere
with the trial calendar, or result in prejudice to any other party. 
“(4) The
length of time that has elapsed between any date previously set, and the date presently
set, for the trial of the action. 
“(c) The
court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section
2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or
opposes a motion to extend or to reopen discovery, unless it finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.050.) 

DISCUSSION 
          Cross-Defendants ask the Court to continue the trial to
October 7, 2024 and extend all discovery
and related cutoff dates because Forte has failed to provide court-ordered
discovery responses that Cross-Defendants need to prepare for trial. 
          The Court finds good cause and continues the trial to
October 7, 2024.  In addition, the Court
has considered the factors listed in Code of Civil Procedure section 2024.050
and grants the motion to extend discovery deadlines.  Discovery and all trial-related dates will be
based on the new trial date.  
CONCLUSION 
The
Court GRANTS the motion of Cross-Defendants Estate
of Westin Lee Stewart, Deceased, and Nancy Stewart, as an individual and as
successor in interest to Westin Lee Stewart, Deceased, to continue the trial.  The Court continues the trial to October 7,
2024 at 8:30 a.m. in Department 28 of the Spring Street Courthouse.  The Final
Status Conference is September 23, 2024, at 10:00 a.m. in Department 28 of the
Spring Street Courthouse.  All discovery and related dates will be based on the
new trial date. 
Moving
parties are ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
parties are ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.