  Case Number:  21STCV25514    Hearing Date:   February 22, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
July 12, 2021, Plaintiffs Soraya Pastor (“Pastor”) and Firooz Nosratifar (“Nosratifar”)
filed this action against Defendants Birendra Dutt
("Dutt"), Uplander Properties, LLC ("Uplander"), and
Does 1- 50 for motor vehicle negligence, negligence per se, and loss of
consortium. 
On
December 30, 2021, Plaintiffs filed a first amended complaint for motor vehicle
negligence and loss of consortium. 
On
January 14, 2022, Dutt and Uplander ("Defendants") filed an answer. 
On
December 1, 2023, Defendants filed a motion to compel Nosratifar to appear for
deposition and produce documents responsive to the deposition notice.  The motion was set to be heard on February 22, 2024. Plaintiffs have not filed an opposition. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for August 26, 2024. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Defendants
ask the Court to compel Nosratifar to appear for a deposition and produce
documents responsive to the deposition subpoena.  Defendants also ask the Court to award sanctions. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 2025.450 provides in part: 
“(a) If, after service of a deposition notice, a party
to the action or an officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a party,
or a person designated by an organization that is a party under Section
2025.230, without having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails
to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for inspection
any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in
the deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move for an order
compelling the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the production for
inspection of any document, electronically stored information, or tangible
thing described in the deposition notice. 
“(b) A motion under subdivision (a) shall comply with
both of the following: 
“(1) The motion shall set forth specific facts showing
good cause justifying the production for inspection of any document,
electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the
deposition notice. 
“(2) The motion shall be accompanied by a meet and
confer declaration under Section 2016.040, or, when the deponent fails to
attend the deposition and produce the documents, electronically stored
information, or things described in the deposition notice, by a declaration
stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire about the
nonappearance. 
*
* *
 “(g) (1) If a motion under subdivision (a) is granted,
the court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with
Section 2023.010) in favor of the party who noticed the deposition and against
the deponent or the party with whom the deponent is affiliated, unless the
court finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust. 
“(2) On motion of any other party who, in person or by
attorney, attended at the time and place specified in the deposition notice in
the expectation that the deponent’s testimony would be taken, the court shall
impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010)
in favor of that party and against the deponent or the party with whom the
deponent is affiliated, unless the court finds that the one subject to the
sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make
the imposition of the sanction unjust. . . .” 
(Code
Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subds. (a), (b), (g).) 
DISCUSSION 
On
October 11, 2023, Defendants served a notice of taking Nosratifar’s deposition on
November 15, 2023.  The notice included a document request asking that Nosratifar produce valid identification at his deposition.  (Exh. D.) 
On
October 27, 2023, Plaintiffs served an objection stating that Nosratifar and his
counsel were unavailable on November 15, 2023 due to a calendar conflict.  The objection asked Defendants’ counsel to
contact Plaintiffs’ counsel to discuss a mutually convenient deposition date.  (Exh. H.) 
In
response, Defendants’ counsel sent Plaintiffs’ counsel an email stating in
part: “This is a final attempt to meet and confer. Please provide at least 3-5
dates of convenience for these depositions to occur in the next 30 days or we
will have to file motions to compel for the plaintiffs and proceed with the
witnesses depositions. Please provide the dates by next Wednesday. November 1
2023.”  (Exhibit I, emphasis omitted.) 
Plaintiffs’
counsel responded in an email stating in part: “We intend to provide you with
records from [Nosratifar’s] [primary care physician], psychiatrist and internist which would show
that our client is physically, mentally, and cognitively incapable of giving
his best and unimpaired testimony.  Also note that he is almost 90 years old and
the stress that comes with a deposition will likely prove dangerous for his
health. Instead, we propose that you take the deposition of their daughter, Ladan
Nosratifar. She would be the best person to testify as to plaintiffs' injuries,
treatments and how the subject incident has affected their everyday lives.”  (Exhibit I.) 
In
their motion to compel, Defendants assert that they have noticed Nosratifar’s
deposition “several times” and Nosratifar has “consistently objected to
appearing for his deposition.”  (Motion
p. 2.)  But Defendants have presented evidence
of only one deposition notice and one objection. 
Moreover,
Defendants have not shown that Nosratifar failed to appear for deposition or
produce requested documents “without having served a valid objection under
[Code of Civil Procedure] [s]ection 2025.410 . . . .”  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (a).)  It is
undisputed that Plaintiffs served a timely objection to the October 11, 2023
deposition notice.  Defendants have not
shown the objection was invalid.  Therefore, Defendants have not established a basis for relief under Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.450.  (Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.480, which Defendants also cite, does not allow Defendants to avoid the restrictions of Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.450, the more specific statute on these facts.) 
The
Court denies the motion. 
CONCLUSION 
The Court DENIES the motion of Defendants Birendra
Dutt and Uplander Properties, LLC to compel the deposition of Plaintiff Firooz
Nosratifar. 
Moving
parties are ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
parties are ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.