  Case Number:  21STCV43996    Hearing Date:   August 2, 2024    Dept:  B Tentative ruling for OSC re: Expedited Petition Richardson
v. Weaver 21STCV43996
 
TENTATIVE 
 
The
Court has reviewed the Expedited Petition to Approve Minor’s Compromise (Isabella
Yerena, Age 8). The Court declines to approve the
Petition as requested. Pursuant to Cal Rules of Court 7.950.5(c)(3), the Court
elects to schedule a hearing date to permit counsel to correct the
following defects:
 
(1)  
Petitioner’s settlement
is for $92,500. Therefore, the box for item 3g(1) of the petition is
incorrectly checked, which indicates that the settlement, including
Petitioner’s and the other plaintiff’s amount, is $50,000 or less. Thus,
because the settlement is more than $50,000, a regular minor’s compromise
petition must be filed instead of an expedited one, unless Petitioner meant to
check off item 3g(2) of the petition, which indicates that the defendants are
judgment-proof outside of their insurance coverage and an investigation
explanation is provided to this effect, with proof of such.
(2)   
Item 19b(4) of
the petition states that the net settlement is to be delivered to the parent
but the petition includes attachment 19b(2), which indicates that the net
settlement is to be deposited in a blocked account at the bank. However, there
is no order filed to deposit into a blocked account. 
(3)   
If the net
settlement is to be delivered to the parent, a declaration of written assurance
by Petitioner needs to be attached to the petition.
(4)   
There is no
proof of service indicating that Defendants have been served with the petition
and proposed order.
(5)   
Item 18b states
that the attorney has neither received nor expects to receive attorney fees,
but counsel represents the other plaintiffs. Counsel should indicate that
attorney fees are expected as to the other plaintiffs’ settlements and the
amount expected to receive.
 
Accordingly, the court schedules a hearing on this petition
for 10/02/24 at 8:30 a.m. Counsel is ordered to file a corrected regular
minor’s compromise petition, include a declaration of written assurance by
Petitioner, indicate the amount of attorney fees to be received from Petitioner
and the other plaintiff’s settlement amount, and finally, serve the petition
and proposed order on Defendants.
 
Petitioner is ordered to give notice.
 