 Case Number:  23STCV23190    Hearing Date:   November 8, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     November 8, 2024                 TRIAL DATE:
NOT SET
                                                           
CASE:                         Genius Fund I ABC, LLC v. Ari Stiegler
et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 23STCV23190            
 
DEMURRER
TO SECOND AMENDED COMPLAINT; MOTION TO STRIKE PORTIONS OF SECOND AMENDED
COMPLAINT

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendants Ari Stiegler & Gabriel Borden
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiff Genius
Fund I ABC, LLC
 
CASE
HISTORY:
·        
09/25/23: Complaint filed.
·        
02/16/24: First Amended Complaint filed.
·        
06/07/24: Second Amended Complaint filed. 
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is an action for breach of fiduciary duties. Plaintiff alleges that
Defendants catastrophically mismanaged a private equity fund involved in the
production and sale of cannabis products. 
 
Defendants demur to the Second
Amended Complaint and move to strike portions of the complaint. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Defendants’ Demurrer to the Second
Amended Complaint is OVERRULED.
 
Defendants’ Motion to Strike is
DENIED. 
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Demurrer to Second Amended Complaint
 
            Defendants
demur to the Second Amended Complaint in its entirety. 
Legal Standard
 
A demurrer tests whether the
complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147
Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations
liberally and in context. (Taylor v. City of Los Angeles Dept. of Water and
Power (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1228.) In a demurrer proceeding, the
defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial
notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968,
994.) “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other
extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face
of the pleading or are judicially noticed.” (SKF Farms v. Superior Court
(1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) “The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing
is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters,
states a cause of action.” (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at p. 747.) The
ultimate facts alleged in the complaint must be deemed true, as well as all
facts that may be implied or inferred from those expressly alleged. (Marshall
v. Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1397, 1403; see also Shields
v. County of San Diego (1984) 155 Cal.App.3d 103, 133 [stating, “[o]n
demurrer, pleadings are read liberally and allegations contained therein are
assumed to be true”].) “This rule of liberal construction means that the
reviewing court draws inferences favorable to the plaintiff, not the
defendant.” (Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist. (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th
1228, 1238.) 
 
Meet and Confer
 
Before filing a demurrer, the
demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party
who has filed the pleading subject to the demurrer and file a declaration
detailing their meet and confer efforts.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41(a).)
However, an insufficient meet-and-confer process is not grounds
to overrule or sustain a demurrer.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.41(a)(4).)
 
The Declaration of Sharon N. Choi
filed with the demurrer states that Defendants sent meet-and-confer
correspondence on July 5, 2024, inviting Plaintiff to meet and confer
telephonically regarding the issues raised in this demurrer. (Declaration of
Sharon N. Choi ISO Demurrer ¶ 8.) Defendants received no response. (Id.)
Defendants have therefore satisfied their statutory meet-and-confer
obligations. 
 
Requests for Judicial Notice
 
            Defendants
request that the Court take judicial notice of (1) the Complaint in this
action; (2) the Parties’ stipulation regarding the filing of a Second Amended
Complaint; and (3) the Second Amended Complaint in this action. Defendants’
requests are GRANTED pursuant to Evidence Code section 452(d) (court records.)
 
First Cause of Action: Breach of Fiduciary Duty
 
            Defendants
demur to the first cause of action for breach of fiduciary duty for failure to
state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action. 
            Article 5.5
of the Fourth Amended and Restated Limited Liability Company Agreement of
Genius Management LLC, attached to the Second Amended Complaint, states that
members of the LLC “shall have no liability, due solely to their capacity as
Members, with respect to debts, liabilities, or obligations of the Company, or
of other Members, except as provided herein.” (RJN Exh. A Art. 5.5.) Article
5.7 states that “the Company and Members elect and agree that no fiduciary
duties . . . shall be imposed on any Member other than the requirement of good
faith and fair dealing.” (Id. Art. 5.7.) Article 6.5(a) further limits
the liability of any Member, Manager, officer, or affiliate for, as relevant
here, any act performed within the scope of their authority under the agreement
except for gross negligence, fraud, willful misconduct, or dishonesty. (Id.
Art. 6.5(a).) 
 
            Defendants
contend that the first cause of action fails because Plaintiff cannot allege
any fiduciary duty under the language of Article 5.7. However, the plain
language of that clause expressly imposes the fiduciary duty of good faith and
fair dealing—a duty which Plaintiff plainly alleges that Defendants violated by
knowingly mismanaging company assets. (SAC ¶ 120.) 
 
            Defendants
next contend that they cannot be liable to Plaintiff because officers and
directors do not owe fiduciary duties to outside creditors, citing Berg
& Berg Enterprises, LLC v. Boyle (2009) 178 Cal.App.4th 1020, 1040-41.
However, Plaintiff is not a creditor of Genius Management, notwithstanding that
the action is brought for the benefit of those creditors; Plaintiff is the
successor-in-interest to Genius Management for the purpose of winding up its
affairs and satisfying its obligations. (SAC ¶¶ 10-14.) Defendants’ citation to
Berg & Berg Enterprises is therefore wholly inapposite. 
 
            Finally,
Defendants contend that, to the extent the breach of fiduciary duty claims
sound in fraud, Plaintiff lacks standing to assert those claims, has failed to
plead those claims with specificity, and the claims are barred by the three-year
statute of limitations for fraud. These arguments are immaterial to the
gravamen of the Complaint, which does not concern misrepresentations but rather
concerns Defendants’ alleged incompetence, gross mismanagement, and
self-dealing. (See generally SAC.) The allegation that Defendants
misrepresented their experience is collateral to those claims. (See SAC ¶ 120.)
 
            Defendants
have failed to demonstrate that the first cause of action is deficient.
Accordingly, Defendants’ demurrer to the first cause of action is OVERRULED.
 
Second Cause of Action: Breach of Duty of Loyalty
 
            Defendants
demur to this cause of action on the same basis as the first cause of action.
Accordingly, for the reasons stated above, Defendants’ demurrer to the second
cause of action is OVERRULED.
 
//
 
Third Cause of Action: Breach of Contract
 
Defendant contends that the third
cause of action is uncertain because it does not set forth the relevant terms
of the contract, does not allege which provisions were breached or the manner
of the breach, and does not demonstrate injury as a result of those breaches.
These contentions go to the failure to allege sufficient facts, not to
uncertainty, and Defendants do not bring these arguments in support of the
contention that the third cause of action is insufficiently pled. 
 
            Accordingly,
Defendants’ demurrer to the third cause of action is OVERRULED.
 
Conclusion
 
            Defendants’
Demurrer to the Second Amended Complaint is OVERRULED in its entirety. 
 
Motion to Strike Second Amended Complaint
 
            Defendants
also move to strike paragraph 120, lines 13 through 15 and paragraph 128, lines
20 through 23 of the Second Amended Complaint as improper.
 
Legal Standard
 
The court may, upon a motion, or at
any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any
irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading. Code Civ.
Proc., § 436(a). The court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not
drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an
order of the court. Id., § 436(b). The grounds for a motion to strike
are that the pleading has irrelevant, false or improper matter, or has not been
drawn or filed in conformity with laws. Id.§ 436. The grounds for moving to
strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice. Id.§
437. “When the defect which justifies striking a complaint is capable of cure,
the court should allow leave to amend.” Vaccaro v. Kaiman (1998)
63 Cal.App.4th 761, 768. A motion to
strike can be used where the complaint or other pleading has not been drawn or
filed in conformity with applicable rules or court orders.  Code Civ.
Proc., § 436(b). This provision is for "the striking of a pleading due to
improprieties in its form or in the procedures pursuant to which it
was filed."  Ferraro v. Camarlinghi (2008) 161
Cal.App.4th 509, 528 (emphasis in original).
 
Meet and Confer
 
 Before filing a motion to strike, the moving
party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party who has
filed the pleading subject to the motion to strike and file a declaration
detailing their meet and confer efforts.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5(a).)
However, an insufficient meet-and-confer process is not grounds to grant or
deny a motion to strike.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5(a)(4).)
 
The Declaration of Sharon N. Choi
filed with the motion states that Defendants sent meet-and-confer
correspondence on July 5, 2024, inviting Plaintiff to meet and confer
telephonically regarding the issues raised in this demurrer. (Declaration of
Sharon N. Choi ISO Mot. ¶ 8.) Defendants received no response. (Id.)
Defendants have therefore satisfied their statutory meet-and-confer
obligations. 
 
Misrepresentation
 
            Defendants
move to strike paragraph 120, lines 13 through 15 as improper. These
allegations pertain to Defendants’ alleged misrepresentation of their abilities
to develop and lead a vertically-integrated cannabis company. Defendants’
arguments rest on the purported impropriety of any fraud claims asserted
against them. As the Court rejected this argument in the context of the
Demurrer, that argument is likewise rejected here.
 
Conclusion
 
            Accordingly,
Defendant’s Motion to Strike is DENIED. 
 
CONCLUSION:

 
Accordingly, Defendants’ Demurrer to the
Second Amended Complaint is OVERRULED.
 
Defendants’ Motion to Strike is
DENIED. 
 
Moving Parties to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  November 8,
2024                              ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 