  Case Number:  19STCV05254    Hearing Date:   November 8, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     November 8, 2024                 TRIAL DATE:
January 28, 2025
                                                           
CASE:                         Nicole Mehringer v. City of Los Angeles
 
CASE NO.:                 19STCV05254            
 
PITCHESS
MOTION FOR DISCOVERY OF PEACE OFFICER PERSONNEL RECORDS PURSUANT TO
EVIDENCE CODE SECTION 1043

 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff Nicole Mehringer
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Defendant City of
Los Angeles.
 
CASE
HISTORY:

02/15/19:
     Complaint filed.
01/11/22:
     First Amended Complaint filed.

 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            Plaintiff was terminated by the
Los Angeles Police Department following a Board of Rights hearing regarding
misconduct by Plaintiff. Plaintiff alleges that her termination was in
retaliation for whistleblowing regarding Defendant’s differential treatment of
other police officers arising from their misconduct. 
 
Plaintiff moves for discovery of
peace officer personnel records pursuant to Evidence Code section 1043.
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Plaintiff’s Pitchess motion
is GRANTED to the extent described herein. 
 
The Court sets an in camera
hearing for Friday, December 6, 2024, at 1:30 pm in Department 47, Stanley Mosk
Courthouse. The custodian of records is to produce at the hearing all
potentially responsive documents for in camera inspection by the Court. 
 
//
 
//
DISCUSSION:
 
            Plaintiff
moves for discovery of peace officer personnel records pursuant to Evidence
Code section 1043.
 
Legal Standard
 
Obtaining discovery of peace officers’
personnel records is a two-step process. First, the party seeking discovery
“must file a motion supported by affidavits showing ‘good cause for the
discovery,’ first by demonstrating the materiality of the information to the pending
litigation, and second by ‘stating upon reasonable belief’ that the police
agency has the records or information at issue.” (Warrick v. Superior Court
(2005) 35 Cal.4th 1011, 1019.) Second, if the Court finds good cause for the
discovery, “it reviews the pertinent documents in chambers and discloses only
that information falling within the statutorily defined standards of
relevance.” (Ibid.) 
 
The Pitchess procedure applies when “discovery or
disclosure is sought of peace or custodial officer personnel records or records maintained pursuant to Section 832.5 of the
Penal Code or information from those records.” (Evid. Code § 1043(a).) 
 
Penal Code § 832.5 applies to “complaints by members of the
public against the personnel of these departments or agencies.” (Penal Code §
832.5(a)(1).) “Complaints and any reports or findings relating to these
complaints shall be retained for a period of at least five years.” (Id.
§ 832.5(b).) They “may be maintained either in the peace or custodial officer’s
general personnel file or in a separate file designated by the department or
agency.” (Ibid.) 
 
The term “personnel records” is defined as follows: 
 
“Personnel
records” means any file maintained under that individual's name by his or her
employing agency and containing records relating to any of the following: 
 
(1)
Personal data, including marital status, family members, educational and
employment history, home addresses, or similar information. 
 
(2) Medical
history. 
 
(3)
Election of employee benefits. 
 
(4)
Employee advancement, appraisal, or discipline. 
 
(5)
Complaints, or investigations of complaints, concerning an event or transaction
in which he or she participated, or which he or she perceived, and pertaining
to the manner in which he or she performed his or her duties. 
 
(6) Any
other information the disclosure of which would constitute an unwarranted
invasion of personal privacy. 
 
(Penal Code § 832.8(a).) Under
Evidence Code section 1043, a party may seek disclosure of these records by
filing a regularly noticed motion with the appropriate court. (Evid. Code §
1043(a).)
 
Good Cause
 
Under Evidence Code section 1043, a
Pitchess motion must include:
 
(1) Identification of the proceeding in
which discovery or disclosure is sought, the party seeking discovery or
disclosure, the peace or custodial officer whose records are sought, the
governmental agency which has custody and control of the records, and the time
and place at which the motion for discovery or disclosure shall be heard.
 
(2) A description of the type of
records or information sought.
 
(3) Affidavits showing good cause for
the discovery or disclosure sought, setting forth the materiality thereof to
the subject matter involved in the pending litigation and stating upon
reasonable belief that the governmental agency identified has the records or
information from the records.
 
(Evid. Code § 1043(b).) The good
cause requirement creates a “relatively low threshold for discovery.” (Riske
v. Superior Court (2016) 6 Cal.App.5th 647, 655-56.) A party seeking
records need only demonstrate through affidavits a “plausible factual
foundation” showing how the records are material to the subject matter of the
pending litigation. (Id.) The affidavits may be based on information and
belief, and may be made by counsel, as the party seeking disclosure usually
does not know the contents of the records. (Abatti v. Superior Court
(2003) 112 Cal.App.4th 39, 51.)
 
            Here, the
Notice of Motion identifies the proceeding, the party seeking disclosure, the
governmental agency with custody and control of the records, and the officers
whose records are sought, as required by subdivision (b)(1). The Notice of
Motion also describes the records sought, as required by subdivision (b)(2).
 
            Plaintiff’s
Notice of Motion identifies 2 sets of records sought: (1) the transcript for
the Board of Rights’ December 4, 2018, in camera review of Pitchess
materials requested by Plaintiff; and (2) the transcript for the Board of
Rights’ December 10, 2018 in camera review of Pitchess materials. 
 
            Plaintiff
contends that these transcripts are material to the instant case because they
would tend to show the Board of Rights’ reaction to Plaintiff’s 2018 Pitchess
motion, and, therefore, whether the Board of Rights’ ultimate decision to
terminate Plaintiff was motivated by retaliatory animus. (See Declaration of
Diana Wells ISO Mot. ¶¶ 8-16.) Defendant, in opposition, argues that Plaintiff
cannot demonstrate the materiality of these documents except by relying upon
statements by the Board of Rights Members during the hearing on the Pitchess
motion, which Defendant contends cannot serve as evidence of retaliatory
animus. Defendant’s argument is grounded on inapposite authority governing bias
or partiality motions, such as motions to disqualify. (Liteky v. United
States (1994) 510 U.S. 540, 555 [“[J]udicial rulings alone almost never
constitute a valid basis for a bias or partiality motion.”].) This motion is
not a motion to disqualify which would be subject to these authorities.
Further, the Court’s ruling on Defendant’s Motion for Protective Order has no
bearing on the issue presented by Plaintiff’s Pitchess request, as the
Court’s ruling on that earlier motion addressed whether Plaintiff had met the
heightened showing to depose a quasi-judicial officer. (See September
11, 2024 Minute Order.) Here, Plaintiff is seeking disclosure of existing
transcripts. 
 
            Nor is the
Court persuaded by Defendant’s assertion that the central issue in this action
was previously decided by a writ proceeding and therefore barred by the
doctrine of collateral estoppel, as Defendant makes no effort to demonstrate
that each element of the doctrine is met. (See DKN Holdings, LLC v. Faerber (2015)
61 Cal.4th 813, 823-25.) 
 
            The
transcripts which Plaintiff seeks via this motion are potentially material to
the action on their face, as their contents are direct evidence of the
intentions of the Board of Rights. The Court therefore finds that Plaintiff has
demonstrated good cause for in camera review of these records to
determine their relevance.
 
In Camera Review
 
            The parties
agree that, pursuant to Evidence Code section 1045, the records sought must be
reviewed in camera to determine if the records are discoverable. 
 
[I]f “the
trial court concludes the defendant has fulfilled these prerequisites and made
a showing of good cause, the custodian of records should bring to court all
documents ‘potentially relevant’ to the . . . motion. . . . The trial court ‘shall examine the information in
chambers’ (Evid. Code, § 1045, subd. (b)), ‘out of the presence and hearing of
all persons except the person authorized [to possess the records] and such
other persons [the custodian of records] is willing to have present.’ … Subject
to statutory exceptions and limitations . . . the trial court should then
disclose to the [moving party] ‘such information [that] is relevant to the
subject matter involved in the pending litigation.’ [Citations.]”  
 
(Haggerty, supra, 117 Cal.App.4th at 1086,
bold emphasis added.) 
 
Evidence Code section 1045 sets forth certain statutory
limitations on relevance: 
 
(b) In determining relevance, the
court shall examine the information in chambers in conformity with Section 915,
and shall exclude from disclosure both of the following:
(1) In any criminal proceeding
the conclusions of any officer investigating a complaint filed pursuant to
Section 832.5 of the Penal Code.
(2) Facts sought to be disclosed
that are so remote as to make disclosure of little or no practical benefit.
(c) In determining relevance
where the issue in litigation concerns the policies or pattern of conduct of
the employing agency, the court shall consider whether the information sought
may be obtained from other records maintained by the employing agency in the regular
course of agency business which would not necessitate the disclosure of
individual personnel records. 
All document production will be limited as set forth in
Evidence Code § 1045(b) and (c). 
 
CONCLUSION:

 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s Pitchess
motion is GRANTED to the extent described herein. 
 
The Court sets an in camera
hearing for Friday, December 6, 2024, at 1:30 pm in Department 47, Stanley Mosk
Courthouse. The custodian of records is to produce at the hearing all
potentially responsive documents for in camera inspection by the Court. 
 
Moving Party to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  November 8,
2024                              ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 