 Case Number:  24VECV00240    Hearing Date:   June 28, 2024    Dept:  T FARR V. YOUNAN 24VECV00240
[TENTATIVE] ORDER:  Defendants Zaya Younan, Younan Investment
Properties, L.P., Younan Properties, Inc., Narbeh Tatevossian, NorthCreek
Complex Fund, LLC, and NorthCreek Complex, LLC’s Demurrer to the Complaint is
SUSTAINED in Part and OVERRULED in Part. 
The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH 20 DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND as to the alter
ego theory relevant to Defendants Younan Investment Properties, L.P., Younan
Properties, Inc., and Narbeh Tatevossian and OVERRULED as to Defendants Zaya
Younan, NorthCreek Complex Fund, LLC, and NorthCreek Complex, LLC.  The demurrer is further SUSTAINED WITH 20
DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND as to the sixth and seventh causes of action, and otherwise
OVERRULED.  
Defendants Zaya Younan, Younan
Investment Properties, L.P., Younan Properties, Inc., Narbeh Tatevossian,
NorthCreek Complex Fund, LLC, and NorthCreek Complex, LLC’s Motion to Strike
the Request for Punitive Damages is GRANTED WITH 20 DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND.
Plaintiff Dr. Shaban Azar Farr’s
Request for Judicial Notice is GRANTED but not as to hearsay and facts in
dispute.
Defendant Younan Properties,
LLC’s demurrer and motion to strike are CONTINUED and an OSC re: Revivor of
Defendant Younan Properties, LLC is set for _______________, 2024.  
Introduction 
Defendants Zaya Younan (Younan),
Younan Investment Properties, L.P. (YIP LP), Younan Properties, Inc. (YPI),
Younan Properties, LLC, a suspended corporation (YP) (collectively, Younan
Entities); and Narbeh Tatevossian (Nick), NorthCreek Complex Fund, LLC (Fund),
and NorthCreek Complex, LLC (Complex) (collectively, NorthCreek) (and all
collectively, Defendants) demurred to Plaintiff Dr. Shaban Azar Farr’s
(Plaintiff) Complaint.  Defendants’
demurrer placed into issue all alleged causes of action (COA): (1) Breach of
Fiduciary Duty, (2) Constructive Fraud, (3) Conversion, (4) Breach of Oral
Contract, (5) Breach of the Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing,
(6) Intentional Misrepresentation, (7) Negligent Misrepresentation, (8) Elder
Abuse, (9) Unjust Enrichment, (10) An Accounting, and (11) Civil Theft (Pen.
Code sec. 496).  
Defendants concurrently moved to
strike Plaintiff’s request for punitive damages alleged in the first COA for
breach of fiduciary duty, the second COA for constructive fraud, the third COA
for conversion, the sixth COA for intentional misrepresentation, the eighth COA
for financial elder abuse, and the eleventh COA for civil theft.
Procedure
The title/caption to Plaintiff’s
Complaint, as well as Plaintiff’s Request for Judicial Notice (RJN), alleged
and presented facts showing that Defendant Younan Properties, LLC (YP) has been
a suspended corporation since 2015.  (RJN
Exh. 1.)  A corporation that is suspended
cannot prosecute or defend an action.  YP
argued that they will obtain a revivor and resolve the suspension.  Until YP is revived, the action against YP is
held in abatement.
YP’s Demurrer and Motion to
Strike are CONTINUED and an OSC re: YP’s revivor is to be scheduled.  
Discussion 
Defendants argued that all eleven
COAs are insufficiently supported by fact pleading and/or are uncertain because
the alter ego theory claim is insufficiently piled with supportive facts
and  alleged upon information and
belief.  Complainants may state
allegations on information and belief, where matters are not within their
personal knowledge, and information leads them to believe the allegations are
true.  (Gomes v. Countrywide Home Loans,
Inc. (2011) 192 Cal.App.4th 1149, 1158-1159.) 
Pleading alter ego necessarily requires knowledge that is not in
Plaintiff’s possession since it involves the innerworkings of the corporate
entities and the fraud perpetrated upon him. 
Pleading upon information and belief is proper at this stage based upon
Plaintiff’s allegations that he was no longer paid the distributions and given
a check that lacked sufficient funds.  
Pleading alter ego theory
requires facts alleging: (1) a unity of interest and ownership and (2) a
failure to disregard the corporate entity would sanction a fraud or promote
injustice.  (Communist Party v. 522 Valencia,
Inc. (1995) 35 Cal.App.4th 980, 993.) 
Defendants’ arguments rely upon Complaint paragraphs 3, 9, and 21.  However, alter ego theory is supported by
other factual allegations, as well. 
Plaintiff’s Complaint alleges and Plaintiff’s opposition highlights that
the claims are grounded upon a single investment into Complex and its property
located in Colorado (Colorado Property). 
(Compl. par. 17.)  In January
2021, NorthCreek allegedly issued a Schedule K-1 (Form 1065) after Complex sold
the Colorado Property.  (Compl. pars. 17
and 21.)  Despite the Schedule K-1
asserting a distribution of $1.7 million, Plaintiff alleged that no
distribution or payment was ever made by Complex.  (Id.) 
In June 2023, Younan allegedly sent a check issued by Fund to Plaintiff
for $1,721,250.00, however, Fund lacked sufficient funds to cover the
check.  (Compl. par. 23.)  Based upon these failures to disburse, the
misconduct at issue is Younan, Complex, and/or Fund’s failure to pay.  In that Younan, Complex, and/or Fund are the
alleged wrongdoers, there are sufficient facts to plead direct liability as to
Younan, Complex, and/or Fund, as well as vicarious liability between these
three parties.  The facts show a unity of
interest/ownership in the Colorado Property and/or Complex’s money because
Complex is the alleged owner of the Colorado Property and issued the fraudulent
Schedule K-1.  Further, Younan and Fund
issued the non-sufficient funds (NSF) check. 
These facts are also sufficient to plead the sanctioning of a fraud or
the promotion of an injustice if the separateness of the corporate entities are
maintained because Younan and Fund is alleged to have control over Complex’s
money so as to issue an NSF check to allegedly pay Complex’s debts.  Further, Plaintiff alleged that there was
self-dealing, illegal kickbacks, and fraudulent fees perpetrated by
Younan.  (Compl. pars. 3 and 26.)  Vicarious liability/piercing the corporate
veil is sufficiently alleged as between Complex, Fund, and Younan.
However, as to Nick and Younan
Investment Properties, L.P. (YIP LP) and Younan Properties, Inc. (YPI), there
are insufficient facts alleged to show any unity of interest/ownership to
Complex, Fund, or Younan, let alone Plaintiff’s investment into the Colorado
Property.  There are also insufficient
facts alleging how failing to disregard the corporate entity of YIP LP and YPI
would sanction fraud or promote injustice. 
Disregarding their separateness would actually promote fraud/injustice
upon the three parties.  Despite
Plaintiff’s argument otherwise, the Court finds that alter ego is not
sufficiently alleged as to Nick, YIP LP and YPI relative to the alleged
wrongdoers, Younan, Complex, and Fund.
The Demurrer based upon the alter
ego argument OVERRULED as to Younan, Complex, and Fund, and SUSTAINED WITH
LEAVE as to Nick, YIP LP, and YPI.
Defendants then argued there can
be no liability due to the Business Judgment Rule.  However, determining the validity of an
affirmative defense in a demurrer is improper because it would require a review
of additional facts not found within the four corners of the pleading.  There are no facts in the Complaint alleging
any due diligence conducted by any of the Defendants.  In fact, the opposite is alleged that
Defendants are alleged to have defrauded Plaintiff and/or breached several
fiduciary duties.  Fraud and breaching
fiduciary duties are not the same as due diligence.  Defendants’ assertion of an affirmative
defense at this demurrer stage is improper and not considered.  The business judgment rule argument is not
persuasive.
Defendants argued that the third
COA for conversion is insufficiently supported with fact allegations because
Plaintiff alleged the claim “upon information and belief” without alleging the
information which led Plaintiff to believe the allegations are true.  However, the argument improperly discounts
the allegation that Defendants issued a fraudulent Schedule K-1 and an NSF
check.  These are sufficient facts to
show the information that led Plaintiff to believe the allegations to be
true.  Defendants’ other argument that
they did not improperly withhold the distribution is a dispute over the
veracity of the allegation and improper argument for a demurrer.  Further, seeking redress after discovering
the conversion is not a pleading element of conversion.  Lastly, the taking of personal property is
not the only basis for conversion. 
Preventing Plaintiff from having access to the personal property is also
proper grounds for conversion.  (CACI no.
2100.)  The demurrer arguments are not
persuasive.
The demurrer to the third COA is
OVERRULED.
As to the sixth COA for
intentional misrepresentation and the seventh COA for negligent
misrepresentation, Defendants argued that the two fraud claims failed to allege
facts to support the detrimental reliance element and also failed to allege
particular facts alleging the how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the
representations were made.  The
misrepresentations at issue are the Schedule K-1 representation and the promise
of payment in the June 2023 NSF check. 
Plaintiff alleged that his harm was the delay in seeking recovery on the
promised payments.  Detrimental reliance
in causing Plaintiff’s harm is alleged because Plaintiff delayed in seeking his
relief to recover the payment. 
Defendants’ argument attempts to minimize the harm and Plaintiff’s
detrimental reliance; however, detrimental reliance and harm are sufficiently
alleged.  Plaintiff alleged that the
misrepresentations were made in January 2021 and June 2023 alleging the
“when”.  The Schedule K-1
misrepresentation was written and the subsequent promise to pay the NSJ check
was alleged to be oral, which alleges the how and what means the
representations were made.  The
misrepresentations were made to Plaintiff, which alleges the “to whom.”  The allegations do not plead facts alleging
“where” the misrepresentations were made. 
Because the “where” is not specifically alleged, the two fraud claims
are insufficiently pled.
The demurrer to the sixth and
seventh COAs is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE.  
As to the eighth COA for elder
abuse, the caption of the COA identified it as “elder abuse.”  However, the allegations expressly alleged
that the claim is for financial elder abuse under Welfare and Institutions Code
sec. 15610.30.  (Compl. par. 74.)  Defendant argued that there are no
allegations suggesting that Plaintiff was taken advantage of because of his
age.  However, the pleading elements for
financial elder abuse does not require the misconduct to be a result of
Plaintiff’s age.  All that is required to
be pled is that Plaintiff was over 65 years old at the time of the
misconduct.  (CACI no. 3100.)  Defendants failed to present any legal
authority to support their contention. 
Defendants’ argument is unmerited.
Defendants again argued that
there are no supportive facts to allow pleading “upon information and
belief.”  However, the argument again
improperly discounts the allegations that Defendants issued a fraudulent Schedule
K-1 and issued an NSF check.  These facts
are sufficient to support the pleading upon information and belief.  Defendants argued that there are no facts to
show their knowledge that their misconduct would harm Plaintiff.  However, Defendant’s knowledge of the harm is
not a pleading element.  (CACI no.
3100.)  Plaintiff’s damages/harm is
sufficiently alleged based upon Defendant’s improper detention of the
money/Plaintiff’s inability to access his money.  Defendant’s excuse/defense that they had an
intent to pay is improper argument for a demurrer and is not based upon facts
alleged within the pleading.  
Defendants’ demurrer to the
eighth COA is OVERRULED.  
Defendants re-asserted their
arguments against the third COA for conversion as arguments against the
eleventh COA for Civil Theft Pen. Code, sec. 496.  However, as reviewed above, the arguments
against the third COA were not persuasive. 
The arguments are again not persuasive as applied to the eleventh COA.
The demurrer to the eleventh COA
is OVERRULED.
Defendants argued that the claim
should be limited to one COA against Complex and no other defendants and that
Plaintiff can later amend judgment, if any is obtained, to add the other
Defendants.  This is not a proper
argument for a demurrer because it does not address whether the any COA is
sufficiently alleged.  The argument is
not considered and OVERRULED.  
Defendants moved to strike the
request for punitive damages alleged in the first COA for breach of fiduciary
duty, the second COA for constructive fraud, the third COA for conversion, the
sixth COA for intentional misrepresentation, the eighth COA for financial elder
abuse, and the eleventh COA for civil theft. 
Defendants argued that Plaintiff failed to plead specific facts to
allege malice, oppression, or fraud. 
Plaintiff’s claims for punitive damages are grounded on Defendants
failure/refusal in paying distributions from investments and/or fraudulent
misrepresentations in promises to pay the distributions.  The failure/refusal to pay occurred over
several years.  The Complaint however is
lacking in any facts to show a willful and conscious disregard of Plaintiff’s
rights or despicable conduct related to the failure/refusal to pay.  The allegations of malice, oppression, or
fraud are conclusory.  Plaintiff failed
to allege any specific facts showing any animosity or despicable conduct by
Defendants.  Without more, the
allegations that Defendants failed to pay are insufficient to support punitive
damages under the various tort claims, especially with the sustaining of the
demurrer to the fraud COA.  The motion to
strike is persuasive.
The motion to strike is GRANTED
WITH LEAVE TO AMEND.
IT IS
SO ORDERED, MOVING PARTY TO GIVE VERBATIM NOTICE.