 Case Number:  24VECV00013    Hearing Date:   June 28, 2024    Dept:  T 24VECV00013 DOE V ROE [TENTATIVE] ORDER:  Defendant John Roe N.L.’s Demurrer to the  Complaint is SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND. Defendant John Roe N.L.’s Request  for Judicial Notice and Supplemental Request for Judicial Notice are GRANTED. Introduction  Defendant John Roe N.L.  (Defendant or NL) demurred to Plaintiffs Jane Doe K.G. (KG) and Jane Doe K.N.’s  (KN) (collectively, Plaintiffs) Complaint.   The demurrer placed into issue the first cause of action (COA) for negligence,  the second COA for sexual assault/battery, the third COA for sexual harassment,  the fourth COA for gender violence, and the fifth COA for intentional  infliction of emotional distress (IIED). Procedure The caption on the title page to  the Complaint identified two plaintiffs:   Jane Doe K.G. and Jane Doe K.L.   However, the charging allegations in the body of the Complaint identified  plaintiffs as Jane Doe K.G. and Jane Doe K.N.   The caption on the title page of the Complaint contains a typographical  error.  Plaintiffs’ opposition to the  demurrer submits to the error, as well.   (See Opposition to the Demurrer, pg. 1:10.)  To avoid confusion, the Court refers to the  relevant party as Jane Doe K.N. or KN. Plaintiffs are ordered to rectify  the identification error by way of noticed motion.   Discussion  Defendant argued that the action  is time-barred by the applicable statute of limitations (SOL).  The SOL for the personal injury claims is two  years.  (Code Civ. Proc., sec.  335.1.)  Specifically as to the fourth  COA for gender violence, the SOL is three years of the date of the last act.  (Civ. Code, sec. 52.4(b).)   To plead around the two SOLs,  Plaintiff alleged in the Complaint and asserted in the opposition to the  demurrer that these claims were revived under Code of Civil Procedure, section  340.16(e).  (Compl. par. 4; Opposition,  passim.)  “By its terms, section  340.16(e) applies when a plaintiff alleges that they were sexually assaulted (§  340.16(e)(2(A)); that one or more entities are “legally responsible for damages  arising out of the sexual assault,” (§ 340.16(e)(2)(B)); and that “[t]he entity  or entities, including but not limited to, their officers, directors,  representatives, employees, or agents, engaged in a cover up or attempted a  cover up of a previous instance or allegations of sexual assault by an alleged  perpetrator of such abuse.” (§ 340.16(e)(2)(C).) “Legally responsible” is  defined as meaning that “the entity or entities are liable under any theory of  liability established by statute or common law, including, but not limited to,  negligence, intentional torts, and vicarious liability.” (§  340.16(e)(4)(C).)”  [Bolding added.]  (Jane Doe #21 (S.H.) v. CFR Enterprises, Inc.  (2023) 93 Cal.App.5th 1199, 1210 (Doe 21).)   “ “Entity” means a sole proprietorship, partnership, limited liability  company, corporation, association, or other legal entity.”  (Sec. 340.16(e)(4)(B).)   The revival provision for  cover-ups is inapplicable to Defendant NL because Defendant is not an  entity.  Claims against Defendant, as an  individual, are not revived under Section 340.16, subdivision (e).  The revival of the SOL may apply to Co-Defendant  Roe Production Company but the moving party on the demurrer is Defendant NL, an  individual.  Because moving Defendant is  not an entity, as defined by the statute, there is no grounds to revive the  claim.  Defendant’s argument is  persuasive on this pleading defect.   Because it is impossible to consider Defendant, as a legal entity, there  is no possibility to cure the pleading defect. Defendant’s arguments as to  Plaintiffs’ failure to allege sexual assault, legal responsibility and cover  up, as defined by Section 340.16, subdivision (e) are moot because the statute  is inapplicable to Defendant. Defendant argued that there can  be no revival of the SOL under Sections 340.16(b)(3) or 340.16(c)(1).  The court also notes there is no allegation  in the Complaint or argument in Plaintiff’s opposition that the alleged claims  were revived under Sections 340.16(b)(3) or 340.16(c)(1).  Defendant’s argument lacks any application of  the two statutes to the facts alleged in the Complaint.  The arguments are non-sequiturs.  The arguments are not applicable because the  claims and facts alleged in the Complaint did not place the two subdivisions  into issue. Defendant’s argument as to the  January 2, 2024 filing date of the action is moot since the Court ruled that  the revival provision under subdivision (e) does not apply to Defendant.  Even if considered, Defendant’s argument is  unpersuasive.  Defendant argued that the  action was untimely filed because the statutory deadline to file expired on  December 31, 2023.  (Sec. 340.16(e)(1).)  However, December 31, 2023 fell on a Sunday,  and the following Monday was a Court holiday (New Year’s Day).  When the last day to file the complaint falls  on a weekend or holiday, the time to sue is extended to the next court  day.  (Secs. 12, 12a; Tran v. Fountain  Valley Community Hospital (1997) 51 Cal.App.4th 1464, 1466-1468.)  The deadline to commence the instant action  was January 2, 2024, Tuesday.  This  action being filed on January 2, 2024 made it a timely filing, if the Court  were to consider the merits of the revival provision in Section 340.16,  subdivision (e).   Defendant raised an issue that  appears to be one of first impression.   With the advent of 24/7 e-filing and the ability to file documents on  weekends and holidays, the above cited statutes related to weekends and holidays  may no longer be relevant.  However, this  is an issue that should be raised with the Legislature or Court of Appeal.  It is not within this trial court’s authority  to create new law.  Defendant’s argument  as to 24/7 e-filing is not considered. The demurrer to the Complaint is  SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND as to Defendant NL. IT IS SO ORDERED, MOVING PARTY TO GIVE VERBATIM NOTICE.