On March 2, 2022, Plaintiff Roland Esparza filed the operative Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”) against Defendants Conagra Brands, Inc., The Vons Companies, Inc., and Does 1-50 for (1) Strict Product Liability—Manufacturing Defect, (2) Strict Product Liability—Design Defect, (3) Strict Product Liability—Failure to Warn, (4) Negligence, and (5) Breach of Implied Warranties.  Plaintiff alleges that he used butter spray manufactured, distributed, or sold by Defendants and that this butter spray contains diacetyl, acetyl propionyl, and/or other hazardous food flavoring components dangerous to the lungs.Doe 29 has been identified as Defendant Full-Fill Industries, LLC.Doe 36 has been identified as Defendant BASF Corporation.Motion to Quash Service of SummonsDefendant Full-Fill Industries, LLC now seeks to quash service of summons for lack of personal jurisdiction.  A defendant may move to quash service of summons on the ground the Court lacks personal jurisdiction.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 418.10(a)(1).)  “Although the defendant is the moving party, the plaintiff must carry the initial burden of demonstrating facts by a preponderance of evidence justifying the exercise of jurisdiction in California.”  (In re Automobile Antitrust Cases I and II (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 100, 110.) By statute, the courts of this state may exercise personal jurisdiction over nonresident defendants to the extent permitted by the United States Constitution.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 410.10.)  Constitutional due process requires that a nonresident defendant have “certain minimum contacts” with a forum such that the Court’s exercise of personal jurisdiction does not offend traditional notions of fair play and substantial justice.  (International Shoe Co. v. State of Washington (1945) 326 U.S. 310, 316.)  The extent of the defendant’s contacts with the forum determines whether the Court’s jurisdiction is general or specific.  (Daimler AG v. Bauman (2014) 134 S.Ct. 746, 754-755.)  Courts may assert general jurisdiction where the foreign defendant’s contacts with the forum “ ‘are so “continuous and systematic” as to render them essentially at home in the forum State.’ ”  (Id. at p. 754.)  To determine whether the exercise of specific jurisdiction is proper in a given case, courts consider the relationship among the defendant, the forum, and the litigation.  (Pavlovich v. Superior Court (2002) 29 Cal.4th 262, 269.)  “A court may exercise specific jurisdiction over a nonresident defendant only if: (1) the defendant has purposefully availed himself or herself of forum benefits; (2) the controversy is related to or arises out of the defendant’s contacts with the forum; and (3) the assertion of personal jurisdiction would comport with fair play and substantial justice.”  (Elkman v. National States Ins. Co. (2009) 173 Cal.App.4th 1305, 1314.)  It is the plaintiff’s burden to demonstrate that the defendant’s conduct giving rise to the pleaded causes of action amounts to constitutionally cognizable “minimum contacts.”  (Id. at p. 1313.)Here, there is no general jurisdiction because, as Defendant puts it, “Full-Fill conducts all of its business operations at its sole location in Henning, Illinois. [ ] Full-Fill is not registered to do business in California; does not pay any taxes in California; does not have any physical location, assets, or operations in California; does not advertise in California or otherwise solicit business from California residents; and does not have dealings with any customers in California.”With respect to specific jurisdiction, Defendant contends that it “makes the cooking oils that it packages for Conagra and its other customers available for the customers to pick-up at Full-Fill's Illinois facility. [ ] It is Conagra who arranges for, and pays, the truckers who pick up the cooking oils and deliver them to Conagra. [ ] Full-Fill does not own the cooking oils once they are picked up from Full-Fill's Illinois facility. [ ] Most importantly, Full-Fill has no involvement in where its customers ship their cooking oils after they pick them up from Full-Fill's Illinois facility, and Full-Fill does not have any control over, or involvement with, where or how its customers sell their cooking oils.” Plaintiff requests that he be able to complete jurisdictional discovery, and points to the facts that Defendant “specifically targeted retail outlets in California as part of its national marketing campaign and sales efforts. Full-Fill also engaged in tortious conduct under California law. Specifically, Full-Fill removed the warnings provided to it in MSDS from the butter flavoring manufacturers and failed to test the PAM products it manufactured, distributed, supplied and/or sold.”“The plaintiff has the right to conduct discovery with regard to the issue of jurisdiction to develop the facts necessary to sustain this burden.”  (Mihlon v. Superior Ct. (1985) 169 Cal.App.3d 703, 710.)  However, “a continuance [of a motion to quash] may be denied if there is no showing that discovery would likely produce evidence of additional ‘contacts.’ ” [Beckman v. Thompson (1992) 4 CA4th 481, 486-487, 6 CR2d 60, 63].”  (Weil et al., Cal. Prac. Guide Civ. Pro. Before Trial (The Rutter Guide 2021) Ch. 3-B.)The Court, in the exercise of its discretion, will continue the Motion to Quash for the purposes of jurisdictional discovery.  The objections are overruled at this time.Motion for Determination of Good Faith Settlement Defendant BASF Corporation seeks a determination that its settlement with Plaintiff was made in good faith pursuant to Code Civ. Proc. § 877.6.Because no oppositions were filed, the Motion may be granted without consideration of the Tech-Bilt factors and on the basis of setting forth the ground for good faith determination and a brief background of the case.  (See City of Grand Terrace v. Superior Court (1987) 192 Cal.App.3d 1251, 1261 [“[W]e . . . conclude that only when the good faith nature of a settlement is disputed, it is incumbent upon the trial court to consider and weigh the Tech-Bilt factors. That is to say, when no one objects, the barebones motion which sets forth the ground of good faith, accompanied by a declaration which sets forth a brief background of the case is sufficient.”)  Plaintiff alleges that he was injured by toxic butter-spray.  Defendant has tendered a confidential payment (the Court has reviewed this amount) to Plaintiff in exchange for a release of all claims.  Defendant indicates that it “(1) is only one of over thirty-five named defendants in this action, (2) was an upstream component part seller during only part of the time period at issue in the SAC, and (3) may not even have had a single component part used in the finished product at issue, even if BASF could be found liable at trial, it would have only a small percentage of that potential liability.” Under the circumstances, the Court cannot find that “the settlement is so far ‘out of the ballpark’ in relation to [the Tech-Bilt] factors as to be inconsistent with the equitable objectives of the statute.”  (Tech-Bilt, Inc., supra, 38 Cal.3d at pp. 499–500.)  The only issue is that there is no proof of service on the docket.  Under the current facts, the Court finds that the settlement was made in good faith.If a proper proof of service is provided at the hearing, the Motion is granted. Moving party to give notice.If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic.