  Case Number:  22STCV09756    Hearing Date:   March 29, 2024    Dept:  57 Plaintiff Barry Shy moves for an order compelling Defendant Pedram Mansouri to produce documents per Mansouri's written responses to Shy's first set of Request for Production of documents, nos. 3, 4 and 29. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.320.) In a separately noticed motion, Shy moves for an order compelling Mansouri to “complete” his deposition. (Id., § 2025.290.) Shy also seeks an award of fees and costs in the sum of $12,000 against Mansouri and his counsel Blea Fox, a P.L.C. for attorneys' fees and costs Shy says he incurred in connection with the two motions.  Motion to Compel Compliance   On June 22, 2022, Shy electronically served the first set of Request for Production (“RFP”) on Mansouri. On August 29, 2022, Mansouri served his verified responses to the RFP via mail and email.  On October 13, 2022, Mansouri electronically served his verified supplemental responses to the RFP.   RFP nos. 3 and 4 request all text messages between Shy and Mansouri on or after January 1, 2018. To these requests, Mansouri responded that he “will produce” them. RFP no. 29 requests Mansuri’s complete file in connection with the representation of Shy. To this request, Mansouri responded that the only responsive documents he located was “a digital copy of the documents previously sent to Mr. Shy via his attorney” and that Mansouri “will not produce the digital copy unless requested.” In other words, Mansouri agreed to produce upon request. Shy’s counsel requested the electronic file numerous times. (Schuman Decl., ¶ 5.)   On a motion to compel compliance, there is no time limit and all that needs to be shown is the responding party’s failure to comply as agreed. (Weil & Brown, Cal. Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (The Rutter Group, 2023) ¶ 8:1508.1.)  In the attorney declaration filed in support of the Motion, Shy’s counsel states that Mansuri has not produced the text messages and electronic file. (Schuman Decl., ¶¶ 4-5.) Mansouri in his opposition contests neither his statements of compliance nor his failure to produce as agreed. Instead, Mansouri tries to justify his failure to produce by way of his counsel’s declaration that retrieving over 100 messages would be “too time consuming and burdensome” and that Mansouri already produced the electronic file in October 2018. (Lukyanov Decl., ¶¶ 18, 21.) However, it is too late for Mansouri to now raise these objections, which have been waived. Mansuri is bound to his statements of compliance.  In light of his conceded failure to produce as he agreed, the Court is granting Shy’s Motion and orders Mansouri to produce the text messages and electronic file at issue within 21 days of today's hearing.   Motion to “Complete Deposition”  Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.290 limits deposition testimony to seven hours total. It also  states, however, that “[t]he court shall allow additional time, beyond any limits imposed by this section, if needed to fairly examine the deponent or if the deponent, another person, or any other circumstance impedes or delays the examination.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.290(a).) Mansouri testified for 3 hours and 47 minutes at his deposition on January 12, 2024. Shy requests four additional  hours to depose Mansouri on the documents sought by the motion to compel compliance, which would exceed the seven-hour limit by 47 minutes. (Schuman Decl., ¶ 6; Motion, p. 8.)   In opposition, Mansouri argues that Shy is requesting a “second deposition,” pointing to Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.610(a), which limits parties from taking a “subsequent deposition” of a given deponent.  Mansouri is mistaken. Shy is requesting leave for additional time beyond the statutory seven hours of testimony to depose Mansouri on the documents  that the Court is compelled Mansouri to produce. Shy is  not moving pursuant to section 2025.450(a), so Mansouri’s argument that he did not fail to appear for his deposition is unavailing.   Finding that the addition time is needed to fairly examine Mansouri, the Court grants Shy’s motion.   Sanctions Request    Shy requests monetary sanctions against Mansouri and his counsel in the amount of $12,000 for both motions. (Schuman Decl., ¶¶¿16-17.) Counsel’s hourly rate for this matter is $600. (Id., ¶ 16.) Counsel states that he spent 12 hours working on “the two motions,” anticipates spending 2 hours for an ex parte application to advance the hearing on the motions, and another 2-4 hours for the reply and hearing on this motion. (Ibid.) Counsel also asks for travel reimbursement at $300/hour and reporter fees for the second session of Mansuri’s deposition. (Ibid.) 

    Sanctions against Mansouri and his counsel are warranted because Mansour's position in connection with the two motions lacked substantial justification.  The Court is, however, declining to award Shy the full $12,000 in sanctions as requested.  For one, the Court declines to award sanctions for the ex parte, travel time, and reporter fees. Second, as for sanctions for fees and costs incurred in preparing the motions themselves, the Court is awarding $4,800 in total  This figure reflects 8 hours worth of work on the two motions combined (5 hours for the opening briefs plus 3 hours for the reply briefs and preparing for and attending the hearing on the motions)  at counsel's hourly rate of $600.  This is a significant reduction from the amount that Shy sought.  The Court is taking this step because the opening and reply briefs in support of the two motions are overlapping and, in parts, redundant. Furthermore, the motions address a very limited range of issues. 

The sanctions the Court is imposing on Mansouri and his counsel are payable to Shy within 21 days of today's hearing.

 