  Case Number:  22TRCV01318    Hearing Date:   December 24, 2024    Dept:  B S.W., AN INDIVIDUAL vs GINDER MARSHALL, M.D., AN INDIVIDUAL,
et al.
Case No.22TRCV01318
MOTION TO REQUEST TO SEAL CERTAIN COURT DOCUMENTS, etc.
The Court has reviewed the Moving papers.  No opposition was filed.
The Court has reviewed the requirements of Rule of Court
2.550 and has determined that the conditions noted in Rule of Court 2.550(d)
have been shown by moving party.
The Court finds that: (1) There exists an overriding
interest that overcomes the right of public access to the record; (2) The
overriding interest supports sealing the record; (3) A substantial probability
exists that the overriding interest will be prejudiced if the record is not
sealed; (4) The proposed sealing is narrowly tailored; and (5) No less
restrictive means exist to achieve the overriding interest.
The overriding interest involved in this request is the
reputation and financial harm that could happen due to the presence on the
public record of the documents that moving party requests be sealed.  There is significant harm that the public
availability of the documents that moving party has requested be sealed would
result in substantial financial harm to moving party, loss of reputation in the
community, and potential loss of patients. 
There has been no showing that the claims asserted in this action have
factual validity, yet the possibility of harm to moving party is great.  The requested matter to be sealed does not
interfere with the public’s right to know of the allegations of the Plaintiff,
but merely permits the sealing of court records that might be improperly misunderstood
by the public.  The requested sealing is
narrowly tailored to protect the legitimate interest of the moving party while
allowing the unproven allegations to remain available to the public.  No less restrictive means exists to achieve
this overriding purpose.
Moving party shall submit a new and different Proposed Order
which recites the above findings and which lists each of the documents to which
the Order applies without need to refer to this Motion or the list of documents
set forth at pages 2:3-10.