 Case Number:  22STCV07526    Hearing Date:   April 25, 2024    Dept:  45 Superior Court of California
County
 of Los Angeles
 



 
CR&R
  INCORPORATED;
 
                             Plaintiff,
 
                              vs.
 
ROBERT
  O’NEILL, individually and dba SIMPLE DUMPSTERS, et al.;
 

                              Defendants.
 
 



Case No.:  22STCV07526
DEPARTMENT
  45
 
 
 
[TENTATIVE] RULING
 
 
 
Action
  Filed:  03/02/22
Trial
  Date:  08/05/2024
 



 
Hearing Date:             April
25, 2024
Moving Party:             Defendant
Robert O’Neill
Responding Party:      Plaintiff
CR&R, Incorporated
 
Motion to Compel Further Responses to Special
Interrogatory (Set One)
 
 
            The court has considered the moving
papers, opposition, and reply.
            The
court DENIES defendant Robert
O’Neill’s motion to compel further responses to Special Interrogatories (Set
One). 
The court DENIES defendant Robert O’Neill’s request
for monetary sanctions for his motion to compel further responses to Special
Interrogatories (Set One).
 
Background
Plaintiff CR&R,
Incorporated filed this action on March 2, 2022 against defendant Robert
O’Neill, individually and dba Simple Dumpsters, alleging causes of action for
(1) Common Count for Account Stated; (2) Common Count for Open Book Account;
(3) Common Count for Services Rendered; and (4) Quantum Meruit. The Complaint
alleges the following. On February 1, 2019, Plaintiff entered into an Asset
Purchase Agreement, acquiring the assets of United Pacific Waste (UPW). (Compl.
¶ 7.) UPW previously entered into a contract to prove waste disposal services
to Defendant. (Id.) Under the terms of the Asset Purchase Agreement,
Plaintiff to agreed to continue proving waste disposal services to Defendant. (Id.
at ¶ 8.) Defendant paid for the services rendered but stopped paying on June
15, 2020, resulting in an unpaid outstanding balance due to Plaintiff. (Id.
at ¶¶ 9-12.)
On January 11,
2024, Defendant filed the instant motion to compel further responses to Special
Interrogatories (Set One) Nos. 1 through 3. 
On April 11,
2024, Plaintiff filed its opposition papers. 
On April 15,
2024, Defendant filed his reply. 
 
Legal
Standard
Where responses to interrogatories have
been served but the requesting party believes that they are deficient because
the answers are evasive or incomplete, or, because an objection is without
merit, that party may move for an order compelling a further response. (Code
Civ. Proc. § 2030.300(a).) The motion must be made within 45 days after service
of verified responses in question, or any verified supplemental responses. (Code
Civ. Proc. § 2030.300(c).) The motion must be accompanied by a meet and confer
declaration in compliance with Code of Civil Procedure § 2016.040. (Code Civ.
Proc. § 2030.300(b).)
 
Discussion
            Meet
and Confer
            Based
on the declaration submitted by Defendant’s counsel, the Court finds that
Defendant has sufficiently met and conferred in compliance with Code of Civil
Procedure § 2030.300(b).
(Borenstein Decl. ¶¶ 4-7.) 
 
Merit
of the Motion
            Here,
Defendant propounded his Special Interrogatories (Set One) on Plaintiff on October
26, 2023, and Plaintiff provided responses on November 27, 2023. (Borenstein
Decl. at ¶¶ 2-3.)  However, Defendant
found Plaintiff’s responses to Special Interrogatories Nos. 1-3 to be deficient
because they included improper objections. (Motion at pg. 2-3.)
Defendant seeks
to compel further responses as to the following requests. Special Interrogatory
No. 1 requests “the name, position, and contact information of the person with
the most knowledge of the alleged waste disposal services provided by
Responding Party to Quarry LLC dba Simple Dumpsters or its agents.” (Separate
Statement at pg. 2.) Special Interrogatory No. 2 requests “the name, position,
and contact information of the person with the most knowledge of the alleged
business relationship between Responding Party and Quarry LLC dba Simple
Dumpsters or its agents.” (Id. at pg. 3.) Lastly, Special Interrogatory
No. 3 requests “the name, position, and contact information of the person with
the most knowledge of the alleged waste disposal services provided by United
Pacific Waste provided to Quarry LLC dba Simple Dumpsters or its agents.” (Ibid.)
In responses to
each of theses interrogatories, Plaintiff objects on the grounds that the
interrogatories are vague and violate Code of Civil Procedure § 2030.060 for
being compound and disjunctive. (Separate Statement at pp. 2-3.) Defendant
argues that these objections are meritless because the terms used in the
interrogatories are clear and the interrogatories are not conjunctive as they
seek witness information. (Motion at pp. 2-3.)
In opposition,
Plaintiff argues that its objections are proper because Plaintiff has not at no
point during this action referenced an entity named “Quarry LLC dba Simple
Dumpsters” and Plaintiff has not alleged to provide any services to this
entity. (Opposition at pg. 3.) Additionally, Plaintiff maintains that the
request for the “name, position, and contact information” of certain persons as
being compound and conjunctive. (Id. at pg. 4.)
In reply,
Defendant contends that it is undisputed that Simple Dumpsters is owned by
Quarry LLC, which was formerly known as Simplecase LLC. (Reply at pg. 3, Borenstein
Suppl. Decl. ¶¶ 3-4, Exh. B-C.) While Defendant is insistent that he never
informally used the dba Simple Dumpsters when transacting with Plaintiff, this
representation is not undisputed. After all, Plaintiff’s complaint maintains
that Defendant is individually liable for the outstanding amount due to
Plaintiff. (See Compl. ¶¶ 9-12.) Also, Plaintiff has not amended its pleadings
to replace Defendant with Quarry LLC. 
Nevertheless, Code of Civil Procedure § 2017.010 permits discovery
regarding any matter, not privileged, that is relevant to the subject matter involved in the pending action, if matter
is admissible or appears reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible
evidence. However, as framed by Defendant’s
Special Interrogatories, the requests are vague because “Quarry LLC dba Simple
Dumpsters” and the term “agents” are undefined, and therefore, these
interrogatories are not “full and complete in and of itself.” (Code Civ. Proc.§
2030.060(d).) Therefore, the Court finds that Plaintiff’s objection based on
vagueness has merit. Consequently, if Defendant desires a different answer,
then a new set of interrogatories that comply with Code of Civil Procedure §
2030.060(d) and provides definitions for the phrase "Quarry
LLC dba Simple Dumpsters” and the term “its agents.”
As to
Plaintiff’s second objection based on Code of Civil Procedure § 2030.060(f),
the Court is less persuaded by its reasoning. Based on Plaintiff’s
interpretation of this statute, Defendant would be required to submit a
separate interrogatory for a potential witness’ name, position, and contact
information. Such an interpretation would needlessly complicate the discovery
process. The goal of discovery is to ascertain truth, encourage settlement, and avoid surprise.
(Greyhound Corp. v.
Superior Court of Merced County (1961) 56 Cal. 2d 355, 376.) Because only a single subject is
covered by each interrogatory, the requirement established in Code of Civil
Procedure § 2030.060(f) has not been violated. (Clement v. Alegre (2009)
177 Cal.App.4th 1277, 1291 Weil and Brown, California Practice Guide: Civil
Procedure Before Trial (The Rutter Group 2009) ¶ 8:978.1, p. 8F-21.) Therefore,
the Court finds that this objection lacks merit. 
Accordingly,
because Plaintiff’s vagueness objection has merit, the instant motion is
denied.  Because Defendant was
unsuccessful in his motion, he is not entitled to sanction pursuant to Code of
Civil Procedure § 2030.300.
 
It is so
ordered.
 
Dated:
April 25, 2024
 
_______________________
ROLF M. TREU
Judge of the
Superior Court