 Case Number:  22STCV02650    Hearing Date:   April 25, 2024    Dept:  45 Superior Court of  California County  of Los Angeles      DAVID WU,                                Plaintiff,                                 vs.   CHEF    ON FIRE, LLC, a California Company; EUGENA WENG; and DOES 1 through 25,    inclusive,                                  Defendants.   Case No.: 22STCV02650     DEPARTMENT    45       [TENTATIVE] RULING       Action    Filed: 01/21/2022  [1st    Amended Complaint Filed: 03/22/2022] Trial    Date: 06/10/2024      Hearing  date:              April  25, 2024 Moving  Party:             Defendants  Chef on Fire, LLC and Eugena Weng  Responding  Party:      Plaintiff  David Wu Defendant’s  Motion for Summary Judgment or in the Alternative,  Summary Adjudication The Court  considered the moving papers, opposition, and reply. Defendants’ Motion for Summary Judgment or in the Alternative, Summary  Adjudication is GRANTED in part and DENIED in part. The  Motion is granted as to the eleventh, twelfth, thirteenth, sixteenth, and  seventeenth causes of action as against Chef on Fire, LLC. The Motion is denied  as to the first, second third, fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh, eighth, ninth,  tenth, and fourteenth causes of action as against Chef on Fire, LLC. The Motion  is granted in its entirety solely as to Eugena Weng.            I.           Background  & Preliminary Matters Procedural History             On  January 21, 2022, David Wu (Plaintiff) filed a Complaint alleging several  violations of the California Labor Code and the Fair Employment and Housing Act  (FEHA) against his former employer Chef On Fire, LLC (COF) and a manager Eugena  Weng (Weng, collectively, Defendants). A First Amended Complaint (FAC) was  filed on March 22, 2022 alleging the following seventeen causes of action:   1.      Retaliation in Violation of Cal. Lab. Code § 1102.5; 2.      Disability Discrimination in Violation of FEHA; 3.      Failure to Accommodate in Violation of FEHA; 4.      Failure to Engage in Interactive Process; 5.      Retaliation in Violation of FEHA; 6.      Age Discrimination in Violation of FEHA; 7.      Failure to Prevent in Violation of FEHA; 8.      CFRA Violation; 9.      CFRA Retaliation; 10.   Wrongful Termination in Violation of Public Policy; 11.   Failure to Pay Wages for All Hours Worked; 12.   Failure to Provide Duty-free Meal and Rest Breaks; 13.   Failure to Provide Accurate Wage Statements; 14.   Waiting Time Penalties; 15.   Failure to Permit Inspection or Copying of Records; 16.   Violation of Cal. Lab. Code § 6310; 17.   Violation of Cal. Lab. Code § 6311.               The motion now before the  Court is Defendants’ Motion for Summary Judgment or in the Alternative, Summary  Adjudication (the Motion). Plaintiff opposes the Motion, Defendant files a  reply, Plaintiff then files a sur-reply objecting to evidence filed by  Defendant upon reply.  Factual Background             Plaintiff  alleges that he was wrongfully terminated from his employment on June 20, 2021.  (FAC, ¶¶ 15, 18.) Plaintiff alleges that the wrongful termination was because  he requested reasonable accommodations due to an injury and other medical  issues he suffered. (FAC, ¶ 15.) Plaintiff additionally alleges that after  notifying Defendants of these injuries and providing a doctor’s note,  Defendants required him to return to work without any rest, denying any  assistance from other employees, and verbally berating him. (FAC, ¶ 16.) Prior  to being terminated, Plaintiff alleges that he engaged in various protected activities  including seeking protection under the California Family Rights Act and FEHA. (Id.)  As a result, Plaintiff alleges that Defendants engaged in retaliatory conduct  which ended in Plaintiff’s termination (Id.) Plaintiff now files suit.   Requests for Judicial Notice             Both  parties request this Court grant judicial notice. First, COF requests that the  Court grant judicial notice as to the following: (1)    The decision rendered by the  Administrative Law Judge from the California Unemployment Insurance Appeals  Board, Case No. 7141631 (2)    The decision rendered by the  Appeals Board for the California Unemployment Insurance Appeals Board, Case No.  AO-462909 (addressing the appeal of Case No. 7141631.) (3)    Amended Complaint to the California  Department of Fair Employment and Housing (4)    Plaintiff’s Notice of Case Closure  and Right to Sue Letter from the Department of Fair Employment and Housing (5)    Employment Development Department’s  Appeal Form (6)    Plaintiff’s Worker’s Compensation  Application Form (7)    First Amended Complaint             Pursuant  to Evid. Code §§ 452(c) & 452(d), COF’s request for judicial notice is  granted only as to items three, four, and seven. Pursuant to Cal. Unemp. Ins.  Code §§ 1094 and 1960, items one, two, five, and six are prohibited from being  deemed admissible as evidence. Plaintiff requests that we take judicial notice  of the following: (1)    The fact that June 8, 2021 was a  Tuesday (2)    The minimum wage rates and  subsequent increases in California from 2019 to 2021 Pursuant to Evid. Code §§ 452 and 453,  judicial notice is granted as to both of Plaintiff’s items.  Evidentiary Objections             Plaintiff  files two evidentiary objections, the first to COF’s separate statement which  was filed with COF’s moving papers, and the second objection is to new evidence  COF presents in their reply papers. Both objections are sustained. The  objection to COF’s separate statement is sustained in its entirety, and the  concurrent request to strike the statement is granted because COF failed to  file the separate statement in conformity with Cal. Rules of Court 3.150(d)(1),  (d)(2), (d)(3), and (h). The second evidentiary objection is sustained because  COF brings the new evidence only upon reply and gives Plaintiff no opportunity  to respond. “[P]oints raised for the first time in a reply brief will  ordinarily not be considered, because such consideration would deprive  respondent of an opportunity to counter the argument. [Citations.]” (Jay v.  Mahaffey (2013) 128 Cal.App.4th 1522, 1538.) This is the situation  presented before the Court here, therefore, the Court will disregard all new  arguments and any evidence COF puts forth upon reply.             COF  filed objections on April 18, 2024, two days after the prior scheduled hearing  for this Motion, and seven days before the current hearing for this Motion on  April 25, 2024. Per Cal. Rules of Court 3.1354, unless otherwise authorized by  the Court on a showing of good cause, all written objections to evidence in  support of a motion for summary judgment must be served and filed at the same  time as the objecting party’s opposition or reply papers. COF as the objecting  party filed their reply papers on April 11, 2024, and requested no permission  from the Court nor made any showing of good cause with regard to their  late-filed objections. Therefore, the objections will not be considered.          II.           Discussion Legal Standard             The function of a motion for summary  judgment or adjudication is to allow a determination as to whether an opposing  party cannot show evidentiary support for a pleading or claim and to enable an  order of summary dismissal without the need for trial. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) CCP  Section 437c(c) “requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the  evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’  and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no  triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to  judgment as a matter of law.”  (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7  Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)               “The function of the pleadings in a  motion for summary judgment is to delimit the scope of the issues; the function  of the affidavits or declarations is to disclose whether there is any triable  issue of fact within the issues delimited by the pleadings.” (Juge v. County of Sacramento (1993) 12  Cal.App.4th 59, 67, citing FPI  Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal. App. 3d 367, 381-382.)             As to each claim as framed by the  complaint, the defendant moving for summary judgment must satisfy the initial  burden of proof by presenting facts to negate an essential element, or to  establish a defense. (CCP § 437c(p)(2); Scalf  v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.) Courts  “liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary  judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006)  39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)             Once the defendant has met that  burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a triable issue of one  or more material facts exists as to that cause of action or a defense thereto. To  establish a triable issue of material fact, the party opposing the motion must  produce substantial responsive evidence. (Sangster  v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)   Analysis   A.     Preliminary Arguments                             i.           Plaintiff David Wu held a  managerial position             The  first preliminary argument the parties set forth is whether Plaintiff was a  manager who held a salaried position and is therefore exempt from overtime and  meal break regulations. The evidence presented by both parties shows the answer  is yes. (Declaration of Steven Hoang, ¶ 7; Declaration of David Wu; Exhibit 32,  Supplemental Responses to Special Interrogatories, ¶ 1-2; Exhibit 43, and  Deposition of Eugena Weng pgs. 20 and 26.)                            ii.           No Causes of Action are alleged  against Eugena Weng             Within  the FAC, there is no single cause of action alleged at or identifying Eugena  Weng as the subject individual. COF requests that the Motion be granted as to  Eugena. Plaintiff opposes arguing that because no issue was raised on the  pleadings regarding Weng, that the Court may not grant summary judgment.  However, Plaintiff provides no authority for this assertion. The standard upon  summary judgment is clear, the defendant must carry their burden to show no  issue of a triable material fact, plaintiff must then show that a triable issue  exists. COF has carried their burden as to Weng, Plaintiff failed to  demonstrate theirs. Therefore, the Motion is granted as to Weng, and this order  shall only address Defendant COF.                         iii.           Plaintiff provides triable issue of  fact as to whether he was terminated             The  parties final preliminary contention is whether Plaintiff quit or was  terminated. COF claims that Plaintiff quit by not showing up to his workplace,  however, Plaintiff’s declaration provides a detailed account to the contrary.  Plaintiff communicated to both Jackson Weng and Eugena Weng that the job duties  he was assigned upon return from leave violated his medically prescribed  restrictions. (Declaration of David Wu, hereinafter, Wu Decl., ¶ 25.) One day,  Plaintiff informed Eugena Weng that he was not feeling well and asked for the  rest of the day off. Plaintiff states that Eugena Weng’s response was to berate  him and to shout “Don’t come back ever.” (Exhibit 46, Deposition of David Wu,  pg. 37, lines 11-22.)  Here, Plaintiff  has created a triable issue of material fact as to whether he quit or was  terminated. Therefore, the Motion is denied as to the tenth cause of action for  wrongful termination.        B.     Merits                             i.           First and Fifth Causes of  Action: Retaliation in Violation of Cal. Lab. Code § 1102.5 and Retaliation in  Violation of FEHA.             California  Labor Code § 1102.5 (LAB § 1102.5) is a provision of California’s Labor Code  which prevents retaliation for employees conducting protected activity,  including reporting or disclosing information to a government or law  enforcement agency. To  establish a prima facie case of retaliation under Cal. Lab. Code § 1102.5, a  plaintiff must show that: (1) plaintiff engaged in protected activity; (2)  plaintiff’s employer thereafter subjected him to an adverse employment action;  and (3) a causal link between the two. (Fitzgerald v. El Dorado County  (2015) 94 F.Supp.3d 1155, 1172.) To establish a prima facie case of retaliation  under FEHA, a plaintiff needs to plead the same elements. (Nealy v. City of  Santa Monica (2015) 234 Cal.App.4th 359, 380.)              COF  argues that this cause of action fails “Plaintiff never pled that Defendants  had a policy rule or regulation that prohibited him from making a complaint to  a government or law enforcement agency.” (Moving Papers, 6:12-16.) COF goes on  to argue that because Plaintiff was a manager who was required to make sure the  signs were posted, Plaintiff’s cause of actions somehow fail. The Court  disagrees. First, the only authority cited in the moving papers addressing the  first and fifth causes of action is a non-binding case from the Florida  Southern District Court that makes no mention of workplace retaliation.                 Second, Plaintiff demonstrates that there are  triable issues of material fact as to whether retaliation occurred. Plaintiff  submits their own declaration alleging and documenting instances of workplace  retaliation. (See Wu Decl.) COF provides no response nor evidence showing no  triable issue of fact as to whether retaliation took place. Therefore, the  Motion is denied as to both the first and fifth causes of action.                             ii.           FEHA and CFRA Causes of Action –  Second, Third, Fourth, Sixth,  Seventh, Eighth, and Ninth Causes of Action             Here, the Court will deny the Motion  as to the second, third, fourth, sixth, seventh, eighth, and ninth causes of  action. Each of these causes of action is prefaced on the same facts and share  similar elements. Plaintiff is alleging discrimination under FEHA based on age  and disability, failure on the part of COF to accommodate, to engage in the  interactive process, and failure to prevent discrimination. Additionally,  Plaintiff alleges violations under the California Family Rights Act (CFRA)  after COF retaliated against Plaintiff and failed to inform him of his right  for leave under the CFRA and by forcing him to take longer leave than  necessary.             On May 3, 2021, Plaintiff alleges  that he suffered an injury to his hand and arm after a fall. (FAC, ¶ 16.)  Plaintiff provided reasonable notice to his employer, COF, and after his  release from medical treatment, Plaintiff alleges that COF would not allow him  to return to work forcing him to take additional time off. (Id.)  Although a follow up visit later revealed Plaintiff needed more time off, when  Plaintiff was permitted to return to work by his doctor, COF refused to provide  accommodations. (Id.) Moreover, Plaintiff alleges that COF denied  Plaintiff help from other employees, berated him, accused him of faking the  medical issues, reprimanded him for not being able to lift heavy boxes, and  told him he was “old” and “slow”. (Id.) Plaintiff provides the Wu Decl.  which supports these allegations; however, COF fails to carry their burden.              COF argues that because Plaintiff  did not withstand a “life altering injury” that Plaintiff is somehow not  eligible for protection under either FEHA or the CFRA. To be clear, the  injuries suffered after Plaintiff’s fall were to his hand (Exh. 24) and it was  later discovered that Plaintiff suffered from a hernia (Exh. 23 & 24.) A  prima facie case of disability discrimination under Fair Employment and Housing  Act (FEHA) requires a showing that (1) the plaintiff suffered from a  disability, (2) the plaintiff was otherwise qualified to do his or her job,  with or without reasonable accommodation, and (3) the plaintiff was subjected  to adverse employment action because of the disability. (Castro-Ramirez v.  Dependable Highway Express, Inc. (2016) 2 Cal.App.5th 1028,  1037.)             FEHA defines the term “physical  disability” as having any physiological disease, disorder, condition, cosmetic  disfigurement, or anatomical loss that does both of the following: “(a) Affects  one or more of the following body systems: neurological, immunological,  musculoskeletal, special sense organs, respiratory, including speech organs,  cardiovascular, reproductive, digestive, genitourinary, hemic and lymphatic,  skin, and endocrine” and (b) “Limits a major life activity.” (Govt. Code §  12926(m).)             Moreover,  the code defines how any such injury must affect the individual in order to be  considered a disability, for example it must limit a major life activity, major  life activities include working. (Govt. Code § 12926(m)(iii).)              COF  cites no case law that requires Plaintiff to suffer a “life altering injury”  under FEHA, nor does COF present evidence demonstrating no triable issue of  fact as to the second cause of action for disability discrimination in  violation of FEHA. The Motion is denied as to the second cause of action.             As  to the third cause of action, COF alleges in their moving papers that Plaintiff  signed an “Accommodation Agreement” and purports that the agreement is attached  as Exhibit G, however, the Court has no such exhibit within COF’s filings. Nor  does COF purport that they provided any sort of accommodation for Plaintiff nor  engaged in an interactive process to resolve the issues. Plaintiff, however,  has put forth evidence that no accommodation was provided nor was any effort  put forth in the process to find a solution. (See generally, Wu Decl.) The  Motion is denied as to the third and fourth causes of action.               With  regard to both the sixth and seventh causes of action, age discrimination and  failure to prevent the violation under FEHA, plaintiff must show that plaintiff  (1) is over the age of 40; (2) suffered an adverse  employment action; (3) was performing satisfactorily at the time of at the time  of the adverse action; and (4) suffered the adverse action under circumstances  that give rise to an inference of unlawful discrimination. (Sandell v.  Taylor-Listug, Inc. (2010) 188 Cal.App.4th 297, 321.) At the  time of hiring, Plaintiff was 56 (Exh. 24 for DOB). There is no indication by  COF that Plaintiff’s services were anything less than satisfactory, and yet  after requesting accommodations he suffered an adverse employment action, being  terminated. However, Plaintiff alleges that it was not only due to his request  for accommodations, but also his age, Plaintiff alleges that he was called  “old” more than once. (FAC, ¶ 16.) This is sufficient to give rise to an  inference of unlawful discrimination. Here, COF again has failed to carry its  burden, the Motion is Denied as to the sixth and seventh causes of action.              As  the discussion above demonstrates that COF failed to carry their burden as to  the CFRA violations alleged, the Motion is denied as to the eighth and ninth  causes of action as well.                           iii.           Because Plaintiff was a salaried  worker holding a manager position, Plaintiff was considered exempt from LAB §§  1194, 226(a), & 226.7             As  aforementioned, Plaintiff was hired as a supervisor, and later became a manager.  (Exh. 32, COF Supplemental Response to Special Interrogatories.) Plaintiff  filled out daily logs to indicate whether workers competed their tasks (Wu  Decl., pg. 2, lines 1-3), ordered inventory for the restaurant (Id. at  lines 7-8), and was paid a salary. (Exh. 29, pg. 4, line 16.) Therefore,  Plaintiff was exempt from Cal. Lab. Codes §§ 1194 (failure to pay wages);  226(a) (wage statement); and 226.7 (meal breaks). Accordingly, the Motion is granted  as to causes of action eleven, twelve, and thirteen.                           iv.           Plaintiff never received his final paycheck;  therefore, COF is liable for  violations  under LAB §§ 201 and 203             Cal.  Lab. Code § 201 (LAB § 201) provides that if an employer discharges an  employee, the wages earned and unpaid at the time of discharge are due and  payable immediately. Cal. Lab. Code § 203 (LAB 203) provides that if an  employer willfully fails to pay the wages of an employee who is discharged or  quits the wages of the employee shall continue as a penalty from the due date  thereof at the same rate until paid or until an action therefor is commenced;  but the wages shall not continue for more than 30 days.              Here,  the allegations are that the final check to Plaintiff was never provided, COF  argues the contrary through their moving papers and the Declaration of Eugena  Weng (¶ 3), however, no other proof is provided such as proof of mailing.  Plaintiff, through their own declaration contends that he never received his  final check. (Wu Decl., ¶ 36.) Accordingly, with no proof demonstrating that  that is no triable issue of fact as to whether Plaintiff received his final  paycheck, the Motion is denied as to the fourteenth cause of action.                             v.           COF failed to respond to the  request for personnel file in violation of LAB § 226(c)               Cal.  Lab. Code § 226(c) provides that an employer who receives a written or oral  request to inspect or receive a copy of records pertaining  to a current or former employee shall comply with the request as soon as  practicable, but no later than 21 calendar days from the date of the request.  The parties agree that Plaintiff requested his personnel file, however, COF  argues that because the request was sent to their agent for service of process,  and because the agent for service of process was not legally obliged to provide  the letter to COF, no request was ever properly sent and received. This is true  of a prior request that landed in the hands of an employee who worked in the  same building but had no relation to COF. However, the agent for service of  process could have easily notified COF of the request. A registered agent or an  “agent for service of process” is an individual appointed by the LLC to receive  crucial legal documents on its behalf. COF provides no authority showing that  their “agent for service of process” could not have simply turned over the file  request to COF to be processed. Here, COF failed to demonstrate the absence of  a triable issue of fact, therefore, the Motion will be denied as to the  fifteenth cause of action.                               vi.           Plaintiff fails to demonstrate that  there were safety issues at his place of employment, therefore the sixteenth  and seventeenth causes of action fail             For  both the sixteenth and seventeenth causes of action, COF argues that Plaintiff  never raised any concerns with regard to the safety in the workplace. Within  their opposition papers and accompanying filings, Plaintiff does not provide  evidence that concerns regarding workplace safety were ever raised or existed.  Here, Plaintiff fails to show a triable issue of material fact, therefore, the  Motion as to the sixteenth and seventeenth causes of action is granted.          III.           Conclusion             Accordingly,  Defendants’ Motion for Summary Judgment or in the  Alternative, Summary Adjudication is GRANTED in part and DENIED in  part. The Motion is granted as to the eleventh, twelfth, thirteenth,  sixteenth, and seventeenth causes of action as against Chef on Fire, LLC. The  Motion is denied as to the first, second third, fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh,  eighth, ninth, tenth, and fourteenth causes of action as against Chef on Fire,  LLC. The Motion is granted in its entirety solely as to Eugena Weng.               It  is so ordered.   Dated:  April  25, 2024   _______________________ Rolf M. Treu Judge of the  Superior CourtSuperior Court of
CaliforniaCounty
of Los Angeles 


DAVID WU,
 
                             Plaintiff,
 
                              vs.
 
CHEF
  ON FIRE, LLC, a California Company; EUGENA WENG; and DOES 1 through 25,
  inclusive, 
 
                              Defendants.


Case No.:
  22STCV02650 
DEPARTMENT
  45
 
 
 
[TENTATIVE] RULING
 
 
 
Action
  Filed: 01/21/2022 
[1st
  Amended Complaint Filed: 03/22/2022]
Trial
  Date: 06/10/2024


 Hearing
date:              April
25, 2024Moving
Party:             Plaintiff
David Wu Responding
Party:      Defendants
Chef on Fire, LLC and Eugena Weng Plaintiff David
Wu’s Motion for Sanctions Pursuant to Code Civ. Proc., § 128.7  The Court
considered the moving papers, opposition, and reply. Plaintiff David Wu’s Motion for Sanctions Pursuant to Code Civ. Proc., §
128.7 is GRANTED and sanctions are imposed on Defendants and
their attorney or record, in the amount of $2,000.00, jointly and
severally to be paid within 10 days of this order.

 

     
I.         
BackgroundProcedural History            On
January 21, 2022, David Wu (Plaintiff) filed a Complaint alleging several
violations of the California Labor Code and the Fair Employment and Housing Act
(FEHA) against his former employer Chef On Fire, LLC (COF) and a manager Eugena
Weng (Weng, collectively, Defendants). A First Amended Complaint (FAC) was
filed on March 22, 2022 alleging the following seventeen causes of action: 1.    
Retaliation in Violation of Cal. Lab. Code § 1102.5;2.    
Disability Discrimination in Violation of FEHA;3.    
Failure to Accommodate in Violation of FEHA;4.    
Failure to Engage in Interactive Process;5.    
Retaliation in Violation of FEHA;6.    
Age Discrimination in Violation of FEHA;7.    
Failure to Prevent in Violation of FEHA;8.    
CFRA Violation;9.    
CFRA Retaliation;10. 
Wrongful Termination in Violation of Public Policy;11. 
Failure to Pay Wages for All Hours Worked;12. 
Failure to Provide Duty-free Meal and Rest Breaks;13. 
Failure to Provide Accurate Wage Statements;14. 
Waiting Time Penalties;15. 
Failure to Permit Inspection or Copying of Records;16. 
Violation of Cal. Lab. Code § 6310;17. 
Violation of Cal. Lab. Code § 6311.             The motion now before the
Court is Plaintiff David Wu’s Motion for Sanctions Pursuant to Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 128.7 (the Motion). Both COF and Weng oppose the Motion, Plaintiff files a
reply.  Factual Background            Plaintiff
alleges that he was wrongfully terminated from his employment on June 20, 2021.
(FAC, ¶¶ 15, 18.) Plaintiff alleges that the wrongful termination was because
he requested reasonable accommodations due to an injury and other medical
issues he suffered. (FAC, ¶ 15.) Plaintiff additionally alleges that after
notifying Defendants of these injuries and providing a doctor’s note,
Defendants required him to return to work without any rest, denying any
assistance from other employees, and verbally berating him. (FAC, ¶ 16.) Prior
to being terminated, Plaintiff alleges that he engaged in various protected
activities including seeking protection under the California Family Rights Act
and FEHA. (Id.) As a result, Plaintiff alleges that Defendants engaged
in retaliatory conduct which ended in Plaintiff’s termination (Id.)
Plaintiff now files suit.    
II.         
DiscussionLegal Standard            Code
of Civil Procedure “section 128.7 applies solely to attorney misconduct in the
filing or advocacy of groundless claims made in signed pleadings and other
papers.”  (Clark v. Optical Coating
Lab. (2008) 165 Cal.App.4th 150, 164.) A violation of any of the conditions
of Section 128.7(b) (which includes (1) improper purpose,  (2) frivolous claims, defenses or
contentions, (3) lack of evidentiary support or likely support and (4) lack of
evidentiary support or reasonable bases on lack of information as to denials),
may support an award of sanctions.  (Eichenbaum
v. Alon (2003) 106 Cal. App. 4th 967, 976.)Whether a claim, defense or contention is
frivolous is measured objectively. (Bockrath v. Aldrich Chem. Co. (1999)
21 Cal.4th 71, 82.) Code of Civil Procedure Section 128.7 requires
bad faith conduct by the person to be sanctioned. (Interstate Specialty
Marketing, Inc. v. ICRA Sapphire, Inc. (2013) 217 Cal.App.4th 708, 710 [“attaching
the wrong draft of a contract … to a … complaint does not appear to be, under
the particular circumstances of this case …, sanctionable at all…. Only
lamentable inattention was shown ….”].) Analysis            Plaintiff
files the instant Motion arguing that the use of the Employment Development
Department (EDD) Appeals Board decisions within the motion for summary judgment
filed by Defendants was improper, and that Defendants should be sanctioned in
the amount of $8,700.00 jointly and severally. Defendants primary counter
argument is that the statute Plaintiff relies on is unconstitutional. It is
unclear from Defendants opposition whether Defendants are referring to Code Civ. Proc., § 128.7 itself or Cal. Unemp. Ins
Code § 1960, the section of the unemployment insurance code that prohibits the
use of the EDD Appeals Board decisions. Nonetheless, the Court agrees with
Plaintiff and grants the Motion, and imposes $2,000.00 in sanctions against
Defendants, and awards them to Plaintiff.            Constitutionality            Defendants
primary argument is that either Code Civ. Proc., §
128.7 itself or Cal. Unemp. Ins Code § 1960 is
unconstitutional. Without clearly stating which statute is unconstitutional,
the Court reviews both and finds that neither is currently subject to a
constitutional challenge. Defendants fail to put forth authority that demonstrates
the contrary. Defendants refer specifically to the Federal Rules of Evidence
stating that “as it pertains to the admissibility of certain types of evidence
in federal courts such evidence is governed by the Federal Rules of Evidence.” (Opposition
Papers, 3:8-10.) However, this case is in the Superior Court of the State of
California within the County of Los Angeles, not federal court. Here, the
applicable evidence code is the California Evidence Code.            Plaintiff
notes in their moving papers that they notified Defense counsel several times
in regard to the impermissibility of filing evidence that was clearly prohibited.
(Declaration of Kelly Chen, ¶¶ 3-6.) Defense counsel ignored these warnings and
proceeded to utilize the forbidden evidence in their summary judgment motion. It
should be noted that the Court refused the request for judicial notice as to
the EDD Appeals Board decisions and does not reference them in its decision on
Defendants’ summary judgment motion.             Upon
opposition, Defense counsel provides no argument as to why this evidence,
clearly prohibited, was filed with their motion for summary judgment. It is
clear that the filing was no accident. Civ. Proc. Code 128.7(c)(1) provides for
a 21-day “safe harbor” period in which Defendants, after given proper notice –
as they were here – are permitted to withdraw or correct the challenged filing.
Defendants failed to do so.     III.         
Conclusion            Accordingly, Plaintiff David Wu’s Motion for Sanctions Pursuant to Code Civ. Proc., §
128.7 is GRANTED and sanctions are imposed on Defendants and
their attorney or record, in the amount of $2,000.00, jointly and severally to
be paid within 10 days of this order.             It
is so ordered. Dated: April 25, 2024 _______________________Rolf M. Treu





















































































































Judge of the
Superior Court