 Case Number:  24STCV01615    Hearing Date:   June 7, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
FERNANDO
  BARAJAS-SALOMON,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
101 GRANITE COUNTERTOP
  LLC, et al., 
                        Defendants.
  


 
  Case No.:  24STCV01615
  Hearing Date:  June 7, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
defendant state college distributors,
  inc.’s demurrer and motion to strike (CRS# 3570)




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On January 19, 2024, Plaintiff
Fernando Barajas-Salomon filed this product liability action against various
defendants. Plaintiff filed the operative First Amended Complaint on March 18,
2024, asserting (1) negligence, (2) products liability – failure to warn, (3)
products liability – design defect, (4) fraudulent concealment, (5) breach of
implied warranties, and (6) loss of consortium. 
            According to the complaint, from
2005 to 2023, Plaintiff worked as a cutter, fabricator and/or installer of
Defendants’ stone products. (FAC ¶¶ 172-175.) As a result of this work,
Plaintiff came into contact with “inherently hazardous stone products
manufactured, imported, supplied, distributed, contracted, and/or brokered, by
the named Defendants and Does 1-100.” (Id., ¶ 177.) Specifically,
Plaintiff was “exposed to and inhaled stone dust containing silica and other
toxins and carcinogens.” (Ibid.) Plaintiff allegedly developed lung
disease and is at increased risk of developing other silica-related diseases. (Id.,
¶ 178.) Plaintiff alleges that he “has had to receive substantial medical
treatment, including hospitalizations and surgeries, and will require lung
transplantation.” (Id., ¶ 179.) 
            On May 9, 2024, Defendant State
College Distributors, Inc. filed the instant demurrer and motion to strike
against the FAC. Plaintiff filed his opposition on May 24, 2024. 
LEGAL STANDARD
A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether
the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When
considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in
context. (Taylor v. City of Los
Angeles Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1228.)
In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the
pleading or by proper judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd.
(a).) A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other
extrinsic matters. (SKF Farms v. Superior
Court (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) Therefore, it lies only where the
defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed. (Ibid.) The only issue involved in a
demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with
extraneous matters, states a cause of action. (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at 747.)
Any party, within the time allowed to
respond to a pleading, may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the
whole or any part of that pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b).) The
court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it
deems proper, strike (1) any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in
any pleading and (2) all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.
(Id., § 436.) The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face
of the pleading or by way of judicial notice. (Id., § 437.)
MEET AND CONFER
Before filing a demurrer or a motion to
strike, the demurring or moving party is required to meet and confer with the
party who filed the pleading demurred to or the pleading that is subject to the
motion to strike for the purposes of determining whether an agreement can be
reached through a filing of an amended pleading that would resolve the
objections to be raised in the demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 430.41, 435.5.)
The Court notes that Defendant has complied with the meet and confer
requirement. (See Solorio Decl.)
DISCUSSION
I.
Demurrer
            a. Causation
            “In the ordinary personal injury
lawsuit, in which the complaint's factual recitations show plainly the
connection between cause and effect, it suffices to plead causation succinctly
and generally.” (Bockrath v. Aldrich Chemical Co. (1999) 21 Cal.4th 71,
78.) “But when, by contrast, the pleaded facts of negligence and injury do not
naturally give rise to an inference of causation, the plaintiff must plead
specific facts affording an inference the one caused the others.” (Ibid.)
The facts must show that “the defective products supplied by the defendant were
a substantial factor in bringing about his or her injury.” (Id. at p.
79.) In order for a complaint to satisfy the substantial factor test in a toxic
exposure case, the plaintiff must plead the following: 
(1) he was exposed to each of the toxic
materials claimed to have caused a specific illness;
(2) he must identify each product that
allegedly caused the injury;
(3) he must allege that as a result of the
exposure, the toxins entered his body;
(4) he must allege that he suffers from a
specific illness, and that each toxin that entered his body was a substantial
factor in bringing about, prolonging, or aggravating that illness; and
(5) he must allege
that each toxin he absorbed was manufactured or supplied by a named defendant. 
(Id.
at p. 80.) These facts must be pled “in ordinary and concise language” and may
be pled “in a conclusory fashion if [the plaintiff’s] knowledge of the precise
cause of injury is limited.” (Ibid.)
            Defendant’s demurrer focuses on the
second element, arguing that Plaintiff fails to allege the specific products
that caused injury. The complaint attributes three products to Defendant:
porcelain, quartz, and quartzite. (FAC ¶ 171.) Defendant argues that this is
too generic to satisfy Bockrath. The Court agrees. Without the specific
product names, Defendant is not on sufficient notice to respond to the claims.
Defendant may produce or distribute any number of porcelain, quartz, or
quartzite products. The specific product should be within Plaintiff’s
knowledge, as Plaintiff alleges that he purchased or used the products. (See
FAC ¶ 1226.) Therefore, the FAC fails to satisfy the specificity standard of Bockrath.  
            b. Fraudulent Concealment
                        1.
Specificity 
Defendant argues that Plaintiff has failed
to plead fraud with the requisite specificity. However, the rule of specificity
“is intended to apply to affirmative
misrepresentations.” (Alfaro v. Community Housing Improvement System &
Planning Assn., Inc. (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1356, 1384.) “[I]t is harder to
apply this rule to a case of simple nondisclosure. How does one show ‘how’ and
‘by what means’ something didn't happen, or ‘when’ it never happened, or
‘where’ it never happened?” (Ibid.) Plaintiff cannot provide specific
details on nonexistent statements. For pleading purposes, Plaintiff has
sufficiently alleged that Defendants failed to disclose the hazardous nature of
their stone products, thereby inducing Plaintiff to purchase or use Defendants’
products, leading to his injuries. (FAC ¶¶ 1219-1227.) Therefore, the fraud
claim does not fail for lack of specificity. 
            2.
Special Relationship
“There are four
circumstances in which nondisclosure or concealment may constitute actionable
fraud: (1) when the defendant is in a fiduciary relationship with the
plaintiff; (2) when the defendant had exclusive knowledge of material facts not
known to the plaintiff; (3) when the defendant actively conceals a material
fact from the plaintiff; and (4) when the defendant makes partial
representations but also suppresses some material facts.” (Bigler-Engler v.
Breg, Inc. (2017) 7 Cal.App.5th 276, 311, internal citations omitted.) In
the absence of a fiduciary relationship, the latter three circumstances still “presuppose
the existence of some other relationship between the plaintiff and defendant.”
(Ibid.) “[S]uch a relationship can only come into being as a result of
some sort of transaction between the parties . . . from direct
dealings between the plaintiff and the defendant; it cannot arise between the
defendant and the public at large.” (Id. at pp. 311-312.)    
A fraudulent concealment claim is
actionable in toxic exposure cases. (See Jones v. ConocoPhillips Co.
(2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 1187, 1198-1200.) However, Defendant argues that
Plaintiff has failed to allege the requisite special relationship giving rise
to a duty to disclose. The court in Bigler-Engler acknowledged that a
duty to disclose may arise in relationships such as “seller and buyer.” (Bigler-Engler, supra, 7 Cal.App.5th at p. 311.) Here, Plaintiff
alleges that he “purchased and/or received toxic stone products from Defendants.”
(FAC ¶ 1226.) For pleading purposes, this supports a transactional relationship
between Plaintiff and Defendant. (See also Arnold v. Dow Chemical Co.
(2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 698, 720-21 [privity may exist between the seller of a
hazardous product and the intended ultimate user, even if that user did not
directly purchase the product].) Plaintiff is not merely a member of the
general public. Rather, Plaintiff was exposed to silica as a result of his
occupation, which specifically involved the purchase or usage of
silica-contaminated stone from Defendant. Therefore, the FAC sufficiently
alleges a transactional relationship giving rise to a duty to disclose.
            c. Breach of Warranty
            “The general rule is that privity of
contract is required in an action for breach of either express or implied
warranty and that there is no privity between the original seller and a
subsequent purchaser who is in no way a party to the original sale.” (Burr
v. Sherwin Williams Co. (1954) 42 Cal.2d 682, 695.) 
Defendant argues that the breach of
warranty claim fails because Plaintiff does not allege that he was the original
purchaser of any of Defendant’s products. However, Plaintiff alleges that he “purchased and/or received toxic stone
products from Defendants.” (FAC ¶ 1226.) Furthermore, even if Plaintiff only
used materials purchased by his employer, he could be considered in privity
with Defendant. Privity may exist between a seller and persons who are intended
to be the ultimate users or consumers of a product, including employees. (Arnold
v. Dow Chemical Co. (2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 698, 720-21.) Therefore, the FAC
sufficiently alleges privity. 
In sum, the
demurrer is SUSTAINED with leave to amend for Plaintiff to allege additional
facts to satisfy the Bockrath standard. 
II.
Motion to Strike
            a. Punitive Damages
            “In an action for the breach of an
obligation not arising from contract, where it is proven by clear and
convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or
malice, the plaintiff, in addition to the actual damages, may recover damages
for the sake of example and by way of punishing the defendant.” (Civ. Code, §
3294, subd. (a).) “‘Malice’ means conduct which is intended by the
defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is
carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the
rights or safety of others.” (Id., subd. (c)(1).) “‘Oppression’ means
despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in
conscious disregard of that person’s rights.” (Id., subd. (c)(2).) Fraud
is “intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact
known to the defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of
thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing
injury.” (Id., subd. (c)(3).)
            As discussed above, Plaintiff has
failed to allege facts satisfying the Bockrath standard. Thus, Plaintiff
has not sufficiently established that Defendant’s products caused his injuries.
Without causation, Defendant has no underlying liability or liability for
punitive damages.  
            b. Additional Products to be
Identified in Discovery
            Defendant seeks to strike the phrase
“and other silica-containing stone products to be identified during the course
of discovery.” (FAC ¶ 171.) As discussed above, the heightened standard under Bockrath
requires Plaintiff to “identify each product that allegedly caused the injury.”
(Bockrath, supra, 21 Cal.4th at p. 80.) The catchall allegation in the
FAC would allow Plaintiff to base liability on any number of unidentified
products, thereby contravening Bockrath. Plaintiff has no response to
this contention in his opposition. Therefore, the phrase is stricken. 
CONCLUSION
            Defendant State College Distributors,
Inc.’s demurrer is SUSTAINED with leave to amend. Defendant’s motion to strike
is GRANTED. 