 Case Number:  22STCV26335    Hearing Date:   February 22, 2024    Dept:  14 RS Group APS vs. GWRS HoldingsCase Background
 
Plaintiff alleges that it loaned
money to Defendant GWRS Holdings, LLC (“GWRS”) on favorable terms in exchange
for an ownership share in GWRS. Plaintiff claims that GWRS then took their
money and transferred it to another entity, which used it to operate a business
which ultimately folded. When that business folded, this third-party entity
sold off its assets and made a distribution to its individual owners. Plaintiff
has yet to see a return on its loan.
 
            On May 22,
2023 Plaintiff filed its First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) for (1) Breach of
Contract, (2) Fraudulent Transfer – Sale Proceeds, (3) Fraudulent Transfer –
Loan Proceeds, (4) Intentional Misrepresentation, and (5) Negligent
Misrepresentation against Defendants GWRS Holdings, LLC (“GWRS”), SG & AW
Holdings LLC (“SG & AW”), Serhat Gumrukcu (“Gumrukcu”), Anderson Wittekind
(“Wittekind”), and DOES 1-50. 
 
The first cause of action is
asserted against Defendant GWRS only. The second, third, fourth, and fifth
causes of action are asserted against Defendants SG & AW, Gumrukcu, and
Wittekind only. On August 8, 2023, this court sustained the demurrer of
Defendants SG & AW and Wittekind to the second, third, and fifth causes of
action, with leave to amend. No amendment has been filed. Therefore, those
claims against those defendants have been forfeited.
 
On August 23, 2023, Defendants SG
& AW and Wittekind filed their joint Answer.
 
On August 25, 2023, Defendant
Gumruckcu filed his Answer.
 
On September 19, 2023, the default
of Defendant GWRS was entered.
 
            Jury Trial
is currently set for October 21, 2024.
 
Instant Motion
            
Defendant
SG & AW now moves this court for judgment on the pleadings, on the grounds
that Plaintiff has failed to state a cause of action against it.
 
Decision
 
            Defendant SG & AW’s Request for Judicial Notice (“RJN”)
is GRANTED.
 
            Plaintiff’s RJN is GRANTED.
 
            The motion is GRANTED, with 10 days leave to amend.
 
Discussion
 
            Defendant SG & AW is only party to the fourth cause
of action for fraud, which survived a prior demurrer. However, Defendant SG
& AW now points out, for the first time, that it did not exist as an entity
when the alleged fraud occurred. (Compare Defendant’s RJN Exhibit A with FAC
¶ 29). In response, Plaintiff argues that Defendant SG & AW is liable
for the behavior of its principal, Defendant Wittekind, on a ratification
theory. 
 
            Such a theory might well be viable, but it has not been
pled. Therefore, the court is obliged to give Plaintiff a chance to plead it.  
 