 Case Number:  24STCV03751    Hearing Date:   May 28, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



ANDREW
  J. CHIN 
                           
         vs.
 
DOORDASH,
  ICN. 
 
 


 Case No.: 
  24STCV03751
 
 
 
 Hearing
  Date:  May 28, 2024



 
Defendant’s motion to compel arbitration is GRANTED. This
matter is ordered stayed pending the completion of arbitration proceedings.

 
            On
2/14/2024, Plaintiff Andrew J. Chin (Plaintiff) filed suit against Doordash,
Inc. (Defendant), alleging: (1) retaliation; (2) interference with taking
leave; (3) whistleblower retaliation; (4) wrongful termination; and (5) unfair
competition. 
 
            On
3/12/2024, Defendant moved to compel arbitration, and stay these proceedings. 
 
Legal Standard 
 
Where the Court has determined that an agreement to arbitrate
a controversy exists, the Court shall order the petitioner and the respondent
to arbitrate the controversy …unless it determines that…  grounds exist for rescission of the
agreement.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2.) Among the grounds which can support
rescission are fraud, duress, and unconscionability. (Tiri v. Lucky Chances, Inc. (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 231, 239.) The
Court may also decline to compel arbitration wherein there is possibility of
conflicting rulings on a common issue of law or fact. (Code Civ. Proc., §
1281.2 (c).) 
 
Discussion 
 
The party moving to compel arbitration “bears the burden
of proving [the] existence [of an arbitration agreement] by a preponderance of
the evidence.” (Rosenthal v. Great
Western Fin. Securities Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 413.) The moving party
also bears the burden of demonstrating that the claims fall within the scope of
the arbitration agreement. (Omar v.
Ralphs Grocery Co. (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th 955, 961.)
 
A.   
Existing Agreement
 
Defendant
submitted evidence that on 8/25/2020, Plaintiff entered into an agreement to
arbitrate (the Arbitration Agreement) with DoorDash when he accepted his Offer
of Employment as a Senior Manager. (Gil Decl. at ¶ 6.)
 
In
opposition, Plaintiff argues that Defendant has not met its burden because the
attached Arbitration Agreement includes only an electronic signature, and Roma
Gill does not have personal knowledge to authenticate the document. 
 
The Court
finds the agreement to properly authenticated, and sufficient to meet
Defendant’s initial burden. (See Condee
v. Longwood Management Corp. (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th at pp. 218-219 [a party moving to compel
arbitration need do no more than attach a signed copy of the agreement to the
motion to satisfy the authentication requirement].) 
 
Roma Gill submitted a declaration stating that she has
access to Defendant’s business records, including business files, that
Defendant’s business records reflect that Plaintiff signed the Arbitration
Agreement the same day he received an offer letter, and there is no record of
Plaintiff opting out of the Agreement. (See Gill Decl.) 
 
Plaintiff has not submitted any persuasive evidence which
would suggest that this Agreement was forged or not found within Defendant’s
records as contended. 
 
Plaintiff’s
claims against Defendant arise out of the employment agreement, and thus fall
within the scope of the arbitration agreement. 

 
Given that Defendant has established by a preponderance
of the evidence that an arbitration agreement exists, and that Plaintiff’s
claims are covered by that agreement, the burden shifts to the Plaintiff to
establish that the arbitration clause should not be enforced. (Pinnacle Museum Tower Assn. v. Pinnacle
Market Development (US), LLC (2012) 55 Cal.4th 223, 236. (Pinnacle).)
 
II.              
Plaintiff’s Burden  
 
The party opposing arbitration bears the burden of
proving, by a preponderance of the evidence any defense, such as
unconscionability or duress. (Pinnacle,
supra, 55 Cal.4th at p. 236.) 
 
            Here,
Plaintiff did not advance any defense to enforceability. As such, he has not
met his burden to show that the arbitration agreement should be not be
enforced. 
 
Based on the foregoing, Defendant’s motion to compel
arbitration is granted. This matter is ordered stayed pending the completion of
arbitration proceedings.
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  May   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 
 