 Case Number:  23TRCV00435    Hearing Date:   April 2, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                    April 2, 2024¿ 
¿¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                      23TRCV00435
¿¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                           Jonathan Gonzalez; Kenyard Bilal v.
Timreuka Trass, et al. 
¿¿¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                (1) Plaintiffs,
Jonathan Gonzalez and Kenyard Bilal 
¿¿¿ 
RESPONDING PARTY:        (1) Defendant/Cross-Complainants, Timreuka Trass and Ascot
Limousine Service, Inc.  
¿¿¿ 
TRIAL DATE:                       December 9, 2024
¿¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Motion to Compel Defendant Timreuka Trass’s Further Responses to Form
Interrogatories, Set One 
                                                (2) Motion to Compel
Defendant Timreuka Trass’s Further Responses to Special Interrogatories, Set One
                                                (3) Motion to Compel
Defendant Timreuka Trass’s Further Responses to Requests for Production of Documents, Set One
                                                (4) Requests for
Sanctions
 
Tentative Rulings:                     (1) – (4) Continue to May 9
at 11 a.m., when the IDC was continued to as well
 
 
 
 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
A. Factual¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
On February 15, 2023,
Plaintiff, Jonathan Gonzalez and Kenyard Bilal (“Plaintiffs”) filed a Complaint
against Defendant, Timreuka Trass, Ascot Limousine Services, Inc., and DOES 1
through 50. The Complaint alleges a cause of action for: (1) Motor Vehicle Negligence.
 
Plaintiff’s moving papers
assert that on September 15, 2023, he propounded Set One of Discovery onto
Defendant Trass, which included: Form Interrogatories, Special Interrogatories,
and Requests for Admission. Plaintiff Gonzalez contends that on December 28,
2023, Trass served objections for each and every discovery request, without
providing any substantive responses. 
 
In a reasonable and good
faith attempt to resolve this matter informally, Plaintiff’s counsel sent a
meet and confer letter to Trass on January 18, 2024, advising counsel of the
deficient discovery responses. Nonetheless, Trass did not respond. Plaintiff
Gonzalez asserts that during the meet and confer process, counsel for Trass
informed Plaintiff’s counsel that they were unable to contact and locate Trass
to get substantive verified responses. Plaintiff Gonzalez notes that Trass has
not provided verified, substantive responses as of this writing. Thus,
Plaintiff’s counsel respectfully asks the Court to grant this motion to compel
Trass to provide further responses. 
 
B. Procedural¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
On February 9, 2024, Plaintiff Gonzalez
filed these motions to compel Defendant Trass’s further responses. On March 22,
2024, Defendant Trass filed opposition briefs. On March 26, 2024, Plaintiff
Gonzalez filed reply briefs.  
 
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
The Court is inclined to continue the
hearing on these discovery motions until the date the Court to which needed to
postpone the IDC.  While the Court
strongly supports the use of IDCs and makes itself available every Tuesday,
Wednesday and Thursday at 11 a.m. for IDCs on days it is not in trial, the
Court is currently in the midst of its third back-to-back-to back trial, so the
March 28 IDC needed to be postponed.  The
bottom line is that defense counsel cannot locate individual defendant Trass to
get his input to help answer the discovery or to even get a signed verification,
which if the situation continues would make an order compelling Trass to
provide verified responses a mostly futile exercise.    The
hearing on these motions is thus continued to the new IDC date, May 9, during
which time defense counsel will need to exhaust efforts to locate Mr. Trass and
come prepared to attend the IDC with a game plan for defending the case in the
even he remains AWOL.
 
 