 Case Number:  23STCV00692    Hearing Date:   October 11, 2023    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


October 11, 2023




CASE NUMBER


23STCV00692




MOTIONS


Motion for an Order Discharging Stakeholder




MOVING PARTY


Defendant Beverly Hills Escrow, Inc.




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff Fred Behfarin



 
MOTION
 
Defendant Beverly Hills Escrow, Inc. (“BHE”) moves for an order
permitting it to deposit the unrecorded grant deed and escrow funds (minus its
attorneys’ fees incurred to date) with the clerk of the court and discharging
it from the case.
 
Plaintiff Fred Behfarin (“Plaintiff”) opposes the motion.  BHE has replied.
 
ANALYSIS
 
Code
of Civil Procedure, section 386.5 provides:
 
Where the only relief sought against one of
the defendants is the payment of a stated amount of money alleged to be
wrongfully withheld, such defendant may, upon affidavit that he is a mere
stakeholder with no interest in the amount or any portion thereof and that
conflicting demands have been made upon him for the amount by parties to the
action, upon notice to such parties, apply to the court for an order
discharging him from liability and dismissing him from the action on his
depositing with the clerk of the court the amount in dispute and the court may,
in its discretion, make such order.
 
            Code
of Civil Procedure, section 386.6 provides:
 
A party to an action who follows the procedure
set forth in Section 386 or 386.5 may insert in his motion, petition,
complaint, or cross complaint a request for allowance of his costs and
reasonable attorney fees incurred in such action. In ordering the discharge of
such party, the court may, in its discretion, award such party his costs and
reasonable attorney fees from the amount in dispute which has been deposited
with the court. At the time of final judgment in the action the court may make
such further provision for assumption of such costs and attorney fees by one or
more of the adverse claimants as may appear proper.
 
            BHE is the escrow company selected to hold the
escrow funds and deeds in connection with the real estate transaction between
Plaintiff and Defendants DH Distribution (“DH”) and Sergey Menshikov
(“Menshikov”).  (Levoy Decl. ¶
3.)  Plaintiff, DH, and Menshikov entered
into an Agreement and Escrow Instructions in connection with the transaction,
which instructed BHE not to release funds held in escrow or record any deed
held until it received mutual written instructions from all parties.  (Levoy Decl. ¶¶ 5-6.)  DH and Menshikov deposited with BHE a fully
executed, but unrecorded grant deed, and DH and Menshikov deposited into escrow
funds in the amount of $541,626.00. 
(Levoy Decl. ¶¶ 7-8.)  BHE asserts
it has no interest in the escrow funds, the grant deed, the subject property,
or the outcome of the dispute in this litigation.  (Levoy Decl. ¶¶ 4, 12.)  
 
            BHE requests an order permitting it
to deposit the escrow funds (minus its attorneys’ fees) and unrecorded grant
deed with the clerk of the court, and for an order discharging it as a
stakeholder.
 
            Plaintiff opposes BHE’s request on
the following grounds: (1) BHE is a necessary party because if Plaintiff
prevails, and BHE is ordered to record the deed, BHE will need to be a party;
(2) Plaintiff signed the second set of escrow instructions under duress; and
(3) the agreement indicates that DH is responsible for paying the escrow costs,
so BHE’s attorney fees should not be deducted from the escrow funds. (See also
Declaration of Fred Behfarin,¶¶ 5-9, Exhibits 1-2.)  
            
            With regard to the first two arguments, the
parties dispute which set of escrow instructions controls.  Plaintiff contends that the second set of
escrow instructions is invalid, as he allegedly signed it under duress.  As part of the lawsuit, Plaintiff seeks
declaratory relief that the first set of escrow instructions controls, which
would require BHE to deposit the funds with Plaintiff and record the grant
deed.  (Second Amended Complaint ¶¶ 36, 95.)  
 
            In that scenario, BHE would be a
necessary party to afford Plaintiff complete relief.  While the clerk of the court can accept
deposits of money or property to relieve a stakeholder, it cannot step into
BHE’s shoes with respect to the declaratory or injunctive relief Plaintiff seeks.
 
            Therefore, the Court denies BHE’s motion.[1]
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
BHE’s motion for an order permitting it to deposit with the clerk of
the court the unrecorded grant deed and escrow funds, and discharging BHE as a
party from the lawsuit is denied.
 
BHE shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof of
service of such.
 
 
DATED:  October 11, 2023                                        ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court


