  Case Number:  21STCV39105    Hearing Date:   October 11, 2023    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING - NO. 1      DEPARTMENT   207     HEARING DATE   October 11, 2023     CASE NUMBER   21STCV39105     MOTION   Consolidate Cases or in the alternative, to Continue Trial    and Discovery Cut-Off Dates     MOVING PARTY   Plaintiff Michael Landver     OPPOSING PARTIES   Defendants Matrix Clinical Research, Inc.; Peyman Banooni;    Stan Gershovich; and Faramarz [Fred] Shaham      MOTION   Plaintiff Michael Landver (“Plaintiff” or “Landver”) moves to  consolidate this case with related case, number 21STCV43580, and to continue  the trial date and discovery cut-off dates to conform with the trial and  discovery cut-off dates in 21STCV43580 (“-3580 related case”) which is related  to 21STCV39105.     Defendants Matrix Clinical Research, Inc.; Peyman Banooni; Stan  Gershovich; and Faramarz [Fred] Shaham (collectively, “Defendants”) oppose the  motion.     EVIDENTIARY  OBJECTIONS               Request for Judicial Notice               Plaintiff requests that the Court  take judicial notice of “its files in Cases Nos. 21STCV39105, 21STCV43580,  21SMCV01358, and 22STCV07260[.]”  Defendants  object on the basis that Plaintiff did not specify which specific portions of  the court files are sought to be judicially noticed.  Defendants further object on the basis that  the Court cannot accept as true the contents of court files.               Defendants’ objections are  overruled.  Per Plaintiff’s request, and  on its own motion, the Court takes judicial notice of the relevant portions of  its court files in the four cases Plaintiff has identified.     However, “while courts are  free to take judicial notice of the existence of each document in a court file,  including the truth of results reached, they may not take judicial notice of  the truth of hearsay statements in decisions and court files.  Courts may not take judicial notice of  allegations in affidavits, declarations and probation reports in court records  because such matters are reasonably subject to dispute and therefore require  formal proof.”  (Lockley v. Law Office  of Cantrell, Green, Pekich, Cruz & McCort (2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 875,  882 [cleaned up].)     Accordingly, the Court takes  judicial notice of the relevant files in the four requested cases as court  records, including the truth of results reached, but not the truth of hearsay  statements or allegations contained therein.   Objections to Memorandum of  Points and Authorities   Defendants take issue with  various arguments raised in the memorandum of points and authorities in support  of the motion.  This is not an  evidentiary objection, and as such, the Court overrules it.  The Court is cognizant of the distinction between  opinion, argument, and facts supported by evidence, and interprets the  memorandum of points and authorities accordingly.   Objections to Baranov  Declaration   The Court rules as follows  with respect to Defendants’ objections to the Baranov Declaration:   1.       Overruled 2.       Overruled 3.       Paragraph  4: Overruled  Paragraph 5: Overruled  Paragraph 6: Overruled 4.       Sustained 5.       Overruled 6.       Overruled 7.       Paragraph  10: Overruled  Paragraph 11: Overruled  Paragraph 12: Overruled  Paragraph 13: Overruled  Paragraph 14: Overruled  Paragraph 15: Overruled 8.       Paragraph  16: Overruled  Paragraph 17: Overruled 9.       Overruled 10.  Paragraph 19: Overruled  Paragraph 20: Overruled   ANALYSIS               Consolidation     Per Local Rule 3.3, subdivision (g), “Cases may not be consolidated  unless they are in the same department.  A  motion to consolidate two or more cases may be noticed and heard after the  cases, initially filed in different departments, have been related into a  single department, or if the cases were already assigned to that department.”  (Super. Ct. L.A. County, Local Rules, rule  3.3(g)(1).)  Once the Court relates the  cases, the Court may consolidate the actions and order a joint trial on matters  that “involv[e] a common question of law or fact.”  (Code Civ. Proc.,  §1048, subd. (a).) The Court has already related these cases, and both are  pending in this department.  Code of Civil Procedure, section 1048,  subdivision (a) provides:   When actions involving a  common question of law or fact are pending before the court, it may order a  joint hearing or trial of any or all the matters in issue in the actions; it  may order all the actions consolidated and it may make such orders concerning  proceedings therein as may tend to avoid unnecessary costs or delay.               Plaintiff  moves to consolidate this case and the related -3580 case because (1) the cases  involve common questions of law and fact; (2) the parties are the same in both  actions; (3) the issues are essentially the same, the plaintiffs and defendants  are simply in reverse roles; and (4) the relief sought and theories of  liability in the related -3580 action “are identical to the counter-claim filed  by defendants in the AAA arbitration[….]”  In other words, “[t]he two cases are mirror  images of each other.”  (Motion at p. 14;  Baranov Decl. ¶¶ 23-25.)               Plaintiff argues that if the cases  are not consolidated, there will be duplication of discovery and the action  will be tried twice, wasting judicial resources and risking potentially  inconsistent rulings.               Defendants oppose the request to  consolidate because (1) Plaintiff delayed in consolidating the two actions; and  (2) the parties are not the same and the issues are not similar.                 The Court agrees that Plaintiff  delayed in moving to consolidate the two actions.  On October 4, 2022, the Court issued a Minute  Order in the -3580 case, relating this case, the -3580 case, and case number  21SMCV01358 (now dismissed), and transferring them all to Department 207 in the  Beverly Hills courthouse.  The Minute  Order further provided, “This order is made without prejudice to the parties  making a motion to consolidate in the newly assigned department.”                Thus, the Minute Order relating the  cases, which contemplated a forthcoming motion to consolidate, was entered  approximately a year before Plaintiff filed the instant motion to  consolidate.                  Nonetheless, the Court finds  consolidation appropriate here.  Contrary  to Defendants’ argument, the Court finds that the parties are essentially the  same and the issues are essentially mirrors of each other.  In this case, Michael Landver is Plaintiff,  and Matrix Clinical, Fred Shaham, Peyman Banooni, and Stan Gershovich are  defendants.  In the related -3580 case, Peyman  Banooni, Stan Gershovich, Fred Shaham, and United Clinical Research are plaintiffs  and Michael Landver and California Clinical Research are Defendants.  Moreover, the claims in the related -3580  case are the same as the counter-claims Defendants raised in the arbitration  proceeding.  (Baranov Decl., Ex. A.)                 Therefore, the Court grants Plaintiff’s  motion for consolidation.               Trial and Discovery Cut-Off  Dates               In the alternative, Plaintiff moves  to continue the trial and discovery cut-off dates to conform with the recently continued  dates in the related -3580 case.   When the three cases were related on October 4, 2022, the Court deemed  the now-dismissed -1358 case the lead case.   (October 4, 2022 Minute Order in Case Number 21STCV43580.)  The still-pending related -3580 case was  filed approximately a month after this case.               On September 15, 2023, the parties  orally stipulated to continue trial in the related  -3580  case to March 25, 2024, and to continue the discovery cut-off dates in  accordance with the new trial date.               For the avoidance of doubt, in  consolidating the two remaining related cases, the March 25, 2024 trial date  (and attendant discovery cut-off dates) shall apply.                 California Rules of Court, rule  3.1332(c), provides:   Although continuances of trials are disfavored, each request for a  continuance must be considered on its own merits.  The court may grant a continuance only on an  affirmative showing of good cause requiring the continuance.  Circumstances that may indicate good cause  include:   […]   (6) A party’s excused inability to obtain essentially testimony,  documents, or other material evidence despite diligent efforts; or   (7) A significant, unanticipated change in the status of the case as a  result of which the case is not ready for trial.   Factors the Court considers in ruling on a motion for continuance  include:   (1)  The proximity of the trial  date;   (2)  Whether there was any  previous continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial due to any party;   (3)  The length of the  continuance requested;   (4)  The availability of  alternative means to address the problem that gave rise to the motion or  application for a continuance;   (5)  The prejudice that parties  or witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance;   (6)  If the case is entitled to  a preferential trial setting, the reasons for that status and whether the need  for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay;   (7)  The court's calendar and  the impact of granting a continuance on other pending trials;   (8)  Whether trial counsel is  engaged in another trial;   (9)  Whether all parties have  stipulated to a continuance;   (10)  Whether the interests of  justice are best served by a continuance, by the trial of the matter, or by  imposing conditions on the continuance; and   (11)  Any other fact or  circumstance relevant to the fair determination of the motion or application.   (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(d).)               Plaintiff  argues that a continuance is warranted because of Defendants’ discovery abuse  and failure to comply with discovery orders, and the short delay will not  prejudice anyone.  Defendants argue that  a continuance is not warranted because Plaintiff was not diligent in pursuing  discovery.     The Court disagrees with  Defendants’ argument.  Plaintiff served  discovery on March 18, 2022, moved to compel further on June 2, 2022.  As a result of the case being transferred and  stayed pending the arbitration proceeding, the motion to compel further was  finally heard on April 4, 2023, and Matrix was ordered to provide answers  without objections and pay sanctions.  When  it failed to do so, Plaintiff moved for issue and terminating sanctions on July  27, 2023.  On August 22, the Court found  that Matrix had abused the discovery process, again ordered Matrix to respond,  and issued additional monetary sanctions.   Plaintiff also timely served deposition notices, but Defendants all  failed to appear.  Thus, Plaintiff has  been sufficiently diligent, but Defendants have failed to comply with timely  discovery requests and court orders related to discovery.   Defendants also argue that  Plaintiff did not try to meet and confer, set an IDC, or move to compel further  responses after Defendants served their supplemental responses and production  on September 8.  This argument bolsters  the reasons why continuing the discovery cut-off dates is warranted; it will  enable the parties to follow up regarding the September 8 supplemental discovery  responses.               Therefore,  the Court finds that justice will be best served by conforming the trial and  discovery cut-off dates in this matter to the dates that were recently re-set  by stipulation of the parties in the -3580 matter.   Defendants’ Request for Sanctions   Because the Court finds Plaintiff’s motion meritorious, Plaintiff  acted with substantial justification in bringing it, and the Court therefore denies  Defendants’ request for monetary sanctions.   CONCLUSION AND ORDER   Because this case and United  Clinical Research, Inc. et al. v. Michael Landver et al. (Super. Ct. L.A. County, 2021, 21STCV43580)  concern the same factual and legal issues, consolidation will permit the trier of fact to efficiently consider the overlapping  issues, while avoiding duplicative litigation efforts and inconsistent rulings.   Therefore, the Court grants Plaintiff’s motion to consolidate Michael  Landver et al. v. Matrix Clinical Research, Inc. (Super. Ct. L.A. County,  2021, No. 21STCV39105) with United  Clinical Research, Inc. et al. v. Michael Landver et al. (Super. Ct. L.A. County, 2021, 21STCV43580).     The Court further orders that the cases are consolidated for all purposes  and Michael Landver et al. v. Matrix Clinical Research, Inc. (Super. Ct.  L.A. County, 2021, No. 21STCV39105) is designated as the lead case per  California Rules of Court, rule 3.350(b).   As such, the Court orders the following in the consolidated action:   ·          Non-Jury Trial is set on March 25, 2024 at 10:00  A.M. ·          Final Status Conference is set for March 8, 2024  at 9:30 A.M. ·          Status Conference re Discovery, ADR and Motion  Practice is set for December 19, 2023 at 8:30 A.M.  (See Minute Order of September 15, 2023 entered  in 21STCV43580.)  Parties shall adhere to  said Minute Order.   ·          All discovery and pre-trial motion cut off dates  shall be associated with the trial date of March 25, 2024, ·          Per the discovery act, the court orders the  parties to meet and confer forthwith to schedule and complete all non-expert  discovery and to prepare for the completion of expert discovery to obviate the  need for a continuance of the trial.   ·          Parties shall adhere to the trial preparation  order issued on August 22, 2023 in 21STCV39105.   The  Court further orders that all hearings and proceedings in United Clinical Research, Inc. et al. v.  Michael Landver et al.  (Super. Ct. L.A. County, 2021, 21STCV43580) are vacated.   Further, the Court denies Defendants’ request for monetary sanctions.               Plaintiff  shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling to all parties who have appeared in  the consolidated cases and file proofs of service regarding the same.     DATED:  October 11, 2023                                        ___________________________                                                                                           Michael  E. Whitaker                                                                                           Judge  of the Superior Court TENTATIVE RULING - NO. 2

 




DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


October 11, 2023




CASE NUMBER


21STCV39105




MOTION


Terminating, Issue, and Monetary Sanctions




MOVING PARTY


Plaintiff Michael Landver




OPPOSING PARTY


Defendant Matrix Clinical Research, Inc.




 

MOTION

 

Plaintiff Michael Landver (“Plaintiff” or “Landver”) moves for terminating,
issue, and monetary sanctions for discovery abuse and willful failure to comply
with the Court’s discovery orders.  Defendant
Matrix Clinical, Inc. (“Defendant” or “Matrix”) has filed an “Objection to
Motion for Terminating, Issue, and Monetary Sanctions for Discovery Abuse and
Willful Failure to Comply with Court Orders” and seeks monetary sanctions
against Plaintiff and Plaintiff’s counsel. 


 

ANALYSIS

 

When a party misuses the
discovery process by disobeying a court order to provide discovery, the court
in its discretion may impose a terminating sanction by striking a party’s
pleading or dismissing the action of the party. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2023.010,
subd. (g), 2023.030, subds. (d)(1) & (d)(3); 2030.290, subd. (c), 2031.300,
subd. (c).)

 

California discovery law
authorizes a range of penalties for a party's refusal to obey a discovery
order, including monetary sanctions, evidentiary sanctions, issue sanctions,
and terminating sanctions. A court has broad discretion in selecting the appropriate
penalty, . . . . Despite this broad discretion, the courts have long recognized
that the terminating sanction is a drastic penalty and should be used
sparingly. A trial court must be cautious when imposing a terminating sanction
because the sanction eliminates a party's fundamental right to a trial, thus
implicating due process rights. The trial court should select a sanction that
is tailored to the harm caused by the withheld discovery. Sanctions should be
appropriate to the dereliction, and should not exceed that which is required to
protect the interests of the party entitled to but denied discovery.

 

(Lopez v. Watchtower Bible & Tract
Society of New York, Inc. (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th 566, 604 [cleaned up].)
Equally important, “a terminating sanction issued solely because of a failure
to pay a monetary discovery sanction is never justified.” (Newland v.
Superior Court (1995) 40 Cal.App.4th 608, 615.)

 

            Misuses of the Discovery Process

 

            On
April 4, 2023, the Court ordered Defendant Matrix to respond to Form
Interrogatories (“FROG”), Special Interrogatories (“SROG”), and Requests for
Production (“RFP”) without objection within thirty days, and awarded sanctions
in the amount of $4500.  (April 4, 2023
Minute Order.)  On July 20, 2023, Matrix
served supplemental discovery responses, which simply reiterated its prior
objections.  As a result, on August 22,
2023, the Court ordered Matrix to serve its discovery responses without
objection and produce all responsive documents by September 8, 2023, and
awarded an additional $2,490 in sanctions. 
(August 22, 2023 Minute Order.) 
In its order, the Court cautioned that Matrix’s “continued willful
failure” to provide “code-compliant responses to discovery” could “result in
monetary, issue, evidentiary, or terminating sanctions in the future.”

 

            On
September 8, 2023, Matrix served further supplemental responses to the FROG,
SROG, and RFP.  (Exhs. “S” through “U” to
the Baranov Decl.)  Matrix did not reassert
the same lengthy objections it had previously asserted.  However, most of Matrix’s substantive
responses appear to misconstrue the requests as seeking documents and
information as they existed in 2017, as opposed to all relevant documents and
information “from January 1, 2017 until the present” as requested.  Thus, Matrix has provided very few
substantive answers, answering only general questions about the corporation and
naming the four other defendants as Matrix’s employees and officers, etc.  With regard to the RFP, Matrix has indicated
that no documents existed in 2017.  The
only documents Matrix produced were records from the related lawsuits and
arbitration, and documents that Plaintiff had produced to Matrix in connection
with those actions.  (Baranov Decl. ¶
20.)  In response to Special
Interrogatory Number 13 and Request for Production Number 18, Matrix asserted a
new objection, that Plaintiff did not obtain an order pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 3295.

 

            On
July 29, 2023, Plaintiff noticed the four individual defendants’ depositions
for August 14-17, 2023, but none of them appeared for deposition.  (Baranov Decl. ¶ 21.)  Plaintiff scheduled an IDC for September 28,
2023, which was the Court’s first available date.   Defendants filed an objection and requested to
take the IDC off calendar, since September 28, 2023 was after the discovery
cut-off date.  (Baranov Decl. ¶ 21 and
Ex. V thereto.)  With respect to the
depositions, the Court finds that Plaintiff’s request for sanctions is
premature as Plaintiff has yet to seek to compel the depositions of the
individual defendants.  

 

            Plaintiff
also served a deposition subpoena on Matrix’s accountant, David Gashodian.  Defendants moved to quash the subpoena, and
noticed the motion for September 13, 2023. 
After Plaintiff filed an opposition to the motion to quash, Defendants
took the motion to quash off calendar, apparently believing the discovery
cut-off date had already passed and the motion to quash was no longer
necessary.  (Baranov Decl. ¶ 22.)

 

The crux of the dispute about the discovery cut-off date is that the
case was originally filed in Stanley Mosk courthouse.  Trial was originally set for October 2,
2023.  In early October 2022, the case
was related with two other cases, and transferred to Department 207 of the
Beverly Hills courthouse.  Upon transfer,
the Court moved up the trial date to September 18, 2023, but did not move up
the attendant discovery cut-off deadlines. 


 

On August 7, 2023, at an ex parte hearing, the Court continued the FSC
and Trial and ordered “Discovery cut-off is based upon the current trial date
of September 18, 2023.”  (August 7, 2023
Minute Order.)  Thus, because of the
series of transfers, the stay, and the orders of three different judges
regarding trial and discovery cut-off dates, there was some confusion about the
effective discovery cut-off date.

 

Matrix “objects” to the motion
for terminating, issue, and monetary sanctions on the basis that it was filed
after September 5, 2023, which is the discovery cut-off date based upon the
trial date of September 18, 2023, pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 2024.020,
subdivision  (a).  Matrix has not otherwise filed an opposition
or raised any other arguments.

 

            The
Court finds that Matrix’s September 8 discovery responses, which do not
substantively respond to the majority of the requests, on the basis of an
overly narrow interpretation, limiting the responses to January 1, 2017, which
is not supported by the language of the requests themselves, and Matrix’s
September 8 production, consisting only of documents filed (or produced by
Plaintiff) in connection with the related cases and arbitration, constitute
continuing misuses of the discovery process. Specifically, Matrix’s September 8
responses are evasive, include unmeritorious objections, and defy the Court’s
April 4 and August 22 orders.

 

            The
Court further finds that the individual defendants’ failure to appear for their
noticed depositions in August also constitutes a misuse of the discovery
process.

 

            The
Court further finds that Defendants’ withdrawal of their motion to quash the
deposition subpoena of David Gashodian after it was fully briefed and on the
eve of the hearing to be “employing a discovery method in a manner or to an
extent that causes unwarranted annoyance” as well as “undue burden and
expense.”  (Code Civ. Proc., section
2023.010, subd. (c).)  The more
appropriate course of action would be to raise the issue about the discovery
cut-off date in the briefing and/or at the hearing, and allow the Court to hear
and rule on the motion.  

 

            Terminating and Issue Sanctions

 

The Court of Appeal has noted that “terminating
sanctions are appropriate only if a party's failure to obey a court order
actually prejudiced the opposing party.”  (Moofly Productions, LLC v. Favila
(2020) 46 Cal.App.5th 1, 11.)  Moofly cites
to Morgan v. Ransom as support for this proposition.  In Morgan v. Ransom, the appellate
court held that the trial court erred because the interrogatories themselves
had not been presented to the trial court, and therefore, there had been no
analysis of whether the information sought was actually relevant to any of the
issues in the case.  (Morgan v. Ransom
(1979) 95 Cal.App.3d 664, 669-670.)  In
other words, to the extent the information sought was not relevant to the case,
the plaintiff’s failure to provide responses would not have prejudiced the
defendant.

 

Moreover, “A request for a sanction shall, in the
notice of motion, identify every person, party, and attorney against whom the
sanction is sought, and specify the type of sanction sought. The notice of
motion shall be supported by a memorandum of points and authorities, and
accompanied by a declaration setting forth facts supporting the amount of any
monetary sanction sought.”  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2023.040; see generally Mattco Forge, Inc. v. Arthur Young &
Co. (1990) 223 Cal.App.3d 1429 [appellate court addresses adequacy of
notice of monetary sanctions request].)  

 

            Here,
Plaintiff has provided copies of all relevant discovery requests and responses
served, as well as the relevant Court orders on discovery, and a declaration
describing the scope of the document production received.  Plaintiff does not argue in the Motion what
prejudice it has suffered as a result of Defendants’ continued discovery
abuses.  However, paragraph 11 of the
Baranov declaration indicates that “The discovery inquir[ing] into the
corporate structure of MATRIX, its officers, directors and shareholders, and
the clinical studies it is engaged in” are “key to LANDVER’s claims that MATRIX
stole UNITED’s business, customers and employees, and is nothing but its
successor-in-interest, surreptitiously organized by the Individual Defendants”
and “is necessary for LANDVER to prove his case against defendants and to
determine damages.”  (Baranov Decl. ¶
11.)

 

            Matrix
has responded substantively to Plaintiff’s interrogatories about Matrix’s
employees, officers, directors, and shareholders, naming only the individual
defendants.  However, Matrix has not
responded substantively to requests regarding the clinical studies it is
engaged in, or its finances.  

 

            Plaintiff
seeks an order striking Matrix’s answer to the complaint, including affirmative
damages, and finding:

 

a) That pursuant to Business and Professions Code § 17204, all
Defendants, their officers, directors, principals, assignees, successors,
agents, representatives, employees, subsidiaries, affiliates, and all persons,
corporations and other entities acting by, through, under, or on behalf of said
Defendants, or acting in concert or participation with them, be permanently
enjoined from directly or indirectly committing any violations of Business and
Professions Code § 17200 et seq., including, but not limited to, the violations
alleged in this complaint; 

 

c) For an injunction enjoining Defendants from utilizing United
Clinical Research, Inc.’s (“United” or “UNITED”) trade secret information and
materials and from prohibiting them from accessing any of United’s computers
and accounts; 

 

d) For a declaration that Matrix is a successor-in-interest of United
and that Plaintiff is a twenty five percent owner thereof; 

 

(Notice of Motion and Motion
at p. 2.)

 

            Because Matrix has substantively responded to the
questions about its employees, officers, and directors, and because Plaintiff
has only demonstrated prejudice with respect to whether Matrix stole United
Clinical’s business and the extent of damages, Plaintiff’s sanction request
exceeds the scope of the prejudice Plaintiff has demonstrated.  Therefore, the Court denies Plaintiff’s
request for terminating and issue sanctions.

             

Plaintiff’s Request for Monetary Sanctions

 

Having found Defendant has committed ongoing misuses of the discovery
process, the Court grants Plaintiff’s request for monetary sanctions in the
amount of $3035.00, representing 5 hours of attorney time to review Defendant’s
discovery responses, prepare the moving  and
attend the hearing on the instant motion at a rate of $595 per hour, plus the
$60 filing fee for the motion.

 

Defendants’ Request for Monetary Sanctions

 

Because the Court finds, in part, Plaintiff’s motion meritorious, Plaintiff
acted with substantial justification in bringing it.  Therefore, the Court denies Defendants’
request for monetary sanctions.

 

CONCLUSION AND ORDER

 

Having found Defendant to have committed several continuing misuses of
the discovery process, the Court grants Plaintiff’s request for monetary
sanctions.  The Court orders Defendant to
pay monetary sanctions in the amount of $3035.00 to Plaintiff by and through
counsel for Plaintiff, within 20 days of the date of this order.

 

Further, for the reasons stated above, the Court denies Plaintiff’s
request for terminating and issue sanctions. 


 

The Court denies Defendant’s request for monetary sanctions.

 

 

Plaintiff shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof
of service regarding the same.  

 

 

DATED:  October 11, 2023                                        ___________________________

                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker

                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court