 Case Number:  24STCV13616    Hearing Date:   October 4, 2024    Dept:  30 Dept. 30
Calendar No.
Joel Sales and
Service vs. Pixior, LLC et. al.,
Case No. 24STCV13616
 
Tentative Ruling
re:  Defendants’ Motion for Order
Requiring an Undertaking
 
Pixior, LLC, Seko Worldwide LLC dba
Sekologistics, Yassine Amallal and Simon Bouzaglou (Defendants) move for an
order requiring Joel Sales and Service (Plaintiff) to post an undertaking of no
less than $200,000.  The motion is
denied.
 
Where a plaintiff in an action resides out
of the state, the defendant may, at any time, apply to the court for an order
requiring the plaintiff to file an undertaking to secure costs and attorney’s
fees which may be awarded in the action. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1030, subd. (a).)
The motion shall be made on grounds that the plaintiff resides out of the state
and there is a reasonable possibility that the moving defendant will obtain
judgment in their favor. (Id., § 1030, subd. (b).) The motion shall be
accompanied by an affidavit in support of the grounds for the motion and
setting forth the nature and amount of costs and attorney’s fees the defendant
has incurred and expects to incur. (Ibid.) 
“The purpose of [Section 1030] is to
enable a California resident sued by an out-of-state resident to secure costs
in light of the difficulty of enforcing a judgment for costs against a person
who is not within the court’s jurisdiction.” (Alshafie v. Lallande
(2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 421, 428.) The moving party is not required to show
there is no possibility that an out-of-state plaintiff will win at trial, but
rather that it is reasonably possible that the moving party will win. (Baltayan
v. Estate of Getemyan (2001) 90 Cal.App.4th 1427, 1432.) 
If the motion is granted, the plaintiff
shall file the undertaking no later than 30 days after service of the court’s order.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1030, subd. (d).) If plaintiff fails to file the
undertaking within the time allowed, the plaintiff’s action shall be dismissed
as to the moving defendant. (Ibid.)
 
Defendants move for an order requiring Plaintiff to post an undertaking
in the amount of $200,000, calculated as $50,000 for each Defendant. Plaintiff
does not contest that it is a foreign corporation residing out of state. (Joel
Decl. ¶ 1.) Thus, Defendants need only demonstrate a reasonable possibility
that they will obtain judgment in their favor.
 
            Defendants argue that they have a
reasonable possibility of obtaining judgment in their favor because Plaintiff
has failed to produce any evidence of a written or oral agreement in his action
for breach of contract. Plaintiff argues that an oral agreement existed. (Id. ¶¶ 3–7.) Plaintiff offers documentary evidence in the form of text
messages and email correspondence between Plaintiff and Defendants. These
demonstrate some sort of communication between the parties which could evidence
an earlier oral agreement. However, the evidence offered by Plaintiff does not
demonstrate that Defendants have no reasonable possibility of obtaining
judgment in their favor. Defendants still have defenses available, such as the
statute of frauds, which give them a reasonable possibility of success. 
 
            However, Defendants utterly fail to
substantiate the amount requested.  As an
initial matter, there does not appear to be any basis for Defendants to recover
attorney’s fees. Undertakings may only be ordered for an award of “reasonable
attorney’s fees a party may be authorized to recover by a statute apart from
this section or by contract.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 1030, subd. (a).) Defendants
do not allege any contractual provision that would be a basis for recovering
attorney’s fees. Rather, Defendant’s argue that they could be entitled to
attorney’s fees as sanctions imposed pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
section 128.7, subdivision (c). That is highly speculative.
            As to any costs that might be
recoverable, Defendants only vaguely argue that discovery, including
depositions and experts, is likely to be expensive.  This is insufficient.