  Case Number:  23STCV22612    Hearing Date:   April 16, 2024    Dept:  11 Tentative Ruling Re: Motion to Compel Arbitration Re: Segoviano
(23STCV22612)
 
Date:                           4/16/24
Time:                          10:30
am
Moving Party:           Villa Del Rio, Inc. (“Defendant”)
Opposing Party:        Emily Segoviano (“Plaintiff”)
Department:              11        
Judge:                        David
S. Cunningham III
________________________________________________________________________
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Defendant’s motion to compel arbitration is granted with a
modification.  The arbitration
agreement’s waiver provision is severed to the extent it prohibits litigation
of Plaintiff’s representative Private Attorneys General Act (“PAGA”)
claim.  The Court: 
 
* finds the remainder of the agreement enforceable; 
 
* compels Plaintiff’s individual claims to arbitration;
 
* strikes the class claims; and
 
* stays the case as to the representative PAGA claim pending completion
of the arbitration.
 
BACKGROUND
 
Plaintiff worked for
Defendant.  She alleges that Defendant
subjected her and the putative class members to numerous wage-and-hour
violations.
 
At issue here is Defendant’s
motion to compel arbitration of Plaintiff’s individual claims.
 
DISCUSSION
 
Existence and Assent
 
“[W]hen
a petition to compel arbitration is filed and accompanied by prima facie
evidence of a written agreement to arbitrate the controversy, the court itself must determine whether the agreement exists
and, if any defense to its enforcement is raised, whether it is enforceable.”  (Rosenthal v. Great Western Fin.
Securities Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 413.) 
 
“Under ‘both federal and state law, the threshold
question . . . is whether there is an agreement to arbitrate.’”  (Cruise v. Kroger Co. (2015) 233
Cal.App.4th 390, 396, emphasis in original.)
 
The
burden of proof rests with the petitioner. 
(See Rosenthal, supra, 14 Cal.4th at 413 [requiring the
petitioner to prove the existence of the agreement “by a preponderance of the
evidence”].)  To meet the burden, “the provisions of the written
agreement and the paragraph that provides for arbitration . . . must be stated
verbatim or a copy must be physically or electronically attached to the
petition and incorporated by reference.” 
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1330; see also Condee v. Longwood
Management Corp. (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 215, 218 [same].)
 
“Competent
evidence is required to establish both the existence of the arbitration
agreement and any ground for denial.” 
(Knight, et al., Cal. Practice Guide: Alternative Dispute Resolution
(The Rutter Group December 2023 Update) ¶ 5:321.)  “The verified petition (and attached copy of
the agreement) normally proves the existence of the arbitration agreement.  Affidavits or declarations may be necessary
when factual issues are tendered.”  
(Ibid.)
 
Defendant’s
burden is satisfied.  Defendant’s
arbitration agreement is attached to the declaration of Defendant’s facility
coordinator, Maria Cortez, at exhibit A. 
It is undisputed that Plaintiff signed the agreement on March 12, 2022
and that she assented to arbitration. 
Consequently, the Court finds that an agreement to arbitrate exists.
 
Enforcement
 
Plaintiff
claims the arbitration agreement contains a wholesale waiver of Private
Attorneys General Act (“PAGA”) claims. 
She contends the waiver is unlawful because it bars her from bringing
PAGA claims, individual and representative, in all forums.  She claims the waiver renders the agreement
unenforceable since there is no severance clause.  (See Opposition, pp. 1, 2-4 [discussing DeMarinis
v. Heritage Bank of Commerce (2023) 98 Cal.App.5th 776 and
citing Westmoreland v. Kindercare Education LLC (2023) 90 Cal.App.5th
967.)
 
In DeMarinis,
the arbitration agreement had a waiver section. 
The first paragraph stated: 
 
The Company and I may bring claims
against the other only in its or my individual capacity, and not as a plaintiff
or class member in any purported class or representative proceeding. There
shall be no right or authority for any dispute to be brought, heard, or
arbitrated on a class, collective, or representative basis and the Arbitrator
may not consolidate or join the claims of other persons or Parties who may be
similarly situated.
 
(DeMarinis,
supra, 98 Cal.App.5th at 780.) 
The second paragraph stated:
 
The Company and I acknowledge and agree
that the conditions set forth in [the waiver] provision are material terms of
this Agreement and may not be modified or severed, in whole or in part. If
this specific provision is found to be unenforceable, then the entirety of this
Agreement shall be null and void.
 
(Id. at 780-781, emphasis added.)  The justices characterized the italicized
sentence as a poison pill.  (See id. at
781.)[1]  They found that the poison pill combined with
the nonseverability clause made the agreement null and void.  (See id. at 786-791.)
 
Westmoreland involved similar terms.  The
arbitration agreement waived “class, collective, or representative” claims and
contained a poison pill that stated:
 
If any provision of this agreement is
determined to be unenforceable or in conflict with a mandatory provision
of applicable law, it shall be construed to incorporate any mandatory
provision, and/or the unenforceable or conflicting provision shall be
automatically severed and the remainder of the agreement shall not be affected.
Provided, however, that if the Waiver of Class and Collective Claims is
found to be unenforceable, then this agreement is invalid and any claim brought
on a class, collective, or representative action basis must be filed in a court
of competent jurisdiction, and such court shall be the exclusive forum for such
claims.
 
(Westmoreland, supra, 90 Cal.App.5th at
971-972, emphasis added.)  The Court of
Appeal held that the poison pill left “no room for [the defendant] to choose to
bifurcate [the plaintiff’s] claims between arbitration and court; it instead
invalidate[d] the agreement.”  (Id. at
982.)
 
The Court turns to Defendant’s agreement.  Plaintiff cites the following language:
 
. . . I agree this ADR Program prohibits
me from joining or participating in a class action or representative action,
acting as a private attorney general or representative of others, or
otherwise consolidating a covered claim with the claims of others.
 
* * *
 
IN CONSIDERATION FOR AND AS A MATERIAL
CONDITION OF EMPLOYMENT WITH THE COMPANY, AND IN CONSIDERATION FOR THE
COMPANY’S RETURN AGREEMENT TO BE BOUND BY THE COMPANY’S ADR PROGRAM AND HAVE
ANY AND ALL CLAIMS ARISING OUT OF THE EMPLOYMENT RELATIONSHIP IT MAY ENJOY
AGAINST ME RESOLVED IN THIS FORUM, AND PAY THE ARBITRATION FEES AS DESCRIBED
THEREIN, IT IS AGREED THAT THE ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION POLICY ATTACHED
HERETO WHICH PROVIDES FOR FINAL AND BINDING ARBITRATION IS THE EXCLUSIVE MEANS
FOR RESOLVING COVERED DISPUTES; NO OTHER ACTION MAY BE BROUGHT IN COURT OR
IN ANY OTHER FORUM.  I UNDERSTAND
THAT THIS AGREEMENT IS A WAIVER OF ALL RIGHTS TO A CIVIL COURT ACTION
FOR ALL DISPUTES RELATING TO MY EMPLOYMENT. 
THE TERMS AND CONDITION OF MY EMPLOYMENT AND/OR THE TERMINATION OF MY
EMPLOYMENT WHETHER BROUGHT BY ME OR THE COMPANY; ONLY AN ARBITRATOR, NOT A
JUDGE OR JURY, WILL DECIDE THE DISPUTE. 
IN ADDITION, I UNDERSTAND I AM PROHIBITED FROM JOINING OR
PARTICIPATING IN A CLASS ACTION OR REPRESENTATIVE ACTION, ACTING AS A PRIVATE
ATTORNEY GENERAL OR REPRESENTATIVE OF OTHERS, OR OTHERWISE CONSOLIDATING A
COVERED CLAIM WITH THE CLAIMS OF OTHERS.
 
(Cortez Decl., Ex. A, p. 40, emphasis added.)  She contends the bolded words create an
unlawful wholesale waiver.  The missing
ingredient, though, is a poison pill. 
Indeed, because there is no poison pill, DeMarinis and Westmoreland
are distinguishable.[2]
 
The last issue is whether the offending language can be
severed.  Defendant’s agreement does not
have a severance clause, so the answer depends on whether the Court has
inherent discretion to sever.  Armendariz v. Foundation Health Psychcare
Services, Inc. (2000) 24
Cal.4th 83, 121-124 and Civil Code section 1670.5 appear to
recognize such discretion; therefore, the Court finds that the waiver provision
should be severed to the extent it prohibits Plaintiff from litigating the
representative PAGA claim in court.  
 
Notably, prior to Viking River Cruises, Inc. v. Moriana
(2022) 142 S.Ct. 1906 (“Viking River”), the applicable law was Iskanian
v. CLS Transportation Los Angeles, LLC (2014) 59 Cal.4th
348.  “Iskanian’s principal rule
prohibits waivers of ‘representative’ PAGA claims in the first sense.”  (Viking River, supra, 142 S.Ct. at
1916, underlined case name added.)  “That
is, it prevents parties from waiving representative standing to bring
PAGA claims in a judicial or arbitral forum.” 
(Ibid., emphasis in original.) 
“But Iskanian also adopted a secondary rule that invalidates
agreements to separately arbitrate or litigate ‘individual PAGA claims for
Labor Code violations that an employee suffered,’ on the theory that resolving
victim-specific claims in separate arbitrations does not serve the deterrent
purpose of PAGA.”  (Id. at 1916-1917,
underlined case name added; see also, e.g., Knight, supra, at ¶ 5:49.4m [citing
California case law for the proposition that a “single count under PAGA could
not be ‘split into an arbitrable individual claim and a nonarbitrable
representative claim”].) 
 
In Viking River, the
plaintiff “executed an agreement to arbitrate any dispute arising out of her
employment.”  (Viking River,
supra, 142 S.Ct. at 1916.)  “The agreement contained a ‘Class Action
Waiver’ providing that in any arbitral proceeding, the parties could not bring
any dispute as a class, collective, or representative PAGA action.”  (Ibid.)  “It also contained a severability clause
specifying that if the waiver was found invalid, any class, collective,
representative, or PAGA action would presumptively be litigated in court.”  (Ibid.)  “But under that severability clause, if any ‘portion’
of the waiver remained valid, it would be ‘enforced in arbitration.’”  (Ibid.)
 
“After leaving her position” with the defendant, the
plaintiff “filed a PAGA action . . . in California court.”  (Ibid.) 
“Her complaint contained a claim that [the defendant] had failed to
provide her with her final wages within 72 hours, as required by” Labor Code
sections 101 and 102.  (Ibid.)  “But the complaint also asserted a wide array
of other code violations allegedly sustained by other . . . employees,
including violations of provisions concerning the minimum wage, overtime, meal
periods, rest periods, timing of pay, and pay statements.”  (Ibid.) 
The defendant “moved to compel arbitration of [the plaintiff’s] ‘individual’
PAGA claim” – i.e., “the claim that arose from the violation she suffered — and
to dismiss her other PAGA claims.” 
(Ibid.)  “The trial court denied
that motion, and the California Court of Appeal affirmed, holding that
categorical waivers of PAGA standing are contrary to state policy and that PAGA
claims cannot be split into arbitrable individual claims and nonarbitrable ‘representative’
claims.”  (Ibid.)
 
The Court of Appeal’s ruling “was dictated by . . . Iskanian.”  (Ibid., underlined case name added.)  “Iskanian’s principal prohibition
required the lower courts to treat the representative-action waiver” in Viking
River “as invalid insofar as it was construed as a wholesale waiver of PAGA
standing.”  (Id. at 1917, underlined case
name added.)  “The agreement's
severability clause, however, allowed enforcement of any ‘portion’ of the
waiver that remained valid, so the agreement still would have permitted arbitration
of [the plaintiff’s] individual PAGA claim even if wholesale enforcement was
impossible.”  (Ibid.)  “But because” Iskanian “prohibits
division of a PAGA action into constituent claims, the state courts refused to
compel arbitration of that claim as well.” 
(Ibid.)
 
The United States Supreme Court
granted review and reversed, holding, eight to one, that the Federal
Arbitration Act (“FAA”) preempts Iskanian “insofar as it precludes division of PAGA actions into
individual and non-individual claims through an agreement to arbitrate.”  (Id. at 1924.)  The opinion instructs:  
 
This holding compels reversal in this
case.  The agreement between [the
defendant] and [the plaintiff] purported to waive “representative” PAGA claims.
 Under Iskanian, this provision
was invalid if construed as a wholesale waiver of PAGA claims.  And under our holding, that
aspect of Iskanian is not preempted by the FAA, so the
agreement remains invalid insofar as it is interpreted in that manner.  But the severability clause in the agreement
provides that if the waiver provision is invalid in some respect, any “portion”
of the waiver that remains valid must still be “enforced in arbitration.”  Based on this clause, [the defendant] was
entitled to enforce the agreement insofar as it mandated arbitration of [the
plaintiff’s] individual PAGA claim.  The
lower courts refused to do so based on the rule that PAGA actions cannot be
divided into individual and non-individual claims.  Under our holding,
that rule is preempted, so [the defendant] is entitled to compel arbitration of
[the plaintiff’s] individual claim.
 
(Id. at 1924-1925, underlined case names added.)
 
The opinion continues:
 
The remaining question is what the lower
courts should have done with [the plaintiff’s] non-individual claims.  Under our holding in this case, those claims
may not be dismissed simply because they are “representative.”  Iskanian’s
rule remains valid to that extent.  But
as we see it, PAGA provides no mechanism to enable a court to adjudicate
non-individual PAGA claims once an individual claim has been committed to a
separate proceeding.  Under PAGA's
standing requirement, a plaintiff can maintain non-individual PAGA claims in an
action only by virtue of also maintaining an individual claim in that
action.  [Citation.]  When an employee's own dispute is pared away
from a PAGA action, the employee is no different from a member of the general
public, and PAGA does not allow such persons to maintain suit.  [Citation.] 
As a result, [the plaintiff] lacks statutory standing to continue to
maintain her non-individual claims in court, and the correct course is to
dismiss her remaining claims.
 
(Id. at 1925, underlined case
name added.)
 
Four takeaways stand out:
 
* Iskanian’s prohibition
against waiving representative PAGA claims stands;
 
* Iskanian is preempted to
the extent it bars dividing PAGA claims into individual and representative
claims;
 
* the defendant is allowed to
compel the plaintiff’s individual PAGA claim to arbitration; and
 
* once the plaintiff’s individual
PAGA claim is compelled to arbitration, he or she lacks standing to maintain
the representative PAGA claim. 
 
The High Court’s standing ruling
is nonbinding.  The California Supreme
Court reversed it in Adolph v. Uber Technologies, Inc. (2023) 14 Cal.5th
1104.
 
Considering Iskanian, Viking
River, and Adolph, and because the FAA applies, the Court intends to enforce the remainder of
the agreement, compel Plaintiff’s individual claims to arbitration, strike the
class claims, and stay the case as to the representative PAGA claim until the
arbitration is finished.[3]  
 
 
 
 
 
 


