  Case Number:  23STCV14371    Hearing Date:   October 16, 2023    Dept:  30 Dept.
30 
Calendar
No.
Ross,
et. al. vs. Equity Residential Management, LLC, et. al., Case No.
23STCV14371
 
Tentative
Ruling re:  Defendant’s Demurrer to
Complaint, Motion to Strike
  
Defendant Transunion Rental Screening Solutions, LLC (TransUnion) demurs to and moves to strike portions of Plaintiffs’
Complaint. The Court sustains the demurrer as to the
second and third causes of action, overrules the demurrer as to the first cause
of action, and grants the motion to strike in part.  Plaintiffs are granted ten (10) days to
amend.
 
In reviewing the legal sufficiency of a complaint against a
demurrer, a court will treat the demurrer as admitting all material facts
properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions, or conclusions of law. (Blank
v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318 (Blank); C & H Foods Co.
v. Hartford Ins. Co. (1984) 163 Cal.App.3d 1055, 1062.) It is well settled
that a “demurrer lies only for defects appearing on the face of the
complaint[.]” (Stevens v. Superior Court (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 594,
601.) “The rules by which the sufficiency of a complaint is tested against a
general demurrer are well settled. We not only treat the demurrer as admitting
all material facts properly pleaded, but also give the complaint a reasonable
interpretation, reading it as a whole and its parts in their context.” (Guclimane Co. v.
Stewart Title Guaranty Co. (1998) 19 Cal.4th 26, 38 (internal quotes
omitted).) For purposes of ruling on a demurrer, the complaint must be
construed liberally by drawing reasonable inferences from the facts pleaded. (Wilner
v. Sunset Life Ins. Co. (2000) 78 Cal.App.4th 952, 958.) 
When ruling on a demurrer, the Court may only consider the
complaint’s allegations or matters which may be judicially noticed. (Blank,
supra, 39 Cal.3d at p. 318.) The Court may not consider any other extrinsic
evidence or judge the credibility of the allegations plead or the difficulty a
plaintiff may have in proving his allegations. (Ion Equip. Corp. v. Nelson
(1980) 110 Cal.App.3d 868, 881.) A demurrer is properly sustained only when the
complaint, liberally construed, fails to state facts sufficient to constitute
any cause of action. (Kramer v. Intuit Inc. (2004) 121 Cal.App.4th 574,
578.)
 
Plaintiffs in this action are individuals who have applied
for housing within the past two years at various apartment buildings managed
and operated by Defendant Equity Residential Management, LLC (Equity
Residential). (Comp. ¶¶ 2, 31.) In processing Plaintiffs’ housing applications,
Equity Residential allegedly requested and obtained investigative consumer
reports about Plaintiffs. (Comp. ¶ 38.)
Plaintiffs allege that Equity Residential and TransUnion,
in procuring the reports, failed to comply with disclosure and authorization
requirements under the Investigative Consumer Reports Agency Act (ICRAA), Civ.
Code §§ 1786, et seq. (Comp. ¶ 47.) Defendants allegedly “concealed from
Plaintiffs the nature and type of the investigative consumer reports they would
procure about the Plaintiffs, the date the reports would be procured, the
entity or entities which would provide the reports, and Plaintiffs’ rights
regarding investigative consumer reports,” and “did not provide a means by
which the Plaintiffs could indicate that he or she wished to receive a copy of
any report prepared in connection with the application.” (Comp. ¶¶ 40-41.)
Plaintiffs
assert three causes of action against TransUnion, for (1) Violations of the
Investigative Consumer Reporting Agencies Act, Civ. Code § 1786, et seq.; (2)
Invasion of Privacy; and (3) Declaratory Relief.
 
First Cause of Action for
Violations of the ICRAA
The ICRAA applies to “investigative consumer
reports,” defined as “a consumer report in which information on a consumer's
character, general reputation, personal characteristics, or mode of living is
obtained through any means.” (Civ. Code § 1786.2, subd. (c).) This definition includes tenant screening reports. (See Moran v. Screening Pros, LLC (9th Cir. 2019) 943
F.3d 1175, 1180.) 
TransUnion
demurs on the basis that it is a consumer reporting agency, not a landlord, and
so is not subject to the ICRAA. In support, TransUnion presents a declaration
from Vanessa Armbruster, TransUnion’s Operations Lead, stating that TransUnion
is not a landlord, not an entity that requests investigative consumer reports,
nor one that procures or causes a report to be made. (Armbruster Decl. ¶ 3.)
Armbruster’s
declaration statements are not proper grounds for demurrer. The declaration is
not the subject of judicial notice nor part of Plaintiffs’ Complaint. A court
may not “convert a demurrer
into an incomplete evidentiary hearing in which the demurring party can present documentary evidence and the opposing party is bound by what that evidence appears to show.” (Fremont
Indemnity Co. v. Fremont General Corp. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97, 115.)
Furthermore, many of Armbruster’s statements are conclusions of law that would
not be admissible in any case. Because TransUnion has presented no other
argument regarding this claim, the demurrer is overruled as to the first cause
of action.
 
Second
Cause of Action for Invasion of Privacy
Plaintiffs’ cause of action for Invasion of Privacy alleges
that Defendant “invaded the Plaintiffs’ rights of privacy by obtaining
investigative consumer reports about the Plaintiffs without complying with
mandatory requirements under the ICAA [sic] for getting investigative reports
about the Plaintiffs.” (Comp. ¶ 61.)
The
common law tort for invasion of privacy “seeks to vindicate multiple and different
interests that range from freedom to act without observation in a home,
hospital room, or other private place to the ability to control the commercial
exploitation of a name or picture.” (Hill v. National Collegiate Athletic
Assn. (1994) 7 Cal.4th 1, 24.) “Actionable invasions of privacy also must be ‘highly offensive’ to
a reasonable person [Citations], and ‘sufficiently serious and unwarranted as
to constitute an ‘egregious breach of the social norms.’ ” (Hernandez v. Hillsides,
Inc. (2009) 47 Cal.4th 272,
295.) 
“[I]n discussing the right of privacy in
the area of public disclosure of embarrassing private facts, Prosser stated:
‘The disclosure of the private facts must be a public disclosure, and not a
private one; there must be, in other words, publicity.’ [Citation.] [¶] Thus, except in
cases involving physical intrusion, the tort must be accompanied by publicity
in the sense of communication to the public in general or to a large number of
persons as distinguished from one individual or a few.” (Kinsey v. Macur
(1980) 107 Cal.App.3d 265, 270.) Additionally, “the facts disclosed must be private
facts, and not public ones.” (Sipple v. Chronicle Publishing Co.
(1984) 154 Cal.App.3d 1040, 1045.)
“[T]he plaintiff in an
invasion of privacy case must have conducted himself or herself in a manner
consistent with an actual expectation of privacy, i.e., he or she must not have
manifested by his or her conduct a voluntary consent to the invasive actions of
defendant. If voluntary consent is present, a defendant's conduct will rarely
be deemed ‘highly offensive to a reasonable person’ so as to justify tort
liability.” (Hill, 7 Cal.4th at 26.)
As the Court found in ruling on Equity Residential’s
demurrer, the alleged violations of the ICRAA fail to support a tort cause of
action for invasion of privacy. The allegations fail to show that TransUnion disclosed
private facts about Plaintiffs, or that the disclosure was to a large number of
persons. The invasion of privacy claim is also precluded by Plaintiffs’
allegation that they consented to the release of their information. (Comp. ¶
33.) While Plaintiff points out that the remedies provided by the ICRAA are not
exclusive (Civ. Code § 1786.52), this does not mean that a violation of the
ICRAA will necessarily constitute an actionable invasion of privacy. Accordingly,
the demurrer is sustained as to the second cause of action.
 
Third
Cause of Action for Declaratory Relief
Plaintiffs’
third cause of action seeks a judicial declaration that TransUnion’s housing application and re-certification of
Plaintiffs’ tenancies violate the ICRAA, and so are illegal, void contracts.
(Comp. ¶ 65.) Plaintiffs allege that “Defendants demands all leases must be
renewed or re-certified, and because the same forms are always used, which
authorizes the Defendants to obtain investigative consumer reports about the
Plaintiffs, a judicial determination is necessary to prevent the Defendants’
continued violations of the ICRAA.” (Comp. ¶ 63.)
“The ‘actual controversy’ requirement concerns the existence of present
controversy relating to the legal rights and duties of the respective parties
pursuant to contract (Code Civ. Proc., § 1060), statute or order. [Citation.]
Where the allegations of the complaint reveal the controversy to be
conjectural, anticipated to occur in the future, or an attempt to obtain an
advisory opinion from the court, the fundamental basis of declaratory relief is
lacking.” (Brownfield v. Daniel Freeman Marina Hospital (1989) 208
Cal.App.3d 405, 410.)
Declaratory
relief pursuant to Code Civ. Proc. § 1060 “is permissible to resolve ‘a probable future
controversy relating to the legal
rights and duties of the parties.’ ” (Communities for a Better Environment v. State
Energy Resources Conservation & Development Com. (2017) 19 Cal.App.5th
725, 733.) “In determining whether a controversy
is ripe in the context of a request for declaratory
relief,” courts consider “(1) whether the dispute is sufficiently
concrete to make declaratory relief appropriate; and (2) whether the withholding
of judicial consideration will result in a hardship to the parties.” (Ibid.)
“One test of the right
to institute proceedings for declaratory judgment is the necessity of present
adjudication as a guide for plaintiff's future conduct in order to preserve his
legal rights.” (Osseous Technologies of America, Inc. v.
DiscoveryOrtho Partners LLC (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 357, 364–365.)
TransUnion argues that Plaintiffs have failed to allege any
actual, present controversy. The Court agrees. Plaintiffs’
allegation that they will have to complete their housing applications again, should
they seek to renew their annual leases, is merely speculative. (Comp. ¶ 63.)
Motion
to Strike
TransUnion
moves to strike the allegations in the Complaint related to Plaintiffs’
requests for punitive damages, declaratory relief, and injunctive relief, as
well as all of Plaintiff’s prayer for relief. (Comp. ¶¶ 5, 45, 55, 57, 59, 66,
Prayer 1-10.) The motion is granted as to Plaintiff’s prayers for injunctive
relief and declaratory relief, and otherwise denied.
 
Plaintiffs
request that the court “[p]ermanently enjoin the Defendants from engaging in
the violations and other misconduct referred to above or from refusing to rent
to Plaintiffs, or otherwise retaliating against Plaintiffs for bringing this
action, including any attempt or threat to evict Plaintiffs because of this
action,” and order TransUnion to comply with
the ICRAA. (Prayer 9-10.) Because injunctive relief is not available under the
ICRAA, these allegations and the related prayers for relief are stricken. (Civ.
Code § 1786.50; Poinsignon v. Imperva, Inc. (N.D. Cal. 2018) 2018 WL 1709942, at *5; Comp. ¶ 59,
Prayer 9-10.)
 
Plaintiffs
have pled sufficient facts to support recovery of damages and punitive damages
pursuant to the first cause of action. (Comp. ¶¶ 45, 55, 57.) When “[a]n
investigative consumer reporting agency or user of information” violates the
ICRAA, “[i]f the court determines that the violation was grossly negligent or
willful, the court may, in addition, assess, and the consumer may recover,
punitive damages.” (Civ. Code § 1786.50.) Here, Plaintiffs allege that
Defendants’ violations of the ICRAA were willful and grossly negligent. (Comp.
¶¶ 45-46.) Though somewhat conclusory, these allegations are sufficient, for
purposes of pleading, to support recovery of statutory punitive damages under
the ICRAA. (See G. D. Searle & Co. v. Superior
Court (1975) 49 Cal.App.3d 22, 29 [“When
the plaintiff alleges an intentional wrong, a prayer for exemplary damage may
be supported by pleading that the wrong
was committed willfully or with a design
to injure.”].)
 
TransUnion moves to strike the remainder of Plaintiff’s
Prayer for Relief on the basis that the ICRAA claim fails. (Comp. ¶ 5, Prayer
1, 2, 3, 5, 6, 9, 10.) Because the demurrer is overruled as to that cause of
action, this portion of the motion to strike is denied.