  Case Number:  20STCV33903    Hearing Date:   October 10, 2023    Dept:  39 Maria
Zazueta v. Mi Pueblito San Juan Restaurant, et al.
Case
No. 20STCV33903
Final
Status Conference
 
            Plaintiff
Maria Zazueta (“Plaintiff”) filed this wrongful termination case on September
3, 2020, against Mi Pueblito San Juan Restaurant, as well as its holding
corporation and owner, Martin Padilla (collectively, “Defendants”).  The Court orders as follows:
 
            1.         Defendant’s Motion in Limine #1 –
Granted.  Plaintiff’s attorneys shall
refer to themselves only by their personal names and shall not inform the jury
that they work for the “Employee Justice Legal Group.”  The Court grants this motion under Evidence
Code section 352, as there is no probative value to the identity of Plaintiff’s
counsel’s law firm, and such references risk undue prejudice.
 
            2.         Evidence Concerning Plaintiff’s
Immigration Status – Plaintiff seeks to exclude evidence of Plaintiff’s
immigration status.  Defendant’s counsel
represents that he does not intend to inquire into Plaintiff’s immigration
status.  Therefore, the Court orders that
the parties shall not introduce evidence concerning Plaintiff’s immigration
status without authorization from the Court. 
The Court orders the parties to inform their witnesses of the Court’s
ruling.
 
            3.         Evidence Concerning Plaintiff’s Lack of
a Social Security Number – Defendant’s counsel argues that Plaintiff’s
inability to provide a valid social security number is integral to the defense
in this case.  The defense is that
Defendant never terminated Plaintiff and that any termination was unrelated to
her disability.  Rather, Defendant will
testify that he requested social security numbers from Plaintiff; she provided
false numbers; Defendant could not verify the numbers; Defendant asked for a valid
number; and Plaintiff did not return to work. 
This evidence is probative because it supports Defendant’s theory that
she voluntarily left her job based upon her inability to provide a valid social
security number.  The Court finds that
any prejudice does not greatly outweigh the probative value.  Therefore, Defendant’s evidence and testimony
is admissible under Evidence Code section 352. 

 
            4.         Time Estimate – The parties have
provided a joint witness list with an estimate of approximately 30 hours of
testimony (not including re-cross examination time).  This estimate is excessive.  “Some litigants are of the mistaken opinion
that when they are assigned to a court for trial they have camping rights. . .
. This view is not only contrary to law but undermines a trial judge’s
obligation to be protective of the court’s time and resources as well as the
time and interests of . . . jurors and other litigants waiting in line to have
their cases [tried].” (California Crane School, Inc. v. National Com. For
Certification of Crane Operators (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 12, 20.)  This concern is critical, as Department #39
currently has 655 open cases, which gives rise to constant jury trials and
heavy motions calendars.  Excessive trial
estimates deprive other litigants of access to justice.  Based upon the Court’s review of the record,
as well as the Court’s experience trying cases of this nature, the Court
believes that a reasonable trial estimate would be eight (8) hours for each
side.  However, the Court adds three (3)
additional hours for each side because many of the witnesses require
interpreters, which takes longer.  
 
            Based
upon the foregoing, each side shall have 11 hours to present their respective
cases, i.e., for everything from opening statements to closing arguments.  Voir dire shall be handled separately and
shall not count against this time.
 
            5.         Order Concerning Conduct – During the
trial, the parties may not say anything in front of the jury except for the
following: 
 
            a.         The attorneys may call a witness to the
stand by saying the witness’s name and, if appropriate, stating that the
witness is being called under Evidence Code section 776.  The parties may not explain Evidence Code
section 776 or provide any explanation that the witness is affiliated with the
other side.
 
            b.         The attorneys may ask questions of the
witnesses but they may not argue their cases during the witness examinations.
 
            c.         The attorneys may seek to introduce
exhibits but shall not provide any explanation of the exhibit or the theories
of admissibility/authenticity unless in response to a question or invitation
from the Court.
 
            d.         The attorneys may raise objections, but
there shall be no speaking objections. 
The attorneys may not provide argument on any objection unless in
response to a question or invitation from the Court. 
 
            e.         The attorneys may move to strike
testimony if the Court sustains an objection. 
However, the attorneys may not raise any other motion in front of the
jury, e.g., a motion for non-suit, a motion for mistrial, etc.  Instead, the attorneys shall make their
objection for the record and then raise the motion outside the presence of the
jury.  If necessary, the attorneys may
ask for a sidebar to “raise a motion.”  
 
            f.           The parties shall comply with rule
3.120 of the Local Rules, which states: “Persons in the courtroom, including
the parties and their counsel, must not indicated, by facial expression,
shaking of the head, gesturing, shouts, or other conduct their disagreement
with or approval of testimony or other evidence.”  
 

            6.         Notice – The Court’s clerk shall
provide notice.  