 Case Number:  23SMCV02329    Hearing Date:   August 7, 2024    Dept:  205    Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles – West District  Beverly Hills Courthouse / Department 205  KEVIN MCGINN,     Plaintiff, v.  PETER B. MENDELSOHN, M.D., et al.,    Defendants.    Case No.:  23SMCV02329     Hearing Date:  August 7, 2024   [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE:   PLAINTIFF’S MOTION FOR A    PROTECTIVE ORDER      BACKGROUND This is a medical malpractice case.  Defendants David Kamen, Peter Mendelsohn and Specialty Surgical Center performed cataract surgery on Plaintiff Kevin McGinn’s right eye.  Plaintiff alleges the procedure performed deviated from the applicable standard of care because he was insufficiently sedated, causing him to feel the incisions while fully awake.   The operative second amended complaint alleges four claims for (1) medical negligence, (2) corporate negligence, (3) assault and battery and (4) intentional infliction of emotional distress (“IIED”).   The Court sustained Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiff’s corporate negligence and assault and battery claims without leave to amend.  Accordingly, the only remaining claims against Defendants are medical negligence and IIED.   On December 15, 2023, Dr. Mendelsohn propounded discovery.  Dr. Mendelsohn’s form interrogatories asked Plaintiff to identify each injury he attributes to the incident and those health care professionals from whom Plaintiff received treatment for his claimed injuries.  Dr. Mendelsohn’s special interrogatories asked Plaintiff to identify any changes to his work duties and any anticipated future medical expenses that he attributes to the incident.  On January 31, 2024, Plaintiff served his verified responses. In response to the form interrogatories, Plaintiff stated that he “continues to suffer severe emotional distress [and he] plans to obtain therapy related to the injuries caused by the incident in question.” (Exs. B and C to Choi Decl..)  In response to the special interrogatories, Plaintiff stated that “[t]he incident has caused a negative impact with Plaintiff’s [horse training] business in terms of the ability to perform what is required in terms of being able to conduct a successful business in his chosen profession.” (Exs. D and E to Choi Decl.)  On March 12, 2024, Plaintiff sent a letter to Defendants stating that he “would not be making a claim for mental and emotional distress apart from the pain and suffering that are associated with the injuries that he sustained in the incident in question.” (Ex. F to Choi Decl.) In this same letter, Plaintiff requested Defendants to “retract any subpoenas [that were] issued to any mental health provider[.]”  (Ibid.)  On April 8, 2024, Plaintiff testified at his deposition that “I've been traumatized” and “I tend to stay in the house.  I am not social.  I avoid anything having to do with the medical profession.  I would say that I have an overarching loss of faith in people and my autonomy’s ability to protect myself.  I would say that I think about bad things that can happen to me at any moment.”  (Ex. G to Choi Decl. at 44:4-24.)   On June 11, 2024, Dr. Mendelsohn served his subpoenas duces tecum upon Plaintiff’s past and subsequent health care providers. (Ex. H to Choi Decl.)  Plaintiff’s medical records from Gary R. Cohan M.D., Arthur Lipper, M.D., and Krikor Kalindjian, M.D., were subpoenaed because these internists were either involved with Plaintiff’s past surgical procedures, pre-operative clearance for the incident, or the post-operative consultation following the incident. (Choi Decl., ¶ 10.)  Similarly, Plaintiff’s medical records from Gary S. Bellack, M.D., Jeffrey Sherman, M.D., Robert W. Eitches, M.D., Brier Oak on Sunset, Cedars Sinai Medical Center and UCLA Health Systems were subpoenaed because these physicians and facilities were involved with Plaintiff’s past medical treatment, where Plaintiff may have been prescribed medication, such as diazepam, which is known to influence one’s tolerance to anesthesia.  (Id.)  Likewise, Plaintiff’s pharmacy records from Western Drug Medical Supply, Walgreen Co., and Rite-Aid Corporation were subpoenaed to identify Plaintiff’s medications.  (Id.)  Plaintiff’s medical records from Reingold Eye Center and Beverly Hills Eye Center were subpoenaed because these facilities provided treatment and/or care to Plaintiff’s eyes prior to Dr. Kamen’s procedure and may possess information that were undisclosed to Defendants on the day of the incident.  (Id.) This hearing is on Plaintiff’s motion for a protective order.  Plaintiff seeks to quash subpoenas issued by Defendants for his medical records on the ground they constitute private personal information protected by federal and state law, including the physician-patient and the patient-psychotherapist privileges.          DISCUSSION The motion for a protective order must be accompanied by a meet and¿confer declaration.¿(Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.090(a).)  There is no meet and confer declaration.  Plaintiff submits the declaration of his counsel which fails to describe any attempts to meet and confer.  Therefore, Plaintiff’s motion is denied for failure to comply with¿Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.090(a). Even assuming Plaintiff had complied with the meet and confer requirement, his motion for protective order would still be denied, as without merit.  Plaintiff asserts both the patient-physician and patient-psychotherapist privileges under Evid. Code §§ 912 and 1014.  But the patient-physician and patient-psychotherapist privileges may be waived when the patient voluntarily discloses otherwise confidential information or tenders his or her mental state as an issue.  Evid. Code §§ 996 and 1016 state that “there is no privilege under this article as to a communication relevant to an issue concerning the condition of the patient if such issue has been tendered by [t]he patient.”  By filing a lawsuit and claiming mental and emotional injuries, a plaintiff has placed his mental and emotional condition at issue and, therefore, has waived his patient-physician and patient-psychotherapist privileges. (Vinson v. Superior Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833, 839-840; San Diego Trolley, Inc. v. Superior Court (2001) 87 Cal.App.4th 1083; Vinson, 43 Cal.3d at 842; Britt v. Superior Court (1978) 20 Cal.3d 844, 849.)  “[I]n all fairness, a patient should not be permitted to establish a claim while simultaneously foreclosing inquiry into relevant matters.” (In re Lifschutz (1970) 2 Cal.3d 415, 433) “When the patient himself discloses those ailments by bringing an action in which they are in issue, there is no longer any reason for the privilege. The patient-litigant exception precludes one who has placed in issue his physical condition from invoking the privilege on the ground that disclosure of his condition would cause him humiliation.  He cannot have his cake and eat it too.” (Id. at 434.)  Here, there are two causes of action remaining: medical negligence and IIED. In the SAC, Plaintiff alleges that he “has and will sustain pain, discomfort, fears, anxiety and other mental and emotional distress[.]” (Ex. A to Choi Decl., at ¶¶ 15 and 27.)  These allegations put his mental state at issue. Davis v. Superior Court (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1008, on which Plaintiff relies, is distinguishable.  In Davis, the plaintiff filed a “garden-variety motor vehicle personal injury action alleging general damages, loss of earning capacity, wage loss and other compensatory damages.” (Id. at 1015.)  The plaintiff in Davis did not allege “a specific cause of action for emotional distress[.]” (Ibid.)   Here, in contrast, Plaintiff made more than a claim for “garden variety” emotional distress by bringing an IIED cause of action and responding in discovery that he suffered extreme mental injuries, akin to a rape victim.  Plaintiff testified at his deposition that he has “been traumatized” by the incident and has subsequently consulted with Gary Cohan, M.D. (Ex. G to Choi Decl., at 44:4-24.)  Plaintiff then described the severity of his emotional distress and trauma by analogizing himself to a rape victim: “it occurred to me after the fact that that’s what a woman does when she’s being raped.· And that’s exactly how I felt, because I had to hold myself still and accept it -- and could not -- and just like a rapist with a knife to your throat.· I couldn’t do anything about it.· I couldn’t speak.· At that point, I couldn’t reject what was happening, I simply had to get through it.” (Id., at 154:24-155:19.)  Plaintiff then testified that as a result of the emotional distress and trauma sustained from the surgery, he can no longer ride horses which is an essential part of his job.  (Id., at 49:10-50:6.)  Taking Plaintiff’s own pleadings, verified discovery responses, and deposition testimony as a whole, it is clear that he has placed his emotional condition at issue in this case, making his medical records directly relevant to causation and damages.  Plaintiff next argues the medical records subpoenaed by Defendants are not relevant.  Not so.  The burden to show that the records are not relevant is on Plaintiff, as the party moving for a protective order.  “Because only the patient, and not the party seeking disclosure, knows both the nature of the ailments for which recovery is sought and the general content of the psychotherapeutic communications, the burden rests upon the patient initially to submit some showing that a given confidential communication is not directly related to the issue he has tendered to the court.” (In re Lifschutz, 2 Cal.3d at 436.) “A person may have to delimit his claimed ‘mental or emotional distress’ or explain, in general terms, the object of the psychotherapy in order to illustrate that it is not reasonably probable that the psychotherapeutic communications sought are directly relevant to the mental condition that he has placed in issue.” (Id. at 437.)  Here, Plaintiff fails to make a showing that any of the documents sought by Defendants are not directly relevant to the issues tendered in this lawsuit. Plaintiff provides no declaration or other form of explanation showing the object of the psychotherapy or why any of those documents sought are not directly relevant to the issues in this lawsuit.  As such, Plaintiff falls far short of making the required showing for a protective order.   In any event, the Court concludes the records are relevant.  The Davis court held that there is an implicit waiver of a party’s constitutional right of privacy if the discovery is “directly relevant to the plaintiff’s claim and essential to the fair resolution of the lawsuit.” (Davis, 7 Cal.App.4th at 1014.)  Here, the information contained in the subpoenaed medical records is directly relevant to the issues of causation and damages. Plaintiff’s past medical records are likely to contain vital information relating to Plaintiff’s tolerance to certain anesthesia and/or sedatives, which may establish a causal link to the pain he experienced during the surgery.  The records may also reveal information, including medications, Plaintiff failed to disclose and that could affect the effectiveness of the type and level of anesthesia Plaintiff was given.  Likewise, Plaintiff’s subsequent medical records, including mental health-related documents, are likely to contain information that will evidence the extent of Plaintiff’s claims and damages.  Therefore, the records are directly relevant to the issues of this case and may also be reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of further admissible evidence. Ordinarily, discovery of medical history relevant to damages is allowed because defendants have no other means to obtain this information. (Palay v. Superior Court (1993) 18 Cal.App.4th 919, 933-934.)  When a defendant has no other means of obtaining relevant information regarding a plaintiff’s medical history, such information is discoverable despite a claimed privacy interest or privilege. (Id. at 934.)   Here, in order to evaluate and defend against Plaintiff’s claims, Defendants are entitled to know Plaintiff's preexisting conditions, medication history, and mental condition both before and after the surgery. Defendants’ right to information necessary to adequately prepare their defense against Plaintiff's claim of mental and emotional distress outweigh Plaintiff’s claim of privacy.  CONCLUSION Based on the foregoing, the Court DENIES Plaintiff’s motion for a protective order.    IT IS SO ORDERED.  DATED: August 7, 2024     ___________________________ Edward B. Moreton, Jr. Judge of the Superior Court 