  Case Number:  21STCV11395    Hearing Date:   December 1, 2023    Dept:  D TENTATIVE RULINGCalendar:  12 Date: 12/1/2023 Case No. 21 STCV11395 Trial Date: Dec. 18, 2023 Case Name: Neuro Diagnostic Center, Inc., et al. v. A & D Fire Sprinklers, Inc., et al. MOTION TO BE RELIEVED AS COUNSELMoving Party: Beloryan & Manukyan LLP Name of Client: Plaintiff Neuro Diagnostic Center, Inc. (No Opposition)  Correct address in proof of service?     Client: ok    Other parties:  ok 16/+5 day lapse? OST   RELIEF REQUESTED: Order permitting attorney to be relieved as attorney of record in this action GROUNDS FOR MOTION:Breakdown in attorney-client relationship.  Plaintiffs terminated services of counsel.  Individual plaintiff signed substitution of attorney, which has been filed and entered, but corporation must be represented by counsel, and company has not retained new attorney. DECLARATION BY MOVING ATTORNEY: Reasons why motion is necessary:    Yes   Address recently confirmed (within last 30 days)  By mail, return receipt requested   PROPOSED ORDER:Address and phone number of client set forth:    No phone number  Proper warning:  Yes Future dates filled in:     Outdated   ANALYSIS:The proposed order is not complete here and must be modified before the order is signed.   Specifically, at paragraph 6, counsel has failed to include the client’s current telephone number.  This requirement is necessary for the court to have appropriate contact information for the plaintiff client. The order also designates the next scheduled hearing date at paragraph 7 as November 21, 2023, which hearing has already been conducted, so the information is outdated.  The next hearing date, following the hearing date on this motion, is currently set for December 7, 2023 for a Final Status Conference, the details of which should be added to paragraph 7.  If future dates in this matter are continued or reset by the court at the December 1, 2023 hearing, those dates should be added to the order at paragraphs 7, 8 and 9, as appropriate.  Counsel is ordered to modify the order before the motion is granted. RULING:[No Opposition]UNOPPOSED Motion to be Relieved as Counsel is GRANTED. The Court will sign the proposed Order Granting Attorney’s Motion to be Relieved as Counsel-Civil with the following modifications: (1) in paragraph 6, the Order will include the current telephone number of the client; and (2) in paragraph 7, the Order will indicate there is a Final Status Conference scheduled in this matter on December 7, 2023.  If further changes to the future dates are ordered at the December 1, 2023 hearing, these must be included in the order at paragraphs 7 through 9, as appropriate. As so modified, the Court will sign the Order and counsel will be relieved effective upon the efiling of the proof of service of the signed order upon the client.  DEPARTMENT D IS CONTINUING TO CONDUCT AND ENCOURAGE AUDIO OR VIDEO APPEARANCESPlease make arrangement in advance if you wish to appear via LACourtConnect by visiting www.lacourt.org to schedule a remote appearance.  Please note that LACourtConnect offers free audio and video appearances.  However, ADVANCE REGISTRATION IS REQUIRED. If no appearance is set up through LACourtConnect, or no appearance is otherwise made, then the Court will assume the parties are submitting on the tentative. 